The above remarks are part of a communication I gave six years since to the Society of Arts,
for which I was honoured with their prize medal; and I have great pleasure in transcribing
it [Footnote: See Transactions of the Society of Arts, vol. xxvii. p. 70.], as I frequently
visit the meadows mentioned above, and have the satisfaction of hearing them pronounced the
best in their respective neighbourhoods. Thus are my opinions on this head borne out by twelve
years experience. Let the sceptic compare this improvement with his pretended advantage of
a crop of Barley.

It should be observed that our agricultural efforts are intended only to assist the operations
of nature, and that in all our experiments we should consult the soil as to its spontaneous
produce, from whence alone we can be enabled to adapt, with propriety, plants to proper situations.
The kinds of selected grass-seeds that are at this time to be purchased are few, and consist
of Lolium perenne, Festuca pratensis, Alopecurus pratensis; Dactylis glomeratus, Cynosurus
cristatus; with the various kinds of Clovers: and it is not easy to lay down any rule as to
the mixture or proportion of each different kind that would best suit particular lands. Attention
however should, in all cases, be paid to the plants growing wild in the neighbouring pastures,
or in similar soils, and the greater portion used of those which are observed to thrive best.

In certain instances I have mentioned particular quantities of seeds to be mixed with others;
but in general I have stated how much it would require to sow an acre with each kind separately;
from which a person may form a criterion, when several sorts are used, as to what quantity
of each sort should be adopted. Taking into view, therefore, that nothing but a mixture of
proper kinds of Grasses, &c. will make good pasturage, and that our knowledge is very imperfect
on this head at the present season, we must advise that particular attention be paid to the
subject, or little good can be hoped for from all our endeavours.

*       *       *       *       *

SECT. III.--FODDER FROM LEAVES AND ROOTS.

The student in agriculture will find in this department a wide field for speculation, which,
although it has been greatly improved during the last century, still affords much room for
experiments.

During the last thirty-five years I have had opportunity of observing the great difference
in the quantity of cattle brought to one of our largest beast-markets in the south of England;
and it is well known that this has increased in a ratio of more than double; and I am informed
by a worthy and truly honourable prelate, who has observed the same for twenty-five years previously,
that it has nearly quadrupled. I have also made it my business, as a subject of curiosity,
to inquire if the increase at other markets has been the same, and from all accounts I am convinced
of the affirmative. Now as we have ample proofs from the statistical accounts of our husbandry,
that less corn has not been grown in the same period, we shall naturally be inclined to give
the merit of this increase to the introduction of the Turnip husbandry, which, although it
is now become so general, is, comparatively speaking, but in its infancy; and it is from that
branch of our agriculture that has sprung the culture of the great variety of fodder of the
description which I am now about to explain.

And here it may not prove amiss to observe to the botanical student, should he hereafter be
destined to travel, that by making himself thus acquainted with the nature of such vegetables,
he may have it in his power to render great benefit to society by the introduction of others
of still superior virtues, for the use both of man and the brute creation. When Sir Walter
Raleigh undertook his expedition to South America, the object of which failed, he had the good
fortune from his taste for botany to render to his country, and to the world at large, a more
essential service, by the introduction of one single vegetable, than was ever achieved by the
military exploits performed before or since that period [Footnote: The Potatoe was introduced
by Sir Walter Raleigh, on his return from the River Plate, in the year 1586.]. It has not only
been the means of increasing the wealth and strength of nations, but more than once prevented
a famine in this country when suffering from a scarcity of bread-corn and when most of the
ports which could afford us a supply were shut by the ambition of a powerful enemy.

63. BRASSICA Napus. TURNIP.--Turnips afford the best feed for sheep in the autumn and winter
months. It is usual to sow them as a preparatory crop for Barley, and now very frequently for
a crop of Spring Wheat. Turnips are not easily raised but where some kind of manure is used
to stimulate the land. In dry seasons the crop is often destroyed by the ravages of a small
beetle, which perforates the cotyledons of the plants, and destroys the crop on whole fields
in a few hours.

Many remedies against this evil are enumerated in our books on husbandry. The best preventative,
however, appears to be the putting manure on the ground in a moist state and sowing the seeds
with it, in order to excite the young plant to grow rapidly; for the insect does not hurt it
when the rough leaf is once grown. I have this season seen a fine field of Turnips, sown mixt
with dung out of a cart and ploughed in ridges. The seeds which were not too deeply buried
grew and escaped the fly; when scarcely a field in the same district escaped the ravages of
that insect. Turnips are sown either broad-cast or in drills. It takes about four pounds of
seed per acre in the first mode, and about half the quantity in the second.

There are several varieties of turnips grown for cattle; the most striking of which are, the
White round Norfolk; the Red round ditto; the Green round ditto; the Tankard; the Yellow. These
varieties are nearly the same in goodness and produce: the green and red are considered as
rather more hardy than the others. The tankard is long-rooted and stands more out of the ground,
and is objected to as being more liable to the attack of early frosts. The yellow is much esteemed
in Scotland, and supposed to contain more nutriment [Footnote: The usual season for sowing
the above varieties is within a fortnight or three weeks after Midsummer.]. The Stone and Dutch
turnips are grown for culinary purposes, and are also sometimes sown after the corn is cleared,
as being small and of early growth; these in such cases are called stubble turnips, and often
in fine autumns produce a considerable quantity of herbage. For a further account of the culture
&c. see Dickson's Modern Husbandry, vol. ii. p. 639.

There is nothing in husbandry requiring more care than the saving seeds of most of the plants
of this tribe, and in particular of the Genus Brassica. If two sorts of turnips or cabbages
are suffered to grow and bloom together, the pollen of each kind will be sufficiently mixed
to impregnate each alternately, and a hybrid kind will be the produce, and in ninety-nine times
out of a hundred a worse variety than either. Although this is generally the result of an indiscriminate
mixture, yet by properly adapting two different kinds to grow together, new and superior varieties
are sometimes produced. One gentleman having profited by this philosophy, has succeeded in
producing some fine new varieties of fruits and vegetables, much to the honour of his own talents
and his country's benefit [Footnote: See Mr Knight On the Apple-tree.]. It is well known to
gardeners that the cabbage tribe are liable to sport thus in their progeny; and to some accidental
occurrence of this nature we are indebted for the very useful plant called the

64. ROOTA-BAGA. SWEDISH TURNIP.--Which is a hybrid plant par-taking of the turnip and cabbage,
and what has within these few years added so much to the benefit of the grazier. This root
is much more hardy than any of the turnips; it will stand our winters without suffering injury
from frosts, and is particularly ponderous and nutritious.

It is usually cultivated as the common trunip, with this difference, that it requires to be
sown as early in some lands as the month of May, it being a plant which requires a longer time
to come to maturity.

Every judicious farmer who depends on turnips for foddering his stock in the winter, will do
well to guard against the loss sometimes occasioned by the failure of his Turnips from frost
and wet. Various ways of doing this are recommended, as stacking &c. But if he has a portion
of his best land under Swedish turnip, he will have late in the winter a valuable crop that
will be his best substitute. Another advantage is this, that it will last a fortnight longer
in the spring, and consequently be valuable on this account. The quantity of seed usually sown
is the same as for the common kinds of turnip. There are two varieties of this plant, one white
and the other yellow: the latter is the most approved.

65. BRASSICA Napo Brassica. KOHLRABBI.--A hardy kind of Turnip cabbage, grown much in Germany
for fodder: it is very nutritive, and has the property of resisting frost better than either
the turnips or cattle-cabbage. The seed and culture of this are the same as of Drum-head cabbage.

There are two varieties of this plant, the green and the purple; the latter is generally most
esteemed.

66. BRUSSELS SPROUTS.--This is a large variety of cabbage, very productive and hardy. The culture
is the same as for Cattle-cabbage.

67. BRASSICA oleracea. DRUM-HEAD CABBAGE.--This is usually sown in March and the plants put
out into beds, and then transplanted into the fields; this grows to a most enormous size, and
is very profitable. About four pounds of seed is sufficient for an acre.

*       *       *       *       *

SEC. IV.--GRAINS.

73. AVENA sativa. COMMON OATS.--A grain very commonly known, of which we have a number of varieties,
from the thin old Black Oats to the fine Poland variety and the celebrated Potatoe-Oats.

These give the farmer at all times the advantage of a change of seeds, a measure allowed on
all hands to be essential to good husbandry. The culture is various; thin soils growing the
black kind in preference, which is remarkably hardy, where the finer sorts affecting a better
soil will not succeed. It is applicable both to the drill and broad-cast. The seed is from
six pecks to four bushels per acre, and the crop from seven to fourteen quarters.

74. CARUM Carui. CARAWAY SEEDS.--The seeds of this are in demand both by druggists and confectioners.
It is cultivated in Kent and Essex; where it, being a biennial plant, is sown with a crop of
spring corn, and left with the stubble during the succeeding winter, and after clearing the
land in the spring is left to go to seed. It requires a good hot dry soil; but although the
crop is often of great value, it so much exhausts the land as to be hazardous culture in many
light soils where the dunghill is not handy.

The seed is about ten pounds per acre, and the crop often five or six sacks.

75. CORIANDRUM sativum. CORIANDER.--Is grown in the stiff lands, in Essex, and is an annual
of easy but not of general culture. The seeds are used by druggists and rectifiers of spirits,
and form many of the cordial drinks.

The quantity of seed and produce are similar to those of Caraway.

76. ERVUM Lens. LENTILS.--Once cultivated here for the seeds, which are used for soups; but
it is furnished principally from Spain, and can at all times be purchased for less than it
can be grown for.

77. HORDEUM distichon. COMMON TWO-ROWED BARLEY.--A grain now in very general cultivation, and
supposed to be the best kind grown for malting. The season for sowing barley is in the spring,
and the crop varies according to soil and culture; it is sown either broad-cast, drilled, or
dibbled. The quantity of seed sown is from three pecks to three bushels per acre, and the produce
from three to eleven quarters.

As the process of malting may not be generally understood by that class of readers for which
this work is mostly intended, I shall give a short sketch of it.--It is a natural principle
of vegetation, that every seed undergoes a change before it is formed into the young plant.
The substance of the cotyledons, which when ground forms the nutritious flower of which bread
is made, changes into two particular substances, i. e. sugar and mucilage; and whilst mankind
form from it the principal staff of life as an edible commodity, the same parts of the seed
in barley are by certain means made into malt, which is only another term for the sugar of
that grain. To effect this, the barley is steeped in water, and afterwards laid in heaps, in
which state it vegetates in a few days, and the saccharine fermentation is by that means carried
on to a certain pitch, when it is put on a kiln to which a fire is applied, and it is by that
means dried. It is then perfect malt, and fit for the purpose of brewing.

Pearl and Scotch Barley, used for soup and medicinal purposes, are made from the grain by being
put into a mill, which merely grinds off the husk. The Pearl barley is mostly prepared in Holland,
but the Scotch is made near Edinburgh in considerable quantities. A description of an improved
Mill for this purpose is to be seen in the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia, p. 283.

78. HORDEUM vulgare. BERE, BIG, or WINTER BARLEY.--This is a coarser grain than the Two-rowed
Barley, and hence it is not so well adapted to the purpose of malting. It is grown on cold
thin soils, being much hardier than the former.

It is now often sown in October, and in the month of May or June following it is mown and taken
off the land for green fodder. The plants will notwithstanding this produce in August a very
abundant crop of grain. Hence this is a valuable mode of culture for the farmer.

The other varieties of Barley are,

79. HORDEUM hexastichon. SIX-ROWED BARLEY.--This is also a coarse grain; and although it was
once in cultivation here, it has been altogether superseded by the Bere, which is a better kind.

80. HORDEUM zeocriton. BATTLEDORE BARLEY.--This is a fine grain, but very tender, and not now
in cultivation in this country.

NAKED BARLEY. The two first species sometimes produce a variety which thrashes out of the husks
similar to wheat: these are very heavy and fine grain, but they are not in cultivation: for
what reason I know not.

81. PANICUM miliaceum. MILLET.--Millet is of two kinds, the brown and yellow. They are sometimes
sown in this country for feeding poultry, and also for dressing; i. e. it is divested of the
husk by being passed through a mill, when it is equal to rice for the use of the pastrycook.
The seed used is from one to two bushels per acre. This is more commonly grown in Italy, and
on the shores of the Mediterranean sea, from which large quantities are annually exported to
the more northern countries.

82. PAPAVER somniferum. MAW-SEED.--The large white Opium Poppy is grown for seed for feeding
birds, and also for pressing the oil, which is used by painters. The heads are also used by
the apothecaries; which see under the head Medicinal Plants. About two pounds of seed to the acre.

83. PHALARIS canariensis. CANARY-SEED.--This is grown mostly in the Isle of Thanet, and sent
to London &c. for feeding canary and other song-birds, and considered a very profitable crop
to the farmer. It is sown in April, and the quantity of seed is about one bushel and a half
per acre.

84. PISUM sativum. THE PEA [Footnote: At the request of Sir John Sinclair I made an experiment,
from directions given by a French emigrant, of mixing Pease with urine in which had been steeped
a considerable quantity of pigeon's dung. In the course of twenty-four hours they had swoln
very much, when they were put into the ground. An equal quantity were steeped in water; and
the same quantity also that had not been steeped, were sown in three adjoining spots of land.
There was a difference in the coming up of the crops, of some days in each; but that with the
above preparation took the lead, and was by far the best crop on the ground. This is an experiment
worth attending to. It is usual to prepare wheat in a similar way, but no other grain that
I have ever heard of.].--The Gray Hog-pea used to be the only one considered sufficiently hardy
for culture in the fields; but since the improvement in our agriculture we have all the finer
varieties cultivated in large quantities. The seed used is about two bushels and a half per
acre, and the produce varies from three to ten quarters.

The varieties of Peas are many, but the principal ones used in agriculture are the Early Charlton
Pea; the Dwarf Marrow; the Prussian Blue. All these are dwarf kinds; and as the demand for
this article in time of war is great for the navy and army, if the farmer's land will suit,
and produce such as will boil, they will fetch a considerably greater price in proportion.

The varieties that are found to boil are either used whole, or split, which is done by steeping
them in water till the cotyledons swell, after which they are dried on a kiln and passed through
a mill; which just breaking the husk, the two cotyledons fall apart.

85. POLYGONUM Fagopyrum. BUCK-WHEAT.--This is usually sown in places where pheasants are bred,
as the seed is the best food for those birds; it is also useful for poultry and hogs. I have
eaten bread and cakes made of the flower, which are also very palatable. Two bushels are usually
sown per acre. The season is May; and it is often sown on foul land in the summer, as it grows
very thick on the land, and helps to clean it by smothering all the weeds. The crop does not
stand on the ground more than ten or twelve weeks.

86. SECALE cereale. RYE.--This is often grown for a spring crop of green food, by sowing it
early in the autumn, as it is very hardy and is not affected by frost. It grows fast in the
spring months, and affords a very luxuriant crop of green fodder. Tares and Rye are frequently
sown mixed together for the same purpose, and the Tares find a support in the stalks of the
Rye, by which means they produce a larger crop than they make by themselves. The grain is the
next in estimation to Wheat, and is frequently used for making bread. The quantity sown per
acre is the same as Wheat.

87. SINAPIS nigra. BLACK MUSTARD.--This is grown in Essex in great quantities for the seeds,
which are sold to the manufacturers of flower of mustard, and is considered better flavoured,
stronger, and capable of keeping better, than the white kind for such purpose. It is also in
use for various medicinal preparations; which see. About two bushels of seed sown broad-cast
are sufficient for an acre.

This plant affords another striking instance of the care of Providence in preserving the species
of the vegetable kingdom, it being noticed in the Isle of Ely and other places, that wherever
new ditches are thrown out, or the earth dug to any unusual depth, the seeds of Black Mustard
immediately throw up a crop. In some places it has been proved to have lain thus embalmed for ages.

Flower of mustard, which is now become so common on our tables, and which is an article of
very considerable trade, is but a new manufacture. A respectable seedsman who lived in Pall-Mall
was the first who prepared it in this state for sale. The seeds of the white sort had been
used to be bruised in a mortar and eaten sometimes as a condiment, but only in small quantities.

When used fresh it is weak, and has an unpleasant taste; but after standing a few hours the
essential oil unites with the water which is used, and it then becomes considerably stronger,
and the flavour is improved. It is prepared by drying the seeds on a kiln and grinding them
to a powder. As this article is become of considerable importance from the demand, it has occasioned
persons to speculate in its adulteration, which is now I believe often practised. Real flower
of mustard will bear the addition of an equal quantity of salt without its appearing too much
in the taste. In an old work, Hartman's treasure of Health, I find it to have been practised
by a noble lady of that time to make mustard for keeping, with sherry wine with the addition
of a little sugar, and sometimes a little vinegar. Query, Is this, with the substitution of
a cheaper wine, the secret of what is called Patent Mustard?

88. TRITICUM aestivum. SPRING WHEAT.--Wheat is a grain well known in most countries in Europe.
It has been in cultivation for many ages. This species was introduced some years ago from the
Barbary coast, and has been found very beneficial for sowing in the spring, when it often produces
a large crop. It takes a shorter time to come to maturity than the other sorts; and as it is
a more profitable crop to the farmer on good soils than Barley, it is frequently sown after
Turnips are over. This has, perhaps, been one of the best improvements in Grain husbandry that
was ever introduced, as it gives the grower great advantages which he could not have under
the common culture of Wheat at the usual seed-time. This is little different in appearance
from the Common White Wheat. But there was a small variety of it with rounder grains sent to
the Board of Agriculture from the Cape of Good Hope about the year 1801, of which I saved a
small quantity of seeds which was distributed among the members; and I have lately seen a sample
of it in the hands of a gentleman in Devonshire, who speaks very highly of it as producing
a large crop in a short time, and that the flower was so much esteemed, that the millers gave
him a higher price for it than the finest samples at market of the other kinds would sell for.
I believe this variety is very scarce. It is now twelve years since I grew it, from which what
I saw, and all other in cultivation, if any there are, have sprung.

89. TRITICUM compositum. EGYPTIAN WHEAT.--This is a species with branched ears, and commonly
having as many as three and four divisions. It is much cultivated in the eastern countries,
but has not been found to answer so well in this country as the common cultivated species.

90. TRITICUM hybernum. COMMON WHEAT.--Of this grain we have a number of varieties, which are
grown according to the fashion of countries, differing in the colour of the ear and also of
the grain. The most esteemed sorts are the Hertfordshire White and the Essex Red Wheat, which
are both much cultivated and equally esteemed. The season for growing these kinds is usually
September and October. The drill, dibble, and broad-cast modes are all used, as the land and
convenience of the farmer happen to suit, and the produce varies accordingly; as does also
the quantity of seed sown. From two pecks to two bushels and a half are sown on an acre.

Wheat is liable to the ravages of many terrestrious insects which attack its roots; and also
some very curious diseases. One of these has been very clearly elucidated by our munificent
patron of science, Sir Joseph Banks, in the investigation of a parasitical plant which destroys
the blood of the stalk and leaves, renders the grain thin, and in some cases quite destroys
the crop, which has done that gentleman's penetration great credit [Footnote: Sir Joseph Banks
On the Blight in Corn.]. An equally extraordinary disease is the Smut, which converts the farinaceous
parts of the grain to a black powder resembling smut: a cirumstance too well known to many
farmers. Those who wish to consult the remedies recommended against this, may refer to The
Annals of Agriculture, and most other books on the subject. It is usual with farmers to mix
the Wheat with stale urine or brine, and to dry it by sifting it with slaked lime, which has
the effect of causing it to vegetate quickly, and to prevent the attacks of many insects when
the seed is first put into the ground. This is considered as productive of great benefit to
the crop; but it is also to be remarked, that it is almost the only grain that is ever prepared
with this mixture, although it might be applied with equal propriety to all others. See article
Pisum sativum.

91. TRITICUM turgidum. CONE WHEAT.--This a fine grain, and cultivated much in the strong land
in the Vale of Evesham, where it is found to answer better than any other sorts. It is distinguished
by the square and thick spike, and having a very long arista or beard.

The following sorts of Wheat are mentioned as being in cultivation. But I have not seen them,
neither do I think any of them equal to the sorts enumerated above:

Triticum nigrum. BLACK-GRAINED WHEAT. Triticum polonicum. POLISH WHEAT. Triticum monococcon.
ONE-GRAINED WHEAT. Triticum Spelta. SPELT WHEAT.

Besides the use of Wheat for bread and other domestic purposes, large quantities are every
season consumed in making starch, which is the pure fecula of the grain obtained by steeping
it in water and beating it in coarse hempen bags, by which means the fecula is thus caused
to exude and diffuse through the water. This, from being mixed with the saccharine matter of
the grain, soon runs into the acetous fermentation, and the weak acid thus formed by digesting
on the fecula renders it white. After setting, the precipitate is washed several times, and
put by in square cakes and dried on kilns. These in drying part into flakes, which gives the
form to the starch of the shops.

Starch is soluble in hot water, and becomes of the nature of gum. It is however insoluble in
cold water, and on this account when pulverized it makes most excellent hair-powder.

92. Vicia Faba. THE BEAN.--Several kinds of Beans are cultivated by farmers. The principal
are the Horse-Bean or Tick-Bean; the Early Mazagan; and the Long-pods. Beans grow best in stiff
clayey soils, and in such they are the most convenient crop. The season for planting is either
the winter or spring month, as the weather affords opportunity. They are either drilled, broad-cast
sown, or put in by the dibble, which is considered not only the most eligible mode but in ge-neral
affording the best crops. The seed is from one to three bushels per acre.

93. ZEA Mays. INDIAN CORN, or MAIZE. In warmer climates, as the South of France, and the East
and West Indies, this is one of the most useful plants; the seeds forming good provender for
poultry, hogs and cattle, and the green tops excellent fodder for cattle in general. I once
saw a small early variety, that produced a very good crop, near Uxbridge; but I believe it
is not in cultivation.

*       *       *       *       *

SECT. V.--MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.

94. CANNABIS sativa. HEMP.--This plant is cultivated in some parts of this country. It is usually
sown in March, and is fit to harvest in October. It is then pulled up and immersed in water;
when the woody parts of the stalks separating from the bark, which sloughs off and undergoes
a decomposition by which the fibres are divided, it is then combed (hackled), dried, and reduced
to different fineness of texture, and spun for various purposes. It requires good land, and
the seed is usually two bushels and a half per acre.

The seed, which ripens about the time the hemp is pulled, is useful for feeding birds and poultry,
and very nourishing.

95. DIPSACUS Fullonum. FULLER'S TEAVEL.--The heads of this plant are used for combing kerseymeres
and finer broad cloths. The heads are generally fit to cut about the latter end of August,
and are then separated and made up into bundles, and sold to the clothiers. The large heads
are called Kings; the next size Middlings; and the smaller Minikins. The reason they are separated
before sending to market is, that the large and small will not fit together on the frame in
which they are fixed to the water-wheel, so that it is usual for the proprietor of the fulling-mills
to purchase all of either one or the other size. The crop is considered very valuable, but
the culture is confined to a small district in Somersetshire. The plant is biennial, and is
usually sown in May, and the crop kept hoed during that season. In the following spring the
plants bloom, and when the seeds are ripe the heads are fit for cutting; when they are assorted
as above for the dealers. Three pounds of seed are used to an acre, and the plants at the last
stirring are left from two feet to two feet and a half apart.

96. HUMULUS Lupulus. THE HOP.--The Hop is cultivated for brewing, being the most wholesome
bitter we have, though the brewers are in the habit of using other vegetable bitters, which
are brought from abroad and sold at a much cheaper rate. There is, however, a severe penalty
on using any other than Hops for such purpose.

The Hops are distinguished by several varieties grown in Kent, Worcestershire, and at Farnham.
The last place produces the best kind. For its culture more at length see Agriculture of Surry,
by Mr. Stevenson.

97. ISATIS tinctoria. WOAD.--Is cultivated in the county of Somersetshire. It is used, after
being prepared, for dyeing &c. It is said to be the mordant used for a fine blue on woollen.
The foliage, which is like Spinach, is gathered during the summer months, and steeped in vats
of water. After some time a green fecula is deposited in the bottom of the water, which is
washed, and made into cakes and sold for use.

It is a perennial plant, and found wild in great abundance near Guildford, where great quantities
might be gathered for use, and where a great deal of the seed could be collected. Its culture
is very similar to that of the Teazle, with this difference, it requires the hoe at work constantly
all the summer months.

The two plants Weld and Woad from the similarity of names are frequently confounded with each
other, and some of the best agricultural writers have fallen into this error. They are two
very different plants, and ought to be well defined, being each of them of very material consequence
in this country.

98. LINUM usitatissimum. FLAX, or LINT-SEED.--Is grown for the purpose of making cloth, and
has been considered a very profitable crop. The culture and management is similar to that of
Hemp, and the seeds are in great demand for pressing. Lintseed oil, which it produces, is much
used by painters, and is the only vegetable oil that is found fit for such purposes in general.
The seeds are of several uses to the farmer; a tea is made of it, and mixed with skimmed milk,
for fattening house-lambs and calves. Oxen are often fattened on the seed itself; but the cakes
after the oil is expressed are a very common and most excellent article for fattening both
black cattle and sheep. These are sold at from 10 l. to 16 l. per thousand.

It will require three bushels of Flax-seed for one acre, as it must be sown thick on the land.
Lintseed cake has been used also for manure; and I have seen fine crops of Turnips where it
has been powdered and sown in the drills with the seed.

99. RESEDA luteola. DYER'S-WEED, or WELD.--Is often confounded with Woad, but is altogether
a very different plant. Weld is cultivated on the chalky hills of Surry, being sown under a
crop of Barley, and the second year cleaned by hoeing, and then left to grow till it blooms,
when it is pulled and tied up in small bundles, and after drying is sent to market, where it
is purchased for dyeing yellow, and is in great request.

100. RUBIA tinctoria. MADDER.--This very useful dyeing drug used to be grown in this country
in considerable quantities, but it is not cultivated here at the present time. The principal
part of what is used now is brought from Holland, and affords a considerable article of trade
to the Dutch farmers. Those who wish to be informed of the mode of culture may consult Professor
Martyn's edition of Miller's Dictionary.

Some years since Sir Henry Englefield, Bart., obtained a premium from the Society of Arts for
the discovery of a fine tint drawn from Madder, called the Adrianople red. It was found that
it was to be obtained from a variety of the Rubia brought from Smyrna; and Mr. Smyth, our consul
at that city, was prevailed on by Dr. Charles Taylor to procure seeds from thence, which the
Society did me the honour of committing to my care; and I have now a considerable stock of
that kind, from whence I have myself obtained the same beautiful and superior tint. See Trans.
Soc. Arts. vol. 27, p. 40.

101. ULEX europaeus. FURZE, GORSE, or WHIN.--Is used in husbandry for fences, and is also much
cultivated for fuel for burning lime, heating ovens, &c. Cattle and sheep relish it much; but
it cannot be eaten by them except when young, in consequence of its strong spines; to obviate
which an implement has been invented for bruising it. When it grows wild on our waste land,
it is common to set it on fire in the summer months, and the roots and stems will throw up
from the ground young shoots, which are found very useful food for sheep and other animals.
It is readily grown from seeds, six pounds of which will be enough for an acre of land.

*       *       *       *       *

PLANTS USEFUL IN THE ARTS.

SECT. VI.--BRITISH TREES AND SHRUBS.

102. ACER Pseudo-Platanus. SYCAMORE.--The wood of this tree is soft and of little use, unless
it is for the turners' purposes, who make boxes and other small toys of it. It is not of value
as timber.

103. ACER campestre. THE MAPLE.--Before the introduction of Mahogany and other fine woods the
Maple was the principal wood used for all kinds of cabinet work, and was much esteemed: the
knobs which grow on those trees in an old state afforded the most beautiful specimens, and
according to Evelyn were collected by the curious at great prices. The Maple trees in this
country are none of them at the present day old enough to afford that fine-veined variegation
in the timber which is alluded to in this account.

104. ARBUTUS Unedo. THE STRAWBERRY-TREE.--Is a native of the islands in the celebrated Lake
of Killarney in Ireland, where it grows to a large size. We know of no particular use to which
it is applied. It is however one of our most ornamental evergreen shrubs, producing beautiful
flowers, which vary from transparent white to deep red, in the winter months, at which season
also the fruit appears; which taking twelve months to come to maturity affords the singular
phaenomenon in plants, of having lively green leaves, beautiful flowers, and fruit as brilliant
as the richest strawberry, in the very depth of our winter. We have a fine variety of this
plant with scarlet blossoms, and also one with double flowers, both of which are singularly
ornamental to the shrubbery.

105. ARBUTUS Uva Ursi. BEAR-BERRIES.--A small trailing plant of great repute as a medicine,
but of no use in any other respect.

106. BERBERIS vulgaris. BARBERRY.--This has long been cultivated in gardens for its fruit,
which is a fine acid, and it is used as a conserve, and also for giving other sweeter fruits
a flavour. The common wild kind has stones in the fruit, which renders it disagreeable to eat.
There is a variety without stones called the Male Barberry, which is preferred on this account.

This tree is subject to a disease in the summer, caused apparently from a yellow fungus growing
on the leaves and young shoots; and it is said that where it grows near corn fields it imparts
its baneful influence to the grain, for which reason it is recommended in some of our books
on agriculture to exterminate the trees.

107. BETULA alba. BIRCH-TREE.--Is in great use and of considerable value on some estates for
making brooms, and the timber for all purposes of turnery-ware and carving. The sap of the
Birch-tree is drawn by perforating the bark in the early state of vegetation. It is fermented,
and makes a very pleasant and potent beverage called Birch Wine.

108. BETULA Alnus. ALDER-TREE.--This is a valuable tree for planting in moors and wet places.
The wood is used for making clogs, pattens, and other such purposes; and the bark for dyeing
and manufacturing some of the finer kinds of leather. This wood is of considerable value for
making charcoal for gunpowder. In charring it a considerable quantity of acetic acid is extracted,
which is of great value for the purpose of bleaching, &c. &c.

109. BUXUS sempervirens. BOX-TREE.--The wood of Box is of great value for musical instruments,
and for forming the handles of many tools: being very hard, it admits of a fine polish. This
tree is growing in quantity at Box-hill in Surry, and has given name to that place.

This was planted by a late Duke of Norfolk, and has succeeded so well, that the wood has been
cut twice, and sold each time for treble the value of the fee-simple of the land.

It forms a better cover for game than any other plant; and being very bitter, is not liable
to be destroyed by any animal eating it down. An infusion of the leaves is frequently given
as a vermifuge with good effect.

There is a smaller variety of this, much used for making edging to gravel walks in gardens.

110. CARPINUS Betulus. THE HORNBEAM.--This grows to a large tree, but is not of much account
as timber: it is however very useful in forming ornamental fences, and is well adapted to this
purpose from the tendency of its young branches to grow thick.

111. CLEMATIS Vitalba. TRAVELLER'S JOY.--A beautiful creeping shrub very useful to the farmers
for making shackles for gates and hurdles, or withs for tying faggots and other articles. Whenever
this plant is found in the hedges, &c. it is a certain indication of a ckalky under stratum
in the soil.

112. CORNUS sanguinea. DOG-WOOD.--This is planted in pleasuregrounds as an ornamental shrub,
and from the red appearance of the wood in the winter forms a beautiful constrast in plantations.
It is also used by butchers for making skewers.

113. CORYLUS Avellana. THE HAZEL.--Is a well known shrub of large growth producing nuts, which
are much admired. The Filbert is an improved variety of this plant. The farmers in Kent are
the best managers of Filberts, and it is the only place where they are grown with any certainty;
which appears to be owing principally to the trees being regularly pruned of the superfluous
wood. It is performed in the month of March when the plants are in bloom, and is the only time
when the fruit-bearing wood can be distinguished.

114. CRATAEGUS Aria. WHITE BEAM-TREE.--Is a beautiful tree producing very hard wood, and is
much in esteem for cogs of millwork and various other purposes.

115. CRATAEGUS Oxyacantha. THE QUICKSET, or WHITE-THORN.--This is in great request for making
fences, and is the best plant we know for such purposes if properly managed. It is readily
propagated by sowing the hips, or fruit, which does not readily grow the first season; it is
therefore usual to bury them mixed with saw-dust, or sand, one year, and then to sow them in beds.

116. DAPHNE Laureola. SPURGE- or WOOD-LAUREL.--Is used in medicine; which see.

We have many species of Daphne which are very ornamental to our shrubberies and green-houses:
these are propagated principally by grafting; and the Wood-Laurel being hardy and of ready
growth forms the stock principally used. It is readily propagated by seeds, which in three
years will make plants large enough for this purpose.

The plant in all its parts is excessively acrid. I remember a man being persuaded to take the
leaves reduced to powder, as a remedy for Syphilis, and he died in consequence in great agony
in a few hours.

117. DAPHNE Mezerium. MEZERION.--Is a very beautiful shrub, and is one of the earliest productions
of Flora, often exhibiting its brilliant scarlet flowers in January and February. We have also
a white variety of this shrub in the gardens. The bark and roots are extremely acrimonious,
and are used in medicine.

118. ERICA vulgaris. THE COMMON HEATH, HEATHER, or LING.---This spontaneous produce of most
of our sandy waste lands is of much usin rural oeconomy.

It is of considerable value for making brooms, and affords food to sheep, goats, and other
animals; particularly to the grouse and heath-cock. The branches of heath placed upright in
a wooden frame form the couch of repose to the brave Highlander. It is also stated that an
excellent beverage was brewed from the tops of this plant, but the art of making it is now
lost. This is the most common of the species, but all the others have similar properties. They
are very ornamental plants. A numerous variety of heaths are brought from the Cape of Good
Hope, and afford great pleasure to the amateur of exotic plants, being the greatest ornaments
to our green-houses.

119. EUONYMUS europaeus. SPINDLE-TREE.--An ornamental shrub. The wood is in great request for
making skewers for butchers, as it does not impart any unpleasant taste to the meat.

120. FAGUS Castanea. THE SPANISH CHESNUT.--This tree produces timber similar to oak in point
of durability, and the bark also contains a considerable quantity of tannin. The Chesnut was
in greater plenty in this country many years ago than at the present day; large forests are
represented to have been in the neighbourhood of London; and we are led to believe such may
have been the case, as many of the old buildings when examined have been found to be built
of this timber. The fruit is used as a dainty at table; but the variety which is brought from
Portugal and Spain is much larger than what are grown in this country. The large kind imported
from those countries is grafted, and kept on purpose for the fruit. It is an improvement to
graft this variety by taking the scions from trees in bearing, and they will produce fruit
in a few years and in a dwarf state.

121. FAGUS sylvatica. THE BEECH.--The timber of the Beech is valuable for making wheels, and
is applied to many other useful purposes in domestic oeconomy. The seeds of the Beech are very
useful for fattening hogs.

This tree affords many beautiful varieties in foliage, the handsomest of which is the Copper
Beech, whose purple leaves form a fine contrast in colour with the lively green of the common sort.

123. FRAXINUS excelsior. THE ASH.--The wood of the Ash is considered the best timber for all
purposes of strong husbandry utensils. The wheels and axle-trees of carriages, the shafts for
carts, and the cogs for mill-work, are principally made of this timber. The young wood when
gown in coppices is useful for hop-poles, and the small underwood is said to afford the best
fuel of any when used green. Coppice-land usually sells for a comparatively greater price according
as this wood prevails in quantity, on account of its good quality as fuel alone.

124. HEDERA Helix. IVY.--A common plant in woods, and often planted in shady places to hide
walls and buildings. The leaves are good food for deer and sheep in winter. The Irish Ivy,
which was brought from that country, is a fine variety with broad leaves. It was introduced
by Earl Camden.

125. HIPPOPHAE Rhamnoides. SEA BUCKTHORN.--This is a scarce shrub; but is very useful as a
plant for forming shelter on the hills near the sea-coast, it having been found to stand the
sea-breeze better than any plant of the kind that is indigenous to this country.

126. ILEX aquifolium. HOLLY.--A well-known evergreen of singular beauty, of which we have many
varieties, both striped, and of different colours in the leaf. Birdlime is made from the inner
bark of this tree, by beating it in a running stream and leaving it to ferment in a close vessel.
If iron be heated with charcoal made of holly with the bark on, the iron will be rendered brittle;
but if the bark be taken off, this effect will not be produced. Ray's Works and Travels by Scott.

127. JUNIPERUS communis. JUNIPER.--An evergreen shrub, very common on waste lands. The berries
are used in preparing the well-known spiritous liquor gin, and have been considered of great
use in medicine.

128. LIGUSTRUM vulgare. PRIVET.--A shrub of somewhat humble growth, very useful for forming
hedges where shelter is wanted more than strength. It bears clipping, and forms a very ornamental
fence. There is a variety of this with berries, and another nearly evergreen.

129. MESPILUS germanica. THE MEDLAR.--Is cultivated for its fruit, and of which we have a variety
called the Dutch Medlar; it is larger than our English one, but I do not think it better flavoured.

130. PINUS sylvestris. THE SCOTCH FIR.--A very useful tree in plantations for protecting other
more tender sorts when young. It is also now very valuable as timber:--necessity, the common
parent of invention, has taught our countrymen its value. When foreign deal was worth twenty
pounds per load, they contrieved to raise the price of this to about nine or ten pounds, and
it was then thought proper for use; before which period, and when it could be bought for little
money, it was deemed only fit for fuel. On the South Downs I know some plantations of this
tree, which have been sold, after twenty-five years growth, at a price which averaged a profit
of twenty shillings per annum per acre, on land usually let for sheep-pasture at one shilling
and six-pence.

131. POPULUS alba. WHITE POPLAR. This is a very ornamental tree. The leaves on the under surface
are of a fine white, and on the reverse of a very dark green; and when growing on large trees
are truly beautiful, as every breath of air changes the colour as the leaves move. The wood
of all the species of poplar is useful for boards, or any other purposes if kept dry. It is
much in demand for floor-boards for rooms, it not readily taking fire; a red-hot poker falling
on a board, would burn its way through it, without causing more combustion than the hole through
which it passed.

132. POPULUS monilifera. CANADA POPLAR.--This is also known by the name of BLACK ITALIAN POPLAR,
but from whence it had this name I do not know. This species, which is the finest of all the
kinds, grows very commonly in woods and hedges in many parts of Worcestershire and Herefordshire,
where it reaches to prodigious sizes. Perhaps no timber is more useful than this; it is very
durable, and easy to be converted to all purposes in building. The floors of a great part of
Downton Castle, the seat of R. Payne Knight, Esq. are laid with this wood, which have been
used forty years and are perfectly sound. Trees are now growing on his estate which are three
and four feet in diameter. I have one growing in my Botanic garden which is eight years old,
and measures upwards of six cubic feet of timber. The parent of this tree which grew at Brompton
I converted into boards. It was nineteen years growing; and when cut down it was worth upwards
of fourteen pounds, rating it at the then price of deal, for which it was a good substitute.
Some fine specimens of this tree are also to be seen at Garnins, the seat of Sir J. G. Cotterell,
Bart. the present worthy member for the county of Hereford.

133. PRUNUS domestica. THE COMMON PLUM-TREE.--This is the parent of our fruit of this name.

134. PRUNUS Cerasus. WILD CHERRY-TREE.--Is the parent of our fine cherries. It is cultivated
much in Scotland for the timber, which is hard, and of use for furniture and other domestic
purposes. It is the best and most lasting stock for grafting on. Persons who are about to plant
this fruit would do well to inquire into the nature of the stock, as no fruit-tree is so liable
to disease and become gummy as cherries are, and that is often much owing to the improved kinds
being sown for stocks, which are of a more tender texture and of course less hardy than this.

135. PRUNUS insititia. SLOE-TREE.--Is of little use except when it occurs in fences. The fruit
is a fine acid, and is much used by the common people, mixed with other fruits less astringent
and acid, to flavour made wines. It is believed that much Port wine is improved by the same means.

136. PYRUS communis. PEAR-TREE.--This is the parent of all our fine varieties of this fruit,
and is used as the stock for propagating them; these are raised from seeds for that purpose.
The wood of the Peartree is in great esteem for picture frames, it receiving a stain better
than almost any other timber known.

137. PYRUS Malus. CRAB-TREE.--A tree of great account, as being the parent of all our varieties
of apples, and is the stock on which the fine varieties are usually grafted. A dwarf variety
of this tree, called the Paradise Apple, is used for stocks for making dwarf apple trees for
gardens.

The juice of the Crab is called verjuice, which is in considerable demand for medicinal and
other purposes.

138. QUERCUS robur. THE OAK.--Is a well known tree peculiar to Great Britain, and of the greatest
interest to us as a nation. It is of very slow growth; but the timber is very strong and lasting,
and hence it is used for building our shipping. The bark is supposed to contain more tannin
than that of any other tree, and is valuable on that account. The acorns, or fruit, are good
food for hogs, which are observed to grow very fat when turned into the forests at the season
when they are ripe. The tree is raised from the acorn, which grows very readily.

We have accounts of Oak trees growing to great ages, and to most enormous sizes. One instance
is mentioned by Evelyn, of one growing at Cowthorp, near Weatherby, in 1776, which within three
feet of the ground was sixteen yards in circumference, and its height about eighty-five feet.
Hunter's Evelyn's Sylva, p. 500.

139. ROSA rubiginosa. SWEET-BRIAR.--Is a very fragrant shrub, for which it has long been cultivated
in the gardens. There are several varieties in the nurseries; as the Double-flowering, Evergreen,
&c. which are much esteemed.

140. RUBUS Idaeus. THE RASPBERRY.--Produces a well known fruit in great esteem, and of considerable
use both as food and for medicine.

141. RUBUS fruticosus. BRAMBLE.--Produces a black insipid fruit, but which is used by the poor
people for tarts and to form a made wine: when mixt with the juice of sloes it is rendered
very palatable.

142. RUBUS caesius.--Is a dwarf kind of bramble, and produces fruit of a pleasant acid, and
where it grows in plenty it is used by the poor people for pies and other purposes of domestic
oeconomy.

143. SALIX Russelliana. THE WILLOW.--No trees in this country are of more use than the species
of this genus: many are grown for basket-makers in form of osiers, and other larger sorts serve
for stakes, rails, hop-poles, and many other useful purposes. The bark of several species has
been considered as useful for tanning leather. The charcoal of the Willow is also much in demand
for making gunpowder.

144. SALIX viminalis. THE OSIER.--These are cultivated in watery places for making baskets,
which are become a profitable article, and are the shoots of one season's growth cut every
winter. The species best adapted to this purpose, besides the common osier, are

The Salix vitellina. Golden Willow. The Salix monandria. Monandrous Willow. The Salix triandria.
Triandrous Willow. The Salix mollissima. Silky-leaved Willow. The Salix stipularis. Auriculated
Osier. The Salix purpurea. Bitter Purple Willow. The Salix Helix. Rose Willow. The Salix Lambertiana.
Boyton Willow. The Salix Forbyana. Basket Osier. The Salix rubra. Green Osier. The Salix nigricans.
Dark Purple Osier.

145. SAMBUCUS nigra. ELDER.--The timber of the Elder is useful for making musical instruments,
and the berries made into wine and fermented make a useful and valuable beverage. A variety
with green berries is much esteemed for wine also.

146. SORBUS Aucuparia. QUICKEN-TREE, or MOUNTAIN-ASH.--In this part of Britain we usually find
this tree in plantations, where it is very ornamental; and the berries, which are of a fine
scarlet, are the food of many species of birds. The wood is also useful for posts, &c. and
is considered lasting.

147. SORBUS domestica. TRUE SERVICE.--Produces a fruit much like the Medlar, and when ripe
is in great esteem. The only tree in this country in a wild state, is growing in Bewdley Forest,
Worcester-shire.

148. SPARTIUM Scoparium. BROOM.--Is a very ornamental plant, and is used for making besoms.
It was once considered as a specific in the cure of dropsy, but is now seldom used for medicial
purposes.

149. STAPHYLEA pinnata. BLADDER-NUT.--This is not a common plant in this country. I know of
no other use to which it is applied, but its being cultivated in nurseries and sold as an ornamental
shrub. The seed-vessel, from whence it takes its name, is a curious example of the inflated
capsule.

150. TAMARIX gallica. A shrub of large growth; and being less affected by the sea breeze than
any others, is useful to form a shelter in situations where the bleak winds will not admit
of trees of more tender kinds to flourish.

151. TAXUS baccata. THE YEW.--Was formerly much esteemed for making bows: but since those instruments
of war and destruction have given place to the more powerful gun-powder, it is not so much
in request. The wood is very hard and durable, and admits of a fine polish. The foliage of
Yew is poisonous to cattle, who will readily eat it, if cut and thrown in their way in frosty
weather.

152. TILIA europaea. THE LIME or LINDEN-TREE.--Is a very ornamental tree in plantations, and
from its early putting forth its leaves is much esteemed. The flowers emit a very fine scent,
and the inhabitants of Switzerland make a favourite beverage from them. The wood is very soft,
though white and beautiful. It is much used for the ornamental boxes, &c. so well known by
the name of Turnbridge-ware.

153. VACCINIUM uliginosum. GREAT BILBERRY. Vaccinium Vitis Idaea, RED WHORTLE-BERRY, and Vaccinium
Oxycoccos, CRANBERRY, are all edible fruits, but do not grow in this part of the kingdom. Great
quantities of Cranberries are imported every winter and spring from Russia; they are much esteemed
by the confectioners for tarts, &c. and are sold at high prices. These three kinds grow only
in wet boggy places. A species which is native of America, called Vaccinium macrocarpon, has
been very successfully cultivated at Spring Grove by Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. and which has
also been attempted in various other places, but not with the same success. The fruit of this
species is larger and of better flavour than either of the other kinds.

154. VACCINIUM Myrtillus. WHORTS, or BILBERRIES.--To a common observer this would appear to
be a very insignificant shrub; it is not uncommonly met with on our heaths: but it is only
in particular places where it fruits in abundance, and in such districts it is of considerable
value.

The waste lands on Hindhead and Blackdown in Surry and Sussex are noticed for producing this
fruit, which is similar to Black Currants. They are gathered in the months of August and September,
and sold at the neighbouring markets.

In a calculation of the value of this plant with an intelligent nurseryman in that county,
we found that from 500 l. to 700 l. were earned and realized annually by the neighbouring poor,
who employed their families in this labour, and who are in the habit of travelling many miles
for this purpose. The fruit is ripe in August, and at that season is met with in great plenty
in all the neighbouring towns.

155. VISCUM album. MISSELTO.--A parasitical plant well known, and formerly of much repute in
medicine, but wholly disregarded in the present practice. Birdlime is made from the berries.

Dr. Pulteney in tracing the history of Botanic science quotes Pliny for an account of the veneration
in which this plant was held by the Druids, who attributed almost divine efficacy to it, and
ordained the collecting it with rites and ceremonies not short of the religious strictness
which was countenanced by the superstition of the age. It was cut with a golden knife, and
when the moon was six days old gathered by the priest, who was clothed with white for the occasion,
and the plant received on a white napkin, and two white bulls sacrificed. Thus consecrated,
Misselto was held to be an antidote to poison, and prevented sterility. Query, Has not the
custom of hanging up Misselto at merry-makings, and the ceremony so well known among our belles,
some relation to above sacrifice?

156. ULEX europaeus. COMMON FURZE.--The culture of this shrub is given in the Agricultural
Plants, being good for feeding cattle; its principal use however is for fuel, and it is frequently
grown for such purposes. It is common on most of our waste lands. It also forms good fences,
but should always be kept short and young, otherwise it becomes thin, especially in good land
where it grows up and makes large bushes.

157. ULMUS campestris. THE ELM.--We have a number of varieties of the Elm; the most esteemed
is that with the smooth bark. The timber has been long in request for water-pipes, and for
boards, which are converted into various uses in domestic oeconomy.

158. ULMUS montana. BROAD-LEAVED ELM.--This has not been considered of so great value as the
common sort, but it is of much more free growth; and I have been informed that in the West
of England the timber has been found to be good and lasting.

*       *       *       *       *

SECT. VII.--PLANTS USEFUL IN MEDICINE.

The initial letters in this class distinguish the Pharmacopoeia in which each plant is inserted.

"By the wise and unchangeable laws of Nature established by a Being infinitely good and infinitely
powerful,--not only man, the lord of the creation, 'fair form who wears sweet smiles, and looks
erect on heaven,' but every subordinate being becomes subject to decay and death: pain and
disease, the inheritance of mortality, usually accelerate his dissolution. To combat these,
to alleviate when it has not the power to avert, Medicine, honoured art! comes to our assistance.

"It will not be expected that we should here give a history of this ancient practice, or draw
a parallel betwixt the success of former physicians and those of modern times: all that concerns
us to remark is, that the ancients were infinitely more indebted to the vegetable kingdom for
the materials of their art than the moderns. Not so well acquainted with the oeconomy of nature,
which teaches us that plants were chiefly destined for the food of various animals, they sought
in every herb some latent healing virtue, and frequently endeavoured to make up the want of
efficacy in one by the combination of numbers: hence the extreme length of their farraginous
prescriptions. More enlightened ideas of the operations of medicine have taught the moderns
greater simplicity and conciseness in practice. Perhaps there is a danger that this simplicity
may be carried to far, and become finally detrimental to the practice."

The above is quoted from the Preface to a Catalogue of Medicinal Plants published by my predecessor
in 1783: and it may be observed, that the medical student has, at the present season, a still
less number of plants to store up in memory, owing, probably, to the great advances that chemistry
has made in the mean time, through which mineral articles in many instances have superseded
those of the vegetable kingdom. But, nevertheless, as Dr. Woodville has justly observed, "it
would be difficult to show that this preference is supported by any conclusive reasoning drawn
from a comparative superiority of the former;" or that the more general use of them has led
to greater success in the practice of the healing art. It is however evident, that we have
much to regret the almost total neglect of the study of medical botany by the younger branches
of the professors of physic, when we are credibly informed that Cow-parsley has been administered
for Hemlock, and Foxglove has been substituted for Coltsfoot [Footnote: See the account of
a dreadful accident of this nature, in Gent. Mag. for Sept. 1815.], from which circumstance,
some valuable lives have been sacrificed. It is therefore high time that those persons who
are engaged in the business of pharmacy should be obliged to become so far acquainted with
plants, as to be able to distinguish at sight all such as are useful in diet or medicine, and
more particularly such as are of poisonous qualities.

The medical student has so many subjects for his consideration, that it is not desirable he
should have a greater number of vegetables to consult than are necessary. And we cannot help
lamenting the difficulty he has to struggle with in consequence of the great difference of
names which the Pharmacopoeias of the present day exhibit. The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin,
in many instances, enforce the necessity of learning a different term in each for the same
thing, and none of which are called by the same they were twenty years ago. Surely it would
be the means of forwarding the knowledge of drugs, if each could be distinguished by one general
term.

The candidate for medical knowledge, however, is not the only one who has at times to regret
this confusion of names. The Linnaean system is an easy and delightful path to the knowledge
of plants; but, like all other human structures, it has its imperfections, and some of which
have been modified by judicious alterations. Yet the teachers of this science, as well as the
students, have often to deprecate the unnecessary change in names which has been made by many
writers, though., in many cases, no more reason appears for it than there generally would be
to change Christian and surnames of persons.

In the following section, I shall enumerate and describe those plants which are contained in
the lists of the three colleges; and afterwards a separate list of those which, although they
have been expunged, are still sometimes used by medical men.

I shall also endeavour to give such descriptions as are concise, at the same time sufficient
for general knowledge, and for which reason I have taken Lewis's Materia Medica for my text,
unless where improvements have been made in certain subjects I have consulted more modern authorities.
It should be observed, that writers on medical plants, with few exceptions, have copied from
one another: or with a little alteration as to words only.

And as some vegetables, from their affinitiy, may be confounded with others, whereby those
possessing medical qualities may be substituted for others having none, or even poisonous ones,
I shall in some instances enumerate a list of similar plants, which, with attention to their
botanical characters, it is hoped will prevent those dangerous errors we have lately witnessed.
As it is our business, in demonstrating plants, to guard the student against such confusion,
it will be proper that specimens of such as come under this head be preserved, as a work for
reference and contrast wherever doubts may arise.

158. ACONITUM Napellus. COMMON BLUE MONKSHOOD. The Leaves. L. E.--Every part of the fresh plant
is strongly poisonous, but the root is unquestionably the most powerful, and when chewed at
first imparts a slight sensation of acrimony, and a pungent heat of the lips, gums, palate
and fauces, which is succeeded by a general tremor and sensation of chilliness.

This plant has been generally prepared as an extract or inspissated juice, after the manner
directed in the Edinburgh and many of the foreign Pharmacopoeias, and, like all virulent medicines,
it should be first administered in small doses. Stoerck recommends two grains of the extract
to be rubbed into a powder with two drums of sugar, and as a dose to begin with ten grains
of this powder two or three times a-day.

Similar Plants.--Aconitum japonicum; A. pyrenaicum; Delphinium elatum; D. exallatum.

Instead of the extract, a tincture has been made of the dried leaves macerated in six times
their weight of spirit of wine, and forty drops given for a dose.--Woodville's Med. Bot. 965.

The Dublin College has ordered the Aconitum Neomontanum, which is not common in this country
[Footnote: In plants of so very poisonous a nature as the Aconite, it is the duty of every
one who describes them to be particular. Here seems to have been a confusion. The A. Neomontanum
is figured in Jacquin's Fl. Austriaca, fasc. 4. p. 381; and the first edition of Hortus Kewensis
under A. Napellus erroneously quotes that figure: but both Gmelin in Syst. Vegetabilium, p.
838, and Wildenow in Spec. Plant. p. 1236, quote it under its proper name, A. Neomontanum.
Now the fact is, that the Napellus is the Common Blue Monkshood; and the Neomontanum is altogether
left out of the second edition of the Hortus Kewensis for the best of all reasons, it is not
in this country; or, if it is, it must be very scarce, and, of course, not the plant used in
medicine.].

160. ACORCUS Calamus. SWEET RUSH. The Root. L.--It is generally looked upon as a carminative
and stomachic medicine, and as such is sometimes made use of in practice. It is said by some
to be superior in aromatic flavour to any other vegetable that is produced in these northern
climates; but such as I have had an opportunity of examining, fell short, in this respect,
of several of our common plants. It is, nevertheless, a sufficiently elegant aromatic. It used
to be an ingredient in the Mithridate and Theriaca of the London Pharmacopoeia, and in the
Edinburgh. The fresh root candied after the manner directed in our Dispensatory for candying
eryngo root, is said to be employed at Constantinople as a preservative against epidemic diseases.
The leaves of this plant have a sweet fragrant smell, more agreeable, though weaker, than that
of the roots.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

161. AESCULUS Hippocastanum. HORSE-CHESNUT. The Bark and Seed. E. D.-- With a view to its errhine
power, the Edinburgh College has introduced the seeds into the Materia Medica, as a small portion
of the powder snuffed up the nostrils readily excites sneezing; even the infusion or decoction
of this fruit produces this effect; it has therefore been recommended for the purpose of producing
a discharge from the nose, which, in some complaints of the head and eyes is found to be of
considerable benefit.

On the continent, the Bark of the Horse Chesnut-tree is held in great estimation as a febrifuge;
and, upon the credit of several respectable authors, appears to be a medicine of great efficacy.--Woodville's
Med. Bot. 615.

162. AGRIMONIA Eupatoria. COMMON AGRIMONY. The Herb. D.--The leaves have an herbaceous, somewhat
acrid, roughish taste, accompanied with an aromatic flavour. Agrimony is said to be aperient,
detergent, and to strengthen the tone of the viscera: hence it is recommended in scorbutic
disorders, in debility and laxity of the intestines, &c. Digested in whey, it affords an useful
diet-drink for the spring season, not ungrateful to the palate or stomach.

163. ALLIUM Porrum. LEEK. The Root. L.--This participates of the virtues of garlic, from which
it differs chiefly in being much weaker. See the article ALLIUM.

164. ALLIUM sativum. GARLIC. The Root. L. E. D.--This pungent root warms and stimulates the
solids, and attenuates tenacious juices. Hence in cold leucophelgmatic habits it proves a powerful
expectorant, diuretic, and emmenagogue; and, if the patient is kept warm, sudorific. In humoral
asthmas, and catarrhous disorders of the breast, in some scurvies, flatulent colics, hysterical
and other diseases proceeding from laxity of the solids, and cold sluggish indisposition of
the fluids, it has generally good effects: it has likewise been found serviceable in some hydropic
cases. Sydenham relates, that he has known the dropsy cured by the use of garlic alone; he
recommends it chiefly as a warm strengthening medicine in the beginning of the disease.

Garlic made into an unguent with oils, &c. and applied externally, is said to resolve and discuss
cold tumors, and has been by some greatly esteemed in cutaneous diseases. It has likewise sometimes
been employed as a repellent. Sydenham assures us, that among all the substances which occasion
a derivation or revulsion from the head, none operate more powerfully than garlic applied to
the soles of the feet: hence he was led to make use of it in the confluent small-pox about
the eighth day, after the face began to swell; the root cut in pieces, and tied in a linen
cloth, was applied to the soles, and renewed once a day till all danger was over.

165. ALLIUM Cepa. ONION. The Root. D.--These roots are considered rather as articles of food
than of medicine: they are supposed to afford little or no nourishment, and when eaten liberally
they produce flatulencies, occasion thirst, headachs, and turbulent dreams: in cold phlegmatic
habits, where viscid mucus abounds, they doubtless have their use; as by their stimulating
quality they tend to excite appetite, attenuate thick juices, and promote their expulsion:
by some they are strongly recommended in suppressions of urine and in dropsies. The chief medicinal
use of onions in the present practice is in external applications, as a cataplasm for suppurating
tumours, &c.

166. ALTHAEA officinalis. MARSH-MALLOW. The Leaves and Root. L.--This plant has the general
virtues of an emollient medicine; and proves serviceable in a thin acrimonious state of the
juices, and where the natural mucus of the intestines is abraded. It is chiefly recommended
in sharp defluxions upon the lungs, hoarseness, dysenteries, and likewise in nephritic and
calculous complaints; not, as some have supposed, that this medicine has any peculiar power
of dissolving or expelling the calculus; but as, by lubricating and relaxing the vessels, it
procures a more free and easy passage. Althaea root is sometimes employed externally for softening
and maturing hard tumours: chewed, it is said to give ease in difficult dentition of children.

The officinal preparations are:-Decoctio Althaeae officinalis, and Syrupus Althaeae.

Similar Plants.--Malva officinalis; M. rotundifolia; M. mauritanica; Lavatera arborscens.

This root gives name to an officinal syrup [L. E.] and ointment [L.] and is likewise an ingredient
in the compound powder of gum tragacanth [L. E.] and the oil and plaster of mucilages [L.]
though it does not appear to communicate any particular virtue to the two last, its mucilaginous
matter not being dissoluble in oils.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

167. AMYGDALUS communis. SWEET and BITTER ALMONDS. L. E. D.--The oils obtained by expression
from both sorts of almonds are in their sensible qualities the same. The general virtues of
these oils are, to blunt acrimonious humours, and to soften and relax the solids: hence their
use internally, in tickling coughs, heat of urine, pains and inflammations: and externally
in tension and rigidity of particular parts.

168. ANCHUSA tinctoria. ALKANET-ROOT. E. D.--Alkanet-root has little or no smell: when recent,
it has a bitterish astringent taste, but when dried scarcely any. As to its virtues, the present
practice expects not any from it. Its chief use is for colouring oils, unguents, and plasters.
As the colour is confined to the cortical part, the small roots are best, these having proportionally
more bark than the large.

169. ANETHUM graveolens. DILL. The Seeds. L.--Their taste is moderately warm and pungent; their
smell aromatic, but not of the most agreeable kind. These seeds are recommended as a carminative,
in flatulent colics proceeding from a cold cause or a viscidity of the juices. The most efficacious
preparations of them are, the distilled oil, and a tincture or extract made with rectified
spirit. The oil and simple water distilled from them are kept in the shops.--Lewis.

170. ANETHUM Foeniculum. FENNEL. Seeds. E.--These are supposed to be stomachic and carminative;
but this, and indeed all the other effects ascribed to them, as depending upon their stimulant
and aromatic qualities, must be less considerable than those of Dill, Aniseed, or Caraway,
though termed one of the four greater hot seeds.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 129.

171. ANGELICA Archangelica. GARDEN ANGELICA. The Root, Leaves, and Seeds. E.--All the parts
of Angelica, especially the roots, have a fragrant aromatic smell, and a pleasant bitterish
warm taste, glowing upon the lips and palate for a long time after they have been chewed. The
flavour of the seeds and leaves is very perishable, particularly that of the latter, which,
on being barely dried, lose greatest part of their taste and smell: the roots are more tenacious
of their flavour, though even these lose part of it upon keeping. The fresh root, wounded early
in the spring, yields and odorous yellow juice, which slowly exsiccated proves an elegant gummy
resin, very rich in the virtues of the Angelica. On drying the root, this juice concretes into
distinct moleculae, which, on cutting it longitudinally, appear distributed in little veins:
in this state they are extracted by pure spirit, but not by watery liquors.

This resin is considered one of the most elegant aromatics of European growth, though little
regarded in the present practice, and is rarely met with in prescription; neither does it enter
any officinal composition.

172. ANTHEMIS nobilis. CHAMOMILE. The Flowers. L.E.D.--These have a strong not ungrateful,
aromatic smell, but a very bitter nauseous taste. They are accounted carminative, aperient,
emollient, and in some measure anodyne: and stand recommended in flatulent colics, for promoting
the uterine purgations, in spasmodic affections, and the pains of women in child-bed: sometimes
they have been employed in intermittent fevers, and the nephritis. These flowers are also frequently
used externally in discutient and antiseptic fomentations, and in emollient glysters. The double-flowered
variety is usually cultivated for medicine, but the wild kind with single flowers is preferable.

Similar Plants.--Anthemis arvensis; A. Cotula; Pyrethrum maritimum.

173. ANTHEMIS Pyrethrum. PELLITORY OF SPAIN. The Root. L.--The principal use of Pyrethrum in
the present practice is as a masticatory, for promoting the salival flux, and evacuating viscid
humours from the head and neighbouring parts: by this means it very generally relieves the
tooth-ach, pains of the head, and lethargic complaints. If a piece of the root, the size of
a pea, be placed against the tooth, it instantly causes the saliva to flow from the surrounding
glands, and gives immediate relief in all cases of that malady.

174. APIUM Petroselium. COMMON PARSLEY. The Root. E.--Both the roots and seeds of Parsley are
directed by the London College for medicinal use: the former have a sweetish taste, accompanied
with a slight warmth of flavour somewhat resembling that of a carrot; the latter are in taste
warmer and more aromatic than any other part of the plant, and also manifest considerable bittenress.

These roots are said to be aperient and diuretic, and have been employed in apozems to relieve
nephritic pains, and obstructions of urine.

Although Parsley is commonly used at table, it is remarkable that facts have been adducted
to prove, that in some constitutions it occasions epilepsy, or at least aggravates the epileptic
fit in those who are subject to this disease. It has been supposed also to produce inflammation
in the eyes.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 43. A variety which produces larger roots, called Hamburgh
Parsley, is commonly grown for medicinal uses.

175. ARBUTUS Uva Ursi. TRAILING ARBUTUS or BEAR-BERRY. The Leaves.--This first drew the attention
of physicians as an useful remedy in calculous and nephritic affections; and in the years 1763
and 1764, by the concurrent testimonies of different authors, it acquired remarkable celebrity,
not only for its efficacy in gravelly complaints, but in almost every other to which the urinary
organs are liable, as ulcers of the kidneys and bladder, cystirrhoea, diabetes, &c. It may
be employed either in powder or decoction; the former is most commonly preferred, and given
in doses from a scruple to a dram two or three times a-day.-- Woodville's Med. Botany.

176. ARNICA montana. MOUNTAIN ARNICA. The whole Plant. E. D.--The odour of the fresh plant
is rather unpleasant, and the taste acrid, herbaceous, and astringent; and the powdered leaves
act as a strong sternutatory.

This plant, according to Bergius, is an emetic, errhine, diuretic, diaphoretic, emmenagogue;
and from its supposed power of attenuating the blood, it has been esteemed so peculiarly efficacious
in obviating the bad consequences occasioned by falls and bruises, that it obtained the appellation
of Panacea Lapsorum.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 43.

177. ARTEMISIA Absinthium. WORMWOOD, The Herb. L.--Wormwood is a strong bitter; and was formerly
much used as such against weakness of the stomach, and the like, in medicated wines and ales.
At present it is rarely employed in these intentions, on account of the ill relish and offensive
smell which it is accompanied with. These it may be in part freed from by keeping, and totally
by long coction, the bitter remaining entire. An extract made by boiling the leaves in a large
quantity of water, and evaporating the liquor with a strong fire, proves a bitter sufficiently
grateful, without any disgustful flavour.

178. ARTEMISIA Abrotanum. SOUTHERNWOOD. Leaves. D.--Southernwood has a strong, not very disagreeable
smell; and a nauseous, pungent, bitter taste; which is totally extracted by rectified spirit,
less perfectly by watery liquors. It is recommended as an anthelmintic; and in cold lencophlegmatic
habits, as a stimulant, detergent, aperient, and sudorific. The present practice has almost
entirely confined its use to external applications. The leaves are frequently employed in discutient
and antiseptic fomentations; and have been recommended also in lotions and unguents for cutaneous
eruptions, and the falling off of the hair.

179. ARTEMISIA maritima. SEA WORMWOOD. Tops. D.--In taste and smell, it is weaker and less
unpleasant than the common worm-wood. The virutes of both are supposed to be of the same kind,
and to differ only in strength.

The tops used to enter three of our distilled waters, and give name to a conserve. They are
an ingredient also in the common fomentation and green oil.

180. ARTEMISIA Santonica. ROMAN WORMWOOD. Seeds. E. D.--It is a native of the warmer countries,
and at present difficultly procurable in this, though as hardy and as easily raised as any
of the other sorts. Sea wormwood has long supplied its place in the markets, and been in general
mistaken for it.

Roman wormwood is less ungrateful than either of the others: its smell is tolerably pleasant:
the taste, though manifestly bitter, scarcely disagreeable. It appears to be the most eligible
of the three as a stomachic; and is likewise recommended by some in dropsies.

181. ARUM maculatum. BITING ARUM. Fresh Root. L. E.--This root is a powerful stimulant and
attenuant. It is reckoned a medicine of great efficacy in some cachectic and chlorotic cases;
in weakness of the stomach occasioned by a load of viscid phlegm, and in such disorders in
general as proceed from a cold sluggish indisposition of the solids and lentor of the fluids.
I have experienced great benefit from it in rheumatic pains, particularly those of the fixed
kind, and which were seated deep. In these cases I have given from ten grains to a scruple
of the fresh root twice or thrice a day, made into a bolus or emulsion with unctuous and mucilaginous
substances, which cover its pungency, and prevent its making any painful impression on the
tongue. It generally excited a slight tingling sensation through the whole habit, and, when
the patient was kept warm in bed, produced a copious sweat.

The only officinal preparation, in which this root was an ingredient, was a compound powder;
in which form its virtues are very precarious. Some recommend a tincture of it drawn with wine;
but neither wine, water, nor spirit, extract its virtues.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

182. ASARUM Europaeum, ASARABACCA. The Leaves. L. E. D.--Both the roots and leaves have a nauseous,
bitter, acrimonious, hot taste; their smell is strong, and not very disagreeable. Given in
substance from half a dram to a dram, they evacuate powerfully both upwards and downwards.
It is said that tinctures made in spirituous menstrua possess both the emetic and cathartic
virtues of the plant: that the extract obtained by inspissating these tinctures acts only by
vomit, and with great mildness: that an infusion in water proves cathartic, rarely emetic:
that aqueous decoctions made by long boiling, and the watery extract, have no purgative or
emetic quality, but prove notable diaphoretics, diuretics, and emmenagogues.

Its principal use at present is as a sternutatory. The root of asarum is perhaps the strongest
of all the vegetable errhines, white hellebore itself not excepted. Snuffed up the nose, in
the quantity of a grain or two, it occasions a large evacuation of mucus, and raises a plentiful
spitting. The leaves are considerably milder, and may be used to the quantity of three, four,
or five grains. Geoffroy relates, that after snuffing up a dose of this errhine at night, he
has frequently observed the discharge from the nose to continue for three days together; and
that he has known a paralysis of the mouth and tongue cured by one dose. He recommends this
medicine in stubborn disorders of the head, proceeding from viscid tenacious matter, in palsies,
and in soporific distempers. The leaves are an ingredient in the pulvis sternutatoris of the shops.

183. ASPIDIUM Filix-Mas. Polypodium, Linn. MALE FERN. The Roots. L. E. D.--They are said to
be aperient and anthelmintic. Simon Pauli tells us, that they have been the grand secret of
some empirics against the broad kind of worms called taenia; and that the dose is one, two,
or three drams of the powder. Two other kinds of Ferns used to be recommended; but this, being
the strongest, has therefore been made choice of in preference, though the College of Edinburgh
still retain them in their Catalogue of Simples.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

184. ASTRAGALUS Tragacanthus. GOATS-THORN. The Gum. L. E. D.--This gum is of a strong body,
and does not perfectly dissolve in water. A dram will give to a pint of water the consistence
of a syrup, which a whole ounce of gum Arabic is scarce sufficient to do. Hence its use for
forming troches, and the like purposes, in preference to the other gums. It is used in an officinal
powder, and is an ingredient in the compound powders of ceruss and amber.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

185. ATROPA Belladonna. DEADLY NIGHTSHADE. The Leaves, L. E. D.-- Belladonna was first employed
as an external application, in the form of fomentation, to scirrhus and cancer. It was afterwards
administered internally in the same affections; and numerous cases, in which it had proved
successful, were given on the authority of the German practitioners. It has been recommended,
too, as a remedy in extensive ulceration, in paralysis, chronic rheumatism, epilepsy, mania,
and hydrophobia, but with so little discrimination, that little reliance can be placed on the
testimonies in its favour; and, in modern practice, it is little employed. It appears to have
a peculiar action on the eye: hence it has been used in amaurosis; and from its power of causing
dilatation of the pupil, when topically applied under the form of infusion, it has been used
before performing the operation for cataract. A practice which is hazardous, as the pupil,
though much dilated by the application, instantly contracts when the instrument is introduced.
When given internally, its dose is from one to three grains of the dried leaves, or one grain
of the inspissated juice.--Murray's Mat. Med. p. 174.

I have had a cancer of the lip entirely cured by it: a scirrhosity in a woman's breast, of
such kind as frequently proceeds to cancer, I have found entirely discussed by the use of it.
A sore, a little below the eye, which had put on a cancerous appearance, was much mended by
the internal use of the Belladonna; but the patient having learned somewhat of the poisonous
nature of the medicine, refused to continue the use of it; upon which the sore grain spread,
and was painful; but, upon a return to the use of the Belladonna, was again mended to a considerable
degree; when the same fears again returning, the use of it was again laid aside, and with the
same consequence, the sore becoming worse. Of these alternate states, connected with the alternate
use of and abstinence from the Belladonna, there were several of these alterations which fell
under my own observation [Footnote: See the Poisonous Plants, in a future page].--Cullen's
Mat. Med. vol. ii. p. 270.

186. CARDAMINE pratensis. LADIES SMOCK. The Leaves. L. E. D.--Long ago it was employed as a
diuretic; and, of late, it has been introduced in nervous diseases, as epilepsy, hysteria,
choraea, asthma, &c. A dram or two of the powder is given twice or thrice a-day. It has little
sensible operation.

187. CARUM Carui. CARAWAY. The Seeds. L. E. D.--These are in the number of the four greater
hot seeds; and frequently employed as a stomachic and carminative in flatulent colics, and
the like. Their officinal preparations are an essential oil and a spiritous water; they were
used as ingredients also in the compound juniper water, tincture of sena, stomachic tincture,
oxymel of garlic, electuary of bayberries and of scammony, and the cummin-seed plaster.

188. CENTAUREA benedicta. BLESSED THISTLE. The Leaves. E. D.--The herb should be gathered when
in flower, great care taken in drying it, and kept in a very dry airy place, to prevent its
rotting or growing mouldy, which it is very apt to do. The leaves have a penetrating bitter
taste, not very strong or very durable, accompanied with an ungrateful flavour, which they
are in great measure freed from by keeping.

The virtues of this plant seem to be little known in the present practice. We have frequently
experienced excellent effects from a light infusion of carduus in loss of appetite, where the
stomach was injured by irregularities. A stronger infusion made in cold or warm water, if drunk
freely, and the patient kept warm, occasions a plentiful sweat, and promotes all the secretions
in general.

The seeds of this plant are also considerably bitter, and have been sometimes used for the
same purposes as the leaves.

189. CHIRONIA Centaurium. LESSER CENTAURY. The Tops. L. E. D.--This is justly esteemed to be
the most efficacious bitter of all the medicinal plants indigenous to this country. It has
been recommended as a substitute for Gentian, and, by several, thought to be a more useful
medicine: experiments have also shown it to possess an equal degree of antiseptic power.

Many authors have observed, that, along with the tonic and stomachic qualities of a bitter,
Centaury frequently proves cathartic; but it is possible that this seldom happens, unless it
be taken in very large doses. The use of this, as well as of the other bitters, was formerly
common in febrile disorders previous to the knowledge of Peruvian-bark, which now supersedes
them perhaps too generally; for many cases of fever occur which are found to be aggravated
by the Cinchona, yet afterwards readily yield to the simple bitters.--Woodville, p. 277.

190. COCHLEARIA officinalis. SCURVY-GRASS. The Herb. E.--Is antiseptic, attenuant, aperient,
and diuretic, and is said to open obstructions of the viscera and remoter glands, without heating
or irritating the system. It has long been considered as the most effectual of all the antiscorbutic
plants; and its sensible qualities are sufficiently powerful to confirm this opinion. In the
rheumatismus vagus, called by Sydenham Rheumatismus scorbuticus, consisting of wandering pains
of long continuance, accompanied with fever, this plant, combined with Arum and Wood-Sorrel,
is highly commended both by Sydenham and Lewis.

We have testimony of its great use in scurvy, not only from physicians, but navigators; as
Anson, Linschoten, Maartens, Egede, and others. And it has been justly noticed, that this plant
grows plentifully in those high latitudes where the scurvy is most obnoxious. Forster found
it in great abundance in the islands of the South Seas.--Woodville, p. 395.

191. COCHLEARIA Armoracia. HORSE-RADISH. The Root. E.-The medical effects of this root are,
to stimulate the solids, attenuate the juices, and promote the fluid secretions: it seems to
extend its action through the whole habit, and affect the minutest glands. It has frequently
done great service in some kinds of scurvies and other chronic disorders proceeding from a
viscidity of the juices, or obstructions of the excretory ducts. Sydenham recommends it likewise
in dropsies, particularly those which sometimes follow intermittent fevers. Both water and
rectified spirit extract the virtues of this root by infusion, and elevate them in distillation:
along with the aqueous fluid an essential oil arises, possessing the whole taste and pungency
of the horse-radish. The College have given us a very elegant compound water, which takes its
name from this root.

192. COLCHICUM autumnale. MEADOW-SAFFRON. The Roots. L. E. D.--The roots, freed from the outer
blackish coat and fibres below, are white, and full of a white juice. In drying they become
wrinkled and dark coloured. Applied to the skin, it shows some signs of acrimony; and taken
internally, it is said sometimes to excite a sense of burning heat, bloody stools, and other
violent symptoms. In the form of syrup, however, it has been given to the extent of two ounces
a-day without any bad consequence. It is sometimes employed as a diuretic in dropsy. It is
now supposed to be a principal ingredient in the celebrated French gout medicine L'Eau Medicinale.

193. CONIUM maculatum. HEMLOCK. The Leaves. L. E. D.--Physicians seem somewhat in dispute about
the best mode of exhibiting this medicine; some recommending the extract, as being most easily
taken in the form of pills; others the powder, as not being subject to that variation which
the extract is liable to, from being made in different ways. With respect to the period, likewise,
at which the plant should be gathered, they seem not perfectly agreed; some recommending it
when in its full vigour, and just coming into bloom, and others, when the flowers are going
off. An extract of the green plant is ordered by the College in their last list. Dr. Cullen
has for many years commended the making it from the unripe seeds; and this mode the College
of Physicians at Edinburgh have thought proper to adopt in their late Pharmacopoeia.

Similar Plants.--Aethusa Cynapium; Apium Petroselium; Oenanthe crocata; Oe. fistulosa; Phellandrium
aquaticum.

194. CORIANDRUM sativum. CORIANDER. The Seeds. L. E. D.-These, when fresh, have a strong disagreeable
smell, which improves by drying, and becomes sufficiently grateful. They are recommmended as
carminative and stomachic.

195. CROCUS sativus. TRUE SAFFRON. The Stigmata. L. E. D.--There are three sorts of saffron
met with in the shops, two of which are brought from abroad, the other is the produce of our
own country. This last is greatly superior to the two former.

This medicine is particularly serviceable in hysteric depressions proceeding from a cold cause,
or obstruction of the uterine secretions, where other aromatics, even those of the more generous
kind, have little effect. Saffron imparts the whole of its virtue and colour to rectified spirit,
proof spirit, wine, vinegar, and water: a tincture used to be drawn with vinegar, but it looses
greatly its colour in keeping. There can be little use for preparations of saffron, as the
drug itself will keep good for any length of time.

196. CUMINUM Cymini. CUMMIN. The Seeds. L.--Cummin seeds have a bitterish warm taste, accompanied
with an aromatic flavour, not of the most agreeable kind. They are accounted good carminatives,
but not very often made use of. An essential oil of them used to be kept in the shops, and
they gave name to a plaster and cataplasm.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

197. CYNARA Scolymus. ARTICHOKE. The Leaves. E.--The bitter juice of the leaf, mixed with an
equal part of Madeira wine, is recommended in an ounce dose night and morning, as a powerful
diuretic in dropsy. An infusion of the leaf may likewise be used.

198. DAPHNE Mezereum. THE MEZEREON. The Roots. L. E. D.--This plant is extremely acrid, especially
when fresh, and, if retained in the mouth, excites great and long continued heat and inflammation,
particularly of the throat and fauces. The bark and berries of Mezereon in different forms
have been long externally used to obstinate ulcers and ill conditioned sores. In France, the
former is strongly recommended as an application to the skin, which, under certain management,
produces a continued serious discharge without blistering, and is thus rendered useful in many
chronic diseases of a local nature answering the purpose of what has been called a perpetual
blister, while it occasions less pain and inconvenience.

In this country Mezereon is principally employed for the cure of some siphylitic complaints;
and in this way Dr. Donald Monro was the first who gave testimony of its efficacy in the successful
use of the Lisbon Diet Drink.

The considerable and long-continued heat and irritation that is produced in the throat when
Mezereon is chewed, induced Dr. Withering to think of giving it in a case of difficulty of
swallowing, seemingly occasioned by a paralytic affection. The patient was directed to chew
a thin slice of the root as often as she could bear it, and in about a month recovered her
power of swallowing. This woman had suffered the complaint three years, and was greatly reduced,
being totally unable to swallow solids, and liquids but very imperfectly.--Woodville's Med.
Bot. p. 720.

199. DATURA Stramonium. THORN APPLE. The whole Plant. E.--Dr. Woodville informs us, that an
extract of this plant has been the preparation usually employed, and from one to ten grains
and upwards a-day: but the powdered leaves after the manner of those directed for hemlock would
seem, for the reason given, to be a preparation more certain and convenient.

It has been much celebrated as a medicine in epilepsy and convulsions and mania; but it is
of a violent narcotic quality, and extremely dangerous in its effects.

Stramonium has been recommended, as being of considerable use in cases of asthma, on the authority
of some eminent physicians of the East Indies; and the late Dr. Roxburgh has stated to me many
instances wherein it had performed wonders in that dreadful malady.

The Datura Metal, Purple-flowered Thorn-apple, is much like the Stramonium, except in the flowers
and the stalks being of a purple colour. I have made particular inquiry of Dr. Roxburgh if
any particular kind was used in preference, and he said not; that both the above sorts were
used; and, in fact, not only these, but the Datura Tatula, another species which grows wild
there, and is cultivated in our stoves for the sake of its beautiful flowers, is also used
for the same purposes.

The mode of using it was by cutting the whole plant up after drying, and smoking it in a common
tobacco-pipe; and which, in some cases in this country also, has given great ease in severe
attacks; and I know several persons who use it with good effect to this day. In vegetables
of such powerful effects as this is known to have, great care ought to be taken in their preparation,
which, I fear, is not always so much attended to as the nature of this subject requires [Footnote:
See Observations on and Directions for preparing and preserving Herbs in general, et the end
of this section.].

200. DAUCUS sylvestris. WILD CARROT. The Seeds. L.--These seeds possess, though not in a very
considerable degree, the aromatic qualities common to those of the umbelliferous plants, and
hence have long been deemed carminative and emmenagogue; but they are chiefly esteemed for
their diuretic powers, and for their utility in calculus and nephritic complaints, in which
an infusion of three spoonfuls of the seeds in a pint of boiling water has been recommended;
or the seeds may be fermented in malt liquor, which receives from them an agreeable flavour
resembling that of the lemon-peel.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 132.

Similar Plants.--Sison Amonum; Daucus Carota.

201. DAUCUS Carota. CULTIVATED CARROT. The Roots. L. E. D.--The expressed juice, or a decoction
of these roots, has been recommended in calculous complaints, and as a gargle for infants in
aphtous affections or excoriations of the mouth; and a poultice of scraped carrots has been
found an useful application to phagedenic ulcers, and to cancerous and putrid sores.

202. DELPHINIUM Staphis Agria. STAVES AGRIA. The Seeds. L. D.-- Stavesacre was employed by
the ancients as a cathartic, but it operates with so much violence both upwards and downwards,
that its internal use has been, among the generality of practitioners, for some time laid aside.
It is chiefly employed in external applications for some kinds of cutaneous eruptions; and
for destroying lice and other insects; insomuch that it has from this virtue received its name
in different languages, Herba pedicularis, Herbe aux poux, Lauskraut, Lousewort.

203. DIANTHUS caryophyllus. CLOVE-PINK. The Petals. E.--These flowers are said to be cardiac
and alexipharmac. Simon Paulli relates, that he has cured many malignant fevers by the use
of a de-coction of them; which he says powerfully promoted sweat and urine without greatly
irritating nature, and also raised the spirits and quenched thirst. The flowers are chiefly
valued for their pleasant flavour, which is entirely lost even by light coction. Lewis says,
the College directed the syrup, which is the only officinal preparation of them, to be made
by infusion.

204. DIGITALIS purpurea. FOXGLOVE. The Leaves. L. E. D.--The leaves of Foxglove have a nauseous
taste, but no remarkable smell. They have been long used externally to sores and scrophulous
tumours with considerable advantage. Its diuretic effects, for which it is now so deservedly
received into the Materia Medica, were entirely overlooked. To this discovery Dr. Withering
has an undoubted claim; and the numerous cures of dropsy related by him and other practitioners
of established reputation, afford incontestable proofs of its diuretic powers, and of its practical
importance in the cure of those diseases. The dose of dried leaves in powder is from one grain
to three twice a-day; but if a liquid medicine be preferred, a dram of the dried leaves is
to be infused for four hours in half a pint of boiling water, adding to the strained liquor
an ounce of any spiritous water. One ounce of this infusion given twice a-day is a medium dose;
it is to be continued in these doses till it either acts upon the kidneys; the stomach, or
the pulse, (which it has a remarkable power of lowering,) or the bowels.-- Woodville's Med.
Bot. p. 221.

This is now become a very popular medicine, but if used incautiously is attended with danger.
Medical practitioners should make themselves perfectly acquainted with this plant, as the leaves
are the only part used; and their not being readilly discriminated when separated from the
flowers, several accidents have occurred. In the Gent. Mag. for September 1815 is recorded
a very extraordinary mistake, where the life of a child was sacrificed to the ignorance of
a person who administered this instead of Coltsfoot; a plant so very dissimilar, that, had
it not been well authenticated, I should not have believed the fact.

Similar Plants.--Verbascum nigrum; V. Thapsus; Cynoglossum officinale, or, after the above
mistake, any other plant with a lanceolate leaf, we fear, may be confounded with it.

205. ERYNGIUM maritimum. SEA-HOLLY. Roots. D.--The roots are slender, and very long; of a pleasant
sweetish taste, which on chewing for some time is followed by a light degree of aromatic warmth
and acrimony. They are accounted aperient and diuretic, and have also been celebrated as aphrodisiac:
their virtues, however, are too weak to admit them under the head of medicines. The candied
root is ordered to be kept in the shops.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

206. FERULA assafoetida. ASSAFOETIDA. Gum. L. E. D.--This drug has a strong fetid smell, somewhat
like that of garlick; and a bitter, acrid, biting taste. It looses with age of its smell and
strength, a circumstance to be particularly regarded in its exhibition. It consists of about
one-third part pure resin, and two-thirds of gummy matter; the former soluble in rectified
spirit, the other in water. Proof-spirit dissolves almost the whole into a turbid liquor; the
tincture in rectified spirit is transparent.

Assafoetida is the strongest of the fetid gums, and of frequent use in hysteric and different
kinds of nervous complaints. It is likewise of considerable efficacy in flatulent colics; and
for promoting all the fluid secretions in either sex. The ancients attributed to this medicine
many other virtues which are at present not expected from it.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

207. FICUS Carica. COMMON FIG. Fruit. L. D.--The recent fruit completely ripe is soft, succulent,
and easily digested, unless eaten in immoderate quantities, when it is apt to occasion flatulency,
pain of the bowels, and diarrhoea. The dried fruit is pleasanter to the taste, and is more
wholesome and nutritive. Figs are supposed to be more nutritious by having their sugar united
with a large portion of mucilaginous matter, which, from being thought to be of an oily nature,
has been long esteemed an useful demulcent and pectoral; and it is chiefly with a view of these
effects that they have been medicinally employed.

208. FRAXINUS Ornus. MANNA. L. E. D.--There are several sorts of Manna in the shops. The larger
pieces, called Flake Manna, are usually preferred; though the smaller grains are equally as
good, provided they are white, or of a pale yellow colour, very light, of a sweet not unpleasant
taste, and free from any visible impurities.

Manna is a mild agreeable laxative, and may be given with saftey to children and pregnant women:
nevertheless, in some particular constitutions it acts very unkindly, producing flatulencies
and distension of the viscera.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

209. GENTIANA lutea. YELLOW GENTIAN. Root. L. D.--This root is a strong bitter, and, as such,
very frequently made use of in practice: in taste it is less exceptionable than most of the
other substances of this class: infusions of it, flavoured with orange peel, are sufficiently
grateful. It is the capital ingredient in the bitter wine; and a tincture and infusion of it
are kept in the shops.

Lewis mentions a poisonous root being mixed among some of the Gentian brought to London; the
use of which occasioned in some instances death. This was internally of a white colour, and
void of bitterness. There is no doubt but this was the root of the Veratrum album, a poisonous
plant so similar, that it might readily be mistaken for it.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

210. GEUM urbanum. COMMON AVENS. Root. D.--This has a warm, bitterish, astringent taste, and
a pleasant smell, somewhat of the clove kind, especially in the spring, and when produced in
dry warm soils. Parkinson observes, that such as is the growth of moist soils has nothing of
this flavour. This root has been employed as a stomachic, and for strengthening the tone of
the viscera in general: it is still in some esteem in foreign countries, though not taken notice
of among us. It yields, on distillation, an elegant odoriferous essential oil, which concretes
into a flaky form.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

Similar Plants.--Geum rivale; G. intermedium.

211. GLYCYRRHIZA glabra. LIQUORICE. Root. L. D.--This is produced plentifully in all the countries
of Europe: that which is the growth of our own is preferable to such as comes from abroad;
this last being generally mouldy, which this root is very apt to become, unless kept in a dry
place.

The powder of liquorice usually sold is often mingled with flower, and, I fear, too often with
substances not quite so wholesome. The best sort is of a brownish yellow colour (the fine pale
yellow being generally sophisticated) and of a very rich sweet taste, much more agreeable than
that of the fresh root. Liquorice is almost the only sweet that quenches thirst.

This root is a very useful pectoral, and excellently softens acrimonious humours, at the same
time that it proves gently detergent: and this account is warranted by experience. It is an
ingredient in the pectoral syrup, pectoral troches, the compound lime waters, decoction of
the woods, compound powder of gum tragacanth, lenitive electuary, and theriaca. An extract
is directed to be made from it in the shops; but this preparation is brought chiefly from abroad,
though the foreign extract is not equal to such as is made with proper care among ourselves.--Lewis's
Mat. Med.

212. GRATIOLA officinalis. HEDGE-HYSSOP. Herb. E. D.--The leaves have a very bitter disagreeable
taste: an infusion of a handful of them when fresh, or a dram when dried, is said to operate
strongly as a cathartic. Kramer reports that he has found the root of this plant a medicine
similar in virtue to Ipecacuanha.

Similar Plants.--Lythrum Salicaria; Scutellaria galericulata.

213. HELLEBORUS niger. BLACK HELLEBORE. Root. L.--The tase of Hellebore is acrid and bitter.
Its acrimony, as Dr. Grew observes, is first felt on the tip of the tongue, and then spreads
immediately to the middle, without being much perceived on the intermediate part: on chewing
it for a few minutes, the tongue seems benumbed, and affected with a kind of paralytic stupor,
as when burnt by eating any thing too hot.

Our Hellebore is at present looked upon principally as an alterative, and in this light is
frequently employed, in small doses, for attenuating viscid humours, promoting the uterine
and urinary discharges, and opening inveterate obstructions of the remoter glands: it often
proves a very powerful emmenagogue in plethoric habits, where steel is ineffectual or improper.
An extract made from this root with water, is one of the mildest, and for the purposes of a
cathartic the most effectual preparation of it: this operates sufficiently, without occasioning
the irritation which the pure resin is accompanied with. A tincture drawn with proof-spirit
contains the whole virtue of the Hellebore, and seems to be one of the best preparations of
it: this tincture, and the extract, used to be kept in the shops. The College of Edinburgh
used to make this root an ingredient in the purging cephalic tincture, and compound tincture
of jalap; and its extract, in the purging deobstruent pills, gamboge pills, the laxative mercurial
pills, and the compound cathartic extract.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

Similar Plant.--Helleborus viridis.

214. HELLEBORUS foetidus. BEARSFOOT. Leaves. L.--The root is a strong cathartic; it destroys
worms, and is recommended in different species of mania. It is commonly substituted for that
of the Helleborus viridis, which is a more dangerous medicine. Hill's Herbal, p. 32. Great
care ought to be used in the administering this plant: many instances of its dreadful effects
are related. (See Poisonous Plants.)

Similar Plant.--Helleborus viridis.

215. HORDEUM distichon. PEARL BARLEY. Seeds. L. E.--Barley, in its several states, is more
cooling, less glutionous, and less nutritious than wheat or oats; among the ancients, decoctions
of it were the principal aliment, and medicine, in acute diseases. The London College direct
a decoction of pearl barley; and both the London and Edinburgh make common barley an ingredient
in the pectoral decoction.

216. HUMULUS Lupulus. THE HOP.--The flowers and seed-vessels are used in gout and rheumatism,
under the form of infusion in boiling-water. The powder formed into an ointment with lard,
is said to ease the pain of open cancer. A pillow stuffed with hops is an old and successful
mode of procuring sleep in the watchfulness of delirious fever.

217. HYOSCYAMUS niger. HENBANE. Leaves and Seeds. L. E.--Henbane is a strong narcotic poison,
and many instances of its deleterious effects are recorded by different authors; from which
it appears, that any part of the plant, when taken in sufficient quantity, is capable of producing
very dangerous and terrible symptoms. It is however much employed in the present days as an
anodyne. Dr. Withering found it of great advantage in a case of difficult deglutition. Stoerck
and some others recommend this extract in the dose of one grain or two; but Dr. Cullen observes,
that he seldom discovered its anodyne effects till he had proceeded to doses of eight or ten
grains, and sometimes to fifteen and even to twenty. The leaves of Henbane are said to have
been applied externally with advantage, in the way of poultice, to resolve scirrhous tumours,
and to remove some pains of the rheumatic and arthritic kind.

Similar Plants.--Verbascum Lychnites; V. nigrum.

The roots of the Henbane are to be distinguished by their very powerful and narcotic scent.

218. HYSSOPUS officinalis. HYSSOP. The Herb. L. E. D.--The leaves of Hyssop have an aromatic
smell, and a warm pungent taste. Besides the general virtues of aromatics, they are particularly
recommeded in humoral asthmas, coughs, and other disorders of the breast and lungs; and said
to notably promote expectoration.

219. INULA Helenium. ELECAMPANE. Root. D.--Elecampane root possesses the general virtues of
alexipharmics: it is principally recommended for promoting expectoration in humoural asthmas
and coughs; in which intention, it used to be employed in the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia: liberally
taken, it is said to excite urine, and loosen the belly. In some parts of Germany, large quantities
of this root are candied, and used as a stomachic, for strengthening the tone of the viscera
in general, and for attenuating tenacious juices. Spiritous liquors extract its virtues in
greater perfection than watery ones: the former scarce elevate any thing in distillation: with
the latter, an essential oil arises, which concretes into white flakes; this possesses at first
the flavour of the elecampane, but is very apt to lose it in keeping.

220. JUNIPERUS Sabina. SAVINE. The Tops. L. E. D.--Savine is a warm irritating aperient medicine,
capable of promoting all the glandular secretions. The distilled oil is one of the most powerful
emmenagogues; and is found of good service in obstructions of the uterus, or other viscra,
proceeding from a laxity and weakness of the vessels, or a cold sluggish indisposition of the
juices.

Similar Plants.--Juniperus oxycedrus; J. Phoenicea. These should be particularly distinguished,
as Savine is attended with danger when taken immoderately.

221. JUNIPERUS communis. JUNIPER. Berries. L. E. D.--Juniper berries have a strong, not disagreeable
smell; and a warm, pungent sweet taste, which, if they are long chewed, or previously well
bruised, is followed by a bitterish one. The pungency seems to reside in the bark; the sweet
in the juice; the aromatic flavour in oily vesicles, spread through the substance of the pulp,
and distinguishable even by the eye; and the bitter in the seeds: the fresh berries yield,
on expression, a rich, sweet, honey-like, aromatic juice; if previously pounded so as to break
the seeds, the juice proves tart and bitter.

222. LACTUCA virosa. WILD LETTUCE. Leaves. E.--Dr. Collin at Vienna first brought the Lactuca
virosa into medical repute; and its character has lately induced the College of Physicians
at Edinburgh to insert it in the Catalogue of the Materia Medica. More than twenty-four cases
of dropsy are said by Collin to have been successfully treated, by employing an extract prepared
from the expressed juice of this plant, which is stated not only to be powerfully diuretic,
but, by attenuating the viscid humours, to promote all the secretions, and to remove visceral
obstructions. In the more simple cases proceeding from debility, the extract in doses of eighteen
to thirty grains a-day, proved sufficient to accomplish a cure; but when the disease was inveterate,
and accompanied with visceral obstructions, the quantity of extract was increased to three
drams; nor did larger doses, though they excited nausea, ever produce any other bad effect;
and the patients continued so strong under the use of this remedy, that it was seldom necessary
to employ any tonic medicines.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 76.

Similar Plants.--Sonchus arvensis; Lactuca Scariola.

223. LAVANDULA Spica. LAVENDER. Flowers. L. D.--Lavender has been an officinal plant for a
considerable time, though we have no certain accounts of it given by the ancients. Its medical
virtue resides in the essential oil, which is supposed to be a gentle corroborant and stimulant
of the aromatic kind; and is recommended in nervous debilities, and various affections proceeding
from a want of energy in the animal functions.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 323.

224. LAURUS nobilis. BAY-TREE. Leaves and Berries. L.--In distillation with water, the leaves
of bay yield a small quantity of very fragrant essential oil; with rectified spirit, they afford
a moderately warm pungent extract. The berries yield a larger quantity of essential oil: they
discover likewise a degree of unctuosity in the mouth; give out to the press an almost insipid
fluid oil; and on being boiled in water, a thicker butyraceous one of a yellowish-green colour,
impregnated with the flavour of the berry. An infusion of the leaves is sometimes drunk as
tea; and the essential oil of the berries may be given from one to five or six drops on sugar,
or dissolved by means of mucilages, or in spirit of wine.--Woodville's Med Bot. p. 680, 681.

225. LAURUS Sassafras. SASSAFRAS-TREE. Bark. L. E. D.--Its medical character was formerly held
in great estimation; and its sensible qualities, which are stronger than any of the woods,
may have probably contributed to establish the opinion so generally entertained of its utility
in many inveterate diseases: for, soon after its introduction into Europe, it was sold at a
very high price, and its virtues were extolled in publications professedly written on the subject.
It is now, however, thought to be of very little importance, and seldom employed but in conjunction
with other medicines of a more powerful nature.

Dr. Cullen found that a watery infusion of it taken warm and pretty largely, was very effectual
in promoting sweat; but he adds, "to what particular purpose this sweating was applicable,
I have not been able to determine." In some constitutions sassafras, by its extreme fragrance,
is said to produce headache: to deprive it of this effect, the decoction ought to be employed.--Woodville's
Mat. Med. p. 677.

226. LEONTODON Taraxicum. N EBION. Root. L.--The roots contain a bitter milky juice; they promise
to be of use as asperient and detergent medicines; and have sometimes been directed in this
intention with good success. Boerhaave esteems them capable, if duly continued, of resolving
almost all kinds of coagulations, and opening very obstinate obstructions of the viscera.

227. LINUM usitatissimum. FLAX. The Seeds. L. E.--Linseed yields to the press a considerable
quantity of oil; and boiled in water, a strong mucilage: these are occasionally made use of
for the same purposes as other substances of that class; and sometimes the seeds themselves
in emollient and maturating cataplasms. They have also been employed in Asia, and, in times
of scarcity, in Europe, as food: but are not agreeable, or in general wholesome.

228. LINUM catharticum. PURGING-FLAX. The Herb. L. D.-This is a very small plant, not above
four or five inches high, found wild upon chalky hills, and in dry pasture-grounds. Its virtue
is expressed in its title: an infusion in water or whey of a handful of the fresh leaves, or
a dram of them in substance when dried, is said to purge without inconvenience.

229. LOBELIA siphylitica. BLUE CARDINAL FLOWER. The Root. E.--Every part of the plant abounds
with a milky juice, and has a rank smell. The root, which is the part directed for medicinal
use, in taste resembles tobacco, and is apt to excite vomiting. It derived its name, Siphylitica,
from its efficacy in the cure of Siphylis, as experienced by the North American Indians, who
considered it a specific to that disease.

A decoction was made of a handful of the roots in three measures of water. Of this, half a
measure is taken in the morning fasting, and repeated in the evening; and the dose is gradually
increased till its purgative effects become too violent, when the decoction is to be intermitted
for a day or two, and then renewed till a perfect cure is effected. But it does not appear
that the antisiphylitic powers of Lobelia have been confirmed by any instances of European
practice.-- Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 251.

230. LYTHRUM Salicaria. WILLOW HERB. The Herb. D.--This is used internally in dropsies, obstinate
gleets, and leucorrhoea.

Similar Plants.--Epilobium palustre; Epilob. angustifolium; Epilob. hirsutum.

231. MALVA sylvestris. COMMON MALLOW. Herb. L. E.--The leaves are ranked the first of the four
emollient herbs: they were formerly of some esteem, in food, for loosening the belly; at present,
decoctions of them are sometimes employed in dysenteries, heat and sharpness of urine, and
in general for obtunding acrimonious humours: their principal use is in emollient glysters,
cataplasms, and fomentations.

232. MARRUBIUM vulgare. HORFHOUND. Herb. E. D.--It is greatly extolled for its efficacy in
removing obstructions of the lungs and other viscera. It has chiefly been employed in humoural
asthmas. Mention is made of its successful use in scirrhous affections of the liver, jaundice,
cachexies, and menstrual suppressions.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 333.

Similar Plants.--Ballota nigra; B. alba.

233. MELISSA officinalis. BALM. Herb. L. E.--This herb, in its recent state, has a weak roughish
aromatic taste, and a pleasant smell, somewhat of the lemon kind. On distilling the fresh herb
with water, it impregnates the first runnings pretty strongly with its grateful flavour. Prepared
as tea, however, it makes a grateful diluent drink in fevers; and in this way it is commonly
used, either by itself, or acidulated with the juice of lemons.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 335, 336.

234. MENTHA viridis. SPEAR-MINT. Leaves. L. D.--The virtues of Mint are those of a warm stomachic
and carminative: in loss of appetite, nauseae, continual retchings to vomit, and (as Boerhaave
expresses it) almost paralytic weakness of the stomach, there are few simples perhaps of equal
efficacy. In colicky pains, the gripes to which children are subject, lienteries, and other
kinds of immoderate fluxes, this plant frequently does good service. It likewise proves beneficial
in sundry hysteric cases, and affords an useful cordial in languors and other weaknesses consequent
upon delivery. The best preparations for these purposes are, a strong infusion made from the
dry leaves in water (which is much superior to one from the green herb) or rather a tincture
or extract prepared with rectified spirit.

The essential oil, a simple and spirituous water, and a conserve, are kept in the shops: the
Edinburgh College directs an infusion of the leaves in the distilled water. This herb is an
ingredient also in the three alexitereal waters; and its essential oil in the stomach plaster
and stomach pills.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

235. MENTHA Piperita. PEPPER-MINT. Herb. L. E. D.--The leaves have a more penetrating smell
than any of the other mints, and a much warmer, pungent, glowing taste like pepper, sinking
as it were into the tongue. The principal use of this herb is in flatulent colics, languors,
and other like disorders; it seems to act as soon as taken, and extends its effects through
the whole system, instantly communicating a glowing warmth. Water extracts the whole of the
pungency of this herb by infusion, and elevates it in distillation. Its officinal preparations
are an essential oil, and a simple and spirituous water.

236. MENTHA Pulegium. PENNYROYAL. Herb. L. E. D.--Pennyroyal is a warm pungent herb of the
aromatic kind, similar to mint, but more acrid and less agreeable. It has long been held in
great esteem, and not undeservedly, as an aperient and deobstruent, particularly in hysteric
complaints, and suppressions of the uterine purgations. For these purposes, the distilled water
is generally made use of, or, what is of equal efficacy, an infusion of the leaves. It is observable,
that both water and rectified spirit extract the virtues of this herb by infusion, and likewise
elevate greatest part of them in distillation.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

237. MENYANTHES trifoliata. BUCK-BEAN. Leaves. L. E. D.--This is an efficacious aperient and
deobstruent; it promotes the fluid secretions, and, if liberally taken, gently loosens the
belly. It has of late gained great reputation in scorbutic and scrophulous disorders; and its
good effects in these cases have been warranted by experience: inveterate cutaneous diseases
have been removed by an infusion of the leaves, drunk to the quantity of a pint a-day, at proper
intervals, and continued some weeks. Boerhaave relates, that he was relieved of the gout by
drinking the juice mixed with whey.

238. MOMORDICA Elaterium. SPIRTING CUCUMBER. Fruit L. E. D.--Elaterium is a strong cathartic,
and very often operates also upwards. Two or three grains are accounted in most cases a sufficient
dose. Simon Paulli relates some instances of the good effects of this purgative in dropsies:
but cautions practitioners not to have recourse to it till after milder medicines have proved
ineffectual; to which caution we heartily subscribe. Medicines indeed in general, which act
with violence in a small dose, require the utmost skill to manage them with any tolerable degree
of safety: to which may be added, that the various manners of making these kinds of preparations,
as practised by different hands, must needs vary their power.

239. MORUS nigra. MULBERRY. Fruit. L.--It has the common qualities of the other sweet fruits,
abating heat, quenching thirst, and promoting the grosser secretions; an agreeable syrup made
from the juice is kept in the shops. The bark of the roots has been in considerable esteem
as a vermifuge; its taste is bitter, and somewhat astringent.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

240. NICOTIANA Tabacum. TOBACCO. Leaves. L. E. D.--Tobacco is sometimes used externally in
unguents for destroying cutaneous insects, cleansing old ulcers, &c. Beaten into a mash with
vinegar or brandy, it has sometimes proved serviceable for removing hard tumours of the hypochondres.

241. ORIGANUM Majorana. SWEET MARJORAM. Herb. L. E.-It is a moderately warm aromatic, yielding
its virtues both to aqueous and spirituous liquors by infusion, and to water in distillation.
It is principally celebrated in disorders of old people. An essential oil of the herb is kept
in the shops. The powder of the leaves proves an agreeable errhine.

242. ORIGANUM vulgare. POT MARJORAM. Herb. L. D.--It has an agreeable aromatic smell approaching
to that of marjoram, and a pungent taste much resembling thyme, to which it is likewise thought
to be more nearly allied in its medicinal qualities than to any of the other verticillatae,
and therefore deemed to be emmenagogue, tonic, stomachic, &c.

The dried leaves used instead of tea are said to be extremely grateful. They are also employed
in medicated baths and fomentations.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 345.

243. OXALIS Acetosella. WOOD SORREL. Herb. L.--In taste and medical qualities it is similar
to the common sorrel, but considerably more grateful, and hence is preferred by the London
College. Boiled with milk, it forms an agreeable whey; and beaten with sugar, a very elegant
conserve.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

244. PAPAVER Rhoeas. RED POPPY. Petals. L. E. D.--The flowers of this plant yield upon expression
a deep red juice, and impart the same colour by infusion to aqueous liquors. A syrup of them
is kept in the shops: this is valued chiefly for its colour; though some expect from it a lightly
anodyne virtue.

245. PAPAVER somniferum. OPIUM POPPY. Gum. L. E. D.-Poppy heads, boiled in water, impart to
the menstruum their narcotic juice, together with the other juices which they have in common
with vegetable matters in general. The liquor strongly pressed out, suffered to settle, clarified
with whites of eggs, and evaporated to a due consistence, yields about one-fifth or one-sixth
the weight of the heads, of extract. This possesses the virtues of opium; but requires to be
given in double its dose to answer the same intention, which it is said to perform without
occasioning nausea and giddiness, the usual consequences of the other.

The general effects of this medicine are, to relax the solids, ease pain, procure sleep, promote
perspiration, but restrain all other evacuations. When its operation is over, the pain, and
other symptoms which it had for a time abated, return; and generally with greater violence
than before, unless the cause has been removed by the diaphoresis or relaxation which it occasioned.

The operation of opium is generally attended with a slow, but strong and full pulse, a dryness
of the mouth, a redness and light itching of the skin: and followed by a degree of nausea,
a difficulty of respiration, lowness of the spirits, and a weak languid pulse.

With regard to the dose of opium, one grain is generally sufficient, and often too large a
one; maniacal persons, and those who have been long accustomed to take it, require three or
more grains to have the due effect. Among the eastern nations, who are habituated to opium,
a dram is but a moderate dose: Garcias relates, that he knew one who every day took ten drams.
Those who have been long accustomed to its use, upon leaving it off, are seized with great
lowness, languor, and anxiety; which are relieved by having again recourse to opium, and, in
some measure, by wine or spirituous liquors.

Similar Plants.--Papaver hybridum; P. Argemone.

246. PASTINACA Opoponax. OPOPONAX, or CANDY CARROT. Gum Opoponax. L.-- The juice is brought
from Turkey and the East Indies, sometimes in round drops or tears, but more commonly in irregular
lumps, of a reddish-yellow colour on the outside, with specks of white, inwardly of a paler
colour, and frequently variegated with large white pieces.

Boerhaave frequently employed it, along with ammoniacum and galbanum, in hypochondriacal disorders,
obstructions of the abdominal viscera from a sluggishness of mucous humours, and a want of
due elasticity of the solids.

247. PIMPINELLA Anisum. ANISEED. The Seeds. L. E. D.-These seeds are in the number of the four
greater hot seeds: their principal use is in cold flatulent disorders, where tenacious phlegm
abounds, and in the gripes to which young children are subject. Frederick Hoffman strongly
recommends them in weakness of the stomach, diarrhoeas, and for strengthening the tone of the
viscera in general; and thinks they well deserve the appellation given them by Helmont, intestinorum
solamen.

248. PINUS sylvestris. SCOTCH FIR. Tar, yellow Resin, and Turpentine. L. D.--Tar, which is
well known from its oeconomical uses, is properly an empyreumatic oil of turpentine, and has
been much used as a medicine, both internally and externally. Tar-water, or water impregnated
with the more soluble parts of tar, was some time ago a very popular remedy in various obstinate
disorders, both acute and chronic, especially in small-pox, scurvy, ulcers, fistulas, rheumatisms,
&c.

Turpentine is an extract also from the same tree, which is used for various purposes of medicine
and the arts.

249. PINUS Abies. SPRUCE-FIR. Burgundy Pitch. L. E. D.--This is entirely confined to external
use, and was formerly an ingredient in several ointments and plasters. In inveterate coughs,
affections of the lungs, and other internal complaints, plasters of this resin, by acting as
a tropical stimulus, are frequently found of considerable service.-- Woodville's Med. Bot.

250. POLYGONUM Bistorta. BISTORT. The Roots. L. E. D.--All the parts of bistort have a rough
austere taste, particularly the root, which is one of the strongest of the vegetable stringents.
It is employed in all kinds of immoderate haemorrhages and other fluxes, both internally and
externally, where astringency is the only intention. It is certainly a very powerful styptic,
and is to be looked on simply as such; the sudorific, antipestilential, and other like virtues
attributed to it, it has no other claim to, than in consequence of this property, and of the
antiseptic power which it has in common with other vegetable styptics. The largest dose of
the root in powder is one dram.

251. PRUNUS domestica. FRENCH PRUNES. The Fruit. L. E. D.--The medical effects of the damson
and common prunes are, to abate heat, and gently loosen the belly: which they perform by lubricating
the passage, and softening the excrement. They are of considerable service in costiveness accompanied
with heat or irritation, which the more stimulating cathartics would tend to aggravate: where
prunes are not of themselves sufficient, their effects may be promoted by joining with them
a little rhubarb or the like; to which may be added some carminative ingredient, to prevent
their occasioning flatulencies. Prunelloes have scarce any laxative quality: these are mild
grateful refrigerants, and, by being occasionally kept in the mouth, usefully allay the thirst
of hydropic persons.

252. PUNICA Granatum. POMEGRANATE. Rind of the Fuit. L. E. D.--This fruit has the general qualities
of the other sweet summer fruits, allaying heat, quenching thirst, and gently loosening the
belly. The rind is a strong astringent, and as such is occasionally made use of.

253. PYRUS Cydonia. QUINCE. The Kernels. L.--The seeds abound with a mucilaginous substance,
of no particular taste, which they readily impart to watery liquors: an ounce will render three
pints of water thick and ropy like the white of an egg. A syrup and jelly of the fruit, and
mucilage of the seeds, used to be kept in the shops.

254. QUEROUS pedunculata. OAK. Bark. L. E. D.--This bark is a strong astringent; and hence
stands recommended in haemorrhagies, alvine fluxes, and other preternatural or immoderate secretions.

255. RHAMNUS catharticus. BUCKTHORN. Berries. L. E.--Buckthorn-berries have a faint disagreeable
smell, and a nauseous bitter taste. They have long been in considerable esteem as cathartics;
and celebrated in dropsies, rheumatisms, and even in the gout; though in these cases they have
no advantage above other purgatives, and are more offensive, and operate more churlishly, than
many which the shops are furnished with: they generally occasion gripes, sickness, dry the
mouth and throat, and leave a thirst of long duration. The dose is about twenty of the fresh
berries in substance, and twice or thrice this number in decoction, an ounce of the expressed
juice, or a dram of the dried berries.

256. RHEUM palmatum. TURKEY RHUBARB. Roots. L. E. D.--Rhubarb is a mild cathartic, which operates
without violence or irritation, and may be given with safety even to pregnant women and to
children. In some people, however, it always occasions severe griping. Besides its purgative
quality, it is celebrated for an astringent one, by which it strengthens the tone of the stomach
and intestines, and proves useful in diarrhoea and disorders proceeding from a laxity of the
fibres. Rhubarb in substance operates more powerfully as a cathartic than any of the preparations
of it. Watery tinctures purge more than the spirituous ones; whilst the latter contain in greater
perfection the aromatic, astringent, and corroborating virtues of the rhubarb. The dose, when
intended as a purgative, is from a scruple to a dram or more.

The Turkey rhubarb is, among us, universally preferred to the East India sort.

The plant is common in our gardens, but their medicinal powers are much weaker than in those
from abroad.

RHODODENDRON Chrysanthemum. YELLOW-FLOWERED RHODODENDRON. See No. 290.

257. RHUS Toxicodendron. POISON-OAK. Leaves. L. E.--Of considerable use in paralytic affections,
and is much used in the present day.

It is, however, often substituted by the Rhus radicans, which has not the medical properties
that this plant has; and it is to be regretted that the leaves of both species are so much
alike, that, when gathered, they are not to be distinguished.

258. RICINUS communis. PALMA CHRISTI. Seeds and Oil. L. E. D.--The oil, commonly called nut
or castor oil, is got by expression, retains somewhat of the mawkishness and acrimony of the
nut; but is, in general, a safe and mild laxative in cases where we wish to avoid irritation,
as in those of colic, calculus, gonorrhoea, &c. and some likewise use it as a purgative in
worm-cases. Half an ounce or an ounce commonly answers with an adult, and a dram or two with
an infant. The castor oil which is imported is not so good as the expressed oil from the nut
made in this country. The disagreeable taste is from the coats of the seeds; the best kind
is pressed out after the seeds are decorticated.

259. ROSA centifolia. DAMASK ROSE. Petals. L. E. D.--In distillation with water, it yields
a small portion of a butyraceous oil, whose flavour exactly resembles that of the roses. This
oil, and the distilled water, are very useful and agreeable cordials. Hoffmann strongly recommends
them as of singular efficacy for raising the strength, cheering and recruiting the spirits,
and allaying pain; which they perform without raising any heat in the constitution, rather
abating it when inordinate. Although the damask rose is recommended by Dr. Woodville, yet,
having grown this article for sale, I find that the preference is always given to the Provence
rose by those who distil them.

260. ROSA gallica. RED OFFICINAL ROSE. Petals. L. E. D.-This has very little of the fragrance
of the foregoing sort; it is a mild and grateful astringent, especially before the flower has
opened: this is considerably improved by hasty exsiccation, but both the astringency and colour
are impaired by slow drying. In the shops are prepared a conserve and a tincture.

261. ROSA canina. DOG-ROSE. The Pulp of the Fruit. L. E.-The fruit, called heps or hips, has
a sourish taste, and obtains a place in the London Pharmacopoeia in the form of a conserve:
for this purpose, the seeds and chaffy fibres are to be carefully removed; for, if these prickly
fibres are not entirely scraped off from the internal surface of the hips, the conserve is
liable to produce considerable irritation on the primae viae.

262. ROSMARINUS officinalis. ROSEMARY. Tops. L. E. D.--Rosemary has a fragrant smell and a
warm pungent bitterish taste, approaching to those of lavender: the leaves and tender tops
are strongest; next to these the cup of the flower; the flowers themselves are considerably
the weakest, but most pleasant. Aqueous liquors extract great share of the virtues of rosemary
leaves by infusion, and elevate them in distillation: along with the water arises a considerable
quantity of essential oil, of an agreeable strong penetrating smell. Pure spirit extracts in
great perfection the whole aromatic flavour of the rosemary, and elevates very little of it
in distillation: hence the resinous mass left upon abstracting the spirit, proves an elegant
aromatic, very rich in the peculiar qualities of the plant. The flowers of rosemary give over
great part of their flavour in distillation with pure spirit; by watery liquors, their fragrance
is much injured; by beating, destroyed.

263. RUBIA tinctorum. MADDER. Roots. L. E. D.--It has little or no smell; a sweetish taste,
mixed with a little bitterness. The virtues attributed to it are those of a detergent and aperient;
whence it has been usually ranked among the opening roots, and recommended in obstructions
of the viscera, particularly of the kidneys, in coagulations of the blood from falls or bruises,
in the jaundice, and beginning dropsies.

It is observable, that this root, taken internally, tinges the urine of a deep red colour;
and in the Philosophical Transactions we have an account of its producing a like effect upon
the bones of animals which had it mixed with their food: all the bones, particularly the more
solid ones, were changed, both externally and internally, to a deep red, but neither the fleshy
nor cartilaginous parts suffered any alteration: some of these bones macerated in water for
many weeks together, and afterwards steeped and boiled in spirit of wine, lost none of their
colour, nor communicated any tinge to the liquors.

264. RUMEX Acetosa. SORREL. Leaves. L.--These have an agreeable acid taste. They have the same
medicinal qualities as the Oxalis Acetosella, and are employed for the same purposes.

Sorrel taken in considerable quantities, or used prepared for food, will be found of great
advantage when a refrigerant and antiscorbutic regimen is required.--Woodville's Med. Bot.

265. RUTA graveolens. RUE. Leaves. L. E. D.--These are powerfully stimulating, attenuating,
and detergent: and hence, in cold phlegmatic habits, they quicken the circulation, dissolve
tenacious juices, open obstructions of the excretory glands, and promote the fluid secretions.
The writers on the Materia Medica in general have entertained a very high opinion of the virtues
of this pant. Boerhaave is full of its praises; particularly of the essential oil, and the
distilled water cohobated or redistilled several times from fresh parcels of the herb: after
somewhat extravagantly commending other waters prepared in this manner, he adds, with regard
to that of rue, that the greatest commendations he can bestow upon it fall short of its merit:
"What medicine (says he) can be more efficacious for promoting perspiration, in cases of epilepsies,
and for expelling poison?" Whatever service rue may be of generally, it undoubtedly has its
use in the two last cases: the cohobated water, however, is not the most efficacious preparation.

266. SALIX fragilis. CRACK WILLOW. Bark. L. D.-The bark of the branches of this tree manifests
a considerable degree of bitterness to the taste, and is also astringent; hence it has been
thought a good substitute for the Peruvian bark, and, upon trial, was found to stop the paroxysms
of intermittents: it is likewise recommended in other cases requiring tonic or astringent remedies.
Not only the bark of this species of Salix, but that of several others, possess similar qualities,
particularly of the Salix alba pentandria, and capraea, all of which are recommended in foreign
Pharmacopoeias. But, in our opinion, the bark of the Salix triandria is more effectual than
that of any other of this genus; at least, its sensible qualities give it a decided preference.--Woodville's
Med Bot.

267. SALVIA officinalis. GREEN AND RED SAGE. Herb. E. D.--Its effects are, to moderately warm
and strengthen the vessels; and hence, in cold phlegmatic habits, it excites appetite, and
proves serviceable in debilities of the nervous system.

The red sage, mixed with honey and vinegar, is used for a gargle in sore throats. Aqueous infusions
of the leaves, with the addition of a little lemon juice, prove an useful diluting drink in
febrile disorders, of an elegant colour, and sufficiently acceptable to the palate.

268. SAMBUCUS nigra. COMMON ELDER. Flowers and Berries. L. E. D.--The parts of the Sambucus
which are proposed for medicinal use in the Pharmacopoeias, are the inner bark, the flowers,
and the berries. The flowers have an agreeable flavour, which they give over in distillation
with water, and impart by infusion, both to water and rectified spirit: on distilling a large
quantitiy of them with water, a small portion of a butyraceous essential oil separates. Infusions
made from the fresh flowers are gently laxative and aperient; when dry, they are said to promote
chiefly the cuticular excretion, and to be particularly serviceable in erysipetalous and eruptive
disorders.--Woodville's Med. Bot. 598.

269. SCILLA maritima. SQUILL. Root. L. E. D.--This root is to the taste very nauseous, intensely
bitter and acrimonious; much handled, it exulcerates the skin. With regard to its medical virtues,
it powerfully stimulates the solids, and attenuates viscid juices; and by these qualities promotes
expectoration, urine, and perspiration: if the dose is considerable, it proves emetic, and
sometimes purgative. The principal use of this medicine is where the primae viae abound with
mucous matter, and the lungs are oppressed by tenacious phlegm.

270. SCROPHULARIA nodosa. KNOTTY FIGWORT. Herb. D.--The roots are of a white colour, full of
little knobs or protuberances on the surface: this appearance gained it formerly some repute
against scrophulous disorders and the piles; and from hence it received its name: but modern
practitioners expect no such virtues from it. It has a faint unpleasant smell, and a somewhat
bitter disagreeable taste.

271. SINAPIS nigra. BLACK MUSTARD. Seeds. L. E. D.--By writers on the Materia Medica, mustard
is considered to promote appetite, assist digestion, attenuate viscid juices, and, by stimulating
the fibres, to prove a general remedy in paralytic and rheumatic affections. Joined to its
stimulant qualities, it frequently, if taken in considerable quantity, opens the body, and
increases the urinary discharge; and hence has been found useful in dropsical complaints.--Woodville's
Med. Bot. p. 404.

272. SINAPIS alba. WHITE MUSTARD. Seeds. L. E. D.--These have been recommended to be taken
whole in cases of rheumatism and have been known to produce considerable relief.

273. SISYMBRIUM Nasturtium. WATER-CRESSES. Herb. E.-Hoffman recommends this as of singular
efficacy for accelerating the circulation, strengthening the viscera, opening obstructions
of the glands, promoting the fluid secretions, and purifying the blood and humours: for these
purposes, the expressed juice, which contains the peculiar taste and pungency of the herb,
may be taken in doses of an ounce or two, and continued for a considerable time.

274. SIUM nodiflorum. CREEPING WATER-PARSNEP. The Root. D.-This plant has not been admitted
into the Materia Medica of any of the Pharmacopoeias which we have seen, except that of the
London College, into which it was received in the character of an antiscorbutic, or rather
as the corrector of acrid humours, especially when manifested by cutaneous eruptions and tumours
in the lymphatic system, for which we have the testimony of Beirie and Ray; but the best proofs
of its efficacy are the following given by Dr. Withering: "A young lady, six years old, was
cured of an obstinate disease by taking three large spoonfuls of the juice twice-a-day; and
I have repeatedly given to adults three or four ounces every morning in similar complaints
with the greatest advantage. It is not nauseous; and children take it readily if mixed with
milk. In the dose I have given, it neither affects the head, the stomach, nor the bowels."
Woodville's Med. Bot. 146.

275. SMILAX Sarsaparilla. SARSAPARILLA. Root. L. E. D.--This root was first brought into Europe
by the Spaniards, about the year 1565, with the character of a specific for the cure of the
lues venerea, which made its appearance a little before that time, and likewise of several
obstinate chronic disorders. Whatever good effects it might have produced in the warmer climates,
it proved unsuccessful in this. It appears, however, from experience, that though greatly unequal
to the character which it bore at first, it is in some cases of considerable use as a sudorific,
where more acrid medicines are improper.

276. SOLANUM Dulcamara. BITTERSWEET. Stalk. L. D.--The taste of the twigs and roots, as the
name of the plant expresses, is both bitter and sweet; the bitterness being first perceived,
and the sweet afterwards. They are commended for resolving coagulated blood, and as a cathartic,
diuretic, and deobstruent.

277. SOLIDAGO Virga aurea. GOLDEN ROD. Flowers and Leaves. D.--The leaves have a moderately
astringent bitter taste, and hence prove serviceable in debility and laxity of the viscera,
and disorders proceeding from that cause.

278. SPARTIUM scoparium. BROOM. Tops and Seeds. L. D.-These have a nauseous bitter taste: decoctions
of them loosen the belly, promote urine, and stand recommended in hydropic cases. The flowers
are said to prove cathartic in decoction, and emetic in substance, though in some places, as
Lobel informs us, they are commonly used, and in large quantity, in salads, without producing
any effect of this kind. The qualities of the seeds are little better determined: some report
that they purge almost as strongly as hellebore, in the dose of a dram and a half; whilst the
author above mentioned relates, that he has given a decoction of two ounces of them as a gentle
emetic.

279. SPIGELLA marylandica. WORM GRASS. Root. L. E. D.-About forty years ago, the anthelmintic
virtues of the root of this plant were discovered by the Indians; since which time it has been
much used here. I have given it in hundreds of cases, and have been very attentive to its effects.
I never found it do much service, except when it proved gently purgative. Its purgative quality
naturally led me to give it in febrile diseases which seem to arise from viscidity in the primae
viae; and in these cases it succeeded to admiration, even when the sick did not void worms.

To a child of two years of age who had been taking ten grains of the root twice a-day without
having any other effect than making her dull and giddy, I prescribed twenty-two grains morning
and evening, which purged her briskly, and brought away five large worms. [Communications from
Dr. Gardner.]-Woodville's Med. Bot.

280. TANACETUM vulgare. TANSY. Herb. E. D.--Considered as a medicine, it is a moderately warm
bitter, accompanied with a strong, not very disagreeable flavour. Some have had a great opinion
of it in hysteric disorders, particularly those proceeding from a deficiency or suppression
of the usual course of nature.

281. TEUCRIUM Marum. CAT THYME. Herb. D.--The leaves have an aromatic bitterish taste; and,
when rubbed betwixt the fingers, a quick pungent smell, which soon affects the head, and occasions
sneezing: distilled with water, they yield a very acrid, penetrating essential oil, resembling
one obtained by the same means from scurvy-grass. These qualities sufficiently point out the
uses to which this plant might be applied; at present, it is little otherwise employed than
in cephalic snuffs.

282. TEUCRIUM Chamaedrys. GERMANDER. Herb. D.--The leaves, tops, and seeds, have a bitter taste,
with some degree of astringency and aromatic flavour. They were recommended as sudorific, diuretic,
and emmenagogue, and for strengthening the stomach and viscera in general. With some they have
been in great esteem in intermittent fevers; as also in scrophulous and other chronic disorders.

283. TORMENTILLA erecta. TORMENTIL, or UPRIGHT SEPTFOIL. Root. L. E. D. --The root is the only
part of this plant which is used medicinally; it has a strong styptic taste, but imparts no
peculiar sapid flavour. This has been long held in great estimation as an astringent. Dr. Cullen
has used it with gentian with great effect in intermittent fevers. Lewis recommends an ounce
and a half of the powdered root to be boiled in three pints of water to a quart, adding towards
the end of the boiling a dram of cinnamon. Of the strained liquor, sweetened with an ounce
of any agreeable syrup, two ounces or more may be taken four or five times a-day.

284. TUSSILAGO Farfara. COLTSFOOT. Herb. L. E. D.--Tussilago stands recommended in coughs and
other disorders of the breast and lungs: the flowers were an ingredient in the pectoral decoction
of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia.

285. VALERIANA officinalis. VALERIAN. Root. L. E. D.--Valerian is a medicine of great use in
nervous disorders, and is particularly serviceable in epilepsies proceeding from a debility
in the nervous system. It was first brought into esteem in these cases by Fabius Columna, who
by taking the powdered root, in the dose of half a spoonful, was cured of an inveterate epilepsy
after many other medicines had been tried in vain. Repeated experience has since confirmed
its efficacy in this disorder; and the present practice lays considerable stress upon it.

286. VERATRUM album. WHITE HELLEBORE. Root. L. E. D.-The root has a nauseous, bitterish, acrid
taste, burning the mouth and fauces: wounded when fresh, it emits an extremely acrimonious
juice, which mixed with the blood, by a wound, is said to prove very dangerous: the powder
of the dry root, applied to an issue, occasions violent purging: snuffed up the nose, it proves
a strong, and not always a safe, sternutatory. This root, taken internally, acts with extreme
violence as an emetic, and has been observed, even in a small dose, to occasion convulsions
and other terrible disorders. The ancients sometimes employed it in very obstinate cases, and
always made this their last resource.

Similar Plant.--Gentiana lutea, which see.

287. VERONICA Beccabunga. BROOKLIME. Herb. L. D.--This plant was formerly considered of great
use in several diseases, and was applied externally to wounds and ulcers; but if it have any
peculiar efficacy, it is to be derived from its antiscorbutic virtue.

As a mild refrigerant juice, it is preferred where an acrimonious state of the fluids prevails,
indicated by prurient eruptions upon the skin, or in what has been called the hot scurvy.--Woodville's
Med. Bot. 364.

288. VITIS vinifera. GRAPE VINE. Raisins and different Wines. L. E.-- These are to cheer the
spirits, warm the habit, promote perspiration, render the vessels full and turgid, raise the
pulse, and quicken the circulation. The effects of the full-bodied wines are much more durable
than those of the thinner; all sweet wines, as Canary, abound with a glutinous nutritious substance;
whilst the others are not nutrimental, or only accidentally so by strengthening the organs
employed in digestion: sweet wines in general do not pass off freely by urine, and heat the
constitution more than an equal quantity of any other, though containing full as much spirit:
red port, and most of the red wines, have an astringent quality, by which they strengthen the
tone of the stomach and intestines, and thus prove serviceable for restraining immoderate secretions:
those which are of an acid nature, as Renish, pass freely by the kidneys, and gently loosen
the belly: it is supposed that these last exasperate, or occasion gout and calculous disorders,
and that new wines of every kind have this effect.

The ripe fruit of grapes, of which there are several kinds, properly cured and dried, are the
raisins and currants of the shops: the juice of these also, by fermentation, affords wine as
well as vinegar and tartar.

The medical use of raisins is, their imparting a very pleasant flavour both to aqueous and
spiritous menstrua. The seeds or stones are supposed to give a disagreeable relish, and hence
are generally directed to be taken out: nevertheless I have not found that they have any disagreeable
taste.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

289. ULMUS campestris. ELM. Bark. L. E. D.--The leaves have a bitterish astringent taste, and
are recommended in powder, to the extent of at least two drams a-day, in ulcerations of the
urinary passages and catarrhus vesicae. The powder has been used with opium, the latter being
gradually increased to a considerable quantity, in diabetes, and it is said with advantage.
Some use it for alleviating the dyspeptic symptoms in nephritic calculous ailments.--Lewis's
Mat. Med.

290. RHODODENDRON Chrysanthemum. YELLOW-FLOWERED RHO-DODENDRON. E. The Leaves.--This species
of Rhododendron has lately been introduced into Britain: it is a native of Siberia, affecting
mountainous situations, and flowering in June and July.

Little attention was paid to this remedy till the year 1779, when it was strongly recommended
by Koelpin as an efficacious medicine, not only in rheumatism and gout, but even in venereal
cases; and it is now very generally employed in chronic rheumatisms in various parts of Europe.
The leaves, which are the part directed for medicinal use, have a bitterish subastringent taste,
and, as well as the bark and young branches, manifest a degree of acrimony. Taken in large
doses they prove a narcotic poison, producing those symptoms which we have described as occasioned
by many of the order Solanaceae.

Dr. Home, who tried it unsuccessfully in some cases of acute rheumatism, says, it appears to
be one of the most powerful sedatives which we have, as in most of the trials it made the pulse
remarkably slow, and, in one patient, reduced it 38 beats. And in other cases in which the
Rhododendron has been used at Edinburgh, it has been productive of good effects; and, accordingly,
it is now introduced into the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia.

The manner of using this plant by the Siberians was, by putting two drams of the dried leaves
in an earthen-pot with about ten ounces of boiling-water, keeping it near a boiling heat for
a night, and this they took in the morning; and by repeating it three or four times it generally
affected a cure. It is said to occasion heat, thirst, a degree of delirium, and a peculiar
sensation of the parts affected.-- Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 239.

*       *       *       *       *

SECT. VIII.--MEDICINAL PLANTS not contained in either of the BRITISH DISPENSATORIES.

For the use of the Medical Student I selected in the foregoing section such plants as are contained
in the Pharmacopoeias of the present day: but there are many mentioned in Woodville's Medical
Botany, Lewis's Dispensatory, &c. which, although discarded from the College list, are nevertheless
still used by medical practitioners and others.

It would be difficult to give a full history of all the plants that have from time to time
been recommended for medical uses. The old writers, as Gerard, Parkinson, Lyte, &c. attributed
medical virtues to all the plants which came under their notice; and, on the other hand, as
we observed above, the vegetable department of the Pharmacopoeias has from time to time been
reduced so much, that, if we had confined ourselves to that alone, we fear our little treatise
on this head would, by many persons, be thought defective. The following list is therefore
given, as containing what are used, though probably not so much by practitioners in medicine,
as by our good housewives in the country, who, without disparagement to medical science, often
relieve the distresses of their families and neighbours by the judicious application of drugs
of this nature, and many of which are also sold for the same purposes in the London herb-shops.

291. ACANTHUS mollis. SMOOTH BEARS-BREECH. The Leaves.--Are of a soft sweetish taste, and abound
with a mucilaginous juice: its virtues do not seem to differ from those of Althea and other
mucilaginous plants.

292. ACHILLA Ptarmica. SNEEZEWORT. The Root.--The roots have and acrid smell, and a hot biting
taste: chewed, they occasion a plentiful discharge of saliva; and when powdered and snuffed
up the nose, provoke sneezing. These are sold at the herb-shops as a substitute for pellitory
of Spain.

293. ACHILLEA Ageratum. MAUDLIN. The Leaves and Flowers.--This has a light agreeable smell;
and a roughish, somewhat warm and bitterish taste. These qualities point out its use as a mild
corroborant; but it has long been a stranger in practice, and is now omitted both by the London
and Edinburgh Colleges. It is however in use by the common people.

294. ACHILLEA Millefolium. YARROW. The Leaves.--The leaves have a rough bitterish taste, and
a faint aromatic smell. Their virtues are those of a very mild astringent, and as such they
stand recommended in haemorrhages both internal and external, diarrhoeas, debility and laxity
of the fibres; and likewise in spasmodic hysterical affections.

295. AJUGA reptans. BUGLE. The Leaves.--These have at first a sweetish taste, which gradually
becomes bitterish and roughish. They are recommended as vulnerary medicines, and in all cases
where mild astringents or corroborants are proper.

296. ALCHEMILLA vulgaris. LADY'S MANTLE. The Leaves.--These discover to the taste a moderate
astringency, and were formerly much esteemed in some female weaknesses, and in fluxes of the
belly. They are now rarely made use of; though both the fresh leaves and roots might doubtless
be of service in cases where mild astringents are required.

297. AMMI majus. BISHOPS-WEED. The Seeds.--The seeds of common bishops-weed are large and pale-coloured:
their smell and taste are weak, and without any thing of the origanum flavour of the true ammi,
which does not grow in this country. They are ranked among the four lesser hot seeds, but are
scarcely otherwise made use of than as an ingredient in the theriaca.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

298. AMYGDALUS Persica. ALMONDS. Flowers.--They have a cathartic effect, and especially to
children have been successfully given in the character of a vermifuge for this purpose; an
infusion of a dram of the flowers dried, or half an ounce in their recent state, is the requisite
dose. The expressed oil of almonds has been for a long time, and is at present, in use for
many purposes in medicine. The concentrated acid of the bitter almond is a most dangerous poison
to man and all other animals.

299. ANAGALLIS arvensis. PIMPERNEL. The Leaves.--Many extraordinary virtues have been attributed
to them. Geoffroy esteems them cephalic, sudorific, vulnerary, anti-maniacal, anti-epileptic,
and alexiteral.

300. ANCHUSA angustifolia. BUGLOSS. The Roots, Leaves, and Flowers.-- Bugloss has a slimy sweetish
taste, accompanied with a kind of coolness: the roots are the most glutinous, and the flowers
the least so. These qualities point out its use in hot bilious or inflammatory distempers,
and a thin acrimonious state of the fluids. The flowers are one of the four called cordial
flowers: the only quality they have that can entitle them to this appellation, is, that they
moderately cool and soften, without offending the palate or stomach; and thus in warm climates,
or in hot diseases, may in some measure refresh the patient.

301. ANEMONE Hepatica. HEPATICA. The Leaves.--It is a cooling gently restringent herb; and
hence recommended in a lax state of the fibres as a corroborant.

302. ANTIRRHINIUM Elatine. FLUELLIN. The Root, Bark, and Leaves.--They were formerly accounted
excellent vulneraries, and of great use for cleansing and healing old ulcers and cancerous
sores: some have recommended them internally in leprous and scrophulous disorders; as also
in hydropic cases.

303. ANTIRRHINIUM Linaria. TOAD FLAX. The Flowers.--An infusion of them is said to be very
efficacious in cutaneous disorders; and Hammerin gives an instance in which these flowers,
with those of verbascum, used as tea, cured an exanthematous disorder, which had resisted various
other remedies tried during the course of three years.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 372.

304. AQUILEGIA vulgaris. COLUMBINE. The Leaves, Flowers, and Seeds.--It has been looked upon
as aperient; and was formerly in great esteem among the common people for throwing out the
small-pox and measles. A distilled water, medicated vinegar, and conserve, were prepared from
the flowers; but they have long given place to medicines of greater efficacy.

305. ARISTOLOCHIA longa. LONG BIRTHWORT. The Roots.--This is a tuberous root, sometimes about
the size of the finger, sometimes as thick as a man's arm: great virtues used to be ascribed
to this plant as a specific in most uterine obstructions and gout: the outside is of a brownish
colour; the inside yellowish.

306. ARTEMISIA vulgaris. MUGWORT. The leaves.--These have a light aromatic smell, and an herbaceous
bitterish taste. They are principally celebrated as uterine and anti-hysteric: an infusion
of them is sometimes drunk, either alone or in conjunction with other substances, in suppressions
of immoderate fluxes. This medicine is certainly a very mild one, and considerably less hot
than most others to which these virtues are attributed.

307. ASCLEPIAS Vincetoxium. SWALLOW WORT. The Root.--This root is esteemed sudorific, diuretic,
and emmenagogue, and frequently employed by the French and German physicians as an alexipharmic,
sometimes as a succedaneum to contrayerva; whence it has received the name of Contrayerva Germanorum.
Among us it is rarely made use of.

308. ASPERULA odorata. SWEET WOODROOF. The Flowers.--It has an exceedingly pleasant smell,
which is improved by moderate exsiccation; the taste is sub-saline, and somewhat austere. It
imparts its flavour to vinous liquors. Asperula is supposed to attenuate viscid humours, and
strengthen the tone of the bowels: it was recommended in obstructions of the liver and biliary
ducts, and by some in epilepsies and palsies: modern practice has nevertheless rejected it.

309. ASPLENIUM Ceterach. SPLEENWORT.--It is recommended as a pectoral, and for promoting urine
in nephritic cases. The virtue which it has been most celebrated for, is that which it has
the least title to, i. e. diminish the spleen.

310. ASPLENIUM Scolophendrium. HARTS-TONGUE. The Leaves.--These have a roughish, somewhat mucilaginous
taste. They are recommended in obstructions of the viscera, and for strengthening their tone;
and have sometimes been made use of for these intentions, either alone, or in conjunction with
maiden-hair, or the other plants of similar properties.

311. ATROPA Mandragora. MANDRAKE. The Leaves.--The qualities of this plant are very doubtful:
it has a strong disagreeable smell resembling that of the narcotic herbs, to which class it
is usually referred. It has rarely been any otherwise made use of in medicine, than as an ingredient
in one of the old officinal unguents. Both that composition and the plant itself are rejected
from our Pharmacopoeias.

312. BALLOTA nigra. BASE HOREHOUND. The Leaves.--These are doubtless an useful aperient and
deobstruent; promote the fluid secretions in general, and liberally taken loosen the belly.
They are an ingredient only in the theriaca.

313. BELLIS perennis. DAISIES. The Leaves.--They have a subtile subacrid taste, and are recommended
as vulneraries, and in asthmas and hectic fevers, and such disorders as are occasioned by drinking
cold liquors when the body has been much heated.

214. BERBERIS vulgaris. BERBERRY. The Bark and Fruit.--The outward bark of the branches and
the leaves have an astringent acid taste; the inner yellow bark, a bitter one: this last is
said to be serviceable in the jaundice; and by some, to be an useful purgative.

The berries, which to the taste are gratefully acid, and moderately restringent, have been
given with good success in bilious fluxes, and diseases proceeding from heat, acrimony, or
thinness of the juices.

315. BETONICA officinalis. WOOD BETONY. The Leaves.--These and the flowers have an herbaceous,
roughish, somewhat bitterish taste, accompanied with a very weak aromatic flavour. This herb
has long been a favourite among writers on the Materia Medica, who have not been wanting to
attribute to it abundance of good qualities. Experience does not discover any other virtue
in betony than that of a mild corroborant: as such, an infusion or light decoction of it may
be drunk as tea, or a saturated tincture in rectified spirit given in suitable doses, in laxity
and debility of the viscera, and disorders proceeding from thence.

316. BETULA alba. BIRCH TREE. The bark and Sap.--Upon deeply wounding or boring the trunk of
the tree in the beginning of spring, a sweetish juice issues forth, sometimes, as is said,
in so large quantity, as to equal in weigth to the whole tree and root: one branch will bleed
a gallon or more a day. This juice is chiefly recommended in scorbutic disorders, and other
foulnesses of the blood: its most sensible effect is to promote the urinary discharge.

317. BORAGO officinalis. BORAGE. The Flowers.--An exhilarating virtue has been attributed to
the flowers of borage, which are hence ranked among the so called cordial flowers: but they
appear to have very little claim to any virtue of this kind, and seem to be altogether insignificant.

318. BRYONIA alba. WHITE BRYONY. The Roots.--This is a strong irritating cathartic; and as
such has sometimes been successfully exhibited in maniacal cases, in some kinds of dropsies,
and in several chronical disorders, where a quick solution of viscid juices, and a sudden stimulus
on the solids, were required.

319. CALENDULA officinalis. MARIGOLD. The Flowers.--These are supposed to be aperient and attenuating;
as also cardiac, alexipharmic, and sudorific: they are principally celebrated in uterine obstructions,
the jaundice, and for throwing out the small-pox. Their sensible qualities give little foundation
for these virtues: they have scarcely any taste, and no considerable smell. The leaves of the
plant discover a viscid sweetishness, accompanied with a more durable saponaceous pungency
and warmth: these seem capable of answering some useful purposes, as a stimulating, aperient,
antiscorbutic medicine.

320. CANNABIS sativa. HEMP. The Seeds.--These have some smell of the herb; their taste is unctuous
and sweetish; on expression they yield a considerable quantity of insipid oil: hence they are
recommended (boiled in milk, or triturated with water into an emulsion) against coughs, heat
of urine, and the like. They are also said to be useful in incontinence of urine; but experience
does not warrant their having any virtues of this kind.

321. CARTHAMUS tinctorius. SAFFLOWER. The Seeds.--These have been celebrated as a cathartic:
they operate very slowly, and for the most part disorder the bowels, especially when given
in substance; triturated with aromatic distilled waters, they form an emulsion less offensive,
yet inferior in efficacy to more common purgatives.

322. CENTAUREA Cyanus. BLUE-BOTTLE. The Flowers.--As to their virtues, notwithstanding the
present practice expects not any from them, they have been formerly celebrated against the
bites of poisonous animals, contagious diseases, palpitations of the heart, and many other
distempers.

323. CENTAUREA rhapontica. GREATER CENTAURY. The Root.--It has a rough somewhat acrid taste,
and abounds with a red viscid juice; its rough taste has gained it some esteem as an astringent;
its acrimony as an aperient; and its glutinous quality as a vulnerary: the present practice
takes little notice of it in any intention.

324. CHELIDONIUM majus. GREAT CELANDINE. The Leaves and Juice.--This is an excellent medicine
in the jaundice; it is also good against all obstructions of the viscera, and, if continued
a time, will do great service against the scurvy. The juice also is used successfully for sore
eyes, removing warts, &c. It should be used fresh, for it loses the greatest part of its virtue
in drying.

325. CHENOPODIUM olidum. STINKING GOOSEFOOT. The Leaves.--Its smell has gained it the character
of an excellent anti-hysteric; and this is the only use it is applied to. Tournefort recommends
a spiritous tincture, others a decoction in water, and others a conserve of the leaves, as
of wonderful efficacy in uterine disorders.

326. CHRYSANTHEMUM Leucanthemum. OX-EYE DAISY. The Leaves.--Geoffroy relates that the herb,
gathered before the flowers have come forth, and boiled in water, imparts an acrid taste, penetrating
and subtile like pepper; and that this decoction is an excellent vulnerary and diuretic.

327. CISTUS ladanifetus. GUM CISTUS.--The gum labdanum is procured from this shrub, and is
its only produce used in medicine. This is an exudation from the leaves and twigs in the manner
of manna, more than of any thing else. They get it off by drawing a parcel of leather thongs
over the shrubs. It is not much used, but it is a good cephalic.--Hill's Herbal, p. 72.

328. CLEMATIS recta. UPRIGHT VIRGIN'S BOWER.--The whole plant is extremely acrid. It was useful
for Dr. Stoerck to employ the leaves and flowers in ulcers and cancers, as well as an extract
prepared from the former; yet the preparation which he chiefly recommended was an infusion
of two or three drams of the leaves in a pint of boiling water, of which he gave four ounces
three times a-day, while the powdered leaves were applied as an escharotic to the ulcers.--Wood-ville's
Med. Bot. p. 481.

329. COCHLEARIA Coronopus. SWINES-CRESS.--This is an excellent diuretic, safe and yet very
powerful. The juice may be taken; and it is good for the jaundice, and against all inward obstructions,
and against the scurvy: the leaves may also be eaten as sallet, or dried and given in decoction.--Hill's
Hebal, p. 105.

330. CONVALLARIA Polygonatum. SOLOMON'S SEAL. The Root.--The root has several joints, with
some flat circular depressions, supposed to resemble the stamp of a seal. It has a sweetish
mucilaginous taste. As to its virtues, practitioners do not now expect any considerable ones
from it, and pay very little regard to the vulnerary qualities which it was formerly celebrated
for. It is used by pugilists to remove the black appearance occasioned from extravasated blood,
and for curing bruises on the face, particularly black-eyes obtained by boxing.

331. CONVALLARIA majalis. MAY LILY. The Roots and Flowers.--The roots of this abound with a
soft mucilage, and hence they have been used externally in emollient and maturating cataplasms:
they were an ingredient in the suppurating cataplasm of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia. Those
of the wild plant are very bitter: dried, they are said to prove a gentle errhine; as also
are the flowers.

332. CONVOLVULUS sepium. BIND-WEED.--The poor people use the root of this plant fresh gathered
and boiled in ale as a cathartic; and it is found generally to answer that purpose. It would,
however, nauseate a delicate stomach; but for people of strong constitutions there is not a
better medicine.

333. CUSCUTA europaea. DODDER. The whole plant gathered green is to be boiled in water with
a little ginger and allspice, and this decoction operates as a cathartic; it also opens obstructions
of the liver, and is good in the jaundice and many other disorders arising from the like cause.--Hill's
Herbal.

334. CYNOGLOSSUM officinale. HOUNDS-TONGUE. The Root.--The virtues of this root are very doubtful:
it is generally supposed to be narcotic, and by some to be virulently so: others declare that
it has no virtue of this kind, and look upon it as a mere glutinous astringent.

335. CYPERUS longus. LONG CYPERUS. The Root.--This is long, slender, crooked, and full of knots:
outwardly of a dark-brown or blackish colour, inwardly whitish; of an aromatic smell, and an
agreeable warm taste: both the taste and smell are improved by moderate exsiccation. Cyperus
is accounted a good stomachic and carminative, but is at present very little regarded.

336. DICTAMNUS albus. WHITE or BASTARD DITTANY. The Root.--The cortical part of the root, dried
and rolled up into quills, is sometimes brought to us. This is of a white colour, a weak, not
very agreeable smell; and a durable bitter, lightly pungent taste. It is recommended as an
alexipharmic.

337. EQUISETUM palustre. HORSE-TAIL. The Herb.--It is said to be a very strong astringent:
it has indeed a manifest astringency, but in a very low degree.

338. ERYSIMUM officinale.--It is said to be attenuant, expectorant, and diuretic; and has been
strongly recommended in chronical coughs and hoarseness. Rondeletius informs us that the last-mentioned
complaint, occasioned by loud speaking, was cured by this plant in three days. Other testimonies
of its good effects in this disorder are recorded by writers on the Materia Medica, of whom
we may mention Dr. Cullen; who for this purpose recommends the juice of the Erysimum to be
mixed with an euqal quantity of honey and sugar; in this way also it is said to be an useful
remedy in ulcerations of the mouth and throat.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 407.

339. ERYSIMUM Alliaria. SAUCE ALONE.--The leaves of this plant are very acrimonious, and have
a strong flavour of onions. It is considered as a powerful diaphoretic, diuretic, and antiscorbutic.--Woodville's
Med. Bot.

340. EUPATORIUM cannabinum. HEMP AGRIMONY, &c. Leaves.--They are greatly recommended for strengthening
the tone of the viscera, and as an aperient; and said to have excellent effects in the dropsy,
jaundice, cachexies, and scorbutic disorders. Boerhaave informs us, that this is the common
medicine of the turf-diggers in Holland, against scurvies, foul ulcers, and swellings in the
feet, which they are subject to. The roof of this plant is said to operate as a strong cathartic.

341. EUPHORBIA Esula. SPURGE FLAX. Its Berries.--These are useful in removing warts and excrescences,
if bruised and laid thereon. They are so acrid in their nature as to be altogether unfit for
internal use.

342. EUPHRASIA officinalis. EYEBRIGHT. Leaves.--It was formerly celebrated as an ophtalmic,
both taken internally and applied externally. Hildanus says he has known old men of seventy,
who had lost their sight, recover it again by the use of this herb.

343. FRAGARIA vesca. THE STRAWBERRY. The Leaves and Fruit.--They are somewhat styptic, and
bitterish; and hence my be of some service in debility and laxity of the viscera, and immoderate
secretions, or a suppression of the natural evacuations depending thereon: they are recommended
in haemorrhages and fluxes; and likewise as aperients, in suppressions of urine, obstructions
of the viscera, in the jaundice, &c. The fruit is in general very grateful both to the palate
and stomach: like other fruits of the dulco-acid kind, they abate heat, quench thirst, loosen
the belly, and promote urine.

344. FUMARIA officinalis. FUMITORY. The Leaves.--The medical effects of this herb are, to strengthen
the tone of the bowels, gently loosen the belly, and promote the urinary and other natural
secretions. It is principally recommended in melancholic, scorbutic, and cutaneous disorders;
for opening obstructions of the viscera, attenuating and promoting the evacuations of viscid
juices.

345. GALEGA officinalis. GOAT'S RUE. The Herb.--This is celebrated as an alexipharmic; but
its sensible qualities discover no foundation for any virtues of this kind: the taste is merely
leguminous; and in Italy (where it grows wild) it is said to be used as food.

346. GALIUM Aparine. GOOSEGRASS, OR CLEAVERS. The Leaves.--It is recommended as an aperient,
and in chronic eruptions; but practice has little regard to it.

347. GALIUM verum. LADIES BEDSTRAW, OR CHEESE-RENNET. The Herb.--This herb has a subacid taste,
with a very faint, not disagreeable smell: the juice changes blue vegetable infusions to a
red colour, and coagulates milk, thus exhibiting marks of acidity. It stands recommended as
a mild styptic, and in epilepsy; but has never been much in use.

348. GERANIUM robertianum. HERB ROBERT. The leaves.--They have an austere taste, and have hence
been recommended as astringent: but they have long been disregarded in practice.

349. GLECHOMA hederacea. GROUND-IVY. The Leaves.--This herb is an useful corroborant, aperient,
and detergent; and hence stands recommended against laxity, debility, and obstructions of the
viscera: some have had a great opinion of it for cleansing and healing ulcers of the internal
parts, even of the lungs; and for purifying the blood. It is customary to infuse the dried
leaves in malt liquors, to which it readily imparts its virtues; a practice not to be commended,
unless it is for the purpose of medicine.

350. HEDERA helix. IVY. The Leaves and Berries.--The leaves have very rarely been given internally;
notwithstanding they are recommended (in the Ephem. natur. curios. vol. ii. obs. 120.) against
the atrophy of children; their taste is nauseous, acrid, and bitter. Externally they have sometimes
been employed for drying and healing ichorous sores, and likewise for keeping issues open.
The berries were supposed by the ancients to have a purgative and emetic quality; later writers
have recommended them in small doses, as diaphoretics and alexipharmics; and Mr. Boyle tells
us, that in the London plague the powder of them was given with vinegar, with good success,
as a sudorific. It is probable the virtue of the composition was rather owing to the vinegar
than to the powder.

351. HERNIARIA glabra. RUPTUREWORT. The Leaves.--It is a very mild restringent, and may, in
some degree, be serviceable in disorders proceeding from a weak flaccid state of the viscera:
the virtue which it has been most celebrated for, it has little title to, that of curing hernias.

352. HYPERICUM perforatum. ST. JOHN'S WORT. The Leaves and Flowers.--Its taste is rough and
bitterish; the smell disagreeable. Hypericum has long been celebrated as a corroborant, diuretic,
and vulnerary; but more particularly in hysterical and maniacal disorders: it has been reckoned
of such efficacy in these last, as to have thence received the name of fuga daemonum.

353. JASMINUM officinale. JASMINE. The Flowers.--The flowers have a strong smell, which is
liked by most people, though to some disagreeable: expressed oils extract their fragrance by
infusion; and water elevates somewhat of it in distillation, but scarcely any essential oil
can be obtained from them: the distilled water, kept for a little time, loses its odour.

354. IRIS Pseudoacorus. FLOWER-DE-LUCE. The Root.--The roots, when recent, have a bitter, acrid,
nauseous taste, and taken into the stomach prove strongly cathartic; and hence the juice is
recommended in dropsies, in the dose of three or four scruples. By drying they lose this quality,
yet still retain a somewhat pungent, bitterish taste: their smell in this state is of the aromatic
kind.

355. IRIS florentina. FLORENTINE IRIS, OR ORRIS-ROOT.--The roots grown in this country have
neither the odour nor the other qualities that those possess which are grown in warmer climates:
so that, for the purposes of medicine, they are usually imported from Leghorn.

The root in its recent state is extremely acrid, and, when chewed, excites a pungent heat in
the mouth which continues several hours; but on being dried, this acrimony is almost wholly
dissipated, the taste becomes slightly bitter, and the smell approaching to that of violets.
It is now chiefly used in its dried state, and ranked as a pectoral or expectorant. The principal
use of the roots is, however, for the purposes of perfumery, for which it is in considerable
demand.

356. LACTUCA sativa. GARDEN LETTUCE. The Leaves and Seeds.--It smells strongly of opium, and
resembles it in its effects; and its narcotic power, like that of the poppy heads, resides
in its milky juice. An extract from the expressed juice is recommended in small doses in dropsy.
In those diseases of long standing proceeding from visceral obstructions, it has been given
to the extent of half an ounce a-day. It is said to agree with the stomach, to quench thirst,
to be greatly laxative, powerfully diuretic, and somewhat diaphoretic.

357. LAMIUM album. WHITE ARCHANGEL, OR DEAD NETTLE. The Flowers.--The flowers have been particularly
celebrated in female weaknesses, as also in disorders of the lungs; but they appear to be of
very weak powers.

358. LAVENDULA Stoechas. ARABIAN STOECHAS, OR FRENCH LAVEN-DER. The Flowers.--They have a very
fragrant smell, and a warm, aromatic, bitterish, subacrid taste: distilled with water, they
yield a considerable quantity of a fragrant essential oil; to rectified spirit it imparts a
strong tincture, which inspissated proves an elegant aromatic extract, but is seldom used in
medicine.

359. LEONURUS Cardiaca. MOTHERWORT. The Leaves.--These have a bitter taste, and a pretty strong
smell: they are supposed to be useful in hysteric disorders, to strengthen the stomach, to
promote urine; and indeed it may be judged from their smell and taste, that their medical virtues
are considerable, though they are now rejected both from the London and Edinburgh Pharmacopoeias.

360. LILIUM candidum. WHITE LILY. The Roots.--These are used in poultices. The good housewife
doctors cut the roots in slices and steep them in brandy; and they are said to be an excellent
remedy for all bruises and green wounds: for which purposes it is applied by them with considerable
effect.

361. LITHOSPERMUM officinale. GROMWELL. The Seeds.--These are roundish, hard, and of a whitish
colour, like little pearls. Powdered, they have been supposed peculiarly serviceable in calculous
disorders. Their taste is merely farinaceous.

362. LYSIMACHIA Nummularia. MONEYWORT, OR HERB TWOPENCE. The Leaves.-- Their taste is subastringent,
and very slightly acid: hence they stand recommended by Boerhaave in the hot scurvy, and in
uterine and other haemorrhagies. But their effects are so inconsiderable, that common practice
takes no notice of them.

363. MALVA alcea. VERVAIN-MALLOW. The Leaves.--Alcea agrees in quality with the Althaea and
Malva vulgaris; but appears to be less mucilaginous than either.

364. MATRICARIA Parthenium. COMMON WILD FEVERFEW. The Leaves and Flowers.--Simon Pauli relates,
that he has experienced most happy effects from it in obstructions of the uterine evacuations.
I have often seen, says he, from the use of a decoction of Matricaria and chamomile flowers
with a little mugwort, hysteric complaints instantly relieved, and the patient from a lethargic
state, returned as it were into life again. Matricaria is likewise recommended in sundry other
disorders, as a warm stimulating bitter: all that bitters and carminatives can do, says Geoffroy,
may be expected from this. It is undoubtedly a medicine of some use in these cases, though
not perhaps equal to chamomile flowers alone, with which the Matricaria agrees in sensible
qualities, except in being weaker.

365. NEPETA Calamintha. FIELD CALAMINT. The Leaves.--This is a low plant, growing wild about
hedges and highways, and in dry sandy soils. The leaves have a quick warm taste, and smell
strongly of pennyroyal: as medicines, they differ little otherwise from spearmint, than in
being somewhat hotter, and of a less pleasant odour; which last circumstance has procured calamint
the preference in hysteric cases.

366. NEPETA cataria. NEP, OR CATMINT. The Leaves.--This is a moderately aromatic plant, of
a strong smell, not ill resembling a mixture of mint and pennyroyal; it is also recommended
in hysteric cases.

367. NIGELLA romana. FENNEL-FLOWER. The Seeds.--They have a strong, not unpleasant smell; and
a subacrid, somewhat unctuous disagreeable taste. They stand recommended as aperient, diuretic,
&c. but being suspected to have noxious qualities should be used with caution.

368. NYMPHAEA alba. WHITE WATER-LILY. The Root and Flowers.--These have a rough, bitterish,
glutinous taste, (the flowers are the least rough,) and when fresh a disagreeable smell, which
is in great measure lost by drying: they are recommended in alvine fluxes, gleets, and the
like. The roots are supposed by some to be in an eminent degree narcotic.

369. OCYMUM Basilicum. BASIL. The Leaves.--These have a soft, somewhat warm taste; and when
rubbed, a strong unpleasant smell, which by moderate drying becomes more agreeable. They are
said to attenuate viscid phlegm, promote expectoration, and the uterine secretions.

370. OPHIOGLOSSUM vulgatum. ADDERS-TONGUE. The Leaf.--An ointment is made of the fresh leaves,
and it is a good application to green wounds. It is a very antient application, although now
discarded from the apothecary's shop.

371. PAEONIA corolloides. MALE PEONY. The Seeds.--These are strong, and worn round the neck
to assist detention, and are probably as good as other celebrated anodyne beads which have
been so long recommended for the same purpose.

372. PHELLANDRIUM aquaticum. WATER HEMLOCK.--The seeds of this plant, according to Dr. Lange,
when taken in large doses, produce a remarkable sensation of weight in the head, accompanied
with giddiness, intoxication, &c. It may probably prove, however, an active medicine, especially
in wounds and inveterate ulcers of different kinds, and even in cancers; also in phthisis pulmonalis,
asthma, dyspepsia, intermittent fevers, &c. About two scruples of the seed, two or three times
a-day, was the ordinary dose given. Medicines of this kind should be used with great caution.--Woodville's
Med. Bot. p. 91, 92.

373. PIMPINELLA saxifraga. BURNET SAXIFRAGE. The Root, Leaves, and Seeds.--This root promises
from its sensible qualities, to be a medicine of considerable utility, though little regarded
in common pratice. Stahl, Hoffman, and other German physicians, are extremely fond of it, and
recommend it as an excellent stomachic, resolvent, detergent, diuretic, diaphoretic, and alexipharmic.

374. PLANTAGO major. COMMON BROAD-LEAVED PLANTAIN.--The leaves are slightly astringent, and
the seeds said to be so; and hence they stand recommended in haemorrhages, and other cases
where medicines of this kind are proper. The leaves bruised a little, are the usual application
of the common people to slight flesh wounds. The Edinburgh College used to direct an extract
to be made from the leaves.

375. POTENTILLA anserina. SILVERWEED. The Leaves.--The sensible qualities of Anserina promise
no great virtue of any kind, for to the taste it discovers only a slight roughness, from whence
it was thought to be entitled to a place among the milder corroborants. As the astringency
of Tormentil is confined chiefly to its root, it might be thought that the same circumstance
would take place in this plant; but the root is found to have no other than a pleasant sweetish
taste, like that of parsnip, but not so strong.

376. POTENTILLA reptans. CINQUEFOIL, OR FIVE-LEAVED GRASS. Root.--The root is moderately astringent:
and as such is sometimes given internally against diarrhoeas and other fluxes; and employed
in gargarisms for strengthening the gums, &c. The cortical part of the root may be taken, in
substance, to the quantity of a dram: the internal part is considerably weaker, and requires
to be given in double the dose to produce the same effect. It is scarcely otherwise made use
of than as an ingredient in Venice treacle.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

377. POPULUS niger. THE BLACK POPLAR. Its Buds.--The young buds or rudiments of the leaves,
which appear in the beginning of spring, abound with a yellow, unctuous odorous juice. They
have hitherto been employed chiefly in an ointment, which received its name from them; though
they are certainly capable of being applied to other purposes: a tincture of them made in rectified
spirit, yields upon being isnpissated, a fragrant resin superior to many of those brought from
abroad.

378. PRIMULA officinalis. COWSLIP. The Flowers.--The flowers appear in April; they have a pleasant
sweet smell, and a subacrid, bitterish, subastringent taste. An infusion of them, used as tea,
is recommended as a mild corroborant in nervous complaints. A strong infusion of them, with
a proper quantity of sugar, forms an agreeable syrup, which for a long time maintained a place
in the shops. By boiling, even for a little time, their fine flavour is destroyed. A wine is
also made of the flowers, which is given as an opiate.

379. PRUNELLA vulgaris. SELFHEAL. The Leaves.--It has an herbaceous roughish taste, and hence
stands recommended in haemorrhages and alvine fluxes. It has been principally celebrated as
a vulnerary, whence its name; and in gargarisms for aphthae and inflammations of the fauces.

380. PULMONARIA officinalis. SPOTTED LUNGWORT. The Leaves.--They stand recommended against
ulcers of the lungs, phthisis, and other like disorders.--Lewis's Mat. Med.

381. RANUNCULUS Ficaria. PILEWORT. The Leaves and Root.--The roots consist of slender fibres,
with some little tubercles among them. These, with the leaves, are considered of considerable
eficacy in the cure of haemorrhoids; for which purpose, considerable quantities are sold at
herb-shops in London.

382. RANUNCULUS Flammula. SMALL SPEARWORT.--It has been lately discovered that this plant possesses
very active powers as an emetic, and it is supposed to be useful in some cases of vegetable
poisons.

383. RHAMNUS Frangula. THE BLACK OR BERRY-BEARING ALDER. Its Bark.--The internal bark of the
trunk or root of the tree, given to the quantity of a dram, purges violently, occasioning gripes,
nausea, and vomiting. These may be in good measure prevented by the addition of aromatics;
but we have plenty of safer and less precarious purgatives.

384. RHUS coriaria. ELM-LEAVED SUMACH.--Both the leaves and berries have been employed in medicine;
but the former are more astringent and tonic, and have been long in common use, though at present
discarded from the Pharmacopoeias.

385. RIBES nigrum.--The juice of black currants boiled up with sugar to a jelly, is an excellent
remedy against sore throats.

386. RUMEX Hydrolapathum. THE GREAT WATER DOCK.--The leaves of the docks gently loosen the
belly, and have sometimes been made ingredients in decoctions for removing a costive habit.
The roots, in conjunction with other medicines, are celebrated for the cure of scorbutic and
cutaneous disorders, for which the following receipt is given by Lewis.

Six ounces of the roots of the water dock, with two of saffron; and of mace, cinnamon, gentian
root, liquorice root, and black pepper, each three ounces, (or, where the pepper is improper,
six ounces of liquorice,) are to be reduced into coarse powder, and put into a mixture of two
gallons of wine, with half a gallon of strong vinegar, and the yolks of three egs; and the
whole digested, with a moderate warmth, for three days, in a glazed vessel close stopped: from
three to six ounces of this liquor are to be taken every morning on an empty stomach, for fourteen
or twenty days, or longer.

387. SALVIA Sclarea. GARDEN CLARY. The Leaves and Seeds.--These have a warm, bitterish, pungent
taste; and a strong, not very agreeable smell: the touch discovers in the leaves a large quantity
of glutinous or resinous matter. They are principally recommended in female weaknesses, in
hysteric disorders, and in flatulent colics.

388. SAMBUCUS Ebulus. DWARF ELDER, OR DANEWORT. The Root, Bark, and Leaves.--These have a nauseous,
sharp, bitter taste, and a kind of acrid ungrateful smell: they are all strong cathartics,
and as such are recommended in dropsies, and other cases where medicines of that kind are indicated.
The bark of the root is said to be strongest: the leaves the weakest. But they are all too
churlish medicines for general use: they sometimes evacuate violently upwards, almost always
nauseate the stomach, and occasion great uneasiness of the bowels. By boiling they become (like
the other drastics) milder, and more safe in operation. Fernelius relates, that by long coction
they entirely lose their purgative virtue. The berries of this plant are likewise purgative,
but less virulent than the other parts. A rob prepared from them may be given to the quantity
of an ounce, as a cathartic; and in smaller ones as an aperient and deobstruent in chronic
disorders: in this last intention, it is said by Haller to be frequently used in Switzerland,
in the dose of a dram.

389. SANICULA officinalis. SANICLE. The Leaves.--These have an herbaceous, roughish taste:
they have long been celebrated for sanative virtues, both internally and externally; nevertheless
their effects, in any intention, are not considerable enough to gain them a place in the present
practice.

390. SAPONARIA officinalis. SOAPWORT. The Herb and Root.--The roots taste sweetish and somewhat
pungent; and have a light smell like those of liquorice: digested in rectified spirit they
yield a strong tincture, which loses nothing of its taste or flavour in being inspissated to
the consistence of an extract. This elegant root has not come much into practice among us,
though it promises, from its sensible qualities, to be a medicine of considerable utility:
it is greatly esteemed by the German physicians as an aperient, corroborant, and sudorific;
and preferred by the College of Wirtemberg, by Stahl, Neumann, and others, to sarsaparilla.

391. SAXIFRAGA granulata.--Linnaeus describes the taste of this plant to be acrid and pungent,
which we have not been able to discover. Neither the tubercles of this root, nor the leaves,
manifest to the organs of taste any quality likely to be of medicinal use; and therefore, though
this species of Saxifraga has been long employed as a popular remedy in nephritic and gravelly
disorders, yet we do not find, either from its sensible qualities or from any published instances
of its efficacy, that it deserves a place in the Materia Medica.--Woodville's Med. Bot. p. 551.

392. SCABIOSA succisa. DEVIL'S BIT. The Leaves and Roots.--These stand recommended as alexipharmics,
but they have long given place to medicines of greater efficacy.

393. SCANDIX Cerefolium. Chervil. The Leaves.--Geoffroy assures us, that he has found it from
experience to be of excellent service in dropsies: that in this disorder it promotes the discharge
of urine when suppressed, renders it clear when feculent and turbid, and when high and fiery
of a paler colour; that it acts midly without irritation, and tends rather to allay than excite
inflammation. He goes so far as to say, that dropsies which do not yield to this medicine are
scarce capable of being cured by any other. He directs the juice to be given in the dose of
three or four ounces every fourth hour, and continued for some time, either alone, or in conjunction
with nitre and syrup.

394. SEDUM Telephium. ORPINE. The Leaves.--This is a very thick-leaved juicy plant, not unlike
the houseleeks. It has a mucilaginous roughish taste, and hence is recommended as emollient
and astringent, but has never been much regarded in practice.

395. SEMPERVIVUM tectorum. GREATER HOUSE-LEEK. The Leaves.--These are principally applied in
cases of erysipelatous and other hot eruptions of the skin, in which they are of immediate
service in allaying the pain arising therefrom: great quantities are cultivated in Surrey,
and brought to the London markets. It is remarkable of this plant, that its juice, when purified
by filtration, appears of a dilute yellowish colour upon the admixture of an equal quantity
of rectified spirit of wine; but forms a beautiful white, light coagulum, like the finer kinds
of pomatum: this proves extremely volatile; for when freed from the aqueous phlegm, and exposed
to the air, it altogether exhales in a very little time.

396. SENECIO Jacobaea. RAGWORT. The Leaves.--Their taste is roughish, bitter, pungent, and
extremely unpleasant: they stand strongly recommended by Simon Pauli against dysenteries; but
their forbidding taste has prevented its coming into practice.

397. SOLANUM nigrum. COMMON NIGHTSHADE. The Leaves and Berries.--In the year 1757, Mr. Gataker,
surgeon to the Westminster Hospital, called the attention of the Faculty to this plant, by
a publication recommending its internal use in old sores, srophulous and cancerous ulcers,
cutaneous eruptions, and even dropsies; all of which were much relieved or completely cured of it.

398. SPIRAEA Ulmaria. MEADOW-SWEET. The Leaves and Flowers.--The flowers have a very pleasant
flavour, which water extracts from them by infusion, and elevates in distillation.

399. SPIRAEA Filipendula. DROPWORT. The Root.--The root consists of a number of tubercles,
fastened together by slender strings; its taste is rough and bitterish, with a slight degree
of pungency. These qualities point out its use in a flaccid state of the vessels, and a sluggishness
of the juices: the natural evacuations are in some measure restrained or promoted by it, where
the excess or deficiency proceeds from this cause. Hence some have recommended it as an astringent
in dysenteries, a diuretic, and others as an aperient and deobstruent in scrophulous habits.

400. SYMPHYTUM officinale. COMFREY. The Root.--The roots are very large, black on the outside,
white within, full of a viscid glutinous juice, of no particular taste. They agree in quality
with the roots of Althaea; with this difference, that the mucilage of it is somewhat stronger-bodied.
Many ridiculous histories of the consolidating virtues of this plant are related by authors.

401. TAMUS communis. BLACK BRYONY.--The root is one of the best diuretics known in medicine.
It is an excellent remedy in the gravel and all obstructions of urine, and other disorders
of the like nature.

402. TANACETUM vulgare. TANSY. The Leaves.--These have a bitterish warm aromatic taste; and
a very pleasant smell, approaching to that of mint or a mixture of mint and maudlin. Water
elevates their flavour in distillation; and rectified spirit extracts it by infusion. They
have been recommended in hysteric cases.

403. TEUCRIUM Chamaepitys. GROUND PINE. The Leaves.--These are recommended as aperient and
vulnerary, as also in gouty and rheumatic pains.

404. THYMUS vulgaris. THYME. The Leaves and Flowers.--A tea made of the fresh tops of thyme
is good in asthmas and diseases of the lungs. It is recommended against nervous complaints;
but for this purpose the wild thyme is preferable. There is an oil made from thyme that cures
the tooth-ache, a drop or two of it being put upon lint and applied to the tooth; this is commonly
called oil of origanum.

405. TRIGONELLA Foenum-graecum. FOENUGREEK. The Seeds.--They are of a yellow colour, a rhomboidal
figure; have a disagreeable strong smell, and a mucilaginous taste. Their principal use is
in cataplasms, fomentations, and the like, and in emollient glysters.

406. VERBASCUM Thapsus. MULLEIN. The Leaves and Flowers.--Their taste discovers a glutinous
quality; and hence they stand recommended as an emollient, and is in some places held in great
esteem in consumptions. The flowers of mullein have an agreeable, honeylike sweetness: an extract
prepared from them by rectified spirit of wine tastes extremely pleasant.

407. VERBENA officinalis. COMMON WILD VERVAIN. The Leaves and Root.-- This is one of the medicines
which we owe to the superstition of former ages; the virtue it has been celebrated for is as
an amulet, on which a pamphlet was some years ago published. It was recommended to wear the
root by a ribband tied round the neck for the cure of the scrophula, and for which purpose,
even now, much of the root is sold in London. As the age of superstition is passing by, it
will be needless to say more on the subject at present.

408. VERONICA officinalis. MALE SPEEDWELL. The Leaves.--Hoffman and Joh. Francus have written
express treatises on this plant, recommending infusions of it, drunk in the form of tea, as
very salubrious in many disorders, particularly those of the breast.

*       *       *       *       *

Observations on the Drying and Preserving of Herbs, &c. for Medicinal Purposes.

The student who has paid attention to the subject described in the foregoing sections, will
be struck with the admirable contrivance of Divine Wisdom; that has caused such astringent
substances as are contained in the oak and Peruvian bark, to be produced from the same soil,
and in a similar way to those mucilaginous and laxative ones which we find in the juice of
the marsh-mallow, and the olive oil. It is not intended in this small elementary work to enter
into any investigation of the primitive parts of the vegetable creation, or how such different
particles are secreted. It may therefore suffice, that, although the science of vegetable physiology
admits of many very beautiful and instructing illustrations, yet they only go so far as to
prove to us, that the first and grand principle of vegetable life and existence, as well as
of the formation of all organic substances, consists in a system of attraction and combination
of the different particles of nature, as they exist and are imbibed from the soil and the surrounding
atmosphere. Thus, during their existence, we observe a continual series of aggregation of substance;
but no sooner does the principle of life become extinct, than the agents of decomposition are
at work, dividing and selecting each different substance, and carrying it back from whence
it came:--"From dust thou comest, and to dust thou shalt return." This, therefore, seems to
be the sum total of existence; the explanation of which, with all its interesting ramifications,
is more fully explained by the learned professors in what is called the science of chemistry.

As plants of all descriptions, and their several parts, form a link of that chain by which
the welfare of the universe is connected, the industry of mankind is excited to preserve them
for the different purposes to which they are applicable, in the oeconomy of human existence,
to whose use the greater part of the animal and vegetable creation appears to be subservient.
As men, then, and rational beings, it becomes our duty so to manage those things, when necessary,
as to counteract as much as possible the decomposition and corruption which are natural to
all organized bodies when deprived of the living principle.

We find that some vegetables are used fresh, but the greater part are preserved in a dry state;
in which, by proper management, they can be kept for a considerable time afterwards, both for
our own use as well as for that of others who reside at a distance from the place of their
production.

In the preparation of the parts of plants for medicinal purposes, we should always have in
view the extreme volatility of many of those substances, and how necessary it therefore is,
that the mode of preparation and drying should be done as quickly as possible, in order to
counteract the effects of the air and light, which continue to dissipate, without intermission,
these particles, during the whole time that any vegetable, either fresh or dried, is left to
its influence.

If we consider the nature of hops, which I shall take as an example, as being prepared in this
way on the largest scale, we shall find they consist of three different principles; namely,
an aroma, combined with an agreeable bitter taste, and a yellow colour; all of which properties
are, by the consumers and dealers therein, expected to exist in the article after drying.

The art of drying hops, therefore, has been a subject of speculation for many years; and although
we find the kiln apparatus for preserving them differ in many places, from the various opinions
of the projectors, yet they are all intended for the same mode of action, i. e. the producing
of a proper degree of heat, which must be regulated according to the state of the atmosphere
at the gathering season, and the consequent quantity of the watery extract that the hops contain
at the time: thus it is usual to have two kilns of different temperatures at work at the same
time. It should, however, be observed, that the principal art of drying hops is in doing it
as quickly as possible, so as not to injure them in their colour. As soon as they are dried,
it is considered necessary to put them up into close and thick bags.

It should be observed, that all vegetables contain at every period of their growth two distinct
species of moiture: the one called by naturalists the common juice, which is the ascending
sap, and is replete with watery particles: the other is termed the proper juice, which having
passed up through the leaves, and being there concocted and deprived of the watery part, contains
the principle on which various properties and virtues of the plant depend. We therefore find
that the operations above described only go to this, that the watery particles in the common
juice should be evaporated, as being a part necessary to be got rid of; and the proper juice
being of a volatile nature, the less time the plants are exposed for that purpose, the less
of this precious material will be lost: and as those parts are flying off continually from
all dried vegetables, there should be one general rule made with regard to their peparation;
for, if we instance mint, balm, pennyroyal, &c., the longer these are kept in the open air,
the weaker are they found to be in their several parts.

From hence we may naturally infer, that the usual mode in which the generality of herbs are
dried, is not so good for the purpose, as one would be if contrived on similar principles,
as, during the length of time necessary for the purpose, a great deal of the principal parts
of the plants must of course be evaporated and lost; for little else is regarded than to dry
them so as to prevent putrefaction. Although the generality of herbs met with are prepared
as above described, yet in such articles as Digitalis, Hyoscyamus, Conium, Toxicodendron, &c.,
where the quantity necessary for a dose is so small, and so much depends on its action, practitioners
are often obliged to prepare it themselves. I shall therefore relate the following mode as
the best adapted to that purpose. The Digitalis is prepared by collecting the leaves in the
summer, and stripping them off from the foot-stalks; these should be then carefully exposed
to a slow heat, and the watery extract slowly thrown off; in which they should not be exposed
to any great degree of heat, which by its action will deprive them of their fine green colour.
When this is effected, the whole may be put in contact with a heat that will enable the operator
to reduce it to a fine powder. And in order to keep it with its virtues perfect, it will be
necessary to deprive it as much as possible of the influence of air and light. Hence it is
preserved in close glass bottles which are coated, and also placed in a dark part of the elaboratory.
Now, it is necessary that all plants intended to be used in a dried state, should be prepared
and protected in a similar manner; and although it may be considered as a superfluous trouble,
so far as regards the more common kinds, particular attention should be paid to these, when
a small quantity is a dose, and an over-dose a certain poison.

Other kinds of vegetables require a certain degree of fermentation, as Tobacco. The prinicpal
art of preserving it consists in this operation being duly performed; for which purpose, as
soon as the leaves of the herb are fit, the foot-stalks are broken, and the leaves left on,
in order for the moisture in part to be evaporated. Afterwards these are gathered and tied
in handfuls, and hung up in the shade to dry; and when sufficiently divested of moisture, the
bundles are collected together and laid in large boxes or tubs, in which these are fermented,
and afterwards taken out again and dried; when it is found fit to pack up for the market.

The properties of Stramonium, which has been so much recommended for curing asthma, consist
pricipally in the aroma, which is only to be preserved in a similar manner: and I have found
from experience, that if the leaves are separated from the plant in a manner similar to that
of tobacco, and the rest of the plant, noth roots, stalks, and seed-vessels, be slit and sufficiently
dried in the sun or in an oven, and the whole fermented together, a very different article
is the produce than what it is when dried in the usual way, and left entirely to the chance
influence of the atmosphere.

In the common operation of hay-making it may also be observed, that the continued turning it
over and admitting its parts to the action of the sun and the air, is for the purpose of getting
rid of the watery particles contained in it; and the quicker this is done, the better it is.
And although this operation is so essentially necessary, yet care should be taken at the same
time, that it be not made too dry, so as to prevent a due degree of fermentation being allowed
to take place in the rick. And it may be observed that the best grasses, or other plants used
for hay, if made too dry, so as to prevent the natural fermentation which their proper juices
will excite, can never make either palatable or nutritive food for cattle. Neither can the
same be effected if the article is used in too small quantities. It should be observed, that
herbs of all kinds should be gathered for peserving when in full bloom; but when roots or barks
are recommended, these should be collected in the autumn months. The principles laid down for
preserving dried plants generally, will apply to these parts also.

*       *       *       *       *

SECTION IX.--PLANTS USED FOR CULINARY PURPOSES.

"Man's first great ruling passion is to eat."

In the following section I have confined myself principally to such as are in cultivation.
There are many of our indigenous plants which, in times of scarcity, and in other cases of
necessity, are used as food by the people in the neighbourhood where they grow. But of these
I shall make a separate list.

409. ARTICHOKE. Cynara Scolymus.--We have several varieties of this plant in cultivation; but
the most approved are the large green and the globe. They are propagated by taking off the
young suckers from the old roots in May, and planting them in a piece of rich land. Artichokes
have been raised from seed, but they are seldom perfected in this country.

410. ARTICHOKE, JERUSALEM. Helianthus tuberosus.--Is cultivated for the sake of its tubers,
similar to the potatoe; but they are not generally esteemed.

411. ASPARAGUS. Asparagus officinalis.--A very delicious vegetable in the spring, and well
known to all amateurs of gardening.

There is a variety called the Gravesend Asparagus, and another called the Battersea; but it
is the richness of the soil and manure that makes the only difference.

412. BASIL, SWEET. Ocymum Basilicum.--A pot-herb of considerable use for culinary purposes.
It is an annual; and the seeds should be sown in a hot-bed in March, and transplanted into
the open ground. It is usually dried as other pot-herbs.

413. BEANS. Vicia Faba.--The varieties of the garden-beans are as follow:--

The early Mazagan and Longpod are planted in November. These will usually be fit for use in June.

The Windsor. The Toker. The Sword Longpod. The Green Toker. The White-blossomed.

These are sown usually in succession from January to March, and afford a continuance of crop
during the season.

414. BEANS, FRENCH OR KIDNEY. Phaseolus vulgaris.--The kidney beans are of two kinds; such
as run up sticks and flower on the tops. Of this description we have in cultivation the following:--

The Scarlet Runner. The Dutch Runner.

Both these are much esteemed.

Of dwarf kinds we have many varieties. The pollen of these plants is very apt to become mixed;
and, consequently, hybrid kinds differing in the colour of the seeds are often produced. The
season for sowing these is from April till June.

The Black, or Negro Beans. The Blue Dwarf. The Early Yellow. The Black Speckled. The Red Speckled.
The Magpie. The Canterbury.

All these varieties are good and early beans. The white Canterbury is the kind most esteemed
for pickling; the other sorts being all of them more or less discoloured: and this kind is
the sort generally sold for such purpose in the London markets.

415. BEET, RED. Beta vulgaris v. rubra.--The roots of this variety are used both in soups and
for early spring salads: it is cultivated by sowing the seeds in March; and the roots are usually
kept all winter.

The white beet is only a variety of the other; and it is the tops that are usually eaten of
this kind as a substitute for spinach. Its culture is the same as that of the red kind.

416. BORECOLE. Brassica Rapa.--Of borecole we have two varieties; the purple, and green. The
former is in much esteem amongst the Germans, who make a number of excellent dishes from it
in the winter.

The culture is the same as for winter cabbage of other kinds.

417. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Brassica Rapa.--This is also a useful variety of the cabbage species,
which is very productive, forming a large number of beautiful small close-headed cabbages on
their high stalks in the winter season. The seeds are sown in March.

418. BURNET. Poterium Sanguisorba.--The young leaves of this plant are eaten with other tender
herbs in the spring, and are considered a wholesome addition to mustard, cress, corn-salad, &c.

419. CABBAGE. Brassica oleracea.--The varieties of cabbage are numerous. The most esteemed are,

The Early York. The Early Sugar-loaf. The Early Battersea. The Early Russia.

They are all sown in August, and planted out for an early summer-crop, and are usually in season
in May and June.

The Large Battersea. The Red Cabbage. The Green Savoy. The White Savoy.

These are usually sown in March, and planted for a winter crop.

The use and qualities of the cabbage are too well known to need any further description.

420. CAULIFLOWER. Brassica oleracea var.--The varieties are,

The Early. The Late.

The early cauliflower is sown in the first week in September, and usually sheltered under bell
or hand glasses during the winter. By this means the crop is fit for table in the months of
May and June.

The late sort is usually sown in the month of March, and planted out for a succession to the
first crop.

421. CAPERS. Capparis spinosa.--This is the flower-pod before it opens of the above shrub,
and is only kept as an ornamental plant here. I am induced to notice this plant, as I have
known some things used in mistake for capers that are dangerous. I once saw an instance of
this, in the seed-vessels of the Euphorbia Lathyris (which is a poisonous plant) being pickled
by an ignorant person.

422. CAPSICUM. Capsicum annuum.--Cayenne pepper is made from a small variety of this plant.

We have many varieties cultivated here in hot-beds; namely, yellow and red, of various shapes,
as long, round, and heart-shaped. All these are very useful, either pickled by themselves,
or mixed with any other substances, as love-apple, radish pods, &c. to which they impart a
very fine warm flavour.

423. CARROT. Daucus Carota.--

The Orange Carrot.--For winter use.

The Early Horn ditto.--For summer use.--The former is usually sown in March; the latter being
smaller, and more early, is commonly raised on hot-beds. The Early Horn Carrot may likewise
be sown in August, and is good all winter.

424. CELERY. Apium graveolens.--Celery is now so generally known as to render a description
of the plant useless; nor need it be told, that the stalks blanched are eaten raw, stewed,
&c. It should be used with great caution, if grown in wet land, as it has been considered poisonous
in such cases. The season of sowing celery is in April. We have a variety of this, which is
red, and much esteemed.

425. CELERIAC. This is a variety of the Apium graveolens. It is hollow in the stem, and the
roots are particularly large: although this is much used in Germany, it is not so much esteemed
by us as the celery.

426. CHAMPIGNON. Agaricus pratensis.--This plant is equal in flavour to the mushroom when boiled
or stewed: it is rather dry, and has little or no scent whatever.

427. CHARDOONS. Cynara Cardunculus.--The gardeners blanch the stalks as they do celery; and
they are eaten raw with oil, pepper, and vinegar; or, if fancy directs, they are also either
boiled or stewed.

428. CHERVIL. Scandix Cerefolium.--This plant is so much used by the French and Dutch, that
there is scarcely a soup or salad but what chervil makes part of it: it is grateful to the
taste. See article oenanthe crocata in the Poisonous Plants.

429. CIVES. Allium Schoenoprasum.--This is an excellent herb for salads in the spring: it is
also useful for soups, &c. &c. It is perennial, and propagated by its roots, which readily
part at any season.

430. CLARY. Salvia Sclarea.--The seeds are sown in autumn. It is biennial. The recent leaves
dipped in milk, and then fried in butter, were formerly used as a dainty dish; but now it is
mostly used as a pot-herb, and for making an useful beverage called Clary Wine, viz.--Put four
pounds of sugar to five gallons of water, and the albumen of three eggs well beaten; boil these
together for about sixteen minutes, then skim the liquor; and when it is cool, add of the leaves
and blossoms two gallons, and also of yeast half a pint; and when this is completed, put it
all together into a vessel and stir it two or three times a-day till it has done fermenting,
and then stop it close for two months: afterwards draw it into a clean vessel, adding to it
a quart of good brandy. In two months it will be fit to bottle.

431. COLEWORT. Brassica oleracea var.--This is a small variety of the common cabbage, which
is sown in June, and planted out for autumn and winter use. These are often found to stand
the severe frosts of our winter when the large sort of cabbages are killed; but its principal
use with gardeners is, to have a crop that will occupy the land after the beans and pease are
over, and perhaps Colewort is the most advantageous for such purposes.

432. CORN SALAD. Valeriana Locusta.--An annual, growing wild in Battersea fields, and many
other parts of this kingdom.

It is usually sown in August, and stands the winter perfectly well; it is very similar to lettuce,
and is a good substitute for it in the spring and winter seasons.

433. COSTMARY Tanacetum Balsamita.--Is used as a herb in salad. This is a perennial plant of
easy culture.

434. CRESS. Lepidium sativum.--There are two varieties of cress, the curled and common. This
is an ingredient with mustard in early salads.

435. CRESS, AMERICAN. Erysimum Barbarea.--This is cultivated for salads, and is much esteemed.
It is increased by sowing the seeds in the spring. This is only good in the winter and spring
seasons.

436. CUCUMBERS. Cucumis sativus.--Many sorts of cucumbers are cultivated by gardeners. The
most esteemed are,

The Southgate Cucumber. The Long Prickly. The Long Turkey. The White Spined.

The early crop is usually sown in hot-beds in the spring, and is a crop on which most gardeners
have always prided themselves, each on his best mode of management of this crop. They will
also grow if sown in April, and planted out in the open ground.

The short prickly cucumber is grown for gerkins.

437. DILL. Anethum graveolens.--This is similar to fennel, and used in pickling. It is esteemed
useful as a medicinal herb also; which see.

438. ENDIVE. Cichorium Endivia.--Of this we have three varieties in cultivation.

The Green Curled. The White Curled. The Batavian, or Broad-leaved.

These are sown usually in June and July, and planted out for use in the autumn and winter.
Endive is well known as forming a principal part of our winter salads; for which purpose, it
is usual with gardeners to blanch it, by tying the plants up together, and laying them in dry
places.

439. ESCHALOT. Allium ascalonium.--This species of allium is very pungent: its scent is not
unpleasant, but is very strong, and, in general, it is preferred to the onion for making soups
and gravies. It is propagated by planting the bulbs in September and October: they are fit
to take up in May and June, when they are dried and kept for use.

440. FENNEL. Anethum Foeniculum.--The use of this plant is so well knwon in the kitchen, as
to render an account of it useless. It is propagated by sowing seeds in the spring.

441. GARLICK. Allium sativum.--This is used in the art of cookery in various ways, for soups,
pickles, &c. It is cultivated by planting the small cloves or roots in the month of October.
It is fit to pull up in spring; and the roots are dried for use.

442. GOURD. Cucurbita Melopepo.--The inhabitants of North America boil the squash or melon
gourds when about the size of small oranges, and eat them with their meat. The pulp is used
with sour apples to make pies. In scarcity it is a good substitute for fruit.

443. KOHLRABBI, or TURNEP-ROOTED CABBAGE. Brassica Rapa var.--We have two kinds of this in
cultivation; but although these are both much eaten in Germany, they are not esteemed with
us: in fact, we have so many varieties of the cabbage kind all the year round for culinary
purposes, that nothing could much improve them. In countries further north than we are, this
is probably an acquisition, as, from its hardiness, it is likely to stand the frost better
than some of the more delicate varieties.

444. LEEKS. Allium Porrum.--There are two kinds of leeks: the Welsh and London.

Leeks are used principally in soups; they partake much of the nature of onions, but for this
purpose are in general more esteemed. This plant has been so long cultivated in this country,
that its native place is not known.

The seeds are sown in the spring, and it is in use all the winter.

445. LETTUCE. Lactuca sativa.--The varieties of lettuce are many. They are,

Green Coss. White do. Silesia do. Brown do. Egyptian do. Brown Dutch. White Cabbage. Imperial.
Hammersmith Hardy. Tennis-ball.

These are sown every summer month. The brown and Egyptian coss are sown in August, and commonly
stand the winter; and in the spring are fit for use.

446. LOVE-APPLE. Solanum Lycopersicum.--The Portuguese and Spaniards are so very fond of this
fruit, that there is not a soup or gravy but what this makes an ingredient in; and it is deemed
cooling and nutritive. It is also called Tomatas, or Tomatoes.

The green fruit makes a most excellent pickle with capsicums and other berries. It is annual,
and raised in hot-bed, and planted out.

447. MARJORAM, WINTER. Origanum vulgare.--This is used as a sweet herb, and is a good appendage
to the usual ingredients in stuffing, &c. It is a perennial plant, and propagated by planting
out its roots in the spring of the year.

448. MARJORAM, SWEET. Origanum Marjorana.--This is also used for the same purpose as the last
mentioned. It is an annual, and not of such easy culture as the last, requiring to be raised
from seeds in an artificial heat. It is usually dried and kept for use.

449. MARYGOLD. Calendula officinalis.--An annual plant usually sown in the spring. The petals
of the flowers are eaten in broths and soups, to which they impart a very pleasant flavour.

450. MUSHROOM. Agaricus campestris.--Is cultivated and well known at our tables for its fine
taste and utility in sauces. These plants do not produce seeds that can be saved; they are
therefore cultivated by collecting the spawn, which is found in old hot-beds and in meadow lands.

Various methods have been lately devised for raising mushrooms artificially: but none seem
to be equal to those raised in beds, as is described in all our books of gardening. Raising
this vegetable in close rooms by fire heat has been found to produce them with a bad flavour;
and they are not considered so wholesome as those grown in the open air, or when that element
is admitted at times freely to the beds.

451. MUSTARD, WHITE. Sinapis alba.--This is sown early in the spring; to be eaten as salad
with cress and other things of the like nature; it is of easy culture. A salad of this kind
may be readily raised on a piece of thick woollen-cloth, if the seeds are strewed thereon and
kept damp; a convenient mode practised at sea on long voyages. Cress and rap may be raised
in the same manner.

452. ONION. Allium oleraceum.--The kinds of onions in cultivation are,

The Deptford. The Reading. The White Spanish. The Portugal. The Globe, and The Silver skinned.

All these varieties are usually sown in the spring of the year, and are good either eaten in
their young state, or after they are dried in the winter. The silver skinned kind is mostly
in use for pickling. The globe and Deptford kinds are remarkable for keeping late in the spring.
A portion of all the other sorts should be sown, as they are all very good, and some kinds
will keep, when others will not.

453. ONION, WELSH. Allium fistulosum.--This is sown in August for the sake of the young plants,
which are useful in winter salads, and are more hardy than the other cultivated sorts.

454. PARSLEY. Petroselium vulgare.--A well known potherb sown in the spring; and the plants,
if not suffered to go to seed, will last two years. See aethusa Cynapium, in Poisonous Plants.

455. PARSNEP. Pastinaca sativa.--This is a well known esculent root, and is raised by sowing
the seeds in the spring.

456. PEA. Pisum sativum.--This is a well known dainty at our tables during spring and summer.
The varieties in cultivation are,

Turner's Early Frame. Early Charlton. Golden Hotspur. Double Dwarf.

These are usually sown in November and December, and will succeed each other in ripening in
June, if the season is fine, and afford a crop all that month.

The Dwarf Marrow-fat. The Royal Dwarf. The Prussia Blue. The Spanish Dwarf.

These varieties are usually sown in gardens when it is not convenient to have them grow up
sticks, being all of a dwarf kind.

The Tall Marrow-fat. The Green Marrow-fat. The Imperial Egg Pea. The Rose, or Crown Pea. The
Spanish Morotto. Knight's Marrow Pea. The Grey Rouncival. The Sickle Pea.

This last variety has no skin in the pods. These are used as kidney beans, as also in the usual
way. These varieties are of very large growth, and are only to be cultivated when there is
considerable room, and must be supported on sticks placed in the ground for that purpose. The
grey pea is usually eaten when in a dry state boiled. Hot grey peas used to be an article of
common sale among our itinerant traders in London streets, but it has been dropped for some
years. One or other of the different kinds of the larger varieties should be put into the ground
every three weeks from March to the 1st week in June, and a crop is thereby insured constantly
till the beginning of October.

It should be remarked, that peas, as well as all vegetable seeds, are liable to sport and become
hybrid sorts; some of which are at times saved for separate culture, and are called, when found
good, by particular names; so that every twenty or thirty years many of the kinds are changed.
Thus Briant, in his Flora Diaetetica, enumerates fourteen varieties, a few only of which bear
the same name as those now in the list of the London seedsmen.

457. POMPION. Cucurbita Pepo.--This is of the gourd species, and grows to a large size. It
is not much in use with us: but in the south of Europe the inhabitants use the pulp with some
acid fruits for pastry, and it is there very useful. It is also sometimes used in a similar
manner here with apples. Almost all the gourd species are similar in taste and nutriments when
used this way.

458. PURSLANE. Portulaca oleracea.--Two kinds of Purslane, the green and the golden, are cultivated.
These are eaten with vinegar, &c. the same as other salad oils, and are a fine vegetable in
warm weather. The seeds are usually sown in the spring.

459. RADISH. Raphanus sativus.--The varieties in cultivation are,

The Early Scarlet. The Early Purple Short-top. The Salmon Radish. The White Turnip Radish.
The Red Turnip Radish. The Black Spanish.

The above are sown almost every month in the year, and when the weather is fine, every good
garden may have a supply all the year of those useful and wholesome vegetables.

The black Spanish radish is a large rooted variety usually sown in August, and is eaten in
the winter season.

The poor labouring man's fare, which is usually eaten under the hedge of the field of his employment,
is often accompanied with a dried onion; and was this root more known than it generally is,
it would yield him, at the expense of two-pence, with a little labour in his cottage garden,
an equally pleasant and more useful sauce to his coarse but happy meals. I have observed many
instances of this oeconomy amongst the labouring classes in my youth, but fear it is not quite
so commonly made use of in the present day.

460. RADISH, HORSE. Cochlearia Armoracea.--The root of this vegetable is a usual accompaniment
to the loyal and standard English dishes, the smoking baron and the roast surloin; with which
it is most generally esteemed.

It should not be passed unnoticed here, that this very grateful and wholesome root is not at
all times to be eaten with impunity. One or two instances of its deleterious effects have been
witnessed by my much esteemed friend Dr. Taylor, the worthy Secretary at the Society of Arts,
and which he has communicated to me. I shall insert his own words, particularly as it may be
the means of preventing the botanical student from falling into the same error, after arriving
with the usual good appetite, from his recreative task of herborizing excursions. "Some gentlemen
having ordered a dinner at a tavern, of which scraped horse-radish was one; some persons in
company took a small quantity, and, dipping it in salt, ate of it: these were soon seized with
a suppression of urine, accompanied with inflammation of the kidneys, which shortly after proved
fatal to one of the company. The Doctor was consulted; but not knowing exactly the cause of
the complaint, of course was at a loss to apply a remedy in time. But another circumstance
of the like nature having come under his notice, and being apprized of it, by a well applied
corrective medicine he recovered the patient. It should, therefore, be made a general observation,
under such circumstances, and those are not the most unpleasant we meet with in our researches,
'never to eat horse-radish on an empty stomach.'"

461. RAMPION. Campanula Rapunculus.--This plant is remarkable for its milky juice. In France,
it is cultivated for its roots, which are boiled and eaten with salads; but in England it is
little noticed, except by the French cooks, who use it as an ingredient in their soups and
gravies. It is propagated by planting its roots in the spring.

462. RHAPONTIC RHUBARB. Rheum Rhaponticum.--The radical leaf-stalks of this plant being thick
and juicy, and having an acid taste, are frequently used in the spring as a substitute for
gooseberries before they are ripe, in making puddings, pies, tarts, &c. If they are peeled
with care, they will bake and boil very well, and eat agreeably.

463. ROCAMBOLE. Allium sativum.--The rocambole is merely the bulbs on the top of the flower-stalk
of the garlic, it being a viviparous plant. The flavour of this being somewhat different, is
used in the kitchen under the above name.

464. SAGE. Salvia officinalis.--Of this we have two varieties, green and red. The latter is
considered the best for culinary purposes: it is the well-known sauce for geese and other water-fowl.
It is propagated by cuttings in the spring.

465. SALSAFY. Tragopogon porrifolium.--A biennial, sown in March, and is usually in season
during winter. The roots are the parts used, which are very sweet, and contain a large quantity
of milky juice: it is a good vegetable plain boiled, and the professors of cookery make many
fine dishes of it.

466. SAVORY, SUMMER. Satureja hortensis.

467. SAVORY, WINTER. Satureja montana.

Both sorts are used for the same purposes, as condiments among other herbs for stuffing, and
are well known to cooks. The former is an annual, and raised by sowing the seeds in March and
April. The other, being perennial, is propagated either by the same means or by cuttings in
the spring of the year. It is also dried for winter use.

468. SAVOY CABBAGE. Brassica oleracea, (var.)

The Green Savoy. The White or Yellow Savoy.

A well-known species of cabbage grown for winter use, and is one of our best vegetables of
that season. It is raised by sowing the seeds in May, and planting the plants in any spot of
ground in July after a crop of peas or beans. Savoys stand the frost better than most other
kinds of cabbages with close heads.

469. SCORZONERA. Scorzonera tingitana.--The roots of this are very similar to salsafy, and
its culture and use nearly the same.

470. SEA KALE. Crambe maritima.--This grows wild on our sea-coasts, particularly in Devonshire,
where it has long been gathered and eaten by the inhabitants thereabouts. It was used also
to be cultivated; but was in general lost to our gardens, till my late partner, Mr. Curtis,
having paid a visit to his friend Dr. Wavell at Barnstaple, found it at that gentleman's table;
and on his return he collected some seeds, and planted a considerable spot of ground with it
at Brompton in 1792; at which time it was again introduced to Covent-Garden, but with so little
successs, that no person was found to purchase it, and consequently the crop was useless.

This celebrated botanist, however, published a small tract on its uses and culture, which met
with a considerable sale, and introduced it again to general cultivation.

The seeds should be sown in March, and the following year the plants are fit for forming plantations,
when they should be put out in rows about three feet apart, and one foot in the row. The vegetable
is blanched either by placing over the crowns of the root an empty garden-pot, or by earthing
it up as is usually done with celery. It is easily forced, by placing hot dung on the pots;
and is brought forward in January, and from thence till May.

It has been noticed of sea-kale, that, on eating it, it does not impart to the urine that strong
and unpleasant scent which asparagus and other vegetables do.

471. SKIRRETS. Sium Sisarum.--The roots of this plant are very similar to parsneps, both in
flavour and quality; they are rather sweeter, and not quite so agreeable to some palates. It
is a biennial sown in March, and used all the winter.

472. SORREL, COMMON. Rumex Acetosa.--Bryant says the Irish, who are particularly fond of acids,
eat the leaves with their milk and fish; and the Laplanders use the juice of them as rennet
to their milk. The Greenlanders cure themselves of the scurvy, with the juice mixed with that
of the scurvy-grass. The seeds may be sown, or the roots planted, in spring or autumn; it is
not in general cultivation, but is to be found abundantly wild in meadows, &c.

473. SORREL, ROUND-LEAVED, or FRENCH. Rumex scutatus.--The leaves of the plant have more acidity
in them than the common; and although not in general use, it is one of the best salad-herbs
in the early part of the year: it is propagated in the same mode as the common sort.

474. SPINACH, Spinacia oleracea.---Two sorts of this vegetable are cultivated. The Round-leaved,
which is very quick in its growth, is sown for summer use; and if the seeds are put into the
ground every three weeks, a constant succession is obtained while the weather is warm; but
frost will soon destroy it.

The Prickly Spinach is not so quick in growth, and is hardy enough to stand our winters: it
is therefore sown in August, and succeeds the round-leaved sort; and is a good vegetable all
our winter months.

475. TARRAGON. Artemisia Dracunculus.--The leaves of this make a good ingredient with salad
in the spring; and it also makes an excellent pickle. It is propagated by planting the small
roots in spring or autumn, being a perennial.

476. THYME. Thymus vulgaris.--This is a well-known potherb used in broths and various modes
of cookery: it is propagated by seeds and cuttings early in the spring.

477. TRUFFLES. Lycoperdon Tuber.--Not in cultivation. The poor people in this country find
it worth their while to train up dogs for the purpose of finding them, which, by having some
frequently laid in their way, become so used to it, that they will scrape them up in the woods;
hence they are called Truffle-dogs. The French cooks use them in soups, &c. in the same manner
as mushrooms. The truffle is mostly found in beech woods: I have mentioned this, because it
is very generally met with at table, although it is not in cultivation.

478. TURNEPS. Brassica Rapa.--The varieties in use for garden culture are, the Early Dutch,
the Early Stone, and the Mouse-tail Turnep. The culture and uses of the turnep are too well
known to require any description.

The country people cut a raw turnep in thin slices, and a lemon in the same manner: and by
placing the slices alternately with sugar-candy between each, the juice of the turnep is extracted,
and is used as a pleasant and good remedy in obstinate coughs, and will be found to relieve
persons thus afflicted, if taken immediately after each fit. Although this is one of the remedies
my young medical friends may be led to despise, yet I would, nevertheless, advise them to make
use of it when need occasions.

The yellow turnep is also much esteemed as a vegetable; but is dry, and very different in taste
from any of the common kinds.

*       *       *       *       *

SECTION X.--CULINARY PLANTS NOT IN CULTIVATION.

The following section cannot be too closely studied by people in all ranks of life. Many of
our most delicate vegetables are found growing wild; and in times of scarcity, and after hard
winters, many articles of this department will be found highly acceptable to all, and the condition
of the poorer classes would be bettered by a more intimate knowledge of those plants. In fact,
these and the medicinal plants ought to be known to every one: and in order to facilitate the
study of them, I have been thus particular in my description of the different kinds.

479. AGARIC, ORANGE. Agaricus deliciosus.--This agaric well boiled and seasoned with pepper
and salt, has a flavour similar to that of a roasted muscle. In this way the French, in general,
make use of it. It is in high perfection about September, and is chiefly to be found in dry woods.

480. ALEXANDERS. Smyrnium Olustratum.--If the poorer people were aware of the value of this
plant, which is now quite neglected, it might be turned to good account as an article of food,
and that, in all likelihood, of the most wholesome kind.

Bryant thinks it was much esteemed by the monks, and states that it has, ever since the destruction
of the abbeys in this country, remained in many places growing among the rubbish; hence the
reason of its being found wild in such places.

481. ALEXANDERS, ROUND-LEAVED. Smyrnium perfoliatum.---It is said that the leaves and stalks
boiled are more pleasant to the taste than the other kind of Alexanders.

482. ARROWHEAD. Sagittaria sagittifolia.--The roots of this plant are said to be very similar
to the West-India arrow-root. They are sometimes dried and pounded, but are reported to have
an acrid unpleasant taste; but this might perhaps be got rid of by washing the powder in water.

483. BLACKBERRY. Rubus fruticosus.--The berries of this plant are well known in the country;
but if too many be eaten, they are apt to cause swelling in the stomach, sickness, &c.

484. BRIONY, BLACK. Tamus communis.--Although this is considered a poisonous plant, the young
leaves and shoots are eaten boiled by the common people in the spring.

485. BURDOCK. Arctium Lappa.--Mr. Bryant in his Flora Diaetetica says that many people eat
the tenders talks of this plant boiled as asparagus.

486. BURNET. Sanguisorba officinalis.--The young leaves form a good ingredient in salads. They
have somewhat the flavour of cucumbers.

487. BUTTERWORT. Pinguicula vulgaris.--The inhabitants of Lapland and the north of Sweden give
to milk the consistence of cream by pouring it warm from the cow upon the leaves of this plant,
and then instantly straining it and laying it aside for two or three days till it acquires
a degree of acidity.

This milk they are extremely fond of; and once made, they need not repeat the use of the leaves
as above, for a spoonful or less of it will turn another quantity of warm milk, and make it
like the first, and so on, as often as they please to renew their food.--Lightfoot's Flor.
Scot. p. 77.

488. CHAMPIGNON. Agaricus pratensis.--There is little or no smell to be perceived in this plant,
and it is rather dry; yet when boiled or stewed it communicates a good flavour, and is equal
to the common mushroom.

489. CHANTARELLE. Agaricus Chantarellus.--This agaric, when broiled with pepper and salt, has
a taste very similar to that of a roasted cockle, and is considered by the French a great delicacy.
It is found principally in woods and old pastures, and is in good perfection about the middle
of September.

490. CHARLOCK. Sinapis arvensis.--The young plant is eaten in the spring as turnep-tops, and
is considered not inferior to that vegetable. The seeds of this have sometimes been saved and
sold for feeding birds instead of rape; but being hot in its nature, it has been known to cause
them to be diseased.

491. CHICKWEED. Alsine media.--This is a remarkably good herb boiled in the spring; a circumstance
not sufficiently attended to.

492. CLOUD-BERRY. Rubus Chamaemorus.--This plant grows wild in some parts of the north of England:
the fruit has nearly the shape of the currant, and is reckoned in Norway, where it grows abundantly,
a favourite dish.

493. COTTON-THISTLE. Onopordon Acanthium.--The tender stalks of this plant, peeled and boiled,
are by some considered good; but it has a peculiar taste which is not agreeable to all.

Bryant in his Flora Diaetetica says that the bottoms of the flowers are eaten as artichokes.

494. COW-PARSNEP. Heracleum Sphondylium.--The inhabitants of Kamschatka about the beginning
of July collect the foot-stalks of the radical leaves of this plant, and, after peeling off
the rind, dry them separately in the sun; and then tying them in bundles, they lay them up
carefully in the shade. In a short time afterwards, these dried stalks are covered over with
a yellow saccharine efflorescence tasting like liquorice, and in this state they are eaten
as a delicacy.

The Russians, not content with eating the stalks thus prepared, contrive to get a very intoxicating
spirit from them, by first fermenting them in water with the greater bilberry (Vaccinium uliginosum),
and then distilling the liquor to what degree of strength they please; which Gmelin says is
more agreeable to the taste than spirits made from corn. This may, therefore, prove a good
succedaneum for whisky, and prevent the consumption of much barley, which ought to be applied
to better purposes. Swine and rabbits are very fond of this plant.---Lightfoot's Fl. Scot.

495. DANDELION. Leontodum Taraxacum.--This is a good salad when blanched in the spring. The
French, who eat more vegetables than our country people do, use this in the spring as a common
dish: it is similar to endive in taste.

496. DEWBERRY. Rubus caesius.--The dewberry is very apt to be mistaken for the blackberry;
but it may be easily distinguished by its fruit being not so large, and being covered with
blue bloom similar to that seen on plums: it has a very pleasant taste, and is said to communicate
a grateful flavour to red wine when steeped in it.

497. EARTH-NUT. Bunium Bulbocastanum.--The roots are eaten raw, and considered a delicacy here,
but thought much more of in Sweden, where they are an article of trade: they are eaten also
stewed as chesnuts.

498. ELDER. Sambucus nigra.--The young shoots of elder are boiled with other herbs in the spring
and eaten; they are also very good pickled in vinegar. Lightfoot says, in some countries they
dye cloth of a brown colour with them.

499. FAT-HEN. Chenopodium viride et album.--These are boiled and eaten as spinach, and are
by no means inferior to that vegetable.

500. FUCUS, SWEET. Fucus saccharatus.--This grows upon rocks and stones by the sea-shore. It
consists of a long single leaf, having a short roundish foot-stalk, the leaf representing a
belt or girdle. This is collected and eaten the same as laver, as are also the two following kinds.

501. FUCUS, PALMATED. Fucus palmatus.--This plant also grows by the sea-side, and has a lobed leaf.

502. FUCUS, FINGERED. Fucus digitatus.--This is also to be found by the sea-side, growing upon
rocks and stones; it has long leaves springing in form of fingers when spread.

503. GOOD KING HENRY. Chenopodium Bonus-Henricus.--The leaves and stalk of this plant are much
esteemed. The plant was used to be cultivated, but of late years it has been superseded by
the great number of other esculent vegetables more productive than this. The young shoots blanched
were accounted equal to asparagus, and were made use of in a similar manner.

504. HEATH. Erica vulgaris.--Formerly the young tops are said to have been used alone to brew
a kind of ale; and even now, I am informed, the inhabitants of Isla and Jura (two islands on
the coast of Scotland) continue to brew a very potable liquor, by mixing two-thirds of the
tops of heath with one of malt.--Lightfoot's Fl. Scot.

505. HOPS. Humulus Lupulus.--Independently of the great use of hops in making beer, and for
medicinal uses, where the plant grows wild, it affords the neighbours a dainty in the spring
months. The young shoots, called hop-tops, when boiled, are equal in flavour to asparagus,
and are eagerly sought after for that purpose.

506. LADIES-SMOCK. Cardamine pratensis.--This is good as a salad herb.

507. LAVER. Fucus esculentus.--This is collected by sailors and people along the sea-coasts;
is eaten both raw and boiled, and esteemed and excellent antiscorbutic. The leaves of this
Fucus are very sweet, and, when washed and hanged up to dry, will exude a substance like that
of sugar.

508. MAPLE. Acer Pseudo-platanus.--By tapping this tree it yields a liquor not unlike that
of the birch-tree, from which the Americans make a sugar, and the Highlanders sometimes an
agreeable and wholesome wine. --Lightfoot's Fl. Scot.

509. MARSH MARIGOLD. Caltha palustris.--The flower-buds, before opening, are picked, and are
considered a good substitute for capers.

510. MEADOW-SWEET. Spiraea Filipendula.--The roots of this, in Sweden, are ground and made
into bread.

511. MILK-THISTLE. Carduus marianus.--The young leaves in the spring, cut close to the root
with part of the stalks on, are said to be good boiled.

512. MOREL. Phallus esculentus.--The morel grows in wet banks and moist pastures. It is used
by the French cooks, the same as the truffle, for gravies, but has not so good a flavour: it
is in perfection in May and June.

513. MUSHROOM, VIOLET. Agaricus violaceus.--This mushroom requires more broiling than all the
rest; but when well done and seasoned, it is very good. It is found in dry woods, old pastures,
&c. where it grows to a large size.

514. MUSHROOM, BROWN. Agaricus cinnamomeus.--The whole of this plant has a nice smell, and
when stewed or broiled has a pleasant flavour. It is to be found as the one above, and is fit
for use in October.

515. ORPINE. Sedum telephium.--The leaves are eaten in salads, and are considered equal to
purslane.

516. OX-TONGUE, COMMON. Picris Echioides.--The leaves are said to be good boiled.

517. PEAS, EARTH-NUT. Orobus tuberosus.--The roots of this, when boiled, are said to be nutritious.
The Scotch Highlander chews the root as a substitute for tobacco.

518. PILEWORT. Ranunculus Ficaria.--The young leaves in spring are boiled by the common people
in Sweden, and eaten as greens. The roots are sometimes washed bare by the rains, so that the
tubercles appear above ground; and in this state have induced the ignorant in superstitious
times to fancy that it has rained wheat, which these tubercles sometimes resemble.

519. SALEP. Orchis Morio.--The powder of these roots is used for a beverage of that name. This
is imported chiefly from Turkey. It grows in this country, although it is never noticed: the
roots are smaller than those imported, but will answer the purpose equally well.

520. SALTWORT. Salicornia europaea.--This is gathered on the banks of the Thames and Medway,
and brought to London, where it is sold as samphire. It makes a very good pickle, but by no
means equal to the true kind.

521. SAMPHIRE. Crithmum maritimum.--This has long been in much esteem as a pickle: it grows
on the high cliffs on the Kentish coast, where people make a trade of collecting it by being
let down from the upper part in baskets. A profession of great danger.

522. SCURVY-GRASS. Cochlearia officinalis.--The leaves are hot and pungent, but are considered
very good, and frequently eaten between bread and butter.

523. SAUCE ALONE. Erysimum Alliaria.--This is very good boiled with salt-meat in the spring,
when other vegetables are scarce. It is valuable to the poor people; and is, in general, a
common plant under hedges.

524. SEA BINDWEED. Convolvulus Soldanella.--This plant is to be found plentifully on our maritime
coasts, where the inhabitants plucks the tender stalks, and pickle them. It is considered to
have a cathartic quality.

525. SEA-PEAS. Pisum maritimum.--These peas have a bitterish disagreeable taste, and are therefore
rejected when more pleasant food is to be got. In the year 1555 there was a great famine in
England, when the seeds of this plant were used as food, and by which thousands of families
were preserved.

526. SEA-WORMWOOD. Artemisia maritima.--Those who travel the country in searching after and
gathering plants, if they chance to meet with sour or ill-tasted ale, may amend it by putting
an infusion of sea-wormwood into it, whereby it will be more agreeable to the palate, and less
hurtful to the stomach.--Threlkeld. Syn. Pl. Hibern.

This is an ingredient in the common purl, the usual morning beverage of our hardy labouring
men in London.

527. SEA-ORACH, GRASS-LEAVED. Atriplex littoralis.--This plant is eaten in the same manner
as the Chenopodium.

528. SEA-BEET. Beta maritima.--This is a common plant on some of our sea-coasts. The leaves
are very good boiled, as are also the roots.

529. SILVER-WEED. Potentilla anserina.--The roots of this plant taste like parsneps, and are
frequently eaten in Scotland either roasted or boiled.

In the islands of Tiras and Col they are much esteemed, as answering in some measure the purposes
of bread, they having been known to support the inhabitants for months together during a scarcity
of other provisions. They put a yoke on their ploughs, and often tear up their pasture-grounds
with a view to get the roots for their use; and as they abound most in barren and impoverished
soils, and in seasons when other crops fail, they afford a most seasonable relief to the inhabitants
in times of the greatest scarcity. A singular instance this of the bounty of Providence to
these islands.--Lightfoot's Fl. Scot.

530. SOLOMON'S-SEAL. Convallaria Polygonatum.--The roots are made into bread, and the young
shoots are eaten boiled.

531. SPATLING-POPPY. Cucubalus Behen.--Our kitchen-gardens scarcely afford a better-flavoured
vegetable than the young tender shoots of this when boiled. They ought to be gathered when
they are not above two inches long. If the plant was in cultivation, no doubt but what it would
be improved, and would well reward the gardener's trouble: it sends forth a vast quantity of
sprouts, which might be nipped off when of a proper size; and there would be a succession of
fresh ones for at least two months.

It being a perennial too, the roots might be transplanted into beds like those of asparagus.--Bryant's
Fl. Diaetetica, p. 64.

532. SPEEDWELL. Veronica spicata.--This is used by our common people as a substitute for tea,
and is said to possess a somewhat astringent taste, like green tea.

533. SPOTTED HAWKWEED. Hypochaeris maculata.--The leaves are eaten as salad, and are also boiled.

534. STINGING-NETTLE. Urtica dioica.--The young shoots in the spring are eaten boiled with
fat meat, and are esteemed both wholesome and nutritive.

535. SHRUBBY STRAWBERRY. Rubus arcticus.--The fruit of this plant is very similar in appearance
to a strawberry: its odour is of the most grateful kind; and its flavour has that delicate
mixture of acid and sweet, which is not to be equalled by our best varieties of that fruit.

536. SWEET CICELY. Scandix odorata.--The leaves used to be employed in the kitchen as those
of cervil. The green seeds ground small, and used with lettuce or other cold salads, give them
an agreeable taste. It also grows in abundance in some parts of Italy, where it is considered
as a very useful vegetable.

537. WATER-CRESS. Sisymbrium Nasturtium.--A well known herb in common use, but is not in cultivation,
although it is one of our best salads.

538. WILLOW-HERB. Epilobium angustifolium.--The young shoots of these are eaten as asparagus.

*       *       *       *       *

SECTION XI.--PLANTS USEFUL IN DYEING.

There is no department of the oeconomy of vegetables in which we are more at a loss than in
the knowledge of their colouring principles; and as this subject presents to the student an
opportunity of making many interesting and useful experiments, I trust I shall stand excused,
if I enter more fully into the nature of it than I have found it necessary to do in some of
the former sections.

The following list of plants, which is given as containing colours of different kinds, are
the same as have been so considered for many years past: for, latterly, little has been added
to our stock of knowledge on this head. It may however be proper to observe, that a great number
of vegetables still contain this principle in a superior degree, and only want the proper attention
paid to the abstracting it.

Most of our dyeing drugs are from abroad; and even the culture of madder, which was once so
much grown by our farmers, is now lost to us, to the great advantage of the Dutch, who supply
our markets. But there is no reason why the agriculturist, or the artisan, should be so much
beholden to a neighbouring nation, as to pay them enormous prices for articles which can be
so readily raised at home; and, according to the general report of the consumers, managed in
a way far superior to what it generally is when imported.

Let the botanical student therefore pay attention to this particular; for it is a wide field,
in which great advantages may be reaped, either in this country or in any other part of the
world where he may hereafter become an inhabitant.

The art of dyeing, generally considered, is kept so great a secret, that few persons have had
the opportunity of making experiments. The extracting colours from their primitive basis is
a chemical operation, and cannot be expected in this place; but as some persons may be inclined
to ascertain these properties of vegetables, I shall go just so far into the subject as to
give an idea of the modes generally used; and to state the principles on which the colouring
property is fixed when applied to the purposes of dyeing cloth.

In the article Madder, page 32, I mentioned having made an extract similar to the Adrianople
red. For which purpose, a sufficient quanitity of the roots should be taken fresh out of the
ground, washed clean from the dirt, bruised in a mortar, and then boiled in rain-water till
the whole becomes tinged of a red colour, then put into a cloth and all the colouring matter
pressed out. This should again be put into hot water in a clean glazed earthen-pan, to which
should be added a small quantity of water in which alum had been dissolved, and the whole stirred
up together; then immediately add a lump of soda or pot-ash, stirring the whole up, when an
effervescence will take place, the allum that had united with the juice of the madder will
be found to become neutralized by the pot-ash, and the result will be a precipitate of the
red fecula. This may be washed over in different waters, and either put by for use in a liquid
state, or filtered and dried in powder or cakes. Most vegetable colours will not, however,
admit of being extracted by water, and it is necessary to use an acid for that purpose: vinegar
is the most common. But in making the extract from roots with acids, great care should be taken
that they are sufficiently cleared from mould, sand, &c.; for, if the same should contain either
iron, or any metallic substance, its union with the acid will cause a blackness, and of course
spoil the tint. In a similar mode are all the different colouring principles extracted, either
from leaves, flowers, fruits, or woods. The preparation of woad is a curious process on similar
principles; which see in page 31.

Weld, or dyers weed, is generally used after it is dried. The whole plant is ground in a mill,
and the extract made by boiling it. It is then managed with alum and acids agreeably to the
foregoing rules, which are necessary for throwing out the colour.

Instructions how Substances may be tried, whether they are serviceable in Dyeing, from Hopson's
Translation of Weigleb's Chemistry.

"In order to discover if any vegetable contains a colouring principle fit for dyeing, it should
be bruised and boiled in water, and a bit of cotton, linen, or woollen stuff, which has previously
been well cleaned, boiled in this decoction for a certain time, and rinsed out and dried. If
the stuff becomes coloured, it is a sign that the colour may be easily extracted; but if little
or no colour be perceived, we are not immediately to conclude that the body submitted to the
trial has no colour at all, but must first try how it will turn out with the addition of saline
substances. It ought, therefore, to be boiled with pot-ash, common salt, sal ammoniac, tartar,
vinegar, alum, or vitriol, and then tried upon the stuff: if it then exhibit no colour, it
may safely be pronounced to be unfit for dyeing with. But if it yields a dye or colour, the
nature of this dye must then be more closely examined, which may be done in the following manner:--

Let a saturated decoction of the colouring substance be well clarified, distributed into different
glass vessels, and its natural colour observed. Then to one portion of it let there be added
a solution of common salt; to the second, some sal ammoniac; and to the third, alum; to the
fourth, pot-ash; to the fifth, vitriolic or marine acid; and to the sixth, some green vitriol:
and the mixtures be suffered to stand undisturbed for the space of twenty-four hours. Now in
each of these mixtures the change of colour is to be observed, as likewise whether it yields
a precipitate or not.

If the precipitate by the pure acid dissolve in an alkaline lixivium entirely, and with a colour,
they may be considered as resino- mucilaginous particles, in which the tingeing property of
the body must be looked for, which, in its natural state, subsists in an alkalino-saponaceous
compound. But if the precipitate be only partly dissolved in this manner, the dissolved part
will then be of the nature of a resinous mucilage, which in the operation has left the more
earthy parts behind. But if nothing be precipitated by the acids, and the colour of the decoction
is rendered brighter, it is a mark of an acido-mucilaginous compound, which cannot be separated
by acids. In this there are mostly commonly more earthy parts, which are soon made to appear
by the addition of an alkali.

When, in the instances in which green vitriol has been added, a black precipitate is produced,
it indicates an astringent earthy compound, in which there are few mucilaginous particles.
The more the colour verges to black, the more of this acid and mucilaginous substance will
be found in it.

The mixture of alum with a tingeing decoction shows by the coloured precipitate that ensues
from it, on the one hand, the colour it yields, and on the other hand, by the precipitate dissolving
either partly or entirely in a strong alkaline lixivium, whether or not some of the earth of
alum has been precipitated together with the colouring particles. Such substances as these
must not, in general, be boiled with alum, although this latter ingredient may be very properly
used in the preparation of the stuff.

When a tingeing decoction is precipitated by an alkaline lixivium, and the precipitate is not
redissolved by any acid, for the most part neither one nor the other of these saline substances
ought to be used, but the neutral salts will be greatly preferable. In all these observations
that are made with respect to the precipitation effected by means of different saline substances,
attention must be paid at the same time to the change of colour which ensues, in order to discover
whether the colour brightens, or entirely changes.

When the colour of a decoction is darkened by the above-mentioned additions without becoming
turbid, it shows that the colouring matter is more concentrated and inspissated. When the colour
is brightened, a greater degree of solution and attenuation has taken place in the colouring
matter in consequence of the addition. If the colour becomes clearer, and after a little time
some of the tingeing substance is separated, it shows that part of the colour is developed,
but that another part has been set loose from its combination by the saline substance.

But if the colouring matter is separated in great abundance by the saline addition, (the colour
being brightened at the same time,) it may be considered as a sign that the colouring substance
is entirely separated from the decoction, and that only an inconsiderable part, of a gummy
nature, remains behind united with the additaments, which is in a very diluted state.--This
is an effect of the solution of tin, as also sometimes of the pure acids.

If, indeed, a portion of the colouring substance be separated by a saline addition, but the
rest of the colouring decoction becomes not-withstanding darker, it shows that the rest of
the colouring particles have been more concentrated, and hence have acquired a greater power
of tingeing. With regard to the proportion of the addition, the following circumstances may
serve by way of guide:

When the colour of a decoction is darkened by the addition, without any precipitate being produced,
no detriment can easily arise from using a redundancy of it, because the colour will not be
further darkened by it. But if the colour be required to be brighter, the trial must first
be made, which is the proportion by which the colour is darkened the most, and then less of
it must be employed.

When the colour of a decoction is brightened by an addition without a precipitation ensuing,
this addition can never be used in a larger quantity without hurting the colouring particles;
because the colouring particles would be made too light, and almost entirely destroyed.--Such
is the consequence of too large an addition of the solution of tin or of a pure acid.

When the addition produces a brighter colour, and part only of the colouring substance is separated
without a further addition occasioning a fresh separation, somewhat more of it than what is
wanted may be added to produce the requisite shading; because experience shows that, by this
means, a greater quantity of tingeing particles is united with the woolly fibres of the cloth,
and is capable of being, as it were, concentrated in them: for which purpose, however, these
barks must be boiled down. This effect is chiefly observed with sal ammoniac and wine vinegar.

When by an addition which causes a separation of the colouring substance the colour becomes
brighter in proportion the more there is used of it, it must be employed in a moderate quantity
only; because otherwise, more and more of the colouring substance will be separated, and its
tingeing power diminished. But when a colour is rendered dark at first by an addition, and
afterwards, upon more of the same substance being added, becomes brighter, and this in proportion
to the quantity that is added, it will be found that the darkening power has its determined
limits; and that, for producing the requisite degree of darkness, neither too much nor too
little must be taken.

---

To the before-mentioned principles also, the different proofs bear a reference, by which the
fixity and durability of the colour with which a stuff has been dyed may be tried. Of these,
some may be called natural, other artificial. The natural proof consists in exposing the dyed
stuff to the air, sun, and rain. If the colour is not changed by this exposure in twelve or
fourteen days, it may be considered as genuine; but if it is, the contrary is allowed. This
proof, however, is not adapted to every colour; because some of them resist it, and yet will
fade in consequence of the application of certain acids; others, on the contrary, that can
not resist the natural proof remain unchanged by the latter. Colours, therefore, may be arranged
in three classes; and to each of these a particular kind of artificial proof allotted. The
first class is tried with alum, the second with soap, and the third with tartar.

For the proof with alum: Half an ounce of this is dissolved in one pound of boiling water in
an earthenware vessel; into this is put, for instance, a drachm of yarn or worsted, or a piece
of cloth of about two fingers breadth; this is suffered to boil for the space of five minutes,
and is then washed in clean water. In this manner are tried crimson, scarlet, flesh-colour,
violet, ponceau, peach-blossom colour, different shades of blue, and other colours bordring
upon these.

For the proof with soap: Two drachms of this substance are boiled in a pint of water, and the
small piece of dyed stuff that is to be tried is put into it, and likewise suffered to boil
for the space of five minutes. With this all sorts of yellow, green, madder-red, cinnamon,
and similar colours, are tried.

In the same manner is made the proof with tartar; only this should be previously pounded very
small, in order that it may be more easily dissolved. With this all colours bordering upon
the fawn are tried.

From the above we discover that the art of applying and fixing colours in dyeing depends on
the chemical affinity between the cloth and the dyeing principle: and accordingly as this is
more or less strong, so is the facility with which the substance is coloured, and on this the
deepness of the dye depends: for frequently one kind of cloth will be found to receive no colour
at all, whilst another will receive from the same composition a deep tinge. Cotton, for instance,
receives scarcely any tinge from the same bath that will dye woollen a deep scarlet. Wool is
that which appears to have the strongest affinity to colouring matter; next to it is silk;
then linen; and cotton the weakest, and is therefore the most difficult of all to dye perfectly.
Thus, if a piece of linen cloth be dipped into a solution of madder, it will come out just
tinged with the colour; but if a piece of the same be previously dipped into a solution of
alum or copperas, and dried previously to being dipped in the madder, the alum will become
so far impregnated with the colouring principle, that the cloth will receive a perfect dye,
and be so fixed that it cannot be separated by any common means. Thus it will be observed,
that the art of dyeing permanent colours depends on this intermediate principle, which is termed
a mordant. These mordants are very numerous; and on a knowledge of them appears to rest the
principal secret of dyeing. The following mode is, however, a very convenient one for makig
experiments on fixing the colouring principles of any vegetable extract: To have several pieces
of cloth, woollen, cotton, silk, and linen, dipped in the different mordants, and by keeping
a small vessel filled with the colouring solution on a fire in a state a little below boiling,
by cutting small pieces of each, and immersing them in the colour, and examining and comparing
with each other. Experiments of this kind are well worth the attention of persons; for, when
we refer to this department, we shall find very few plants which are either now, or ever have
been, cultivated for this purpose, although it is well known that so many contain this principle.
I have inserted the following, as being known to contain the different colours mentioned; but
there are many other plants equally productive of this principle that remain quite unnoticed
at present.

539. ACANTHUS mollis. BEAR'S-BREECH.--This gives a fine yellow, which was in use among the
ancients.

540. ACTAEA spicata. BANEBERRY.--The juice of the berries affords a deep black, and is fixed
with alum.

541. ANCHUSA officinalis. YELLOW ANCHUSA, or BLUE-FLOWERED BUGLOSS.--The juice of the corolla
gives out to acids a beautiful green.

542. ANTHEMIS tinctoria.--The flowers afford a shining yellow.

543. ANTHYLLIS vulneraria. KIDNEY-VETCH.--The whole plant gives out a yellow, which is in use
for colouring the garments of the country- people.--Linn.

544. ARBUTUS uva-ursi. BEAR'S-BERRY.--The leaves boiled in an acid will dye a brown.

545. ASPERULA tinctoria. WOODROOF.--The roots give a red similar to madder.

546. ANEMONE Pulsatilla. PASQUE-FLOWER.--The corolla, a green tincture.

547. ARUNDO Phragmites. COMMON REED-GRASS.--The pamicle, a green.

548. BERBERIS vulgaris. BARBERRIES.--The inner bark, a yellow.

549. BROMUS secalinus. BROME-GRASS.--The panicle, a green.

550. BIDENS tripartita. HEMP AGRIMONY..--The herb, a good yellow.

551. BETULA alba. BIRCH.--The leaves, a yellow.

552. BETULA nana. DWARF-BIRCH.--The leaves, a yellow.

553. BETULA Alnus. ALDER.--The bark affords a brown colour; which with the addition of copperas
becomes black.

554. CALENDULA officinalis. COMMON MARIGOLD.--The radius of the corolla, if bruised, affords
a fine orange. The corolla dried and reduced to powder will also afford a yellow pigment.

555. CALTHA palustris. MARSH-MARIGOLD.--The juice of the corolla, with alum, gives a yellow.

556. CAMPANULA rotundifolia. ROUND-LEAVED BELL-FLOWER.--A blue pigment is made from the corolla;
with the addition of alum it produces a green colour.

557. CARPINUS Betulus. HORNBEAM.--The bark, a yellow.

558. CHAEROPHYLLUM sylvestre. COW-PARSLEY.--The umbels produce a yellow colour, and the juice
of the other parts of the plant a beautiful green.

559. CARTHAMUS tinctorius. SAFFLOWER.--The radius of the corolla, prepared with an acid, affords
a fine rose-coloured tint.

560. CENTAUREA Cyanus. BLUE-BOTTLE.--The juice of the corolla gives out a fine blue colour.

561. COMARUM palustre. MARSH-CINQUEFOIL.--The dried root forms a red pigment. It is also used
to dye woollens of a red colour.

562. CUSCUTA europaea. DODDER.--The herb gives out a lightish red.

563. CRATAEGUS Oxycantha. HAWTHORN.--The bark of this plant, with copperas, is used by the
Highlanders to dye black.

564. DATISCA cannabina. BASTARD-HEMP.--This produces a yellow; but is not easily fixed, therefore
it presently fades to a light tinge.

565. DELPHINIUM Consolida. BRANCHING LARKSPUR.--The petals bruised yield a fine blue pigment,
and with alum make a permanent blue ink.

566. FRAXINUS excelsior. MANNA.--The bark immersed in water gives a blue colour.

567. GALIUM boreale. CROSS-LEAVED BEDSTRAW.--The roots yield a beautiful red, if treated as madder.

568. GALIUM verum. YELLOW BEDSTRAW.--The flowers treated with alum produce a fine yellow on
woollen. The roots, a good red.

569. GENISTA tinctoria.--The flowers are in use among the country-people for dyeing cloth yellow.

570. GERANIUM sylvaticum. MOUNTAIN CRANESBILL.--The Icelanders use the flowers of this plant
to dye a violet colour.

571. HIERACIUM umbellatum. HAWKWEED.--The whole herb bruised and boiled in water gives out
a yellow dye.

572. HUMULUS Lupulus. HOP.--The strobiles are used for dyeing; but although they yield a yellow
colour, the principal use is as a mordant.

573. HYPERICUM perforatum. PERFORATED ST. JOHN'S WORT.--The flowers dye a fine yellow.

574. IRIS germanica. GERMAN IRIS.--The juice of the corolla treated with alum makes a good
permanent green ink.

575. ISATIS tinctoria. WOAD.--The leaves steeped in water till the parts are decomposed, produces
a fine blue fecula, which is made into cakes, and sold to the woollen-dyers. For its culture,
see p. 32.

576. LICHEN Roccella. ORCHIL.--The fine purple called orchil is extracted from this moss.

577. LITHOSPERMUM officinale. GROMWELL.--The roots afford a fine red, which is used by the
young girls in Sweden to colour their faces.

578. LYCOPODIUM complanatum. CLUB-MOSS.--The juice of this plant extracted by an acid forms
a most beautiful yellow.

579. LYCOPUS europaeus. WATER-HOREHOUND.--The juice of this gives out a black colour, and is
sometimes used by the common people for dyeing woollen cloth. The gypsies are said to use the
juice of this plant to colour their faces with.

580. LYSIMACHIA vulgaris. LOOSESTRIFE.--The juice of the whole herb is used to dye woollen yellow.

581. MYRICA Gale. SWEET GALE.--The whole shrub tinges woollen of a yellow colour.

582. NYMPHAEA alba. WHITE WATER-LILY.--The Highlanders make a dye with it of a dark chesnut
colour.--Light. Fl. Sc.

583. ORIGANUM vulgare. WILD MARJORAM.--The tops and flowers contain a purple colour, but it
is not to be fixed.

584. PHYTOLACCA decandra. VIRGINIAN POKEWEED.--The leaves and berries produce a beautiful rose-colour,
but it is very fugacious.

585. PRUNUS domestica. PLUM.--The bark is used by the country people to dye cloth yellow.

586. PYRUS Malus. APPLE,-The bark of this plant, also, produces a yellow colour.

587. QUERCUS Robur. OAK.--The juice of the oak mixed with vitriol forms a black ink; the galls
ar employed for the same purpose.

588. RESEDA Luteola. DYER'S WEED, or WELD.--The most usual plant from which the yellow dye
is extracted. For its culture, see p. 32.

589. RHAMNUS Frangula. BUCKTHORN.--The bark produces a slight yellow, and the unripe berries
impart to wool a green colour.

590. RHAMNUS catharticus. PURGING BUCKTHORN.--The bark yields a most beautiful yellow colour;
and the ripe berries in the autumn produce a brilliant scarlet.

591. RHUS Cotinus. VENUS'S SUMACH.--The bark of the stalks produces a yellow colour; the bark
of the roots produces a red.

592. RHUS coriaria. ELM-LEAVED SUMACH.--This plant is possessed of the same qualities as the
one above.

593. RUBIA tinctorum.--The root produces a red colour. For its culture, see p. 32.

594. RUMEX maritima. DOCK.--The whole herb gives out a yellow colour.

595. SALIX pentandra. WILLOW.--The leaves produce a yellow colour.

596. SCABIOSA succisa. DEVIL'S BIT SCABIUS.--The dried leaves produce a yellow colour.

597. SERRATULA tinctoria. SAW-WORT.--The whole herb produces a yellow tincture.

598. SENECIO Jacobaea. RAGWORT.--The roots, stalks, and leaves, before the flowering season,
give out a green colour which can be fixed on wool.

599. STACHYS sylvatica. HEDGE-HOREHOUND.--The whole herb is said to dye a yellow colour.

600. THALICTRUM flavum. YELLOW MEADOW-RUE.--The roots and leaves both give out a fine yellow
colour.

601. THAPSIA villosa. DEADLY CARROT.--The umbels are employed by the spanish peasants to dye
yellow.

602. TORMENTILLA erecta. ERECT TORMENTIL.--This root is red, and might probably be usefully
employed.

603. TRIFOLIUM pratense. MEADOW-CLOVER.--The inhabitants of Scania employ the heads to dye
their woollen cloth green.

604. URTICA dioica. NETTLE.--The roots of bettles are used to dye eggs of a yellow colour against
the feast of Easter by the religious of the Greek church, as are also madder and logwood for
the same purpose.

605. XANTHIUM strumarium. LESSER BURBOCK.--The whole herb with the fruit dyes a most beautiful
yellow.

*       *       *       *       *

SECTION XII.---PLANTS USED IN RURAL OECONOMY.

The following few plants are such as are used for domestic purposes which do not fall under
any of the foregoing heads, and I therefore have placed them together here.

606. CONFERVA.--This green thready substance has the power of rendering foetid water sweet;
for which purpose, when water is scarce, it is usually put into water-tubs and reservoirs.

607. CORYLUS Avellana. HAZEL NUT.--The young shoots of hazel put into casks with scalding water,
render them sweet if they are musty, or contain any bad flavour.

608. CROCUS vernus. SPRING CROCUS.--Is well kown as a spring flower, producing one of the most
cheerful ornaments to the flower-garden early in the spring. It affords a great variety in
point of beauty and colour, and is an article of considerable trade among the Dutch gardeners,
who cultivate a great number of varieties, which every year are imported into this and other
countries.

609. EQUISETUM hyemale. DUTCH RUSH.--Of this article great quantities are brought from Holland
for the purpose of polishing mahogany. The rough parts of the plant are discovered to be particles
of flint.

610. ERIOPHORUM polystachion. COTTON GRASS.--The down of the seeds has been used, instead of
feathers, for beds and cushions; and the foliage in the north of Scotland is considered useful
as fodder.

611. GALIUM verum. YELLOW LADIES' BEDSTRAW.--The foliage affords the dairy-maid a fine rennet
for making cheese.

*       *       *       *       *

SECTION XIII.--POISONOUS PLANTS GROWING IN GREAT BRITAIN.

I have found it necessary to be particular in my description of the articles in this section,
as I find that, although the knowledge of Botany has in some measure increased, yet, in general,
we are not better acquainted with the Poisonous Vegetables than we were thirty years ago. Many
and frequent are the accidents which occur in consequence of mistakes being made with those
plants; but it in general happens that, from feelings easily appreciated, persons do not like
to detail such misfortunes; which not only hides the mischief, but prevents, in a great measure,
the antidotes becoming so well known as for the good of society we could wish they were. This
I experienced in my researches after several facts which I wished to ascertain regarding this
subject. However, whilst we have in common use such plants as Foxglove, Hemlock, and Henbane,
and which are now so generally sold in our herb-shops, people who sell them ought to be particularly
careful not to let such fall into the hands of ignorant persons, and thereby be administered
either in mistake or in improper quantities. Our druggists and apothecaries are careful in
not selling to strangers the more common preparations of Mercury, or Arsenic, drugs which in
themselves carry fear and dismay in their very names; yet we can get any poisonous vegetables
either in the common market, or of herb-dealers, which are more likely to be abused in their
application than other poisons which are of not more dangerous tendencies.

The effects of Vegetable Poisons on the human frame vary according to circumstances. The most
usual are: that of disturbing the nervous function, producing vertigo, faintness, delirium,
madness, stupor, or apoplexy, with a consequent loss of understanding, of speech, and of all
the senses; and, frequently, this dreadful scene ends in death in a short period.

It is, however, fortunate that these dangerous plants, which either grow wild, or are cultivated
in this country, are few in number; and it is not less so, that the most virulent often carry
with them their own antidote, as many of them, from their disagreeable taste, produce nausea
and sickness, by which their mischief is frequently removed; and when this is not the case,
it points out that the best and most effectual one is the application of emetics: and it may
be almost considered a divine dispensation, that a plant, very common in all watery places,
should be ready at hand, which has from experience proved one of the most active drugs of this
nature, and this is the Ranunculus Flammula, Water- Spearwort. The juice of this plant, in
cases of such emergency, may be given in the quantity of a table-spoonful, and repeated every
three minutes until it operates, which it usually will do before the third is taken into the
stomach.

After the vomiting is over, the effects often remain, by part of the deleterious qualities
being absorbed by the stomach; and as it often happens, in such cases, that medical assistance
may not be at hand, I shall, under the head of each class, give their proper antidote, which
should be in all cases applied as soon as possible, even before medical assistance is procured.
And it should not be forgotten that, in dreadful cases where the medicine cannot be forced
down through the usual channel, recourse should be had to the use of clysters.

Under each of the following heads I shall describe such cases as have come under my notice;
as they may be useful for comparison: and shall put under each of the more dangerous the Plantae
affines, describing as accurately as possible the differences.

*       *       *       *       *

BITTER NAUSEOUS POISONS.

These are much altered by vegetable acids in general, and especially by oxymuriatic acid; but
they still retain much of their poisonous quality, which appears to be rendered more active
by alkalies. The tanning decoctions of nut-galls, acacia, and other strong astringents, Venice
treacle, wine, spiritous liquors, and spices, are useful.

623. CHELIDONIUM majus. CELANDINE.--The yellow juice of this plant is extremely acrid and narcotic.
It is not at all like any plant used for culinary purposes, and therefore there is not any
great danger likely to arise from its being confounded with any useful vegetable.

624. CICUTA virosa. COWBANE.--Two boys and six girls, who found some roots of this plant in
a water-meadow, ate of them. The two boys were soon seized with pain of the pericardia, loss
of speech, abolition of all the senses, and terrible convulsions. The mouth closely shut, so
that it could not be opened by any means. Blood was forced from the ears, and the eyes were
horribly distorted.

Both the boys died in half an hour from the first accession of the symptoms.

The six girls, who had taken a smaller quantity of the roots than the boys, were likewise seized
with epileptic symptoms; but in the interval of the paroxysms, some Venice-treacle dissolved
in vinegar was given to them; in consequence of which they vomited, and recovered: but one
of them had a very narrow escape for her life. She lay nine hours with her hands and feet outstretched,
and cold: all this time she had a cadaverous countenance, and her respiration could scarcely
be perceived. When she recovered, she complained a long time of a pain in her stomach, and
was unable to eat any food, her tongue being much wounded by her teeth in the convulsive fits.

Plantae affines.

Celery is smaller than this plant.

Parsley is also smaller in all its parts.

Alexanders differs from it, as a plant not of so high growth.

Angelica may be mistaken for this, but has a more agreeable scent.

All the water parsneps may be confounded with it: but these are known by the smallness of the
umbels; and they are generally in bloom, so that this circumstance is a good criterion.

Care should at all times be taken, not to make use of any umbelliferous plants growing in water,
as many of them are, if not altogether poisonous, very unwholesome.

625. COLCHICUM autumnale. MEADOW-SAFFRON.--Baron Stoerch asserts, that on cutting the fresh
root into slices, the acrid particles emitted from it irritated the nostrils, fauces, and breast;
and that the ends of the fingers with which it had been held became for a time benumbed; that
even a single grain in a crumb of bread taken internally produced a burning heat and pain in
the stomach and bowels, urgent strangury, tenesmus, colic pais, cephalalgia, hiccup, &c. From
this relation, it will not appear surprising that we find several instances recorded, in which
the Colchicumproved a fatal poison both to man, and brute animals. Two boys, after eating this
plant, which they found growing in a meadow, died in great agony. Violent symptoms have been
produced by taking the flowers. The seeds, likewise, have been known to produce similar effects.

626. OENANTHE crocata. HEMLOCK. WATER DROPWORT.--Eleven French prisoners had the liberty of
walking in and about the town of Pembroke; three of them being in the fields a little before
noon, found and dug up a large quantity of this plant with its roots, which they took to be
wild celery, to eat with their bread and butter for dinner. After washing it a while in the
fields they all three ate, or rather tasted of the roots.

As they were entering the town, without any previous notice of sickness at the stomach or disorder
in the head, one of them was seized with convulsions. The other two ran home, and sent a surgeon
to him. The surgeon first endeavoured to bleed, and then to vomit him; but those endeavours
were fruitless, and the soldier died in a very short time.

Ignorant yet of the cause of their comrade's death, and of their own danger, they gave of these
roots to the other eight prisoners, who all ate some of them with their dinner: the quantity
could not be ascertained. A few minutes after, the remaining two who gathered the plant were
seized in the same manner as the first; of which one died: the other was bled, and a vomit
forced down, on account of his jaws being as it were locked together. This operated, and he
recovered; but he was for some time affected with a giddiness in his head; and it is remarkable,
that he was neither sick nor in the least disordered in his stomach. The others being bled
and vomited immediately, were secured from the approach of any bad symptoms. Upon examination
of the plant which the French prisoners mistook for wild celery, Mr. Howell discovered it to
be this plant, which grows very plentifully in the neighbourhood of Haverfordwest.

Although the above account, which Mr. Wilmer has so minutely described, seems well attested,
and corroborated by the above gentleman, yet I was informed by the late Mr. Adams, comptroller
of the Customs at Pembroke, that the Oenanthe does not, that he could find, grow in that part
of the country; but that what the above unfortunate French officers did actually eat was the
wild Celery, which grows plentifully in all the wet places near that town. I take the liberty
of mentioning this circumstance; as it will serve to keep in mind the fact, that celery, when
found wild, and growing in wet places, shold be used cautiously, it being in such situations
of a pernicious tendency. For such whose curiosity may lead them to become acquainted with
the Oenanthe crocata, it grows in plenty near the Red House in Battersea fields on the Thames'
bank. The water-courses on the marsh at Northfleet have great quantities of the Apium graveolens
growing in them.

Plantae affines.

Cultivated celery differs from it when young, first in the shape and size of its roots. The
Oenanthe is perennial, and has a large root, which on being cut is observed to be full of juice,
which exudes in form of globules. The celery, on the contrary, has roots in general much smaller,
particularly when in a wild state.

The leaves of celery have somewhat the same flavour, but are smaller; the nerves on the lobes
of the leaves are also very prominent, and somewhat more pointed.

When the two plants are in bloom, a more conspicuous difference is apparent in the involucrum
and seeds, the character of which should be consulted.

It may be mistaken for Parsley; but it is both much larger in foliage and higher in growth;
it is also different from it in the shape of the roots.

These are the two plants most likely to be confounded with it. But the student should also
consult the difference existing between this plant and the following, which, although somewhat
alike in appearance, may be confounded.

Angelica.

Chervil.

Alexanders.

Hemlock.

Skirret.

Cow Parsley.

Lovage.

Wild Parsnep.

Fool's Parsley.

Hamburgh Parsley.

627. PRUNUS Lauro-cerasus. THE COMON LAUREL.--The leaves of the laurel have a bitter taste,
with a flavour resembling that of the kernels of the peach or apricot; they communicate an
agreeable flavour to aqueous and spirituous fluids, either by infusion or distillation. The
distilled water applied to the organs of smelling strongly impresses the mind with the same
ideas as arise from the taste of peach blossoms or apricot kernels: it is so extremely deleterious
in its nature, and sometimes so sudden in its operation, as to occasion instantaneous death;
but it more frequently happens that epileptic symptoms are first produced. This poison was
discovered by accident in Ireland in the year 1728: before which, it was no uncommon practice
there, to add a certain quantity of laurel water to brandy, or other spirituous liquors, to
render them agreeable to the palate. At that time three women drank some laurel-water; and
one of them a short time afterwards became violently disordered, lost her speech, and died
in about an hour.

A gentleman at Guildford, some few years back, also, by making an experiment as he intended
on himself, was poisoned by a small dose: he did not survive the taking it more than two hours.

In consequence of the above poisonous principle existing in the laurel, it has been recommended
to persons to be cautious hwo they make use of the leaves of that shrub, which is a usual practice
with cooks for giving flavour to custards, blanch-mange, and other made-dishes, lest the narcotic
principle should be also conveyed, to the detriment of the health of persons who eat of them.

And the same may be said of the kernels of all stone-fruits; for the flavours given to noyau,
ratafia, and other liquors which are highly prized by epicures, are all of them derived from
the same principle as laurel-water, and which, on chemical investigation, is found to be prussic
acid. This exists in considerable quantities in the bitter almond, and which when separated
proves to be the most active poison known, to the human as well as all other animal existence.
This principle, and its mode of extraction, should not be made more public than the necessity
of scientific research requires. We cannot with propriety accuse either this tree or the laurel
as being poisonous, because the ingenuity of mankind has found out a mode of extracting this
active acidulous principle, and which is so very small in proportion to the wholesome properties
of the fruit, as not to be suspected of any danger but for this discovery. As well might we
accuse wheat of being poisonous, because it yields on distillation brandy, which has been known
to kill many a strong-bodied fellow who has indulged in this favourite beverage to excess.
An eminent chemist informs me, that he has made experiments with the oxalic acid, and found
that when this was also concentrated, it has similar effects; insomuch that no animal can contain
a grain of it if taken into the throat or stomach: and thus might we also be led to consider
the elegant, and in itself harmless, wood-sorrel, as a poisonous plant.

*       *       *       *       *

ACRID POISONS.

These should be attacked by strong decoctions of oak-bark, gall-nuts, and Peruvian bark; after
which soft mucilaginous matters should be used, as milk, fat broth, or emulsions.

628. ACONITUM Napelhus. BLUE MONKSHOOD.--This is a very poisonous plant; and many instances
have been adduced of its dangerous effects.

It has probably obtained the name of Wolfsbane, from a tradition that wolves, in searching
for particular roots which they in part subsist upon in winter, frequently make a mistake,
and eat of this plant, which proves fatal to them.

A weaver in Spitalfields, having supped upon some cold meat and salad, was suddenly taken ill;
and when the surgeon employed upon this occcasion visited him, he found him in the following
situation:--"He was in bed, with his head supported by an assistant, his eyes and teeth were
fixed, his nostrils compressed, his hands, feet, and forehead cold, no pulse to be perceived,
his respiration short, interrupted, and laborious."

Soon after he had eaten of the above, he complained of a sensation of heat affecting the tongue
and fauces; his teeth appeared loose; and it was very remarkable, although a looking-glass
was produced, and his friends attempted to reason him out of the extravagant idea, yet he imagined
that his face was swelled to twice its usual size. By degrees the heat, wich at first only
seemed to affect the mouth and adjacent parts, diffused itself over his body and extremities:
he had an unsteadiness and lassitue in his joints, particularly of the knees and ancles, with
an irritable twitching of the tendons, which seemed to deprive him of the power of walking;
and he thought that in all his limbs he perceived an evident interruption to the circulation
of the blood. A giddiness was the next symptom, which was not accompanied with nausea. His
eyes became watery, and he could not see distinctly; a kind of humming noise in his ears continually
disturbed him, until he was reduced to the state of insensibility before described.

Plantae affines.

Although the mischief which is recited above occurred from the root having been purchased at
market, I do not know of any vegetable in common use likely to be confounded with this. It
might by chance be mistaken for the smaller tubers of Jerusalem artichoke.

In foliage it comes near to the other species of Aconitum, and to the perennial Larkspurs.

However, as this is a plant much grown in pleasure-grounds on account of its beautiful blue
flowers, great care should be taken not to use any roots taken from such places that cannot
be well ascertained.

629. ACONITUM Lycoctonum. YELLOW WOLFSBANE.--Every part of this plant is accounted poisonous.
In fact, I think it is proper that all the species should be considered as such, and never
be made use of, either in medicine or otherwise, without great care in their administration.

630. ACTAEA spicata. BANEBERRY.--This plant is also considered as a deadly poison; but we have
no authentical accounts of its mischievous effects, although Parkinson has mentioned it in
these words:--

"The inhabitants of all the mountaines and places wheresoever it groweth, as some writers say,
do generally hold it to be a most dangerous and deadly poison, both to man and beast; and they
used to kill the wolves herewith very speedily."

This is not a common plant, growing only in some particular situa-tions, as near Ingleborough
in Yorkshire.

631. RHUS Toxicodendron. POISON-ASH.-The juice of the leaves of this plant is so very acrid
as often to corrode the skin, if the leaves are gathered when the dew is on them. Great care
should certainly be taken in the giving such a medicine internally, as also in its preparation,
it being usually administered in a dried state.

Planta affinis.

Rhus radicans differs from this in having a more trailing habit of growth; otherwise it is
scarcely different, so little so, as to baffle a distinction being made by description alone.

*       *       *       *       *

STUPEFYING POISONS.

The substances that deaden the effects of the poisons of this class are vegetable acids, which
should be thrown into the stomach in large quantities. After the operation of emetics, cream
of tartar is also considered of great use, as also oxymuriatic acid, infusions of nut-gall,
oak bark; warm spices are considered also of use, for they may separate some part of the deleterious
matter, as is shown by their effect when mixed with decoction of these plants; acerb and astringent
wines are also of great use.

632. AETHUSA Cynapium. FOOL'S PARSLEY.--Fool's Parsley seems generally allowed to be a plant
which possesses poisonous qualities. Baron Haller has taken a great deal of pains to collect
what has been said concerning it, and quotes many authorities to show that this plant has been
productive of the most violent symptoms; such as anxiety, hiccough, and a delirium even for
the space of three months, stupor, vomiting, convulsions, and death.

Where much parsley is used, the mistress of the house therefore would do well to examine the
herbs previous to their being made use of; but the best precaution will be, always to sow that
variety called Curled parsley, which cannot be mistaken for this or any other plant. We might
also observe, that the scent is strong and disagreeable in the aethusa: but this property,
either in the plant or the poison, is not at all times to be trusted in cases of this nature.

Plantae affines.

Parsley. The lobes of the leaves are larger in this plant, and are not quite so deep a green.
The leaves of fool's parsley are also finer cleft, and appear to end more in a short point.

Celery, being much larger, cannot easily be confounded with it.

Chervil. Fool's parsley, when young, differs from this plant but very little, being much the
same in size, and the laciniae of the leaves of a similar form. Chervil, however, is much lighter
in colour, and the flavour more pleasant, both to the taste and smell.

Hemlock is commonly a larger plant; and, exclusive of the generic distinctions, may be generally
known by its spotted stalk.

When fool's parsley is in bloom, it is readily known by the length of the involucrum.

633. ATROPA Belladonna. DEADLY NIGHTSHADE.--Some boys and girls perceiving in a garden at Edinburgh
the beautiful berries of the deadly nightshade, and unacquainted with their poisonous quality,
ate several. In a short time dangerous symptoms appeared; a swelling of the abdomen took place;
they became convulsed. The next morning one of them died, and another in the evening of the
same day, although all possible care was taken of them.

Another case is related by Dr. Lambert, who was desired to visit two children at Newburn, in
Scotland, who the preceding day had swallowed some of the berries of the deadly nightshade.
He found them in a deplorable situation. The eldest (ten years of age) was delirious in bed,
and affected with convulsive spasms: the younger was not in a much better condition in his
mother's arms. The eyes of both the children were particularly affected. The whole circle of
the cornea appeared black, the iris being so much dilated as to leave no vestige of the pupil.
The tunica conjunctiva much inflamed. These appearances, accompanied with a remarkable kind
of staring, exhibited a very affecting scene. The symptoms came on about two hours after they
had eaten the berries: they appeared at first as if they had been intoxicated, afterwards lost
the power of speaking, and continued the whole night so unruly, that it was with much difficulty
they were kept in bed. Neither of these ever recovered.

634. DATURA Stramonium. THORN-APPLE.--The seeds and leaves of the thorn-apple received into
the human stomach produce first a vertigo, and afterwards madness. If the quantity is large,
and vomiting is not occasioned, it will undoubtedly prove fatal. Boerhaave informs us, that
some boys eating some seeds of the thorn-apple which were thrown out of a garden, were seized
with giddiness, horrible imaginations, terrors, and delirium. Those that did not soon vomit, died.

635. HYOSCYAMUS niger. HENBANE.--Henbane is a very dangerous poison. The seeds, leaves, and
root, received into the human stomach, are all poisonous.

The root in a superior degree produces sometimes madness; and if taken in large quantity, and
the stomach does not reject it by vomiting, a stupor and apopleptic symptoms, terminating in
death, are the usual consequences.

A case of the bad effects of the roots of this plant, which occurred in Ireland, is mentioned
by Dr. Threlkeld. In the winter season, some men working in a garden threw up some roots which
were supposed to be Skirrets, and those were cooked for dinner. About two hours after they
were eaten, a person who partook of them was taken with an unusual lassitude, as if being much
fatigued, heat and dryness both in the mouth an the throat, a giddiness accompanied with dimness
of sight, and a partial stoppage in his urine. Several others who had eaten at the same table,
as also servants who had partaken, were subjected to the like influence. Medical assistance
being at hand, by the use of emetics they were relieved; but it was many days before the whole
of them had recovered from those dreadful symptoms.

Two children having both eaten of the berries of this plant, the one a boy (who recovered)
being taken ill, vomitted, and was supposed to have thrown them off his stomach: the other,
a little girl, died in convulsions the next morning. As mothers and kindred souls do not like
names to be made public in these cases, I cannot help feeling some desire to suppress a publicity
of a fact in which a near and dear relative was materially interested. In justice, however,
to the public, I must mention that I can vouch for the fact, and trust it may not pass without
notice, so far as to let the berries be supposed anything but wholesome.

Plantae affines.

The idea of Skirrets being confounded with this plant, is, I think, erroneous, if it has leaves
on, as they are not pinnated, and very different from it. When the Hyoscyamus is in bloom,
it has curiously-formed flowers of an uncommonly disgusting hue. The scent of this plant, on
bruising it, and its general appearance, render it almost impossible that any one should mistake
it. The roots, in the winter season, when destitute of leaves, may, however, be mistaken for
those of Parsnep, Parsley, Skirret, and many others of similar shape, and of which it is out
of our power to give a distinguishing character.

636. LACTUCA virosa. STRONG-SCENTED WILD LETTUCE.--The juice of this plant is a very powerful
opiate, and care should be taken how it is made use of. I have not heard of any dangerous effects
having been produced by it. The strong and disagreeable scent and bitter nauseous taste will
most likely always operate as a preservative to its being used for food; and as a medicine,
it is hoped its use will be confined to the judicious hand of a medical botanist.

Plantae affines.

All the kinds of garden lettuce; but it may be distinguished by its spines on the back of the
leaves. It may be remarked, that the milky juice of all lettuce has similar properties to the
above; but the juice is not milky till such time as the plant produces seed-stalks, and then
the taste in general is too nauseous for it to be eaten.

637. SOLANUM Dulcamara. BITTERSWEET.--The berries of this plant have been sometimes eaten by
children, and have produced very alarming effects. It is common in hedges, and should be at
all times as much extirpated as possible.

638. SOLANUM nigrum. DEADLY NIGHTSHADE.--Webfer has given us an account of some children that
were killed in consequence of having eaten the berries of this plant for black currants. And
others have spoken of the direful effects of the whole plant so much, that, from the incontestable
proofs of its deleterious qualities, persons cannot be too nice in selecting their pot-herbs,
particularly those who make a practice of gathering from dunghills and gardens Fat-Hen, &c.
as there is some distant similitude betwixt these plants, and their places of growth are the
same.--Curtis's Fl. Lond. fasc. 2.

Plantae affines.

All the Chenopodia grow with this plant wild, and are somewhat alike in appearance; but the
Solanum may at all times be distinguished by its disagreeable strong scent.

*       *       *       *       *

FOETID POISONS.

These come near to the Stupefying Poisons; but they are not treated in the same manner; for
ether, wine, or acids combined with spirits, appear the properest things to destroy their deleterious
properties: spices are then indicated, except for savine, which requires instead thereof acids.

639. CONIUM maculatum. HEMLOCK.--Two soldiers quartered at Waltham Abbey collected in the fields
adjoining to that town a quantity of herbs sufficient for themselves and two others for dinner
when boiled with bacon. These herbs were accordingly dressed, and the poor men ate of the broth
with bread, and afterwards the herbs with bacon: in a short time they were all seized with
vertigo. Soon after they were comatose, two of them became convulsed, and died in about three
hours.

Plantae affines.

Parsley differs from this except in size and colour of the leaves.

Celery is also much like this plant, and particularly so if found wild; but which, for reasons
given before, should never be collected to be eaten.

Fool's parsley is very like it; and when the hemlock is in a small state, and this plant luxuriant,
I have been in some doubt as to pointing out a perfect difference, especially when they are
not in fructification. The spots on hemlock form generally a distinguishing mark.

640. DIGITALIS purpurea. FOXGLOVE.--A few months ago, a child was ill of a pulmonary complaint,
and the apothecary had desired the nurse to procure a small quantity of Coltsfoot and make
it a little tea; and accordingly the good woman went to a shop in London, where she procured,
as she supposed, three pennyworth of that herb, and made a decoction, of which she gave the
patient a tea-cupful; a few minutes after which she found symptoms of convulsions make their
appearance, and sent for the apothecary: but who, unfortunately, was so totally ignorant of
botany as not to know the plant, but supposing it to be Coltsfoot, after the infant died, took
his leave, without ay remark further, than that the disorder which occasioned its death had
arisen from some accidental and unusual cause. The nurse, however, did not feel perfectly satisfied
of this fact, and carried the remainder of the herb to Apothecaries-Hall; and having applied
there for information, was referred to Mr. Leffler, a gentleman who had from his botanical
researches that season obtained the Sloanean prize; who told her the mistake. He also went
and saw the body, and investigated the whole case in a way that has done that young gentleman
great credit; and from him I have been favoured with this account. Had the medical attendant
but known the difference between the two plants when he was called in first, there was a chance
of the child being saved to its distressed parents. And here was certainly a striking instance
of medical men neglecting so far the study of botany, as not to know one of the most useful
as well as one of the most dangerous plants of the present Pharmacopoeia.

641. HELLEBORUS foetidus. BEARSFOOT.--The country-people are in the habit of chopping up the
leaves of this plant and giving it to children for removing worms; but it is a dangerous medicine,
and should be made use of with great caution. It is also recommended as a medicine for the
same purpose in horses. As much of the chopped leaves as will lie on a crown-piece, given amongst
a feed of corn for three days, and remitted three days, and repeated thus for nine doses, has
been known to remove this disease.

"I heard a melancholy story of a mother in this city; viz. that a Country Colleagh gave some
of this plant to her two sons, one of six, the other of four years of age, to kill worms; and
that before four in the afternoon they were both corpses."-Dr. Threlkeld, in a short account
of the plants in the neighbourhood of Dublin.

642. JUNIPERUS Salvina. SAVINE.--The expressed juice of this plant is very poisonous, and often
known to produce the most violent effects. It is sometimes used by persons for expelling worms
in children, but should be used with great caution; for, if the quantity taken into the stomach
is more than it can digest, all the dreadful effects of the poisons of this class are certain
to be the immediate consequence.

643. SCROPHULARIA aquatica. WATER-BETONY.--Every part of this plant is said to be violently
narcotic; but its very disagreeable strong scent and extremely bitter taste render it not likely
to be used in mistake for any culinary vegetable; and although we know what its effects are
from report, we do not think it of so dangerous a tendency as some of our poisonous vegetables.

*       *       *       *       *

DRASTIC POISONS.

These purge both upwards and downwards with great violence by means of their acrid poisonous
resin, which also violently affects the throat and passages. Although alkalies have been recommended
in this case, in order to divide this resin, and that a solution of soap is proper, yet the
vegetable acids are also very useful, and have a great effect in diminishing the purgative
effect. Besides this, it appears still more advantageous to give astringents: Venice treacle,
decoctions of bark or cascarilla, pomegranate rind, and balaustines; all which certainly precipitate
this drastic principle.

644. ASCLEPIAS syriaca. SYRIAN DOGSBANE.--All the species of Asclepias have a white acrid juice
which is considered poisonous. It is observed to be very acrid when applied to any sensible
part of the mouth or throat.

645. BRYONIA alba. WILD VINE, or WHITE BRYONY.--The berries of this plant, when hanging on
the hedges, have the appearance of white grapes, and have been eaten by children. They are
known to produce dreadful effects; but it frequently happens that they produce nausea on the
stomach, by which they operate as an emetic of themselves.

646. EUPHORBIA Lathyris. CAPER SPURGE.--A plant common in old gardens, but not indigenous.
The seed-vessels are much in shape of caper-buds: hence its name. People have been in the habit
of pickling these berries, from which some dangerous symptoms have arisen; it is probable that
the vinegar may have been the means of checking its bad effects. It should, however, never
be used as food.

647. EUPHORBIA amygdaloides. WOOD SPURGE.--The juice of this plant has been known to produce
very dangerous swellings in the mouth and throat of persons who have occasionally put it into
their mouths. We do not know that it is very dangerous; and nothing is likely to tempt any
persons to use it as food or otherwise.

648. MERCURIALIS perennis. DOG'S MERCURY.--This plant is of a soporific deleterious nature,
and is said to be noxious to both man and beast. Many instances are recorded of its fatal effects.

Mr. Ray acquaints us with the case of a man, his wife, and three children, who were poisoned
by eating it fried with bacon: and a melancholy instance is related in the Philosophical Transactions,
Number CCIII., of its pernicious effects upon a family who ate at supper the herb boiled and
fried. It produced at first nausea and vomiting, and comatose symptoms afterwards; two of the
children slept twenty-four hours; when they awoke, they vomited again, and recovered. The other
girl could not be awakened during four days; at the expiration of which time she opened her
eyes and expired.

Plantae affines.

It appears that the different species of Chenopodium have been mistaken for this plant. I do
not see myself any very near likeness: but as all the species of Chenopodium have been called
English Mercury, it is possible that the name may have been the cause of the mistake.

649. MERCURIALIS annua. ANNUAL DOG'S MERCURY.--Persons who are in the habit of gathering wild
herbs to cook, should be careful of this. It grows plentifully in all rich grounds, and is
common with Fat Hen and the other herbs usually collected for such purposes in the spring,
and from which it is not readily distinguished: at least, I cannot describe a difference that
a person ignorant of botany can distinguish it by.

650. PERIPLOCA graeca.--This is an ornamental creeping plant, and commonly grown in gardens
for covering verandas, and other places for shade.

I once witnessed a distressing case. A nurse walking in a garden gathered flower of this plant,
and gave it to a child which she had in her arms. The infant having put it to its mouth, it
caused a considerable swelling and inflammation, which came on so suddenly, that, had it not
been that one of the labourers had met with a similar accident, no one would have known the
cause. The child was several days before it was out of danger, as the inflammation had reached
the throat.

651. VERATRUM album. WHITE HELLEBORE.--The roots of this plant, and also of the Veratrum nigrum,
have been imported mixed with the roots of yellow gentian, and have proved poisonous.--Lewis's
Materia Medica.

*       *       *       *       *

POISONOUS FUNGI.

The deleterious effects of these generally show themselves soon after they are in the stomach.
Vomiting should be immediately excited, and then the vegetable acids should be given; either
vinegar, lemon-juice, or that of apples; after which, give ether and antispasmodic remedies,
to stop the excessive bilious vomiting. Infusions of gall-nut, oak-bark, and Peruvian bark,
are recommended as capable of neutralizing the poisonous principle of mushrooms. It is however
the safest way not to eat any of these plants until they have been soaked in vinegar. Spirit
of wine, and ether, extract some part of their poison; and tanning matter decomposes the greatest
part of it.

Agaricus bulbosus. -------- necator. -------- mamosus. -------- piperitus. -------- campanulatus.
-------- muscarius.

These are kown to be poisonous. But the fungi should all be used with great caution; for I
believe even the Champignon and Edible mushroom to possess deleterious qualities when grown
in certain places.

       *       *       *       *       *

SECTION XIV.--PLANTS NOXIOUS TO CATTLE.

The foregoing lists of poisonous plants are most of them of less dangerous tendency to cattle
than to the human species: for although many of them may be mistaken for wholesome, yet, when
they are growing wild, it will be observed, that the discriminating powers of the brute creation
in this point are so correct, that very few have been known to be eaten by them.

The following are a few of a different class, which, as not containing any thing particularly
disagreeable to the taste of cattle, are frequently eaten by them to their injury.

The agricultural student should make himself perfectly acquainted with those.

652. CICUTA virosa. COWBANE.--Linnaeus observes, that cattle have died in consequence of eating
the roots. It is fortunate that this plant is not very plentiful: it is poisonous to all kinds
of cattle except goats. The flower of this plant is not unlike that of water-parsneps, which
cows at some seasons will eat great quantities of.

653. BEAR'S GARLICK. Allium ursinum.

654. CROW GARLICK. Allium vineale.

These plants very frequently occur in meadow-land, and have property of giving a strong garlick
flavour to the milk yielded by cows that feed there; and which is often also communicated to
the butter.

655. DARNELL GRASS. Lolium temulentum.--This grass has the faculty of causing poultry or birds
to become intoxicated, and so much so that it causes their death.

656. LOUSEWORT. Pedicularis palustris.--This plant, which abounds in wet meadows, is said to
produce a lousy disease in cows if they eat of it.

657. MAYWEED. Anthemis cotula.--This is altogether of such an acrid nature, that the hands
of persons employed in weeding crops and reaping, are often so blistered and corroded as to
prevent their working. It also has been known to blister the mouths and nostrils of cattle
when feeding where it grows.

658. COLCHICUM autumnale. MEADOW-SAFFRON.--This is a common plant in pasture-land in Worcestershire,
Herefordshire, and other counties. Many are the instances that have occurred of the bad effects
of it to cattle. I have this last autumn known several cows that died in consequence of eating
this plant.

659. MELILOT. Trifolium officinale.--This plant when eaten by cows communicates a disagreeable
taste to milk and butter.

660. ROUND-LEAVED SUN-DEW. Drosera rotundifolia.--Very common on marshy commons, and is said
to be poisonous to sheep, and to give them the disease called the rot.

661. SEA BARLEY-GRASS. Hordeum maritimum.--This grass has been known in the Isle of Thanet
and other places to produce a disease in the mouths of horses, by the panicles of the grass
penetrating the skin.

662. WATER-HEMLOCK. Phellandrium aquaticum.--Linnaeus informs us that the horses in Sweden
by eating of this plant are seized with a kind of palsy, which he supposes is brought upon
them, not so much by any noxious qualities in the plant itself, as by a certain insect which
breeds in the stalks, called by him for that reason Curculio paraplecticus [Syst. Nat. 510].
The Swedes give swine's dung for the cure.

663. YEW. Taxus baccata.--This is poisonous to cattle: farmers and other persons should be
careful of this being thrown where sheep or cattle feed in snowy weather. It is particularly
dangerous to deer, for they will eat of it with avidity when it comes in their way.

*       *       *       *       *

SECTION XV.--PLANTS NOXIOUS IN AGRICULTURE.

Annual Weeds, or such as grow wild in Fields, and that do not produce any Food for Cattle.

Many weeds are troublesome to the farmer amongst his crops; but which, by affording a little
fodder at some season or other, in some degree compensate for their intrusion. But as the following
are not of this description, they ought at all times to be extirpated: for it should be recollected,
that the space occupied by such a plant would, in many instances, afford room for many ears
of wheat, &c.

The following are annuals, and chiefly grow among arable crops, as corn, &c. As these every
year spring up from seeds, it is a very difficult matter for the farmer to prevent their increase,
especially since the practice of fallowing land has become almost obsolete. It is a fact worthy
notice, that the seeds of most of the annual weeds will lie in the ground for many years, if
they happen to be place deep: so that all land is more or less impregnated with them, and a
fresh supply is produced every time the land is ploughed. It is therefore proper that annual
weeds of every description should be prevented as much as possible can be from going to seed,
for one year's crop will take several seasons to eradicate. The only effectual mode we are
acquainted with of getting rid of annual weeds is, either by hoeing them up when young, or
by cutting the plants over with any instrument whilst in bloom; for it should be observed,
that those never spring from the roots if cut over at that period of their growth, which oftentimes
may be easily accomplished.

I once observed a crop of burnet, in which Bromus secalius (Lob Grass) was growing, whose spike
stood a considerable height above the crop, and several acres of which a boy or woman might
have cut over in a short space of time: but it was not so: the grass seeds and burnet were
suffered to ripen together, and no means could be devised to separate the two when threshed.
For this reason the burnet seeds never could find a market, and consequently the trouble of
saving it, as well as the crop, was lost to the grower. I mention this as an instance of many
that frequently occur. How many times do we see with crops of winter tares wild oats seeding
in them? or Carduus mutans standing so high above those crops that they might be thus extirpated
with great ease?

It may be observed, that it is in culture of this nature where annual seeds multiply. A regular
crop of wheat will, by its thickness on the ground, retard their growth by smothering them;
but the other gives them every facility, and particularly autumnal-sown crops.

664. Blue-bottle    -    -    -    Centaurea Cyanus. 665. White-blite    -    -    -    Chenopodium
album. 666. Charlock       -    -    -    Sinapis arvensis. 667. Chickweed      -    -    -
Alsine media. 668. Cockle         -    -    -    Agrostemma Githago. 669. Cleavers       -
-    -    Galium Aparine. 670. Corn Marigold  -    -    -    Chrysanthemum segetum. 671. Corn
Crowfoot  -    -    -    Ranunculus arvensis. 672. Corn Chamomile -    -    -    Matricaria
Chamomilla. 673. Weak-scented do     -    -    ---------- inodora. 674. Grass, Lob     -  
-    -    Bromus secalinus. 675. -----  Bearded Oat  -    -    Acena fatua. 676. -----  Field
Foxtail     -    Alopecurus agrestis. 677. -----  Darnel  -    -    -    Lolium temulentum.
678. Groundsel, common   -    -    Senecio vulgaris. 679. Wall Barley    -    -    -    Hordeum
murinum. 680. Mallow, common -    -    -    Malva sylvestris. 681. Mayweed, stinking 	 -  
-    Anthemis Cotula. 682. Melilot        -    -    -    Trifolium officinale. 683. Mustard,
white -    -    -    Sinapis alba. 684. -------, hedge -    -    -    Erysimum Barbarea. 685.
Nettle, Stinging, small  -    Urtica urens. 686. ------, Dead   -    -    -    Lamium albium.
687. Nipplewort     -    -    -    Lapsana communis. 688. Orach, wild    -    -    -    Atriplex
hastata. 689. -----, spreading 	 -    -    -------- patulata. 690. Pilewort       -    -  
-    Ranunculus ficaria. 691. Persicaria, spotted-leaved    Polygonum Ficaria. 692. ----------,
pale-flowered     --------- pensylvanicum. 693. ----------, climbing     -    --------- Convolvulus.
694. Pheasant-eye   -    -    -    Adonis autumnalis. 695. Poppy, common red 	 -    -    Papaver
Rhoeas. 696. Poppy, long rough-headed -    Papaver Argemone. 697. Radish, wild   -    -   
-    Raphanus Raphanistrum. 698. Shepherd's Needle   -    -    Scandix Pecten Veneris. 699.
Spearwort      -    -    -    Ranunculus Flammula. 700. Spurry, Corn   -    -    -    Spergula
arvensis. 701. Thistle, Spear -    -    -    Carduus lanceolatus. 702. -------  Star  -   
-    -    Centaurea Calcitrapa. 703. ------- Marsh  -    -    -    Carduus palustris. 704.
------- Dwarf  -    -    -    ------- acaulis. 705. Tine Tare, smooth-podded -    Ervum tetraspermum.

       *       *       *       *       *

Creeping-rooted Weeds.

The following are such as are perennial, and are of the most troublesome nature, being xtremely
difficult to get rid of in consequence of their creeping roots. It unfortunately appens that,
where the land is the most worked, and the roots the more broken thereby, the more the crop
of weeds increases on the land. Therefore, the only effectual mode of extirpating plants of
this nature, is by picking out the roots after the plough, or by digging them up at every opportunity
by some proper instrument.

Where weeds of this nature occur, there is too often thought to be more labour than profit
in their extirpation. And although this is an argument of some propriety, where a farmer is
tenant at will, or where his strength is not proportionate to the land: yet if land is worth
any thing at all, that, whatever it may be, is lost, if it is suffered thus to become barren.
And as prevention is in most cases considered preferable to cure, more care ought to be taken
than generally is, of all our hedges and waste pieces of land by road sides, &c. Many of these
plants are found growing in such places, and their seeds are of that nature that they are calculated
to fly to considerable distances,--a contrivance in nature to fertilize the ground in her own
way; but which, as agriculturists, it is the business of men to check.

706. Bindweed, small    -    -    Convolvulus arvensis. 707. Bindweed, large    -    -    -----------
sepium. 708. Bistort       -    -    -    Polygonum bistorta. 709. Brakes        -    -   
-    Pteris aquilina. 710. Clown's Woundwort  -    -    Stachys palustris. 711. Cammock   
-    -    -    Ononis arvensis. 712. Coltsfoot     -    -    -    Tussilago Farfara. 713. Crowfoot,
creeping -    -    Ranunculus repens. 714. Goutweed      -    -    -    Aegopodium Podagraria.
715. Grass, Garden Couch     -    Triticum repens. 716. -----, Couchy-bent      -    Agrostis
stolonifera. 717. -----, Couch Oat, or Knot    Avena elatior. 718. -----, Creeping-soft   
-    Holcus mollis. 719. Horsetail, Corn    -    -    Equisetum arvense. 720. Persicaria, willow-leaved
Polygonum amphibium. 721. Rest Harrow   -    -    -    Ononis spinosa. 722. Sow-Thistle, Corn
-    -    Sonchus arvensis. 723. Spatling Poppy     -    -    Cucubalus Behen. 724. Stinging-Nettle,
large  -    Urtica dioica. 725. Silverweed    -    -    -    Potentilla anserina. 726. Sneezewort
-    -    -    Achillea Ptarmica. 727. Thistle, melancholy     -    Carduus heterophyllus.
728. -------, cursed    -    -    ------- arvensis. 729. Water Horehound    -    -    Lycopus
europaeus.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perennial Weeds.

This enumeration of noxious plants contains principally those which, although they are very
troublesome, are more easy of extirpation than the last: for although the most of them are
perennial, yet, as their roots do not spread as those of the above list do, they are to be
effectually removed by taking up the plants by their roots. It should, however, be always noticed,
that it is to little account to endeavour to clear any land of such incumbrances, if any waste
places which are separated only by a hedge are allowed to grow these things with impunity;
for the seeds will invariably find their way. The contrivance of nature in their formation
is a curious and pleasant subject for the philosophical botanist; at the same time it is one
of those curses which was impelled on human labour.

730. Butter-bur    -    -    -    Tussilago Petasites. 731. Burdock       -    -    -    Arctium
Lappa. 732. Bugloss, small     -    -    Lycopis arvensis. 733. Crowfoot, round-rooted  - 
Ranunculus bulbosus. 734. --------, tall     -    -    Ranunculus acris. 735. Dock, curdled
-    -    -    Rumex crispus. 736. ----, broad-leaved -    -    ----- obtusifolius. 737. ----,
sharp-pointed     -    ----- acutus. 738. Fleabane, common   -    -    Inula dysenteria. 739.
Garlick, crow -    -    -    Allium vineale. 740. -------, bear -    -    -    ------ ursinum.
741. Grass, turfy hair  -    -    Aira caespitosa. 742. -----, meadow soft -    -    Holcus
lanatus. 743. -----, carnation   -    -    Carex caespitosa. 744. Knapweed, common   -    -
Centaurea nigra. 745. --------, great    -    -    --------- Scabiosa. 746. Mugwort       -
-    -    Artemisa vulgaris. 747. Meadow-sweet  -    -    -    Spiraea ulmaria. 748 Ox-eye
Daisy Chrysanthemum    Leucanthe-mum 749. Plantain, great    -    -    Plantago major. 750.
Ragwort, common    -    -    Senecio Jacobaea. 751. -------, marsh     -    -    ------- aquaticus.
752. Rush, common  -    -    -    Juncus conglomeratus. 753. ----, blueish -    -    -    ------
glaucus. 754. ----, flat-jointed -    -    ------ squarrosus. 755. ----, round-jointed    
-    ------ articulatus. 756. ----, bulbous -    -    -    ------ bulbosus. 757. Scabious,
common   -    -    Scabiosa avensis. 758. Thistle, milk -    -    -    Carduus marianus. 759.
-------, meadow    -    -    ------- pratensis.

       *       *       *       *       *

SECTION XVI.-EXOTIC TREES AND SHRUBS.

The fashionable rage for planting ornamental trees and shrubs having so much prevailed of late
years, that we meet with them by the road sides, &c. almost as common as we do those of our
native soil, I have therefore enumerated them in this section.

Our limits will not admit of giving any particular descriptions of each; but as persons are
often at a loss to know what soil each tree is known to thrive in best, we have endeavoured
to supply that information; which will be understood by applying to the following

ABBREVIATED CHARACTERS.

c.m. read common garden mould. b.m.   -  bog mould. l.     -  loam. b.l.   -  bog and loam,
the greater part bog. l.b.   -  loam and bog, the greater part loam. s.     -  sheltered situation.
a.     -  annual. bi.    -  biennial. p.     -  perennial. shr.   -  tree or shrub. c.    
-  creeper. w.     -  adapted to covering walls.

As the soils recommended may not be generally understood; a little attention to the following
rules will enable persons to discover what is fit for their purposes.

Loam--the kind best adapted to the purpose of growing plants, is of a moderately close texture,
between clay and sand, differing from the former in want of tenacity when wet; and not becoming
hard when dry; nor is it loose and dusty like the latter; but in both states possesses somewhat
of a saponaceous quality. It varies in colour from yellow to brown, and is commonly found in
old pastures: it may also be remarked, that where any perennial species of Clover (Trifolium)
are found wild, it is almost a certain indication of a fertile loam, and such as contains the
proper food of plants in abundance.

Bog-mould--is frequently found on waste lands, where Heaths (Ericae) are produced: it is composed
of decayed vegetable matter and white sand. The best sort is light when dry, of a black colour,
and easily reduced to powder. Care should be taken to distinguish it from Peat, which is hard
when dry, destitute in a great measure of the sand, and mostly of a red colour. This contains
in great quantities sulphureous particles and mineral oil, which are known to be highly destructive
to vegetation.

The mould formed from rotten leaves is a good substitute for bog-mould if mixed with sand,
and is often made use of for the same purposes. These earths should be dug from the surface
to the depth of a few inches and laid in heaps, that the roots, &c. contained therein may be
decomposed: and before they are used should be passed through a coarse screen, particularly
if intended for plants in pots.

As loam has been found to contain the greatest portion of the real pabulum of plants, it has
long been used for such as are planted in pots; and the component parts of bog-earth being
of a light nature, a mixture of the two in proper proportions will form a compost in which
most kinds of plants will succeed. Attention should be paid to the consistence of the loam;
as the more stiff it is, the greater portion of the other is necessary.

DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA.

1 JASMINUM officinale. w.          Common white Jasmine        c.m. 2 -------- v. argen. variegat.
w.  Silver-striped ditto        c.m. 3 -------- v. aureo variegat. w.   Gold-striped ditto
c.m. 4 -------- fruticans, w.           Yellow ditto                c.m. 5 -------- humile,
w.              Dwarf yellow ditto          b.l. 6 Phillyrea media, w.              Privet-leaved
Phillyrea     c.m. 7 --------- v. virgata             Twiggy ditto                c.m. 8 ---------
v. pendula             Pendulous ditto             c.m. 9 --------- oleaefolia            
Olive-leaved ditto          c.m. 10 -------- buxifolia              Box-leaved ditto      
c.m. 10 -------- angustifolia           Narrow-leaved ditto         c.m. 12 -------- v. rosmarinifolia
Rosemary-leaved ditto       c.m. 13 -------- brachiata              Dwarf ditto           
c.m. 14 -------- v. latifolia           Broad-leaved ditto          c.m. 15 -------- v. laevis
Smooth broad-leaved ditto   c.m. 16 -------- v. spinosa             Prickly broad-leaved ditto
c.m. 17 -------- v. obliqua             Hex-leaved ditto            c.m. 18 Chionanthus virginicus
Fringe Tree                 b.m. 19 Syringa vulgaris                Blue lilac            
c.m. 20 ------- v. alba                 White ditto                 c.m. 21 -------- persica
Persian ditto               c.m. 22 -------- v. lacinita            Cut-leaved ditto      
c.m. 23 -------- latifolia              Broad-leaved ditto          c.m.

TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA.

24 Cephalanthus occidentalis       Button-wood                 b.l. 25 Houstonia coccinea 
Scarlet Houstonia           b.l.s. 26 Buddlea globosa                 Globe-flowered Buddlea
b.l.s. 27 Cornus florida                  Great-flowering Dog-wood    c.m. 28 ------ mascula
Cornelian Cherry            c.m. 29 ------ sericea                  Blue-berried ditto    
c.m. 30 ------ alba                     White-berried ditto         c.m. 31 ------ stricta
Upright ditto               c.m. 32 ------ sibirica                 Siberian ditto        
c.m. 33 ------ paniculata               Panicled ditto              c.m. 34 ------ alternifolia
Alternate-leaved ditto      c.m. 35 ------ v. virescens             Green-twigged ditto   
c.m. 36 Ptelea trifoliata               Shrubby Bean-trefoil        c.m. 37 Elaeagnus angustifolia
Narrow-leaved Oleaster      c.m. 38 -------- v. latifolia           Broad-leaved ditto    
c.m.

TETRANDRIA DIGYNIA.

39 Hamamelis virginica             Witch Hazel                 c.m.

TETRANDRIA TETRAGYNIA.

40 Ilex opaca                      Carolina Holly              b.l. 41 ---- v. angustifolia
Narrow-leaved ditto         b.l. 42 ---- primoides                  Deciduous ditto       
b.l. 43 ---- Cassine                    Dahoon ditto                l. 44 ---- vomitoria  
South Sea Tea Tree          l.

PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA.

