We have seen that at the close of the Middle Ages Ireland was in the condition that some people
in England now consider the panacea for all the woes of the country; it possessed a subordinate
Parliament and England interfered as little as possible in its local affairs. Henry VIII attempted
"to govern Ireland according to Irish ideas"; having no army of his own, he appointed the most
powerful of the Norman barons his deputy. But this deputy used his authority precisely as an
Ersefied Norman (who possessed no more patriotism or national feeling than a Celtic chief)
might have been expected to use it,--that was, to aid him in a succession of family quarrels
and tribal wars in which, allied with some of the native septs he attacked others. Even the
towns outside the Pale fared little better than the remoter districts; there was actually a
civil war between Cork and Limerick. The state of affairs in Celtic Ireland during the brief
period from 1500 to 1534 as stated in the annals (which, however, only deal with a part of
the country, hardly referring to what took place in Leinster or Munster) has been summed up
by Dr. Richey in the following words:--

    "Battles, plunderings, etc., exclusive of those in which the
    English Government was engaged, 116; Irish gentlemen of
    family killed in battle, 102; murdered, 168--many of them with
    circumstances of great atrocity; and during this period, on
    the other hand, there is no allusion to the enactment of any
    law, the judicial decision of any controversy, the founding of
    any town, monastery or church; and all this is recorded by
    the annalist without the slightest expression of regret or
    astonishment, as if such were the ordinary course of life in a
    Christian country."

At length, in 1534, matters came to a head; the Lord Deputy broke out into open rebellion.
We can learn from the State papers of the period what the condition of Ireland then was. The
Pale--now but the remnant of a fraction--was constantly invaded and ravished by wild tribes,
and was itself becoming Ersefied; for the poorer English settlers had either fled back to England,
joined the Celtic tribes in despair, as their only way of escaping from the harshness of the
English lords, or been crushed out of existence; and, as had already happened elsewhere, their
place had been taken by Irish retainers. Then in the rest of the country there were some ninety
chiefs, of whom about sixty represented ancient septs and the remainder degenerate Normans,
all claiming independence and preying sometimes on one another and sometimes on their unfortunate
followers. Not infrequently also a tribe was divided against itself, and a civil war was raging
between the two factions. And one result of the Ersefication of the Norman barons was that,
in addition to the regular feudal dues, they demanded every kind of Celtic tribute from the
occupiers of the land. In fact, how the wretched tenants managed to support life at all seems
a mystery. Whatever law there may at one time have been was now long extinct; and as King Henry
himself pointed out, if the natives were to have any sort of law at all, the only possible
law was the law of England.

At this time also a new factor came into the already complicated problem--the Reformation.
Henry VIII never was a Protestant, in the sense of adopting the doctrines which are now usually
called Protestant; but he had renounced the authority of the Pope. In 1535 Pope Paul III passed
sentence upon him, consigning his kingdoms to whoever might invade them, and commanding his
nobles to take up arms against him. Both the Emperor and the King of France saw their opportunity,
as Robert Bruce had done centuries before. They commenced a correspondence with the Irish chiefs
with the object of bringing about an invasion of Ireland. Thereupon King Henry resolved to
take the only course that seemed to him possible--to make the conquest of Ireland a reality
and to enforce law and order in that distracted land. His letters, which are still extant,
show the care with which he thought out the matter, and his earnest desire for the welfare
of the people of both races; a perusal of them would astonish those who regard him merely as
a savage sensualist. Strange to say, in their Irish policy, the character of Henry VIII shows
itself at the best, and that of Elizabeth at its worst. When Henry had with difficulty succeeded
in crushing the Geraldine rebellion and a series of others which broke out soon after, he got
the Irish Parliament to pass an Act conferring on him the title of king; he was solemnly proclaimed
as such, and his title was confirmed by the almost unanimous consent of the Irish princes.

This was important in more ways than one: it was universally recognized that the word "king"
meant much more than "lord"; and it gave him a title independent of the Pope's donation.

It is one of the ironies of history that the renunciation of the Papal authority and the submission
to the king's supremacy was far more rapid and general in Ireland than it was in England. For
not only did all the lay chiefs readily yield their adhesion, but only two of the bishops refused
to take the oath of supremacy. Rebellions such as that of Fitzgerald had no connection with
religion; it was not until years afterwards when England had become identified with Protestantism
and Spain with Catholicism that the Irish became intensely Papal. On the other hand, the Reformation,
as a religious movement, made no headway in Ireland. It was purely negative and destructive,
and emanated from the Government, not from the mass of the people. The monasteries were destroyed;
hence there were no vicars to supply the parish churches, which fell into ruin; the king endeavoured
rather to Anglify than to Protestantise the people by sending to them bishops and clergy from
England--but they were mere state officials, not fathers in God; unable even to speak the Irish
language; what real preaching there was was done by friars sent from Rome and Madrid. Henry's
efforts at establishing parish schools were also a total failure. Had there not been later
immigrations from England and Scotland, Irish Protestantism would probably have died out. Yet
it is but fair to state, and to bear in mind, that there was no religious persecution as such
in Ireland during the Tudor period. Elizabeth's policy was, without making any actual promise
of freedom of conscience, to leave the question of religious opinions alone as far as possible.
The real difficulty came from the political nature of the Church of Rome; when the Pope deposed
Elizabeth and gave Ireland to Philip of Spain every Irish Roman Catholic had either to be false
to his religion or to become a traitor--in esse or in posse--to the queen.

When Henry had resolved to do his utmost to bring Ireland to a state of civilization, there
were not wanting advisers who urged upon him that his only safe course was absolutely to destroy
the whole native population by sword and famine and re-people the vacant lands by immigrants
from England. Such a course would have been quite in accordance with the ideas of the time.
Not thirty years previously, the combined forces of Church and State had pursued the heretic
population of the Loise into the mountain fastnesses to which they had fled, and had piled
logs of wood at the mouths of the caves in which they had taken refuge, and set them on fire.
Then, when all the unhappy people--men, women and children, numbering some thousands in all--had
perished, their lands were distributed amongst strangers brought in from a distance to occupy
them. And at a later date--in the middle of the sixteenth century--the native inhabitants of
the Canary Islands were exterminated by the Spanish Inquisition, and their lands taken by the
invading race. But to Henry it appeared that there was one milder course that might still be
possible. Might not the native chiefs and the degenerate Normans who had shown that their only
idea of independency was anarchy yet be brought together as nobles under a strong central government
with a Parliament representing not merely the Pale, but all Ireland? Might not the mass of
the people, whose native customs had been well nigh crushed out by civil wars, be persuaded
to adopt the law of England? This was the policy deliberately adopted by Henry and acted on
by him during his life. It is easy for writers living in modern times to sneer at some of the
details of his scheme; but it is not so easy for them to point out what other course would
have been better; or indeed, whether any other course short of a policy of extermination, would
have been possible.

The remarkable thing, however, is that the change to a more severe line took place not under
Henry or his Protestant son, but under the most Catholic Sovereigns Philip and Mary. It was
by their orders that the first of the confiscations (which were to play so important a part
in the later history of Ireland) was carried out. By an Act passed in their reign the lands
occupied by the O'Moores, O'Connors and O'Dempseys were confiscated and formed into the King's
and Queen's counties, Leix and Offaly being renamed "Philipstown" and "Maryborough"; and a
"Plantation" of English settlers was established.

And here it is well to pause for a moment and consider these confiscations, about which so
much has been written. That confiscations have taken place in every country is a plain fact
of history. There is probably no part of Western Europe where land is now held by the descendants
of the aboriginal inhabitants. Forcible conquest and adverse occupation is nearly always the
primary root of title. But it is part of the policy of every civilized country to recognize
what lawyers call "Statutes of limitations." When centuries have elapsed and new rights have
grown up, it is impossible to rectify the wrongs of times long gone by. Thus we cannot suppose
that any future Government of Spain would ever recognize the title of the Moors in Africa to
the properties from which their ancestors were driven by Philip IV; or that the Huguenots,
now scattered over various countries, could ever succeed in recovering possession of the estates
in France which were confiscated at the time of the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes. And
the only people who have a cause to complain, even on sentimental grounds, of the wrongs of
past ages, are the lineal descendants of those who suffered ill-treatment. No Englishman to-day
can feel aggrieved because Saxons drove out Britons, or Normans Saxons.

