    "Modern people are Christian, and Christianity is a
    religion of second growth which opposes natural instinct.
    We may liken it to a violent contraction which has
    inflected the primitive attitude of the human mind. It
    proclaims, in effect, that the world is sinful, and that
    man is depraved--which certainly is indisputable in the
    century in which it was born. According to it, man must
    change his ways. Life here below is simply an exile;
    let us turn our eyes upward to our celestial home. Our
    natural character is vicious; let us stifle natural
    desires and mortify the flesh. The experience of our
    senses and the knowledge of the wise are inadequate and
    delusive; let us accept the light of revelation, faith
    and divine illumination. Through penitence, renunciation
    and meditation let us develop within ourselves the
    spiritual man; let our life be an ardent awaiting of
    deliverance, a constant sacrifice of will, an undying
    yearning for God, a revery of sublime love, occasionally
    rewarded with ecstasy and a vision of the infinite.
    For fourteen centuries the ideal of this life was the
    anchorite or monk. If you would estimate the power of
    such a conception and the grandeur of the transformation
    it imposes on human faculties and habits, read, in turn,
    the great Christian poem and the great pagan poem, one
    the 'Divine Comedy' and the other the 'Odyssey' and the
    'Iliad.' Dante has a vision and is transported out of our
    little ephemeral sphere into eternal regions; he beholds
    its tortures, its expiations and its felicities; he is
    affected by superhuman anguish and horror; all that the
    infuriate and subtle imagination of the lover of justice
    and the executioner can conceive of he sees, suffers and
    sinks under. He then ascends into light; his body loses
    its gravity; he floats involuntarily, led by the smile
    of a radiant woman; he listens to souls in the shape of
    voices and to passing melodies; he sees choirs of angels,
    a vast rose of living brightness representing the virtues
    and the celestial powers; sacred utterances and the
    dogmas of truth reverberate in ethereal space. At this
    fervid height, where reason melts like wax, both symbol
    and apparition, one effacing the other, merge into mystic
    bewilderment, the entire poem, infernal or divine, being
    a dream which begins with horrors and ends in ravishment.
    How much more natural and healthy is the spectacle which
    Homer presents! We have the Troad, the isle of Ithica and
    the coasts of Greece; still at the present day we follow
    in his track; we recognize the forms of mountains, the
    color of the sea; the jutting fountains, the cypress and
    the alders in which the sea-birds perched; he copied a
    steadfast and persistent nature: with him throughout we
    plant our feet on the firm ground of truth. His book is
    a historical document; the manners and customs of his
    contemporaries were such as he describes; his Olympus
    itself is a Greek family."

The manifest inferiority of our mixed languages to their one simple language is stated in the
following paragraph, with which we must leave Taine for the present:

    "Almost the whole of our philosophic and scientific
    vocabulary is foreign; we are obliged to know Greek and
    Latin to make use of it properly, and, most frequently,
    employ it badly. Innumerable terms find their way out of
    this technical vocabulary into common conversation and
    literary style, and hence it is that we now speak and
    think with words cumbersome and difficult to manage.
    We adopt them ready made and conjoined, we repeat
    them according to routine; we make use of them without
    considering their scope and without a nice appreciation
    of their sense; we only approximate to that which we
    would like to express. Fifteen years are necessary for
    an author to learn to write, not with genius, for that
    is not to be acquired, but with clearness, sequence,
    propriety and precision. He finds himself obliged to
    weigh and investigate ten or twelve thousand words and
    diverse expressions, to note their origin, filiation and
    relationships, to rebuild on an original plan, his ideas
    and his whole intellect. If he has not done it, and he
    wishes to reason on rights, duties, the beautiful, the
    State or any other of man's important interests, he
    gropes about and stumbles; he gets entangled in long,
    vague phrases, in sonorous common-places, in crabbed
    and abstract formulas. Look at the newspapers and the
    speeches of our popular orators. It is especially the
    case with workmen who are intelligent but who have had no
    classical education; they are not masters of words, and,
    consequently, of ideas; they use a refined language which
    is not natural to them; it is a perplexity to them and
    consequently confuses their minds; they have had no
    time to filter it drop by drop. This is an enormous
    disadvantage, from which the Greeks were exempt. There
    was no break with them between the language of concrete
    facts and that of abstract reasoning, between the
    language spoken by the people and that of the learned;
    the one was a counterpart of the other; there was no term
    in any of Plato's dialogues which a youth, leaving his
    gymnasia, could not comprehend; there is not a phrase in
    any of Demosthenes' harangues which did not readily find
    a lodging-place in the brain of an Athenian peasant or
    blacksmith. Attempt to translate into Greek one of Pitt's
    or Mirabeau's discourses, or an extract from Addison or
    Nicole, and you will be obliged to recast and transpose
    the thought; you will be led to find for the same
    thoughts, expressions more akin to facts and to concrete
    experience; a flood of light will heighten the prominence
    of all the truths and of all the errors; that which you
    were wont to call natural and clear will seem to you
    affected and semi-obscure, and you will perceive by force
    of contrast why, among the Greeks, the instrument of
    thought being more simple, it did its office better and
    with less effort."

