PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

September 19, 1891.

       *       *       *       *       *

SILENCE AND SLEEP.

(LINES WRITTEN AT COCK-CROW.)

  Night-time and silence! O'er the brooding hill
    The last faint whisper of the zephyr dies;
  Meadows and trees and lanes are hushed and still,
    A shroud of mist on the slow river lies;
  And the tall sentry poplars silent keep
  Their lonely vigil in a world of sleep.

  Yea, all men sleep who toiled throughout the day
    At sport or work, and had their fill of sound,
  The jest and laughter that we mate with play,
    The beat of hoofs, the mill-wheel grinding round,
  The anvil's note on summer breezes borne,
  The sickle's sweep in fields of yellow corn.

  And I too, as the hours go softly by,
    Lie and forget, and yield to sleep's behest,
  Leave for a space the world without a sigh,
    And pass through silence into dreamless rest;
  Like a tired swimmer floating tranquilly
  Full in the tide upon a peaceful sea.

  But hark, that sound! Again and yet again!
    Darkness is cleft, the stricken silence breaks,
  And sleep's soft veil is rudely rent in twain,
    And weary nature all too soon, awakes;
  Though through the gloom has pierced no ray of light,
  To hail the dawn and bid farewell to night.

  Still is it night, the world should yet sleep on,
    And gather strength to meet the distant morn.
  But one there is who, though no ray has shone,
    Waits not, nor sleeps, but laughs all rest to scorn,
  The demon-bird that crows his hideous jeer,
  Restless, remorseless, hateful Chanticleer.

  One did I say? Nay, hear them as they cry;
    Six more accept the challenge of the foe:
  From six stretched necks six more must make reply,
    Echo, re-echo and prolong the crow.
  First shrieking singly, then their notes they mix
  In one combined cacophony of six.

  Miscalled of poets "herald of the day,"
    Spirit of evil, vain and wanton bird,
  Was there then none to beg a moment's stay
    Ere for thy being Fate decreed the word?
  Could not ASCLEPIAS, when he ceased to be,
  Take to the realms of death thy tribe and thee?

  What boots it thus to question? for thou ART,
    And still shalt be; but never canst be still,
  Destined at midnight thus to play thy part,
    And when all else is silent to be shrill.
  Yea, as I lie all sleepless in the dark,
  I love not those who housed thee in the Ark.

       *       *       *       *       *

"AS GOOD AS A BETTER."

Dr. Andrew Wilson (in "Science Jottings," in the Illustrated London News) dares disparage Golf
"as an ideal game for young men," venturing to advocate the preferential claims of fogeyish
Cricket, and even of futile Lawn Tennis--

  "O Scots, wha hae wi' BALFOUR teed."

What wull ye say to this disloyal, slanderous, sacrilegious ANDY? He hints that Golf is a mere
modish fashion--even a fin de siècle fad!!! How many perfervid and patriotic Scots will

  "Condemn his soul to eternal perdition
  For his theory of the--National Game?"

He says "you hit a ball and walk after it, and manoeuvre it into a hole." Eugh! Such icy analysis
would make Billiards a bore, and resolve "Knuckle-down" into nonsense! "It is not (Golf is
not!) a proceeding (proceeding, quotha!) of which youths and young men should grow enamoured."
As though, forsooth, Golf were a sort of elderly Siren luring limp and languorous youths into
illegitimate courses; a passée Delilah, whose enervating fascinations sapped the virile vigour
that might be dedicated to "that noblest of sports," Cricket, or even that "much better game,"
Lawn Tennis!!!

Surely the devotees of the Golf-cultus, the lovers of the Links, will be down like a "driver"
upon Dr. WILSON. Oh, ANDY, ANDY, between you and your "brither Scots" there is henceforth "a
great Golf fixed"!

       *       *       *       *       *

A CRICKET PARADOX.

  Though true without questioning, yet all the same,
    It's a trifle perplexing to know what it means
  That the counties that hate most to lose in a game
    Would be pleased very much at your giving them Beans

       *       *       *       *       *

WIGS ON THE (SEA) GREEN!--Some Frenchman (we are told by The Gentlewoman) has done Ladies a
good turn by inventing a Bathing Wig, which keeps the hair dry without making the fair bather
look "a fright." Hooray! SABRINA herself might shout for such an invention, which even the
Nereids need not despise. DIZZY once sarcastically referred to certain "Bathing W(h)igs," but
they were of another sort. Not even the most adventurous Tory could "steal the clothes" of
our latter day "Bathing Wigs."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.

NO. VII.

    SCENE--A Second-Class Compartment on the line between
    Wurzburg and Nuremberg. PODBURY has been dull and depressed
    all day, not having recovered from the parting with Miss
    TROTTER. CULCHARD, on the contrary, is almost ostentatiously
    cheerful. PODBURY is intensely anxious to find out how far
    his spirits are genuine, but--partly from shyness, and partly
    because some of their fellow travellers have been English--he
    has hesitated to introduce the subject. At last, however, they
    are alone, and he is determined to have it out on the very
    first opportunity.

Culchard. Abominably slow train, this Schnell-zug. I hope we shall get to Nuremberg before
it's too dark to see the general effect.

Podbury. We're not likely to be in time for table d'hôte--not that I'm peckish. (He sighs.)
Wonder whereabouts the--the TROTTERS have got to by now, eh?

    [He feels he is getting red, and hums the Garden Scene from
    "Faust."]

Culch. (indifferently). Oh, let me see--just arriving at St. Moritz, I expect. Wonderful effect
of colour, that is. [He indicates the West, where a bar of crimson is flaming between a belt
of firs.

Podb. (absently). Oh, wonderful!--where? (Hums a snatch of a waltz.) Dum-dum-diddle-um-tum-dum-dum-dum-ty-doodle;
dum-dum--I say, you don't seem particularly cut up?

Culch. Cut up? Why should I be cut up, my dear fellow?--about what?

    [Before PODBURY can explain, two Talkative British
    Tourists tumble up into the compartment, and he has to
    control his curiosity once more.

First T.T. Well, I 'ope we're all right now, SAM, I'm sure--these German jokers have chivied
us about enough for one journey! (To CULCHARD.) Not in your way, this 'at-box, Sir? Don't give
yer much space in these foreign trains. (They settle down and the train starts.) Pretty bit
o' country along 'ere!--puts me in mind o' the best part o' Box 'Ill--and I can't say more
for it than that!

Second T.T. (a little man with a sandy fringe and boiled-looking eyes). What I notice about
the country abroad is they don't seem to 'ave no landmarks.

First T.T. (with a dash of friendly contempt). What d'yer mean--no landmarks--signposts?

Second T.T. (with dignity). I mean to say, they don't 'ave nothing to indicate which is JACK's
property, and which is JOE's.

First T.T. Go on--they've as much as what we 'ave.

Second T.T. 'Ave they? We 'ave fences and 'edges. I don't see none 'ere. P'raps you'll point
me out one?

First T.T. There's precious few 'edges or fences in the Isle o' Thanet, as you'd know if you've
ever been to Margit.

Second T.T. (loftily). I'm not talkin' about Margit now. I'm talkin' of 'ere, and I'll trouble
you to show me a landmark.

First T.T. Depend on it they've their own ways of knowing which is 'oo's.

Second T.T. That's not what I'm sayin'. I'm sayin' there ain't nothing to indicate it. [They
argue the point at length.]

Podb. (to CULCHARD). Then you really aren't cut up--about Miss T. you know?

Culch. (with the reserve of a man who only wants to be pressed). There is no reason that I
am aware of, why I should be--but (lowering his voice) don't you think we had better wait till
we are alone to discuss that subject?

Podb. Oh, all right. I'm not partic--at least. Well, I'm glad you aren't, you know, that's all.

    [He becomes silent again--but his face brightens visibly.

First T.T. (to Second Do.). See that field there? That's tobacco, that is.

Second T.T. What they make their penny smokes of. (The train enters a station.) What funny
engines they do 'ave 'ere! I expect the guard'll be wanting to see our billyetts again next.
It's as bad as it used to be with the passports. I've 'eard--mind yer, I don't know 'ow much
likeli'ood there is in the assertion--that they're going to bring 'em in again. Most intricate
they were about them. (To CULCHARD.) Why, if you'll believe me, a friend o' mine as 'ad one--well,
they got 'is description down to a ioter! He'd a cast in 'is eye,--they put it down, and a
pimple you'd 'ardly notice--but down that went!

First T.T. It's no use 'aving such things if they don't do it thoroughly.

Second T.T. (irrelevantly). I wish I 'adn't 'ad that glass o' peach wine where we changed last.
(A Guard appears at the window, and makes some guttural comments on the couple's tickets.)
Wechseln? Why, that means wash, don't it? I'm as clean as him, anyway. "Anshteigen,"--ah, I
ought to know what that means by this time! SAM, my boy, we're bundled out again. I told yer
'ow it would be!

    [They tumble out, and the carriage is presently filled by an
    assortment of Germans, including a lively and sociable little
    Cripple with a new drinking-mug which he has just had filled
    with lager, and a Lady with pale hair and sentimental blue
    eyes.

Podb. We can talk all right now, eh? They won't understand. Look here, old fellow, I don't
mind owning I'm rather down in the mouth about--you know what. I shouldn't care so much if
there was any chance of our coming across them again.

Culch. (cordially). I am very glad to hear you say so. I was rather afraid you had taken a
dislike--er--in that quarter.

Podb. I?--is it likely! I--I admire her awfully, you know, only she rather seemed to snub me
lately.

Culch. (with patronising reassurance). Quite a mistake on your part, I assure you, my dear
fellow. I am sure she will learn to appreciate you--er--fully when you meet again, which, I
may tell you, will be at no very distant date. I happen to know that she will be at the Italian
Lakes early next month, and so shall we, if you let me manage this tour my own way.

Podb. (with surprise and gratitude). I say, old boy, I'd no notion you were such a nailing
good chap! Nein, danky. (To the little Cripple, who is cheerily inviting him, in pantomime,
to drink from his mug.) Cheeky little beggar. But do you really think anything will--er--come
of it, if we do meet her again--do you now?

Culch. I--ah--have the best reasons for feeling tolerably certain of it. [He looks out of window
and smiles.

Podb. But that cousin of hers--CHARLEY, you know--how about him?

Culch. I put that to her, and there is nothing in it. In fact, she practically admitted--(He
glances round and lowers his voice.) I will tell you another time. That lady over there is
looking at us, and I'm almost certain--

Podb. What if she is, she don't understand a word we're saying. I want to hear all about Her,
you know.

Culch. My dear PODBURY, we shall have ample time to talk about her while we are at Nuremberg
together--it will be the greatest pleasure to me to do so as long as ever you please.

Podb. Thanks, old chap! I'd no idea you were doing all this, you know. But just tell me this,
what did she say about me?

Culch. (mystified). About you? I really don't recollect that she mentioned you particularly.

Podb. (puzzled). But I thought you said you'd been speaking up for me! What did you talk about
then?

Culch. Well, about myself--naturally. [He settles his collar with a vague satisfaction.

Podb. (blankly). Oh! Then you haven't been arranging to meet her again on my account?

Culch. Good Heavens, no--what a very grotesque idea of yours, my dear fellow! [He laughs gently.

Podb. Is it? You always gave out that she wasn't your style at all, and you only regarded her
as a "study," and rot like that. How could I tell you would go and cut me out?

Culch. I don't deny that she occasionally--er--jarred. She is a little deficient in surface
refinement--but that will come, that will come. And as to "cutting you out," why, you must
allow you never had the remotest--

Podb. I don't allow anything of the sort. She liked me well enough till--till you came in and
set her against me, and you may think it friendly if you like, but I call it shabby--confoundedly
shabby.

Culch. Don't talk so loud, I'm sure I saw that woman smile!

Podb. She may smile her head off for all I care. (The train stops; the Cripple and all but
the Pale-haired Lady get out.) Here we are at Nuremberg. What hotel did you say you are going to?

Culch. The Bayrischer-Hof. Why?

    [He gets his coat and sticks, &c., out of the rack.

Podb. Because I shall go to some other, that's all.

Culch. (in dismay). My dear PODBURY. this is really too childish! There's no sense in travelling
together, if we're going to stay at different hotels!

Podb. I'm not sure I shall go any further. Anyway, while I am here, I prefer to keep to myself.

Culch. (with a displeased laugh). Just as you please. It's a matter of perfect indifference
to me. I'm afraid you'll be terribly bored by yourself, though.

Podb. That's my look out. It can't be worse than going about with you and listening while you
crow and drivel about her, that's one comfort! [The Pale-haired Lady coughs in a suspicious manner.

Culch. You don't even know if there is another hotel.

Podb. I don't care. I can find a pot-house somewhere, I daresay.

The Pale-haired Lady (in excellent English, to PODBURY as he passes out). Pardon me, you will
find close to the Bahnhof a very goot hotel--the Wurtemburger.

    [PODBURY thanks her and alights in some confusion; the
    Lady sinks back, smiling.

Culch. (annoyed). She must have understood every word we said! Are you in earnest over this?
(PODBURY nods grimly.) Well, you'll soon get tired of your own society, I warn you.

Podb. Thanks, we shall see.

    [He saunters off with his bag: CULCHARD shrugs his
    shoulders, and goes in search of the Bayrischer-Hof Porter,
    to whom he entrusts his luggage tickets, and takes his seat in
    the omnibus alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

"ANGELS AND MINISTERS OF GRACE!"

    ["The London Correspondent of the Manchester Guardian hears
    that certain ungallant Members of Parliament are threatening
    at the beginning of next Session to make a formal protest
    against the wholesale admission of ladies to the precincts of
    the House."]

  Ungallant! Vastly fine! But when they crowd
    The terrace seats, elbow us in the lobbies,
  Chatter and laugh, and care no more about
    (Elderly) senators than boys or bobbies;
  Why then, Sir, all M.P.'s of nerve and nous
    Will say that, though we love the babbling beauties,
  The swarming of these "Angels in the House,"
    Will simply play the devil with its duties!

       *       *       *       *       *

STORICULES.

IV.--A REVIEWER'S CONFESSION.

I am extremely fond of sitting and looking on; but I do not care about taking part in anything.
There are some people who cannot even witness a cab accident without wanting to be the horse
or the man who is sitting on the horse's head. They walk round the prostrate animal and give
advice; and if they are allowed to help in any way, they are quite happy. If such people watch
a game of any sort, they always wish they were taking part in it. I once went to a cricket-ground
to eat luncheon, and I went with an enthusiast of this kind. We noticed that his attention
seemed distracted, that he only replied in monosyllables when we spoke to him, and that there
was something on his mind. "I would give," he exclaimed, at last--and it was the only remark
that he had volunteered for half-an-hour--"I would give a year of my life for twenty minutes
with that bowling." He was evidently deeply affected. "Why don't they take him off?" he moaned.
There were tears in his eyes. I do not quite understand that feeling. I can watch absolutely
anything, but I never want to do more. I was not made to undertake principal parts--I can witness
amateur theatricals without wishing to be the prompter. I review novels, but I do not write them.

The other day I watched a game of tennis. I had placed the lounge-chair in a safe and shady
position. I had got a paper-knife and the third volume with me. The cat had followed me out
of the library, and sat down in a convenient position so that I could scratch it gently behind
the ear if I wanted to. I was smoking a pipe that had just reached the right stage of maturity,
and, in some indefinable way, made life seem richer and better. Everything was well arranged
for the watching of tennis.

There were two players--BILL, a young son of the house, whom I knew intimately, and TOMMY,
a boy of the same age, who had just come up from the Rectory. I had not seen TOMMY before.
He was a nice-looking little boy, and wore a black necktie in the collar of his silk tennis-shirt.
BILL is not good-looking; he is red and freckled, and grins vastly. He was wearing rather unclean
flannels, and did not look quite so refined and delicate as TOMMY. I compared the two boys,
and thought that I preferred BILL. In the first game of the set, BILL, who plays wonderfully
well, won easily; after that, my attention got fixed on that third volume. I turned down a
corner of the page whenever I came across anything that was at all conventional. I was reading
the book for review, and my notice of it was to appear in The Scalpel on the following Saturday.
It was, on the whole, a capital novel, but it was by an author who had been, I thought, more
successful than was good for him. He had been elected freely to the best Clubs. During the
season he had gone everywhere. Many editions of his book had been sold. He had acquired a little
cult who said extravagant things about him in the literary papers. It is sickening to see a
man reverenced during his lifetime. I could imagine him posing before his cult and being pleased;
even before I had read a page of his novel, I had made up my mind to administer to him a wholesome
corrective in the pages of The Scalpel. I was rather sorry to find that it was really a capital
novel; but it had enough faults for my purpose.

I had read for some time before I turned my attention to the game again. When I did so, I was
startled, for it was perfectly obvious that BILL was giving the game away. His usual service
is a little like invisible lightning with a bend in it; he was now serving in a modified manner,
which he generally uses only when he is playing with girls who are not his sisters. It was
also obvious that TOMMY, who looked very elated, fully believed that he was winning on his
own merits, and had no idea that BILL was merely allowing him to win.

"My game--and set!" cried TOMMY, joyously.

"You've improved awfully," said BILL.

I could not imagine why BILL had intentionally lost that set, for I knew that he hated losing.
When TOMMY had gone home again to the Rectory, BILL came up to me to ask how old I thought
a man ought to be before he began smoking. I said that I thought thirty-six was about the right
age, and asked BILL why he had let TOMMY win.

"Oh, nothing particular," said BILL, in his matter-of-fact way; "only I'd never seen him wear
that kind of tie before, and I asked him what he was doing it for, and he said it was for his
aunt; she died a few weeks back; so I thought I might as well give him the set to make up for it."

I was rather amused. "TOMMY looked very pleased with himself," I said.

"Yes, he'll brag about that game all over the place," replied BILL, rather despondently. For
a moment or two he was silent, imagining the triumph and pride of TOMMY. "I'd punch his head
as soon as look at him," he added.

"What on earth for? He thought he'd won by play."

"He can't play any more than a cow, but that's not it. I hate to see anyone get so glorious
about anything. Well, I don't know--it's kind of natural. He'd have had a right to brag, if
he had really won, and he thought he did."

"Anyhow," I said, severely, "it's a mean trick to want to damage anyone, just because he's
pleased with himself when he's got a right to be."

"Well, yes--I'll give you thirty."

"Can't play. I'm going to finish this novel, BILL."

"Is that one of the books you write about in the papers?"

"Yes."

"Are you going to praise it, or cut it up?"

"I'm going to give it such a--well, no, on second thoughts, I believe I'm going to praise it."
And I did.

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

NO. III.--TO POMPOSITY.

MY DEAR POMPOSITY,

It was only yesterday that I dined with BULMER, the wealthy brewer, in his magnificent mansion
in the neighbourhood (I dare not be more precise) of Belgrave Square. You know as well as I
do that BULMER's origin, though it may not have been humble, was certainly obscure. Nobody
quite knows how he first managed to become a partner in the great concern which he now entirely
controls. Fifteen years ago few people ever heard of or drank the "Pellucid Ale" without which
no tap-room and few middle-class luncheon tables can now be considered complete. Suddenly,
however, column upon column of the daily press overflowed, as it were, with those two magic
words; analytical chemists investigated the properties of the beverage, and one and all pronounced
it in highly technical language to contain more bone-forming and sinew-developing elements
than any other known beer. The poetry-and-beer-loving public was fascinated by a series of
memorable stanzas:--

  "The hardy Briton loves good cheer,
    His mighty sinews never fail:
  'Pour me,' he cries 'a draught of Beer,
    And let it be Pellucid Ale.'"

So the verse began, and it was illustrated by a flaring symbolical picture in two compartments.
In the first a throng of gaunt and miserable creatures was represented crawling with difficulty
towards an immense barrel, astride which sat a lusty, hop-crowned deity. In the second, every
member of the same throng had become stout and hearty. The hollow cheeks were round and shining
with health, the bent backs were straight, the dreary faces were wreathed in smiles, and every
hand held a foam-topped glass of "Pellucid Ale." Underneath were painted the words, "After
one glass." Even without the title, the inference was obvious; the confiding public drew it,
and immense quantities of BULMER's ale, almost simultaneously, and the result was that, in
a very short time, BULMER might have rolled in money if he had felt disposed--as, to do him
justice, he never did--to render himself ridiculous. Now what is there in the fact that BULMER
has made a fortune in beer that should inflate him to so insufferable an extent? Can it be
that there is some mysterious property in the liquid itself, some property which, having escaped
even the careful investigation of the analytical chemists, has pervaded the being of BULMER,
and has induced him to patronise the inhabited world? I thought so once. Indeed I have lost
myself in conjectures on this point. But I now know that BULMER has fallen under your sway,
and that you, my dear POMPOSITY, direct his every movement, and inspire his every thought.
Now, the other night, when, as I say, I was dining at his table, BULMER was in one of his most
glorious and vain-glorious moods. Patronage radiated from him upon my humble self and the rest
of the tribe of undoubted inferiors whom he permitted to bask in his shining presence.

"My dear boy," said BULMER to me, while he inserted his thumbs in the arm-openings of his waistcoats,
and drummed an approving tattoo upon his shining shirt-front, "my dear boy, I have always been
your friend, and nobody knows it better than you. Many a time have I proved it to you, and
I can honestly assure you that nothing gives me greater pleasure than to welcome you in person
to my humble home."

I thanked the great man deferentially, and assured him I was deeply sensible of his many kindnesses.
But after he had turned away, some malicious spirit prompted me, in spite of myself, to reflect
upon the favours that BULMER has conferred upon me. Were they, after all, so numerous and so
great? Was I, on the whole, so poor a worm as he imagined me to be? Had he in fact made me
what I am? These ungrateful thoughts chased one another through my perplexed brain, and I was
forced to acknowledge to myself that at the various crises of my career the fairy form of BULMER
had been absent. Yet BULMER is firmly convinced that I owe any modest success I may have attained
and all my annual income to his beneficent efforts on my behalf. And the worst of it is, that
he has a kind of top-heavy and overwhelming good-nature about him. He honestly means to be
kind and genial where he only succeeds in irritating his perverse acquaintances. Was BULMER
always thus? When he began on his small salary, did he patronise the office-boy? When he had
learnt to spell, did he devote his first epistolary efforts to the pompous patronage of his
parents? I fancy I can hear him declaring to his tottering father that a man so blessed in
his son might well console himself for many a grievous disappointment, and the old man I am
sure meekly accepted his son's assurance, and joined with his wife in thanking providence for
granting them so great a happiness. But BULMER has different fashions of showing his superiority.
I will do him the credit of saying that I do not believe him to be a Snob. He does not prostrate
himself before the great, since he believes himself to be greater than they can ever be. But
he knows that ordinary human nature is apt to be impressed by the appearance of intimate familiarity
with persons of title. And BULMER therefore uses the Peers of his circle as instruments wherewith
he may belabour the minds of his humbler friends.

"The Marquis of CHEDDAR," he will say, in a tone of grandeur, "did me the honour to consult
me about his furniture to-day, and I told him what I thought. The fact is her Ladyship has
no taste, and the Marquis has less, but I arranged it all for them."

And I am certain that BULMER spoke the truth, but I am equally certain that it was unnecessary
for him to mention the subject at all. Yet little KINKES, I know, went away persuaded that
the aristocracy trembled at BULMER's nod, and that to know him was a privilege. Unfortunately
BULMER, with all his good-nature, wearies me, I know I am not worthy to tie his shoe-string,
but I am disposed to imitate MONTROND, who, when he was told that he cheated at cards, replied,
"C'est possible, Monsieur, mais je n'aime pas qu'on me le dise," and flung his wine-glass in
his accuser's face. Cease, my dear POMPOSITY, to torment me by means of BULMER. I may address
you again, but, in the meantime,

    I remain, your humble Servant,
        DIOGENES ROBINSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

A ROYAL (OLYMPIC) DIVORCE.

