The counsel then proceeded to construct a plausible theory.  He reminded the jury that at that
very time, the summer of 1688, messages and invitations were being despatched to his present
Gracious Majesty to redress the wrongs of the Protestant Church, and protect the liberties
of the English people.  The father of the deceased was a member of a family of the country
party, his uncle a distinguished diplomatist, to whose suite he had belonged.  What was more
obvious than that he should be employed in the correspondence, and that his movements should
be dogged by parties connected with the Stewart family?  Already there was too much experience
of how far even the most estimable and conscientious might be blinded by the sentiment that
they dignified by the title of loyalty.  The deceased had already been engaged in a struggle
with one of the Archfield family, who had been acquitted of his actual slaughter; but considering
the strangeness of the hour at which the two cousins were avowedly at or near Portchester,
the condition of the clothes, stripped of papers, but not of valuables, and the connection
of the principal witness with the pretended Prince of Wales, he could not help thinking that
though personal animosity might have added an edge to the weapon, yet that there were deeper
reasons, to prompt the assault and the concealment, than had yet been brought to light.

"He will make nothing of that," whispered Mr. Lee.  "Poor Master Peregrine was no more a Whig
than old Sir Philip there."

"'Twill prejudice the jury," whispered back Mr. Harcourt, "and discredit the lady's testimony."

Mr. Cowper concluded by observing that half truths had come to light in the former trial, but
whole truths would give a different aspect to the affair, and show the unfortunate deceased
to have given offence, not only as a man of gallantry, but as a patriot, and to have fallen
a victim to the younger bravoes of the so-called Tory party.  To his (the counsel's) mind,
it was plain that the prisoner, who had hoped that his crime was undiscovered and forgotten,
had returned to take his share in the rising against Government so happily frustrated.  He
was certain that the traitor Charnock had been received at his father's house, and that Mr.
Sedley Archfield had used seditious language on several occasions, so that the cause of the
prisoner's return at this juncture was manifest, and only to the working of Providence could
it be ascribed that the evidence of the aggravated murder should have at that very period been
brought to light.

There was an evident sensation, and glances were cast at the upright, military figure, standing
like a sentinel, as if the audience expected him to murder them all.

As before, the examination began with Robert Oakshott's identification of the clothes and sword,
but Mr. Cowper avoided the subject of the skeleton, and went on to inquire about the terms
on which the two young men had lived.

"Well," said Robert, "they quarrelled, but in a neighbourly sort of way."

"What do you call a neighbourly way?"

"My poor brother used to be baited for being so queer.  But then we were as bad to him as the
rest," said Robert candidly.

"That is, when you were boys?"

"Yes."

"And after his return from his travels?"

"It was the same then.  He was too fine a gentleman for any one's taste."

"You speak generally.  Was there any especial animosity?"

"My brother bought a horse that Archfield was after."

"Was there any dispute over it?"

"Not that I know of."

"Can you give an instance of displeasure manifested by the prisoner at the deceased?"

"I have seen him look black when my brother held a gate open for his wife."

"Then there were gallant attentions towards Mrs. Archfield?"

Charles's face flushed, and he made a step forward, but Robert gruffly answered:  "No more
than civility; but he had got Frenchified manners, and liked to tease Archfield."

"Did they ever come to high words before you?"

"No.  They knew better."

"Thank you, Mr. Oakshott," said the prisoner, as it was intimated that Mr. Cowper had finished.
"You bear witness that only the most innocent civility ever passed between your brother and
my poor young wife?"

"Certainly," responded Robert.

"Nothing that could cause serious resentment, if it excited passing annoyance."

"Nothing."

"What were your brother's political opinions?"

"Well"--with some slow consideration--"he admired the Queen as was, and could not abide the
Prince of Orange.  My father was always at him for it."

"Would you think him likely to be an emissary to Holland?"

"No one less likely."

But Mr. Cowper started up.  "Sir, I believe you are the younger brother?"

"Yes."

"How old were you at the time?"

"Nigh upon nineteen."

"Oh!" as if that accounted for his ignorance.

The prisoner continued, and asked whether search was made when the deceased was missed.

"Hardly any."

"Why not?"

"He was never content at home, and we believed he had gone to my uncle in Muscovy."

"What led you to examine the vault?"

"My wife was disquieted by stories of my brother's ghost being seen."

"Did you ever see this ghost?"

"No, never."

That was all that was made of Robert Oakshott, and then again came Anne Woodford's turn, and
Mr. Cowper was more satirical and less considerate than the day before.  Still it was a less
dreadful ordeal than previously, though she had to tell the worst, for she knew her ground
better, and then there was throughout wonderful support in Charles's eyes, which told her,
whenever she glanced towards him, that she was doing right and as he wished.  As she had not
heard the speech for the prosecution it was a shock, after identifying herself a niece to a
'non-swearing' clergyman, to be asked about the night of the bonfire, and to be forced to tell
that Mrs. Archfield had insisted on getting out of the carriage and walking about with Mr.
Oakshott.

"Was the prisoner present?"

"He came up after a time."

"Did he show any displeasure?"

"He thought it bad for her health."

"Did any words pass between him and the deceased?"

"Not that I remember."

"And now, madam, will you be good enough to recur to the following morning, and continue the
testimony in which you were interrupted the day before yesterday?  What was the hour?"

"The church clock struck five just after."

"May I ask what took a young gentlewoman out at such an untimely hour?  Did you expect to meet
any one?"

"No indeed, sir," said Anne hotly.  "I had been asked to gather some herbs to carry to a friend."

"Ah!  And why at that time in the morning?"

"Because I was to leave home at seven, when the tide served."

"Where were you going?"

"To London, sir."

"And for what reason?"

"I had been appointed to be a rocker in the Royal nursery."

"I see.  And your impending departure may explain certain strange coincidences.  May I ask
what was this same herb?" in a mocking tone.

"Mouse-ear, sir," said Anne, who would fain have called it by some less absurd title, but knew
no other.  "A specific for the whooping- cough."

"Oh!  Not 'Love in a mist.'  Are your sure?"

"My lord," here Simon Harcourt ventured, "may I ask, is this regular?"

The judge intimated that his learned brother had better keep to the point, and Mr. Cowper,
thus called to order, desired the witness to continue, and demanded whether she was interrupted
in her quest.

"I saw Mr. Peregrine Oakshott enter the castle court, and I hurried into the tower, hoping
he had not seen me."

"You said before he had protected you.  Why did you run from him?"

She had foreseen this, and quietly answered, "He had made me an offer of marriage which I had
refused, and I did not wish to meet him."

"Did you see any one else?"

"Not till I had reached the door opening on the battlements.  Then I heard a clash, and saw
Mr. Archfield and Mr. Oakshott fighting."

"Mr. Archfield!  The prisoner?  Did he come to gather mouse-ear too?"

"No.  His wife had sent him over with a pattern of sarcenet for me to match in London."

"Early rising and prompt obedience."  And there ensued the inquiries that brought out the history
of what she had seen of the encounter, of the throwing the body into the vault, full dressed,
and of her promise of silence and its reason.  Mr. Cowper did not molest her further except
to make her say that she had been five months at the Court, and had accompanied the late Queen
to France.

Then came the power of cross-examination on the part of the prisoner.  He made no attempt to
modify what had been said before, but asked in a gentle apologetic voice:  "Was that the last
time you ever saw, or thought you saw, Peregrine Oakshott?"

"No."  And here every one in court started and looked curious.

"When?"

"The 31st of October 1688, in the evening."

"Where?"

"Looking from the window in the palace at Whitehall, I saw him, or his likeness, walking along
in the light of the lantern over the great door."

The appearance at Lambeth was then described, and that in the garden at Archfield House.  This
strange cross-examination was soon over, for Charles could not endure to subject her to the
ordeal, while she equally longed to be able to say something that might not damage him, and
dreaded every word she spoke.  Moreover, Mr. Cowper looked exceedingly contemptuous, and made
the mention of Whitehall and Lambeth a handle for impressing on the jury that the witness had
been deep in the counsels of the late royal family, and that she was escorted from St. Germain
by the prisoner just before he entered on foreign service.

One of the servants at Fareham was called upon to testify to the hour of his young master's
return on the fatal day.  It was long past dinner-time, he said.  It must have been about three
o'clock.

Charles put in an inquiry as to the condition of his horse.  "Hard ridden, sir, as I never
knew your Honour bring home Black Bess in such a pickle before."

After a couple of young men had been called who could speak to some outbreaks of dislike to
poor Peregrine, in which all had shared, the case for the prosecution was completed.  Cowper,
in a speech that would be irregular now, but was permissible then, pointed out that the jealousy,
dislike, and Jacobite proclivities of the Archfield family had been fully made out, that the
coincidence of visits to the castle at that untimely hour had been insufficiently explained,
that the condition of the remains in the vault was quite inconsistent with the evidence of
the witness, Mistress Woodford, unless there were persons waiting below unknown to her, and
that the prisoner had been absent from Fareham from four or five o'clock in the morning till
nearly three in the afternoon.  As to the strange story she had further told, he (Mr. Cowper)
was neither superstitious nor philosophic, but the jury would decide whether conscience and
the sense of an awful secret were not sufficient to conjure up such phantoms, if they were
not indeed spiritual, occurring as they did in the very places and at the very times when the
spirit of the unhappy young man, thus summarily dismissed from the world, his corpse left in
an unblessed den, would be most likely to reappear, haunting those who felt themselves to be
most accountable for his lamentable and untimely end.

The words evidently told, and it was at a disadvantage that the prisoner rose to speak in his
own defence and to call his witnesses.

"My lord," he said, "and gentlemen of the jury, let me first say that I am deeply grieved and
hurt that the name of my poor young wife has been brought into this matter.  In justice to
her who is gone, I must begin by saying that though she was flattered and gratified by the
polite manners that I was too clownish and awkward to emulate, and though I may have sometimes
manifested ill-humour, yet I never for a moment took serious offence nor felt bound to defend
her honour or my own.  If I showed displeasure it was because she was fatiguing herself against
warning.  I can say with perfect truth, that when I left home on that unhappy morning, I bore
no serious ill-will to any living creature.  I had no political purpose, and never dreamt of
taking the life of any one.  I was a heedless youth of nineteen.  I shall be able to prove
the commission of my wife's on which this learned gentleman has thought fit to cast a doubt.
For the rest, Mistress Anne Woodford was my sister's friend and playfellow from early childhood.
When I entered the castle court I saw her hurrying into the keep, pursued by Oakshott, whom
I knew her to dread and dislike.  I naturally stepped between. Angry words passed.  He challenged
my right to interfere, and in a passion drew upon me.  Though I was the taller and stronger,
I knew him to be proud of his skill in fencing, and perhaps I may therefore have pressed him
the harder, and the dislike I acknowledge made me drive home my sword.  But I was free from
all murderous intention up to that moment.  In my inexperience I had no doubt but that he was
dead, and in a terror and confusion which I regret heartily, I threw him into the vault, and
for the sake of my wife and mother bound Miss Woodford to secrecy.  I mounted my horse, and
scarcely knowing what I did, rode till I found it ready to drop.  I asked for rest for it in
the first wayside public-house I came to.  I lay down meanwhile among some bushes adjoining,
and there waited till my horse could take me home again.  I believe it was at the White Horse,
near Bishops Waltham, but the place has changed hands since that time, so that I can only prove
my words, as you have heard, by the state of my horse when I came home.  For the condition
of the remains in the vault I cannot account; I never touched the poor fellow after throwing
him there.  My wife died a few hours after my return home, where I remained for a week, nor
did I suggest flight, though I gladly availed myself of my father's suggestion of sending me
abroad with a tutor.  Let me add, to remove misconception, that I visited Paris because my
tutor, the Reverend George Fellowes, one of the Fellows of Magdalen College expelled by the
late King, and now Rector of Portchester, had been asked to provide for Miss Woodford's return
to her home, and he is here to testify that I never had any concern with politics.  I did indeed
accompany him to St. Germain, but merely to find the young gentlewoman, and in the absence
of the late King and Queen, nor did I hold intercourse with any other person connected with
their Court.  After escorting her to Ostend, I went to Hungary to serve in the army of our
ally, the Emperor, against the Turks, the enemies of all Christians.  After a severe wound,
I have come home, knowing nothing of conspiracies, and I was taken by surprise on arriving
here at Winchester at finding that my cousin was on his trial for the unfortunate deed into
which I was betrayed by haste and passion, but entirely without premeditation or intent to
do more than to defend the young lady.  So that I plead that my crime does not amount to murder
from malicious intent; and likewise, that those who charge me with the actual death of Peregrine
Oakshott should prove him to be dead."

Charles's first witness was Mrs. Lang, his late wife's 'own woman,' who spared him many questions
by garrulously declaring 'what a work' poor little Madam had made about the rose-coloured sarcenet,
causing the pattern to be searched out as soon as she came home from the bonfire, and how she
had 'gone on at' her husband till he promised to give it to Mistress Anne, and how he had been
astir at four o'clock in the morning, and had called to her (Mrs. Lang) to look to her mistress,
who might perhaps get some sleep now that she had her will and hounded him out to go over to
Portchester about that silk.

Nothing was asked of this witness by the prosecution except the time of Mr. Archfield's return.
The question of jealousy was passed over.

Of the pond apparition nothing was said.  Anne had told Charles of it, but no one could have
proved its identity but Sedley, and his share in it was too painful to be brought forward.
Three other ghost seers were brought forward:  Mrs. Fellowes's maid, the sentry, and the sexton;
but only the sexton had ever seen Master Perry alive, and he would not swear to more than that
it was something in his likeness; the sentry was already bound to declare it something unsubstantial;
and the maid was easily persuaded into declaring that she did not know what she had seen or
whether she had seen anything.

There only remained Mr. Fellowes to bear witness of his pupil's entire innocence of political
intrigues, together with a voluntary testimony addressed to the court, that the youth had always
appeared to him a well-disposed but hitherto boyish lad, suddenly sobered and rendered thoughtful
by a shock that had changed the tenor of his mind.

Mr. Baron Hatsel summed up in his dreary vacillating way.  He told the gentlemen of the jury
that young men would be young men, especially where pretty wenches were concerned, and that
all knew that there was bitterness where Whig and Tory were living nigh together.  Then he
went over the evidence, at first in a tone favourable to the encounter having been almost accidental,
and the stroke an act of passion.  But he then added, it was strange, and he did not know what
to think of these young sparks and the young gentlewoman all meeting in a lonely place when
honest folks were abed, and the hiding in the vault, and the state of the clothes were strange
matters scarce agreeing with what either prisoner or witness said.  It looked only too like
part of a plot of which some one should make a clean breast.  On the other hand, the prisoner
was a fine young gentleman, an only son, and had been fighting the Turks, though it would have
been better to have fought the French among his own countrymen.  He had come ingenuously forward
to deliver his cousin, and a deliberate murderer was not wont to be so generous, though may
be he expected to get off easily on this same plea of misadventure.  If it was misadventure,
why did he not try to do something for the deceased, or wait to see whether he breathed before
throwing him into this same pit? though, to be sure, a lad might be inexperienced.  For the
rest, as to these same sights of the deceased or his likeness, he (the judge) was no believer
in ghosts, though he would not say there were no such things, and the gentlemen of the jury
must decide whether it was more likely the poor youth was playing pranks in the body, or whether
he were haunting in the spirit those who had most to do with his untimely end.  This was the
purport, or rather the no-purport, of the charge.

The jury were absent for a very short time, and as it leaked out afterwards, their intelligence
did not rise above the idea that the young gentleman was thick with they Frenchies who wanted
to bring in murder and popery, warming-pans and wooden shoes.  He called stoning poultry a
trifle, so of what was he not capable?  Of course he spited the poor young chap, and how could
the fact be denied when the poor ghost had come back to ask for his blood?

So the awful suspense ended with 'Guilty, my Lord.'

"Of murder or manslaughter?"

"Of murder."

The prisoner stood as no doubt he had faced Turkish batteries.

The judge asked the customary question whether he had any reason to plead why he should not
be condemned to death.

"No, my lord.  I am guilty of shedding Peregrine Oakshott's blood, and though I declare before
God and man that I had no such purpose, and it was done in the heat of an undesigned struggle,
I hated him enough to render the sentence no unjust one.  I trust that God will pardon me,
if man does not."

The gentlemen around drew the poor old father out of the court so as not to hear the final
sentence, and Anne, half stunned, was taken away by her uncle, and put into the same carriage
with him.  The old man held her hands closely and could not speak, but she found voice, "Sir,
sir, do not give up hope.  God will save him.  I know what I can do.  I will go to Princess
Anne.  She is friendly with the King now.  She will bring me to tell him all."

Hurriedly she spoke, her object, as it seemed to be that of every one, to keep up such hope
and encouragement as to drown the terrible sense of the actual upshot of the trial.  The room
at the George was full in a moment of friends declaring that all would go well in the end,
and consulting what to do.  Neither Sir Philip nor Dr. Woodford could be available, as their
refusal to take the oaths to King William made them marked men.  The former could only write
to the Imperial Ambassador, beseeching him to claim the prisoner as an officer of the Empire,
though it was doubtful whether this would be allowed in the case of an Englishman born.  Mr.
Fellowes undertook to be the bearer of the letter, and to do his best through Archbishop Tenison
to let the King know the true bearings of the case.  Almost in pity, to spare Anne the misery
of helpless waiting, Dr. Woodford consented to let her go under his escort, starting very early
the next morning, since the King might immediately set off for the army in Holland, and the
space was brief between condemnation and execution.

Sir Edmund proposed to hurry to Carisbrooke Castle, being happily on good terms with that fiery
personage, Lord Cutts, the governor of the Isle of Wight as well as a favoured general of the
King, whose intercession might do more than Princess Anne's.  Moreover, a message came from
old Mr. Cromwell, begging to see Sir Edmund.  It was on behalf of Major Oakshott, who entreated
that Sir Philip might be assured of his own great regret at the prosecution and the result,
and his entire belief that the provocation came from his unhappy son.  Both he and Richard
Cromwell were having a petition for pardon drawn up, which Sir Henry Mildmay and almost all
the leading gentlemen of Hampshire of both parties were sure to sign, while the sheriff would
defer the execution as long as possible. Pardons, especially in cases of duelling, had been
marketable articles in the last reigns, and there could not but be a sigh for such conveniences.
Sir Philip wanted to go at once to the jail, which was very near the inn, but consented on
strong persuasion to let his son-in-law precede him.

Anne longed for a few moments to herself, but durst not leave the poor old man, who sat holding
her hand, and at each interval of silence saying how this would kill the boy's mother, or something
equally desponding, so that she had to talk almost at random of the various gleams of hope,
and even to describe how the little Duke of Gloucester might be told of Philip and sent to
the King, who was known to be very fond of him.  It was a great comfort when Dr. Woodford came
and offered to pray with them.

By and by Sir Edmund returned, having been making arrangements for Charles's comfort.  Ordinary
prisoners were heaped together and miserably treated, but money could do something, and by
application to the High Sheriff, permission had been secured for Charles to occupy a private
room, on a heavy fee to the jailor, and for his friends to have access to him, besides other
necessaries, purchased at more than their weight in gold.  Sir Edmund brought word that Charles
was in good heart; sent love and duty to his father, whom he would welcome with all his soul,
but that as Miss Woodford was--in her love and bravery--going so soon to London, he prayed
that she might be his first visitor that evening.

There was little more to do than to cross the street, and Sir Edmund hurried her through the
flagged and dirty yard, and the dim, foul hall, filled with fumes of smoke and beer, where
melancholy debtors held out their hands, idle scapegraces laughed, heavy degraded faces scowled,
and evil sounds were heard, up the stairs to a nail-studded door, where Anne shuddered to hear
the heavy key turned by the coarse, rude-looking warder, only withheld from insolence by the
presence of a magistrate.  Her escort tarried outside, and she saw Charles, his rush-light
candle gleaming on his gold lace as he wrote a letter to the ambassador to be forwarded by
his father.

He sprang up with outstretched arms and an eager smile.  "My brave sweetheart! how nobly you
have done.  Truth and trust.  It did my heart good to hear you."

Her head was on his shoulder.  She wanted to speak, but could not without loosing the flood
of tears.

"Faith entire," he went on; "and you are still striving for me."

"Princess Anne is--" she began, then the choking came.

"True!" he said.  "Come, do not expect the worst.  I have not made up my mind to that!  If
the ambassador will stir, the King will not be disobliging, though it will probably not be
a free pardon, but Hungary for some years to come--and you are coming with me."

"If you will have one who might be--may have been--your death.  Oh, every word I said seemed
to me stabbing you;" and the tears would come now.

"No such thing!  They only showed how true my love is to God and me, and made my heart swell
with pride to hear her so cheering me through all."

His strength seemed to allow her to break down.  She had all along had to bear up the spirits
of Sir Philip and Lady Archfield, and though she had struggled for composure, the finding that
she had in him a comforter and support set the pent-up tears flowing fast, as he held her close.

"Oh, I did not mean to vex you thus!" she said.

"Vex! no indeed!  'Tis something to be wept for.  But cheer up, Anne mine.  I have often been
in far worse plights than this, when I have ridden up in the face of eight big Turkish guns.
The balls went over my head then, by God's good mercy.  Why not the same now?  Ay! and I was
ready to give all I had to any one who would have put a pistol to my head and got me out of
my misery, jolting along on the way to the Iron Gates.  Yet here I am!  Maybe the Almighty
brought me back to save poor Sedley, and clear my own conscience, knowing well that though
it does not look so, it is better for me to die thus than the other way.  No, no; 'tis ten
to one that you and the rest of you will get me off.  I only meant to show you that supposing
it fails, I shall only feel it my due, and much better for me than if I had died out there
with it unconfessed.  I shall try to get them all to feel it so, and, after all, now the whole
is out, my heart feels lighter than it has done these seven years.  And if I could only believe
that poor fellow alive, I could almost die content, though that sounds strange.  It will quiet
his poor restless spirit any way."

"You are too brave.  Oh!  I hoped to come here to comfort you, and I have only made you comfort
me."

"The best way, sweetest.  Now, I will seal and address this letter, and you shall take it to
Mr. Fellowes to carry to the ambassador."

This gave Anne a little time to compose herself, and when he had finished, he took the candle,
and saying, "Look here," he held it to the wall, and they read, scratched on the rough bricks,
"Alice Lisle, 1685.  This is thankworthy."

"Lady Lisle's cell!  Oh, this is no good omen!"

"I call it a goodly legacy even to one who cannot claim to suffer wrongfully," said Charles.
"There, they knock--one kiss more--we shall meet again soon.  Don't linger in town, but give
me all the days you can.  Yes, take her back, Sir Edmund, for she must rest before her journey.
Cheer up, love, and do not lie weeping all night, but believe that your prayers to God and
man must prevail one way or another."

Yet after the night it was with more hope than despondency, Anne, in the February morning,
mounted en croupe behind Mr. Fellowes's servant, that being decided on as the quickest mode
of travelling. She saw the sunrise behind St. Catherine's Hill, and the gray mists filling
the valley of the Itchen, and the towers of the Cathedral and College barely peeping beyond
them.  Would her life rise out of the mist?

Through hoar-frosted hedges, deeply crested with white, they rode, emerging by and by on downs,
becoming dully green above, as the sun touched them, but white below.  Suddenly, in passing
a hollow, overhung by two or three yew-trees, they found themselves surrounded by masked horsemen.
The servant on her horse was felled, she herself snatched off and a kerchief covered her face,
while she was crying, "Oh sir, let me go!  I am on business of life and death."

The covering was stuffed into her mouth, and she was borne along some little way; then there
was a pause, and she freed herself enough to say, "You shall have everything; only let me go;"
and she felt for the money with which Sir Philip had supplied her, and for the watch given
her by King James.

"We want you; nothing of yours," said a voice.  "Don't be afraid. No one will hurt you; but
we must have you along with us."

Therewith she was pinioned by two large hands, and a bandage was made fast over her eyes, and
when she shrieked out, "Mr. Fellowes! Oh! where are you?" she was answered--

"No harm has been done to the parson.  He will be free as soon as any one comes by.  'Tis you
we want.  Now, I give you fair notice, for we don't want to choke you; there's no one to hear
a squall.  If there were, we should gag you, so you had best be quiet, and you shall suffer
no hurt.  Now then, by your leave, madam."

She was lifted on horseback again, and a belt passed round her and the rider in front of her.
Again she strove, in her natural voice, to plead that to stop her would imperil a man's life,
and to implore for release.  "We know all that," she was told.  It was not rudely said.  The
voice was not that of a clown; it was a gentleman's pronunciation, and this was in some ways
more inexplicable and alarming.  The horses were put in rapid motion; she heard the trampling
of many hoofs, and felt that they were on soft turf, and she knew that for many miles round
Winchester it was possible to keep on the downs so as to avoid any inhabited place.  She tried
to guess, from the sense of sunshine that came through her bandage, in what direction she was
being carried, and fancied it must be southerly.  On--on--on--still the turf.  It seemed absolutely
endless.  Time was not measurable under such circumstances, but she fancied noon must have
more than passed, when the voice that had before spoken said, "We halt in a moment, and shift
you to another horse, madam; but again I forewarn you that our comrades here have no ears for
you, and that cries and struggles will only make it the worse for you."  Then came the sound
as of harder ground and a stop-- undertones, gruff and manly, could be heard, the peculiar
noise of horses' drinking; and her captor came up this time on foot, saying, "Plaguy little
to be had in this accursed hole; 'tis but the choice between stale beer and milk.  Which will
you prefer?"

She could not help accepting the milk, and she was taken down to drink it, and a hunch of coarse
barley bread was given to her, with it the words, "I would offer you bacon, but it tastes as
if Old Nick had smoked it in his private furnace."

Such expressions were no proof that gentle blood was lacking, but whose object could her abduction
be--her, a penniless dependent? Could she have been seized by mistake for some heiress?  In
that moment's hope she asked, "Sir, do you know who I am--Anne Woodford, a poor, portionless
maid, not--"

"I know perfectly well, madam," was the reply.  "May I trouble you to permit me to mount you
again?"

She was again placed behind one of the riders, and again fastened to him, and off they went,
on a rougher horse, on harder ground, and, as she thought, occasionally through brushwood.
Again a space, to her illimitable, went by, and then came turf once more, and by and by what
seemed to her the sound of the sea.

Another halt, another lifting down, but at once to be gathered up again, and then a splashing
through water.  "Be careful," said the voice.  A hand, a gentleman's hand, took hers; her feet
were on boards--on a boat; she was drawn down to sit on a low thwart. Putting her hand over,
she felt the lapping of the water and tasted that it was salt.

"Oh, sir, where are you taking me?" she asked, as the boat was pushed off.

"That you will know in due time," he answered.

Some more refreshment was offered her in a decided but not discourteous manner, and she partook
of it, remembering that exhaustion might add to her perils.  She perceived that after pushing
off from shore sounds of eating and low gruff voices mingled with the plash of oars.  Commands
seemed to be given in French, and there were mutterings of some strange language.  Darkness
was coming on.  What were they doing with her?  And did Charles's fate hang upon hers?

Yet in spite of terrors and anxieties, she was so much worn out as to doze long enough to lose
count of time, till she was awakened by the rocking and tossing of the boat and loud peremptory
commands. She became for the first time in her life miserable with sea- sickness, for how long
it was impossible to tell, and the pitching of the boat became so violent that when she found
herself bound to one of the seats she was conscious of little but a longing to be allowed to
go to the bottom in peace, except that some great cause-- she could hardly in her bewildered
wretchedness recollect what-- forbade her to die till her mission was over.

There were loud peremptory orders, oaths, sea phrases, in French and English, sometimes in
that unknown tongue.  Something expressed that a light was directing to a landing-place, but
reaching it was doubtful.

"Unbind her eyes," said a voice; "let her shift for herself."

"Better not."

There followed a fresh upheaval, as if the boat were perpendicular; a sudden sinking, some
one fell over and bruised her; another frightful rising and falling, then smoothness; the rope
that held her fast undone; the keel grating; hands apparently dragging up the boat.  She was
lifted out like a doll, carried apparently through water over shingle.  Light again made itself
visible; she was in a house, set down on a chair, in the warmth of fire, amid a buzz of voices,
which lulled as the bandage was untied and removed.  Her eyes were so dazzled, her head so
giddy, her senses so faint, that everything swam round her, and there that strange vision recurred.
Peregrine Oakshott was before her.  She closed her eyes again, as she lay back in the chair.

"Take this; you will be better."  A glass was at her lips, and she swallowed some hot drink,
which revived her so that she opened her eyes again, and by the lights in an apparently richly
curtained room, she again beheld that figure standing by her, the glass in his hand.

"Oh!" she gasped.  "Are you alive?"

The answer was to raise her still gloved hand with substantial fingers to a pair of lips.

"Then--then--he is safe!  Thank God!" she murmured, and shut her eyes again, dizzy and overcome,
unable even to analyse her conviction that all would be well, and that in some manner he had
come to her rescue.

"Where am I?" she murmured dreamily.  "In Elf-land?"

"Yes; come to be Queen of it."

The words blended with her confused fancies.  Indeed she was hardly fully conscious of anything,
except that a woman's hands were about her, and that she was taken into another room, where
her drenched clothes were removed, and she was placed in a warm, narrow bed, where some more
warm nourishment was put into her mouth with a spoon, after which she sank into a sleep of
utter exhaustion.  That sleep lasted long.  There was a sensation of the rocking of the boat,
and of aching limbs, through great part of the time; also there seemed to be a continual roaring
and thundering around her, and such strange misty visions, that when she finally awoke, after
a long interval of deeper and sounder slumber, she was incapable of separating the fact from
the dream, more especially as head and limbs were still heavy, weary, and battered.  The strange
roaring still sounded, and sometimes seemed to shake the bed.  Twilight was coming in at a
curtained window, and showed a tiny chamber, with rafters overhead and thatch, a chest, a chair,
and table.  There was a pallet on the floor, and Anne suspected that she had been wakened by
the rising of its occupant.  Her watch was on the chair by her side, but it had not been wound,
and the dim light did not increase, so that there was no guessing the time; and as the remembrance
of her dreadful adventures made themselves clear, she realised with exceeding terror that she
must be a prisoner, while the evening's apparition relegated itself to the world of dreams.

Being kidnapped to be sent to the plantations was the dread of those days.  But if such were
the case, what would become of Charles?  In the alarm of that thought she sat up in bed and
prepared to rise, but could nowhere see her clothes, only the little cloth bag of toilet necessaries
that she had taken with her.

At that moment, however, the woman came in with a steaming cup of chocolate in her hand and
some of the garments over her arm.  She was a stout, weather-beaten, kindly-looking woman with
a high white cap, gold earrings, black short petticoat, and many-coloured apron. "Monsieur
veut savoir si mademoiselle va bien?" said she in slow careful French, and when questions in
that language were eagerly poured out, she shook her head, and said, "Ne comprends pas."  She,
however, brought in the rest of the clothes, warm water, and a light, so that Anne rose and
dressed, exceedingly perplexed, and wondering whether she could be in a ship, for the sounds
seemed to say so, and there was no corresponding motion.  Could she be in France?  Certainly
the voyage had seemed interminable, but she did not think it could have been long enough for
that, nor that any person in his senses would try to cross in an open boat in such weather.
She looked at the window, a tiny slip of glass, too thick to show anything but what seemed
to be a dark wall rising near at hand.  Alas! she was certainly a prisoner!  In whose hands?
With what intent?  How would it affect that other prisoner at Winchester? Was that vision of
last night substantial or the work of her exhausted brain?  What could she do?  It was well
for her that she could believe in the might of prayer.

