Now comes the more difficult point, which alone concerns Dr. Todd in his highly interesting
labours upon Wycliffe. And the method which, until better advised, I should be inclined to
follow with those passages, is to take the word nearly, though not exactly, in what seems to
have been its most usual sense; not indeed for comforters or cherishers, but for those who
promote comfort and convenience, viz., ministers or servants. It does not at all follow, because
he is blaming the introduction of these persons as expensive, superfluous, and otherwise evil,
that he describes them by a word expressive of evil. As a ministering angel would be a reheting
angel, so I take a rehetor here to be simply a minister, one who waits upon your occasions
and serves you.

A.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARABIC NUMERALS.

The history of the Arabic numerals, as they are generally called, is so mixed up with that
of the use of the decimal scale, that they form, in fact, but a single inquiry. The mere history
of the bare forms of symbols has, doubtless, its use: but then it is only in the character
of matériel for a philosophical discussion of the question--a discussion into which the natural
progress of the human mind and the urgency of social wants must enter largely.

It might at first sight appear, from the cognate character of the Hebrew and Arabic languages,
that the idea of using a single symbol for each number, might originate with either--with one
as likely as with the other. But on reflection it will readily appear that the question rather
resolves itself into one respecting the "hand-cursive" of the Jews and Saracens, than into
one respecting the constitution of the languages. Of the Jewish we know nothing, or next to
nothing, at the period in question; whilst the Arabic is as well known as even our own present
style of calligraphy. It deserves to be more carefully inquired into than has yet been done,
whether the invention of contracting the written compound symbols of the digital numbers into
single symbols did not really originate amongst the Jews rather than the Saracens; and even
whether the Arabs themselves did not obtain them from the "Jew merchants" of the earlier ages
of our era. One thing is tolerably certain:--that the Jew merchant would, as a matter of precaution,
keep all his accounts in some secret notation, or in cipher. Whether this should be a modified
form of the Hebrew notation, or of the Latin, must in a great degree depend upon the amount
of literary acquirement common amongst that people at the time.

Assuming that the Jews, as a literate people, were upon a par with their Christian contemporaries,
and that their knowledge was mainly confined to mere commercial notation, an anonymous writer
has shown how the modifications of form could be naturally made, in vol. ii. of the Bath and
Bristol Magazine, pp. 393-412.; the motto being valent quanti valet, as well as the title professing
it to be wholly "conjectural." Some of the speculations in it may, however, deserve further
considerations than they have yet received.[1]

The contraction of the compound symbols for the first nine digits into single "figures," enabled
the computer to dispense with the manual labour of the abacus, whilst in his graphic notation
he retained its essential principle of place. It seems to be almost invariably forgotten by
writers on {280} the subject, what, without this principle, no improvement in mere notation
would have been of material use in arithmetic; and on the other hand that the main difference
between the arithmetic of the abacus and the arithmetic of the slate, consists in the inevitable
consequences of the denotation of the single digits by single symbols.

The abacus, however, in its ordinary form, is essentially a decimal instrument: but its form
was also varied for commercial purposes, perhaps in different ways. I never heard of the existence
of one in any collection: but there is preserved in the British Museum a picture of one. This
was printed by Mr. Halliwell in his Rara Mathematica--not a fac-simile, but a rule and type
representation of it, ciphers being used by him for the circles in the original. Mr. Halliwell
gives it without note or remark; and evidently had not divined its meaning. This was done,
however, soon after in a review of Mr. Halliwell's book in the Philosophical Magazine. I am
not able at this moment to refer to either, so as to give exact dates: but is was somewhere
from 1838 to 1840.

Perhaps, however, I am giving "E.V." information that may be irrelevant to his purpose; though
it may of some use to another class of inquirers. I proceed, therefore, to one or two notices
that seem to have a more direct bearing on his object:

1. Chasles' Aperçu Historique sur l'Origine et le Développement de Méthodes en Géométrie; passim,
but especially in note xii.: 4to., Bruxelles, 1837.

2. Chasles' several notices in Comptes Rendus des Séances de l'Acad. des Sciences. All subsequent
to the "Aperçu."

His Catalogue des Manuscrits de la Bibliothèque de Ville de Chartres should also be consulted,
if accessible to "E.V." Copies of it, however, are very rare in the country, as it was privately
printed and never published. If, however, your correspondent have any serious inquiry in view
which should render his consultation of it desirable, I can put it in his power to do so personally
through you.

3. Libri, several notices in the same series of papers.

4. Libri, Histoire des Sciences Mathématiques en Italie. Several places. Bactulica. Paris,
1838-1841. 4 tomes. 8vo.

5. Peacock (Dean of Ely), "Arithmetic," in the Encyclopædia Metropolitana. This is now, I believe
to be had either separately, or in the volume devoted to pure "Mathematics."

6. De Morgan, Penny Cyclopædia in loc., and occasionally elsewhere in the work.

7. Leslie's Philosophy of Arithmetic.

8. Humboldt, in a paper which is translated in the Journal of the Royal Institution, vol. xxix.

I believe a good many other references might be made, with little trouble, to foreign Mémoires;
and (perhaps still more to your correspondent's apparent purpose) to some amongst the Mémoires
that relate to inscriptions and topography, rather that amongst those relating directly to
science or literature. However, the two parts of the subject cannot be effectively studied
separately from each other; and I am not without a hope that these straggling notes may be
of some use to "E.V."

Under the view of inscriptions it occurs to my memory that in two or three places on the church
of St. Brelade in Jersey, there are marked four vertical straight lines, which are interpreted
by the natives to signify the Arabic numerals 1111; as the date MCXI of the building of the
church. The church is evidently a very ancient one, and it is agreed to be the oldest in the
island, and the island historians assign it to the early part of the 12th century. For these
symbols being coeval with the building I do not vouch: as (though it is difficult to say what
may constitute antiquity in the look of four parallel lines) I confess that to my eye they
had "as modern a look" as four such lines could well have. The sudden illness of one of my
party during our visit (1847), however, precluded my examining that beautiful spot and its
interesting little church with the care I should have wished.

I may be allowed to suggest the necessity of some degree of caution in discussing this question:
especially not to assume that any Arabic numerals which appear in ecclesiastical inscriptions
are coeval with the dates they express; but rather inquire whether, from the condition of the
stone bearing the inscription, these numbers may not have been put there at a later period,
during repairs and alterations of the building itself. It is for many reasons improbable, rather
than otherwise, that the Arabic numerals should have been freely used (if used at all) on ecclesiastical
structures till long after the Reformation: indeed they are not so even yet.

But more. Even where there is authentic evidence of such symbols being used in ecclesiastical
inscriptions, the forms of them will tell nothing. For generally in such cases an antique form
of symbol would be assumed, if it were the alteration of a "learned clerk;" or the arabesque
taste of the carver of the inscription would be displayed in grotesque forms. We would rather
look for genuine than coeval symbols of this kind upon tombs and monuments, and the altar,
than upon the building itself; and these will furnish collateral proofs of the genuineness
of the entire inscriptions rather than any other class of architectural remains. The evidence
of the inscriptions on "Balks and beams" in old manorial dwellings is especially to be suspected.

T.S.D.

Shooter's Hill, Feb 11, 1850.

    [Footnote 1: In vol. iii. of the same work is another paper by
    the same author, entitled, "Conjectures respecting the Origin of
    Alphabetic writing," pp. 365-384. Reference to these papers is
    principally made, not on the ground of any assumed merit, but
    because all that has been written on any given subject ought,
    if possible, to be brought before the minds of those engaged in
    the prosecution of the inquiry.]

Arabic Numerals.--If you think the following {281} title will do for your correspondent "E.V."
(No. 15. p. 230.), please to communicate it to him:

    "Mannert, K., de Numerorum, quos arabicos voc., vera origine
    pythagorico; e. Fig. aen. 8vo. Nürnberg, 1801."

Oscar Heun.

Cambridge, Feb. 11. 1850.

Arabic Numerals (No. 15. p. 230.).--Your correspondent should consult Peacock's "History of
Arithmetic" in the Encyclopædia Metropolitana; and, if he can get them, the notes to Chasles'
Aperçu Historique des Méthodes en Géométric, and various papers of Mr. Chasles, published in
the Comptes Rendus of the French Institute. He may perhaps find some information in De Morgan's
Arithmetical Books, particularly at p. 14.

M.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FRATERNITY OF CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE--CHAUCER'S NIGHT CHARM.

In a little work by Costanzi, entitled Le Istituzioni di Pieta che si esercitano in Roma, &c.,
and published A.D. 1825, in Rome, where the schools under the management of that brotherhood
are in great favour, "C.F.S." will find much to interest him on the subject, though not exactly
in the order in which he has put his queries (No. 14. p. 214.), nor to their full extent.

Mr. Thoms, to whom English mediæval literature is so much beholden, asks very earnestly for
some information about "the white Paternoster" and "seynte Petres soster," (No. 15. p. 229.).
Perhaps the following guesses may not be without use. First, then, about the "white Paternoster:"

Henry Parker, a Carmelite friar of Doncaster, who wrote his admirable Compendiouse Treatyse,
or Dialogue of Dives and Pauper, during the reign of Edward IV., speaking against superstitions,
and especially "craftes and conjurations with holy prayers," says:

