Slavery, then, the Census proves, is hostile to the progress of wealth and population, to science,
literature, and education, to schools, colleges, and universities, to books and libraries,
to churches and religion, to the press, and therefore to free government; hostile to the poor,
keeping them in want and ignorance; hostile to labor, reducing it to servitude, and decreasing
two thirds the value of its products; hostile to morals, repudiating among slaves the marital
and parental condition, classifying them by law as chattels, darkening the immortal soul, and
making it a crime to teach millions of human beings to read or write. And shall labor and education,
literature and science, religion and the press, sustain an institution which is their deadly foe?

The discussion will be continued in my next letter.
                                                R. J. WALKER.

PALMER, THE AMERICAN SCULPTOR.

Sculpture as an art is probably anterior to painting. Form being a simpler quality than color,
the means of imitation were found in a conformity of shape rather than hue. The origin of sculpture
is somewhat obscured in the thickening mists of antiquity, but it was no doubt one of the earliest
symbols of ideas made use of by man. In fact, in its primitive development, there is considerable
evidence to show that it was the first essay at a recorded language. The Egyptian hieroglyphics,
those mysterious etchings upon the rock, representing animals, men, and nondescript characters,
were unquestionably rude attempts to hand down to posterity some account of the great events
of those forgotten ages. The next remove in the history of this art is its employment in the
production of the images of idolatrous worship; and, when confined to this purpose, it never
attained any appreciable excellence. The purely heathen mind was incapable of conceiving those
forms of ideal beauty which are born of the contemplation of a divine and spiritual beauty
revealed in the word of God and the teachings of his immaculate Son.

The grotesque Egyptian images worshipped on the Nile before the building of the pyramids, are,
judging from the best preserved antiquities, not very much inferior to the gilded deities to
be seen to-day in the thousand pagodas of heathen lands.

Take for example a Chinese idol of modern make: while it is less angular and more elaborately
finished than the ancient monstrosities found in Egypt, still, so far as perfection of form
or beauty of expression is concerned, there is little to choose between the two. Each is a
fitting type of the degree of civilization and soul culture of the peoples that produced them.
It must not be urged that the success of sculpture in Greece and Rome disproves the proposition
that the art could not develop itself among a strictly idolatrous race.

The splendid mythologies of the Greeks and Romans must not be considered as the highest forms
even of the worship of idols or inanimate things. The gods and goddesses of these mythological
systems were principally the powers that were supposed to preside over the different forces
and elements of nature, and were invested with the celestial attributes of a higher order of
beings. Neptune ruled the sea, Pluto was director of ceremonies in the infernal regions, while
Jupiter was emperor of the sky and king of all the lesser gods.

These deities were the invention of a cultivated intellect, a refined taste and polished civilization,
and furnish a striking proof of man's longing after the Infinite, unguided by the star of revelation.

The imaginative Greeks did not worship the statues of the gods per se, but only admired them
as the fitting representations of those mysterious forces that hold sway over earth, air, fire,
and water, or reverenced them as the symbols of noble sentiments or sublime passions. The thing
itself, the cunning but lifeless figure, was only incidental, while the idea thus typified
was the real incentive to worship. This was also the age that produced hero worship, and the
great man who won the praise and admiration of the people by his exalted qualities, or his
prowess in arms, was considered as a demigod, or one in favor with the tenants of Olympus,
and his statue was accordingly erected, to stand beside that, perhaps, of Mars, Apollo, or Mercury.

Thus we trace the history of sculpture in its steady progress from its use as a chronicler
of events to its employment in the production of the objects of idolatry, and thence to the
mythological period, when it became the medium of æsthetic expression, attaining its highest
perfection in the palmy days of Greece.

In no people of which the records of the past give any account, can we find such an active
sense of the beautiful as that which permeated the minds of the polished Greeks. The admiration
of physical beauty became an almost absorbing passion, and its attainment was sought after
in every process which human ingenuity could devise.

The Lacedemonian women were accustomed to place the statues of beautiful gods or goddesses
in their rooms, to the end that the children they should give birth to, would, by nature's
mysterious methods, assimilate the artistic graces of these celestial models. Perfection of
form and manly strength were the pride of the wisest and most learned men of the nation, denoting
that physical excellence was considered the necessary concomitant of moral or intellectual
worth. Authentic annals tell us that Plato and Pythagoras appeared as wrestlers at the public
games; and who shall say that these philosophical gymnasts did not derive much of their mental
vigor from this exciting exercise? In this age it is easy to see that sculpture must have received
every incentive to full development. In the people about him the artist saw the most excellent
models for his chisel, while the national taste was educated to the highest degree in the beauties
of form and the harmonies of proportion.

But the grand conceptions of Phidias, full of majesty and of grandeur as they are--the matchless
finish of the works of Apelles and Praxiteles, ravishing the senses with their carnal beauty,
still lacked one element, without which art can never reveal itself in the full perfection
of its latent capabilities.

Mere physical beauty, which contains no spiritual element, no drawing of the immortal soul,
no suggestion of purer and nobler sentiments struggling for expression in the cunning marble,
can never satisfy the requirements of the Christianized taste of modern times.

The Venus de Medici was undoubtedly the ideal type of womanly perfection in the age which produced
it, but now the sex would hardly feel themselves flattered by so poor an interpretation. The
form is all that could be desired, but the head and features are positively insipid, and a
phrenologist would tell you by the development of the cranium that female education was not
a part of the Grecian policy. There is in this statue a certain air of wantonness, a perceptible
consciousness of being valued and admired solely for physical beauty, which just as plainly
tells the estimate placed upon woman in those times as we can read the fact in history.

Thus we perceive sculpture as a representative art has become a chronicler of the world's advancement,
so that those who accept the theory of human progression would naturally look for purer and
more spiritual conceptions in the artist's soul, with a corresponding nobility in the creations
of his genius. The æsthetic principle in its higher manifestations is not the product of pagan
mind, because ideal beauty and the rules governing its expression can only be conceived by
him to whom Faith has opened the glorious possibilities of our existence beyond the grave.
In no classic picture or statue is there anything akin to that divine affinity that is apparent
in the Madonnas of the Italian masters of the sixteenth century, investing them with a charm
that lingers like an autumn sunset In the recollection of long-departed years. Compare the
loveliest of the Madonnas of Correggio and Raphael with the Venus of Cos, and we perceive the
inferiority of mere physical perfection to that spiritual beauty that exalts the soul of the
beholder, and awakens the slumber of his immortal longings.

Faultless finish, harmonious outlines, and voluptuous proportions are only the result of mechanical
skill, that a good imitator or copyist can for the most part achieve by the aid of his master's
model. But the sentiment, emotion, passion, the character, so to speak, of the statue, is the
creation of the artist, the offspring of his quickened brain.

It is to express the æsthetic idea struggling in the soul of genius, that the marble takes
its form, the canvas its color, sweet sounds combine in melody, and language weaves itself
into the wreath of song. The same divine impulse, the same grasping after a higher excellence
inspires the sculptor, the painter, the composer, and the poet, but some chance bent of nature
has decided them to choose different mediums of expression.

Some critic has written, had Coles' 'Voyage of Life' been executed in verse, instead of a series
of pictures, it would have ranked as one of the grandest poems of the age. High art, then,
whatever its kind, is the language of the æsthetic feeling in man--it symbolizes the god-like
element in his nature. Cumulative and progressive, it keeps even pace with an improving civilization,
and should therefore furnish fairer products to-day than in any period of the past. We do not
mean by this a mere conventional type in finish and mode of treatment, but certain marked,
characteristic excellences and features that would identify it with the history of our country
and the peculiarities of our people. There are a few native artists who have struggled to achieve
this consummation, and preëminent among these is Erastus D. Palmer, the American sculptor.

The history of his career, his origin, his process of study, his choice of subjects in all
his great works, his rise and triumph as an artist, all entitle him to this distinctive appellation.
He commenced life as a carpenter and joiner, but, while practising his trade in Utica, N. Y.,
his eye accidentally fell on a cameo likeness, and as the dropping of an apple suggested to
Newton the laws of gravitation, so the sight of this little trifle was the talisman that revealed
to Palmer the artistic capabilities of his genius. Being thus led to attempt the portrait of
his wife upon a shell, he executed his task--which was in a twofold sense a labor of love--with
such fidelity to nature, such bold outline, and delicacy of finish, that connoisseurs detected
in it the hand of a master. Thus encouraged, he for two years made cameo cutting his business,
and followed it with remarkable success, till, his eyes becoming affected by the exercise of
this talent, he was obliged to relinquish it, with the expectation of returning to his old
trade. But happily he was induced to try his skill at modelling in clay, and then he discovered
what was in him. Taking his little girl for a model, he produced a bust, styled the 'Infant
Ceres,' which, when finished in marble, immediately took rank as one of the gems of art. The
sweet naïvete of budding childhood, the timid eyes and dimpled cheek, all refined and sublimated
by the ideal graces added by the magic wand of genius, combined to make this earliest bust
of our sculptor one of the most felicitous products of his chisel.

Soon after this satisfactory experiment, Palmer removed to the city of Albany, where he has
since remained and won his well-deserved fame. His two allegorical pieces, 'Resignation' and
'Spring,' we cannot forbear to describe, familiar as they are to the virtuoso of art, and well
known even to the great public.

The latter is a female bust, her hair bound with a fillet of grass and half-developed grain,
her face wearing an expression of modest coquetry, quite in keeping with the capricious, 'celestial
maid;' while the gently swelling bosom suggests the latent forces of nature which only reach
their fulness in the summer sun. And about the eyes there is a look of joy and freshness in
which you fancy you can see

            'the flowers begin to spring,
  The skies to brighten, and the birds to sing.'

The 'Resignation' represents the refined voluptuousness of riper womanhood. The features are
exquisitely cut, and represent a type of beauty fit for angelic spheres. The head, so finely
proportioned, and crowned with luxuriant, waving hair, inclines gracefully to one side, as
in submission to the chastenings of Providence. But in the downcast, sorrowful eyes, there
is an expression of mingled hope and patient endurance such as Mary might have worn at the
foot of the cross. The marble is eloquent of that Christian sentiment: 'He doeth all things
well.' The religious feeling of the sixteenth century, which gave to art both its inspiration
and theme, never found so fair a mould as in this bust of 'Resignation.'

Both of these works are entirely free from all explanatory accessories, and interpret themselves
to the most sluggish soul.

Another of Palmer's compositions, and one of the most purely ideal, is the 'Dream of the Spirit's
Flight.' This is a large bas-relief, executed in medallion style. To give any idea by mere
words of the spirit of this performance is impossible. It is the half figure of a peri-like
girl, with tresses swaying in the higher air, with butterfly wings, arms and drapery gracefully
disposed, and all the parts uniting to impress you with a sense of upward, soaring motion!
There is a divine beauty about the face reflected from a brighter world. Sculptured in pure
white marble, it seems a very soul just escaped from its prison house of clay, and, listening
to those 'sounds seraphic,' bearing away to the great Beyond.

While gazing on this airy sprite, the beholder feels an exhilarating influence steal over him,
and involuntarily there goes up from his heart, like incense, that yearning prayer:

  'So grant me, God, from every care,
    And stain of passion free,
  Aloft through virtue's purer air
    To hold my course to Thee!'

We cannot speak separately of his 'Morning and Evening,' 'Immortality,' 'Sleeping Peri,' his
statue and bas-relief of 'Faith,' busts, and other works, which are grouped in odd companionship
about his studio. But the 'Indian Girl' and 'White Captive,' the crowning achievements of Palmer's
genius, and the ones that give a thoroughly American character to his reputation, demand an
elaborate consideration--not to explain their merits, but to show what materials for art exist
in our history, when appropriated by the master's hand.

Romance and poetry have not often been successful in treating of the character and customs
of our aborigines, for the elements of true heroism in the savage nature are so exceptional
and few, that the red man is a very poor subject for the higher manifestations of art. Cooper
and Longfellow alone have come back from this field with the trophies of praise. But Palmer,
with a striking originality and a subtle perception of spiritual influences, sees in the effect
of Christianity on the 'untutored mind' of the Indian, a theme to inspire his plastic clay.
So from this idea he evolves the 'Indian Girl,' standing in an attitude of perfect repose,
holding in her right hand a crucifix, on which her eyes are bent pensively in a sweet, absorbing
reverie, which shuts out the consciousness of the external world. In the other hand, which
hangs listlessly by her side, she barely touches rather than holds a bunch of feathers, evidently
gathered to adorn her person, and which she forgets in the contemplation of the story of the
Cross. The artist supposes she has found this crucifix, which the early Catholic missionaries
were wont to attach to the forest trees, and having heard from some of these zealous teachers
an exposition of Christ's mission, the better life has already begun to dawn in her soul, and
her whole aspect tells that this mysterious influence is upon her.

The features are Indian, fair and comely--we do not say beautiful, because this term expresses
the highest excellence, and ought as a descriptive phrase to be more sparingly used. The face
is idealized, as the rules of true art always require, but still preserves its fidelity to
the natural type. The form is nude to the waist, the drapery arranged with unrivalled grace,
the hair is clubbed so as to reveal the neck and shoulders, while the perfection of contour
and the completeness of development satisfy the most critical eye for the study of detail.
The 'Indian Girl' forms one of the landmarks in the history of American sculpture.

But Palmer's grand, characteristic work, in which his genius seems to have reached its noblest
expression, is the 'White Captive,' which we believe to be one of the most perfect creations
of ancient or modern art. It is something more than the nude figure of a surpassingly beautiful
woman, bound to the stake, and defying the gaze of her barbarous captors--it is not merely
an exciting incident in pioneer life, but it has a grand symbolical meaning that reaches beyond
a literal interpretation of the situation.

We see in this statue the contact of civilization with savage instinct, and in the expression
of the 'White Captive,' peering through maiden timidity, and rising triumphant above physical
fear in a look of intellectual and religious strength, before which the swarthy warrior feels
himself in the presence of a superior power--a ruler! As we gaze on in mute admiration, we
behold the race of the red man receding westward before that same power pictured in this wonderful
face: now the Indian tribes pass the Rocky mountains, they come within the roar of the Pacific,
and, growing less and less, they at last vanish away into the uncertain mists of the ocean--a
lost people, who have served the purpose for which they were created, and disappeared from
our continent to make room for a nobler humanity. It is this melancholy fate, this glorious
triumph, that Palmer has recorded in a language more forcible than history, more eloquent than
song, more ravishing than the lyre! To define how the statue spreads before you this great
vision, eludes the acutest analysis; but there it is, told just as plainly as the Falls of
Niagara or the eternal stars tell the omnipotence of God.

The longer one studies this marvellous work, the more he sees to admire, to reflect upon. There
is something in the general effect that makes the beholder forget the perfect nudity of the
figure, which necessarily grows out of the circumstances of the case, and which is entirely
unfelt by the captive in her terrible realization of the peril which surrounds her. Thus two
great difficulties that embarrass the execution of undraped statuary are entirely overcome:

1. The nudity is only incidental to the general effect, and the subject seems entirely unconscious
of the fact.

2. The nudity is accounted for by the situation--the captive is tied unclad to a tree, to be
burned alive, according to Indian custom.

Thus a criticism that has been frequently made (and not unjustly) on the morale of certain
works of art, has no application to this.

Of the details of this ideal creation--its matchless finish, the graceful undulations of the
perfect form, the firmness expressed in the clenched fingers, the instinctive shudder gathered
on the fair brow, the lofty defiance of the eyes and half-parted lips, the radiant beauty of
the face--we can only say they live in our memory, but too deep for words. We believe the truth
of the artist's conception, that the revengeful savages acknowledged the divinity of her beauty
and Christian reliance, and the 'White Captive' went free--the spirit of civilization triumphed!

As a man's character is always more or less associated with his achievements, the reader may
wish to learn something of Mr. Palmer as a man. In all kinds of soul-work, there is ever perceptible
a certain flavor of the mind which produces it, and the things thus created usually suggest
the qualities of the creator. So the works of the sculptor are to some degree the exponents
of his character, the expressions of his inner life.

Therefore in Mr. Palmer we should expect moral and intellectual worth of a high order, added
to the purest and most exalted motives. He is in spirit a reformer, taking an interest in every
measure for the improvement of our race, and sympathizing with every struggle of our aspiring
manhood.

The eccentricities, excuses, and conventional affectations of many real and pretended geniuses
he entirely eschews, feeling himself one of the people, and laboring for their elevation.

Neither does he deem it any part of genius to neglect his family, forget to pay his butcher's
bill, and ignore the claim of his tailor. His ample house and neat atelier, at the north end
of Eagle street, in the city of Albany, are the fruit of his patient and inspiring toil--his
chisel has won him moderate fortune as well as world-wide fame.

Photographs of the 'Palmer Marbles' are seen in the show windows of Paris, London, and Berlin,
while in this country they help to fill the portfolios of the virtuoso, adorning the walls
of the parlor and the private gallery.

Though in youth Palmer did not receive an average common-school education, he converses like
a man of liberal culture, showing that he belongs to the class of self-made men.

He has never visited the interminable art palaces of Europe, nor studied, in the sense in which
that term is used, the 'old masters;' still he has appropriated all the valuable hints to be
obtained from the classic models, without regarding them as the ne plus ultra of artistic execution,
and therefore to be only imitated, to the exclusion of the higher ideals of an advanced civilization.

He has an intelligible and correct theory in regard to the fidelity of art to nature. For instance,
he insists that he should represent, not imitate; and in making a bust of a man, the sculptor
should express the higher moods of his subject, and show him with his better qualities brought
to the surface. So the forms of nature should be idealized in the direction of their primitive
tendency, and thus art help to express that ineffable longing of the soul, that reaching upward
for a perfection that is approximated on earth, but never attained. This idealization is like
the humor of Dickens, something more than nature in its grotesqueness, yet a stimulated growth
of the natural quality. Palmer always takes nature for his model, and then assimilates it to
that ideal beauty which dwells in his imagination and sheds a spiritual halo over the creation
of his chisel.

Like every true disciple of genius, he feels that he has a mission to perform, and that he
is responsible for the influence he exerts on the tastes and æsthetic culture of the people.
As you chat with him in his studio, dressed in his blouse and cap, his dark eye glowing with
enthusiasm for his art, or sparkling with playful humor, standing before you tall and vigorous,
you see in him one of the earnest workers for the elevation of our humanity.

The utilities of the world will take care of themselves: let us foster the beautiful, because,
like all divine attributes, man reaches it through striving, and is made better by its contemplation.

Palmer does not look older than forty, and has perhaps not yet attained the fulness of his
powers, but has in him the elements of a healthy growth.

Work on, thou almoner of sweetest joys, thou pilgrim in that fairy realm whence come the high
ideals of life; work on, striver for the perfect type of beauty and of truth, and in thy progress
let the people trace our human nature rising to diviner heights--expanding to sublimer bounds!

CLOUDS.

RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO PROFESSOR GUYOT.

  High and fathomless above us vaults the pure aerial sky,
  Solemn bends its arch of Beauty round a world where all things die.

  On the dome through which Earth's swinging, spun of palpitating air,
  Angel artists fresco vapors into pictures passing fair.

  No cold canvas of dead color has the Mighty Master given:
  Trembles with His Infinity the azure vault of Heaven.

  On and in the lucent background float the ever-changeful forms,
  Sometimes glowing into glory, sometimes glooming into storms.

  God's blest seal is on creation; signs and symbols throng the sky,
  Though too dull to read their meaning droops the stolid human eye.

  Over mountain, over valley throng the clouds to soothe the sight;
  Through the dim walls of the city gleam they buoyant, fleeting, bright.

  Gentle, dreadful, or fantastic--nearer, farther as we gaze;
  Varied, spiritual, tender, forms and melts the surging haze.

  'Heavenly secrets' breathe around us--lowly flowers on the sod,
  Cloudland's curves and grading colors veil the Infinite of God.

  The Infinite--we shudder! but wild longings through us steal
  As we vainly strive to grasp It till our failing senses reel.

  Ever longing, never grasping, though in tenderness It stoop
  To shade the scented cups of flowers, to bend them as they droop.

  For through infinite gradations pass the changeful hues of light,
  That the infinite through color may send greetings to the sight.

  Through ne'er-returning, endless curves, flowers, trees, clouds,
      mountains pass,
  That man may see the Infinite through nature's magic glass.

  Oh, tender stooping! soothing! Infinite Love must be
  The cause, aim, end, the burning heart of everything we see.

  Earth may cover deep her dying, parted hearts chant weary dirge,
  But we feel death is but seeming in the Cloudland's evening surge.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CIRRI.

  Floating high above the mountains, in the fields of upper air,
  Multitudinous throng the Cirri, ranged in order, heavenly fair.

  Rank upon rank in glory lie the transverse, plumy bars;
  Tranquil beauty rules the union which disorder never mars.

  Perfect symmetry, obedience, mark their finely chiselled lines--
  In the highest sphere of being flexile grace with law combines.

  Now they break in fleecy ripples as innumerably they press;
  Shines the blue of Heaven between them as they fly the Wind's caress.

  Millions fleck the face of Heaven, but no two alike are ever:
  Restless mirror of the Infinite, form seems exhausted never.

  Are they lambs 'mid Heaven's blue pastures? are they swans with
      downy breast
  Floating through that azure ocean round the region of the Blest?

  Are they snowy wings of Cherubs gathering round the Throne above,
  As the vesper hymn of Heaven rises to the Eternal Love?

  Gazing on their wavy ripples, they seem mingling with the sky,
  Yet the heavenly little islets still innumerable lie.

  How the fleecy cloudlets glitter as they sail so clear and high!
  Is light curdling into snowflakes as it streams athwart the sky?

