"Beulah Harris," he demanded, in his quiet voice, "what are you doing here?"

A great happiness surged about her at the sound of his voice and the warmth of his breath against
her face. "I might ask the same, Jim, but such questions are embarrassing. Anyway, I am on
the right side of the wall."

She saw his teeth gleam in the darkness. What a wonderful soul he was!

"But you shouldn't have come like this," he protested, and his voice was serious enough. "You
are compromising yourself."

"Not I," she answered. "These bars are more inflexible than the stiffest chaperone. And I just
had to see you, Jim, at once. We've got to get you out of here."

"How's Allan?"

"Getting better."

"And your father? Pretty angry at me, I guess."

"No, Father isn't angry any more. He's just sorry."

"Times are changing, Beulah. But if he wound that sack around my neck in sorrow, I don't want
him at it when he's cross."

She laughed a little, mirthful ripple. Then, with sudden seriousness, "But, Jim, we shouldn't
be jesting. We've got to get you out of here."

"I'm not worrying, Beulah," he answered. "They seem to have the drop on me, but I know a few
things they don't. Shall I tell you what I know?"

"No."

"Why?"

"Because it would seem like arguing--like trying to prove you are innocent. And you don't need
to prove anything to me. You understand? You don't need to prove anything to me."

She felt his eyes hot on her face through the darkness. "You don't need to prove anything to
me," she repeated.

For a moment he held himself in restraint. The words were simple enough, but he knew what they
meant. And this country girl, whom he had learned to like on her father's farm, had grown larger
and larger in his scheme of things with the passing weeks. At first he had tried to dissuade
himself, to think of it only as a passing fancy, and to remember that he was engaged in the
serious business of earning enough money to build a shack on a homestead, and buy a team and
a plough, and a cow and some bits of furniture. It would be a plain, simple life, but Beulah
was accustomed--What had Beulah to do with it? He scolded himself for permitting her intrusion,
and turned his mind to the mellow fields where he would follow the plough until the sun dipped
into the Rockies, And then he would turn the horses loose for food and rest, and in the shack
the jack-pine knots would be frying in the kitchen stove, and the little table would be set,
and Beulah--

And now this girl had come to him, while he was under the shadow, and because the shadow would
not let him speak, and because her soul would not be bound by custom, and because her love
could not be concealed, she had let him know.

"Have you thought it over, Beulah?" he said. "I have no right, as matters stand, to give or
take a promise. I have no right--"

"You have no right to say 'as matters stand' as though matters had anything to do with it.
They haven't Jim. No, I have not thought it over. This isn't something you think. It is something
that comes to you when you don't think, or in spite of your thinking. But it's real--more real
than anything you can touch or handle--more real than these bars, which are not so close as
you seem to fancy--"

And then, between the iron rods across the open window, his lips met hers.

..."And you were seeking life, Beulah," he said at last. "Life that you should live in your
own way, for the joy of living it. And--"

"And I have found it," she answered, in a voice low and thrilling with tenderness. "I have
found it in you. We shall work out our destiny together, but we must keep our thought on the
destiny, rather than the work. Oh, Jim, I'm just dying to see your homestead--our homestead.
And are there two windows? We must have two windows, Jim--one in the east for the sun, and
one in the west for the mountains."

"Our house is all window, as yet," he answered gaily. "And there isn't as much as a fence post
to break the view."

"What are you doing here?" said a sharp voice, and Beulah felt as though her tin box were suddenly
sinking into a great abyss. She turned with a little gasp. Sergeant Grey stood within arm's
length of her.

"Oh, it's Sergeant Grey," she said, with a tone of relief. "I am Beulah Harris. And I've just
been getting myself engaged to your prisoner here. Oh, it's not so awful as you think. You
see, we knew each other in Manitoba, and we've really been engaged for quite a while, but he
didn't know it until to-night."

For a moment the policeman retained his reserve. He remembered the girl, who had already cost
him a deflected glance, and he reproached himself that he could doubt her even as he doubted,
but how could he know that she had not been passing in firearms or planning a release?

"What she says is right, sergeant," said Travers. "She has just broken the news to me, and
I'm the happiest man in Canada, jail or no jail."

There was no mistaking the genuine ring in Travers' voice, and the policeman was convinced.
"Most extraordinary," he remarked, at length, "but entirely natural on your part, I must say.
I congratulate you, sir." The officer had not forgotten the girl who clung to his arm the morning
before. "Hang me, sir," he continued, "there's luck everywhere but in the Mounted Police."

He unlocked the door of the cell. "I ought to search you," he said to Beulah, "but if you'll
give me your word that you have no firearms, weapons, knives, or matches, I'll admit you to
this--er--drawing-room for a few minutes."

"Nothing worse than a hat-pin," she assured him. "But you must come, too," she added, placing
her hand on his arm. "You must understand that."

He accompanied her into the cell, but remained in the doorway, where he suddenly developed
an interest in astronomy. At length he turned quickly and faced in to the darkness.

"Speaking, not as an officer, but as a fellow-man, I wish you were damned well--that is, very
well--out of this, old chap," he said to Travers.

"Oh, that's all right," Jim assured him. "You couldn't help taking me up, of course, and for
all your kindness you would quite cheerfully hang me if it fell to your lot. But it isn't going
to."

"I stand ready to be of any service to you that is permissible."

"The inquest is to be to-morrow, isn't it?" asked Beulah. "I think you should be at the inquest,
Jim."

"That's right," said the sergeant. "You may throw some new light on the case."

"I've just one request," said Travers. "You know Gardiner?"

"I've heard of him."

"Have him at the inquest."

"As a juror or witness?"

"It doesn't matter, but have him there."

"All right. I'll see to it. And now, Miss Harris, if you will permit me, I will bring your
horse for you."

Grey took a conveniently long time to find the horse, but at last he appeared in the door.
Beulah released her fingers from Jim's and swung herself into the saddle.

"Sergeant Grey," she said, "I think you're the second best man in the world. Good night."

The sergeant's military shoulders came up squarer still, and he stood at attention as she rode
into the darkness.

CHAPTER XX

AN INQUEST--AND SOME EXPLANATIONS

The inquest party consisted of the coroner, who was the doctor that had already attended Allan;
Sergeant Grey; six jurors, selected from the townspeople; the manager of the bank, whose suspicions
had first been communicated to Grey; Travers; and Gardiner. In the early morning the policeman
had ridden out to the ranch for Gardiner, but had met him on his way to town. News of the tragedy
had reached him, he said, and he was hurrying in to see if he could be of some assistance to
Travers, in arranging for a lawyer, or in any way that might be practicable. Grey told him
that as yet no formal charge had been laid against Travers; that he was merely being held pending
the finding of the coroner's jury, and suggested that if Gardiner would accompany him to the
inquest he might be able, not only to throw some light on Travers' character, but also on his
whereabouts on the night of the tragedy. To this Gardiner readily agreed.

It was noon when the party reached the Arthurses' ranch. Beulah counted them out with a field-glass
while they were still miles down the valley, and a big table was set in the bunk-house where
the cowboys were accommodated during the branding season. It was a matter of course that the
men should be fed when they reached Arthurs'. At intervals in the setting of the table the
girl returned to her field-glass, until she was quite sure of the straight figure riding beside
the mounted policeman.

They swung into the yard amid a cloud of dust, the jingle of trappings, and the hearty exchange
of greetings between Arthurs and his acquaintances from town. Gardiner was introduced to Arthurs,
and shook hands without removing his gauntlets. He had learned that the party were to have
dinner here, and he excused himself, saying that the long ride in the heat had upset him somewhat,
and he thought he would be wiser to be in the shade for an hour or two before eating. Arthurs
pressed his hospitality upon him, but as Gardiner seemed fixed in his purpose he did not insist.
Then the rancher walked over and shook hands with Travers. There were no signs of handcuffs
now, and an outsider would not have known that the young man's position differed from that
of the others present.

After the meal Gardiner joined them again, and the party, which now included Arthurs and Harris,
proceeded up the valley to the scene of the tragedy. It was a great shock to Harris to find
that the victim of Allan's gun was his old neighbour, Riles. He stood for a long time as one
dazed by the discovery, but gradually out of the confusion a horrible fear took shape in his
mind. Allan had shot this man, with whom they had an appointment at this spot; had shot him
down, as far as could be shown, without excuse or provocation, before he had so much as entered
the door. The body proved to be unarmed, and from its position had evidently fallen into the
building after receiving the fatal charge.

The old man turned dry eyes from the gruesome thing across the warm, shimmering valleys. On
the farther slopes, leagues distant through the clear air, ripening fields of wheat lay on
the hillsides like patches of copper-plate, and farther still thin columns of smoke marked
the points where steam-ploughs were wrapping the virgin prairie in her first black bridal of
commerce. But he saw none of these. He saw Allan, and he saw bars, and a prisoner's dock. And
there was something else that he would not see; he would close his eyes; he would not let its
horrid gaunt ligaments thrust themselves into his vision!

After a thorough examination of the scene they laid the body in a democrat and returned to
Arthurs', where the coroner held his court in the bunk-house.

