On the morning of June 8th, the first definite confirmation of the news of an engagement off
Santiago was published. The vessels which are reported to have taken part in the engagement
were the Brooklyn, Marblehead, Texas, and Massachusetts forming the first division; the New
York, New Orleans, Yankee, Iowa, and Oregon the second division. Very early on the morning
of the 6th, they steamed in toward the entrance of the harbor in double column, the first division
to the left, the second to the right, the vessels being in the order named above. When about
three thousand yards off shore the first division turned toward the west and the second division
toward the east; the little vessels Vixen and Swanee remaining far out on the left of the first
division to watch the riflemen on shore, and the Dolphin and Porter occupying similar positions
on the right for the same purpose. The fight was started by a 12-inch shell from the Iowa,
which struck the base of the Estrella battery and tore up the works. This was a signal for
all of the vessels to begin firing, and from that time until the firing ceased the bombardment
was terrific. The vessels had run up in the beginning at the point where the range of the forts
and batteries was known, and, in consequence, although the smoke hung so thickly about the
ships that the forts could not be seen, the shots were very effective. The vessels of the first
division had been instructed to concentrate their fire at the fortifications at the left or
west side of the entrance to the harbor; those of the second division attacking Morro Castle
and fortifications to the right, and the Spanish vessels in the harbor which were within range.
The Spanish gunners on shore replied promptly, but their marksmanship was of no better quality
than in previous engagements, and it is reported that practically no damage was done to our
fleet. It is reported that one Spanish shell struck the military mast of the Massachusetts,
but nobody was hurt. One man on the Swanee was slightly wounded, and it is said that he is
the only one who was hurt on our side. As the bombardment proceeded, Commodore Schley's ships
moved nearer to the shore, and the effect of their fire at such short range was tremendous:
earthworks were simply blown to pieces, and the Spanish gunners soon forced to stop firing.
The Estrella fortification, which was probably the strongest one there, was given particular
attention by Schley's column. The fort offered great resistance, but when the vessels had moved
to closer range the heavy guns of the Texas and Marblehead were turned upon it. The Spanish
guns were soon silenced and the fortification set on fire. The Cayo battery was silenced by
the New York and New Orleans after a terrific fire of about half an hour. Many of the American
shells were wasted for the reason that the fortified points on the shore could not be accurately
located in the thick weather. There was a heavy rain and fog at the time, and this made marksmanship
much less accurate. Shortly after nine o'clock the firing from shore ceased, and a signal was
hoisted by Admiral Sampson to cease firing. It was then seen that the earthworks and the Estrella
and Catalina fortifications were so damaged that it is doubtful whether the Spaniards will
be able to use them again.

