"A little," said Mary, blushing; "and it seems to me that his mind is perplexed somewhat in
regard to the doings of the unregenerate,--I fear that it has rather proved a stumbling-block
in his way; but he showed so much feeling!--I could really see the tears in his eyes!"

"His mother was a most godly woman, Mary," said the Doctor. "She was called from her youth,
and her beautiful person became a temple for the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Aaron Burr
is a child of many prayers, and therefore there is hope that he may yet be effectually called.
He studied awhile with Bellamy," he added, musingly, "and I have often doubted whether Bellamy
took just the right course with him."

"I hope he will call and talk with you," said Mary, earnestly; "what a blessing to the world,
if such talents as his could become wholly consecrated!"

"Not many wise, not many mighty, not many noble are called," said the Doctor; "yet if it would
please the Lord to employ my instrumentality and prayers, how much should I rejoice! I was
struck," he added, "to-night, when I saw those Jews present, with the thought that it was,
as it were, a type of that last ingathering, when both Jew and Gentile shall sit down lovingly
together to the gospel feast. It is only by passing over and forgetting these present years,
when so few are called and the gospel makes such slow progress, and looking unto that glorious
time, that I find comfort. If the Lord but use me as a dumb stepping-stone to that heavenly
Jerusalem, I shall be content."

Thus they talked while the wagon jogged soberly homeward, and the frogs and the turtles and
the distant ripple of the sea made a drowsy, mingling concert in the summer-evening air.

Meanwhile Colonel Burr had returned to the lighted rooms, and it was not long before his quick
eye espied Madame de Frontignac standing pensively in a window-recess, half hid by the curtain.
He stole softly up behind her and whispered something in her ear.

In a moment she turned on him a face glowing--with anger, and drew back haughtily; but Burr
remarked the glitter of tears, not quite dried even by the angry flush of her eyes.

"In what have I had the misfortune to offend?" he said, crossing his arms upon his breast.
"I stand at the bar, and plead, Not guilty."

He spoke in French, and she replied in the same smooth accents,--

"It was not for her to dispute Monsieur's right to amuse himself."

Burr drew nearer, and spoke in those persuasive, pleading tones which he had ever at command,
and in that language whose very structure in its delicate tutoiment gives such opportunity
for gliding on through shade after shade of intimacy and tenderness, till gradually the haughty
fire of the eyes was quenched in tears, and, in the sudden revulsion of a strong, impulsive
nature, she said what she called words of friendship, but which carried with them all the warmth
of that sacred fire which is given to woman to light and warm the temple of home, and which
sears and scars when kindled for any other shrine.

And yet this woman was the wife of his friend and associate!

Colonel de Frontignac was a grave and dignified man of forty-five. Virginie de Frontignac had
been given him to wife when but eighteen,--a beautiful, generous, impulsive, wilful girl. She
had accepted him gladly, for very substantial reasons. First, that she might come out of the
convent where she was kept for the very purpose of educating her in ignorance of the world
she was to live in. Second, that she might wear velvet, lace, cashmere, and jewels. Third,
that she might be a Madame, free to go and come, ride, walk, and talk, without surveillance.
Fourth,--and consequent upon this,--that she might go into company and have admirers and adorers.

She supposed, of course, that she loved her husband;--whom else should she love? He was the
only man, except her father and brothers, that she had ever known; and in the fortnight that
preceded their marriage did he not send her the most splendid bons-bons every day, with bouquets
of every pattern that ever taxed the brain of a Parisian artiste?--was not the corbeille de
mariage a wonder and an envy to all her acquaintance?--and after marriage had she not found
him always a steady, indulgent friend, easy to be coaxed as any grave papa?

On his part, Monsieur de Frontignac cherished his young wife as a beautiful, though somewhat
absurd little pet, and amused himself with her frolics and gambols, as the gravest person often
will with those of a kitten.

It was not until she knew Aaron Burr that poor Virginie de Frontignac came to that great awakening
of her being which teaches woman what she is, and transforms her from a careless child to a
deep-hearted, thinking, suffering human being.

For the first time, in his society she became aware of the charm of a polished and cultivated
mind, able with exquisite tact to adapt itself to hers, to draw forth her inquiries, to excite
her tastes, to stimulate her observation. A new world awoke around her,--the world of literature
and taste, of art and of sentiment; she felt, somehow, as if she had gained the growth of years
in a few months. She felt within herself the stirring of dim aspiration, the uprising of a
new power of self-devotion and self-sacrifice, a trance of hero-worship, a cloud of high ideal
images,--the lighting up, in short, of all that God has laid, ready to be enkindled, in a woman's
nature, when the time comes to sanctify her as the pure priestess of a domestic temple. But,
alas! it was kindled by one who did it only for an experiment, because he felt an artistic
pleasure in the beautiful light and heat, and cared not, though it burned a soul away.

Burr was one of those men willing to play with any charming woman the game of those navigators
who give to simple natives glass beads and feathers in return for gold and diamonds,--to accept
from a woman her heart's blood in return for such odds and ends and clippings as he can afford
her from the serious ambition of life.

Look in with us one moment, now that the party is over, and the busy hum of voices and blaze
of lights has died down to midnight silence and darkness; we make you clairvoyant, and you
may look through the walls of this stately old mansion, still known as that where Rochambeau
held his head-quarters, into this room, where two wax candles are burning on a toilette table,
before an old-fashioned mirror. The slumberous folds of the curtains are drawn with stately
gloom around a high bed, where Colonel de Frontignac has been for many hours quietly asleep;
but opposite, resting with one elbow on the toilette table, her long black hair hanging down
over her night-dress, and the brush lying listlessly in her hand, sits Virginie, looking fixedly
into the dreamy depths of the mirror.

Scarcely twenty yet, all unwarned of the world of power and passion that lay slumbering in
her girl's heart, led in the meshes of custom and society to utter vows and take responsibilities
of whose nature she was no more apprised than is a slumbering babe, and now at last fully awake,
feeling the whole power of that mysterious and awful force which we call love, yet shuddering
to call it by its name, but by its light beginning to understand all she is capable of, and
all that marriage should have been to her! She struggles feebly and confusedly with her fate,
still clinging to the name of duty, and baptizing as friendship this strange new feeling which
makes her tremble through all her being. How can she dream of danger in such a feeling, when
it seems to her the awakening of all that is highest and noblest within her? She remembers
when she thought of nothing beyond an opera-ticket or a new dress; and now she feels that there
might be to her a friend for whose sake she would try to be noble and great and good,--for
whom all self-denial, all high endeavor, all difficult virtue would become possible,--who would
be to her life, inspiration, order, beauty.

She sees him as woman always sees the man she loves,--noble, great, and good;--for when did
a loving woman ever believe a man otherwise?--too noble, too great, too high, too good, she
thinks, for her,--poor, trivial, ignorant coquette,--poor, childish, trifling Virginie! Has
he not commanded armies? she thinks,--is he not eloquent in the senate? and yet, what interest
he has taken in her, a poor, unformed, ignorant creature!--she never tried to improve herself
till since she knew him. And he is so considerate, too,--so respectful, so thoughtful and kind,
so manly and honorable, and has such a tender friendship for her, such a brotherly and fatherly
solicitude! and yet, if she is haughty or imperious or severe, how humbled and grieved he looks!
How strange that she could have power over such a man!

It is one of the saddest truths of this sad mystery of life, that woman is, often, never so
much an angel as just the moment before she falls into an unsounded depth of perdition. And
what shall we say of the man who leads her on as an experiment,--who amuses himself with taking
woman after woman up these dazzling, delusive heights, knowing, as he certainly must, where
they lead?

We have been told, in extenuation of the course of Aaron Burr, that he was not a man of gross
passions or of coarse indulgence, but, in the most consummate and refined sense, a man of gallantry.
This, then, is the descriptive name which polite society has invented for the man who does
this thing!

Of old, it was thought that one who administered poison in the sacramental bread and wine had
touched the very height of impious sacrilege; but this crime is white, by the side of his who
poisons God's eternal sacrament of love and destroys a woman's soul through her noblest and
purest affections.

We have given you the after-view of most of the actors of our little scene to-night, and therefore
it is but fair that you should have a peep over the Colonel's shoulder, as he sums up the evening
in a letter to a friend.

"MY DEAR ----

"As to the business, it gets on rather slowly. L---- and S---- are away, and the coalition
cannot be formed without them; they set out a week ago from Philadelphia, and are yet on the road.

"Meanwhile, we have some providential alleviations,--as, for example, a wedding-party to-night,
at the Wilcoxes', which was really quite an affair. I saw the prettiest little Puritan there
that I have set eyes on for many a day. I really couldn't help getting up a flirtation with
her, although it was much like flirting with a small copy of the 'Assembly's Catechism,'--of
which last I had enough years ago, Heaven knows.

"But, really, such a naïve, earnest little saint, who has such real deadly belief, and opens
such pitying blue eyes on one, is quite a stimulating novelty. I got myself well scolded by
the fair Madame, (as angels scold,) and had to plead like a lawyer to make my peace;--after
all, that woman really enchains me. Don't shake your head wisely,--' What's going to be the
end of it?' I'm sure I don't know; we'll see, when the time comes.

"Meanwhile, push the business ahead with all your might. I shall not be idle. D---- must canvass
the Senate thoroughly. I wish I could be in two places at once,--I would do it myself. Au revoir.

"Ever yours,

"Burr."

CHAPTER XV.

"And now, Mary," said Mrs. Scudder, at five o'clock the next morning, "to-day, you know, is
the Doctor's fast; so we won't get any regular dinner, and it will be a good time to do up
all our little odd jobs. Miss Prissy promised to come in for two or three hours this morning,
to alter the waist of that black silk; and I shouldn't be surprised if we should get it all
done and ready to wear by Sunday."

We will remark, by way of explanation to a part of this conversation, that our Doctor, who
was a specimen of life in earnest, made a practice, through the greater part of his pulpit
course, of spending every Saturday as a day of fasting and retirement, in preparation for the
duties of the Sabbath.

Accordingly, the early breakfast things were no sooner disposed of than Miss Prissy's quick
footsteps might have been heard pattering in the kitchen.

"Well, Miss Scudder, how do you do this morning? and how do you do, Mary? Well, if you a'n't
the beaters! up just as early as ever, and everything cleared away! I was telling Miss Wilcox
there didn't ever seem to be anything done in Miss Scudder's kitchen, and I did verily believe
you made your beds before you got up in the morning.

"Well, well, wasn't that a party last night?" she said, as she sat down with the black silk
and prepared her ripping-knife.--"I must rip this myself, Miss Scudder; for there's a great
deal in ripping silk so as not to let anybody know where it has been sewed.--You didn't know
that I was at the party, did you? Well, I was. You see, I thought I'd just step round there,
to see about that money to get the Doctor's shirt with, and there I found Miss Wilcox with
so many things on her mind, and says she, 'Miss Prissy, you don't know how much it would help
me if I had somebody like you just to look after things a little here.' And says I, 'Miss Wilcox,
you just go right to your room and dress, and don't you give yourself one minute's thought
about anything, and you see if I don't have everything just right.' And so, there I was, in
for it; and I just staid through, and it was well I did,--for Dinah, she wouldn't have put
near enough egg into the coffee, if it hadn't been for me; why, I just went and beat up four
eggs with my own hands and stirred 'em into the grounds.

"Well,--but, really, wasn't I behind the door, and didn't I peep into the supper-room? I saw
who was a-waitin' on Miss Mary. Well, they do say he's the handsomest, most fascinating man.
Why, they say all the ladies in Philadelphia are in a perfect quarrel about him; and I heard
he said he hadn't seen such a beauty he didn't remember when."

"We all know that beauty is of small consequence," said Mrs. Scudder. "I hope Mary has been
brought up to feel that."

"Oh, of course," said Miss Prissy, "it's just like a fading flower; all is to be good and useful,--and
that's what she is. I told 'em that her beauty was the least part of her; though I must say,
that dress did fit like a biscuit,--if 'twas my own fitting.

"But, Miss Scudder, what do you think I heard 'em saying about the good Doctor?"

"I'm sure I don't know," said Mrs. Scudder; "I only know they couldn't say anything bad."

"Well, not bad exactly," said Miss Prissy,--"but they say he's getting such strange notions
in his head. Why, I heard some of 'em say, he's going to come out and preach against the slave-trade;
and I'm sure I don't know what Newport folks will do, if that's wicked. There a'n't hardly
any money here that's made any other way; and I hope the Doctor a'n't a-going to do anything
of that sort."

"I believe he is," said Mrs. Scudder; "he thinks it's a great sin, that ought to be rebuked;--and
I think so too," she added, bracing herself resolutely; "that was Mr. Scudder's opinion when
I first married him, and it's mine."

"Oh,--ah,--yes,--well,--if it's a sin, of course," said Miss Prissy; "but then--dear me!--it
don't seem as if it could be. Why, just think how many great houses are living on it;--why,
there's General Wilcox himself, and he's a very nice man; and then there's Major Seaforth;
why, I could count you off a dozen,--all our very first people. Why, Doctor Stiles doesn't
think so, and I'm sure he's a good Christian. Doctor Stiles thinks it's a dispensation for
giving the light of the gospel to the Africans. Why, now I'm sure, when I was a-workin' at
Deacon Stebbins', I stopped over Sunday once 'cause Miss Stebbins she was weakly,--'twas when
she was getting up, after Samuel was born,--no, on the whole, I believe it was Nehemiah,--but,
any way, I remember I staid there, and I remember, as plain as if 'twas yesterday, just after
breakfast, how a man went driving by in a chaise, and the Deacon he went out and stopped him
('cause you know he was justice of the peace) for travelling on the Lord's day, and who should
it be but Tom Seaforth?--he told the Deacon his father had got a ship-load of negroes just
come in,--and the Deacon he just let him go; 'cause I remember he said that was a plain work
of necessity and mercy.[A] Well, now who would 'a' thought it? I believe the Doctor is better
than most folks, but then the best people may be mistaken, you know."

[Footnote A: A fact.]

"The Doctor has made up his mind that it's his duty," said Mrs. Scudder. "I'm afraid it will
make him very unpopular; but I, for one, shall stand by him."

"Oh, certainly, Miss Scudder, you are doing just right exactly. Well, there's one comfort,
he'll have a great crowd to hear him preach; 'cause, as I was going round through the entries
last night, I heard 'em talking about it,--and Colonel Burr said he should be there, and so
did the General, and so did Mr. What's-his-name there, that Senator from Philadelphia. I tell
you, you'll have a full house."

It was to be confessed that Mrs. Scudder's heart rather sunk than otherwise at this announcement;
and those who have felt what it is to stand almost alone in the right, in the face of all the
first families of their acquaintance, may perhaps find some compassion for her,--since, after
all, truth is invisible, but "first families" are very evident. First families are often very
agreeable, undeniably respectable, fearfully virtuous, and it takes great faith to resist an
evil principle which incarnates itself in the suavities of their breeding and amiability; and
therefore it was that Mrs. Scudder felt her heart heavy within her, and could with a very good
grace have joined in the Doctor's Saturday fast.

As for the Doctor, he sat the while tranquil in his study, with his great Bible and his Concordance
open before him, culling, with that patient assiduity for which he was remarkable, all the
terrible texts which that very unceremonious and old-fashioned book rains down so unsparingly
on the sin of oppressing the weak.

First families, whether in Newport or elsewhere, were as invisible to him as they were to Moses
during the forty days that he spent with God on the mount; he was merely thinking of his message,--thinking
only how he should shape it, so as not to leave one word of it unsaid,--not even imagining
in the least what the result of it was to be. He was but a voice, but an instrument,--the passive
instrument through which an almighty will was to reveal itself; and the sublime fatalism of
his faith made him as dead to all human considerations as if he had been a portion of the immutable
laws of Nature herself.

So, the next morning, although all his friends trembled for him when he rose in the pulpit,
he never thought of trembling for himself; he had come in the covered way of silence from the
secret place of the Most High, and felt himself still abiding under the shadow of the Almighty.
It was alike to him, whether the house was full or empty,--whoever were decreed to hear the
message would be there; whether they would hear or forbear was already settled in the counsels
of a mightier will than his,--he had the simple duty of utterance.

The ruinous old meeting-house was never so radiant with station and gentility as on that morning.
A June sun shone brightly; the sea sparkled with a thousand little eyes; the birds sang all
along the way; and all the notables turned out to hear the Doctor. Mrs. Scudder received into
her pew, with dignified politeness, Colonel Burr and Colonel and Madame de Frontignac. General
Wilcox and his portly dame, Major Seaforth, and we know not what of Vernons and De Wolfs, and
other grand old names, were represented there; stiff silks rustled, Chinese fans fluttered,
and the last court fashions stood revealed in bonnets.

Everybody was looking fresh and amiable,--a charming and respectable set of sinners, come to
hear what the Doctor would find to tell them about their transgressions.

Mrs. Scudder was calculating consequences; and, shutting her eyes on the too evident world
about her, prayed that the Lord would overrule all for good. The Doctor prayed that he might
have grace to speak the truth, and the whole truth. We have yet on record, in his published
works, the great argument of that day, through which he moved with that calm appeal to the
reason which made his results always so weighty.

"If these things be true," he said, after a condensed statement of the facts of the case, "then
the following terrible consequences, which may well make all shudder and tremble who realize
them, force themselves upon us, namely: that all who have had any hand in this iniquitous business,
whether directly or indirectly, or have used their influence to promote it, or have consented
to it, or even connived at it, or have not opposed it by all proper exertions of which they
are capable,--all these are, in a greater or less degree, chargeable with the injuries and
miseries which millions have suffered and are suffering, and are guilty of the blood of millions
who have lost their lives by this traffic in the human species. Not only the merchants who
have been engaged in this trade, and the captains who have been tempted by the love of money
to engage in this cruel work, and the slave-holders of every description, are guilty of shedding
rivers of blood, but all the legislatures who have authorized, encouraged, or even neglected
to suppress it to the utmost of their power, and all the individuals in private stations who
have in any way aided in this business, consented to it, or have not opposed it to the utmost
of their ability, have a share in this guilt. If a bitter woe is pronounced on him 'that buildeth
his house by unrighteousness and his chambers by wrong,' Jer. xxii. 13,--to him 'that buildeth
a town with blood, and stablisheth a city by iniquity,' Hab. ii. 12,--to 'the bloody city,'
Ezek. xxiv. 6,--what a heavy, dreadful woe hangs over the heads of all those whose hands are
defiled by the blood of the Africans, especially the inhabitants of this State and this town,
who have had a distinguished share in this unrighteous and bloody commerce!"

He went over the recent history of the country, expatiated on the national declaration so lately
made, that all men are born equally free and independent and have natural and inalienable rights
to liberty, and asked with what face a nation declaring such things could continue to hold
thousands of their fellowmen in abject slavery. He pointed out signs of national disaster which
foreboded the wrath of Heaven,--the increase of public and private debts, the spirit of murmuring
and jealousy of rulers among the people, divisions and contentions and bitter party alienations,
the jealous irritation of England constantly endeavoring to hamper our trade, the Indians making
war on the frontiers, the Algerines taking captive our ships and making slaves of our citizens,--all
evident tokens of the displeasure and impending judgment of an offended Justice.

The sermon rolled over the heads of the gay audience, deep and dark as a thunder-cloud, which
in a few moments changes a summer sky into heaviest gloom. Gradually an expression of intense
interest and deep concern spread over the listeners; it was the magnetism of a strong mind,
which held them for a time under the shadow of his own awful sense of God's almighty justice.

It is said that a little child once described his appearance in the pulpit by saying, "I saw
God there, and I was afraid."

Something of the same effect was produced on his audience now; and it was not till after sermon,
prayer, and benediction were all over, that the respectables of Newport began gradually to
unstiffen themselves from the spell, and to look into each other's eyes for comfort, and to
reassure themselves that after all they were the first families, and going on the way the world
had always gone, and that the Doctor, of course, was a radical and a fanatic.

When the audience streamed out, crowding the broad aisle, Mary descended from the singers,
and stood with her psalm-book in hand, waiting at the door to be joined by her mother and the
Doctor. She overheard many hard words from people who, an evening or two before, had smiled
so graciously upon them. It was therefore with no little determination of manner that she advanced
and took the Doctor's arm, as if anxious to associate herself with his well-earned unpopularity,--and
just at this moment she caught the eye and smile of Colonel Burr, as he bowed gracefully, yet
not without a suggestion of something sarcastic in his eye.

[To be continued.]

THE PROFESSOR AT THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

WHAT HE SAID, WHAT HE HEARD, AND WHAT HE SAW.

Old fellow?--said I,--whom do you mean? Good-bye! Where is my Béranger? I must read "Frétillon."

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES. New York: Appleton & Company. 1859.

We are all familiar with that John Brown whom the minstrel has immortalized as being the possessor
of a diminutive youth of the aboriginal American race, who, in the course of the ditty, is
multiplied from "one little Injun" into "ten little Injuns," and who, in a succeeding stanza,
by an ingenious amphisbaenic process, is again reduced to the singular number. As far as we
are aware, the author of this "genuine autobiography" claims no relationship with the famous
owner of tender redskins. The multiplicity of adventures of which he has been the hero demands
for him, however, the same notice that a multiplicity of "Injuns" has insured to his illustrious
namesake.

We have always had a pet theory, that a plain and minute narrative of any ordinary man's life,
stated with simplicity and without any reference to dramatic effect or the elegances of composition,
would possess an immediate interest for the public. We cannot know too much about men. No man's
life is so uneventful as to be incapable of amusing and instructing. The same event is never
the same to more than one person; no two see it from the same point of view. And as we want
to know more of men than of incidents, every one's record of trifles is useful. A book written
by a Cornish miner, whose life passes in subterranean monotony, sparing none of the petty and
ever-recurring details that make up his routined existence, would, if set down in the baldest
language, be a valuable contribution to literature. But we rarely, if ever, find a man sufficiently
free from vanity and the demon of composition to tell us plainly what has happened to him.
The moment the working-man gets a pen into his hand, he is, as it were, possessed. He is no
longer himself. He has not the courage to come out naked and show himself in all his grime
and strength. The instant that he conceives the idea of putting himself on paper he borrows
somebody else's clothes, and, instead of a free, manly figure, we have a wretched scarecrow
in a coat too small or too large for him,--generally the latter. For it is a curious fact,
that the more uneducated a man is,--in which condition his ordinary language must of necessity
be proportionately idiomatic,--the greater pains he takes, when he has formed the resolution
of composing, to be splendid and expansive in his style. He racks his brains until he rummages
out imperfect memories of the turgid paragraphs of cheap newspapers and novels which he has
some time or other read, and forthwith struts off with all the finest feathers in the dictionary
rustling about him.

Mr. John Brown, the hero of the Autobiography before us, is no exception to this unhappy rule.
The son of a butcher, he became in boyhood a sheep-driver, was then apprenticed to a shoemaker,
got into trouble and a prison, enlisted as a soldier, deserted, turned strolling player, shipped
on board a man-of-war, tried again to desert, was flogged at the gratings, beheld Napoleon
on board the Bellerophon, was discharged from the navy, consorted with thieves and prize-fighters,
appeared on the London stage with success, married and starved, became the pet of the Cambridge
students, whom he assisted in amateur theatricals, started a stage-coach line to London and
failed, set up a billiard-room, got into innumerable street-fights and always came off conqueror,
was elected town-councillor of Cambridge and made a fortune, which it is to be hoped he is
now enjoying.

Here was material for a book. From the glimpses of his personnel which we occasionally catch
through all Mr. Brown's splendid writing, we should say that he was a man of a strong, hearty
nature, full of indomitable energy, and possessed with a truly Saxon predilection for the use
of his fists. The number of physical contests in which he was chief actor renders his volume
almost epical in character. Invulnerable as Achilles and quarrelsome as Hector, he strides
over the bodies of innumerable foes. If some of his friends, the Seniors, at Cambridge, would
only put his adventures into Greek verse, he might descend to posterity in sounding hexameters
with the sons of Telamon and Thetis.

The plain narrative portions of Mr. Brown's volume possess much real interest. His adventures
with the strolling players, the insight he gives us into the life of a journeyman shoemaker,
and his reminiscences of his friends, the Jew old-clothes-men, the pick-pockets, and the prize-fighters,
are so many steaks cut warm from the living world, and are good, substantial food for thought.
But he seldom forgets himself long, and is natural only by fits and starts. After he has been
striding along for a short time with a free, manly gait, he suddenly bethinks himself that
he is writing a book. The malign influences of Cambridge University begin to work upon him.
The loose stride is contracted; the swing of the vigorous shoulders is restrained, and, instead
of an honest fellow tramping sturdily after his own fashion through the paths of literature,
we are treated to an imitation of Dr. Johnson, done by an illiterate butcher's son. We are
afraid that the Cantabs have been at the bottom of John Brown's fine writing. How valuable,
for instance, are the following philosophical reflections upon Napoleon, which John Brown makes
when he beholds the dethroned Emperor standing sadly upon the poop of the Bellerophon!

"Here, then," remarks John, "had ended his dream of universal conquest; here he lay prostrate
at the foot of the altar," (we are informed a few lines before this that he had taken his stand
on the poop,) "on which he sacrificed, not hecatombs, but pyramids, of human victims." (Beautiful
antithesis!) "As his ambition was boundless, posterity will not weep at his fall. But that
he insinuated himself into the hearts of a generous people is too true; they worshipped him
as a demi-god, until," etc. Farther on, we learn the startling intelligence, that "for a time
his adopted country was enriched by the spoils and plunder of other lands." (Did Alison know
this?) "He formed the bulk of the population into an organized banditti, and led them forth
in martial pomp to do the unholy work of bloodshed and robbery.... All the independent states
of Europe leagued together to put down this infamous system of national plunder." (Russia among
the rest of the independent states, we suppose.)... "Had he been desirous of establishing just
principles on earth, and crushing despotism, the sympathies of the entire human race would
have been enlisted on his side." Certainly, John. Two and two make four, and things that are
equal to the same are equal to each other.

After having in a street-fight pommelled an unhappy Cambridge student into jelly, and reduced
him to a state which he picturesquely describes as resembling that of "a dog in a coal-box,"
he picks him up and philosophically informs him that "all the different styles of fence were
invented and established for man's protection, not for his destruction. Besides," he adds,
with much profundity, "the laws thereto appertaining are based on certain strict principles
of honor, which you have unquestionably violated in this case. Now, take my advice, never again
engage in fight without having some just cause of quarrel. Thus, at least, you will always
come off with credit, if not with victory." And having delivered himself of this stupendous
moral lesson, Dr. Samuel Johnson Mendoza John Brown puts on his hat (he surely ought to have
had a full-bottomed wig under it) and walks off, leaving his opponent doubtless more like a
dog in a coal-box than ever. He sees Dr. Abernethy, and rises into this inspired strain: "To
me, who have ever held genius and talent in veneration, as being

  "'Olympus-high above all earthly things,'

the sight of this plain, unostentatious man afforded more pleasurable feelings than could all
the gilded pomp beneath the sun." One can fancy, if John had communicated this reflection to
the Doctor, what would have been the reply of that suave practitioner. He goes to low dance-houses,
and the interesting result of his reflections on what he beheld there is, "that vice, however
gilded over, is still a hideous monster; in which conviction, I resigned myself to that power
that 'must delight in virtue.'" When he speaks of his billiard-pupils, he loftily denominates
them "hundreds of the best gentlemen-players scattered over the earth's surface," from which
we draw the pleasing inference that none of John Brown's scholars are addicted to subterranean
billiards.

In spite of these rags of old college-gowns, in which John so funnily arrays himself on occasions,
his book is worth reading. If it has not the muscular, unaffected morality of his namesake's
unsurpassable "School-Days at Rugby," it is at least the production of an honest, hearty Englishman,
and teaches an excellent lesson on the value of pluck and perseverance.

Colton's Illustrated Cabinet Atlas and Descriptive Geography. Maps by G.W. COLTON. Text by
R.S. FISHER. New YORK: J.H. Colton & Co. 4to. pp. 400.

This work meets an acknowledged want; it combines in one convenient volume most of the desirable
features of the larger atlases, being full enough in detail for all ordinary purposes, without
being cumbersome and costly. It is prefaced by a clear and well-digested statement of the laws
of Physical Geography, "based," as the publishers say, "upon the excellent treatise on the
same subject found in the Atlas of Milner and Petermann, recently published in London." The
maps are one hundred and sixteen in number, admirably engraved, and, what especially enhances
their value, they are draughted on easily-convertible scales,--one inch always representing
ten, twenty-five, fifty, one hundred, or other number of miles readily comparable. They include
the results of the latest explorations of travellers, and the newest settlements made by the
English and Americans.

The descriptions are full and accurate, and the statistics of population, trade, public and
private institutions, etc., are convenient for reference. This department is illustrated by
over six hundred wood-cuts.

This Atlas may, therefore, fairly claim rank as a Cyclopaedia of Geography, and for the household
and school it is one of the most useful publications of our time. The attention now everywhere
excited by proposed or impending changes in the boundary-lines of European States, by the inroads
of Western civilization in the East, by the settlement of the Pacific Islands, and by the growth
of empire on the western coast of our own country, renders the publication of a compendious
work like this very timely.

Poems. By OWEN MEREDITH. The Wanderer and Clytemnestra. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 18mo.

The author of these poems is Robert Bulwer Lytton, the son of the eminent novelist. Though
still very young, he has reached the honor of being arrayed in Ticknor and Fields's "blue and
gold," the paradisiacal condition of contemporary poets; and his works occupy, in words, though
not in matter, as much space as Tennyson's. The volume includes all the poems which Lytton
has published up to the present time. The general characteristics of his Muse are fluency,
fancy, melody, and sensibility. The diligent reader will detect, throughout the volume, the
traces of the author's sympathy with other poets, especially Tennyson, and, amid all the opulence
of expression and intensity of feeling, will be sensible of the lack of decided original genius
and character. There is evidence of intellect and imagination, but they are at present tossed
somewhat wildly about in a tumult of sensations and passions, and have not yet mastered their
instruments. But the poems, as they are the product of a young man, so they possess all the
attractions which allure young readers. It would not be surprising, if they obtained a popularity
equal to those of Alexander Smith; for they give even more musical utterance to the loves,
hopes, exultations, regrets, and despairs of youth, and indicate the same hot blood. They are
also characterized by similar vagueness of thought and vividness of fancy, in those passages
where sensibility turns theorist and philosophizes on its gratified or battled sensations,--while
they generally evince wider culture, larger superficial experience of life, a more controlling
sense of the beautiful, and an equal facility of self-abandonment to the passion of the moment.

Leaving out those poems which are repetitions or imitations, a thin volume might be made containing
some striking examples of original perception and original experience. Among these the charming
little piece entitled "Madame La Marquise" would hold a prominent place. After making, however,
all deductions from the pretensions of the volume, it may be said, that the father, at the
same age, did not indicate so much talent as the son.

Symbols of the Capital; or Civilization in New York. By A.D. MAYO. 12mo.

This is a clear and forcibly written exposition of the tendencies of American society, as surveyed
from the point of view of an earnest, practical, and dispassionate reformer. The essays on
Town and Country Life, those on Education, Art, and Religion, the Forces of Free Labor, and
the Gold Dollar, exhibit equal independence of thought and extent of information. In the essay
on the Position of Woman in America, a difficult theme is discussed with candor and sagacity.
We have rarely seen a volume to which the conscientious adversaries of the reforms of the day
could go for a more lucid statement of the opinions they oppose; and it is admirably calculated
to effect the purpose the author had in view, namely, "to aid the young men and women of our
land in their attempt to realize a character that shall justify our professions of republicanism,
and to establish a civilization which, in becoming national, shall illustrate every principle
of a pure Christianity."

The Avenger, a Narrative; and other Papers. By THOMAS DE QUINCEY, Author of "Confessions of
an Opium-Eater," etc. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 16mo.

This is the twenty-first volume of De Quincey's miscellaneous writings, collected by the indefatigable
American editor, Mr. James T. Fields. It contains "The Avenger," a powerful story of wrong
and revenge; "Additions to the Confessions of an Opium-Eater"; "Supplementary Note on the Essenes,"
in which the theory of the original paper is supported against objections by some new arguments;
a long paper on "China," published in 1857, and full of information in regard to that empire;
and "Traditions of the Rabbins," one of the most exquisite papers in the list of the author's
writings.

The Life of George Herbert. By GEORGE L. DUYCKINCK. New York: 1858. pp. 197.

We have too long neglected to do our share in bringing this delightful little book to the notice
of the lovers of holy George Herbert, among whom we may safely reckon a large number of the
readers of the "Atlantic." It is based on the life by Izaak Walton, but contains much new matter,
either out of Walton's reach or beyond the range of his sympathy. Notices are given of Nicholas
Ferrar and other friends of Herbert. There is a very agreeable sketch of Bemerton and its neighborhood,
as it now is, and the neat illustrations are of the kind that really illustrate. The Brothers
Duyckinck are well known for their unpretentious and valuable labors in the cause of good letters
and American literary history, and this is precisely such a book as we should expect from the
taste, scholarship, and purity of mind which distinguish both of them. It is much the best
account of Herbert with which we are acquainted. Boston: Gould & Lincoln. 8vo.

Few persons, with any pretensions to a knowledge of the metaphysicians of the century, are
unacquainted with Sir William Hamilton. His articles in the "Edinburgh Review" on Cousin and
Dr. Brown, and his Dissertations on Reid, are the most important contributions to philosophy
made in Great Britain for many years. The present volume contains his Course of Lectures, forty-six
in number, which he delivered as Professor of Metaphysics; and being intended for young students,
they are, as compared with his other works, more comprehensible without being less comprehensive.
The most conclusive proof of the excellence of these Lectures is to be found in their influence
on the successive classes of students before whom they were pronounced. The universal testimony
of the young men who were fortunate enough to listen to Hamilton has been, that his teaching
not only inspired them with an enthusiasm for the science, and gave them clear ideas and accurate
information, but directly aided them in the discipline of their minds. Some of his students
became, later in life, champions of his system; others became its opponents; but opponents
as well as champions warmly professed their obligations to their instructor, and dated their
interest in philosophy from the period when they were brought by these Lectures within the
contagious sphere of his powerful intellect. So numerous were these testimonials, that they
gradually roused public curiosity to see and read what was so effective as spoken. That curiosity
has now an opportunity of being gratified, and we do not doubt that these Lectures will have
a greater popularity than usually attends philosophical publications. The American publishers
deserve thanks for the cheap, compact, and elegant form of their reprint.

