These villages were the usual farming villages, typical of eastern France. They are not like
American villages, but a collection of farm yards, the houses huddled together years ago for
protection against roving bands of marauders. The farmer, instead of living upon his land,
lives in the village, and there he has his barn for his cattle, his manure pile is at his front
door, the drainage from it seeps back under the house at will, his chickens and pigs running
around the streets.

These houses were built some five or eight hundred years ago, some a thousand or twelve hundred
years. One house in the town aroused much curiosity because it was called the "new" house.
It looked just like all the others. One who was curious asked why it should have received this
appellative and was told because it was the last one that was built--only two hundred and fifty
years ago.

There is a narrow hall or court running through these houses which is all that separates the
family from the horses and pigs and cows which abide under the same roof.

The whole place smells alike. There is no heat anywhere, save from a fireplace in the kitchen.
There is a community bakehouse.

The soldiers were quartered in the barns and outhouses, the officers were quartered in the
homes of these French peasants. There were no comforts for either soldier or officer. It rained
almost continuously and at night it was cold. No dining-rooms could be provided where the men
could eat and they lined up on the street, got their chow and ate it standing in the rain or
under whatever cover they could find. Few of them could understand any French, and all the
conditions surrounding their presence in France were most trying to them. They were drilled
from morning to night. They were covered with mud. The great fight in which they had come to
participate was still afar off. No wonder their hearts grew heavy with a great longing for
home. Gloom sat upon their faces and depression grew with every passing hour.

Into these villages one after another came the little military side-car with its pioneer Salvationists,
investigating conditions and inquiring the greatest immediate need of the men.

All the soldiers were homesick, and wherever the little car stopped the Salvation Army uniform
attracted immediate and friendly attention. The boys expressed the liveliest interest in the
possibility of the Salvation Army being with them in France. These troops composed the regular
army and were old-timers. They showed at once their respect for and their belief in the Salvation
Army. One poor fellow, when he saw the uniform, exclaimed: "The Salvation Army! I believe they'll
be waiting for us when we get to hell to try and save us!"

It appeared that the pay of the American soldier was so much greater than that of the French
soldier that he had too much money at his disposal; and this money was a menace both to him
and to the French population. If some means could be provided for transferring the soldier's
money home, it would help out in the one direction which was most important at that time.

It will be remembered that the French habit of drinking wine was ever before the American soldier,
and with 165 francs a month in his pocket, he became an object of interest to the French tradespeople,
who encouraged him to spend his money in drink, and who also raised the price on other commodities
to a point where the French population found it made living for them most difficult.

The Salvation Army authorities in New York were all prepared to meet this need. The Organization
has one thousand posts throughout the United States commanded by officers who would become
responsible to get the soldier's money to his family or relatives in the United States. A simple
money- order blank issued in France could be sent to the National Headquarters of the Salvation
Army in New York and from there to the officer commanding the corps in any part of the United
States, who would deliver the money in person.

In this way the friends and relatives of the soldier in France would be comforted in the knowledge
that the Salvation Army was in touch with their boy; and if need existed in the family at home
it would be discovered through the visit of the Salvation Army officer in the homeland and
immediate steps taken to alleviate it.

Perhaps this has done more than anything else to bring the blessing of parents and relatives
upon the organization, for tens of thousands of dollars that would have been spent in gambling
and drink have been sent home to widowed mothers and young wives.

This suggestion appealed very strongly to the military general, who said that if the Salvation
Army got into operation it could count upon any assistance which he could give it, and if they
conducted meetings he would see that his regimental band was instructed to attend these meetings
and furnish the music.

Several chaplains, both Protestant and Catholic, expressed themselves as being glad to welcome
the Salvation Army among them.

Among the Regular Army officers there was rather a pessimistic attitude. It was in nowise hostile,
but rather doubtful.

One general said that he did not see that the Salvation Army could do any good. His idea of
the Salvation Army being associated altogether with the slums and men who were down and out.
But on the other hand, he said that he did not see that the Salvation Army could do any harm,
even if they did not do any good, and as far as he was concerned he was agreeable to their
coming in to work in the First Division; and he would so report to General Pershing.

St. Nazaire, the base, was being used for the reception of the troops as they reached the shores
of France. Here was a new situation. The men had been cooped up on transports for several days
and on their landing at St. Nazaire they were placed in a rest camp with the opportunity to
visit the city. Here they were a prey to immoral women and the officer commanding the base
was greatly concerned about the matter and eagerly welcomed the idea of having the Salvation
Army establish good women in St. Nazaire who would cope with the problem.

The report given to General Pershing resulted in an official authorization permitting the Salvation
Army to open their work with the American Expeditionary Forces, and a suggestion that they
go at once to the American Training Area and see what they could do to alleviate the terrible
epidemic of homesickness that had broken out among the soldiers.

In the meantime, back in New York, the Commander had not been idle. Daily before the throne
she had laid the great concerns of her Army, and daily she had been preparing her first little
company of workers to go when the need should call.

There was no money as yet, but the Commander was not to be daunted, and so when the report
came from over the water, she borrowed from the banks twenty-five thousand dollars.

She called the little company of pioneer workers together in a quiet place before they left
and gave them such a charge as would make an angel search his heart. Before the Most High God
she called upon them to tell her if any of them had in his or her heart any motive or ambition
in going other than to serve the Lord Christ. She looked down into the eyes of the young maidens
and bade them put utterly away from them the arts and coquetries of youth, and remember that
they were sent forth to help and save and love the souls of men as God loved them; and that
self must be forgotten, or their work would be in vain. She commanded them if even at this
last hour any faltered or felt himself unfit for the God-given task, that he would tell her
even then before it was too late. She begged them to remember that they held in their hands
the honor of the Salvation Army, and the glory of Jesus Christ their Saviour as they went out
to serve the troops. They were to be living examples of Christ's love, and they were to be
willing to lay down their lives if need be for His sake.

There were tears in the eyes of some of those strong men that day as they listened, and the
look of exaltation on the faces of the women was like a reflection from above. So must have
looked the disciples of old when Jesus gave them the commission to go into all the world and
preach the gospel. They were filled with His Spirit, and there was a look of utter joy and
self-forgetfulness as they knelt with their leader to pray, in words which carried them all
to the very feet of God and laid their lives a willing sacrifice to Him who had done so much
for them. Still kneeling, with bowed heads, they sang, and their words were but a prayer. It
is a way these wonderful people have of bursting into song upon their knees with their eyes
closed and faces illumined by a light of another world, their whole souls in the words they
are singing--"singing as unto the Lord!" It reminds one of the days of old when the children
of Israel did everything with songs and prayers and rejoicing, and the whole of life was carried
on as if in the visible presence of God, instead of utterly ignoring Him as most of us do now.

The song this time was just a few lines of consecration:

  "Oh, for a heart whiter than snow!
   Saviour Divine, to whom else can I go?
      Thou who hast died, loving me so,
      Give me a heart that is whiter than snow!"

The dramatic beauty of the scene, the sweet, holy abandonment of that prayer-song with its
tender, appealing melody, would have held a throng of thousands in awed wonder. But there was
no audience, unless, perchance, the angels gathered around the little company, rejoicing that
in this world of sin and war there were these who had so given themselves to God; but from
that glory-touched room there presently went forth men and women with the spirit in their hearts
that was to thrill like an electric wire every life with which it came in contact, and show
the whole world what God can do with lives that are wholly surrendered to Him.

It wtas a bright, sunny afternoon, August 12th, when this first party of American Salvation
Army workers set sail for France.

No doubt there was many a smile of contempt from the bystanders as they saw the little group
of blue uniforms with the gold-lettered scarlet hatbands, and noticed the four poke bonnets
among the number. What did the tambourine lassies know of REAL warfare? To those who reckoned
the Salvation Army in terms of bands on the street corner, and shivering forms guarding Christmas
kettles, it must have seemed the utmost audacity for this "play army" to go to the front.

When they arrived at Bordeaux on August 21st they went at once to Paris to be fitted out with
French uniforms, as General Pershing had given them all the rank of military privates, and
ordered that they should wear the regulation khaki uniforms with the addition of the red Salvation
Army shield on the hats, red epaulets, and with skirts for the women.

A cabled message had reached France from the Commander saying that funds to the extent of twenty-five
thousand dollars had been arranged for, and would be supplied as needed, and that a party of
eleven officers were being dispatched at once. After that matters began to move rapidly.

A portable tent, 25 feet by 100 feet, was purchased and shipped to Demange;--and a touring
car was bought with part of the money advanced.

Purchasing an automobile in France is not a matter merely of money. It is a matter for Governmental
sanction, long delay, red tape--amazing good luck.

At the start the whole Salvation Army transportation system consisted of this one first huge
limousine, heartlessly overdriven and overworked. For many weeks it was Colonel Barker's office
and bedroom. It carried all of the Salvation Army workers to and from their stations, hauled
all of the supplies on its roof, inside, on its fenders, and later also on a trailer. It ran
day and night almost without end, two drivers alternating. It was a sort of super-car, still
in the service, to which Salvationists still refer with an affectionate amazement when they
consider its terrific accomplishments. It hauled all of the lumber for the first huts and a
not uncommon sight was to see it tearing along the road at forty miles an hour, loaded inside
and on top with supplies, several passengers clinging to its fenders, and a load of lumber
or trunks trailing behind. For a long time Colonel Barker had no home aside from this car.
He slept wherever it happened to be for the night--often in it, while still driven. One night
he and a Salvation Army officer were lost in a strange woods in the car until four in the morning.
They were without lights and there were no real roads.

Later, of course, after long waiting, other trucks were bought and to-day there are about fifty
automobiles in this service. Chauffeurs had to be developed out of men who had never driven
before. They were even taken from huts and detailed to this work.

In this first touring car Colonel Barker with one of the newly arrived adjutants for driver,
started to Demange.

Twenty kilometers outside of Paris the car had a breakdown. The two clambered out and reconnoitered
for help. There was nothing for it but to take the car back to Paris. A man was found on the
road who was willing to take it in tow, but they had no rope for a tow line. Over in the field
by the roadside the sharp eyes of the adjutant discovered some old rusty wire. He pulled it
out from the tangle of long grass, and behold it was a part of old barbed-wire entanglements!

In great surprise they followed it up behind the camouflage and found themselves in the old
trenches of 1914. They walked in the trenches and entered some of the dugouts where the soldiers
had lived in the memorable days of the Marne fight. As they looked a little farther up the
hillside they were startled to see great pieces of heavy field artillery, their long barrels
sticking out from pits and pointing at them. They went closer to examine, and found the guns
were made of wood painted black. The barrels were perfectly made, even to the breech blocks
mounted on wheels, the tires of which were made of tin. They were a perfect imitation of a
heavy ordnance piece in every detail. Curious, wondering what it could mean, the two explorers
looked about them and saw an old Frenchman coming toward them. He proved to be the keeper of
the place, and he told them the story. These were the guns that saved Paris in 1914.

The Boche had been coming on twenty kilometers one day, nineteen the next, fourteen the next,
and were daily drawing nearer to the great city. They were so confident that they had even
announced the day they would sweep through the gates of Paris. The French had no guns heavy
enough to stop that mad rush, and so they mounted these guns of wood, cut away the woods all
about them and for three hundred meters in front, and waited with their pitifully thin, ill-equipped
line to defend the trenches.

Then the German airplanes came and took pictures of them, and returned to their lines to make
plans for the next day; but when the pictures were developed and enlarged they saw to their
horror that the French had brought heavy guns to their front and were preparing to blow them
out of France. They decided to delay their advance and wait until they could bring up artillery
heavier than the French had, and while they waited the Germans broke into the French wine cellars
and stole the "vin blanche" and "vin rouge." The French call this "light" wine and say it takes
the place of water, which is only fit for washing; but it proved to be too heavy for the Germans
that day. They drank freely, not even waiting to unseal the bottles of rare old vintage, but
knocked the necks off the bottles against the stone walls and drank. They were all drunk and
in no condition to conquer France when their artillery came up, and so the wooden French guns
and the French wine saved Paris.

When the two men finally arrived in Demange the Military General greeted them gladly and invited
them to dine with him.

He had for a cook a famous French chef who provided delicious meals, but for dessert the chef
had attempted to make an American apple pie, which was a dismal failure. The colonel said to
the general: "Just wait till our Salvation Army women get here and I will see that they make
you a pie that is a pie."

The General and the members of his staff said they would remember that promise and hold him to it.

The pleasure which the thought of that pie aroused furnished a suggestion for work later on.

Within two or three days the hut had arrived. The question of a lot upon which to place it
was most important. The billeting officers stated that none could be had within the town and
insisted that the hut would have to be placed in an inaccessible spot on the outskirts of the
town, but Colonel Barker asked the General if he would mind his looking about himself and he
readily assented. The indomitable Barker, true to the "never-say-die" slogan of the Salvation
Army, went out and found a splendid lot on the main street in the heart of the town, which
was being partly used by its owner as a vegetable garden. He quickly secured the services of
a French interpreter and struck a bargain with the owner to rent the lot for the sum of sixteen
dollars a year, and on his return with the information that this lot had been secured the General
was greatly impressed.

A wire had been sent to Paris instructing the men of the party to come down immediately. A
couple of tents were secured to provide temporary sleeping accommodation and the men lined
up in the chow line with the doughboys at meal-time.

The six Salvationists pulled off their coats at once and went to work, much to the amusement
of a few curious soldiers who stood idly watching them.

They discovered right at the start that the building materials which had been sent ahead of
them had been dumped on the wrong lot, and the first thing they had to do was to move them
all to the proper site. This was no easy task for men who had but recently left office chairs
and clerical work. Unaccustomed muscles cried out in protest and weary backs ached and complained,
but the men stubbornly marched back and forth carrying big timbers, and attracting not a little
attention from soldiers who wondered what in the world the Salvation Army could be up to over
in France. Some of them were suspicious. Had they come to try and stuff religion down their
throats? If so, they would soon find out their mistake. So, half in belligerence, half in amusement,
the soldiers watched their progress. It was a big joke to them, who had come here for serious
business and longed to be at it.

Steadily, quietly, the work went on. They laid the timbers and erected the framework of their
hut, keeping at it when the rain fell and soaked them to the skin. They were a bit awkward
at it at first, perhaps, for it was new work to them, and they had but few tools. The hut was
twenty-five feet wide and a hundred feet long. The walls went up presently, and the roof went
on. One or two soldiers were getting interested and offered to help a bit; but for the most
part they stood apart suspiciously, while the Salvation Army worked cheerily on and finished
the building with their own hands.

Colonel Barker meanwhile had gone back to Paris for supplies and to bring the women overland
in the automobile, because he was somewhat fearful lest they might be held up if they attempted
to go out by train. The idea of women in the camps was so new to our American soldiers, and
so distasteful to the French, that they presented quite a problem until their work fully justified
their presence.

It got about that some real American girls were coming. The boys began to grow curious. When
the big French limousine carrying them arrived in the camp it was greeted by some of the soldiers
with the greatest enthusiasm while others looked on in critical silence. But very soon their
influence was felt, for a commanding officer stated that his men were more contented and more
easily handled since the unprecedented innovation of women in the camp than they had been within
the experience of the old Regular Army officers. Profanity practically ceased in the vicinity
of the hut and was never indulged in in the presence of the Salvationists.

While the hut was being erected meetings were conducted in the open air which were attended
by great throngs, and after every meeting from one to four or five boys asked for the privilege
of going into the tent at the back and being prayed with, and many conversions resulted from
these first open-air meetings. Boys walked in from other camps from a distance as far away
as five miles to attend these meetings and many were converted. The hut was finally completed
and equipped and was to be formally opened on Sunday evening.

In the meantime the Y.M.C.A. was getting busy also establishing its work in the camps; therefore,
the Salvation Army tried to place their huts in towns where the Y. was not operating, so that
they might be able to reach those who had the greatest need of them.

Officers had been appointed to take charge of the Demange hut and immediately further operations
in other towns were being arranged.

A Y.M.C.A. hut, however, followed quickly on the heels of the Salvation Army at Demange and
the night of the opening of the Salvation Army hut someone came to ask if they would come over
to the Y. and help in a meeting. Sure, they would help! So the Staff-Captain took a cornetist
and two of the lassies and went over to the Y.M.C.A. hut.

It was early dusk and a crowd was gathered about where a rope ring fenced off the place in
which a boxing match had been held the day before, across the road from the hut. The band had
been stationed there giving a concert which was just finished, and the men were sitting in
a circle on the ground about the ring.

The Salvationists stood at the door of the hut and looked across to the crowd.

"How about holding our meeting over there?" asked the Staff-Captain of the man in charge.

"All right. Hold it wherever you like."

So a few willing hands brought out the piano, and the four Salvationists made their way across
to the ring. The soldiers raised a loud cheer and hurrah to see the women stoop and slip under
the rope, and a spirit of sympathy seemed to be established at once.

There were a thousand men gathered about and the cornet began where the band had left off,
thrilling out between the roar of guns.

Up above were the airplanes throbbing back and forth, and signal lights were flashing. It was
a strange place for a meeting. The men gathered closer to see what was going on.

The sound of an old familiar hymn floated out on the evening, bringing a sudden memory of home
and days when one was a little boy and went to Sunday school; when there was no war, and no
one dreamed that the sons would have to go forth from their own land to fight. A sudden hush
stole over the men and they sat enthralled watching the little band of singers in the changing
flicker of light and darkness. Women's voices! Young and fresh, too, not old ones.

A cross! Was it possible that God was leading them to Him through all this awfulness? But the
thought only hovered above them and hushed their hearts into attention as they gruffly joined
their young voices in the melody. Another song followed, and a prayer that seemed to bring
the great God right down in their midst and make Him a beloved comrade. They had not got over
the wonder of it when a new note sounded on piano and cornet and every voice broke forth in
the words:

 "When the trumpet of the Lord shall sound
  And time shall be no more--"

How soon would that trumpet sound for many of them! Time should be no more! What a startling
thought!

Following close upon the song came the sweet voice of a young girl speaking. They looked up
in wonder, listening with all their souls. It was like having an angel drop down among them
to see her there, and hear her clear, unafraid voice. The first thing that struck them was
her intense earnestness, as if she had a message of great moment to bring to them.

Her words searched their hearts and found out the weak places; those fears and misgivings that
they had known were there from the beginning, and had been trying hard to hide from themselves
because they saw no cure for them. With one clear-cut sentence she tore away all camouflage
and set them face to face with the facts. They were in a desperate strait and they knew it.
Back there in the States they had known it. Down in the camps they had felt it, and had made
various attempts to find something strong and true to help them, but no one had seemed to understand.
Even when they went to church there had been so much talk about the "supreme sacrifice" and
the glory of dying for one's country, that they had a vague feeling that even the minister
did not believe in his religion any more. And so they had whistled and tried to be jolly and
forget. They were all in the same boat, and this was a job that had to be done, they couldn't
get out of it; best not think about the future! So they had lulled their consciences to sleep.
But it was there, back in their minds all the time, a looming big awful question about the
hereafter; and when the great guns boomed afar as a few were doing tonight and they thought
how soon they might be called to go over the top, they would have been fools not to have recognized
it.

But here at last was someone else who understood!

She was telling the old, old story of Jesus and His love, and every man of them as he listened
felt it was true. It had been like a vague tale of childhood before; something that one outgrows
and smiles at; but now it suddenly seemed so simple, so perfect, so fitted to their desperate
need. Just the old story that everybody has sinned, and broken God's law: that God in His love
provided a way of escape in the death of His Son Jesus on the Cross, from penalty for sin for
all who would accept it; that He gave every one of us free wills; and it was up to us whether
we would accept it or not.

There were men in that company who had come from college classes where they had been taught
the foolishness of blood atonement, and who had often smiled disdainfully at the Bible; there
were boys from cultured, refined homes where Jesus Christ had always been ignored; there were
boys who had repudiated the God their mothers trusted in; and there were boys of lower degree
whose lips were foul with blasphemy and whose hearts were scarred with sin; but all listened,
now, in a new way. It was somehow different over here, with the thunder of artillery in the
near distance, the hovering presence of death not far away, the flashing of signal lights,
the hum of the airplanes, the whole background of war. The message of the gospel took on a
reality it had never worn before. When this simple girl asked if they would not take Jesus
tonight as their Saviour, there were many who raised their hands in the darkness and many more
hearts were bowed whose owners could not quite bring themselves to raise their hands.

Then a lassie's voice began to sing, all alone:

  "I grieved my Lord from day to day,
     I scorned His love, so full and free,
   And though I wandered far away,
     My Mother's prayers have followed me.
       I'm coming home, I'm coming home,
         To live my wasted life anew,
       For Mother's prayers have followed me,
         Have followed me, the whole world through.

  "O'er desert wild, o'er mountain high,
     A wanderer I chose to be---
   A wretched soul condemned to die;
     Still Mother's prayers have followed me.

  "He turned my darkness into light,
     This blessed Christ of Calvary;
   I'll praise His name both day and night,
     That Mother's prayers have followed me!
       I'm coming home, I'm coming home---"

Only the last great day will reveal how many hearts echoed those words; but the voices were
all husky with emotion as they tried to join in the closing hymn that followed.

There were those who lingered about the speakers and wanted to inquire the way of salvation,
and some knelt in a quiet corner and gave themselves to Christ. Over all of them there was
a hushed thoughtfulness. When the workers started back to their own hut the crowd went with
them, talking eagerly as they went, hovering about wistfully as if here were the first real
thing they had found since coming away from home.

Over at the Salvation Army hut another service had been going forward with equal interest,
the dedication of the new building. The place was crowded to its utmost capacity, and crowds
were standing outside and peering in at the windows. Some of the French people of the neighborhood,
women and children and old men, had drifted over, and were listening to the singing in open-eyed
wonderment. Among them one of the Salvation Army workers had distributed copies of the French
"War Cry" with stories of Christ in their own language, and it began to dawn upon them that
these people believed in the same Jesus that was worshipped in their French churches; yet they
never had seen services like these. The joyous music thrilled them.

Before they slept that night the majority of the soldiers in that vicinity had lost most of
their prejudice against the little band of unselfish workers that had dropped so quietly down
into their midst. Word was beginning to filter out from camp to camp that they were a good
sort, that they sold their goods at cost and a fellow could even "jawbone" when he was "broke."

Salvation Army huts gave the soldiers "jawbone," this being the soldier's name for credit.
No accounts were kept of the amount allowed to each soldier. When a soldier came to the canteen
and asked for "jawbone," he was asked how much he had already been allowed. If the amount owed
by him already was large, he was cautioned not to go too deeply into his next pay check; but
never was a man refused anything within reason. Frequently one hut would have many thousands
of francs outstanding by the end of a month. But, although there was no check against them,
soldiers always squared their accounts at pay-day and very little indeed was lost.

One man came in and threw 300 francs on the counter, saying: "I owe you 285 francs. Put the
change in the coffee fund."

One Salvation Army Ensign frequently loaned sums of money out of his own pocket to soldiers,
asking that, when they were in a position to return it, they hand it in to any Salvation Army
hut, saying that it was for him. He says that he has never lost by doing this.

One day as he was driving from Havre to Paris he met six American soldiers whose big truck
had broken down. They asked him where there was a Salvation Army hut; but there was none in
that particular section. They had no food, no money, and no place to sleep. He handed them
seventy francs and told them to leave it at any Salvation Army hut for him when they were able.
Five months passed and then the money was turned in to a Salvation Army hut and forwarded to
him. With it was a note stating that the men had been with the French troops and had not been
able to reach a Salvation Army establishment. They were very grateful for the trust reposed
in them by the Salvationist. Undoubtedly there are many such instances.

The Salvation Army officer who with his wife was put in charge of the hut at Demange, soon
became one of the most popular men in camp. His generous spirit, no less than his rough-and-ready
good nature, manful, soldier-like disposition, coupled with a sturdy self-respect and a ready
humor, made him blood brother to those hard-bitten old regulars and National Guardsmen of the
first American Expeditionary Force.

The Salvation Army quickly became popular. Meetings were held almost every night at that time
with an average attendance of not less than five hundred. Meetings as a rule were confined
to wonderful song services and brief, snappy talks. At first there were very few conversions,
but there have been more since the great drives in which the Americans have taken so large
a share. The Masons, the Moose and a Jewish fraternity used the hut for fraternal gatherings.
Catholic priests held mass in it upon various occasions. The school for officers and the school
for "non-coms" met in it. The band practiced in it every morning. Because of its popularity
among the men it was known among the officers as "the soldiers' hut." General Duncan once addressed
his staff officers in it upon some important matters.

It rained every day for three months. The hut was on rather low ground and in back of it ran
the river, considerably swollen by the rains. One night the river rose suddenly, carried away
one tent and flooded the other two and the hut. The Salvation Army men spent a wild, wet, sleepless
night trying to salvage their scanty personal belongings and their stock of supplies. When
the river retreated it left the hut floor covered with slimy black mud which the two men had
to shovel out. This was a back- breaking task occupying the better part of two days.

The first snow fell on the bitterest night of the year. It was preceded by the rain and was
damp and heavy. The soldiers suffered terribly, especially the men on guard duty who had perforce
to endure the full blast of the storm. During the earlier hours of the night the girls served
all comers with steaming coffee and filled the canteens of the men on guard (free). When they
saw how severe the night would be they remained up to keep a supply of coffee ready for the
Salvation Army men who went the rounds through the storm every half hour, serving the sentries
with the warming fluid.

That first Expeditionary Force wanted for many things, and endured hardships unthought of by
troops arriving later, after the war industries at home had swung into full production. It
was almost impossible to secure stoves, and firewood was scarce. For every load that went to
the Salvation Army Hut, men of the American Expeditionary Force had to do without, and yet
wood was always supplied to the Salvationists (it could not be bought).

At St. Joire, the wood pile had entirely given out and it looked as if there was to be no heat
at the Salvation Army hut that night. The sergeant promised them half a load, but the wood
wagon lost a wheel about a hundred yards out of town.

"Never mind," said the sergeant to the girls, "the boys will see that you get some to-night."

So he requested every man going up to the Salvation Army hut that evening to carry a stick
of wood with him ("a stick" may weigh anywhere from 10 to 100 pounds). By eight o'clock there
was over a wagon load and a half stacked in back of the hut.

Two small stoves cast circles of heat in the big hut at Demange. Around them the men crowded
with their wet garments steaming so profusely that the hut often took on the appearance of
a steam-room in a Turkish bath. The rest of the hut was cold; but compared to the weather outside,
it was heaven-like. For all of its size, the hut was frail, and the winter wind blew coldly
through its many cracks; but compared with the soldier's billets, it was a cozy palace. The
Salvationists spent hours each week sitting on the roof in the driving rain patching leaks
with tar-paper and tacks.

The life was a hard one for the girls. They nearly froze during the days, and at nights they
usually shivered themselves to sleep, only sleeping when sheer exhaustion overcame them. There
were no baths at all. The experience was most trying for women and only the spirit of the great
enterprise in which they were engaged carried them through the winter. Even soldiers were at
times seen weeping with cold and misery.

One night the gasoline tank which supplied light to the hut exploded and set the place on fire.
A whole regiment turned out of their blankets to put out the blaze. This meant more hours for
those in charge repairing the roof in the snow. They also had to cut all of the wood for the
hut. Later details were supplied to every hut by the military authorities to cut wood, sweep
and clean up, carry water, etc. Soldiers used the hut for a mess hall. There was no other place
where they could eat with any degree of comfort.

By this time the fact that the Salvation Army was established at Demange was becoming known
throughout the division.

One of the towns where there had been no arrangements made for welfare workers at all was Montiers-sur-Saulx,
where the First Ammunition Train was established, and here the officer temporarily commanding
the ammunition train gave a most hearty welcome to the Salvation Army.

Two large circus tents had been sent on from New York and one of these was to be erected until
a wooden building could be secured.

The touring car went back to Demange, picked up a Staff-Captain, a Captain, five white tents,
the largest one thirty by sixty feet, the others smaller, carried them across the country and
dropped them down at the roadside of the public square in Montiers.

There stood the Salvationists in the road wondering what to do next.

Then a hearty voice called out: "Are you locating with us?" and the military officer of the
day advanced to meet them with a hand-shake and many expressions of his appreciation of the
Salvation Army.

"We are going to stay here if you will have us," said the Staff-Captain.

"Have you! Well, I should say we would have you! Wait a minute and I'll have a detail put your
baggage under cover for the night. Then we'll see about dinner and a billet."

Thus auspiciously did the work open in Montiers.

In a few minutes they were taken to a French cafe and a comfortable place found for them to
spend the night.

Soon after the rising of the sun the next morning they were up and about hunting a place for
the tents which were to serve for a recreation centre for the boys. The American Major in charge
of the town personally assisted them to find a good location, and offered his aid in any way
needed.

Before nightfall the five white tents were up, standing straight and true with military precision,
and the two officers with just pride in their hard day's work, and a secret assurance that
it would stand the hearty approval of the commanding officer whom they had not as yet met,
went off to their suppers, for which they had a more than usually hearty appetite.

Suddenly the door of the dining-room swung open and a gruff voice demanded: "Who put up those
tents?" The Salvation Army Staff-Captain stood forth saluting respectfully and responded: "I,
sir." "Well," said the Colonel, "they look mighty fine up on that hill--mighty fine! Splendid
location for them--splendid! But the enemy can spot them for a hundred miles, so I expect you
had better get them down or camouflage them with green boughs and paint by tomorrow night at
the latest. Good evening to you, sir!"

The Staff-Captain and his helper suddenly lost their fine appetites and felt very tired. Camouflage!
How did they do that at a moment's notice? They left their unfinished dinner and hurried out
in search of help.

The first soldier the Staff-Captain questioned reassured him.

"Aw, that's dead easy! Go over the hill into the woods and cut some branches, enough to cover
your tents; or easier yet, get some green and yellow paint and splash over them. The worse
they look the better they are!"

So the weary workers hunted the town over for paint, and found only enough for the big tent,
upon which they worked hard all the next morning. Then they had to go to the woods for branches
for the rest. Scratched and bleeding and streaked with perspiration and dirt, they finished
their work at last, and the white tents had disappeared into the green and the yellow and the
brown of the hillside. Their beautiful military whiteness was gone, but they were hidden safe
from the enemy and the work might now go forward.

Then the girls arrived and things began to look a bit more cheerful.

"But where is the cook stove?" asked one of the lassies after they had set up their two folding
cots in one of the smaller tents and made themselves at home.

Dismay descended upon the face of the weary Staff-Captain.

"Why," he answered apologetically, "we forgot all about that!" and he hurried out to find a stove.

A thorough search of the surrounding country, however, disclosed the fact that there was not
a stove nor a field range to be had--no, not even from the commissary. There was nothing for
it but to set to work and contrive a fireplace out of field stone and clay, with a bit of sheet
iron for a roof, and two or three lengths of old sewer pipe carefully wired together for a
stovepipe. It took days of hard work, and it smoked woefully except when the wind was exactly
west, but the girls made fudge enough on it for the entire personnel of the Ammunition train
to celebrate when it was finished.

When the girls first arrived in Montiers the Salvation Army Staff-Captain was rather at a loss
to know what to do with them until the hut was built. They were invited to chow with the soldiers,
and to eat in an old French barn used as a kitchen, in front of which the men lined up at the
open doorways for mess. It was a very dirty barn indeed, with heavy cobwebs hanging in weird
festoons from the ceiling and straw and manure all over the floor; quite too barnlike for a
dining-hall for delicately reared women. The Staff-Captain hesitated about bringing them there,
but the Mess-Sergeant offered to clean up a corner for them and give them a comfortable table.

"I don't know about bringing my girls in here with the men," said the Staff-Captain still hesitating.
"You know the men are pretty rough in their talk, and they're always cussing!"

"Leave that to me!" said the Mess-Sergeant. "It'll be all right!"

There was an old dirty French wagon in the barnyard where they kept the bread. It was not an
inviting prospect and the Staff-Captain looked about him dubiously and went away with many
misgivings, but there seemed to be nothing else to be done.

The boys did their best to fix things up nicely. When meal time arrived and the girls appeared
they found their table neatly spread with a dish towel for a tablecloth. It purported to be
clean, but there are degrees of cleanliness in the army and there might have been a difference
of opinion. However, the girls realized that there had been a strenuous attempt to do honor
to them and they sat down on the coffee kegs that had been provided en lieu of chairs with
smiling appreciation.

The Staff-Captain's anxiety began to relax as he noticed the quiet respectful attitude of the
men when they passed by the doorway and looked eagerly over at the corner where the girls were
sitting. It was great to have American women sitting down to dinner with them, as it were.
Not a "cuss word" broke the harmony of the occasion. The best cuts of meat, the largest pieces
of pie, were given to the girls, and everybody united to make them feel how welcome they were.

Then into the midst of the pleasant scene there entered one who had been away for a few hours
and had not yet been made acquainted with the new order of things at chow; and he entered with
an oath upon his lips.

He was a great big fellow, but the strong arm of the Mess-Sergeant flashed out from the shoulder
instantly, the sturdy fist of the Mess-Sergeant was planted most unexpectedly in the newcomer's
face, and he found himself sprawling on the other side of the road with all his comrades glaring
at him in silent wrath. That was the beginning of a new order of things at the mess.

The Colonel in charge of the regiment had gone away, and the commanding Major, wishing to make
things pleasant for the Salvationists, sent for the Staff-Captain and invited them all to his
mess at the chateau; telling him that if he needed anything at any time, horses or supplies,
or anything in his power to give, to let him know at once and it should be supplied.

The Staff-Captain thanked him, but told him that he thought they would stay with the boys.

The boys, of course, heard of this and the Salvation Army people had another bond between them
and the soldiers. The boys felt that the Salvationists were their very own. Nothing could have
more endeared them to the boys than to share their life and hardships.

The Salvation Army had not been with the soldiers many hours before they discovered that the
disease of homesickness which they had been sent to succor was growing more and more malignant
and spreading fast.

The training under French officers was very severe. Trench feet with all its attendant suffering
was added to the other discomforts. Was it any wonder that homesickness seized hold of every
soldier there?

It had been raining steadily for thirty-six days, making swamps and pools everywhere. Depression
like a great heavy blanket hung over the whole area.

The Salvation Army lassies at Montiers were in consultation. Their supplies were all gone,
and the state of the roads on account of the rain was such that all transportation was held
up. They had been waiting, hoping against hope, that a new load of supplies would arrive, but
there seemed no immediate promise of that.

"We ought to have something more than just chocolate to sell to the soldiers, anyway," declared
one lassie, who was a wonderful cook, looking across the big tent to the drooping shoulders
and discouraged faces of the boys who were hovering about the Victrola, trying to extract a
little comfort from the records. "We ought to be able to give them some real home cooking!"

They all agreed to this, but the difficulties in the way were great. Flour was obtainable only
in small quantities. Now and then they could get a sack of flour or a bag of sugar, but not
often. Lard also was a scarce article. Besides, there were no stoves, and no equipment had
as yet been issued for ovens. All about them were apple orchards and they might have baked
some pies if there had been ovens, but at present that was out of the question. After a long
discussion one of the girls suggested doughnuts, and even that had its difficulties, although
it really was the only thing possible at the time. For one thing they had no rolling-pin and
no cake-cutter in the outfit. Nevertheless, they bravely went to work. The little tent intended
for such things had blown down, so the lassie had to stand out in the rain to prepare the dough.

The first doughnuts were patted out, until someone found an empty grape- juice bottle and used
that for a rolling-pin. As they had no cutter they used a knife, and twisted them, making them
in shape like a cruller. They were cooked over a wood fire that had to be continually stuffed
with fuel to keep the fat hot enough to fry. The pan they used was only large enough to cook
seven at once, but that first day they made one hundred and fifty big fat sugary doughnuts,
and when the luscious fragrance began to float out on the air and word went forth that they
had real "honest-to-goodness" home doughnuts at the Salvation Army hut, the line formed away
out into the road and stood patiently for hours in the rain waiting for a taste of the dainties.
As there were eight hundred men in the outfit and only a hundred and fifty doughnuts that first
day, naturally a good many were disappointed, but those who got them were appreciative. One
boy as he took the first sugary bite exclaimed: "Gee! If this is war, let it continue!"

The next day the girls managed to make three hundred, but one of them was not satisfied with
a doughnut that had no hole in it, and while she worked she thought, until a bright idea came
to her. The top of the baking-powder can! Of course! Why hadn't they thought of that before?
But how could they get the hole? There seemed nothing just right to cut it. Then, the very
next morning the inside tube to the coffee percolator that somebody had brought along came
loose, and the lassie stood in triumph with it in her hand, calling to them all to see what
a wonderful hole it would make in the doughnut. And so the doughnut came into its own, hole
and all.

That was at Montiers, the home of the doughnut.

One of the older Salvation Army workers remarked jocularly that the Salvation Army had to go
to France and get linked up with the doughnut before America recognized it; but it was the
same old Salvation Army and the same old doughnut that it had always been. He averred that
it wasn't the doughnut at all that made the Salvation Army famous, but the wonderful girls
that the Salvation Army brought over there; the girls that lay awake at night after a long
hard day's work scheming to make the way of the doughboy easier; scheming how to take the cold
out of the snow and the wet out of the rain and the stickiness out of the mud. The girls that
prayed over the doughnuts, and then got the maximum of grace out of the minimum of grease.

The young Adjutant lassie who fried the first doughnut in France says that invariably the boys
would begin to talk about home and mother while they were eating the doughnuts. Through the
hole in the doughnut they seemed to see their mother's face, and as the doughnut disappeared
it grew bigger and clearer.

The young Ensign lassie who had originated and made the first doughnut in France contrived
to make many pies on a very tiny French stove with an oven only large enough to hold two pies
at a time. Meanwhile, frying doughnuts on the top of the stove.

It wasn't long before the record for the doughnut makers had been brought up to five thousand
a day, and some of the unresting workers developed "doughnut wrist" from sticking to the job
too long at a time.

It was the original thought that pie would be the greatest attraction, but it was difficult
to secure stoves with ovens adequate for baking pies, and after the ensign's experiment with
doughnuts it was found that they could more easily be made and were quite as acceptable to
the American boy.

Meantime, the pie was coming into its own, back in Demange also.

It was only a little stove, and only room to bake one pie at a time, but it was a savory smell
that floated out on the air, and it was a long line of hungry soldiers that hurried for their
mess kits and stood hours waiting for more pies to bake; and the fame of the Salvation Army
began to spread far and wide. Then one day the "Stars and Stripes," the organ of the American
Army, printed the following poem about the lassie who labored so far forward that she had to
wear a tin hat:

 "Home is where the heart is"--
    Thus the poet sang;
  But "home is where the pie is"
    For the doughboy gang!
  Crullers in the craters,
    Pastry in abris--
  This Salvation Army lass
    Sure knows how to please!

  Tin hat for a halo!
    Ah! She wears it well!
  Making pies for homesick lads
    Sure is "beating hell!"
  In a region blasted
    By fire and flame and sword,
  This Salvation Army lass
    Battles for the Lord!

  Call me sacrilegious
    And irreverent, too;
  Pies? They link us up with home
    As naught else can do!
  "Home is, where the heart is"--
    True, the poet sang;
  But "home is where the pie is"--
    To the Yankee gang!

It was no easy task to open up a chain of huts, for there was an amazing variety of details
to be attended to, any one of which might delay the work. A hundred and one unexpected situations
would develop during the course of a single day which must be dealt with quickly and intelligently.
The fact that the Salvation Army section of the American Expeditionary Force is militarized
and strictly accountable for all of its action to the United States military authorities is
complicated in many places by the further fact that the French civil and military authorities
must also be taken into consideration and consulted at every step. Nevertheless, in spite of
all difficulties the work went steadily forward. The patient officers who were seeing to all
these details worked almost night and day to place the huts and workers where they would do
the most good to the greatest number; and steadily the Salvation Army grew in favor with the
soldiers.

It was extremely difficult to obtain materials for the erection of huts-- in many cases almost
impossible. Once when Colonel Barker found troops moving, he discovered the village for which
they were bound, rushed ahead in his automobile, and commandeered an old French barracks which
would otherwise have been occupied by the American soldiers. When the soldiers arrived they
were overjoyed to find the Salvation Army awaiting them with hot food. They were soaked through
by the rain, and never was hot coffee more welcome. There was a little argument about the commandeered
barracks. It was to have been used as headquarters, but when the commanding officer went out
into the rain and saw for himself what service it was performing for his men, and how overjoyed
they were by the entertainment he said: "We'll leave it to the men, whether they will be billeted
here or let the Salvation Army have the place." The men with one accord voted to give it to
the Salvation Army.

In one town, after an animated discussion with a crowd of enlisted men, a sergeant came to
the Salvation Army Major as he worked away with his hammer putting up a hut and said: "Captain,
would it make you mad if we offered our services to help?"

After that the work went on in record time. In less than a week the hut was finished and ready
for business. Two self-appointed details of soldiers from the regulars employed all their spare
time in a friendly rivalry to see which could accomplish the most work. When it was dedicated
the popularity of the hut was well assured. Later, in another location, a hut 125 feet by 27
feet was put up with the assistance of soldiers in six hours and twenty minutes.

More men and women had arrived from America, and the work began to assume business-like proportions.
There were huts scattered all through the American training area.

As other huts were established the making of pies and doughnuts became a regular part of the
daily routine of the hut. It was found that a canteen where candy and articles needed by the
soldiers could be obtained at moderate prices would fill a very pressing need and this was
made a part of their regular operation.

The purchase of an adequate quantity of supplies was a great problem. It was necessary to make
frequent trips to Paris, to establish connections with supply houses there, and to attend to
the shipping of the supplies out to the camps. At first it was impossible to purchase any quantity
of supplies from any house. The demand for everything was so great that wholesale dealers were
most independent. Three hundred dollars' worth of supplies was the most that could be purchased
from any one house, but in course of time, confidence and friendly relations being established,
it became possible to purchase as much as ten thousand dollars' worth at one time from one dealer.

The first twenty-five thousand dollars, of course, was soon gone, but another fifty thousand
dollars arrived from Headquarters in New York, and after a little while another fifty thousand;
which hundred thousand dollars was loaned by General Bramwell Booth from the International
Treasury. The money was not only borrowed, but the Commander had promised to pay it back in
twelve months (which guarantee it is pleasant to state was made good long before the promised
time), for the Commander had said: "It is only a question of our getting to work in France,
and the American public will see that we have all the money we want."

So it has proved.

In the meantime another hut was established at Houdelainecourt.

The American boys were drilling from early morning until dark; the weather was wet and cold;
the roads were seas of mud and the German planes came over the valleys almost nightly to seek
out the position of the American troops and occasionally to drop bombs. It was necessary that
all tents should be camouflaged, windows darkened so that lights would not show at night, and
every means used to keep the fact of the Americans' presence from the German observers and spies.

Another party of Salvation Army officers, men and women, arrived from New York on September
23rd, and these were quickly sent out to Demange which for the time being was used as the general
base of supplies, but later a house was secured at Ligny-en-Barrios, and this was for many
months the Headquarters.

One interesting incident occurred here in connection with this house. One of its greatest attractions
had been that it was one of the few houses containing a bathroom, but when the new tenants
arrived they found that the anticipated bathtub had been taken out with all its fittings and
carefully stowed away in the cellar. It was too precious for the common use of tenants.

All Salvation Army graduates from the training school have a Red Cross diploma, and many are
experienced nurses.

A Salvation Army woman Envoy sailed for France with a party of Salvationists about the time
that the epidemic of influenza broke out all over the world. Even before the steamer reached
the quarantine station in New York harbor a number of cases of Spanish influenza had developed
among the several companies of soldiers who were aboard, a number of whom were removed from
the ship. So anxious were others of these American fighting men to reach Prance that they hid
away until the steamer had left port.

Land was hardly out of sight before more cases of the disease were reported--so many, in fact,
that special hospital accommodations had to be immediately arranged. The ship's captain after
consulting with the American military officers, requested the Salvation Army Envoy to take
entire responsibility for the hospital, which responsibility, after some hesitation, she accepted.
Under her were two nurses, three dieticians (Y.M.C.A. and Red Cross), a medical corps sergeant
(U.S.A.), and twenty- four orderlies. She took charge on the fourth day of a thirteen day voyage,
working in the sick bay from 12 noon to 8 P.M., and from 12 midnight to 8 A.M. every day. She
had with her a mandolin and a guitar with which, in addition to her sixteen hours of duty in
the sick bay, she every day spent some time (usually an hour or two) on deck singing and playing
for the soldiers who were much depressed by the epidemic. To them she was a very angel of good
cheer and comfort.

Many amusing incidents occurred on the voyage.

Stormy weather had added to the discomforts of the trip and most of the passengers suffered
from seasickness during the greater part of the voyage.

On board there was also a woman of middle age who could not be persuaded to keep her cabin
porthole closed at night. Again and again a ray of light was projected through it upon the
surface of the water and the quarter- master, whose duty it was to see that no lights were
shown, was at his wit's end. His difficulty was the greater because he could speak no English,
and she no French. Finally, a passenger took pity on the man, and, as the light was really
a grave danger to the ship's safety, promised to speak to the woman, who insisted that she
was not afraid of submarines and that it was foolish to think they could see her light.

"Madam," he said, "the quartermaster here tells me that the sea in this locality is infested
with flying fish, who, like moths, fly straight for any light, and he is afraid that if you
leave your porthole open they will dive in upon you during the night."

If he had said that the sea was infested with flying mice, his statement could not have been
more effective. Thereafter the porthole stayed closed.

When the first man died on board, the Captain commanding the soldiers and the ship's Captain
requested a Salvation Army Adjutant to conduct the funeral service.

At 4.30 P.M. the ship's propeller ceased to turn and the steamer came up into the wind. The
United States destroyer acting as convoy also came to a halt. The French flag on the steamer
and the American flag on the destroyer were at half-mast. Thirty-two men from the dead man's
company lined up on the after-deck. The coffin (a rough pine box), heavily weighted at one
end, lay across the rail over the stern. Here a chute had been rigged so that the coffin might
not foul the ship's screws. The flags remained at half-mast for half an hour. The Salvation
Army Adjutant read the burial service and prayed. Passengers on the promenade deck looked on.
Then a bugler played taps. Every soldier stood facing the stern with hat off and held across
the breast. As the coffin slipped down the chute and splashed into the sea a firing squad fired
a single rattling volley. The ship came about and, with a shudder of starting engines, continued
her voyage, the destroyer doing likewise.

During the passage the Adjutant conducted six such funerals, two more being conducted by a
Catholic priest. Four more bodies of men who died as they neared port were landed and buried
ashore.

In the hospital the Envoy was undoubtedly the means of saving several lives by her endless
toil and by the encouragement of her cheerful face in that depressing place. The sick men called
her "Mother" and no mother could have been more tender than she.

"You look so much like mother," said one boy just before he died. "Won't you please kiss me?"

Another lad, with a great, convulsive effort, drew her hand to his lips and kissed her just
as he passed away.

All of the American officers and two French officers attended the funerals in full dress uniform
and ten sailors of the French navy were also present.

The night before the ship docked at Bordeaux a letter signed by the Captain of the ship and
the American officers was handed to the Envoy lady. It contained a warm statement of their
appreciation of her service. Officers of the Aviation Corps who were aboard the ship arranged
a banquet to be held in her honor when they should reach port; but she told them that she was
under orders even as they were and that she must report to Paris Headquarters at once. And
so the banquet did not take place.

As she left the ship, the soldiers were lined up on the wharf ready to march. When she came
down the gangplank and walked past them to the street, they cheered her and shouted: "Good-bye,
mother! Good luck!"

As the fame of the doughnuts and pies spread through the camps a new distress loomed ahead
for the Salvation Army. Where were the flour and the sugar and the lard and the other ingredients
to come from wherewith to concoct these delicacies for the homesick soldiers?

It was of no use to go to the French for white flour, for they did not have it. They had been
using war bread, dark mixtures with barley flour and other things, for a long time. Besides,
the French had a fixed idea that everyone who came from America was made of money. Wood was
thirty- five dollars a load (about a cord) and had to be cut and hauled by the purchaser at
that. There was a story current throughout the camps that some Frenchmen were talking together
among themselves, and one asked the rest where in the world they were going to get the money
to rebuild their towns. "Oh," replied another; "haven't we the only battlefields in the world?
All the Americans will want to come over after the war to see them and we will charge them
enough for the sight to rebuild our villages!"

But even at any price the French did not have the materials to sell. There was only one place
where things of that sort could be had and that was from the Americans, and the question was,
would the commissary allow them to buy in large enough quantities to be of any use? The Salvation
Army officers as they went about their work, were puzzling their brains how to get around the
American commissary and get what they wanted.

Meantime, the American Army had slipped quietly into Montiers in the night and been billeted
around in barns and houses and outhouses, and anywhere they could be stowed, and were keeping
out of sight. For the German High Council had declared: "As soon as the American Army goes
into camp we will blow them off the map." Day after day the Germans lay low and watched. Their
airplanes flew over and kept close guard, but they could find no sign of a camp anywhere. No
tents were in sight, though they searched the landscape carefully; and day after day, for want
of something better to do they bombarded Bar-le-Duc. Every day some new ravishment of the beautiful
city was wrought, new victims buried under ruins, new terror and destruction, until the whole
region was in panic and dismay.

Now Bar-le-Duc, as everyone knows, is the home of the famous Bar-le-Duc jam that brings such
high prices the world over, and there were great quantities stored up and waiting to be sold
at a high price to Americans after the war. But when the bombardment continued, and it became
evident that the whole would either be destroyed or fall into the hands of the Germans, the
owners were frightened. Houses were blown up, burying whole families. Victims were being taken
hourly from the ruins, injured or dying.

A Salvation Army Adjutant ran up there one day with his truck and found an awful state of things.
The whole place was full of refugees, families bereft of their homes, everybody that could
trying to get out of the city. Just by accident he found out that the merchants were willing
to sell their jam at a very reasonable price, and so he bought tons and tons of Bar-le-Duc
jam. That would help out a lot and go well on bread, for of course there was no butter. Also
it would make wonderful pies and tarts if one only had the flour and other ingredients.

As he drove into Montiers he was still thinking about it, and there on the table in the Salvation
Army hut stood as pretty a chocolate cake as one would care to see. A bright idea came to the
Adjutant:

"Let me have that cake," said he to the lassie who had baked it, "and I'll take it to the General
and see what I can do."

It turned out that the cake was promised, but the lassie said she would bake another and have
it ready for him on his return trip; so in a few days when he came back there was the cake.

Ah! That was a wonderful cake!

The lassie had baked it in the covers of lard tins, fourteen inches across and five layers
high! There was a layer of cake, thickly spread with rich chocolate frosting, another layer
of cake, overlaid with the translucent Bar-le-Duc jam, a third layer of cake with chocolate,
another layer spread with Bar-le-Duc jam, then cake again, the whole covered smoothly over
with thick dark chocolate, top and sides, down to the very base, without a ripple in it. It
was a wonder of a cake!

With shining eyes and eager look the Adjutant took that beautiful cake, took also twelve hundred
great brown sugary doughnuts, and a dozen fragrant apple pies just out of the oven, stowed
them carefully away in his truck, and rustled off to the Officers' Headquarters. Arrived there
he took his cake in hand and asked to see the General. An officer with his eye on the cake
said the General was busy just now but he would carry the cake to him. But the Adjutant declined
this offer firmly, saying: "The ladies of Montiers-sur-Saulx sent this cake to the General,
and I must put it into his hands"

He was finally led to the General's room and, uncovering the great cake, he said:

"The Salvation Army ladies of Montiers-sur-Saulx have sent this cake to you as a sample of
what they will do for the soldiers if we can get flour and sugar and lard."

The General, greatly pleased, took the cake and sent for a knife, while his officers stood
about looking on with much interest. It appeared as if every one were to have a taste of the
cake. But when the General had cut a generous slice, held it up, observing its cunning workmanship,
its translucent, delectable interior, he turned with a gleam in his eye, looked about the room
and said: "Gentlemen, this cake will not be served till the evening's mess, and I pity the
gentlemen who do not eat with the officer's mess, but they will have to go elsewhere for their
cake."

The Adjutant went out with his pies and doughnuts and distributed them here and there where
they would do the most good, getting on the right side of the Top Sergeant, for he had discovered
some time ago that even with the General as an ally one must be on the right side of the "old
Sarge" if one wanted anything. While he was still talking with the officers he was handed an
order from the General that he should be supplied with all that he needed, and when he finally
came out of Headquarters he found that seven tons of material were being loaded on his car.
After that the Salvation Army never had any trouble in getting all the material they needed.

After the tents in Montiers were all settled and the work fully started, the Staff-Captain
and his helpers settled down to a pleasant little schedule of sixteen hours a day work and
called it ease; but that was not to he enjoyed for long. At the end of a week the Salvation
Army Colonel swooped down upon them again with orders to erect a hut at once as the tents were
only a makeshift and winter was coming on. He brought materials and selected a site on a desirable
corner.

Now the corner was literally covered with fallen walls of a former building and wreckage from
the last year's raid, and the patient workers looked aghast at the task before them. But the
Colonel would listen to no arguments. "Don't talk about difficulties," he said, brushing aside
a plea for another lot, not quite so desirable perhaps, but much easier to clear. "Don't talk
about difficulties; get busy and have the job over with!"

One big reason why the Salvation Army is able to carry on the great machinery of its vast organization
is that its people are trained to obey without murmuring. Cheerfully and laboriously the men
set to work. Winter rains were setting in, with a chill and intensity never to be forgotten
by an American soldier. But wet to the skin day after day all day long the Salvationists worked
against time, trying to finish the hut before the snow should arrive. And at last the hut was
finished and ready for occupancy. Such tireless devotion, such patient, cheerful toil for their
sake was not to be passed by nor forgotten by the soldiers who watched and helped when they
could. Day after day the bonds between them and the Salvation Army grew stronger. Here were
men who did not have to, and yet who for the sake of helping them, came and lived under the
same conditions that they did, working even longer hours than they, eating the same food, enduring
the same privations, and whose only pay was their expenses. At the first the Salvationists
took their places in the chow line with the rest, then little by little men near the head of
the line would give up their places to them, quietly stepping to the rear of the line themselves.
Finally, no matter how long the line was the men with one consent insisted that their unselfish
friends should take the very head of the line whenever they came and always be served first.

One day one of the Salvation Army men swathed in a big raincoat was sitting in a Ford by the
roadside in front of a Salvation Army hut, waiting for his Colonel, when two soldiers stopped
behind him to light their cigarettes. It was just after sundown, and the man in the car must
have seemed like any soldier to the two as they chatted.

"Bunch of grafters, these Y.M.C.A. and Salvation Army outfits!" grumbled one as he struck a
match. "What good are the 'Sallies' in a soldier camp?"

"Well, Buddy," said the other somewhat excitedly, "there's a whole lot of us think the Salvation
Army is about it in this man's outfit. For a rookie you sure are picking one good way to make
yourself unpopular tout de suite! Better lay off that kind of talk until you kind of find out
what's what. I didn't have much use for them myself back in the States, but here in France
they're real folks, believe me!"

So the feeling had grown everywhere as the huts multiplied. And the huts proved altogether
too small for the religious meetings, so that as long as the weather permitted the services
had to be held in the open air. It was no unusual thing to see a thousand men gathered in the
twilight around two or three Salvation Army lassies, singing in sweet wonderful volume the
old, old hymns. The soldiers were no longer amused spectators, bent on mischief; they were
enthusiastic allies of the organization that was theirs. The meeting was theirs.

"We never forced a meeting on them," said one of the girls. "We just let it grow. Sometimes
it would begin with popular songs, but before long the boys would ask for hymns, the old favorites,
first one, then another, always remembering to call for 'Tell Mother I'll Be There.'"

Almost without exception the boys entered heartily into everything that went on in the organization.
The songs were perhaps at first only a reminder of home, but scon they came to have a personal
significance to many. The Salvation Army did not hare movies and theatrical singers as did
the other organizations, but they did not seem to need them. The men liked the Gospel meetings
and came to them better than to anything else. Often they would come to the hut and start the
singing themselves, which would presently grow into a meeting of evident intention. The Staff-Captain
did not long have opportunity to enjoy the new hut which he had labored so hard to finish at
Montiers, for soon orders arrived for him to move on to Houdelainecourt to help put up the
hut there, and leave Montiers in charge of a Salvation Army Major. The Salvation Army was with
the Eighteenth Infantry at Houdelainecourt.

It was an old tent that sheltered the canteen, and it had the reputation of having gone up
and down five times. When first they put it up it blew down. It was located where two roads
met and the winds swept down in every direction. Then they put it up and took it down to camouflage
it. They got it up again and had to take it down to camouflage it some more. The regular division
helped with this, and it was some camouflage when it was done, for the boys had put their initials
all over it, and then, had painted Christmas trees everywhere, and on the trees they had put
the presents they knew they never would get, and so in all the richness of its record of homesickness
the old tent went up again. They kept warm here by means of a candle under an upturned tin
pail. The tent blew down again in a big storm soon after that and had to be put up once more,
and then there came a big rain and flooded everything in the neighborhood. It blew down and
drowned out the Y.M.C.A. and everything else, and only the old tent stood for awhile. But at
last the storm was too much for it, too, and it succumbed again.

After that the Salvation Army put up a hut for their work. A number of soldiers assisted. They
put up a stove, brought their piano and phonograph, and made the place look cheerful. Then
they got the regimental band and had an opening, the first big thing that was recognized by
the military authorities. The Salvation Army Staff-Captain in charge of that zone took a long
board and set candles on it and put it above the platform like a big chandelier. The Brigade
Commander was there, and a Captain came to represent the Colonel. A chaplain spoke. The lassies
who took part in the entertainment were the first girls the soldiers had seen for many months.

Long before the hour announced for the service the soldier boys had crowded the hutment to
its greatest capacity. Game and reading tables had been moved to the rear and extra benches
brought in. The men stood three deep upon the tables and filled every seat and every inch of
standing room. When there was no more room on the floor, they climbed to the roof and lined
the rafters. There was no air and the Adjutant came to say there was too much light, but none
of these things damped the enthusiasm.

With the aid of the regimental chaplain, the Staff-Captain had arranged a suitable program
for the occasion, the regimental band furnishing the music.

When the General entered the hutment all of the men stood and uncovered and the band stopped
abruptly in the middle of a strain. "That's the worst thing I ever did--stopping the music,"
he exclaimed ruefully. He refused to occupy the chair which had been prepared for him, saying:
"No, I want to stand so that I can look at these men."

The records of the work in that hut would be precious reading for the fathers and mothers of
those boys, for the Fighting Eighteenth Infantry are mostly gone, having laid their young lives
on the altar with so many others. Here is a bit from one lassie's letter, giving a picture
of one of her days in the hut:

 "Well, I must tell you how the days are spent. We open the hut at 7; it
is cleaned by some of the boys; then at 8 we commence to serve cocoa and
coffee and make pies and doughnuts, cup cakes and fry eggs and make all
kinds of eats until it is all you see. Well, can you think of two women
cooking in one day 2500 doughnuts, 8 dozen cup cakes, 50 pies, 800
pancakes and 225 gallons of cocoa, and one other girl serving it? That is
a day's work in my last hut. Then meeting at night, and it lasts two
hours."

 A lieutenant came into the canteen to buy something and said to one of
the girls: "Will you please tell me something? Don't you ever rest?" That
is how both the men and officers appreciated the work of these tireless
girls.

Men often walked miles to look at an American woman. Once acquainted with the Salvation Army
lassies they came to them with many and strange requests. Having picked a quart or so of wild
berries and purchased from a farmer a pint of cream they would come to ask a girl to make a
strawberry shortcake for them. They would buy a whole dozen of eggs apiece, and having begged
a Salvation Army girl to fry them would eat the whole dozen at a sitting. They would ask the
girls to write their love letters, or to write assuring some mother or sweetheart that they
were behaving themselves.

Soldiers going into action have left thousands of dollars in cash and in valuables in the care
of Salvation Army officers to be forwarded to persons designated in case they are killed in
action or taken prisoner. In such cases it is very seldom that a receipt is given for either
money or valuables., so deeply do the soldiers trust the Salvation Army.

One of the girl Captains wears a plain silver ring, whose intrinsic value is about thirty cents,
but whose moral value is beyond estimate. The ring is not the Captain's. It belongs to a soldier,
who, before the war, had been a hard drinker and had continued his habits after enlisting.
He came under the influence of the Salvation Army and swore that he would drink no more. But
time after time he fell, each time becoming more desperate and more discouraged. Each time
the young lassie-Captain dealt with him. After the last of his failures, while she was encouraging
him to make another try, he detached the ring from the cord from which it had dangled around
his neck and thrust it at her.

"It was my mother's," he explained. "If you will wear it for me, I shall always think of it
when the temptation comes to drink, and the fact that someone really cares enough about my
worthless hide to take all of the trouble you have taken on my behalf, will help me to resist it."

"No one will misunderstand" he cried, seeing that the lassie was about to decline, "not even
me. I shall tell no one. And it would help."

"Very well," agreed the girl, looking steadily at him for a moment, "but the first time that
you take a drink, off will come the ring! And you must promise that you will tell me if you
do take that drink."

The soldier promised. The lassie still wears the ring. The soldier is still sober. Also he
has written to his wife for the first time in five years and she has expressed her delight
at the good news.

On more than one occasion American aviators have flown from their camps many miles to villages
where there were Salvation lassies and have returned with a load of doughnuts. On one occasion
a bird-man dropped a note down in front of the hut where two sisters were stationed, circling
around at a low elevation until certain that the girls had picked up the note, which stated
that he would return the following afternoon for a mess of doughnuts for his comrades. When
he returned, the doughnuts were ready for him.

The Adjutant of the aerial forces attached to the American Fifth Army around Montfaucon on
the edge of the Argonne Forest, before that forest was finally captured at the point of American
bayonets, drove almost seventy miles to the Salvation Army Headquarters at Ligny for supplies
for his men. He was given an automobile load of chocolate, candies, cakes, cookies, soap, toilet
articles, and other comforts, without charge. He said that he knew that the Salvation Army
would have what he wanted.

The two lassies who were in Bure had a desperate time of it. Things were most primitive. They
had no store, just an old travelling field range, and for a canteen one end of Battery F's
kitchen. They were then attached to the Sixth Field Artillery. This was the regiment that fired
the first shot into Germany.

The smoke in that kitchen was awful and continuous from the old field range. The girls often
made doughnuts out-of-doors, and they got chilblains from standing in the snow. All the company
had chilblains, too, and it was a sorry crowd. Then the girls got the mumps. It was so cold
here, especially at night, they often had to sleep with their clothes on. There was only one
way they could have meetings in that place and that was while the men were lined up for chow
near to the canteen. They would start to sing in the gloomy, cold room, the men and girls all
with their overcoats on, and fingers so cold that they could hardly play the concertina, for
there was no fire in the big room save from the range at one end where they cooked. Then the
girls would talk to them while they were eating. Perhaps they did not call these meetings,
but they were a mighty happy time to the men, and they liked it.

A minister who had taken six months' leave of absence from his church to do Y.M.C.A. work in
France asked one of the boys why he liked the Salvation Army girls and he said: "Because they
always take time to cheer us up. It's true they do knock us mighty hard about our sins, but
while it hurts they always show us a way out." The minister told some one that if he had his
work to do over again he would plan it along the lines of the Salvation Army work.

You may hear it urged that one reason the boys liked the Salvation Army people so much was
because they did not preach, but it is not so. They preached early and often, but the boys
liked it because it was done so simply, so consistently and so unselfishly, that they did not
recognize it as preaching.

In Menaucourt as Christmas was coming on some United States officers raised money to give the
little refugee children a Christmas treat. There was to be a tree with presents, and good things
to eat, and an entertainment with recitations from the children. The school-teacher was teaching
the children their pieces, and there was a general air of delightful excitement everywhere.
It was expected that the affair was to be held in the Catholic church at first, but the priest
protested that this was unseemly, so they were at a loss what to do. The school-house was not
large enough.

The Salvation Army Staff-Captain found this out and suggested to the officers that the Salvation
Army hut was the very place for such a gathering. So the tree was set up, and the officers
went to town and bought presents and decorations. They covered the old hut with boughs and
flags and transformed it into a wonderland for the children. The officers were struggling helplessly
with the decorations of the tree when the Salvation Army man happened in and they asked him
to help.

"Why, sure!" he said heartily. "That's my regular work!" So they eagerly put it into his hands
and departed. The Staff-Captain worked so hard at it and grew go interested in it that he forgot
to go for his chow at lunch- time, and when supper-time came the hall was so crowded and there
was so much still to be done that he could not get away to get his supper. But it was a grand
and glorious time. The place was packed. There were two American Colonels, a French Colonel,
and several French officers. The soldiers crowded in and they had to send them out again, poor
fellows, to make room for the children, but they hung around the doors and windows eager to
see it all.

The regimental band played, there were recitations in French and a good time generally.

The seats were facing the canteen where the supplies were all stocked neatly, boxes of candy
and cakes and good things. The Colonel in charge of the regiment looked over to them wistfully
and said to the Staff-Captain: "Are you going to sell all those things?" The Staff-Captain,
with quick appreciation, said: "No, Colonel, Christmas comes but once a year and there's a
present up there for you." And the Colonel seemed as pleased as the children when the Staff-Captain
handed him a big box of candy all tied up in Christmas ribbons.

In the huts, phonographs are never silent as long as there is a single soldier in the place.
One night two of the Salvation Army girls, who slept in the back room of a certain hut, had
closed up for the night and retired. They were awakened by the sound of the phonograph, and
wondered how anyone got into the hut and who it might happen to be. They were a little bit
nervous, but went to investigate. They found that a soldier on guard had raised a window, and
although this did not allow him room to enter the hut, he was able to reach the table where
the phonograph stood. He had turned the talking machine around so that it faced the window,
and, placing a record in position, had started it going. He was leaning up against the outer
wall of the hut, smoking a cigarette in the moonlight, and enjoying his concert. The girls
returned to bed without disturbing the audience.

One of the most popular French confections sold in the huts was a variety of biscuits known
under the trade name of "Boudoir Biscuits" One day a soldier entered a hut and said: "Say,
miss, I want some of them there-them there--Dang me if I can remember them French names!--them
there (suddenly a great light dawned)--some of them there bedroom cookies." And the lassie
got what he wanted.

The Salvation Army men who worked among the soldiers in advanced positions from which all women
are barred are among the heroes of the war. Here during the day they labored in dugouts far
below the shell-tortured earth, often going out at night to help bring in the wounded; always
in danger from shells and gas; some with the ammunition trains; others driving supply trucks;
still others attached to units and accompanying the fighting men wherever they went, even to
the active combat of the firing trench and the attack. These are unofficial chaplains. Such
a one was "La Petit Major," as the soldiers called him, because of his smallness of stature.

The Little Major commenced his service in the field with the Twenty-sixth Infantry, First Division,
at Menaucourt. Soon he was transferred to command the hut at Boviolles. At this place was the
battalion of the Twenty-sixth Infantry, commanded by Major Theodore Roosevelt. His brother,
Captain Archie Roosevelt, commanded a company in this battalion. He was for the greater part
of the time alone in the work at Boviolles.

By his consistent life and character and his willingness to serve both men and officers, he
won their esteem.

When they left the training area for the trenches the Major was requested to go with them.
He turned the key in the canteen door and went off with them across France and never came back,
establishing himself in the front- line trenches with the men and acting as unofficial chaplain
to the battalion.

There is an interesting incident in connection with his introduction to Major Roosevelt's notice.

For some reason the Salvation Army had been made to feel that they were not welcome with that
division. But the Little Major did not give up like that, and he lingered about feeling that
somehow there was yet to be a work for him there.

A young private from a far Western state, a fellow who, according to all reports, had never
been of any account at home, was convicted of a most horrible murder and condemned to die by
hanging because the commanding officer said that shooting was too good for him.

He accepted his fate with sullen ugliness. He would not speak to anyone and he was so violent
that they had to put him in chains. No one could do anything with him. He had to be watched
day and night; and it was awful to see him die this way with his sin unconfessed. Many attempts
were made to break through his silence, but all to no effect. Several chaplains visited him,
but he would have nothing to do with them.

On the morning of his execution, to the surprise of everybody he said that he had heard that
there was a Salvation Army man around, and he would like to see him. The authorities sent and
searched everywhere for the Little Major, and some thought he must have left, but they found
him at last and he came at once to the desperate man.

The criminal sat crouched on his hard bench, chained hand and foot. He did not look up. He
was a dreadful sight, his brutal face haggard, unshaven, his eyes bloodshot, his whole appearance
almost like some low animal. Through the shadowy prison darkness the Little Major crept to
those chains, those symbols of the man's degradation; and still the man did not look up.

"You must be in great trouble, brother. Can I help you any?" asked the Little Major with a
wonderful Christ-like compassion in his voice.

The man lifted his bleared eyes under the shock of unkempt hair, and spoke, startled:

"You call me brother! You know what I'm here for and you call me brother! Why?"

The Little Major's voice was steady and sweet as he replied without hesitation:

"Because I know a great deal about the suffering of Christ on the Cross, all because He loved
you so! Because I know He said He was wounded for your transgressions, He was bruised for your
iniquities!

"Oh," said the man with a groan of agony and big tears rolling down his face. "Could I be made
a better man?"

Then they went down on their knees together beside the hard bench, the man in chains and the
man of God, and the Little Major prayed such a wonderful prayer, taking the poor soul right
to the foot of the Throne; and in a few minutes the man was confessing his sin to God. Then
he suddenly looked up and exclaimed:

"It's true, what you said! Christ has pardoned me! Now I can die like a man!"

With that great pardon written across his heart he actually went to his death with a smile
upon his face. When the Chaplain asked him if he had anything to say he publicly thanked the
military authorities and the Salvation Army for what they had done for him.

The Colonel, greatly surprised at the change in the man, sent to find out how it came about
and later sent to thank the Little Major. Two days later Major Roosevelt came in person to
thank him:

"I knew that someone who knew how to deal with men had got hold of him," he said, "but I almost
doubted the evidence of my own eyes when I saw how cheerfully he went to his death, it all
seemed too wonderful!"

The little Major was with this battalion in all of its engagements, and on several occasions
went over the top with the men and devoted himself to first aid to the wounded and to bringing
the men back to the dressing station on stretchers. Between the times of active engagements,
the Major gave himself to supplying the needs of the men and made daily trips out of the trenches
to obtain newspapers, writing material, and to perform errands which they could not do for
themselves.

One of the lieutenants said of him: "He is worth more than all the chaplains that were ever
made in the United States Army. He will walk miles to get the most trivial article for either
man or officer. The men know that he loves them or he would not go into the trenches with them,
for he does not have to go. You can tell the world for me that he is a real man!"

One of the fellows said of him he had seen him take off his shoes and bring away pieces of
flesh from the awful blisters got from much tramping.

The men soon learned to love their gray haired Salvation Army comrade. When an enemy attack
was to be met with cold steel he was the first to follow the company officers "over the top,"
to cheer and encourage the onrushing Americans in the anxious semi-calm which follows the lifting
of a barrage. A non-combatant, unarmed and fifty-three years of age, he was always in the van
of the fierce onslaught with which our men repulsed the enemy, ready to pray with the dying
or help bring in the wounded, and always fearless no matter what the conditions. By his unfearing
heroism as well as his willingness to share the hardships and dangers of the men, he so won
their confidence that it was frequently said that they would not go into battle except the
Major was with them. The men would crouch around him with an almost fantastic confidence that
where he was no harm could come. Knowing that many earnest Christian people were praying for
his safety and having seen how safely he and those with him had come through dangers, they
thought his very presence was a protection. Who shall say that God did not stay on the battlefield
living and speaking through the Little Major?

When the first division was moved from the Montdidier Sector he travelled with the men as far
as they went by train. When they detrained and marched he marched with them, carrying his seventy
pound pack as any soldier did. He was by the side of Captain Archie Roosevelt when he received
a very dangerous wound from an exploding shell, and was in the battle of Cantigny in the Montdidier
Sector, where his company lost only two men killed and four wounded, while other companies'
losses were much more severe.

Protestant, Catholic and Jew were all his friends. One Catholic boy came crawling along in
the waist-deep trench one day to tell the Major about his spiritual worries. After a brief
talk the Major asked him if he had his prayer book. The boy said yes. "Then take it out and
read it," said the Major. "God is here!" And there in the narrow trench with lowered heads
so that the snipers could not see them, they knelt together and read from the Catholic prayer book.

In one American attack the Little Major followed the Lieutenant over the top just as the barrage
was lifted. The Lieutenant looking back saw him struggling over the crest of the parapet, laughed
and shouted: "Go back, Major, you haven't even a pistol!" But the Major did not go back. He
went with the boys. "I have no hesitancy in laying down my life," he once said, "if it will
help or encourage anyone else to live in a better or cleaner way."

He was always striving for the salvation of his boys, and in his meetings men would push their
way to the front and openly kneel before their comrades registering their determination to
live in accordance with the teachings of Jesus. One tells of seeing him kneel beside an empty
crate with three soldiers praying for their souls.

It was because of all these things that the men believed in him and in his God. He used to
say to the men in the meetings, "We are not afraid because we have a sense of the presence
of God right here with us!"

One night the battalion was "in" after a heavy day's work strengthening the defenses and trying
to drain the trenches, and the men were asleep in the dugouts. The Major lay in his little
chicken-wire bunk, just drowsing off, while the water seeped and dripped from the earthen roof,
and the rats splashed about on the water covered floor.

Across from him in a bunk on the other side of the dugout tossed a boy in his damp blankets
who had just come to the front. He was only eighteen and it was his first night in the line.
It had been a hard day for him. The shells screamed overhead and finally one landed close somewhere
and rocked the dugout with its explosion. The old-timers slept undisturbed, but the boy started
up with a scream and a groan, his nerves a-quiver, and cried out: "Oh, Daddy! Daddy! Daddy!"

The Little Major was out and over to him in a flash, and gathered the boy into his arms, soothing
him as a mother might have done, until he was calmed and strengthened; and there amid the roaring
of guns, the screaming of shells, the dripping of water and splashing of rats, the youngest
of the battalion found Christ.

An old soldier came down from the front and a Salvationist asked him if he knew the Little Major.

"Well, you just bet I know the Major--sure thing!" And the Major is always on hand with a laugh
and his fun-making. In the trenches or in the towns, where the shells are flying, the Little
Major is with his boys. No words of mine could express the admiration the boys have for him.
The boys love him. He calls them "Buddie." They salute and are ready to do or die. The last
time I saw him he had hiked in from the trenches with the boys. He carried a heavy "war baby"
on his back and a tin hat on his head. He was tired and footsore, but there was that laugh,
and before he got his pack off he jabbed me in the ribs. "No, sir, we can't get along without
our Major!" So says "Buddie."

 A request came from a chaplain to open Salvation Army work near his
division. The Brigade Commander was most favorable to the suggestion until
he learned that the Salvation Army would have women there and that
religious meetings would be conducted. As this was explained the General's
manner changed and he declared he did not know that the work was to be
carried on in this way; that he did not favor the women in camps, or any
religion, but thought it would make the soldier soft, and the business of
the soldier was to kill, to kill in as brutal a manner as possible; and to
kill as many of the enemy as possible; and he did not propose to have any
work conducted in the camps or any influence on his soldiers that would
tend to soften them.

He ordered them, therefore, not to extend the work of the Salvation Army within his brigade.
It was explained to him that Demange was now within the territory named. He appeared to be
put out that the Salvation Army was already established in his district, but said that if they
behaved themselves they could go on, but that they must not extend.

He reported the matter to the Divisional Headquarters and an investigation of the Salvation
Army activities was ordered. A major who was a Jew was appointed to look into the matter. During
the next two weeks he talked with the men and officers and attended Salvation Army meetings.
The leaders, of course, knew nothing about this, but they could not have planned their meetings
better if they had known. It seemed as though God was in it all. At the end of two weeks there
came a written communication from the General stating that after a thorough examination of
the Salvation Army work he withdrew his objections and the Salvation Army was free to extend
operations anywhere within his brigade.

The Salvation Army hut was a scene of constant activity.

At one place in a single day there was early mass, said by the Catholic chaplain, later preaching
by a Protestant chaplain, then a Jewish service, followed by a company meeting where the use
of gas masks was explained. All this, besides the regular uses of the hut, which included a
library, piano, phonograph, games, magazines, pies, doughnuts and coffee; the pie line being
followed by a regular Salvation Army meeting where men raised their hands to be prayed for,
and many found Christ as their Saviour.

It was in an old French barracks that they located the Salvation Army canteen in Treveray.
One corner was boarded off for a bedroom for the girls. There were windows but not of glass,
for they would have soon been shattered, and, too, they would have let too much light through.
They were canvas well camouflaged with paint so that the enemy shells would not be attracted
at night, and, of course, one could not see through them.

Inside the improvised bedroom were three little folding army cots, a board table, a barrack
bag and some boxes. This was the only place where the girls could be by themselves. On rainy
days the furniture was supplemented by a dishpan on one cot, a frying-pan on another, and a
lard tin on the third, to catch the drops from the holes in the roof. The opposite corner of
the barracks was boarded off for a living-room. In this was a field range and one or two tables
and benches.

The rest of the hut was laid out with square bare board tables. The canteen was at one end.
The piano was at one side and the graphophone at the other. Sometimes in places like this,
the hut would be too near the front for it to be thought advisable to have a piano. It was
too liable to be shattered by a chance shell and the management thought it unwise to put so
much money into what might in a moment be reduced to worthless splinters. Then the boys would
come into the hut, look around disappointedly and say: "No piano?"

The cheerful woman behind the counter would say sympathetically: "No, boys, no piano. Too many
shells around here for a piano."

The boys would droop around silently for a minute or two and then go off. In a little while
back they would come with grim satisfaction on their faces bearing a piano.

"Don't ask us where we got it," they would answer with a twinkle in reply to the pleased inquiry.
"This is war! We salvaged it!"

Around the room on the tables were plenty of magazines, books and games. Checkers was a favorite
game. No card playing, no shooting crap. The canteen contained chocolate, candy, writing materials,
postage stamps, towels, shaving materials, talcum powder, soap, shoestrings, handkerchiefs
in little sealed packets, buttons, cootie medicine and other like articles. The Salvation Army
did not sell nor give away either tobacco or cigarettes. In a few cases where such were sent
to them for distribution they were handed over to the doctors for the badly wounded in the
hospitals or the very sick men accustomed to their use, who were almost insane with their nerves.
They also procured them from the Red Cross for wounded men, sometimes, who were fretting for
them, but they never were a part of their supplies and far from the policy of the Salyation
Army. Furthermore, the Salvation Army sent no men to France to work for them who smoked or
used tobacco in any form, or drank intoxicating liquors. No man can hold a commission in the
Salvation Army and use tobacco! It is a remarkable fact that the boys themselves did not want
the Salvation Army lassies to deal in cigarettes because they knew it would be going against
their principles to do so.

Occasionally a stranger would come into the canteen and ask for a package of cigarettes. Then
some soldier would remark witheringly: "Say, where do you come from? Don't you know the Salvation
Army don't handle tobacco?"

The men were always deeply grateful to get talcum powder for use after shaving. It seemed somehow
to help to keep up the morale of the army, that talcum powder, a little bit of the soothing
refinement of the home that seemed so far away.

To this hut whenever they were at liberty came Jew and Gentile, Protestant and Catholic, rich
and poor. War is a great leveler and had swept away all differences. They were a great brotherhood
of Americans now, ready, if necessary, to die for the right.

To one of the huts came a request from the chaplain of a regiment which was about to move from
its temporary billet in the next village. The men had not been so fortunate as to be stationed
at a town where there was a Salvation Army hut and it had been over four months since they
had tasted anything like cake or pie. Would the Salvation Army lassies be so good as to let
them have a few doughnuts before they moved that night? If so the chaplain would call for them
at five o'clock.

The lassies worked with all their might and fried thirty-five hundred doughnuts. But something
happened to the ambulance that was to take them to the boys, and over an hour was lost in repairs.
Back at the camp the boys had given up all hope. They were to march at eight o'clock and nothing
had been heard of the doughnuts. Suddenly the truck dashed into view, but the boys eyed it
glumly, thinking it was likely empty after all this time. However, the chaplain held up both
hands full of golden brown beauties, and with a wild shout of joy the men sprang to "attention"
as the ambulance drew up, and more soldiers crowded around. The villagers rushed to their doors
to see what could be happening now to those crazy American soldiers.

When the chaplain stood up in the car flinging doughnuts to them and shouting that there were
thousands, enough for everybody, the enthusiasm of the soldiers knew no bounds. The girls had
come along and now they began to hand out the doughnuts, and the crowd cheered and shouted
as they filed up to receive them. And when it came time for the girls to return to their own
village the soldiers crowded up once more to say good-bye, and give them three cheers and a
"tiger."

These same girls a few days before had fed seven hundred weary doughboys on their march to
the front with coffee, hot biscuits and jam.

In one of the Salvation Army huts one night the usual noisy cheerfulness was in the air, but
apart from the rest sat a boy with a letter open on the table before him and a dreamy smile
of tender memories upon his face. Nobody noticed that far-away look in his eyes until the lassie
in charge of the hut, standing in the doorway surveying her noisy family, searched him out
with her discerning eyes, and presently happened down his way and inquired if he had a letter.
The boy looked up with a wonderful smile such as she had never seen on his face before, and
answered:

"Yes, it's from mother!" Then impulsively, "She's the nearest thing to God I know!"

Mother seemed to be the nearest thought to the heart of the boys over there. They loved the
songs best that spoke about mother. One boy bought a can of beans at the canteen, and when
remonstrated with by the lassie who sold them, on the ground that he was always complaining
of having to eat so many beans, he replied: "Aw, well, this is different. These beans are the
kind that mother used to buy."

In the dark hours of the early morning a boy who belonged to the ammunition train sat by one
of the little wooden tables in the hut, just after he had returned from his first barrage,
and pencilled on its top the following words:

  Mother o' mine, what the words mean to me
    Is more than tongue can say;
  For one view to-night of your loving face,
    What a price I would gladly pay!
  The wonderful face . . .
  . . . smiling still despite loads of care,
    Tis crowned by a silvering sheen.
  Your picture I carry next to my heart;
    With it no harm can befall.
  It has helped me to smile through many a care,
    Since I heeded my country's call.
  O mother who nursed me as a babe
    And prayed for me as a boy,
  Can I not show, now at man's estate,
    That you are my pride and joy?
  Good night! God guard you, way over the ocean blue,
  Your boy loves you and his dreams are bright,
    For he's dreaming of home and you.

One of the letters that was written home for "Mother's Day" in response to a suggestion on
the walls of the Salvation Army hut was as follows:

Dearest Little Mother of Mine:

They started a campaign to write to mother on this day, and, believe me, I didn't have to be
urged very hard. If I wrote you every time I think of you this war would go hang as far as
I am concerned, for I think of you always and there are hundreds of things that serve as an
eternal reminder.

Near our billet is one lone, scrubby little lilac bush that has a dozen blossoms, and it doesn't
take much mental work to connect lilacs with mother. Then, too, the distant whistle of a train
'way down the valley reminds me of how you would listen for the whistle of the Montreal train
on Saturday morning and then fix up a big feed for your boy to offset a week of boarding-house
grub. Those and many other things remind me many times a day of the one who bid me good-by
with a smile and saved her tears 'till she was home alone; who knit helmets, wristlets and
sweaters to keep out the cold when she should have been sleeping; who (I'll bet a hat) didn't
sleep one of the thirteen nights I was on the ocean, and who writes me cheerful, newsy letters
when all others fail.

And I appreciate all those things too, although I'm not much on showing affection. I haven't
always been as good to you as I ought, but I'm going to make up by being the soldier and the
man "me mudder" thinks I am.

And when I come back home, all full of prunes and glory, we're going to have the grandest time
you ever dreamed of. We'll go joy riding, eat strawberry shortcake and pumpkin pie, and have
all the lilacs in the U.S.A. Wait till I walk down Main Street with you on my arm all fixed
up in a swell dress and a new bonnet and me with a span new uniform, with sergeant-major's
chevrons, about steen service stripes, a Mex. campaign badge and a Croix de Guerre (maybe),
then you'll be glad your boy went to be a soldier.

I was on the road all of night before last and on guard last night and I'm a wee bit tired
so I'm making this kinder short; but it's a little reminder that the boy who is 5,000 miles
away is thinking, "I love you my ma," same as I always did.

And, by gosh, don't forget about that pumpkin pie!

Good-night, mother of mine; your soldier boy loves you a whole dollar's worth.

 [Illustraion: "Here during the day they worked in dugouts far below the
shell-tortured earth"]

[Illustraion: L'Hermitage, inside the tent.  Several of these boys were killed a few days after
the picture was taken]

The Salvation Army hut was home to the boys over there. They came to it in sorrow or joy. They
came to ask to scrape out the bowl where the cake batter had been stirred because mother used
to let them do it; they came to get their coats mended and have their buttons sewed on. Sometimes
it seemed to the long-suffering, smiling woman who sewed them on, as if they just ripped them
off so she could sew them on again; if so, she did not mind. They came to mourn when they received
no word from home; and when the mail came in and they were fortunate they came first to the
hut waving their letter to tell of their good luck before they even opened it to read it. It
is remarkable how they pinned their whole life on what these consecrated American women said
to them over there. It is wonderful how they opened their hearts to them on religious subjects,
and how they flocked to the religious meetings, seeming to really be hungry for them.

Word about these wonderful meetings that the soldiers were attending in such numbers got to
the ears of another commanding officer, and one day there came a summons for the Salvation
Army Major in charge at Gondrecourt to appear before him. An officer on a motor cycle with
a side car brought the summons, and the Major felt that it practically amounted to an arrest.
There was nothing to do but obey, so he climbed into the side car and was whirled away to Headquarters.

The Major-General received him at once and in brusque tones informed him most emphatically:

"We want you to get out! We don't want you nor your meetings! We are here to teach men to fight
and your religion says you must not kill. Look out there!" pointing through the doorway, "we
have set up dummies and teach our men to run their bayonets through them. You teach them the
opposite of that. You will unfit my men for warfare!"

The Salvationist looked through the door at the line of straw dummies hanging in a row, and
then he looked back and faced the Major-General for a full minute before he said anything.

Tall and strong, with soldierly bearing, with ruddy health in the glow of his cheeks, and fire
in his keen blue eyes, the Salvationist looked steadily at the Major-General and his indignation
grew. Then the good old Scotch burr on his tongue rolled broadly out in protest:

"On my way up here in your automobile"--every word was slow and calm and deliberate, tinged
with a fine righteous sarcasm--"I saw three men entering your Guard House who were not capable
of directing their own steps. They had been off on leave down to the town and had come home
drunk. They were going into the Guard House to sleep it off. When they come out to-morrow or
the next day with their limbs trembling, and their eyes bloodshot and their heads aching, do
you think they will be fit for warfare?

"You have men down there in your Guard House who are loathsome with vile diseases, who are
shaken with self-indulgence, and weakened with all kinds of excesses. Are they fit for warfare?

"Now, look at me!"

He drew himself up in all the strength of his six feet, broad shoulders, expanded chest, complexion
like a baby, muscles like iron, and compelled the gaze of the officer.

"Can you find any man--" The Salvationist said "mon" and the soft Scotch sound of it sent a
thrill down the Major-General's back in spite of his opposition. "Can you find any mon at fifty-five
years who can follow these in your regiment, who can beat me at any game whatever?"

The officer looked, and listened, and was ashamed.

The Major rose in his righteous wrath and spoke mighty truths clothed in simple words, and
as he talked the tears unbidden rolled down the Major- General's face and dropped upon his table.

"And do you know," said the Salvationist, afterward telling a friend in earnest confidence,
"do you know, before I left we had prayer together! And he became one of the best friends we have!"

Before he left, also, the Major-General signed the authority which gave him charge of the Guard
Houses, so that he might talk to the men or hold meetings with them whenever he liked. This
was the means of opening up a new avenue of work among the men.

The Scotch Major had a string of hospitals that he visited in addition to his other regular
duties. He knew that the men who are gassed lose all their possessions when their clothes are
ripped off from them. So this Salvationist made a delightful all-the-year-round Santa Claus
out of himself: dressing up in old clothes, because of the mud and dirt through which he must
pass, he would sling a pack on his back that would put to shame the one Old Santa used to carry.
Shaving things and soap and toothbrushes, handkerchiefs and chocolate and writing materials.
How they welcomed him wherever he came! Sick men, Protestants, Jews, Catholics. He talked and
prayed with them all, and no one turned away from his kindly messages.

Six miles from Neufchauteul is Bazoilles, a mighty city of hospital tents and buildings, acres
and acres of them, lying in the valley. Whenever this man heard the rumbling of guns and knew
that something was doing, he took his pack and started down to go the rounds, for there were
always men there needing him.

Then he would hold meetings in the wards, blessed meetings that the wounded men enjoyed and
begged for. They all joined in the singing, even those who could not sing very well.

One Sunday afternoon two Salvation Army lassies had come with their Major to hold their usual
service in the hospital, but there were so many wounded coming in and the place was so busy
that it seemed as if perhaps they ought to give up the service. The nurses were heavy-eyed
with fatigue and the doctors were almost worked to death. But when this was suggested with
one accord both doctors and nurses were against it. "The boys would miss it so," they said,
"and we would miss it, too. It rests us to hear you sing."

After the Bible reading and prayer a lassie sang: "There Is Sunshine in My Heart To-day," and
then came a talk that spoke of a spiritual sunshine that would last all the year. The song
and talk drifted out to another little ward where a doctor sat beside a boy, and both listened.
As the physician rose to go the wounded boy asked if he might write a letter.

The next day the doctor happened to meet the lassie who sang and told her he had a letter that
had been handed to him for censorship that he thought she would like to see. He said the writer
had asked him to show it to her. This was the letter:

 Dear Mother: You will be surprised to hear that I am in the hospital, but
I am getting well quickly and am having a good time. But best of all, some
Salvation Army people came and sang and talked about sunshine, and while
they were talking the sunshine came in through my window--not into my room
alone, but into my heart and life as well, where it is going to stay. I
know how happy this will make you.

 The hospital work was a large feature of the service performed by the
Salvation Army. In every area this testimony comes from both doctors,
nurses and wounded men. Yet it was nothing less than a pleasure for the
workers to serve those patient, cheerful sufferers.

A lassie entered a ward one day and found the men with combs and tissue paper performing an
orchestra selection. They apologized for the noise, declaring that they were all crazy about
music and that was the only way they could get it.

"How would you like a phonograph?" she asked.

"Oh, Boy! If we only had one! I'll tell the world we'd like it," one declared wistfully.

The phonograph was soon forthcoming and brought much pleasure.

A lassie offered to write a letter for a boy whose foot had just been amputated and whose right
arm was bound in splints. He accepted her offer eagerly, but said:

"But when you write promise me you won't tell mother about my foot. She worries! She wouldn't
understand how well off I really am. Maybe you had better let me try to write a bit myself
for you to enclose. I guess I could manage that." So, with his left hand, he wrote the following:

Dearest Mother:--I am laid up in the hospital here with a very badly sprained ankle and some
bruises, and will be here two or three weeks. Do not worry, I am getting along fine. Your loving
Son.

Two automobiles, an open car and a limousine, were maintained in Paris for the sole purpose
of providing outings for wounded men who were able to take a little drive. It was said by the
doctors and nurses that nothing helped a rapid recovery like these little excursions out into
an every-day beautiful world.

A boy on one of the hospital cots called to a passing lassie:

"I am going to die, I know I am, and I'm a Catholic. Can you pray for me, Salvation Army girl,
like you prayed for that fellow over there?"

The young lassie assured him that he was not going to die yet, but she knelt by his cot and
prayed for him, and soothed him into a sleep from which he awoke refreshed to find that she
was right, he was not going to die yet, but live, perhaps, to be a different lad.

A sixteen-year-old boy who at the first declaration of war had run away from home and enlisted
was wounded so badly that he was ordered to go back to the evacuation hospital. He was determined
that he could yet fight, and was almost crying because he had to leave his comrades, but on
the way back he discovered the entrance to a German dugout and thought he heard someone down
in there moving.

"Come out," he shouted, "or I'll throw in a hand grenade!"

A few minutes later he reached the evacuation hospital with thirty prisoners of war, his useless
arm hanging by his side. That is the kind of stuff our American boys are made of, and those
are the boys who are praising the Salvation Army!

It was sunset at the Gondrecourt Officers' Training Camp. On the big parade ground in back
of the Salvation Army huts three companies were lined up for "Colors." The sun was sinking
into a black mass of storm clouds, painting the Western sky a dull blood red with here and
there a thread of gleaming gold etched on the rim of a cloud. Three French children trudged
sturdily, wearily, back from the distant fields where they had toiled all day. The elder girl
pushed a wheelbarrow heavily laden with plunder from the fields. All bore farming implements,
the size of which dwarfed them by comparison. They had almost reached the end of the drill
ground when the military band blared out the opening notes of the "Star Spangled Banner," and
the flag slipped slowly from its high staff. Instantly the farming tools were dropped and the
three childish figures swung swiftly to "attention," hands raised rigidly to the stiff French
salute. So they stood until the last note had died. Then on they tramped, their backs all bent
and weary, over the hill and down into the grey, evening-shadowed village of the valley.

In a shell-marred little village at the American front, the Salvation Army once brought the
United States Army to a standstill. Several hundred artillerymen had gathered for the regular
Wednesday night religious service, held in the hutment, conducted by that organization at this
point, and, in closing, sang vigorously three verses of "The Star Spangled Banner." A Major
who was passing came immediately to attention, his example being followed by all of the men
and officers within hearing, and also by a scattering of French soldiers who were just emerging
from the Catholic church. By the time the second verse was well under way three companies of
infantry, marching from a rest camp toward the front, had also come to a rigid salute, blocking
the road to a quartermaster's supply train, who had, perforce, to follow suit. The "Star Spangled
Banner" has a deeper meaning to the man who has done a few turns in the trenches.

They had a pie-baking contest in Gondrecourt one day, where the renowned "Aunt Mary" was located,
with her sweet face and sweeter heart.

One of the other huts had baked two hundred and thirty-five pies in a day. The people in Gondrecourt
believed they could do better than that, so they made their preparations and set to work.

The soldiers were all interested, of course. Who was to eat those pies? The more pies the merrier!
The engineers had constructed a rack to hold them, so that they might be easily counted without
confusion. The soldiers had appointed a committee to do the counting with a representative
from the cooks to be sure that everything went right. Even the officers and chaplain took an
interest in it.

This hut was in one of the largest American sectors. It was so well patronized that they used
on an average fifty gallons of coffee every evening and seventy-five or more gallons of lemonade
every afternoon. You can imagine the pies and doughnuts that would find a welcome here. One
day they made twenty-seven hundred sugar cookies, and another day they fried eighteen hundred
and thirty-six doughnuts, at the same time baking cake and pies; but this time they were going
to try to bake three hundred pies between the rising and setting of the sun.

An army field oven only holds nine pies at a time, so every minute of the day had to be utilized.
The fires were started very early in the morning and everything was ready for the girls to
begin when the sun peeped over the edge of the great battlefield. They sprang at their task
as though it were a delightful game of tennis, and not as though they had worked hard and late
on the day before, and the many days before that.

It was very hot in the little kitchen as the sun waxed high. An army range never tries to conserve
its heat for the benefit of the cooks. In fact that kitchen was often used for a Turkish bath
by some poor wet soldiers who were chilled to the bone.

But the heat did not delay the workers. They flew at their task with fingers that seemed to
have somehow borrowed an extra nimbleness. All day long they worked, and the pies were marshalled
out of the oven by nines, flaky and fragrant and baked just right. The rack grew fuller and
fuller, and the soldiers watched with eager eyes and watering mouths. Now and then one of the
soldiers' cooks would put his head in at the door, ask how the score stood, and shake his head
in wonder. On and on they worked, mixing, rolling, filling, putting the little twists and cuts
on the upper crust, and slipping in the oven and out again! Mixing, rolling, filling and baking
without any let-up, until the sun with a twinkle of glowing appreciation slipped regretfully
down behind the hills of France again as if he were sorry to leave the fun, and the time was
up. The committee gave a last careful glance over the filled racks and announced the final
score, three hundred and sixteen pies, in shining, delectable rows!

By seven o'clock that evening the pie line was several hundred yards long. It was eleven o'clock
when the last quarter of a pie went over the counter, with its accompanying mug of coffee.
Think what it was just to have to cut and serve that pie, and make that coffee, after a long
day's work of baking!

One of the officers receiving his change after having paid for his pie looked at it surprisedly:

"And you mean to tell me that you girls work so hard for such a small return? I don't see where
you make any profit at all."

"We don't work for profit, Captain," answered the lassie. "I don't think any amount of money
would persuade us to keep going as we have to here at times."

"You mean you sort of work for the joy of working?" he asked, puzzled.

"I don't know what you mean," responded the lassie pleasantly, "but when we are tired we look
at the boys drilling in the sun and working early and late. They are splendid and we feel we
must do our part as unreservedly as they do theirs."

"No wonder my men have so many good things to say about the Salvation Army!" said the Captain,
turning to his companions. But as he went out into the night his voice floated back in a puzzled
sort of half- conviction, as if he were thinking out something more than had been spoken:

"It takes more than patriotism to keep refined women working like that!"

These same girls were commissioned also to make frequent visits to the hospitals and talk with
the sick soldiers. Often they read the Bible to them, and many a man through these little talks
has found the way of eternal life. This in addition to their other work.

One night after a meeting in the hut a lad wanted to come into the room at the back and speak
to one of the women about his soul. They knelt and prayed together, and the boy when he rose
had a light of real happiness on his face. But suddenly the happiness faded and he exclaimed:

"But I can't read!"

"Read? What do you mean?" asked the lassie.

"My Bible. Nobody never learned me to read, and I can't read my Bible like you said in the
meeting I should."

The lassie thought for a minute, and then suggested that he come to the hut every morning just
before first call and she would teach him a verse of scripture and read him a chapter. This
meant that the lassie must rise that much earlier, but what of that for a servant of the King?

Just a month this program was carried out, and then came marching orders for the boy, but by
this time he had a rich store of God's word safe in his heart from the verses he had memorized.
The last night when he came to say good-bye he said to his teacher:

"Your kindness has meant a lot of trouble for you, miss, but for me it has meant life! Before,
I was afraid to fight; but now I don't even fear death. I know now that it can only mean a
new life. Thank God for your goodness to me!"

There was one soldier who went by the name of Scoop. He had been a reporter back in the States
and learned to love drink. When he joined the army he did not give up his old habits. Whenever
anybody remonstrated with him he invariably replied gaily, "I'm out to enjoy life." On pay-days
Scoop celebrated by drinking more than ever.

One day he happened into the Salvation Army hut. Whether the pie or the doughnuts or the homeyness
of the place first attracted him no one knows. He said it was the pie. Something held him there.
He came every night. The spirit of the Lord that lived and breathed in those consecrated men
and girls began to work in his heart and conscience, and speak to him of better things that
might even be for him.

When he felt the desire for drink or gambling coming on he gave his money to the girls to keep
for him.

On the last pay-day before he was sent to another location he took a paint-brush and some paint
and made a little sign which he set up in a prominent place in the hut, his silent testimony
to what they had done for him: "FOR THE FIRST TIME ON PAY-DAY SCOOP IS SOBER!"

One morning a lassie was frying some doughnuts in the Gondrecourt hut, another was rolling
and cutting, and both were very busy when a soldier came in with the mail. The girls went on
with their work, though one could easily see that they were eager for letters. One was handed
to the lassie who was frying the doughnuts. When she opened it she found it was an official
dispatch. The others saw the change of her expression and asked what was the matter, but she
made no reply while tears started down her cheeks. She, however, went on frying doughnuts.
The others asked again what was the trouble and for answer the girl handed them the open dispatch,
which stated briefly that one of her three brothers, who were all in the service, had been
killed in action on the previous day. The others sympathetically tried to draw her away from
her work, but she said: "No, nothing will help me to bear my sorrow like doing something for
others." This is the spirit of the Salvation Army workers. Personal sorrows, personal feelings,
personal difficulties, hardships, dangers, are not allowed to interrupt their labors of love.
Fortunately, it was later discovered that this message about her brother was unfounded.

A boy told this lassie one day that the next day was his birthday, and she saw the homesickness
and yearning in his eyes as he spoke. Immediately she told him she would have a birthday party
for him and bake a cake for it.

She found some tiny candles in the village and placed nineteen upon the pretty frosted cake.
They had to use a white bed-quilt for a tablecloth, and none of the cups and saucers matched,
but the table looked very pretty when it was set, with little white paper baskets of almonds
which the girls had made at each place, and all the candles lit on the white cake in the middle.
The boy brought three of his comrades, and there were the Salvation Army Major in charge and
the lassies. They had a beautiful time. Of course it was quite a little extra work for the
lassie, but when someone asked her why she took so much trouble she had a faraway look in her
eyes, and said she guessed it was for the sake of the boy's mother, and those who heard remembered
that her own three brothers were in United States uniform somewhere facing the enemy.

There are several instances in which American soldiers coming from British and French Sectors,
where they had been brigaded with armies of those nations, have upon entering a Salvation Army
hut for the first time without noticing the sign over the door started to talk to the girls
in French--very fragmentary French at that. When they found the girls to be Americans they
were almost beside themselves with mingled feelings of bashfulness and delight. Most of the
soldiers exhibit the former trait.

One boy approached one of our men officers.

"Can them girls speak American?" he asked, pointing at the girls.

On being assured that they could, he said: "Will they mind if I go up and speak to them? I
ain't talked to an American woman in seven months."

Two soldiers were walking along the dusty roadway.

First soldier: "Let's go to the Salvation Army hut."

Second soldier: "No, I don't want to."

First soldier: "They've got a piano and a phonograph and lots of records."

Second soldier: "No, I don't want to."

First soldier: "They've got books and beaucoup games."

Second soldier: "No, I don't want to."

First soldier: "Two American ladies there!"

Second soldier: "No, I don't want to."

First soldier: "They've got swell coffee and doughnuts!"

Second soldier (angrily): "No! I said NO!"

First soldier: "Aw, come on. They got real homemade pie!"

Second soldier: "I don't care!"

First soldier: "They cut their own wood and do their own work!"

Second soldier: "Well, that's different! Why didn't you say that right off, you bonehead? Come
on. Where is it?"

And they entered the Salvation Army hut smiling.

One dear Salvation Army lady had a little hand sewing machine which she took about with her
and wherever she landed she would sit down on an orange crate, put her machine on another and
set up a tailor shop: sewing up rips; refitting coats that were too large; letting out a seam
that was too tight; and helping the boys to be tidy and comfortable again. A good many of our
boys lost their coats in the Soissons fight, and when they got new ones they didn't always
fit, so this little sewing machine that went to war came in very handy. Sometimes the owner
would rip off the collar or rip out the sleeves, or almost rip up the whole coat and with her
mouthful of pins skillfully put it together again until it looked as if it belonged to the
laddie who owned it. Then with some clever chalk marks replacing the pins she would run it
through her little machine, and off went another boy well-clothed. One week she altered more
than thirty-three coats in this way. The soldiers called her "mother" and loved to sit about
and talk with her while she worked.

 The men went in battalions to the Luneville Sector for Trench Training
facing the enemy. Of course, the Salvation Army sent a detachment also.

Over here they had to give up huts. No huts at all were allowed so near the front. No light
of fire or even stove, no lights of any kind or everything would be destroyed by shell fire
at once. An order went out that all huts near the front must be under ground. Yet neither did
this daunt the faithful men and women whom God Himself had sent to help those boys at the front.

The work was extended to other camps in the Gondrecourt area and finally the time came for
the troops to move up to the front to occupy part of a sector.

III.

The Toul Sector

Headquarters of the First Division were established at Menil-la-Tour and that of the First
Brigade at Ansauville. Information came on leaving the Gondrecourt Area, that the district
would be abandoned to the French, so the wooden hut at Montiers was moved and set up again
at Sanzey, which then became the Headquarters of the First Ammunition Train. Huts were established
at Menil-la-Tour and other points in the Toul Sector.

It took three days to erect the hut at Sanzey, but within an hour the field range was set up,
and a piece of tarpaulin stretched over it to keep the rain off the girls and the doughnuts.

Hour after hour the girls stood there making doughnuts, and hour after hour the line moved
slowly along waiting patiently for doughnuts. The Adjutant went away a little while and returned
to find some of the same boys standing in line as when he left. Some had been standing five
hours! It was the only pastime they had, just as soon as they were off duty, to line up again
for doughnuts.

The hut at Sanzey was used mostly by men of an Ammunition Train. As in other places where the
Salvation Army huts catered to the American troops, an all-night service of hot coffee or chocolate
and doughnuts or cookies was provided for the men as they returned from their dangerous nightly
trips to the front. When men were killed their comrades usually brought them back and laid
them in this hut until they could be buried. One night a man was killed and brought back in
this fashion. The chaplain was holding a service over his body in the hut. The Salvation Army
man was talking to the man who had been the dead lad's "buddie." "I wish it was me instead
of him, Cap," said this soldier, "he was his mother's oldest son and she will take it hard."

The Salvation Army was told that Ansauville was too far front for any women to be allowed to
go. They felt, however, that it was advisable for women to be there and determined to bring
it about if possible. On scouting the town there was found no suitable place in any of the
buildings except one that was occupied as the General's garage. The Salvation Army was not
permitted to erect any additional buildings as it was feared they would attract the fire of
the Germans, for Ansauville was well within the range of the German guns.

After deciding that the General's garage was the only logical place for them the Salvation
Army representative called upon the General, who asked him where he would propose establishing
a hut. The Salvationist told him the only suitable place in the town was that used by him as
a garage. He immediately gave most gracious and courteous consent and ordered his aide to find
another garage.

The place in question was an old frame barn with a lofty roof which had already been partly
shot away and was open to the sky. They were not permitted to repair the roof because the German
airplane observers would notice it and know that some activity was going on there which would
call for renewed shell fire. However, the top of one of the circus tents was easily run up
in the barn so as to form a ceiling.

Ansauville was between Mandres and Menil-la-Tour, not far from advanced positions in the Toul
Sector. Five hundred French soldiers had been severely gassed there the night before the Staff-Captain
and his helper arrived, and every day people were killed on the streets by falling shells.
There was not a house in the village that had not suffered in some way from shell fire; very
few had a door or a window left, and many were utterly demolished.

Approaching the town the roads were camouflaged with burlap curtains hanging on wires every
little way, so that it was impossible to see down the streets very far in either direction.
There were signs here and there: "ATTENTION! THE ENEMY SEES YOU!"

About midnight the Staff-Captain and his officer arrived and after some difficulty found the
old barn that the Colonel had told them was to be their hut, but to their dismay there were
half a dozen cars parked inside, including the Commanding General's, and it looked as if it
were being used for the Staff Garage. Looking up they could see the stars peeping through the
shell holes in the tiled roof. It was the first time either of them had been in a shelled town
and the experience was somewhat awe-inspiring. Moreover they were both hungry and sleepy and
the situation was by no means a cheerful one. They had a large tent and a load of supplies
with them and were at a loss where to bestow them.

In the midst of their perturbation a courier arrived with a side car and dismounted. He stumbled
in on them and peered at them through the darkness.

"As I live, it's the Salvation Army!" he cried joyfully, shaking hands with both of them at
once. "All of the boys have been asking when you were coming. Are you looking for a place to
chow and sleep? There's no place in town for a billet, but we have a kitchen down the street.
We can give you some chow, and it's warm there. You can roll up in your blankets and sleep
by the stove till morning. Come with me."

The cook awakened them in the morning with his clatter of pots and pans in preparation for
breakfast. They arose and began to roll up their blanket packs.

"Don't worry about getting up yet," said the chief cook kindly. "Sleep a little longer. You
are not in my way." But the two men thanked him and declined to rest longer.

"Where are you going to chow?" asked the chief cook.

The Salvationists allowed that they didn't know.

"Well, you boys line up with this outfit, see?" insisted the chief cook. "We eat three times
a day and you're welcome to everything we have!"

This settled the question of board, and after a good breakfast the two started out to report
to the General in command.

He greeted them most kindly and made them feel welcome at once.

When they asked about the barn he smiled pleasantly:

"That Colonel of yours is a fine fellow," he said. "He told me that there was only one place
in this town that would do for your hut and that was my garage. He said he was afraid he would
have to ask me to move my car. Just as though my car were of more importance than the souls
of my men! Gentlemen, you can have anything you want that is mine to give. The barn is yours!
And if there's anything I can do, command me!"

It was a very dirty stable and needed a deal of cleaning, but the strong workers bent to their
task with willing hands, and soon had it in fine order. There was no possibility of mending
the roof, but they camouflaged the old tent top and ran it up inside, and it kept the rain
and snow off beautifully. Of course, it was no protection against shells, but when they commenced
to arrive everybody departed in a hurry to the nearby dugouts, returning quietly when the firing
had ceased. The nights were so cold that they had to sleep with all their clothes on, even
their overcoats. Often in the mornings their shoes were frozen too stiff to put on until they
were thawed over a candle. One soldier broke his shoe in two trying to bend it one morning.
Sometimes the men would sleep with their shoes inside their shirts to keep the damp leather
from freezing. Two yards from the stove the milk froze!

A field range had been secured and the chimney extended up from the roof for a distance of
forty or fifty feet. It smoked terribly, but on this range was cooked many a savory meal and
tens of thousands of doughnuts.

Among the doughboys who loved to help around the Salvation Army hut was a quiet fellow who
never talked much about himself, yet everybody liked him and trusted him. No one knew much
about him, or where he came from, and he never told about his folks at home as some did. But
he used to come in from the trenches during the day and do anything he could to be useful around
the hut, which was run by two sisters. Even when he had to stand watch at night he would come
back in the daytime and help. They could not persuade him to sleep when he ought. Other fellows
came and went, talked about their troubles and their joys, got their bit of sympathy or cheer
and went their way, but this fellow came every day and worked silently, always on the job.
They made him their chief doughnut dipper and he seemed to love the work and did it well.

Then one day his company moved, and he came no more. The girls often asked if anyone knew anything
about him, but no one did. Once in a while a brief note would come from him up at the front
in the trenches a few miles to the north, but never more than a word of greeting.

One morning the girls were making doughnuts, hard at work, and suddenly the former chief doughnut
dipper stumbled into the hut. He looked tired and dusty and it was evident by the way he walked
that he was footsore.

"Gee! It's good to see you," he said, sinking down in his old place by the stove.

They gave him a cup of steaming coffee and all the doughnuts he could eat and waited for his
story, but he did not begin.

"Well, how are you?" asked one of the girls, hoping to start him.

"Oh, all right, thanks," he said meekly.

"Where is your company?"

"Up the line in some woods."

"How far is it?"

"About ten miles."

The girls felt they were not getting on very fast in acquiring information.

"Did you walk all that way in the dust and sun?"

"Most of it. Sometimes I was in the fields."

"Were you on watch last night?"

"Ye-ah."

"Then you didn't have any sleep?"

"No."

"Why did you come over here then?"

"I wanted to see you." There was a sound of a deep hunger in his voice.

"Well, we're awfully glad to see you, surely. Is there anything we can do for you?"

"No, Just let me look at you"-there was frank honesty in his eyes, a deep undertone of reverence
in his voice, not even a hint of gallantry or flattery, only a loyal homage.

"Just let me look at you--and----" he hesitated.

"And what?"  "And cook some doughnuts."

"Why, of course!" said the girls cheerily, "but you must lie down and sleep awhile first. We'll
fix a place for you."

"I don't want to lie down," said the soldier determinedly, "I don't want to waste the time."

"But it wouldn't be wasted. You need the sleep."

"No, that isn't what I need. I want to look at you," he reiterated. "I've got a wife and a
little baby at home, and I love them. I like to be here because seeing you takes me back to
them. This morning I knew I ought to sleep, but I just couldn't go over the top tonight without
seeing you again. That's why I want to see you and fry a few doughnuts for you. It takes me
back to them."

He finished with a far-away look in his eyes. He was not thinking what impression his words
would make, his thoughts were with his wife and little baby.

He worked around for a couple of hours, saying very little, but seeming quite content. Then
he looked at his watch and said it was time to go, as it was quite a walk back to his company.
Just so quietly he took his leave and went out to take his chance with Death.

The two girls thought much about him that night as they went about their work, and later lay
down and tried to sleep, and their prayers went up for the faithful soul who was doing his
duty out there under fire, and for the anxious wife and little one who waited to know the outcome.
Sleep did not come soon to their eyes, as they lay in the darkness and prayed.

"The next day about noon as the girls were dipping doughnuts the chief doughnut dipper stumbled
once more into the hut, tired, dirty, dusty and worn, but with his eyes sparkling:

"Just thought I ought to come back and tell you I'm all right," he said. "I was afraid you'd
be worried. My wife and baby would, anyway."

The girls received him with exultant smiles. "You go out there under the trees and go to sleep!"
they ordered him.

"All right, I will," he said. "I feel like sleeping now. Say, you don't think I'm crazy, do
you? I just had to see you! It took me back to them!"

It was one of those chill rainy nights which have caused the winter of 1917-1918 to be remembered
with shudders by the men of the earlier American Expeditionary Forces. A large part of the
American forces were billeted in the weathered, age-old little villages of the Gondrecourt
area. They slept in barns, haylofts, cowsheds and even in pig sties. The roads were mere ditches
running knee deep in sticky, clogging mud. Shoes, soaked through from the muddy road, froze
as the men slept and in the morning had to be thawed out over a candle before they could be
drawn on. Frequently men were late at roll-call simply because their shoes were frozen so stiff
that they were unable to don them, and their leggings so icy that they could not be wound.
After sundown there were no lights, because lights invited air-raids and might well expose
the position of troops to the enemy observers. Only in towns where there were Salvation Army
or Y.M.C.A. huts could men find any artificial warmth, during the day or night, and only in
these places were there any lights after nightfall. Such huts afforded absolutely the only
available recreation facilities. But in countless villages where Americans were billeted there
was not even this small comfort to be had.

On this particular night, in such a village, an eighteen-year-old boy sat in the orderly room
of a regimental headquarters, which was housed in a once pretentious but now sadly decrepit
house. Rain leaked through the tiled roof and dribbled down into the room. Windows were long
ago shattered and through cracks in the rude board barricades which had replaced the glass
a rising wind was driving the rain. The boy sat at a rough wooden table waiting orders. Two
weeks previously a letter had come, saying that his mother was seriously ill. Since that he
had had no further word. He was desperately homesick. There had been as yet none of the danger
and none of the thrill which seems to settle a man down, to the serious business of war.

A passing soldier had just told him that in a village some twelve kilometers distant two Salvation
Army women were operating a hut. He longed desperately for the comfort of a woman of his own
people and, sitting in the drafty, damp room, he wished that these two Salvationists were not
so far away--that he could talk with them and confide in them. At last the wish grew so strong
that he could no longer resist it.

He got up quietly, and silently slipped out into the rainy night. The darkness was so thick
that he could not see objects six feet away. Walking through the mud was out of the question.
He stumbled down, the street, once falling headlong into a muddy puddle, finally reaching the
horse- lines, where, saying that he had an errand for the Colonel, he saddled a horse and slopped
off into the night.

For a while he kept to the road, his horse occasionally taking fright, as a truck passed clanking
slowly in the opposite direction, or a staff car turned out to pass him like a fleeting, ghostly
shadow. By following the trees which lined the road at regular intervals he was fairly sure
to keep the road. He was very tired and soon began to feel sleepy, but the driving storm, which
by this time had assumed the proportions of a tempest, stung him to wakefulness. Once, at a
cross-roads a Military Police stopped and questioned him and gave him directions upon his saying
that he was carrying dispatches.

He went on. He dozed, only to be sharply awakened by a truck which almost ran him down. He
must be more careful, he thought to himself, feeling utterly alone and miserable. But in spite
of his resolution his eyes soon closed again. He was awakened, this time by his horse stumbling
over some unseen obstacle. He could see nothing in any direction. The blackness and rain shut
him in like a fog. He turned at right angles to find the trees which lined the road, but there
were no trees. He swung his horse around and went in the other direction, but he found no trees--only
an impenetrable darkness which pressed in upon him with a heaviness which might almost have
been weighed. He was lost--utterly lost.

He guided his steed in futile circles, hoping to regain the road, but all to no avail. Fear
of the night fell upon him. He was wet to the skin and chilled to the bone. He shivered with
cold and with fright. Dropping from his horse he pulled from his pocket an electric flashlight
and began throwing its slender beam in widening arcs over the ground. The light revealed a
stubble field. Surely there must be a path which would lead to the road, thought the boy. Backward
and forward over the field he waved the light. His hands trembled so that he could not hold
the switch steady, and the lamp blinked on and off.

On the storm-swept, night-hidden hillside which overhung the field was established an anti-aircraft
battery.

The sound detectors had just registered the intermittent hum of an enemy plane. It was unusual
that an enemy aviator should fight his way over the lines in the face of such a storm, but
such things had occurred before and the Captain in charge of the battery searched the tempestuous
skies for the intruder, waiting for the sound to grow until he should know that the searchlights
had at least a chance of locating the venturesome plane instead of merely giving away their
position.

Suddenly, cutting the night in the field below, a tiny ray of light cut the darkness, sweeping
back and forward, flashing on and off. For a moment the officer watched it, then, with a muttered
curse, he raced down the hillside followed by one of his men. The noise of the storm hid their
approach. The boy collapsed into a trembling heap, as the officer grasped him and wrested the
flash-light from his chilled fingers. He made no protest as they led him down into a dark,
deserted village. He followed his captors into a candle-lighted room where sat a staff officer.

Briefly the Captain explained the situation.

"Caught him in the act of signaling to an enemy plane, sir," he said.

The boy was too cold to venture a protest.

"Bring him to me again in the morning," said the Colonel, shrugging his shoulders. "Hold on,
though! What are you going to do with him? He will die unless you get him warmed up."

"Don't know what to do with him, sir, unless I take him down to the Salvation Army... they
have a fire there."

"Very good, Captain, see that he is properly guarded and if they will have him, leave him there
for the night." And so it came to pass that the boy reached his destination. It was past closing
time--long past; but the motherly Salvationist in charge knew just what to do. Within ten minutes,
wrapped in a warm blanket, the boy sat with his feet in a pan of hot water, with the Salvation
Army woman feeding him steaming lemonade. Between gulps, he told his story and was comforted.
Soon he was snugly tucked into an army cot, and still grasping the Salvationist's hand, was
sleeping peacefully.

The next day a little investigation assured the Colonel that the boy's story was a true one,
and with a reprimand for leaving his post without orders he was allowed to return. The delay,
however, had absented him, of course, from morning roll-call, and he was sentenced to thirty
days repairing wire on the front-line trenches, which was often equivalent to a death sentence,
for as many men were shot during the performance of this duty as came in safely.

He had done fifteen days of his time at this sentence when the Salvation Army woman from the
Ansauville hut which the boy had visited that rainy night happened over to his Officers' Headquarters,
and by chance learned of his unhappy fate. It took but a few words from her to his commanding
officer to set matters right; his sentence was revoked, and he was pardoned.

Ansauville was a point of peculiar importance in that all the troops passing into or out from
the sector stopped there. It was here that cocoa and coffee were first provided for the troops.
Afterwards it came to be the habit to serve them with the doughnuts and pie. It was when the
Twenty-sixth Division came into the line. They had marched for hours and had been without any
warm meal for a long time. Detachments of them reached Ansauville at night, wet and cold, too
late to secure supper that night, and hearing they were coming, the lassies put on great boilers
of coffee and cocoa, and as the men arrived they were given to them freely.

A hut was established at Mandres. This was some distance in advance of Ansauville and lay in
the valley. At first a wooden building was secured. It had nothing but a dirt floor but lumber
was hauled from Newchateau by truck--a distance of sixty miles, and the place was made comfortable.

For some little time the boys enjoyed this hut, but on one occasion the Germans sent over a
heavy barrage; they hit the hut, destroying one end of it, scattering the supplies, ruining
the victrola, and after that the military authorities ordered that the men should not assemble
in such numbers.

When this order was given, the Salvation Army had no intention of discontinuing work at Mandres
and so found a cellar under a partially destroyed building. This cellar was vaulted and had
been used for storing wine. It was wet and in bad condition, but with some labor it was made
fit to receive the men; and tables and benches were placed there, the canteen established and
a range set up. It was at this place that a very wonderful work was carried on. The Salvation
Army Ensign who had charge, for a time, scoured the country for miles around to purchase eggs,
which he transferred to his hut in an old baby carriage. The eggs were supplied to the men
at cost and they fried them themselves on the range, which was close at hand. This was considered
by the military authorities too far front for women to come and only men were allowed here.

The Ensign also mixed batter for pan cakes and established quite a reputation as a pan-cake
maker. Here was a place where the soldiers felt at home. They could come in at any time and
on the fire cook what they pleased.

They could purchase at the canteen such articles as were for sale and it was home to them.
Very wonderful meetings were held in this spot and many men found Christ at the penitent-form,
which was an old bench placed in front of the canteen.

On the wharf in New York when the soldiers were returning home some soldiers were talking about
the Salvation Army. "Did you ever go to one of their meetings?" asked one. "I sure did!" answered
a big fine fellow--a college man, by the way, from one of the well known New England universities.
"I sure did!--and it was the most impressive service I ever attended. It was down in an old
wine cellar, and the house over it wasn't because it had been blown away. The meeting was led
by a little Swede, and he gave a very impressive address, and followed it by a wonderful prayer.
And it wasn't because it was so learned either, for the man was no college chap, but it stirred
me deeply. I used to be a good deal of a barbarian before I went to France, but that meeting
made a big change in me. Things are going to be different now.

"The place was lit by a candle or two and the guns were roaring overhead, but the room was
packed and a great many men stood up for prayers. Oh, I'll never forget that meeting!"

That meeting was in the old wine cellar in Mandres.

The town of Mandres was shelled daily and it was an exceptional day that passed without from
one to ten men being killed as a result of this shelling.

Here are some extracts from letters written by the Ensign from the old wine cellar in Mandres:

   "Somewhere in France,"    May 15, 1918.

I am still busy in my old wine-cellar in France. I must give you an idea of my daily routine:
Get up early and, go to my cellar. Get wood and make fire; go for some water to put on stove.
Take my mess kit, helmet, gas mask and cane, walk about one block to the part of the church
standing by the artillery kitchen and get my hand-out mess, go back to my cellar and have my
breakfast, see to the fire, fuel, clean and light the lamps, dip and carry out some water and
mud (but have now found a place to drain off the water by cutting through the heavy stone wall
and digging a ditch underneath). I dig whenever I have time. Then the boys begin to come in-
some right from the trenches, others who are resting up after a siege in the trenches. They
are all covered with mud when they come in and have to talk, stand and even sleep in mud. Then
I must have the cocoa and coffee ready and serve also the candy, figs, nuts, gum, chocolate,
shaving- sticks, razors, watches, knives, gun oil, paper, envelopes, etc. I mostly wear my
rubber boots and stand in a little boot "slouched" down so I can stand straight. Almost every
evening we have a little "sing-song" or regular service, and on Sunday two or three services.

Our wine-cellar is supposed to be bomb-proof. First the roof, the ceiling, the floor, then
the three-feet stone and concrete under the floor and along the wine-cellar. I am all alone
for all this business. Sometimes the boys help me to cut wood and keep the fire and carry water,
but the companies are changed so often that they go and come every five days, and when they
come from the trenches they are so tired and sleepy they need all the rest they can get. Yesterday
I had to change the stove and stovepipes because it smoked so bad that it almost smoked us
out. So I had to run through the ruins and find old stovepipes. I could not find enough elbows,
so I had to make some with the help of an old knife. We ran the pipes through the low window
bars and up the side of the house to the top, and plastered up poor joints with mud, but it
burns better and does not smoke. The boys claim I make the best coffee they have had in France,
and also cocoa. I am glad I know something of cooking. You see, they don't permit girls so
near the trenches and in the shell fire.

My dear Major:

Grace, love and peace unto you! Many thanks for the beautiful letter I received from you full
of love, Christian admonition and encouragement. Such letters are much Appreciated over here.

I have been very busy. The last week, in addition to running the ordinary business, I have
used the pick and shovel and wheelbarrow in lowering our wine-cellar floor (now used as a Salvation
Army rest room), so we can walk straight in. I have also done some white-washing to brighten
things up and have some flowers in bowls, large French wine bottles and big brass shells, which
makes a great improvement. I now expect to pick up pieces and erect a range, so we can cook
and make things faster. I secured two hams and am having them cooked, and expect to serve ham
sandwiches by Decoration Day, two days hence, when there is to be a great time in decorating
the graves of our heroes. I am also trying to get some lemons so that I can make lemonade for
the boys besides the coffee and cocoa. You can get an idea of the immensity of our business
when I tell you I got 999.25 francs worth of butter-scotch candy alone with the last lot of
goods, besides a dozen other kinds of candy, nuts, toilet articles, etc., and this will be
sold and given out in a very few days.

We had very good meetings last Sunday. I spoke at night. A glorious time we had, indeed. Praise
God for the opportunity of working among the New England braves!

 At Menil-la-Tours the French forbade any huts at all to be put up at
first, but finally they gave permission for one hut. The Staff-Captain
wanted to put up two, but as that wasn't allowed he got around the order
by building five rooms on each side of the one big hut and so had plenty
of room. It is pretty hard to get ahead of a Salvation Army worker when he
has a purpose in view. Not that they are stubborn, simply that they know
how to accomplish their purpose in the nicest way possible and please
everybody.

There were some American railroad engineers here, working all night taking stuff to the front.
They came over and asked if they could help out, and so instead of taking their day for sleep
they spent most of it putting tar paper on the roof of the Salvation Army hut.

It was in this place that there seemed to be a strong prejudice among some of the soldiers
against the Salvation Army for some reason. The soldiers stood about swearing at the Staff-Captain
and his helper as they worked, and saying the most abusive and contemptible things to them.
At last the Staff-Captain turned about and, looking at them, in the kindliest way said:

"See here, boys, did you ever know anything about the Salvation Army before?"

They admitted that they had not.

"Well, now, just wait a little while. Give us fair play and see if we are like what you say
we are. Wait until we get our hut done and get started, and then if you don't like us you can
say so."

"Well, that's fair, Dad," spoke up one soldier, and after that there was no more trouble, and
it wasn't long before the soldiers were giving the most generous praise to the Salvation Army
on every side.

L'Hermitage, nestled in the heart of a deep woods, was no quiet refuge from the noise of battle
and the troubles of a war-weary world, as one might suppose. It was surrounded by swamps everywhere.
And it had been raining, of course. It always seems to have been raining in France during this
war. There were duck boards over the swampy ground, and a single mis- step might send one prone
in the ooze up to the elbows.

It was a very dangerous place, also.

There was a large ammunition dump in the town, and besides that there was a great balloon located
there which the Boche planes were always trying to get. It was the nearest to the front of
any of our balloons and, of course, was a great target for the enemy. There was a lot of heavy
coast artillery there, also, and there were monster shell holes big enough to hold a good audience.

At last one day the enemy did get the ammunition dump, and report after report rent the air
as first one shell and then another would burst and go up in flame. It was fourteen hours going
off and the military officer ordered the girls to their billets until it should be over. It
was like this: First a couple of shells would explode, then there would be a second's quiet
and a keg of powder would flare; then some boxes of ammunition would go off; then some more
shells. It was a terrible pandemonium of sound. Thirty miles away in Gondrecourt they saw the
fire and heard the terrific explosions.

The Zone Major and one of his helpers had been to Nancy for a truck load of eggs and were just
unloading when the explosions began. Together they were carefully lifting out a crate containing
a hundred dozen eggs when the mammoth detonations began that rocked the earth beneath them
and threatened to shake them from their feet. They staggered and tottered but they held onto
the eggs. One of the sayings of Commander Eva Booth is, "Choose your purpose and let no whirlwind
that sweeps, no enemy that confronts you, no wave that engulfs you, no peril that affrights
you, turn you from it." The Zone Major and his helper had chosen the purpose of landing those
eggs safely, and eggs at five francs a dozen are not to be lightly dropped, so they staggered
but they held onto the eggs.

The girls in the canteen went quietly about their work until ordered to safety; but over in
Sanzey and Menil-la-Tour their friends watched and waited anxiously to hear what had been their
fate.

The General who was in charge of the Twenty-sixth Division was exceedingly kind to the Salvation
Army girls. He acted like a father toward them: giving up his own billet for their use; sending
an escort to take them to it through the woods and swamps and dangers when their work at the
canteen was over for a brief respite; setting a sentry to guard them and to give a gas alarm
when it became necessary; and doing everything in his power for their comfort and safety.

IV.

The Montdidier Sector

Spring came on even in shell-torn France, lovely like the miracle it always is. Bare trees
in a day were arrayed in wondrous green. A camouflage of beauty spread itself upon the valleys
and over the hillsides like a garment sewn with colored broidery of blossoms. Great scarlet
poppies flamed from ruined homes as if the blood that had been spilt were resurrected in a
glorious color that would seek to hide the misery and sorrow and touch with new loveliness
the war-scarred place. Little birds sent forth their flutey voices where mortals must be hushed
for fear of enemies.

The British had been driven back by the Huns until they admitted that their backs were against
the wall, and it was an anxious time. Daily the enemy drew nearer to Paris.

When the great offensive was started by the Germans in March, 1918, and American troops were
sent up to help the British and French, the Division was located at Montdidier. Under the rules
for the conduct of war, they were not permitted to know where they were destined to go, and
so the Salvation Army could not secure that information. They knew it was to be north of Paris,
but where, was the problem.

The French were opposed to any relief organizations going into the Sector, and rules and regulations
were made which were calculated to discourage or to keep them out altogether.

It was urgent that the Salvation Army should be there at the earliest possible moment and as
they could not secure permits, especially for the women, they decided to get there without permits,

The first contingent was put into a big Army truck, the cover was put down and they were started
on the road, to a point from which they hoped to secure information of the movements of their
outfit. From place to place this truck proceeded until, finally, detachments of the troops
were located in the vicinity of Gisors. Contact was immediately established. The girls were
received with the greatest joy and portable tents were set up. It seemed as if every man in
the Division must come to say how glad he was to see them back. The men decided that if it
was in their power they would never again allow the Salvation Army to be separated from them.
A few days later when the Division was ordered to move they took these same lassies with them
riding in army trucks. The troops were on their way to the front and seldom remained more than
three days in one place, and frequently only one day. On arrival at the stopping-place, fifteen
or twenty of the boys would immediately proceed to erect the tent and within an hour or two
a comfortable place would be in operation, a field range set up, the phonograph going, and
the boys had a home.

At Courcelles the Salvation Army set up a tent, started a canteen, and had it going four days
in charge of two sisters just come from the States. Then one morning they woke up and found
their outfit gone, they knew not where, and they had to pick up and go after them. An all-day
journey took them to Froissy, where they found their special outfit.

There was no place for a tent at Froissy, but there was an old dance hall, where they had their
canteen. The Division stayed there five weeks-under a roar of guns. But in spite of this there
were wonderful meetings every night in Froissy.

This work was exceedingly trying on the girls. Permits were never secured for any of the Salvation
Army workers in this Sector. They were applied for regularly through the French Army. About
three months after application was made, they were all received back with the statement from
the French that, seeing the workers were already there, it was not now necessary that permits
should be issued. It must be reported that the French Army was opposed to the presence of women
in any of the camps of the soldiers. This prejudice existed for a long time, but it was finally
broken down because of the good work done by Salvation Army women, which came to be fully recognized
by the French Army.

The work in the Montdidier Sector was particularly hard. Permanent buildings could not be established.
The best that could be done was to erect portable tents, which were about twenty feet wide
and fifty-seven feet long. Huts were established in partially destroyed buildings or houses
or stores that had been vacated by their owners, and on the extreme front canteens were established
in dugouts and cellars and the entire district was under bombardment from the German guns as
well as from the airplane bombs. The Salvation Army had no place there that was not under bombardment
continually. The huts were frequently shelled and there was imminent danger for a long time
that the German Army would break through, which, of course, added to the strain.

The Zone Major went back and forth bringing more men and more lassies and more supplies from
the Base at Paris to the front, and many a new worker almost lost his life in a baptism of
fire on his way to his post of duty for the first time. But all these men and women, as a soldier
said, were made of some fine high stuff that never faltered at danger or fatigue or hardship.

They rode over shell-gashed roads in the blackest midnight in a little dilapidated Ford; made
wild dashes when they came to a road upon which the enemy's fire was concentrated, looking
back sometimes to see a geyser of flame leap up from a bend around which they had just whirled.
Shells would rain in the fields on either side of them; cars would leap by them in the dark,
coming perilously close and swerving away just in time; and still they went bravely on to their
posts.

Everything would be blackest darkness and they would think they were stealing along finely,
when all of a sudden an incendiary bomb would burst and flare up like a house-on-fire lighting
up the whole country for miles about, and there you were in plain sight of the enemy! And you
couldn't turn back nor hesitate a second or you would be caught by the ever watchful foe! You
had to go straight ahead in all that blare of light!

The S. A. Adjutant's headquarters were fifty feet below the ground; sometimes the earth would
rock with the explosives. Two of the dugouts were burrowed almost beneath the trenches and
S. A. Officers here looked after the needs of the men who were actually engaged in fighting.
Every night the shattered villages were raked and torn above them. Such dugouts could only
be left at night or when the firing ceased. The two men who operated these lived a nerve-racking
existence. Of course, all pies and doughnuts for these places had to be prepared far to the
rear, and no fire could be built as near to the front as this. It was no easy task to bring
the supplies back and forth. It was almost always done at the risk of life.

The Staff-Captain and the Adjutant were speeding over a shell-swept road one cold, black, wet
night at reckless speed without a light, their hearts filled with anxiety, for a rumor had
reached them that two Salvation Army lassies had been killed by shell fire. The night was full
of the sound of war, the distant rumble of the heavy guns, the nervous stutter of machine guns,
the tearing screech of a barrage high above the road.

Suddenly in front of them yawned a black gulf. The Adjutant jammed on his brakes, but it was
too late. The game little Ford sailed right into a big shell hole, and settled down three feet
below the road right side up but tightly wedged in. The two travelers climbed out and reconnoitered
but found the situation hopeless. There had been many sleepless nights before this one, and
the men, weary beyond endurance, rolled up in their blankets, climbed into the car, and went
to sleep, regardless of the guns that thundered all about them.

They were just lost to the land of reality when a soldier roused them summarily, saying:

"This is a heck of a place for the Salvation Army to go to sleep! If you don't mind I'll just
pick your old bus out of here and send you on your way before it's light enough for Fritzy
to spot you and send a calling card."

He was grinning at them cheerfully and they roused to the occasion.

"How are you going to do it?" asked the Adjutant, who, by the way, was Smiling Billy, the same
one the soldiers called "one game little guy." "It will take a three-ton truck to get us out
of this hole!"

"I haven't got a truck but I guess we can turn the trick all right!" said the soldier.

He disappeared into the darkness above the crater and in a moment reappeared with ten more
dark forms following him, and another soldier who patrolled the rim of the crater on horseback.

"How do you like 'em?" he chuckled to the Salvation Army men, as he turned his flashlight on
the ten and showed them to be big German prisoners of war. Under his direction they soon had
the little Ford pushed and shouldered into the road once more. In a little while the Salvationists
reached their destination and found to their relief that the rumor about the lassies was untrue.

At Mesnil-St.-Firmin one of the lassies, a young woman well known in New York society circles,
but a loyal Salvationist and in France from the start, drove a little flivver carrying supplies
for several nights, accompanied only by a young boy detailed from the Army. Every mile of the
way was dark and perilous, but there was no one else to do the work, so she did it.

Here they were under shell fire every night. The girls slept in an old wine cellar, the only
comparatively safe place to be found. It was damp, with a fearful odor they will never forget--moreover,
it was already inhabited by rats. They frequently had to retire to the cellar during gas attacks,
and stay for hours, sometimes having only time to seize an overcoat and throw it over their
night-clothes. They were here through ten counter-attacks and when Cantigny was taken.

There seemed to be big movements among the Germans one day. They were bringing up reinforcements,
and a large attack was expected. The airplanes were dropping bombs freely everywhere and it
looked as if there would not be one brick left on the top of another in a few hours. Then the
military authorities ordered the two girls to leave town. When the boys heard that the hut
was being shelled and the girls were ordered to leave they poured in to tell them how much
they would miss them. They well knew from experience that their staunch hardworking little
friends would not have left them if they could have helped it. Also, they dreaded to lose these
consecrated young women from their midst. They had a feeling that their presence brought the
presence of the great God, with His protection, and in this they had come to trust in their
hour of danger. Often the boys would openly speak of this, owning that they attributed their
safety to the presence of their Christian friends.

One young officer from the officers' mess where the girls had dined once at their invitation,
brought them boxes of candy, and in presenting them said:

"Gee! We shall miss you like the devil!"

The lassie twinkled up in a merry smile and answered: "That sure is some comparison!"  The
officer blushed as red as a peony and tried to apologize:

"Well, now, you know what I mean. I don't know just how to say how much we shall miss you!"

They left at midnight on foot accompanied by one of the Salvation Army men workers who had
been badly gassed and needed to get back of the lines and have some treatment. It was brilliant
moonlight as they hiked it down the road, the airplanes were whizzing over their heads and
the anti-aircraft guns piling into them. They started for La Folie, the Headquarters of the
Staff-Captain of that zone, but they lost their way and got far out of the track, arriving
at last at Breteuil. Coming to the woods a Military Police stationed at the crossroads told them:

"You can't go into Breteuil because they have been shelling it for twenty minutes. Right over
there beyond where you are standing a bomb dropped a few minutes ago and killed or wounded
seven fellows. The ambulance just took them away."

However, as they did not know where else to go they went into Breteuil, and found the village
deserted of all but French and American Military Police. They tried to get directions, and
at last found a French mule team to take them to La Folie, where they finally arrived at four
o'clock in the morning.

The next day they went on to Tartigny, where they were to be located for a time.

One of the lassies left her sister with the canteen one day and started out with another Officer
to the Divisional Gas Officer to get a new gas mask, for something had happened to hers. As
they reached a crossroads a boy on a wheel called out: "Oh, they're shelling the road! Pull
into the village quick!"

When they arrived in the village there was a great shell just fallen in the very centre of
the town. The girl thought of her sister all alone in the canteen, for the shells were falling
everywhere now, and they started to take a short cut back to Tartigny, but the Military Police
stopped them, saying they couldn't go on that road in the daytime as it was under observation,
so they had to go back by the road they had come. The canteen was at the gateway of a chateau,
and when they reached there they saw the shells falling in the chateau yard and through the
glass roof of the canteen. It was a trying time for the two brave girls.

They had been invited out to dinner that evening at the Officers' Mess. As a rule, they did
not go much among the officers, but this was a special invitation. The shells had been falling
all the afternoon, but they were quite accustomed to shells and that did not stop the festivities.
During the dinner the soldier boys sang and played on guitars and banjos. But when the dinner
was over they asked the girls to sing.

It was very still in the mess hall as the two lovely lassies took their guitars and began to
sing. There was something so strong and sweet and pure in the glance of their blue eyes, the
set of their firm little chins, so pleasant and wholesome and merry in the very curve of their
lips, that the men were hushed with respect and admiration before this highest of all types
of womanhood.

It was a song written by their Commander that the girls had chosen, with a sweet, touching
melody, and the singers made every word clear and distinct:

  Bowed beneath the garden shades,
  Where the Eastern--sunlight fades,
  Through a sea of griefs He wades,
    And prays in agony.
  His sweat is of blood,
  His tears like a flood
    For a lost world flow down.
  I never knew such tears could be--
    Those tears He wept for me!

  Hung upon a rugged tree
  On the hill of Calvary,
  Jesus suffered, death, to be
    The Saviour of mankind.
  His brow pierced by thorn,
  His hands and feet torn,
    With broken heart He died.
  I never knew such pain could be,
    This pain He bore for me!

Suddenly crashing into the midst of the melody came a great shell, exploding just outside the
door and causing everyone at the table to spring to his feet. The singers stopped for a second,
wavered, as the reverberation of the shock died away, and then went on with their song; and
the officers, abashed, wondering, dropped back into their seats marvelling at the calmness
of these frail women in the face of death. Surely they had something that other women did not
have to enable them to sing so unconcernedly in such a time as this!

  Love which conquered o'er death's sting,
  Love which has immortal wing,
  Love which is the only thing
    My broken heart to heal.
  It burst through the grave,
  It brought grace to save,
    It opened Heaven's gate.
  I never knew such love could be--
    This love He gave to me!

It needs some special experience to appreciate what Salvation Army lassies really are, and
what they have done. They are not just any good sort of girl picked up here and there who are
willing to go and like the excitement of the experience; neither are they common illiterate
girls who merely have ordinary good sense and a will to work. The majority of them in France
are fine, well-bred, carefully reared daughters of Christian fathers and mothers who have taught
them that the home is a little bit of heaven on earth, and a woman God's means of drawing man
nearer to Him. They have been especially trained from childhood to forget self and to live
for others. The great slogan of the Salvation Army is "Others." Did you ever stop to think
how that would take the coquetry out of a girl's eyes, and leave the sweet simplicity of the
natural unspoiled soul? We have come to associate such a look with a plain, homely face, a
dull complexion, careless, severe hair-dressing and unbeautiful clothes. Why?

Righteousness from babyhood has given to these girls delicate beautiful features, clear complexions
that neither faded nor had to be renewed in the thick of battle, eyes that seemed flecked with
divine lights and could dance with mirth on occasion or soften exquisitely in sympathy, furtive
dimples that twinkled out now and then; hands that were shapely and did not seem made for toil.
Yet for all that they toiled night and day for the soldiers. They were educated, refined, cultured,
could talk easily and well on almost any subject you would mention. They never appeared to
force their religious views to the front, yet all the while it was perfectly evident that their
religion was the main object of their lives; that this was the secret source of strength, the
great reason for their deep joy, and abiding calm in the face of calamities; that this was
the one great purpose in life which overtopped and conquered all other desires. And if you
would break through their sweet reserve and ask them they would tell you that Jesus and the
winning of souls to Him was their one and only ambition.

And yet they have not let these great things keep them from the pleasant little details of
life. Even in the olive drab flannel shirt and serge skirt of their uniform, or in their trim
serge coats, the exact counterpart of the soldier boy's, except for its scarlet epaulets, and
the little close trench hat with its scarlet shield and silver lettering, they are beautiful
and womanly. Catch them with the coat off and a great khaki apron enveloping the rest of their
uniform, and you never saw lovelier women. No wonder the boys loved to see them working about
the hut, loved to carry water and pick up the dishes for washing, and peel apples, and scrape
out the bowl after the cake batter had been turned into the pans. No wonder they came to these
girls with their troubles, or a button that needed sewing on, and rushed to them first with
the glad news that a letter had come from home even before they had opened it. These girls
were real women, the kind of woman God meant us all to be when He made the first one; the kind
of woman who is a real helpmeet for all the men with whom she comes in contact, whether father,
brother, friend or lover, or merely an acquaintance. There is a fragrance of spirit that breathes
in the very being, the curve of the cheek, the glance of the eye, the grace of a movement,
the floating of a sunny strand of hair in the light, the curve of the firm red lips that one
knows at a glance will have no compromise with evil. This is what these girls have.

You may call it what you will, but as I think of them I am again reminded of that verse in
the Bible about those brave and wonderful disciples: "And they took knowledge of them that
they had been with Jesus."

Two of the Salvation Army men went back to Mesnil-St.-Firmin the day after the lassies had
been obliged to leave, to get some of their belongings which they had not been able to take
with them, and one of them, a Salvation Army Major, stayed to keep the place open for the boys.
He was the only Salvation Army man who is entitled to wear a wound stripe. By his devotion
to duty, self-sacrifice, and contempt of danger, he won the confidence of the men wherever
he was. He chiefly worked alone and operated a canteen usually in a dugout at the front.

On one occasion a soldier was badly wounded at the door of a hut, by an exploding gas-shell.
He fell into the dugout and while the Major worked over him, the Major himself was gassed and
had to be removed to the rear and undergo hospital treatment. For this service he was awarded
a wound stripe. During the St. Mihiel offensive he was appointed in the Toul Sector and followed
up the advancing soldiers, and later was active in the Argonne. He is essentially a front-line
man and always takes the greatest satisfaction in being in the place of most danger.

 The following is a brief excerpt from his diary when he manned the dugout
hut in Coullemelle:

                                                      May 12

"Arrived in Coullemelle Sunday night, May 12. Was busy with my work by mid-day, Monday, 13.
After cleaning our dugout, gave medicine to sick man, who refused to sleep in my bed because
he was not fit. However, I made him feel fine, helped. I had a long talk with the boys.

Tuesday, 14: Shell struck opposite to dugout and sent tiles down steps. The Captain of E Battery
visited me to-day, and then I visited the Battery and had chow with them. Airplane fight: while
batteries were roaring, the Germans came down in flames.

Wednesday, 15: No coming to dugout in the day-time on account of shelling. I did good business
in the evening and also had long services by request of the boys. Received a letter from B----
here to-day, I slept good.

Thursday, 16: I visited army, the officers and men of F Battery. Their chow kitchen is in a
bad place, all men coming down sick. I had an arrangement with the doughboys that they might
come in my dugout any hour in the night, whenever they wanted. I visited infantry officers
to-day, Capt. Cribbs and Capt. Crisp. I had a lovely talk with them. I offered to go to the
trenches with my goods, but Capt. Cribbs said I would just be killed without doing what he
knew I wanted to do, namely, serve the boys with food and encourage them.

Friday, 17: I was startled by a fearful barrage at four o'clock when I got up, washed my clothes:
was visited by the Y.M.C.A. Secretary: was shelled from five o'clock till ten o'clock. I went
for chow and found shell ball gone through kitchen. High explosive, black smoke shells bursting
intermittently, tiles fell into my dugout. I took pick shovel in with me; my kitten ran away
but came back. A three-legged cat came to the ruined home where I am; its leg evidently had
been cut off by shrapnel. Great air fight all day. Incendiary shells were fired into the town
and burnt for a long time. I visited Battery F, and gave the fellows medicine. To-day both
officers and men were in the gun pits and I with them, while they were deviling with Fritzy.
Big business in evening with long service, gave out Testaments  and held service in dugout;
got a Frenchman to interpret the scripture to his comrades. Bequests for prayer. Doughboys
came in 12:30, through a barrage, and got sixty-five bars of chocolate, others got biscuits.
I am very, very tired; artillery is roaring as I go to sleep.

Saturday, 18: Capt. Cribbs came down to dugout and said he was worried to death over me (thought
I was killed). I assured him I was all 0. K., and that it was their end of the town that needed
looking after. He laughed and enjoyed it. My supplies are kept up by the courage and devotion
of the Staff-Captain and Billy, who, taking their lives in their hands, bring the Ford with
supplies along the shell-torn road at great peril. Capt. Corliss also came.

During the day, the officer of Battery F wanted the Victrola and got the use of it in their
dugout for three days. In the meantime I had furnished Battery D the use of the Victrola and
the day I made the promise, I found the boys without chow for twelve hours. When about to serve
it, the town was gassed and their food with it and no one was permitted to touch a thing, they
were blessing the Kaiser as only soldiers can under such circumstances. When I arrived among
them, after finding out the way of things, I suggested to the officers that I should be permitted
to supply them with such food as I had. They assured me it would be a mighty good thing for
them if I would, and I took four boxes of biscuits and six pots of jam and other things to
their trench in the rear of their batteries-- they surely thought I was an angel and I left
them pretty happy. This was all done under fire and at great risk. I chowed with Battery E
and saw shell hole through building which was new since my last visit--boys offer to teach
me how to work gun, their spirit is wonderful under the terrific strain which they labor. I
visited ruined church and went inside; here were some graves of the French soldiers, some of
the bodies being exposed. Could not stay very long. Overtook soldier-boy limping, got him to
stay awhile and gave him hot chocolate; persuaded him to let his limb be seen to, which he
did, and was sent to hospital. I visited hospital corps- fellows and arranged that in case
of gas, they would visit and rouse me at night. They are fine fellows. Doughboys bought lots
of goods and blessed the Salvation Army a thousand times. These lads come in from the trenches
and have some hair-raising stories to tell.

Sunday, 19: Quiet till the afternoon when a gas barrage started. I was driven out of my dugout.
I had a narrow escape, while reaching the hospital corps dugout. Lieut. Roolan (since promoted),
of the Fifth Field Artillery, was there for two hours and half. 480 shells, I was informed,
came down, averaging up three and four per minute. All night, from 6 o'clock to 3 A.M., 3000
shells are sent into the town. I slept in the Headquarters Signal Corps dugout with my gas
mask on all night.

Monday, 20: Visited Y.M.C.A. and found their dugout had been struck and the Secretary's eyes
were gassed after a man took his place. I saw Colonel Crane to try and get out of my dugout
and get the one he had left. He gave me permission, assuring me that it was not a very good
one at that. I took my Victrola with two of the battery boys from F Battery. I carried the
records and they the Victrola. We dodged the shelling all the way and I had the pleasure of
hearing the "Swanee River" song  at the same time as the firing of the big guns much to the
enjoyment of the boys. I understand that General Summerall visited and heard the Victrola soon
after I had taken it to the boys. I placed about fifty books among officers of the Hospital
Corps, Infantry officers, Battery officers. They were highly appreciated. I slept with Signal
Corps boys again as Fritzy decided to continue the bombardment of the town which he did from
5.30 P.M. to 5.30 A.M. I slept with mask on and had no ill effects of the gas at all so far;
but about five o'clock a terrific crash just outside of my dugout followed by a man shouting
as he rushed down the dugout steps, "Oh, God, get me to the doctor right away." That shell
nearly got me. I was only eight feet from it. I sprung up and rushed him from the dugout over
to the hospital. I had to chase around from one dugout to another and finally landed my man
(his name was Harry), who was taken to the hospital.

Tuesday, 21: After taking the man to the doctor, I went to my own place and found a nine-inch
gas shrapnel shell had burst 15 or 20 feet from my dugout, about fifteen holes were torn through
the door, the top of the shell lay six feet from the top of the steps, pieces of the shell
were scattered down the steps, and my dugout to the gas curtain, was full of gas. If Staff-Captain
and Billy had been visiting me that night, the shell would have hit the Ford right in the center.
Fierce bombardment all the day. Houses were struck on the entire street from end to end. Shells
fell in the yard, one struck the corner of the house. The soldiers next door have gone, and
my place can only be opened in the evenings. Things are pretty hot, I started out visiting
the batteries to-day, but was driven back and could get out only by the back entrance to the
yard. I am told by a soldier of the Intelligence Dept., that their bombardment is what is known
as a "Million-Dollar Barrage," and that all were fortunate to have passed through it, he also
told me the number and nature of the shells. I served hot chocolate this Tuesday night and
noticed that my hands were very red.

Wednesday, 22: I visited the Battery in their trenches again and took them food. My eyes are
affected by the gas, and I got treatment at the Evacuating Hospital. Some shells come very
close to my dugout--to-day thirty feet, fifty feet and twenty feet. I gather up a box full
of remnants. I find I am gassed by a contact with the poor fellow coming in whom I took to
the doctor. I get treatment two or three times for my eyes and throat. My hands begin to crack
and smart. The flesh comes off from my neck and other parts of my body. I had a fine meeting
with boys in dugout and am again visited by the doughboys and officers. I visit the ruined
church area again and get a few relics.

Thursday, 23: My eyes are very red and becoming painful and also my throat and nose, etc. I
plan to move my dugout and pack up accordingly. Things are quieter today; had services again
in the evening. French schoolmaster among the number, six requests for prayer.

Friday, 24: Am all ready to move to a new dugout when Staff-Captain arrives and tells me I
am ordered out by the military."

Here is the Military Order received by the Staff-Captain:

"To Major Coe,

"Salvation Army:

"(1) Major Wilson, Chief G1, directs that the Salvation Army evacuate 'Coullemelle' as soon
as possible.

"(2) He desires that they leave to-night if possible.

"(3) This message was received by me from the office of G1.

                    "L. JOHNSON,
                    "1st Lieut., F. A."

Orders also arrived soon for the removal of the Salvation Army workers in Broyes:

                 "Headquarters, 1st Division, G-1.
                 "American Expeditionary Forces,
                                " June 3, 1919.

"Memorandum: To Mr. L. A. Coe, Salvation Army, La Folie.

"The hut, which it is understood the Salvation Army is operating in Broyes, will, for military
reasons, be removed from there as soon as practicable.

"It is contrary to the desire of the Commanding General that women workers be employed in huts
or canteens east of the line Mory-Chepoix-Tartigny, and if any are now so located they are
to 'be removed.

"The operations of technical services, Red Cross, Y.M.C.A., and other similar agencies is a
function of this section of the General Staff and all questions pertaining to your movements
and location of huts should in the future be referred to G.-1.

"By command of Major General Bullard.

                             "G. K Wilson,
                             "Major, General Staff,
                             "A. C. of S., G.-1."

In Tartigny they found a house with five rooms, one of them very large. The billeting officer
turned this over to the Salvation Army.

There was plenty of space and the girls might have a room to themselves here, instead of just
curtaining off a corner of a tent or making a partition of supply boxes in one end of the hut
as they often had to do. There was also plenty of furniture in the house, and they were allowed
to go around the village and get chairs and tables or anything they wanted to fix up their
canteen. The girls had great fun selecting easy-chairs and desks and anything they desired
from the deserted houses, and before long the result was a wonderfully comfortable, cozy, home-like
room.

"Gee! This is just like heaven, coming in here!" one of the boys said when he first saw it.

Just outside Tartigny there was a large ammunition dump, piles of shells and boxes of other
ammunition. It was under the trees and well camouflaged, but night after night the enemy airplanes
kept trying to get it. The girls used to sit in the windows and watch the airplane battles.
They would stay until an airplane got over the house and then they would run to the cellar.
They came so close one night that pieces of shell from the anti-aircraft guns fell over the house.

Sometimes the airplanes would come in the daytime, and the girls got into the habit of running
out into the street to watch them. But at this the boys protested.

"Don't do that, you will get hit!" they begged. And one day the nose of an unexploded shell
fell in the street just outside the door. After that they were more careful.

In this town one afternoon a whole truck-load of oranges arrived, being three hundred crates,
four hundred oranges to a crate, for the canteen, and they were all gone by four o'clock!

The Headquarters of the Division Commander were in a beautiful old stone chateau of a peculiar
color that seemed to be invisible to the airplanes. There were woods all around it and the
house was never shelled. It was filled with rare old tapestries and beautiful furniture.

The Count who owned the chateau asked the Major General to get some furniture that belonged
to him out of the village that was being shelled. Later the Count asked the General if he ever
got that furniture. The General asked his Colonel, "What did you do with that furniture?" "Oh,"
the Colonel said, "it's down there all right!" "And where is the piano?" "Oh, I gave that to
the Salvation Army."

In this area it was one lassie's first bombardment; it came suddenly and without warning. The
soldiers in the hut decamped without ceremony for the safety of their dugouts. One soldier
who had been detailed to help the lassie, shouted: "Come on! Follow me to your dugout!" Without
further talk he turned and started for cover. The girl had been baking. A tray full of luscious
lemon cream pies stood on the table. She did not want to leave those pies to the tender mercies
of a shell. Also she had some new boots standing beneath the table, and she was not going to
lose those. Without stopping to think, she seized the shoes in one hand and the tray in the
other and rushed after the soldier. A little gully had to be crossed on the way to the dugout
and the only bridge was a twelve-inch plank. The soldier crossed in safety and turned to look
after the girl. Just as she reached the middle of the plank a shell burst not far away. The
lassie was so startled that she nearly lost her balance, swaying first one way and then the
other. In an attempt to stop the tray of pies from slipping, she almost lost the shoes, and
in recovering the shoes, the pies just escaped sliding overboard into the thick mud below.

The soldier registered deep agitation.

"Drop the shoes!" he shouted. "I can clean the shoes, but for heaven's sake don't drop them
pies!" And the lassie obeyed meekly.

In the little town of Bonnet where the rest room was located in an old barn connected with
a Catholic convent, one Salvation Army Envoy and his wife from Texas began their work. They
soon became known to the soldiers familiarly as "Pa" and "Ma."

It was in this old barn that the tent top, later made famous at Ansauville, was first used.
Stoves were almost impossible to obtain at that time, but "Ma" was determined that she would
bake pies for the men, so the Envoy constructed an oven out of two tin cake boxes and using
a small two-burner gasoline stove, "Ma" baked biscuits and pies that made her name famous.
Through her great motherly heart and her willingness to serve the boys at all times, under
all circumstances, she won their confidence and love. One soldier said he would walk five miles
any day to look into "Ma's" gray eyes.

From Bonnet they were transferred to command a hut at Ansauville, but "Ma" could never rest
so long as there was a soldier to be served in any way. She worked early and late, and she
made each individual soldier who came to the hut her special charge as if he were her own son.
She could not sleep when they were going over the top unless she prayed with each one before
he went.

The meetings which she and her husband held were full of life and power and were never neglected,
no matter how hard the strain might be from other lines of service.

It was not long before "Ma's" strength gave out and it was necessary to move her to a quieter
place. She was transferred to Houdelainecourt. She would not go until they carried her away.

Houdelainecourt at this time was on the main road travelled by trucks, taking supplies by train
from the railroad at Gondrecourt to the front. Truck drivers invariably made it a point to
stop at "Ma's" hut and here they were always sure to receive a welcome and the most delicious
doughnuts and pies and hot biscuit which loving hands could make.

Not satisfied with this service alone, she undertook to fry pancakes for the officers' breakfast.
It was through these kindly services, ungrudgingly done, at any time of the day or night, that
her name was established as one of the most potent factors in contributing to the comfort and
welfare of the men, and there was no hole or tear of the men's clothes that "Ma" could not mend.

A short time after the pie contest over at Gondrecourt, "Ma" and one of her lassie helpers
set out to break the record of 316 pies as a day's work. Their oven would hold but six pies
at a time; their hut had but just been opened and all their equipment had not yet arrived,
so they were short a rolling pin, which had to be carved from a broken wagon-shaft with a jack-knife
before they could begin; but they achieved the baking of 324 pies between 6 A.M. and 6 P.M.
that day. It is fair to state for the sake of the doubter, however, that the pie fillers, both
pumpkin and apple, were all prepared and piping hot on the stove ready to be poured into the
pastry as it was put into the oven, which, of course, helped a good deal.

A sign was put out announcing that pie would be served at seven o'clock, but the lines formed
long before that.

The pies were unusually large and cut into fifths, but even at that they were much larger pieces
than are usually served at the ordinary restaurant.

By half-past eight some men were falling in for a second helping, but "Ma" had been watching
long a little company of men off to one side who hovered about yet never dropped into line
themselves, and made up her mind that these were some of those who perhaps sent much of their
money home and found it a long time between pay-days. Casting her kindly eye comprehendingly
toward these men she mounted a chair and requested:

"All of the men who have already had pie, please step out of the line; and all of those boys
who want coffee and pie but have no money, step into line and get some, anyhow!"

She gave the boys one of her beautiful motherly smiles and that made them feel they had all
got home, and they hesitated no longer. "Ma," however, was more deeply interested in her meetings
than in mere pie. The Sunday before this contest over five hundred soldiers had attended the
evening meeting, and almost as many had been present at the morning service. Also, there had
been twenty-eight members added to her Bible class. Though the hut was a large one it had been
crowded to its utmost capacity in the evening, with men packed into the open doorways and windows
on either side, and forty of the men who announced their determination to follow Christ that
night could not get inside to come forward. More than a dozen gave personal testimony of what
Christ had done for them. One notable testimony was as follows:

"I used to be a hard guy fellers," he said, "and maybe I had some good reasons when I used
to say that nothing was ever going to scare me, but when we lay out there with a six-hour barrage
busting right in front of us and 'arrivals' busting all around us, I did a whole lot of thinking.
It seemed as though every shell had my number on it! And when we went over and ran square into
their barrage, I'll admit I was scared yellow and was darned afraid I was going to show it!
We were under a barrage for ten hours. A shell buried me under about a foot of earth, and for
the first time I can remember, while my bunkie was digging me out, I prayed to God. And I want
to say that I believe He answered my prayer, and that is the only reason I came out uninjured.
I promised if I got out I'd call for a new deal, and I want to say that I'm going to keep that
promise!"

A boy who had been converted in one of the meetings a few nights before came into the hut and
sought her out. He told her he was going over the top that night, and he had something he wanted
to confess before he went. He had told a lie and he had felt terrible remorse about it ever
since he was converted. He had treated his mother badly, and gone and enlisted, saying he was
eighteen when he was only sixteen. "Now," said he with relief after he had told the story,
"that's all clear. And say, if I'm killed, will you go through my pockets and find my Testament
and send it to mother? And will you tell my mother all about it and tell her it is all right
with me now? Tell mother I went over the top a Christian. You'll know what to say to her to
help her bear up."

She promised and the boy went away content. That night he was killed, and, true to her promise,
she went through his pockets when he was brought back, and found the little Testament close
over his heart; and in it a verse was marked for his mother:

"The blood of Jesus Christ His Son cleanseth us from all sin."

During the early days of the Salvation Army work in France, while the work was still under
inspection as to its influence on the men, and one Colonel had sent a Captain around to the
meetings to report upon them to him, "Ma's" was one of the meetings to which the Captain came.

She did not know that she was under suspicion, but that night she spoke on obedience and discipline,
taking as her text: "Take heed to the law," and urging the men to obey both moral and military
laws so that they might be better men and better soldiers. The Captain reported on her sermon
and said that he wished the regiment had a Salvation Army chaplain for every company.

The hospital visitation work was started by "Ma" in the Paris hospitals while she was in that
city for several months regaining her strength after a physical break-down at the front. She
was idolized by the wounded. If she walked along any hospital passageway or through any ward,
a crowd of men were sure to call her by name. They knew her as "Ma," and frequently, overworked
nurses have called up the Paris Salvation Army Headquarters asking if Ma could not find time
to come down and sit with a dying boy who was calling for her. She observed their birthdays
with books and other small presents, wrote to their mothers, wives and sweethearts, and performed
a multitude of invaluable, precious little services of love. For weeks after she left Paris,
returning to the front, the wounded called for her. She is one of the outstanding figures of
the Salvation Army's work with the American Expeditionary Forces in France. She is indelibly
enshrined in the hearts of hundreds of American soldiers.

A Salvation Army lassie bent over the bed of a wounded boy recently arrived in the Paris hospital
from the front, and gave him an orange and a little sack of candy.

"I know the Salvation Army," he said with a faint smile, "I knew I should find you here."

She asked him his division and he told her he belonged to one that had been cooperating with
the French.

"But how can that be?" she asked in surprise, "we have never worked with your division. How
do you know about us?"

"I only saw the Salvation Army once," he replied, "but I'll never forget it. It was when I
came back to consciousness in the Dressing Station at Cheppy, and the first thing I saw was
a Salvation Army girl bending over me washing the blood and dirt off my face with cold water.
She looked like an angel and she was that to me. She gave me a drink of cold lemonade when
I was burning up with fever, and she lifted my head to pour it between my lips when I had not
strength to move myself. No, I shall not forget!"

One bright young fellow with a bandaged eye turned a cheerful grin toward the Salvation Army
visitor as she said with compassion: "Son, I'm sorry you've lost your eye."

"Oh, that's nothing," was the gay reply, "I can see everything out of the other eye. I've got
seven holes in me, too, but believe me I'm not going home for the loss of an eye and seven
holes! I'll get out yet and get into the fight!"

The Salvation Army officer and his wife who were stationed at Bonvillers visited every man
in the local hospital every day, sleeping every night in the open fields. As they are quite
elderly, this was no little hardship, especially in rainy weather.

Five lassies stationed at Noyers St. Martin were for several weeks forced by the nightly shelling
and air-raids to take their blankets out into the fields at night and sleep under the stars.
One of these girls was called "Sunshine" because of her smile.

On the eve of Decoration Day a military Colonel visited her in the hut. He seemed rather depressed,
perhaps by the ceremonies of the day, and said that he had come to be cheered up. In parting
he said, "Little girl, you had better get out of town early to-night; I feel as though something
is going to happen." Less than an hour later, while the girls were just preparing for the night
in a field half a mile distant, an aerial bomb dropped by an aviator on the house in which
he was billeted killed him and two other Captains who were sitting with him at the time. He
had been a great friend of the Salvation Army.

Out in a little village in Indiana there grew a fair young flower of a girl. Her mother was
a dear Christian woman and she was brought up in her mother's church, which she loved. When
she was only twelve years old she had a remarkable and thorough old-fashioned conversion, giving
herself with all her childish heart to the Saviour. She feels that she had a kind of vision
at that time of what the Lord wanted her to be, a call to do some special work for Christ out
in the world, helping people who did not know Him, people who were sick and poor and sorrowful.
She did not tell her vision to anyone. She did not even know that anywhere in the world were
any people doing the kind of work she felt she would like to do, and God had called her to
do. She was shy about it and kept her thoughts much to herself. She loved her own church, and
its services, but somehow that did not quite satisfy her.

One day when she was about fourteen years old the Salvation Army came to the town where she
lived and opened work, holding its meetings in a large hall or armory. With her young companions
she attended these meetings and was filled with a longing to be one of these earnest Christian
workers.

Her mother, accustomed to a quiet conventional church and its way of doing Christian work,
was horrified; and in alarm sent her away to visit her uncle, who was a Baptist minister. The
daughter, dutiful and sweet, went willingly away, although she had many a longing for these
new friends of hers who seemed to her to have found the way of working for God that had been
her own heart's desire for so long.

Meantime her gay young brother, curious to know what had so stirred his bright sister, went
to the Salvation Army meetings to find out, and was attracted himself. He went again and found
Jesus Christ, and himself joined the Salvation Army. The mother in this case did not object,
perhaps because she felt that a boy needed more safeguards than a girl, perhaps because the
life of publicity would not trouble her so much in connection with her son as with her daughter.

The daughter after several months away from home returned, only to find her longing to join
the Salvation Army stronger. But quietly and sweetly she submitted to her mother's wish and
remained at home for some years, like her Master before her, who went down to His home in Nazareth
and was subject to His father and mother; showing by her gentle submission and her lovely life
that she really had the spirit of God in her heart and was not merely led away by her enthusiasm
for something new and strange.

When she was twenty her mother withdrew her objections, and the daughter became a Salvationist,
her mother coming to feel thoroughly in sympathy with her during the remaining years she lived.

This is the story of one of the Salvation Army lassies who has been giving herself to the work
in the huts over in France. She is still young and lovely, and there is something about her
delicate features and slender grace that makes one think of a young saint. No wonder the soldiers
almost worshipped her! No wonder these lassies were as safe over there ten miles from any other
woman or any other civilian alone among ten thousand soldiers, as if they had been in their
own homes. They breathed the spirit of God as they worked, as well as when they sang and prayed.
To such a girl a man may open his heart and find true help and strength.

It was no uncommon thing for our boys who were so afraid of anything like religion or anything
personal over here, to talk to these lassies about their souls, to ask them what certain verses
in the Bible meant, and to kneel with them in some quiet corner behind the chocolate boxes
and be prayed with, yes, and pray! It is because these girls have let the Christ into their
lives so completely that He lives and speaks through them, and the boys cannot help but recognize
it.

Not every boy who was in a Salvation hut meeting has given himself to Christ, of course, but
every one of them recognizes this wonderful something in these girls. Ask them. They will tell
you "She is the real thing!" They won't tell you more than that, perhaps, unless they have
really grown in the Christian life, but they mean that they have recognized in her spirit a
likeness to the spirit of Christ.

Now and then, of course, there was a thick-headed one who took some minutes to recognize holiness.
Such would enter a hut with an oath upon his lips, or an unclean story, and straightway all
the men who were sitting at the tables writing or standing about the room would come to attention
with one of those little noisy silences that mean, so much; pencils would click down on the
table like a challenge, and the newcomer would look up to find the cold glances of his fellows
upon him.

The boys who frequented the huts broke the habit of swearing and telling unclean stories, and
officers began to realize that their men were better in their work because of this holy influence
that was being thrown about them. One officer said his men worked better, and kept their engines
oiled up so they wouldn't be delayed on the road, that they might get back to the hut early
in the evening. The picture of a girl stirring chocolate kept the light of hope going in the
heart of many a homesick lad.

One ignorant and exceedingly "fresh" youth, once walked boldly into a hut, it is said, and
jauntily addressed the lassie behind the counter as "Dearie." The sweet blue eyes of the lassie
grew suddenly cold with aloofness, and she looked up at the newcomer without her usual smile,
saying distinctly: "What did you say?"

The soldier stared, and grew red and unhappy:

"Oh! I beg your pardon!" he said, and got himself out of the way as soon as possible. These
lassies needed no chaperon. They were young saints to the boys they served, and they had a
cordon of ten thousand faithful soldiers drawn about them night and day. As a military Colonel
said, the Salvation Army lassie was the only woman in France who was safe unchaperoned.

When this lassie from Indiana came back on a short furlough after fifteen months in France
with the troops, and went to her home for a brief visit, the Mayor gave the home town a holiday,
had out the band and waited at the depot in his own limousine for four hours that he might
not miss greeting her and doing her honor.

Here is the poem which Pte. Joseph T. Lopes wrote about "Those Salvation Army Folks" after
the Montdidier attack:

  Somewhere in France, not far from the foe,
  There's a body of workers whose name we all know;
  Who not only at home give their lives to make right,
  But are now here beside us, fighting our fight.
  What care they for rest when our boys at the front,
  Who, fighting for freedom, are bearing the brunt,
  And so, just at dawn, when the caissons come home,
  With the boys tired out and chilled to the bone,
  The Salvation Army with its brave little crew,
  Are waiting with doughnuts and hot coffee, too.
  When dangers and toiling are o'er for awhile,
  In their dugouts we find comfort and welcome their smile.
  There's a spirit of home, so we go there each night,
  And the thinking of home makes us sit down and write,
  So we tell of these folks to our loved ones with pride,
  And are thanking the Lord to have them on our side.

V.

The Toul Sector Again

When the German offensive was definitely checked in the Montdidier Sector, the First Division
was transferred back to the Toul Sector and the Salvation Army moved with it. They had in the
meantime maintained all the huts which had been established originally, and with the return
of the First Division, they established additional huts between Font and Nancy. When the St.
Mihiel drive came off, they followed the advancing troops, establishing huts in the devastated
villages, keeping in as close contact with the extreme front as was possible, serving the troops
day and night, always aiming to be at the point where the need was the greatest, and where
they could be of the greatest service.

The first Americans to pay the supreme sacrifice in the cause of liberty were buried in the
Toul Sector.

As it drew near to Decoration Day there came a message from over the sea from the Commander
to her faithful band of workers, saying that she was sending American flags, one for every
American soldier's grave, and that she wanted the graves cared for and decorated; and at all
the various locations of Salvation Army workers they prepared to do her bidding.

The day before the thirtieth of May they took time from their other duties to clear away the
mud, dead grass and fallen leaves from the graves, and heap up the mounds where they had been
washed flat by the rains, making each one smooth, regular and tidy. At the head of each grave
was a simple wooden cross bearing the name of the soldier who lay there, his rank, his regiment
and the date of his death. Into the back of each cross they drove a staple for a flag, and
they swept and garnished the place as best they could.

One Salvation Army woman writing home told of the plans they had made in Treveray for Decoration
Day; how Commander Booth was sending enough American flags to decorate every American grave
in France, and how they meant to gather flowers and put with the flags, and have a little service
of prayer over the graves.

In the gray old French cemetery of Treveray five American boys lay buried. The flowers upon
their graves were dry and dead, for their regiments had moved on and left them. The graves
had been neglected and only the guarding wooden crosses remained above the rough earth to show
that someone had cared and had stopped to put a mark above the places where they lay. It was
these graves the Salvation Army woman now proposed to decorate on Memorial Day.

The letter went to the Captain for censorship, and soon the Salvation Army woman had a call
from him.

"I understand by one of your letters that you are thinking of decorating the American graves,"
he said. "We would like to help in that, if you don't mind. I would like the company all to
be present."

The day before Memorial Day this woman with two of the lassies from the hut went to the cemetery
and prepared for the morrow.

In the morning they gathered great armfuls of crimson poppies from the fields, creamy snowballs
from neglected gardens, and blue bachelor buttons from the hillsides, which they arranged in
bouquets of red, white and blue for the graves. They had no vases in which to place the flowers
but they used the apple tins in which the apples for their pies had been canned.

The centuries-old gray cemetery nestled in a curve of the road between wheat fields on every
side. A gray, moss-covered, lichen-hung wall surrounded it. The five American graves were under
the shadow of the Western wall, and the sun was slowly sinking in his glory as the company
of soldiers escorted the women into the cemetery. They passed between the ponderous old gray
stones, and beaded wreaths of the French graves; and the officers and men lined up facing the
five graves. The women placed the tricolored flowers in the cans prepared for them, and planted
the flags beside them. Then the elder woman, who had sons of her own, stepped out and saluted
the military commanding officer: "Colonel" said she, "with your permission we would like to
follow our custom and offer a prayer for the bereaved." Instantly permission was given and
every head was uncovered as the Salvationist poured out her heart in prayer to the Everlasting
Father, commending the dead into His tender Keeping, and pleading for the sorrow-stricken friends
across the sea, until the soldiers' tears fell unchecked as they stood with rifles stiffly
in front of them listening to the quiet voice of the woman as she prayed. God seemed Himself
to come down, and the living boys standing over their five dead comrades could not help but
be enfolded in His love, and feel the sense of His presence. They knew that they, too, might
soon be sleeping even as these at their feet. It seemed but a step to the other life. When
the prayer was finished a firing squad fired five volleys over the graves, and then the bugler
played the taps and the little service was over. The lassies lingered to take pictures of the
graves and that night they wrote letters describing the ceremony, to be sent with the photographs
to the War Department at Washington with the request that they be forwarded to the nearest
relatives of the five men buried at Treveray.

There were exercises at Menil-la-Tour and here they had built a simple platform in the centre
of the ground and erected a flagpole at one corner.

When the morning came two regimental bands took up their positions in opposite corners of the
cemetery and began to play. The French populace had turned out en masse. They took up their
stand just outside the little cemetery, next to them the soldiers were lined up, then the Red
Cross, then the Y.M.C.A. Beyond, a little hill rose sloping gently to the sky line, and over
it a mile away was the German front, with the shells coming over all the time.

It was an impressive scene as all stood with bared heads just outside the little enclosure
where eighty-one wooden crosses marked the going of as many brave spirits who had walked so
blithely into the crisis and given their young lives.

Some French officers had brought a large, beautiful wreath to do honor to the American heroes,
and this was placed at the foot of the great central flagpole.

The bands played, and they all sang. It was announced that but for the thoughtfulness and kindness
of Commander Evangeline Booth in sending over flags those graves would have gone undecorated
that day.

The Commanding General then came to the front and behind him walked the Salvation Army lassies
bearing the flags in their arms.

Down the long row of graves he passed. He would take a flag from one of the girls, slip it
in the staple back of the cross, stand a moment at salute, then pass on to the next. It was
very still that May morning, broken only by the awesome boom of battle just over the hill,
but to that sound all had grown accustomed. The people stood with that hush of sorrow over
them which only the majesty of death can bring to the hearts of a crowd, and there were tears
in many eyes and on the faces of rough soldiers standing there to honor their comrades who
had been called upon to give their lives to the great cause of freedom.

A little breeze was blowing and into the solemn stillness there stole a new sound, the silken
ripple of the flags as one by one they were set fluttering from the crosses, like a soft, growing,
triumphant chorus of those to come whose lives were to be made safe because these had died.
As if the flag would waft back to the Homeland, and the stricken mothers and fathers, sisters
and sweethearts, some idea of the greatness of the cause in which they died to comfort them
in their sorrow.

Out through each line the General passed, placing the flags and solemnly saluting, till eighty
graves had been decorated and there was only one left; but there was no flag for the eighty-first
grave! Somehow, although they thought they had brought several more than were needed, they
were one short. But the General stood and saluted the grave as he had the others, and later
the flag was brought and put in place, so that every American grave in the Toul Sector that
day had its flag fluttering from its cross.

Then the General and the soldiers saluted the large flag. It was an impressive moment with
the deep thunder of the guns just over the hill reminding of more battle and more lives to
be laid down.

The General then addressed the soldiers, and facing toward the West and pointing he said:

"Out there in that direction is Washington and the President, and all the people of the United
States, who are looking to you to set the world free from tyranny. Over there are the mothers
who have bade you good-bye with tears and sent you forth, and are waiting at home and praying
for you, trusting in you. Out there are the fathers and the sisters and the sweethearts you
have left behind, all depending on you to do your best for the Right. Now," said he in a clear
ringing voice, "turn and salute America!" And they all turned and saluted toward the West,
while the band played softly "My Country 'Tis of Thee!"

It was a wonderful, beautiful, solemn sight, every man standing and saluting while the flags
fluttered softly on the breeze.

Behind the little French Catholic church in the village of Bonvilliers there was quite a large
field which had been turned over to the Americans for a cemetery. The Military Major had caused
an arch to be made over the gateway inscribed with the words: "NATIONAL CEMETERY OF THE AMERICAN
EXPEDITIONARY FORCES." There were over two hundred graves inside the cemetery.

On Decoration Day the Regimental Band led a parade through the village streets to the graveyard,
the French women in black and little French children, with wreaths made of wonderful beaded
flowers cunningly constructed from beads strung on fine wires, marching in the parade. Arrived
at the cemetery they all stood drawn up in line while the Military Major gave a beautiful address,
first in French and then in English. He then told the French children and women to take their
places one at each grave, and lay down their tributes of flowers for the Americans. Following
this the Salvation Army placed flags on each on behalf of the mothers of the boys who were
lying there.

It was noon-day. The sun was very bright and every white cross bearing the name of the fallen
glittered in the sun. Even the worst little hovel over in France is smothered in a garden and
bright with myriads of flowers, so everything was gay with blossoms and everybody had brought
as many as could be carried.

Over in one corner of the cemetery were two German graves, and one of the lassies of that organization
which proclaims salvation for all men went and laid some blossoms there also.

At La Folie one of the Salvation Army lassies going across the fields on some errand of mercy
found three American graves undecorated and bare on Memorial Day, and turning aside from the
road she gathered great armfuls of scarlet poppies from the fields and came and laid them on
the three mounds, then knelt and prayed for the friends of the boys whose bodies were lying there.

The whole world was startled and saddened when the news came that Lieutenant Quentin Roosevelt
had been shot down in his airplane in action and fallen within the enemy's lines.

He was crudely buried by the Germans where he fell, near Chambray, and a rude cross set up
to mark the place. All around were pieces of his airplane shattered on the ground and left
as they had fallen.

When the spot fell into the hands of the Allies, the grave was cared for by the Salvation Army;
a new white cross set up beside the old one, and gentle hands smoothed the mound and made it
shapely. On Decoration Day Colonel Barker placed upon this grave the beautiful flowers arranged
for by cable by Commander Booth.

The girls went down to decorate the two hundred American graves at Mandres, and even while
they bent over the flaming blossoms and laid them on the mounds an air battle was going on
over their heads. Close at hand was the American artillery being moved to the front on a little
narrow- gauge railroad that ran near to the graveyard, and the Germans were firing and trying
to get them.

But the girls went steadily on with their work, scattering flowers and setting flags until
their service of love was over. Then they stood aside for the prayer and a song. One of the
Salvation Army Captains with a fine voice began to sing:

  My loved ones in the Homeland
    Are waiting me to come,
  Where neither death nor sorrow
    Invades their holy home;
  O dear, dear native country!
    O rest and peace above!
  Christ, bring us all to the Homeland
    Of Thy redeeming love.

Into the midst of the song came the engine on the little narrow track straight toward where
he stood, and he had to step aside onto a pile of dirt to finish his song.

That same Captain went on ahead to the Home Land not long after when the epidemic of influenza
swept over the world; and he was given the honor of a military funeral.

VI.

The Baccarat Sector

Baccarat was the Zone Headquarters for that Sector.

Down the Main street there hung a sign on an old house labeled "MODERN BAR."

Inside everything was all torn up. It had never been opened since the battles of 1914. The
Germans had lived there and everything was in an awful condition. One wonders how they endured
themselves. The Military detailed two men for two days to spade up and carry away the filth
from the bedrooms, and it took two women an entire week all but one day, scrubbing all day
long until their shoulders ached, to scrub the place clean. But they got it clean. They were
the kind of women that did not give up even when a thing seemed an impossibility. This was
the sort of thing they were up against continually. They could have no meetings that week because
they had to scrub and make the place fit for a Salvation Army hut.

Two of the lassies were awakened early one bright morning by the sound of an axe ringing rhythmically
on wood, just back of their canteen. It was a cheerful sound to wake to, for the girls had
been through a long wearing day and night, and they knew when they went to sleep that the wood
was almost gone. It was always so pleasant to have someone offer to cut it for them, for they
never liked to have to ask help of the soldiers if they could possibly avoid it. But there
was so much else to be done besides cutting wood. Not that they could not do that, too, when
the need offered. The sisters looked sleepily at one another, thinking simultaneously of the
poor homesick doughboy who had told them the day before that chopping wood for them made him
think of home and mother and that was why he liked to do it. Of course, it was he hard at work
for them before they were up, and they smiled contentedly, with a lifted prayer for the poor
fellow. They knew he had received no mail for four months and that only a few days before he
had read in a paper sent to one of his pals of the death of his sister. Of course, his heart
was breaking, for he knew what his widowed mother was suffering. They knew that his salvation
from homesickness just now lay in giving him something to do, so they lingered a little just
to give him the chance, and planned how they would let him help with the doughnuts, and fix
the benches, later, when the wood was cut.

In a few minutes the girls were ready for the day's work and went around to the kitchen, where
the sound of the ringing axe was still heard in steady strokes. But when they rounded the corner
of the kitchen and greeted the wood-chopper cheerily, he looked up, and lo! it was not the
homesick doughboy as they had supposed, but the Colonel of the regiment himself who smiled
half apologetically at them, saying he liked his new job; and when they invited him to breakfast
he accepted the invitation with alacrity.

After breakfast the girls went to work making pies. There had been no oven in the little French
town in which they were stationed, and so baking had been impossible, but the boys kept talking
and talking about pies until one day a Lieutenant found an old French stove in some ruins.
They had to half bury it in the earth to make it strong enough for use, but managed to make
it work at last, and though much hampered by the limitations of the small oven, they baked
enough to give all the boys a taste of pie once a week or so. Pie day was so welcomed that
it almost made a riot, so many boys wanted a slice.

They were having a meeting one night at Baccarat. There was a great deal of noise going on
outside the dugout. The shells were falling around rather indiscriminately, but it takes more
than shell fire to stop a Salvation Army meeting at the front. There is only one thing that
will stop it, and that is a sudden troop movement. It is the same way with baseball, for the
week before this meeting two regimental baseball teams played seven innings of air-tight ball
while the shells were falling not three hundred yards away at the roadside edge of their ball-ground.
During the seven innings only eight hits were allowed by the two pitchers. The score was close
and when at the end of the seventh a shell exploded within fifty yards of the diamond and an
officer shouted: "Game called on account of shell fire!" there was considerable dissatisfaction
expressed because the game was not allowed to continue. It is with the same spirit that the
men attend their religious meetings. They come because they want-to and they won't let anything
interfere with it.

But on this particular night the meeting was in full force, and so were the shells. It had
been a meeting in which the men had taken part, led by one of the women whose leadership was
unquestioned among them, a personal testimony meeting in which several soldiers and an officer
had spoken of what Christ had done for them. Then there was a solo by one of the lassies, and
the Adjutant opened his Bible and began to read.

Those boys knew what it was to be thirsty, terrible thirst! They had come back from the lines
sometimes their tongues parched and their whole bodies feverish with thirst and there was nothing
to be had to drink until the Salvation Army people had appeared with good cold lemonade; and
when they had no money they had given it to them just the same. Oh, they knew what that verse
meant and their attention was held at once as the speaker went on to show plainly how Jesus
Christ would give the water of life just as freely to those who were thirsty for it. And they
were thirsty! They did not wish to conceal how thirsty they were for the living water.

Just in the midst of the talk the lights went out. Many a church under like conditions would
have had a panic in no time, but this crowded audience sat perfectly quiet, listening as the
speaker went on, quoting his Bible from memory where he could not read.

Over there in the corner on a bench sat the lassies, the women who had been serving them all
through the hard days, as quiet and calm in the darkness as though they sat in a cushioned
pew in some well-lit church in New York. It was as if the guns were like annoying little insects
that were outside a screen, and now and then slipped in, so little attention did the audience
pay to them. When all those who wished to accept this wonderful invitation were asked to come
forward, seven men arose and stumbled through the darkness. The light from a bursting shell
revealed for an instant the forms of these men as they knelt at the rough bench in front, one
of them with his steel helmet hanging from his arm as he prayed aloud for his own salvation.
No one who was in that meeting that night could doubt but that Jesus Christ Himself was there,
and that those men all felt His presence.

In Bertrichamps the Salvation Army was given a large glass factory for a canteen. It made a
beautiful place, and there was room to take care of eight hundred men at a time. This building
was also used by the Y. M. C. A. as well as the Jews and the Catholics for their services,
there being no other suitable place in town. But everybody worked together, and got along harmoniously.

Here there were some wonderful meetings, and it was great to hear the boys singing "When The
Roll Is Called Up Yonder, I'll Be There." Perhaps if some of the half-hearted Christians at
home could have caught the echo of that song sung with such earnestness by those boyish voices
they would have had a revelation. It seemed as if the earth-film were more than half torn away
from their young, wise eyes over there; and they found that earthly standards and earthly false-whisperings
did not fit. They felt the spirit of the hour, they felt the spirit of the place, and of the
people who were serving them patiently day by day; who didn't have to stay there and work;
who might have kept in back of the lines and worked and sent things up now and then; but who
chose to stay close with them and share their hardships. They felt that something more than
just love to their fellow-men had instigated such unselfishness. They knew it was something
they needed to help them through what was before them. They reached hungrily after the Christ
and they found Him.

Then they testified in the meetings. Often as many as twelve or more before an audience of
five hundred would get up and tell what Jesus had become to them. In one meeting in this glass
factory two hundred soldiers pledged to serve the Lord, to read their Bibles, and to pray.

There were in this place some Christian boys who came from families where they had been accustomed
to family worship, and who now that they were far away from it, looked back with longing to
the days when it had been a part of every day. Things look different over there with the sound
of battle close at hand, and customs that had been, a part of every-day life at home became
very dear, perhaps dearer than they had ever seemed before. They found out that the Salvation
Army people had prayers every night after they closed the canteen at half-past nine and went
to their rooms in a house not far away, and so they begged that they might share the worship
with them. So every night they took home fifteen or twenty men to the living-room of the house
where they stayed just as many as they could crowd in, and there they would have a little Bible
reading and prayer together. The Father only knows how many souls were strengthened and how
many feet kept from falling because of those brief moments of worship with these faithful men
and women of God.

"Oh, if you only knew what it means to us!" one of the men tried to tell them one day.

Sometimes men who said they hadn't prayed nor read their Bibles for years would be found in
little groups openly reading a testament to each other.

 When the girls opened their shutters in the morning they could look out
over the spot in No Man's Land which was the scene of such frightful
German atrocities in 1914.

Our field artillery, stationed in the woods, sent over to the Salvation Army to know if they
wouldn't come over and cook something for them, they were starving for some home cooking. So
two of the women put on their steel helmets and their gas masks, for the Boche planes were
flying everywhere, and went over across No Man's Land to see if there was a place where they
could open up a hut. They were walking along quietly, talking, and had not noticed the German
plane that approached. They were so accustomed to seeing them by twos and threes that a single
one did not attract their attention. Suddenly almost over their heads the Boche dropped a shell,
trying to get them. But it was a dud and did not explode. Two American soldiers came tearing
over, crying: "Girls! Are you hurt?"

"Oh, no," said one of them brightly. "The Lord wouldn't let that fellow get us."

The soldiers used strong language as they looked after the fast-vanishing plane, but then they
glanced back at the women again with something unspoken in their eyes. They believed, those
boys, they really did, that God protected those women; and they used to beg them to remain
with their regiment when they were going near the front, because they wanted their prayers
as a protection. Some of the regiments openly said they thought those girls' prayers had saved
their lives.

That Boche plane, however, had not far to go. Before it reached Baccarat the Americans trained
their guns on it and brought it down in flames.

The house occupied by the Salvation Army girls as a billet had a sad story connected with it.
When the Germans had come the father was soon killed and four German officers had taken possession
of the place for their Headquarters. They also took possession of the two little girls of the
family, nine and fourteen years of age, to wait upon them. And the first command that was given
these children was that they should wait upon the men nude! The youngest child was not old
enough to understand what this meant, but the older one was in terror, and they begged and
cried and pleaded but all to no purpose. The officer was inexorable. He told them that if they
did not obey they would be shot.

The poor old grandfather and grandmother, too feeble to do anything, and powerless, of course,
to aid, could only endure in agony. The grandmother, telling the Salvation Army women the story
afterward, pointed with trembling lingers and streaming eyes to the two little graves in the
yard and said: "Oh, it would have been so much better if he had shot them! They lie out there
as the result of their infamous and inhuman treatment."

 Some most amusing incidents came to the knowledge of the Salvation Army
workers.

An old French woman, over eighty years of age, lived in one of the stricken villages on the
Vosges front. Her home had been several times struck by shells and was frequently the target
for enemy bombing squadrons. All through the war she refused to leave the home in which she
had lived from earliest childhood.

"It is not the guns, nor the bombs which can frighten me," she told a Salvation Army lassie
who was billeted with her for a time, "but I am very much afraid of the submarines."

The village was several hundred miles inland.

The activity was all at night, for no one dared be seen about in the daytime. It must be a
very urgent duty that would call men forth into full view of the enemy. But as soon, as the
dark came on the men would crawl into the trenches, stick their rifles between the sandbags
and get ready for work.

It seemed to be always raining. They said that when it wasn't actually raining it was either
clearing off or just getting ready to rain again. Twenty minutes in the trenches and a man
was all over mud, wet, cold, slippery mud. In his hair, down his neck, in his boots, everywhere.

Through the trenches just behind the standing place ran a deeper trench or drain to carry the
water away, and this was covered over with a rough board called a duck-board. Underneath this
duck-board ran a continual stream of water. A man would go along the trench in a hurry, make
a misstep on one end of the duck-board and down he would go in mud and freezing water to the
waist. In these cold, wet garments he must stay all night. The tension was very great.

As the soldiers had to work in the night, so the Salvation Army men and women worked in the
night to serve them.

The Salvation Army men would visit the sentries and bring them coffee and doughnuts prepared
in the dugouts by the girls. It was exceedingly dangerous work. They would crawl through the
connecting trenches, which were not more than three feet deep, and one must stoop to be safe,
and get to the front-line trenches with their cans of coffee. They would touch a fellow on
the shoulder, fill his mug with coffee, and slip him some doughnuts. At such times the things
were always given, not sold. They did not dare even to whisper, for the enemy listening posts
were close at hand and the slightest breath might give away their position. The sermon would
be a pat of encouragement on a man's shoulder, then pass on to the next.

One morning at three o'clock a Salvationist carried a second supply of hot coffee to the battery
positions. One gunner with tense, strained face eyed his full coffee mug with satisfaction
and said with a sigh: "Good! That is all I wanted. I can keep going until morning now!"

When the men were lined up for a raid there would be a prayer-meeting in the dugout, thirty
inside and as many as could crowded around the door. Just a prayer and singing. Then the boys
would go to the girls and leave their little trinkets or letters, and say: "I'm going over
the top, Sister. If I don't come back--if I'm kicked off--you tell mother. You will know what
to say to her to help her bear up."

Three-quarters of an hour later what was left of them would return and the girls would be ready
with hot coffee and doughnuts. It was heart-breaking, back-aching, wonderful work, work fit
for angels to do, and these girls did it with all their souls.

"Aren't you tired? Aren't you afraid?" asked someone of a lassie who had been working hard
for forty consecutive hours, aiding the doctors in caring for the wounded, and in a lull had
found time to mix up and fry a batch of doughnuts in a corner from which the roof had been
completely blown by shells.

"Oh, no! It's great!" she replied eagerly. "I'm the luckiest girl in the world."

By this time the Salvation Army had acquired many great three-ton trucks, and the drivers of
those risked their lives daily to carry supplies to the dugouts and huts that were taking care
of the men at the front.

There were signs all over everywhere: "ATTENTION! THE ENEMY SEES YOU!" Trucks were not allowed
to go in daytime except in case of great emergency. Sometimes in urgent cases day-passes would
be given with the order: "If you have to go, go like the devil!"

The enemy always had the range on the road where the trucks had to pass, and especially in
exposed places and on cross-roads a man had no chance if he paused. Once he had been sighted
by the enemy he was done for. A man driving on a hasty errand once dropped his crank, and stopped
his truck, to pick it up. Even as he stooped to take it a shell struck his truck and smashed
it to bits.

Most of the travelling had to be done at night. Silently, without a light over roads as dark
as pitch, where the only possible guide was the faint line above where the trees parted and
showed the sky; over rough, muddy roads, filled with shell-holes, the trucks went nightly.
Just fall in line, keep to the right, and whistle softly when something got in the way. No
claxon horns could be used, for that was the gas alarm. A man could not even wear a radiolight
watch on his wrist or a driver smoke a cigarette.

One very dark night a truck came through with a man sitting away out on the radiator watching
the road and telling the driver where to go. The only light would be from shells exploding
or occasional signal lights for a moment.

To get supplies from where they were to where they were needed was an urgent necessity which
often arose with but momentary warning--frequently with no warning at all. The American front
was a matter not of miles, but of hundreds of miles, and the call for supplies might come from
any point along that front. Sometimes the call meant the immediate shipment of tons of blankets,
oranges, lemons, sugar, flour for doughnuts, lard, chocolate and other materials, to a point
200 miles distant. At times a railroad may supply a part of the route, but always there is
a long, dangerous truck haul, and usually the entire route must be covered by truck.

During the winter there were many thrills added to the already strenuous task of the Salvation
Army truck drivers. One of them driving late at night in a snowstorm, mistook a river for the
road for which he was searching, and turned from the real road to the snow-covered surface
of the river, which he followed for some little distance before discovering his mistake. Fortunately,
the ice was solid and the truck unloaded-an unusual combination.

Another missed the road and drove into a field, where his wheels bogged down. His fellow-traveller,
driving a Ford, went for help, leaving him with his truck, for if it had been left unguarded
it would have soon been stripped of every movable part by passing truck drivers. Here he remained
for almost forty-eight hours, during which time there was considerable shelling.

A Catholic Chaplain told the Salvation Army Staff-Captain that he thought the reason the Salvation
Army was so popular with his men was because the Salvation Army kept its promises to the men.

When the Salvation Army officer went to open work in the town of Baccarat it was so crowded
that he was unable to secure accommodations. He was having dinner in the cafe, but could get
no bread because he had no bread tickets, The local K. of C. man, observing his difficulty,
supplied tickets, and, finding that he had no place to sleep, offered to share his own meagre
accommodations. For several nights he shared his bed with him and the Salvation Army officer
was greatly assisted by him in many ways. The Salvation Army is popular not alone among the
soldiers.

While the offensive was on in Argonne and north of Verdun, those who were in the huts in the
old training area, which were then used as rest buildings, decided to do something for the
boys, and on one occasion they fried fourteen thousand doughnuts and took them to the boys
at the front. They traveled in the trucks, and distributed the doughnuts to the boys as they
came from the trenches and sent others into the trenches.

By the time they were through, the day was far spent and it was necessary for them to find
some place to stay over night. Verdun was the only large city anywhere near but it had either
been largely destroyed or the civil population had long since abandoned it and there was no
place available.

Underneath the trenches, however, there had been constructed in ancient times, underground
passages. There are fifty miles of these underground galleries honeycombed beneath the city,
sufficiently large to shelter the entire population. There are cross sections of galleries,
between the longer passage ways, and winding stairways here and there. Air is supplied by a
system of pumps. There are theatres and a church, also. The Army protecting Verdun had occupied
these underground passages.

When the officer commanding the French troops learned that the Salvation Army girls were obliged
to stay over night, he arranged for their accommodation in the underground passage and here
they rested in perfect security with such comforts as cots and blankets could insure.

It was said that they were the only women ever permitted to remain in these underground passages.

VII.

The Chateau-Thierry-Soissons Drive

When the trouble at Seicheprey broke out the Germans began shelling Beaumont and Mandres, and
things took on a very serious look for the Salvation Army. Then the Military Colonel gave an
order for the girls to leave Ansauville, and loading them up on a truck he sent them to Menil-la-
Tour. They never allowed girls again in that town until after the St. Mihiel drive.

That was a wild ride in the night for those girls sitting in an army truck, jolted over shell
holes with the roar of battle all about them; the blackness of night on every side, shells
bursting often near them, yet they were as calm as if nothing were the matter; finally the
car got stuck under range of the enemy's fire, but they never flinched and they sat quietly
in the car in a most dangerous position for twenty minutes while the Colonel and the Captain
were out locating a dugout. Plucky little girls!

The Salvation Army Staff-Captain of that zone went back in the morning to Ansauville to get
the girls' personal belongings, and when he entered the canteen he stood still and looked about
him with horror and thankfulness as he realized the narrow escape those girls had had. The
windows and roof were full of shell holes. Shrapnel had penetrated everywhere. He went about
to examine and took pieces of shrapnel out of the flour and sugar and coffee which had gone
straight through the tin containers. The vanilla bottles were broken and there was shrapnel
in the vanilla, shrapnel was embedded in the wooden tops of the tables, and in the walls.

He went to the billet where two of the girls had slept. Opposite their bed on the other side
of the room was a window and over the bed was a large picture. A shell had passed through the
window and smashed the picture, shattering the glass in fragments all over the bed. Another
shell had entered the window, passed over the pillows of the bed and gone out through the wall
by the bed. It would have gone through the temples of any sleeper in that bed. After this they
kept men in Ansauville instead of girls.

The next day the girls opened up the canteen at Menilla-Tour as calmly as if nothing had happened
the day before.

The boys were going down to Nevillers to rest, and while they rested the girls cooked good
things for them and used that sweet God-given influence that makes a little piece of home and
heaven wherever it is found.

The girls did not get much rest, but then they had not come to France to rest, as they often
told people who were always urging them to save themselves. They did get one bit of luxury
in the shape of passes down to Beauvais. There it was possible to get a bath and the girls
had not been able to have that from the first of April to the first of July. They had to stand
in line with the officers, it is true, to take their turn at the public bath houses, but it
was a real delight to have plenty of water for once, for their appointments at the front had
been most restricted and water a scarce commodity. Sometimes it had been difficult to get enough
water for the cooking and the girls had been obliged to use cold cream to wash their faces
for several days at a time. Of course, it was an impossibility for them to do any laundry work
for themselves, as there was neither time nor place nor facilities. Their laundry was always
carried by courier to some near-by city and brought back to them in a few days.

The Zone Major had supper with the Colonel, who told him that none of the organizations would
be allowed on the drive. The Zone Major asked if they might be allowed to go as far as Crepy.
The Colonel much excited said: "Man, don't you know that town is being shelled every night?"
The next morning a party of sixteen Salvation Army men and women started out in the truck for
Crepy. It was a beautiful day and they rode all day long. At nightfall they reached the village
of Crepy where they were welcomed eagerly. The Zone Major had to leave and go back and wanted
them all to stay there, but they were unwilling to do so because their own outfit was going
over the top that night and they wanted to be with them before they left. They started from
Crepy about five o'clock and got lost in the woods, but finally, after wandering about for
some hours, landed in Roy St. Nicholas where was the outfit to which one of the girls belonged.

The Salvation Army boys had just pulled in with another truck and were getting ready for the
night, for they always slept in their trucks. The girls decided to sit down in the road until
the billeting officer arrived, but time passed and no billeting officer came. They were growing
very weary, so they got into the Colonel's car, which stood at the roadside, and went to sleep.
A little later the billeting officer appeared with many apologies and offered to take them
to the billet that had been set aside for them. They took their rolls of blankets, and climbed
sleepily out of the car, following him two blocks down the street to an old building. But when
they reached there they found that some French officers had taken possession and were fast
asleep, so they went back to the car and slept till morning. At daylight they went down to
a brook to wash but found that the soldiers were there ahead of them, and they had to go back
and be content with freshening up with cold cream. Thus did these lassies, accustomed to daintiness
in their daily lives, accommodate themselves to the necessities of war, as easily and cheerfully
as the soldier boys themselves.

That day the rest of the outfits arrived, and they all pulled into Morte Fontaine.

Morte Fontaine was well named because there was no water in the town fit to use.

The girls felt they were needed nearer the front, so they went to Major Peabody and asked permission.

"I should say not!" he replied vigorously with yet a twinkle of admiration for the brave lassies.
"But you can take anything you want in this town."

So the girls went out and found an old building. It was very dirty but they went cheerfully
to work, cleaned it up, and started their canteen.

There was a hospital in the town; they knew that by the many ambulances that were continually
going back and forth; so they offered their services to the doctors, which were eagerly accepted.
After that they took turns staying in the canteen and going to the hospital.

The hospital was fearfully crowded, though it was in no measure the fault of the hospital authorities,
for they were doing their best, working with all their might; but it had not been expected
that there would be so many wounded at this point and they had not adequate accommodations.
Many of the wounded boys were lying on the ground in the sun, covered with blood and flies,
and parched with thirst and fever. There were not enough ambulances to carry them further back
to the base hospitals.

The girls stretched pieces of canvas over the heads of the poor boys to keep off the sun; they
got water and washed away the blood; and they sent one of their indefatigable truck drivers
after some water to make lemonade. The little Adjutant twinkled his nice brown eyes and set
his firm merry lips when they told him to get the water, in that place of no water, but he
took his little Ford car and whirled away without a word, and presently he returned with a
barrel of ice-cold water from a spring he had found two miles away. How the girls rejoiced
that it was ice cold! And then they started making lemonade. They had known that the Adjutant
would find water somewhere. He was the man the doughboys called "one game little guy," because
he was so fearless in going into No Man's Land after the wounded, so indefatigable in accomplishing
his purpose against all odds, so forgetful of self.

They had but one crate of lemons, one crate of oranges and one bag of sugar when they began
making lemonade, but before they needed more it arrived just on the minute. It was almost like
a miracle. For a whole car load of oranges and lemons had been shipped to Beauvais and arrived
a day too late--after the troops had gone. They were of no use there, so the Zone Major had
them shipped at once to the railhead at Crepy, and got a special permit to go over with trucks
and take them up to Morte Fontaine.

The Salvation Army never does things by halves. Colonel Barker sent to Paris to get some mosquito
netting to keep the flies off those soldiers, and failing to find any in the whole city he
bought $10,000 worth of white net, such as is used for ladies' collars and dresses--ten thousand
yards at a dollar a yard--and sent it down to the hospital where it was used over the wounded
men, sometimes over a wounded arm or leg or head, sometimes over a whole man, sometimes stretched
as netting in the windows. And no ten thousand dollars was ever better spent, for the flies
occasioned indescribable suffering as well as the peril of infection.

Wonderful relief and comfort all these things brought to those poor boys lying there in agony
and fever. How delicious were the cooling drinks to their parched lips! The doctors afterward
said that it was the cool drinks those girls gave to the men that saved many a life that day.

There were some poor fellows hurt in the abdomen who were not allowed to drink even a drop
and who begged for it so piteously. For these the girls did all in their power. They bathed
their faces and hands and dipping gauze in lemonade they moistened their lips with it.

The other day, after the war was over and a ship came sailing into New York harbor, one of
these same fellows standing on the deck looked down at the wharf and saw one of these same
girls standing there to welcome him. As soon as he was free to leave the ship he rushed down
to find her, and gripping her hand eagerly he cried out so all around could hear: "You saved
my life that day. Oh, but I'm glad to see you! The doctor said it was that cold lemonade you
gave me that kept me from dying of fever!"

In one base hospital lay a boy wounded at Chateau-Thierry. Of course, when wounded, he lost
all his possessions, including a Testament which he very much treasured. The Salvation Army
supplied him with another, but it did not comfort him as the old one had done. He said that
it could never be the same as the one he had carried for so long. He worried so much about
his Testament, that one of the lassies finally attempted to recover it, and, after much trouble,
succeeded through the Bureau of Effects. The little book, which the soldier had always carried
with him, was blood- soaked and mud-stained; but it was an unmistakable aid in the lad's recovery.

But the honor of those days in Morte Fontaine was not all due to the Salvation Army lassies.
The Salvation Army truck drivers were real heroes. They came with their ambulances and their
trucks and they carried the poor wounded fellows back to the base hospitals. The hospitals
were full everywhere near there, and sometimes they would go from one to another and have to
drive miles, and even go from one town to another to find a place where there was room to receive
the men they carried. Then back they would come for another load. They worked thus for three
days and five nights steadily, before they slept, and some of them stripped to the waist and
bared their breasts to the sharp night wind so that the cold air would keep them awake to the
task of driving their cars through the black night with its precious load of human lives. They
had no opportunity for rest of any kind, no chance to shave or wash or sleep, and they were
a haggard and worn looking set of men when it was over.

While all this was going on the Zone Major kept out of sight of the Colonel who had told him
he couldn't go out on that drive; but two days later he saw his familiar car coming down the
road and the Colonel seemed greatly agitated. He was shaking his fist in front of him.

The Zone Major pondered whether he would not better drive right on without stopping to talk,
but he reflected that he would have to take his punishment some time and he might as well get
it over with, so when the Colonel's car drew near he stopped. The Colonel got out and the Zone
Major got out, and it was apparent that the Colonel was very angry. He forgot entirely that
the Zone Major was a Salvationist and he swore roundly: "I'm out with you for life" declared
the Colonel angrily. "The General's upset and I'm upset."

"Why, what's the matter, Colonel?" asked the Zone Major innocently.

"Matter enough! You had no business to bring those girls up here!"

The Colonel said more to the same effect, and then got into his car and drove off. The Zone
Major wisely kept out of his way; but a few days later met him again and this time the Colonel
was smiling:

"Dog-gone you, Major, where've you been keeping yourself? Why haven't you been around?" and
he put out his hand affably.

"Why, I didn't want to see a man who bawled me out in the public highway that way," said the
Zone Major.

"Well, Major, you had no business to bring those girls up here and you know it!" said the Colonel
rousing to the old subject again.

"Why not, Colonel, didn't they do fine?"

"Yes, they did," said the Colonel with tears springing suddenly into his eyes and a huskiness
into his voice, "but, Major, think what if we'd lost one of them!"

"Colonel," said the Zone Major gently, "my girls are soldiers. They come up here to share the
dangers with the soldiers, and as long as they can be of service they feel this is the place
for them."

The Colonel struggled with his emotion for a moment and then said gruffly: "Had anything to
eat? Stop and take a bite with me." And they sat down under the trees and had supper together.

It was at this town that the girls slept in a German-dug cave, in which our boys had captured
seven hundred Germans, the commanding officer of whom said that according to his rank in Germany
he ought to have a car to take him to the rear. However, he was compelled to leg it at the
point of an American bayonet in the hands of an American doughboy. The cave was of chalk rock
made to store casks of wine.

The airplanes were bad in this place. One speaks of airplanes in such a connection in the same
way one used to mention mosquitoes at certain Jersey seashore resorts. But they were particularly
bad at Morte Fontaine, and Major Peabody ordered the canteen to be moved out of the village
to the cave. More Salvation Army girls came to look after the canteen leaving the first girls
free for longer hours at the hospital.

One beautiful moonlight night the girls had just started out from the hospital to go to their
cave when they heard a German airplane, the irregular chug, chug of its engine distinguishing
it unmistakably from the smooth whirr of the Allies' planes. The girls looked up and almost
over their heads was an enemy plane, so low that they could see the insignia on his machine,
and see the man in the car. He seemed to be looking down at them. In sudden panic they fled
to a nearby tree and hid close under its branches. Standing there they saw the enemy make a
low dip over the hospital tents, drop a bomb in the kitchen end just where they had been working
five minutes before, and slide up again through the silvery air, curve away and dive down once
more.

The scene was bright as day for the moon was full and very clear that night, and the roads
stretched out in every direction like white ribbons. One block away the girls could see a regiment
of Scotch soldiers, the famous Highland Regiment called "The Ladies From Hell," marching up
to the front that night, and singing bravely as they marched, their skirling Scotch songs accompanied
by a bagpipe. And even as they listened with bated breath and straining eyes the airplane dipped
and dropped another bomb right into the midst of the brave men, killing thirty of them, and
slid up and away before it could be stopped. These were the scenes to which they grew daily
accustomed as they plied their angel mission, and daily saw themselves preserved as by a miracle
from constant peril.

We had about eight or ten German prisoners here, who were employed as litter bearers, and very
good workers they were, tickled to death to be there instead of over on their own side fighting.
Most of the prisoners, except some of the German officers, seemed glad to be taken.

These German prisoners were sitting in a row on the ground outside the hospital one day when
the Salvation Army girls and men were picking over a crate of oranges. The Germans sat watching
them with longing eyes.

"Let's give them each one," proposed one of the girls.

"No! Give them a punch in the nose!" said the boys.

The girls said nothing more and went on working. Presently they stepped away for a few minutes
and when they came back the Germans sat there contentedly eating oranges. Questioningly the
girls looked at their male coworkers and with lifted brows asked: "What does this mean?"

"Aw, well! The poor sneaks looked so longingly!" said one of the boys, grinning sheepishly.

There in the hospital the girls came into contact with the splendid spirit of the American
soldier boys, "Don't help me, help that fellow over there who is suffering!" was heard over
and over again when they went to bring comfort to some wounded boy.

When the supplies in the canteen would run out, and the last doughnut would be handed with
the words: "That's the last," the boy to whom it was given would say: "Don't give it to me,
give it to Harry. I don't want it."

It was during that drive and there was a farewell meeting at one of the Salvation Army huts
that night for the boys who were going up to the trenches. It was a beautiful and touching
meeting as always on such occasions. Starting with singing whatever the boys picked out, it
dropped quickly into the old hymns that the boys loved and then to a simple earnest prayer,
setting forth the desperate case of those who were going out to fight, and appealing to the
everlasting Saviour for forgiveness and refuge. They lingered long about the fair young girl
who was leading them, listening to her earnest, plain words of instruction how to turn to the
Saviour of the world in their need, how to repent of their sins and take Christ for their Saviour
and Sanctifier. No man who was in that meeting would dare plead ignorance of the way to be
saved. Many signified their desire to give their lives into the keeping of Christ before they
went to the front. The meeting broke up reluctantly and the men drifted out and away, expecting
soon to be called to go. But something happened that they did not go that night. Meantime,
a company had just returned from the front, weary, hungry, worn and bleeding, with their nerves
unstrung, and their spirits desperate from the tumult and horror of the hours they had just
passed in battle. They needed cheering and soothing back to normal. The girls were preparing
to do this with a bright, cheery entertainment, when a deputation of boys from the night before
returned. There was a wistful gleam in the eyes of the young Jew who was spokesman for the
group as he approached the lassie who had led the meeting.

"Say, Cap, you see we didn't go up."

"I see," she smiled happily.

"Say, Cap, won't you have another farewell meeting to-night?" he asked with an appealing glance
in his dark eyes.

"Son, we've arranged something else just now for the fellows who are coming back," she said
gently, for she hated to refuse such a request.

"Oh, say, Cap, you can have that later, can't you? We want another meeting now."

There was something so pleading in his voice and eyes, so hungry in the look of the waiting
group, that the young Captain could not deny him. She looked at him hesitatingly, and then said:

"All right. Go out and tell the boys."

He hurried out and soon the company came crowding in. That hour the very Lord came down and
communed with them as they sang and knelt to pray, and not a heart but was melted and tender
as they went out when it was over in the solemn darkness of the early morning. A little later
the order came and they "went over."

It was a sharp, fierce fight, and the young Jew was mortally wounded. Some comrades found him
as he lay white and helpless on the ground, and bending over saw that he had not long to stay.
They tried to lift him and bear him back, but he would not let them. He knew it was useless.

They asked him if he had any message. He nodded. Yes, he wanted to send a message to the Salvation
Army girls. It was this:

"Tell the girls I've gone West; for I will be by the time you tell them; and tell them it's
all right for at that second meeting I accepted Christ and I die resting on the same Saviour
that is theirs."

One of our wonderful boys out on the drive had his hand blown off and didn't realize it. His
chum tried to drag him back and told him his hand was gone.

"That's nothing!" he cried. "Tie it up!"

But they forced him back lest he would bleed to death. In the hospital they told him that now
he might go home.

