Pandoxare.--Your correspondent, "H.B." (No. 13. p. 202.), has lighted upon a curious specimen
of domestic hieroglyphics, the notice of which recalls to mind the quaint marginal symbols
scattered over the inventories of the Exchequer Treasury, at a much earlier period. They are
not devoid of information or interest. The word of which he requests explanation, is, indeed,
of too base Latinity to be found in the Facciolati, or even in the Auctarium; but in our old
Latin dictionaries, sources of abundant information on obsolete expressions, the word is readily
to be found. Old Gouldman, for instance, whose columns are replete with uncommon and local
English terms, gives "Pandoxor, to brew," citing Alciatus as authority, and "Pandox, a swill-bowl,"
apparently a word used by Statius. It is obviously a barbarous derivative of the same Greek
words as Pandocium or Pandoxarium ([Greek: pan] and [Greek: docheion]), the hostelry open to
all comers. If, however, a more recondite authority for the explanation of the word, as formerly
used in England, be desired, I would refer your querist to the pages of the Promptorium Parvulorum,
where may be found--"Bruwyn ale or other drynke, Pandoxor. Browstar, or brewere, Pandoxator,
Pandoxatrix", the medieval Bass or Guinness having been, most frequently, a female. And, having
cited the primitive lexicographer of Norfolk, I would seize the occasion to offer a note, in
response to the numerous queries regarding the too tardy advance of the work in question, and
to assure your readers, who may be interested in the publications of the Camden Society, that
a further instalment of the Promptorium is in forwardness, so that I hope to complete a considerable
portion, in readiness for issue, early in the current year.

ALBERT WAY.

Saint Thomas of Lancaster.--Not having Brady at hand, I cannot tell what authorities he cites;
but, as Mr. Milnes (No. 12. p. 181.) does not mention Rymer, he perhaps may not know that he
will find in that collection some documentary evidence on the subject of this saint, if saint
he was; for instance--

   "Super rumore Thomam nuper Comitem Lancastriæ miraculis
    corruscuri."--Rym. Foed. iii. p. 1033. A.D. 1323.
   "Quod," adds the king, "moleste gerimus."

But Edward III. was of quite another mind, and urged his canonization of the Holy See. Witness
Rymer:--

   "Ad Papam; pro canonisatione Thomae nuper Comitis
    Lancastriæ."--Foed. iv. p. 2. A.D. 1326.

And again--

   "Pro custodi" (Weryngton mentioned by Mr. Milnes),
   "Capellæ ad montem ubi nuper comes Lancastriæ decollatus
    fuit."--Ib. p. 291.

It seems that the bodies of some of Thomas's accomplices were also supposed to have worked
miracles; for we find an ordinance--

   "Contra Fingentes miracula fieri per inimicos Regis."
    --Rym. Foed. iv. p. 20. A.D. 1323.

Andrews says (Hist. i. 342.) that Richard II. renewed the application for Thomas's canonization;
but he does not give his authority, and I have not time to look further through Rymer.

p. 184. Jhon-John.--I wonder Mr. Williams does not see that the h is not "introduced" for any
purpose; it is an integral part of the original name Johannes, which was contracted into Johan,
and in French into Jehan.

p. 185. Slang Phrases.--"A Rowland for an Oliver" is no slang phrase of the eighteenth century;
it is a proverbial expression as old as the days of the romances of Roland and Olivier. The
other two were phrases put into the mouths of two characters (Dr. Ollapod, in Colman's Poor
Gentleman, and Young Rapid, in Morton's Cure for the Heart-ache), which grew into vogue only
from the success of the actors Fawcett and Lewis, and had no meaning or allusion beyond what
the words obviously meant.

C.

{235}Full of Rain in England.--"ROYDON" (No. 11. p. 73) will find the average quantity of rain
fallen at Greenwich, for twenty-five years, 1815 to 1839, in a very useful and clever pamphlet,
price 1s., by J.H. Belville, of the Royal Observatory, published by Taylor, Red Lion Court,
Fleet Street, called Manual of the Mercurial and Aneroid Barometers.

HENRY WILKINSON

Judas Bell--(No. 13, p. 195). In the "Flyting of Dunbar and Kennedie," a singular Scotch Poem,
composed in the former half of the 16th century, and printed in Ramsay's Evergreen, the following
passage occurs (Everg. vol. ii. p. 74.):--

   "A Benefice quha wald give sic a Beist,
      But gif it were to jingle Judas bells?
    Tak thee a Fiddle or a Flute to jest,
      Undocht thou art, ordained for naithing ells."

The Judas bells may probably have been used in the Easter-eve ceremonies, in connexion with
which we find Judas candles mentioned. See Brand's Popular Antiq. by Sir H. Ellis, vol. i. p. 29.

C.W.G.

Boduc or Boduoc on British Coins.--The real name of the heroic queen of the Iceni is very uncertain.
Walther (Tacitus, xiv. Ann. c. 31.), adopts Boudicea. It is probable enough that the syllables
Boduo may have formed a part of it, as pronounced by the Britons. We are reminded of Boduognatus,
leader of the Nervii, mentioned by Cæsar. But to come nearer home, the name Boduogenus is found
upon a bronze vessel discovered in the Isle of Ely, described by Mr. Goddard Johnson, Archæologia,
xxviii. p. 436.

C.W.G.

Lord Bacon's Metrical Version of the Psalms.--Lord Bacon's translation of seven psalms, the
1st, 12th, 90th, 104th, 126th, 127th, and 149th, with a Dedication to George Herbert, is found
at the end of the 2nd vol. of his works. (Lond. 1826.) They were printed at London, 1625, in
quarto.

C.W.G.

  [To this we may add, on the information of X.X., that some account
  of these Psalms, with specimens, may be seen in Holland's
  Psalmists of Britain, 1824.]

A "Gib" Cat.--What is the etymology of the term "Gibbe," as applied to the male cat? I may
observe that the g is pronounced hard in this locality, and not jibbe, as most dictionaries
have it.

Burnley, Lancashire.

T.T.W.

  [NARES has shown, very satisfactorily, that Gib, the
  contraction of Gilbert, was the name formerly applied to a
  cat, as Tom is now. He states that Tibert (the name
  given to the Cat in the old Reynard the Fox) was the old French for
  Gilbert; and at all events, be that as it may, Chaucer, in
  his Romance of the Rose, verse 6204., translates "Thibert le
  Cas" by "Gibbe our Cat."]

Lay of the Phoenix.--"SELEUCUS" is informed that the Anglo-Saxon Lay of the Phoenix is contained
in the Codex Exoniensis, edited by Mr. B. Thorpe. The Latin poem, in hexameters and pentameters,
attributed to Lactantius, is given at the foot of the page. It will be found at the end of
the works of Lactantius, in the small edition by Fritzsche (Lipsiæ, 1842). Fritzsche mentions
two separate editions of the poem; 1. by Martini, Lunæburgi, 1825; 2. by Leyser, Quedlinburgi,
1839.

C.W.G.

Lay of the Phoenix.--"SELEUCUS" (No. 13, p. 203.) asks, "Is there any published edition of
the hexameter poem by Lactantius, which is said to have suggested the idea of the Anglo-Saxon
Lay of the Phoenix?" This poem is not in hexameter, but in elegiac verse; and though, on account
of its brevity, we could not expect that it would have been separately published, it is to
be found very commonly at the end of the works of Lactantius; for example, in three editions
before me, Basil. 1524, Lugd. 1548, Basil. 1563. That this poem, however, belongs to the Christian
Cicero, at any period of his life, is more than doubtful, even by the admission of Romanists,
who readily avail themselves of other compositions of similar authority. It has been sometimes
ascribed to Venantius Fortunatus, and is by Sirmondus attributed to Theodulphus, Bishop of
Orleans. (Opp., ii. 840. cf. iv. 519. Venet. 1728.)

R.G.

Ordination Pledges.--Your correspondent, "CLERICUS" (no. 10. p. 156.), will find by far the
most elaborate and judicious examination of the import, design, and obligation of the various
oaths and subscriptions required of the clergy, in the successive numbers of The Christian
Observer for 1849.

E.V.

Feast of St, Michael and All-Angels.--The difficulty started by "K.M.P." (No. 13, p. 203.),
with regard to the double second lessons for the Feast of St. Michael and All-Angels, is easily
resolved by comparing the Table of Proper Lessons before and after the last review of the Prayer
Book in 1662; from which it will be seen, that the proper second lessons were then appointed
for the first time, while the old second lessons for Sept. 29. were retained, either from inadvertence,
or to avoid the necessity of disarranging all the subsequent part of the calendar. The present
first lessons, Gen. xxxii., and Dan. x. v. 5., at the same time took the place of the inappropriate
chapters, Eccles. xxxix. and xliv., which had been appointed for this day in Queen Elizabeth's
Prayer Book, 1559.

E. V.

Beaver Hat.--Mr. T. Hudson Turner (No. 7. p. 100.) asks, "What is the earliest known instance
of the use of a beaver hat in England?"

(236}Fairholt (Costume in England) says, the earliest notice of it is in the reign of Elizabeth,
and gives the following quotation from Stubbe's Anatomy of Abuses, 1580:--

   "And as the fashions be rare and strange, so is the stuff
    whereof their hats be made divers also; for some are
    of silk, some of velvet, some of taffetie, some of sarcenet,
    some of wool, and, which is more curious, some of a certain
    kind of fine haire; these they call bever hattes, of
    xx, xxx, or xl shillings price, fetched from beyond the seas,
    from whence a great sort of other varieties doe come besides."

GASTROS.

Meaning of "Pisan."--Mr. Turner (No. 7. p.100.) asks the meaning of the term pisan, used in
old records for some part of defensive armour.

Meyrick (Ancient Armour, vol. i. p. 155, 2d ed.) gives a curious and interesting inventory
of the arms and armour of Louis le Hutin, King of France, taken in the year 1316, in which
we find, "Item 3 coloretes Pizanes de jazeran d'acier." He describes pizane (otherwise written
pizaine, pusen, pesen) as a collar made, or much in fashion, at Pisa. The jazeran armour was
formed of overlapping plates. In the metrical romance of Kyng Alisaunder, edited by Webber,
occur the lines--

   "And Indiens, and Emaniens,
    With swordes, lances, and pesens."

Weber explains the pesens here as gorgets, armour for the neck.

In more recent MSS. pisan may be a contraction for partisan, a halberd.

I cannot agree with your correspondent "A.F." (p.90), that the nine of diamonds was called
"the curse (cross) of Scotland" from its resemblance to the cross of St. Andrew, which has
the form of the Roman X; whereas the pips on the nine of diamonds are arranged in the form
of the letter H. "Mend the instance."

Erratum. P. 181 col. 2. line 3., for obscurities, read obscenities.

Cambridge, Jan. 31. 1850.

GASTROS.

Pokership--God tempers the Wind.--I am disposed to think that Parkership will turn out to be
the right explanation, because almost every forest or chase contained a fenced park, in which
the deer were confined; and the charge of the woods and park might be consigned to the same
person; and the error in spelling the word was probably copied from one genealogist to another.

Nevertheless, Mr. Corney's conjecture may be right, as Forby (Vocabulary, vol. ii. p. 258.)
mentions Poke-Day as the day on which the allowance of corn is made to the labourers, who,
in some places, receive a part of their wages in that form. Now the Pokerer might be the officer
who distributed the grain on these occasions.

I open my note to add, that Mr. Gutch (No. 14. p. 211.) will find, in Sterne's Sentimental
Journey,--"God tempers the wind," said Maria, "to the shorn lamb."

The words which I have underlined are printed in Italics in my edition of the work (London,
12mo. 1790), which may indicate that they are quoted from some other author.

BRAYBROOKE.

Audley End, Feb. 2.

Walewich or Watewich.--I have made the reference suggested by "W.B.M."

Canute was residing at Walewich, and the Abbot of Ely was consecrated there by the Archbishop
of Canterbury. This "Walewich" can be no obscure place, and we need not look for it in Cambridgeshire.

I am inclined to think that the word ought to have been written Warewich, i.e. Warwick.

Soham Mere (Mare de Soham) once covered 1369-1/2 acres.--Lyson's Cambridge, 254.

Portum Pusillum, if not Littleport, was a place upon the Cam or the Ouse, within sight of Ely
Minster.

Does your correspondent suppose that Northmouth was among the fens? If so, he may consult Inquisitio
Eliensis, or Dugdale's Map of the Bedford Level, which is in the Museum.

J.F.M.

Dec. 22.

Madoc's Emigration to America.--"ANGLO-CAMBRIAN" (No. 4. p. 57.), in contradiction to the occurrence
of Madoc's emigration, has adduced what he supposes to be a gross anachronism in the words
"Madoc was directed by the best compass, and this in 1170!" Now, unfortunately for this opinion,
the passage on which it is founded will not allow of his interpretation. The original words
are in Sir Thomas Herbert's Travels, and, in his expressive language, they are as follows:--"By
Providence, the best compass, and benefit of the pole-star, he returned safely to his own country."
Most certainly this cannot imply that Madoc was acquainted with the mariner's compass.

"J.M.T." also seems to give great weight to the fact of a "Welsh-Indian vocabulary" having
been formed, containing no trace of any Celtic root. This seems conclusive, yet it is not so;
for I have some words, extracted from a vocabulary of the Mandan (Indian) language made by
Mr. Catlin, during his sojourn among them, all of which, with very slight allowance for corruption,
are clearly Welsh. Mr. Catlin believes the Mandans to have been descended from the followers
of Prince Madoc, from the strong evidence which he considers his stay among them afforded him,
and detailed in his work on the Indians. I regret to add, that the Mandans have been exterminated
by the small-pox and the weapons of their enemies. I have long taken a deep, because a national,
interest in this question, and have endeavoured to examine in the spirit of that noble {237}precept,
which ought to be bound up with the existence of every Cymro, "The truth against the world."
Consequently, I have found that much of what is put forth as evidence on this question is,
as Mr. Corney has very justly intimated, quite inadmissible; in short, unworthy of belief.
Still, the inquiry has afforded me sufficient reasons for viewing the question of Prince Madoc's
emigration as a fact, and for supporting it as such as far as my humble testimony will allow.

GOMER.

Caerphili Castle.--With reference to "PWCCA'S" query (No. 10. p. 157.), it may be noted that
Full is the Welsh word for "haste," and, if the derivatur, must allude to the original structure
having been hastily erected.

GOMER.

Origin of word Bug.--I should feel obliged by your informing me whether the word Bug is not
of Celtic origin, signifying a "Ghost or Goblin?" Vide Shakespeare's Taming of the Shrew, Act
I. Scene II.:--

   "Tush, tush, fright boys with bugs."

And whether, in Mathews' Bible, A.D. 1537, the 5th verse of the 91st Psalm is not thus rendered:--

   "Thou shalt not need to be afraid of any bugs by night"?

literally, in the Hebrew, "Terror of the night."

J.P.

  [Bug in Welsh means a ghost or goblin. It is probably the
  same with the Icelandic Paki, an evil spirit. But on this
  etymology our correspondent can consult an article by Sir F.
  Palgrave, on the "Popular Mythology of the Middle Ages." in the
  Quarterly Review, vol. xxii.; a paper, by Mr. Thoms, on the
  "Folk Lore of Shakspeare," No. 6.; "Puck's several Names," in The
  Athenæum, Oct. 9. 1847; and lastly, Mr. Keightley's most
  interesting work, The Fairy Mythology. vol. ii. p. 118., of
  which we are happy to hear that a new and enlarged edition may
  shortly be expected.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

Excecution of Duke of Monmouth.--Among the memorials of the "rash but unfortunate Duke of Monmouth,"
which have recently attracted much attention, and for which the public are principally indebted
to certain inquiries originated in the "NOTES AND QUERIES," I have not observed any notice
taken of an anecdote respecting him, which is current among our neighbours on the Continent;
namely, that he gave six guineas to the executioner, the JOHN KETCH of that day, to perform
his work well!--

   "Le Duc de Monmout donna six guinées au Bourreau de Londres,
    pour lui bien couper la tête; mais le misérable ne mérroit
    par ces guinées, puisqu'il la lui coupa très mal."

This anecdote is introduced, in the form of a note, into the folio Dictionary of Pierre Richelet,
a most valuable work, and full of history, ancient and modern. Can any of your correspondents
produce the authority for this anecdote? Richelet himself does not give any, but merely relates
the story, apparently with a view of illustrating the term "guinea," as applied to the gold
coin of Charles the Second. Vid, voc. "Guinée."

J.I.

By Hook or by Crook.--I send you a note, which I made some years ago.

This expression is much more ancient than the time of Charles I., to which it is generally
referred. It occurs in Skelton, Colin Clout, line 31. a fine:--

   "Nor wyll suffer this boke
    By hooke ne by crooke
    Prynted for to be."

In Spenser, f. 2. v. ii. 27.:--

   "Thereafter all that mucky pelfe he tooke,
    The spoile of peoples evil gotten good,
    The which her sire had serap't by hooke and crooke,
    And burning all to ashes pour'd it down the brooke."

In Holland's Suetonius, p. 169:--

   "Likewise to get, to pill and poll by hooke and crooke
    so much, as that----"

In a letter of Sir Richard Morysin to the Privy Council, in Lodges Illustrations, &c., i. 154:--

   "Ferrante Gonzaga, d'Arras, and Don Diego, are in a leage,
    utterlie bent to myslyke, and to charge by hook or by
    crooke, anything don, or to be don, by the thre fyrst."

L.S.

Cupid Crying.--The beautiful epigram upon this subject, which appeared in No. 11 p. 172., was
kindly quoted, "for its extreme elegance," by the Athenæum of the 26th January, which produced
the following communication to that journal of Saturday last:--

"Will the correspondent of the 'NOTES AND QUERIES,' whose pretty epigram appears copied into
your Athenæum of Saturday last, accept the following as a stop-gap pending the discovery of
the Latin original?

   "En lacrymosus Amor! Fidem quia perdidit arcum
      Vapulat! Exultans Cælia tela tenet.
    Ast illam potuitne Puer donare sagittis?
      Subrisit:--Matrem credidit esse suam.

"[Greek: Amorphota]. 5."

Miry-land Town.--As an addition to the note of "J.R.F." (p. 167. No. 11.) on Miry-land Town,
and by way of corroboration of his reading, I may just mention that the towns and villages
in the Weald of Kent are familiarly spoken of as places "down in the mud," by the inhabitants
of other parts of the country. Those who are acquainted with the Weald will agree that this
designation is not undeserved.

HENRY KERSLEY.

       *       *       *       *       {238}

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

