A.D. 1060.  This year was a great earthquake on the Translation of St. Martin, and King Henry
died in France.  Kinsey, Archbishop of York, died on the eleventh before the calends of January;
and he lies at Peterborough.  Bishop Aldred succeeded to the see, and Walter to that of Herefordshire.
Dudoc also died, who was Bishop of Somersetshire; and Gisa the priest was appointed in his stead.

A.D. 1061.  This year went Bishop Aldred to Rome after his pall; which he received at the hands
of Pope Nicholas.  Earl Tosty and his wife also went to Rome; and the bishop and the earl met
with great difficulty as they returned home.  In the same year died Bishop Godwin at St. Martin's,
(85) on the seventh before the ides of March; and in the self-same year died Wulfric, Abbot
of St. Augustine's, in the Easterweek, on the fourteenth before the calends of May.  Pope Nicholas
also died; and Alexander was chosen pope, who was Bishop of Lucca.  When word came to the king
that the Abbot Wulfric was dead, then chose he Ethelsy, a monk of the old minster, to succeed;
who followed Archbishop Stigand, and was consecrated abbot at Windsor on St. Augustine's mass-day.

((A.D. 1061.  In this year died Dudoc, Bishop of Somerset, and Giso succeeded.  This year went
Earl Harold, after mid-winter, from Gloucester to Rhyddlan; which belonged to Griffin: and
that habitation he burned, with his ships and all the rigging belonging thereto; and put him
to flight.  Then in the gang-days went Harold with his ships from Bristol about Wales; where
he made a truce with the people, and they gave him hostages.  Tosty meanwhile advanced with
a land-force against them, and plundered the land.  But in the harvest of the same year was
King Griffin slain, on the nones of August, by his own men, through the war that he waged with
Earl Harold.  He was king over all the Welsh nation.  And his head was brought to Earl Harold;
who sent it to the king, with his ship's head, and the rigging therewith.  King Edward committed
the land to his two brothers, Blethgent and Rigwatle; who swore oaths, and gave hostages to
the king and to the earl, that they would be faithful to him in all things, ready to aid him
everywhere by water and land, and would pay him such tribute from the land as was paid long
before to other kings.

((A.D. 1063.  This year went Harold the earl, and his brother Tosty the earl, as well with
a land-force as a shipforce, into Wales, and they subdued the land; and the people delivered
hostages to them, and submitted; and went afterwards and slew their King Griffin, and brought
to Harold his head: and he appointed another king thereto.))

A.D. 1065.  This year, before Lammas, ordered Earl Harold his men
to build at Portskeweth in Wales.  But when he had begun, and
collected many materials, and thought to have King Edward there
for the purpose of hunting, even when it was all ready, came
Caradoc, son of Griffin, with all the gang that he could get, and
slew almost all that were building there; and they seized the
materials that were there got ready.  Wist we not who first
advised the wicked deed.  This was done on the mass-day of St.
Bartholomew.  Soon after this all the thanes in Yorkshire and in
Northumberland gathered themselves together at York, and outlawed
their Earl Tosty; slaying all the men of his clan that they could
reach, both Danish and English; and took all his weapons in York,
with gold and silver, and all his money that they could anywhere
there find.  They then sent after Morkar, son of Earl Elgar, and
chose him for their earl.  He went south with all the shire, and
with Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire and Lincolnshire, till he
came to Northampton; where his brother Edwin came to meet him
with the men that were in his earldom.  Many Britons also came
with him.  Harold also there met them; on whom they imposed an
errand to King Edward, sending also messengers with him, and
requesting that they might have Morcar for their earl.  This the
king granted; and sent back Harold to them, to Northampton, on
the eve of St. Simon and St. Jude; and announced to them the
same, and confirmed it by hand, and renewed there the laws of
Knute.  But the Northern men did much harm about Northampton,
whilst he went on their errand: either that they slew men, and
burned houses and corn; or took all the cattle that they could
come at; which amounted to many thousands.  Many hundred men also
they took, and led northward with them; so that not only that
shire, but others near it were the worse for many winters.  Then
Earl Tosty and his wife, and all they who acted with him, went
south over sea with him to Earl Baldwin; who received them all:
and they were there all the winter.  About midwinter King Edward
came to Westminster, and had the minster there consecrated, which
he had himself built to the honour of God, and St. Peter, and all
God's saints.  This church-hallowing was on Childermas-day.  He
died on the eve of twelfth-day; and he was buried on twelfth-day
in the same minster; as it is hereafter said.
          Here Edward king, (86)
          of Angles lord,
          sent his stedfast
          soul to Christ.
          In the kingdom of God
          a holy spirit!
          He in the world here
          abode awhile,
          in the kingly throng
          of council sage.
          Four and twenty
          winters wielding
          the sceptre freely,
          wealth he dispensed.
          In the tide of health,
          the youthful monarch,
          offspring of Ethelred!
          ruled well his subjects;
          the Welsh and the Scots,
          and the Britons also,
          Angles and Saxons
          relations of old.
          So apprehend
          the first in rank,
          that to Edward all
          the noble king
          were firmly held
          high-seated men.
          Blithe-minded aye
          was the harmless king;
          though he long ere,
          of land bereft,
          abode in exile
          wide on the earth;
          when Knute o'ercame
          the kin of Ethelred,
          and the Danes wielded
          the dear kingdom
          of Engle-land.
          Eight and twenty
          winters' rounds
          they wealth dispensed.
          Then came forth
          free in his chambers,
          in royal array,
          good, pure, and mild,
          Edward the noble;
          by his country defended--
          by land and people.
          Until suddenly came
          the bitter Death
          and this king so dear
          snatched from the earth.
          Angels carried
          his soul sincere
          into the light of heaven.
          But the prudent king
          had settled the realm
          on high-born men--
          on Harold himself,
          the noble earl;
          who in every season
          faithfully heard
          and obeyed his lord,
          in word and deed;
          nor gave to any
          what might be wanted
          by the nation's king.
This year also was Earl Harold hallowed to king; but he enjoyed
little tranquillity therein the while that he wielded the
kingdom.

((A.D. 1065.  And the man-slaying was on St. Bartholomew's mass-day.  And then, after Michael's-mass,
all the thanes in Yorkshire went to York, and there slew all Earl Tosty's household servants
whom they might hear of, and took his treasures: and Tosty was then at Britford with the king.
And then, very soon thereafter, was a great council at Northampton; and then at Oxford on the
day of Simon and Jude.  And there was Harold the earl, and would work their reconciliation
if he might, but he could not: but all his earldom him unanimously forsook and outlawed, and
all who with him lawlessness upheld, because he robbed God first, and all those bereaved over
whom he had power of life and of land.  And they then took to themselves Morkar for earl; and
Tosty went then over sea, and his wife with him, to Baldwin's land, and they took up their
winter residence at St. Omer's.))

A.D. 1066.  This year came King Harold from York to Westminster, on the Easter succeeding the
midwinter when the king (Edward) died.  Easter was then on the sixteenth day before the calends
of May.  Then was over all England such a token seen as no man ever saw before.  Some men said
that it was the comet-star, which others denominate the long-hair'd star.  It appeared first
on the eve called "Litania major", that is, on the eighth before the calends off May; and so
shone all the week.  Soon after this came in Earl Tosty from beyond sea into the Isle of Wight,
with as large a fleet as he could get; and he was there supplied with money and provisions.
Thence he proceeded, and committed outrages everywhere by the sea-coast where he could land,
until he came to Sandwich.  When it was told King Harold, who was in London, that his brother
Tosty was come to Sandwich, he gathered so large a force, naval and military, as no king before
collected in this land; for it was credibly reported that Earl William from Normandy, King
Edward's cousin, would come hither and gain this land; just as it afterwards happened.  When
Tosty understood that King Harold was on the way to Sandwich, he departed thence, and took
some of the boatmen with him, willing and unwilling, and went north into the Humber with sixty
skips; whence he plundered in Lindsey, and there slew many good men.  When the Earls Edwin
and Morkar understood that, they came hither, and drove him from the land.  And the boatmen
forsook him.  Then he went to Scotland with twelve smacks; and the king of the Scots entertained
him, and aided him with provisions; and he abode there all the summer. There met him Harold,
King of Norway, with three hundred ships. And Tosty submitted to him, and became his man. (87)
Then came King Harold (88) to Sandwich, where he awaited his fleet; for it was long ere it
could be collected: but when it was assembled, he went into the Isle of Wight, and there lay
all the summer and the autumn.  There was also a land-force every where by the sea, though
it availed nought in the end.  It was now the nativity of St. Mary, when the provisioning of
the men began; and no man could keep them there any longer.  They therefore had leave to go
home: and the king rode up, and the ships were driven to London; but many perished ere they
came thither.  When the ships were come home, then came Harald, King of Norway, north into
the Tine, unawares, with a very great sea-force--no small one; that might be, with three hundred
ships or more; and Earl Tosty came to him with all those that he had got; just as they had
before said: and they both then went up with all the fleet along the Ouse toward York. (89)
When it was told King Harold in the south, after he had come from the ships, that Harald, King
of Norway, and Earl Tosty were come up near York, then went he northward by day and night,
as soon as he could collect his army.  But, ere King Harold could come thither, the Earls Edwin
and Morkar had gathered from their earldoms as great a force as they could get, and fought
with the enemy. (90)  They made a great slaughter too; but there was a good number of the English
people slain, and drowned, and put to flight: and the Northmen had possession of the field
of battle.  It was then told Harold, king of the English, that this had thus happened.  And
this fight was on the eve of St. Matthew the apostle, which was Wednesday.  Then after the
fight went Harold, King of Norway, and Earl Tosty into York with as many followers as they
thought fit; and having procured hostages and provisions from the city, they proceeded to their
ships, and proclaimed full friendship, on condition that all would go southward with them,
and gain this land.  In the midst of this came Harold, king of the English, with all his army,
on the Sunday, to Tadcaster; where he collected his fleet.  Thence he proceeded on Monday throughout
York.  But Harald, King of Norway, and Earl Tosty, with their forces, were gone from their
ships beyond York to Stanfordbridge; for that it was given them to understand, that hostages
would be brought to them there from all the shire.  Thither came Harold, king of the English,
unawares against them beyond the bridge; and they closed together there, and continued long
in the day fighting very severely. There was slain Harald the Fair-hair'd, King of Norway,
and Earl Tosty, and a multitude of people with them, both of Normans and English; (91) and
the Normans that were left fled from the English, who slew them hotly behind; until some came
to their ships, some were drowned, some burned to death, and thus variously destroyed; so that
there was little left: and the English gained possession of the field.  But there was one of
the Norwegians who withstood the English folk, so that they could not pass over the bridge,
nor complete the victory.  An Englishman aimed at him with a javelin, but it availed nothing.
Then came another under the bridge, who pierced him terribly inwards under the coat of mail.
And Harold, king of the English, then came over the bridge, followed by his army; and there
they made a great slaughter, both of the Norwegians and of the Flemings.  But Harold let the
king's son, Edmund, go home to Norway with all the ships.  He also gave quarter to Olave, the
Norwegian king's son, and to their bishop, and to the earl of the Orkneys, and to all those
that were left in the ships; who then went up to our king, and took oaths that they would ever
maintain faith and friendship unto this land.  Whereupon the King let them go home with twenty-four
ships.  These two general battles were fought within five nights.  Meantime Earl William came
up from Normandy into Pevensey on the eve of St. Michael's mass; and soon after his landing
was effected, they constructed a castle at the port of Hastings.  This was then told to King
Harold; and he gathered a large force, and came to meet him at the estuary of Appledore. William,
however, came against him unawares, ere his army was collected; but the king, nevertheless,
very hardly encountered him with the men that would support him: and there was a great slaughter
made on either side.  There was slain King Harold, and Leofwin his brother, and Earl Girth
his brother, with many good men: and the Frenchmen gained the field of battle, as God granted
them for the sins of the nation.  Archbishop Aldred and the corporation of London were then
desirous of having child Edgar to king, as he was quite natural to them; and Edwin and Morkar
promised them that they would fight with them.  But the more prompt the business should ever
be, so was it from day to day the later and worse; as in the end it all fared.  This battle
was fought on the day of Pope Calixtus: and Earl William returned to Hastings, and waited there
to know whether the people would submit to him.  But when he found that they would not come
to him, he went up with all his force that was left and that came since to him from over sea,
and ravaged all the country that he overran, until he came to Berkhampstead; where Archbishop
Aldred came to meet him, with child Edgar, and Earls Edwin and Morkar, and all the best men
from London; who submitted then for need, when the most harm was done.  It was very ill-advised
that they did not so before, seeing that God would not better things for our sins.  And they
gave him hostages and took oaths: and he promised them that he would be a faithful lord to
them; though in the midst of this they plundered wherever they went.  Then on midwinter's day
Archbishop Aldred hallowed him to king at Westminster, and gave him possession with the books
of Christ, and also swore him, ere that he would set the crown on his head, that he would so
well govern this nation as any before him best did, if they would be faithful to him.  Neverrhetess
he laid very heavy tribute on men, and in Lent went over sea to Normandy, taking with him Archbishop
Stigand, and Abbot Aylnoth of Glastonbury, and the child Edgar, and the Earls Edwin, Morkar,
and Waltheof, and many other good men of England.  Bishop Odo and Earl William lived here afterwards,
and wrought castles widely through this country, and harassed the miserable people; and ever
since has evil increased very much.  May the end be good, when God will!  In that same expedition
(92) was Leofric, Abbot of Peterborough; who sickened there, and came home, and died soon after,
on the night of Allhallow-mass.  God honour his soul!  In his day was all bliss and all good
at Peterborough.  He was beloved by all; so that the king gave to St. Peter and him the abbey
at Burton, and that at Coventry, which the Earl Leofric, who was his uncle, had formerly made;
with that of Croyland, and that of Thorney.  He did so much good to the minster of Peterborough,
in gold, and in silver, and in shroud, and in land, as no other ever did before him, nor any
one after him.  But now was Gilden-borough become a wretched borough.  The monks then chose
for abbot Provost Brand, because he was a very good man, and very wise; and sent him to Edgar
Etheling, for that the land-folk supposed that he should be king: and the etheling received
him gladly.  When King William heard say that, he was very wroth, and said that the abbot had
renounced him: but good men went between them, and reconciled them; because the abbot was a
good man.  He gave the king forty marks of gold for his reconciliation; and he lived but a
little while after--only three years.  Afterwards came all wretchedness and all evil to the
minster.  God have mercy on it!

((A.D. 1066.  This year died King Edward, and Harold the earl succeeded to the kingdom, and
held it forty weeks and one day. And this year came William, and won England.  And in this
year Christ-Church [Canterbury] was burned.  And this year appeared a comet on the fourteenth
before the kalends of May.))

((A.D. 1066.  ...And then he [Tosty] went thence, and did harm everywhere by the sea-coast
where he could land, as far as Sandwich.  Then was it made known to King Harold, who was in
London, that Tosty his brother was come to Sandwich.  Then gathered he so great a ship-force,
and also a land force, as no king here in the land had before gathered, because it had been
soothly said unto him, that William the earl from Normandy, King Edward's kinsman, would come
hither and subdue this land: all as it afterwards happened.  When Tosty learned that King Harold
was on his way to Sandwich, then went he from Sandwich, and took some of the boatmen with him,
some willingly and some unwillingly; and went then north into Humber, and there ravaged in
Lindsey, and there slew many good men.  When Edwin the earl and Morcar the earl understood
that, then came they thither, and drove him out of the land.  And he went then to Scotland:
and the king of Scots protected him, and assisted him with provisions; and he there abode all
the summer.  Then came King Harold to Sandwich, and there awaited his fleet, because it was
long before it could be gathered together.  And when his fleet was gathered together, then
went he into the Isle of Wight, and there lay all the summer and the harvest; and a land-force
was kept everywhere by the sea, though in the end it was of no benefit.  When it was the Nativity
of St. Mary, then were the men's provisions gone, and no man could any longer keep them there.
Then were the men allowed to go home, and the king rode up, and the ships were dispatched to
London; and many perished before they came thither.  When the ships had reached home, then
came King Harald from Norway, north into Tyne, and unawares, with a very large ship-force,
and no small one; that might be, or more.  And Tosty the earl came to him with all that he
had gotten, all as they had before agreed; and then they went both, with all the fleet, along
the Ouse, up towards York.  Then was it made known to King Harold in the south, as he was come
from on ship-board, that Harald King of Norway and Tosty the earl were landed near York.  Then
went he northward, day and night, as quickly as he could gather his forces.  Then, before that
King Harold could come thither, then gathered Edwin the earl and Morcar the earl from their
earldom as great a force as they could get together; and they fought against the army, and
made great slaughter: and there was much of the English people slain, and drowned, and driven
away in flight; and the Northmen had possession of the place of carnage.  And this fight was
on the vigil of St. Matthew the apostle, and it was Wednesday.  And then, after the fight,
went Harald, King of Norway, and Tosty the earl, into York, with as much people as seemed meet
to them.  And they delivered hostages to them from the city, and also assisted them with provisions;
and so they went thence to their ships, and they agreed upon a full peace, so that they should
all go with him south, and this land subdue. Then, during this, came Harold, king of the Angles,
with all his forces, on the Sunday, to Tadcaster, and there drew up his force, and went then
on Monday throughout York; and Harald, King of Norway, and Tosty the earl, and their forces,
were gone from their ships beyond York to Stanfordbridge, because it had been promised them
for a certainty, that there, from all the shire, hostages should be brought to meet them. 
Then came Harold, king of the English, against them, unawares, beyond the bridge, and they
there joined battle, and very strenuously, for a long time of the day, continued fighting:
and there was Harald, King of Norway, and Tosty the earl slain, and numberless of the people
with them, as well of the Northmen as of the English: and the Northmen fled from the English.
And the King's son, Edmund, Harold let go home to Norway, with all the ships.))

((A.D. 1066.  In this year was consecrated the minster at Westminster, on Childer-mass-day.
And King Edward died on the eve of Twelfth-day; and he was buried on Twelfth-day within the
newly consecrated church at Westminster.  And Harold the earl succeeded to the kingdom of England,
even as the king had granted it to him, and men also had chosen him thereto; and he was crowned
as king on Twelfth-day.  And that same year that he became king, he went out with a fleet against
William [Earl of Normandy]; and the while, came Tosty the earl into Humber with sixty ships.
Edwin the earl came with a land-force and drove him out; and the boatmen forsook him.  And
he went to Scotland with twelve vessels; and Harald, the King of Norway, met him with three
hundred ships, and Tosty submitted to him; and they both went into Humber, until they came
to York.  And Morcar the earl, and Edwin the earl, fought against them; and the king of the
Norwegians had the victory.  And it was made known to King Harold how it there was done, and
had happened; and he came there with a great army of English men, and met him at Stanfordbridge,
and slew him and the earl Tosty, and boldly overcame all the army. And the while, William the
earl landed at Hastings, on St. Michael's-day: and Harold came from the north, and fought against
him before all his army had come up: and there he fell, and his two brothers, Girth and Leofwin;
and William subdued this land. And he came to Westminster, and Archbishop Aldred consecrated
him king, and men paid him tribute, delivered him hostages, and afterwards bought their land.
And then was Leofric, Abbot of Peterborough, in that same expedition; and there he sickened,
and came home, and was dead soon thereafter, on All-hallows-mass-night; God be merciful to
his soul!  In his day was all bliss and all good in Peterborough; and he was dear to all people,
so that the king gave to St. Peter and to him the abbacy at Burton, and that of Coventry, which
Leofric the earl, who was his uncle, before had made, and that of Crowland, and that of Thorney.
And he conferred so much of good upon the minster of Peterborough, in gold, and in silver,
and in vestments, and in land, as never any other did before him, nor any after him.  After,
Golden-borough became a wretched borough.  Then chose the monks for abbot Brand the provost,
by reason that he was a very good man, and very wise, and sent him then to Edgar the etheling,
by reason that the people of the land supposed that he should become king: and the etheling
granted it him then gladly.  When King William heard say that, then was he very wroth, and
said that the abbot had despised him.  After that came every tribulation and every evil to
the minster.  God have mercy on it!))

A.D. 1067.  This year came the king back again to England on St. Nicholas's day; and the same
day was burned the church of Christ at Canterbury.  Bishop Wulfwy also died, and is buried
at his see in Dorchester.  The child Edric and the Britons were unsettled this year, and fought
with the castlemen at Hereford, and did them much harm.  The king this year imposed a heavy
guild on the wretched people; but, notwithstanding, let his men always plunder all the country
that they went over; and then he marched to Devonshire, and beset the city of Exeter eighteen
days.  There were many of his army slain; out he had promised them well, and performed ill;
and the citizens surrendered the city because the thanes had betrayed them.  This summer the
child Edgar departed, with his mother Agatha, and his two sisters, Margaret and Christina,
and Merle-Sweyne, and many good men with them; and came to Scotland under the protection of
King Malcolm, who entertained them all.  Then began King Malcolm to yearn after the child's
sister, Margaret, to wife; but he and all his men long refused; and she also herself was averse,
and said that she would neither have him nor any one else, if the Supreme Power would grant,
that she in her maidenhood might please the mighty Lord with a carnal heart, in this short
life, in pure continence.  The king, however, earnestly urged her brother, until he answered
Yea.  And indeed he durst not otherwise; for they were come into his kingdom.  So that then
it was fulfilled, as God had long ere foreshowed; and else it could not be; as he himself saith
in his gospel: that "not even a sparrow on the ground may fall, without his foreshowing." 
The prescient Creator wist long before what he of her would have done; for that she should
increase the glory of God in this land, lead the king aright from the path of error, bend him
and his people together to a better way, and suppress the bad customs which the nation formerly
followed: all which she afterwards did.  The king therefore received her, though it was against
her will, and was pleased with her manners, and thanked God, who in his might had given him
such a match.  He wisely bethought himself, as he was a prudent man, and turned himself to
God, and renounced all impurity; accordingly, as the apostle Paul, the teacher of all the gentries,
saith: "Salvabitur vir infidelis per mulierem fidelem; sic et mulier infidelis per virum fidelem,"
etc.: that is in our language, "Full oft the unbelieving husband is sanctified and healed through
the believing wife, and so belike the wife through the believing husband."  This queen aforesaid
performed afterwards many useful deeds in this land to the glory of God, and also in her royal
estate she well conducted herself, as her nature was.  Of a faithful and noble kin was she
sprung.  Her father was Edward Etheling, son of King Edmund.  Edmund was the son of Ethelred;
Ethelred the son of Edgar; Edgar the son of Edred; and so forth in that royal line: and her
maternal kindred goeth to the Emperor Henry, who had the sovereignty over Rome.  This year
went out Githa, Harold's mother, and the wives of many good men with her, to the Flat-Holm,
and there abode some time; and so departed thence over sea to St. Omer's.  This Easter came
the king to Winchester; and Easter was then on the tenth before the calends of April.  Soon
after this came the Lady Matilda hither to this land; and Archbishop Eldred hallowed her to
queen at Westminster on Whit Sunday.  Then it was told the king, that the people in the North
had gathered themselves together, and would stand against him if he came.  Whereupon he went
to Nottingham, and wrought there a castle; and so advanced to York, and there wrought two castles;
and the same at Lincoln, and everywhere in that quarter.  Then Earl Gospatric and the best
men went into Scotland.  Amidst this came one of Harold's sons from Ireland with a naval force
into the mouth of the Avon unawares, and plundered soon over all that quarter; whence they
went to Bristol, and would have stormed the town; but the people bravely withstood them.  When
they could gain nothing from the town, they went to their ships with the booty which they had
acquired by plunder; and then they advanced upon Somersetshire, and there went up; and Ednoth,
master of the horse, fought with them; but he was there slain, and many good men on either
side; and those that were left departed thence.

A.D. 1068.  This year King William gave Earl Robert the earldom over Northumberland; but the
landsmen attacked him in the town of Durham, and slew him, and nine hundred men with him. 
Soon afterwards Edgar Etheling came with all the Northumbrians to York; and the townsmen made
a treaty with him: but King William came from the South unawares on them with a large army,
and put them to flight, and slew on the spot those who could not escape; which were many hundred
men; and plundered the town.  St. Peter's minster he made a profanation, and all other places
also he despoiled and trampled upon; and the etheling went back again to Scotland.  After this
came Harold's sons from Ireland, about midsummer, with sixty-four ships into the mouth of the
Taft, where they unwarily landed: and Earl Breon came unawares against them with a large army,
and fought with them, and slew there all the best men that were in the fleet; and the others,
being small forces, escaped to the ships: and Harold's sons went back to Ireland again.

A.D. 1069.  This year died Aldred, Archbishop of York; and he is there buried, at his see.
He died on the day of Protus and Hyacinthus, having held the see with much dignity ten years
wanting only fifteen weeks.  Soon after this came from Denmark three of the sons of King Sweyne
with two hundred and forty ships, together with Earl Esborn and Earl Thurkill, into the Humber;
where they were met by the child Edgar, and Earl Waltheof, and Merle-Sweyne, and Earl Gospatric
with the Northumbrians, and all the landsmen; riding and marching full merrily with an immense
army: and so all unanimously advanced to York; where they stormed and demolished the castle,
and won innumerable treasures therein; slew there many hundreds of Frenchmen, and led many
with them to the ships; but, ere that the shipmen came thither, the Frenchmen had burned the
city, and also the holy minster of St. Peter had they entirely plundered, and destroyed with
fire.  When the king heard this, then went he northward with all the force that he could collect,
despoiling and laying waste the shire withal; whilst the fleet lay all the winter in the Humber,
where the king could not come at them.  The king was in York on Christmas Day, and so all the
winter on land, and came to Winchester at Easter.  Bishop Egelric, who was at Peterborough,
was this year betrayed, and led to Westminster; and his brother Egelwine was outlawed.  This
year also died Brand, Abbot of Peterborough, on the fifth before the calends of December.

A.D. 1070.  This year Landfranc, who was Abbot of Caen, came to England; and after a few days
he became Archbishop of Canterbury. He was invested on the fourth before the calends of September
in his own see by eight bishops, his suffragans.  The others, who were not there, by messengers
and by letter declared why they could not be there.  The same year Thomas, who was chosen Bishop
of York, came to Canterbury, to be invested there after the ancient custom.  But when Landfranc
craved confirmation of his obedience with an oath, he refused; and said, that he ought not
to do it.  Whereupon Archbishop Landfranc was wroth, and bade the bishops, who were come thither
by Archbishop Landfranc's command to do the service, and all the monks to unrobe themselves.
And they by his order so did.  Thomas, therefore, for the time, departed without consecration.
Soon after this, it happened that the Archbishop Landfranc went to Rome, and Thomas with him.
When they came thither, and had spoken about other things concerning which they wished to speak,
then began Thomas his speech: how he came to Canterbury, and how the archbishop required obedience
of him with an oath; but he declined it.  Then began the Archbishop Landfranc to show with
clear distinction, that what he craved he craved by right; and with strong arguments he confirmed
the same before the Pope Alexander, and before all the council that was collected there; and
so they went home.  After this came Thomas to Canterbury; and all that the archbishop required
of him he humbly fulfilled, and afterwards received consecration.  This year Earl Waltheof
agreed with the king; but in the Lent of the same year the king ordered all the monasteries
in England to be plundered.  In the same year came King Sweyne from Denmark into the Humber;
and the landsmen came to meet him, and made a treaty with him; thinking that he would overrun
the land.  Then came into Ely Christien, the Danish bishop, and Earl Osbern, and the Danish
domestics with them; and the English people from all the fen-lands came to them; supposing
that they should win all that land.  Then the monks of Peterborough heard say, that their own
men would plunder the minster; namely Hereward and his gang: because they understood that the
king had given the abbacy to a French abbot, whose name was Thorold;--that he was a very stern
man, and was then come into Stamford with all his Frenchmen.  Now there was a churchwarden,
whose name was Yware; who took away by night all that he could, testaments, mass-hackles, cantel-copes,
and reefs, and such other small things, whatsoever he could; and went early, before day, to
the Abbot Thorold; telling him that he sought his protection, and informing him how the outlaws
were coming to Peterborough, and that he did all by advice of the monks.  Early in the morning
came all the outlaws with many ships, resolving to enter the minster; but the monks withstood,
so that they could not come in.  Then they laid on fire, and burned all the houses of the monks,
and all the town except one house.  Then came they in through fire at the Bull-hithe gate;
where the monks met them, and besought peace of them.  But they regarded nothing.  They went
into the minster, climbed up to the holy rood, took away the diadem from our Lord's head, all
of pure gold, and seized the bracket that was underneath his feet, which was all of red gold.
They climbed up to the steeple, brought down the table that was hid there, which was all of
gold and silver, seized two golden shrines, and nine of silver, and took away fifteen large
crucifixes, of gold and of silver; in short, they seized there so much gold and silver, and
so many treasures, in money, in raiment, and in books, as no man could tell another; and said,
that they did it from their attachment to the minster. Afterwards they went to their ships,
proceeded to Ely, and deposited there all the treasure.  The Danes, believing that they should
overcome the Frenchmen, drove out all the monks; leaving there only one, whose name was Leofwine
Lang, who lay sick in the infirmary.  Then came Abbot Thorold and eight times twenty Frenchmen
with him, all full-armed.  When he came thither, he found all within and without consumed by
fire, except the church alone; but the outlaws were all with the fleet, knowing that he would
come thither.  This was done on the fourth day before the nones of June.  The two kings, William
and Sweyne, were now reconciled; and the Danes went out of Ely with all the aforesaid treasure,
and carried it away with them.  But when they came into the middle of the sea, there came a
violent storm, and dispersed all the ships wherein the treasures were.  Some went to Norway,
some to Ireland, some to Denmark.  All that reached the latter, consisted of the table, and
some shrines, and some crucifixes, and many of the other treasures; which they brought to a
king's town, called ----, and deposited it all there in the church. Afterwards through their
own carelessness, and through their drunkenness, in one night the church and all that was therein
was consumed by fire.  Thus was the minster of Peterborough burned and plundered.  Almighty
God have mercy on it through his great goodness.  Thus came the Abbot Thorold to Peterborough;
and the monks too returned, and performed the service of Christ in the church, which had before
stood a full week without any kind of rite.  When Bishop Aylric heard it, he excommunicated
all the men who that evil deed had done.  There was a great famine this year: and in the summer
came the fleet in the north from the Humber into the Thames, and lay there two nights, and
made afterwards for Denmark.  Earl Baldwin also died, and his son Arnulf succeeded to the earldom.
Earl William, in conjunction with the king of the Franks, was to be his guardian; but Earl
Robert came and slew his kinsman Arnulf and the earl, put the king to flight, and slew many
thousands of his men.

A.D. 1071.  This year Earl Edwin and Earl Morkar fled out, (93) and roamed at random in woods
and in fields.  Then went Earl Morkar to Ely by ship; but Earl Edwin was treacherously slain
by his own men.  Then came Bishop Aylwine, and Siward Barn, and many hundred men with them,
into Ely.  When King William heard that, then ordered he out a naval force and land force,
and beset the land all about, and wrought a bridge, and went in; and the naval force at the
same time on the sea-side.  And the outlaws then all surrendered; that was, Bishop Aylwine,
and Earl Morkar, and all that were with them; except Hereward (94) alone, and all those that
would join him, whom he led out triumphantly.  And the king took their ships, and weapons,
and many treasures; (95) and all the men he disposed of as he thought proper.  Bishop Aylwine
he sent to Abingdon, where he died in the beginning of the winter.

