The period covered is from March 4, 1881, to March 4, 1889. The death of President Garfield
at the hand of an assassin early in his Administration created a vacancy in the office of the
Chief Executive, and for the fourth time in our history the Vice-President succeeded to that
office. The intense excitement throughout the land brought about by the tragic death of the
President, and the succession of the Vice-President, caused no dangerous strain upon our institutions,
and once more proof was given, if, indeed, further evidence was required, that our Government
was strong enough to quietly and peacefully endure a sudden change of rulers and of administration,
no matter how distressing and odious the cause.

During the Administration of President Arthur a treaty between the United States and the Republic
of Nicaragua was signed, providing for an interoceanic canal across the territory of that State.
An able and learned discussion of this proposition will be found among his papers. This treaty
was pending when he retired from office, and was promptly withdrawn by President Cleveland.
In his papers will be found frequent and interesting discussions of this question.

The latter half of the period comprised in this volume, as already stated, covers the Administration
of Cleveland. His accession to the Presidency marked the return of the Democratic party to
power. No Democrat who had been chosen by his party had held the office since the retirement
of Buchanan, in 1861. President Cleveland's papers fill 558 pages of this volume, occupying
more space than any other Chief Magistrate, Andrew Johnson being next with 457 pages. At an
early date after Mr. Cleveland's inauguration he became involved in an important and rather
acrimonious discussion with the Senate on the subject of suspensions from office. The Senate
demanded of him and of the heads of some of the Executive Departments the reasons for the suspension
of certain officials and the papers and correspondence incident thereto. In an exhaustive and
interesting paper he declined to comply with the demand. His annual message of December, 1887,
was devoted exclusively to a discussion of the tariff. It is conceded by all to be an able
document, and is the only instance where a President in his annual message made reference to
only one question. His vetoes are more numerous than those of any other Chief Executive, amounting
within the four years to over three hundred, or more than twice the number in the aggregate
of all his predecessors. These vetoes relate to almost all subjects of legislation, but mainly
to pension cases and bills providing for the erection of public buildings throughout the country.

James D. Richardson.

July 4, 1898. His father, Abram Garfield, was a native of New York, but of Massachusetts ancestry;
descended from Edward Garfield, an English Puritan, who in 1630 was one of the founders of
Watertown. His mother, Eliza Ballou, was born in New Hampshire, of a Huguenot family that fled
from France to New England after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685. Garfield, therefore,
was from lineage well represented in the struggles for civil and religious liberty, both in
the Old and in the New World. His father moved to Ohio in 1830 and settled in what was then
known as the "Wilderness," now as the "Western Reserve," which was occupied by Connecticut
people. He died at the age of 33, leaving a widow and four small children, of whom James was
the youngest. Mrs. Garfield brought up her family unaided, and impressed upon them a high standard
of moral and intellectual worth. James attended school in a log hut at the age of 3 years,
learned to read, and began that habit of omnivorous reading which ended only with his life.
At 10 years of age was accustomed to manual labor, helping out his mother's meager income by
work at home or on the farms of the neighbors. Attended the district school in the winter months,
made good progress, and was conspicuous for his assiduity. At the age of 14 had a fair knowledge
of arithmetic and grammar, and was particularly apt in the facts of American history. His imagination
was especially kindled by tales of the sea, and he so far yielded to his love of adventure
that in 1848 he went to Cleveland and proposed to ship as a sailor on board a lake schooner.
Seeing that this life was not the romance he had conceived, he turned promptly from the lake;
but loath to return home without adventure and without money, he drove some months for a boat
on the Ohio Canal, when he was promoted from the towpath to the boat. Attended the Geauga Seminary
at Chester, Ohio, during the winter of 1849-50. In the vacations learned and practiced the
trade of a carpenter, helped at harvest, taught--did anything and everything to earn money
to pay for his schooling. After the first term he asked and needed no aid from home; he had
reached the point where he could support himself. Was converted under the instructions of a
Christian preacher, was baptized and received into that denomination. As soon as he finished
his studies in Chester entered (1851) the Hiram Eclectic Institute (now Hiram College), at
Hiram, Portage County, Ohio, the principal educational institution of his church. He was not
very quick of acquisition, but his perseverance was indomitable and he soon had an excellent
knowledge of Latin and a fair acquaintance with algebra, natural philosophy, and botany. His
superiority was easily recognized in the prayer meetings and debating societies of the college,
where he was assiduous and conspicuous. Living here was inexpensive, and he readily made his
expenses by teaching in the English departments, and also gave instruction in the ancient languages.
Entered Williams College in the autumn of 1854, and graduated with the highest honors in the
class of 1856. Returned to Ohio and resumed his place as a teacher of Latin and Greek at Hiram
Institute, and the next year, being then only 26 years of age, was made its president. The
regulations and practices of his church, known as the Christian Church, or Church of the Disciples,
permitted him to preach, and he used the permission. He also pursued the study of law, entering
his name in 1858 as a student in a law office in Cleveland, but studying in Hiram. Cast his
first vote in 1856 for John C. Fremont, the first Republican candidate for the Presidency.
Married Lucretia Rudolph November 11, 1858. In 1859 was chosen to represent the counties of
Summit and Portage in the Ohio senate. In August, 1861, Governor William Dennison commissioned
him lieutenant-colonel in the Forty-second Regiment Ohio Volunteers. Was promoted to the command
of this regiment. In December, 1861, reported to General Buell in Louisville, Ky. Was given
a brigade and assigned the difficult task of driving the Confederate general Humphrey Marshall
from eastern Kentucky. General Garfield triumphed over the Confederate forces at the battle
of Middle Creek, January 10, 1862, and in recognition of his services was made a brigadier-general
by President Lincoln. During the campaign of the Big Sandy, while Garfield was engaged in breaking
up some scattered Confederate encampments, his supplies gave out and he was threatened with
starvation. Going himself to the Ohio River, he seized a steamer, loaded it with provisions,
and on the refusal of any pilot to undertake the perilous voyage, because of a freshet that
had swelled the river, he stood at the helm for forty-eight hours and piloted the craft through
the dangerous channel. In order to surprise Marshall, then intrenched in Cumberland Gap, Garfield
marched his soldiers 100 miles in four days through a blinding snowstorm. Returning to Louisville,
he found that General Buell was away; overtook him at Columbia, Tenn., and was assigned to
the command of the Twentieth Brigade. Reached Shiloh in time to take part in the second day's
fight. Was engaged in all the operations in front of Corinth, and in June, 1862, rebuilt the
bridges on the Memphis and Charleston Railroad, and exhibited noticeable engineering skill
in repairing the fortifications of Huntsville. Was granted leave of absence July 30, 1862,
on account of ill health, and returned to Hiram, Ohio, where he lay ill for two months. Went
to Washington on September 25, 1862, and was ordered on court-martial duty. November 25 was
assigned to the case of General Fitz John Porter. In February, 1863, returned to duty under
General Rosecrans, then in command of the Army of the Cumberland. Rosecrans made him his chief
of staff, with responsibilities beyond those usually given to this office. In this field Garfield's
influence on the campaign in middle Tennessee was most important. One familiar incident shows
and justifies the great influence he wielded in its counsels. Before the battle of Chickamauga,
June 24, 1863, General Rosecrans asked the written opinion of seventeen of his generals on
the advisability of an immediate advance. All others opposed, but Garfield advised it, and
his arguments were so convincing that Rosecrans determined to seek an engagement. General Garfield
wrote out all the orders of that fateful day, September 19, excepting one, and that one was
the blunder that lost the day. Garfield volunteered to take the news of the defeat on the right
to General George H. Thomas, who held the left of the line. It was a bold ride, under constant
fire, but he reached Thomas and gave the information that saved the Army of the Cumberland.
For this action he was made a major-general September 19, 1863--promoted for gallantry on a
field that was lost. Yielded to Mr. Lincoln's urgent request and on December 5, 1863, resigned
his commission and hastened to Washington to sit in Congress, to which he had been chosen fifteen
months before. Was offered a division in the Army of the Cumberland by General Thomas, but
yielded to the representations of the President and Secretary Stanton that he would be more
useful in the House of Representatives. Was placed on the Committee on Military Affairs, then
the most important in Congress. In the Thirty-ninth Congress (1865) was changed, at his own
request, from the Committee on Military Affairs to the Committee on Ways and Means. In the
Fortieth Congress (1867) was restored to the Committee on Military Affairs and made its chairman.
In the Forty-first Congress the Committee on Banking and Currency was created and he was made
its chairman. Served also on the Select Committee on the Census and on the Committee on Rules.
Was chairman of the Committee on Appropriations in the Forty-second and Forty-third Congresses.
In the Forty-fourth, Forty-fifth, and Forty-sixth Congresses (the House being Democratic) was
assigned to the Committee on Ways and Means. In 1876, at President Grant's request, went to
New Orleans in company with Senators Sherman and Matthews and other Republicans, to watch the
counting of the Louisiana vote. He made a special study of the West Feliciana Parish case,
and embodied his views in a brief but significant report. In January, 1877, made two notable
speeches in the House on the duty of Congress in a Presidential election, and claimed that
the Vice-President had a constitutional right to count the electoral vote. Opposed the Electoral
Commission, yet when the commission was ordered was chosen by acclamation to fill one of the
two seats allotted to Republican Representatives. Mr. Blaine left the House for the Senate
in 1877, and this made Mr. Garfield the undisputed leader of his party in the House. At this
time and subsequently was its candidate for Speaker. Was elected to the United States Senate
January 13, 1880. Attended the Republican convention which met at Chicago in June, 1880, where
he opposed the renomination of President Grant and supported Senator Sherman. On the thirty-sixth
ballot the delegates broke, their ranks, and, rushing to General Garfield, he was unanimously
nominated for President on June 8, 1880. Was elected November 2, 1880, receiving 214 electoral
votes to 144 that were cast for Winfield S. Hancock. Was shot July 2, 1881, by an assassin
in the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad station, in Washington, and died from the effects of
the wound September 19 at Elberon, N.J. He was buried at Cleveland, Ohio.

INAUGURAL ADDRESS.

Fellow-Citizens: We stand to-day upon an eminence which overlooks a hundred years of national
life--a century crowded with perils, but crowned with the triumphs of liberty and law. Before
continuing the onward march let us pause on this height for a moment to strengthen our faith
and renew our hope by a glance at the pathway along which our people have traveled.

It is now three days more than a hundred years since the adoption of the first written constitution
of the United States--the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union. The new Republic was
then beset with danger on every hand. It had not conquered a place in the family of nations.
The decisive battle of the war for independence, whose centennial anniversary will soon be
gratefully celebrated at Yorktown, had not yet been fought. The colonists were struggling not
only against the armies of a great nation, but against the settled opinions of mankind; for
the world did not then believe that the supreme authority of government could be safely intrusted
to the guardianship of the people themselves.

We can not overestimate the fervent love of liberty, the intelligent courage, and the sum of
common sense with which our fathers made the great experiment of self-government. When they
found, after a short trial, that the confederacy of States was too weak to meet the necessities
of a vigorous and expanding republic, they boldly set it aside, and in its stead established
a National Union, founded directly upon the will of the people, endowed with full power of
self-preservation and ample authority for the accomplishment of its great object.

Under this Constitution the boundaries of freedom have been enlarged, the foundations of order
and peace have been strengthened, and the growth of our people in all the better elements of
national life has indicated the wisdom of the founders and given new hope to their descendants.
Under this Constitution our people long ago made themselves safe against danger from without
and secured for their mariners and flag equality of rights on all the seas. Under this Constitution
twenty-five States have been added to the Union, with constitutions and laws, framed and enforced
by their own citizens, to secure the manifold blessings of local self-government.

The jurisdiction of this Constitution now covers an area fifty times greater than that of the
original thirteen States and a population twenty times greater than that of 1780.

The supreme trial of the Constitution came at last under the tremendous pressure of civil war.
We ourselves are witnesses that the Union emerged from the blood and fire of that conflict
purified and made stronger for all the beneficent purposes of good government.

And now, at the close of this first century of growth, with the inspirations of its history
in their hearts, our people have lately reviewed the condition of the nation, passed judgment
upon the conduct and opinions of political parties, and have registered their will concerning
the future administration of the Government. To interpret and to execute that will in accordance
with the Constitution is the paramount duty of the Executive.

Even from this brief review it is manifest that the nation is resolutely facing to the front,
resolved to employ its best energies in developing the great possibilities of the future. Sacredly
preserving whatever has been gained to liberty and good government during the century, our
people are determined to leave behind them all those bitter controversies concerning things
which have been irrevocably settled, and the further discussion of which can only stir up strife
and delay the onward march.

The supremacy of the nation and its laws should be no longer a subject of debate. That discussion,
which for half a century threatened the existence of the Union, was closed at last in the high
court of war by a decree from which there is no appeal--that the Constitution and the laws
made in pursuance thereof are and shall continue to be the supreme law of the land, binding
alike upon the States and the people. This decree does not disturb the autonomy of the States
nor interfere with any of their necessary rights of local self-government, but it does fix
and establish the permanent supremacy of the Union.

The will of the nation, speaking with the voice of battle and through the amended Constitution,
has fulfilled the great promise of 1776 by proclaiming "liberty throughout the land to all
the inhabitants thereof."

The elevation of the negro race from slavery to the full rights of citizenship is the most
important political change we have known since the adoption of the Constitution of 1787. No
thoughtful man can fail to appreciate its beneficent effect upon our institutions and people.
It has freed us from the perpetual danger of war and dissolution. It has added immensely to
the moral and industrial forces of our people. It has liberated the master as well as the slave
from a relation which wronged and enfeebled both. It has surrendered to their own guardianship
the manhood of more than 5,000,000 people, and has opened to each one of them a career of freedom
and usefulness. It has given new inspiration to the power of self-help in both races by making
labor more honorable to the one and more necessary to the other. The influence of this force
will grow greater and bear richer fruit with the coming years.

No doubt this great change has caused serious disturbance to our Southern communities. This
is to be deplored, though it was perhaps unavoidable. But those who resisted the change should
remember that under our institutions there was no middle ground for the negro race between
slavery and equal citizenship. There can be no permanent disfranchised peasantry in the United
States. Freedom can never yield its fullness of blessings so long as the law or its administration
places the smallest obstacle in the pathway of any virtuous citizen.

The emancipated race has already made remarkable progress. With unquestioning devotion to the
Union, with a patience and gentleness not born of fear, they have "followed the light as God
gave them to see the light." They are rapidly laying the material foundations of self-support,
widening their circle of intelligence, and beginning to enjoy the blessings that gather around
the homes of the industrious poor. They deserve the generous encouragement of all good men.
So far as my authority can lawfully extend, they shall enjoy the full and equal protection
of the Constitution and the laws.

The free enjoyment of equal suffrage is still in question, and a frank statement of the issue
may aid its solution. It is alleged that in many communities negro citizens are practically
denied the freedom of the ballot. In so far as the truth of this allegation is admitted, it
is answered that in many places honest local government is impossible if the mass of uneducated
negroes are allowed to vote. These are grave allegations. So far as the latter is true, it
is the only palliation that can be offered for opposing the freedom of the ballot. Bad local
government is certainly a great evil, which ought to be prevented; but to violate the freedom
and sanctities of the suffrage is more than an evil. It is a crime which, if persisted in,
will destroy the Government itself. Suicide is not a remedy. If in other lands it be high treason
to compass the death of the king, it shall be counted no less a crime here to strangle our
sovereign power and stifle its voice.

It has been said that unsettled questions have no pity for the repose of nations. It should
be said with the utmost emphasis that this question of the suffrage will never give repose
or safety to the States or to the nation until each, within its own jurisdiction, makes and
keeps the ballot free and pure by the strong sanctions of the law.

But the danger which arises from ignorance in the voter can not be denied. It covers a field
far wider than that of negro suffrage and the present condition of the race. It is a danger
that lurks and hides in the sources and fountains of power in every state. We have no standard
by which to measure the disaster that may be brought upon us by ignorance and vice in the citizens
when joined to corruption and fraud in the suffrage.

The voters of the Union, who make and unmake constitutions, and upon whose will hang the destinies
of our governments, can transmit their supreme authority to no successors save the coming generation
of voters, who are the sole heirs of sovereign power. If that generation comes to its inheritance
blinded by ignorance and corrupted by vice, the fall of the Republic will be certain and remediless.

The census has already sounded the alarm in the appalling figures which mark how dangerously
high the tide of illiteracy has risen among our voters and their children.

To the South this question is of supreme importance. But the responsibility for the existence
of slavery did not rest upon the South alone. The nation itself is responsible for the extension
of the suffrage, and is under special obligations to aid in removing the illiteracy which it
has added to the voting population. For the North and South alike there is but one remedy.
All the constitutional power of the nation and of the States and all the volunteer forces of
the people should be surrendered to meet this danger by the savory influence of universal education.

It is the high privilege and sacred duty of those now living to educate their successors and
fit them, by intelligence and virtue, for the inheritance which awaits them.

In this beneficent work sections and races should be forgotten and partisanship should be unknown.
Let our people find a new meaning in the divine oracle which declares that "a little child
shall lead them," for our own little children will soon control the destinies of the Republic.

My countrymen, we do not now differ in our judgment concerning the controversies of past generations,
and fifty years hence our children will not be divided in their opinions concerning our controversies.
They will surely bless their fathers and their fathers' God that the Union was preserved, that
slavery was overthrown, and that both races were made equal before the law. We may hasten or
we may retard, but we can not prevent, the final reconciliation. Is it not possible for us
now to make a truce with time by anticipating and accepting its inevitable verdict?

Enterprises of the highest importance to our moral and material well-being unite us and offer
ample employment of our best powers. Let all our people, leaving behind them the battlefields
of dead issues, move forward and in their strength of liberty and the restored Union win the
grander victories of peace.

The prosperity which now prevails is without parallel in our history. Fruitful seasons have
done much to secure it, but they have not done all. The preservation of the public credit and
the resumption of specie payments, so successfully attained by the Administration of my predecessors,
have enabled our people to secure the blessings which the seasons brought.

By the experience of commercial nations in all ages it has been found that gold and silver
afford the only safe foundation for a monetary system. Confusion has recently been created
by variations in the relative value of the two metals, but I confidently believe that arrangements
can be made between the leading commercial nations which will secure the general use of both
metals. Congress should provide that the compulsory coinage of silver now required by law may
not disturb our monetary system by driving either metal out of circulation. If possible, such
an adjustment should be made that the purchasing power of every coined dollar will be exactly
equal to its debt-paying power in all the markets of the world.

The chief duty of the National Government in connection with the currency of the country is
to coin money and declare its value. Grave doubts have been entertained whether Congress is
authorized by the Constitution to make any form of paper money legal tender. The present issue
of United States notes has been sustained by the necessities of war; but such paper should
depend for its value and currency upon its convenience in use and its prompt redemption in
coin at the will of the holder, and not upon its compulsory circulation. These notes are not
money, but promises to pay money. If the holders demand it, the promise should be kept.

The refunding of the national debt at a lower rate of interest should be accomplished without
compelling the withdrawal of the national-bank notes, and thus disturbing the business of the
country.

I venture to refer to the position I have occupied on financial questions during a long service
in Congress, and to say that time and experience have strengthened the opinions I have so often
expressed on these subjects.

The finances of the Government shall suffer no detriment which it may be possible for my Administration
to prevent.

The interests of agriculture deserve more attention from the Government than they have yet
received. The farms of the United States afford homes and employment for more than one-half
our people, and furnish much the largest part of all our exports. As the Government lights
our coasts for the protection of mariners and the benefit of commerce, so it should give to
the tillers of the soil the best lights of practical science and experience.

Our manufactures are rapidly making us industrially independent, and are opening to capital
and labor new and profitable fields of employment. Their steady and healthy growth should still
be matured. Our facilities for transportation should be promoted by the continued improvement
of our harbors and great interior waterways and by the increase of our tonnage on the ocean.

The development of the world's commerce has led to an urgent demand for shortening the great
sea voyage around Cape Horn by constructing ship canals or railways across the isthmus which
unites the continents. Various plans to this end have been suggested and will need consideration,
but none of them has been sufficiently matured to warrant the United States in extending pecuniary
aid. The subject, however, is one which will immediately engage the attention of the Government
with a view to a thorough protection to American interests.

The Constitution guarantees absolute religious freedom. The Territories of the United States
are subject to the direct legislative authority of Congress, and hence the General Government
is responsible for any violation of the Constitution in any of them. It is therefore a reproach
to the Government that in the most populous of the Territories the constitutional guaranty
is not enjoyed by the people and the authority of Congress is set at naught.

In my judgment it is the duty of Congress, while respecting to the uttermost the conscientious
convictions and religious scruples of every citizen, to prohibit within its jurisdiction all
criminal practices, especially of that class which destroy the family relations and endanger
social order. Nor can any ecclesiastical organization be safely permitted to usurp in the smallest
degree the functions and powers of the National Government.

The civil service can never be placed on a satisfactory basis until it is regulated by law.
For the good of the service itself, for the protection of those who are intrusted with the
appointing power against the waste of time and obstruction to the public business caused by
the inordinate pressure for place, and for the protection of incumbents against intrigue and
wrong, I shall at the proper time ask Congress to fix the tenure of the minor offices of the
several Executive Departments and prescribe the grounds upon which removals shall be made during
the terms for which incumbents have been appointed.

Finally, acting always within the authority and limitations of the Constitution, invading neither
the rights of the States nor the reserved rights of the people, it will be the purpose of my
Administration to maintain the authority of the nation in all places within its jurisdiction;
to enforce obedience to all the laws of the Union in the interests of the people; to demand
rigid economy in all the expenditures of the Government, and to require the honest and faithful
service of all executive officers, remembering that the offices were created, not for the benefit
of incumbents or their supporters, but for the service of the Government.

And now, fellow-citizens, I am about to assume the great trust which you have committed to
my hands. I appeal to you for that earnest and thoughtful support which makes this Government
in fact, as it is in law, a government of the people.

I shall greatly rely upon the wisdom and patriotism of Congress and of those who may share
with me the responsibilities and duties of administration, and, above all, upon our efforts
to promote the welfare of this great people and their Government I reverently invoke the support
and blessings of Almighty God.

March 4, 1881.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

JAMES A. GARFIELD

Executive Mansion, Washington, May 20, 1881.

Executive Mansion, Washington, May 28, 1881.

[Footnote A: Addressed to the heads of the Executive Departments, etc.]

DEATH OF PRESIDENT GARFIELD.

James Russell Lowell, Minister, etc., London:

The President of the United States was shot this morning by an assassin named Charles Guiteau.
The weapon was a large-sized revolver. The President had just reached the Baltimore and Potomac
station, at about 9.20, intending, with a portion of his Cabinet, to leave on the limited express
for New York. I rode in the carriage with him from the Executive Mansion and was walking by
his side when he was shot. The assassin was immediately arrested, and the President was conveyed
to a private room in the station building and surgical aid at once summoned. He has now, at
10.20, been removed to the Executive Mansion. The surgeons, on consultation, regard his wounds
as very serious, though not necessarily fatal. His vigorous health gives strong hopes of his
recovery. He has not lost consciousness for a moment. Inform our ministers in Europe.

JAMES G. BLAINE, Secretary of State.

PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF DEATH BY THE PHYSICIANS.

[From the New York Herald, September 20, 1881.]

Elberon, N.J., September 19--11.30 p.m.

The President died at thirty-five minutes past 10 p.m. After the bulletin was issued at half
past 5 this evening the President continued in much the same condition as during the afternoon,
the pulse varying from 102 to 106, with rather increased force and volume. After taking nourishment
he fell into a quiet sleep about thirty-five minutes before his death, and while asleep his
pulse ran to 120 and was somewhat more feeble. At ten minutes after 10 o'clock he awoke, complaining
of severe pain over the region of the heart, and almost immediately became unconscious, and
ceased to breathe at twenty-five minutes to 11.

D.W. BLISS. FRANK H. HAMILTON. D. HAYES AGNEW.

ANNOUNCEMENT TO THE VICE-PRESIDENT.

[From the New-York Times, September 20, 1881.]

[Long Branch, N.J., September 19, 1881.]

Hon. Chester A. Arthur, No. 123 Lexington Avenue, New York:

It becomes our painful duty to inform you of the death of President Garfield and to advise
you to take the oath of office as President of the United States without delay. If it concur
with your judgment, we will be very glad if you will come here on the earliest train to-morrow
morning.

WILLIAM WINDOM, Secretary of the Treasury. WILLIAM H. HUNT, Secretary of the Navy. THOMAS L.
JAMES, Postmaster-General. WAYNE MacVEAGH, Attorney-General. S.J. KIRKWOOD, Secretary of the
Interior.

[The Secretaries of State and of War were absent from Long Branch.]

REPLY OF THE VICE-PRESIDENT.

[From the Evening Star, Washington, September 20, 1881.]

New York, September 20, 1881.[A]

I have your message announcing the death of President Garfield. Permit me to renew through
you the expression of sorrow and sympathy which I have already telegraphed to Attorney-General
MacVeagh. In accordance with your suggestion, I have taken the oath of office as President
before the Hon. John R. Brady, justice of the supreme court of the State of New York. I will
soon advise you further in regard to the other suggestion in your telegram.

C.A. ARTHUR.

[Footnote A: Addressed to the Cabinet.]

ANNOUNCEMENT TO REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES ABROAD.

[From the Sun, New York, September 21, 1881.]

[Long Branch, N.J., September 20, 1881.]

Lowell, Minister, London:

James A. Garfield, President of the United States, died at Elberon, N.J., last night at ten
minutes before 11 o'clock. For nearly eighty days he suffered great pain, and during the entire
period exhibited extraordinary patience, fortitude, and Christian resignation. The sorrow throughout
the country is deep and universal. Fifty millions of people stand as mourners by his bier.
To-day, at his residence in the city of New York, Chester A. Arthur, Vice-President, took the
oath of office as President, to which he succeeds by virtue of the Constitution. President
Arthur has entered upon the discharge of his duties. You will formally communicate these facts
to the British Government and transmit this dispatch by telegraph to the American ministers
on the Continent for like communication to the Governments to which they are respectively accredited.

BLAINE, Secretary.

Sir: It is my sad duty to announce to you that the illness of the President of the United States,
which you have followed with an anxiety similar to our own and a sympathy which you have repeatedly
testified to this Department during the sorrowful period that has passed since he was shot
by an assassin on the 2d of July, terminated last evening, when he expired at thirty-five minutes
past 10 o'clock.

As soon as the order and details of the funeral ceremonies are arranged you will be duly informed
thereof.

ROBERT R. HITT, Acting Secretary.

Headquarters of the Army, Adjutant-General's Office, Washington, September 20, 1881.

I. The following order of the Secretary of War announces to the Army the death of James A.
Garfield, President of the United States:

War Department, September 20, 1881.

With profound sorrow the Secretary of War announces to the Army that James A. Garfield, President
of the United States, died at Elberon, N.J., at twenty-five minutes before 11 in the evening
of September 19, 1881.

The great grief which is felt by the nation at the untimely death of the President will be
especially felt by the Army, in whose service he bore so distinguished a part during the War
of the Rebellion. In him the Army has lost a beloved Commander in Chief, friend, and former
comrade.

Proper honors will be paid to the memory of the late Chief Magistrate of the nation at headquarters
of each military department and division and at each military station.

The General of the Army will give the necessary instructions for carrying this order into effect.

ROBT. T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War.

II.

III.

By command of General Sherman: R.C. DRUM, Adjutant-General.

[From official records, War Department.]

General Orders, No. 72. President Arthur has entered upon the discharge of his official duties.

ROBT. T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War.

The officers and men of the Navy and of the Marine Corps of the United States are hereby notified
that President Garfield died at Long Branch on the 19th instant at 10 o'clock and 40 minutes
p.m. Under the Constitution and laws of the Government Chester A. Arthur, then Vice-President,
duly took the oath as President of the United States, and has entered upon the duties of that
office. As President and Commander in Chief of the Navy of the United States he will be obeyed
and respected by all persons connected with this Department. It is becoming that at a time
when the heart of the nation is heavy with grief a proper expression should be given to the
respect and affection so sincerely and universally entertained for the memory of the wise,
patriotic, and noble Chief Magistrate who has departed this life under circumstances so distressing.
To this end the officers of the Navy will see to it that all honors and ceremonies befitting
the occasion are observed by their respective commands in accordance with the regulations of
the service.

The offices of the Department will remain closed for all business during the time the remains
of the President shall lie in state at the Capitol.

WILLIAM H. HUNT, Secretary of the Navy.

[From official records, Navy Department.]

Special Order.

Navy Department, Washington, September 23, 1881.

Struck down by the hand of a cowardly assassin, in the day of his vigor and usefulness, on
the eve of departure from the capital in search of much-needed rest from the toils and cares
of office, our Chief Magistrate, President, and Commander in Chief, James A. Garfield, after
bearing with heroic fortitude untold suffering, succumbed to the dread summons and yielded
up his life at Elberon, N.J., on the evening of the 19th instant. The nation mourns its loss.
The funeral services will take place at Cleveland, Ohio, on Monday, the 26th instant. It is
eminently fit and proper that special honors should be paid to the memory of the late President
on that day, and the Department therefore directs that at all naval stations and on board all
vessels in commission the flags shall be at half-mast from sunrise to sunset and a gun fired
every half hour during that period. The period of mourning by half-masted colors will cease
at sunset. On foreign stations this order will be carried out on the day after its receipt.
The navy-yards will be closed and all work suspended during the day. Officers of the Navy and
Marine Corps will, as a further mark of respect, wear crape on the left arm and sword hilt
for six months from the 20th instant.

ED. T. NICHOLS, Acting Secretary of the Navy.

ACTION OF SENATORS AND OF REPRESENTATIVES ELECT IN WASHINGTON.

The members of the Senate and members elect of the House of Representatives in Washington held
meetings on September 22 and selected the following gentlemen to accompany the remains of the
late President to Cleveland, Ohio:

Senators Henry B. Anthony, of Rhode Island; John Sherman, of Ohio; Thomas F. Bayard, of Delaware;
John J. Ingalls, of Kansas; James L. Pugh, of Alabama; Henry W. Blair, of New Hampshire; Johnson
N. Camden, of West Virginia, and John T. Morgan, of Alabama.

Representatives elect John Randolph Tucker, of Virginia; John A. Kasson, of Iowa; Samuel J.
Randall, of Pennsylvania; Frank Hiscock, of New York; Benjamin Wilson, of West Virginia; John
R. Thomas, of Illinois; Amos Townsend, of Ohio, and Charles M. Shelley, of Alabama.

ORDERS OF THE HEADS OF THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS.

[From the National Republican, Washington, September 21, 1881.]

LONG BRANCH, September 20.[A]

It has been agreed here by all the heads of Departments that the Departments shall remain closed
from this time until the conclusion of President Garfield's funeral ceremonies in Washington,
and it is understood that you will notify the acting heads of all Departments of this arrangement.
* * *

ROBERT T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War.

[Footnote A: Sent to the chief clerk of the War Department.]

[From official records, Treasury Department.]

Order.

Treasury Department, Office of the Secretary, Washington, D.C., September 20, 1881.

It is ordered, as a mark of respect to the memory of President Garfield, that the Treasury
Department be closed during this day.

H.F. FRENCH, Acting Secretary.

[From official records, Treasury Department.]

Notice.

Treasury Department, Office Of The Secretary, Washington, D.C., September 21, 1881.

As a token of respect to the memory of the late President, James A. Garfield, the Treasury
Department will be closed to public business to-day at 12 o'clock noon, and remain closed Thursday
and Friday, the 22d and 23d instant.

H.F. FRENCH, Acting Secretary.

In accordance with the proclamation of the President[B] appointing Monday, the 26th day of
September, as a day of humiliation and mourning, being the day of the burial of the late President,
James A. Garfield, it is ordered that this Department be closed during that day.

H.F. FRENCH, Acting Secretary.

[Footnote B: See p. 34.]

[From official records, Post-Office Department.]

Post-Office Department, Washington, D.C., September 20, 1881.

Ordered, That, owing to the death of President James A. Garfield, this Department be closed
for all public business until after the funeral party shall have left Washington for Ohio.

RICHD. A. ELMER, Acting Postmaster-General.

Ordered, That, in conformity with the action of other executive branches of the Government,
this Department be closed on Monday next, the 26th instant, and that the day be fittingly observed
by all persons connected therewith as the occasion of the consignment to their final resting
place of the remains of the late beloved and honored Chief Magistrate of the United States,
James A. Garfield.

RICHD. A. ELMER, Acting Postmaster-General.

[From official records, Interior Department.]

Order.

A. BELL, Acting Secretary.

In pursuance of the proclamation of the President of the United States[A] appointing Monday,
the 26th instant, as a day of humiliation and mourning for the death of the late President,
this Department and the several bureaus and offices thereof will be closed to business on that day.

A. BELL, Acting Secretary.

[Footnote A: See p. 34.]

Funeral Announcement to the Public.

[From the New-York Times, September 21, 1881.]

[ELBERON, N.J., September 20, 1881.]

The remains of the late President of the United States will be removed to Washington by special
train on Wednesday, September 21, leaving Elberon at 10 a.m. and reaching Washington at 4 p.m.
Detachments from the United States Army and from the marines of the Navy will be in attendance
on arrival at Washington to perform escort duty. The remains will lie in state in the Rotunda
of the Capitol on Thursday and Friday, and will be guarded by deputations from the Executive
Departments and by officers of the Senate and House of Representatives.

Religious ceremonies will be observed in the Rotunda at 3 o'clock on Friday afternoon. At 5
o'clock the remains will be transferred to the funeral car and be removed to Cleveland, Ohio,
via the Pennsylvania Railroad, arriving there Saturday at 2 p.m. In Cleveland the remains will
lie in state until Monday at 2 p.m., and be then interred in Lakeview Cemetery. No ceremonies
are expected in the cities and towns along the route of the funeral train beyond the tolling
of bells. Detailed arrangements for final sepulture are committed to the municipal authorities
of Cleveland, under the direction of the executive of the State of Ohio.

JAMES G. BLAINE, Secretary of State.

OFFICIAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE FUNERAL.

[From official records, War Department.]

Order of Arrangement for the Funeral at Washington City of James A. Garfield, Late President
of the United States.

The remains of the late President will lie in state in the Rotunda of the Capitol until 3 o'clock
p.m. on Friday, the 23d instant, when they will be borne to the depot of the Baltimore and
Potomac Railroad and thence conveyed to their final resting place at Cleveland, Ohio.

Order of Procession.

FUNERAL ESCORT.

(Under command of Brevet Major-General R.B. Ayres.) Battalion of District of Columbia Volunteers.
Battalion of marines. Battalion of foot artillery. Battery of light artillery.

CIVIC PROCESSION.

(Under command of Chief Marshal Colonel Robert Boyd.) Clergymen in attendance. Physicians who
attended the late President. Ex-Presidents of the United States. Citizens and strangers.

ROBERT T. LINCOLN, Secretary of War. WILLIAM H. HUNT, Secretary of the Navy. J. DENT, President
Board of Commissioners District of Columbia.

[From the Washington Post, September 23, 1881.]

Circular.

Headquarters of the Army, Adjutant-General's Office, Washington, September 22, 1881.

The officers of the Army in this city not otherwise ordered for special duty on this occasion
will assemble in full uniform at 3 p.m. on the 23d instant on the east front of the Capitol
and form line, right in front, on the right of the hearse, to act as a guard of honor to the
remains of the late President of the United States from the Capitol to the Baltimore and Potomac
Railroad depot.

By command of General Sherman: R.C. DRUM, Adjutant-General.

[From records in possession of Colonel Amos Webster.]

Orders, No. 22.

Adjutant-General's Office, District of Columbia Militia, September 21, 1881.

Pursuant to orders from the honorable Secretary of War, the troops comprising the militia of
the District of Columbia will assemble in full-dress uniform at 3 p.m. on the 21st instant
on Sixth street NW., the right resting on Pennsylvania avenue, the left extended south, to
take part in and form a portion of the escort to the remains of the late President, and will
also hold themselves in readiness to participate at the funeral ceremonies on Friday, the 23d
instant, The formation will be as follows on both occasions:

Washington Light Infantry Corps, Captain W.G. Moore. Union Veteran Corps, Captain S.E. Thomason.
National Rifles, Captain J.O.P. Burnside. Washington Light Guards, Lieutenant P.S. Hodgson.
Butler Zouaves, Captain C.B. Fisher. Capital City Guards, Captain W.S. Kelly. Washington Cadets,
Captain C.A. Dolan.

The officers of Light Battery A, District of Columbia Artillery, will report to adjutant-general
District of Columbia Militia for duty as aids on both occasions.

A. WEBSTER, Adjutant-General District of Columbia Militia.

[From records in possession of Colonel Amos Webster.]

General Order No. 23.

Adjutant-General's Office, District of Columbia Militia, September 22, 1881. The formation
will be the same as designated in general order No. 22. Upon their arrival on the ground designated
each commanding officer will report in person to the commanding officer of the District Volunteers.

By order of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia: AMOS WEBSTER, Adjutant-General District
of Columbia Militia, Commanding.

[From the Washington Post, September 23, 1881.]

Special Order.

Navy Department, Washington, September 22, 1881.

The officers of the Navy and Marine Corps on duty and resident in Washington will assemble
to-morrow, the 23d instant, at 3 o'clock p.m., at the east front of the Capitol, in full dress,
to accompany the remains of the late President Garfield to the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad
depot.

Commander H.L. Howison, United States Navy, is hereby appointed adjutant, and will direct the
formation of the officers of the Navy and Marine Corps.

ED. T. NICHOLS, Acting Secretary of the Navy.

[From the Medical Record, New York, 1881, vol. 20, p. 364.]

OFFICIAL BULLETIN OF THE AUTOPSY ON THE BODY OF PRESIDENT GARFIELD.

The following official bulletin was prepared by the surgeons who have been in attendance upon
the late President:

By previous Arrangement a post-mortem examination of the body of President Garfield was made
this afternoon in the presence and with the assistance of Drs. Hamilton, Agnew, Bliss, Barnes,
Woodward, Reyburn, Andrew H. Smith, of Elberon, and Acting Assistant Surgeon D.S. Lamb, of
the Army Medical Museum, of Washington. The operation was performed by Dr. Lamb. It was found
that the ball, after fracturing the right eleventh rib, had passed through the spinal column
in front of the spinal cord, fracturing the body of the first lumbar vertebra, driving a number
of small fragments of bone into the adjacent soft parts, and lodging below the pancreas, about
2-1/2 inches to the left of the spine and behind the peritoneum, where it had become completely
encysted.

The immediate cause of death was secondary hemorrhage from one of the mesenteric arteries adjoining
the track of the ball, the blood rupturing the peritoneum and nearly a pint escaping into the
abdominal cavity. This hemorrhage is believed to have been the cause of the severe pain in
the lower part of the chest complained of just before death. An abscess cavity 6 inches by
4 in dimensions was found in the vicinity of the gall bladder, between the liver and the transverse
colon, which were strongly adherent. It did not involve the substance of the liver, and no
communication was found between it and the wound.

A long suppurating channel extended from the external wound, between the loin muscles and the
right kidney, almost to the right groin. This channel, now known to be due to the burrowing
of pus from the wound, was supposed during life to have been the track of the ball.

On an examination of the organs of the chest evidences of severe bronchitis were found on both
sides, with broncho-pneumonia of the lower portions of the right lung, and, though to a much
less extent, of the left. The lungs contained no abscesses and the heart no clots. The liver
was enlarged and fatty, but not from abscesses. Nor were any found in any other organ except
the left kidney, which contained near its surface a small abscess about one-third of an inch
in diameter.

In reviewing the history of the case in connection with the autopsy it is quite evident that
the different suppurating surfaces, and especially the fractured, spongy tissue of the vertebrae,
furnish a sufficient explanation of the septic condition which existed.

D.W. BLISS. J.K. BARNES. J.J. WOODWARD. ROBERT REYBURN. FRANK H. HAMILTON. D. HAYES AGNEW.
ANDREW H. SMITH. D.S. LAMB.

[September 20, 1881.]

FORMAL OATH OF OFFICE ADMINISTERED TO PRESIDENT ARTHUR.

President Chester A. Arthur took the formal oath of office as President of the United States
in the room of the Vice-President, in the Capitol, Thursday, September 22, 1881, at 12.10 o'clock
p.m. Chief Justice Morrison R. Waite administered the oath prescribed by the Constitution in
the presence of the members of the Cabinet, the Justices of the Supreme Court, ex-Presidents
Grant and Hayes, General W.T. Sherman, and a number of Senators and Representatives.

[For Inaugural Address of President Arthur see pp. 33-34.]

ACTION OF CONGRESS.

The committee on the part of the Senate, having been subsequently increased to eight, comprised
the following-named gentlemen:

John Sherman, of Ohio; George H. Pendleton, of Ohio; Henry L. Dawes, of Massachusetts; Elbridge
G. Lapham, of New York; Thomas F. Bayard, of Delaware; John T. Morgan, of Alabama; Omar D.
Conger, of Michigan, and Joseph E. Brown, of Georgia.

February 1, 1882, both Houses of Congress adopted the following resolution:

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring),
    That Monday, the 27th day of February, 1882, be set apart for the
    memorial services upon the late President, James A. Garfield.

