Arg. 2. Because it is possible for the Devil in the Shape of an innocent Person to do other
mischiefs. As for those who acknowledge that Satan may personate a pious Person, but not to
do mischief, their Opinion has been confuted by more than a few unhappy Instances. Mr. Clark[17]
speaks of a Man that had been an Atheist, or a Sadduce, not believing that there are any Devils
or any (to us) invisible World; this Man was converted, but as a Punishment of his Infidelity,
evil Angels did often appear to him in the Shape of his most intimate Friends, and would sometimes
seduce him into great Inconveniences. It has been elsewhere, and but now noted, that a Dæmon
in the shape of excellent Mr. Dury appeared to the Turkish Chaos, Anno. 1658. to disswade him
from prosecuting his desires of Baptism into the Name of Christ: Also to Mr. Earle in the likeness
of his Friends, to discourage him from doing things lawful and good. A multitude of Jews were
once deluded by a Person pretending to be Moses from Heaven, and that if they would follow
him they should pass safe through the Sea (as did their Fathers of old through the Red Sea)
whereby great numbers of them were deceived and perished in the Waters. [18]Learned and judicious
Men have concluded that this Moses Creensis was a Dæmon, transforming himself into Moses: And
that the Devil has frequently appeared[19] in the shape of famous Persons to the end that he
might seduce Men into Idolatry, (a Sin equal to that of Witchcraft) no Man that has made it
his Concern to enquire into things of this nature can be ignorant. Many Examples of this kind
are collected by Mr. Bromhall in his Treatise of Spectres, and the cunning Devil, to strengthen
Men in their worshipping of Saints departed: And by Mr. Bovet in his Pandemonium. It is credibly
reported that the Devil in the likeness of a faithful Minister (as St. Ives before mentioned,
near Boston in Lincolnshire) came to one that was in trouble of Mind, telling her the longer
she lived, the worse it would be for her; and therefore advising her to Self-murder: An eminent
Person still living had the account of this Matter from Mr. Cotton (the famous Teacher of both
Bostons.) He was well acquainted with that Minister, who related to him the whole Story, with
all the Circumstances of it: For Mr. Cotten was so affected with the Report, as to take a Journey
on purpose to the Town where this happened, that so he might obtain a satisfactory account
about it, which he did. Some Authors say, that a Dæmon appeared in the form of Sylvanus (Hierom's
Friend) attempting a dishonest thing, the Devil thereby designing to blast the Reputation of
a famous Bishop. I have in another Book mentioned that celebrated Instance concerning an honest
Citizen in Zurick (the Metropolis of Helvetia) in whose shape the Devil appeared, committing
an abominable Fact (not fit to be named) very early in the Morning, seen by the Prefect of
the City, and his Servant; they were amazed to behold a Man of good Esteem for his Conversation,
perpetrating a thing so vile and abominable; but going from the Spectre in the Field, to the
Citizen's House in the Town, they found him at home, and in his Bed, nor had he been abroad
that Morning, which convinced them, that what they saw was an Illusion of the Devil: This Passage
is mentioned as a thing known and certain by Lavater in his Treatise of Spectres,[20] who was
a most learned and judicious Preacher in that City. Our Juel saith of him, that he must ingeniously
confess, that he never understood Solomon's Proverbs until Lavater expounded them to him: That
Book of his De Spectris hath been published in Latin, High and Low Dutch, French, Italian.
The learned Zanchy[21] speaks highly of it, professing that he had read it both with Pleasure
and Profit. Voetius[22] takes notice of that passage which we have quoted out of Lavater as
a thing memorable.

Some Popish Authors argue, That the Devil cannot personate an innocent Man as doing an act
of Witchcraft, because then he might as well represent them as committing Theft, Murder, &c.
And if so, there would be no living in the World: But I turn the Argument against them, he
may (as the mentioned Instances prove) personate honest Men as doing other Evils; and no solid
Reason can be given why he may not as well personate them under the Notion of Witches, as under
the Notion of Thieves, Murderers, and Idolaters: As for the Objection, that then there would
be no living in the World, we shall consider it under the next Argument.

Arg. 3. If Satan may not represent one that is not a Covenant Servant of his, as afflicting
those that are bewitched or possessed, then it is either because he wants Will, or Power to
do this, or because God will never permit him thus to do. No man but a Sadduce doubts of the
ill will of Devils; nothing is more pleasing to the Malice of those wicked Spirits than to
see Innocency wronged: And the Power of the Enemy is such, as that having once obtained a Divine
Concession to use his Art, he can do this and much more than this amounts unto: We know by
Scripture-Revelation, that the Sorcerers of Egypt caused many untrue and delusive [23]Representations
before Pharaoh and his Servants. Exod. 7.11, 22. and 8.7. 2 Thess. 2.9. His Heart is beyond
what the wisest of Men may pretend unto: He has perfect skill in Opticks, and can therefore
cause that to be visible to one, which is not so to another, and things also to appear far
otherwise then they are: He has likewise the Art of Limning in the Perfection of it, and knows
what may be done by Colours. It is an odd passage[24] which I find in the Acta Eruditorum,
printed by Lipsick, that about Thirty-two Years ago an indigent Merchant in France was instructed
by a Dæmon, that with Water of Borax he might colour Taffities, so as to cause them to glister
and look very gay: He searcheth into the Nature, Causes, and Reasons of things, whereby he
is able to produce wonderful effects. So that if he does not form the Shape of an innocent
Person as afflicting others, it is not from want of either will or power. They that affirm,
that God never did, nor ever will permit him thus to do, alledge that it is inconsistent with
the Righteousness and Providence of God, in governing Humane Affairs thus to suffer Men to
be imposed on: It must be acknowledged[25] that the Divine Providence has taken care, that
the greatest part of Mankind shall not be left to unavoidable Deception, so as to be always
abused by the mischievous Agents of Hell, in the Objects of plain Sence: But yet it is not
for sinful and silly Mortals to prescribe Rules to the most High in his Government of the World,
or to direct him how far he may permit Satan to use his power: I am apt to think that there
are some amongst us, who if they had lived in Job's days, and seen the Devil tormenting of
him, and heard him complaining of being scared with Dreams, and terrified with Night-visions,
they would have joined with his uncharitable Friends in censuring him as a most guilty Person:
But we should consider, that the most high God doth sometimes deal with Men in a way of absolute
Sovereignty, performing the thing which is appointed for them, and many such things are with
him: If he does destroy the perfect with the wicked, and laugh at the tryal of the innocent,
(Job 9.22, 23.) Who shall enter into his Councils! who has given him a Charge over the Earth!
or who has disposed the whole World! Men are not able to give an account of his ordinary Works,
much less of his secret Counsels, and the dark Dispensations of his Providence: They do but
darken Counsel by Words without Knowledge when they undertake it: If we are not able to see
how this or that can stand with the Righteousness of him that governs the World, shall we say
that the Almighty will pervert Judgment? or that he that governs the Earth hateth Right? Shall
we condemn him that is most just? But whereas 'tis objected; where is Providence? And how shall
Men live on the Earth, if the Devil may be permitted to use such Power? I demand, where was
Providence, when Satan had Power to cause Sons of Belial to lye and swear away the Life of
innocent Naboth, laying such Crimes to his charge as he was never guilty of? And what an Hour
of Darkness was it? How far was the Power of Hell permitted to prevail, when Christ the Son
of God was accused, condemned, and hanged for a Crime that he never was guilty of? That was
the strangest Providence that has happened since the World began, and yet in the Issue the
most glorious: We must therefore distinguish between what does ordinarily come to pass by the
Providence of God, and things which are extraordinary: It is not an usual thing for a Naboth
to have his Life taken from him by false Accusations, or for an Athanasius or a Susanna to
be charged, and perhaps brought before Courts of Judicature for Crimes of which they were altogether
innocent.

But if we therefore conclude, that such a thing as this can never happen in the World, we shall
offend against the Generation of the Just: It is not ordinary for Devils to be permitted to
reveal the secret Sins of Men; yet this has been done more than once or twice: Nor is it ordinary
for Dæmons to steal Money out of Mens Pockets, and Purses, or Wine and Cyder out of their Cellars.
Yet some such Instances have there been amongst our selves. It is not usual for Providence
to permit the Devil to come from Hell and to throw Fire on the tops of Houses, and to cause
a whole Town to be burnt to Ashes thereby; there would (it must be confessed) be no living
in the World, if evil Angels should be permitted to do thus when they had a mind to it; nevertheless,
Authors worthy of Credit, tell us, that this has sometimes happened. Both Erasmus[26] and Cardanus
write that the Town of Schiltach in Germany, was in the Month of April, 1533. set on fire by
a Devil, and burnt to the ground in an Hour's space: 'Tis also reported by Sigibert, Aventinus
and others, that some Cottages and Barns in a Town called Bingus were fired by a wicked Genius;
that spiteful Dæmon said it was for the Impieties of such a Man whom he named, that he was
sent to molest them: The poor Man to satisfie his Neighbours, who were ready to Stone him,
carried an hot Iron in his Hand, but receiving no hurt thereby, he was judged to be innocent.
It is not ordinary for a Devil upon the dying Curse of a Servant, to have a Commission from
Heaven to tear and torment a bloody cruel Master; yet such a thing may possibly come to pass.

To proceed, Is it not usual for Persons after their Death to appear unto the Living: But it
does not therefore follow, that the great God will not suffer this to be: For both in former
and latter Ages, Examples thereof have not been wanting: No longer since than the last Winter,
there was much discourse in London concerning a Gentlewoman, unto whom her dead Son (and another
whom she knew not) had appeared: Being then in London, I was willing to satisfie my self, by
enquiring into the Truth of what was reported; and on Febr. 23. 1691. my Brother (who is now
a Pastor to a Congregation in that City) and I discoursed the Gentlewoman spoken of; she told
us, that a Son of hers, who had been a very civil young Man, but more airy in his Temper than
was pleasing to his serious Mother, being dead, she was much concerned in her Thoughts about
his Condition in the other World; but a Fortnight after his Death he appeared to her, saying,
Mother you are solicitous about my Spiritual Welfare; trouble your self no more, for I am happy,
and so vanished; should there be a continual Intercourse between the Visible and Invisible
World, it would breed Confusion. But from thence to infer, that the great Ruler of the Universe
will never permit any thing of this nature to be, is an inconsequent Conclusion; it is not
usual for Devils to be permitted to come and violently carry away persons through the Air,
several miles from their Habitations: Nevertheless, this was done in Sweedland about twenty
Years ago, by means of a cursed Knot of Witches there. And a learned Physician now living,
giveth an account of several Children, who by Diabolical Frauds were stollen from their Parents,
and others left in their room: And of two, that in the night-time a Line was by invisible Hands
put about their Necks, with which they had been strangled, but that some near them happily
prevented it. V. Germ. Ephem. Anno 1689. pag. 51. 516.

Let me further add here; It has very seldom been known, that Satan has Personated innocent
Men doing an ill thing, but Providence has found out some way for their Vindication; either
they have been able to prove that they were in another place when that Fact was done, or the
like. So that perhaps there never was an Instance of any innocent Person Condemned in any Court
of Judicature on Earth, only through Satans deluding and imposing on the Imaginations of Men,
when nevertheless, the Witnesses, Juries, and Judges, were all to be excused from blame.

Arg. An inchanted eye shall see such things as others cannot discern; it is a thing too well
known to be denied, that some by rubbing their eyes with a bewitched Water, have immediately
thereupon seen that which others could not discern; and there are Persons in the World, who
have a strange Spectral sight. Mr. Glanvil[28] speaks of a Dutchman that could see Ghosts which
others could perceive nothing of. There are in Spain a sort of men whom they call Zahurs, these
can see into the Bowels of the Earth; they are able to discover Minerals and hidden Treasures;
nevertheless, they have their extraordinary sight only on Tuesdays and Fridays, and not on
the other days of the Week. Delrio saith, that when he was at Madrid, Anno Dom. 1575. he saw
some of these strange sighted Creatures. Mr. George Sinclare, in his Book Entituled, Satans
Invisible World discovered,[29] has these Words, 'I am undoubtedly informed, that men and women
in the High-lands can discern Fatality approaching others, by seeing them in the Waters or
with Winding Sheets about them. And that others can lecture in a Sheeps shoulder-bone a Death
within the Parish seven or eight Days before it come. It is not improbable but that such Preternatural
Knowledge comes first by a Compact with the Devil, and is derived downward by Succession to
their Posterity: Many such I suppose are Innocent, and have this sight against their Will and
Inclination.' Thus Mr. Sinclare, I concur with his supposal, that such Knowledge is originally
from Satan, and perhaps the Effect of some old Inchantment. There are some at this day in the
World, that if they come into a House where one of the Family will die within a Fortnight,
the smell of a dead Corpse offends them to such a degree, as that they cannot stay in that
House. It is reported that near unto the Abby of St. Maurice in Burgundy[30] there is a Fishpond
in which are Fishes put according to the number of the Monks of that place; if any one of them
happened to be sick, there is a Fish seen to Float and Swim above Water half dead, and if the
Monk shall die, the Fish a few days before dieth. In some parts in Wales Death-lights or Corps
Candles (as they call them) are seen in the night time going from the House where some body
will shortly die, and passing in to the Church-yard. Of this, my Honoured and never to be forgotten
Friend Mr. Richard Baxter,[31] has given an Account in his Book about Witchcrafts lately Published:
what to make of such things, except they be the effects of some old Inchantment, I know not;
nor what Natural Reason to assign for that which I find amongst the Observations of the Imperial
Academy for the Year 1687, viz. That in an Orchard where are choice Damascen Plumbs, the Master
of the Family being sick of a Quartan Ague, whilst he continued very ill, four of his Plumb-trees
instead of Damascens brought forth a vile sort of yellow Plumbs: but recovering Health, the
next Year the Tree did (as formerly) bear Damascens again; but when after that he fell into
a fatal Dropsie, on those Trees were seen not Damascens, but another sort of Fruit. The same
Author[32] gives Instances of which he had the certain knowledge, concerning Apple-trees and
Pear-trees, that the Fruit of them would on a sudden wither as if they had been baked in an
Oven, when the owners of them were mortally sick. It is no less strange that in the Illustrious
Electoral[33] House of Brandenburg before the Death of some one of the Family Feminine Spectres
appeared: [34]and often in the Houses of Great men, Voices and Visions from the Invisible World
have been the Harbingers of Death. When any Heir in the Worshipful Family of the Breertons
in Cheshire is near his Death, there are seen in a Pool adjoyning, Bodies of Trees swimming
for certain days together, on which Learned Cambden[35] has this note, These and such like
things are done either by the Holy Tutelar Angels of Men, or else by the Devils, who by Gods
Permission mightily shew their Power in this Inferiour World. As for Mr. Sinclare's Notion
that some Persons may have a second Sight, (as 'tis termed) and yet be themselves Innocent,
I am satisfied that he judgeth right; for this is common amongst the Laplanders, who are horribly
addicted to Magical Incantations: They bequeath their Dæmons to their Children as a Legacy,
by whom they are often assisted (like Bewitched Persons as they are) to see and do things beyond
the Power of Nature. An Historian who deserves Credit, relates,[36] that a certain Laplander
gave him a true and particular Account of what had happened to him in his Journey to Lapland;
and further complained to him with Tears, that things at great distance were represented to
him, and how much he desired to be Delivered from that Diabolical Sight, but could not; this
doubtless was caused by some Inchantment. But to proceed to what I intend; the Eyes of Persons
by reason of Inchanting Charms, may not only see what others do not, but be under such power
of Fascination, as that things which are not, shall appear to them as real: The Apostle speaks
of Bewitched Eyes, Gal. 3.1. and we know from Scripture, that the Imaginations of men have
by Inchantments been imposed upon; and Histories abound with very strange Instances of this
Nature: The old Witch Circe by an Inchanted Cup caused Ulysses his Companions to imagine themselves
to be turned into Swine; and how many Witches have been themselves so bewitched by the Devil,
as really to believe that they were transformed into Wolves, or Dogs, or Cats. It is reported
of Simon Magus,[37] that by his Sorceries he would so impose on the Imaginations of People,
as that they thought he had really changed himself into another sort of Creature. Opollonius
of Tyana could out do Simon with his Magick: The great Bohemian Conjurer Zyto[38] by his Inchantments,
caused certain Persons whom he had a mind to try his Art upon, to imagine that their Hands
were turned into the Feet of an Ox, or into the Hoofs of a Horse, so that they could not reach
to the Dishes before them to take any thing thence; he sold Wisps of Straw to a Butcher who
bought them for Swine; that many such prestigious Pranks were played, by the unhappy Faustus,
is attested by Camerarius, Wyerus, Voetius, Lavater, and Lonicer.

There is newly Published a Book (mentioned in the Acta Eruditorum) wherein the Author [39](Wiechard
Valvassor) relates, that a Venetian Jew instructed him (only he would not attend his Instructions)
how to make a Magical Glass which should represent any Person or thing according as he should
desire. If a Magician by an Inchanted Glass can do this, he may as well by the help of a Dæmon
cause false Idæas of Persons and Things to be impressed on the Imaginations of bewitched Persons;
the Blood and Spirits of a Man, that is bitten with a Mad-Dog, are so envenomed, as that strange
Impressions are thereby made on his Imagination: let him be brought into a Room where there
is a Looking-Glass, and he will (if put upon it) not only say but swear that he sees a Dog,
tho' in truth there is no Dog it may be within 20 Miles of him; and is it not then possible
for the Dogs of Hell to poyson the Imaginations of miserable Creatures, so as that they shall
believe and swear that such Persons hurt them as never did so? I have heard of an Inchanted
Pin, that has caused the Condemnation and Death of many scores of innocent Persons. There was
a notorious Witchfinder in Scotland, that undertook by a Pin, to make an infallible Discovery
of suspected Persons, whether they were Witches or not, if when the Pin was run an Inch or
two into the Body of the accused Party no Blood appeared, nor any sense of Pain, then he declared
them to be Witches; by means hereof my Author tells me no less then 300 persons were Condemned
for Witches in that Kingdom. This Bloody Jugler after he had done enough in Scotland, came
to the Town of Berwick upon Tweed; an honest Man now living in New-England assureth me, that
he saw the Man thrust a great Brass Pin two Inches into the Body of one, that some would in
that way try whether there was Witchcraft in the Case or no: the accused Party was not in the
least sensible of what was done, and therefore in danger of receiving the Punishment justly
due for Witchcraft; only it so happened, that Collonel Fenwick (that worthy Gentleman, who
many years since lived in New-England) was then the Military Governour in that Town; he sent
for the Mayor and Magistrates advising them to be careful and cautious in their proceedings;
for he told them, it might be an Inchanted Pin, which the Witchfinder made use of: Whereupon
the Magistrates of the place ordered that he should make his Experiment with some other Pin
as they should appoint: But that he would by no means be induced unto, which was a sufficient
Discovery of the Knavery and Witchery of the Witchfinder. There is a strange Diabolical Energy
goeth along with Incantations. If Balak had not known that he would not have sent for Balaam,
to see whether he could inchant the Children of Israel. The Scripture intimates that Inchantments
will keep a Serpent from biting, Eccles. 10.11. A Witch in Sweedland confessed, that the Devil
gave her a wooden Knife; and that if she did but touch any living thing with that Knife, it
would die immediately: And that there is a wonderful Power of the Devil attending things inchanted,
we have confirmed by a prodigious Instance in Major Weir, a Scotch Man: That wretched Man was
a perfect Prodigy; a Man of great Parts; esteemed a Saint, yet lived in secret Uncleanness
with his own Sister for thirty four Years together: After his wickedness was discovered, he
did not seem to be troubled at any of his Crimes, excepting that he had caused a poor Woman
to be publickly whipped, because she reported that she had seen him committing Bestiality;
which thing was true, only the Woman could not prove it. This horrid Creature, if he had his
Inchanted Staff in his Hand could pray to admiration, and do extraordinary things, as is more
amply related in the Postscript to Mr. Sinclares his Book before mentioned: But if he had not
his Inchanted Rod to lean upon, he could not transform himself into an Angel of Light: But
by all these things we may conclude, that it is not impossible, but that a guilty Conjurer,
that so he may render himself the less suspected, may by his Magical Art and Inchantment, cause
innocent Persons to be represented as afflicting those whom the Devil and himself are the Tormentors
of.

Arg. 5. The Truth we affirm is so evident, as that many Learned and Judicious Men have freely
subscribed unto it.

The memorable Relation of the Devils assuming the shape of an innocent Citizen in Zurick, is
in the Judgment of that great Divine Lud Lavater, of weighty Consideration: And he declares,
that he does therefore mention it, that so Judges might be cautelous in their Proceedings in
Cases of this nature, inasmuch as the Devil does often in that way intangle innocent Persons,
and bring them into great Troubles. His Words are, [40]Hanc Historiam ideo recito, ut Judices,
in hujusmodi, Casibus cauti sint: Diabolus enim hac via sæpe innocentibus insidiatur. He confirms
what he saith by reciting a Passage out of Alertus Granzius, who writes that the Devil was
seen in the shape of a Nobleman to come out of the Empress's Chamber: But to clear her Innocency,
she (according to the superstitious Ordeals then in fashion) walked blindfold over a great
many of glowing hot Irons without touching any of them. Voetius in his [41]Disputation of Spectres
proposeth that Question, whether the Devil may not untruly personate a Godly Man, and answers
in the Affirmative: And withal adds, that it is a sufficient Argument (ad hominem) to answer
the Papists with their own Histories, which give Instances of Satan's appearing in the Figure
of Saints, nay of Christ himself. And in his Discourse concerning the Operations of Dæmons[42]
he has the like Problem, whether the Devil may not possibly put on the shape of a true Believer,
a real Saint, not only of such as are dead, but still living, and answers, Quidni? Why not?
It is true Popish Casuists[43] do generally incline to the Negative in this Question: Nevertheless,
the Instance of Germanus, who saw a Company of honest People represented by the Devil, as if
they had been feasting together, when they were really asleep in their Beds, does a little
puzzle them, so as that they are necessitated to take up with this Conclusion, [44]That by
an extraordinary Permission of God, innocent Persons may be represented by Satan in the Nocturnal
Conventicles of Witches: And if so, much more as afflicting bewitched Persons. Delrio giveth
an account of an innocent Monk, whose Reputation was indangered by a Dæmon's appearing in his
shape. He writes more like a Divine than Jesuits use to do, when he saith that, [45]It is not
absolutely to be denied, but that the Devils may exhibite the Forms of innocent Persons, if
God permit it, who when he does permit it, usually by some Providence discovers the Fraud of
the Devils, that so the Innocent may be vindicated, or if not, it is to bring them to repentance
for some Sin, or to try their Patience. It is rare to see such Words dropping from the Pen
of a Jesuit: As for Protestant Writers, I cannot call to mind one of any Note, that does deny
the Possibility of the Affirmative, in the Question before us. Dr. Henkelius has lately [46]published
a learned and elaborate Discourse concerning the right Method of curing such as are obsessed
with Cacodæmons, in which he asserts, that Satan may possibly assume the Form of innocent and
pious Persons, that so he might thereby destroy their Reputations, and expose them to undue
Punishments. As for our English Divines, there are not many greater Casuists than Mr. Perkins;
nor do I know any one that has written on the Case of Witchcraft with more Judgment and Clearness
of Understanding: He has these Words,[47] "If a Man being dangerously sick and like to die
upon suspicion, will take it on his death, that such an one has bewitched him, it is an allegation
which may move the Judge to examine the Party, but it is of no moment for Conviction." The
like is asserted by [48]Mr. Cooper, Mr. Bernard, (once a famous Minister at Batcomb in Somerset)
his Book called A Guide to Grand Jury-men in Cases of Witchcraft, is a solid and wise Treatise.
What his Judgment was in the Case now under debate, we may see, pag. 209, 210. where his Words
are these; "An Apparation of the Party suspected, whom the Afflicted in their Fits seem to
see, is a great suspicion; yet this is but a presumption, tho' a strong one, because these
Apparitions are wrought by the Devil, who can represent to the Phansie such as the Parties
use to fear, in which his representation he may well lye as in his other Witness: For if the
Devil can represent to the Witch a seeming Samuel, saying, I see Gods ascending out of the
Earth, to beguile Saul, may we not think he can represent a common ordinary Person, Man or
Woman unregenerate, tho' no Witch to the Phansie of vain Persons, to deceive them and others
that will give Credit to the Devil." Thus Mr. Bernard. 2.7.

Arg. 6. Our own Experience has confirmed the Truth of what we affirm.

I have in another Book given an account concerning Elizabeth Knap of Groton, who complained
that a Woman as eminent for Piety as any in that Town, did appear to her, and afflict her:
But afterwards she was satisfied that that Person never did her any harm, but that the Devil
abused them both. About two Years ago, a bewitched Person in Chelmsford in her Fits, complained
that a worthy good Man, a near Relation of hers did afflict her: So did she likewise complain
of another Person in that town of known integrity and Piety.

I have my self known several of whom I ought to think that they are now in Heaven, considering
that they were of good Conversation, and reputed Pious by those that had the greatest Intimacy
with them, of whom nevertheless, some complained that their Shapes appeared to them, and threatned
them: Nor is this answered by saying, we do not know but those Persons might be Witches: We
are bound by the Rule of Charity to think otherwise: And they that censure any, meerly because
such a sad Affliction as their being falsly represented by Satan has befallen them, do not
do as they would be done by. I bless the Lord, it was never the portion allotted to me, nor
to any Relation of mine to be thus abused: But no Man knoweth what may happen to him, since
there be just Men unto whom it happeneth according to the Work of the Wicked, Eccles. 8.14.
But what needs more to be said, since there is one amongst our selves whom no Man that knows
him, can think him to be a Wizzard, whom yet some bewitched Persons complained of, that they
are in his Shape tormented: And the Devils have of late accused some eminent Persons.

It is an awful thing which the Lord has done to convince some amongst us of their Error: This
then I declare and testifie, that to take away the Life of any one, meerly because a Spectre
or Devil, in a bewitched or possessed Person does accuse them, will bring the Guilt of innocent
Blood on the Land, where such a thing shall be done: Mercy forbid that it should, (and I trust
that as it has not it never will be so) in New-England. What does such an Evidence amount unto
more than this: Either such an one did afflict such an one, or the Devil in his likeness, or
his Eyes were bewitched.

The things which have been mentioned make way for, and bring us unto the second Case, which
is to come under our Consideration, viz.

If one bewitched is struck down at the Look or cast of the Eye of another, and after that recovered
again by a Touch from the same Person, Is not this an infallible Proof, that the Person suspected
and complained of is in League with the Devil?

Answer; It must be owned that by such things as these Witchcrafts and Witches have been discovered
more than once or twice: And that an ill Fame, or other Circumstances attending the suspected
Party, this may be a Ground for Examination; but this alone does not afford sufficient Matter
for Conviction: As Spectres or Devils appearing in the Shapes of Men that have been murdered,
declaring that they were murdered by such Persons and in such a place, may give just occasion
to the Magistrate for Enquiry into the Matter: One great Witch-Advocate[49] confesseth, that
by this means Murders have been brought to light; yet that alone, if other Circumstances did
not concur, would not by the Law of God take away the Life of any Man. If my Reader pleaseth,
he shall hear what old Mr. Bernard of Batcomb saith to a Case not unlike to this, and the former:
His Words are these,[50] 'The naming of the suspected in their Fits, and also where they have
been, and what they have done here or there, as Mr. Throgmorton's Children could do, and that
often and ever found true; this is a great Presumption: yet is this but a Presumption, because
this is only the Devils Testimony, who can lie, and that more often than speak Truth. Christ
would not allow his Witness of him in a point most true; nor St. Paul in the due Praises of
him and Sylas; his Witness then may not be received as sufficient in case of ones Life: He
may accuse an Innocent, as I shewed before in Mr. Edmund's giving over his Practice to find
Stollen Goods; and Satan we read would accuse Job to God himself to be an Hypocrite, and to
be ready to be a Blasphemer, and he is called the Accuser of the Brethren. Albeit, I cannot
deny but this has very often proved true, yet seeing the Devil is such an one as you heard,
Christian Men should not take his Witness, to give in Verdict upon Oath, and so swear that
the Devil has therein spoken the Truth; be it far from good men to confirm any Word of the
Devil by Oath, if it be not an evident Truth without the Devil's Testimony, who in speaking
the Truth, has a lying Intent, and speaks some Truths of things done, which may be found to
be so, that he may wrap with them some pernicious Lye, which cannot be tried to be true, but
must rest upon his own testimony to ensnare the Blood of the Innocent.' Thus Mr. Bernard resolved
the Case above sixty Years ago; and truly in my Opinion like a Wise and Orthodox Divine, what
he says, reacheth both this and the former Case. Dr. Cotta (a Learned Physician) in his Book,
about The Tryal of Witchcraft, shewing the true and right Method of the Discovery, with a Confutation
of Erroneous ways (which Book he dedicates to the Right Honourable Sir Edward Cook, Lord Chief
Justice of England,)[51] He discourses concerning Exploration of Witches by the touch of the
Witch curing the touched bewitched, and sheweth the Fallibility and Vanity of that way of Tryal,
tho' he had often seen Persons bewitched in that way immediately delivered from the present
Fit or Agony which was upon them: But he taketh it to be a Diabolical Miracle. He argueth thus,[52]
'No Man can doubt but that the Vertue wherewith this touch was indued, is supernatural: If
it be so, How can man to whom nothing is simply possible that is not natural be justly reputed
an Agent therein? If he cannot be esteemed in himself any possible or true Agent, then it remaineth
that he can only be interested therein as an Accessary in Consent, or as a Servant unto a Superior
Power: If that Superior Power be the Devil, the least reasonable doubt, whether the Devil alone,
or with the Consent or Contract of the suspected Person has produced that wonderful effect;
with what Religion or Reason can any Man incline rather to credit the Devil's mouth in the
Bewitched, than to pity the Accused, and believe them against the subtility of a deceitful
Devil: If the Devil by Divine Permission may cause supernatural Concomitances and Consequences
to attend the natural Actions of Men without their allowance, as is manifest in possessed Persons,
how is it reasonable and just that the Impositions of the Devil should be imputed unto any
Man: And (saith he) God forbid that the Devil's Signs and Wonders, nay his Truths should become
any legal Allegations or Evidences in Law. We may therefore conclude it unjust, that the forenamed
miraculous Effect by the Devil wrought and imputed by the Bewitched, should be esteemed an
infallible mark against any Man, as therefore convinced for that the Devil and the Bewitched
have so decyphered him!' Thus that Learned Man. But to the Case in hand, I have several things
to offer.

1. It is possible that the Persons in Question may be possessed with Cacodæmons: That bewitched
Persons are many times really possessed with evil Spirits, is most certain. And as Mr. Perkins
observes, no Man can prove but that Witchcraft might be the Cause of many of those Possessions,
which we read of in the Gospel: And that Devils have been immitted into the Bodies of miserable
Creatures by Magicians and Witches, Histories and Experience do abundantly testifie. Hierom[53]
relates concerning a certain Virgin, that a young Man, whose Amours she despised, prevailed
with a Magician to send an evil Spirit into her, by means whereof she was strangely besotted.
'Tis reported[54] of Simon Magus, that after he had used an Hellish Sacrifice, to be revenged
of some that had called him a great Witch, he caused infernal Spirits to enter into them. Many
confessing Witches have acknowledged, that they were the Cause of such and such Persons being
possessed of evil Angels, as [55]Thyræus and others have observed: Now no Credit ought to be
given to what Dæmons in such as are by them obsessed shall say. Our Saviour by his own unerring
Example has taught us not to receive the Devil's Testimony in any thing. The Papists are justly
condemned for bringing Diabolical Testimony to confirm the Principles of their Religion. Peter
Cotton the Jesuite[56] enquired of the Devil in a possessed Person, what was the clearest Scripture
to prove Purgatory. At the time when Luther died, all the possessed People in the Netherlands
were quiet: The Devils in them, said the Reason was, because Luther[57] had been a great Friend
of theirs, and they owed him that respect as to go as far as Germany to attend his Funeral.
Another time when there was a talk of some Ministers of the Reformed Religion, the Devils in
the Obsessed laughed and said, they were not at all afraid of them, for the Calvinists and
they were very good Friends. The Jesuits insult with these Testimonies as if they were Divine
Oracles: But the Father of Lyes is never to be believed: He will utter twenty great truths
to make way for one lye: He will accuse twenty Witches, if he can but thereby bring one innocent
Person into trouble: He mixeth Truths with Lyes, that so those truths giving credit unto lyes,
Men may believe both, and so be deceived: And whereas some say, that the Persons in question
are only bewitched and not possessed, let it be considered that possessed Persons are called
Energumens from #ERGOMAI# Agitor: They whose Bodies are preternaturally agitated, so as to
be in danger of being thrown into the Fire, or into the Water, though they may be bewitched,
are undoubtedly possessed with Dæmons, Mark 9.22, 25. Learned Men[58] give it as a most certain
sign of Possession, when the afflicted Party can see and hear that which no one else can discern
any thing of, and when they can discover [59]secret things, Acts 6.16. past, or future, [60]as
a possessed Person in Germany foretold the War which broke out in the Year, 1546. And when
the Limbs of miserable Creatures, are bent and disjointed so as could not possible be without
a Luxation of Joints, were it not done by a preternatural Hand, and yet no hurt raised thereby
that argueth Possession. Also, when Persons are by the Devil cast into Fits, in the which they
speak of things, that afterwards they have no remembrance of,[61] or, if they are by cruel
Devils tortured, so as to cause horrendous Clamours in the distressed Sufferers, that's another
sign of Obsession by evil Spirits: If all these things concur in the Persons concerning where
the Question is, we may conclude them to be Dæmoniacks: And if so, no Juror can with a safe
Conscience look on the Testimony of such, as sufficient to take away the Life of any Man.

2. Falling down by the cast of an Eye proceeds not from a natural, but an arbitrary Cause;[62]
not from any Poyson in the Eye of the Witch, but from the Agency of some Dæmon: The opinion
of Fascination by the Eye is an old Fable, and (saith Mr. Perkins) as fond as old. Pliny[63]
speaks of a People that killed folks by looking on them; and he adds, that they had two Apples
in each Eye: and Tully writes of women who had two Apples in one Eye that always did mischief
with their meer looks; so Ovid, Pupula duplex fulminat. And Plutarch[64] writes that some persons
have such a Poyson in their Eyes, as that their Friends and Familiars are Fascinated thereby;
nay he speaks of one that Bewitched himself sick by looking on his own Face in a Glass: Others
write of Fascination by a meer Prolation of Words; and for ought I know, there may be as much
Witchery in the Tongue as there is in the Eye. Sennertus[65] has discovered the Superstition
of these Fancies; Sight does not proceed from an Emission of Rays from the Eye, but by a reception
of the visible Species; and if it be (as Philosophers conclude) an innocent Action and not
an Emission of optick Spirits, so that sight as such, does receive something from the Object,
and not act upon it, the Notion of Fascination by the Eye is unphilosophical: It is true, that
sore Eyes will affect those that look upon them, Dum spectant Oculi Læsos, Leduntur & ipsi,
for which a natural Reason is easily to be assigned; but if the Witches Eyes are thus infected
with a natural Contagion, Whence is it, that only Bewitched Persons are hurt thereby? If the
vulgar Error concerning the Basilisks killing with the Look of his Poysonful Eye were a Truth,
whatever person that Serpent cast his Eye upon would be poysoned. So if Witches had a physical
Venom in their Eyes, others as well as Fascinated Persons would be sensible thereof; there
is as much Truth in this fancy of Physical Venom in the Eye of a Witch, as there is in what
Pliny[66] and others relate concerning the Thibians, viz. that they have two Apples in one
Eye, and the Effigies of an Horse in the other Eye; and that they are a people that cannot
be drowned.

3. As for that which concerns the Bewitched Persons being recovered out of their Agonies by
the Touch of the suspected Party, it is various and fallible.

For sometimes the afflicted Person is made sick, (instead of being made whole) by the Touch
of the Accused; sometimes the Power of Imagination is such, as that the Touch of a Person innocent
and not accused shall have the same effect. It is related in the Account of the Tryals of Witches
at Bury in Suffolk 1664, during the time[67] of the Tryal, there were some Experiments made
with the Persons afflicted, by bringing the accused to touch them, and it was observed that
by the least Touch of one of the supposed Witches, they that were in their Fits, to all mens
Apprehension wholly deprived of all Sense and Understandings, would suddenly shriek out and
open their Hands.

Mr. Serjeant Keeling did not think that sufficient to Convict the Prisoners, for admitting
that the Children were in truth Bewitched, yet (saith he) it cannot be applyed to the Prisoners
upon the Imagination only of the Parties afflicted; for if that might be allowed, no Person
whatsoever can be in safety, for perhaps they might fancy another Person who might altogether
be innocent in such matters: To avoid this Scruple it was privately desired by the Judge, that
some Gentlemen there in Court would attend one of the distempered Persons in the farther part
of the Hall, whilst she was in her Fits, and then to send for one of the Witches to try what
would happen, which they did accordingly. One of them was conveyed from the Bar, and brought
to the Afflicted Maid. They put an Apron before her Eyes, and then another person (not the
Witch) touched her, which produced the same effect, as the Touch of the Witch did in the Court.
Whereupon the Gentlemen returned much unsatisfied. Bodin[68] relates, that a Witch who was
Tryed at Nants, was commanded by the Judges to touch a Bewitched person, a thing often practised
by the Judges of Germany in the Imperial Chamber. The Witch was extreamly unwilling, but being
Compelled by the Judges, she cryed out, I am undone; and as soon as ever she touched the Afflicted
person, the Witch fell down dead, and the other recovered. That horrid Witch of Salisbury,
Ann Bodenham[69] who had been Servant to the Notorious Conjurer Dr. Lamb, could not bear the
sight of one that was Bewitched by her. As soon as ever she saw the Afflicted Person, she ran
about shrieking, and crying, and roaring after an hideous manner, that the Devil would tear
her in pieces, if that person came near her. And whilst the Witch was in such Torment, the
Bewitched was at ease. By these things we see, that the Laws and Customs of the Kingdom of
darkness, are not always and in all places the same.

And it is good for men to concern themselves with them as little as may be.

I think there is weight in Dr. Cotta's[70] Argument, viz.

That the Gift of healing the Sick and Possessed, was a special Grace and Favour of God, for
the Confirmation of the Truth of the Gospel, but that such a Gift should be annexed to the
Touch of Wicked Witches, as an infallible sign of their guilt, is not easie to be believed.
It is a thing well known, that if a person possessed by an Evil Spirit, is (as oft it so happens)
never so outragious whilst a good man is Praying with and for the Afflicted, let him lay his
hand on them, and the Evil Spirit is quiet. I hope this is no evidence of any Covenant, or
voluntary Communion between the Good Man that is Praying and the Evil Spirit; no more does
the Case before us evince any such thing.

4. There are that Question the Lawfulness of the Experiment. For if this healing power in the
Witch is not a Divine but a Diabolical Gift, it may be dangerous to meddle too much with it.
If the Witch may be ordered to touch afflicted Persons in order to their healing or recovery
out of a sick Fit, why may not the Diseased Person be as well ordered to touch the Witch for
the same cause? And if to touch him, why not to scratch him and fetch Blood out of him, which
is but an harder kind of touch? But as for this Mr. Perkins doubts not to call it a Practice
of Witchcraft. It is not safe to meddle with any of the Devils Sacraments or Institutions;
For my own part, I should be loath to say to a Man, that I knew or thought was a Witch, do
you look on such a Person, and see if you can Witch them into a Fit, and there is such an afflicted
Person do you take them by the Hand, and see if you can Witch them well again. If it is by
vertue of some Contract with the Devil that witches have Power to do such things, it is hard
to conceive how they can be bid to do them, without being too much concerned in that Hellish
Covenant. I take it to be (as elsewhere[71] I have expressed) a solid Principle, which the
Learned Sennertus insists on, viz. That they who force another to do that which he cannot possibly
do, but by vertue of a Compact with the Devil, have themselves implicitely Communion with the
Diabolical Covenant. The Devil is pleased and honoured when any of his Institutions are made
use of; this way of discovering Witches, is no better than that of putting the Urine of the
afflicted Person into a Bottle, that so the Witch may be tormented and discovered: The Vanity
and Superstition of which practice I have formerly shewed, and testified against. There was
a Conjurer his name was +Edward Drake+[72] who taught a Man to use that Experiment for the
Relief of his afflicted Daughter, who found benefit thereby; But we ought not to practice Witchcraft
to discover Witches, nor may we make use of a White healing Witch (as they call them) to find
out a Black and Bloody one. And how did men first come to know that Witches would be discovered
in such ways as these, which have been mentioned? If Satan himself were the first Discoverer
(as there is reason to believe) the experiment must needs have deceit in it. See Dr. Willet
on Exod. 7. Quest. 9. And such Experiments better become Pagans or Papists than Professors
in New-England; whereas 'tis pleaded, that such things are practised by the Judges of the Imperial
Chamber, I reply, that those Judges (as Bodin relates, Lib. 3. Dæmon. Cap. 6.) have required
suspected Witches to pronounce over the afflicted persons, these words, I bless thee in the
Name of the Father, &c. upon which they have immediately recovered; but is the dark day come
upon us, that such Superstitions as these shall be practised in New-England: The Lord Jesus
forbid it. See Baldwin's Testimony against the Practice of the Camera Imperialis, Cas. Consc.
L. 3. c. 3. p. 634.

5. 8.19. See Mr. Bernard's Guide to Juries in Cases of Witchcraft, p. 136, 137, 138. And Brockmand,
Theol. de Angelis, p. 227. Altho' the Devil's Accusations may be so far regarded as to cause
an enquiry into the truth of things, Job 1.11, 12. & 2.5, 6. yet not so as to be an Evidence
or Ground of Conviction: The Persons, concerning whom the Question is, see things through Diabolical
Mediums; on which account their Evidence is not meer humane Testimony; and if it be in any
part Diabolical, it is not to be owned as Authentick; for the Devil's Testimony ought not to
be received neither in whole nor in part.

6. I am told by credible Persons, who say it is certainly true, that a bewitched Person has
complained that she was cast into Fits by the Look of a Dog; and that she was no more able
to bear the sight of that Dog, than of the Person whom she accused as bewitching her: And that
thereupon the Dog was shot to death: This Dog was no Devil; for then they could not have killed
him. I suppose no one will say that Dogs are Witches: It remains then that the casting down
with the Look is no infallible sign of a Witch.

7. It has always been said, that it is a difficult thing to find out Witches: But if the Representation
of such a Person as afflicting, or the Look or Touch be an infallible proof of the guilt of
Witchcraft in the Persons complained of, 'tis the easiest thing in the World to discover them;
for it is done to our hand, and there needs no enquiry into the Matter.

8. Let them say this is an infallible Proof, produce any Word out of the Law of God which does
in the least countenance that Assertion: The Word of God instructs Jurors and Judges to proceed
upon clear humane Testimony, Deut. 35.30. But the Word no where giveth us the least Intimation,
that every one is a Witch, at whose look the bewitched Person shall fall into Fits; nor yet
that any other means should be used for the discovery of Witches, than what may be used for
the finding out of Murderers, Adulterers, and other Criminals.

9. Sometimes Antipathies in Nature have strange and unaccountable Effects. I have read of a
Man that at the sight of his own Son, who was no Wizzard would fall into Fits. There are that
find in their Natures an averseness to some Persons whom they never saw before, of which they
can give no better an account than he in Martial, concerning Sabidius.

    Non Amo te Sabidi, nec possum dicere quare.

That some Persons at the Sight of Bruit-Creatures, Cats, Spiders, &c. nay, at the sight of
Cheeses, Milk, Apples, will fall into Fits, is too well known to be denied. Pensingius in his
Learned Discourse De Pulvere Sympathetico, p. 128. saith, there was one in the City of Groning
that could not bear the sight of a Swine's Head: And that he knew another who was not able
to look on the Picture thereof. Amatus Lusitanus speaks of one that at the sight of a Rose
would swoon away: This proveth that the falling into a Fit at the sight of another is not always
a sign of Witchcraft. It may proceed from Nature, and the Power of Imagination.

To conclude; Judicious Casuists[73] have determined, that to make use of those Media to come
to the Knowledge of any Matter, which have no such power in them by Nature, nor by Divine Institution
is an Implicit going to the Devil to make a discovery: Now there is no natural Power in the
Look or Touch of a Person to bewitch another; nor is this by Divine Institution the means whereby
Witchcraft is discovered: Therefore it is an unwarrantable Practice.

Let me here premise Two things,

1. The Evidence in this Crime ought to be as clear as in any other Crimes of a Capital nature.
The Word of God does no where intimate, that a less clear Evidence, or that fewer or other
Witnesses may be taken as sufficient to convict a Man of Sorcery, which would not be enough
to convict him were he charged with another evil worthy of Death, Numb. 35.30. if we may not
take the Oath of a distracted Person, or of a possessed Person in a Case of Murder, Theft,
Felony of any sort, then neither may we do it in the Case of Witchcraft.

2. Let me premise this also, that there have been ways of trying Witches long used in many
Nations, especially in the dark times of Paganism and Popery, which the righteous God never
approved of. But which (as judicious Mr. Perkins expresseth it in plain English) were invented
by the Devil, that so innocent Persons might be condemned, and some notorious Witches escape:
Yea, many Superstitious and Magical experiments have been used to try Witches by: Of this sort
is that of scratching the Witch, or seething the Urine of the Bewitched Person, or making a
Witch-cake with that Urine: And that tryal of putting their Hands into scalding Water, to see
if it will not hurt them: And that of sticking an Awl under the Seat of the suspected Party,
yea, and that way of discovering Witches by tying their Hands and Feet, and casting them on
the Water, to try whether they will sink or swim: I did publickly bear my Testimony against
this Superstition in a Book printed at Boston eight Years past.

I hear that of late some in a Neighbour Colony have been playing with this Diabolical invention:
It is to be lamented, that in such a Land of Uprightness as New-England once was, a Practice
which Protestant Writers generally condemn as sinful, and which the more sober and learned
Men amongst Papists themselves have not only judged unlawful, but (to express it in their own
terms) to be no less than a Mortal Sin, should ever be heard of. Were it not that the coming
of Christ to judge the Earth draweth near, I should think that such Practices are an unhappy
Omen that the Devil and Pagans will get these dark Territories into their Possession again:
But that I may not be thought to have no reason for my calling the impleaded Experiment into
Question, I have these things further to alledge against it.

1. It has been rejected long agone, by Christian Nations as a thing Superstitious and Diabolical:
In Italy and Spain it is wholly disused; and [74]in the Low-Countries, and in France, where
the Judges are Men of Learning. In some parts of Germany old Paganism Customs are observed
more than in other Countries, nevertheless all the [75]Academies throughout Germany have disapproved
of this way of Purgation.

2. The Devil is in it, all Superstition is from him; and when Secret things, or latent Crimes,
are discovered by superstitious Practices, some Compact and Communion with the Devil is the
Cause of it, as Austin[76] has truly intimated; and so it is here; for if a Witch cannot be
drowned, this must proceed either from some natural Cause, which it doth not, for it is against
Nature for Humane Bodies, when Hands and Feet are tied, not to sink under the Water: Besides,
they that plead for this Superstition, say that if Witches happen to be condemned for some
other Crime and not for Witchcraft, they will not swim like a Cork above Water, which Cause
sheweth that the Cause of this Natation is not Physical: And if not, then either it must proceed
from a Divine Miracle to save a Witch from drowning; or lastly, it must be a diabolical Wonder:
This superstitious Experiment is commonly known by the Name of, The Vulgar Probation, because
it was never appointed by any lawful Authority, but from the Suggestion of the Devil taken
up by the rude Rabble: And some [77]learned Men are of Opinion, that the first Explorator (being
a white Witch) did explicitely covenant with the Devil, that he should discover latent Crimes
in this way: And that it is by Virtue of that first Contract that the Devil goeth to work to
keep his Servants from sinking, when this Ceremony of his ordaining is used. Moreover, we know
that Diabolus est Dei Simia, the Devil seeks to imitate Divine Miracles. We read in Ecclesiastical
Story, that some of the Martyrs when they were by Persecutors ordered to be drowned, prov'd
to be immersible: This Miracle would the Devil imitate in causing Witches, who are his Martyrs,
not to sink when they are cast into the Waters.

3. This way of Purgation is of the same nature with the old Ordeals of the Pagans. If Men were
accused with any Crime, to clear their innocency, they were to take an hot Iron into their
Hands, or to suffer scalding Water to be poured down their Throats, and if they received no
hurt thereby they were acquitted. This was the Devil's Invention, and many times (as the Devil
would have it) they that submitted to these Tryals suffered no inconvenience. Nevertheless,
it is astonishing to think what innocent Blood has been shed in the World by means of this
Satanical device. Witches have often (as [78]Sprenger observes) desired that they might stand
or fall by this Tryal by hot Iron, and sometimes come off well: Indeed, this Ordeal was used
in other Cases, and not in Cases of Witchcraft only: And so was the Vulgar Probation by casting
into the Water practiced upon Persons accused[79] with other Crimes as well as that of Witchcraft:
How it came to be restrained to that of Witchcraft I cannot tell; it is as supernatural for
a Body whose Hands and Feet are tied to swim above the Water, as it is for their Hands not
to feel a red hot Iron. If the one of these Ordeals is lawful to be used, then so is the other
too: But as for the fiery Ordeal it is rejected and exploded out of the World; for the same
reason then the tryal by Water should be so.

4. It is a tempting of God when Men put the Innocency of their Fellow-Creatures upon such tryals;
to desire the Almighty to shew a Miracle to clear the Innocent, or to convict the Guilty is
a most presumptuous tempting of him. Was it not a Miracle when Peter was kept from sinking
under the Water by the Omnipotency of Christ? As for Satan, we know that his Ambition is to
make his Servants believe that his Power is equal to God's, and that therefore he can preserve
whom he pleaseth. I have read[80] of certain Magicians, who were seen walking on the Water:
If then guilty Persons shall float on the Waters, either it is the Devil that causes them to
do so, (as no doubt it is) and what have Men to do to set the Devil on work; or else it is
a Divine Miracle, like that of Peter's not sinking, or that of the Iron that swam at the Word
of Elisha. And shall Men try whether God will work a Miracle to make a discovery? If a Crime
cannot be found out but by Miracle, it is not for any Judge on Earth to usurp that Judgment
which is reserved for the Divine Throne.

5. This pretended Gift of Immersibility attending Witches, is a most fallible deceitful thing;
for many a Witch has sunk under the Water. Godelmannus[81] giveth an account of six notorious
and clearly convicted Witches, that when they were brought to their vulgar Probation, sunk
down under the Water like other Persons; Althusius affirms the like concerning others; in the
Bohemian History[82] it is related, that Uratslaus the King of Bohemia, extirpated Witches
out of his Kingdom, some of which he delivered to the Ax, others of them to the Fire, and others
of them he caused to be drowned: If Witches are immersible, how came they to die by drowning
in Bohemia? Besides, it has sometimes been known that Persons who have floated on the Water
when the Hangman has made the Experiment on them, have sunk down like a Stone, when others
have made the tryal.

6. The Reasons commonly alledged for this Superstition are of no moment: It is said they hate
the Water; whereas they have many times desired that they might be cast on the Water in order
to their purgation: It is alledged, that Water is used in Baptism, therefore Witches swim:
A weak Phansie; all the Water in the World is not consecrated Water. Cannot Witches eat Bread
or drink Wine, notwithstanding those Elements are made use of in the Blessed Sacrament: But
(say some) the Devils by sucking of them make them so light that the Water bears them; whereas
some Witches are twice as heavy as many an innocent Person: Well, but then they are possessed
with the Devil: Suppose so; Is the Devil afraid if they should sink, that he should be drowned
with them? But why then were the Gadarens Hogs drowned when the Devil was in them.

These things being premised, I answer the Question affirmatively; There are Proofs for the
Conviction of Witches which Jurors may with a safe Conscience proceed upon, so as to bring
them in guilty. The Scripture which saith, Thou shalt not suffer a Witch to live, clearly implies,
that some in the World may be known and proved to be Witches: For until they be so, they may
and must be suffered to live. Moreover we find in Scripture, that some have been convicted
and executed for Witches: For Saul cut off those that had familiar Spirits, and the Wizzards
out of the Land, 1 Sam. 28.9.

It may be wondered that Saul who did like him that said, Flectere si nequeo Superos Acheronta
Movebo, should cause the Wizzards in the Land to be put to death. The Jewish Rabbies say, the
reason was, because those Wizzards foretold that David should be King. It is (as Mr. Gaul observes[83])
the Opinion of some learned Protestants, that Saul in his Zeal did over do: And that under
the Pretext[84] of Witches he slew the Gibeonites, for which that Judgment followed, 2 Sam.
21.1. Neither (saith Mr. Gaule) want we the storied Examples of God's Judgments upon those
that defamed, prosecuted and executed them for Witches, that indeed were none. But we have
in the Scripture the Example of a better Man than Saul to encourage us to make enquiry after
Wizzards and Witches in order to their Conviction and Execution. This did the rarest King that
ever lived caused to be done, viz. Josiah, 2 Kings 23.24. The Workers with familiar Spirits
and the Wizzards, that were spied in the Land of +Judah+, did +Josiah+ put away, that he might
perform the Words of the Law. It seems there were some that sought to hide those Workers of
Iniquity, but that incomparable King spied them out, and rid the Land and the World of them.

Q. But then the Enquiry is, What is sufficient Proof?

A. This Case has been with great Judgment answered by several Divines of our own, particularly
by Mr. Perkins, and Mr. Bernard; also Mr. John Gaul a worthy Minister at Staughton, in the
County of Huntington, has published a very Judicious Discourse, called, Select Cases of Conscience
touching Witches and Witchcrafts, Printed at London A.D. 1646. wherein he does with great Prudence
and Evidence of Scripture light handle this and other Cases: Such Jurors as can obtain those
Books, I would advise them to read, and seriously as in the fear of God to consider them, and
so far as they keep to the Law and to the Testimony, and speak according to that Word, receive
the Light which is in them. But the Books being now rare to be had, let me express my Concurrence
with them in these two particulars.

1. That a free and voluntary Confession of the Crime made by the Person suspected and accused
after Examination, is a sufficient Ground of Conviction.

Indeed, If Persons are Distracted, or under the Power of Phrenetick Melancholy, that alters
the Case; but the Jurors that examine them, and their Neighbours that know them, may easily
determine that Case; or if Confession be extorted,[85] the Evidence is not so clear and convictive;
but if any Persons out of Remorse of Conscience, or from a Touch of God in their Spirits, confess
and shew their Deeds, as the Converted Magicians in Ephesus did, Acts 19.18, 19. nothing can
be more clear. Suppose a Man to be suspected for Murder, or for committing a Rape, or the like
nefandous Wickedness, if he does freely confess the Accusation, that's ground enough to Condemn
him. The Scripture approveth of Judging the wicked Servant out of his own Mouth, Luke 19.22.
It is by some objected, that Persons in Discontent may falsly accuse themselves. I say, if
they do so, and it cannot be proved that they are false Accusers of themselves, they ought
to dye for their Wickedness, and their Blood will be upon their own Heads; the Jury, the Judges,
and the Land is Clear: I have read a very sad and amazing, and yet a true Story to this purpose.

There was in the Year 1649, in a Town called Lauder in Scotland, a certain woman accused and
imprisoned on suspicion of Witchcraft, when others in the same Prison with her were Convicted,
and their Execution ordered to be on the Monday following, she desired to speak with a Minister,
to whom she declared freely that she was guilty of Witchcraft, acknowledging also many other
Crimes committed by her, desiring that she might die with the rest: She said particularly that
she had Covenanted with the Devil, and was become his Servant about twenty years before, and
that he kissed her and gave her a Name, but that since he had never owned her. Several Ministers
who were jealous that she accused herself untruly, charged it on her Conscience, telling her
that they doubted she was under a Temptation of the Devil to destroy her own Body and Soul,
and adjuring her in the Name of God to declare the Truth: Notwithstanding all this, she stifly
adhered to what she had said, and was on Monday morning Condemned, and ordered to be Executed
that day. When she came to the place of Execution, she was silent until the Prayers were ended,
then going to the Stake where she was to be Burnt, she thus expressed herself, All you that
see me this day! This her lamentable Speech did astonish all the Spectators, few of whom could
restrain from Tears. The Truth of this Relation (saith my Author[86]) is certainly attested
by a worthy Divine now living, who was an Eye and an Ear-Witness of the whole matter; but thus
did that miserable Creature suffer Death, and this was a just Execution. When the Amalekite
confessed that he killed Saul, whom he had no legal Authority to meddle with, although 'tis
probable that he belyed himself, David gave order for his Execution, and said to him, Thy Blood
be upon thy Head, for thy Mouth hath Testified against thee, 2 Sam. 1.16. But as for the Testimony
of Confessing Witches against others, the case is not so clear as against themselves, they
are not such credible Witnesses, as in a Case of Life and Death is to be desired: It is beyond
dispute, that the Devil makes his Witches to dream strange things of themselves and others
which are not so. There was (as Authors beyond Exception relate) in appearance a sumptuous
Feast prepared, the Wine and Meat set forth in Vessels of Gold; a certain Person whom an amorous
young Man had fallen in Love with, was represented and supposed to be really there; but Apollonius
Tyanæus[87] discovered the Witchery of the Business, and in an instant all vanished, and nothing
but dirty Coals were to be seen: The like to this is mentioned in the Arausican Council. There
were certain Women that imagined they rode upon Beasts in the Night, and that they had Diana
and Herodius in company with them, besides a Troop of other Persons; the Council giveth this
Sentence on it; Satanas qui se transfigurat in Angelum Lucis, transformat se in diversarum
personarum species, & mentem quam captivam tenet, in somnis deludit. Satan transforms himself
into the likeness of divers Persons, and deludes the Souls that are his Captives with Dreams
and Fancies; see Dr. Willet on 1 Sam. 28. p. 165. What Credit can be given to those that say
they can turn Men into Horses? If so, they can as well turn Horses into Men; but all the Witches
on Earth in Conjunction with all the Devils in Hell, can never make or unmake a rational Soul,
and then they cannot transform a Bruit into a Man, nor a Man into a Bruit; so that this Transmutation
is fantastical. The Devil may and often does impose on the Imaginations of his Witches and
Vassals, that they believe themselves to be Converted into Beasts, and reverted into Men again;
as Nebuchadnezzar whilst under the Power of a Dæmon really imagined himself to be an Ox, and
would lye out of Doors and eat Grass: The Devil has inflicted on many a Man the Disease called
Lycanthropia, from whence they have made lamentable Complaints of their being Wolves: In a
word, there is no more Reality in what many Witches confess of strange things seen or done
by them, whilst Satan had them in his full Power, than there is in Lucian's ridiculous Fable
of his being Bewitched into an Asse, and what strange Feats he then played; so that what such
persons relate concerning Persons and Things at Witch-meetings, ought not to be received with
too much Credulity.

I could mention dismal Instances of Innocent Blood which has been shed by means of the Lies
of some Confessing Witches; there is a very sad Story mentioned in the Preface to the Relation
of the Witchcrafts in Sweedland, how that in the Year 1676, at Stockholm, a young Woman accused
her own Mother (who had indeed been a very bad Woman, but not guilty of Witchcraft,) and Swore
that she had carried her to the Nocturnal Meetings of Witches, upon which the Mother was burnt
to Death. Soon after the Daughter came crying and howling before the Judges in open Court,
declaring, that to be revenged on her Mother for an Offence received, she had falsely accused
her with a Crime which she was not guilty of; for which she also was justly Executed. A most
wicked Man in France freely confessed himself to be a Magician, and accused many others, whose
Lives were thereupon taken from them; and a whole Province had like to have been ruined thereby,
but the Impostor was discovered: The Confessing pretended Wizzard was burnt at Paris in the
year 1668. I shall only take notice further of an awful Example mentioned by A. B. Spotswood
in his History of Scotland, p. 449. His words are these, 'This Summer (viz. Anno 1597.) there
was a great business for the Tryal of Witches, amongst others, one Margaret Atkin being apprehended
on suspicion, and threatned with Torture, did confess herself Guilty; being examined touching
her Associates in that Trade, she named a few, and perceiving her Delations find Credit, made
offer to detect all of that sort, and to purge the Country of them; so she might have her Life
granted: For the reason of her Knowledge, she said, That they had a secret mark all of that
sort in their Eyes, whereby she could surely tell, how soon she looked upon any, whether they
were Witches or not; and in this she was so readily believed, that for the space of 3 or 4
Months she was carried from Town to Town to make Discoveries in that kind; many were brought
in question by her Delations, especially at Glasgow, where diverse Innocent Women, through
the Credulity of the Minister Mr. +John Cowper+, were condemned and put to Death; in the end
she was found to be a meer deceiver, and sent back to Fife, where she was first apprehended:
At her Tryal she affirmed all to be false that she had confessed of herself or others, and
persisted in this to her Death, which made many fore-think their too great forwardness that
way, and moved the King to recall his Commission given out against such Persons, discharging
all Proceedings against them, except in case of a voluntary Confession, till a solid Order
should be taken by the Estates touching the form that should be kept in their Tryal.' Thus
that famous Historian.

2. If two credible Persons shall affirm upon Oath that they have seen the party accused speaking
such words, or doing things which none but such as have Familiarity with the Devil ever did
or can do, that's a sufficient Ground for Conviction.

Some are ready to say, that Wizzards are not so unwise as to do such things in the sight or
hearing of others, but it is certain that they have very often been known to do so: How often
have they been seen by others using Inchantments? Conjuring to raise Storms? And have been
heard calling upon their Familiar Spirits? And have been known to use Spells and Charms? And
to shew in a Glass or in a Shew-stone persons absent? And to reveal Secrets which could not
be discovered but by the Devil? And have not men been seen to do things which are above humane
Strength, that no man living could do without Diabolical Assistances? Claudia was seen by Witnesses
enough, to draw a Ship which no humane Strength could move. Tuccia a Vestal Virgin was seen
to carry Water in a Sieve: The Devil never assists men to do supernatural things undesired.
When therefore such like things shall be testified against the accused Party not by Spectres
which are Devils in the Shape of Persons either living or dead, but by real men or women who
may be credited; it is proof enough that such an one has that Conversation and Correspondence
with the Devil, as that he or she, whoever they be, ought to be exterminated from amongst men.
This notwithstanding I will add; It were better that ten suspected Witches should escape, than
that one innocent Person should be Condemned; that is an old saying, and true, Prestat reum
nocentem absolvi, quam ex prohibitis Indiciis & illegitima probatione condemnari. It is better
that a Guilty Person should be Absolved, than that he should without sufficient ground of Conviction
be condemned. I had rather judge a Witch to be an honest woman, than judge an honest woman
as a Witch. The Word of God directs men not to proceed to the execution of the most capital
offenders, until such time as upon searching diligently, the matter is found to be a Truth,
and the thing certain, Deut. 13.14, 15.

An Acquaintance[88] of mine at London, in his description of New-England declares, that as
to their Religion, the people there are like Mr. Perkins; it is no dishonour to us, if that
be found true: I am sorry that any amongst us begin to slight so great a Man, whom the most
Learned[89] in Foreign Lands, speak of with Admiration, on the account of his polite and acute
Judgment: It is a grave and good Advice which he giveth in his Discourse of Witchcrafts (Chap.
7. Sect. 2.) wherewith I conclude; 'I would therefore wish and advise all Jurors who give the
Verdict upon Life and Death in the Court of Assizes, to take good heed, that as they be diligent
in zeal of God's glory, and the good of his Church, in detecting of Witches, by all sufficient
and lawful means, so likewise they would be careful what they do, and not to condemn any party
suspected upon bare Presumptions, without sound and sufficient Proofs that they be not guilty
through their own Rashness of shedding Innocent Blood.'

    Boston, New-England, Octob. 3. 1692.

POSTSCRIPT.

The Design of the preceding Dissertation, is not to plead for Witchcrafts, or to appear as
an Advocate for Witches: I have therefore written another Discourse, proving that there are
such horrid Creatures as Witches in the World; and that they are to be extirpated and cut off
from amongst the People of God, which I have Thoughts and Inclinations in due time to publish;
and I am abundantly satisfied that there have been, and are still most cursed Witches in the
Land. More than one or two of those now in Prison, have freely and credibly acknowledged their
Communion and Familiarity with the Spirits of Darkness; and have also declared unto me the
Time and Occasion, with the particular Circumstances of their Hellish Obligations and Abominations.
If what is here exposed to publick view, may be a means to prevent it for the future, I shall
not repent of my Labour in this Undertaking. I have been prevailed with so far as I am able
to discern the Truth in these dark Cases, to declare my Sentiments, with the Arguments which
are of weight with me, hoping that what is written may be of some use to discover the Depths
of Satan; and to prevent innocent ones having their Lives endangered, or their Reputations
ruined, by being through the Subtility and Power of the Devils, in consideration with the Ignorance
and Weakness of Men, involved amongst the Guilty. It becomes those of my Profession to be very
tender in Cases of Blood, and to imitate our Lord and Master, Who came not to destroy the Lives
of Men, but to save them.

I likewise design in what I have written, to give my testimony against these unjustifiable
ways of discovering Witchcrafts, which some among us have practised. I hear that of late there
was a Witch-cake made with the Urine of bewitched Creatures, as one Ingredient by several Persons
in a place, which has suffered much by the Attack of Hell upon it: This I take to be not only
wicked Superstition, but great Folly: For tho' the Devil does sometimes operate with the Experiments,
yet not always, especially if a Magical Faith be wanting. I shall here take occasion to recite
some Passages in a Letter, which I received from that Eminent pious and learned Man, Mr. Samuel
Cradock; during my abode in London; the Letter bears date Febr. 26. 1690. Then take it in his
own Words, which are these; 'We have at this present one in our next Town, who has a Son who
has strange Fits, and such as they impute to Witchcraft: He come to consult with me about it,
but before he came, he had used a means which I should never had directed him unto, viz. He
took the Nails of his Son's Hands and Feet, and some of his Hair, and mixed them in Rye-Paste
with his Water, and so set it all by the Fire till it was consumed, and his Son (as he says)
was well after, and free from his Fits for a whole Month, but then they came again, and He
tried that means a second time, and then it would not do; He removed his Son into Cambridgeshire
the next County, and then he was well, but as soon as he brought him home he was afflicted
as before. The Boy says, He saw a thing like a Mole following of him, which once spoke to him,
and told him he came to do the Office he was to do: I advised his Father to make use of the
Medicine prescribed by our Saviour, viz. Fasting and Prayer. Here have been others in this
Town, that though they were under Ill-handling as they call it: One Family had their Milk so
affected, that they could not possibly make any Cheese, but it hov'd and swelled, and was good
for nothing: They are now rid of that trouble, but how they got rid of it I do not know': Thus
my Letter. By which it is evident that Towns in England as well as New-England are molested
with Dæmons, only I wish that the Superstitions practiced in other places to get rid of such
troublesome Guests had never been known, much less used amongst us or them.

Some I hear have taken up a Notion, that the Book newly published by my Son, is contradictory
to this of mine: 'Tis strange that such Imaginations should enter into the Minds of Men: I
perused and approved of that Book before it was printed; and nothing but my Relation to him
hindred me from recommending it to the World: But my self and Son agreed unto the humble Advice
which twelve Ministers concurringly presented before his Excellency and Council, respecting
the present Difficulties, which let the World judge, whether there be anything in it dissentany
from what is attested by either of us.

It was in the Words following:--

  The Return of several Ministers consulted by his Excellency,
    and the Honourable Council, upon the present Witchcrafts
    in Salem Village.

                                        Boston, June 15, 1692. VII.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] R. Sactias. R. Eleazer Athias. Lyranus. Sic & Josephus.

[2] Ambrose, Hierom, Basil, Nazianzen.

[3] Thomas, Tostatus, Suarez. Cajetan, In Ecclesia, Chap. 46. 22, 23.

[4] In Locum.

[5] In 2 Cor. 11, 14, Pag. 555.

[6] De Spectris, Cap. 7.

[7] Præstig. Dæmon. Lib. 1. C. 16.

[8] De C. D. l. 18.

[9] De Appar. Spirituum, Lib. 2. Cap. 7.

[10] Misq. Magicar. Lib. 2. C. 12.

[11] De Confes. Sag. pag. 191.

[12] De secretis mag. p. 31. see also Lavater de Spect. Lib. 2. Cap. 18.

[13] Dr. Casaubon: of Spirits.

[14] Sulpitius Severus in vita Martini.

[15] Guaccius, compend. malefic. p. 342.

[16] Binsfield, de Confess. Sag. p. 187.

[17] Examples, Vol. 1. p. 510.

[18] Socrate's Hist. p. 7. C. 38.

[19] Lege Villalpond de Magia, &c. L. 2. Cap. 27.

[20] Part 1. Chap. 19. Pag. 8.

[21] Epistol. 2.

[22] In Disput. de Magia. P. 575.

[23] In Mr. Couper's Mystery of Witchcraft, Pag. 174, 175.

[24] Acta Eruditorum Anno 1690. Pag. 113.

[25] In Mr. Glanvil's Philosophical Considerations.

[26] De subtilitate. Lib. 29.

[27] P. 75, 76.

[28] In his Sadducism Triumph. Collection, p. 201.

[29] P. 215. (Disa. Magic.) l. 1. c. 3. p. 22.

[30] Vairus de Fascino. Lib. 2.

[31] P. 131.

[32] V. Germ. Ephemer. Anno 16. p. 379.

[33] Henkelius de obsessis, pag. 86.

[34] Camerar. cent. I. c. 73. Cardan de rerum varietate, Lib. 16. cap. 93.

[35] In his Britannia, p. 609.

[36] See the Hist. of Lapland, and Mr. Burton's Hist. of Dæmons.

[37] Schotten, Physic. curios, lib. 1. c. 16.

[38] See Wanly of the Wonders of the World, p. 215.

[39] Ubi Supra.

[40] De Spectris, p. 86, 87.

[41] Disput. Select. Vol. 1. pag. 1008.

[42] P. 944.

[43] Thyræus de Apparitionibus, Lib. 2. Cap. 14.

[44] Binsfield de confessionibus sagarum, p. 183. 191.

[45] Disquis. Magic. Lib. 2. Q. 12. p. 143.

[46] Printed at Frankfort, Anno 1681.

[47] Discourse of Witchcraft, Ch. 7. Sect. 2. p. 644.

[48] In his Witchcraft discovered, p. 277.

[49] Webster's displaying of supposed Witchcraft, p. 298. 308.

[50] Ubi supra, p. 207, 208.

[51] Ch. 15. p. 14, &c.

[52] Pag. 121, 122.

[53] In vita Hilarion.

[54] Anastasius, Qu. 23.

[55] In Disput. de Dæmoniacis, part 1. chap. 16. p. 30.

[56] Thuanus, lib. 130. p. 1136.

[57] Thyræus, ubi supra, p. 16.

[58] Henkel, ubi supra, p. 47. 50.

[59] Brockmand, Theol. p. 265.

[60] Melancthon, Epist.

[61] Tostatus, in Mat. 8. Q. 114.

[62] Baldwin, Case of Cons. l. 3. c. 3. p. 621.

[63] Lib. 7. Cap. 2.

[64] 5 Sympos. Cap. 7.

[65] Med. Precl. lib. 6. pars 9. cap. 1.

[66] Lib. 2. cap. 2. Wierus, l. 6. c. 9. p. 683.

[67] See the Tryal, p. 40. 43. 45.

[68] In Dæmonomania. See Mr. Bromhal's History of Apparitions, p. 136.

[69] See the Printed Relation, p. 30, 31.

[70] Ubi supra, p. 121.

[71] Remarkable Providences, p. 267.

[72] See Mr. Burton's History of Dæmons, p. 136. and Mr. Robert's Nar. of the Witches in Suffolk.

[73] Ames. Cas. Consc. L. 4. C. 23.

[74] Delrio. Disquiss. Magic. pag. 642.

[75] Malderus de Magia, cap. 10. dub. 11.

[76] De Doctr. Christiana, Lib. 2. Cap. 20. 22.

[77] Delrio & Malderus.

[78] In malleo malleficarum, p. 421.

[79] Menna, de purgatione vulgari, cap. ult.

[80] Cæsarius, Lib. 9.

[81] De Lamiis, L. 3. C. 4.

[82] Dubravius, Hist. Cohim. Lib. 8.

[83] In his Cases about Witchcraft, p. 181.

[84] So Dr. Willet, conjectures on 1 Sam. 21.1.

[85] V. Bodin, Dæmonomania, L. 4.

[86] Mr. Sinclare, Invisible World, p. 45. and Burton, Hist. of Dæmons, p. 122.

[87] Boisard in vita Apollonii.

[88] Mr. Merden in his Geogra. Phy. p. 577.

[89] Voetius, Biblioth, l. 2. Lecus, in Compend. Histor.

                        THE END.

  CHISWICK PRESS:--PRINTED BY WHITTINGHAM AND WILKINS,
              TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The format of all biblical citations has been regularized.

Footnote markers in the original were sometimes placed before the word they refer to, and sometimes
after--this has been retained.

The following changes were also made:

--p. viii: slighest to slightest

--p. ix: Mrs. Hales to Mrs. Hale

--p. xvii: Original title page used two large, ornate "U"s instead of a "W" in Witches.

--p. 10: oe-ligature to ae-ligature (Antipædobaptist)

--p. 11: . to , (thus maintained in the Country,)

--p. 19: a to as (cry'd out upon as imploying)

--p. 22: Omisera to O misera

--p. 54: singlar to singular

--p. 61: Catastrophe's to Catastrophes (there will be more such Catastrophes)

--p. 62: times of the Jews to times of the Jews

--pp. 63-69: Corollary I. to Corollary V. formatted as headers. In the original, IV. and V.
were out-of-line headers and I., II. and III. were in-line.

--p. 80: Moenia had oe-ligature in original (Dilapsa sunt vestra Moenia!)

--p. 97: oe-ligature to ae-ligature (Cælestial)

--p. 100: We Fear to We Fear

--p. 138: II. to III. (Incorrect numbering of header corrected)

--p. 135: Ground-sel to Ground (but struck only the Ground) It appears that the "-sel" was
mistakenly introduced during printing, as the word "Counsel" in the previous sentence was split
over two lines and hyphenated ("Coun-sel".) However, this mistake is not unique to this reprint.

--p. 170: Berecovered to Be recovered

--p. 184: on to one (that rocks one to Sleep)

--p. 193: The Sweet Waters of Stealth? to The Sweet Waters of Stealth;

--p. 245: viz. to viz. (viz. That in an Orchard)

--p. 247: missing period added after Lonicer

--pp. 267-268: Although listed in the Table of Contents, Point 6 ("Bewitched Persons have sometimes
been struck down with the Look of Dogs") was not numbered in the original, causing points 7
through 9 to be numbered incorrectly. This was corrected.

--p. 267: Brochmand to Brockmand

--p. 273: extra "the" removed (so was the Vulgar Probation)

Two other problems were noted but left unchanged:

--p. 99: The biblical citation Luc. 13.2, 3. refers to Luke 13.2, 3.

--p. 268: Mather cites Deut. 35.30, but Deuteronomy only has 34 Chapters. The context suggests
he may have meant Numbers 35.30.

--Footnote [77]: Delri. & Malderus. to Delrio & Malderus.

Also note that spelling--other than the corrections noted above--has been left as it appeared
in the original copy of this book. This includes many archaic spellings that appear only once,
such as thir (p. 214), doe's (p. 195), and ha's (p. 173).

------------------------------------------------------------------------