"Sure enough," said her brother. "We must call ma up to see him dressed in those sweet, pretty
yachting flannels. Oh, there you are!" as Mrs. Bines joined them. "Just take this glass and
treat yourself to a look at your old friend, the baron. You'll notice he has one on--see--they're
waving to us."

"Doesn't the baron look just too distinguished beside Mr. Higbee?" said Psyche, watching them.

"And doesn't Higbee look just too Chicago beside the baron?" replied her brother.

The Higbee craft cut her way gracefully up to an anchorage near the Viluca, and launches from
both yachts now prepared to land their people. At the landing Percival telephoned for a carriage.
While they were waiting the Higbee party came ashore.

"Hello!" said Higbee; "if I'd known that was you we was chasing I'd have put on steam and left
you out of sight."

"It's much better you didn't recognise us; these boiler explosions are so messy."

"Know the baron here?"

"Of course we know the baron. Ah, baron!"

"Ah, ha! very charmed, Mr. Bines and Miss Bines; it is of a long time that we are not encountered."

He was radiant; they had never before seen him thus. Mrs. Higbee hovered near him with an air
of proud ownership. Pretty Millie Higbee posed gracefully at her side.

"This your carriage?" asked Higbee; "I must telephone for one myself. Going to the Mayson?
So are we. See you again to-night. We're off for Bar Harbour early to-morrow."

"Looks as if there were something doing there," said Percival, as they drove off the wharf.

"Of course, stupid!" said his sister; "that's plain; only it isn't doing, it's already done.
Isn't it funny, ma?"

"For a French person," observed Mrs. Bines, guardedly, "I always liked the baron."

"Of course," said her son, to Mauburn's mystification, "and the noblest men on this earth have
to wear 'em."

The surmise regarding the Baron de Palliac and Millie Higbee proved to be correct. Percival
came upon Higbee in the meditative enjoyment of his after-dinner cigar, out on the broad piazza.

"I s'pose you're on," he began; "the girl's engaged to that Frenchy."

"I congratulate him," said Percival, heartily.

"A real baron," continued Higbee. "I looked him up and made sure of that; title's good as wheat.
God knows that never would 'a' got me, but the madam was set on it, and the girl too, and I
had to give in. It seemed to be a question of him or some actor. The madam said I'd had my
way about Hank, puttin' his poor stubby nose to the grindstone out there in Chicago, and makin'
a plain insignificant business man out of him, and I'd ought to let her have her way with the
girl, being that I couldn't expect her to go to work too. So Mil will work the society end.
I says to the madam, I says, 'All right, have your own way; and we'll see whether you make
more out of the girl than I make out of the boy,' I says. But it ain't going to be all digging
up. I've made the baron promise to go into business with me, and though I ain't told him yet,
I'm going to put out a line of Higbee's thin-sliced ham and bacon in glass jars with his crest
on 'em for the French trade. This baron'll cost me more'n that sign I showed you coming out
of the old town, and he won't give any such returns, but the crest on them jars, printed in
three colours and gold, will be a bully ad; and it kept the women quiet," he concluded, apologetically.

"The baron's a good fellow," said Percival.

"Sure," replied Higbee. "They're all good fellows. Hank had the makin's of a good fellow in
him. And say, young man, that reminds me; I hear all kinds of reports about your getting to
be one yourself. Now I knew your father, Daniel J. Bines, and I liked him, and I like you;
and I hope you won't get huffy, but from what they tell me you ain't doing yourself a bit of good."

"Don't believe all you hear," laughed Percival.

"Well, I'll tell you one thing plain, if you was my son, you'd fade right back to the packing-house
along with Henry-boy. It's a pity you ain't got some one to shut down on you that way. They
tell me you got your father's capacity for carrying liquor, and I hear you're known from one
end of Broadway to the other as the easiest mark that ever came to town. They say you couldn't
walk in your sleep without spending money. Now, excuse my plain speaking, but them are two
reputations that are mighty hard to live up to beyond a certain limit. They've put lots of
good weight-carriers off the track before they was due to go. I hear you got pinched in that
wheat deal of Burman's?"

"Oh, only for a few hundred thousand. The reports of our losses were exaggerated. And we stood
to win over--"

"Yes--you stood to win, and then you went 'way back and set down,' as the saying is. But it
ain't the money. You've got too much of that, anyway, Lord knows. It's this everlasting hullabaloo
and the drink that goes with it, and the general trifling sort of a dub it makes out of a young
fellow. It's a pity you ain't my son; that's all I got to say. I want to see you again along
in September after I get back from San Francisco; I'm going to try to get you interested in
some business. That'd be good for you."

"You're kind, Mr. Higbee, and really I appreciate all you say; but you'll see me settle down
pretty soon, quick as I get my bearings, and be a credit to the State of Montana."

"I say," said Mauburn, coming up, "do you see that angel of the flaming hair with that young
Milbrey chap?"

The two men gazed where he was indicating.

"By Jove! she is a stunner, isn't she?" exclaimed Percival.

"Might be one of Shepler's party," suggested Higbee. "He has the Milbrey family out with him,
and I see they landed awhile ago. You can bet that party's got more than her good looks, if
the Milbreys are taking any interest in her. Well, I've got to take the madam and the young
folks over to the Casino. So long!"

Fred Milbrey came up.

"Hello, you fellows!"

"Who is she?" asked the two in faultless chorus.

"We're going over to hear the music awhile. Come along and I'll present you."

"Rot the luck!" said Mauburn; "I'm slated to take Mrs. Drelmer and Miss Bines to a musicale
at the Van Lorrecks, where I'm certain to fall asleep trying to look as if I quite liked it,
you know."

"You come," Milbrey urged Percival. "My sister's there and the governor and mother."

But for the moment Percival was reflecting, going over in his mind the recent homily of Higbee.
Higbee's opinion of the Milbreys also came back to him.

"Sorry, old man, but I've a headache, so you must excuse me for to-night. But I'll tell you,
we'll all come over in the morning and go for a dip with you."

"Good! Stop for us at the Laurels, about eleven, or p'r'aps I'll stroll over and get you. I'm
expecting some mail to be forwarded to this hotel."

He rejoined his companion, who had been chatting with a group of women near the door, and they
walked away.

"Isn't she a stunner!" exclaimed Mauburn.

"She is a peach!" replied Percival, in tones of deliberate and intense conviction. "Whoever
she is, I'll meet her to-morrow and ask her what she means by pretending to see anything in
Milbrey. This thing has gone too far!"

Mauburn looked wistful but said nothing. After he had gone away with Mrs. Drelmer and Psyche,
who soon came for him, Percival still sat revolving the paternal warnings of Higbee. He considered
them seriously. He decided he ought to think more about what he was doing and what he should
do. He decided, too, that he could think better with something mechanical to occupy his hands.
He took a cab and was driven to the local branch of his favourite temple of chance. His host
welcomed him at the door.

"Ah, Mr. Bines, a little recreation, eh? Your favourite dealer, Dutson, is here to-night, if
you prefer bank."

Passing through the crowded, brightly-lighted rooms to one of the faro tables, where his host
promptly secured a seat for him, he played meditatively until one o'clock; adding materially
to his host's reasons for believing he had done wisely to follow his New York clients to their
summer annex.

CHAPTER XXV.

Horace Milbrey Upholds the Dignity of His House

In the shade of the piazza at the Hotel Mayson next morning there was a sorting out of the
mail that had been forwarded from the hotel in New York. The mail of Mrs. Bines was a joy to
her son. There were three conventional begging letters, heart-breaking in their pathos, and
composed with no mean literary skill. There was a letter from one of the maids at the Hightower
for whose mother Mrs. Bines had secured employment in the family of a friend; a position, complained
the daughter, "in which she finds constant hard labour caused by the quantity expected of her
to attend to." There was also a letter from the lady's employer, saying she would not so much
mind her laziness if she did not aggravate it by drink. Mrs. Bines sighed despairingly for
the recalcitrant.

"And who's this wants more help until her husband's profession picks up again?" asked Percival.

"Oh, that's a poor little woman I helped. They call her husband 'the Terrible Iceman.'"

"But this is just the season for icemen!"

"Well," confessed his mother, with manifest reluctance, "he's a prize-fighter or something."

Percival gasped.

"--and he had a chance to make some money, only the man he fought against had some of his friends
drug this poor fellow before their--their meeting--and so of course he lost. If he hadn't been
drugged he would have won the money, and now there's a law passed against it, and of course
it isn't a very nice trade, but I think the law ought to be changed. He's got to live."

"I don't see why; not if he's the man I saw box one night last winter. He didn't have a single
excuse for living. And what are these tickets,--'Grand Annual Outing and Games of the Egg-Candlers
& Butter Drivers' Association at Sulzer's Harlem River Park. Ticket Admitting Lady and Gent,
One dollar.' Heavens! What is it?"

"I promised to take ten tickets," said Mrs. Bines. "I must send them a check."

"But what are they?" her son insisted; "egg-candlers may be all right, but what are butter-drivers?
Are you quite sure it's respectable? Why, I ask you, should an honest man wish to drive butter?
That shows you what life in a great city does for the morally weak. Look out you don't get
mixed up in it yourself, that's all I ask. They'll have you driving butter first thing you
know. Thank heaven! thus far no Bines has ever candled an egg--and as for driving butter--"
he stopped, with a shudder of extreme repugnance.

"And here's a notice about the excursions of the St. John's Guild. I've been on four already,
and I want you to get me back to New York right away for the others. If you could only see
all those babies we take out on the floating hospital, with two men in little boats behind
to pick up those that fall overboard--and really it's a wonder any of them live through the
summer in that cruel city. Down in Hester Street the other day four of them had a slice of
watermelon from Mr. Slivinsky's stand on the corner, and when I saw them they were actually
eating the hard, green rind. It was enough to kill a horse."

"Well, have your own fun," said her son, cheerfully. "Here's a letter from Uncle Peter I must
read."

He drew his chair aside and began the letter:

"MONTANA CITY, July 21st, 1900.

"DEAR PETE:--Your letter and Martha's rec'd, and glad to hear from you. I leave latter part
of this week for the mtns. Late setting out this season acct. rhumatiz caught last winter that
laid me up all spring. It was so mortal dull here with you folks gone that I went out with
a locating party to get the M. P. branch located ahead of the Short Line folks. So while you
were having your fun there I was having mine here, and I had it good and plenty.

"The worst weather I ever did see, and I have seen some bad. Snow six to eight feet on a level
and the mercury down as low as 62 with an ornery fierce wind. We lost four horses froze to
death, and all but two of the men got froze up bad. We reached the head of Madison Valley Feb.
19, north of Red Bank Canyon, but it wasn't as easy as it sounds.

"Jan. 8, after getting out of supplies, we abandoned our camp at Riverside and moved 10 m.
down the river carrying what we could on our backs. Met pack train with a few supplies that
night, and next day I took part of the force in boat to meet over-due load of supplies. We
got froze in the ice. Left party to break through and took Billy Brue and went ahead to hunt
team. Billy and me lived four days on one lb. bacon. The second day Billy took some sickness
so he could not eat hardly any food; the next day he was worse, and the last day he was so
bad he said the bare sight of food made him gag. I think he was a liar, because he wasn't troubled
none after we got to supplies again, but I couldn't do anything with him, and so I lived high
and come out slick and fat. Finally we found the team coming in. They had got stuck in the
river and we had to carry out the load on our backs, waist-deep in running water. I see some
man in the East has a fad for breaking the ice in the river and going swimming. I would not
do it for any fad. Slept in snow-drift that night in wet clothes, mercury 40 below. Was 18
days going 33 miles. Broke wagon twice, then broke sled and crippled one horse. Packed the
other five and went on till snow was too deep. Left the horses where four out of five died
and carried supplies the rest of the way on our backs. Moved camp again on our backs and got
caught in a blizzard and nearly all of us got our last freezeup that time. Finally a Chinook
opened the river and I took a boat up to get the abandoned camp. Got froze in harder than ever
and had to walk out. Most of the men quit on account of frozen feet, etc., etc. They are a
getting to be a sissy lot these days, rather lie around a hot stove all winter.

"I had to pull chain, cut brush, and shovel snow after the 1st Feb. Our last stage was from
Fire Hole Basin to Madison Valley, 45 m. It was hell. Didn't see the sun but once after Feb.
1, and it stormed insessant, making short sights necessary, and with each one we would have
to dig a hole to the ground and often a ditch or a tunnel through the snow to look through.
The snow was soft to the bottom and an instrument would sink through."

"Here's a fine letter to read on a hot day," called Percival. "I'm catching cold." He continued.

"We have a very good line, better than from Beaver Canon, our maps filed and construction under
way; all grading done and some track laid. That's what you call hustling. The main drawback
is that Red Bank Canon. It's a regular avalanche for eight miles. The snow slides just fill
the river. One just above our camp filled it for 1/4 mile and 40 feet deep and cut down 3 ft.
trees like a razor shaves your face. I had to run to get out of the way. Reached Madison Valley
with one tent and it looked more like mosquito bar than canvas. The old cloth wouldn't hardly
hold the patches together. I slept out doors for six weeks. I got frost-bit considerable and
the rhumatiz. I tell you, at 75 I ain't the man I used to be. I find I need a stout tent and
a good warm sleeping bag for them kind of doings nowdays.

"Well, this Western country would be pretty dull for you I suppose going to balls and parties
every night with the Astors and Vanderbilts. I hope you ain't cut loose none.

"By the way, that party that ground-sluiced us, Coplen he met a party in Spokane the other
day that seen her in Paris last spring. She was laying in a stock of duds and the party gethered
that she was going back to New York--"

The Milbreys, father and son, came up and greeted the group on the piazza.

"I've just frozen both ears reading a letter from my grandfather," said Percival. "Excuse me
one moment and I'll be done."

"All right, old chap. I'll see if there's some mail for me. Dad can chat with the ladies. Ah,
here's Mrs. Drelmer. Mornin'!"

Percival resumed his letter:

"--going back to New York and make the society bluff. They say she's got the face to do it
all right. Coplen learned she come out here with a gambler from New Orleans and she was dealing
bank herself up to Wallace for a spell while he was broke. This gambler he was the slickest
short-card player ever struck hereabouts. He was too good. He was so good they shot him all
up one night last fall over to Wardner. She hadn't lived with him for some time then, though
Coplen says they was lawful man and wife, so I guess maybe she was glad when he got it good
in the chest-place--"

Fred Milbrey came out of the hotel office.

"No mail," he said. "Come, let's be getting along. Finish your letter on the way, Bines."

"I've just finished," said Percival, glancing down the last sheet.

"--Coplen says she is now calling herself Mrs. Brench Wybert or some such name. I just thought
I'd tell you in case you might run acrost her and--"

"Come along, old chap," urged Milbrey; "Mrs. Wybert will be waiting." His father had started
off with Psyche. Mrs. Bines and Mrs. Drelmer were preparing to follow.

"I beg your pardon," said Percival, "I didn't quite catch the name."

"I say Mrs. Wybert and mother will be waiting--come along!"

"What name?"

"Wybert--Mrs. Brench Wybert--my friend--what's the matter?"

"We can't go;--that is--we can't meet her. Sis, come back a moment," he called to Psyche, and then:

"I want a word with you and your father, Milbrey."

The two joined the elder Milbrey and the three strolled out to the flower-bordered walk, while
Psyche Bines went, wondering, back to her mother.

"What's all the row?" inquired Fred Milbrey.

"You've been imposed upon. This woman--this Mrs. Brench Wybert--there can be no mistake; you
are sure that's the name?"

"Of course I'm sure; she's the widow of a Southern gentleman, Colonel Brench Wybert, from New
Orleans."

"Yes, the same woman. There is no doubt that you have been imposed upon. The thing to do is
to drop her quick--she isn't right."

"In what way has my family been imposed upon, Mr. Bines?" asked the elder Milbrey, somewhat
perturbed; "Mrs. Wybert is a lady of family and large means--"

"Yes, I know, she has, or did have a while ago, two million dollars in cold cash."

"Well, Mr. Bines--?"

"Can't you take my word for it, that she's not right--not the woman for your wife and daughter
to meet?"

"Look here, Bines," the younger Milbrey spluttered, "this won't do, you know. If you've anything
to say against Mrs. Wybert, you'll have to say it out and you'll have to be responsible to
me, sir."

"Take my word that you've been imposed upon; she's not--not the kind of person you would care
to know, to be thrown--"

"I and my family have found her quite acceptable, Mr. Bines," interposed the father, stiffly.
"Her deportment is scrupulously correct, and I am in her confidence regarding certain very
extensive investments--she cannot be an impostor, sir!"

"But I tell you she isn't right," insisted Percival, warmly.

"Oh, I see," said the younger Milbrey--his face clearing all at once. "It's all right, dad,
come on!"

"If you insist," said Percival, "but none of us can meet her."

"It's all right, dad--I understand--"

"Nor can we know any one who receives her."

"Really, sir," began the elder Milbrey, "your effrontery in assuming to dictate the visiting
list of my family is overwhelming."

