INFORMANTS

Adams, Isaac                   1 Alexander, Alice               6

Banks, Phoebe                  8 Bean, Nancy Rogers            12 Bee, Prince             
14 Bonner, Lewis                 17 Bridges, Francis              20 Brown, John          
24

Carder, Sallie                27 Chessier, Betty Foreman       30 Colbert, Polly          
33 Conrad, Jr., George           39 Cunningham, Martha            45 Curtis, William      
48

Davis, Lucinda                53 Dawson, Anthony               65 Douglass, Alice         
73 Dowdy, Doc Daniel             76 Draper, Joanna                81

Easter, Esther                88 Evans, Eliza                  92

Farmer, Lizzie                97 Fountain, Della              102

Gardner, Nancy               108 George, Octavia              111 Grayson, Mary                115

Grinstead, Robert R.         124

Hardman, Mattie              128 Hawkins, Annie               131 Henry, Ida              
134 Hillyer, Morris              138 Hutson, Hal                  145 Hutson, William     
148

Jackson, Isabella            152 Johnson, Nellie              155 Jordan, Josie                160

King, George G.              165 King, Martha                 169 Kye, George                  172

Lawson, Ben                  176 Lindsay, Mary                178 Logan, Mattie           
187 Love, Kiziah                 192 Lucas, Daniel William        200 Luster, Bert        
203

McCray, Stephen              207 McFarland, Hannah            210 Mack, Marshall          
212 Manning, Allen B.            215 Maynard, Bob                 223 Montgomery, Jane    
227

Oliver, Amanda               230 Oliver, Salomon              233

Petite, Phyllis              236 Poe, Matilda                 242 Pyles, Henry F.              245

Richardson, Chaney           257 Richardson, Red              263 Robertson, Betty        
266 Robinson, Harriett           270 Rowe, Katie                  275

Sheppard, Morris             285 Simms, Andrew                295 Smith, Liza             
298 Smith, Lou                   300 Southall, James              306

Tenneyson, Beauregard        310

Walters, William             312 Webb, Mary Frances           314 Wells, Easter           
316 White, John                  322 Williams, Charley            330 Wilson, Sarah       
344 Woods, Tom                   354

Young, Annie                 359

ILLUSTRATIONS

                                      Facing Page

Lucinda Davis                              53

Anthony Dawson                             65

Katie Rowe                                275

Charley Williams and Granddaughter        330

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

ISAAC ADAMS Age 87 yrs. Tulsa, Okla.

I was born in Louisiana, way before the War. I think it was about ten years before, because
I can remember everything so well about the start of the War, and I believe I was about ten
years old.

My Mammy belonged to Mr. Sack P. Gee. I don't know what his real given name was, but it maybe
was Saxon. Anyways we all called him Master Sack.

He was a kind of youngish man, and was mighty rich. I think he was born in England. Anyway
his pappy was from England, and I think he went back before I was born.

Master Sack had a big plantation ten miles north of Arcadia, Louisiana, and his land run ten
miles along both sides. He would leave in a buggy and be gone all day and still not get all
over it.

There was all kinds of land on it, and he raised cane and oats and wheat and lots of corn and
cotton. His cotton fields was the biggest anywheres in that part, and when chopping and picking
times come he would get negroes from other people to help out. I never was no good at picking,
but I was a terror with a hoe!

I was the only child my Mammy had. She was just a young girl, and my Master did not own her
very long. He got her from Mr. Addison Hilliard, where my pappy belonged. I think she was going
to have me when he got her; anyways I come along pretty soon, and my mammy never was very well
afterwards. Maybe Master Sack sent her back over to my pappy. I don't know.

Mammy was the house girl at Mr. Sack's because she wasn't very strong, and when I was four
or five years old she died. I was big enough to do little things for Mr. Sack and his daughter,
so they kept me at the mansion, and I helped the house boys. Time I was nine or ten Mr. Sack's
daughter was getting to be a young woman--fifteen or sixteen years old--and that was old enough
to get married off in them days. They had a lot of company just before the War, and they had
whole bunch of house negroes around all the time.

Old Mistress died when I was a baby, so I don't remember anything about her, but Young Mistress
was a winder! She would ride horseback nearly all the time, and I had to go along with her
when I got big enough. She never did go around the quarters, so I don't know nothing much about
the negroes Mr. Sack had for the fields. They all looked pretty clean and healthy, though,
when they would come up to the Big House. He fed them all good and they all liked him.

He had so much different kinds of land that they could raise anything they wanted, and he had
more mules and horses and cattle than anybody around there. Some of the boys worked with his
fillies all the time, and he went off to New Orleans ever once in a while with his race horses.
He took his daughter but they never took me.

Some of his land was in pasture but most of it was all open fields, with just miles and miles
of cotton rows. There was a pretty good strip along one side he called the "old" fields. That's
what they called the land that was wore out and turned back. It was all growed up in young
trees, and that's where he kept his horses most of the time.

The first I knowed about the War coming on was when Mr. Sack had a whole bunch of whitefolks
at the Big House at a function. They didn't talk about anything else all evening and then the
next time they come nearly all their menfolks wasn't there--just the womenfolks. It wasn't
very long till Mr. Sack went off to Houma with some other men, and pretty soon we knew he was
in the War. I don't remember ever seeing him come home. I don't think he did until it was nearly
all over.

Next thing we knowed they was Confederate soldiers riding by pretty nearly every day in big
droves. Sometimes they would come and buy corn and wheat and hogs, but they never did take
any anyhow, like the Yankees done later on. They would pay with billets, Young Missy called
them, and she didn't send them to git them cashed but saved them a long time, and then she
got them cashed, but you couldn't buy anything with the money she got for them.

That Confederate money she got wasn't no good. I was in Arcadia with her at a store, and she
had to pay seventy-five cents for a can of sardines for me to eat with some bread I had, and
before the War you could get a can like that for two cents. Things was even higher then than
later on, but that's the only time I saw her buy anything.

When the Yankees got down in that country the most of the big men paid for all the corn and
meat and things they got, but some of the little bunches of them would ride up and take hogs
and things like that and just ride off. They wasn't anybody at our place but the womenfolks
and the negroes. Some of Mr. Sack's women kinfolks stayed there with Young Mistress.

Along at the last the negroes on our place didn't put in much stuff--jest what they would need,
and could hide from the Yankees, because they would get it all took away from them if the Yankees
found out they had plenty of corn and oats.

The Yankees was mighty nice about their manners, though. They camped all around our place for
a while. There was three camps of them close by at one time, but they never did come and use
any of our houses or cabins. There was lots of poor whites and Cajuns that lived down below
us, between us and the Gulf, and the Yankees just moved into their houses and cabins and used
them to camp in.

The negroes at our place and all of them around there didn't try to get away or leave when
the Yankees come in. They wasn't no place to go, anyway, so they all stayed on. But they didn't
do very much work. Just enough to take care of themselves and their whitefolks.

Master Sack come home before the War was quite over. I think he had been sick, because he looked
thin and old and worried. All the negroes picked up and worked mighty hard after he come home, too.

One day he went into Arcadia and come home and told us the War was over and we was all free.
The negroes didn't know what to make of it, and didn't know where to go, so he told all that
wanted to stay on that they could just go on like they had been and pay him shares.

About half of his negroes stayed on, and he marked off land for them to farm and made arrangements
with them to let them use their cabins, and let them have mules and tools. They paid him out
of their shares, and some of them finally bought the mules and some of the land. But about
half went on off and tried to do better somewheres else.

I didn't stay with him because I was jest a boy and he didn't need me at the house anyway.

Late in the War my Pappy belonged to a man named Sander or Zander. Might been Alexander, but
the negroes called him Mr. Sander. When pappy got free he come and asked me to go with him,
and I went along and lived with him. He had a share-cropper deal with Mr. Sander and I helped
him work his patch. That place was just a little east of Houma, a few miles.

When my Pappy was born his parents belonged to a Mr. Adams, so he took Adams for his last name,
and I did too, because I was his son. I don't know where Mr. Adams lived, but I don't think
my Pappy was born in Louisiana. Alabama, maybe. I think his parents come off the boat, because
he was very black--even blacker than I am.

I lived there with my Pappy until I was about eighteen and then I married and moved around
all over Louisiana from time to time. My wife give me twelve boys and five girls, but all my
children are dead now but five. My wife died in 1920 and I come up here to Tulsa to live. One
of my daughters takes care and looks out for me now.

I seen the old Sack P. Gee place about twenty years ago, and it was all cut up in little places
and all run down. Never would have known it was one time a big plantation ten miles long.

I seen places going to rack and ruin all around--all the places I lived at in Louisiana--but
I'm glad I wasn't there to see Master Sack's place go down. He was a good man and done right
by all his negroes.

Yes, Lord, my old feets have been in mighty nigh every parish in Louisiana, and I seen some
mighty pretty places, but I'll never forget how that old Gee plantation looked when I was a boy.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

ALICE ALEXANDER Age 88 yrs. Oklahoma City, Okla.

I was 88 years old the 15th of March. I was born in 1849, at Jackson Parish, Louisiana. My
mother's name was Mary Marlow, and father's Henry Marlow.

I can't remember very much 'bout slavery 'cause I was awful small, but I can remember that
my mother's master, Colonel Threff died, and my mother, her husband, and us three chillun was
handed down to Colonel Threff's poor kin folks. Colonel Threff owned about two or three hundred
head of niggers, and all of 'em was tributed to his poor kin. Ooh wee! he sho' had jest a lot
of them too! Master Joe Threff, one of his poor kin, took my mother, her husband, and three
of us chillun from Louisiana to the Mississippi Line.

Down there we lived in a one-room log hut, and slept on homemade rail bed steads with cotton,
and sometimes straw, mostly straw summers and cotton winners. I worked round the house and
looked after de smaller chillun--I mean my mother's chillun. Mostly we ate yeller meal corn
bread and sorghum malasses. I ate possums when we could get 'em, but jest couldn't stand rabbit
meat. Didn't know there was any Christmas or holidays in dem days.

I can't 'membuh nothing 'bout no churches in slavery. I was a sinner and loved to dance. I
remembuh I was on the floor one night dancing and I had four daughters on the floor with me
and my son was playing de music--that got me! I jest stopped and said I wouldn't cut another
step and I haven't. I'm a member of the Baptist Church and been for 25 or 30 years. I jined
'cause I wanted to be good 'cause I was an awful sinner.

We had a overseer back on Colonel Threff's plantation and my mother said he was the meanest
man on earth. He'd jest go out in de fields and beat dem niggers, and my mother told me one
day he come out in de field beating her sister and she jumped on him and nearly beat him half
to death and old Master come up jest in time to see it all and fired dat overseer. Said he
didn't want no man working fer him dat a woman could whip.

After de war set us free my pappy moved us away and I stayed round down there till I got to
be a grown woman and married. You know I had a pretty fine wedding 'cause my pappy had worked
hard and commenced to be prosperous. He had cattle, hogs, chickens and all those things like that.

A college of dem niggers got together and packed up to leave Louisiana. Me and my husband went
with them. We had covered wagons, and let me tell you I walked nearly all the way from Louisiana
to Oklahoma. We left in March but didn't git here till May. We came in search of education.
I got a pretty fair education down there but didn't take care of it. We come to Oklahoma looking
for de same thing then that darkies go North looking fer now. But we got dissapointed. What
little I learned I quit taking care of it and seeing after it and lost it all.

I love to fish. I've worked hard in my days. Washed and ironed for 30 years, and paid for dis
home that way. Yes sir, dis is my home. My mother died right here in dis house. She was 111
yeahs old. She is been dead 'bout 20 yeahs.

I have three daughters here married, Sussie Pruitt, Bertie Shannon, and Irene Freeman. Irene
lost her husband, and he's dead now.

Oklahoma Writers' Project Ex-Slaves

10-19-1938 1,428 words

PHOEBE BANKS Age 78 Muskogee, Oklahoma.

In 1860, there was a little Creek Indian town of Sodom on the north bank of the Arkansas River,
in a section the Indians called Chocka Bottoms, where Mose Perryman had a big farm or ranch
for a long time before the Civil War. That same year, on October 17, I was born on the Perryman
place, which was northwest of where I live now in Muskogee; only in them days Fort Gibson and
Okmulgee was the biggest towns around and Muskogee hadn't shaped up yet.

My mother belonged to Mose Perryman when I was born; he was one of the best known Creeks in
the whole nation, and one of his younger brothers, Legus Perryman, was made the big chief of
the Creeks (1887) a long time after the slaves was freed. Mother's name was Eldee; my father's
name was William McIntosh, because he belonged to a Creek Indian family by that name. Everybody
say the McIntoshes was leaders in the Creek doings away back there in Alabama long before they
come out here.

With me, there was twelve children in our family; Daniel, Stroy, Scott, Segal, Neil, Joe, Phillip,
Mollie, Harriett, Sally and Queenie.

The Perryman slave cabins was all alike--just two-room log cabins, with a fireplace where mother
do the cooking for us children at night after she get through working in the Master's house.

Mother was the house girl--cooking, waiting on the table, cleaning the house, spinning the
yarn, knitting some of the winter clothes, taking care of the mistress girl, washing the clothes--yes,
she was always busy and worked mighty hard all the time, while them Indians wouldn't hardly
do nothing for themselves.

On the McIntosh plantation, my daddy said there was a big number of slaves and lots of slave
children. The slave men work in the fields, chopping cotton, raising corn, cutting rails for
the fences, building log cabins and fireplaces. One time when father was cutting down a tree
it fell on him and after that he was only strong enough to rub down the horses and do light
work around the yard. He got to be a good horse trainer and long time after slavery he helped
to train horses for the Free Fairs around the country, and I suppose the first money he ever
earned was made that way.

Lots of the slave owners didn't want their slaves to learn reading and writing, but the Perrymans
didn't care; they even helped the younger slaves with that stuff. Mother said her master didn't
care much what the slaves do; he was so lazy he didn't care for nothing.

They tell me about the war times, and that's all I remember of it. Before the War is over some
of the Perryman slaves and some from the McIntosh place fix up to run away from their masters.

My father and my uncle, Jacob Perryman, was some of the fixers. Some of the Creek Indians had
already lost a few slaves who slip off to the North, and they take what was left down into
Texas so's they couldn't get away. Some of the other Creeks was friendly to the North and was
fixing to get away up there; that's the ones my daddy and uncle was fixing to join, for they
was afraid their masters would take up and move to Texas before they could get away.

They call the old Creek, who was leaving for the North, "Old Gouge" (Opoethleyohola). All our
family join up with him, and there was lots of Creek Indians and slaves in the outfit when
they made a break for the North. The runaways was riding ponies stolen from their masters.

When they get into the hilly country farther north in the country that belong to the Cherokee
Indians, they make camp on a big creek and there the Rebel Indian soldiers catch up, but they
was fought back.

Then long before morning lighten the sky, the men hurry and sling the camp kettles across the
pack horses, tie the littlest children to the horses backs and get on the move farther into
the mountains. They kept moving fast as they could, but the wagons made it mighty slow in the
brush and the lowland swamps, so just about the time they ready to ford another creek the Indian
soldiers catch up and the fighting begin all over again.

The Creek Indians and the slaves with them try to fight off them soldiers like they did before,
but they get scattered around and separated so's they lose the battle. Lost their horses and
wagons, and the soldiers killed lots of the Creeks and Negroes, and some of the slaves was
captured and took back to their masters.

Dead all over the hills when we get away; some of the Negroes shot and wounded so bad the blood
run down the saddle skirts, and some fall off their horses miles from the battle ground, and
lay still on the ground. Daddy and Uncle Jacob keep our family together somehow and head across
the line into Kansas. We all get to Fort Scott where there was a big army camp; daddy work
in the blacksmith shop and Uncle Jacob join with the Northern soldiers to fight against the
South. He come through the war and live to tell me about the fighting he been in.

