In ancient times a grand safeguard against this debasing practice was found in the law that
said, "Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of my people." This evil, like all others, when
it becomes a strong habit, is well calculated to stir up anger, and wrath, and hatred; to stir
up the passions, and destroy confidence, which is always and only disastrous to the social
state. This growing evil needs to be checked by some means, otherwise our country will experience
tumults growing out of maddened party ambition, and party interests, which will cause disaster
and grief. The ballot-box needs to be guarded with wise and severe laws, because it is the
pivotal wheel in our government. And next to this, because of the relation it sustains to our
government's welfare, is the reputation of our public officials. I would not screen them from
their just deserts, but I do say that the leaders in political affairs should be, in common
with all others, too high-minded to indulge in slandering each other, as many are in the habit
of doing. It reminds me in some of our political campaigns of the cursing-matches of the Popes,
in some of the councils that were held during the dark ages. It is possible that we have in
Indiana, and perhaps in some of the other states, sufficient law upon the subjects of slander,
but law that is disregarded, being seldom enforced, amounts to nothing. Then, there is a disposition
growing out of the pride of character to disregard the slanderer's tongue. Yet licentiousness
tends to civil and social ruin all the same. That is to say, it destroys confidence, breeds
retaliation and corruption, and inflames all the baser passions known in the dying agonies
of a civil government. As an American citizen I would warn our people to manufacture all the
public sentiment possible against this low, vile, and debasing practice, by pleading with our
countrymen against it. And let us never hold our peace until we shall have thrown such safeguard
around our ballot-box as will put an end to all the abominable corruptions that now threaten
our existence as a free people. Is it true of us, that we carry the seeds of our own destruction
as a nation in our own bosom? Are we to die as a nation, over the ballot-box? Shall we be so
foolish? Let statesmen and politicians look well to the essential elements of the nation's
life, by the advocacy of reform at this point where reform is most needed. And let Christians
of every name plead for morality as an essential qualification for a place at the head of so
great affairs as belong of right to the people of counties, states and nation. Righteousness
exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. It is time for us to look after the moral
elements of every man's life who proposes himself as a candidate for office in our midst, but
we can well afford to be satisfied with the truth. Shall we look to this?

While we pray as Christians for such rulers and authorities as will look to the permanent and
lasting interests of our country, let us vote as we pray. Do we pray one way and vote another?
If so, let us repent. Do we pray for righteous rulers and for a good government and then vote
for profane, wicked men; for men of intemperate habits, men who are perfectly indifferent to
the moral welfare of our country; men who will disregard the welfare of the nation by neglecting
the elements of national greatness? If political parties triumph in this government through
slander, trickery, whisky and corruption, and continue to do so, the time will inevitably come
when we will realize the facts of national ruin. We might as well think of a man having good
health and living long upon the earth who takes poison into his stomach continually, as to
think of future glory as a nation if we carry out our purposes by dishonest, illegal measures
and by railing, in a slanderous and unjustifiable manner, against the best men of the nation.
It has been said that political parties are necessary as checks to corruption, but when parties
themselves indulge in all manner of corruption in order to succeed as parties, they are no
longer checks, but abettors of corruption.

Let the preachers, whose business it is to reprove sin, and who have been kept from taking
the risk of being shut out of Paradise, by being kept out of politics(?) open their mouths
and be heard all over this country against all these immoral, vile practices indulged as a
means of political success. The ignorant, fossilized partisan who looks no higher than party
will perhaps raise a yell of indignation against them, but at the same time he will continue
the use of the same old argument, viz: the pool of politics is too filthy for preachers to
meddle with. Is it a filthy pool? Then let us bring all the purifying elements of the nation
to bear upon it and see if there is anything in it besides corruption. If there is not, the
sooner we find it out the better, and if there is, the sooner we get it separated from its
corruption the better.

THE RELIGION AND SOCIETY OF GREECE.

HOW DOES IT COMPARE WITH OURS.

From the Egyptians and other nations to whom the Grecians were indebted for their earliest
laws, they derived their established religion. To the worship of the twelve principal divinities
the gratitude of the succeeding ages added the deification of heroes and legislators renowned
for their important services to society. Various degrees of adoration were paid to the gods
and to the souls of departed heroes. Temples were erected, festivals were instituted, games
were celebrated, and sacrifices were offered with more or less pomp and magnificence to them
all. A regular gradation of immortal beings was acknowledged to preside throughout universal
nature from the Naiad, who was adored as the tutelary guardian of a stream to Jupiter, the
father of gods and men, who ruled with Supreme power over heaven and earth.

The religion of the people extended little beyond the external honors paid to the gods of their
country and the attendance upon sacrifices and processions. The sacred ceremonies were magnificent
and public, except that the votaries of Bacchus and Ceres were indulged in their secret mysteries.
The festivals were observed with every circumstance of pomp and splendor to charm the eye and
please the imagination. A sacrifice was a feast attended with gayety and even licentiousness.
Every temple was the resort of the idle and the dissolute, and the shrines of the Cyprian Venus
and the Athenian Minerva could attest that devotion, far from being a pure and exalted exercise
of the mind, was only the introduction to dissoluteness and debauchery.

The northern regions of Greece were particularly renowned for temples from which oracles were
issued. The temple of Apollo at Delphi, situated upon a lofty rock near Parnassus, and that
of Jupiter in the groves of Dodona, were celebrated for the responses of the Pythia and the
priests; they were held in the greatest veneration for many ages, and their oracles were consulted
even in the most enlightened times by philosophers themselves, who, in this instance, as well
as many others, conformed to the popular superstitions.

The spirit of the religion of ancient Greece was included in these principles, that the worship
of the gods was of superior obligation and importance to all other duties, and that they frequently
displayed their power in this world in the punishment of the bad and the prosperity of the
virtuous. Such were the opinions inculcated by the most celebrated philosophers and poets but
the common people, more gratified by the fictions of the received mythology, than by tenets
of pure morals, found in the actions recorded of their gods and goddesses a sufficient justification
of every species of licentiousness. With respect to a future state of existence, the philosophers
themselves appear to have fluctuated in uncertainty, as may be collected from the sentiments
of Socrates. The poets inculcated a belief in Tartarus and Elysium. They have drawn a picture
of Tartarus in the most gloomy and horrific colors, where men, who had been remarkable for
impiety to the gods, such as Tantalus, Tityus and Sisyphus, were tormented with a variety of
misery ingeniously adapted to their crimes.

The prospect of Elysium is beautiful and inviting, as described by Homer, Hesiod and Pindar.
In that delightful region there is no inclement weather, but the soft zephyrs blow from the
ocean to refresh the inhabitants who live without care and anxiety; there the sky is always
serene and the sunshine is perpetual. The earth yields delicious fruits for their sustenance
three times per year. But these enjoyments were confined to the persons who were of rank and
distinction. Their Elysium was a sensual heaven. How very different is the Christian's future
happy home?

Proteus informed Menelaus that he would be conveyed to the Islands of the Blessed, because
he was the husband of Helen, and the son-in-law of Jupiter. No incentives to goodness from
the consideration of a future state are held out by the older poets to the female sex, or to
the ignoble or common people, however pure their conduct or exemplary their virtue. In later
times we find that Pindar extends his rewards to good men in general; but Euripides is sometimes
skeptical, and Iphigenia without hesitation expresses her disbelief of the popular mythology.

The learned Jortin says, It gives us pleasure to trace in Homer the important doctrine of a
supreme God, a providence, and a free agency in man, supposed to be consistent with fate or
destiny; a difference between moral good and evil, inferior gods or angels, some favorable
to men, others malevolent, and the immortality of the soul; but it gives us pain to find these
notions so miserably corrupted that they must have had a very weak influence to excite men
to virtue and deter them from crime.--Jortin, Dissertation vi, p. 245.

This observation may be applied to the state of opinions even in the most enlightened times
of Greece, when the credulity and ignorance of the common people, and the errors and doubts
of the greatest philosophers, proved the necessity and the importance of the Christian religion.

The possible attainments of a religious nature were very different from ours. In the times
of Lycurgus there were two hereditary kings or presidents; their power was controlled by Lycurgus,
through the gift of equal authority to twenty-eight senators. The two kings commanded the armies
and high-priests of the temples. The senators were the executive and legislative council of
the state; with them the laws originated. The assembly of the people elected the senators by
saying yes or no to the measures proposed to them, but had no right to discuss their propriety--were
not allowed the privilege.

Lycurgus allowed every family an equal amount of land; prohibited the use of gold and silver,
and made iron money the only currency of the country, in order to check the avarice of the
people. He forbade foreign travel in order to retain the morals of his people, or keep them
from the corruptions of other nations. To produce a hardy people, he required the women to
indulge in all the athletic exercises of his government. The children were inspected as soon
as they were born, and those considered worthy were handed over to the public nurses, and the
unworthy, that is, the deformed and sickly, were taken out and left in the woods and upon the
mountains to perish. All the children of the Spartans were considered as the property of the
state, and their education consisted in accustoming them to endure the cravings of hunger and
thirst, with the scourge of discipline and every degree of suffering. The business of Spartans
consisted in preparing themselves for war. They were disciplined in such a manner that it was
necessary to curb them constantly, lest they should rashly undertake to make conquests. Out
of this character of the Greeks arose that old saying, "When Greek meets Greek then comes the
tug of war."

Many of the laws of the Spartans would, in this country at least, destroy all the finer feeling,
and inaugurate a reign of despotism utterly at variance with Christianity. God's time to give
to the inhabitants of the earth the glorious system of our holy religion was not until our
race was educated, so as to be no longer the slaves of the reigning ambition and passion of
such men as Lycurgus. The Savior's hour was several centuries from Lycurgus. Here it is appropriate
to remark that God, in his providence with the nations of men, has during all the ages given
to men just as fast as they were able to receive.

THE RELATIONS OF CHRISTIANITY TO HUMAN GREATNESS.

Some who deny the existence of spirit apart from matter allow that the greatness of man consists
in his being an eating animal. Others allow that it lies in the fact that he is a working animal;
while some have allowed that it was found in the fact that he is a fighting animal. And all
infidels agree in one thing, viz.: that man is simply an animal. But the animal nature of man
is not to be considered, with any degree of truth, his crown of glory; his true greatness can
not be identified with it. We are acquainted with animals that can eat more, and seem to do
it with a greater relish. Others can run faster, jump higher, overcome greater weight and outdo
him in all manner of physical labor. They are in possession of greater courage and fight with
greater ferocity. So we must search for man's greatness outside of all these elements of character.
Can we find no brighter, higher principles in the human character? To do so we must lay aside
the animal nature of man altogether, and consider his character as it is blended with his intellectual
and moral nature. In other words, we must consider man as man, not as an animal. We must consider
him as a mind or spirit, and look to something higher than eating, laboring at the helm, and
fighting, if we would discover his true greatness. In the improvement of mind is the true improvement
of man in all his relations. Without this he is unqualified for all the various obligations
that are necessary to be discharged in order to the development of true greatness. To be great
a man must rise above the little, the mean, the vile and the degraded. To do this he must be
educated, trained, until the fruits of a virtuous and useful intelligence are seen in his every-day
life. Men are not considered great nor admired for the simple development of physical nature.

Infidels claim that cultivated literature is incompatible with religion. It has been said that
a man of ardent piety can not produce a work that will live in after ages. This is a libel
upon the truth, and upon him who said: "I am the truth."

