And now he was bound to go seedy beyond description--like the time at Mentone when he dreamed
a system for playing the little horses, after which for a fortnight I was obliged to nurse
a well-connected invalid in order that we might last over till next remittance day. The havoc
he managed to wreak among his belongings in that time would scarce be believed should I set
it down--not even a single boot properly treed--and his appearance when I was enabled to recover
him (my client having behaved most handsomely on the eve of his departure for Spain) being
such that I passed him in the hotel lounge without even a nod--climbing-boots, with trousers
from his one suit of boating flannels, a blazered golfing waistcoat, his best morning-coat
with the wide braid, a hunting-stock and a motoring-cap, with his beard more than discursive,
as one might say, than I had ever seen it. If I disclose this thing it is only that my fears
for him may be comprehended when I pictured him being permanently out of hand.

Meditating thus bitterly, I had but finished dressing when I was startled by a knock on my
door and by the entrance, to my summons, of the elder and more subdued Floud, he of the drooping
mustaches and the mournful eyes of pale blue. One glance at his attire brought freshly to my
mind the atrocious difficulties of my new situation. I may be credited or not, but combined
with tan boots and wretchedly fitting trousers of a purple hue he wore a black frock-coat,
revealing far, far too much of a blue satin "made" cravat on which was painted a cluster of
tiny white flowers--lilies of the valley, I should say. Unbelievably above this monstrous melange
was a rather low-crowned bowler hat.

Hardly repressing a shudder, I bowed, whereupon he advanced solemnly to me and put out his
hand. To cover the embarrassing situation tactfully I extended my own, and we actually shook
hands, although the clasp was limply quite formal.

"How do you do, Mr. Ruggles?" he began.

I bowed again, but speech failed me.

"She sent me over to get you," he went on. He uttered the word "She" with such profound awe
that I knew he could mean none other than Mrs. Effie. It was most extraordinary, but I dare
say only what was to have been expected from persons of this sort. In any good-class club or
among gentlemen at large it is customary to allow one at least twenty-four hours for the payment
of one's gambling debts. Yet there I was being collected by the winner at so early an hour
as half-after seven. If I had been a five-pound note instead of myself, I fancy it would have
been quite the same. These Americans would most indecently have sent for their winnings before
the Honourable George had awakened. One would have thought they had expected him to refuse
payment of me after losing me the night before. How little they seemed to realize that we were
both intending to be dead sportsmen.

"Very good, sir," I said, "but I trust I may be allowed to brew the Honourable George his tea
before leaving? I'd hardly like to trust to him alone with it, sir."

"Yes, sir," he said, so respectfully that it gave me an odd feeling. "Take your time, Mr. Ruggles.
I don't know as I am in any hurry on my own account. It's only account of Her."

I trust it will be remembered that in reporting this person's speeches I am making an earnest
effort to set them down word for word in all their terrific peculiarities. I mean to say, I
would not be held accountable for his phrasing, and if I corrected his speech, as of course
the tendency is, our identities might become confused. I hope this will be understood when
I report him as saying things in ways one doesn't word them. I mean to say that it should not
be thought that I would say them in this way if it chanced that I were saying the same things
in my proper person. I fancy this should now be plain.

"Very well, sir," I said.

"If it was me," he went on, "I wouldn't want you a little bit. But it's Her. She's got her
mind made up to do the right thing and have us all be somebody, and when she makes her mind
up----" He hesitated and studied the ceiling for some seconds. "Believe me," he continued,
"Mrs. Effie is some wildcat!"

"Yes, sir--some wildcat," I repeated.

"Believe me, Bill," he said again, quaintly addressing me by a name not my own--"believe me,
she'd fight a rattlesnake and give it the first two bites."

Again let it be recalled that I put down this extraordinary speech exactly as I heard it. I
thought to detect in it that grotesque exaggeration with which the Americans so distressingly
embellish their humour. I mean to say, it could hardly have been meant in all seriousness.
So far as my researches have extended, the rattlesnake is an invariably poisonous reptile.
Fancy giving one so downright an advantage as the first two bites, or even one bite, although
I believe the thing does not in fact bite at all, but does one down with its forked tongue,
of which there is an excellent drawing in my little volume, "Inquire Within; 1,000 Useful Facts."

"Yes, sir," I replied, somewhat at a loss; "quite so, sir!"

"I just thought I'd wise you up beforehand."

"Thank you, sir," I said, for his intention beneath the weird jargon was somehow benevolent.
"And if you'll be good enough to wait until I have taken tea to the Honourable George----"

"How is the Judge this morning?" he broke in.

"The Judge, sir?" I was at a loss, until he gestured toward the room of the Honourable George.

"The Judge, yes. Ain't he a justice of the peace or something?"

"But no, sir; not at all, sir."

"Then what do you call him 'Honourable' for, if he ain't a judge or something?"

"Well, sir, it's done, sir," I explained, but I fear he was unable to catch my meaning, for
a moment later (the Honourable George, hearing our voices, had thrown a boot smartly against
the door) he was addressing him as "Judge" and thereafter continued to do so, nor did the Honourable
George seem to make any moment of being thus miscalled.

I served the Ceylon tea, together with biscuits and marmalade, the while our caller chatted
nervously. He had, it appeared, procured his own breakfast while on his way to us.

"I got to have my ham and eggs of a morning," he confided. "But she won't let me have anything
at that hotel but a continental breakfast, which is nothing but coffee and toast and some of
that there sauce you're eating. She says when I'm on the continent I got to eat a continental
breakfast, because that's the smart thing to do, and not stuff myself like I was on the ranch;
but I got that game beat both ways from the jack. I duck out every morning before she's up.
I found a place where you can get regular ham and eggs."

"Regular ham and eggs?" murmured the Honourable George.

"French ham and eggs is a joke. They put a slice of boiled ham in a little dish, slosh a couple
of eggs on it, and tuck the dish into the oven a few minutes. Say, they won't ever believe
that back in Red Gap when I tell it. But I found this here little place where they do it right,
account of Americans having made trouble so much over the other way. But, mind you, don't let
on to her," he warned me suddenly.

"Certainly not, sir," I said. "Trust me to be discreet, sir."

"All right, then. Maybe we'll get on better than what I thought we would. I was looking for
trouble with you, the way she's been talking about what you'd do for me."

"I trust matters will be pleasant, sir," I replied.

"I can be pushed just so far," he curiously warned me, "and no farther--not by any man that
wears hair."

"Yes, sir," I said again, wondering what the wearing of hair might mean to this process of
pushing him, and feeling rather absurdly glad that my own face is smoothly shaven.

"You'll find Ruggles fairish enough after you've got used to his ways," put in the Honourable
George.

"All right, Judge; and remember it wasn't my doings," said my new employer, rising and pulling
down to his ears his fearful bowler hat. "And now we better report to her before she does a
hot-foot over here. You can pack your grip later in the day," he added to me.

"Pack my grip--yes, sir," I said numbly, for I was on the tick of leaving the Honourable George
helpless in bed. In a voice that I fear was broken I spoke of clothes for the day's wear which
I had laid out for him the night before. He waved a hand bravely at us and sank back into his
pillow as my new employer led me forth. There had been barely a glance between us to betoken
the dreadfulness of the moment.

At our door I was pleased to note that a taximetre cab awaited us. I had acutely dreaded a
walk through the streets, even of Paris, with my new employer garbed as he was. The blue satin
cravat of itself would have been bound to insure us more attention than one would care for.

I fear we were both somewhat moody during the short ride. Each of us seemed to have matters
of weight to reflect upon. Only upon reaching our destination did my companion brighten a bit.
For a fare of five francs forty centimes he gave the driver a ten-franc piece and waited for
no change.

"I always get around them that way," he said with an expression of the brightest cunning. "She
used to have the laugh on me because I got so much counterfeit money handed to me. Now I don't
take any change at all."

"Yes, sir," I said. "Quite right, sir."

"There's more than one way to skin a cat," he added as we ascended to the Floud's drawing-room,
though why his mind should have flown to this brutal sport, if it be a sport, was quite beyond
me. At the door he paused and hissed at me: "Remember, no matter what she says, if you treat
me white I'll treat you white." And before I could frame any suitable response to this puzzling
announcement he had opened the door and pushed me in, almost before I could remove my cap.

Seated at the table over coffee and rolls was Mrs. Effie. Her face brightened as she saw me,
then froze to disapproval as her glance rested upon him I was to know as Cousin Egbert. I saw
her capable mouth set in a straight line of determination.

"You did your very worst, didn't you?" she began. "But sit down and eat your breakfast. He'll
soon change that." She turned to me. "Now, Ruggles, I hope you understand the situation, and
I'm sure I can trust you to take no nonsense from him. You see plainly what you've got to do.
I let him dress to suit himself this morning, so that you could know the worst at once. Take
a good look at him--shoes, coat, hat--that dreadful cravat!"

"I call this a right pretty necktie," mumbled her victim over a crust of toast. She had poured
coffee for him.

"You hear that?" she asked me. I bowed sympathetically.

"What does he look like?" she insisted. "Just tell him for his own good, please."

But this I could not do. True enough, during our short ride he had been reminding me of one
of a pair of cross-talk comedians I had once seen in a music-hall. This, of course, was not
a thing one could say.

"I dare say, Madam, he could be smartened up a bit. If I might take him to some good-class
shop----"

"And burn the things he's got on----" she broke in.

"Not this here necktie," interrupted Cousin Egbert rather stubbornly. "It was give to me by
Jeff Tuttle's littlest girl last Christmas; and this here Prince Albert coat--what's the matter
of it, I'd like to know? It come right from the One Price Clothing Store at Red Gap, and it's
plenty good to go to funerals in----"

"And then to a barber-shop with him," went on Mrs. Effie, who had paid no heed to his outburst.
"Get him done right for once."

Her relative continued to nibble nervously at a bit of toast.

"I've done something with him myself," she said, watching him narrowly. "At first he insisted
on having the whole bill-of-fare for breakfast, but I put my foot down, and now he's satisfied
with the continental breakfast. That goes to show he has something in him, if we can only bring
it out."

"Something in him, indeed, yes, Madam!" I assented, and Cousin Egbert, turning to me, winked
heavily.

"I want him to look like some one," she resumed, "and I think you're the man can make him if
you're firm with him; but you'll have to be firm, because he's full of tricks. And if he starts
any rough stuff, just come to me."

"Quite so, Madam," I said, but I felt I was blushing with shame at hearing one of my own sex
so slanged by a woman. That sort of thing would never do with us. And yet there was something
about this woman--something weirdly authoritative. She showed rather well in the morning light,
her gray eyes crackling as she talked. She was wearing a most elaborate peignoir, and of course
she should not have worn the diamonds; it seemed almost too much like the morning hour of a
stage favourite; but still one felt that when she talked one would do well to listen.

Hereupon Cousin Egbert startled me once more.

"Won't you set up and have something with us, Mr. Ruggles?" he asked me.

I looked away, affecting not to have heard, and could feel Mrs. Effie scowling at him. He coughed
into his cup and sprayed coffee well over himself. His intention had been obvious in the main,
though exactly what he had meant by "setting up" I couldn't fancy--as if I had been a performing
poodle!

The moment's embarrassment was well covered by Mrs. Effie, who again renewed her instructions,
and from an escritoire brought me a sheaf of the pretentiously printed sheets which the French
use in place of our banknotes.

"You will spare no expense," she directed, "and don't let me see him again until he looks like
some one. Try to have him back here by five. Some very smart friends of ours are coming for tea."

"I won't drink tea at that outlandish hour for any one," said Cousin Egbert rather snappishly.

"You will at least refuse it like a man of the world, I hope," she replied icily, and he drooped
submissive once more. "You see?" she added to me.

"Quite so, Madam," I said, and resolved to be firm and thorough with Cousin Egbert. In a way
I was put upon my mettle. I swore to make him look like some one. Moreover, I now saw that
his half-veiled threats of rebellion to me had been pure swank. I had in turn but to threaten
to report him to this woman and he would be as clay in my hands.

I presently had him tucked into a closed taxicab, half-heartedly muttering expostulations and
protests to which I paid not the least heed. During my strolls I had observed in what would
have been Regent Street at home a rather good-class shop with an English name, and to this
I now proceeded with my charge. I am afraid I rather hustled him across the pavement and into
the shop, not knowing what tricks he might be up to, and not until he was well to the back
did I attempt to explain myself to the shop-walker who had followed us. To him I then gave
details of my charge's escape from a burning hotel the previous night, which accounted for
his extraordinary garb of the moment, he having been obliged to accept the loan of garments
that neither fitted him nor harmonized with one another. I mean to say, I did not care to have
the chap suspect we would don tan boots, a frock-coat, and bowler hat except under the most
tremendous compulsion.

Cousin Egbert stared at me open mouthed during this recital, but the shop-walker was only too
readily convinced, as indeed who would not have been, and called an intelligent assistant to
relieve our distress. With his help I swiftly selected an outfit that was not half bad for
ready-to-wear garments. There was a black morning-coat, snug at the waist, moderately broad
at the shoulders, closing with two buttons, its skirt sharply cut away from the lower button
and reaching to the bend of the knee. The lapels were, of course, soft-rolled and joined the
collar with a triangular notch. It is a coat of immense character when properly worn, and I
was delighted to observe in the trying on that Cousin Egbert filled it rather smartly. Moreover,
he submitted more meekly than I had hoped. The trousers I selected were of gray cloth, faintly
striped, the waistcoat being of the same material as the coat, relieved at the neck-opening
by an edging of white.

With the boots I had rather more trouble, as he refused to wear the patent leathers that I
selected, together with the pearl gray spats, until I grimly requested the telephone assistant
to put me through to the hotel, desiring to speak to Mrs. Senator Floud. This brought him around,
although muttering, and I had less trouble with shirts, collars, and cravats. I chose a shirt
of white pique, a wing collar with small, square-cornered tabs, and a pearl ascot.

Then in a cabinet I superintended Cousin Egbert's change of raiment. We clashed again in the
matter of sock-suspenders, which I was astounded to observe he did not possess. He insisted
that he had never worn them--garters he called them--and never would if he were shot for it,
so I decided to be content with what I had already gained.

By dint of urging and threatening I at length achieved my ground-work and was more than a little
pleased with my effect, as was the shop-assistant, after I had tied the pearl ascot and adjusted
a quiet tie-pin of my own choosing.

"Now I hope you're satisfied!" growled my charge, seizing his bowler hat and edging off.

"By no means," I said coldly. "The hat, if you please, sir."

He gave it up rebelliously, and I had again to threaten him with the telephone before he would
submit to a top-hat with a moderate bell and broad brim. Surveying this in the glass, however,
he became perceptibly reconciled. It was plain that he rather fancied it, though as yet he
wore it consciously and would turn his head slowly and painfully, as if his neck were stiffened.

Having chosen the proper gloves, I was, I repeat, more than pleased with this severely simple
scheme of black, white, and gray. I felt I had been wise to resist any tendency to colour,
even to the most delicate of pastel tints. My last selection was a smartish Malacca stick,
the ideal stick for town wear, which I thrust into the defenceless hands of my client.

