Thus, passing over the first age from Adam to the Deluge, which covers 1656 years, we will
begin from the second age, which is that of the patriarch Noah, second universal father of
mortals. The divine scriptures show us that eight persons were saved from the flood, in the
ark. Noah and his wife Terra or Vesta, named from the first fire lighted by crystal for the
first sacrifice as Berosus would have; and his three sons to wit, Cam and his wife Cataflua,
Sem and his wife Prusia or Persia, Japhet and his wife Fun a, as we read in the register of
the chronicles. The names of some of these people remain, and to this day we can see clearly
whence they were derived, as the Hebrews from Heber, the Assyrians from Amur, but most of them
have been so changed that human intelligence is insufficient to investigate by this way. Besides
the three sons, Noah had others after the flood.

The descendants of these men having multiplied and become very numerous, Noah divided the world
among his first sons that they might people it, and then embarked on the Euxine Sea as we gather
from Xenophon. The giant Noah then navigated along the Mediterranean Sea, as Filon says and
Annius repeats, dividing the whole land among his sons. He gave it in charge to Sem to people
Asia from the Nile to the eastern Indies, with some of the sons he got after the flood. To
Cam he gave Africa from the Rinocoruras to the straits of Gibraltar with some more of the sons.
Europe was chosen for Japhet to people with the rest of the sons begotten after the flood,
who were all the sons of Tuscan, whence descend the Tadescos, Alemanes, and the nations adjacent
to them.

In this voyage Noah founded some towns and colonies on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea,
and remained in them for ten years, until 112 years after the universal deluge. He ordered
his daughter Araxa to remain in Armenia where the ark rested, with her husband and children,
to people that country. Then he, with the rest of his companions, went to Mesopotamia and settled.
There Nembrot was raised up for king, of the descendants of Cam. This Nembrot, says Berosus,
built Babylon 130 years after the flood. The sons of Sem elected for their king, Jektan, son
of Heber. Those of Japhet chose Fenec for their king, called Assenes by Moses. There were 300,000
men under him only 310 years after the deluge. Each king, with his companions, set out to people
the part of the world chosen for them by the patriarch Noah. It is to be noted that, although
Noah divided the parts of the world among his three sons and their descendants, many of them
did not keep to the boundaries. For some of one lineage settled on the lands of another brother.
Nembrot, being of the line of Cam, remained in the parts of Sem, and many others were mixed
together in the same way.

Thus the three parts of the world were peopled by these and their descendants, of whom I do
not propose to treat in detail, for our plan is to proceed in our narrative until we come to
the inhabitants of the Atlantic Island, the subject of this history. This was so near Spain
that, according to the common fame, Caliz used to be so close to the main land in the direction
of the port of Santa Maria, that a plank would serve as a bridge to pass from the island to
Spain. So that no one can doubt that the inhabitants of Spain, Jubal and his descendants, peopled
that land, as well as the inhabitants of Africa which was also near. Hence it was called the
Atlantic Island from having been peopled by Atlas, the giant and very wise astrologer who first
settled Mauritania now called Barbary, as Godefridus and all the chronicles teach us. This
Atlas was the son of Japhet by the nymph Asia, and grandson of Noah. For this there is no authority
except the above, corroborated by the divine Plato as I began by explaining, and it will be
necessary to seek his help to give the reader such evidence as merits belief respecting the
inhabitants of this Atlantic Island.

V.

INHABITANTS OF THE ATLANTIC ISLAND.

We have indicated the situation of the Atlantic Island and those who, in conformity with the
general peopling of the world, were probably its first inhabitants, namely the early Spaniards
and the first Mauritanian vassals of the King Atlas. This wonderful history was almost forgotten
in ancient times, Plato alone having preserved it, as has already been related in its place,
and which should again be consulted for what remains. Plato, in Critias, says that to Neptune's
share came the Atlantic Island, and that he had ten sons. He divided the whole island amongst
them, which before and in his time was called the empire of the floating islands, as Volaterranius
tells us. It was divided by Neptune into ten regions or kingdoms. The chief one, called Venus,
he gave to his eldest son named Atlantis, and appointed him sovereign of the whole island;
which consequently took the name of Atlantica, and the sea Atlantic, a name which it retains
to this day. The second son, named Gadirun, received the part which lies nearest to Spain and
which is now Caliz. To the third son Neptune gave a share. His name was Amferes, the fourth's
Eutoctenes, the seventh's Alusipo, the eighth's Mestores, the ninth's Azaen, the tenth's Diaprepem.
These and their descendants reigned for many ages, holding the lordships, by the sea, of many
other islands, which could not have been other than Hayti, which we call Santo Domingo, Cuba
and others, also peopled by emigrants from the Atlantic Island. They also held sway over Africa
as far as Egypt, and over Europe to Tirrenia and Italy.

The lineage of Atlas extended in a grand succession of generations, and his kingdom was ruled
in succession by the firstborns. They possessed such a copious supply of riches that none of
the natives had seen it all, and that no new comers could realise it. This land abounded in
all that is necessary for sustaining human life, pasture, timber, drugs, metals, wild beasts
and birds, domestic animals including a great number of elephants, most fragrant perfumes,
liquors, flowers, fruits, wine, and all the vegetables used for food, many dates, and other
things for presents. That island produced all things in great profusion. In ancient times it
was sacred, beautiful, admirable and fertile, as well as of vast extent. In it were extensive
kingdoms, sumptuous temples, palaces calling forth great admiration, as is seen from the relation
of Plato respecting the metropolis of the island which exceeded Babylon, Troy, or Rome, with
all their rich buildings, curious and well-constructed forts, and even the seven wonders of
the world concerning which the ancients sing so much. In the chief city of this empire there
was a port to which so many ships and merchants resorted from all parts, that owing to the
vast concourse a great and continual noise caused the residents to be thunderstruck. The number
of these Atlantics ready for war was so great that in the capital city alone they had an ordinary
garrison of 60,000 soldiers, always distributed among farms, each farm measuring 100 furlongs.
The rest inhabited the woods and other places, and were innumerable. They took to war 10,000
two-horse chariots each containing eight armed men, with six slingers and stone throwers on
either side. For the sea they had 200,000 boats with four men in each, making 800,000 men for
the sea-service alone. This was quite necessary owing to the great number of subject nations
which had to be governed and kept in obedience.

The rest which Plato relates on this subject will be discussed in the sequel, for I now proceed
to our principal point, which is to establish the conclusion that as these people carried their
banners and trophies into Europe and Africa which are not contiguous, they must have overrun
the Indies of Castille and peopled them, being part of the same main land. They used much policy
in their rule. But at the end of many ages, by divine permission, and perhaps owing to their
sins, it happened that a great and continuous earthquake, with an unceasing deluge, perpetual
by day and night, opened the earth and swallowed up those warlike and ambitious Atlantic men.
The Atlantic Island remained absorbed beneath that great sea, which from that cause continued
to be unnavigable owing to the mud of the absorbed island in solution, a wonderful thing.

This special flood may be added to the five floods recorded by the ancients. These are the
general one of Moses, the second in Egypt of which Xenophon makes mention, the third flood
in Achaia of Greece in the time of Ogyges Atticus, described by Isidore as happening in the
days of Jacob, the fourth in Thessaly in the time of Deucalion and Pyrrha, in the days of Moses
according to Isidore, in 782 as given by Juan Annius. The fifth flood is mentioned by Xenophon
as happening in Egypt in the time of Proteus. The sixth was this which destroyed so great a
part of the Atlantic Island and sufficed so to separate the part that was left unsubmerged,
that all mortals in Asia, Africa and Europe believed that all were drowned. Thus was lost the
intercourse and commerce of the people of these parts with those of Europe and Africa, in such
sort that all memory of them would have been lost, if it had not been for the Egyptians, preservers
of the most ancient deeds of men and of nature. The destruction of the Atlantic Island, over
at least 1000 leagues of longitude, was in the time when Aod[25] governed the people of Israel,
1320 years before Christ and 2162 years after the Creation, according to the Hebrews. I deduce
this calculation from what Plato relates of the conversation between Solon and the Egyptian
priest. For, according to all the chronicles, Solon lived in the time of Tarquinius Priscus
the King of Rome, Josiah being King of Israel at Jerusalem, before Christ 610 years. From this
period until the time when the Atlantics had put a blockade over the Athenians 9000 lunar years
had passed which, referred to solar years, make 869. All added together make the total given
above. Very soon afterwards the deluge must have come, as it is said to have been in the time
of Aod[25] or 748 years after the general deluge of Noah. This being so it is to be noted that
the isle of Caliz, the Canaries, the Salvages, and Trinidad must have been parts of the absorbed
land.

[Note 25: Ehud.]

It may be assumed that these very numerous nations of Atlantis were sufficient to people those
other lands of the Western Indies of Castille. Other nations also came to them, and peopled
some provinces after the above destruction. Strabo and Solinus say that Ulysses, after the
fall of Troy, navigated westward to Lusitania, founded Lisbon, and, after it had been built,
desired to try his fortune on the Atlantic Ocean by the way we now go to the Indies. He disappeared,
and it was never afterwards known what had become of him. This is stated by Pero Anton Beuter,
a noble Valencian historian and, as he mentions, this was the opinion of Dante Aligheri, the
illustrious Florentine poet. Assuming this to be correct we may follow Ulysses from island
to island until he came to Yucatan and Campeachy, part of the territory of New Spain. For those
of that land have the Grecian bearing and dress of the nation of Ulysses, they have many Grecian
words, and use Grecian letters. Of this I have myself seen many signs and proofs. Their name
for God is "Teos" which is Greek, and even throughout New Spain they use the word "Teos" for
God. I have also to say that in passing that way, I found that they anciently preserved an
anchor of a ship, venerating it as an idol, and had a certain genesis in Greek, which should
not be dismissed as absurd at first sight. Indeed there are a sufficient number of indications
to support my conjecture concerning Ulysses. From thence all those provinces of Mexico, Tabasco,
Xalisco, and to the north the Capotecas, Chiapas, Guatemalas, Honduras, Lasandones, Nicaraguas,
Tlaguzgalpas, as far as Nicoya, Costa Rica, and Veragua.

Moreover Esdras recounts that those nations which went from Persia by the river Euphrates came
to a land never before inhabited by the human race. Going down this river there was no way
but by the Indian Sea to reach a land where there was no habitation. This could only have been
Catigara, placed in 90° S. by Ptolemy, and according to the navigators sent by Alexander the
Great, 40 days of navigation from Asia. This is the land which the describers of maps call
the unknown land of the south, whence it is possible to go on settling people as far as the
Strait of Magellan to the west of Catigara, and the Javas, New Guinea, and the islands of the
archipelago of Nombre de Jesus which I, our Lord permitting, discovered in the South Sea in
the year 1568, the unconquered Felipe II reigning as King of Spain and its dependencies by
the demarcation of 180° of longitude.

It may thus be deduced that New Spain and its provinces were peopled by the Greeks, those of
Catigara by the Jews, and those of the rich and most powerful kingdoms of Peru and adjacent
provinces by the Atlantics who were descended from the primeval Mesopotamians and Chaldæans,
peoplers of the world.

These, and other points with them, which cannot be discussed with brevity, are true historical
reasons, of a quality worthy of belief, such as men of reason and letters may adopt respecting
the peopling of these lands. When we come to consider attentively what these barbarians of
Peru relate of their origin and of the tyrannical rule of the Incas Ccapacs, and the fables
and extravagances they recount, the truth may be distinguished from what is false, and how
in some of their fables they allude to true facts which are admitted and held by us as such.
Therefore the reader should peruse with attention and read the most strange and racy history
of barbarians that has, until now, been read of any political nation in the world.

As these barbarous nations of Indians were always without letters, they had not the means of
preserving the monuments and memorials of their times, and those of their predecessors with
accuracy and method. As the devil, who is always striving to injure the human race, found these
unfortunates to be easy of belief and timid in obedience, he introduced many illusions, lies
and frauds, giving them to understand that he had created them from the first, and afterwards,
owing to their sins and evil deeds, he had destroyed them with a flood, again creating them
and giving them food and the way to preserve it. By chance they formerly had some notice, passed
down to them from mouth to mouth, which had reached them from their ancestors, respecting the
truth of what happened in former times. Mixing this with the stories told them by the devil,
and with other things which they changed, invented, or added, which may happen in all nations,
they made up a pleasing salad, and in some things worthy of the attention of the curious who
are accustomed to consider and discuss human ideas.

One thing must be noted among many others. It is that the stories which are here treated as
fables, which they are, are held by the natives to be as true as we hold the articles of our
faith, and as such they affirm and confirm them with unanimity, and swear by them. There are
a few, however, who by the mercy of God are opening their eyes and beginning to see what is
true and what is false respecting those things. But we have to write down what they say and
not what we think about it in this part. We shall hear what they hold respecting their first
age, [and afterwards we shall come to the inveterate and cruel tyranny of the Inca tyrants
who oppressed these kingdoms of Peru for so long. All this is done by order of the most excellent
Don Francisco de Toledo, Viceroy of these kingdoms]. I have collected the information with
much diligence so that this history can rest on attested proofs from the general testimony
of the whole kingdom, old and young, Incas and tributary Indians.

The natives of this land affirm that in the beginning, and before this world was created, there
was a being called Viracocha. He created a dark world without sun, moon or stars. Owing to
this creation he was named Viracocha Pachayachachi, which means "Creator of all things[26]."

[Note 26: Uiracocha (Viracocha) was the Creator. Garcilasso de la Vega pointed out the mistake
of supposing that the word signified "foam of the sea" (ii. p. 16). He believed it to be a
name, the derivation of which he did not attempt to explain. Blas Valera (i. p. 243) said the
meaning was the "will and power of God"; not that this is the signification of the word, but
by reason of the godlike qualities attributed to Him who was known by it. Cieza de Leon says
that Tici-Uiracocha was God, Creator of heaven and earth: Acosta that to Tici-Uiracocha they
assigned the chief power and command over all things; Montesinos that Illa-tici-Uiracocha was
the name of the creator of the world; Molina that Tecsi-Uiracocha was the Creator and incomprehensible
God; the anonymous Jesuit that Uiracocha meant the great God of "Pirua"; Betanzos that the
Creator was Con-Tici-Uiracocha.

According to Montesinos and the anonymous Jesuit Uira or Vira is a corruption of Pirua meaning
a depository. The first meaning of Cocha is a lake, but here it is held to signify profundity,
abyss, space. The "Dweller in Space." Ticci or Tici is base or foundation, hence the founder.
Illa means light. The anonymous Jesuit gives the meaning "Eternal Light" to Illa-Ticci. The
word Con, given by Betanzos and Garcia, has no known meaning.

Pachacamac and Pachayachachi are attributes of the deity. Pacha means time or place, also the
universe. Camac is the Ruler, Yachachi the Teacher. "The Ruler and Teacher of the Universe."

The meaning and significance of the word Uiracocha has been very fully discussed by Señor Don
Leonardo Villar of Cuzco in a paper entitled Lexicologia Keshua Uiracocha (Lima, 1887).]

And when he had created the world he formed a race of giants of disproportioned greatness painted
and sculptured, to see whether it would be well to make real men of that size. He then created
men in his likeness as they are now; and they lived in darkness.

Viracocha ordered these people that they should live without quarrelling, and that they should
know and serve him. He gave them a certain precept which they were to observe on pain of being
confounded if they should break it. They kept this precept for some time, but it is not mentioned
what it was. But as there arose among them the vices of pride and covetousness, they transgressed
the precept of Viracocha Pachayachachi and falling, through this sin, under his indignation,
he confounded and cursed them. Then some were turned into stones, others into other things,
some were swallowed up by the earth, others by the sea, and over all there came a general flood
which they call uñu pachacuti, which means "water that overturns the land." They say that it
rained 60 days and nights, that it drowned all created things, and that there alone remained
some vestiges of those who were turned into stones, as a memorial of the event, and as an example
to posterity, in the edifices of Pucara, which are 60 leagues from Cuzco.

Some of the nations, besides the Cuzcos, also say that a few were saved from this flood to
leave descendants for a future age. Each nation has its special fable which is told by its
people, of how their first ancestors were saved from the waters of the deluge. That the ideas
they had in their blindness may be understood, I will insert only one, told by the nation of
the Cañaris, a land of Quito and Tumibamba, 400 leagues from Cuzco and more.

They say that in the time of the deluge called uñu pachacuti there was a mountain named Guasano
in the province of Quito and near a town called Tumipampa. The natives still point it out.
Up this mountain went two of the Cañaris named Ataorupagui and Cusicayo. As the waters increased
the mountain kept rising and keeping above them in such a way that it was never covered by
the waters of the flood. In this way the two Cañaris escaped. These two, who were brothers,
when the waters abated after the flood, began to sow. One day when they had been at work, on
returning to their hut, they found in it some small loaves of bread, and a jar of chicha, which
is the beverage used in this country in place of wine, made of boiled maize. They did not know
who had brought it, but they gave thanks to the Creator, eating and drinking of that provision.
Next day the same thing happened. As they marvelled at this mystery, they were anxious to find
out who brought the meals. So one day they hid themselves, to spy out the bringers of their
food. While they were watching they saw two Cañari women preparing the victuals and putting
them in the accustomed place. When about to depart the men tried to seize them, but they evaded
their would-be captors and escaped. The Cañaris, seeing the mistake they had made in molesting
those who had done them so much good, became sad and prayed to Viracocha for pardon for their
sins, entreating him to let the women come back and give them the accustomed meals. The Creator
granted their petition. The women came back and said to the Cañaris--"The Creator has thought
it well that we should return to you, lest you should die of hunger." They brought them food.
Then there was friendship between the women and the Cañari brothers, and one of the Cañari
brothers had connexion with one of the women. Then, as the elder brother was drowned in a lake
which was near, the survivor married one of the women, and had the other as a concubine. By
them he had ten sons who formed two lineages of five each, and increasing in numbers they called
one Hanansaya which is the same as to say the upper party, and the other Hurinsaya, or the
lower party. From these all the Cañaris that now exist are descended[27].

[Note 27: The same story of the origin of the Cañaris is told by Molina, p. 8. But the mountain
is called Huaca-yuan; and instead of women the beings who brought the food were macaws. Molina
tells another story received from the people of Ancas-mayu. Both seem to have been obtained
by asking leading questions about a deluge.]

In the same way the other nations have fables of how some of their people were saved from whom
they trace their origin and descent. But the Incas and most of those of Cuzco, those among
them who are believed to know most, do not say that anyone escaped from the flood, but that
Viracocha began to create men afresh, as will be related further on. One thing is believed
among all the nations of these parts, for they all speak generally and as well known of the
general flood which they call uñu pachacuti. From this we may clearly understand that if, in
these parts they have a tradition of the great flood, this great mass of the floating islands
which they afterwards called the Atlanticas, and now the Indies of Castille or America must
have begun to receive a population immediately after the flood, although, by their account,
the details are different from those which the true Scriptures teach us. This must have been
done by divine Providence, through the first people coming over the land of the Atlantic Island,
which was joined to this, as has been already said. For as the natives, though barbarous, give
reasons for their very ancient settlement, by recording the flood, there is no necessity for
setting aside the Scriptures by quoting authorities to establish this origin. We now come to
those who relate the events of the second age after the flood, which is the subject of the
next chapter.

VII.

FABLE OF THE SECOND AGE, AND CREATION OF THE BARBAROUS INDIANS ACCORDING TO THEIR ACCOUNT.

It is related that everything was destroyed in the flood called uñu pachacuti[28]. It must
now be known that Viracocha Pachayachachi, when he destroyed that land as has been already
recounted, preserved three men, one of them named Taguapaca, that they might serve and help
him in the creation of new people who had to be made in the second age after the deluge, which
was done in this manner. The flood being passed and the land dry, Viracocha determined to people
it a second time, and, to make it more perfect, he decided upon creating luminaries to give
it light. With this object he went, with his servants, to a great lake in the Collao, in which
there is an island called Titicaca, the meaning being "the rock of lead," of which we shall
treat in the first part. Viracocha went to this island, and presently ordered that the sun,
moon, and stars should come forth, and be set in the heavens to give light to the world, and
it was so. They say that the moon was created brighter than the sun, which made the sun jealous
at the time when they rose into the sky. So the sun threw over the moon's face a handful of
ashes, which gave it the shaded colour it now presents. This frontier lake of Chucuito, in
the territory of the Collao, is 57 leagues to the south of Cuzco. Viracocha gave various orders
to his servants, but Taguapaca disobeyed the commands of Viracocha. So Viracocha was enraged
against Taguapaca, and ordered the other two servants to take him, tie him hands and feet,
and launch him in a balsa on the lake. This was done. Taguapaca was blaspheming against Viracocha
for the way he was treated, and threatening that he would return and take vengeance, when he
was carried by the water down the drain of the same lake, and was not seen again for a long
time. This done, Viracocha made a sacred idol in that place, as a place for worship and as
a sign of what he had there created[29].

[Note 28: Uñu pachacuti would mean the world (pacha) overturned (cuti) by water (uñu). Probably
a word coined by the priests, after putting leading questions about a universal deluge.]

[Note 29: This servant of Uiracocha is also mentioned by Cieza de Leon and Yamqui Pachacuti.
Cieza appears to consider that Tuapaca was merely the name of Uiracocha in the Collao. Yamqui
Pachacuti gives the names Tarapaca and Tonapa and connects them with Uiracocha. But he also
uses the word Pachacca, a servant. These names are clearly the same as the Tahuapaca of Sarmiento.
Tahua means four, but Sarmiento gives three as the number of these servants of Uiracocha. The
meaning of paca is anything secret or mysterious, from pacani to hide. The names represent
an ancient myth of some kind, but it is not possible, at this distance of time, to ascertain
more than the names. Tonapa looks like a slip of the pen, and is probably Tarapa for Tarapaca.
Don Samuel A. Lapone Quevedo published a mythological essay entitled El Culto de Tonapa with
reference to the notice in the work of Yamqui Pachacuti; but he is given to speculations about
phallic and solar worship, and to the arbitrary alteration of letters to fit into his theories.]

Leaving the island, he passed by the lake to the main land, taking with him the two servants
who survived. He went to a place now called Tiahuanacu in the province of Colla-suyu, and in
this place he sculptured and designed on a great piece of stone, all the nations that he intended
to create. This done, he ordered his two servants to charge their memories with the names of
all tribes that he had depicted, and of the valleys and provinces where they were to come forth,
which were those of the whole land. He ordered that each one should go by a different road,
naming the tribes, and ordering them all to go forth and people the country. His servants,
obeying the command of Viracocha, set out on their journey and work. One went by the mountain
range or chain which they call the heights over the plains on the South Sea. The other went
by the heights which overlook the wonderful mountain ranges which we call the Andes, situated
to the east of the said sea. By these roads they went, saying with a loud voice "Oh you tribes
and nations, hear and obey the order of Ticci Viracocha Pachayachachi, which commands you to
go forth, and multiply and settle the land." Viracocha himself did the same along the road
between those taken by his two servants, naming all the tribes and places by which he passed.
At the sound of his voice every place obeyed, and people came forth, some from lakes, others
from fountains, valleys, caves, trees, rocks and hills, spreading over the land and multiplying
to form the nations which are to-day in Peru.

Others affirm that this creation of Viracocha was made from the Titicaca site where, having
originally formed some shapes of large strong men[30] which seemed to him out of proportion,
he made them again of his stature which was, as they say, the average height of men, and being
made he gave them life. Thence they set out to people the land. As they spoke one language
previous to starting, they built those edifices, the ruins of which may still be seen, before
they set out. This was for the residence of Viracocha, their maker. After departing they varied
their languages, noting the cries of wild beasts, insomuch that, coming across each other afterwards,
those could not understand who had before been relations and neighbours.

[Note 30: Jayaneo. This was the name given to giants in the books of chivalry. See Don Quijote,
i. cap. 5, p. 43.]

Whether it was in one way or the other, all agree that Viracocha was the creator of these people.
They have the tradition that he was a man of medium height, white and dressed in a white robe
like an alb secured round the waist, and that he carried a staff and a book in his hands.

Besides this they tell of a strange event; how that Viracocha, after he had created all people,
went on his road and came to a place where many men of his creation had congregated. This place
is now called Cacha. When Viracocha arrived there, the inhabitants were estranged owing to
his dress and bearing. They murmured at it and proposed to kill him from a hill that was near.
They took their weapons there, and gathered together with evil intentions against Viracocha.
He, falling on his knees on some plain ground, with his hands clasped, fire from above came
down upon those on the hill, and covered all the place, burning up the earth and stones like
straw. Those bad men were terrified at the fearful fire. They came down from the hill, and
sought pardon from Viracocha for their sin. Viracocha was moved by compassion. He went to the
flames and put them out with his staff. But the hill remained quite parched up, the stones
being rendered so light by the burning that a very large stone which could not have been carried
on a cart, could be raised easily by one man. This may be seen at this day, and it is a wonderful
sight to behold this hill, which is a quarter of a league in extent, all burnt up. It is in
the Collao[31].

[Note 31: Not in the Collaos but in the valley of the Vilcamayu. Afterwards a very remarkable
temple was built there, described by Squier.]

After this Viracocha continued his journey and arrived at a place called Urcos, 6 leagues to
the south of Cuzco. Remaining there some days he was well served by the natives of that neighbourhood.
At the time of his departure, he made them a celebrated huaca or statue, for them to offer
gifts to and worship; to which statue the Incas, in after times, offered many rich gifts of
gold and other metals, and above all a golden bench. When the Spaniards entered Cuzco they
found it, and appropriated it to themselves. It was worth $17,000. The Marquis Don Francisco
Pizarro took it himself, as the share of the General.

Returning to the subject of the fable, Viracocha continued his journey, working his miracles
and instructing his created beings. In this way he reached the territory on the equinoctial
line, where are now Puerto Viejo and Manta. Here he was joined by his servants. Intending to
leave the land of Peru, he made a speech to those he had created, apprising them of the things
that would happen. He told them that people would come, who would say that they were Viracocha
their creator, and that they were not to believe them; but that in the time to come he would
send his messengers who would protect and teach them. Having said this he went to sea with
his two servants, and went travelling over the water as if it was land, without sinking. For
they appeared like foam over the water and the people, therefore, gave them the name of Viracocha
which is the same as to say the grease or foam of the sea[32]. At the end of some years after
Viracocha departed, they say that Taguapaca, who Viracocha ordered to be thrown into the lake
of Titicaca in the Collao, as has already been related, came back and began, with others, to
preach that he was Viracocha. Although at first the people were doubtful, they finally saw
that it was false, and ridiculed them[33].

[Note 32: A mistake. See Garcilasso de la Vega, ii. p. 66.]

[Note 33: This story is told in a somewhat different form by Yamqui Pachacuti, p. 72.]

This absurd fable of their creation is held by these barbarians and they affirm and believe
it as if they had really seen it to happen and come to pass[34].

[Note 34: The tradition of the exercise of his creative powers by Viracocha at lake Titicaca,
is derived from the more ancient people who were the builders of Tiahuanacu. Besides Sarmiento,
the authors who give this Titicaca Myth are Garcilasso de la Vega, Cieza de Leon, Molina, Betanzos,
Yamqui Pachacuti, Polo de Ondegardo, and the anonymous Jesuit. Acosta, Montesinos, Balboa and
Santillana are silent respecting it.]

VIII.

THE ANCIENT BEHETRIAS[35] OF THESE KINGDOMS OF PERU AND THEIR PROVINCES.

It is important to note that these barbarians could tell nothing more respecting what happened
from the second creation by Viracocha down to the time of the Incas. But it may be assumed
that, although the land was peopled and full of inhabitants before the Incas, it had no regular
government, nor did it have natural lords elected by common consent to govern and rule, and
who were respected by the people, so that they were obeyed and received tribute. On the contrary
all the people were scattered and disorganized, living in complete liberty, and each man being
sole lord of his house and estate. In each tribe there were two divisions. One was called Hanansaya,
which means the upper division, and the other Hurinsaya, which is the lower division, a custom
which continues to this day. These divisions do not mean anything more than a way to count
each other, for their satisfaction, though afterwards it served a more useful purpose, as will
be seen in its place.

[Note 35: Behetria. A condition of perfect equality without any distinction of rank. Freedom
from the subjection of any lord.]

As there were dissensions among them, a certain kind of militia was organized for defence,
in the following way. When it became known to the people of one district that some from other
parts were coming to make war, they chose one who was a native, or he might be a stranger,
who was known to be a valiant warrior. Often such a man offered himself to aid and to fight
for them against their enemies. Such a man was followed and his orders were obeyed during the
war. When the war was over he became a private man as he had been before, like the rest of
the people, nor did they pay him tribute either before or afterwards, nor any manner of tax
whatever. To such a man they gave and still give the name of Sinchi which means valiant. They
call such men "Sinchi-cuna" which means "valiant now" as who should say--"now during the time
the war lasts you shall be our valiant man, and afterwards no ": or another meaning would be
simply "valiant men," for "cuna" is an adverb of time, and also denotes the plural[36]. In
whichever meaning, it is very applicable to these temporary captains in the days of behetrias
and general liberty. So that from the general flood of which they have a tradition to the time
when the Incas began to reign, which was 3519 years, all the natives of these kingdoms lived
on their properties without acknowledging either a natural or an elected lord. They succeeded
in preserving, as it is said, a simple state of liberty, living in huts or caves or humble
little houses. This name of "Sinchi" for those who held sway only during war, lasted throughout
the land until the time of Tupac Inca Yupanqui, the tenth Inca, who instituted "Curacas" and
other officials in the order which will be fully described in the life of that Inca. Even at
the present time they continue this use and custom in the provinces of Chile and in other parts
of the forests of Peru to the east of Quito and Chachapoyas, where they only obey a chief during
war time, not any special one, but he who is known to be most valiant, enterprising and daring
in the wars. The reader should note that all the land was private property with reference to
any dominion of chiefs, yet they had natural chiefs with special rights in each province, as
for instance among the natives of the valley of Cuzco and in other parts, as we shall relate
of each part in its place.

[Note 36: Cinchicona. Sinchi means strong. Cuna is the plural particle. Sinchi was the name
for a chief or leader. I have not met with cuna as an adverb of time and meaning "now." No
such meaning is given in the Grammar of Domingo de Santo Tomas, which was published in 1560,
twelve years before Sarmiento wrote.]

IX.

THE FIRST SETTLERS IN THE VALLEY OF CUZCO.

I have explained how the people of these lands preserved their inheritances and lived on them
in ancient times, and that their proper and natural countries were known. There were many of
these which I shall notice in their places, treating specially at present of the original settlers
of the valley where stands the present city of Cuzco. For from there we have to trace the origin
of the tyranny of the Incas, who always had their chief seat in the valley of Cuzco.

Before all things it must be understood that the valley of Cuzco is in 130° 15' from the equator
on the side of the south pole[37]. In this valley, owing to its being fertile for cultivation,
there were three tribes settled from most ancient times, the first called Sauaseras, the second
Antasayas, the third Huallas. They settled near each other, although their lands for sowing
were distinct, which is the property they valued most in those days and even now. These natives
of the valley lived there in peace for many years, cultivating their farms.

[Note 37: 13° 31'. He is 16 miles out in his latitude.]

Some time before the arrival of the Incas, three Sinchis, strangers to this valley, the first
named Alcabisa[38], the second Copalimayta, and the third Culunchima, collected certain companies
and came to the valley of Cuzco, where, by consent of the natives, they settled and became
brothers and companions of the original inhabitants. So they lived for a long time. There was
concord between these six tribes, three native and three immigrant. They relate that the immigrants
came out to where the Incas then resided, as we shall relate presently, and called them relations.
This is an important point with reference to what happened afterwards.

[Note 38: The Alcabisas, as original inhabitants of the Cuzco valley, are mentioned by Cieza
de Leon (ii. p. 105) who calls them Alcaviquiza. Betanzos has Alcaviya, and Balboa Allcay-villcas.
Cieza describes the victory over them by Mayta Ccapac. Yamqui Pachacuti gives Allcayviesas,
Cullinchinas, and Cayancachis as the names of the tribes who originally inhabited the Cuzco
valley. Cayancachi is a southern suburb of Cuzco outside the Huatanay river.]

Before entering upon the history of the Incas I wish to make known or, speaking more accurately,
to answer a difficulty which may occur to those who have not been in these parts. Some may
say that this history cannot be accepted as authentic being taken from the narratives of these
barbarians, because, having no letters, they could not preserve such details as they give from
so remote an antiquity. The answer is that, to supply the want of letters, these barbarians
had a curious invention which was very good and accurate. This was that from one to the other,
from fathers to sons, they handed down past events, repeating the story of them many times,
just as lessons are repeated from a professor's chair, making the hearers say these historical
lessons over and over again until they were fixed in the memory. Thus each one of the descendants
continued to communicate the annals in the order described with a view to preserve their histories
and deeds, their ancient traditions, the numbers of their tribes, towns, provinces, their days,
months and years, their battles, deaths, destructions, fortresses and "Sinchis." Finally they
recorded, and they still record, the most notable things which consist in their numbers (or
statistics), on certain cords called quipu, which is the same as to say reasoner or accountant.
On these cords they make certain knots by which, and by differences of colour, they distinguish
and record each thing as by letters. It is a thing to be admired to see what details may be
recorded on these cords, for which there are masters like our writing masters[39].

[Note 39: The system of recording by quipus is described by Garcilasso de la Vega, i. pp. 150
and 191, also ii. p. 117 and more fully at ii. pp. 121--125. Cieza de Leon mentions the quipu
system in his first part (see i. p. 291 and note) and in the second part (ii. pp. 33--35, 53,
57, 61,165). At p. 32 the method of preserving the memory of former events is described very
much as in the text. See also Molina, pp. 10, 169. Molina also describes the boards on which
historical events were painted, p. 4. They were, he says, kept in a temple near Cuzco, called
Poquen-cancha. See also Cieza de Leon (second part), p. 28.]

Besides this they had, and still have, special historians in these nations, an hereditary office
descending from father to son. The collection of these annals is due to the great diligence
of Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, the ninth Inca, who sent out a general summons to all the old historians
in all the provinces he had subjugated, and even to many others throughout those kingdoms.
He had them in Cuzco for a long time, examining them concerning their antiquities, origin,
and the most notable events in their history. These were painted on great boards, and deposited
in the temple of the Sun, in a great hall. There such boards, adorned with gold, were kept
as in our libraries, and learned persons were appointed, who were well versed in the art of
understanding and declaring their contents. No one was allowed to enter where these boards
were kept, except the Inca and the historians, without a special order of the Inca.

In this way they took care to have all their past history investigated, and to have records
respecting all kinds of people, so that at this day the Indians generally know and agree respecting
details and important events, though, in some things, they hold different opinions on special
points. By examining the oldest and most prudent among them, in all ranks of life, who had
most credit, I collected and compiled the present history, referring the sayings and declarations
of one party to their antagonists of another party, for they are divided into parties, and
seeking from each one a memorial of its lineage and of that of the opposing party. These memorials,
which are all in my possession, were compared and corrected, and ultimately verified in public,
in presence of representatives of all the parties and lineages, under oaths in presence of
a judge, and with expert and very faithful interpreters also on oath, and I thus finished what
is now written. Such great diligence has been observed, because a thing which is the foundation
of the true completion of such a great work as the establishment of the tyranny of the cruel
Incas of this land will make all the nations of the world understand the judicial and more
than legitimate right that the King of Castille has to these Indies and to other lands adjacent,
especially to these kingdoms of Peru. As all the histories of past events have been verified
by proof, which in this case has been done so carefully and faithfully by order and owing to
the industry of the most excellent Viceroy Don Francisco de Toledo, no one can doubt that everything
in this volume is most sufficiently established and verified without any room being left for
reply or contradiction. I have been desirous of making this digression because, in writing
the history, I have heard that many entertain the doubts I have above referred to, and it seemed
well to satisfy them once for all.

X.

HOW THE INCAS BEGAN TO TYRANNIZE OVER THE LANDS AND INHERITANCES.

Having explained that, in ancient times, all this land was owned by the people, it is necessary
to state how the Incas began their tyranny. Although the tribes all lived in simple liberty
without recognising any lord, there were always some ambitious men among them, aspiring for
mastery. They committed violence among their countrymen and among strangers to subject them
and bring them to obedience under their command, so that they might serve them and pay tribute.
Thus bands of men belonging to one region went to others to make war and to rob and kill, usurping
the lands of others.

As these movements took place in many parts by many tribes, each one trying to subjugate his
neighbour, it happened that 6 leagues from the valley of Cuzco, at a place called Paccari-tampu,
there were four men with their four sisters, of fierce courage and evil intentions, although
with lofty aims. These, being more able than the others, understood the pusillanimity of the
natives of those districts and the ease with which they could be made to believe anything that
was propounded with authority or with any force. So they conceived among themselves the idea
of being able to subjugate many lands by force and deception. Thus all the eight brethren,
four men and four women, consulted together how they could tyrannize over other tribes beyond
the place where they lived, and they proposed to do this by violence. Considering that most
of the natives were ignorant and could easily be made to believe what was said to them, particularly
if they were addressed with some roughness, rigour and authority, against which they could
make neither reply nor resistance, because they are timid by nature, they sent abroad certain
fables respecting their origin, that they might be respected and feared. They said that they
were the sons of Viracocha Pachayachachi, the Creator, and that they had come forth out of
certain windows to rule the rest of the people. As they were fierce, they made the people believe
and fear them, and hold them to be more than men, even worshipping them as gods. Thus they
introduced the religion that suited them. The order of the fable they told of their origin
was as follows.

XI.

THE FABLE OF THE ORIGIN OF THE INCAS OF CUZCO.

All the native Indians of this land relate and affirm that the Incas Ccapac originated in this
way. Six leagues S.S.W. of Cuzco by the road which the Incas made, there is a place called
Paccari-tampu, which means "the house of production[40]" at which there is a hill called Tampu-tocco,
meaning "the house of windows." It is certain that in this hill there are three windows, one
called "Maras-tocco," the other "Sutic-tocco," while that which is in the middle, between these
two, was known as "Ccapac-tocco," which means "the rich window," because they say that it was
ornamented with gold and other treasures. From the window called "Maras-tocco" came forth,
without parentage, a tribe of Indians called Maras. There are still some of them in Cuzco.
From the "Sutic-tocco" came Indians called Tampus, who settled round the same hill, and there
are also men of this lineage still in Cuzco. From the chief window of "Ccapac-tocco," came
four men and four women, called brethren. These knew no father nor mother, beyond the story
they told that they were created and came out of the said window by order of Ticci Viracocha,
and they declared that Viracocha created them to be lords. For this reason they took the name
of Inca, which is the same as lord. They took "Ccapac" as an additional name because they came
out of the window "Ccapac-tocco," which means "rich," although afterwards they used this term
to denote the chief lord over many.

[Note 40: Correctly "the tavern of the dawn."]

The names of the eight brethren were as follows: The eldest of the men, and the one with the
most authority was named MANCO CCAPAC, the second AYAR AUCA, the third AYAR CACHI, the fourth
AYAR UCHU. Of the women the eldest was called MAMA OCCLO, the second MAMA HUACO, the third
MAMA IPACURA, or, as others say, MAMA CURA, the fourth MAMA RAUA.

The eight brethren, called Incas, said--"We are born strong and wise, and with the people who
will here join us, we shall be powerful. We will go forth from this place to seek fertile lands
and when we find them we will subjugate the people and take the lands, making war on all those
who do not receive us as their lords," This, as they relate, was said by Mama Huaco, one of
the women, who was fierce and cruel. Manco Ccapac, her brother, was also cruel and atrocious.
This being agreed upon between the eight, they began to move the people who lived near the
hill, putting it to them that their reward would be to become rich and to receive the lands
and estates of those who were conquered and subjugated. For these objects they moved ten tribes
or ayllus, which means among these barbarians "lineages" or "parties"; the names of which are
as follows:

I. CHAUIN CUZCO AYLLU of the lineage of AYAR CACHI, of which there are still some in Cuzco,
the chiefs being MARTIN CHUCUMBI, and DON DIEGO HUAMAN PAOCAR.

II. ARAYRACA AYLLU CUZCO-CALLAN. At present there are of this ayllu JUAN PIZARRO YUPANQUI,
DON FRANCISCO QUISPI, ALONSO TARMA YUPANQUI of the lineage of AYAR UCHU.

III. TARPUNTAY AYLLU. Of this there are now some in Cuzco.

IV. HUACAYTAQUI AYLLU. Some still living in Cuzco.

V. SAÑOC AYLLU. Some still in Cuzco.

The above five lineages are HANAN-CUZCO, which means the party of Upper Cuzco.

VI. SUTIC-TOCCO AYLLU is the lineage which came out of one of the windows called "SUTIC-TOCCO,"
as has been before explained. Of these there are still some in Cuzco, the chiefs being DON
FRANCISCO AVCA MICHO AVRI SUTIC, and DON ALONSO HUALPA.

VII. MARAS AYLLU. These are of the men who came forth from the window "MARAS-TOCCO." There
are some of these now in Cuzco, the chiefs being DON ALONSO LLAMA OCA, and DON GONZALO AMPURA
LLAMA OCA.

VIII. CUYCUSA AYLLU. Of these there are still some in Cuzco, the chief being CRISTOVAL ACLLARI.

IX. MASCA AYLLU. Of this there is in Cuzco--JUAN QUISPI.

X. ORO AYLLU. Of this lineage is DON PEDRO YUCAY.

I say that all these ayllus have preserved their records in such a way that the memory of them
has not been lost. There are more of them than are given above, for I only insert the chiefs
who are the protectors and heads of the lineages, under whose guidance they are preserved.
Each chief has the duty and obligation to protect the rest, and to know the history of his
ancestors. Although I say that these live in Cuzco, the truth is that they are in a suburb
of the city which the Indians call Cayocache and which is known to us as Belem, from the church
of that parish which is that of our Lady of Belem.

Returning to our subject, all these followers above mentioned marched with Manco Ccapac and
the other brethren to seek for land [and to tyrannize over those who did no harm to them, nor
gave them any excuse for war, and without any right or title beyond what has been stated].
To be prepared for war they chose for their leaders Manco Ccapac and Mama Huaco, and with this
arrangement the companies of the hill of Tampu-tocco set out, to put their design into execution.

The Incas and the rest of the companies or ayllus set out from their homes at Tampu-tocco,
taking with them their property and arms, in sufficient numbers to form a good squadron, having
for their chiefs the said Manco Ccapac and Mama Huaco. Manco Ccapac took with him a bird like
a falcon, called indi[41], which they all worshipped and feared as a sacred, or, as some say,
an enchanted thing, for they thought that this bird made Manco Ccapac their lord and obliged
the people to follow him. It was thus that Manco Ccapac gave them to understand, and it was
carried in vahidos[42], always kept in a covered hamper of straw, like a box, with much care.
He left it as an heirloom to his son, and the Incas had it down to the time of Inca Yupanqui.
In his hand he carried with him a staff of gold, to test the lands which they would come to.

[Note 41: This bird called indi, the familiar spirit of Manco Ccapac, is not mentioned by any
other author. There is more about it in the life of Mayta Ccapac, the great-grandson of Manco
Ccapac. The word seems to be the same as Ynti the Sun-God.]

[Note 42: Vahido means giddiness, vertigo.]

Marching together they came to a place called Huana-cancha, four leagues from the valley of
Cuzco, where they remained for some time, sowing and seeking for fertile land. Here Manco Ccapac
had connexion with his sister Mama Occlo, and she became pregnant by him. As this place did
not appear able to sustain them, being barren, they advanced to another place called Tampu-quiro,
where Mama Occlo begot a son named Sinchi Rocca. Having celebrated the natal feasts of the
infant, they set out in search of fertile land, and came to another place called Pallata, which
is almost contiguous to Tampu-quiro, and there they remained for some years.

Not content with this land, they came to another called Hays-quisro, a quarter of a league
further on. Here they consulted together over what ought to be done respecting their journey,
and over the best way of getting rid of Ayar Cachi, one of the four brothers. Ayar Cachi was
fierce and strong, and very dexterous with the sling. He committed great cruelties and was
oppressive both among the natives of the places they passed, and among his own people. The
other brothers were afraid that the conduct of Ayar Cachi would cause their companies to disband
and desert, and that they would be left alone. As Manco Ccapac was prudent, he concurred with
the opinion of the others that they should secure their object by deceit. They called Ayar
Cachi and said to him, "Brother! Know that in Ccapac-tocco we have forgotten the golden vases
called tupac-cusi[43], and certain seeds, and the napa[44], which is our principal ensign of
sovereignty." The napa is a sheep of the country, the colour white, with a red body cloth,
on the top ear-rings of gold, and on the breast a plate with red badges such as was worn by
rich Incas when they went abroad; carried in front of all on a pole with a cross of plumes
of feathers. This was called suntur-paucar[45]. They said that it would be for the good of
all, if he would go back and fetch them. When Ayar Cachi refused to return, his sister Mama
Huaco, raising her foot, rebuked him with furious words, saying, "How is it that there should
be such cowardice in so strong a youth as you are? Get ready for the journey, and do not fail
to go to Tampu-tocco, and do what you are ordered." Ayar Cachi was shamed by these words. He
obeyed and started to carry out his orders. They gave him, as a companion, one of those who
had come with them, named Tampu-chacay, to whom they gave secret orders to kill Ayar Cachi
at Tampu-tocco, and not to return with him. With these orders they both arrived at Tampu-tocco.
They had scarcely arrived when Ayar Cachi entered through the window Ccapac-tocco, to get the
things for which he had been sent. He was no sooner inside than Tampu-chacay, with great celerity,
put a rock against the opening of the window and sat upon it, that Ayar Cachi might remain
inside and die there. When Ayar Cachi turned to the opening and found it closed he understood
the treason of which the traitor Tampu-chacay had been guilty, and determined to get out if
it was possible, to take vengeance. To force an opening he used such force and shouted so loud
that he made the mountain tremble. With a loud voice he spoke these words to Tampu-chacay,
"Thou traitor! thou who hast done me so much harm, thinkest thou to convey the news of my mortal
imprisonment? That shall never happen. For thy treason thou shalt remain outside, turned into
a stone." So it was done, and to this day they show the stone on one side of the window Ccapac-tocco.
Turn we now to the seven brethren who had remained at Hays-quisro. The death of Ayar Cachi
being known, they were very sorry for what they had done, for, as he was valiant, they regretted
much to be without him when the time came to make war on any one. So they mourned for him.
This Ayar Cachi was so dexterous with a sling and so strong that with each shot he pulled down
a mountain and filled up a ravine. They say that the ravines, which we now see on their line
of march, were made by Ayar Cachi in hurling stones.

[Note 43: Tupac-cusi, meaning golden vases, does not occur elsewhere. It may be a mis-print
for tupac-ccuri, tupac meaning anything royal and ccuri gold.]

[Note 44: Napa was the name of a sacred figure of a llama, one of the insignia of royalty.
See Molina, pp. 19, 39, 47. The verb napani is to salute, napay, salutation. Raymi-napa was
the flock dedicated for sacrifice.]

[Note 45: Suntur-paucar was the head-dress of the Inca. See Balboa, p. 20. Literally the "brilliant
circle." See also Molina, pp. 6, 17, 39, 42, 44, and Yamqui Pachacuti, pp. 14, 106, 120.]

The seven Incas and their companions left this place, and came to another called Quirirmanta
at the foot of a hill which was afterwards called Huanacauri. In this place they consulted
together how they should divide the duties of the enterprise amongst themselves, so that there
should be distinctions between them. They agreed that as Manco Ccapac had had a child by his
sister, they should be married and have children to continue the lineage, and that he should
be the leader. Ayar Uchu was to remain as a huaca for the sake of religion. Ayar Auca, from
the position they should select, was to take possession of the land set apart for him to people.

Leaving this place they came to a hill at a distance of two leagues, a little more or less,
from Cuzco. Ascending the hill they saw a rainbow, which the natives call huanacauri. Holding
it to be a fortunate sign, Manco Ccapac said: "Take this for a sign that the world will not
be destroyed by water. We shall arrive and from hence we shall select where we shall found
our city." Then, first casting lots, they saw that the signs were good for doing so, and for
exploring the land from that point and becoming lords of it. Before they got to the height
where the rainbow was, they saw a huaca which was a place of worship in human shape, near the
rainbow. They determined among themselves to seize it and take it away from there. Ayar Uchu
offered himself to go to it, for they said that he was very like it. When Ayar Uchu came to
the statue or huaca, with great courage he sat upon it, asking it what it did there. At these
words the huaca turned its head to see who spoke, but, owing to the weight upon it, it could
not see. Presently, when Ayar Uchu wanted to get off he was not able, for he found that the
soles of his feet were fastened to the shoulders of the huaca. The six brethren, seeing that
he was a prisoner, came to succour him. But Ayar Uchu, finding himself thus transformed, and
that his brethren could not release him, said to them--"O Brothers, an evil work you have wrought
for me. It was for your sakes that I came where I must remain for ever, apart from your company.
Go! go! happy brethren, I announce to you that you will be great lords. I, therefore, pray
that in recognition of the desire I have always had to please you, you will honour and venerate
me in all your festivals and ceremonies, and that I shall be the first to whom you make offerings.
For I remain here for your sakes. When you celebrate the huarachico (which is the arming of
the sons as knights) you shall adore me as their father, for I shall remain here for ever."
Manco Ccapac answered that he would do so, for that it was his will and that it should be so
ordered. Ayar Uchu promised for the youths that he would bestow on them the gifts of valour,
nobility, and knighthood, and with these last words he remained, turned into stone. They constituted
him the huaca of the Incas, giving it the name of Ayar Uchu Huanacauri.[46] And so it always
was, until the arrival of the Spaniards, the most venerated huaca, and the one that received
the most offerings of any in the kingdom. Here the Incas went to arm the young knights until
about twenty years ago, when the Christians abolished this ceremony. It was religiously done,
because there were many abuses and idolatrous practices, offensive and contrary to the ordinances
of God our Lord.

[Note 46: Huanacauri was a very sacred huaca of the Peruvians. Cieza de Leon tells much the
same story as Sarmiento, ii. pp. 17, 18, 19, 22, 89, 101, 107, 111. Garcilasso de la Vega mentions
Huanacauri four times, i. pp. 65, 66, and ii. pp. 169, 230, as a place held in great veneration.
It is frequently mentioned by Molina. The word is given by Yamqui Pachacuti as Huayna-captiy.
Huayna means a youth, captiy is the subjunctive of the verb cani, I am. The word appears to
have reference to the arming of youths, and the ordeals they went through, which took place
annually at this place.]

XIII.

ENTRY OF THE INCAS INTO THE VALLEY OF CUZCO, AND THE FABLES THEY RELATE CONCERNING IT.

The six brethren were sad at the loss of Ayar Uchu, and at the loss of Ayar Cachi; and, owing
to the death of Ayar Cachi, those of the lineage of the Incas, from that time to this day,
always fear to go to Tampu-tocco, lest they should have to remain there like Ayar Cachi.

They went down to the foot of the hill, whence they began their entry into the valley of Cuzco,
arriving at a place called Matahua, where they stopped and built huts, intending to remain
there some time. Here they armed as knight the son of Manco Ccapac and of Mama Occlo, named
Sinchi Rocca, and they bored his ears, a ceremony which is called huarachico, being the insignia
of his knighthood and nobility, like the custom known among ourselves. On this occasion they
indulged in great rejoicings, drinking for many days, and at intervals mourning for the loss
of their brother Ayar Uchu. It was here that they invented the mourning sound for the dead,
like the cooing of a dove. Then they performed the dance called Ccapac Raymi, a ceremony of
the royal or great lords. It is danced, in long purple robes, at the ceremonies they call quicochico[47],
which is when girls come to maturity, and the huarachico[48], when they bore the ears of the
Incas, and the rutuchico[49] when the Inca's hair is cut the first time, and the ayuscay[50],
which is when a child is born, and they drink continuously for four or five days.

[Note 47: Quicu-chicuy was the ceremony when girls attained puberty. The customs, on this occasion,
are described by Molina, p. 53. See also Yamqui Pachacuti, p. 80, and the anonymous Jesuit,
p. 181.]

[Note 48: Huarachicu was the great festival when the youths went through their ordeals, and
were admitted to manhood and to bear arms. Garcilasso de la Vega gives the word as "Huaracu";
and fully describes the ordeals and the ceremonies, ii. pp. 161--178. See also Molina, pp.
34 and 41--46, and Yamqui Pachacuti, p. 80.]

[Note 49: Rutuchicu is the ceremony when a child reaches the age of one year, from rutuni,
to cut or shear. It receives the name which it retains until the Huarachicu if a boy, and until
the Quicu-chicuy if a girl. They then receive the names they retain until death. At the Rutuchicu
the child was shorn. Molina, p. 53.]

[Note 50: Molina says that Ayuscay was the ceremony when the woman conceives. Molina, p. 53.]

After this they were in Matahua for two years, waiting to pass on to the upper valley to seek
good and fertile land. Mama Huaco, who was very strong and dexterous, took two wands of gold
and hurled them towards the north. One fell, at two shots of an arquebus, into a ploughed field
called Colcapampa and did not drive in well, the soil being loose and not terraced. By this
they knew that the soil was not fertile. The other went further, to near Cuzco, and fixed well
in the territory called Huanay-pata, where they knew the land to be fertile. Others say that
this proof was made by Manco Ccapac with the staff of gold which he carried himself, and that
thus they knew of the fertility of the land, when the staff sunk in the land called Huanay-pata,
two shots of an arquebus from Cuzco. They knew the crust of the soil to be rich and close,
so that it could only be broken by using much force.

Let it be by one way or the other, for all agree that they went trying the land with a pole
or staff until they arrived at this Huanay-pata, when they were satisfied. They were sure of
its fertility, because after sowing perpetually, it always yielded abundantly, giving more
the more it was sown. They determined to usurp that land by force, in spite of the natural
owners, and to do with it as they chose. So they returned to Matahua.

From that place Manco Ccapac saw a heap of stones near the site of the present monastery of
Santo Domingo at Cuzco. Pointing it out to his brother Ayar Auca, he said, "Brother! you remember
how it was arranged between us, that you should go to take possession of the land where we
are to settle. Well! look at that stone." Pointing out the stone he continued, "Go thither
flying," for they say that Ayar Auca had developed some wings, "and seating yourself there,
take possession of land seen from that heap of stones. We will presently come to settle and
reside." When Ayar Auca heard the words of his brother, he opened his wings and flew to that
place which Manco Ccapac had pointed out. Seating himself there, he was presently turned into
stone, and was made the stone of possession. In the ancient language of this valley the heap
was called cozco, whence that site has had the name of Cuzco to this day[51]. From this circumstance
the Incas had a proverb which said, "Ayar Auca cuzco huanca," or, "Ayar Auca a heap of marble."
Others say that Manco Ccapac gave the name of Cuzco because he wept in that place where he
buried his brother Ayar Cachi. Owing to his sorrow and to the fertility he gave that name which
in the ancient language of that time signified sad as well as fertile. The first version must
be the correct one because Ayar Cachi was not buried at Cuzco, having died at Ccapac-tocco
as has been narrated before. And this is generally affirmed by Incas and natives.

[Note 51: Cuzco means a clod, or hard unirrigated land. Cuzquini is to break clods of earth,
or to level. Montesinos derives the name of the city from the verb "to level," or from the
heaps of clods, of earth called cuzco. Cusquic-Raymi is the month of June.]

Five brethren only remaining, namely Manco Ccapac, and the four sisters, and Manco Ccapac being
the only surviving brother out of four, they presently resolved to advance to where Ayar Auca
had taken possession. Manco Ccapac first gave to his son Sinchi Rocca a wife named Mama Cuca,
of the lineage of Sañu, daughter of a Sinchi named Sitic-huaman, by whom he afterwards had
a son named Sapaca. He also instituted the sacrifice called capa cocha[52], which is the immolation
of two male and two female infants before the idol Huanacauri, at the time when the Incas were
armed as knights. These things being arranged, he ordered the companies to follow him to the
place where Ayar Auca was.

[Note 52: Ccapac-cocha. The weight of evidence is, on the whole, in favour of this sacrifice
of two infants having taken place at the Huarachicu, Cieza de Leon, in remarking that the Spaniards
falsely imputed crimes to the Indians to justify their ill-treatment, says that the practice
of human sacrifice was exaggerated, ii. pp. 79, 80. See also Molina, pp-54, 57. Yamqui Pachacuti,
p. 86.]

Arriving on the land of Huanay-pata, which is near where now stands the Arco de la plata leading
to the Charcas road, he found settled there a nation of Indians named Huallas, already mentioned.
Manco Ccapac and Mama Occlo began to settle and to take possession of the land and water, against
the will of the Huallas. On this business they did many violent and unjust things. As the Huallas
attempted to defend their lives and properties, many cruelties were committed by Manco Ccapac
and Mama Occlo. They relate that Mama Occlo was so fierce that, having killed one of the Hualla
Indians, she cut him up, took out the inside, carried the heart and lungs in her mouth, and
with an ayuinto, which is a stone fastened to a rope, in her hand, she attacked the Huallas
with diabolical resolution. When the Huallas beheld this horrible and inhuman spectacle, they
feared that the same thing would be done to them, being simple and timid, and they fled and
abandoned their rights. Mama Occlo reflecting on her cruelty, and fearing that for it they
would be branded as tyrants, resolved not to spare any Huallas, believing that the affair would
thus be forgotten. So they killed all they could lay their hands upon, dragging infants from
their mothers' wombs, that no memory might be left of these miserable Huallas.

Having done this Manco Ccapac advanced, and came within a mile of Cuzco to the S.E., where
a Sinchi named Copalimayta came out to oppose him. We have mentioned this chief before and
that, although he was a late comer, he settled with the consent of the natives of the valley,
and had been incorporated in the nation of Sauaseray Panaca, natives of the site of Santo Domingo
at Cuzco. Having seen the strangers invading their lands and tyrannizing over them, and knowing
the cruelties inflicted on the Huallas, they had chosen Copalimayta as their Sinchi. He came
forth to resist the invasion, saying that the strangers should not enter his lands or those
of the natives. His resistance was such that Manco Ccapac and his companions were obliged to
turn their backs. They returned to Huanay-pata, the land they had usurped from the Huallas.
From the sowing they had made they derived a fine crop of maize, and for this reason they gave
the place a name which means something precious[53].

[Note 53: The origin of the Inca dynasty derived from Manco Ccapac and his brethren issuing
from the window at Paccari-tampu may be called the Paccari-tampu myth. It was universally received
and believed. Garcilasso de la Vega gives the meanings of the names of the brothers. Ayar Cachi
means salt or instruction in rational life, Ayar Uchu is pepper, meaning the delight experienced
from such teaching, and Ayar Sauca means pleasure, or the joy they afterwards experienced from
it. Balboa gives an account of the death of Ayar Cachi, but calls him Ayar Auca. He also describes
the turning into stone at Huanacauri. Betanzos tells much the same story as Sarmiento; as do
Cieza de Leon and Montesinos, with some slight differences. Yamqui Pachacuti gives the names
of the brothers, but only relates the Huanacauri part of the story. Montesinos and Garcilasso
de la Vega call one of the brothers Ayar Sauca. Sarmiento, Betanzos and Balboa call him Ayar
Auca. All agree in the names of the other brothers.]

After some months they returned to the attack on the natives of the valley, to tyrannize over
them. They assaulted the settlement of the Sauaseras, and were so rapid in their attack that
they captured Copalimayta, slaughtering many of the Sauaseras with great cruelty. Copalimayta,
finding himself a prisoner and fearing death, fled out of desperation, leaving his estates,
and was never seen again after he escaped. Mama Huaco and Manco Ccapac usurped his houses,
lands and people. In this way MANCO CCAPAC, MAMA HUACO, SINCHI ROCCA, and MANCO SAPACA settled
on the site between the two rivers, and erected the House of the Sun, which they called YNTI-CANCHA.
They divided all that position, from Santo Domingo to the junction of the rivers into four
neighbourhoods or quarters which they call cancha. They called one QUINTI-CANCHA, the second
CHUMPI-CANCHA, the third SAYRI-CANCHA, and the fourth YARAMPUY-CANCHA. They divided the sites
among themselves, and thus the city was peopled, and, from the heap of stones of Ayar Auca
it was called CUZCO[54].

[Note 54: Garcilasso de la Vega gives the most detailed description of the city of Cuzco and
its suburbs, ii. p. 235, but he does not mention these four divisions.

It has been said that one of the natural tribes of this valley of Cuzco was the Alcabisas.
At the time when Manco Ccapac settled at Ynti-cancha and seized the goods of the Sauaseras
and Huallas, the Alcabisas were settled half an arquebus shot from Ynti-canchi, towards the
part where Santa Clara now stands. Manco Ccapac had a plan to spread out his forces that his
tyrannical intentions might not be impeded, so he sent his people, as if loosely and idly,
making free with the land. He took the lands without distinction, to support his companies.
As he had taken those of the Huallas and Sauaseras, he wished also to take those of the Alcabisas.
As these Alcabisas had given up some, Manco Ccapac wished and intended to take all or nearly
all. When the Alcabisas saw that the new comers even entered their houses, they said: "These
are men who are bellicose and unreasonable! they take our lands! Let us set up landmarks on
the fields they have left to us." This they did, but Mama Huaco said to Manco Ccapac, "let
us take all the water from the Alcabisas, and then they will be obliged to give us the rest
of their land." This was done and they took away the water. Over this there were disputes;
but as the followers of Manco Ccapac were more and more masterful, they forced the Alcabisas
to give up their lands which they wanted, and to serve them as their lords, although the Alcabisas
never voluntarily served Manco Ccapac nor looked upon him as their lord. On the contrary they
always went about saying with loud voices-to those of Manco Ccapac--"Away! away! out of our
territory." For this Manco Ccapac was more hard upon them, and oppressed them tyrannically.

Besides the Alcabisas there were other tribes, as we have mentioned before. These Manco Ccapac
and Mama Huaco totally destroyed, and more especially one which lived near Ynti-cancha, in
the nearest land, called Humanamean, between Ynti-cancha and Cayocachi[55], where there also
lived another native Sinchi named Culunchima. Manco Ccapac entered the houses and lands of
all the natives, especially of the Alcabisas, condemned their Sinchi to perpetual imprisonment,
sending the others to banishment in Cayocachi, and forcing them to pay tribute. But they were
always trying to free themselves from the tyranny, as the Alcabisas did later[56].

[Note 55: Garcilasso de la Vega describes Cayau-cachi as a small village of about 300 inhabitants
in his time. It was about 1000 paces west of the nearest house of the city in 1560; but he
had been told that, at the time of his writing in 1602, the houses had been extended so as
to include it.]

[Note 56: Cieza de Leon and Balboa corroborate the story of Sarmiento that the Alcabisas (Cieza
calls them Alcaviquizas, Balboa has Allcay-villcas) were hostile to the Incas, Cieza, ii. p.
105, Balboa, p. 25. Yamqui Pachacuti mentions them as Allcayviesas, p. 76.]

Having completed the yoke over the natives, their goods and persons, Manco Ccapac was now very
old. Feeling the approach of death, and fearing that in leaving the sovereignty to his son,
Sinchi Rocca, he and his successors might not be able to retain it owing to the bad things
he had done and to the tyranny he had established, he ordered that the ten lineages or companies
that had come with him from Tampu-tocco should form themselves into a garrison or guard, to
be always on the watch over the persons of his son and of his other descendants to keep them
safe. They were to elect the successor when he had been nominated by his father, or succeeded
on the death of his father. For he would not trust the natives to nominate or elect, knowing
the evil he had done, and the force he had used towards them. Manco Ccapac being now on the
point of death, he left the bird indi enclosed in its cage, the tupac-yauri[57] or sceptre,
the napa and the suntur-paucar the insignia of a prince, [though tyrant,] to his son Sinchi
Rocca that he might take his place, [and this without the consent or election of any of the
natives].

[Note 57: Tupac-yauri The sceptre of the sovereign. Molina, pp. 25, 40, 41. Yamqui Pachacuti,
p. 92.]

Thus died Manco Ccapac, according to the accounts of those of his ayllu or lineage, at the
age of 144 years, which were divided in the following manner. When he set out from Paccari-tampu
or Tampu-tocco he was 36 years of age. From that time until he arrived at the valley of Cuzco,
during which interval he was seeking for fertile lands, there were eight years. For in one
place he stayed one, in another two years, in others more or less until he reached Cuzco, where
he lived all the rest of the time, which was 100 years, as Ccapac or supreme and rich sovereign.

They say that he was a man of good stature, thin, rustic, cruel though frank, and that in dying
he was converted into a stone of a height of a vara and a half. The stone was preserved with
much veneration in the Ynti-cancha until the year 1559 when, the licentiate Polo Ondegardo
being Corregidor of Cuzco, found it and took it away from where it was adored and venerated
by all the Incas, in the village of Bimbilla near Cuzco.

From this Manco Ccapac were originated the ten ayllus mentioned above. From his time began
the idols huauquis, which was an idol or demon chosen by each Inca for his companion and oracle
which gave him answers[58]. That of Manco Ccapac was the bird indi already mentioned. This
Manco Ccapac ordered, for the preservation of his memory, the following: His eldest son by
his legitimate wife, who was his sister, was to succeed to the sovereignty. If there was a
second son his duty was to be to help all the other children and relations. They were to recognize
him as the head in all their necessities, and he was to take charge of their interests, and
for this duty estates were set aside. This party or lineage was called ayllu If there was no
second son, or if there was one who was incapable, the duty was to be passed on to the nearest
and ablest relation. And that those to come might have a precedent or example, Manco Ccapac
made the first ayllu and called it Chima Panaca Ayllu, which means the lineage descending from
Chima, because the first to whom he left his ayllu or lineage in charge was named Chima, and
Panaca means "to descend." It is to be noted that the members of this ayllu always adored the
statue of Manco Ccapac, and not those of the other Incas, but the ayllus of the other Incas
always worshipped that statue and the others also. It is not known what was done with the body,
for there was only the statue. They carried it in their wars, thinking that it secured the
victories they won. They also took it to Huanacauri, when they celebrated the huarachicos of
the Incas. Huayna Ccapac took it with him to Quito and Cayambis, and afterwards it was brought
back to Cuzco with the dead body of that Inca. There are still those of this ayllu in Cuzco
who preserve the memory of the deeds of Manco Ccapac. The principal heads of the ayllu are
now Don Diego Chaco, and Don Juan Huarhua Chima. They are Hurin-cuzcos. Manco Ccapac died in
the year 665 of the nativity of Christ our Lord, Loyba the Goth reigning in Spain, Constantine
IV being Emperor. He lived in the Ynti-cancha, House of the Sun.

[Note 58: Sarmiento says that every sovereign Inca had a familiar demon or idol which he called
guauqui, and that the guauqui of Manco Ccapac was the indi or bird already mentioned. This
is corroborated by Polo de Ondegardo. The word seems to be the same as Huauqui, a brother.]

XV.

COMMENCES THE LIFE OF SINCHI ROCCA, THE SECOND INCA.

It has been said that Manco Ccapac, the first Inca, who tyrannized over the natives of the
valley of Cuzco, only subjugated the Huallas, Alcabisas, Sauaseras, Culunchima, Copalimayta
and the others mentioned above, who were all within the circuit of what is now the city of Cuzco.

To this Manco Ccapac succeeded his son Sinchi Rocca, son also of Mama Occlo, his mother and
aunt[59]. He succeeded by nomination of his father, under the care of the ayllus who then all
lived together, but not by election of the people, they were all either in flight, prisoners,
wounded or banished, and were all his mortal enemies owing to the cruelties and robberies exercised
upon them by his father Manco Ccapac. Sinchi Rocca was not a warlike person, and no feats of
arms are recorded of him, nor did he sally forth from Cuzco, either himself or by his captains[60].
He added nothing to what his father had subjugated, only holding by his ayllus those whom his
father had crushed. He had for a wife Mama Cuca of the town of Saño by whom he had a son named
Lloqui Yupanqui. Lloqui means left-handed, because he was so. He left his ayllu called Raura
Panaca Ayllu of the Hurin-cuzco side. There are some of this ayllu living, the chiefs being
Don Alonso Puscon and Don Diego Quispi. These have the duty of knowing and maintaining the
things and memories of Sinchi Rocca. He lived in Ynti-cancha, the House of the Sun, and all
his years were 127. He succeeded when 108, and reigned 19 years. He died in the year of the
nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ 675, Wamba being King of Spain, Leo IV Emperor, and Donus
Pope. He left an idol of stone shaped like a fish called Huanachiri Amaru, which during life
was his idol or guauqui. Polo, being Corregidor of Cuzco, found this idol, with the body of
Sinchi Rocca, in the village of Bimbilla, among some bars of copper. The idol had attendants
and cultivated lands for its service.

[Note 59: All the authorities concur that Sinchi Rocca was the second sovereign of the Inca
dynasty, except Montesinos, who makes him the first and calls him Inca Rocca. Acosta has Inguarroca,
and Betanzos Chincheroca.]

[Note 60: Cieza de Leon and Garcilasso de la Vega also say that Sinchi Rocca waged no wars.
The latter tells us that, by peaceful means, he extended his dominions over the Canchis, as
far as Chuncara.]

XVI.

THE LIFE OF LLOQUI YUPANQUI, THE THIRD INCA.

On the death of Sinchi Rocca the Incaship was occupied by Lloqui Yupanqui, son of Sinchi Rocca
by Mama Cuca his wife. It is to be noted that, although Manco Ccapac had ordered that the eldest
son should succeed, this Inca broke the rule of his grandfather, for he had an elder brother
named Manco Sapaca[61], as it is said, who did not consent, and the Indians do not declare
whether he was nominated by his father. From this I think that Lloqui Yupanqui was not nominated,
but Manco Sapaca as the eldest, for so little regard for the natives or their approval was
shown. This being so, it was tyranny against the natives and infidelity to relations with connivance
of the ayllus legionaries; and with the Inca's favour they could do what they liked, by supporting
him. So Lloqui Yupanqui lived in Ynti-cancha like his father[62]. He never left Cuzco on a
warlike expedition nor performed any memorable deed, but merely lived like his father, having
communication with some provinces and chiefs. These were Huaman Samo, chief of Huaro, Pachaculla
Viracocha, the Ayamarcas of Tampu-cunca, and the Quilliscachis[63].

[Note 61: Manco Sapaca, the eldest son of Sinchi Rocca, is also mentioned by Balboa, pp. 14,
20, 22.]

[Note 62: All the authorities concur in making Lloqui Yupanqui the third Inca, except Acosta,
who has Iaguarhuaque. Herrera spells it Lloki Yupanqui, Fernandez has Lloccuco Panque, merely
corrupt spellings. Cieza de Leon also represents this reign to have been peaceful, but Garcilasso
de la Vega makes Lloqui Yupanqui conquer the Collao.]

[Note 63: Huaro or Guaro is a village south of Cuzco in the valley of the Vilcamayu (Balboa,
p. 110). Huaman Samo was the chief of Huaro. Balboa mentions Pachachalla Viracocha as a chief
of great prudence and ability who submitted to Lloqui Yupanqui, pp. 21, 22. The Ayamarcas formed
a powerful tribe about 12 miles south of Cuzco. The Quilliscachis formed one of the original
tribes in the valley of Cuzco (Yamqui Pachacuti, p. 110). Tampu-cunca only occurs here.]

One day Lloqui Yupanqui being very sad and afflicted, the Sun appeared to him in the form of
a person and consoled him by saying---"Do not be sorrowful, Lloqui Yupanqui, for from you shall
descend great Lords," also, that he might hold it for certain that he would have male issue.
For Lloqui Yupanqui was then very old, and neither had a son nor expected to have one. This
having been made known, and what the Sun had announced to Lloqui Yupanqui having been published
to the people, his relations determined to seek a wife for him. His brother Manco Sapaca, understanding
the fraternal disposition, sought for a woman who was suitable for it. He found her in a town
called Oma, two leagues from Cuzco, asked for her from her guardians, and, with their consent,
brought her to Cuzco. She was then married to Lloqui Yupanqui. Her name was Mama Cava, and
by her the Inca had a son named Mayta Ccapac.

This Lloqui did nothing worthy of remembrance. He carried with him an idol, which was his guauqui
called Apu Mayta. His ayllu is Avayni Panaca Ayllu, because the first who had the charge of
this ayllu was named Avayni. This Inca lived and died in Ynti-cancha. He was 132 years of age,
having succeeded at the age of 21, so that he was sovereign or "ccapac" for 111 years. He died
in 786, Alfonso el Casto being King of Spain and Leo IV Supreme Pontiff. Some of this ayllu
still live at Cuzco. The chiefs are Putisuc Titu Avcaylli, Titu Rimachi, Don Felipe Titu Cunti
Mayta, Don Agustin Cunti Mayta, Juan Bautista Quispi Cunti Mayta. They are Hurin-cuzcos. The
Licentiate Polo found the body of this Inca with the rest.

XVII.

THE LIFE OF MAYTA CCAPAC, THE FOURTH INCA[64].

[Note 64: All authorities agree that Mayta Ccapac was the fourth Inca, except Acosta and Betanzos.
Acosta has Viracocha. Betanzos places Mayta Ccapac after Ccapac Yupanqui, whom other authorities
make his son. His reign was peaceful except that he encountered and finally vanquished the
Alcabisas. But Garcilasso de la Vega makes him the conqueror of the region south of lake Titicaca,
as well as provinces to the westward, including the settlement of Arequipa. All this is doubtless
a mistake on the part of Garcilasso.]

Mayta Ccapac, the fourth Inca, son of Lloqui Yupanqui and his wife Mama Cava, is to those Indians
what Hercules is to us, as regards his birth and acts, for they relate strange things of him.
At the very first the Indians of his lineage, and all the others in general, say that his father,
when he was begotten, was so old and weak that every one believed he was useless, so that they
thought the conception was a miracle. The second wonder was that his mother bore him three
months after conception, and that he was born strong and with teeth. All affirm this, and that
he grew at such a rate that in one year he had as much strength and was as big as a boy of
eight years or more. At two years he fought with very big boys, knocked them about and hurt
them seriously. This all looks as if it might be counted with the other fables, but I write
what the natives believe respecting their ancestors, and they hold this to be so true that
they would kill anyone who asserted the contrary.

They say of this Mayta that when he was of very tender years, he was playing with some boys
of the Alcabisas and Culunchimas, natives of Cuzco, when he hurt many of them and killed some.
And one day, drinking or taking water from a fountain, he broke the leg of the son of a Sinchi
of the Alcabisas, and hunted the rest until they shut themselves up in their houses, where
the Alcabisas lived without injuring the Incas.

But now the Alcabisas, unable to endure longer the naughtiness of Mayta Ccapac, which he practised
under the protection of Lloqui Yupanqui, and the ayllus who watched over him, determined to
regain their liberty and to venture their lives for it. So they selected ten resolute Indians
to go to the House of the Sun where Lloqui Yupanqui and his son Mayta Ccapac lived, and enter
it with the intention of killing them. At the time Mayta Ccapac was in the court yard of the
house, playing at ball with some other boys. When he saw enemies entering the house with arms,
he threw one of the balls he was playing with, and killed one. He did the same to another,
and, attacking the rest, they all fled. Though the rest escaped, they had received many wounds,
and in this state they went back to their Sinchis of Calunchima and Alcabasa.

The Chiefs, considering the harm Mayta Ccapac had done to the natives when a child, feared
that when he was grown up he would destroy them all, and for this reason they resolved to die
for their liberty. All the inhabitants of the valley of Cuzco, that had been spared by Manco
Ccapac, united to make war on the Incas. This very seriously alarmed Lloqui Yupanqui. He thought
he was lost, and reprehended his son Mayta Ccapac, saying, "Son! why hast thou been so harmful
to the natives of this valley, so that in my old age I shall die at the hands of our enemies?"
As the ayllus, who were in garrison with the Incas, rejoiced more in rapine and disturbances
than in quiet, they took the part of Mayta Ccapac and told the old Inca to hold his peace,
leaving the matter to his son, so Lloqui Yupanqui took no further steps in reprehending Mayta
Ccapac. The Alcabisas and Culunchimas assembled their forces and Mayta Ccapac marshalled his
ayllus. There was a battle between the two armies and although it was doubtful for some time,
both sides fighting desperately for victory, the Alcabisas and Calunchimas were finally defeated
by the troops of Mayta Ccapac.

But not for this did the Alcabisas give up the attempt to free themselves and avenge their
wrongs. Again they challenged Mayta Ccapac to battle, which he accepted. As they advanced they
say that such a hail storm fell over the Alcabisas that they were defeated a third time, and
entirely broken up. Mayta Ccapac imprisoned their Sinchi for the remainder of his life.

Mayta Ccapac married Mama Tacucaray, native of the town of Tacucaray, and by her he had a legitimate
son named Ccapac Yupanqui, besides four others named Tarco Huaman, Apu Cunti Mayta, Queco Avcaylli,
and Rocca Yupanqui.

This Mayta Ccapac was warlike, and the Inca who first distinguished himself in arms after the
time of Mama Huaco and Manco Ccapac. They relate of him that he dared to open the hamper containing
the bird indi. This bird, brought by Manco Ccapac from Tampu-tocco, had been inherited by his
successors, the predecessors of Mayta Ccapac, who had always kept it shut up in a hamper or
box of straw, such was the fear they had of it. But Mayta Ccapac was bolder than any of them.
Desirous of seeing what his predecessors had guarded so carefully, he opened the hamper, saw
the bird indi and had some conversation with it. They say that it gave him oracles, and that
after the interview with the bird he was wiser, and knew better what he should do, and what
would happen.

With all this he did not go forth from the valley of Cuzco, although chiefs from some distant
nations came to visit him. He lived in Ynti-cancha, the House of the Sun. He left a lineage
called Usca Mayta Panaca Ayllu, and some members of it are still living in Cuzco. The heads
are named Don Juan Tambo Usca Mayta, and Don Baltasar Quiso Mayta. They are Hurin-cuzcos. Mayta
Ccapac died at the age of 112 years, in the year 890 of the nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ.
The Licentiate Polo found his body and idol guauqui with the rest.

XVIII.

THE LIFE OF CCAPAC YUPANQUI, THE FIFTH INCA[65].

[Note 65: All authorities are agreed that Ccapac Yupanqui was the fifth Inca, except Betanzos,
who puts him in his father's place. Garcilasso attributes extensive conquests to him, both
to south and west.]

At the time of his death, Mayta Ccapac named Ccapac Yupanqui as his successor, his son by his
wife Mama Tacucaray. This Ccapac Yupanqui, as soon as he succeeded to the Incaship, made his
brothers swear allegiance to him, and that they desired that he should be Ccapac. They complied
from fear, for he was proud and cruel. At first he lived very quietly in the Ynti-cancha. It
is to be noted that although Ccapac Yupanqui succeeded his father, he was not the eldest son.
Cunti Mayta, who was older, had an ugly face. His father had, therefore, disinherited him and
named Ccapac Yupanqui as successor to the sovereignty, and Cunti Mayta as high priest. For
this reason Ccapac Yupanqui was not the legitimate heir, although he tyrannically forced his
brothers to swear allegiance to him.

This Inca, it is said, was the first to make conquests beyond the valley of Cuzco. He forcibly
subjugated the people of Cuyumarca and Ancasmarca, four leagues from Cuzco. A wealthy Sinchi
of Ayamarca, from fear, presented his daughter, named Ccuri-hilpay to the Inca. Others say
that she was a native of Cuzco. The Inca received her as his wife, and had a son by her named
Inca Rocca, besides five other sons by various women. These sons were named Apu Calla, Humpi,
Apu Saca, Apu Chima-chaui, and Uchun-cuna-ascalla-rando[66]. Apu Saca had a son named Apu Mayta,
a very valiant and famous captain, who greatly distinguished himself in the time of Inca Rocca
and Viracocha Inca, in company with Vicaquirau, another esteemed captain. Besides these Ccapac
Yupanqui had another son named Apu Urco Huaranca[67]. This Ccapac Yupanqui lived 104 years,
and was Ccapac for 89 years. He succeeded at the age of 15, and died in the year 980 of the
nativity of our redeemer Jesus Christ. His ayllu or lineage was and is called Apu Mayta Panaca
Ayllu. Several of this lineage are now living, the principal heads being four in number, namely,
Don Cristobal Cusi-hualpa, Don Antonio Piçuy, Don Francisco Cocasaca, and Don Alonso Rupaca.
They are Hurin-cuzcos. The Licentiate Polo found the idol or guaoqui of this Inca with the
body. They were hidden with the rest, to conceal the idolatrous ceremonies of heathen times.

[Note 66: Calla means a distaff. Humpi means perspiration. Saca is a game bird, also a comet.
Chima-chaui is a proper name with no meaning. The name of the fifth son is rather unmanageable.
Uchun-cuna-ascalla-rando. Uchun-cuna would mean the Peruvian pepper with the plural particle.
Ascalla would be a small potato. Rando is a corrupt form of runtu, an egg. This little Inca
seems to have done the marketing.]

[Note 67: Urco, the male gender. Huaranca, a thousand.]

XIX.

THE LIFE OF INCA ROCCA, THE SIXTH INCA[68].

When Ccapac Yupanqui died, Inca Rocca, his son by his wife Ccuri-hilpay, succeeded by nomination
of his father and the guardian ayllus. This Inca Rocca showed force and valour at the beginning
of his Incaship, for he conquered the territories of Muyna[69] and Pinahua with great violence
and cruelty. They are rather more than four leagues to the south-south-east of Cuzco. He killed
their Sinchis Muyna Pancu, and Huaman-tupac, though some say that Huaman-tupac fled and was
never more seen. He did this by the help of Apu Mayta his nephew, and grandson of Ccapac Yupanqui.
He also conquered Caytomarca, four leagues from Cuzco. He discovered the waters of Hurin-chacan
and those of Hanan-chacan, which is as much as to say the upper and lower waters of Cuzco,
and led them in conduits; so that to this day they irrigate fields; and his sons and descendants
have benefited by them to this day.

[Note 68: All authorities are agreed respecting Inca Rocca as the sixth Inca. Garcilasso makes
him extend the Inca dominion beyond the Apurimac, and into the country of the Chancos.]

[Note 69: Muyna is a district with a lake, 14 miles S.S.W. of Cuzco. Pinahua is mentioned by
Garcilasso as a chief to the westward, i. p. 71.]

Inca Rocca gave himself up to pleasures and banquets, preferring to live in idleness. He loved
his children to that extent, that for them he forgot duties to his people and even to his own
person. He married a great lady of the town of Pata-huayllacan, daughter of the Sinchi of that
territory, named Soma Inca. Her name was Mama Micay. From this marriage came the wars between
Tocay Ccapac and the Cuzcos as we shall presently relate. By this wife Inca Rocca had a son
named Titu Cusi Hualpa[70], and by another name Yahuar-huaccac, and besides this eldest legitimate
son he had four other famous sons named Inca Paucar, Huaman Taysi Inca, and Vicaquirau Inca[70].
The latter was a great warrior, companion in arms with Apu Mayta. These two captains won great
victories and subdued many provinces for Viracocha Inca and Inca Yupanqui. They were the founders
of the great power to which the Incas afterwards attained.

[Note 70: Titu means august or magnanimous. Cusi joyful. Hualpa a game bird. Paucar means beautiful
or bright coloured. Huaman a falcon. Vica may be nilca sacred. Quirau a cradle.]

As the events which happened in the reign of Inca Rocca touching the Ayamarcas will be narrated
in the life of his son, we will not say more of this Inca, except that, while his ancestors
had always lived in the lower part of Cuzco, and were therefore called Hurin-cuzcos, he ordered
that those who sprang from him should form another party, and be called Hanan-cuzcos, which
means the Cuzcos of the upper part. So that from this Inca began the party of upper or Hanan-cuzcos,
for presently he and his successors left their residence at the House of the Sun, and established
themselves away from it, building palaces where they lived, in the upper part of the town.
It is to be noted that each Inca had a special palace in which he lived, the son not wishing
to reside in the palace where his father had lived. It was left in the same state as it was
in when the father died, with servants, relations, ayllus or heirs that they might maintain
it, and keep the edifices in repair. The Incas and their ayllus were, and still are Hanan-cuzco;
although afterwards, in the time of Pachacuti, these ayllus were reformed by him. Some say
that then were established the two parties which have been so celebrated in these parts.

Inca Rocca named his son Vicaquirao as the head of his lineage, and it is still called after
him the Vicaquirao Panaca Ayllu. There are now some of this lineage living in Cuzco, the principal
heads who protect and maintain it being the following: Don Francisco Huaman Rimachi Hachacoma,
and Don Antonio Huaman Mayta. They are Hanan-cuzcos. Inca Rocca lived 103 years, and died in
the year 1088 of the nativity of our Lord. The Licentiate Polo found his body in the town called
Rarapa, kept there with much care and veneration according to their rites.

Titu Cusi Hualpa Inca, eldest son of Inca Rocca and his wife Mama Micay, had a strange adventure
in his childhood[71]. These natives therefore relate his life from his childhood, and in the
course of it they tell some things of his father, and of some who were strangers in Cuzco,
as follows. It has been related how the Inca Rocca married Mama Micay by the rites of their
religion. But it must be understood that those of Huayllacan had already promised to give Mama
Micay, who was their countrywoman and very beautiful, in marriage to Tocay Ccapac, Sinchi of
the Ayamarcas their neighbours. When the Ayamarcas[72] saw that the Huayllacans had broken
their word, they were furious and declared war, considering them as enemies. War was carried
on, the Huayllacans defending themselves and also attacking the Ayamarcas, both sides committing
cruelties, inflicting deaths and losses, and causing great injury to each other. While this
war was being waged, Mama Micay gave birth to her son Titu Cusi Hualpa. The war continued for
some years after his birth, when both sides saw that they were destroying each other, and agreed
to come to terms, to avoid further injury. The Ayamarcas, who were the most powerful, requested
those of Huayllacan to deliver the child Titu Cusi Hualpa into their hands, to do what they
liked with him. On this condition they would desist from further hostilities, but if it was
not complied with, they announced that they would continue a mortal war to the end. The Huayllacans,
fearing this, and knowing their inability for further resistance, accepted the condition, although
they were uncles and relations of the child. In order to comply it was necessary for them to
deceive the Inca. There was, in the town of Paulo, a brother of Inca Rocca and uncle of Titu
Cusi Hualpa named Inca Paucar. He went or sent messengers to ask Inca Rocca to think well of
sending his nephew Titu Cusi Hualpa to his town of Paulo in order that, while still a child,
he might learn to know and care for his relations on his mother's side, while they wanted to
make him the heir of their estates. Believing in these words the Inca Rocca consented that
his son should be taken to Paulo, or the town of Micocancha. As soon as they had the child
in their town the Huayllacans made great feasts in honour of Titu Cusi Hualpa, who was then
eight years old, a little more or less. His father had sent some Incas to guard him. When the
festivities were over, the Huayllacans sent to give notice to the Ayamarcas that, while they
were occupied in ploughing certain lands which they call chacaras, they might come down on
the town and carry off the child, doing with him what they chose, in accordance with the agreement.
The Ayamarcas, being informed, came at the time and to the place notified and, finding the
child Titu Cusi Hualpa alone, they carried it off.

[Note 71: The very interesting story of the kidnapping of the heir of Inca Rocca, is well told
by Sarmiento.]

[Note 72: The Ayarmarcas seem to have occupied the country about 15 miles S.S.W. of Cuzco,
near Muyna. The word Ayar is the same as that in the names of the brethren of Manco Ccapac.
But others omit the r, and make it Ayamarca, Cieza de Leon, pp. 114, 115, Garcilasso, i. p.
80, Yamqui Pachacuti, p. 90. The month of October was called Ayamarca-Raymi. Molina says that
it was because the Ayamarca tribe celebrated the feast of Huarachicu in that month.]

Others say that this treason was carried out in another way. While the uncle was giving the
child many presents, his cousins, the sons of Inca Paucar, became jealous and treated with
Tocay Ccapac to deliver the child into his hands. Owing to this notice Tocay Ccapac came. Inca
Paucar had gone out to deliver to his nephew a certain estate and a flock of llamas. Tocay
Ccapac, the enemy of Inca Rocca was told by those who had charge of the boy. He who carried
him fled, and the boy was seized and carried off by Tocay Ccapac.

Be it the one way or the other, the result was that the Ayamarcas took Titu Cusi Hualpa from
the custody of Inca Paucar in the town of Paulo, while Inca Paucar and the Huayllacans sent
the news to Inca Rocca by one party, and with another took up arms against the Ayamarcas.

XXI.

WHAT HAPPENED AFTER THE AYAMARCAS HAD STOLEN TITU CUSI HUALPA.

When the Ayamarcas and their Sinchi Tocay Ccapac stole the son of Inca Rocca, they marched
off with him. The Huayllacans of Paulopampa, under their Sinchi Paucar Inca, marched in pursuit,
coming up to them at a place called Amaro, on the territory of the Ayamarcas. There was an
encounter between them, one side to recover the child, and the other to keep their capture.
But Paucar was only making a demonstration so as to have an excuse ready. Consequently the
Ayamarcas were victorious, while the Huayllacans broke and fled. It is said that in this encounter,
and when the child was stolen, all the orejones who had come as a guard from Cuzco, were slain.
The Ayamarcas then took the child to the chief place of their province called Ahuayro-cancha.

Many say that Tocay Ccapac was not personally in this raid but that he sent his Ayamarcas,
who, when they arrived at Ahuayro-cancha, presented the child Titu Cusi Hualpa to him, saying,
"Look here, Tocay Ccapac, at the prisoner we have brought you." The Sinchi received his prize
with great satisfaction, asking in a loud voice if this was the child of Mama Micay, who ought
to have been his wife. Titu Cusi Hualpa, though but a child, replied boldly that he was the
son of Mama Micay and of the Inca Rocca. Tocay was indignant when he had heard those words,
and ordered those who brought the child as a prisoner to take him out and kill him. The boy,
when he heard such a sentence passed upon him, was so filled with sadness and fright, that
he began to weep from fear of death. He began to shed tears of blood and with indignation beyond
his years, in the form of a malediction he said to Tocay and the Ayamarcas, "I tell you that
as sure as you murder me there will come such a curse on you and your descendants that you
will all come to an end, without any memory being left of your nation."

The Ayamarcas and Tocay attentively considered this curse of the child together with the tears
of blood. They thought there was some great mystery that so young a child should utter such
weighty words, and that the fear of death should make such an impression on him that he should
shed tears of blood. They were in suspense divining what it portended, whether that the child
would become a great man. They revoked the sentence of death, calling the child Yahuar-huaccac,
which means "weeper of blood," in allusion to what had taken place.

But although they did not wish to kill him then and with their own hands, they ordered that
he should lead such a life as that he would die of hunger. Before this they all said to the
child that he should turn his face to Cuzco and weep over it, because those curses he had pronounced,
would fall on the inhabitants of Cuzco, and so it happened.

This done they delivered him to the most valiant Indians, and ordered them to take him to certain
farms where flocks were kept, giving him to eat by rule, and so sparingly that he would be
consumed with hunger before he died. He was there for a year without leaving the place, so
that they did not know at Cuzco, or anywhere else, whether he was dead or alive. During this
time Inca Rocca, being without certain knowledge of his son, did not wish to make war on the
Ayamarcas because, if he was alive, they might kill him. So he did no more than prepare his
men of war and keep ready, while he enquired for his son in all the ways that were possible.

XXII.

HOW IT BECAME KNOWN THAT YAHUAR-HUACCAC WAS ALIVE.

As the child Yahuar-huaccac was a year among the shepherds without leaving their huts, which
served as a prison, no one knew where he was, because he could not come forth, being well watched
by the shepherds and other guards. But it so happened that there was a woman in the place called
Chimpu Orma, native of the town of Anta, three leagues from Cuzco. She was a concubine of the
Sinchi Tocay Ccapac, and for this reason she had leave to walk about and go into all parts
as she pleased. She was the daughter of the Sinchi of Anta, and having given an account of
the treatment of the child to her father, brothers, and relations, she persuaded them to help
in his liberation. They came on a certain day and, with the pass given them by Chimpu Orma,
the father and relations arranged the escape of Yahuar-huaccac. They stationed themselves behind
a hill. Yahuar-huaccac was to run in a race with some other boys, to see which could get to
the top of the hill first. When the prince reached the top, the men of Anta, who were hidden
there, took him in their arms and ran swiftly with him to Anta. When the other boys saw this
they quickly gave notice to the valiant guards, who ran after the men of Anta. They overtook
them at the lake of Huaypon, where there was a fierce battle. Finally the Ayamarcas got the
worst of it, for they were nearly all killed or wounded. The men of Anta continued their journey
to their town, where they gave many presents to Yahuar-huaccac and much service, having freed
him from the mortal imprisonment in which Tocay Ccapac held him. In this town of Anta the boy
remained a year, being served with much love, but so secretly that his father Inca Rocca did
not know that he had escaped, during all that time. At the end of a year those of Anta agreed
to send messengers to Inca Rocca to let him know of the safety of his son and heir, because
they desired to know and serve him. The messengers went to Inca Rocca and, having delivered
their message, received the reply that the Inca only knew that the Ayamarcas had stolen his
son. They were asked about it again and again, and at last Inca Rocca came down from his throne
and closely examined the messengers, that they might tell him more, for not without cause had
he asked them so often. The messengers, being so persistently questioned by Inca Rocca, related
what had passed, and that his son was free in Anta, served and regaled by the chief who had
liberated him. Inca Rocca rejoiced, promised favours, and dismissed the messengers with thanks.
Inca Rocca then celebrated the event with feasts and rejoicings.

But not feeling quite certain of the truth of what he had been told, he sent a poor man seeking
charity to make enquiries at Anta, whether it was all true. The poor man went, ascertained
that the child was certainly liberated, and returned with the news to Inca Rocca; which gave
rise to further rejoicings in Cuzco. Presently the Inca sent many principal people of Cuzco
with presents of gold, silver, and cloth to the Antas, asking them to receive them and to send
back his son. The Antas replied that they did not want his presents which they returned, that
they cared more that Yahuar-huaccac should remain with them, that they might serve him and
his father also, for they felt much love for the boy. Yet if Inca Rocca wanted his son, he
should be returned on condition that, from that time forwards, the Antas should be called relations
of the orejones. When Inca Rocca was made acquainted with the condition, he went to Anta and
conceded what they asked for, to the Sinchi and his people. For this reason the Antas were
called relations of the Cuzcos from that time.

Inca Rocca brought his son Yahuar-huaccac to Cuzco and nominated him successor to the Incaship,
the ayllus and orejones receiving him as such. At the end of two years Inca Rocca died, and
Yahuar-huaccac, whose former name was Titu Cusi Hualpa, remained sole Inca. Before Inca Rocca
died he made friends with Tocay Ccapac, through the mediation of Mama Chicya, daughter of Tocay
Ccapac, who married Yahuar-huaccac, and Inca Rocca gave his daughter Ccuri-Occllo in marriage
to Tocay Ccapac.

When Yahuar-huaccac found himself in possession of the sole sovereignty, he remembered the
treason with which he had been betrayed by the Huayllacans who sold him and delivered him up
to his enemies the Ayamarcas; and he proposed to inflict an exemplary punishment on them. When
the Huayllacans knew this, they humbled themselves before Yahuar-huaccac, entreating him to
forgive the evil deeds they had committed against him. Yahuar-huaccac, taking into consideration
that they were relations, forgave them. Then he sent a force, under the command of his brother
Vicaquirau, against Mohina and Pinahua, four leagues from Cuzco, who subdued these places.
He committed great cruelties, for no other reason than that they did not come to obey his will.
This would be about 23 years after the time when he rested in Cuzco. Some years afterwards
the town of Mollaca, near Cuzco, was conquered and subjugated by force of arms.

[Note 73: Yahuar means blood. Huaccani to weep. Yahuar-huaccac succeeded to Inca Rocca according
to Garcilasso de la Vega, Montesinos, Betanzos, Balboa, Yamqui Pachacuti and Sarmiento. Cieza
de Leon and Herrera have Inca Yupanqui. Garcilasso makes this Inca banish his son Viracocha,
who returns in consequence of a dream, and defeats the Chancas. This all seems to be a mistake.
It was Viracocha who fled, and his son Inca Yupanqui, surnamed Pachacuti, who defeated the
Chancas and dethroned his father.]

Yahuar-huaccac had, by his wife Mama Chicya, three legitimate sons. The eldest was Paucar Ayllu.
The second, Pahuac Hualpa Mayta[74], was chosen to succeed his father, though he was not the
eldest. The third was named Viracocha, who was afterwards Inca through the death of his brother.
Besides these he had three other illegitimate sons named Vicchu Tupac because he subdued the
town of Vicchu, Marca-yutu, and Rocca Inca. As the Huayllacans wanted Marca-yutu to succeed
Yahuar-huaccac, because he was their relation, they determined to kill Pahuac Hualpa Mayta,
who was nominated to succeed. With this object they asked his father to let him go to Paulo.
Forgetting their former treason, he sent the child to its grandfather Soma Inca with forty
orejones of the ayllus of Cuzco as his guard. When he came to their town they killed him, for
which the Inca, his father, inflicted a great punishment on the Huayllacans, killing some and
banishing others until very few were left.

[Note 74: Or Pahuac Mayta Inca (Garcilasso de la Vega, i. p. 23) so named from his swiftness.
Pahuani, to run.]

The Inca then went to the conquest of Pillauya, three leagues from Cuzco in the valley of Pisac,
and to Choyca, an adjacent place, and to Yuco. After that he oppressed by force and with cruelties,
the towns of Chillincay, Taocamarca, and the Caviñas, making them pay tribute. The Inca conquered
ten places himself or through his son and captains. Some attribute all the conquests to his
son Viracocha.

This Inca was a man of gentle disposition and very handsome face. He lived 115 years. He succeeded
his father at the age of 19, and was sovereign for 96 years. He left an ayllu named Aucaylli
Panaca, and some are still living at Cuzco. The principal chiefs who maintain it are Don Juan
Concha Yupanqui, Don Martin Titu Yupanqui, and Don Gonzalo Paucar Aucaylli. They are Hanan-cuzcos.
The body of this Inca has not been discovered[75]. It is believed that those of the town of
Paulo have it, with the Inca's guauqui.

[Note 75: In the margin of the MS., "The witnesses said that they believed that the licentiate
Polo found it." Navamuel.]

XXIV.

LIFE OF VIRACOCHA THE EIGHTH INCA[76].

[Note 76: All authorities agree respecting Viracocha as the eighth Inca.]

As the Huayllacans murdered Pahuac Hualpa Mayta who should have succeeded his father Yahuar-huaccac,
the second son Viracocha Inca was nominated for the succession, whose name when a child was
Hatun Tupac Inca, younger legitimate son of Yahuar-huaccac and Mama Chicya. He was married
to Mama Runtucaya, a native of Anta. Once when this Hatun Tupac Inca was in Urcos, a town which
is a little more than five leagues S.S.E. of Cuzco, where there was a sumptuous huaca in honour
of Ticci Viracocha, the deity appeared to him in the night. Next morning he assembled his orejones,
among them his tutor Hualpa Rimachi, and told them how Viracocha had appeared to him that night,
and had announced great good fortune to him and his descendants. In congratulating him Hualpa
Rimachi saluted him, "O Viracocha Inca." The rest followed his example and celebrated this
name, and the Inca retained it all the rest of his life. Others say that he took this name,
because, when he was armed as a knight and had his ears bored, he took Ticci Viracocha as the
godfather of his knighthood. Be it as it may, all that is certain is that when a child, before
he succeeded his father, he was named Hatun Tupac Inca, and afterwards, for the rest of his
life, Viracocha Inca.

After he saw the apparition in Urcos, the Inca came to Cuzco, and conceived the plan of conquering
and tyrannizing over all the country that surrounds Cuzco. For it is to be understood that,
although his father and grandfather had conquered and robbed in these directions, as their
only object was rapine and bloodshed, they did not place garrisons in the places they subdued,
so that when the Inca, who had conquered these people, died, they rose in arms and regained
their liberty. This is the reason that we repeat several times that a place was conquered,
for it was by different Incas. For instance Mohina and Pinahua, although first overrun by Inca
Rocca, were also invaded by Yahuar-huaccac, and then by Viracocha and his son Inca Yupanqui.
Each town fought so hard for its liberty, both under their Sinchis and without them, that one
succeeded in subjugating one and another defeated another. This was especially the case in
the time of the Incas. Even in Cuzco itself those of one suburb, called Carmenca, made war
on another suburb called Cayocachi. So it is to be understood that, in the time of the seven
Incas preceding Viracocha, although owing to the power they possessed in the ayllus, they terrorized
those of Cuzco and the immediate neighbourhood, the subjection only lasted while the lance
was over the vanquished, and that the moment they had a chance they took up arms for their
liberty. They did this at great risk to themselves, and sustained much loss of life, even those
in Cuzco itself, until the time of Viracocha Inca.

This Inca had resolved to subjugate all the tribes he possibly could by force and cruelty.
He selected as his captains two valiant orejones the one named Apu Mayta and the other Vicaquirau,
of the lineage of Inca Rocca. With these captains, who were cruel and impious, he began to
subjugate, before all things, the inhabitants of Cuzco who were not Incas orejones, practising
on them great cruelties and putting many to death. At this time many towns and provinces were
up in arms. Those in the neighbourhood of Cuzco had risen to defend themselves from the orejones
Incas of Cuzco who had made war to tyrannize over them. Others were in arms with the same motives
as the Incas, which was to subdue them if their forces would suffice. Thus it was that though
many Sinchis were elected, their proceedings were confused and without concert, so that each
force was small, and they were all weak and without help from each other. This being known
to Viracocha, it encouraged him to commence his policy of conquest beyond Cuzco.

Before coming to treat of the nations which Viracocha Inca conquered, we will tell of the sons
he had. By Mama Runtucaya, his legitimate wife, he had four sons, the first and eldest Inca
Rocca, the second Tupac Yupanqui, the third Inca Yupanqui, and the fourth Ccapac Yupanqui.
By another beautiful Indian named Ccuri-chulpa, of the Ayavilla nation in the valley of Cuzco
he also had two sons, the one named Inca Urco, the other Inca Socso. The descendants of Inca
Urco, however, say that he was legitimate, but all the rest say that he was a bastard[77].

[Note 77: Urco is made by Cieza de Leon to succeed, and to have been dethroned by Inca Yupanqui
owing to his flight from the Chancas. Yamqui Pachacuti records the death of Urco. Herrera,
Fernandez, Yamqui Pachacuti also make Urco succeed Viracocha.]

XXV.

THE PROVINCES AND TOWNS CONQUERED BY THE EIGHTH INCA VIRACOCHA.

Viracocha, having named Apu Mayta and Vicaquirau as his captains, and mustered his forces,
gave orders that they should advance to make conquests beyond the valley of Cuzco. They went
to Pacaycacha, in the valley of Pisac, three leagues and a half from Cuzco. And because the
besieged did not submit at once they assaulted the town, killing the inhabitants and their
Sinchi named Acamaqui. Next the Inca marched against the towns of Mohina, Pinahua, Casacancha,
and Runtucancha, five short leagues from Cuzco. They had made themselves free, although Yahuar-huaccac
had sacked their towns. The captains of Viracocha attacked and killed most of the natives,
and their Sinchis named Muyna Pancu and Huaman Tupac. The people of Mohina and Pinahua suffered
from this war and subsequent cruelties because they said that they were free, and would not
serve nor be vassals to the Incas.

At this time the eldest son, Inca Rocca, was grown up and showed signs of being a courageous
man. Viracocha, therefore, made him captain-general with Apu Mayta and Vicaquirau as his colleagues.
They also took with them Inca Yupanqui, who also gave hopes owing to the valour he had shown
in the flower of his youth. With these captains the conquests were continued. Huaypar-marca
was taken, the Ayamarcas were subdued, and Tocay Ccapac and Chihuay Ccapac, who had their seats
near Cuzco, were slain. The Incas next subjugated Mollaca and ruined the town of Cayto, four
leagues from Cuzco, killing its Sinchi named Ccapac Chani They assaulted the towns of Socma
and Chiraques, killing their Sinchis named Puma Lloqui and Illacumbi, who were very warlike
chiefs in that time, who had most valorously resisted the attacks of former Incas, that they
might not come from Cuzco to subdue them. The Inca captains also conquered Calca and Caquia
Xaquixahuana, three leagues from Cuzco, and the towns of Collocte and Camal. They subdued the
people between Cuzco and Quiquisana with the surrounding country, the Papris and other neighbouring
places; all within seven or eight leagues round Cuzco. [In these conquests they committed very
great cruelties, robberies, put many to death and destroyed towns, burning and desolating along
the road without leaving memory of anything.]

As Viracocha was now very old, he nominated as his successor his bastard son Inca Urco, without
regard to the order of succession, because he was very fond of his mother. This Inca was bold,
proud, and despised others, so that he aroused the indignation of the warriors, more especially
of the legitimate sons, Inca Rocca, who was the eldest, and of the valiant captains Apu Mayta
and Vicaquirau. These took order to prevent this succession to the Incaship, preferring one
of the other brothers, the best conditioned, who would treat them well and honourably as they
deserved. They secretly set their eyes on the third of the legitimate sons named Cusi, afterwards
called Inca Yupanqui, because they believed that he was mild and affable, and, besides these
qualities, he showed signs of high spirit and lofty ideas. Apu Mayta was more in favour of
this plan than the others, as he desired to have some one to shield him from the fury of Viracocha
Inca. Mayta thought that the Inca would kill him because he had seduced a woman named Cacchon
Chicya, who was a wife of Viracocha. Apu Mayta had spoken of his plan and of his devotion to
Cusi, to his colleague Vicaquirau. While they were consulting how it should be managed, the
Chancas of Andahuaylas, thirty leagues from Cuzco, marched upon that city, as will be narrated
in the life of Inca Yupanqui. Inca Viracocha, from fear of them, fled from Cuzco, and went
to a place called Caquia Xaquixahuana, where he shut himself up, being afraid of the Chancas.
Here he died after some years, deprived of Cuzco of which his son Cusi had possession for several
years before his father's death. Viracocha Inca was he who had made the most extensive conquests
beyond Cuzco and, as we may say, he tyrannized anew even as regards Cuzco, as has been said above.

Viracocha lived 119 years, succeeding at the age of 18. He was Ccapac 101 years. He named the
ayllu, which he left for the continuance of his lineage, Socso Panaca Ayllu, and some are still
living at Cuzco, the heads being Amaru Titu, Don Francisco Chalco Yupanqui, Don Francisco Anti
Hualpa. They are Hanan-cuzcos.

This Inca was industrious, and inventor of cloths and embroidered work called in their language
Viracocha-tocapu, and amongst us brocade. He was rich [for he robbed much] and had vases of
gold and silver. He was buried in Caquia Xaquixahuana and Gonzalo Pizarro, having heard that
there was treasure with the body, discovered it and a large sum of gold. He burnt the body,
and the natives collected the ashes and hid them in a vase. This, with the Inca's guauqui,
called Inca Amaru, was found by the Licentiate Polo, when he was Corregidor of Cuzco.

XXVI.

THE LIFE OF INCA YUPANQUI OR PACHACUTI[78], THE NINTH INCA.

[Note 78: Inca Yupanqui surnamed Pachacuti was the ninth Inca. All the authorities agree that
he dethroned either his father Viracocha, or his half brother Urco, after his victory over
the Chancas, and that he had a long and glorious reign.]

It is related, in the life of Inca Viracocha, that he had four legitimate sons. Of these the
third named Cusi, and as surname Inca Yupanqui, was raised to the Incaship by the famous captains
Apu Mayta and Vicaquirau, and by the rest of the legitimate sons, and against the will of his
father. In the course of their intrigues to carry this into effect, the times gave them the
opportunity which they could not otherwise have found, in the march of the Chancas upon Cuzco.
It happened in this way.

Thirty leagues to the west of Cuzco there is a province called Andahuaylas, the names of the
natives of it being Chancas. In this province there were two Sinchis, [robbers and cruel tyrants]
named Uscovilca and Ancovilca who, coming on an expedition from near Huamanca with some companies
of robbers, had settled in the valley of Andahuaylas, and had there formed a state. They were
brothers. Uscovilca being the elder and principal one, instituted a tribe which he called Hanan-chancas
or upper Chancas. Ancovilca formed another tribe called Hurin-chancas or lower Chancas. These
chiefs, after death, were embalmed, and because they were feared for their cruelties in life,
were kept by their people. The Hanan-chancas carried the statue of Uscovilca with them, in
their raids and wars. Although they had other Sinchis, they always attributed their success
to the statue of Uscovilca, which they called Ancoallo.

The tribes and companies of Uscovilca had multiplied prodigiously in the time of Viracocha.
It seemed to them that they were so powerful that no one could equal them, so they resolved
to march from Andahuaylas and conquer Cuzco. With this object they elected two Sinchis, one
named Asto-huaraca, and the other Tomay-huaraca, one of the tribe of Hanan-chanca, the other
of Hurin-chanca. These were to lead them in their enterprise. The Chancas and their Sinchis
were proud and insolent. Setting out from Andahuaylas they marched on the way to Cuzco until
they reached a place called Ichu-pampa, five leagues west of that city, where they halted for
some days, terrifying the neighbourhood and preparing for an advance.

The news spread terror among the orejones of Cuzco, for they doubted the powers of Inca Viracocha,
who was now very old and weak. Thinking that the position of Cuzco was insecure, Viracocha
called a Council of his sons and captains Apu Mayta and Vicaquirau. These captains said to
him--"Inca Viracocha! we have understood what you have proposed to us touching this matter,
and how you ought to meet the difficulty. After careful consideration it appears to us that
as you are old and infirm owing to what you have undergone in former wars, it will not be well
that you should attempt so great a business, dangerous and with victory doubtful, such as that
which now presents itself before your eyes. The wisest counsel respecting the course you should
adopt is that you should leave Cuzco, and proceed to the place of Chita, and thence to Caquia
Xaquixahuana, which is a strong fort, whence you may treat for an agreement with the Chancas."
They gave this advice to Viracocha to get him out of Cuzco and give them a good opportunity
to put their designs into execution, which were to raise Cusi Inca Yupanqui to the throne.
In whatever manner it was done, it is certain that this advice was taken by the Inca Viracocha.
He determined to leave Cuzco and proceed to Chita, in accordance with their proposal. But when
Cusi Inca Yupanqui found that his father was determined to leave Cuzco, they say that he thus
addressed him, "How father can it fit into your heart to accept such infamous advice as to
leave Cuzco, city of the Sun and of Viracocha, whose name you have taken, whose promise you
hold that you shall be a great lord, you and your descendants." Though a boy, he said this
with the animated daring of a man high in honour. The father answered that he was a boy and
that he spoke like one, in talking without consideration, and that such words were of no value.
Inca Yupanqui replied that he would remain where they would be remembered, that he would not
leave Cuzco nor abandon the House of the Sun. They say that all this was planned by the said
captains of Viracocha, Apu Mayta and Vicaquirau, to throw those off their guard who might conceive
suspicion respecting the remaining of Inca Yupanqui in Cuzco. So Viracocha left Cuzco and went
to Chita, taking with him his two illegitimate sons Inca Urco and Inca Socso. His son Inca
Yupanqui remained at Cuzco, resolved to defend the city or die in its defence. Seven chiefs
remained with him; Inca Rocca his elder and legitimate brother, Apu Mayta, Vicaquirau, Quillis-cacha,
Urco Huaranca, Chima Chaui Pata Yupanqui, Viracocha Inca Paucar, and Mircoy-mana the tutor
of Inca Yupanqui.

XXVII

COMING OF THE CHANCAS AGAINST CUZCO.

At the time when Inca Viracocha left Cuzco, Asto-huaraca and Tomay-huaraca set out for Ichu-pampa,
first making sacrifices and blowing out the lungs of an animal, which they call calpa. This
they did not well understand, from what happened afterwards. Marching on towards Cuzco, they
arrived at a place called Conchacalla, where they took a prisoner. From him they learnt what
was happening at Cuzco, and he offered to guide them there secretly. Thus he conducted them
half way. But then his conscience cried out to him touching the evil he was doing. So he fled
to Cuzco, and gave the news that the Chancas were resolutely advancing. The news of this Indian,
who was a Quillis-cachi of Cuzco, made Viracocha hasten his flight to Chita, whither the Chancas
sent their messengers summoning him to surrender, and threatening war if he refused. Others
say that these were not messengers but scouts and that Inca Viracocha, knowing this, told them
that he knew they were spies of the Chancas, that he did not want to kill them, but that they
might return and tell their people that if they wanted anything he was there. So they departed
and at the mouth of a channel of water some of them fell and were killed. At this the Chancas
were much annoyed. They said that the messengers had been ordered to go to Inca Viracocha,
and that they were killed by his captain Quequo Mayta.

While this was proceeding with the messengers of the Chancas, the Chanca army was coming nearer
to Cuzco. Inca Yupanqui made great praying to Viracocha and to the Sun to protect the city.
One day he was at Susurpuquio in great affliction, thinking over the best plan for opposing
his enemies, when there appeared a person in the air like the Sun, consoling him and animating
him for the battle. This being held up to him a mirror in which the provinces he would subdue
were shown, and told him that he would be greater than any of his ancestors: he was to have
no doubt, but to return to the city, because he would conquer the Chancas who were marching
on Cuzco. With these words the vision animated Inca Yupanqui. He took the mirror, which he
carried with him ever afterwards, in peace or war, and returned to the city, where he began
to encourage those he had left there, and some who came from afar[79]. The latter came to look
on, not daring to declare for either party, fearing the rage of the conqueror if they should
join the conquered side. Inca Yupanqui, though only a lad of 20 or 22 years, provided for everything
as one who was about to fight for his life.

[Note 79: Susurpuquio seems to have been a fountain or spring on the road to Xaquixahuana.
Molina relates the story of the vision somewhat differently, p. 12. Mrs. Zelia Nuttall thinks
that the description of the vision bears such a very strong resemblance to a bas relief found
in Guatemala that they must have a common origin.]

While the Inca Yupanqui was thus engaged the Chancas had been marching, and reached a place
very near Cuzco called Cusi-pampa, there being nothing between it and Cuzco but a low hill.
Here the Quillis-cachi was encountered again. He said that he had been to spy, and that he
rejoiced to meet them. This deceiver went from one side to the other, always keeping friends
with both, to secure the favour of the side which eventually conquered. The Chancas resumed
the march, expecting that there would be no defence. But the Quillis-cachi, mourning over the
destruction of his country, disappeared from among the Chancas and went to Cuzco to give the
alarm. "To arms! to arms!" he shouted, "Inca Yupanqui. The Chancas are upon you."

At these words the Inca, who was not off his guard, mustered and got his troops in order, but
he found very few willing to go forth with him to oppose the enemy, almost all took to the
hills to watch the event. With those who were willing to follow, though few in number, chiefly
the men of the seven Sinchis, brothers and captains, named above, he formed a small force and
came forth to receive the enemy who advanced in fury and without order. The opposing forces
advanced towards each other, the Chancas attacking the city in four directions. The Inca Yupanqui
sent all the succour he could to the assailed points, while he and his friends advanced towards
the statue and standard of Uscovilca, with Asto-huaraca and Tomay-huaraca defending them. Here
there was a bloody and desperate battle, one side striving to enter the city, and the other
opposing its advance. Those who entered by a suburb called Chocos-chacona were valiantly repulsed
by the inhabitants. They say that a woman named Chañan-ccuri-coca here fought like a man, and
so valiantly opposed the Chancas that they were obliged to retire. This was the cause that
all the Chancas who saw it were dismayed. The Inca Yupanqui meanwhile was so quick and dexterous
with his weapon, that those who carried the statue of Uscovilca became alarmed, and their fear
was increased when they saw great numbers of men coming down from the hills. They say that
these were sent by Viracocha, the creator, as succour for the Inca. The Chancas began to give
way, leaving the statue of Uscovilca, and they say even that of Ancovilca. Attacking on two
sides, Inca Rocca, Apu Mayta, and Vicaquirau made great havock among the Chancas. Seeing that
their only safety was in flight, they turned their backs, and their quickness in running exceeded
their fierceness in advancing. The men of Cuzco continued the pursuit, killing and wounding,
for more than two leagues, when they desisted. The Chancas returned to Ichu-pampa, and the
orejones to Cuzco, having won a great victory and taken a vast amount of plunder which remained
in their hands. The Cuzcos rejoiced at this victory won with so little expectation or hope.
They honoured Inca Yupanqui with many epithets, especially calling him PACHACUTI, which means
"over-turner of the earth," alluding to the land and farms which they looked upon as lost by
the coming of the Chancas. For he had made them free and safe again. From that time he was
called Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui.

As soon as the victory was secure, Inca Yupanqui did not wish to enjoy the triumph although
many tried to persuade him. He wished to give his father the glory of such a great victory.
So he collected the most precious spoils, and took them to his father who was in Chita, with
a principal orejon named Quillis-cachi Urco Huaranca. By him he sent to ask his father to enjoy
that triumph and tread on those spoils of the enemy, a custom they have as a sign of victory.
When Quillis-cachi Urco Huaranca arrived before Viracocha Inca, he placed those spoils of the
Chancas at his feet with great reverence, saying, "Inca Viracocha! thy son Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui,
to whom the Sun has given such a great victory, vanquishing the powerful Chancas, sends me
to salute you, and says that, as a good and humble son he wishes you to triumph over your victory
and to tread upon these spoils of your enemies, conquered by your hands." Inca Viracocha did
not wish to tread on them, but said that his son Inca Urco should do so, as he was to succeed
to the Incaship. Hearing this the messenger rose and gave utterance to furious words, saying
that he did not come for cowards to triumph by the deeds of Pachacuti. He added that if Viracocha
did not wish to receive this recognition from so valiant a son, it would be better that Pachachuti
should enjoy the glory for which he had worked. With this he returned to Cuzco, and told Pachacuti
what had happened with his father.

XXVIII.

THE SECOND VICTORY OF PACHACUTI INCA YUPANQUI OVER THE CHANCAS.

While Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui was sending the spoil to his father, the Chancas were recruiting
and assembling more men at Ichu-pampa, whence they marched on Cuzco the first time. The Sinchis
Tomay-huaraca and Asto-huaraca began to boast, declaring that they would return to Cuzco and
leave nothing undestroyed. This news came to Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui. He received it with courage
and, assembling his men, he marched in search of the Chancas. When they heard that the Incas
were coming, they resolved to march out and encounter them, but the advance of Pachacuti Inca
Yupanqui was so rapid that he found the Chancas still at Ichu-pampa.

As soon as the two forces came in sight of each other, Asto-huaraca, full of arrogance, sent
to Inca Yupanqui to tell him that he could see the power of the Chancas and the position they
now held. They were not like him coming from the poverty stricken Cuzco, and if he did not
repent the past and become a tributary and vassal to the Chancas; Asto-huaraca would dye his
lance in an Inca's blood. But Inca Yupanqui was not terrified by the embassy. He answered in
this way to the messenger. "Go back brother and say to Asto-huaraca, your Sinchi, that Inca
Yupanqui is a child of the Sun and guardian of Cuzco, the city of Ticci Viracocha Pachayachachi,
by whose order I am here guarding it. For this city is not mine but his; and if your Sinchi
should wish to own obedience to Ticci Viracocha, or to me in His name, he will be honourably
received. If your Sinchi should see things in another light, show him that I am here with our
friends, and if he should conquer us he can call himself Lord and Inca. But let him understand
that no more time can be wasted in demands and replies. God (Ticci Viracocha) will give the
victory to whom he pleases."

With this reply the Chancas felt that they had profited little by their boasting. They ran
to their arms because they saw Pachacuti closely following the bearer of his reply. The two
armies approached each other in Ichu-pampa, encountered, and mixed together, the Chancas thrusting
with long lances, the Incas using slings, clubs, axes and arrows, each one defending himself
and attacking his adversary. The battle raged for a long time, without advantage on either
side. At last Pachacuti made a way to where Asto-huaraca was fighting, attacked him and delivered
a blow with his hatchet which cut off the Chanca's head. Tomay-huaraca was already killed.
The Inca caused the heads of these two captains to be set on the points of lances, and raised
on high to be seen by their followers. The Chancas, on seeing the heads, despaired of victory
without leaders. They gave up the contest and sought safety in flight. Inca Yupanqui and his
army followed in pursuit, wounding and killing until there was nothing more to do.

This great victory yielded such rich and plentiful spoils, that Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui proposed
to go to where his father was, report to him the story of the battle and the victory, and to
offer him obedience that he might triumph as if the victory was his own. Loaded with spoil
and Chanca prisoners he went to visit his father. Some say that it was at a place called Caquia
Xaquixahuana, four leagues from Cuzco, others that it was at Marco, three leagues from Cuzco.
Wherever it was, there was a great ceremony, presents being given, called muchanaco[80]. When
Pachacuti had given his father a full report, he ordered the spoils of the enemy to be placed
at his feet, and asked his father to tread on them and triumph over the victory. But Viracocha
Inca, still intent upon having Inca Urco for his successor, desired that the honour offered
to him should be enjoyed by his favourite son. He, therefore, did not wish to accept the honours
for himself. Yet not wishing to offend the Inca Yupanqui Pachacuti on such a crucial point,
he said that he would tread on the spoils and prisoners, and did so. He excused himself from
going to triumph at Cuzco owing to his great age, which made him prefer to rest at Caquia Xaquixahuana.

[Note 80: Muchani, I worship. Nacu is a particle giving a reciprocal or mutual meaning, "joint
worship."]

With this reply Pachacuti departed for Cuzco with a great following of people and riches. The
Inca Urco also came to accompany him, and on the road there was a quarrel in the rear guard
between the men of Urco and those of Pachacuti. Others say that it was an ambush laid for his
brother by Urco and that they fought. The Inca Pachacuti took no notice of it, and continued
his journey to Cuzco, where he was received with much applause and in triumph. Soon afterwards,
as one who thought of assuming authority over the whole land and taking away esteem from his
father, as he presently did, he began to distribute the spoils, and confer many favours with
gifts and speeches. With the fame of these grand doings, people came to Cuzco from all directions
and many of those who were at Caquia Xaquixahuana left it and came to the new Inca at Cuzco.

When the Inca Yupanqui found himself so strong and that he had been joined by so many people,
he determined not to wait for the nomination of his father, much less for his death, before
he rose with the people of Cuzco with the further intention of obtaining the assent of those
without. With this object he caused a grand sacrifice to be offered to the Sun in the Inti-cancha
or House of the Sun, and then went to ask the image of the Sun who should be Inca. The oracle
of the devil, or perhaps some Indian who was behind to give the answer, replied that Inca Yupanqui
Pachacuti was chosen and should be Inca. On this answer being given, all who were present at
the sacrifice, prostrated themselves before Pachacuti, crying out "Ccapac Inca Intip Churin,"
which means "Sovereign Lord Child of the Sun."

Presently they prepared a very rich fringe of gold and emeralds wherewith to crown him. Next
day they took Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui to the House of the Sun, and when they came to the image
of the Sun, which was of gold and the size of a man, they found it with the fringe, as if offering
it of its own will. First making his sacrifices, according to their custom, he came to the
image, and the High Priest called out in his language "Intip Apu," which means "Governor of
things pertaining to the Sun." With much ceremony and great reverence the fringe was taken
from the image and placed, with much pomp, on the forehead of Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui. Then
all called his name and hailed him "Intip Churin Inca Pachacuti," or "Child of the Sun Lord,
over-turner of the earth." From that time he was called Pachacuti besides his first name which
was Inca Yupanqui. Then the Inca presented many gifts and celebrated the event with feasts.
[He was sovereign Inca without the consent of his father or of the people, but by those he
had gained over to his side by gifts.]

XXX.

PACHACUTI INCA YUPANQUI REBUILDS THE CITY OF CUZCO.

As soon as the festivities were over, the Inca laid out the city of Cuzco on a better plan;
and formed the principal streets as they were when the Spaniards came. He divided the land
for communal, public, and private edifices, causing them to be built with very excellent masonry.
It is such that we who have seen it, and know that they did not possess instruments of iron
or steel to work with, are struck with admiration on beholding the equality and precision with
which the stones are laid, as well as the closeness of the points of junction. With the rough
stones it is even more interesting to examine the work and its composition. As the sight alone
satisfies the curious, I will not waste time in a more detailed description.

Besides this, Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, considering the small extent of land round Cuzco suited
for cultivation, supplied by art what was wanting in nature. Along the skirts of the hills
near villages, and also in other parts, he constructed very long terraces of 200 paces more
or less, and 20 to 30 wide, faced with masonry, and filled with earth, much of it brought from
a distance. We call these terraces andenes, the native name being sucres. He ordered that they
should be sown, and in this way he made a vast increase in the cultivated land, and in provision
for sustaining the companies and garrisons.

In order that the precise time of sowing and harvesting might be known, and that nothing might
be lost, the Inca caused four poles to be set up on a high mountain to the east of Cuzco, about
two varas apart, on the heads of which there were holes, by which the sun entered, in the manner
of a watch or astrolabe. Observing where the sun struck the ground through these holes, at
the time of sowing and harvest, marks were made on the ground. Other poles were set up in the
part corresponding to the west of Cuzco, for the time of harvesting the maize. Having fixed
the positions exactly by these poles, they built columns of stone for perpetuity in their places,
of the height of the poles and with holes in like places. All round it was ordered that the
ground should be paved; and on the stones certain lines were drawn, conforming to the movements
of the sun entering through the holes in the columns. Thus the whole became an instrument serving
for an annual time-piece, by which the times of sowing and harvesting were regulated. Persons
were appointed to observe these watches, and to notify to the people the times they indicated[81].

[Note 81: The pillars at Cuzco to determine the time of the solstices were called Sucanca.
The two pillars denoting the beginning of winter, whence the year was measured, were called
Pucuy Sucanca. Those notifying the beginning of spring were Chirao Sucanca. Suca means a ridge
or furrow and sucani to make ridges: hence sucanca, the alternate light and shadow, appearing
like furrows. Acosta says there was a pillar for each month. Garcilasso de la Vega tells us
that there were eight on the east, and eight on the west side of Cuzco (i. p. 177) in double
rows, four and four, two small between two high ones, 20 feet apart. Cieza de Leon says that
they were in the Carmenca suburb (i. p. 325).

To ascertain the time of the equinoxes there was a stone column in the open space before the
temple of the Sun in the centre of a large circle. This was the Inti-huatana. A line was drawn
across from east to west and they watched when the shadow of the pillar was on the line from
sunrise to sunset and there was no shadow at noon. There is another Inti-huatana at Pisac,
and another at Hatun-colla. Inti, the Sun God, huatani, to seize, to tie round, Inti-huatana,
a sun circle.]

Besides this, as he was curious about the things of antiquity, and wished to perpetuate his
name, the Inca went personally to the hill of Tampu-tocco or Paccari-tampu, names for the same
thing, and entered the cave whence it is held for certain that Manco Ccapac and his brethren
came when they marched to Cuzco for the first time, as has already been narrated. After he
had made a thorough inspection, he venerated the locality and showed his feeling by festivals
and sacrifices. He placed doors of gold on the window Ccapac-tocco, and ordered that from that
time forward the locality should be venerated by all, making it a prayer place and huaca, whither
to go to pray for oracles and to sacrifice.

Having done this the Inca returned to Cuzco. He ordered the year to be divided into twelve
months, almost like our year. I say almost, because there is some difference, though slight,
as will be explained in its place.

He called a general assembly of the oldest and wisest men of Cuzco and other parts, who with
much diligence scrutinized and examined the histories and antiquities of the land, principally
of the Incas and their forefathers. He ordered the events to be painted and preserved in order,
as I explained when I spoke of the method adopted in preparing this history.

Having adorned the city of Cuzco with edifices, streets, and the other things that have been
mentioned, Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui reflected that since the time of Manco Ccapac, none of his
predecessors had done anything for the House of the Sun. He, therefore, resolved to enrich
it with more oracles and edifices to appal ignorant people and produce astonishment, that they
might help in the conquest of the whole land which he intended to subdue, and in fact he commenced
and achieved the subjugation of a large portion of it He disinterred the bodies of the seven
deceased Incas, from Manco Ccapac to Yahuar-huaccac, which were all in the House of the Sun,
enriching them with masks, head-dresses called chuco, medals, bracelets, sceptres called yauri
or champi[82], and other ornaments of gold. He then placed them, in the order of their seniority,
on a bench with a back, richly adorned with gold, and ordered great festivals to be celebrated
with representations of the lives of each Inca. These festivals, which are called purucaya[83],
were continued for more than four months. Great and sumptuous sacrifices were made to each
Inca, at the conclusion of the representation of his acts and life. This gave them such authority
that it made all strangers adore them, and worship them as gods. These strangers, when they
beheld such majesty, humbled themselves, and put up their hands to worship or mucha as they
say. The corpses were held in great respect and veneration until the Spaniards came to this
land of Peru.

[Note 82: Champi means a one-handed battle axe (Garcilasso de la Vega, I. lib. ix. cap. 31).
Novices received it at the festival of Huarachicu, with the word Auccacunapac, for traitors.]

[Note 83: According to Mossi puruccayan was the general mourning on the death of the Inca.]

Besides these corpses, Pachacuti made two images of gold. He called one of them Viracocha Pachayachachi.
It represented the creator, and was placed on the right of the image of the Sun. The other
was called Chuqui ylla, representing lightning, placed on the left of the Sun. This image was
most highly venerated by all. Inca Yupanqui adopted this idol for his guauqui[84], because
he said that it had appeared and spoken in a desert place and had given him a serpent with
two heads, to carry about with him always, saying that while he had it with him, nothing sinister
could happen in his affairs. To these idols the Inca gave the use of lands, flocks, and servants,
especially of certain women who lived in the same House of the Sun, in the manner of nuns.
These all came as virgins but few remained without having had connexion with the Inca. At least
he was so vicious in this respect, that he had access to all whose looks gave him pleasure,
and had many sons.

[Note 84: Huauqui, brother.]

Besides this House, there were some huacas in the surrounding country. These were that of Huanacauri,
and others called Anahuarqui, Yauira, Cinga, Picol, Pachatopan[85] [to many they made the accursed
sacrifices, which they called Ccapac Cocha, burying children, aged 5 or 6, alive as offerings
to the devil, with many offerings of vases of gold and silver].

[Note 85: Anahuarqui was the name of the wife of Tupac Inca Yupanqui. Yauira may be for Yauirca,
a fabulous creature described by Yamqui Pachacuti. Cinga and Picol do not occur elsewhere.
Pachatopan is no doubt Pacha tupac, beautiful land.]

The Inca, they relate, also caused to be made a great woollen chain of many colours, garnished
with gold plates, and two red fringes at the end. It was 150 fathoms in length, more or less.
This was used in their public festivals, of which there were four principal ones in the year.
The first was called RAYMI or CCAPAC RAYMI, which was when they opened the ears of knights
at a ceremony called huarachico. The second was called SITUA resembling our lights of St John[86].
They all ran at midnight with torches to bathe, saying that they were thus left clean of all
diseases. The third was called YNTI RAYMI, being the feast of the Sun, known as aymuray. In
these feasts they took the chain out of the House of the Sun and all the principal Indians,
very richly dressed, came with it, in order, singing, from the House of the Sun to the Great
Square which they encircled with the chain. This was called moroy urco[87].

[Note 86: The months and the festivals which took place in each month are given by several
authorities. The most correct are those of Polo de Ondegardo and Calancha who agree throughout.
Calancha gives the months as received by the first Council of Lima.

22 June--22 July.   INTIP RAYMI (Sun Festival). 22 July--22 Aug.    CHAHUAR HUARQUIZ--Ploughing
month. 22 Aug.--22 Sept.   YAPAQUIZ (SITUA or Moon Festival)--Sowing month. 22 Sept.--22 Oct.
CCOYA RAYMI---Expiatory feast. Molina a month behind. 22 Oct.--22 Nov.    UMA RAYMI--Month
of brewing chicha. 22 Nov.--22 Dec.    AYAMARCA--Commemoration of the dead. 22 Dec.--22 Jan.
CCAPAC RAYMI (HUARACHICU festival). 22 Jan.--22 Feb.    CAMAY--Month of exercises. 22 Feb.--22
March.  HATUN POCCOY (great ripening). 22 March--22 April. PACHA POCCOY (MOSOC NINA festival).
22 April--22 May.   AYRIHUA (Harvest). 22 May--22 June.    AYMURAY (Harvest home).]

[Note 87: The great chain, used at festivals, is called by Sarmiento Muru-urco. See also Molina.
Muru means a coloured spot, or a thing of variegated colours. Molina says that it was the house
where the chain was kept that was called Muru-urco, as well as the cable.

After Pachacuti had done what has been described in the city, he turned his attention to the
people. Seeing that there were not sufficient lands for sowing, so as to sustain them, he went
round the city at a distance of four leagues from it, considering the valleys, situation, and
villages. He depopulated all that were within two leagues of the city. The lands of depopulated
villages were given to the city and its inhabitants, and the deprived people were settled in
other parts. The citizens of Cuzco were well satisfied with the arrangement, for they were
given what cost little, and thus he made friends by presents taken from others, and took as
his own the valley of Tambo [which was not his].

The news of the enlargement of this city went far and wide, and reached the ears of Viracocha
Inca, retired in Caquia Xaquixahuana[88]. He was moved to go and see Cuzco. The Inca Yupanqui
went for him, and brought him to Cuzco with much rejoicing. He went to the House of the Sun,
worshipped at Huanacauri and saw all the improvements that had been made. Having seen everything
he returned to his place at Caquia Xaquixahuana, where he resided until his death, never again
visiting Cuzco, nor seeing his son Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui.

[Note 88: This great plain to the north-west of Cuzco, called Xaquixahuana, and Sacsahuana,
is now known as Surita. Most of the early writers call it Sacsahuana. Sarmiento always places
the word Caquia before the name. Capuchini is to provide, capuchic a purveyor. Hence Capuquey
means "my goods," abbreviated to Caguey, "my property."

Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui found himself so powerful with the companies he had got together by
liberal presents to all, that he proposed to subjugate by their means all the territories he
could reach. For this he mustered all the troops that were in Cuzco, and provided them with
arms, and all that was necessary for war. Affairs being in this state Pachacuti heard that
his brother Urco was in a valley called Yucay, four leagues from Cuzco, and that he had assembled
some people. Fearing that the movement was intended against him the Inca marched there with
his army. His brother Inca Rocca went with him, who had the reputation of being a great necromancer.
Arriving at a place called Paca in the said valley, the Inca went out against his brother Urco,
and there was a battle between them. Inca Rocca hurled a stone which hit Urco on the throat.
The blow was so great that Urco fell into the river flowing down the ravine where they were
fighting. Urco exerted himself and fled, swimming down the river, with his axe in his hand.
In this way he reached a rock called Chupellusca, a league below Tampu, where his brothers
overtook him and killed him.

From thence the Inca Pachacuti Yupanqui, with his brother Inca Rocca marched with their troops
to Caquia Xaquixahuana to see his father who refused ever to speak with or see him, owing to
the rage he felt at the death of Inca Urco. But Inca Rocca went in, where Viracocha was and
said, "Father! it is not reasonable that you should grieve so much at the death of Urco, for
I killed him in self defence, he having come to kill me. You are not to be so heavy at the
death of one, when you have so many sons. Think no more of it, for my brother Pachacuti Yupanqui
is to be Inca, and I hold that you should favour him and be as a father to him." Seeing the
resolution of his son Inca Rocca, Viracocha did not dare to reply or to contradict him. He
dismissed him by saying that that was what he wished, and that he would be guided by him in
everything. With this the Inca Yupanqui and his brother Inca Rocca returned to Cuzco, and entered
the city triumphing over the past victories and over this one.

The triumph was after this manner. The warriors marched in order, in their companies, dressed
in the best manner possible, with songs and dances, and the captives, their eyes on the ground,
dressed in long robes with many tassels. They entered by the streets of the city, which were
very well adorned to receive them. They went on, enacting their battles and victories, on account
of which they triumphed. On reaching the House of the Sun, the spoils and prisoners were thrown
on the ground, and the Inca walked over them, trampling on them and saying--"I tread on my
enemies." The prisoners were silent without raising their eyes. This order was used in all
their triumphs. At the end of a short time Inca Viracocha died of grief at the death of Inca
Urco, deprived and despoiled of all honour and property. They buried his body in Caquia Xaquixahuana.

Near Cuzco there is a nation of Indians called Ayamarcas who had a proud and wealthy Sinchi
named Tocay Ccapac. Neither he nor his people wished to come and do reverence to the Inca.
On the contrary, he mustered his forces to attack the Inca if his country was invaded. This
being known to Inca Yupanqui, he assembled his ayllus and other troops. He formed them into
two parties, afterwards called Hanan-cuzcos and Hurin-cuzcos, forming them into a corps, that
united no one might be able to prevail against them. This done he consulted over what should
be undertaken. It was resolved that all should unite for the conquest of all neighbouring nations.
Those who would not submit were to be utterly destroyed; and first Tocay Ccapac, chief of the
Ayamarcas, was to be dealt with, being powerful and not having come to do homage at Cuzco.
Having united his forces, the Inca marched against the Ayamarcas and their Sinchi, and there
was a battle at Huanancancha. Inca Yupanqui was victorious, assaulting the villages and killing
nearly all the Ayamarcas. He took Tocay Ccapac as a prisoner to Cuzco, where he remained in
prison until his death.

After this Inca Yupanqui took to wife a native of Choco named Mama Anahuarqui. For greater
pleasure and enjoyment, away from business, he went to the town of the Cuyos, chief place of
the province of Cuyo-suyu. Being one day at a great entertainment, a potter, servant of the
Sinchi, without apparent reason, threw a stone or, as some say, one of the jars which they
call ulti, at the Inca's head and wounded him. The delinquent, who was a stranger to the district,
was seized and tortured to confess who had ordered him to do it. He stated that all the Sinchis
of Cuyo-suyu, who were Cuyo Ccapac, Ayan-quilalama, and Apu Cunaraqui, had conspired to kill
the Inca and rebel. This was false, for it had been extorted from fear of the torture or, as
some say, he said it because he belonged to a hostile tribe and wished to do them harm. But
the Inca, having heard what the potter said, ordered all the Sinchis to be killed with great
cruelty. After their deaths he slaughtered the people, leaving none alive except some children
and old women. Thus was that nation destroyed, and its towns are desolate to this day.

Inca Yupanqui and his brother Inca Rocca, who was very cruel, had determined to oppress and
subdue all the nations who wished to be independent and would not submit to them. They knew
that there were two Sinchis in a town called Ollantay-tampu, six leagues from Cuzco, the one
named Paucar-Ancho and the other Tocori Tupac, who ruled over the Ollantay-tampus, but would
not come to do homage, nor did their people wish to do so. The Inca marched against them with
a large army and gave them battle. Inca Rocca was severely wounded, but at last the Ollantay-tampus
were conquered. [All were killed, the place was destroyed so that no memory was left of it][89]
and the Inca returned to Cuzco.

[Note 89: This is untrue. The splendid ruins remain to this day. The place was long held against
the Spaniards by Inca Manco.]

There was another Sinchi named Illacumpi, chief of two towns four leagues from Cuzco, called
Cugma and Huata. Inca Yupanqui and Inca Rocca sent to him to do homage, but he replied that
he was as good as they were and free, and that if they wanted anything, they must get it with
their lances. For this answer the Inca made war upon the said Sinchi. He united his forces
with those of two other Sinchis, his companions, named Paucar Tupac and Puma Lloqui, and went
forth to fight the Inca. But they were defeated and killed, with nearly all their people. The
Inca desolated that town with fire and sword, and with very great cruelty. He then returned
to Cuzco and triumphed for that victory.

The Inca received information, after this, that there was a town called Huancara, 11 leagues
from Cuzco, ruled by Sinchis named Ascascahuana and Urcu-cuna. So a message was sent to them,
calling upon them to give reverence and obedience to the Inca and to pay tribute. They replied
that they were not women to come and serve, that they were in their native place, and that
if any one came to seek them they would defend themselves. Moved to anger by this reply, Inca
Yupanqui and Inca Rocca made war, killed the Sinchis and most of their people and brought the
rest prisoners to Cuzco, to force them into obedience.

Next they marched to another town called Toguaro, six leagues from Huancara, killing the Sinchi,
named Alca-parihuana, and all the people, not sparing any but the children, that they might
grow and repeople that land. With similar cruelties in all the towns, the Inca reduced to pay
tribute the Cotabambas, Cotaneras, Umasayus, and Aymaracs, being the principal provinces of
Cunti-suyu.

The Inca then attacked the province of the Soras, 40 leagues from Cuzco. The natives came forth
to resist, asking why the invaders sought their lands, telling them to depart or they would
be driven out by force. Over this question there was a battle, and two towns of the Soras were
subdued at that time, the one called Chalco, the other Soras. The Sinchi of Chalco was named
Chalco-pusaycu, that of Soras Huacralla. They were taken prisoners to Cuzco, and there was
a triumph over them.

There was another place called Acos, 10 or 11 leagues from Cuzco. The two Sinchis of it were
named Ocacique and Utu-huasi. These were strongly opposed to the demands of the Inca and made
a very strenuous resistance. The Inca marched against them with a great army. But he met with
serious difficulty in this conquest, for the Acos defended themselves most bravely and wounded
Pachacuti on the head with a stone. He would not desist, but it was not until after a long
time that they were conquered. He killed nearly all the natives of Acos, and those who were
pardoned and survived after that cruel slaughter, were banished to the neighbourhood of Huamanca,
to a place now called Acos[90].

[Note 90: Acobamba, the present capital of the province of Angaraes.]

In all these campaigns which have been described, Inca Rocca was the companion in arms, and
participator in the triumphs of Inca Yupanqui. It is to be noted that in all the subdued provinces
chiefs were placed, superseding or killing the native Sinchis. Those who were appointed, acted
as guards or captains of the conquered places, holding office in the Inca's name and during
his pleasure. In this way the conquered provinces were oppressed and tyrannized over by the
yoke of servitude. A superior was appointed over all the others who were nominated to each
town, as general or governor. In their language this officer was called Tucuyrico[91], which
means "he who knows and oversees all."

[Note 91: Tucuyricuc, he who sees all. Tucuy means all. Ricini to see. Garcilasso de la Vega,
I. lib. ii. cap. 14. Balboa, p. 115. Montesinos, p. 55. Santillana, p. 17.]

Thus in the first campaign undertaken by Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, after the defeat of the Chancas,
he subdued the country as far as the Soras, 40 leagues to the west of Cuzco. The other nations,
and some in Cunti-suyu, from fear at seeing the cruelties committed on the conquered, came
in to submit, to avoid destruction.

After Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui had conquered the lands and nations mentioned above, and had
triumphed over them, he came to visit the House of the Sun and the Mama-cunas or nuns who were
there. He assisted one day, to see how the Mama-cunas served the dinner of the Sun. This was
to offer much richly cooked food to the image or idol of the Sun, and then to put it into a
great fire on an altar. The same order was taken with the liquor. The chief of the Mama-cunas
saluted the Sun with a small vase, and the rest was thrown on the fire. Besides this many jars
full of that liquor were poured into a trough which had a drain, all being offerings to the
Sun. This service was performed with vessels of clay. As Pachacuti considered that the material
of the vases was too poor, he presented very complete sets of vases of gold and silver for
all the service that was necessary. To adorn the house more richly he caused a plate of fine
gold to be made, two palmas broad and the length of the court-yard. He ordered this to be nailed
high up on the wall in the manner of a cornice, passing all round the court-yard. This border
or cornice of gold remained there down to the time of the Spaniards.

To the south of Cuzco there was a province called Colla-suyu or Collao, consisting of plain
country, which was very populous. At the time that Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui was at Cuzco after
having conquered the provinces already mentioned, the Sinchi of Collao was named Chuchi Ccapac
or Colla Ccapac, which is all one. This Chuchi Ccapac increased so much in power and wealth
among those nations of Colla-suyu, that he was respected by all the Collas, who called him
Inca Ccapac.

Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui determined to conquer him from a motive of jealousy, together with
all the provinces of the Collao. With this object he assembled his army and marched on the
route to the Collao in order to attack Chuchi Ccapac who waited for him at Hatun-Colla, a town
of the Collao where he resided, 40 leagues from Cuzco, without having taken further notice
of the coming nor of the forces of Inca Yupanqui. When he came near to Hatun Colla, the Inca
sent a message to Chuchi Colla, requesting him to serve and obey him or else to prepare for
battle, when they would try their fortunes. This message caused much heaviness to Chuchi Colla,
but he replied proudly that he waited for the Inca to come and do homage to him like the other
nations that had been conquered by him, and that if the Inca did not choose to do so, he would
prepare his head, with which he intended to drink in his triumph after the victory which he
would win if they should come to a battle.

After this reply Inca Yupanqui ordered his army to approach that of Chuchi Ccapac the next
day, which was drawn up ready to fight. Soon after they came in sight, the two forces attacked
each other, and the battle continued for a long time without either side gaining any advantage.
Inca Yupanqui, who was very dexterous in fighting, was assisting in every part, giving orders,
combating, and animating his troops. Seeing that the Collas resisted so resolutely, and stood
so firmly in the battle, he turned his face to his men saying in a loud voice: "O Incas of
Cuzco! conquerors of all the land! Are you not ashamed that people so inferior to you, and
unequal in weapons, should be equal to you and resist for so long a time?" With this he returned
to the fight, and the troops, touched by this rebuke, pressed upon their enemies in such sort
that they were broken and defeated. Inca Yupanqui, being an experienced warrior, knew that
the completion of the victory consisted in the capture of Chuchi Ccapac. Although he was fighting,
he looked out for his enemy in all directions and, seeing him in the midst of his people, the
Inca attacked them at the head of his guards, took him prisoner, and delivered him to a soldier
with orders to take him to the camp and keep him safe. The Inca and his army then completed
the victory and engaged in the pursuit, until all the Sinchis and captains that could be found
were captured. Pachacuti went to Hatun-colla, the residence and seat of government of Chuchi
Ccapac, where he remained until all the provinces which obeyed Chuchi Ccapac, were reduced
to obedience, and brought many rich presents of gold, silver, cloths, and other precious things.

Leaving a garrison and a governor in the Collao to rule in his name, the Inca returned to Cuzco,
taking Chuchi Ccapac as a prisoner with the others. He entered Cuzco, where a solemn triumph
was prepared. Chuchi Colla and the other Colla prisoners were placed before the Inca's litter
dressed in long robes covered with tassels in derision and that they might be known. Having
arrived at the House of the Sun, the captives and spoils were offered to the image of the Sun,
and the Inca, or the priest for him, trod on all the spoils and captives that Pachacuti had
taken in the Collao, which was great honour to the Inca. When the triumph was over, to give
it a good finish, the Inca caused the head of Chuchi Ccapac to be cut off, and put in the house
called Llasa-huasi[92], with those of the other Sinchis he had killed. He caused the other
Sinchis and captains of Chuchi Ccapac to be given to the wild beasts, kept shut up for the
purpose, in a house called Samca-huasi[93].

[Note 92: Llasa-huasi. Llasa means weight, from llasani to weigh. Huasi a house.]

[Note 93: Samgaguacy. This should be Samca-huasi, a prison for grave offences. Serpents and
toads were put into the prison with the delinquents. Mossi, p. 233.]

In these conquests Pachacuti was very cruel to the vanquished, and people were so terrified
at the cruelties that they submitted and obeyed from fear of being made food for wild beasts,
or burnt, or otherwise cruelly tormented rather than resist in arms. It was thus with the people
of Cunti-suyu who, seeing the cruelty and power of Inca Yupanqui, humiliated themselves and
promised obedience. It was for the cause and reason stated, and because they were threatened
with destruction if they did not come to serve and obey.

Chuchi Ccapac had subjugated a region more than 160 leagues from north to south, over which
he was Sinchi or, as he called himself, Ccapac or Colla-Ccapac, from within 20 leagues of Cuzco
as far as the Chichas, with all the bounds of Arequipa and the sea-coast to Atacama, and the
forests of the Musus. For at this time, seeing the violence and power with which the Inca of
Cuzco came down upon those who opposed him, without pardoning anyone, many Sinchis followed
his example, and wanted to do the same in other parts, where each one lived, so that all was
confusion and tyranny in this kingdom, no one being secure of his own property. We shall relate
in their places, as the occasion offers, the stories of the Sinchis, tyrants, besides those
of the Incas who, from the time of Inca Yupanqui, began to get provinces into their power,
and tyrannize over the inhabitants.

Inca Yupanqui, as has already been narrated, had given the House of the Sun all things necessary
for its services, besides which, after he came from Colla-suyu, he presented many things brought
from there for the image of the Sun, and for the mummies of his ancestors which were kept in
the House of the Sun. He also gave them servants and lands. He ordered that the huacas of Cuzco
should be adopted and venerated in all the conquered provinces, ordaining new ceremonies for
their worship and abolishing the ancient rites. He charged his eldest legitimate son, named
Amaru Tupac Inca, with the duty of abolishing the huacas which were not held to be legitimate,
and to see that the others were maintained and received the sacrifices ordered by the Inca.
Huayna Yamqui Yupanqui, another son of Inca Yupanqui, was associated with the heir in this duty.

When Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui returned from the conquest of Colla-suyu and the neighbouring
provinces, as has been narrated in the preceding chapter, he was well stricken in years, though
not tired of wars, nor was his thirst for dominion satisfied. Owing to his age he chose to
remain at Cuzco, as the seat of his government, to establish the lands he had subdued, in the
way which he well knew how to establish. In order to lose no time in extending his conquests,
he assembled his people, from among whom he chose 70,000 provided with arms and all things
necessary for a military campaign. He nominated his brother, Ccapac Yupanqui, to be Captain-General,
giving him for colleagues another of his brothers named Huayna Yupanqui, and one of his sons
named Apu Yamqui Yupanqui. Among the other special captains in this army was one named Anco
Ayllo of the Chanca nation, who had remained a prisoner in Cuzco from the time that the Inca
conquered the Chanca's at Cuzco and at Ichu-pampa. He had ever since been sad and brooding,
thinking of a way of escape. But he dissimulated so well that the Inca treated him as a brother
and trusted him. Hence the Inca nominated him as commander of all the Chancas in the army.
For to each nation the Inca gave a captain from among their own people, because he would understand
how to rule them and they would obey him better. This Anco Ayllo, seeing there was an opportunity
for fulfilling his desire, showed satisfaction at receiving this commission from the Inca,
and promised to do valuable service, as he knew those nations whose conquest was about to be
undertaken. When the army was ready to march, the Inca gave the Captain-General his own arms
of gold, and to the other captains he gave arms with which to enter the battles. He made a
speech to them, exhorting them to achieve success, showing them the honourable reward they
would obtain, and the favours he, as a friend, would show them, if they served in that war.
He gave special orders to Ccapac Yupanqui that he should advance with his conquering army as
far as a province called Yana-mayu, the boundary of the nation of the Hatun-huayllas, and that
there he should set up the Inca's boundary pillars, and he was on no account to advance further.
He was to conquer up to that point and then return to Cuzco, leaving sufficient garrisons in
the subjugated lands. He was also to establish posts at every half league, which they call
chasquis, by means of which the Inca would be daily informed of what had happened and was being
done[94].

[Note 94: For accounts of the chasquis or Inca couriers see Garcilasso de la Vega, ii. pp.
49, 60, 119, 120, 121. Balboa, p. 248. Polo de Ondegardo, p. 169.]

Ccapac Yupanqui set out from Cuzco with these orders, and desolated all the provinces which
did not submit. On arriving at a fortress called Urco-collac, near Parcos, in the country of
Huamanca, he met with valorous resistance from the inhabitants. Finally he conquered them.
In the battle the Chancas distinguished themselves so that they gained more honour than the
Cuzcos orejones and the other nations.

This news came to the Inca, who was much annoyed that the Chancas should have distinguished
themselves more, and had gained more honour than the Incas. He imagined that it would make
them proud, so he proposed to have them killed. He sent a messenger ordering Ccapac Yupanqui
to lay a plan for killing all the Chancas in the best way he could devise, and if he did not
kill them, the Inca would kill him. The runner of the Inca reached Ccapac Yupanqui with this
order, but it could not be kept a secret. It became known to a wife of Ccapac Yupanqui, who
was a sister of Anco Ayllo, the captain of the Chancas. This woman told her brother, who always
longed for his liberty, and now was urgently minded to save his life. He secretly addressed
his Chanca soldiers, putting before them the cruel order of the Inca, and the acquisition of
their liberty if they would follow him. They all agreed to his proposal. When they came to
Huarac-tambo, in the neighbourhood of the city of Huanuco, all the Chancas fled with their
captain Anco Ayllo, and besides the Chancas other tribes followed this chief. Passing by the
province of Huayllas they pillaged it, and, continuing their route in flight from the Incas,
they agreed to seek a rugged and mountainous land where the Incas, even if they sought them,
would not be able to find them. So they entered the forests between Chachapoyas and Huanuco,
and went on to the province of Ruparupa. These are the people who are settled on the river
Pacay and, according to the received report, thence to the eastward by the river called Cocama
which falls into the great river Marañon. They were met with by the captain Gomez d'Arias,
who entered by Huanuco, in the time of the Marquis of Cañete, in the year 1556. Though Ccapac
Yupanqui went in chase of the Chancas, they were so rapid in their flight that he was unable
to overtake them[95].

[Note 95: Garcilasso de la Vega also gives an account of the flight of the Chancas under Anco-ayllu
or Hanco-hualla, ii. pp. 82, 329.]

In going after them Ccapac Yupanqui went as far as Caxamarca, beyond the line he was ordered
not to pass by the Inca. Although he had the order in his mind, yet when he saw that province
of Caxamarca, how populous it was and rich in gold and silver, by reason of the great Sinchi,
named Gusmanco Ccapac, who ruled there and was a great tyrant, having robbed many provinces
round Caxamarca, Ccapac Yupanqui resolved to conquer it, although he had no commission from
his brother for undertaking such an enterprise. On commencing to enter the land of Caxamarca,
it became known to Gusmanco Ccapac. That chief summoned his people, and called upon another
Sinchi, his tributary, named Chimu Ccapac, chief of the territory where now stands the city
of Truxillo on the coast of Peru. Their combined forces marched against Ccapac Yupanqui, who
by a certain ambush, and other stratagems, defeated, routed and captured the two Sinchis Gusmanco
Ccapac and Chimu Ccapac, taking vast treasure of gold, silver and other precious things, such
as gems, and coloured shells, which these natives value more than silver or gold.

Ccapac Yupanqui collected all the treasure in the square of Caxamarca, where he then was; and
when he saw such immense wealth he became proud and vainglorious, saying that he had gained
and acquired more than his brother the Inca. His arrogance and boasting came to the ears of
his sovereign, who, although he felt it deeply and desired an opportunity to kill him, dissimulated
for a time and waited until the return to Cuzco. Inca Yupanqui feared that his brother would
rebel, and for this reason he appeared to be pleased before the envoys sent by Ccapac Yupanqui.
He sent them back with orders that Ccapac Yupanqui should return to Cuzco with the treasure
that had been taken in the war, as well as the principal men of the subdued provinces, and
the sons of Gusmanco Ccapac and Chimu Ccapac. The great chiefs themselves were to remain, in
their territories with a sufficient garrison to keep those lands obedient to the Inca. On receiving
this order Ccapac Yupanqui set out for Cuzco with all the treasure, and marched to the capital
full of pride and arrogance. Inca Yupanqui, who himself subdued so many lands and gained so
much honour, became jealous, as some say afraid, and sought excuses for killing his brother.
When he knew that Ccapac Yupanqui had reached Limatambo, eight leagues from Cuzco, he ordered
his lieutenant-governor named Inca Capon, to go there and cut off the head of Ccapac Yupanqui.
The reasons given were that he had allowed Anco Ayllo to escape, and had gone beyond the line
prescribed. The governor went and, in obedience to his orders, he killed the Inca's two brothers
Ccapac Yupanqui and Huayna Yupanqui. The Inca ordered the rest to enter Cuzco, triumphing over
their victories. This was done, the Inca treading on the spoils, and granting rewards. They
say that he regretted that his brother had gained so much honour, and that he wished that he
had sent his son who was to be his successor, named Tupac Inca Yupanqui, that he might have
enjoyed such honour, and that this jealousy led him to kill his brother.

As all the conquests made by this Inca were attended with such violence and cruelties, with
such spoliation and force, and the people who became his subjects by acquisition, or to speak
more correctly by rapine, were numerous, they obeyed so long as they felt the force compelling
them, and, as soon as they were a little free from that fear, they presently rebelled and resumed
their liberty. Then the Inca was obliged to conquer them again. Turning many things in his
mind, and seeking for remedies, how he could settle once for all the numerous provinces he
had conquered, at last he hit upon a plan which, although adapted to the object he sought to
attain, and coloured with some appearance of generosity, was really the worst tyranny he perpetrated.
He ordered visitors to go through all the subdued provinces, with orders to measure and survey
them, and to bring him models of the natural features in clay. This was done. The models and
reports were brought before the Inca. He examined them and considered the mountainous fastnesses
and the plains. He ordered the visitors to look well to what he would do. He then began to
demolish the fastnesses and to have their inhabitants moved to plain country, and those of
the plains were moved to mountainous regions, so far from each other, and each so far from
their native country, that they could not return to it. Next the Inca ordered the visitors
to go and do with the people what they had seen him do with the models. They went and did so.

He gave orders to others to go to the same districts, and, jointly with the tucuricos, to take
some young men, with their wives, from each district. This was done and they were brought to
Cuzco from all the provinces, from one 30, from another 100, more or less according to the
population of each district. These selected people were presented before the Inca, who ordered
that they should be taken to people various parts. Those of Chinchay-suyu were sent to Anti-suyu,
those of Cunti-suyu to Colla-suyu, so far from their native country that they could not communicate
with their relations or countrymen. He ordered that they should be settled in valleys similar
to those in their native land, and that they should have seeds from those lands that they might
be preserved and not perish, giving them land to sow without stint, and removing the natives.

The Incas called these colonists mitimaes[96], which means "transported" or "moved," He ordered
them to learn the language of the country to which they were removed, but not to forget the
general language, which was the Quichua, and which he had ordered that all his subjects in
all the conquered provinces must learn and know. With it conversation and business could be
carried on, for it was the clearest and richest of the dialects. The Inca gave the colonists
authority and power to enter the houses of the natives at all hours, night or day, to see what
they said, did or arranged, with orders to report all to the nearest governor, so that it might
be known if anything was plotted against the government of the Inca, who, knowing the evil
he had done, feared all in general, and knew that no one served him voluntarily, but only by
force. Besides this the Inca put garrisons into all the fortresses of importance, composed
of natives of Cuzco or the neighbourhood, which garrisons were called michecrima[97].

[Note 96: The system of mitimaes was a very important part of the Inca polity. It is frequently
referred to by Cieza de Leon, and described by Garcilasso de la Vega, ii. p. 215. See also
Balboa, pp. 28, 114,143,249. Molina, pp. 4, 22, 23. Yamqui Pachacuti, pp. 95, 97, Polo de Ondegardo,
p. 161.]

[Note 97: Michec a shepherd, hence a governor.

After Inca Yupanqui had celebrated the triumphs and festivities consequent on the conquest
of Chinchay-suyu, and arranged the system of mitimaes, he dismissed the troops. He himself
went to Yucay, where he built the edifices, the ruins of which may still be seen. These being
finished, he went down the valley of Yucay to a place which is now called Tambo, eight leagues
from Cuzco, where he erected some magnificent buildings. The sons of Chuchi Ccapac, the great
Sinchi of the Collao, had to labour as captives at the masonry and other work. Their father,
as has already been narrated, was conquered in the Collao and killed by the Inca. These sons
of Chuchi Ccapac, feeling that they were being vilely treated, and remembering that they were
the sons of so great a man as their father, also seeing that the Inca had disbanded his army,
agreed to risk their lives in obtaining their freedom. One night they fled, with all the people
who were there, and made such speed that, although the Inca sent after them, they could not
be overtaken. Along the route they took, they kept raising the inhabitants against the Inca.
Much persuasion was not needed, because, as they were obeying by force, they only sought the
first opportunity to rise. On this favourable chance, many nations readily rebelled, even those
who were very near Cuzco, but principally the Collao and all its provinces.

The Inca, seeing this, ordered a great army to be assembled, and sought the favour of auxiliaries
from Gusmanco Ccapac and Chimu Ccapac. He collected a great number of men, made sacrifices
calpa[98], and buried some children alive, which is called capa cocha, to induce their idols
to favour them in that war. All being ready, the Inca nominated two of his sons as captains
of the army, valorous men, named the one Tupac Ayar Manco, the other Apu Paucar Usnu. The Inca
left Cuzco with more than 200,000 warriors, and marched against the sons of Chuchi Ccapac,
who also had a great power of men and arms, and were anxious to meet the Incas and fight for
their lives against the men of Cuzco.

[Note 98: Calpa means force, vigour; also an army.]

As both were seeking each other, they soon met, and joined in a stubborn and bloody battle,
in which there was great slaughter, because one side fought for life and liberty and the other
for honour. As those of Cuzco were better disciplined and drilled, and more numerous than their
adversaries, they had the advantage. But the Collas preferred to die fighting rather than to
become captives to one so cruel and inhuman as the Inca. So they opposed themselves to the
arms of the orejones, who, with great cruelties, killed as many of the Collas as opposed their
advance. The sons of the Inca did great things in the battle, with their own hands, on that day.

The Collas were defeated, most of them being killed or taken prisoners. Those who fled were
followed to a place called Lampa. There the wounded were cared for, and the squadrons refreshed.
The Inca ordered his two sons, Tupac Ayar Manco and Apu Paucar Usnu, to press onward, conquering
the country as far as the Chichas, where they were to set up their cairns and return. The Inca
then returned to Cuzco, for a triumph over the victory he had gained.

The Inca arrived at Cuzco, triumphed and celebrated the victory with festivities. And because
he found that a son had been born to him, he raised him before the Sun, offered him, and gave
him the name of Tupac Inca Yupanqui. In his name he offered treasures of gold and silver to
the Sun, and to the other oracles and huacas, and also made the sacrifice of capa cocha. Besides
this he made the most solemn and costly festivals that had ever been known, throughout the
land. This was done because Inca Yupanqui wished that this Tupac Inca should succeed him, although
he had other older and legitimate sons by his wife and sister Mama Anahuarqui. For, although
the custom of these tyrants was that the eldest legitimate son should succeed, it was seldom
observed, the Inca preferring the one he liked best, or whose mother he loved most, or he who
was the ablest among the brothers.

As soon as the Inca returned to Cuzco, leaving his two sons Tupac Amaru and Apu Paucar Usnu[99]
in the Callao, those captains set out from Lampa, advancing to Hatun-Colla, where they knew
that the Collas had rallied their troops to fight the Cuzcos once more, and that they had raised
one of the sons of Chuchi Ccapac to be Inca. The Incas came to the place where the Collas were
awaiting them in arms. They met and fought valorously, many being killed on both sides. At
the end of the battle the Collas were defeated and their new Inca was taken prisoner. Thus
for a third time were the Collas conquered by the Cuzcos. By order of the Inca, his sons, generals
of the war, left the new Inca of the Collas at Hatun-Colla, as a prisoner well guarded and
re-captured. The other captains went on, continuing their conquests, as the Inca had ordered,
to the confines of Charcas and the Chichas.

[Note 99: Tupac Amaru. Tupac means royal, and amaru a serpent. Apu a chief, paucar beautiful
and usnu a judgment seat.]

While his sons prosecuted the war, Pachacuti their father, finished the edifices at Tambo,
and constructed the ponds and pleasure houses of Yucay. He erected, on a hill near Cuzco, called
Patallata, some sumptuous houses, and many others in the neighbourhood of the capital. He also
made many channels of water both for use and for pleasure; and ordered all the governors of
provinces who were under his sway, to build pleasure houses on the most convenient sites, ready
for him when he should visit their commands.

While Inca Yupanqui proceeded with these measures, his sons had completed the conquest of the
Collao. When they arrived in the vicinity of Charcas, the natives of Paria, Tapacari, Cochabambas,
Poconas and Charcas retreated to the country of the Chichas and Chuyes, in order to make a
combined resistance to the Incas, who arrived where their adversaries were assembled, awaiting
the attack. The Inca army was in three divisions. A squadron of 5000 men went by the mountains,
another of 20,000 by the side of the sea, and the rest by the direct road. They arrived at
the strong position held by the Charcas and their allies, and fought with them. The Incas were
victorious, and took great spoils of silver extracted by those natives from the mines of Porco.
It is to be noted that nothing was ever known of the 5000 orejones who entered by the mountains
or what became of them. Leaving all these provinces conquered, and subdued, Amaru Tupac Inca
and Apu Paucar Usnu returned to Cuzco where they triumphed over their victories, Pachacuti
granting them many favours, and rejoicing with many festivals and sacrifices to idols.

Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui was now very old; and he determined to nominate a successor to take
his place after his death. He called together the Incas his relations, of the ayllus of Hanan-cuzco
and Hurin-cuzco and said, "My friends and relations! I am now, as you see, very old, and I
desire to leave you, when my days are over, one who will govern and defend you from your enemies.
Some propose that I should name Amaru Tupac Inca, but it does not appear to me that he has
the qualifications to govern so great a lordship as that which I have acquired. I, therefore,
desire to nominate another with whom you will be more content." The relations, in their reply,
gave thanks to the Inca, and declared that they would derive great benefit from his nomination.
He then said that he named his son Tupac Inca, and ordered him to come forth from the house.
He had been there for 15 or 16 years to be brought up, without any one seeing him except very
rarely and as a great favour. He was now shown to the people, and the Inca presently ordered
a fringe of gold to be placed in the hand of the image of the Sun, with the head-dress called
pillaca-llaytu[100]. After Tupac Inca had made his obeisance to his father, the Inca and the
rest rose and went before the image of the Sun where they made their sacrifices and offered
capa cocha to that deity. Then they offered the new Inca Tupac Yupanqui, beseeching the Sun
to protect and foster him, and to make him so that all should hold and judge him to be a child
of the Sun and father of his people. This done the oldest and principal orejones took Tupac
Inca to the Sun, and the priests took the fringe from the hands of the image, which they call
mascapaycha, and placed it over the head of Tupac Inca Yupanqui until it rested on his forehead.
He was declared Inca Ccapac and seated in front of the Sun on a seat of gold, called duho[101],
garnished with emeralds and other precious stones. Seated there, they clothed him in the ccapac
hongo[102], placed the suntur paucar in his hand, gave him the other insignia of Inca, and
the priests raised him on their shoulders. When these ceremonies were completed, Pachacuti
Inca Yupanqui ordered that his son Tupac Inca should remain shut up in the House of the Sun,
performing the fasts which it is the custom to go through before receiving the order of chivalry;
which ceremony consisted in opening the ears. The Inca ordered that what had been done should
not be made public until he gave the command to publish it.

[Note 100: Pillaca-llatu is a cloth or cloak woven of two colours, black and brown.]

[Note 101: This word is corrupt. Tiana is the word for a seat.]

[Note 102: Ccapac uncu. The word uncu means a tunic.]

XLIII.

HOW PACHACUTI ARMED HIS SON TUPAC INCA.

Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui found happiness in leaving memory of himself. With this object he did
extraordinary things as compared with those of his ancestors, in building edifices, celebrating
triumphs, not allowing himself to be seen except as a great favour shown to the people, for
as such it was considered, on the day that he appeared. Then he ordered that no one should
come to behold him without worshipping and bringing something in his hand to offer him. This
custom was continued by all his descendants, and was observed inviolably. [Thus, from the time
of this Pachacuti began an unheard of and inhuman tyranny in addition to the tyrannies of his
ancestors.] As he was now old and desirous of perpetuating his name, it appeared to him that
he would obtain his desire by giving authority to his son and successor named Tupac Inca. So
the boy was brought up, confined in the House of the Sun for more than 16 years, seeing no
one but his tutors and masters until he was brought and presented to the Sun, to be nominated
as has already been explained. To invest him at the huarachico the Inca ordered a new way of
giving the order of chivalry. For this he built round the city four other houses for prayer
to the Sun, with much apparatus of gold idols, huacas and service, for his son to perambulate
these stations after he had been armed as a knight.

Affairs being in this state, there came to the Inca Pachacuti, his son Amaru Tupac Inca, who
had been named by his father as his successor some years before, because he was the eldest
legitimate son. He said, "Father Inca! I understand that you have a son in the House of the
Sun whom you have ordered to be successor after your own days. Order that he may be show to
me." The Inca, looking upon this as boldness on the part of Amaru Tupac, replied, "It is true,
and I desire you and your wife shall be his vassals, and that you shall serve and obey him
as your Lord and Inca." Amaru replied that he wished to do so, and that for this reason, he
desired to see him and offer sacrifice to him, and that orders should be given to take him
where his brother was. The Inca gave permission for this, Amaru Tupac Inca taking what was
necessary for the ceremony, and being brought to where Tupac Inca was fasting. When Amaru saw
him in such majesty of wealth and surroundings, he fell on his face to the earth, adoring,
offering sacrifices and obedience. On learning that it was his brother, Tupac Inca raised him
and saluted him in the face.

Presently Inca Yupanqui caused the necessary preparations to be made for investing his son
with the order of chivalry. When all was ready, the Inca, accompanied by all his principal
relations and courtiers, went to the House of the Sun, where they brought out Tupac Inca with
great solemnity and pomp. For they carried with him all the idols of the Sun, Vircocha, the
other huacas, moro-urco. All being placed in order with such pomp as had never been seen before,
they all went to the great square of the city, in the centre of which a bonfire was made. All
relations and friends then killed many animals, offering them as sacrifices by throwing them
into the flames. They worshipped the heir, offering him rich gifts, the first that brought
a gift being his father. Following the example all the rest adored, seeing that his father
had shown him reverence. Thus did the orejones Incas and all the rest who were present, seeing
that for this they had been called and invited, to bring their gifts and offer them to their
new Inca.

This being done, the festival called Ccapac Raymi was commenced, being the feast of kings,
and consequently the most solemn festival kept by these people. When the ceremonies had been
performed, they bored the ears of Tupac Inca Yupanqui, which is their mode of investiture into
the order of chivalry and nobility. He was then taken to the stations of the Houses of the
Sun, giving him the weapons and other insignia of war. This being finished his father the Inca
Yupanqui gave him, for his wife, one of his sisters named Mama Ocllo, who was a very beautiful
woman with much ability and wisdom.

The Inca Yupanqui desired that his son should be employed on some service that would bring
him fame, as soon as he had been proclaimed his successor, and armed as a knight. He had information
that Chinchay-suyu was a region where name and treasure might be acquired, especially from
a Sinchi named Chuqui-Sota in Chachapoyas. He, therefore, ordered all preparations to be made
for the conquest of Chinchay-suyu. He gave the prince for his tutors, captains, and captains-general
of his army, two of his brothers, the one named Auqui Yupanqui and the other Tilca Yupanqui.
The army being assembled and the preparations made, they set out from Cuzco.

Tupac went in such pomp and majesty that, where he passed, no one dared to look him in the
face, in such veneration was he held. The people left the roads along which he had to pass
and, ascending the hills on either side, worshipped and adored. They pulled out their eyebrows
and eyelashes, and blowing on them, they made offering to the Inca. Others offered handfuls
of a very precious herb called coca. When he arrived at the villages, he put on the dress and
head-gear of that district, for all were different in their dress and head-gear as they are
now. For Inca Yupanqui, so as to know each nation he had conquered, ordered that each one should
have a special dress and head-gear, which they call pillu, llaytu and chuco, different one
from the other, so as to be easily distinguished and recognized. Seating himself, Tupac Inca
made a solemn sacrifice of animals and birds, burning them in a fire which was kindled in his
presence; and in this way they worshipped the sun, which they believed to be God.

In this manner Tupac Inca began to repeat the conquests and tyranny of all his ancestors and
his father. For, although many nations were conquered by his father, almost all were again
with arms in their hands to regain their liberty, and the rest to defend themselves. As Tupac
Inca advanced with such power, force and pride, he not only claimed the subjection of the people,
but also usurped the veneration they gave to their gods or devils, for truly he and his father
made them worship all with more veneration than the Sun.

Tupac Inca finally marched out of Cuzco and began to proceed with measures for subduing the
people in the near vicinity. In the province of the Quichuas[103] he conquered and occupied
the fortresses of Tohara, Cayara, and Curamba, and in the province of Angaraes the fortresses
of Urco-colla and Huaylla-pucara, taking its Sinchi named Chuquis Huaman prisoner. In the province
of Xauxa he took Sisiquilla Pucara, and in the province of Huayllas the fortresses of Chuncu-marca
and Pillahua-marca. In Chachapoyas the fortress of Piajajalca fell before him, and he took
prisoner a very rich chief named Chuqui Sota. He conquered the province of the Paltas, and
the valleys of Pacasmayu and Chimu, which is now Truxillo. He destroyed it as Chimu Ccapac
had been subdued before. He also conquered the province of the Cañaris, and those who resisted
were totally destroyed. The Cañaris submitted from fear, and he took their Sinchis, named Pisar
Ccapac, Cañar Ccapac and Chica Ccapac, and built an impregnable fortress there called Quinchi-caxa.

[Note 103: The province of the Quichuas was in the valley of the Pachachaca, above Abancay.]

Tupac Inca Yupanqui then returned to Cuzco with much treasure and many prisoners. He was well
received by his father with a most sumptuous triumph, and with the applause of all the orejones
of Cuzco. They had many feasts and sacrifices, and to please the people they celebrated the
festival called Inti Raymi with feasts and dances, a time of great rejoicing. The Inca granted
many favours for the sake of his son Tupac Inca, that he might have the support of his subjects,
which was what he desired. For as he was very old and unable to move about, feeling the approach
of death, his aim was to leave his son in the possession of the confidence of his army.

It has been related how the Inca Yupanqui placed garrisons of Cuzco soldiers, and a governor
called tucuyrico in all the provinces he conquered and oppressed. It must be known that owing
to his absorbing occupations in conquering other provinces, training warriors, and placing
his son in command for the conquest of Chinchay-suyu, he had not been able to put his final
intentions and will into execution, which was to make those he oppressed submissive subjects
and tributaries. Seeing that the people were in greater fear at beholding the valour of Tupac
Inca, he determined to have a visitation of the land, and nominated 16 visitors, four for each
of the four suyus or divisions of the empire, which are Cunti-suyu from Cuzco south and west
as far as the South Sea, Chinchay-suyu from Cuzco to the north and west, Anti-suyu from Cuzco
to the east, and Colla-suyu from Cuzco to the south, south-west, and south-east.

These visitors each went to the part to which he was appointed, and inspected, before all things,
the work of the tucuyricos and the methods of their government. They caused irrigating channels
to be constructed for the crops, broke up land where this had been neglected, built andenes
or cultivated terraces, and took up pastures for the Sun, the Inca, and Cuzco. Above all they
imposed very heavy tribute on all the produce, [so that they all went about to rob and desolate
property and persons]. The visitations occupied two years. When they were completed the visitors
returned to Cuzco, bringing with them certain cloths descriptive of the provinces they had
visited. They reported fully to the Inca all that they had found and done.

Besides these, the Inca also despatched other orejones as overseers to make roads and hospices
on the routes of the Inca, ready for the use of his soldiers. These overseers set out, and
made roads, now called "of the Inca," over the mountains and along the sea coast. Those on
the sea coast are all provided, at the sides, with high walls of adobe, wherever it was possible
to build them, except in the deserts where there are no building materials. These roads go
from Quito to Chile, and into the forests of the Andes. Although the Inca did not complete
all, suffice it that he made a great part of the roads, which were finished by his sons and
grandsons.

Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui knew from the report made by his son when he returned from the conquest
of Chinchay-suyu, that there were other great and rich nations and provinces beyond the furthest
point reached by Tupac Inca. That no place might be left to conquer, the Inca ordered his son
to return with a view to the subjugation of the parts of Quito. He assembled the troops and
gave his son the same two brothers as his colleagues, Tilca Yupanqui and Anqui Yupanqui, who
had gone with him on the former expedition. [Tupac inflicted unheard of cruelties and deaths
on those who defended themselves and did not wish to give him obedience.]

In this way he arrived at Tumipampa, within the territory of Quito, whose Sinchi, named Pisar
Ccapac, was confederated with Pilla-huaso, Sinchi of the provinces and site of Quito. These
two chiefs had a great army and were determined to fight Tupac Inca for their country and lives.
Tupac sent messengers to them, demanding that they should lay down their arms and give him
obedience. They replied that they were in their own native country, that they were free, and
did not wish to serve any one nor be tributaries.

Tupac and his colleagues rejoiced at this answer, because their wish was to find a pretext
to encounter them with blows and to rob them, which was the principal object of the war. They
say that the Inca army numbered more than 250,000 experienced soldiers. Tupac ordered them
to march against the men of Quito and the Cañaris. They encountered each other, both sides
fighting with resolution and skill. The victory was for a long time doubtful because the Quitos
and Cañaris pressed stubbornly against their enemies. When the Inca saw this he got out of
the litter in which he travelled, animated his people, and made signs for the 50,000 men who
were kept in reserve for the last necessity. When these fresh troops appeared the Quitos and
Cañaris were defeated and fled, the pursuit being continued with much bloodshed and cruelty,
the victors shouting, "Ccapac Inca Yupanqui! Cuzco! Cuzco!" All the chiefs were killed. They
captured Pilla-huaso in the vanguard. No quarter was given, in order to strike terror into
those who heard of it.

Thence Inca Tupac marched to the place where now stands the city of San Francisco de Quito,
where they halted to cure the wounded and give much needed rest to the others. So this great
province remained subject, and Tupac sent a report of his proceedings to his father. Pachacuti
rejoiced at the success of his son, and celebrated many festivals and sacrifices on receiving
the tidings.

After Tupac Inca had rested at Cuzco, re-organized his army, and cured the wounded he went
to Tumipampa, where his wife and sister bore him a son, to whom he gave the name of Titu Cusi
Hualpa, afterwards known as Huayna Ccapac. After the Inca Tupac had rejoiced and celebrated
the birthday festivals, although the four years were passed that his father had given him to
complete the conquests, he heard that there was a great nation towards the South Sea, composed
of Indians called Huancavelicas. So he determined to go down to conquer. At the head of the
mountains above them he built the fortress of Huachalla, and then went down against the Huancavelicas.
Tupac divided his army into three parts, and took one by the most rugged mountains, making
war on the Huancavelica mountaineers. He penetrated so far into the mountains that for a long
time nothing was known of him, whether he was dead or alive. He conquered the Huancavelicas
although they were very warlike, fighting on land and at sea in balsas, from Tumbez to Huañapi,
Huamo, Manta, Turuca and Quisin.

Marching and conquering on the coast of Manta, and the island of Puna, and Tumbez, there arrived
at Tumbez some merchants who had come by sea from the west, navigating in balsas with sails.
They gave information of the land whence they came, which consisted of some islands called
Avachumbi and Ninachumbi, where there were many people and much gold. Tupac Inca was a man
of lofty and ambitious ideas, and was not satisfied with the regions he had already conquered.
So he determined to challenge a happy fortune, and see if it would favour him by sea. Yet he
did not lightly believe the navigating merchants, for such men, being great talkers, ought
not to be credited too readily. In order to obtain fuller information, and as it was not a
business of which news could easily be got, he called a man, who accompanied him in his conquests,
named Antarqui who, they all declare, was a great necromancer and could even fly through the
air. Tupac Inca asked him whether what the merchant mariners said was true. Antarqui answered,
after having thought the matter well out, that what they said was true, and that he would go
there first. They say that he accomplished this by his arts, traversed the route, saw the islands,
their people and riches, and, returning, gave certain information of all to Tupac Inca.

The Inca, having this certainty, determined to go there. He caused an immense number of balsas
to be constructed, in which he embarked more than 20,000 chosen men; taking with him as captains
Huaman Achachi, Cunti Yupanqui, Quihual Tupac (all Hanan-cuzcos), Yancan Mayta, Quisu Mayta,
Cachimapaca Macus Yupanqui, Llimpita Usca Mayta (Hurin-cuzcos); his brother Tilca Yupanqui
being general of the whole fleet. Apu Yupanqui was left in command of the army which remained
on land.

Tupac Inca navigated and sailed on until he discovered the islands of Avachumbi and Ninachumbi,
and returned, bringing back with him black people, gold, a chair of brass, and a skin and jaw
bone of a horse. These trophies were preserved in the fortress of Cuzco until the Spaniards
came. An Inca now living had charge of this skin and jaw bone of a horse. He gave this account,
and the rest who were present corroborated it. His name is Urco Huaranca. I am particular about
this because to those who know anything of the Indies it will appear a strange thing and difficult
to believe. The duration of this expedition undertaken by Tupac Inca was nine months, others
say a year, and, as he was so long absent, every one believed he was dead. But to deceive them
and make them think that news of Tupac Inca had come, Apu Yupanqui, his general of the land
army, made rejoicings. This was afterwards commented upon to his disadvantage, and it was said
that he rejoiced because he was pleased that Tupac Inca Yupanqui did not appear. It cost him
his life.

These are the islands which I discovered in the South Sea on the 30th of November, 1567, 200
and more leagues to the westward, being the great discovery of which I gave notice to the Licentiate
Governor Castro. But Alvaro de Mendaña, General of the Fleet, did not wish to occupy them[104].

[Note 104: This story of the navigation of Tupac Inca to the islands of Ninachumbi and Avachumbi
or Hahua chumpi is told by Balboa as well as by Sarmiento. They were no doubt two of the Galapagos
Islands. Nina chumpi means fire island, and Hahua chumpi outer island. See my introduction
to the Voyages of Sarmiento, p. xiii; and Las Islas de Galapagos by Marco Jimenes de la Espada.]

After Tupac Inca disembarked from the discovery of the islands, he proceeded to Tumipampa,
to visit his wife and son and to hurry preparations for the return to Cuzco to see his father,
who was reported to be ill. On the way back he sent troops along the coast to Truxillo, then
called Chimu, where they found immense wealth of gold and silver worked into wands, and into
beams of the house of Chimu Ccapac, with all which they joined the main army at Caxamarca.
Thence Tupac Inca took the route to Cuzco, where he arrived after an absence of six years since
he set out on this campaign.

Tupac Inca Yupanqui entered Cuzco with the greatest, the richest, and the most solemny triumph
with which any Inca had ever reached the House of the Sun, bringing with him people of many
different races, strange animals, innumerable quantities of riches. But behold the evil condition
of Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui and his avarice, for though Tupac Inca was his son whose promotion
he had procured, he felt such jealousy that his son should have gained such honour and fame
in those conquests, that he publicly showed annoyance that it was not himself who triumphed,
and that all was not due to him. So he determined to kill his sons Tilca Yupanqui and Auqui
Yupanqui who had gone with Tupac Inca, their crime being that they had disobeyed his orders
by delaying longer than the time he had fixed, and that they had taken his son to such a distance
that he thought he would never return to Cuzco. They say that he killed them, though some say
that he only killed Tilca Yupanqui. At this Tupac Inca Yupanqui felt much aggrieved, that his
father should have slain one who had worked so well for him. The death was concealed by many
feasts in honour of the victories of Tupac Inca, which were continued for a year.

XLVII.

DEATH OF PACHACUTI INCA YUPANQUI.

Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui derived much comfort from his grandson, the son of Tupac Inca. He always
had the child with him, and caused him to be brought up and cherished in his residence and
dormitory. He would not let him out of his sight.

Being in the highest prosperity and sovereignty of his life, he fell ill of a grave infirmity,
and, feeling that he was at the point of death, he sent for all his sons who were then in the
city. In their presence he first divided all his jewels and contents of his wardrobe. Next
he made them plough furrows in token that they were vassals of their brother, and that they
had to eat by the sweat of their hands. He also gave them arms in token that they were to fight
for their brother. He then dismissed them.

He next sent for the Incas orejones of Cuzco, his relations, and for Tupac Inca his son to
whom he spoke, with a few words, in this manner:--"Son! you now see how many great nations
I leave to you, and you know what labour they have cost me. Mind that you are the man to keep
and augment them. No one must raise his two eyes against you and live, even if he be your own
brother. I leave you these our relations that they may be your councillors. Care for them and
they shall serve you. When I am dead, take care of my body, and put it in my houses at Patallacta.
Have my golden image in the House of the Sun, and make my subjects, in all the provinces, offer
up solemn sacrifice, after which keep the feast of purucaya, that I may go to rest with my
father the Sun." Having finished his speech they say that he began to sing in a low and sad
voice with words of his own language. They are in Castilian as follows:

    "I was born as a flower of the field,
    As a flower I was cherished in my youth,
    I came to my full age, I grew old,
    Now I am withered and die."

Having uttered these words, he laid his head upon a pillow and expired, giving his soul to
the devil, having lived 125 years. For he succeeded, or rather he took the Incaship into his
hands when he was 22, and he was sovereign 103 years.

He had four legitimate sons by his wife Mama Anahuarqui, and he had 100 sons and 50 daughters
who were bastards. Being numerous they were called Hatun-ayllu, which means a "great lineage."
By another name this lineage is called Inaca Panaca Ayllu. Those who sustain this lineage at
the present time are Don Diego Cayo, Don Felipa Inguil, Don Juan Quispi Cusi, Don Francisco
Chaco Rimachi, and Don Juan Illac. They live in Cuzco and are Hanan-cuzcos.

Pachacuti was a man of good stature, robust, fierce, haughty, insatiably bent on tyrannizing
over all the world, [and cruel above measure. All the ordinances he made for the people were
directed to tyranny and his own interests]. His conduct was infamous for he often took some
widow as a wife and if she had a daughter that he liked, he also took the daughter for wife
or concubine. If there was some gallant and handsome youth in the town who was esteemed for
something, he presently made some of his servants make friends with him, get him into the country,
and kill him the best way they could. He took all his sisters as concubines, saying they could
not have a better husband than their brother.

This Inca died in the year 1191. He conquered more than 300 leagues, 40 more or less in person
accompanied by his legitimate brothers, the captains Apu Mayta and Vicaquirao, the rest by
Amaru Tupac Inca his eldest son, Ccapac Yupanqui his brother, and Tupac Inca his son and successor,
with other captains, his brothers and sons.

This Inca arranged the parties and lineages of Cuzco in the order that they now are. The Licentiate
Polo found the body of Pachacuti in Tococachi, where now is the parish of San Blas of the city
of Cuzco, well preserved and guarded. He sent it to Lima by order of the Viceroy of this kingdom,
the Marquis of Cañete. The guauqui or idol of this Inca was called Inti Illapa. It was of gold
and very large, and was brought to Caxamarca in pieces. The Licentiate Polo found that this
guauqui or idol had a house, estate, servants and women.

XLVIII.

THE LIFE OF TUPAC INCA YUPANQUI[105], THE TENTH INCA.

[Note 105: All authorities agree that Tupac Inca Yupanqui was the successor of Pachacuti except
Betanzos, Santillana and Garcilasso de la Vega. Betanzos has a Yamqui Yupanqui. Garcilasso
gives the reign of another Inca named Inca Yupanqui between Pachacuti and Tupac Inca. He was
ignorant of the fact that Pachacuti and Inca Yupanqui were the same person. Santillana follows
Garcilasso but calls Pachacuti's other self Ccapac Yupanqui.]

When Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui died, two orejones were deputed to watch the body, and to allow
no one to enter or go out to spread the news of his death, until orders had been given. The
other Incas and orejones went with Tupac Inca to the House of the Sun and then ordered the
twelve captains of the ayllus of the Inca's guard to come. They came with 2200 men of the guard,
under their command, fully armed, and surrounded the Yupanqui with the fringe, and gave him
the other insignia of sovereignty, as he had now inherited and succeeded his father. Taking
him in the midst of themselves, and of the guards, they escorted him to the great square, where
he was seated, in majesty, on a superb throne. All the people of the city were then ordered
to come and make obeisance to the Inca on pain of death.

