    [The M.M. simmers with suppressed rage; wonders if it is
    worth while to mention that he happens to be a Barrister
    himself, and wishes to enter for the serious and legitimate
    purpose of collecting material for an Essay he is contributing
    on "The Abuse of Cross-Examination" to the "Nineteenth
    Century." On reflection, he thinks he had better not.

Doork. (as the crowd in Court is again convulsed). Clear the way there! Court rising--Counsel
coming out! Ah, this is Mr. TANFIELD.

The Peris (White Wigs and all). Now we shall see!

    [They regard the M.M. with anticipatory triumph.

Mr. Tanfield (passing out, and recognising the M.M.). Why, my dear MUTTON, won't they let you
in? Here, come along with me!

    [He passes his arm through the M.M.'s, walks with him to
    the other door, murmurs a request for his admission, and the
    next moment the M.M. is safe in the haven of his desire.

The other Peris (looking after him enviously). Well, of all the brazen impudence!

    [They are swept aside by the current of emerging Counsel,
    Spectators, &c. and re-assemble, to find the doors as
    pitilessly closed against them as ever. The White Wigs
    threaten to write to the "Law Times" on the subject, and are
    regarded with admiration by the rest as Champions of Popular
    Rights.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RACINE, WITH THE CHILL OFF.

Baffled by official prudery in the production of his poetic episode from Holy Writ, yet resolved
that the names of SARAH and OSCAR shall be bracketted together on the muster-roll of genius,
Mr. WILDE has undertaken to re-write RACINE's Phèdre for that distinguished actress. In his
version the smoothly-chaste and insipidly-correct verses which our grandmothers learnt to recite,
and our grandfathers pretended to admire on the lips of the classic RACHEL, will give place
to the school of BAUDELAIRE and VALLES. We have been fortunate in obtaining an échantillon
of this great work.

ACTE I., SCENE 3. PHÈDRE, OENONE.

  Phèdre. Je me meurs d'ennuie. Mon éventail, et vite!

  Oenone. Madame, je devine votre mal. Vous aimez HIPPOLYTE!

  Phèdre. HIPPOLYTE! Imbécile, ce que j'aime est le vice,
      La rime sans raison, l'audace, l'immondice,
      L'horrible, l'eccentrique, le sens-dessus-dessous,
      La fanfaronnade, la réclame, le sang, et la boue;
      La bave fétide des bouches empoisonnées;
      L'horreur, le meurtre, et le "ta-ra-boum-de-ay!"
      Crois-tu que pour HIPPOLYTE j'ai le moindre estime?
      Du tout! C'est mon beau fils, et l'aimer est un crime,
      C'est un fat odieux, OENONE. Homme je le déteste,
      Mais comme fils de mon mari l'aimer c'est l'in--

  Oenone.                                  Peste!
      Que veut dire Madame?

  Phèdre.        L'inconnu l'inconvenable.[2]
      Tu me coupe la parole d'une façon exécrable--
      Le vice, OENONE, sais-tu ce que c'est que le vice?
      Que la rose n'est pas rose avant qu'elle pourrisse?
      Esprit terre-à-terre, âme bornée d'épicier,
      Non, tu ne les connais pas, les délices du fumier.
      Tu ne sais pas trouver tes étoiles dans l'égout,
      Tes ivresses dans la fange, ton amour dans la boue.

  Oenone. Madame radote. C'est Vénus à sa proie attachée.

  Phèdre. Vénus fin de siècle, qui se nomme Astarté,
      Diablesse gigantesque, aux boyaux d'airain,
      Trou rouge où l'on jette des monceaux d'êtres humains.
      Grille de fer où la chair fume, les cheveux pétillent,
      Choses claires qui noircissent, sombres choses qui brillent,
      Choses qu'on aime le plus pour ce qu'elles n'existent pas,
      Choses basses qui s'élèvent, hautes choses qu'on mettent bas,
      Paradis de paradoxes--

This brief sample of Mr. WILDE's muse may be less erudite than the play tabooed by the LORD
CHAMBERLAIN, and may show a bolder disregard of the stringent laws which govern French versification;
but it is assuredly in harmony with the spirit of the age, and goes far to bring RACINE up to date.

[Footnote 2: The fact that this word is not to be found in the dictionary must be set down
as the fault of the language rather than of the poet.