The First Consequences of the Interference of the Allied Powers and the Battle of Navarino.--Lord
Cochrane's intended Share in Fabvier's Expedition to Chios.--Its Abandonment.--His Cruise among
the Islands and about Navarino.--His Efforts to Repress Piracy.--His Return to the Archipelago.--The
Misconduct of the Government.--Lord Cochrane's Complaints.--His Letters to the Representatives
of the Allied Powers, acquitting Himself of Complicity in Greek Piracy.--His Further Complaints
to the Government.--His Resolution to Visit England.--His Letter to Count Capodistrias Explaining
and Justifying that Resolution.--His Departure from Greece, and Arrival at Portsmouth.--His
Letter to M. Eynard                                134

CHAPTER XXII.

[1828-1829.]

Lord Cochrane's Occupations on Behalf of Greece in London and
Paris.--His Second Letter to Capodistrias.--His Defence of Himself
with Reference to his Visit to Western Europe.--His Return to
Greece.--Capodistrias's Presidency and the Progress of Greece.--Lord
Cochrane's Reception by the Government.--The Settlement of his
Accounts.--His Letter of Resignation.--The Final Indignities to which
he was Subjected.--The Correspondence thereupon between Admiral Heyden
and Dr. Gosse.--Lord Cochrane's Departure from Greece.--His Opinions
Regarding her.--The Character and Issues of His Services to the Greeks
                                                                    162

CHAPTER XXIII.

[1828-1832.]

A Recapitulation of Lord Cochrane's Naval Services.--His Efforts to obtain Restitution of the
Rank taken from him after the Stock Exchange Trial.--His Petition to the Duke of Clarence.--Its
Rejection by the Duke of Wellington's Cabinet.--Lord Cochrane's Occupations after the close
of his Greek Service.--His Return to England.--His Memorial to William IV.--Its Tardy Consideration
by Earl Grey's Cabinet.--Its Promoters and Opponents.--Lord Cochrane's Accession to the Peerage
as Tenth Earl of Dundonald.--His Interview with the King.--The Countess of Dundonald's Efforts
in Aid of her Husband's Memorial.--Their Ultimate Success.--The Earl of Dundonald's "Free Pardon,"
and Restoration to Naval Rank                                           197

CHAPTER XXIV.

[1833-1847.]

The Inventions and Discoveries of Lord Dundonald's Father.--His own
Mechanical Contrivances.--His Lamps.--His Rotary Steam-Engine, his
Screw-Propeller, his Condensing-Boiler, and his Lines of
Ship-building.--Their Tardy Development.--His Correspondence upon
Steam-Shipping with Sir James Graham, the Earl of Minto, the Earl of
Haddington, and the Earl of Auckland.--The Progress of his
Inventions.--The Janus.--The Beneficial Results of his Experiments
                                                                    221

CHAPTER XXV.

[1833-1848.]

Lord Dundonald's Secret War-Plans.--His Correspondence concerning them with Lord Lansdowne,
Lord Minto, Lord Haddington, and Lord Auckland.--His Letter to the "Times."--The Report of
a Committee, consisting of Sir Thomas Hastings, Sir John Burgoyne, and Lieut.-Col. Colquhoun,
upon the Secret War-Plans.--A French Project for Naval Warfare with England.--Lord Dundonald's
Opinions Thereupon.--His Views on the Defence of England                                  
246

CHAPTER XXVI.

[1839-1848.]

The Earl of Dundonald's Request for the Restoration of the Order of the Bath.--His Good Service
Pension.--The Investigation of his Secret War-Plans.--His Pamphlet on Naval Affairs,--His Installation
as a G.C.B.--His Candidature for Election as a Scotch Representative Peer.--The Queen's Permission
to his Wearing the Brazilian Order of the "Cruziero."--His Appointment as Commander-in-Chief
of the North American and West Indian Station                                    273

CHAPTER XXVII.

[1848.]

