And now the slaughter in the street was dreadful, and the blues hemmed in on every side fought
desperately for their lives, like beasts at bay. Every now and again the Vendeans retreated
a step or two, driven back by the fury of their foes, and then again regained their ground,
advancing over the bodies of the slain. No one in the strange medley on which he was looking,
was more conspicuous to de Lescure's eyes than Adolphe Denot; he had lost his cap in the confusion
of the fight, and his thin, wan face, disfigured by the wound which the Chevalier had given
him, was plainly to be seen; and de Lescure was shocked by the change which he saw there: the
only weapon he bore was a huge sabre, which he swung round his head with a strength which could
not have been expected from his attenuated frame; he was often the most forward, always among
the first of the assailants; and frequently became surrounded by the blues, who were prevented
by the closeness of the crowd from using their arms. He had caught de Lescure's eye, and from
time to time turned his face up toward the window, as though anxious to discover whether he
who had before witnessed his cowardice was now looking upon his prowess.

"By heavens! he fights well," said de Lescure to his wife, who was gradually creeping somewhat
nearer to her husband, but still unable to face the horrors of that open window. "He is greatly
changed--look--look at him now; well done, Adolphe--well done: there, there; he's down! Poor
fellow, I fear he has struck his last blow: gallant Henri, brave Henri--there, they are up
again together; but Denot's face is covered with blood. He still has his sword, however--well
done, Denot: bravely done Denot: no man of those living or dead, ever struck a better blow
than that."

These last words were distinctly heard by him to whom they were addressed, and as he again
turned up his face, a ray of triumph illumined his sunken eyes; he did not, however, or he
could not speak, for the heat of the battle was carried back again towards the gate, and the
tumultuous sea of fighting men was hurried away from the spot where they had been contending.

While this scene was going on in the street, another set of combatants were engaged near the
gate; and here two men of very different natures, but of similar station in life, found themselves
together during a temporary pause, after a protracted struggle. These were Michael Stein, and
Auguste Emile Septimus Plume. In spite of all that he had himself said against the trade, Michael
had, in his old age, turned soldier, and had been fighting sturdily with a huge woodman's axe,
a weapon which he had chanced to meet with, and the use of which came readily to his hand:
he was now sitting on the step of the gate-house, wiping with the sleeve of his coat the perspiration
which the unaccustomed work had brought to his forehead, and listening to the praises of M.
Plume, who was standing over him, leaning on his sword.

"That axe of yours," said Auguste, "is a singular weapon, and perhaps not entirely fitted for
military purposes; but I must own you have used it well--it fell with decided effect this morning
on many a poor fellow's head and shoulders. You have probably, my friend, fought many a battle
with these fellows of Mayence?"

"Not a battle I ever fought before, Monsieur," said Michael; "nor do I ever wish to fight another;
it's horrid weary work, this of knocking men's brains out, not to talk of the chance a man
runs of losing his own."

"But ain't you one of the Vendeans, my gallant comrade?" asked Auguste.

"If you mean, did I come over from Poitou with them, I certainly did; but I only came because
I could not help it, and because I could not live to see a little girl I have fall into the
hands of the butchers; it was not for any love of fighting that I came."

"But yet you take to it kindly, my friend. I am considered to know something of the sword exercise,
and I thought you wielded that axe, as though your arm had been used to a sabre this many a year."

"I am a blacksmith," said Michael, shortly; "and I have been fifty years ringing hammers on
an anvil: that makes a man's arm lusty."

"Indeed," said the other, "a blacksmith--well, you may be a blacksmith, and yet a good soldier.
Now you wouldn't believe it, but I'm a baker--you wouldn't take me to be a baker by my trade,
would you now?"

Michael Stein looked at him, and told him he couldn't well give an opinion, as he knew nothing
about bakers.

"I knew you wouldn't," said the other; "no one on earth would take me to be a tradesman--that's
what they all say; I have that kind of manner about me, that I look like a soldier--I did when
I hadn't been at it above a week. Every one used to say, Plume, you were born to be an officer;
Plume, you will live to be a General: and if I don't get killed in the wars, I think I shall.
Now it's only three months since I joined, and I am already second in command in the whole army."

Michael Stein stared at him, as he repeated his words, "Second in command in the whole army!"

"Indeed I am, my friend, the second in command. You wouldn't believe it, now, but I was sticking
loaves of bread into an oven three or four months ago."

"The second in command!" said Michael, still regarding his companion with a look in which incredulous
surprise and involuntary reverence were blended. "I suppose you're a great way above Jacques
Chapeau, then?"

"Oh, my friend Chapeau--and do you know my friend Chapeau? No, I'm not above him; he's not
in our army; he's second in command himself in the Vendean army. You know I belong to La Petite
Vendee."

At this moment, the very man of whom they were speaking, the redoubtable Chapeau, came up with
a large party of straggling Vendeans, out of breath with running; they were in full pursuit
of the blues, who were now said to be flying towards Antrames and Chateau-Gonthier.

"Come, my friends," said Chapeau, "no idling now; come to Antrames, and we'll get plenty of
arms, if we get nothing else. What, is it you, Captain Plume. I'm told you did as well as the
best today; and what--my dear old friend Michael: a soldier at last, eh, Michael Stein! Come,
man, don't be ashamed to give us your hand; you've joined us in very good time, for the Vendeans
never gained such a victory as they have today. Come on, old friend, we'll get another sight
of these running devils at Antrarnes."

"They may run for me, M. Chapeau, and run far enough, before I try to stop them; do you know
I'm nearly ashamed of what I've been doing as it is."

"Ashamed!--ashamed of what?" said Chapeau.

"Why look there," said Michael; and as he spoke, he pointed with his foot to the body of a
republican soldier, who lay calmly at his ease, in the sleep of death, not three yards from
the spot where the old man was now standing.

"Not an hour since, that poor fellow ran this way, and as he passed, he had no thought of hurting
me; he was thinking too much of himself, for half-a-dozen hungry devils were after him. Well,
I don't know what possessed me, but the smell of blood had made me wild, and I lifted up my
axe and struck him to the ground. I wish, with all my heart, the poor man were safe at Antrames."

It was in vain that Chapeau tried to persuade the smith that he had only done his duty in killing
a republican, who would certainly have lived to have done an injury to the cause, had he been
suffered to escape. Michael Stein would not, or could not, understand the arguments he used;
and decidedly declared that if he found it possible to avoid fighting for the future he would
do so.

"Do you know, M. Chapeau," he said at last, "when I first took this axe in my hand, this morning,
I had hardly made up my mind on which side I should use it. It was only when I thought of the
boys and of Annot, that I determined to go with the Vendeans. It wasn't possible for a man
not to fight on one side or the other--that's the only reason I had for fighting at all."

Chapeau became rather ashamed of his friend's irregular doctrines, and hurried on; explaining
to Plume, who accompanied him, that Michael Stein was a queer eccentric old man, but a thorough
good royalist at heart. "Why he has two sons among the red scarfs," he added, to settle the point.

"Has he, indeed?" said Plume, who had never heard who the red scarfs were.

CHAPTER XI

DEATH OF ADOLPHE DENOT

Nothing could be more complete than the success of the Vendeans, not only in the town of Laval,
but also outside the gate; nor could any error be more fatal than that committed by the republican
General, Lechelle. Previous to this day he had never been worsted since he had been sent from
Paris with orders to exterminate the Vendeans; he had driven them from Chatillon, their own
chosen position in the centre of their own territory across the Loire; and he had rashly conceived
that he had only to show himself before Laval again, to scare them from their resting-place,
and scatter them farther from their own homes. He had marched his army up to Laval early on
the morning of the fight; and his best men, the redoubtable Mayencais, indignant at the treatment
which a few of their brethren had received from Denot's followers on the previous day, marched
boldly into the town, conceiving that they had only to show themselves to take possession of
it. The result has been told. One half of these veteran troops fell in the streets of Laval--many
of the remainder were taken alive; a few only escaped to consummate their disgrace by flying
towards Antrames at their quickest speed, spreading panic among the republican troops who had
not yet come up close to the town.

The news of defeat soon communicated itself; and the whole army, before long, was flying to
Antrames. The unfortunate Lechelle himself had been one of the first to leave the town, and
had made no attempt to stop his men until he had entered Antrames. Nor did he long remain there:
as the straggling fugitives came up, they told how close and fast upon their track the victorious
brigands were coming; and that the conduct of the peasants now was not what it had been when
the war commenced, when they were fighting in their own country, and near their own homes.
Then they had spared the conquered, then they had shed no blood, except in the heat of battle;
now they spared none; they had learnt a bloody lesson from their enemies, and massacred, without
pity, the wretches who fell into their hands. Antrames was not a place of any strength; it
could not be defended against the Vendeans; and Lechelle had hardly drawn his breath in the
town, before he again left it, on the road to Chateau-Gonthier.

Henri and Denot were among the first of the pursuers; indeed, of so desultory a nature was
the battle, that the contest was still continued near the gate of the town, while they were
far on their road towards Antrames. They passed almost in a gallop through that place, and
did not stop until they found themselves, towards evening, close to the bridge, leading into
Chateau-Gonthier. Here they perceived that Lechelle had made some little attempt to defend
his position. He had drawn out two cannons to the head of the bridge; had stayed the course
of a few fugitives, with whom he attempted to defend the entrance into the town; and had again
taken upon himself the duties of a General.

The pursuers now amounted to about three hundred horsemen, the very men who had made the first
attack on the blues in the streets of Laval, and Henri knew that so soon after their complete
and signal success nothing could daunt them, and that, in all probability, no effort of the
beaten republicans could turn them back.

"Come," said he, speaking to those who were nearest to him, "only a few yards farther, and
we shall be far enough. It shall never be said that the vanquished slept in the town while
their conquerors lay in the fields"; and again he put spurs to his horse, and with a yell of
triumph, his men followed him over the bridge.

It would be difficult to say who was first, for Henri, Adolphe, and nearly a dozen others,
galloped across the bridge together, and the whole troop followed them pell-mell into the town.
The two cannons were soon taken; the irresolute blues, who, with only half a heart, had attempted
to defend themselves, were driven from their positions, and Henri at once found himself master
of the place.

A few of his gallant followers had fallen on the bridge. It could not be expected but what.
this should be the case, for they made their attack in the face of two field-pieces and a discharge
of musketry, from a body of men quite as numerous as their own; but Henri had not perceived
till he reached the square in the middle of the town, that Adolphe Denot was no longer by his side.

"Did you see M. Denot?" said he to a soldier, who was now standing on the ground at his horse's
head.

"You mean the gentleman who was riding with you all the day, General--he who had lost his cap?"

"Yes, yes, did you see him? he passed over the bridge with me."

"General," said the man, "he never passed the bridge. He fell on the very centre of it. I saw
him fall, and his horse galloped into the town without a rider."

Arthur Mondyon soon brought him confirmation of the news. He had been struck by a musket ball
on the breast, while they were crossing the bridge, and the whole troop of horsemen, who were
behind, had passed over his body. He had, however, been taken up, and brought into the town;
whether or no his life was extinct, Arthur could not say, but he had been told that the wound
would certainly prove mortal.

Henri's first duty, even before attending to his friend, was to endeavour to save the lives
of such of the blues as were yet in the town, and, if possible, to get the person of Lechelle.
It was well known that he had entered the place with the fugitives, and it was believed that
he had not since escaped from it. Some few of the republican soldiers had made their way out
of the town, on the road towards Segre, but there was every reason to believe that the General
had not been among them. The inhabitants of Chateau-Gonthier were very favourable to the Vendean
cause; Henri received every information which the people could give him, and at last succeeded
in tracing Lechelle into a large half-ruined house, in the lower portion of which, a wine shop,
for the accommodation of the poorer classes, was kept open. Here they learnt, from the neighbours,
that he had been seen to enter the house, and an old woman, who alone kept her position behind
the counter, confessed with some hesitation, that a man, answering the description of him they
sought, bad entered the shop about an hour since; that he had hastily swallowed a large quantity
of brandy, and then, instead of leaving the shop, had rushed through the inner door and gone
upstairs.

"He wasn't here a minute in all," said she; "and he said nothing about paying for what he took--and,
when I saw him going in there, I thought it best to let him have his own way."

"And he is there still," said Chapeau, who had now again joined his master.

"Unless he went out through the window, he is; there is no other way out than what you see there."

"Go up, Chapeau," said Henri, "and take two or three with you; if he be there, he must come
down; but remember that he is an officer, and in misfortune."

