"Here is a woman let out by this private postern, sure enough," was Henry's reflection. "Pray
Heaven the good fathers never let any in! The place seems convenient for such games at bo peep.
But, Benedicite, what is to be done next? I must get rid of this quean as fast as I can; and
I must see her safe. For let her be at heart what she may, she looks too modest, now she is
in decent dress, to deserve the usage which the wild Scot of Galloway, or the devil's legion
from the Liddel, are like to afford her."

Louise stood as if she waited his pleasure which way to go. Her little dog, relieved by the
exchange of the dark, subterranean vault for the open air, sprung in wild gambols through the
walks, and jumped upon its mistress, and even, though more timidly, circled close round the
smith's feet, to express its satisfaction to him also, and conciliate his favour.

"Down, Charlot--down!" said the glee maiden. "You are glad to get into the blessed sunshine;
but where shall we rest at night, my poor Charlot?"

"And now, mistress," said the smith, not churlishly, for it was not in his nature, but bluntly,
as one who is desirous to finish a disagreeable employment, "which way lies your road?"

Louise looked on the ground and was silent. On being again urged to say which way she desired
to be conducted, she again looked down, and said she could not tell.

"Come--come," said Henry, "I understand all that: I have been a galliard--a reveller in my
day, but it's best to be plain. As matters are with me now, I am an altered man for these many,
many months; and so, my quean, you and I must part sooner than perhaps a light o' love such
as you expected to part with--a likely young fellow."

Louise wept silently, with her eyes still cast on the ground, as one who felt an insult which
she had not a right to complain of. At length, perceiving that her conductor was grown impatient,
she faltered out, "Noble sir--"

"Sir is for a knight," said the impatient burgher, "and noble is for a baron. I am Harry of
the Wynd, an honest mechanic, and free of my guild."

"Good craftsman, then," said the minstrel woman, "you judge me harshly, but not without seeming
cause. I would relieve you immediately of my company, which, it may be, brings little credit
to good men, did I but know which way to go."

"To the next wake or fair, to be sure," said Henry, roughly, having no doubt that this distress
was affected for the purpose of palming herself upon him, and perhaps dreading to throw himself
into the way of temptation; "and that is the feast of St. Madox, at Auchterarder. I warrant
thou wilt find the way thither well enough."

"Aftr--Auchter--" repeated the glee maiden, her Southern tongue in vain attempting the Celtic
accentuation. "I am told my poor plays will not be understood if I go nearer to yon dreadful
range of mountains."

"Will you abide, then, in Perth?"

"But where to lodge?" said the wanderer.

"Why, where lodged you last night?" replied the smith. "You know where you came from, surely,
though you seem doubtful where you are going?"

"I slept in the hospital of the convent. But I was only admitted upon great importunity, and
I was commanded not to return."

"Nay, they will never take you in with the ban of the Douglas upon you, that is even too true.
But the Prince mentioned Sir John Ramorny's; I can take you to his lodgings through bye streets,
though it is short of an honest burgher's office, and my time presses."

"I will go anywhere; I know I am a scandal and incumbrance. There was a time when it was otherwise.
But this Ramorny, who is he?"

"A courtly knight, who lives a jolly bachelor's life, and is master of the horse, and privado,
as they say, to the young prince."

"What! to the wild, scornful young man who gave occasion to yonder scandal? Oh, take me not
thither, good friend. Is there no Christian woman who would give a poor creature rest in her
cowhouse or barn for one night? I will be gone with early daybreak. I will repay her richly.
I have gold; and I will repay you, too, if you will take me where I may be safe from that wild
reveller, and from the followers of that dark baron, in whose eye was death."

"Keep your gold for those who lack it, mistress," said Henry, "and do not offer to honest hands
the money that is won by violing, and tabouring, and toe tripping, and perhaps worse pastimes.
I tell you plainly, mistress, I am not to be fooled. I am ready to take you to any place of
safety you can name, for my promise is as strong as an iron shackle. But you cannot persuade
me that you do not know what earth to make for. You are not so young in your trade as not to
know there are hostelries in every town, much more in a city like Perth, where such as you
may be harboured for your money, if you cannot find some gulls, more or fewer, to pay your
lawing. If you have money, mistress, my care about you need be the less; and truly I see little
but pretence in all that excessive grief, and fear of being left alone, in one of your occupation."

Having thus, as he conceived, signified that he was not to be deceived by the ordinary arts
of a glee maiden, Henry walked a few paces sturdily, endeavouring to think he was doing the
wisest and most prudent thing in the world. Yet he could not help looking back to see how Louise
bore his departure, and was shocked to observe that she had sunk upon a bank, with her arms
resting on her knees and her head on her arms, in a situation expressive of the utmost desolation.

The smith tried to harden his heart. "It is all a sham," he said: "the gouge knows her trade,
I'll be sworn, by St. Ringan."

At the instant something pulled the skirts of his cloak; and looking round, he saw the little
spaniel, who immediately, as if to plead his mistress's cause, got on his hind legs and began
to dance, whimpering at the same time, and looking back to Louise, as if to solicit compassion
for his forsaken owner.

"Poor thing," said the smith, "there may be a trick in this too, for thou dost but as thou
art taught. Yet, as I promised to protect this poor creature, I must not leave her in a swoon,
if it be one, were it but for manhood's sake."

Returning, and approaching his troublesome charge, he was at once assured, from the change
of her complexion, either that she was actually in the deepest distress, or had a power of
dissimulation beyond the comprehension of man--or woman either.

"Young woman," he said, with more of kindness than he had hitherto been able even to assume,
"I will tell you frankly how I am placed. This is St. Valentine's Day, and by custom I was
to spend it with my fair Valentine. But blows and quarrels have occupied all the morning, save
one poor half hour. Now, you may well understand where my heart and my thoughts are, and where,
were it only in mere courtesy, my body ought to be."

The glee maiden listened, and appeared to comprehend him.

"If you are a true lover, and have to wait upon a chaste Valentine, God forbid that one like
me should make a disturbance between you! Think about me no more. I will ask of that great
river to be my guide to where it meets the ocean, where I think they said there was a seaport;
I will sail from thence to La Belle France, and will find myself once more in a country in
which the roughest peasant would not wrong the poorest female."

"You cannot go to Dundee today," said the smith. "The Douglas people are in motion on both
sides of the river, for the alarm of the morning has reached them ere now; and all this day,
and the next, and the whole night which is between, they will gather to their leader's standard,
like Highlandmen at the fiery cross. Do you see yonder five or six men who are riding so wildly
on the other side of the river? These are Annandale men: I know them by the length of their
lances, and by the way they hold them. An Annandale man never slopes his spear backwards, but
always keeps the point upright, or pointed forward."

"And what of them?" said the glee maiden. "They are men at arms and soldiers. They would respect
me for my viol and my helplessness."

"I will say them no scandal," answered the smith. "If you were in their own glens, they would
use you hospitably, and you would have nothing to fear; but they are now on an expedition.
All is fish that comes to their net. There are amongst them who would take your life for the
value of your gold earrings. Their whole soul is settled in their eyes to see prey, and in
their hands to grasp it. They have no ears either to hear lays of music or listen to prayers
for mercy. Besides, their leader's order is gone forth concerning you, and it is of a kind
sure to be obeyed. Ay, great lords are sooner listened to if they say, 'Burn a church,' than
if they say, 'Build one.'"

"Then," said the glee woman, "I were best sit down and die."

"Do not say so," replied the smith. "If I could but get you a lodging for the night, I would
carry you the next morning to Our Lady's Stairs, from whence the vessels go down the river
for Dundee, and would put you on board with some one bound that way, who should see you safely
lodged where you would have fair entertainment and kind usage."

"Good--excellent--generous man!" said the glee maiden, "do this, and if the prayers and blessings
of a poor unfortunate should ever reach Heaven, they will rise thither in thy behalf. We will
meet at yonder postern door, at whatever time the boats take their departure."

"That is at six in the morning, when the day is but young."

"Away with you, then, to your Valentine; and if she loves you, oh, deceive her not!"

"Alas, poor damsel! I fear it is deceit hath brought thee to this pass. But I must not leave
you thus unprovided. I must know where you are to pass the night."

"Care not for that," replied Louise: "the heavens are clear--there are bushes and boskets enough
by the river side--Charlot and I can well make a sleeping room of a green arbour for one night;
and tomorrow will, with your promised aid, see me out of reach of injury and wrong. Oh, the
night soon passes away when there is hope for tomorrow! Do you still linger, with your Valentine
waiting for you? Nay, I shall hold you but a loitering lover, and you know what belongs to
a minstrel's reproaches."

"I cannot leave you, damsel," answered the armourer, now completely melted. "It were mere murder
to suffer you to pass the night exposed to the keenness of a Scottish blast in February. No--no,
my word would be ill kept in this manner; and if I should incur some risk of blame, it is but
just penance for thinking of thee, and using thee, more according to my own prejudices, as
I now well believe, than thy merits. Come with me, damsel; thou shalt have a sure and honest
lodging for the night, whatsoever may be the consequence. It would be an evil compliment to
my Catharine, were I to leave a poor creature to be starved to death, that I might enjoy her
company an hour sooner."

So saying, and hardening himself against all anticipations of the ill consequences or scandal
which might arise from such a measure, the manly hearted smith resolved to set evil report
at defiance, and give the wanderer a night's refuge in his own house. It must be added, that
he did this with extreme reluctance, and in a sort of enthusiasm of benevolence.

