'As for mistakes,' went on Tom, as--the adventure being over--he prepared to mount his caravan,
'I have made plenty of them, and I shall be making another if I don't hurry up after the boss.
Good-night to you, my lad.'

'Good-night,' echoed Mr. Chilcote; 'you will be hearing from me, my good friend, in the course
of a day or two.'

And so Tom did--a letter which made him open his eyes to their widest extent. Not only did
the envelope contain a letter of heartfelt thanks, but a good large cheque.

A CHINESE SOLOMON.

Foo Chow, a Pekin magistrate, once showed great wisdom and ingenuity in detecting a thief.
A man was brought before him charged with stealing a small but very valuable jewelled table.
The prisoner denied the charge. He said that he was weak and feeble with long illness. For
that reason it was impossible for him to have carried off a piece of furniture.

The judge listened very gravely to his story. After hearing of the poor man's misfortunes,
he professed great sorrow and sympathy for the sufferer.

'Go home and get cured,' said he kindly; 'and as you are poor, take with you that bag of cash'--heavy
Chinese coins--'as a gift from this court.'

The prisoner bowed, quickly threw the heavy bag over his shoulder, and departed, while every
one wondered. But he had hardly got outside the door of the court, when he was arrested. The
judge remarked that if he could easily carry off a heavy sack of money, he would have no difficulty
in stealing a light table.

  H. B. S.

PUZZLERS FOR WISE HEADS.

1.--NARRATIVE ARITHMOGRAPH.

5 raised the 6-7-4-3-2-11-13 and looked out. The 1-2-5-8-3-2-5-13 was about to start. '2-8-5-6-11-9,'
5 cried, '3-4-5-2-8 and 10-12-11-8 lie before me. 4-2-5-8 13-12-10 lady at my shabby 6-12-2-3
2 13-2-10-5-12-13's eyes follow me. 11-13 this 6-7-4-3 8-9-10-11-13 letter my instructions
are written; armed with 11-10 5 2-1 9 happy 1-2-13.'

  C. J. B.

[Answer on page 51.]

A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

True Tales of the Year 1806.

I.--'THE BUTTERFLY'S BALL.'

Just a hundred years ago the well-known poem, 'The Butterfly's Ball and the Grasshopper's Feast,'
was published, and we reproduce it here because it is not always easy to get a copy of it nowadays,
and some of our readers may never have seen it. The author, William Roscoe, was a noted historian
and critic, and he wrote these verses to amuse his little son, Robert, who is supposed to be
telling how he saw the wonderful ball. The lines about little Robert, however, were not in
the poem as it was when it first appeared, and other alterations were made here and there.
The poem soon became famous, and a great many imitations of it were written. It came to the
notice, too, of King George and Queen Caroline, and they had it set to music to amuse the little
Princess Mary.

  Come, take up your hats, and away let us haste
  To the Butterfly's ball and the Grasshopper's feast:
  The trumpeter Gad-fly has summoned the crew,
  And the revels are now only waiting for you.
  Then the shy little Dormouse peeped out of his hole,
  And led to the feast his blind cousin, the Mole;
  And the Snail, with her horns peeping out of her shell,
  Came, fatigued with the distance, the length of an ell.
  A mushroom the table; and on it was spread
  A water-dock leaf, which their table-d'hôte made.
  The viands were various, to each of their taste,
  And the Bee brought the honey to sweeten the feast.
  Then close on his haunches, so solemn and wise,
  The Frog from a corner looked up to the skies;
  And the Sparrow, well pleased such diversions to see,
  Mounted high overhead, and looked down from a tree.
  Then out came the Spider, with finger so fine,
  To show his dexterity on the tight line.
  From one branch to another his cobwebs he slung,
  Then quick as an arrow he darted along.
  But just in the middle, oh, shocking to tell!
  From his rope in an instant poor Harlequin fell.
  Yet he touched not the ground, but with talons outspread,
  Hung suspended in air at the end of a thread.
  Then the Grasshopper came with a jerk and a spring;
  Very long was his leg, though but short was his wing;
  He took but three leaps, and was soon out of sight,
  Then chirped his own praises the rest of the night.
  With steps most majestic the Snail did advance,
  And he promised the gazers a minuet to dance;
  But they all laughed so loud that he drew in his head,
  And went in his own little chamber to bed.
  Then as evening gave way to the shadows of night,
  Their watchman, the Glow-worm, came out with his light:
  So home let us hasten, while yet we can see,
  For no watchman is waiting for you or for me.
  So said little Robert, and pacing along,
  His many companions returned in a throng.

HIS MASTER'S HAT.

Not long ago, a fine collie dog was running happily after an omnibus, on the top of which his
master was seated. Every now and then the man turned round to encourage the dog, and at last,
as he did this, a gust of wind blew off his hat, which went careering down the road by the
side of the omnibus. Quick as thought, the dog darted after the hat, chased it and 'rounded
it up,' as if it were a stray lamb or sheep, and by the time his master had descended from
the top of the omnibus to get his lost property, the dog was waiting for him, wagging his tail,
with the hat safely in his mouth.

WILD ANIMALS IN CAPTIVITY.

Notwithstanding all the care which is now bestowed upon wild animals in our zoological gardens
and menageries, nearly all of them suffer a little in some way or other by confinement. When
we think of the great difference which exists between the surroundings natural to a free wild
animal, and those of even the best zoological gardens, we cannot but be surprised that so many
animals from all parts of the world can be kept alive and in good condition in a climate so
changeable as ours. Every effort is made by the keepers to copy as far as possible the natural
conditions to which each animal is accustomed.

It was usual, for instance, to deprive all the flesh-eating animals of one of the greatest
travelling menageries of food during one day in each week. It was found by experience that
the animals were healthier when they suffered periods of fasting like this, than they were
when they were fed regularly every day without a break. The explanation of this was very simple.
These animals, when they were living wild in the jungles, forests, deserts, or ice-fields,
obtained all their food by hunting. When game was scarce or difficult to catch, they were compelled
to go hungry; and this occurred so often as to be a natural condition to which they were well
accustomed. When, therefore, they were placed in cages, and were fed as regularly, though not
as frequently as human beings, their health was more or less impaired.

Animals in confinement often undergo slight changes even when no alteration in their appearance
or falling-off in health is noticeable. Many of them, for instance, rarely have young ones,
and even when they have, the young are seldom as healthy and robust as if born in a wild state.
The keepers have frequently the utmost difficulty in rearing animals which are born in menageries
and zoological gardens. Yet if these animals were born in their own countries and under natural
conditions, they would grow up healthy and strong, without receiving any more care than a kitten
receives from its mother.

An incident which occurred in the Zoo not long ago affords a striking illustration of these
facts. A wolf had an ordinary family of eight young ones. The keepers, probably thinking that
these were too many for the captive wolf to bring up alone, divided the family. Four of them
were left with their mother, and four of them were placed in charge of a collie. The dog took
kindly to her foster-children, and reared them successfully with her own. This was only what
the keepers expected. But when they placed the young ones together again, and compared the
collie's family with the wolf's family, they were surprised to find that the four which had
been nurtured by the collie were stronger and better animals than their four brothers and sisters.
The best explanation of this result is that the collie was living a healthy natural life, while
the wolf, though to all appearance quite well, was not enjoying the full vigour which results
from a free and active life.

  W. A. ATKINSON.

UMBRELLA TREASON.

Some little time ago, there was what the newspapers described as 'unrest' in the West African
colony of Lagos; telegrams were dispatched between that country and Great Britain, governors
and deputy-governors were interviewed, and it was with difficulty that a native war was averted.
The cause of all this commotion was an umbrella!

Now, in our country, as we all know, an umbrella is looked upon as a harmless possession--but
not so in West Africa. There, amongst most of the native tribes, the umbrella is regarded as
an emblem of royalty, and its possession is strictly confined to the chief or king of the tribe.

Therefore the indignation was intense on the part of one of these kings, when he found an inferior
chief setting up an umbrella of his own. The king at once took a journey to Lagos, to lodge
a formal complaint of the chief's treasonable conduct with the British Governor.

       *       *       *       *       *

An African king's umbrella is a very elaborate affair, and it often costs large sums of money.
Most of the umbrellas for Ashanti and the Gold Coast are made in London, and are of gigantic
size, some of them when open measuring ten feet across.

The coverings of these umbrellas are of coloured silk--the brighter the better, with very deep
fringes. The largest umbrellas are carried over the heads of chiefs, by bearers, while other
bearers steady the umbrella by cords attached to the uppermost parts.

One state umbrella had for its apex a silver eagle standing on two silver cannons, whilst another
umbrella had a gold hen on the top, the hen being surrounded by numerous chickens, to represent
the chief and his tribe.

A cheap umbrella for a small chief can be had for ten pounds, but such state umbrellas as we
have described are not to be had for less than sixty or even seventy guineas.

X.

THE WRONG WIND.

  A breeze from the South made the rose-bushes quiver,
    And what did the South Wind say?
  'I met with an accident, crossing the river,
    The ice-covered river, to-day.

  ''Twas frozen; and yesterday morning the skaters
    Were there in no end of a crowd,
  While Timothy Tubb in his scarf and his gaiters
    Was looking uncommonly proud.

  'So, early this morning, on reaching the river,
    I looked at its surface and cried:
  If Tim, on that ice, can show skating so clever,
    Now why shouldn't I have a slide?

  'But though I'm so light (oh, the thought makes me shiver),
    Crack! Bang! And from shore unto shore
  The water jumped out; I was half in the river,
    And don't mean to slide any more.

  'Yet--isn't it strange?--in the coldest of winters
    Tim Tubb can go skating with glee;
  While bang! goes the ice, and it cracks into splinters
    'Neath the foot of a South Wind like me.'

ROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.

By HAROLD ERICSON.

I.--A SCRAMBLE WITH A BEAR.

On a splendid night in the cool of the year, three men sat out in the Veldt in South Africa,
talking and laughing over their camp fire. A few Kaffir drivers and huntsmen were similarly
engaged at a second fire at some little distance. The light of the burning wood revealed fitfully
the shape of the great waggon in the background, and the sound of munching behind it told of
the presence of the team of oxen which had dragged it northwards from Bulawayo. Later on, when
they trekked up into the lion-zone, the district in which lions and other dangerous beasts
might be expected to visit them by night, if the way were left open for them, it would be necessary
to encircle their camp with a ring of thorn-bushes or some other obstacles; but at present
the party was only on the way to the hunting grounds, and it was still safe to run the risks
of lions.

The three men were all English, or at least British, and all fairly young. Their names were
Captain the Honourable Edward Vandeleur, Bobby Oakfield, an Indian civilian on a year's furlough,
and Ralph Denison, a rich young man with nothing to do except to indulge his love of sport,
whether fox-hunting, salmon-fishing, grouse-driving, or, as now, big-game shooting in any part
of the world where large beasts were to be found.

Vandeleur, commonly known as Teddy, seemed to be the chief speaker this night; he was, at the
moment of our introduction to the party, explaining a suggestion which he had just made to
his friends. This is what he said:--

'We are likely to have longish watches over our camp fires, and perhaps we may get a bit tired
of conversation night after night, with nothing much to talk about; now why not start a round
of story-telling, each to spin a yarn in turn, one every evening, unless we should happen to
feel more inclined for a talk, in which case we miss a day. Anybody who can't think of a tale
must pay a fine of a shilling, the winner to take the total at the end.'

'Yes, but who is the winner?' asked Oakfield, laughing, 'The one who tells the best yarns?'

'Oh, no! who would be judge? The one who has had to pay the fewest fines takes the prize,'
Denison said with a laugh.

'Good old Teddy!' he cried, 'he has a large collection of yarns all ready up his sleeve, Bobby,
and he wants our shillings! Well, you shall have them willingly, old chap, if you keep us amused!
Start at once--go on!'

'Why not draw lots for first yarn?' suggested Bobby, and the others fell in with the suggestion.

So lots were drawn, and it fell to Bobby himself to entertain the company.

'Start away at once, old chap. I'm tired of talking, and longing for a nap,' laughed Denison.
'If he makes it too long, Teddy, have we the right to ask him to finish it "in our next?" He
might go on all night.'

'Certainly, any story may be split; if any fellow can entertain us for two nights on end, why,
so much the better!'

'Off you go then, Bobby,' said Denison--"once upon a time"--fire ahead!'

Bobby Oakfield sat silent for a few minutes.

'I believe you are inventing,' said the irrepressible Ralph: 'is that allowed, Mr. President?'

'Real experiences, as far as possible!' Vandeleur decided.

'Oh, it's real all right,' said Bobby; 'I was wondering whether to tell you first of a wolf
adventure or a little meeting with a bear I once had--think I'll begin with the bear.'

       *       *       *       *       *

This is the story of my first bear (began Bobby); the first I ever went out to hunt, I mean,
though as a matter of fact he had more right to call me 'his first man,' than I to dub him
'my first bear,' for I fancy he was nearer getting me than I him. Which of us was most frightened,
I hardly care to say! He must have been terribly alarmed if he suffered more than I did!

It was during one of my visits to Russia, and the season was early autumn. I was staying with
a cousin, who was either part or sole proprietor, I forget which, of a big 'shoot,' some twenty
miles out of town; and one day he received a letter which we both thought rather funny. It
was from the head-keeper of the shooting club, and read something like this:--

'Most merciful lord' (my cousin was not a lord, but that's a detail; he would have made a very
good one, I dare say), 'if your lordship's heart contains pity for humble fellow-creatures
who are in distress, listen and be merciful. A bear has appeared here and is eating the uncut
corn of the peasants. We have tried him with the usual methods, but they have proved useless.
Come down and save us, merciful, for the appetite of the beast is very large; there is room
in him for the whole of our harvest, therefore come quickly.'

'What are the usual methods?' I asked my cousin, and he replied with a laugh that probably
the man meant that the elders of the village had pronounced a curse against the animal, or
perhaps the guaharka of the district, the 'wise woman,' had woven a spell, for these pagan
customs survive even in Christian Russia.

'I'm afraid I'm too busy to go just at present,' said my cousin; 'I suppose you could not take
on the business for me, could you?'

Well, I had not the slightest objection; indeed, I was delighted with the prospect.

'What am I to do?' I asked; 'hide myself in the standing corn and ambush him?'

'Leave it to old Michael, the keeper.' said my cousin. 'I will wire that you're coming to-morrow,
I can telegraph within three miles of the lodge, and the message will be sent on.'

So my preparations were hurried forward, and I was ready and anxious to be off early on the
following day.

'Be kind to my dogs,' said my cousin; 'there are three of them there, red setters, beauties--Michael
keeps them for me; have them into the room and pet them a bit, if you don't mind, for they
have a dullish time down there, and I like them to see English folk now and then--it does them
good!'

(Concluded on page 26.)

THE MUSIC OF THE NATIONS.

I.--THE 'KING' AND 'OU' OF THE CHINESE.

Five hundred years before the birth of Christ, Confucius declared that 'Music gives finish
to the character, which has first been established by its rules of proficiency.' Moreover,
he said, 'Wouldst thou know if a people be well governed, and if its manners be good or bad,
examine the music it practises.'

When we reflect that the speaker was the most famous sage of the Chinese, to whom temples are
built in every town of the vast empire of China, and to whose memory the Emperor himself offers
homage twice a year at the Imperial College in Pekin, we may understand what weight his opinions
have carried in his own country.

Long before his time, however, music had been studied there as a science. It was imported by
the first invaders of the Celestial Empire, who hailed from the borders of the Caspian Sea.
The Yellow Emperor, or Huang Ti, who reigned two thousand seven hundred years before the Christian
era, established a fixed base note from which musical instruments were to be measured, much
as in the modern musical system we take a key-note and found our chords and scales upon it.
The connection between musical and State affairs was so business-like in those days that the
precedence of the various classes was fixed according to the musical grade: F, the base note
of the oldest known scale, represented the Emperor; G, the Prime Minister; A, the loyal subjects,
and so on.

Five hundred years later another Emperor, of a practical turn of mind, ordered that music should
follow the sense of the words, and be simple and free from affectation, and he appointed a
censor to see that his instructions were carried out. The latter, 'Couci' by name, declared
that when he played upon his 'king,' the animals ranged themselves before him spell-bound by
his melody.

We hear elsewhere of another ancient musician of China, whose music was 'so sweet that the
very stars drew near to listen.' Later on in the history of the world we find this idea of
the effects of music on animals and stars entertained both in Greece and India. The attention
of the starry bodies can only be regarded as a beautiful myth, but the writer of this paper
personally tested the animal love of music some years ago, when surrounded by a formidable
herd of wild cattle in the Rocky Mountains.

The instrument known as 'king,' from which Couci drew such delightful sounds, is of very ancient
date, and is made of a stone called 'yu,' which is of many colours, and looks like marble,
being probably a form of agate intermixed with iron. The wonderful clearness and purity of
the tone are supposed to result from long exposure to the sun and air.

'Yu' is most valuable when of whey colour; then light blue, dark yellow, orange, dark red,
and pale green follow in order of merit. In all the colours it is essential that the stones
be free from streaks or flaws of any kind. One of the chief attractions of the 'king' is that
it always retains its pitch, not being influenced by cold, heat, damp, or dryness.

In construction the 'king' consists of sixteen stones hung in two rows of eight in an ornamental
frame. Nowadays these stones are cut in oblong shape of varying thickness, tuned by slicing
narrow shavings off the back and ends; but in former days they were fashioned like fishes,
animals, or other quaint devices. The art of making 'kings' was lost for many centuries, but
about 32 B.C. a specimen was fished up from the bottom of a pond which served as a model, and
now every temple of importance has its 'king,' just as every church with us has its organ of
some kind or other.

A smaller instrument of the same kind is also used in religious ceremonies, the 'the king,'
made of one large block of 'yu,' suspended from an upright. It is played like the real 'king,'
by being struck with a special stick or plectrum, and the tone, though less varied than that
of the larger instrument, is equally deep and full.

Another curious Chinese instrument is the 'ou,' which is made of wood, and fashioned like a
crouching tiger. It is hollow, and along its back run metal teeth, which are played with a
small stick or brush. The 'ou' stands on a hollow pedestal, also of wood, which serves as a
sounding board and increases the tone.

HELENA HEATH.

ETHEL'S GOLDEN OFFERING.

'Granny,' said Ethel Day, one Sunday, 'there was a lady in our seat at church that I never
saw before. She was not very grandly dressed, but she must have been as rich--as rich as the king.'

'Why do you think so, Ethel?' asked Granny, smiling at the child's eagerness.

'Because, when the plate was passed to her--for the collection, you know--she put in a piece
of gold money--real gold, I am sure it was. Oh! I should like to be rich enough to give as
much as that.'

Granny was silent for a minute or two; she seemed to be thinking of something pleasant. 'I
know of a golden offering that my little Ethel could make, if she were willing,' she said presently.

'Tell me what it is then, Granny: I shall be sure to be willing,' cried Ethel.

'The money the lady gave,' went on Granny, 'was for the poor sick people in the hospital. Look
out of the window, Ethel, and you will see another kind of gold--a kind not counted so precious,
perhaps, but really quite as beautiful.'

Ethel looked out: she only saw the flowers in her own garden. Lovely autumn flowers they were,
for Ethel's father was a gardener, and he often gave his little daughter choice roots, or cuttings,
for her plot of ground. But Ethel was accustomed to the sight of her flowers: dear as they
were to her, and yellow as gold though they might be, Granny surely did not mean to compare
them with the lady's half-sovereign.

That was Granny's meaning, however. 'There is a sick woman in the village,' she told Ethel,
'who cannot go to the hospital. She is so ill that, although she may live many years, she can
never be cured, and so they cannot take her in. Because her illness has lasted so long, people
have almost forgotten to be kind to her. I have been thinking, Ethel, that if you could spare
a bunch of your flowers for poor Mary Ansell, it would be a real golden offering.'

It was Ethel's turn to be quiet now; her flowers were her most cherished possessions, and to
pick a good bunch for Mary Ansell would make her little garden look bare and shabby. Granny
knew that; she knew that Ethel's flowers would, in their way, be quite as costly a gift as
the lady's golden coin.

But she was not much surprised, on the following morning, to find the best and brightest of
the blossoms gone, and when next she went to see Mary Ansell, the poor woman still had the
flowers in a jug by her bedside.

'You cannot think how it cheered me up,' said the invalid. 'That dear little girl, with her
bright face, and the posy in her hands, was like a sunbeam coming in. She did me as much good
as a mint of money.'

'Ah!' thought Granny, who knew how much real self-sacrifice must have been in the gift, 'I
felt sure that Ethel too could make a golden offering.'

C. J. BLAKE.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 11.)

'What will become of us if Thomas has gone away?' asked Estelle. 'Does the sea cover the beach
very quickly? Will there be time for him to come back, or can we get away without him?'

'No, no,' cried Georgie, clinging to Marjorie; 'we can't go in the boat without Thomas! We
shall all be drowned. Oh, I don't want to be---- '

'Shut up!' exclaimed Alan, impatiently. 'We are not drowned yet, and we are not going to be.
You are frightening Estelle with your noise. It is all right, Estelle. Don't you be afraid.
I can get the boat back all right with Marjorie's help if Thomas is not here in time. But there
is no danger for an hour yet.'

'All the same, we had better find Thomas,' said Marjorie.

Neither she nor Alan had any serious belief in there being much mystery about Thomas's movements.
They liked to imagine themselves in romantic positions, and were fond of weaving stories about
any little event that attracted them. But the gardener's sudden disappearance, together with
what Marjorie had seen in the cave, did seem strange.

'There's only one way of finding him,' remarked Alan, after he and Marjorie had stared at each
other in silence for some moments. 'You see, he is nowhere in the cave. Now, what do you think
has become of him?'

'Do you mean he has found a way up the cliff?' she asked, slowly, with what Alan called 'the
pondering look' in her eyes. 'I wonder if he wanted to go into the woods when you saw him in
the Wilderness, and if--if he has managed to get there now?'

'I never thought of that,' exclaimed Alan.

'If he has,' went on Marjorie, while Estelle and Georgie watched Alan anxiously, 'what do you
mean by "only one way of finding him?"'

'Well,' returned Alan, hesitating as if his mind were not quite made up, 'we know of no path
up, so there is nothing for it except to climb the cliff. I am sure I can do it, and who knows
what I may find out?'

This proposal did not meet with favour from anybody. Marjorie declared it was impossible, and
too dangerous to try--the cliff was far too steep. Alan and she could manage the boat quite
well on a calm day. It would be less of a risk.

Estelle suggested they should go as far into the cave as possible--for Alan had told her that
the end of it was above high-water mark--and remain there till the tide went down. It would
certainly be very horrid, but it was better than going alone in the boat, or Alan trying to
climb those terrible cliffs.

All her cousins laughed.

'It will be hours and hours before the tide is low again,' said Alan. 'Everybody would think
we had come to grief, and there would be a pretty to-do. Aunt Betty would be wild, fancying
you were lost. No, that will not do. It must be the cliff, and nothing but the cliff.'

Without waiting for further discussion, he went slowly along the beach, examining the great
wall of rock. The other children followed, frightened into silence by his determined face and
the dangers of the attempt. To Estelle there appeared to be no foothold possible in all that
broad, dark surface; but Alan's keen eyes were not long in discovering a part which he might
attack with some hope of success.

Pulling off his coat and tightening his belt, he took firm hold of the only projecting piece
of rock he could find, and drew himself up to the first narrow ledge. There he paused to look
back triumphantly, but such a row of anxious faces were staring up at him that he called out,
impatiently, 'Now, do go and play. I am all right, and it is a jolly good thing to have a place
to stand upon. Don't look at me all the time. You will make me nervous, and there will be an
accident.'

But it was impossible for the other children to turn their eyes away as he crept up and up,
hoisting himself by strength of arm in one place, seeking a foothold in another. Sometimes
it appeared as if he were hanging literally by his fingers, and the lookers-on shuddered in
terror lest he should fall. At other places he seemed to move along with more ease, and then
they feared he would become careless.

It was well for Alan that his head was so steady, and that he did not attempt to glance down
from the height he had already reached. Not for a moment would he dwell on the dangers of the
ascent. Rather, he took a delight in matching himself against the stern rocks. With all his
courage, however, it sometimes seemed to him as if his difficulties would never end. Three
times he nearly as possible fell. The strength and fitness he had acquired in athletic sports
and gymnasium at school stood him in good stead now.

Fortunately for him the ascent became far easier as soon as he got above high-water mark. The
face of the precipice grew more and more uneven, offering greater support to his hands and
feet, and by-and-by he was able to assist himself by the tufts of grass.

'He has reached the bushes!' cried Estelle, at last, with a cry of relief. 'He will be all
right now, won't he?'

'Yes,' replied Marjorie, her voice still tremulous.

'And how's he coming down again?' asked Georgie, his fears by no means gone. 'And what are
we to do if he doesn't come?'

Georgie and Estelle were gazing at Marjorie as if her words and her calm alone prevented them
from breaking down. If she gave way to fear, what effect might it not have upon them? It was
her duty to encourage and raise the spirits of the younger ones, and put aside her own misgivings.
With an effort she forced herself to speak in cheerful tones.

'It is useless to think about it,' she said, 'and the best thing we can do is to amuse ourselves
till it is time to go. Look, the boat ought to be pulled up higher. Let us see if we can manage
it between us.'

Meantime Alan had reached the coastguard path which ran along the edge of the cliff. No one
being in sight, he determined to take the narrow track which lay through a wooded hollow. It
was part of the Moat House property, and he desired to see whether he and Marjorie had been
correct in their guess that it was to this wood that Thomas had wished to come when he was
seen in the Wilderness.

Scrambling over the queer stone stile, he descended the rugged pathway, where the thick brushwood
and high trees shut out sky and sunlight. As he advanced the track became narrower and more
mossy, while here and there the ground was broken by rocks. Now and again high mounds of earth,
mossy and green, rose on either side, and the wood grew denser. He was uneasy, and half wished
he had kept to the edge of the cliff, where the way was clear, for he seemed to have left the
world behind him. There was something uncanny in the dead silence, and he quite startled when
a rabbit jumped across his path into a hole. But the next moment, boy-like, he wished he had
had the dogs with him that he might give chase.

(Continued on page 30.)

FORGETFUL FANNY

'Now I will tie you to the garden gate, and pretend I have put my horse in the stable,' Fanny
said to her little brother Dick, with whom she had been playing horses until she was hot and tired.

Her mother had gone to the market town, and would not be home until the evening, and so Fanny
was left in charge of her brother.

Dick thought it was rather interesting to be tied up in a stable, and so he was quite happy
when Fanny said that she wanted to run down the road to see her friend, Dora Barnes, for a
few minutes.

At first Dick pretended to eat oats out of a manger; then he thought he would lie down and
sleep. But that was dull, so he got up and pranced and kicked with impatience; and presently
the time began to drag more and more slowly, and he wondered when Fanny would come back again.

'These knots are so tight, I cannot undo them, and I am so tired of playing at being a horse
tied up in a stable,' he said sadly to himself.

After a time he gave up trying to pretend, but curled himself up and fell fast asleep. And
still his sister did not come; but somebody else did.

In the meantime, Fanny had found her friend, and had heard the splendid news that a circus
was just going to pass through the village.

This was enough to drive everything else out of Fanny's head. The two little girls started
off to see the fun, and poor Dick was quite forgotten.

There were ladies riding in golden cars, and little piebald ponies, and an elephant, and all
kinds of marvellous sights. Fanny and Dora followed the procession to the field in which the
tent was to be put up, and it was growing late before they thought of setting out for home.

Then there suddenly came into Fanny's mind the remembrance of the little boy she had left fastened
to the gate.

'I forgot all about him,' she said to Dora. 'I do hope he is all right.'

But when they reached the cottage, no Dick was to be seen!

'Perhaps he managed to untie the cords, and is in the house,' Dora suggested.

They hunted high and low, but no Dick was to be found, and Fanny burst into tears.

'Oh, Dora,' she cried, 'perhaps the circus people have been here and stolen him! You know they
do steal little boys sometimes, and make them walk on tight-ropes. And they may be unkind to
Dick. Oh! what shall I do?'

At this moment a man on horseback came down the lane, and there, riding in front of him, was Dick!

Fanny thought her worst fears were realised. The man must be a circus rider, and how could
she hope to rescue her brother if the man chose to turn and gallop away!

She rushed to meet them. 'Oh, please, sir, don't carry Dick away!' she cried. 'He is so little,
and he is too fat ever to learn to dance on a tight-rope!'

'Why, I am bringing him home,' the man said; 'and what have I to do with tight-ropes?'

Then Fanny recognised the gentleman as a friend of the Squire's, who was staying with him at
the Hall.

'I beg your pardon, sir; I thought the circus people had stolen him,' she stammered.

'They have stolen a little girl's wits, I think,' said the gentleman, smiling. 'I found Dick
all alone and very forlorn, so I took him for a ride, and am now bringing him back to see if
there is any one here to take care of him. Are you the sister who was left in charge?'

'I forgot all about him,' Fanny confessed, blushing and hanging her head, 'and I was so frightened
when I came home and did not find him here.'

'Well, look after your little brother better another time,' the gentleman said, as he lifted
Dick down and rode away.

And forgetful Fanny remembered this lesson, and tried not to be so thoughtless again. M. H.

THE DISAPPOINTED HEN.

  'Oh' what a terrible mistake!'
    Cried Mrs. Brahma Hen;
  'I'd set my heart on yellow chicks,
    And these are black again!'

  She ran at once to Dr. Goose,
    'What can I do?' cried she.
  'My charge for giving good advice
    Is fifteen worms,' quoth he.

  It was such hot work catching them,
    It nearly made her faint:
  And fifteen worms'-worth of advice
    Was 'Buy some yellow paint!'

A. KATHERINE PARKES.

THE MULTIPLICATION TABLE.

A village schoolmaster in Germany one day did something at which the parents of one of his
pupils foolishly took offence. On the following morning, the angry mother of the lad entered
the schoolroom during lesson-time, and began to scold and rate the master. He knew what was
coming, and, as she began, called out, in a tone of command, 'Children, the multiplication table!'

At once the whole school began to repeat the table in chorus. The woman stormed and raged,
while the scholars only shouted the harder, and the master quietly laughed to himself. Speechless
with anger and surprise, the woman at last went away, and the teacher was left master of the
field of battle.

H. B. S.

ROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.

I.--A SCRAMBLE WITH A BEAR.

(Concluded from page 20.)

The hunting lodge proved a delightfully comfortable place, and old Michael was a splendid game-keeper.
He seemed disappointed that my cousin had not come, for apparently he regarded Jack with great
confidence. To me, however, he was very courteous and polite, and I think he did his best to
hide his disappointment.

The bear was a big one, he said; he damaged as much corn as he ate, and since his inside was
'as large as a barn' (so Michael said), the unfortunate peasants were in great trouble with
regard to their crops.

By this time I had learned enough Russian to keep up a simple conversation, in which of course
grammar had no part whatever; I could make myself understood if my companion happened to be
a person of sense, and this old Michael was. To my inquiry as to how the bear and I were to
become acquainted, he replied that he had made all arrangements.

'There is flesh placed in an open space in the forest which he crosses sometimes,' Michael
said; 'his tracks pass over it several times. When it is dusk I shall guide you to the place,
and you shall climb a tree and pass the night in it; at early dawn he will come and eat, and
then you will shoot.'

I liked the plan; it was something quite new--rather a chilly experience, perhaps, but one
must put up with a little inconvenience in the pursuit of bears 'with insides like barns'!
I would dress warmly.

I remembered Jack's request that I would be kind to his three lovely red setters, Duke, Monarch,
and York, and during the rest of the day they were with me, noon, afternoon, and evening. They
vied for my special favour; they could not make enough of me. 'It is so delightful to see an
English face again,' they told me as plainly as if they could speak 'and we do like you so!'
They ate most of my lunch; they walked out in the afternoon with me; they fought one another
for my attention; they shared my dinner. We spent a short evening together; I grew dearer to
them every moment, and when I said good-night to them, and they were locked up in Michael's
stable, their howls were so loud that one might have supposed the greatest possible disaster
had overtaken each one of them. I heard them howling and barking very miserably as I walked
away with Michael into the forest, and for a mile their distressed voices were audible--really
it was very flattering to me, I thought!

Arrived at the spot where Bruin's repast had been laid out, Michael pointed out to me the tree
which he had selected as my ambush. It was indeed the only convenient one, standing as it did
close to the place where the bear must stop to eat the supper arranged for him. So I climbed
up into the branches, old Michael handing up my warm coat and rug, and settled myself as comfortably
as possible in a place where a natural couch in the fork of the tree seemed to offer an inviting
spot for slumber, while Michael bade me good-night and went off. I heard his footsteps for
ten minutes as he tramped away into the darkness and silence of the forest; then these died
away, and I was left alone with my thoughts and with the stillness and ghostliness of the night.

Things get a bit on one's nerves under these circumstances, and I felt very far from being
sleepy. I started when a gust of wind caused some pine-tree to utter a groan; every rustle
of twig upon twig sent the blood to my pulses--was the bear coming? Nevertheless, I did eventually
fall asleep unawares, and it must have been early morning, about two o'clock, when I awoke
with a start. A sound had roused me--what was it? I listened: undoubtedly the bear was here
and busy over his meal; there was a gobbling and grunting, and the noise of greedy satisfaction.
I was not nervous now; my sleep had done me good. If only I could see the brute, to point my
rifle at him! I could just distinguish in the darkness a black mass which might be he, but
it would be useless to risk a shot. So I waited with what patience I could muster, which was
very little, and listened to the gobbling beneath me, and longed for daylight.

And as I sat and listened a new sound suddenly reached my ears--as I was a born Briton there
were those wretches, Duke and Monarch and York, still crying for me in Michael's stables, maybe
two miles away! How sounds do travel in the silence of night-time; probably a gust of wind
from that direction had brought me this tale of their devotion to their new friend! Well, if
so, they must be a terrible nuisance to the village, thought I, if this has been going on all
night!

I continued to listen, and the yelping barks of the dogs came with marvellous distinctness
to my ears, indeed, the sound seemed to grow more distinct. Was the wind rising? the tree-tops
against the skyline seemed to be quiet enough. Surely the brutes--but no! they had been securely
shut up in Michael's stable....

The bear appeared to be listening also; there was gobbling and a pause; more gobbling and another
pause--oh! if he should grow nervous and bolt before I could get in a shot! A great change
came over my feelings towards those dogs. I had thought them charming animals last night; now,
as I listened to their yelping--it was growing more distinct, not a doubt of it!--I began to
hate them bitterly. They were loose and were following my track through the forest! The splendid
opportunity of scoring my first bear was trembling in the balance! The sounds came nearer and
nearer. I tried to point my rifle at the dark opaque mass below me, but it was useless.

Then suddenly came a crisis. The bear had been gobbling less and listening more--did he mean
to bolt? If he moved, I should risk a shot. Of a sudden there was a moan, a snarl, a shuffle;
he had taken fright, he was off!

Wildly I raised my rifle, I tried to catch a glimpse of him--oh, for a ray of light! But for
the life of me I could not distinguish even his big body; I could have wept for anger, for
in another instant my opportunity would have gone.

Then came one of the few shocks, really bad ones, from which I have suffered during a fairly
peaceful life; in one instant and without the slightest warning I became aware that the great
brute was climbing my tree! My tongue was paralysed with horror, I could not even shout; I
endeavoured to point my gun downwards, but the barrel caught against a bough; I gasped, attempting
to shriek. I heard his panting breath close beneath me; then I felt that his claws had caught
the end of my long fur coat, and all the pent-up horror I felt found vent at last in a shriek
of anguish.

Apparently this caused Bruin quite as much terror as he had caused me, for he fell back to
the ground like a stone, and since his claws were attached to my coat, I fell with him. For
one horrible moment we rolled together on the ground--I remember the animal smell of the brute
to this day--and then he was gone! and coming in his place three yelping, delighted dogs were
jumping about on me. I'm afraid I called those setters names which they must have thought very
rude; I kicked at them and abused them; gradually they realised that I was not quite the nice
fellow they had thought me.

I learnt later that a furious neighbour of Michael's, annoyed by their night-long barking,
had opened the stable-door and let them out. But the bear--alas! I never saw him again; he
left the place in sore dudgeon--so that the peasants saved the remains left to put up with
certain rude remarks from my cousin Jack. I believe he thought these remarks humorous, but
I assure you they were not in the least funny.

STORIES FROM AFRICA.

I.--THE STORY OF A CRUSADER.

A very long time ago a wise man said that there was always something new to be found in Africa.
The Africa he knew was only that fringe of the dark continent into which the Roman arms had
penetrated, but in our days, as in his, there is a charm about the stories from that mysterious
land of which we have even now so much to learn. There are the travellers' tales of men who
went where no white foot had trodden before them, fighting tales of men who won honour at the
sword's point, and tales, just as stirring, of those who carried only the message of peace.
The names of Livingstone and Gordon, Mackenzie and Hannington, should be household words in
every English home, and there are others less known of whom there are stories worth the hearing.

And our first tale is told by an old French baron, aged eighty years or more, ending his life
peacefully on his fair estate in Champagne. No doubt he liked to look back to the stirring
days of his youth, and I dare say the young folk who gathered round his hospitable hearth knew
the Sire de Joinville for a good story-teller, who could beguile a winter evening with tales
of that luckless Crusade in which he bore his part, and of his hero and leader, sovereign,
saint, and soldier in one, Louis, the cross-bearing King of France; and, happily for us, before
the stories died with the teller, the young Queen, Jeanne of Navarre, prevailed upon him to
set down his recollections.

Five and fifty years is a long time to look back upon, but doubtless it seemed but a little
while to Jean de Joinville since he gathered his vassals and kindred to follow King Louis to
the East. He remembered the farewell banquet, when, standing at the head of his own table,
perhaps for the last time, he bade his guests speak if they had any grudge or quarrel against
him, and then courteously withdrew that they might say their minds more freely. And then, when
they had no fault to find, he rode away at the head of his gallant company, not daring, he
tells us, to turn his eyes lest his courage should fail him at the sight of his fair home and
the thought of his two bonnie boys. It required courage indeed to set sail in those days, when
the travellers knew so little of the lands whither they went, and our Crusader wondered how
any man dared trust himself to the ocean with unforgiven sin upon his conscience, not knowing
at night where the dawn of day might find him.

But after some delay from contrary winds, and a long wait at Cyprus, the French army landed
in Egypt, where the first attack was to be made; King Louis leaped, fully armed, from his galley
into the sea in his eagerness to reach the shore. The Saracens fled at first before the invading
army, and the city of Damietta was taken almost without a blow. There the Queen, who had followed
her husband, as our good Queen Eleanor did a few years later, was left with a sufficient garrison
while the army moved onwards up the Nile.

But now the tide of war began to turn. If the valour and devotion of their leaders could have
given victory to the Crusaders, they must have carried all before them, but De Joinville himself
owned that King Louis was more of a dauntless soldier than a good general. The Saracens harassed
the troops with their terrible Greek fire, which, De Joinville says, looked like a fiery flying
dragon, and destroyed the wooden defences, to make which the Crusaders had broken up their
boats. The King's brother, the Comte d'Artois, was killed in a desperate struggle when fording
the Nile. Worst of all, sickness was abroad in the camp, killing more than the swords of the
Saracens. Louis himself was stricken, but refused to be removed to more comfortable quarters,
with the reply of a true king, 'God helping me, I will suffer with my people.' He mounted his
horse for a last desperate attack, the good knight Geoffroi de Sergines riding at his bridle-rein,
and, as the King told De Joinville afterwards, cutting down the Saracens who attacked him as
a good servant brushes away the flies that annoy his master.

When the King could no longer keep his saddle, the brave Geoffroi carried him into a house
inhabited by a good burgher-woman from Paris, and there laid him on the ground with his head
on her knee, hardly expecting that he would live to see another sunrise. And here, dying as
it seemed, Louis was taken by the Saracens, and his soldiers, on the false report of an order
from their leader, laid down their arms.

(Concluded on page 46.)

CHARLES KINGSLEY'S KINDNESS.

Charles Kingsley was a very kind-hearted, man, and could not bear to see anything in pain.
One Sunday, as he was preaching his sermon in church, he stopped in the middle of it, stooped
down, picked up something, and went into the vestry. He soon returned and went on with his
sermon. After the service was over, some one asked him why he had stopped in the middle of
his sermon. He answered that he had seen a butterfly lying on the floor, and he was afraid
that he might tread upon it and kill it; so he picked it up and let it fly out of the vestry
window.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 23.)

Alan was just beginning to wonder whether it was not foolish to go on any further inland into
the valley--indeed, whether it was any use to hunt for Thomas any longer--when he caught the
sound of muffled voices coming from behind a group of trees near which he happened to be passing.
The soft moss had prevented his footsteps being heard, and, as he drew closer, he caught the
gruff tones of Thomas's voice.

What was Thomas doing down there? To whom could he speaking? There must be something up when
two men got away into a lonely wood in order to talk. His curiosity roused, Alan crept closer
still to the trees, but the undergrowth prevented his seeing any distance. He was sure, however,
that it was Thomas speaking, and he could now distinguish the words, in spite of the muffled tones.

'I don't seem to see how it is to be done,' muttered the gardener, sullenly. 'It's not easy,
I tell you.'

'What's the matter, man?' came in a voice with a foreign accent, which Alan did not recognise.
'The thing is possible enough if you choose to do it, and I'm sure I am making it worth your
while. It isn't every day as you will get such an offer. Come, don't you be a fool, and throw
your chances away.'

'I'm not throwing anything away,' returned Thomas, sulkily. 'But the risk---- '

'Well, what if it is a bit risky? You are well paid for the job. Do it quietly, take them unawares,
and the risk will be nothing. But if you are going to be afraid of your own shadow I'm off
with my bargain. That's the long and the short of it.'

A rustle made Alan think the speaker was moving away.

'If you cut up rough you will be the loser a great deal more than I,' replied Thomas, coolly.
'This job isn't to my taste, and if I do it, it will be in my own way. I must wait till my
chance comes. It shall be done--that is, if it can be done at all--you may depend on it. I'm
not going to back out. Don't be afraid. The risk is bigger for me than for you, and I'm not
going to be copped--no, not for anybody.'

'Do it in your own way, man. I lay down no laws. All I want is that you get it somehow. We
can do nothing without that. Do you understand? It is worth hundreds. I have known £500 and
£600 given for a new specimen. And this is the only one of its kind, as yet. Now that you know
what we want, we had better separate. We must not be seen together.'

'I'll be getting back to the boat, then,' returned Thomas, in a more cheerful voice.

Peering through the bushes, and listening intently, Alan was nearly caught by the sudden movement
of the men towards him. He had just time to slip behind a great pine when Thomas slouched into
view. The sturdy figure of a Dutchman followed. Alan could not get a glimpse of his face; he
swung away at too rapid a pace, and was lost among the trees.

With lips pressed together, and ears strained, Alan had heard every word. Now he remained motionless,
wondering. What did it mean? What could the men want which was worth so much money--hundreds
of pounds? Was it hundreds? Could it mean robbery--jewels, plate, money? Thomas, too! Was it
possible that Thomas was about to help, and be paid for helping? Alan knew that his mother,
Mrs. De Bohun, and his great-aunt, Lady Coke, both possessed very valuable jewels; and his
cousin, Sir Leopold Coke, had left some priceless heirlooms in his mother's care at the Moat
House. Perhaps Thomas had heard somebody speak of these treasures, and his greed had been excited.
He required help in his enterprise, too; it must be of some difficulty, therefore he had spoken
of it to his friend. Together they had planned how the burglary was to be carried out, and
were only waiting till Thomas obtained all the information he needed.

Alan thought deeply on the subject, as he slowly followed Thomas. Supposing he decided to do
anything, what should it be? First of all, he was not sure that robbery was what was intended.
It was quite possible he was on the wrong tack altogether, and if this was the case, how foolish
he would look with no evidence to bring forward except this strange offer of 'hundreds' to
Thomas! How his father would laugh at him, and even Aunt Betty would smile incredulously! He
might be asked uncomfortable questions, and have to tell about the climb up the face of the
cliff. No harm had come of it, except frightening the girls, but his father might not regard
the feat in that light.

No; on the whole he thought he had better keep his own counsel till something more definite
turned up. He would have his weather-eye open, especially on Thomas, but otherwise let things
take their usual course. He made up his mind he would not speak of what he had heard even to
Marjorie. She might tell Estelle, and then it would be sure to leak out. Girls could never
hold their tongues, especially when there were two of them. He had just come to this determination
when, to his amazement, Thomas, on whose broad back his eyes had been steadily fixed, disappeared.
Where? How? Was the whole thing only a dream? Thomas was certainly in front of him only a moment
ago, and now he had suddenly gone with the rapidity of a flash of lightning.

       *       *       *       *       *

It had required much self-control for Marjorie to put aside her anxiety so entirely as to calm
the fears of the two younger ones, and devote herself to their amusement. But she was a girl
of strong character, and perhaps nothing so proved it as her quiet and cheerful manner during
that trying time of waiting.

She threw herself into the children's play, made fun of all their efforts to pull the boat
up the beach, helped with the digging of a huge sand castle, and suggested a rampart of stones
to fortify the deep moat round it. Georgie and Estelle were delighted with the windows and
doors, the gardens with shells for flowers, the drawbridge, and the paved way through the ramparts.
Georgie even proposed to find some sea-anemones to place among the shells as an additional
ornament, and Marjorie was in the act of explaining that it would be cruel to pull the poor
things off their rocks for such a purpose, when she was cut short by an exclamation from Estelle.

The little girl was toiling up the beach, her hands, holding up her overall laden with stones
for the castle. It proved a heavy load for her to carry, and she looked hot and tired. It was
purely a labour of love, for the castle was nearly complete, but the idea of keeping the sea
out of it as long as possible had taken her fancy. About half-way she was forced to sit down
and rest, and as she did so she caught sight of Thomas calmly smoking under the shadow of a
great boulder.

(Continued on page 38.)

HAYDN'S DRUM.

'What is to be done? Nothing could be more inconvenient. Easter-time, and so much new music
to be played!'

Master Frank Haydn, Master of the Orchestra at the parish church of Hamburg, in Southern Germany,
all but tore his brown wig in his despair, at hearing of the death of the man who played the
kettle-drum in his orchestra.

'I know of no one to take his place at such short notice,' he went on, though there were only
his wife and little nephew to hear him.

The nephew, Joseph Haydn by name, had only lately come into the choir-master's family. He was
a child of six years old, but had already shown such wonderful musical genius, that his parents
had decided to place him with his uncle, where he would have great opportunities for musical study.

The little fellow now looked up from an old music book, for he could read music perfectly,
and said timidly, 'I think I could manage the kettle-drum, uncle, if you would just show me
a little how it should be played.'

'You, Joseph?' said the choir-master in surprise, as he looked down at the serious little face.
'It is not a violin, you know; if it were you could manage well enough, but you know nothing
of kettle-drums.'

'Let me try, Uncle!' pleaded Joseph. Before long he had his wish, and both were in the big
room over the church porch where the practices always took place.

Joseph's little fingers seemed to hold the drum-sticks as if to the manner born, and after
a short rehearsal of the music to be played on the festival, the old man felt an immense load
lifted off his shoulders.

'Capital! capital!' he exclaimed. 'I shall not miss poor Schmidt now; your touch is crisper
than his!'

Then the door of the room was locked, and uncle and nephew returned home.

Joseph, however, as Easter drew near, became very anxious, and longed for an opportunity for
further practice on the drum. His fingers might not be skilful enough: he could be sure of
the notes without practice, but could he handle the sticks properly? He dared not ask his uncle
for leave to go into the choir-room, and he had no drum in the house. What could he do? Practise
he must, or he would never feel sure of himself.

'I will make a drum!' said the little fellow; 'I have an idea.'

There was a round basket in the out-house. It was generally used for flour, but it happened
to be nearly empty now, and Joseph seized on this, as it was the shape of a drum; over it he
stretched a clean dishcloth, fastening it as tightly as possible with string.

'It makes a beautiful drum!' he said joyfully, as he beat it with two sticks, and carrying
his 'drum' into the parlour, he placed it on a chair, propped the music up in front of him,
and practised the fingering diligently and noiselessly for an hour or more, till he felt quite
sure of himself.

Alas, for Joseph, however! He had been too absorbed in his drumming to notice the small quantity
of flour which had been left in the basket. It was shaken out with each beat of the drum-sticks,
and now lay thick on the velvet cover of the chair. Joseph got a whipping for his thoughtlessness,
but that was nothing uncommon for children in the eighteenth century, and was soon forgotten.

Easter arrived, and the little fellow played his drum so well, that for many years after he
played that instrument in the choir.

'Little Joseph' in after life became a famous musician, and wrote many oratorios, of which
the 'Creation' and the 'Seasons' are the most famous. He visited England several times, and
was often at the Court of George III. Every one in this country did their best to honour the
great musician. He died in 1809 at Vienna, full of years and honours.

FOR HOME USE ONLY.

A Cambridge Professor once asked one of his friends to lend him a book which he wished to consult.
The messenger returned with the following answer: 'I never allow my books to be taken out of
my study, but if you like to come there you are welcome to read as long as you please.'

Some days after this, the friend applied to the Professor for the loan of his bellows. Remembering
the refusal he had lately met with, he replied: 'I never allow my bellows to be taken out of
my room, but if you choose to come there, you are welcome to blow with them as long as you like.'

THE FAIRY QUEEN'S GIFT.

  The Queen of Fairies passed last night,
    The greenwood dancing through;
  I watched her from my window-pane,
    The round moon saw her too.

  Her light wings fluttered airily,
    A casket she did hold,
  And lo! she scattered strings of pearls,
    And shining beads of gold.

  At break of day I hurried down,
    To gather them with care;
  Yet nought I saw but buttercups
    And daisies lying there.

  So now, I think the buttercups
    And daisies in the green
  Are jewels from the treasure-store
    Of the kind Fairy Queen.

ROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.

By HAROLD ERICSON.

II.--DENISON'S HALL-MARK.

'Now look here, you fellows,' began Denison, whose turn it was to entertain the company at
the camp-fire the next night, 'don't you go laughing at the story I'm going to tell you, and
pretending that you don't believe it's true, for that would hurt my feelings, and I might burst
into tears, and you wouldn't like to see a strong man weep!'

'Go on,' said Bobby, rudely, 'or perhaps one of us will give the strong man something to weep for!'

Denison eyed the speaker with contempt, but plunged into his tale at once. 'See this mark?'
he said, turning up his sleeve and showing a scar upon his forearm, 'and this?' he indicated
a mark on his neck; 'Well, you're going to hear how I came by these. Do you know what a Hall-mark
is? A lion stamped on good metal; that's it, isn't it? Well, these are Hall-marks: the stamp
of a lion; only Stationers' Hall didn't stamp them: the lion made his own mark on me. I've
got more of them on my arms and legs.'

       *       *       *       *       *

It was like this: I was antelope-shooting with a friend not so very far from the spot we are
now in, though a bit farther north. My friend, Thomson by name, had been a trifle off colour,
and just now was quite on the sick list, so that we had not moved camp for some time, and I
spent my days in trying to get a specimen of water-buck for my collection of antelope heads.

One morning, to my joy and excitement, I came upon the spoor of a herd of them, I was alone
and some miles from camp; our cleverest Kaffir hunter was on the sick list as well as Thomson,
so that as a matter of fact I had been obliged to go alone--a kind of veldt influenza had got
hold of the other two, and neither of them felt worth two penn'orth of toffee. I came in sight
of my little water-buck family when I had scouted after them for about an hour; they were grazing
peacefully in a plateau half a mile away, quite unsuspicious of my presence and evil intentions
with regard to them. I was scouting against the wind, of course, and had hopes of getting my
shot in--the first I had ever fired at this particular species. I made for a boulder which
lay between myself and the herd, and creeping most cautiously and slowly (for I was really
keen to succeed), I reached it without alarming the timid animals, which were now scarcely
four hundred yards away. Very carefully I raised myself from the snake-like attitude in which
I had made my advance, in order to risk a peep over the edge of the rock, for I must lay my
exact plan of campaign, so that I might make sure of another couple of hundred yards, which
distance gained, I was going to fire my shot.

I had risen from my crouching attitude, and was about half-way to the upright, when all of
a sudden the world seemed to come to an end and break up into stars and giddy whirlings, accompanied
by sharp pains in the back, flights through space, and terrific thunderous sounds in my very
ears. I was conscious of turning a double or triple somersault, of alighting face-down on the
long grass, of a heavy weight leaning upon my neck and spine, of pain, stiffness, semi-consciousness,
of a continuous noise as though a motor-car lay and throbbed and whirred on the top of me.
What had happened?'

I lay and wondered for a few minutes. Had there been a volcanic eruption? Were bits of it lying
upon me and pinning me down? Would there be another upheaval in a moment; more steely-blue
stars and another flight, and then--the end? If so, I wished it would come quickly and not
leave me in suspense, and, oh! if only the horrible whirring noise at my ear would only stop
for a minute. My head ached as though it would burst. I opened my eyes, but could see nothing
but the stalks of yellow grass in which my face was buried.

Was I sufficiently alive--had I energy enough to move, to raise my aching head a little way
in order to look around a bit? For a few minutes I could not summon sufficient strength to
stir a finger; I felt paralysed and utterly bereft of the power to set my muscles working.
Gradually, however, I began to feel a little better, the noise at my ear ceased and let peace
in; a delightful calm followed, and with it consciousness gradually returned.

I raised my head a few inches; instantly something came in violent contact with the back of
my skull, dealing me a stunning blow; at the same time a crash of thunder reverberated at my
ear, and again I lay still, conscious only of the horrible whirring sound which had begun again
and continued without ceasing. I think I entirely lost consciousness at this point, and lay,
it might have been a few minutes, it might have been an hour, lost to every sense of fear,
of wonder, of pain.

When I awoke, on regaining consciousness, I still lay upon my face, but my brain felt more
capable of coping with the situation. I lay and reflected. Something had happened to me: was
it a stroke of paralysis? I moved the muscles of my face: they were all right on both sides.
I turned my head slightly first one way and then the other--no, I was not paralysed. I tried
to raise myself, but found that some heavy weight upon the small of my back prevented me. That
was odd. Could there have been an earthquake, and had some rock rolled over upon me--a most
unlikely thing, yet what else could it be? I wriggled my back in order to discover, if I could,
the nature of the incubus. Instantly there recommenced that abominable sound, close to my ear,
which had so angered me before; now that my brain was once more in working order I was able
to listen with understanding. The sound was the growling of some great beast; the weight upon
my back could be nothing else than its paw which held me down; I was, in a word, at the mercy
of a savage animal, doubtless a lion, for the weight of the paw proved that it could be no
smaller beast. I had been knocked down from behind: stalked while I myself stalked the water-buck;
I was in the position of a mouse which has been caught by a cat.

My brain remained wonderfully clear, though I expected that my reason would leave me in that
moment of terror. It did not. On the contrary, I lay there and thought more keenly and quickly,
I believe, than I had ever thought before. How long ago had the brute sprung upon me? Surely
an hour, at least, must have passed since I fell, or was it that time passes very slowly in
these terrible moments? I counted thirty slowly--well, that was half a minute; nothing happened.

'Why doesn't he eat me?' I wondered. 'There must be a reason for the delay. Is he waiting for
his mate?' He certainly was waiting--while I lay and thought, another minute or two had passed.

I longed to screw my head round so that I might at least catch a glimpse of the brute in whose
power I lay. I wondered where my rifle was--if only I could see or reach it! There was a skinning-knife,
I knew, in my belt, and the recollection gave me a moment of joy. A knife is not much of a
weapon with which to engage a lion in battle, especially if one could not get at it; but where
there is a knife there is hope. Something hard was in my right hand--what was it? Why--what--it
was my rifle! It might as well, of course, be a hundred miles away at the present moment, for
I dared not move a finger to draw it towards me, and my arms were both stretched at full length
in front of me; but still, when the fatal moment should arrive it might come in useful, and
the thought encouraged and cheered me.

Meanwhile, was the beast falling asleep? Oh, if only he would, I thought! The idea almost stopped
my breathing, so fearful was I lest anything I might do should keep my foe awake! I believe
he did doze a little. The pressure of the great paw upon my back seemed to relax a trifle.
I waited what seemed to me a quarter of an hour; then--my heart in my mouth--I tried a tiny
little wriggle. In a moment the pressure increased, a roar rent the air, I thought my last
moment had arrived and a prayer came to my lips. I felt my left shoulder or upper arm seized.
'Heaven help me!' I muttered aloud--my head swam--I think I fainted for a second. When I recovered
consciousness I was being dragged through the long grass.

(Concluded on page 68.)

PEEPS INTO NATURE'S NURSERIES.

I.--THE LIFE-HISTORY OF THE COMMON FROG

(Concluded from page 12.)

We come now to the final stages in the life of the tadpole babies. These are indicated by the
appearance of a pair of tiny buds on each side of the base of the tail; day by day they grow
longer and longer, and finally assume the form of the hind-leg of the adult. But as yet there
are no fore-legs. If, however, the little beast be carefully examined, the missing limbs will
be found tucked away under the throat, and in a day or so the left arm is thrust through the
breathing-hole, to be followed shortly after by the right, which has to rupture the skin to
gain its freedom. As soon as this takes place, in a wild state the tadpole comes of age, so
to speak, and creeps ashore to assume his new dignity of frog-hood. For a little while longer,
however, he carries the evidence of his infancy about with him, in the shape of a short, stumpy
tail; but in a very brief space the last remnant of this disappears, and now, save in size,
he cannot be distinguished from his parents.

There is a common belief that at a certain time the tail of the tadpole falls off. Nature is
not so wasteful. This tail, when it has served its purpose as a swimming organ--that is to
say, as soon as the hind legs have developed enough to take up their duties--is gradually absorbed.

And this fact recalls another. It will be remembered that it was pointed out that for some
time after leaving the egg no food was taken at the mouth, because there was no mouth, but
life was sustained by the reserve of yolk within the body, the remains of the egg, in short.
Similarly, we have a second period when no food is taken, and this takes place while the tail
is being used up, and the mouth is being transformed. Exactly how this using-up process is
effected cannot be easily explained here; but it forms what is known as a reserve store of
food. In a similar way, dormice, squirrels, and bears grow very fat before they retire to some
snug hole to sleep out the long winter. The gradual waste of the body which goes on during
the long sleep is made good by slowly using up the fat which was accumulated during the summer
and autumn.

At last, then, the tail of the tadpole disappears, and with this several new features become
apparent. These are the new breathing arrangements, a new mouth and system of catching food,
and shorter intestines.

About this new breathing. In ourselves this is done by means of our ribs, which alternately
rise, increasing the cavity of the chest and the capacity of the lungs, and fall, or rather
are pulled down, decreasing the chest cavity, and pressing out the air from the lungs. The
frog pumps in air by that curious movement of the throat which the ignorant suppose to be a
preparation for poison-spitting. When the throat is depressed the mouth cavity is increased,
and air rushes in through the nostrils and fills the chamber. When the floor of his mouth is
raised again the cavity is reduced, and the air is forced down the windpipe into the lungs,
being unable to escape through the nostrils, because they are closed by special valves.

The mouth is now toothless, and of great size. The young frog feeds on living prey, which is
generally caught by the tongue. For this purpose, the tongue in the frog and toad is fixed
to the front of the floor of the mouth, so that the tip of the tongue points backwards towards
the throat! In capturing, say a fly, the frog creeps as near his prey as he can manage, and
then, with a lightning movement, darts the tongue forward on the unsuspecting victim. The tongue
being covered with a sticky substance, the fly adheres to the trap and is drawn in a twinkling
into the cavern, from which return is impossible. The working of the tongue may be seen in
the illustration.

The shortening of the intestine follows in consequence of the change to more nutritious diet.
In the young tadpole it is long and may be seen coiled up like a watch-spring through the skin
of the abdomen; in the adult these coils disappear.

Such, then, is the brief outline of the life-history of one of Nature's water babies. We have
traced it from the egg to the grown-up form: and here we must stop, though all that is of interest
does not end here. I could tell you of the curious way in which the frog changes colour to
suit his surroundings; of how he changes his skin; of his wonderful vocal powers, and a hundred
other things. But meanwhile, try and discover it for yourselves by keeping a few frogs as pets,
starting, as I did, with the spawn taken from a ditch in spring.

W. P. PYCRAFT, F.Z.S., A.L.S.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 31.)

CHAPTER II.

Estelle could scarcely believe her eyes at the sight of Thomas. Her cry made Marjorie and Georgie
look round. Thomas there! How was it she had not seen him before? How was it he had not heard
their calls to him? Had Alan had his dangerous climb for nothing?

With a sudden rush of anger, Marjorie was about to call to Thomas, when another amazing event
stopped her. Alan appeared at the entrance of the cave, and signalling rapidly to her, put
his fingers to his lips.

Puzzled and uncertain what he wanted her to do, she remained sitting near the sand castle,
telling Georgie to be quiet till Alan could explain. Estelle meanwhile had dropped her stones,
and, throwing herself down by her cousin, wanted to know what Alan was doing.

'He will be here in a second,' said Marjorie, trying not to speak impatiently in her anxiety,
'but he evidently does not wish us to look as if we saw him. Let us go on playing as if nothing
had happened.'

'But why mayn't we meet Alan?' demanded Georgie, stooping that he might see under his sister's
great hat.

'He doesn't want us to. I think he does not like Thomas to know he has not been with us all
the time. But it is all guessing, really, for I don't know more than you do,' she added, as
she saw both children were about to ply her with questions.

Meantime, Alan, having caught the spirit of the game over which the others were interested,
took up the largest stones he could find, and came to join the party. It was more than likely
that Thomas would imagine he had been helping with the castle the whole time.

'Well?' said Marjorie, looking up, and at the same time pointing to where she desired the stones
to be placed.

They all began to help in arranging them while Alan spoke in low tones of his adventure.

'It is really true, Marjorie, that something is up. I don't understand it yet, and even if
I did this is no place to tell you about what I heard. Just keep quiet about my climb, all
of you. Do you hear, Georgie?' For his little brother was not good at keeping secrets, and
Alan thought this a serious matter.

'Of course I do. I am not deaf.'

'Well, you are not to say a word to anybody, not even to Mother.'

'How did you get down?' asked Estelle, in a whisper.

'On my feet, having no wings,' he laughed. 'How have you all got on? This is a splendid castle.
Let us fill the moat with water.'

Marjorie looked up in surprise. A look in Alan's eyes made her glance round, and she saw that
Thomas was coming towards them over the sands, to tell them it was time to be going. She saw,
too, that Alan did not wish to speak of his climb up the cliff in Thomas's presence.

Estelle and Georgie were the only talkative ones on their return to the boat. Marjorie was
fully occupied with the difficulties of steering, and Alan and Thomas in pulling against the
incoming tide. Georgie had crammed his pockets with shells, and now brought them out to show
Estelle that there were real, live creatures in some of the closed ones. The idea horrified
her, and she tried to get him to throw them into the sea.

'No, certainly not!' cried Georgie, with a teasing laugh. 'I shall ask Miss Leigh if we can't
have them for tea.'

'To eat?' cried Estelle, shrinking with horror, and springing away from the dirty-looking black
shells.

Her violent jump made the boat give a heavy lurch, and she nearly fell overboard.

'Hullo!' cried Alan, while Marjorie pulled her back to her seat, begging her to keep still.

'What's the matter? asked Georgie with a laugh, his eyes dancing with delight at having startled
her. 'Why, they are only mussels. Lots of people eat them, and periwinkles too. You shall taste
them yourself.'

'Oh, Georgie, do throw them into the sea! They are horrid!' she exclaimed, shuddering. 'I don't
like this bay, or the dark cruel rocks, or the waiting for Thomas, with the tide coming in
to drown us if he is late! And now those dirty shells--alive and horrid--which you want to eat!'

Georgie laughed with such shouts of merriment that Alan told him to shut up; he would have
the boat over if he kicked about in that manner. But his laugh was so infectious that Estelle
was forced into joining, especially when, to please her, he threw the shells into the waves
as they landed.

The wood, dignified by the name of the Wilderness, led up to the rear of the Moat House. It
was of great extent, reaching to the coastguard path on the cliffs, and stretching far across
the coast-line. In the midst of it was the old ruined summer-house, in which the children delighted.
It was not in the least like a summer-house, nor could anybody give a reason for its name.
It was, in fact, all that remained of the ancient rampart which had once surrounded the Moat
House. It was fifteen feet high, and was probably the last of many such three-cornered towers.
Now the flanking walls had either disappeared altogether, or they had become little moss-covered
mounds of stone. Trees and bushwood hid it from view on one side; broken steps went up a second,
which led more or less perilously to the top, where a table, some rough wooden seats, and a
rustic chair or two showed that it was used by the children, if not by their elders. On the
third side, where the ivy had grown thick with age, and stood out from the wall like a tree,
was a heavy oak door, clamped with iron and studded with large nails. In front of this spread
a soft carpet of ground ivy and moss, just now starred with celandines and morning glories,
while the bright, fresh green of the slender birches drooped over it, and cast trembling shadows.

The door had a special attraction for the children. They would often stand and gaze at it,
making up long stories of what might be found inside. Each in turn had tried to induce the
old gardener, Peet, to open it, but as yet no persuasions or arguments had had any effect upon
him. He refused to let them have even one peep.

Great was Estelle's surprise, then, when passing it on their return from the boat, to find
it open. She rubbed her eyes, and caught hold of Alan in her excitement, pointing with her
other hand towards the little slit. There was an instant rush for the ruin. Alan, taking the
lead, made the first attempt to push the door open a little wider, and catch a glimpse of what
lay behind it, but he failed. The interior was too dark, and the door too heavy to move without
help. Determined not to give in, however, he called the others to his assistance, but to their
astonishment, it took the combined strength of the party to push it wide enough to gain even
a glimpse of what was inside. It was amazingly weighty; but when at last it did move, it swung
back quickly and unexpectedly, nearly knocking the children over. Struggling to their feet
again, they gazed at each other in awe, delight, and wonder, till Alan, overcoming his amazement,
went forward to inspect their discovery, the others following close at his heels.

Thomas had been left behind with the boat, and would not be up till they had had time to examine
the inside to their hearts' content. That is what Alan counted upon, at all events. But he
had reckoned without his host.

'I don't think there is much to see,' said Marjorie scornfully. 'It is very dark and dirty,
and oh, do look at the snails!'

'And the mice!' cried Georgie, pointing to one scurrying off under their very noses.

'And the bats!' exclaimed Estelle, with a shudder 'do you see them up there? I wonder if they
will come down and fasten in our hair if we go inside and look about?'

'Why should they?' asked Alan, lighting a match he had found in his pocket. 'They are asleep
now, and won't wake at anything we do. Now come in, and I will have the lantern lighted in
a jiffy. I saw one just close by.'

'I wonder what Aunt Betty or Father would say----,' began Marjorie, but Alan cut her short.

'You are not going to stop outside, surely!' he exclaimed, with surprised indignation. 'We
shall never get such a chance again, and there can be no possible harm in it while I am here
to take care of you.'

'Auntie would not like it,' said Estelle. 'She particularly told me I wasn't to go in at any
time, and I don't think I ought.'

'Aunt Betty trusted us,' added Marjorie, decidedly. 'We can look, but not go in.'

'What rot!' returned Alan, wilfully, not in the best of humours. He had succeeded in lighting
the lantern, and now began to insist on Estelle coming with him. 'There is no trust in a locked
door,' he said. 'At least the trust is in the door keeping us out; not in us who can't get
in. This is a chance in a thousand.'

'I wonder if I might?' said Estelle, looking at Marjorie.

It was a great temptation. It did seem such a pity to lose this opportunity; a chance, as Alan
said, which might never occur again: though the children knew they were doing wrong, curiosity
began to overcome them.

'I don't think it would be right,' answered Marjorie, with decision. 'We can see all we want
from here.'

'I'm sure we can't,' said George, excitedly. 'Look at that dark corner. We don't know what
is in there, but there is something, I'm sure.'

'Well, Marjorie,' said Alan, 'if you don't want to come in, don't. But you need not spoil sport
for all the rest of us. You and I will go in, Estelle, and Marjorie can keep guard outside.'

'I wish I knew if I might!' cried Estelle, clasping her hands on the top of her head, and dancing
up and down in despair. I really and truly believe Auntie only meant I was not to go in alone.
Don't you think so, Marjorie?'

'No, I don't,' returned her cousin, quietly.

'What on earth does it matter?' cried Alan, impatiently. 'We are losing all our time and we
shall have Peet or somebody down upon us in a minute. Come on, Estelle.'

But love for Aunt Betty still acted as a restraint, and though she put her foot on the threshold,
she did not step over.

'I would like to--I would like to,' she exclaimed, torn between her conscience and her wishes,
'if---- '

She broke off, for Georgie was screaming in terror, 'The door--the door! Look at the door!'

(Continued on page 47.)

MARVELS OF MAN'S MAKING.

II.--THE SEVERN TUNNEL.

If you were bound from England to some town in South Wales, it was very awkward to have to
leave your train on the banks of the Severn and make a voyage of more than two miles in a slow
ferry-boat before you could take another train on the opposite shore. The Severn tides, too,
were so erratic that there was never any knowing when the ferry-boat would be able to start.
But that was what people had to put up with forty years ago. So the Great Western Railway Company,
in 1871, decided to go under the fickle waters, as they found it so troublesome to go over
them. A study of the bottom of the river made it clear that the tunnel they intended to make
would have to slope downwards considerably from both ends, running level for a short distance
only under the centre of the stream. This was because the waters, though shallow near either
bank, are extremely deep in the middle, and to avoid this deeper part, the engineers had to
burrow their way to a depth of one hundred and forty-five feet below high-water level at spring
tide. The tunnel itself is four and a half miles long.

The work was begun in 1873. The slopes towards the river were made as gradual as possible,
and the tunnel started from both ends at once. In order to find out what the soil and stone
were like through which they would have to force their way, a shaft or pit, fifteen feet wide
and two hundred feet deep, was dug on the western side of the river. From the bottom of this
the boring or 'heading' (as the beginning of a tunnel is called) was worked east and west through
rock and shale. Gunpowder was exploded in small holes drilled at frequent intervals to shatter
this material; and when we remember that the 'heading' was only about six feet high and six
feet wide we can imagine how uncomfortable this work must have been. Various kinds of drills
have been invented for attacking stone, but the one most usually employed consists of a hard
steel collar, round the edge of which black diamonds are fixed. There is no rock that can withstand
this drill.

When the human moles, burrowing under the Severn from opposite sides, had got to within one
hundred and thirty yards of each other, the drills of those in the western part suddenly broke
through into the secret hiding-place of a great spring. The water gushed forth in cascades
faster than the pumps could pump it out, and in twenty-four hours the 'heading' was filled
with water. This was in October, 1879, and for two months all work was stopped. Then Sir John
Hawkshaw was appointed chief engineer. With great difficulty larger pumps were set in action
to draw the water out, and when this had been partly accomplished, it became necessary for
some one to descend the shaft through thirty feet of water, grope his way for one thousand
feet along the tunnel, and close a certain door which had been left open when the workmen fled
in panic before the deluge. This door, together with two pipes which ran beneath it, allowed
the passage of large quantities of water from under the river, the checking of which would
enable the pumps to cope with the rest. A diver named Lambert undertook this task. He required
twelve hundred feet of tubing to convey air to his helmet, and as this was more than one man
could drag after him, two other divers were called upon to assist. One descended to the bottom
of the shaft, while another walked up the 'heading' for five hundred feet, passing Lambert's
air-tube along as the latter continued the terrible journey alone. Stumbling in the darkness
over the scattered tools which the escaping workmen had thrown down, he arrived at last within
a hundred feet of the door--only to find that he had not the strength to drag the air-hose
any farther! Floating upwards in the water, it rubbed too hard against the ceiling of the tunnel
to be pulled downwards and onwards. Lambert sat down, and, by a supreme effort, pulled it a
few feet more. But the task was beyond his strength, and, greatly disappointed, he returned
to the bottom of the shaft.

A few days later he tried again. This time no air-hose was used. Strapped on his back he carried
a vessel filled with condensed oxygen gas, which he could admit to the helmet in small quantities
at will. Groping his way once more along the narrow, water-choked passage, he at last reached
the door. Passing through to the other side he felt for the open end of one of the pipes, and
turned the screws of its valve. Then, stepping back, he shut the door behind him. All that
now remained to be done was to seal the second pipe. This had what is called a sluice valve,
and Lambert had been instructed to turn the screw which closed it round and round, until he
found he could turn it no farther; when that was done, he would know that it was shut. It took
some time, but it was accomplished at last, and the triumphant diver returned to the upper
air. He had been absent one hour and eighteen minutes.

Lambert had done well, and all were ready to acknowledge his great courage; but the water,
strange to say, remained abundant, and it was only after still further increasing the size
of the pumps that it was at last got rid of. Then the secret came out: no one had told Lambert
that the sluice valve had a left-handed screw, and that, therefore, to close it he would have
to turn it in the opposite direction to the usual one. So all his heroic labour was expended
on opening the valve to its fullest extent, and thwarting the purpose for which he had undertaken
such a perilous duty.

This spring proved to be the greatest enemy the engineers had. But on one occasion the sea
itself made an attack upon them. A tidal wave burst over the Severn's banks one night, and,
rushing in a volume five feet high, entered the workmen's cottages, and rose above the beds
on which their children were asleep. They were only saved by being lifted on to tables and
shelves. Then the great mass of water rolled on, to fall in a huge torrent down the tunnel
shaft. At the bottom eighty-three men were at work. They escaped by running up the sloping
tunnel and climbing a wooden stage or platform at the far end. The water rose to within eight
feet of the tunnel-roof. As soon as the mouth of the shaft could be reached from above, a small
boat was lowered, and upon the gloomy subterranean river a party of rescuers rowed in search
of the imprisoned men. A huge timber, stretched from side to side of the tunnel, soon barred
the boat's progress, and it became necessary to return to the shaft for a saw to cut it in
two. This they dropped overboard before accomplishing their purpose, and had to wait while
another was obtained. Eventually, however, the men were reached and removed from their terrible
prison.

But through danger and difficulty alike, the Severn Tunnel was pushed on with, reaching completion
in 1886--fourteen years after its beginning--and was opened for passenger traffic on December
1st, in that year.

JOHN LEA.

THE UNDECIDED TRAVELLERS.

  'The world is wide,' exclaimed the Goose,
    'I think I'd like to travel.'
  'And so should I,' the Ass replied,
    'I'm tired of loads of gravel.'

  'Where shall we go?' inquired Miss Goose;
    'Myself, I fancy China.
  'Oh, no!' cried Ass; 'in Switzerland
    The mountain peaks are finer.'

  'A fig for landscapes!' hissed his friend,
    'I yearn for fields of paddy;
  About my food I must confess
    I am a trifle "faddy."'

  'They'd make us into food,' cried Ass,
    'They'd fry our bones in batter;
  I will not walk ten thousand miles
    To make a Chinee fatter.'

  And as no plan would suit them both,
    They have not yet departed,
  And I should hear with great surprise
    That they had really started.

A. KATHERINE PARKES.

A BRAVE ANSWER.

There was sharp fighting between the English and French in the Windward Islands in 1778, when
General Meadows conquered St. Lucia, not, however, without himself being severely wounded at
the very beginning of the engagement.

The General, though wounded, would not leave the field for a moment, and when the action was
over, he visited every wounded officer and man before he would receive the surgeon's attention
himself.

His heart was greatly cheered by an answer given to him by a young subaltern, Lieutenant Gomm,
of the Forty-sixth Regiment, who, in the heat of action, was wounded in the eye.

'I hope you have not lost your eye, Lieutenant,' said the General.

'I believe I have, sir,' replied Gomm, 'but with the other I shall see you victorious this day.'

The brave young fellow had his wish, and history tells us that the French General 'was driven
back with shame and with loss.'

A QUIET CONSCIENCE.

The famous Dr. Watts once said, when suffering from a dangerous illness, 'I thank God that
I can sleep quietly to-night without being uneasy as to whether I awake in this world or in
the next.'

How many of us can say that our consciences are so untroubled as that?

THE SHADOOFS AND DRAW-WHEELS OF EGYPT.

In the greater part of Egypt rain never falls, and if it were not for the Nile the country
would be little better than a desert. But every year, at exactly the same time, near the end
of June, the river begins to rise and overflow its banks. For three months it continues to
swell and spread, until it floods nearly the whole of the valley in which it flows. It then
begins to fall as steadily as it has risen, and retires gradually into its proper channel,
leaving the land which it has overflowed covered with fertile mud, which has been brought down
from the interior of the continent, where the Nile rises. This rich soil and the annual flooding
of the valley by the river have made Egypt one of the most fertile countries in the world.

The Egyptian farmer knows well the advantages which he reaps from the overflowing of the Nile,
and he cuts many canals to lead the water to his fields, and builds dams to retain it when
the river goes down. But the overflowing of the river, even when helped by canals and dams,
is not enough for the proper irrigation of the land, and the Egyptian farmers and field-labourers
have to spend much of their time in raising water from the river, or the canals, and distributing
it over the fields, especially upon the higher ground, which the annual flood does not reach.
Along the banks of the river, especially in Upper Egypt, may be seen great numbers of machines,
which are used for raising water from the river into reservoirs, from which it is distributed
through the fields.

The commonest of these machines is the shadoof. It is a sort of balance, with a weight at one
end and a cord and bucket at the other. The arm of the balance rests upon a bar of wood, which
is supported by two wooden posts, the whole resembling the horizontal bar of a gymnasium. The
posts are about five feet high and two or three feet apart, and they are set up on the top
of a bank, close to the edge, so that the end of the arm which bears the bucket may project
over the water. This arm is made out of a slender branch of a tree, and is fastened to the
horizontal bar by loops of cord. Its thicker end is loaded with a large, round ball of mud,
while the other carries a long cord, or even a slender stick, at the end of which is the bucket,
or bowl, in which the water is raised. This bucket is not made of iron, but of basketwork,
usually covered with leather or cloth. The man who works the shadoof stands near the water's
edge, below the slender arm of the balance. He pulls down the cord to which the bucket is attached,
until the bucket dips into the water and is filled, while at the same time he raises the lump
of mud at the other end of the balance. When the bucket is filled, he lifts it up, and empties
it into a little tank higher up in the bank, perhaps at the height of his head. The heavy weight
at the other end of the balance aids him a great deal in lifting the bucket, even if it does
not quite balance it. When the bank is high, and the water has to be raised some distance,
several shadoofs are employed. They are arranged in stages, or steps, one above the other;
the second from the bottom takes its water from the reservoir, into which it has been emptied
by the first, and the third from the reservoir of the second, and so on. Drawing water with
the aid of the shadoof is said to be very hard work, especially in so hot a country as Egypt.
The shadoof was used thousands of years ago, just as it is to-day, as we know by the pictures
of it which are still to seen painted upon the walls of some of the ruins of ancient Egyptian
buildings.

Another machine used for the same purpose is the sakiyeh, or draw-wheel. It consists of a horizontal
axle, with a wheel at each end. One of these wheels overhangs the water of a river, a canal,
or a well, and over it there passes a long, hanging loop of cords, to which a number of earthen
pots are fastened. As the axle and the wheel go round, the pots on the cords are drawn over
the wheel, and made to move in a circle like the buckets of a dredging-machine. The lower end
of the loop of pots dips in the water, and each pot, as it passes through the water, is filled.
It is then slowly drawn up by the turning wheel, and as it passes over the wheel, and is tilted
over, it empties the water into a tank, or spout, and passes on downwards, empty, to the river
again to take up a new supply. The wheel at the other end of the axle is connected with a large
horizontal wheel, or 'gin,' to which a pair of oxen may be yoked. These animals, walking round
and round, turn the large wheel, which, by means of cogs, turns the wheel upon the nearer end
of the axle, and so turns the wheel bearing the pots. The machinery is very rough, and squeaks
and groans in the loudest manner when it is at work; but it raises a great quantity of water,
and is not easily put out of order.

W. A. ATKINSON.

ELEPHANTS ATTACKING A GRANARY.

A True Anecdote.

A traveller, who was making a tour in India some years back, tells us that in his wanderings
he arrived at a village on the north border of the British dominions; near this stood a granary,
in which was stored a large quantity of rice. The people of the place described to him how
the granary had been attacked by a party of elephants which had somehow found out that this
granary was full of rice.

Early in the morning an elephant appeared at the granary, acting evidently as a scout or spy.
When he found that the place was unprotected, he returned to the herd, which was waiting no
great distance off. Two men happened to be close by, and they watched the herd approach in
almost military order. Getting near the granary, the elephants stopped to examine it.

Its walls were of solid brickwork; the entry was in the centre of the terraced roof, which
could only be mounted by a ladder. To climb this was not possible, so they stood to consider.
The alarmed spectators speedily climbed a banyan-tree, hiding themselves among its leafy branches,
thus being out of view while they could watch the doings of the elephants. These animals surveyed
the building all round; its thick walls were formidable, but the strength and sagacity of the
elephants defied the obstacles. One of the largest of the herd took up a position at a corner
of the granary, and pounded upon the wall with his tusks. When he began to feel tired, another
took turn at the work, then another, till several of the bricks gave way.

An opening once made was soon enlarged. Space being made for an elephant to enter, the herd
divided into parties of three or four, since only a few could find room inside. When one party
had eaten all they could, their place was taken by another. One of the elephants stood at a
distance as sentinel. After all had eaten enough, by a shrill noise he gave the signal to retire,
and the herd, flourishing their trunks, rushed off to the jungle.

STORIES FROM AFRICA.

I.--THE STORY OF A CRUSADER.

(Concluded from page 30.)

The Sultan demanded the fortresses of Syria as a ransom, but King Louis replied that they were
not his to part with, but belonged to the Emperor of Germany, who bore the title of King of
Jerusalem. The Sultan threatened him with torture, but only received the calm reply, 'I am
your prisoner; you may do what you will with me.'

He had the grievous pain of seeing his followers slain for refusing to abjure their faith,
and the worse sorrow of knowing that some among them had yielded; and he readily agreed to
pay five hundred thousand pounds as the ransom for his people, the city of Damietta being the
price of his own freedom. The Sultan exclaimed in amazement, when the answer was returned,
'Right noble is this Frankish king, who pays such a sum without bargaining. Go, tell him we
will lessen it by one-fifth.'

De Joinville was not with his master when he was taken, having been detained by contrary winds
in the river; but he had adventures enough of his own.

He had struggled up to the deck of his galley, though grievously sick, to issue his orders,
when the boat was boarded by the Saracens. One friendly Turk counselled him to leap on board
the enemy's galley and give himself up as a prisoner; and afterwards this Turk saved his life,
when the Saracen daggers were at his throat, by passing him off as the King's cousin. He even
secured for him the scarlet furred cloak which had been his mother's gift, and under which
poor Joinville lay, shivering with fever, and, as he freely owned, with dread of what was to
come. Every hour the lives of the prisoners hung in the balance. De Joinville saw one old comrade
and follower after another slain and thrown into the river before his eyes. When a grand old
Saracen, with a body of armed followers, entered the tent in which they were confined, they
thought their executioners had come; but the old man, after solemnly asking them whether they
believed indeed in a God Who had risen from the dead, bade them be of good cheer, for such
a God would surely not desert the servants who suffered in His cause. So, with their faith
and courage strengthened in so strange a way, the Christian prisoners waited until the good
news came of the King's treaty.

Even then the peril was not over. The Sultan who had concluded the peace was murdered by his
guard, and, in the confusion which followed, the galley to which the prisoners had been removed
was boarded by a wild band, with drawn swords. The French nobles, thinking the end had come,
fell upon their knees.

But again their lives were spared, and, soon after, De Joinville found himself reunited to
his beloved King, who, with scrupulous care, was collecting and paying to the last farthing
the sum promised as ransom.

So end De Joinville's crusading adventures, as far as Africa is concerned, though he followed
his royal master to Acre before Louis turned his face sadly homeward. When the King set forth,
twenty years later, on his second luckless crusade, De Joinville refused to leave his vassals,
who, he said, had suffered sorely during his last campaign. He heard from the lips of others
how his master died at Tunis, with his thoughts turning longingly still to that Jerusalem which
his mortal eyes would never see. But of this De Joinville tells us little, being unwilling,
he says, to vouch for the truth of anything that he did not himself see and hear. And he certainly
saw and heard enough to leave us a story of fights and escapes as fascinating as any romance,
and the portrait of a king, often mistaken, indeed, but always valiant, high-minded, and pure,
whose words and deeds his old followers lovingly recorded for the sake of generations yet to come.

MARY H. DEBENHAM.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 39.)

The children had all been so intent on the going in or staying out, that they had not noticed
how the door was slowly but surely closing on them. No one had touched it, yet it was moving
with great force. Marjorie ran back out of the way with Georgie clinging to her arm. Alan,
seizing Estelle's hand, had barely time to stumble over the threshold when a heavy bit of wood
was hurled over him, just missing his head, and landing on the threshold he had quitted the
moment before. On this the door banged with a great crash. It had fallen just in time to prevent
the door shutting. The whole building seemed to shake with the shock of the banging door. Alan
turned, to see Thomas, white and staring, behind him. The expression on his face recalled to
the boy's mind the conversation in the hollow. For the moment, however, anger prevented any
other thoughts.

'It might have killed me!' he exclaimed, angrily. 'What on earth did you do that for?'

'I meant no harm, sir,' returned Thomas, hurriedly. 'The truth is, sir, I--I want to get into
that place for a bit. I--I have left something behind. It's most important. The noise may bring
Mr. Peet up here, and--and--I must get in afore he comes. What's there was left by--by mistake,
sir--only a mistake.'

Thomas spoke in a confused, anxious manner, all the time edging nearer to the door. 'It would
have slammed if I hadn't thrown in the bit of wood,' he continued, as he pushed back the door
to its widest extent.

Sure as he felt that Thomas was deceiving him, Alan was puzzled how to connect the gardener's
anxiety to enter the summer-house with the conversation he had overheard; but that it had some
connection he felt certain. What could the man want in that dark, uninviting hole? Had he stolen
any valuables and hidden them in there? If so, why did he want information about them when
he must know all about where they were to be found? Yet the stranger had told Thomas to obtain
information, without which their bargain was useless.

His thoughts were interrupted by the gardeners, who now came running up, headed by Peet. They
were amazed to see the four children staring in wonder at the strength displayed by Thomas
as he set the massive door open.

'What are you doing with that 'ere door?' shouted the angry head gardener. 'Who opened it?
It isn't anybody's business to go nigh it at all.'

'The door nearly slammed on the young ladies and gentlemen,' replied Thomas, sullenly, his
tone proving to Alan how keen was his disappointment. 'I just threw the wood in time to stop it.'

'Who opened it?' demanded Peet, sternly, his eyes wandering round the group of children and
gardeners.

No one answering, Alan said they had found the door open on their return from boating, and
had looked in. 'And if we ever get the chance again we will go right in,' he added, sulkily,
walking away with his head in the air. His disappointment made him forget himself.

'Stop, Master Alan,' returned Peet, whose naturally cross temper was continually bringing him
into collision with the children. 'The Colonel and my lady have forbidden all you young ladies
and gentlemen to go into the ruin, and you tell me you will get in if you have the chance?'

'Yes, Peet, I do,' replied Alan, haughtily. 'I am not accountable to you for what I do or don't
do. You mind your own affairs, and find out who left the door open, or else you will be held
responsible.'

Alan marched off, leaving Peet speechless with rage.

'I will speak to the Colonel,' he muttered to himself as the children disappeared in the direction
of the house.

No one knew anything about the door, and, in spite of his anger, Peet was obliged to admit
he himself must have left it open, since none of the under-gardeners could have got possession
of the key. As far as he knew, they had no interest in going in. The ruin was only used by
him for a secret purpose of his own of which he had spoken to no one. On one occasion alone
had he ever allowed any of his underlings into it. That was on the day he had made Thomas assist
him in erecting some woodwork in preparation for a gift he had received from his brother in
India, which he desired to keep a profound secret from everybody. Inside the ruin was a recess
large enough for his purpose; but it required a good deal of adapting to make it available,
and this he could not manage without help. Thomas's action in throwing the piece of wood might
or might not be regarded as suspicious, but since he had been out boating with the children,
he could not have had anything to do with opening the door. He might desire to get in if his
curiosity about the woodwork in the recess had been roused, but was that likely in such a stupid
lout as Thomas?

There really appeared to be no one on whom he could visit his wrath. Dismissing the under-gardeners
curtly, he was forced to return to his work in a very unenviable frame of mind, suspicious
of everybody.

Meantime the children were greatly taken aback by the quarrel between Alan and Peet. The two
were always more or less at daggers drawn, but it was seldom that the mutual dislike blazed
up into open war.

'I will show Peet a thing or two,' cried Alan with a wilful smile. 'He must learn he can't
speak to me like that. He is Aunt Betty's servant, worse luck. If he had been Father's, I'd
have been down on him with a vengeance.'

'It is a great pity to quarrel with him,' said Marjorie, though she knew the remark was not
a wise one under the circumstances. 'He is an old man, he's seen heaps of trouble, and he's
soured. That is what Aunt Betty says. I think it would be nicer--- more like what one would
call noblesse oblige--if we let him alone.'

'There's Father!' cried Georgie with a shout. 'We can ask him.'

(Continued on page 50.)

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 47.)

Colonel De Bohun, strolling along smoking his cigar, was at once beset by the whole party.
He was good-natured and kind-hearted; the children were seldom afraid to take him into their
councils. His appearance was always hailed with delight, and confidences and requests of all
kinds were poured into his ears. In the holidays especially he was a willing victim, and could
be counted on to grant all but the most impossible demands.

'What are you young monkeys plotting now?' he exclaimed as they ran up to him.

'Oh, Father!' cried Marjorie, laughing, 'you can't say we are not reasonable. I heard Mademoiselle
telling Miss Leigh so. It was one day when she was out of temper, and we didn't deserve it.'

'Never mind Miss Leigh,' broke in Georgie. 'I hate her name out of the schoolroom.'

'Sh--sh!' said his father. 'I can't allow that. Miss Leigh is to be pitied for having you in
the schoolroom.'

'Tell us about the ruined summer-house, Dad,' went on Georgie, eagerly. 'The door was open
just now, and we all peeped in. Oh, wasn't Peet angry.'

'Hullo!' remarked the Colonel. 'Whose fault was that?'

'We found it open upon our return from boating,' Marjorie hastened to say.

'I don't like that. It shows great carelessness on the part of somebody. I hope none of you
went inside?'

'It wasn't for want of the wish to,' replied Alan; 'but the door nearly banged on the top of
us, so we had to scuttle as fast as we could. Peet was very rude about it. It was not our fault
that the door was open, but we have every right to go in if it is.'

'No right at all,' answered the Colonel, somewhat sternly. 'The place belongs to the Moat property,
and it is Aunt Betty's desire, as well as mine, that none of you children should go in. The
building is very old, and every year its condition becomes more and more dangerous. There have
been great falls from the roof already. I will not have you there, not any one of you. You
may as well know at once that there is a passage from it to some spot---- '

'To the hole in the face of the cliff?' asked Alan, eagerly.

'It can hardly go so far, I fancy. But I am uncertain. I know, however, that a part of it leads
to Aunt Betty's cellars.'

'Could we get in through the cellars?' asked Marjorie.

'Aunt Betty may have the door locked, or, perhaps, permanently closed. About that I do not
know either.'

They had by this time reached the bridge over the moat, the waters of which reflected the peaceful
calm of that beautiful August morning. Before them lay the Moat House, weather-beaten, dark
with age, like an old soldier at rest after many battles. The original building--the one which
had seen the struggles between the followers of the Red and White Roses--had been small; but
succeeding generations of the Coke family had added to it, as necessity arose, with the result
that the house--an irregular structure of two stories--extended over a good deal of ground,
and represented every style of architecture.

CHAPTER III.

The weather suddenly changed. It had continued fine and hot for several weeks, and there was
no sign of any break in the succession of cloudless days. The great heat was bound, however,
to end in a thunderstorm. The air became very sultry, and yet there was a sighing among the
leaves of the trees.

'There is plenty of rain coming,' said Colonel De Bohun, as he stood by Lady Coke's side, and
watched the children going in rather languidly to their tea. 'We want it badly.'

He was right. That night the greatest storm the children had ever heard startled them out of
their beds. Georgie took refuge with Marjorie, and even Alan came and sat on her bed, a blanket
wrapped round the three of them, because it 'was more comfortable to be all together,' while
the thunder crashed overhead, and the vivid lightning lit up the room, in spite of the candles
which burnt upon the dressing-table.

All the next day the children had to amuse themselves in the house, and, truth to tell, they
were not sorry for one whole day to settle various little matters which had been neglected
during the fine weather. One of these was the aquarium. This kept them well employed; but when
on the following morning they found the rain still falling, and the heavy, ragged clouds gave
no promise of the sky clearing, Georgie's patience gave way.

'What can we do to-day?' he asked, dismally, as he traced the course of the drops on the window-panes
with a damp finger. 'I'm tired of this rain. Why can't it stop now?'

'It won't stop just to please you,' said Alan, who was examining the quality of the water in
his aquarium.

Georgie turned round angrily, but Marjorie came to the rescue hastily.

'The rain is nothing. We can amuse ourselves just as well in the house. Can't we go over to
Aunt Betty's, and play with Estelle, Miss Leigh?'

Georgie gave a bound of delight towards the door, and even Miss Leigh smiled, and got up quickly.

'A capital idea!' she said, rolling up her work. 'Go and put on your macintoshes, and we will
run over as quickly as we can. We shall not get wet enough to hurt us.'

Alan, however, was not pleased. He wanted to change the water of his aquarium, and required
Marjorie to help him. They had already put fresh water into two compartments, but the third
was to have some of the rain, which they were collecting especially for the purpose. The small
frogs, sticklebacks, and mud-lampreys were already enjoying themselves, and Alan was determined
that the tadpoles and newts should be as happy. The newts were specially disliked by Georgie,
and now, to make matters worse, Alan placed two of them on the floor. He intended to make them
run races, regardless of the effect of their wet bodies on the carpet.

'They don't do any harm,' he asserted, when Miss Leigh objected; 'not a bit of it. Water never
hurts anything.'

'It is very unpleasant to have them on the floor, to say the least,' returned the governess.
'And you know Georgie does not like them.'

'Then he needn't, the baby,' retorted Alan, with a withering glance at his brother.

'I don't mind frogs half so much,' explained Georgie, with a look of disgust at the newts struggling
in Alan's grasp.

'What a little silly you are,' said Alan, placing the creatures on the ground, and a tiny red
worm in front of them. 'What's the matter with you? Are you afraid they will bite?'

'It's those dreadful legs! And the nasty way they eat.'

'Come, we must go,' said Miss Leigh, with some irritation. 'Come along, Georgie. Marjorie,
just see that you and he are well wrapped up, and have goloshes on. The paths will be like rivers.'

But Alan, who had moved to allow the governess to leave the room, objected strongly to Marjorie
going with her.

'She's got to stay and help me change the water,' he declared.

Miss Leigh had grown impatient, however; and she insisted on Marjorie accompanying her and
Georgie, and swept her out of the schoolroom with them, leaving Alan to overcome his wrath
as best he could.

(Continued on page 63.)

KINDNESS CURED HIM.

Some time ago a soldier at Winchester Barracks went before his colonel for punishment. He was
the worst man in the regiment, in spite of his continual imprisonment in the guard-room.

The colonel, who was tired of sentencing the man, said to the sergeant: 'Here he is again.
Guard-room, disgrace, solitary confinement--in fact, everything has been tried; but all to
no purpose.'

'There is one thing you have not tried,' said the sergeant, 'and that is "forgiveness."'

The colonel had never thought of that, and when the soldier was brought in he asked him what
he had to say to the charge.

'Nothing, sir,' was the reply, 'only I am sorry for what I have done!'

Turning a kind and pitiful look on the man, who expected nothing else than that his punishment
would be increased with the repetition of his offence, the colonel addressed him, saying: 'Well,
we have tried everything with you, and now we are resolved to--forgive you!'

The soldier was struck dumb with amazement, and left the room without a word. The new plan,
however, was too much for him; it broke his hardened heart, and he became one of the best soldiers
in her Majesty's service.

PUZZLERS FOR WISE HEADS.

2.--LIBRARY PUZZLE.

British authors may be classed in various ways: some are philosophers, like (a secure fastening,
and a vowel) and (a breakfast eatable). Some, again, are poets, like (painful results of a
devouring element) and (expressive sounds, and true value). There are essayists like (hardened
metal, and a vowel) and (young and tender meat); and others, like (a kind of swallow), who
are of less amiable character. These stand side by side with writers of novels, like (some
one north of the Tweed, and an upright and crosspiece); or of stories, plays, and verses, like
(a precious metal, and a hard worker).

C. J. B.

3.--BURIED CITIES--ENGLISH AND FOREIGN.

1. Go to the King's Court and plead there for deliverance.

2. The verdict was 'Not proven.' I ceased to hope for a conviction.

3. The house is good, and the garden very large.

4. Did the voyage tire you? Not an atom; I landed as fresh as when I embarked.

5. Hangings of a rich amber lined the apartment.

6. I acknowledge no superior, be he pope, king, or emperor.

7. Remember, gentlemen of the jury, the advanced age of the prisoner.

C. J. B.

[Answers on page 75.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWER TO PUZZLE ON PAGE 15.

1.--Matriculation.

I raised the curtain and looked out. The mail-train was about to start. 'Alicia,' I cried,
trial and toil lie before me. Rail not, lady, at my shabby coat; a nation's eyes follow me.
In this curt Latin letter my instructions are written; armed with it I am a happy man.

THE MUSIC OF THE NATIONS.

II.--CURIOUS MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS OF INDIA.

Most Anglo-Indians, after living many years in India, return to their native country with the
idea that the music of Hindostan consists of the noisy twanging of stringed instruments, jangling
of ankle bells, and banging of drums. Very few have troubled themselves to consider the important
part played by music in the lives of the various nations occupying the vast territories between
the Himalayas and Cape Comorin.

Foreigners are treated by the natives to noisy performances because they are thought to be
lovers of harsh sounds, possibly owing to the prominence of brass instruments in our military
bands, the only European music with which they are familiar. Moreover, we must take into account
that the scales and chords, which make the harmonies so pleasant to Western ears, sound just
as discordant to Eastern nations as their musical combinations do to ourselves.

The Vedas, or sacred books of the Brahmins, give very strict directions about the music of
the various religious festivals. It is ordered to consist almost always of soft, mild melodies,
dying dreamily away, accompanied by the gentle tinkling of cymbals. The Vedic chant, sung by
the priests, was written some three thousand years ago, and has still a wonderful effect on
the minds of educated Hindus.

In very early times the art of music was reduced to an elaborate system, and the study of it
seems to have been general until the first Mohammedan invasion in the eleventh century. From
this time the whole country was a scene of war between rival princes, and amid fighting and
bloodshed for many centuries the peaceful arts had little chance of flourishing.

Aurungzebe, the last great Mogul emperor, put an end to the Court music, which had probably
reached a very low level in his day. It was his custom to assure his people of his safety by
showing himself daily to them at a certain window, and some musicians, thinking to arouse his
sympathy, brought beneath this window a funeral bier, and set up a doleful wailing. Distracted
by the noise, the emperor appeared and demanded what it all meant? 'Melody is dead,' was the
dejected reply, 'and we are taking it to the graveyard.' 'Very good,' answered the annoyed
ruler; 'make the grave so deep that neither voice nor echo may ever again be heard.' And so
Court ceremonials were deprived of music for the future.

The 'bin,' or 'vina,' may be regarded as the national instrument of India. Legend says that
it was invented by Nareda, the son of Brahma. In painting and sculpture Nareda is usually represented
as playing on this instrument. One of the old Pâli books, written about the time of our Lord's
birth, gives a description of the 'vina,' and the carving of the most ancient instruments differs
little from that of those made at the present time.

The 'bin' is made of wood, and has seven strings, two of steel, the rest of silver, and these
are plucked by the two first fingers of the performer, who wears little metal shields made
for the purpose. It is tuned by pegs, and has two gourds suspended below, each usually measuring
about fourteen inches across. These, being of irregular shape and gaily coloured, give a very
picturesque look to the instrument.

Another favourite instrument is the 'kimmori.' This also derives its sounding powers from gourds,
of which three are usually slung from the tube forming the body. It is said by the natives
to have been invented by one of the singers of the 'Brahma Loka,' or heaven of the Brahmins.
The 'kimmori' is made of a pipe of bamboo or blackwood, with frets or screws, which should
be fashioned of the scales of the pangolin, or scaly ant-eater, though more often they are
made of bone or metal. It has only two strings, one touching the frets, the other carried above
them. The tail-piece is always carved like the breast of a kite, and the instrument is frequently
found sculptured on ancient temples and shrines, especially in Mysore, in the south of Hindustan.

In the Old Testament, mention is made of a musical instrument called kimor, which was probably
the same as the kimmori, both being of great antiquity, and most likely of Aryan construction.

HELENA HEATH.

FEATHERED FRIENDSHIP.

A True Story.

Mag was seldom at rest: from morning till night she hopped about, in her smart black-and-white
coat--her bright eyes shining, her head a little on one side, and her chatter constantly to
be heard.

Those bright, bead-like eyes of hers saw everything that was to be seen; but, of all the creatures
that met her view, Mag admired the pheasants most. She thought there never were such fine and
noble birds, and she could not tire of looking at them, and noticing how the rich greens and
blues and browns of their soft plumage shone in the autumn sunshine.

She proved her interest once in a remarkable way. The pheasants--several of them--were pecking
amongst the bracken, and Mag, perched on an oak bough overhead, was looking round, as was her
custom, when her glance fell upon a fox, lurking treacherously amongst the long grass, evidently
making ready to spring upon the stately birds.

What was to be done? To cry out would be to draw Master Reynard's attention away from the pheasants
to herself; but Mag did not hesitate for a moment. At the risk of her own life she raised her
shrill note of warning, and the pheasants, roused to the danger, scuttled away, just in time.

The disappointed fox tried hard to get at the magpie, but her strong wings stood her in good
stead, and she, too, managed to reach a place of safety.

THE MOLES AND THE MOUNTAIN.

Two moles once dwelt together in a hole at the foot of an enormous mountain. They had long
lived a quiet life, and now wished to make a noise in the world, so they caused a report to
be spread about among the animals that they intended moving the mountain on a certain day.
The beasts thought it a wonderful thing that two little moles should move a great mountain,
and they never stopped to ask if it was possible or not.

On the day appointed, they came together with one accord to see this extraordinary feat of
strength. Not only animals came, but men too, who had provided themselves with sacks, bags,
and wheelbarrows to carry away the gold and silver and other precious metals which they fancied
were inside the mountain. After waiting some time, the moles came out, and said: 'Dear sirs,
the sight of so many of you here to-day does our hearts good. We have lived a very quiet life
hitherto, and now desire to make a name in the world. We will, therefore, perform the wonderful
task of moving the mountain as we promised; but before it can be accomplished, we shall require
you all to bring a large waggon and place the mountain on the top of it ready for starting.
Until you have done this, we shall not be able to move the mountain.'

Then the moles retired to their hole to watch the effects of their speech. The animals saw
at once that they had been deceived, and they tried to tear down the place, but could not,
for the wily moles lived too far under the ground to meet with any hurt.

MORAL: Do not be taken in by the vain promises of those who only wish to make a name for themselves.
(From H. BERKELEY SCORE'S Original Fables.)

TOO MUCH FOR THE WHISTLE.

When I was a child about seven years of age, my friends one holiday filled my pockets with
half-pence. My reflections on the subject gave me more chagrin than the whistle gave me pleasure.

This little event, however, was afterwards of great use to me, the impression continuing on
my mind, so that often, when I was tempted to buy some unnecessary thing, I said to myself,
'Do not give too much for the whistle,' and so I saved my money.

From 'Benjamin Franklin's Life.'

THE BEE.

  A little Bee, one sunny day,
  Through garden beds sped on its way;
    It went from flower to flower.
  As on its busy way it flew,
  It entered blossoms white and blue,
    And lingered by the bower.

  Each lovely blossom with its cup,
  Something of sweetness yielded up,
    Something of what was good.
  There was no flower that I could see
  But gave up something to the bee--
  Each one did what it could.

  As on through life I go each day,
  And here and there pursue my way,
    Like to that busy bee.
  Oh, may I gather what is good,
  And find for heart and mind sweet food,
    Enriched by all I see!

A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

True Tales of the Year 1806.

II.--THE OLD ROSEWOOD ARMCHAIR.

On a cold winter's afternoon, in the year 1806, the little crowd that had been attending a
sale of furniture at the chief auctioneer's in Wolverhampton was slowly melting away, for the
few lots still left to be sold mostly consisted of worn-out saucepans, broken towel-rails,
and some shabby chairs, and such-like worthless articles.

Very poor people, however, cannot be too fastidious, and a few buyers still remained who were
glad to bid for such things, and amongst these people was a respectable-looking widow, in threadbare
mourning, with a boy of about thirteen years old by her side.

'Lot 213!' said the auctioneer, with a yawn; for the excitement of the sale was over, and he
did not waste professional jokes except on well-to-do hearers. 'Rosewood armchair, upholstered
in best wool damask! Now, then, what offers?'

His assistant meanwhile had hoisted on to the table the very shabbiest chair that had ever
occupied so prominent a position! No doubt it might once have been a good piece of furniture,
but now the rosewood was so encrusted with dirt that it required much scrutiny to say what
the wood really was; and, as for the 'best wool damask,' that must have existed only in the
auctioneer's imagination, for the chair looked as if it were upholstered in a ragged, colourless
canvas, with the stuffing sticking through in numberless places.

Some of the little audience laughed and jeered as the chair was placed before them, and one
man said, derisively, that 'it wasn't worth breaking up for firewood.'

The little widow's eyes, however, brightened, and she whispered to the boy, 'That's the chair
I told you of. I saw it yesterday. I could clean it up, and make it comfortable for your grandfather.
I can't bear to see him sitting on that hard chair of his, with his rheumatism and all. But
I'm afraid it will go for more than I have.' And she clutched the leather bag, with its solitary
half-crown, more firmly in her hand.

'It's a big chair,' said the boy; 'but it's all to pieces, mother.'

'I could settle it, if only I get it,' said the widow, anxiously, still looking at the chair.

'Now! What offers?' repeated the auctioneer, looking impatiently round. 'Come, make a bid!
A good rosewood chair, upholstered in damask.'

There was silence. No one seemed to want such a wretched piece of furniture, except the widow,
who longed for it so earnestly that the power of speech seemed to go from her.

'George,' she gasped, as she pulled her boy's sleeve, 'say you'll give a shilling. I can't
make him hear me.'

'A shilling!' shouted out the boy, and the auctioneer turned in his direction at once.

'A shilling for a rosewood chair, upholstered in best damask!' he said, in a voice of scorn.
'And this in the respectable city of Wolverhampton!'

The spectators laughed, but no one bid any further sum, so the auctioneer, who wanted to get
home to his supper, banged his hammer on the table, and to her surprise and delight the widow
found that the chair was hers.

With her boy's help she got the chair home, and cheered her invalid father by telling him 'his
old bones should ache no longer. She would have him in an easy-chair by the following day.'

She was up at daybreak, and immediately after their frugal breakfast she dragged the chair
into the yard, and began ripping up the fusty old lining.

'Let me do that, mother. I can rip finely,' said George, taking the knife out of her hand,
for there is a certain joy in tearing and cutting that appeals to a boy.

'Very well,' said his mother, 'then I will get a pail of warm water, and we will scrub the
rosewood, and get all this black dirt off it; and when that's done I'll begin the upholstering.
I'm going to cover it with my old red cloak. It will be fine and soft for your grandfather,
and I don't wear colours now, so that I can spare the cloak. But, first of all, I will put
Grandfather in the window-seat, so that he can see all we are doing. It will amuse him; his
life is dull enough, poor dear old man.'

She went indoors, and George continued the ripping, enjoying the clouds of dust he raised in
the process.

The little woman had just settled her father comfortably on the wooden settle, where he could
look out of the window and see all that went on in the yard, when they were startled by a cry
from George.

'Mother! Mother! Oh, come!'

'He has cut himself!' said the poor woman, turning deadly pale, as she flew out into the yard.

But George was unhurt, though he looked dazed and half stupefied.

'Look here, Mother,' he said, pointing down to the ground, 'this chair was full of gold pieces.
No wonder it was so heavy to drag home!'

'Gold pieces! Oh, no!' she said, shaking her head. 'You must have made a mistake, my boy.'

'Look at them!' said George, stooping down and picking up a handful of guineas from the mass
of dust and dirt and horsehair that was strewn on the floor of the yard. 'They're guineas right
enough; they came pouring out like water when I got to the middle of the chair.'

'They look like guineas,' said the poor woman, trembling with anxiety. 'Oh, George, if they
should be, and if they are rightfully ours, then Father could get to Bath and be cured, and
you could be apprenticed to a cabinet-maker, like your poor father before you.'

'They are guineas,' said George, stoutly. 'Let's show them to Grandfather--he will know; and
if they are--and I know they are'--he repeated, 'some of the money must be spent on you, Mother;
I won't have it all go to apprentice me. If that ever comes off, you must have a new gown and
cloak to sign my articles in,' and George got up from the dirty ground and gave his mother
a hearty hug.

Grandfather gave his verdict: the guineas were real, and had the effigy of George I. stamped
on them, and there were just a hundred of them, all told.

Of course, the news of the widow's lucky find was soon known, and the auctioneer claimed the
money, but the clergyman of the parish supported the widow's claim, and though the auctioneer
went to law about it, he lost his case and had to pay the costs.

Later on in the year a happy family party went to a solicitor's office to sign George's indentures.

Grandfather was there, erect and well, for the Bath waters had done wonders for him. His widowed
daughter hung on his arm in a fine new dress and cloak, and George, looking very important
at the thought of being apprenticed to the first cabinet-maker in Wolverhampton, had everything
on new from top to toe, and all this was the outcome of the purchase (for a shilling) of 'the
old rosewood armchair.'

S. C.

STORIES FROM AFRICA.

II.--The Constant Prince.

One summer's day, nearly five hundred years ago, a queen lay dying in the royal city of Lisbon.
She was an English princess, daughter of our own John of Gaunt, bearing the loved name of her
grandmother, good Queen Philippa, and she had been a helpful wife to her husband, King Joao
of Portugal, and a wise and tender mother to the five lads who stood in bitter sorrow round
her death-bed. Even now, as her life ebbed away, she roused herself to speak to them brave
words of cheer and counsel, and, calling them close to her, gave to each a sword, bidding them,
with her failing breath, to draw the blades only in the cause of truth and right, and in defence
of the widow and the orphan.

A good cause it was in which the young princes went forth but a few weeks later. They had one
and all refused to receive knighthood for some bloodless achievement at a tournament, and had
begged to be allowed to win their spurs by an expedition against the Moorish pirates, who,
from their strongholds on the African coast, swept the Mediterranean Sea, and carried off numberless
prisoners into cruel bondage. It was in the cause of many a widow and orphan, whose bread-winner
toiled in some Moorish seaport, or below the decks of a pirate galley, that the Portuguese
princes drew their mother's last gifts on African soil.

So well did they acquit themselves that, after one day of desperate fighting, the city of Ceuta,
one of the most valuable of the pirate strongholds, fell into the hands of the three elder
lads. Enrique, the third brother, who was not only a gallant fighter, but so skilful a general
that our own Henry V. offered him a command in his army, so distinguished himself that his
father would have knighted him first, had he not refused to be preferred before his elders.

But, of all the five, there was no more eager Crusader than the youngest, Fernando, who, though
a mere child, had been the first to suggest the expedition, and who longed beyond everything
to follow in his brothers' footsteps. Eighteen years, however, passed away before another such
expedition could be undertaken, and by that time the eldest of the five brothers, Duarte (or
Edward), the namesake of his great-uncle, our gallant Black Prince, had succeeded his father
as King of Portugal. From him Enrique and Fernando won permission for another attack upon the
Moors, and set forth, full of the hope of taking Tangier as they had taken Ceuta. But Fernando's
honours were not to be won with the sword. The Portuguese forces found themselves so far outnumbered
that the brothers, bitterly disappointed, felt it necessary to retreat. But worse was to come.
There was a traitor in the Portuguese camp, who let the enemy know of the princes' movements,
and when the starving, weary troops reached the coast at daybreak, they found themselves cut
off from their ships.

The Moorish leader, Lyala ben Lyala, agreed to release the army in exchange for the city of
Ceuta, Prince Fernando and some of the noblest of his followers remaining as hostages, while
news of the disaster and of the terms offered was carried to Lisbon. The royal prisoner and
his companions were treated with all honour and courtesy, and assured that their captivity
could only be a short one, for the Portuguese King would lose no time in redeeming his gallant
brother.

But the Christian prince knew better. The city which had been so gallantly won from the infidel
might not be lightly given back. Some say that Fernando himself sent a message to the King
at Lisbon, forbidding him to weigh his brother's freedom against the fair prize of their first
deed of arms. At any rate, he showed neither surprise nor dismay when the answer was returned
that the King of Portugal would pay any sum the Moors could ask for his brother's ransom, but
would not part with Ceuta. It must have been heart-breaking work for the King and his brothers
to agree with the decision of the Council, that the city must be held at the cost of the freedom
of the youngest and best-beloved of their gallant band, even though they knew that Fernando
himself would be the first to applaud them. Grief and anxiety must have added to the sickness
of which King Duarte died a year later, leaving a child heir and much trouble and confusion
behind him. Enrique left camp and court to live in seclusion at Algarve, and there gave himself
up to the study of naval science and astronomy. His name is famous yet as 'Prince Henry the
Navigator,' and his renown spread over Europe in his lifetime. But, as he planned and sent
forth exploring expeditions or studied the stars in his long night watches, the wise prince's
heart must have ached many a time at the thought of the younger brother, paying the penalty
of their failure among the dark-skinned foe.

For the Moors, who had hoped to hoist the crescent once more over their ancient stronghold,
wreaked a bitter vengeance on the man who would not plead for his own freedom.

Fernando and his companions, sons of the noblest families in Portugal, were set to the hardest
and most menial work, loaded with chains, and driven to their tasks with blows and threats.
But no ill-usage could break the spirit of the prince, or induce him to send home entreaties
for the only ransom his captors would accept. The lad who had promised at his dying mother's
bedside to fight as become a Christian knight, was to show a higher courage than he had ever
needed on the battle-field. He, the noblest born and the least robust of the captives, did
his hard tasks with a diligence and patience which won the admiration even of his tormentors.

When the captives were shut at night into the dark and noisome dungeon where they slept, he
would gather his companions about him and hearten them with his brave words, calling them brothers
and comrades, and only grieving that he had led them to share his own ill-fortune. Complaints
and murmurs were shamed into silence by his brave patience, and if ever the self-control of
the weary, half-starved captives broke down and they quarrelled among themselves, the angry
words were checked by the remembrance that nothing would so grieve the prince. And since

  'The courage that bears, and the courage that dares,
  Are really one and the same,'

not one of Queen Philippa's sons proved more worthy of his knighthood than the youngest of
the five.

The bitterest trial came when Fernando's health, always delicate, gave way altogether under
his privations, and he could no longer do the tasks required of him. Even the comfort of his
companions' presence was now denied him, and in his wretched cell he lay patiently through
the stifling days, counting the hours until the tramp of feet and clank of chains told of the
return of his friends from their long day's toil.

Then, if their warder was lenient, there would be a pause by the cell-door, and a moment's
breathless waiting lest there should be no answer to their anxious question of how he did,
lest the voice, that would still speak words of comfort and cheer through the darkness, should
be silent for ever.

But, as the prince grew weaker, his courage and patience moved even his captors to mercy, and
his friends were about him when, after seven years of slavery, the brave spirit passed at length
into the true freedom.

Thirty years later the body of Fernando was ransomed, in exchange for a Moorish prisoner, and
laid in his native land; but his true monument is the city which his long captivity saved for
Christendom. The days of such slavery as his are gone by. The galleys of the Moorish pirates
no longer sweep the inland sea, and we shall have stories to tell by-and-by of the men who
chased them from their strongholds. But Ceuta was won four hundred years earlier, by the swords
which our English princess bequeathed to her sons, and was held by the seven years' brave patience
of him who so worthily earned the name of 'El Principe Constante,' the Constant Prince.

MARY H. DEBENHAM.

PEEPS INTO NATURE'S NURSERIES.

II.--THE LIFE-HISTORY OF THE SOLE.

We can never fully understand an animal until we know its life-history, but we can give some
sort of an account, at least, of its development from birth to death. With some creatures,
as with butterflies, moths, or birds, for example, this is easy enough, but with others this
is by no means true. The life-history of the Sole is a case in point; only by the slow accumulation
of facts has this been put together. But the result is most interesting, and without more ado
we now proceed to relate it.

The cradle of the young sole, like that of its relatives, the plaice, turbot, and flounder,
takes the form of a crystal globe of a jelly-like material, in the centre of which lies a smaller
globe containing the germ which will grow into the young fish, a little store of food material,
and a small quantity of oil, which seems to keep the whole afloat at the surface of the sea.
This is the egg. It differs from the eggs of its relatives, in that the oil which it contains
is distributed in the form of tiny drops, instead of being collected in one big drop, as in
the turbot's eggs, for instance. The careful mother lays these eggs far out at sea and leaves
them; if they were deposited near the land they would drift ashore and be destroyed. And in
the illustration (fig. 1, egg) you will see what this water-baby looks like just before he
quits his cradle.

In less that a month the little sole has grown enough to enter the world, but he is strangely
helpless; a tiny little creature, perfectly transparent, mouthless and finless, so that he
must drift helplessly, whithersoever the currents carry him. Though mouthless, he is not hungry,
for there remains within him a certain amount of the nourishing yolk, which was stored up for
this purpose, in his crystal cradle. This little food reserve is the cause of the rounded swelling
on the under surface of the young sole in the illustration (fig. 1, A and B). In this picture
you should note, first of all, the curious shape of the head, which is, as yet, only roughly
modelled. There is no mouth, and the eye, as yet, is colourless. Along the middle of the back
there runs a high fin, transparent as glass, and this is continued round the tail and forwards
to the swelling caused by the yolk-bag. Over the whole are scattered a few patches of colour,
in the shape of spidery lines and blotches, as yet only just dense enough to attract attention.

At six days old, as you will see (fig, 1, C), he has grown darker, and has developed a mouth
and a tiny pair of breast-fins; but beautiful he certainly is not, judged by human standards
of beauty. It often happens, however, that the outward mark of ugliness is but the sign of
hidden peculiarities of unusual interest. Up to this point this baby sole is very like any
other fish-baby; but from now onwards it enters on a most remarkable career. At six days old
he shows all the promise of a well-grown fish; that is to say, his body is round and tapering,
he has an eye in each side of his head, and both sides of the body are alike in colour--in
other words, he is symmetrical.

The beginning of the change (fig. 1, D) is indicated by a disposition of the growing fish to
lie on one side--the left--and at the same time the left eye begins to change its position,
moving from the side of the head towards the crown of it! In a short time this point is reached,
and passed, and not until the left eye has approached its fellow of the right side fairly closely
does its progress stop! By this time the habit of lying on one side has become fixed, and the
body has taken the characteristic shape of the sole. Thus, then, what appear to be the upper
and under surfaces of the sole, are really the right and left sides, and this can easily be
proved by a careful examination of the body, which, if it be placed on edge will be found to
have a back or dorsal fin, and a pair of breast fins--one on either side, as in ordinary 'round'
fishes.

The difference in the colouration of these two sides is a matter to which we must now refer.
As everybody knows, the upper side is dark-coloured, while the under side is white. Why is
this? Why are not the colours reversed, or why are not both sides coloured? These questions
open up a most fascinating study--the use and meaning of the colours of animals. And you will
find, when you come to look into the matter, that there is a very close relation between the
colour of an animal and the nature of its surroundings. In the case of the sole, the brown
upper surface, from its resemblance to the mud and sand at the bottom of the sea, serves to
conceal it from the sharp eyes of prowling fishes on the look-out for a meal. A broad expanse
of white would at once betray it to the enemy. No colour is developed on the under surface,
for it would be a waste of energy to produce colour for a surface that was kept constantly
concealed from view.

Although, in our picture, all these fish can be seen quite plainly, in real life they are quite
hard to find. The young, being well-nigh transparent as glass, are almost invisible as they
float in the water; while later, when these wanderings cease, and they settle down to a quiet
life, the dark colour forms an equally invisible covering.

W. P. PYCRAFT, F.Z.S., A.L.S.

THE PRAIRIE DOG.

The little animal which is commonly called the prairie dog is not a dog at all, but one of
the Marmot family, which is to be found in Europe and Asia, as well as in America. The only
reason for calling it a dog is that, when excited, it utters a cry which is very like the barking
of a puppy.

This little marmot is rather larger than a good-sized rat, and rather like that animal in general
appearance. Its colour is a red-brown, speckled with grey and black hairs above, but whitish-grey
below. The tip of its tail is tufted with black hair, which is rather long and bushy.

The prairie dog lives out on the vast, treeless prairies of North America, where immense numbers
of them congregate together, and make what are called dog-villages, or towns. The marmots burrow
in the ground like rabbits, and sometimes the country is undermined with their burrows for
a space of several miles. Each marmot, as it builds its burrow, throws out the loosened earth
into a little hillock by the mouth of its burrow, and when it has nothing better to do it sits
upon the top of its mound, and watches what is going on. At the sight of a stranger, or an
enemy, the marmots, sitting on their mounds, begin to bark and chatter, jerking up their little
tails with every effort until they feel that they are hardly safe any longer; then they drop
into their holes, and, turning round, pop out their heads to watch a little longer. If the
intruder comes too near, however, they withdraw altogether, and seek safety in the depths of
the burrows. But they are very inquisitive, and if they are not harmed they soon put out their
heads again to see what is taking place. Hunters who have walked through a dog-village, hoping
to get a shot at one of the little householders, have been amused to see them scamper indoors
as they approached, and come out again as soon as they had passed. All around, within the range
of a gun, there was not a marmot to be seen, but at a safe distance there were hundreds, or
even thousands, on the watch.

The opening of a marmot's burrow is four or five inches in width, and the passage runs downwards
in a sloping direction for several feet. It then makes a sharp turn, and continues horizontally
for some distance further, till it turns slightly upwards. The marmot's nest is made at the
extreme end of the burrow, and there can be little doubt that the last upward turn of the burrow
is meant to keep the nest dry, when, after a heavy storm, rain-water flows into the mouth of
the passage. The burrows are generally within a few feet of each other, and as the ground above
them gives way under pressure, they are often a source of great danger to travellers upon horseback.
The horses' feet slip, and there is great risk of their spraining or breaking a limb. For this
reason parties of travellers often have to go several miles out of their way, in order to get
round a prairie dogs' village.

Prairie dogs live upon grass, and near their burrows the grass is cropped quite short by their
flat, chisel-shaped teeth. In one respect they are very strong, for it takes a very serious
injury to kill them, and they quickly recover from small ones. They have one or two enemies,
the worst of which is probably the rattlesnake, which often takes up its residence in their
holes. But, notwithstanding their enemies, the marmots increase in numbers very quickly, and
soon over-run a favourable district. In winter they hibernate like our squirrels, passing several
months underground in a kind of slow and nearly motionless existence. The sleep enables the
animal to live on, after its grass-food is exhausted in autumn, until the crop grows again
in spring.

THE WAY TO COMMAND.

In the year 1852, Gordon got his commission in the Royal Engineers. Two years later, he volunteered
to go out to the Crimea, and came in for his full share of the terrible sufferings and privations
of the ensuing winter.

One day, it is said, he came upon a corporal and a sapper, engaged in a hot dispute. The corporal
wanted the sapper to stand up exposed on the ramparts, while he handed him up some baskets
from below. Gordon at once sprang up to the parapet, told the corporal to follow, and planted
the baskets, under the fire of the Russian gunners. Then, turning to the corporal, he said,
'Never order a man to do anything that you are afraid to do yourself.'

H. B. S.

LITTLE THINGS.

  The seed set in the garden
    Becomes a lovely flower,
  It opens in the sunlight
    Or twines about the bower;
  It beareth tender blossoms,
    In beauty it is drest,
  And though at last its grace is past,
    How many it hath blest!

  The tiny little acorn
    Becomes an oak at last,
  And children swing upon its boughs
    When many years are past.
  Though now it looks so mighty,
  And branches hath so tall,
   Ah, yet we know, ere it did grow,
  It was an acorn small.

  As flowers grow up from tiny seeds,
    As oaks from acorns spring,
  E'en so from kindly words and deeds
    Grows many a lovely thing.
  They still the angry passions,
    They break the stubborn will,
  And earth so sweet, where these do meet,
    Becomes yet sweeter still.

FRED'S NEW WORLD.

Fred Miller was feeling very dull and rather sorry for himself. He stood by the garden gate
and wished he had a brother or sister to play with, as other boys and girls had. He even wished
that the holidays would come to an end and that he might go to school again: for in the holidays
the children from school went away into the country or to stay with friends--all, except Fred;
somehow there was never a chance for him to go.

He was an only child, but his father and mother had many cares, and could not spare time to
amuse their boy, or spend money in pleasing him. 'You must play in the garden and not run about
the streets,' Mr. Miller would say when he went off to his day's work: perhaps he did not quite
know how tired a boy might grow of being in the same little plot of ground all day and every day.

Fred was thankful when there were errands to be done; it was better to fetch flour or potatoes
from the shop than to play by himself. But the errands were soon over, leaving him face to
face with the old question, 'What shall I do?'

'Fred,' called Mrs. Marshall, one day--she lived in the next house to Mr. Miller's--'can your
mother spare you to go to the library for me?'

Now it happened that Fred had never been to the library, for his own people did not care for
reading, so he was eager to take Mrs. Marshall's book, and he listened carefully to the instructions
that were given him, and repeated to himself all the way the title of the book he was to try
to get in exchange.

Books had hitherto meant nothing but lessons to Fred, and he was not more keen upon those than
most other boys; but when he saw the rows of volumes on the library shelves, and was told by
the clerk in charge to go and find the one he wanted, he woke up to the knowledge that they
might mean something more.

He opened one, at random; it was full of pictures. He began to read; it was about strange places
and people: about the dense forests and great rivers of some far-off land, and the wonderful
creatures--birds, beasts and fishes--to be found there.

The clock struck twelve--it was a good thing for Fred that the sound was loud enough to startle
him--he put back the volume of travels with a sigh of regret, found, with some trouble, the
book Mrs. Marshall wanted, and ran all the way home to make up for lost time.

Though he would have been too shy to talk about them, his mind was full of the wonders of which
he had been reading. 'I never knew there were such things; it's like--it's like having a new
world to look at! I wish I could read some more; but perhaps Mrs. Marshall won't ever ask me
to go again,' he thought.

Mrs. Marshall, however, did more than that. 'Why don't you get your mother to let you have
a library ticket, Fred?' she asked, when Fred, flushed and breathless after his run, presented
himself before her.

'Me! Why, I couldn't, Mrs. Marshall; I'm not grown up,' said the little boy, wistfully.

'Oh, that doesn't matter in the least,' Mrs. Marshall assured him. 'Come now, Fred,' she added,
'I owe you a good turn; I'll do my best to get you a ticket.'

Mrs. Marshall was as good as her word, and Fred, the proud possessor of a ticket of his own,
was soon a regular visitor to the library. He had come to the end of his dull days, for, as
the poet truly says:

                           'Books, we know,
  Are a substantial world, both pure and good,'

and Fred had found it out.

  C. J. B.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 51.)

The close bond which united the families of the Moat House and Begbie Hall, and the daily intercourse,
had thrown the two governesses much together. Happily for both, their acquaintance had grown
into friendship and affection. Not only did they meet during the walks taken with their pupils,
but Estelle shared with her cousins in Miss Leigh's lessons in arithmetic and English subjects,
while Marjorie and Georgie, and Miss Leigh herself, received instruction in French, Italian,
music and drawing from Mademoiselle Vadevant.

When, therefore, Marjorie had proposed to spend the remainder of the rainy day with Estelle,
Miss Leigh hailed the suggestion with pleasure. She would have Mademoiselle's companionship,
while the children amused themselves in their own way. She splashed through the mud and wet,
laughing and happy, with Georgie dancing along by her side, and hardly noticed that Marjorie
did not join in her mirth. Marjorie was uneasy; she thought Miss Leigh was unkind not to allow
her to wait for Alan. What was the sense of hurrying her off when Alan wanted her?

It was some time before Alan overcame his pride enough to follow, and then he plodded rather
sulkily through the slush. Passing by the ruined summer-house he paused to look at it, the
vague mystery making it always an object of interest. He wished Peet had been a more genial
man: it might then have been possible to get him to show the inside of that gloomy place. But
he was very surly, and the secret must be found out in some other way.

As he stood gazing, a slight stir among the bushes attracted his attention. Slipping behind
a corner of the buttress, he waited, somewhat sheltered from the dripping rain by the overhanging
ivy. He had not long to stand shivering there. A hurried whisper caught his ear.

'What's that? Did you hear a sound?'

'I thought I did, but it seems quiet now. Come along this way. It's more---- '

The voices died away, and after some slight rustling all grew still again. Alan, now beginning
to feel that the mystery, whatever it was, appeared to be deepening, and that he must decide
what he meant to do quickly, was on the point of quitting his shelter, when another sound arrested
his movement. A rough grating, the swing of the heavy door of the summer-house, and Peet stepped
into sight. He stopped to close the door carefully, and lock it before he walked away.

'Wonders will never cease,' thought Alan, amazed. 'Is that old curmudgeon in the business,
too? He's the last man I should have imagined would mix himself up with a man like Thomas.'

Having no reason to expect further developments Alan set off at a run, so as to get out of
the rain as speedily as possible. He was pretty wet, and what he had just seen and heard had
made him forget the annoyances of the morning. His good temper was quite restored, though his
thoughts were busy and perplexed. He almost made up his mind to consult somebody, and if he
did, why not Aunt Betty, who never let out secrets? It was worth thinking about, even if he
did not make up his mind to do it at once. At the same time he must not let things go too far.

Running down the path, vaulting the little gate leading into the shrubberies, and dashing down
a back way almost dark with the thick laurel-bushes overhead, he soon reached what was known
as the postern door. Entering a low passage, narrow and dimly lighted from some invisible opening,
he pursued his way along various twists and turns of the old house, with now and again a few
stairs up, till he finally came upon a crimson-baize door, opening on a long panelled corridor.
The first two or three rooms were unoccupied, the remainder were devoted to the use of Estelle
and her governess. In the schoolroom the whole party were assembled, the children waiting with
more or less impatience for his arrival.

'You have been a long time!' cried Marjorie, while his cousin jumped up from the table, to
clear away the round game they had been playing.

The governesses having retired to Mademoiselle's study, the children started off on their usual
rainy-day amusement, hide-and-seek. They never tired of rushing about through the old passages
and rooms, and often came upon strange discoveries. Things hidden away for years and forgotten,
doors which had remained unopened, or perhaps even had been mistaken for a part of the wainscot
for generations. These discoveries were somewhat awe-inspiring, and the game not unfrequently
became what the children called 'Treasure-hunting.' They generally managed to keep together
on such occasions; it was too uncanny to be alone in those ghostly apartments.

As a rule Georgie was not allowed to join in these weird expeditions. He was too young, and
his conduct could not be depended upon. He might choose to be frightened and scream just at
the wrong moment, or he would obstinately refuse to go into dark, shuttered rooms, where the
smell of rats and dust seemed to strike them in the face, so stifling was it. Hide-and-seek
could not be comfortably played with him, either. He could not run fast enough, nor did he
like being left behind, and any sudden clutch from behind a door nearly terrified him out of
his life. So, much to his disgust, he was forced to remain with the governesses, or go down
to Aunt Betty, if she would let him sit with her. He liked that best, as she never minded what
mess he made, or how untidily his toys were scattered about. (Continued on page 70.)

THE PTARMIGAN AND PINE MARTEN.

Every one must have observed how many animals escape notice by the similarity of their colours
to those of the ground upon which they lie, or of the foliage in which they hide. It is not
easy to see rabbits, at dusk, as they sit quietly nibbling the grass upon their sandy warrens.
It is difficult, at times, to distinguish a toad from a piece of broken bark or a dead leaf.
Moths and butterflies frequently escape pursuit by hiding among twigs and flowers which resemble
them in colour. And it is almost impossible to see a shrimp upon the sand of the sea-shore,
or a little sandy-coloured fish at the bottom of a sea-side pool. We can hardly doubt that
the colours of these animals serve them as a very useful protection. They are all naturally
helpless creatures, and their safety depends almost entirely upon their escaping the notice
of their enemies.

The examples just given are familiar to us all. But there are few better illustrations of this
curious fact than that afforded by the Ptarmigan, a bird which is found in the northern parts
of Europe and America, including the north of Scotland. It is a game bird, nearly related to
the grouse, the partridge, and even to our domestic fowls, and it is protected, like the other
game birds, by Acts of Parliament, which render those who shoot it, during certain months of
the year, liable to a fine. The ptarmigan frequents wild, mountainous districts, and builds
its nest upon the open hillsides, among the coarse grass and mossy rocks. The nest is a little
cluster of twigs and grass, and in it the ptarmigan lays ten or a dozen reddish eggs spotted
with brown, which are not easily distinguishable from the twigs and grass among which they
lie. The summer plumage of the bird itself is a brown tortoiseshell, so similar in colour to
the ground upon which it makes its nest that it is very difficult to see.

In winter-time, however, when the hillsides are covered with snow, the ptarmigan would be easily
discovered, if it retained its summer dress. But, upon the approach of colder weather, the
bird changes its plumage, and takes on a winter robe of pure white, which makes it just as
difficult to detect amidst the snow, as it was in summer when it nested among the grass and
stones. With the return of warmer weather it resumes its darker colour. The bird moults, in
fact, twice and sometimes thrice in the year. It is impossible to tell the exact cause of these
changes, but it is quite certain that they help to protect the bird from its enemies. The change
from its winter plumage to its summer one is sometimes delayed for some little time after the
winter snows have disappeared, and it has been noticed, in Norway and Sweden, that large numbers
of ptarmigan are killed at this time, when their white feathers make them so conspicuous.

The enemies of the ptarmigan are the larger birds of prey, and animals of the weasel kind.
One of the largest of the latter is the pine marten, which is still found in remote and uninhabited
parts of our country. It is a fierce and active animal, ever on the look-out for game and eggs.
It is, in fact, a great poacher, and for this reason it has been practically exterminated by
gamekeepers, in all the districts where game is carefully preserved. In other countries the
marten is hunted for its skin, the fur of which is scarcely less valuable than that of the
sable. It is found in all the northern countries, especially in North America.

ANSON'S COOLNESS.

Commodore Anson, while his ship, the Centurion, was engaged in close combat with a Spanish
man-of-war, was told by a sailor that the Centurion was on fire near the powder magazine.

'Well,' said the Commodore quietly, 'go and help to put it out.'

H. S. B.

ROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.

II.--DENISON'S HALL-MARK.

(Concluded from page 37.)

My brain recovered its power after a moment or two, and I began to reflect, though, I own,
my reflections were somewhat interfered with by the rough treatment to which I was being subjected;
for the great brute in whose jaws I lay dragged me without ceremony over stones, roots, scrub,
hard knife-like grass, and other obstacles. I felt my clothes tear here, there, and everywhere;
I was being gradually torn and bumped into a jelly--still, I reflected, where was I being taken
to, and why? Why not eaten at once?

The latter question was easily answered. The lion had had his dinner already, or her dinner--it
might, of course, be a lioness--I had as yet had no opportunity of seeing the beast; if so,
she might be the mother of a family of cubs, and if so again, I might be destined for their
dinner, mamma having already dined.

This was a pleasant reflection! I might have to deal with half-a-dozen lions of various sizes,
instead of only one large one. There was very little doubt that I was doomed, in any case;
yet my brain had never worked more clearly than at this moment, and I employed it as I went
bumping along, in trying to devise some means of escape, poor though the prospect might be.
My gun was still in my hand, and determined that no amount of rough travelling should cause
me to let it go. A moment might come when I should find an opportunity to turn it somehow in
the direction of the lion, and I should keep my wits about me mainly to that end.

We had travelled, I suppose, about a quarter of a mile, and I wish I could convey to you fellows
the extreme discomfort of it. Can you imagine it? One's head flopping and wobbling and knocking
up against whatever happened to be in the way; one's legs following suit; one's body strained,
twisted, scratched, bruised, pounded--really, though I see you fellows laughing at this very
moment, and should like to kick you for it if I were not too comfortable to move, I would not
wish even such ruffians as you two to suffer such torture.

Suddenly the beast laid me down--tired, perhaps, with dragging eleven stone over rough country.
She stood over me for a minute as though listening, one paw on my right shoulder, which prevented
me from using my arm, which might otherwise have been employed to advantage during this interval.

Then suddenly she lifted up her voice--it was a lioness, I now saw, not a male lion--and set
the air vibrating with a series of roars so loud that they might surely, I thought, be heard
at Buluwayo, if not at Capetown. Never in my life had the drums of my ears been so ill-treated.
For half a minute without a pause she thundered thus.

Well, she ended. The roars became less loud--less frequent--they thinned down into half-moaning
noises something like the end of a donkey's bray, and lastly they stopped altogether, or rather
faded into growling or purring sounds. Then she released my shoulder and stood a yard or two
from me, gazing into the distance--you know how lions at the Zoo look when the whisper has
gone round that it is feeding-time, and every lion and tiger begins to stare into the far-away,
over the heads of the spectators.

A few moments passed during which I slowly drew my rifle towards me until I had it close to
my side; and now--following one another--came two terrible shocks.

The first was the discovery that my rifle was bent at the grip and that the barrel was damaged
in places. It was out of the question to dream of attempting to fire a bullet through it: there
was no clear passage for the missile: the rifle would burst in my hands if I attempted it.

The second shock was of a different nature. Hearing a scuffle and the sound of snarlings and
whinings, I glanced upwards, and beheld a pretty, though a very alarming spectacle. Four lion
cubs, about the size of dogs, came frisking and bounding out of the long grass, evidently in
obedience to their mother's summons. At the same moment I became aware of a more awful presence.
A full-grown male lion, a magnificent beast, was standing watching me, his tail twitching,
his nostrils moving, his legs setting themselves as though for a spring. I had not heard him
arrive, I did not know from what direction he had appeared; I simply knew that he was there,
and I may tell you that the sight of him gave me a shock, though I had had my fill of terrors
already.

I could think of no way out of the horrible position; I was in despair. In my agony I reverted
to instinct, I did what a child would have done--I yelled for all I was worth. I called upon
Thomson, who was a couple of miles away, at least, and who could not, of course, hear me in
any case; I called upon Thomson for the love of all he held precious to come and help me.

Instantly the four cubs disappeared in the long grass, The lioness also bounded away; only
the mighty lion remained. He gazed at me and roared, but did not venture to approach. 'I don't
quite like the look of you,' he seemed to say; 'I believe that's a fire-stick in your hand;
I'll see if I can't frighten you into fits by roaring.'

Then he had his innings at roaring, and I give you my word that if his wife's lungs were pretty
good, his own absolutely left them far behind. So terrific was the noise that my whole being
seemed paralysed, and I believe I eventually fainted, for, remembering nothing of the events
which led up to it, I awoke to find myself the plaything of four lion-cubs.

The little rascals were positively--I wish you fellows wouldn't grin, for I assure you this
is a true story!--they were positively playing with me as though I were a big mouse. If only
one had been in the mood to be amused, their antics would have seemed really funny. The little
beggars would stalk me, crouching and approaching for all the world like a kitten about to
make a pounce upon a cork, or some other plaything; then they would make a sudden rush, stand
on their hind legs for an instant, touching me hurriedly with their paws, and scamper home
to their mother, or behind some rock or tuft of grass, from which they would presently emerge
to creep towards me once more; and so the whole play would begin again.

They never once hurt me or scratched me, or did me the slightest injury. I concluded that the
father had already fed the little brutes, and that I was to be respited for an hour or two,
perhaps half a day. This was satisfactory in a fashion, but just imagine the suspense!

Her majesty the lioness, however, was not pleased, it appears, with the behaviour of her children.
She roared once or twice.

'You are meant to eat it,' she seemed to say, 'you foolish little things, not play with it.
Here, come along and taste, it's good food. Stick your little teeth into it--look here.'

She approached me and rolled me over once or twice as a cat might play with a mouse. 'Look
for a soft place and then bite,' she continued. 'I'll show you the way.'

'No you don't!' thought I, desperate now and careless of consequences. I fumbled for my skinning-knife,
and made a dig at her majesty, but only succeeded in scratching her about the shoulder. She
gave a roar of alarm, however, and bounded away into cover. The four cubs disappeared instantly.

From somewhere in the long grass, where she hid unseen with her cubs, the lioness now began
to growl or moan, complaining, I had no doubt, that I had bitten her and that it was obviously
the duty of her lord and master to see that such a venomous creature as myself was rendered
harmless before her precious darlings came near it again.

'Go in and finish him off,' she said. 'He might hurt one of them. He has bitten me.'

Apparently her complaint told. His majesty began to grow restless. He stood up. He had lain
down at full length to watch the children play, but now he rose up and began to work himself
into a rage. His tail lashed his sides, and his jaws moved incessantly; he showed his teeth
and growled savagely and roared. I knew enough about lions to be aware that as long as his
tail worked from side to side I was safe; once it began to move vertically up and down, the
moment had arrived when he would charge. I rose to my knees, then to my feet, and watched him.
He gathered his feet as though to spring; he roared; his eyes flashed green fire; his tail
ceased to work laterally; it rose straight up over his back and fell again. He was moving;
he would charge. I screamed, turned to fly--and fainted.

When I recovered, Thomson was kneeling at my side, explaining that he had heard a lion roaring,
and wondered whether I was in trouble. He had started out in search of me, and presently, uncertain
where to look for me, providentially heard my first scream. He had hastened in the direction
of my call for help, and, as it seemed, arrived just in time.

'Have they gone?' I gasped. 'Where are the lions?'

'How many were there?' he laughed. 'There's one, anyway!'

It was his majesty, dead as a stone. What became of his royal consort and her cubs I know not;
we may meet them one of these days.

THE MUSIC OF THE NATIONS.

III.--MORE CURIOUS MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS OF INDIA.

The Taus, or Peacock, also called Esrar or Mohur, according to the language of the tribe which
uses it, is met with chiefly in Upper India, and is a favourite instrument of the Nautch musicians.

It is always made in the form of a peacock, supporting on its back a long, narrow stringed
instrument. The body and neck of the bird is usually carved and coloured, and is further adorned
with natural plumage, sometimes neck feathers being used, sometimes those of the tail, and
often both. There is a very fine specimen of the Taus in the British Museum, in the gallery
where boats, weapons, and curious articles of native arts and crafts are exhibited.

The Nautch people are found all over India, and are a striking instance of the survival of
native customs in the East, and although Europeans see little more of them than an occasional
party of singers and dancers, great numbers of the profession exist.

In native national life the Nautch play a large part, and legend has a great deal to say about
them. In their way these performers have a strong religious element, and dancers, whether Hindoo
or Mohommedan, never begin their performances without touching forehead and eyes with the strings
of bells hung round their ankles, and saying a short prayer.

Tying on the bells for the first time is quite a solemn function, as it implies adopting for
ever the career of a Nautch dancer, from which no withdrawal is possible.

A popular Hindoo story called 'Chandra's Vengeance,' tells of a youth who, hearing from a long
distance the music of the Nautch, is irresistibly drawn towards it. After twelve days' journey
he approaches the camp of the mysterious people, and there a beautiful girl dances up to him
and throws a garland of flowers around him. At once a spell is woven, which is completed by
a charmed drink, with the result that he forgets friends, family and country, and enters for
ever into the Nautch community. Another legend tells of a Rajah, who was so enchanted with
the weird music of the wandering people, that he followed it from country to country, forgetful
of wife, child, and kingdom, his whole interest being taken up in beating the drum at performances.
In time his baby boy grew into manhood, and set himself to seek his father, and restore him
to his throne. After endless journeyings and adventures he at last found his royal parent,
ragged but picturesque, taking part in a Nautch festival, and after much difficulty persuaded
him to return home. There the wisest physicians exerted their skill to restore his memory of
his former position, and their efforts being successful, he re-ascended the throne of his ancestors,
and reigned many years, his wanderings with the Nautch people fading from his mind entirely.

The same kind of little bells which are hung round the ankles of the Nautch dancers are used
for more practical purposes by Indian post-runners, who tie them in strings to the end of poles;
thus the bells, being kept in constant motion, announce the coming of the news carrier. At
the same time they serve to scare away wild beasts when the runner is passing through lonely
forests or jungles where danger lurks in the quivering grasses.

In ancient days the Aztecs and Teztucans of Central America were wont to hang clusters of similar
tiny bells outside temples and towers, which, as they were swayed by the wind, kept up a musical
sound. One of these, found in Mexico, may be seen in the British Museum; it bears the name
of Yotl. The actual bells, which are nearly round, are very similar to the Schellen, or horsebells,
used in Northern Europe when driving sledges over the silent snow.

The Pungi or Jinagooi is used by jugglers and snake-charmers all over India. A bottle-shaped
gourd is the chief feature in its construction and forms the centre and mouthpiece. Two pipes
of cane are cut to form reeds and inserted into the large end of the gourd; one, pierced with
finger-holes, takes the melody; it is accompanied by the other, which always sounds the key-note,
and produces a curious droning sound not unlike that of the bagpipes.

HELENA HEATH.

A HUMOROUS PUNISHMENT.

In Stow's History of London, the following singular extract is given:--

'Nicholas Wilford, an alderman, having neglected to have his cloak, which he ought to use in
the procession, lined with fur, it is adjudged by the Court of Aldermen that the Lord Mayor
and Aldermen shall all breakfast with him. This penalty is awarded as a punishment for his
meanness.'

THE MOON-SHIP.

  O ship of the moon, good-bye, good-bye!
    Where, where do you sail away,
  Through miles and miles of stormy sky,
    By cloudland cape and bay?
  O ship of the moon, beware, beware,
  Of many and many a danger there!

  See! white foam breaks along the reef!
    The angry tempests blow;
  The cloud-waves beat the cloudland cliff
    Like gusts of drifting snow.
  O ship of the moon, beware, beware,
  There's many a danger lurking there!

  She's near the rocks! She's sinking now!
    The light is growing dim.
  Wild billows leap her silver prow
    On the horizon's rim.
  And louder still the tempest blows;
    The shadows darker fall;
  Into the cloud-world depths she goes--
    Mast, rudder, sails and all,
  Wrecked in the ocean of the sky:
  Ship of the moon, good-bye! good-bye!

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 63.)

As soon as Georgie was disposed of, the other children set off racing each other about, up
and down the old disused part of the house, the empty passages echoing to the sound of their
fun and laughter.

'Alan,' said Marjorie, when, breathless and somewhat tired, the three explorers had reached
a small turret room into which was shining a ray of sunshine from a rift in the clouds--'I
wonder if you would laugh if I told you something.'

Estelle had climbed on a chair and was leaning out of the narrow window, with a longing for
the fresh, sweet air outside; Alan was tapping all the panelling to see if any discoveries
were lying in wait for him.

'Why should I laugh?' he returned, in a preoccupied voice.

'Please don't, then. I really and truly saw some men creeping round the tower!'

'No!' cried Alan, startled into interest at once.

'Yes, I did. You know there is no reason for anybody to go there. It's never used, and the
shrubs are only trimmed once a year, because Auntie doesn't like people about there often.'

'You didn't see who it was?'

'No; I only saw their backs. They were stooping, as if to hide themselves.'

'Did they wear dark, long cloaks?' asked Estelle, suddenly, turning round from the window.

'Yes, with dark caps.'

'Then I have just seen them go under the tower, with a bag and a basket.'

Alan looked from one to the other in silence. Should he speak? Did he dare to trust them? It
seemed time to act, but what was he to do without more knowledge than he possessed at present?
Was it not possible to gain it--now, even? The men were below somewhere, doing something. They
had probably taken advantage of the rain, and the consequent absence of the family and gardeners
from the grounds. No one would dream of being out on such a day, and the prospect from the
windows was too uninviting to fear many watchers. Alan felt sure this was the way the men had
reasoned; and it was clearly his policy to keep them in ignorance of their nearness to the
party of children, and yet to manage somehow to watch their movements. If only the girls could
help him! He thought he could depend on Marjorie. But Estelle was quite different--nervous
and imaginative. Alan knew this, but he could not ask her to leave him and Marjorie to track
these men; nor could he propose to her to come with them--the danger of betrayal was too great.
Of course, she might keep quiet; but then, again, she might not.

'I tell you what,' he said at length, looking at the two girls, who were watching him anxiously,
'you two had better stay here, and I will go down and have a look round. If I don't come back
soon--say in five or ten minutes--don't wait for me, but go down and amuse yourselves. I will
be back as soon as I can.'

'Let me go with you,' said Marjorie, earnestly. 'Two are better than one, and you know you
can trust me.'

He had expected this, but before he could reply, Estelle broke in with, 'And can't you trust
me, too, Alan?'

'The fact is,' he answered, somewhat in doubt how to act, 'I don't know what we shall see;
or what will happen if we are seen. It is most important we should not betray ourselves; and
in order to manage this, we must keep very, very quiet. Whatever happens, there must be no
noise, not even a whisper. Suppose you were frightened, what would you do, Estelle? Don't you
think you had better go to the schoolroom, and wait for us? Marjorie can go with you if you
like, but, as she says, two are better than one.'

Tears came into Estelle's eyes, but she said, with a good deal of resolution in her gentle
voice, 'If you wish, I will go to Aunt Betty. Georgie is with her. I don't want to be in your
way. But though I'm not as brave as Marjorie, I can keep quiet, and I--I think you could trust
me not to scream or make a noise. If I feel inclined to, I will creep away.'

'All right,' replied Alan. He was fond of his little cousin, and could not bear to see her
distressed. 'Come along, then; only remember this, there must be no talking, no moving about,
and you must do what I tell you directly without any questions. Will you both promise?'

This little matter settled, the three children set off on their way clown the narrow spiral
staircase, at the bottom of which Alan, who led the way, stopped in order to assist the girls
over some rotten boards. The whole passage required careful walking, to avoid dangerous holes,
and thin, dry-rotting boards.

The lower they went the darker it grew, and the more cautiously they had to tread, till at
last they came to such a gloomy region that seeing their footsteps became impossible. Yet they
dared not light a match. They must almost have reached the cellars when Alan felt he had come
against a door, and whispered to the others to stop. Feeling about with his fingers he encountered
a latch, and in another moment the light was shining in on them through a slit-like groove
in the thick walls. The stairs still went down, down, much to their disappointment, but no
thought of giving up occurred to any of them. They followed each other noiselessly, Estelle
the last of the three, when suddenly, just as they had reached a sort of circular stone hall,
they heard the grating sound of a door being forced open on rusty hinges. In an instant Alan
had drawn the girls back into the shadow of the winding stairs, where they could all remain
without betraying their presence. Estelle, being the farthest back, could see nothing, for
which she was duly thankful; but Marjorie and Alan sat as still as mice, their eyes on the
opening door.

Two men were seen to enter, and, after closing the door, they proceeded to light a lantern.
They evidently felt quite safe here, for they did not even lower their voices. A bag of tools
was laid on the floor, and now came the moment of danger. Uncertain which of the doors round
the stone hall was the one they wanted, they began a tour of inspection, turning the brilliant
light of the lantern on each as they came to it. Alan saw that they must pass the foot of the
staircase, and that they would certainly bring the lantern to bear on it. This would reveal
Marjorie and himself sitting there. With a touch, he drew Marjorie's attention to the danger,
and, in an instant, Estelle was made aware of the necessity of going higher up in order that
the others might slip out of sight. It was an anxious moment, however, for what if the men
took it into their heads to mount the stairs?

Alan listened with strained ears, but, as far as he could make out, they were intent on finding
some mark which indicated the door they were in search of. He was comforting himself with this
when he saw, by the sudden light on the wall, that the lantern was turned on the stairs.

'Sure it is down here?' said a gruff voice in a surly tone, 'It's no use our going on a wild-goose
chase. We are below ground here, and it's not unlikely the door is above-stairs, more on a
level with the house.'

'We have not been round them all down here yet,' came the reply in the voice of Thomas. 'I
don't know the door any better than you, but we can look till we find it.'

'And if it isn't down here, why we will just go up. I suppose there's no danger of folks coming
down the stairs and spying on us?'

'Bless you, it isn't every one has the courage to come here at all. It is haunted, they say;
but I don't believe in that sort of ghosts. Come along, and let's finish the hall first.'

With that they moved away, and the stairs were again in deep shadow. Alan indicated to Marjorie
that she was to stay where she was. He himself resumed his old seat lower down, whence he could
view all that took place.

Slowly and cautiously the men continued their investigations, but apparently with no success.
The doors were all precisely alike, all of solid oak, and heavily studded with great nails.
The locks looked as if they would take hours--perhaps days--to pick, and to attempt to open
them in any other way appeared to be hopeless. After some angry discussion, it was at length
determined to mount the stairs and try to find the door they wanted. Alan was on his feet at
once, ready to dart out of sight as soon as needful, when suddenly there was a hideous baying
and barking at the door by which the men had entered, and almost before the children were aware
of what had happened, the two men were flying up the stairs in the hope of avoiding pursuit.
The dogs had been let loose, and were on the track of the invaders.

In a panic Alan fled up the stairs, the two girls before him, only just so far ahead as to
keep out of sight, aided happily by the darkness, for the lantern had been put out.

How long they could keep ahead had yet to be seen.

(Continued on page 74.)

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 71.)

CHAPTER IV.

The three children fled upstairs. The terror which lent wings to their feet grew into a panic
as they flew. Perhaps the one who felt it most was Estelle. Her imagination pictured all sorts
of terrible things. She was sure that the dogs, in their fury, would not recognise them, and
that they would be torn to pieces. Marjorie, though her heart beat quickly, kept her senses
under control, and even showed coolness enough to whisper back: 'Give them some place to escape
to, Alan; they will follow us if you don't.'

The wisdom of this advice was soon shown. Acting upon it, Alan flung open the door of a room
he knew to be unfurnished and empty. It did not delay him a second of time, but it gave him
a courage which surprised himself. Slackening his pace so as just to keep out of sight, he
stopped now and again to take a glance behind him: he was determined to see what the two men
intended to do. Meantime, the door into the cellars had been forced, men and dogs tumbling
over each other as the lock gave way to the united strength of the party outside. The children
could hear the bay of the hounds as they bounded towards the stairs. The two girls fled on
in breathless haste, but Alan had no fears that the dogs would not recognise him. Besides,
he was intent on the actions of Thomas and his friend.

The howls of the dogs acted like magic on the two men. They rushed up the stairs, without a
single glance behind. The danger was too pressing to allow any delay for making plans of escape.
The door Alan had thrown open seemed to them the way to safety; the cheerful light of day,
which shone through the begrimed windows, gave a friendly look to the empty room. Alan saw
them rush in, close the door softly, and the sound of the faint creak of a rusty bolt assured
him the men were safe for a time at least. He had not much leisure to think what he meant to
do next, however. The hounds were up the staircase in full cry. Barely had he time to reach
a door into a passage, which the girls had left open for him, when one of the dogs flung himself
against it with a howl of rage; then stopping a moment to sniff about, and probably discovering
that it had missed the scent of the enemy to follow that of a friend, it turned with a fierce
bark, and Alan could hear it rushing down the stairs again.

Not till then did Alan perceive, as he turned in his excitement to call to his sister, that
she was bending over the figure of Estelle. The little girl had fallen in a heap half-way down
the long passage.

'Hullo!' he cried, startled. 'What's the matter?'

'I can't think,' returned Marjorie, looking round with a white face of alarm. 'She is so dreadfully
still, and she doesn't seem to hear what I say.'

'Perhaps she's fainted,' said Alan, doubtfully. 'I told you it was rubbish her coming with
us; she can't stand anything.'

'But what are we to do? She may be dead.' Tears were in Marjorie's eyes, and she trembled like
a leaf.

'I'll go and call somebody,' said Alan, surprised at her terror.

Feeling it would be foolish to detain him, Marjorie said no more, but continued her efforts
to wake Estelle. She rubbed her hands, stroked the hair off her face, and raised her in her
arms in order to make her more comfortable. But, alas! nothing had the least effect on the
unconscious child.

'She ought not to have come with us,' said Marjorie, half aloud, as she kissed her cousin's
forehead tenderly. 'She isn't as tough as we are, and, oh! I do hope the fright hasn't killed
her! Estelle! Estelle dear! Do wake up. There is no danger now. We are quite safe here; we
are indeed, if only you would believe it.'

But there was no sign of consciousness; not a word she said was heard.

'I wish I had some water,' sighed Marjorie. 'I am sure a little cold water would make her wake,
and refresh her. I know it always woke me when Alan put the cold sponge on my face, on those
horrid winter mornings when he would go out early into the snow.'

Her cousin's fainting-fit, and the dread of what it might mean, had driven all recollection
of the men and dogs, and their own escape, clean out of her head. Her only fear was that little,
delicate, nervous Estelle might have been killed by all that had happened. Could she be dead?
She was so terribly limp and still. Oh, if there were only something she could do! Anything
would be better than sitting waiting for somebody to come. Yet the thought of leaving her cousin
never so much as occurred to her. She bent over her again, and began rubbing the soft little
hands with greater energy, till the sound of hastening footsteps gladdened her heart.

'A whole lot of them are coming,' Alan called out as he ran up the passage. 'Father, and Aunt
Betty, and Mademoiselle, and the whole lot of them. Is she any better? I say, is she insensible
still?' His face became alarmed and grave. 'What a fool I was to let her come with us!'

There was no time for lamentations, however. Colonel De Bohun and Mademoiselle were running
towards them, followed by Aunt Betty herself, looking pale and anxious. There was no lack of
helping, loving hands now to carry the unconscious little girl to where she could receive every
attention. Colonel De Bohun lifted her in his arms, and Aunt Betty, finding that cold water
and strong smelling salts had no effect, desired that she should be taken to her own room and
the doctor sent for.

'Come with me,' said Alan, when he and Marjorie were left alone. 'It's no use crying. I'm awfully
cut up too, but I do believe it isn't anything more than a faint. Estelle will be all right,
you see. It is hard luck her fainting like that, for we had got out of the scrape jolly well.
Don't you think so?'

'Oh, yes!' returned Marjorie, still feeling rather shaky with the fright she had had about
her cousin. 'If only Estelle had not fainted, it would have been very exciting and jolly fun.'

'So it was! You come along to the turret, and let's talk this over. I've a heap to tell you,
but'--and he gazed earnestly into her face--'you will promise you won't say a word till I give
you leave?'

Marjorie promised, and the brother and sister betook themselves to the little turret chamber.
There was an ancient oak settle at one end of the dingy little room, which had a horsehair
cushion, rather worn and threadbare, but still comfortable.

(Continued on page 87.)

THE DAISY.

  'I am only a poor little Daisy,' it said,
  'Not tall like the Lily, nor like the Rose red;
  'Mid the flowers of the wealthy I never am seen,
  I have only to blossom each day on the green.

  'The Violet has fragrance, the Rose and the Pink;
  The Primrose is sweet by the river's green brink;
  The gold of the Cowslip is bright on the sea--
  All these have a sweetness not granted to me.'

  But into the meadows a child strayed one day,
  She passed by the Lily and Rose on the way;
  Nor gathered the Primrose, the Violet blue,
  But went to the field where the small Daisy grew.

  And all through the hours of that bright sunny day,
  Where the sweet Daisy blossomed she lingered to play;
  And the Daisy was glad when, at even's soft fall,
  She said that its blossom was sweetest of all.

PUZZLERS FOR WISE HEADS.

4.--CHARADE.

My first is very rapid; my second is a beautiful tree; and my whole is used for cement.

C. J. B.

[Answer on page 115.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO PUZZLES ON PAGE 51.

  2.--Locke.          Wordsworth.         Swift.
      Bacon.          Steele.             Scott.
      Burns.          Lamb.               Goldsmith.

  3.--1. Hereford.     3. Denver.        6. Pekin.
      2. Venice.       4. Milan.         7. Bergen.
                       5. Berlin.

CROCODILES IN CENTRAL AFRICA.

Crocodiles are very plentiful on the shores of the vast lakes of Central Africa, and the English
people living in those parts do not seem to mind them much. One lady wrote home a few weeks
ago: 'We went for a swim in Lake Nyasa yesterday. The water was beautifully blue and warm.
We took three of our native school-girls to drive away the crocodiles.'

One of the crew of the mission steamer, Chauncy Maples, lately found eighty-seven crocodile
eggs in a hole on the beach near Likoma; the mother, after laying them, had covered them all
over with sand, and then had gone away and left the eggs to be hatched by the hot sun. The
man took some of the eggs and soon was able to announce, proudly, that he had 'sixteen little
crocodiles on board, all healthy and snappy!'

On landing at a mission station some days later, five of these little crocodiles were sent
up in a paraffin tin to be inspected by the mission ladies, who pronounced them to be 'charming
little beasts.'

PEEPS INTO NATURE'S NURSERIES.

III.--THE LIFE-HISTORY OF THE COMMON EEL.

We meet people now and then who tell us that, in these scientific days, all the poetry and
mystery of Nature is being destroyed. This is not only untrue, but stupid. All that science
has done is to substitute truth for legend, and truth is generally more beautiful and wonderful
than fiction. Those who will turn to the great Book of Nature humbly, and with an open mind,
will learn nothing but what is helpful and good to know.

The story which I am now about to relate is full of strangeness, far more so than our forebears
ever suspected. Thus, in many parts of rural England even to-day, if you ask old grey-beards
where eels come from, they will tell you that they grow out of the hair dropped from the tails
of horses which come to drink at the horse-pond. After long soaking these hairs, they say,
become endowed with life, and turn to worms known as 'hair-eels,' because they are so thin.
In course of time they grow into fully developed eels!--and this was solemnly believed, even
by educated people, throughout the length and breadth of the land, until a few years ago.

The true story is not easy to tell, because it had to be put together bit by bit. Thus it began
in a suspicion of the truth. So long ago as 1864 a guess was made that certain curious, very
rare, and extremely fragile fishes were really young eels, in spite of the fact that they did
not in the least resemble eels such as we know; and so the matter rested till 1896, when the
guess was confirmed. The little creatures of which we speak are almost transparent, very flat
from side to side; they have ridiculously tiny heads, and no fins, except a fringe running
from the middle of the back, round the tail, and forwards to the middle of the under surface
of the body. They are so transparent that the spine and blood-vessels can be plainly seen against
the light. Their strange history was discovered by some scientific men in Italy, who found
that sometimes mighty currents boil up from the depths of the Straits of Messina, bringing
with them samples of the strange inhabitants of those dark waters, and among these were hundreds
of our little fish. Many of these were quite unhurt, and being placed in an aquarium, throve
wonderfully; wonderfully in a double sense, for it was found that as they grew older so they
grew smaller and smaller. But as they shrank in size, so they became less transparent and more
round. At last this topsy-turvy growth came to an end, and they started growing bigger again,
and lo! as the days sped on, these strange water-babies slowly revealed themselves: they were
young eels! More than this, they proved to be nothing less than 'elvers'--long esteemed the
daintiest of dishes by those who prize delicate food.

Thus ends Chapter I. of our story. Chapter II. is scarcely less interesting. The deep sea is
the eel's nursery; not deep sea in the ordinary sense, but so deep that no light penetrates.
Here, in the stillness and darkness that exceeds that of the darkest night, these little children
of Neptune pass their earliest days. By the time they have reached the elver stage, they have
made their way, guided only by instinct, from the deep sea to the surface, and thence to the
mouths of rivers; these they ascend in millions, and in their endeavour to get into fresh water,
they have to overcome obstacles such as would deter most boys and girls. They climb vertical
walls and flood-gates, and even leave the water and wriggle their way overland at night amid
the dewy grass till they come to water again. Such migrations have long been known as 'Eel-fairs,'
and fishermen at this time take them by the ton. In 1886, for example, more than three tons
were taken from the Gloucester district. Now, it takes upwards of fourteen thousand baby eels
to weigh a pound; how many eels are there in three tons? There is a sum for you! Those that
escape grow up to furnish the 'eel-pies' and stewed eels which some people find so toothsome.
In 1885 the annual consumption of eels was estimated to be at least one thousand six hundred
and fifty tons, with a total value of 130,000l.

This story would not be complete without Chapter III. This concerns the eel's parents, and
it is not without a note of sadness. After living several years in the security of the nice
warm mud at the bottom of our quiet streams, they suddenly become seized with the desire to
make their way to the sea--a journey full of danger, and full of mystery, for since their ascent
as tiny elvers, they have lived apart from the great world of the ocean, and all that it contains.
Now they set out, and fishermen, knowing well the time of this journey, spread nets along the
route into which thousands rush. Other fish prey on them, and as soon as they reach salt water
their enemies increase a hundredfold. Only a remnant reach their destination, and then, after
having laid their eggs, fall into a deep sleep from which there is no awakening.

Surely this story is more wonderful than all the yarns of former days, be they ever so old.
Truth is stranger than fiction, and much more beautiful.

W. P. PYCRAFT, F.Z.S., A.L.S.

MARY'S REWARD.

'Mary, we want to ask a favour.'

'And what is that, Miss May?'

'We want to learn how to cook. Mother said perhaps if we were very good, you would give us
a lesson.'

So said little May, the youngest of the Trevor tribe of boys and girls, who were now at home
for the holidays.

'Well, if the mistress is willing, I am,' replied the good-natured cook. 'Do the young gentlemen
want to learn, too?'

The two boys shook their heads. 'No, no,' cried Guy, the elder; 'too many cooks spoil the broth!'

Mary soon set the girls to work, with the utmost patience and good-humour, giving her lesson
meanwhile. The boys, in spite of the laughing remarks which they occasionally made, were immensely
interested; as for the girls, they threw themselves into their task with such a zest that Mary
declared, in time, they would all make first-rate cooks.

'I don't believe any one but you, Mary, would have such patience,' said Ellen, one of the maids,
as she passed through the kitchen.

'Oh, Mary will have her reward one day,' laughed Elsie; 'you see if she doesn't, Ellen.'

But little did Elsie think, as she said these words, of what Mary's reward would be.

No one looking into the cook's sunny face would dream that she had any sorrow hidden in her
heart; but it was so. Her dearly loved and only brother had gone away to sea, many years before,
and from that day to this Mary had never heard a word of him. But so unselfish was she, that
she would not allow her trouble to shadow any one else around her.

In the afternoon the girls wended their way to the neat little cottage-home where dwelt Mrs.
Jones and her children. She was the widow of a sailor, and so poor that but for Mrs. Trevor's
kindness she would often have been in great straits. Her face looked quite bright as she welcomed
her visitors, and showed them into the back room where she had been sitting at needlework.

'We have brought you some pastry of our own making,' said Elsie, 'and some other things besides.'

'Then it's very, very kind of you, Miss,' was the grateful reply. 'I am well off just now,
for I have a lodger for a few days, who pays me wonderfully well. He is a sailor man--a captain,
I believe--and he says he once knew my husband. The children are in with him now,' went on
the woman; 'he has taken a wonderful fancy to them all.'

Then said little May, who did not know what bashfulness was, 'I wish I might go and see him,
too. I should so like to know if he has ever seen the island where Robinson Crusoe was wrecked.'

A peal of laughter greeted May's remark, but nevertheless her request was granted.

Five minutes later she was chatting to the 'sailor man' as if she had known him all her life.

'What do you think we have been doing this morning?' said little May, after busily talking
about a host of other things.

'I'm sure I don't know, little Missie,' replied the man.

'You would never guess, I am sure--we have been making pastry!'

'Pastry! have you, indeed?' said the pleasant-faced man, with a smile; 'well, now, that's a
thing I could never make.'

'We couldn't have done it by ourselves; Mary helped us, you see,' said truthful May.

'And who is Mary, little Missie, if I may ask?'

'Mary is our cook,' replied the child; 'she is so kind and good-natured. Her real name is Mary
Greymore, and---- '

To May's surprise the sailor started to his feet.

'What!' cried he. 'Greymore, did you say?'

'Yes,' said May, looking startled. 'What's the matter, sailor man?'

'Nothing is the matter,' was the reply, given in a voice deep with feeling; 'only, if what
you say is true, I have found the sister I have been looking for these many months past.'

Mary's joy at seeing her long-lost brother again was almost beyond words; as for the Trevor
family, they were scarcely less excited than she.

It was found that James Greymore had been such a wanderer that none of his sister's letters
had ever reached him, and, as Mary herself had long left her native village, the two had been
quite out of touch with one another.

'It is all through that lesson in pastry-making,' said Kitty, 'that Mary found her brother.
May, very likely, but for that, wouldn't have spoken of Mary at all.'

'Then I was right,' laughed Elsie. 'I said Mary would have her reward, and so she has, and
well she deserves it, too.' M. I. H.

MARVELS OF MAN'S MAKING.

III--THE FIRST PUBLIC RAILWAY IN ENGLAND.

In the middle of the eighteenth century, the Duke of Bridgewater, with the aid of a great engineer
named James Brindley, had increased the prosperity of Manchester and Liverpool by constructing
a canal to convey merchandise cheaply and easily between them. Enterprising people, seeing
the great advantage of the canal, wished to follow this good example, and increase the means
of carrying goods from one place to another, if not by canals, by better roads than England
possessed at the time.

In different parts of the country it had been found that horses could drag heavier loads if
the wheels of the cart were allowed to run on rails made of wood or iron. The knowledge of
this fact led certain men connected with the coal-mines of Darlington, in Durham, to propose
the building of a tram-line between their town and that of Stockton-on-Tees. But when Mr. Edward
Pease, who was the leader in the enterprise, sought to collect money to bear the cost, not
twenty people in Stockton would give him their support. The idea of making a metal road over
twelve miles of country seemed only matter for laughter, and Mr. Pease was told that he ought
not to expect sensible people to spend their money on such a scheme. So Mr. Pease did without
the 'sensible people.'

Application for leave to lay the line was made to Parliament, but was refused, the principal
opponent being the Duke of Cleveland, who said that the proposed line would go too near one
of his fox-covers, and frighten the foxes away. The application, however, was renewed, and
was reluctantly granted at last.

In the meantime a young man had called on Mr. Pease to offer his services, and the initial
at the head of this article shows his portrait. The young man's name was George Stephenson.
He had had some experience, he said, in the laying of railways, and Mr. Pease was so impressed
with his honest manner that, in the end, he engaged him on the great undertaking.

George Stephenson was full of suggestions. He pointed out the kind of rails that ought to be
used: cast-iron rails were the cheapest, he said, but they could not be relied on, as they
often snapped when a heavy load passed over them; and, though he himself was a maker of cast-iron
metals, he recommended that another kind, called 'malleable,' should be used. Malleable metal
is much tougher than ordinary cast, because, after being poured into the moulds, it is only
allowed to cool very slowly, and is not exposed to the air until quite cold. But as the expense
of using malleable rails only would be very great, Mr. Pease and his friends decided to use
both kinds of rails.

Another of George Stephenson's suggestions was more than even Mr. Pease could seriously entertain.
In a private conversation the young man strongly urged that locomotives should be used to drag
the coal-trucks instead of horses!

'If you will only come to Killingworth,' said he, 'I will show you an engine I made and have
been driving in the colliery yard for more than ten years. It is forty times as strong as a
horse, and cheaper in the end.'

Mr. Pease kindly promised that he would accept this invitation some day, but nothing had been
said about locomotives in the Act of Parliament, and for the time being things must go on as
they were.

The first rail was laid on May 23rd, 1822, and the whole twelve miles of line were ready for
traffic, on September 27th, 1825. Three years doing twelve miles! That does not seem very fast,
but we must remember that there were rivers to be spanned, and hills to be cut through, and
valleys to be crossed by high embankments. And George Stephenson had progressed very much more
than twelve miles in these three years. He had taken Mr. Pease to Killingworth, and shown him
his engine; he had convinced him it would travel even faster than a horse, and drag a heavier
load behind it; and he had won a promise that the railroad between Darlington and Stockton
should be opened with a locomotive driven by steam, though he was made to understand that it
was only an experiment, and no one really expected it to succeed.

On September 27th, therefore, in 1825, crowds of people streamed along the country roads in
the direction of Brusselton, nine miles from Darlington, to see the beginning of this strange
experiment. Some were interested, most were inclined to laugh, and many had come with the secret
hope of seeing this 'ridiculous engine' blown into a thousand pieces.

At the bottom of a slope the monster stood, puffing and hissing with impatience to show these
unbelieving people how mistaken they were. It was a strange-looking machine, quite unlike any
of the giants that we know. A large boiler lay full length between four ornamental iron wheels.
Out of the front end of the boiler rose a tall and ugly stove-pipe, while over the boiler was
a confused collection of rods and levers communicating with the crank of the big wheels. It
was called the 'Locomotion.' George Stephenson stood ready to drive it as soon as the trucks,
which a stationary engine was lowering down the slope by means of a wire rope, had been attached
to it. In the first of these trucks came the Directors of the Railway Company and their friends,
followed by twenty-one trucks (all open to the sky, like ordinary goods-trucks), loaded with
various passengers, and finally six more waggons of coal. Such was the first train. A man on
horseback, carrying a flag, having taken up his position in front of the 'Locomotion' to head
the procession, the starting word was given, and with a hiss of steam, half drowned in the
shouting of the crowd, the first railway journey ever made in England was begun.

The man on horseback probably stepped aside before Stockton was reached, for, to the astonishment
of everybody, George Stephenson's engine insisted now and then on travelling at the giddy speed
of twelve miles an hour, though it was sufficiently modest to do most of the distance at a
slower rate. Many trains have travelled since at over seventy miles an hour, and a good many
in England do long distances every day at an average speed of well over fifty miles an hour.

When the train steamed into Stockton the number of passengers had greatly increased; they had
seized hold of passing carriages, and secured a foothold as best they could.

After that the 'Locomotion' had a distinguished career. Twenty years later it had the honour
of opening the railway from Middlesborough to Redcar, and to-day it stands in state on a pedestal
in the Bank Top Station at Darlington.

When Parliament gave permission for Mr. Pease's railway, it was ordered that any one should
have the use of it who liked to pay for the privilege. Consequently there were soon large numbers
who were glad to avail themselves of the opportunity. Carriers fitted suitable wheels to their
carts, and drove their horses up and down it, while stage-coach owners offered travellers an
easy and comfortable journey on the smooth metals. When we remember that it was only a single
line, with side openings every quarter of a mile, we can easily understand that there were
frequent quarrels when two vehicles met half-way. Sometimes one of the opponents would be a
puffing engine, and if it happened to be dragging a load of coal, back it had to go until the
siding was reached, that the plodding horse might pass. To us such a state of things is hard
to imagine, but the railway and it possibilities were not thoroughly understood at first. Even
George Stephenson did not think it would be very suitable for passenger traffic.

At last the confusion was put an end to by the Company taking entire command of the line, and
turning the quarrelsome competitors off it. Then prosperity came.

The twelve miles of railway laid down by George Stevenson has grown to over twenty thousand
miles, making about two hundred and fifty miles every year for eighty years. It is pleasant
to know that both Mr. Pease and his engineer lived to see more than their greatest dreams realised.

JOHN LEA.

ROUND THE CAMP-FIRE.

By HAROLD ERICSON.

III.--IN THE JAWS OF DEATH.

'A tiger is my subject to-night,' said Ralph Denison, when his turn came round again, 'since
you said you liked my adventure among the lion-whelps. I don't know exactly why, but I would
always rather deal with a lion than with a tiger; he seems somehow to appeal to me, as a fellow-sportsman,
more than a tiger does.'

'Hear, hear,' Vandeleur chimed in; 'I quite agree.'

'Though, mind you,' Ralph continued, 'I think the tiger is quite as plucky, taking him all round.'

'As a rule, yes,' said Vandeleur; 'but I have known lions attack a human camp at night, and
I don't fancy any tiger would do that, so long as there was a fire burning.'

'Nor a lion either,' laughed Ralph.

'Excuse me, I have known them do it,' said Vandeleur; 'and I will tell you about it one of
these evenings.'

'Get on with your story, Ralph,' growled Bobby; 'arguments are against the rules.'

Ralph laughed, and proceeded.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was in India at the time (he said), and stationed at Fuzzanpore, pretty dull and longing
for a change or some sort of excitement to relieve the monotony of my work, when a letter came
from a great friend of mine, Charlie Eccles, who sent me an invitation which made my mouth water.

'I'm going on a month's leave,' Charlie wrote, 'shooting; the sport will be mostly snipe and
other small game, but there's a chance of tigers. Now, I know you are a busy man---- '

Bobby laughed rudely when Ralph quoted these words. 'I say, Ralph, your friend couldn't really
have written that,' he said. 'You a busy man! I can't imagine you ever doing any work!'

Ralph looked offended. 'I should like you to be aware,' he observed, with much majesty, 'that
before my uncle left me the income which I now enjoy, I worked very hard indeed as a tea-planter.'

'Sorry,' laughed Bobby--'my mistake. You don't look like a chap who has been overworked; does
he, Vandeleur?'

Ralph ignored the jest, and continued his quotation. 'I know you are a busy man,' he repeated,
'but if you could spare the time, and would join me, we should have a rare old time. Start
next Friday, and be at Malabad, where I shall meet you, on Monday. Bring as many cartridges
as you can lay hands upon, for we shall have plenty of snipe and partridge, whether we come
across big game or no.' Charlie then gave me a list of the dâk bungalows at which he might
be found at certain dates, in case I should not be able to start upon the day indicated. I
meant to start on the Friday as he had suggested, but some of our native workmen went wrong--there
was a kind of little mutiny--and I was delayed nearly a week, assisting my partner to arrange
matters. When this had been satisfactorily settled, I collected my sporting traps and started,
making for the bungalow at which Charlie had intended to put up on the sixth day of his trip.

When I reached my destination, which was a dâk bungalow, or little house built by the Government
for the accommodation of Britishers travelling by road between towns which are too far apart
to be reached within the day's journey, I found Charlie Eccles was not yet at home. The two
servants left in charge at the bungalow reported that he had gone tiger-hunting, a 'bad' tiger
having been reported in the district, by which was meant a man-eater--a beast which had killed
and eaten a native postman and others, and which Charlie, on his arrival, had been implored
to destroy.

The native shikaris or hunters were absent with my friend, I therefore did the best thing possible
under the circumstances--I ordered my lunch, and sat down to enjoy it.

It was very hot, and I think I had fallen asleep over the cup of coffee which the servant set
before me after my meal, when I was awakened by a sudden uproar from outside, and, starting
up, I went out to see what was happening. Down the road I saw several straggling natives--every
one of them was running, and every one of them was shouting or crying or blubbering, or what not.

I walked towards them; as yet I had not thought of possible disaster. I met the first man,
apparently a beater, for he carried a kind of native drum for striking in the jungle when the
tiger is to be moved, and set afoot for the benefit of the sportsman. 'What is the matter?'
I asked him. 'What are you and these other fellows howling for?'

The man salaamed, and assumed an expression of the greatest misery. 'The sahib!' he exclaimed;
'the poor sahib--the bad tiger. Alas! how terrible are the misfortunes that happen in the world!'

'Which sahib? is it Sahib Eccles you speak of? What has happened? Stop blubbering, fool, and
tell me plainly!'

'He is eaten, sahib--killed and eaten; here comes the chief shikari with the sahib's own rifle--let
him tell you.'

The shikari came flying down the road; he saw me and stopped, salaaming very low. 'Benefactor
of the people!' he exclaimed. 'Protector of the poor! there has been a calamity, sahib; though
you have come too late, I thank the gods that you are here--you can at least find and slay
the accursed beast. Oh, miserable man that I am! My good master, Sahib Eccles! so young and
so brave, and to die in the teeth of such a beast! oh, woe! woe!'

My heart stood still. Did I dream, or were these men really telling me the dreadful news that
poor Charlie had been killed by a tiger?

I could scarcely speak, but I contrived to return to the verandah of the bungalow and to sink
upon a chair. The shikari had followed me to the house, lamenting aloud.

'Stop!' I said, angrily. 'Now tell me plainly what has happened.'

The man began his tale. It was to have been a battue, he explained. Natives had come overnight,
hearing that a sahib had arrived. They reported that a bad tiger had lived for a month in the
jungle, close to the village. It had already killed and eaten three persons, besides destroying
many bullocks belonging to the people. 'Unless the sahib comes to our assistance and kills
the beast, we are lost--we and our children!' they told him. The Sahib Eccles had been delighted
to hear of the tiger; it was just what he most wanted. 'Are there beaters to be had?' he asked.
Fifty beaters were found in the surrounding district, but the reputation of the tiger was so
bad that all the men and women were very nervous, and the sahib had laughed when told about
them, and had said that he did not think they would be of much use if they were so frightened
before they went into the jungle.

Nevertheless, the Sahib Eccles chose a tree for himself in a place where he could see well
in many directions, and climbed up into the branches, and the beaters were placed at a distance
around the place where the tiger was supposed to be lying. The beat began; that is, the natives
shouted and banged their drums, and smote the trees with sticks, and produced horrible sounds
from many different kinds of instruments; but, almost as soon as the noises began, the tiger
suddenly uttered a single, terrible roar, and (said the shikari) nearly all the beaters immediately
left for home. The beat ended, there were no more weird noises, and silence fell upon the jungle.

'I was with the Sahib Eccles in his tree,' said the shikari; 'and, first the sahib was very
angry indeed, and then he laughed.

'"We shall do no good up here," he said, "for the tiger will not move unless he is driven."
He had killed a bullock in the night, and was lazy with much food. "Dare you enter the jungle
with me, shikari? You heard where the beast roared--there or thereabouts we know his position.
Shall we make an attempt to move him, you and I?"

'There were one or two beaters close at hand. They had not dared to run away because they were
in full view of the sahib and of me. "These men shall help us," said the sahib, "if they dare;
they shall walk behind us and shout."

'"We will try, sahib," I replied; "but he is a dangerous beast and very crafty."

'"I have two rifles," the sahib said, laughing, "and they are also dangerous beasts."

'So we two climbed down from the tree and spoke to the beaters, who then followed us into the
jungle, keeping well behind us. They must not shout, we told them, until told to do so, when
we came close to the place where the tiger had roared.

'Then we moved slowly and cautiously into the jungle, looking this way and that, the sahib
walking in front and I a few yards behind; and, behold, we had scarcely walked for two minutes
when suddenly came three loud noises, almost simultaneously--first a terrible roar from the
tiger, then the report of the sahib's rifle, then a shriek from the sahib himself and---- '

The shikari placed his hands before his eyes as though to shut out some horrible picture, and
groaned aloud.

(Concluded on page 98.)

LONG LIVED.

In certain parts of the African desert, where it is too hot for any plants to grow, the ground
is in places thickly covered with white snails.

In 1858, a naturalist travelling through this region collected some of the shells from a spot
on which it was believed no rain had fallen for five years. These snails' shells were packed
away and left untouched until the year 1862, when the naturalist, at home once more, unpacked
his shells and placed them in a basin of water to be cleaned. To his amazement, a quantity
of healthy living snails were found on the following morning crawling all over his study table!

S. C.

THE ALMOND AND THE RAISIN.

  'Twas an Almond and a Raisin
    In a dish all silver bright,
  A Raisin dusky purple,
    And an Almond creamy white.

  Said the Raisin to the Almond,
    'I was once as full of wine
  As a dewdrop is of sunlight,
    And a glossy skin was mine.'

  Said the Almond to the Raisin,
    'And I've a tale to tell--
  I was born inside a flower,
    And I lived within a shell.'

  Said the Raisin to the Almond,
    'We are both from Southern lands,
  And we came once more together,
    Having fallen in English hands.

  'Don't you think we ought to marry?
    I am sure 'twould be as well,
  Though I have lost my juices
    And you have lost your shell.'

  Said the Almond to the Raisin,
    'It is my dearest wish.'

         *       *       *       *       *

  That is why you always find them
    Side by side within the dish.

  F. W. H.

FAITHFUL TO DUTY.

A gatekeeper on one of the German railways kept a goat, and one day, when his wife was ill,
he went himself to milk it. But it would not allow him to come near it, as it had not been
accustomed to any one but its mistress. At last he determined to put on his wife's clothes,
and this plan succeeded admirably. But he had not time to take off his disguise before he heard
a train approaching. He ran out at once, just as he was, and opened the gate, but his appearance
caused the passengers to think that he was mad. The case was reported, and an inquiry was made,
but on the truth being known, the gatekeeper was praised for his faithful discharge of duty.

H. B. S.

A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

True Tales of the Year 1806.

III.--THE CAPTURE OF BUENOS AYRES.

The long sea voyage was over at last, and the Expedition which had set sail from England in
the previous autumn cast anchor in the bay outside Buenos Ayres on the 26th of May, 1806.

This city, the capture of which was the object of the Expedition, lay very dimly outlined in
the western horizon, for the sea was too shallow to allow the larger vessels to approach within
six or seven miles of the shore, and even when the troops had landed, three miles or more of
a perfectly flat plain would have to be traversed before they could arrive at the city itself.

'Will the Spaniards fight, do you think?' asked Gerald Anstey, a young ensign of marines, as
he stood on the deck of H.M.S. Narcissus, and strained his eyes towards the direction of Buenos
Ayres.

'I expect so,' answered a brother-officer who was by his side. 'But hallo, Anstey! here is
the General's orderly--what is up, I wonder?'

A trim private advanced towards Anstey, and said respectfully: 'The General wishes to see you
in his cabin, sir.'

'The General! To see me!' ejaculated Anstey, turning to his friend in utter amazement. 'What
can he want with me?'

'To consult you as to the best manner of landing the troops, perhaps,' laughed his friend,
for Anstey was the youngest ensign in the regiment. 'But you had better make haste and present
yourself, for Sir Popham Horne is not the man to be kept waiting.'

Anstey hurried away. On entering the General's cabin he saluted, and then waited to receive
the orders of his commanding officer.

'Mr. Anstey,' said the General, looking up, 'I have sent for you, as junior officer, as I wish
you, immediately on landing, to proceed to the Governor of Buenos Ayres and give him these
dispatches, proposing to him the unconditional surrender of the town, as I am anxious to prevent
useless shedding of blood. You will take a corporal and two men with you as guard, and of course
a flag of truce, and I hope you may be successful in your mission.'

'I will do my best, sir,' said Anstey, quietly. Then the General returned to his map, and the
young man left the cabin.

Meanwhile, the preparations for landing were being rapidly proceeded with, and some twenty-four
hours later men and guns were all safely landed on the sandy shore, and all eager to march
towards the city. First of all, however, they had to wait for the return of Anstey, and hear
whether his terms had been accepted by the Spanish Governor. Towards sunset the young ensign
came back, and great was the excitement among the whole force on hearing that the Governor
had refused the terms offered by the British General, and that the march towards Buenos Ayres
was to begin at dawn on the following day.

It seemed as if this march would present no great difficulty either to men or guns, as the
plain to be traversed was an immense flat, green meadow, which promised an easy road for the
cannon. But the 'green meadow,' which proved so satisfactory at first, became softer and looser
as they got further inland, and finally it ended in a treacherous bog, which threatened to
engulf both men and guns; and to make matters worse, the enemy, entrenched behind some trees
at the little village of Reduction, a mile or so away, now opened fire on our troops, as they
struggled to get across the morass.

It was soon evident that progress in that direction was an impossibility, and very reluctantly
the General gave the order to retreat. But it was almost as impossible to retreat as to advance,
for the ground, trodden by the feet of so many men and horses, was now but pulpy mud, in which
the gun-carriages sank to their axles.

A British force, however, is not easily discouraged, and the men of all ranks worked with almost
super-human energy, till at last the whole army had once more a footing on firm ground.

The General had been invaluable at this crisis; he was here, there, and everywhere where the
difficulties were greatest, and was one of the last men to leave the morass, having insisted
on seeing all the force safely over. He was then riding alongside the rearguard when his horse
staggered, recovered itself for a moment, and then sank with the General heavily into the morass.

'All right! all right!' he called out cheerily to an officer who ran to his assistance; 'I
am not hurt in the least.' The next minute, however, he called out in a very different voice,
'Help! help! I am sinking!'

It was indeed true! He had fallen on to a bad patch of marsh. The morass seemed now to be rapidly
changing into a quicksand, in which the General and his horse who had gone to his assistance
were gradually sinking.

Other men were about to rush in, when they were stopped by the loud tones of Anstey. 'Stop!
stop!' he cried energetically. 'You can do no good rushing in like that, you will only get
engulfed yourselves. I know these bogs--I have lived in Ireland.'

As he spoke he had seized one of the ladders which were fortunately carried with the force
in case they should be wanted for scaling, and holding this out across the oozy patch, he let
the General support himself by it for a moment. Then he laid the ladder flat, and crept along
it till he reached the still sinking man: he caught him by the arm at once, and started to
haul him out. Anstey's strength was well known in the regiment, and perhaps he was the only
man who could have dragged out the General by sheer force of arm, but he did it somehow, and
the cheers of the men simply rent the air as they saw their loved commander safe once more.

'Thank you, my lad,' said the General simply, as soon as he was on the ladder; 'you saved me
from an ugly death. I shall not forget you.'

Nor did he. Later in the day Buenos Ayres was captured, with but slight loss to the British.
Four thousand Spanish cavalry fled away inland, leaving the artillery and all the treasures
of the city to be the spoil of the army, and that same evening Anstey was once more summoned
before the General, and told that to him would be entrusted the honour of conducting to London
the precious stones and jewels and the other treasures found in the city coffers.

On September 20th of the same year a strange procession might have been seen passing along
Pall Mall to the Bank of England. First of all came eight waggons loaded with gold and precious
stones, each waggon being preceded by a Jack Tar carrying a flag with the word 'Treasure' on
it. Then came the field-pieces and the Spanish colours captured at Buenos Ayres, and last of
all rode Gerald Anstey--the proud guardian of these valuable trophies.

The jewels, stones, and boxes, containing over a million dollars, were deposited at the Bank
of England, and the colours and field-pieces were taken to the Tower of London, where those
interested in such matters may still see them.

History, however, compels us to state that the capture of Buenos Ayres was but a short-lived
triumph, as it was wrested from us in the following year.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 75.)

Having secured the turret door to prevent interruption, Alan drew Marjorie to the settle, and
began the story of his adventure in the wood: how he had discovered the secret passage from
the cliff into the great cave; how he had lingered that very morning near the old ruined summer-house,
and heard Thomas and the other man talking; and how he had seen Peet leave the ruin.

'Now it comes to this,' he wound up. 'Thomas is up to some fishy thing or other, bribed by
a greater villain than himself. The question is, what is he up to? Can you guess?'

'If it was burglary,' said Marjorie, sagely, 'what could they possibly want in the ruined summer-house?
I have never been into it, but I can't fancy anything of value can be kept there.'

'Yet those two men were hunting just now for the cellar door that led to it.'

'So they were.'

Marjorie sat silent, thinking the problem out. Alan did not interrupt her, so great was his
faith in his sister. She often hit on the right clue when they were puzzled over things, and
he felt that, even if she could not do so in the present case, it would be a great comfort
to be able to talk over each new discovery with her, and have her help when he needed it.

'One thing struck me,' said Marjorie at last. 'When there was that fuss about the summer-house
door being open, do you remember how anxious Thomas was to get in? Did you see what a cross
look he had all the time Peet was speaking? It was just as if he hated Peet. I wonder if he
wants to do him some injury?'

'Hu-um,' pondered Alan, taking in the new idea slowly; 'no one can like that surly old Peet,
but doing him an injury is another thing. I expect you have the right end of the thread, but
what is it going to lead to? Has Peet anything valuable in the ruin? And if he has--and it
seems as if he must have--how can I find out what it is, or where it is? I dislike him, in
spite of Aunt Betty calling him a rough diamond; but of course I wouldn't see him robbed or
cheated.'

'I should think not, nor anybody else either. But what do you think we ought to do? Why not
tell Father about it, and ask him to keep the secret till something turns up? He would find
out at once what Peet has in the summer-house.'

But Alan, always inclined to be rather selfish and wilful, thought this would spoil the fun
of discovering it themselves, and would not listen to the proposal for an instant.

'We will make a thorough examination of the ruin outside first,' he began; 'that is, as soon
as this weather will let us. The whole place will be dripping for a day or two, but I don't
mind that.'

A sudden outburst of barks and yelps, accompanied by a clamour of voices, came up from below.
Running to the window, they caught sight of the cause of the shouts and howls. The dogs were
being led back to their kennels, and as they were in a savage mood, the men were persuading
or forcing them on. To the amazement of the brother and sister, Thomas was with the party,
apparently as completely at home as if he had never fled from the hounds.

'I say!' exclaimed Alan; 'I wonder how he managed that?'

'I know,' said Marjorie; 'he probably told them he was running after the other man, but could
not catch him. You see the other one isn't there. I expect it was the only way of preventing
the servants and dogs going into the room where they took refuge.'

And this is exactly what had occurred. Alan, much impressed with this version of the affair,
sprang up, declaring he must go down and hear how it was that the dogs were loose, and had
got upon the man's track.

Off he rushed, leaving Marjorie to go downstairs and see how Estelle was. She found Miss Leigh
had been looking for her for a long time, and was not in the best of tempers in consequence.
Estelle was better, but the doctor desired she should be kept in bed for the remainder of that
day, and not run about much for a day or two. No one could understand the cause of the fainting
fit, and Marjorie was called upon to explain what they had been doing. They had been playing
in the passages, she said, and were on the tower stairs when the dogs burst in. Estelle was
frightened, and had rushed into the corridor, and when Marjorie and Alan followed her, she
was found lying on the floor. It all sounded very simple. But Marjorie felt very mean and uneasy
about the concealment; she felt that it was as bad as telling a lie, and only her promise to
Alan, rashly given, kept her from disclosing everything.

'The whole business is most mysterious,' said Colonel De Bohun, in a tone of annoyance. 'How
it came about that there was a strange man--a tramp, I suppose--wandering so near the house,
I cannot imagine. Thomas saw him, and so did James, most luckily; and Thomas was wise enough
to give chase at once, but the rascal seems to have escaped him. He was a nimble sort of a
fellow, James says, and it seems that the moment the grooms got wind of it, they let the dogs
loose. Lucky none of them were hurt.'

'So this was the way Thomas managed!' thought Marjorie. 'What a sharp fellow he is! Oh, if
Father only knew!'

'Has the man gone?' asked Lady Coke, anxiously.

'I should think so. We can't find him, at all events. He knows all the men are on the alert,
so I think you are safe, I will remain here if you are nervous.'

It was considered better that he should remain, Lady Coke being old and very frail in spite
of her activity and energy of character. Miss Leigh was to take the children home, and explain
all that had occurred to Mrs. De Bohun, who was laid up with a cold.

(Continued on page 94.)

STORIES FROM AFRICA.

III.--THE STORY OF A CAPTIVE.

'Captive among the Moors.' These words used once to account for many a sad gap in the families
of southern Europe. We, in these days, can hardly realise the dread in which those pirate vessels
were held for hundreds of years, and we find it difficult to believe that not a century ago
Christian captives were wearing out their lives in suffering and exile, and the bitterness
of hope deferred, in the Moorish stronghold of Algiers.

And it seemed specially hard when a company of Spanish soldiers, who had done great things
in the sea fight at Lepanto, were attacked on their homeward journey and carried captive by
the very infidels they had so lately conquered.

Arrived at the port of Algiers, the prisoners were awarded to different masters, the poorer
ones, from whose friends there was little hope of ransom, being set to the hardest tasks and
often cruelly ill-treated, while those of higher rank had an easier service, unless, indeed,
the captors considered that the report of their sufferings might bring money to redeem them.
The only means of escape from slavery was to embrace the Mohammedan religion, and the renegades
who denied their faith often became the most cruel persecutors of their countrymen.

There were two brothers among these Spanish soldiers, sons of a poor though well-born gentleman
of Alcara. The younger of these was to make his name, Miguel de Cervantes, famous throughout
the world. He had distinguished himself in the wars, and had lost the use of his left hand
'for the greater glory of the right,' as he was wont to say in his joking fashion. But a letter
from his great leader, Don John of Austria, which was found about him, convinced his captors
that he was a person of importance, and his ransom was fixed at a sum which he knew his father
could never pay. After a while, however, his family, by tremendous efforts, scraped together
a sum sufficient for the redemption of one brother, and Roderigo, the elder, returned to Spain,
Miguel remaining to endure five years' captivity which would have broken any spirit less gallant
than his.

The captives dwelt in cells opening upon an oblong courtyard; they were all Christians, and
they had at least the comfort of their own services held in one of the little chambers, which
was set apart as a church. 'How good it is in this place to say "Our Father which art in Heaven,"'
Cervantes makes a little captive boy say in the drama in which he afterwards describes his
life in Algiers, and we can see there how the suffering of the children went to the heart of
the gallant soldier, who encouraged many a tempted little one to hold firm to his faith. And
now and then a strange sight would be seen in the prisoners' quarters, nothing less than a
play in rhyme acted by some of the captives, and stage-managed (as we should call it) by Cervantes,
who had invented this device to turn the thoughts of his companions for a little while from
the miseries of their lot.

But this high-spirited prisoner was not content with merely enlivening his own and his friends'
captivity--day and night that active brain of his was plotting escape. One attempt to get away
by land failed at once, but with him a failure only meant a fresh start, and he was soon at
work again with those bold enough to join him. A slave named Juan, gardener to Hassan Pasha,
the Viceroy of Algiers, was induced to contrive a hiding-place in his master's grounds where
any of the captives who could contrive to escape so far might conceal themselves until the
arrival of a friendly boat on the coast. A cave was hollowed out, all unsuspected by the owner
of the garden, large enough to contain fourteen men, and thither one after another of the Christian
slaves contrived to make his way. From February to September fugitives were hiding there, fed
by stealth by the contrivance of Cervantes, who succeeded in sending information to some of
the vessels visiting the port either with merchandise or to treat for the ransom of prisoners.

All had been carefully arranged for the escape, the hour was almost come, when some one proved
false: the story leaked out. The prisoners in Hassan's garden, so near, as they believed, to
the end of their long waiting, were startled by footsteps and voices breaking the stillness
of the warm African night; lights flashed at the mouth of the cave, and with shouts of triumph
and threats of horrible penalties the luckless fugitives were dragged forth. But one man stood
forward in front of the trembling, despairing group.

'I am the author of the scheme,' cried Cervantes, 'I devised it, I carried it out; on me be
the blame; take me before Hassan.'

So before Hassan the intrepid soldier was dragged, heavily manacled and with a halter about
his neck. He faced the Viceroy, who was a renegade and a bloodthirsty tyrant, with the same
cool, smiling courage with which in the Gulf of Lepanto he had faced the Turkish guns. Once
more he repeated his statement that the whole scheme was his; his comrades had but followed
his lead, and the penalty was due to him alone.

Why Hassan spared his life it would be hard to say. Scores of men in his position had died
by the most cruel tortures for a less offence, while he was only threatened, and kept for a
while in chains. Possibly Hassan felt that such a man must surely be ransomed sooner or later,
and spared him in hopes of gain. He is said to have remarked, 'If I could keep hold of that
maimed Spaniard, I should be sure of my slaves, my ships, and my whole city.'

Nor was he much mistaken, for Cervantes, while the chains were still upon his limbs, was busy
with new plots. One more attempt at escape failed through treachery, and the indomitable prisoner
conceived a yet more daring project, and contrived to appeal to the King of Spain, begging
for armed help, and promising a revolt of the whole slave population. The thing might well
have been carried out, for there were something like twenty thousand Christian captives in
Algiers, but, alas! King Philip was too busy quarrelling with his neighbours in Portugal to
win himself the honour of crushing the pirate city which was the scourge of all Christendom.

And then at last arrived in Algiers Father Juan Gil, a good monk, whose work it was to collect
and carry to Africa the ransom money for some of the captives, and with him he brought three
hundred ducats, scraped together with sore pains and privations by the mother and sister of
Cervantes, to purchase his freedom. Hassan, however, would have none of such a paltry sum;
even when it was increased to five hundred he demanded double the amount, and as his viceroyalty
in Algiers was just over, he declared his intention of taking the Spanish slave with him to
Constantinople.

So good Father Juan, feeling that it was now or never, went from one to another of the merchants
trading along the coast, and, begging and borrowing right and left, made up the required sum.
On the very day fixed for the Viceroy's departure, the good Father bore the ransom in triumph
to Hassan, and Miguel de Cervantes was a free man. He carried back with him to Spain the love
and gratitude of many a fellow-sufferer, and I think that much of the kindly humour, the hopeful
courage and patience with other people's follies, which has made the author of Don Quixote
the friend of the whole world, must have been learned in the hard school of his Moorish captivity.

MARY H. DEBENHAM.

A PINCUSHION FACTORY.

May and Ada were thinking. That is how they would have described their long fit of silence
one Saturday afternoon. They were alone in the room which did duty for dining-room, schoolroom,
and everything else; but they were quite used to being left to themselves. Mother and Jane
had always lots to do, and the little girls were often troubled about this, and talked of the
time when they would be able to help.

'May, I have thought,' cried Ada, suddenly.

'Have you?' said May, slowly. 'I haven't. But you're always quicker than I am, Ada.'

'Well, I have thought. I am sure Grannie and Grandfather would come and live with us always
if Mother had more money.'

'Oh! I know that part,' cried her sister. 'That's what we started to think about.'

'Don't be in such a hurry,' said Ada, reprovingly. 'We want to get the money. Well, you know
the dear little pincushions we made for Aunt Ellen's bazaar, and how she said they were sold
directly?'

'Of course I do, but---- '

'Well, let's make lots of them, and go out and sell them. I know we shall have to make lots
and lots, but they won't take long to sell, and then we shall have plenty of money for Mother.
Perhaps she would get another Jane, too, then she wouldn't have so much to do. Well?' and Ada
stopped, a little breathlessly, and waited for her sister to say something.

'It sounds quite splendid,' said May; 'but do you think that Mother would like us to sell for
ourselves? The bazaar seems different.'

'But we mustn't tell her,' cried Ada. 'The surprise will be the best part. Think how pleased
she will be! She's always glad when we do something for her when she doesn't expect it. I am
sure it is the very thing. I was thinking hard for ever such a long time, but nothing else
would do. We are too small to go out and work to get money---- '

'And Mother couldn't spare us,' cried May. 'Besides, you forget our lessons.'

'And we do not knit very well yet. At least we could never finish a sock unless Mother helped
us, and then she would know. But, May, hadn't you thought at all?'

'I am afraid I hadn't, and I did try so hard. But that doesn't matter,' said May, who was accustomed
to follow her younger sister's lead. 'Let's start making directly, Ada. Have we any bits of
silk left?'

'Plenty; and I've got some cards cut. We can get one or two done before tea.' And the two little
girls were soon as silent over their work as they had been over their 'thinking.'

For the next few weeks they were continually to be seen cutting circles out of old postcards,
covering them with silks, and sewing them together. Mother teased them sometimes about their
'Pincushion Factory,' but she was glad to see them happy and busy, especially as spring was
coming in 'like a lion,' with day after day of gales and storms, which made walks impossible.
Jane was rather inquisitive about their doings, and a little hurt at not knowing their secret.
She was accustomed to be told all about their 'thinking,' and to have a share in all the wonderful
plans that Ada invented and May followed; but neither of the sisters would explain why so many
pocket pincushions were wanted all at once. 'It isn't another bazaar,' said Jane, to herself,
'or Mistress would have told me. It's just some new fad Miss Ada's got hold of. I dare say
it's all right. They are as good as gold, those two, and the pincushions can mean no harm.'

'Three dozen exactly,' said Ada, one bright Saturday morning, 'and every colour that any one
could want. We shall make a lot of money! We must begin selling them to-day, May.'

'Must we?' said May, rather dubiously. Somehow that part of the business did not quite please
her. She had been glad that the stock took so long to accumulate, and that the business of
selling did not begin at once.

'Yes, indeed. We're going to the baker's for Mother this morning. She said we might, because
Jane's too busy. So we will take some out with us. Aunt Ellen got sixpence each for hers at
the bazaar.'

'But can we?' said May. 'Let's ask threepence. They are very small, you know. How many will
your pocket hold, Ada?'

Two little girls left Grove Villa an hour later. They were neatly dressed in dark blue, with
a bright red ribbon round their sailor-hats, and there was a spot of bright colour on each
of the four cheeks, telling of the excitement in the little minds. Ada was eager to begin,
but May almost hoped that no likely buyers would be met with.

'Shall we ask the baker?' she whispered, as they drew near his shop.

'No, I don't think so,' said Ada, uncertainly. 'I don't quite know, but I don't believe that
a baker wants pocket pincushions. I would rather ask some one who doesn't know us. Gentlemen
are best because they have waistcoat pockets to slip them into.'

But there are not many gentlemen to be seen in a London suburb in the morning on Saturday,
or any other week-day, and the sisters had walked farther down the High Road than they imagined
before a likely buyer came in sight.

'There's a gentleman,' said May, in a very shaky voice. 'You ask him, Ada--you.'

'Please, sir, will you--would you buy a pincushion?' stammered Ada. The pincushion factory
was all very well, but the selling part did not seem so pleasant, now that she had come to
the point.

'And what should I want with a pincushion?' said some one far above their heads, so gruffly
that Ada longed to run away, and May, somehow, found that tears were very near.

'And what may you be doing here alone with your pincushions?' went on this terrible voice;
but it was not so gruff this time. There was something in it which they thought they had heard
before. Looking up, who should it be but their father's Irish friend, Mr. O'Brien, whom they
were trying to capture for their first customer!

'Oh!' cried Ada, 'it's you!' and the whole story came tumbling out in such a confused way that
Mr. O'Brien had nearly taken them back to Grove Villa before he quite understood it.

Mother, too, was very much puzzled. 'No, I don't say it was naughty, my dears, but you had
better not have surprises out of doors again,' she said. 'But what made you think of it at
all, Ada?'

'But Grannie and Grandfather could live here if they wanted to, only the country is better
for them,' she explained, when the little girls had told her the reason of their 'factory.'
'Yes, you do hear me say we can't afford things, but they are things we don't really need.
You always have all you want, don't you? Don't worry your little heads about money, then, and
promise me one thing--never to go a step farther than I send you when you go out alone! You
might have been lost if Mr. O'Brien hadn't met you!'

'Indeed we will not, Mother darling!' cried the two in one breath.

'And I think,' said May, soberly, 'we will tell Jane or somebody about our next surprise, and
then we shall know whether it is all right.'

E. S. S.

THE SLOTH.

Waterton, the famous naturalist, has told us concerning his doings with a sloth when he was
going through a forest near the River Essequibo. He ascended with wonderful rapidity, and in
about a minute he was almost at the top. He now went off in a side direction, and caught hold
of the branch of a neighbouring tree; next he went towards the heart of the forest. I stood
looking on, amazed at his singular mode of progress. I was going to add that I never saw a
sloth take to his heels in such earnest, but the expression will not do, for the sloth has
no heels.'

The Indians of Guiana declare that the sloth travels chiefly when the wind blows. During calm
weather the animal is still, but if a breeze rises, the branches of the trees generally become
interwoven, and he can pursue his journey safely from branch to branch. Should a wind blow,
as it often does, after ten o'clock in the morning till sunset, a sloth will manage a good
distance without resting.

Seldom, unless perhaps by accident, is a sloth seen upon the ground. There its movements do
seem laborious and painful. Its home is amongst trees, and its favourite position not on, but
under, the branches. Off the trees it obtains the various insects which are its food, and escapes
the danger of being seized by most beasts of prey. When the sloth is at rest under a branch,
it has been noticed to make a sort of purring sound, expressing pleasure, though at times one
is heard uttering a plaintive shriek, possibly telling of discontent.

The head of the sloth is small and round. It is well clothed with shaggy hair, and the fore-legs
are long and strong. While quite young, the little sloth is carried about by its mother.

THE NIGHT BEFORE MY BIRTHDAY.

  The longest night--so people say--
  Follows the short December day;
  And if by hours you count the night,
  Then surely what they say is right.

  But years, and years, and years ago,
  When I was very young, you know,
  The longest night, I'm bound to say,
  Followed the shortest month's last day.

  That night I always lay awake,
  And longed to see the morning break,
  And sunshine through the window burst,
  For I was born on March the First.

  I heard the big clock--stiff and stark--
  Sedately ticking in the dark,
  And when I murmured: 'Hurry, do!'
  It made reply by chiming 'Two.'

  And on from hour to hour it seemed
  I dozed, I waked, I thought and dreamed
  Of pleasures mine--an endless sum--
  If March the First would ever come.

  And yet the morning's earliest peep
  Would always find me fast asleep:
  So fast asleep that at my door
  They called and called me o'er and o'er.

  So, since that time I've learned, my dear,
  The longest night in all the year
  Is that on which we lie awake,
  Impatient for the dawn to break.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 87.)

CHAPTER V.

'Where's Estelle?' cried Alan, bursting into the schoolroom at the Moat House a few days later.
'I'm so sorry, Mademoiselle, for startling you like that, but I thought Estelle was sure to
be here.'

'She has gone to the Bridge House,' answered Mademoiselle, with an indulgent smile.

She was quite prepared for any amount of interruption and noise during the holidays, since
Alan always brought a lively, breezy air with him, in his delight at being home again, and
free from school work.

'Estelle is taking some grapes and roses to Dick Peet,' continued Mademoiselle. 'He seemed
very weak and poorly when we passed yesterday, and she has so wanted to do something for him.
He's a sad wreck, poor fellow!'

'Poor chap! It's hard lines on him. I will cut down and catch Estelle before she leaves the
Bridge House.'

He was off, and Mademoiselle heard his fleet steps in the corridor a moment. Then she saw him
going at full speed down the drive, so brimming over with health and spirits, so keen in the
enjoyment of life and activity, with a future before him so rose-coloured and fortunate, that
she could not but contrast him with that poor broken specimen of humanity, Richard Peet, the
gardener's son. A contrast to him, indeed, were the children as they stood together in the
little garden at the Bridge House. Dick, seated in his armchair, was looking at them in his
peaceful, half-sleepy way. A handsome fellow he must have been in the days of health and prosperity.
Even now, though he was paralysed in brain as well as in limbs, there was a wonderful expression
of goodness and patience in his worn face.

'Are you well to-day?' asked little Georgie, putting his hand on the invalid's knee, and looking
up into his face with his blue eyes full of childish sympathy.

Dick smiled. Getting better every day,' replied he, in the indistinct accents of the partially
paralysed.

Estelle was arranging her flowers on the little table at his side, and Marjorie had gone to
speak to Mrs. Peet.

The house was close to the old drawbridge, and its garden sloped down to the waters of the
moat. Shining like silver in the bright sunshine, the waterlilies were resting on their broad
leaves, and two swans were sailing in stately beauty. The summer sun had banished all signs
of the thunderstorm, and Dick's chair had been placed near the elms overhanging the water.
It was a pretty, well-kept garden, and a very old-world house, with a deep porch, overgrown
with honeysuckle and clematis--a home not to be despised by any one. The rooms were of good
size and well furnished, and everything had been done which could make Dick happy and comfortable
in his misfortune.

'Better!' said Mrs. Peet, who came down the lawn with Marjorie, and had heard Dick's reply
to Georgie's question, 'It's not the sort of getting better that we understand. He is a bit
weaker, if anything. Perhaps 'tis the heat tries him. My poor Dick!' she went on, putting her
apron to her eyes, 'he will never be better in this world, that's what I says, though it does
make his father angry.'

'Is he angry?' said Estelle. 'Why?

'He thinks it is hard on us, is poor Dick's illness. It is hard! But it seems to me we have
much to be thankful for, specially in my lady's goodness to us in our affliction.'

'I think it's worse for Dick than for any one else,' declared Alan, who had joined the group;
he could not imagine a more terrible life than the one of utter helplessness to which Dick
was condemned.

'So it is,' returned Mrs. Peet, with a heavy sigh, as she gazed at her son with tears in her
eyes, 'and he is so patient! Why, you never so much as hear a grumble, nor a fret! Now, what
do you think his great wish is--what he is always wanting, miss?'

'If it is anything we can do---- ' began Marjorie.

'That it isn't, miss, nor nobody else. He wants some news of the man what done him the mischief.
Dick's that soft. And--and, well, he is an angel. His father don't understand it, but Dick
has really forgiven that man. He's downright anxious to hear how that rascal's been getting on.'

'Why should he care about that?' said Alan, who knew very little of Dick's story.

'He's afraid that the man thinks he's killed him, and that perhaps he's made wickeder than
he was before,' answered Mrs. Peet, shaking her head. 'He said he'd die satisfied if he could
hear that the fellow had repented.'

'Perhaps he will some day,' said Estelle, looking with pity at Dick's face.

''Tisn't likely, Miss. We shall never be likely to meet Dick's enemy; don't you believe it!
But it pleases him to think he will, so I don't gainsay him.'

'I shall hope he will,' returned Estelle, as her cousins made a move to go back to the gardens.

The children were to have tea on the lawn with Lady Coke, and they could see preparations even
now being made for it. They did not often have such a treat: Lady Coke, sweet and loving as
she always was to her great-nephews and nieces, was too old and delicate to indulge in their
companionship for very long at a time. The children were on their quietest behaviour with her,
but the little voices tired her unconsciously, and she would not spare herself while they were
with her.

Lord Lynwood, Estelle's father, and Colonel De Bohun were brothers and nephews to Lady Coke,
while Mrs. De Bohun was the niece of Sir Horace Coke, Lady Coke's husband, who had died many
years ago. This close relationship on both sides, and the nearness of the two properties, made
the two households almost like one. Colonel and Mrs. De Bohun were deeply attached to their
aunt, and glad to take counsel with her in the bringing up of their children. Lady Coke, in
her turn, was very dependent upon them for companionship, her own sons being away on foreign
service.

A merry party the children made. The laughter and chatter were as free and happy as Aunt Betty
loved to hear it. The adventure in the tower appeared to interest them more than anything else,
and very wild were the guesses as to what the man could have wanted. But when Aunt Betty ventured
to express some admiration for Thomas' bravery, to her astonishment she was met by silence
on the part of the two greatest talkers, Alan and Marjorie. The latter almost at once turned
the subject by asking how Aunt Betty supposed the man managed to escape. Aunt Betty had no
ideas to suggest. Alan frowned at Marjorie, but she went on quite serenely.

'Do you know, Auntie, what the summer-house contains? Peet keeps the place locked up as if
he had something of value there. I wish you would let us go and see. Father says it is dangerous
because of the falling of stones from the roof, but if it is safe for Peet, and the stones
don't crash down on his head, why should they on ours?'

'I think it would be a good lesson if they did knock him over for once,' said Alan, grimly.

'I know he is trying at times,' said Lady Coke, in her soft, gentle voice, 'but he is a sterling
old man all the same, and it is a pity you cannot let him alone.'

'He won't let us alone, Aunt Betty,' said Alan, 'and he is cheeky too. I suppose we do worry
him a bit,' he added, as recollections came to him of the havoc made with the tidy paths, or
the injury to shrubs when hunting for lost balls after games of tennis.

'We went to see Dick just now,' said Estelle, 'and oh, Auntie, what a dreadful thing it seems
that he should have become like that! Mrs. Peet told us a little about him, and how good he is.'

'Perhaps,' answered Lady Coke, 'you would all feel more kindly towards Peet if I were to tell
you how sadly he has suffered. Almost as much as his son, only in another way.'

(Continued on page 102.)

ROUND THE CAMP FIRE.

III.--IN THE JAWS OF DEATH.

(Concluded from page 83.)

'I waited a moment (continued Denison) in order to give the shikari time to recover himself.
I can tell you that I was not feeling at that moment much more cheerful than the poor fellow
himself, who had evidently witnessed some terrible calamity to my poor friend, Charlie Eccles.
I waited on tenterhooks; then I could bear the suspense no longer.'

'Did the tiger then spring upon the Sahib and kill him?' I faltered. 'Where is the Sahib's body?'

'Alas!' said the shikari, 'who can tell! Listen, Protector of the Poor. The Sahib Eccles shrieked,
for the great yellow beast--may he lead a life of pain!--sprang upon him, as you say. The Sahib's
bullet had struck but not killed him. He bore the Sahib to the earth, and lay for a moment
upon him, the Sahib crying out once and twice again. With the Sahib's second gun I fired into
the body of the beast, but whether I hit him or not I cannot say, for all was confusion and
dust and terror, and also there was the fear lest the bullet should strike the Sahib. Then,
in a moment, the tiger had disappeared, and the Sahib also. There was none to see, for these
other men, the beaters, had quickly taken flight at the sound of the roar of the tiger, and,
as for me, I must confess that, for a moment, after shooting at the beast, I turned my back
upon the animal, fearing lest he should now fall upon me. When I looked again--it was but a
few seconds later--both tiger and Sahib had, as I say, disappeared; therefore I made no doubt
that the savage brute seized the Sahib Eccles and carried him into the jungle. Alas! there
is no doubt that he is dead. This is an evil tiger, an eater of men. There is no hope that
the poor Sahib is still alive.'

I listened to the shikari's narrative in speechless horror. It was difficult to realise that
he had spoken of Charlie Eccles, my old school friend; that this tale he had just told me was
of Charlie's death; and that his death had happened within an hour or so, and might have been
prevented if I had arrived but a single day, or even half a day, earlier.

'Shikari, this is a dreadful tale you have told me,' I groaned. 'If you have told me the truth,
and not lied in order to hide your own cowardice, the Sahib Eccles is probably dead. This,
however, must be ascertained immediately, and his body must be found and brought in. You will
guide me at once to the spot, and we shall follow upon the tiger's tracks.'

'Into the jungle, Sahib!' exclaimed the shikari. 'Upon the track of a wounded tiger! Then we
are lost men, both of us.'

'At any rate, if you are a coward, and dare not help me to seek your master, you shall at least
show me where he was seized, and I will go alone.'

The shikari, though evidently a nervous man, was no coward. He pulled himself together.

'I will go with the Sahib,' he said. 'It shall not be spoken of me that there was a thing of
which I was afraid. The Sahib will allow me to carry this second rifle of the Sahib Eccles?'

'Of course. You have answered well, shikari; it shall be said that you are a brave man. Take
the rifle and come, for this is a matter that cannot wait.'

So we set out for the place where poor Eccles had lost his life, some two or three miles from
the bungalow, and my heart was heavy as lead as I tramped along with the shikari at my side,
recalling many scenes in which old Charlie had been my companion at school and at Oxford and
in after-life. I scarcely thought of the extreme danger of the enterprise upon which the shikari
and I were now engaged, my mind being otherwise occupied; but when we came near the place,
and the native, looking frightened and positively trembling as he spoke, whispered that here,
within twenty-five yards, was the spot where the tiger had sprung upon the Sahib, I suddenly
realised that we were about to meet a crisis in our lives.

'Have your rifle ready,' I whispered back, 'and look all ways at once. If you see the tiger,
fire at the same instant.'

We reached the spot where the scuffle had taken place. The grass was trampled and broken, and
there were marks of a struggle. A yard or two further on lay Charlie's helmet, with puggaree
attached, and a scrap of his clothing fluttered in the midst of a thorny bush, through which,
I suppose, he had been dragged. The jungle became denser at this point with every step forward,
and we advanced inch by inch, very slowly, very cautiously, feeling that we carried our lives
in our hands, for a wounded tiger lying hid in the cover, with so much energy left in him as
this beast presumably still possessed, since he had carried Charlie's body away with him, is
one of the most dangerous things that a man can face. I need not tell you fellows that, however,
both of you being experienced hunters. Probably, being wounded, the tiger would not travel
far. Of course, there was only the shikari's word for it that he was wounded; but, in any case,
being burdened with the body of a twelve-stone man, he would not go further than he need. So
we crept slowly forward.

It, was a gruesome experience. To tell the truth, I was almost more afraid that I should suddenly
come upon the body of poor Eccles lying across our pathway, than of hearing the terrible roar
of the wounded tiger and seeing him crouch to spring upon us. Expecting him, as I did, at every
second, it would be hard if I could not get in my shot before he could get in his spring.

The track was easily followed. A great beast cannot drag another large creature through grass
and plants of all kinds without leaving behind pretty evident signs of his passing. We had
gone forward--creeping almost as noiselessly as snakes--some quarter of a mile, scarcely more,
when suddenly the most astonishing thing happened that ever I experienced.

Not fifty yards from the place in which we then stood, as it happened, listening for any sound
which might reveal the whereabouts of the tiger, a shot suddenly rang out, instantly followed
by a kind of sound, half roar, half moan; then came the noise of a scuffle, the crashing of
twigs, a few gasping coughs--then silence.

'Shikari,' I cried aloud, scarcely knowing in my excitement what I said, 'it is the Sahib!
Come!' I dashed forward. 'Charlie--Charlie Eccles!' I yelled, 'is it you? I am Ralph!'

A feeble cheer replied to my shout. The next moment a remarkable spectacle opened itself out
before us.

Charlie Eccles half lay, half sat upon the ground--pale, tattered, but smiling; a few feet
away lay upon its side the body of an enormous tiger. I sprang forward. 'Don't touch me, old
chap,' said Charlie, 'I feel as if I was broken all over!'--then he fainted.

Well, except a couple of broken ribs and some nasty gashes and scratches, there was nothing
seriously the matter, and with the help of a litter and half-a-dozen natives summoned by the
shikari, we got him home to the bungalow without further damage. There he told me his story.
The tiger had been wounded, but not seriously, by his first shot. The shikari fired and missed.
Then the beast had seized him by the shoulder, which was lacerated, and had dragged him to
this place. Charlie had clung to his rifle, and upon reaching the spot where we had found him,
the tiger laid him down and rested. Fortunately the pain of his wound had rendered the brute
disinclined to eat. He stood over him for nearly half an hour, listening, licking his wound,
and growling. Charlie lay still as death, for he knew that if he moved a finger he would be
slain that instant. After half an hour the brute left him and lay a few yards away, but in
such a position that Charlie could not fire a fatal shot; he therefore waited in hopes that
he would change his attitude. The tiger lay and attended to his wound for a full hour or more,
and Eccles waited patiently.

At last--just before we arrived--the tiger shifted, presenting his side and shoulder, and Charlie,
pointing his rifle with the utmost care, for he knew his life depended upon the shot, pulled
trigger.

'I think,' Ralph concluded, 'that evening in the Dâk Bungalow was about the happiest I ever
spent. The doctor had been summoned from the camp at Bandapore and had pronounced Charlie Eccles
to be progressing excellently. You may imagine how happy I must have felt after my fears. You
may imagine, also, what a hero Charlie was among the natives after his exploit. Of course my
friend the shikari, in telling them the story, made out that the chief honours were his, but
he was good enough to admit that the Sahib behaved also like a brave man, and probably his
hearers, knowing each other's little ways, distributed the honours pretty fairly.'

ABOUT TOPIARIES.

What is a topiary? If you have never been in one, you may have seen one represented by some
artist who draws scenes that show us gardens or shrubberies of bygone days. Perhaps you may
at least have been in some old-fashioned garden, which had one or more trees of odd shapes,
into which they had been cut and trained years ago. When a number of such trees are growing
together, the place is called a topiary, and lately people who can afford the money have been
contriving topiaries in some parts of their grounds. Gardeners who understand how to make trees
resemble the human figure, or different animals, or other objects, can usually get plenty of
employment.

We read about sculptured hedges as far back as the times of the Tudors; it was chiefly the
yew hedge that people cut and shaped into odd figures. But it was not till the Dutch gardeners
came over in the reign of William III., that it became the practice to give curious shapes
to trees and shrubs scattered over gardens, or brought together into a topiary. Various trees
were used, but chiefly yew and box.

The Dutch were fond of making figures out of trees, and so were the Italians. At Savona, a
traveller tells us that he saw a group representing the flight of Joseph into Egypt, formed
of variegated holly, box, myrtle, laurel, and cypress. The poet Pope alluded to the Duke who
owned the splendid estate of Canons, as a nobleman who had

  'Trees cut to statues, statues thick as trees,'

and he remarks that he was shown, in greenery, Adam, Eve, and the serpent, but the figures
were damaged somewhat. All such figures need attention to keep them in order. There are many
about England that are of good age, and may last some years yet; though, of course, these trees
may be injured by wind or heavy rain. Shrubs and trees are formed into curious shapes by the
help of wires, and much trimming or twisting of the shoots is needed at first. A young tree,
therefore, representing a peacock, or some other bird, will cost four or five pounds, and specimens
that are larger may be worth many times that amount. Figures of men, horses, bears, dogs, and
various animals, including dragons, are to be seen, as well as letters of the alphabet, triangles,
or other inanimate objects, some trees being cleverly made to look like jugs, bottles, and
bowls. Occasionally, a singular change has been made in a tree; thus, what was a boy with a
rake, by a little alteration becomes a soldier carrying a rifle.

When taking a country stroll, we may sometimes come upon a specimen of a tree-sculptor's art
in a wayside cottage garden, perhaps two hundred years old. One of the finest topiaries in
England is in the grounds of Levens Hall, Westmoreland, and the Earl of Harrington has a notable
one at Elvaston Castle, Derbyshire.

A GENEROUS ACT.

The sons of a great landowner were permitted by their father to associate with the poor boys
in the neighbourhood. One day, when they had to return home to dinner, a lad who was playing
with them said he would wait till they returned.

'There is no dinner for me at home,' said the poor boy.

'Come with us, then,' said the others.

The boy refused, and when they asked him if he had any money to buy a dinner, he answered 'No.'

When the boys got home the eldest of them said to his father, 'Father, what was the price of
the silver buckles you gave me yesterday?'

'Five shillings,' was the reply.

'Then please give me the money, and I will give you the buckles again.'

This was done accordingly, and the father, inquiring privately, found that the money was given
to the lad who had no dinner.

PEEPS INTO NATURE'S NURSERIES.

IV.--THE LIFE HISTORY OF THE CRAB.

The more we study the living creatures around us the more wonderful they become; and in many
ways this is especially true of what we may call the little people of the lower world. Most
of us regard the crab as a creature good to eat, or, in the case of some of the smaller kinds,
as something to be hunted for in rock-pools at the seaside; but only a very few appear to know
anything of the crab in its infancy.

What we may call the childhood of the crab makes a really curious story. Boys and girls, until
they are quite grown up, are, as a rule at any rate, carefully nursed and shielded from the
hardships of life; but with the young crab it is otherwise. From the moment of its birth it
is called upon to enter life's battle alone; of brothers and sisters, mother and father and
home, it knows nothing. And such a tiny little mite it is, too, needing a microscope to see
it. Stranger still, at this early period of life it is not the least bit like a crab; for a
crab, as most of us know it, is a creature with a shell broader than it is long, and long legs,
and a pair of pincers which can give a most painful nip to unguarded fingers. As a youngster,
however, he presents a very different appearance, as may be seen in fig. 1. That is what he
looks like just after leaving the egg--a creature with a huge eye, a big round body, and a
long, slender tail--a sort of compromise between a crab and a lobster, but without the familiar
legs and pincers.

A little later he assumes a form which is certainly fantastic, for from the top of the shell
(as you will see in fig. 2) there grows out a long, curved spine, while the legs have taken
a shape suggesting jointed paint-brushes. Later still the eyes grow out from the head and are
supported on short stalks, the legs and pincers appear, and lastly the long tail curls up,
till at last it grows into a curious three-cornered shield and is carried tucked away under
the body. As soon as this takes place he becomes at once the crab with which we are familiar,
and changes no more except in size.

The strange flap hinged to the hinder edge of the body of the adult crab, and held close to
its under surface, really answers to the long body of the lobster. To make this clear, look
at the series of figures 3 to 6: fig. 3 shows the back view of the last stage of the crab's
infancy, and fig. 4 a side view of the same, where you will note that the tail is already beginning
to curl up. In fig. 5 you have the under side of the full-grown crab with all that remains
of the hinder part of the body and the tail in the position in which it is carried during life,
and in fig. 6 the upper side with the tail showing as if it were unfolded. If you compare figs.
5 and 6 with fig. 7 (a lobster), you can see that the hinder part of the body of the crab,
with the tail unfolded, really does answer to that portion of the body of the lobster which
lies behind the last pair of legs.

But there are some relatives of the crab which come into the world still earlier, and these
in the early stages have a still more un-crab-like shape which is known as the nauplius stage
of growth.

The crab, on leaving the egg, enters the world not in the form of a Nauplius, but as a 'Zoea,'
as it is called; this is shown in figs. 1 and 2. By the time the stage shown in figs. 3 and
4 is reached, he has attained the dignity of what is known among scientific men as the megalopa
stage. What a nauplius looks like you will see in fig. 8.

This curious order of things is true, however, only of salt-water members of the crab-tribe.
With certain near relatives of the crabs and lobsters which have taken up their residence in
fresh water, a different order of things prevails, for here we find some trace of maternal
care. Thus, in the fresh-water crayfish the young not only leave the egg in a much more advanced
stage, but they are carefully carried about by the mother, until they have learned to shift
for themselves, which they do in a very few days. During this time they cling to the swimming
legs of the parent by means of their pincers. When all is quiet they drop off one by one, and
crawl about to gather experience and food. But at the least sign of danger the mother appears
to give some note of warning, and in a moment they have scuttled back, and fastened hold of
her skirts, so to speak; then, if need be, she hurries off to a place of safety. At this time
these little crayfish are very tiny indeed; but to get an idea of what they look like, and
how they hold on, look at fig. 9, which gives a picture of the swimming foot of a mother crayfish,
and two of her youngsters hanging on to it.

It would seem that this great care is necessary, because in the swift-running streams where
these creatures generally live, their young, if uncared for during their early days, would
be swept away by the tide and carried out to sea, where they would speedily die.

W. P. PYCRAFT, F.Z.S., A.L.S.

A TALE OF BREMEN.

  Bremen was a growing city, but its ruler, hard and proud,
  Insolent in power and riches, all his humble subjects cowed,
  Till one day a bold man pleaded to the Count on bended knee:
  'Sire, for just a little season set my toiling brethren free!
  Let them leave awhile their labour, let them roam the country fair,
  Quit the close and crowded city for a breath of purer air;
  Or, perchance, their faithful service you will graciously repay,
  And a piece of ground assign them from your gardens vast and gay?'

  Frowned the Count, and answered, mocking: 'Not a little do you ask!
  Well! your prayer shall find a champion, and I'll set him just one task:
  He shall march from dawn to sunset, pacing my fair gardens round;
  All his footsteps can encircle shall be then the people's ground.'

  Morning came, the folk assembled, full of hopefulness and glee,
  But their eager eyes no other than the Count himself can see.
  Stay! there standeth one beside him, Hans the cripple, small and weak!
  'This is he,' the Count cries, scoffing, 'who shall give you what
    you seek.
  Fly! Hans, fly! Around my pleasaunce speed as quickly as you may!'
  And the cripple, smiling bravely, starts forthwith upon his way.

  All that day, from morn to even, Hans the cripple did his best,
  Walking on without cessation, pausing not for food or rest.
  Miracle both Count and people deemed the prowess he displayed,
  And the tyrant scowled in anger as he saw the progress made.
  Faint and weary, for his brethren Hans toiled on till eventide,
  Then, amid the people's cheering, knelt, and breathed a prayer, and died.

  Feudal days are gone for ever, but in Bremen's ancient town
  Tell they still of Hans the hero, who for them his life laid down.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 95.)

The children were all eager to hear the story, and a sad one it was. They had become accustomed
to see Dick half asleep in his armchair in the garden, or before the fire at the Bridge House.
They knew him to be almost helpless, for it was only with assistance he could move, even on
his crutches. They had thought very little about his condition, however, except for that feeling
of pity which even a child experiences in the presence of suffering. Mrs. Peet's words had
roused their interest in her son, and Lady Coke saw an opportunity for deepening the impression
she had made. It would be good in many ways for these young people to hear that sad story.
It had its lessons, and these she trusted would sink into their young minds; they might make
it more possible to feel patient and to show more consideration for Peet, whose irritable temper,
she was forced to admit, was very trying to their high spirits.

Dick, the only child of Peet and his wife, had been a fine handsome lad, with an unusual amount
of brains, and with, what is still better, a wonderful capacity for really hard work. He had
won all the prizes that he could possibly compete for in the little school at Lynwood, as well
as most of the honours in the cricket and football field, for he was quite as good at games
as at books. Peet was at that time, and had been ever since his youth, a gardener on the Earl
of Lynwood's estate--Lynwood Keep, in Scotland. He had risen through steady work to be head
gardener and bailiff. On finding himself possessed of sufficient means to take a wife and settle
down, he had married an old love of his, a Cornish girl from the village of Newlyn, and had
carried her off to the home he had so proudly prepared for her. A very happy couple they had
been, and the birth of Dick had added a still greater happiness to their already bright life.
Peet's temper had not then become what the sore trials and disappointments of his later life
had made it. He was contented and prosperous, and the clouds which afterwards darkened his
existence had not so much as sent the tiniest little messenger before them to tell of their coming.

As Dick grew older, and showed of what true, strong metal he was made, his parents' pride in
him became greater than they could quite conceal. A certain amount of envy and ill-will was
the natural result. Dick himself was not in the least conceited. None knew so well as he how
hard it was to restrain a naturally hasty temper, to give up the games he loved for the work
he did not, to labour as thoroughly at the subjects he disliked or took no interest in as at
those he liked. But he had grit enough to determine he would not thus lose the battle of life
in the beginning of it, and step by step the habit of overcoming difficulties prevailed.

He rose steadily and surely over the heads of his school-fellows, gaining prize after prize,
until there was nothing more to win either in places or rewards.

Having by this time laid by enough to enable him to retire from work, Peet allowed himself
to be persuaded by his brother-in-law to take a small cottage at Newlyn. This brother-in-law,
captain of a merchant vessel, offered at the same time to give his clever nephew a berth on
board his own ship, a barque trading between England and Australia. It would be a good opening
for the lad, and offered him a fair prospect of advancement in life, should he choose to stick
to the sea afterwards as a profession. If not, no harm would be done. On the contrary, Dick
would have passed through some experiences which could not fail to be useful to him, whatever
line he might prefer to follow later on.

Much to Lord Lynwood's regret, therefore, Peet resolved to take the advice thus offered him,
and, resigning his post at Lynwood, took his family to Newlyn. Delighted as Dick was at the
bright future opening before him, he was as sad at parting with his old friends and companions
as they were at losing the most brilliant scholar and athlete the school had ever known. His
warm-hearted, unaffected manner had made him a general favourite, in spite of the fact that
his ability had not failed to arouse envy and dislike in some.

Dick took to the sea like a duck to water. He set himself to learn his work and become 'handy'
with a zeal that soon made him a smart sailor. He managed, also, in spite of all he had to
do, to carry on his own education by reading whenever he could. There were other apprentices
besides himself on board, and he was treated with exactly the same discipline as they, no favouritism
being shown or desired. He preferred to share like the others, and there was nothing in his
behaviour, or in the treatment he received, which could have led any stranger to suppose he
was the skipper's nephew. Nevertheless, his talents soon became evident. He was always the
one to whom a difficult job could be safely trusted; and this came out more clearly when he
went up for his second mate's certificate, which he gained with so much ease as to raise some
jealousy among his fellow-apprentices. This was increased when it became known that Dick had
been offered a berth as fourth officer in a well-known line of steamers.

His usual success followed him in his new career. Hard work, an even temper, and the well-kept
resolution to educate himself by steady reading were good preparations for his next examination
for a first mate's certificate, for which he went up at the earliest possible opportunity.
But, alas! the cloud had already risen in the hitherto sunny skies of his life. He passed the
examination with his usual success. The certificate was duly signed, and, happy that he could
carry it down to his parents, he looked out the train to Penzance. Finding that he had an hour
or so to spare, he went to an inn to snatch a meal before he started off on his long journey.

He had partaken of many a meal in that same inn. It was close to the Board of Trade offices,
and he had met many another merchant sailor in the same dingy rooms, and had discussed the
prospects of the service with them gladly. As he entered it on that day, happy and cheerful,
with his future looking brilliant and rosy before him, he little imagined how near was the
end of all his hopes. Such a small thing had turned the tide! Only that fatal decision to go
to the inn to which he had been so often before, and pass the time till his train started!
Others were taking their lunch there, but the number was smaller than usual; perhaps it was
yet early for the rush. Dick sat at a side-table, reading over his certificate as he ate his
modest meal.

So far all is clear. After this the account became so confused and contradictory that the actual
truth was never known. After a good deal of sifting, the following facts were accepted as the
best version of what must have taken place. According to the landlord's tale, most of the guests
had left, Dick and another sailor being either the sole remaining men in the room, or nearly
so. They were lunching at the same table, and were apparently good friends. He did not remember
that there were any others. He and the waiters happened to be in the pantry for a few minutes;
he was sure it was not longer, when they were startled by the sound of a fall, followed by
the loud bang of the outer door. On rushing in to find out the cause of the disturbance, they
found Dick lying insensible on the floor, with a severe wound on the back of the head, evidently
inflicted by the heavy knobbed stick discovered near him. There was no clue as to what had
given rise to the quarrel. The wounded man's certificate being on his plate, and open, as if
it had just been read, it was imagined that a sudden fit of rage and jealousy must have led
his companion to the terrible deed.

The police and the doctor were at once sent for. A thorough search was made for the culprit,
but, as no one specially remembered him, he made good his escape. From that day no trace of
him was ever discovered, and the whole affair gradually dropped out of recollection.

Meantime, Dick was taken to the nearest hospital, where for a long time his life was despaired
of. Having found the address of his parents, the hospital authorities telegraphed for them,
and they were allowed to be with him as much as possible. As may be imagined, grief and terror
filled their hearts when the telegram reached them. There was no time to dwell on their sorrow,
for Dick's condition took up all their thoughts. The report of the doctors filled them with
even deeper grief and anxiety. They declared it would have been better for the poor fellow
if he had been killed outright. The blow had been so severe that the brain and spine were both
injured. Even if he lived for years, he would never again walk; in all probability, he would
never again understand or speak properly.

Dick did get better, however, and, as soon as he was fit, was taken down to Newlyn. Every care
and attention were given him with the hope of proving that the doctors were mistaken. But,
alas! in vain. It was a long, expensive illness. The little home, so full of comfort and happiness,
the pride of Peet's heart--full, as it was too, of Dick's strange and beautiful things, relics
of his voyages--all had to go: sold to meet the bills of the doctors, and to buy things which
were needed for the invalid. Brought to a very low ebb by this terrible affliction, and not
knowing where all the money was to come from to pay the demands made upon him--too proud to
ask help from even his own brother--Peet resolved to go back to work again. He applied to his
old master, Lord Lynwood; there being no vacancies at Lynwood, however, the Earl wrote to his
aunt, Lady Coke, whose head gardener had died but a short time before, and who, he knew, was
looking out for a capable man to replace him.

Such a berth as he found at the Moat House Peet might have searched the world in vain to discover.
Lady Coke's sympathy was at once roused on hearing of his sorrows, and from her he accepted
kindnesses which would have been an offence from anybody else.

(Continued on page 110.)

STORIES FROM AFRICA.

IV.--A GREAT SEA CAPTAIN.

Once more our tale begins in the city of Lisbon, but now it is on a summer day in the year
1497, when the banks of the Tagus were thronged with those who had come to give God-speed to
the gallant captain Vasco da Gama, sailing to-morrow for 'the Indies.'

This was the age of great sailors and discoverers. Ten years before, Bartolomeo Diaz had rounded
the southern point of Africa. 'The Stormy Cape' he called it; the 'Cape of Good Hope,' as his
rejoicing countrymen would have it, when he came home with the news. A few years later, Columbus,
sailing westward, set up the flag of Spain upon the shores of a new world. And now Manoel,
the young King of Portugal, was all on fire to finish what Diaz had begun, and to earn for
his country the glory of finding the way round the Cape to India, the mysterious land of which
such wonderful tales were told. He could have found no fitter man for the work than the captain
who knelt to-day in the little church above the river to pray for success in his perilous undertaking.
Absolutely fearless, quick-witted, and prompt in action, delighting in danger and adventure,
and indomitable in perseverance, Vasco da Gama was a brave leader of men, and he had himself
chosen two companions after his own heart, who were to command the other two ships--his brother,
Paolo da Gama, and his friend, Nicolo Coello. On his knees the captain received from King Manoel
the cross-marked flag on which he swore fidelity to his sovereign, and then, followed by the
cheers and good wishes of all Lisbon, the good ships set sail.

Near the Canary Isles they met with such heavy weather that, for a week, Vasco's ship, the
San Raphael, was parted from the other two, and his friends had nearly given him up for lost.
The ship reappeared, however, battered but safe, and the expedition waited for awhile to repair
in the Bay of St. Helena.

It was November when they sailed southward again, and now the Cape of Storms began to prove
worthy of its name. Such terrible tempests fell upon the three ships, as they struggled along,
with much ado to keep within sight of each other, that the hearts of the crew failed them altogether.
The question began to be asked among them whether the report of Diaz had after all been well
founded, whether the sea passage really existed, or whether the land which bounded the eastern
horizon did not go on for ever and ever until the very world's end. But when the crew of the
San Raphael begged their captain to abandon the hopeless attempt, his reply was that of the
captain in the song--

  '"Now I've come so far,
  I'm not going back," says he.'

By word and example he encouraged the whole crew, now laughing at their fears, now turning
their thoughts to the triumphant return with glory for their country, himself sharing the hardest
work, and, doubtless, making it quite clear that any man who failed him at the pinch would
find scant mercy at his hands. And, at last, the wind dropped. The land was no longer on the
eastward, the Cape of Storms had been doubled, and from the decks of the three vessels went
up the sounds of praise and thanksgiving that the 'passage perilous' was accomplished.

But the crew of the San Raphael needed yet another lesson to make them into such a band as
their captain needed for his great adventure. According to the strange custom of that age,
Vasco had on board several convicts, who had been released from prison, where they lay under
sentence of death, that he might employ them upon any service of danger for which he was unwilling
to risk his better men. A band of criminals who had broken their country's laws and were not
likely to be troubled with scruples, must have been a rather dangerous element among a somewhat
disaffected crew; and, as the ship sailed northward and again met with rough weather, the convicts
on board the San Raphael, seeing their opportunity, began to plot treason against the captain.
One after another of the crew was won over to a plan which promised a speedy end to the weary,
dangerous voyage, and the ringleaders found means to communicate with their friends on board
the other two ships, so that all was arranged for a general mutiny.

But there was one member of the expedition, perhaps the smallest and least important person
on board, to whom it was given to save the whole undertaking from destruction. One of the conspirators
on board the ship San Miguel, had a little brother, who had been kindly treated by the captain,
Nicolo Coello, and loved him with a boy's hero-worship of a brave man who had been good to
him. Perhaps the conspirators thought the lad too insignificant to be dangerous; at any rate,
he knew the details of the plot and told the captain of what was planned.

Coello's one thought was how to save his friend and leader. It was too rough for him to board
the San Raphael; the warning must be shouted above the noise of winds and waves, and yet it
must be for Da Gama's ear alone. His only hope was in his friend's quickness of wit, and in
the perfect understanding between them. So, from the deck of his own vessel, he shouted to
the San Raphael that his men were all for abandoning the expedition, and that he was constrained
to agree with them and to pray the captain to give the word for returning. How the brave Coello
must have hated to give, even in stratagem, such craven counsel, and how carefully he must
have chosen words that might carry the double meaning to his friend.

Coello need not have feared: Da Gama knew his brave colleague too well to imagine that he was
really thinking of retreat. Possibly he already suspected something amiss; at any rate, he
knew which of his men he could trust, and, with their aid, he discovered the names of the ringleaders.
Then, calling the crew together on deck, he announced to them that, acting upon the advice
of his friend, the captain of the San Miguel, he had decided to give up the expedition and
return to Portugal.

'But,' he continued, 'that I may not appear as a traitor before the King, I will myself draw
up an account of what we have undergone, and those of most repute among you shall sign it,
that all may see that you hold with me in my judgment.'

The mariners agreed readily, and Da Gama, having prepared his statement, sent for the chief
men among the crew to his cabin to sign it, managing to include among them the most dangerous
of the conspirators. All unsuspecting, down they went, leaving their companions to wonder what
had made the captain change his mind. Then came a summons from below, more signatures were
wanted, and down to the cabin went another band of picked men.

As they crossed the threshold, one at a time, they found themselves pinioned, and, staring
round them in dismay, saw their fellow-mutineers in irons, guarded by the loyal members of
the crew. At Da Gama's order all were marshalled on deck, and stood, sullen and powerless,
before the captain.

'Where are your instruments?' he asked sternly of the pilot, who was among the prisoners.

Then, as the man pointed to them with his chained hands, he flung them into the sea.

'You will use them no more,' he said; 'henceforth I will myself be pilot to my own ship. If
God sees us worthy He will guide us to our destination, but be sure that I will never return
alive to Portugal with my purpose unfulfilled.'

That day's work made Vasco da Gama master once for all of the men who sailed with him. He spared
the lives of the conspirators after a captivity long enough to teach them an enduring lesson,
so winning their allegiance by mercy as well as severity.

And we may like to remember that a famous colony of our own was first sighted by Europeans
on the Christmas Day of that year, 1497, and was given its Christmas name, Natal (the 'birthday'
place) by the great Portuguese captain who, in those southern waters,

  'Did win a gallant name,
  And ruled the stormy sea.'

MARY H. DEBENHAM.

A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

True Tales of the Year 1806.

IV.--A GOOD CONSTABLE.

A hundred years ago the streets of London were very insufficiently guarded. Of police, as we
now understand the word, there were none, but at night the public buildings and principal thoroughfares
were handed over to the care of aged and decrepit men, called 'Charlies,' who, being too old
to work by day, were supposed to be able to take charge of the streets by night!

These 'Charlies' were furnished with staves and lanterns, which were often violently wrenched
from them, for it was then a fashionable amusement of wild young men of the upper classes to
'go on the ran-dan,' as it was called--that is, to run up and down the ill-lighted streets,
knocking down first one old Charlie and then another, and carrying off the staff and lantern
as trophies. A young fellow who managed to upset a wooden watch-house, with a poor old man
inside, was very proud of himself indeed, though, maybe, the old 'Charlie' was meanwhile being
almost suffocated to death with the watch-house on the top of him.

Besides 'guarding' the streets, these old watchmen had to announce each hour as it struck,
and to give the news of the weather; thus: 'Past one o'clock and a windy morning!' Once, when
many Londoners were expecting an earthquake, which had been prophesied for that day, some jesters,
returning from a noisy tavern-meeting, frightened the householders by calling out, as they
passed along the streets, 'Past twelve o'clock, and a fine earthquake!'

It is needless to say that robbery and ill-doings of all kinds were of nightly occurrence,
and no decent person was in the streets of the City after dusk except by necessity, for neither
life nor property was safe from the ruffians who then roamed about.

So things went on until the time came when Mr. John Sewell, a bookseller, was appointed Constable
for the Ward of Cornhill. He was a very energetic man, who had long been ashamed of the state
of the City streets, and he determined, now that he was in office, to try and introduce some
reforms. The first thing he decided upon was to serve as constable in person, instead of providing
substitutes, which had been always done by former Head Constables.

His friends were shocked at the idea of a respectable bookseller acting as a common constable,
but Mr. Sewell was not to be moved from his purpose, assuring them 'that the office of Constable
was of too much importance to be executed by every one.'

He first of all put a stop altogether to the wooden watch-houses which were wheeled out every
night, and placed against the Bank and other public buildings, and, instead, converted the
back room of his shop into a guard-room. Here he and many of his friends would keep watch,
when his turn for service came round, which was every fourth night, and they would go the rounds
of his ward, seeing that every man was in his proper place. Mr. Sewell so arranged his men
that every house in his ward was passed by one of them four times in the hour, and he would
constantly pay surprise visits to be sure that all were attentive to their duties.

The public executions were his next care, for hangings were in that day, alas! of weekly occurrence.
Instead of the ribald scenes and unseemly jokes which accompanied the progress of the unfortunate
wretches to Tyburn, Mr. Sewell insisted that a solemn decency should now mark these processions.
He had his watchmen dressed in long cloaks, with crape on their hats, which he provided at
his own expense; and then, as they marched slowly, two and two, he himself led the procession
from Newgate Prison to Holborn Bars, where his authority ended.

It is also interesting, in these days of naval volunteers, to find that Mr. Sewell started
a 'Proposal for a Marine Voluntary Association for Manning the Ancient and Natural Defences
of Old England.'

Altogether, this old Cornhill bookseller was a wonderful man, and might have lived in this
day instead of a hundred years ago.

OLIVE AND THE BEES.

'I mean to make a study of bees!' said Olive, in an important manner, as she looked up from
a big book on natural history which she had been reading for the last ten minutes. 'Listen
to this, Charlie,' she went on, addressing her elder brother, who was arranging his fishing
tackle; 'it says here, "To such as have leisure, and are desirous of amusement, we know of
no study which promises a greater degree of satisfaction." I have plenty of leisure these holidays,
and I mean to be like Hüber, and study bees, and find out wonderful things about them. He was
blind, you know, and as I am not blind, I ought to find out a lot more than he did!' Olive
finished up, complacently.

Charlie, however, far from being impressed with this speech, only burst out laughing. 'You
are conceited!' he exclaimed; 'to think that you, at twelve years of age, are going to beat
Hüber, who spent a life-time in studying bees! However, there is no doubt you will learn something
from them, and by the time you have been well stung you will be able to describe some of their
habits,' and he laughed again.

'I shall not be stung,' said Olive calmly; 'bees are wonderfully intelligent little creatures'--here
she was again quoting from the big book--'and they will understand that I have no wish to hurt
them, but am only studying their ways.'

'And one of their ways is to sting inquisitive folk,' said Charlie. 'Let me advise you to have
Mary's blue-bag handy--the thing she uses on washing-days, you know. Nothing like it for the
sting of an angry bee!' and picking up his fishing-rod, Charlie walked away to the river.

It was the first summer that Olive had spent in the country, and all its sights and scenes
were new to her. So now, rejoicing in the freedom of being able to roam about without her hat
or jacket, she ran lightly out of the low French window of the sitting-room, and down the path
towards a large clump of lemon-coloured foxgloves.

'The bees were in and out of these foxgloves yesterday,' she said, as she stooped over the
bed. 'Ah, yes! here is one--buried quite deep in the flower. I must have that bee,' and taking
out her handkerchief, she threw it over the flower, and caught the bee in its folds, carrying
it in triumph towards the hives, which stood on a shelf under a sunny wall by the high garden gate.

'Now then, dear bee,' said Olive, loosing the bee with all the calmness of ignorance, 'here
is your hive; let me see you go in with your load of honey.'

Bees, however, are not creatures to be trifled with, and this one did not mean to go to its
hive with its honey-bags only half full. Instead, it turned fiercely on Olive and stung her
sharply on the hand.

'Oh! oh! it hurts!' she screamed, and hurrying away, she accidentally upset the straw cover
of a hive. Instantly, scores of angry bees came buzzing round her, and Olive ran as she had
never run before. But she did not escape without several severe stings, and she was all but
fainting with pain and terror when she at last reached the kitchen door and slammed it behind her.

Fortunately, Mary was there, and at once applied the blue-bag, which eased the pain of the
stings greatly.

'I only wanted to study the bees,' sobbed Olive, 'and I never meant to offend them, and make
them sting me.'

'You had better study obedience, Miss, and leave the bees alone,' said Mary curtly. 'I told
you only yesterday to keep away from the hives. If you want to study bees, get the old bee-master
to tell you how to set about it.'

Some weeks later, Olive had an opportunity of watching the bee-master when he removed the honey
from the hives. He did not get stung, though the bees were all round him, and Olive could not
help admiring the fearless way he went to work.

Charlie was right. Olive did learn something from the bees, and one of her lessons was humility.
She did not again think she knew all about a subject after reading of the wonderful discoveries
of men who had given a life-time to it.

PERHAPS.

  Before the dustman comes to me
    As in my bed I lie,
  All sorts of curious things I see
    Up in my nursery high.

  I see the little curly flames
    Jump upwards from the fire;
  I think they must be playing games,
    They never seem to tire.

  And now and then one leaps so high
    That all the ceiling glows:
  Quite suddenly it seems to die--
    I wonder where it goes.

  Sometimes out in the street I hear
    The tinkle of a bell,
  It's first far off, and then quite near;
    It's passing, I can tell;

  And then I see a narrow line
    Of light quite slowly crawl
  Across the ceiling, till its shine
    Stops as it meets the wall.

  I wonder how it comes, and why,
    And where it was before,
  And where it's gone to now, when I
    Can't see it any more.

  Perhaps I'll meet them in my dream,
    Those curly flames so odd,
  And see the little narrow gleam
    Light up the Land of Nod.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 103.)

CHAPTER VI.

'Have they ever found the man who injured Dick?' asked Alan, as Lady Coke's story came to an end.

'No,' replied Lady Coke sadly, 'never. Not a trace of him ever came to light. Shall I tell
you why--or perhaps one of the chief reasons why--the search was discontinued? It is the grandest
part of poor Dick's story,' continued Aunt Betty, putting down her knitting and looking earnestly
at the children's interested faces. 'Dick alone knew who did the cruel deed. During the delirium
of illness his nurses were keenly attentive to every word he uttered, hoping he would mention
the name of his assailant. But no! All through the dangerous fever, and all through the suffering,
he never gave the smallest hint as to who the man was, or what the quarrel (if there had been
one) was about. On recovering his senses he made his father and mother understand, in the halting
speech which was all he could manage, that he wished to keep the name of the man a secret;
that, should he have mentioned it during his fever, he begged they would respect his desire,
and not permit the name to escape them. 'Give him a chance,' he said. He always feared that
the knowledge of what he had done might some day drive the man to desperation, and make him
become more wicked through horror at his own action.'

'Don't his father and mother know even now who did it?' asked Georgie, with wide-open eyes
of wonder.

'No, as Dick never told them, they will not press him to do so against his will.'

'I could have understood it,' said Alan, 'if the man had fought him fairly, face to face. But
to set on him unawares! That's what the scoundrel seems to have done!'

'Yet Dick forgives him!' replied his aunt, gently.

'I don't think,' said Marjorie, 'that Dick is quite right all the same. It is fair enough that
Dick should forgive injuries to himself if he chooses, but it is hardly just to his father
and mother not to have that man punished as he ought to be.'

'I can't see how it would help Peet even if the man were caught' said Estelle, thoughtfully.
'If he is a sailor, he would not have enough money to pay any of Dick's doctor's bills. I thought
sailors were so poor, Aunty?'

'They generally are, dear, and most probably this man was. We know nothing about him, however,
nor what it was that led to the terrible thing he did. Let us hope, as Dick does, that the
unhappy fellow has repented.'

'Then he would have to come back to say so,' said Alan.

'I don't know that. First, he may think he has killed Dick, and be afraid to show himself.
Or he may not be able to find Dick now that Peet has left Cornwall, without betraying why he
was inquiring for him. A deeply repentant man would give himself up to justice, certainly;
that is, one would think so. But we know absolutely nothing to help us in our judgment of him,
and can but hope and pray for him as Dick does.'

Lady Coke was silent for some moments, then, with a smile, she said: 'Now we have talked enough.
Go and have your play, my dears.'

'I like what you said, Aunt Betty,' said Alan, as they all got up, and prepared to set off
on their games; 'and I, for one, mean to try to follow Dick's example, and be as good as he is.'

       *       *       *       *       *

The story of Dick's misfortune had greatly excited the sympathy of the children. Alan and the
two girls allowed Peet's caustic remarks to pass without reply. They even tried to avoid annoying
him by a too free use of the lawns and shrubberies. Georgie, whose youthful fancy had soared
to greater heights of pity and sympathy, had at once glorified Peet into a hero, and, to the
wonder of the gardener, would stand staring at him with respectful admiration. One day, unfortunately,
his feelings carried him so far as to make him offer to help his former enemy in some work
in the hothouses, over which Peet appeared to be very busy.

'There's no way for you to help me,' was the gardener's surly answer, 'except by taking yourself
off, Master Georgie. Children ought not to be about when there's serious work going on.'

Peet's hero-stage passed away on the spot. Georgie was deeply hurt, and came to the decision
that Aunt Betty had been taken in. Peet was not at all the person she thought him. He was nothing
but a very disagreeable, rude old man, and he wished that his aunt would 'send him away.'

Nevertheless, Peet had improved. It was not all imagination on the part of the children. Lady
Coke had sent for him after her talk with the young people, and the result of the interview
was good for all parties. Peet's chief reason for soreness, as regarded the three children
from Begbie Hall, was that they made as much use of the grounds of the Moat House as they did
of the gardens of Begbie Hall. Estelle's arrival appeared to him to make the state of things
worse, since she was the excuse for the whole party to tear about his neatly kept lawns, and
climb his trees, instead of confining themselves to those of Begbie Hall, and worrying their
own gardeners. He had not dared to express as much as this to Lady Coke, but she was too quick
not to discover the true cause of his discontent, though she only alluded to it by saying she
desired all the children should play together, whether in her grounds or elsewhere. Kind as
she was, Peet understood that he had a mistress who must be obeyed. He was devotedly attached
to her, and grateful for her goodness to him and his. This, perhaps, more than anything, made
him exercise self-control. He was more than ever careful in hiding the key of the ruin, and
would not allow even the other gardeners to enter it on any excuse whatever.

Another reason for the calm which prevailed was, perhaps, that Marjorie and Alan were fully
occupied in trying to discover why Thomas was making so much effort to get into the ruined
summer-house. It seemed a delightful thing to be mixed up in a mystery, and each hoped to have
a share in solving it. Such a puzzle made constant private talks necessary, in order to think
out a clue. Estelle took an almost painful interest in their conjectures, but shrank from all
part in their wanderings round the ruin, or down to the cliff walk. Alan had shown Marjorie
where the secret entrance to the cave was, and called it the Smugglers' Hole, for want of a
better name. Together they had penetrated to the foot of the slippery, broken steps. Each had
carried a bicycle lamp to make their footsteps clear, and great was the rejoicing when they
finally arrived at the sandy beach of the bay.

But the young, active spirits were too restless to remain long there, where nothing was to
be gained by lingering. The cave itself was more full of interest than the beach, and they
devoted the remainder of the afternoon to hunting about among the crevices and chasms, and
peeping into gaps and fissures till they almost forgot the time.

(Continued on page 114.)

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 111.)

When at last Alan and Marjorie had turned their steps homeward from the cave, and had climbed
the greater number of the rough steps, they came quite unexpectedly upon a most important discovery--one
which, without their lamps, would have entirely escaped their attention.

They had reached a sort of landing, when Alan, looking keenly at the rocks, suddenly perceived
a narrow opening, almost entirely concealed behind a projecting spur of limestone. Calling
to Marjorie, who was in advance of him, and already some way up the last flight of steps, he
held his lamp high, and examined the gap till she joined him.

'There is something more than a mere attempt at a cave here,' he said. 'We must see what it is.'

'It's very late,' hesitated Marjorie, doubtfully. 'If we are asked where we have been, what
shall we say? All our secrets will come out, and then good-bye to all fun.'

'Oh, this won't take us long,' returned Alan, who did not intend to give up investigations
just as he appeared to be on the verge of scoring the greatest success of the day.

As it turned out, it was fortunate indeed that the quest was not given up, for something happened
only a few days later which made their discoveries of the utmost importance.

The narrow cleft led them, after some winding, into a comparatively wide passage, into which
the daylight was streaming through a great opening to the right. In some excitement they ran
to look out, and found, to their delight, that they were standing at the hole in the cliff
which they had seen from the beach in Smugglers' Bay. Sure enough, there was the stream of
water flowing at their side which made the thin cascade.

'I do believe we are in the passage which leads to the ruined summer-house!' cried Marjorie,
breathlessly.

Alan was for trying it at once, but here Marjorie's counsels did prevail. She pointed out how
low the sun was, and that probably they were very late for the schoolroom tea already.

'Right you are,' said Alan, looking longingly up and down the passage and walls, which stretched
away into deep but--to him--alluring gloom. 'We will come again to-morrow. We must slip away
directly after breakfast; and mind we don't let anybody see or follow us. It will be a feather
in our caps if we can get into the ruined summer-house without troubling old Peet for the key.'

'But,' said Marjorie, after a long pause, during which she was thinking deeply, 'what if Thomas
knows of this way in?'

'He can't,' returned Alan, 'or he would have been before, and got all he wanted.'

'Then,' replied Marjorie, after another pause for thought, 'you may be sure there is some reason:
something that prevents his going up the passage, and will prevent our going too. Thomas is
sure to be up to all dodges.'

This idea was so distasteful to Alan that he required a good deal of persuasion before he gave
up his determination to explore further. Marjorie did persuade him, nevertheless, but next
morning he could not refrain from reproaches for having yielded to her. It turned out that
Colonel De Bohun had some business to do in the neighbouring town of Matherton, and told Alan
at breakfast that he was to go and see if Estelle would like a ride. He intended to take the
three elder children with him.

'What a nuisance!' exclaimed Alan, as he and Marjorie stood a moment on the doorstep before
he started off on his father's mission. 'Why should father have ordered the horses just to-day?
We can't make an excuse either, for we are all supposed to be keen on riding. If only the horses
could go dead lame for an hour or two!'

Marjorie sympathised, but there was no help for it. More provoking still, there appeared to
be things for the children to do for the next two or three days. A large garden party for young
people, given by Mrs. De Bohun, took up most of one day, the children being required to help
in the preparations for the entertainment of their guests. A picnic with friends, to a distant
ruin by the sea, fully filled another day, and it was not till these and a tennis party for
children at Lord Gallway's were over, that a free afternoon left the brother and sister at
liberty to carry out their plans.

They had intended to set off immediately after breakfast, but an exciting rumour had come that
a strange vessel was to be seen hanging about in rather a suspicious way. The coastguard had
been on the look-out, but the result of his investigations being as yet unknown, the Colonel
asked the children if they would like to accompany him to the cliffs. The proposal was hailed
with delight. The whole morning passed only too quickly in talking to the coastguard on duty,
peeping through his telescope, and staring at the vessel. The sailor gave it as his opinion
that it was a French boat, though something in the rig made him not quite positive. It cruised
about in a queer manner, 'just as if she was on the watch for something,' as the man said.
However, towards mid-day she drew out into the offing, and they saw her sails slowly disappearing
below the horizon.

The excitement of this incident only died down in the children's minds when, after lunch, they
started off for the Wilderness. Alan and Marjorie had other ideas concerning the ship, and
were determined to watch for its return. There would be plenty of time for that after their
search in the cave was over. Meantime it was certain that neither Estelle nor Georgie must
be allowed to accompany them. Happily for all parties, Estelle had promised to read a new fairy
story to Georgie, and had settled to go to the top of the ruined summer-house for the purpose.

The air was fresher there, and the shade of the trees seemed cooler than anywhere else on that
hot August day. Estelle sat lazily comfortable on some rugs, her back against the coping, while
Georgie stretched himself at full length on the iron seat close to her. Here Alan and Marjorie
left them, feeling sure that Georgie would be asleep in the twinkling of an eye. They begged
him, nevertheless, to keep that eye, as long as it was open, on Bootles, the fox-terrier. Georgie
gave a lazy assent, without troubling himself to keep either eye on the dog. Estelle was quite
as capable of attending to such matters as he. Accordingly, she it was who drew the dog to
lie down near her, keeping a hand on his collar till Alan and Marjorie were out of sight. Alas!
they little knew what would be the result of her care.

(Continued on page 123.)

PUZZLERS FOR WISE HEADS.

5.--ARITHMOREM.

Substitute Roman figures for the Arabic numerals, and transpose the letters. The initials will
give a woman's name.

  1.-- 300. A T S R A U A.
  2.-- 560. R E A N E A.
  3.-- 100. B E G R R N O A O.
  4.--  50. Y 0 E N.
  5.--1050. R T A I E.
  6.-- 500. A N I I.
  7.--1500. N N Y R O A.
  8.--2000. E T E.

  1.  An early British prince.
  2.  A very great king.
  3.  An inventor in the middle ages.
  4.  A small town in Buckinghamshire.
  5.  An English bishop who suffered martyrdom.
  6.   An extensive region of Southern Asia.
  7.  An ancient province of France.
  8.  A small insect

C. J. B.

[Answer on page 147.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWER TO PUZZLE ON PAGE 75.

4.--Quick-lime.

THE DEAD WATCH.

In the eighteenth century, when watches were less common in country districts than they are
now, a Highland soldier gained one as part of his share in some plunder after a great battle.
The watch was going well and ticking merrily when he received it; but naturally, at the end
of a day or so it ran down and stopped, because he knew nothing of how to wind it.

The man had never seen a watch before, much less possessed one, and he was greatly alarmed
at this sudden silence. But he determined to do as well as he could with the treasure that
had fallen to his share, and so offered it to a comrade in exchange for some really far less
valuable article of jewellery. His friend, not being so ignorant, was curious to know why he
parted with it so cheaply.

'Why,' said the other, with a proud look, as though he had got the better of the bargain, 'why
do I want to get rid of it? Because it died last night!'

LYING AWAKE AT NIGHT.

  'Good morning Mr. Sun!' Jack said,
    As by the blind he stood;
  'All night I lay awake in bed
    And thought you'd gone for good.
  The white moon kept me company
    From ten o'clock till two:
  Then in the darkest hour of night,
  Behind the hill she slipped from sight
    To go and look for you.

  'I thought and thought of lots of things
    As in my bed I lay;
  The whole long list of English kings
    From Alfred till to-day.
  I thought of bats and bicycles,
    Of stilts, and tops that hum,
  Then turning to the window-pane,
  I thought of you, and sighed again:
    "Whenever will he come!"

  'The house was still as still could be,
    But on the stair-case near,
  The big clock seemed to talk to me
    In whispers hard to hear.
  "He's coming! Tick! He's coming soon!"
    I thought I heard it say:
  "Look, look toward the window-blind,--
  Tick-tock, tick-tock--and you shall find
    The darkness growing grey."

  'But as it spoke, a gurgle low
    Towards me seemed to float,
  As though the poor old clock, you know,
    Had something in its throat.
  And then it chuckled: "All is right,"
    And loudly chimed with glee:
  "Oh, what's the time? Oh, tell me, do!"
  I cried, and counted one and two,
    And then I counted three.

  'But after that I fell asleep,--
    At least, I think I did,--
  For soon the sun began to peep
    Beneath a sleepy lid.
  Then bright and brighter grew the ray,
    And o'er my bedroom cast
  A glow that chased the gloom away
  From every corner where it lay,
    And morn had come at last.'

THE MUSIC OF THE NATIONS.

IV.--THE JURUPARIS OF SOUTH AMERICA, THE MEXICAN WHISTLE, AND THE CHINESE HINEN.

Of all the so-called musical instruments of the world, that known as the Juruparis, used by
the Indians of the Rio Negro, seems to involve most misery to humanity in general. To women
and girls the very sight of it means death in some form or other, usually by poison, and boys
are strictly forbidden to see it until grown to manhood, and then only after a most severe
preliminary course of fasting.

The Juruparis is kept concealed in the bed of some stream far away in the gloomy forest, and
wherever that river may wander, or however brightly its waters may sparkle in the sunny glades,
no mortal who values his life may cool his parching lips with its freshness, or bathe his aching
limbs in its clear depths. Only for solemn festivals is the Juruparis brought out by night
and blown outside the place of meeting, and it is restored to its forest home immediately afterwards.

The word Juruparis means 'demon,' and it is supposed that its mysteries date back to some pre-historic
Indian tradition, as various tribes inhabiting the vast forests round the Amazon district practise
weird ceremonies in honour of the demons.

In form the Juruparis is a slender tube from four to five feet long, made from strips of palm
wood. Close to the mouth is an oblong hole, and when the instrument is to be used a piece of
curved Uaruma or Arrowroot wood is inserted into the opening, which is then nearly closed with
wet clay.

When not in use, the Juruparis is wrapped in a great-coat made of strips of the tough bark
of the Jebaru-tree, which are wound round and round the sacred instrument and held in place
by a rough framework of wood. In the museum at Kew Gardens a Juruparis in its outer casing
may be seen. In ancient days the Indians of the American continent seem to have been more clever
at making musical instruments than of recent years.

The Aztecs held pipes and flutes in great respect, and they were played at all religious ceremonies.
At the great yearly festival of Tezcatlepoca, who was always represented as a handsome youth,
a young man was sacrificed to the god, and a chief condition of the selection was that the
selected person should be a really fine flute-player, presumably so that he might amuse Tezcatlepoca
in another world. As the victim ascended the high mound on which the sacrificial altar stood,
facing the rising sun, it was his duty to break a flute on every step.

The whistle shown in the illustration is made of burnt clay and painted. Instruments were shaped
like all kinds of grotesque animals, birds, fish, and so on. Some have finger-holes, enabling
the pitch to be altered and give different tones, others have a little ball of clay set loosely
in a hollow place, so that when the air is set in motion a shrill whistling sound is emitted.

Whistling with the mouth, by the way, is strongly disapproved by the Arabs, who call it 'El
Sifr,' and say that Satan must have touched any one before he can whistle, and that it takes
forty days to purify the mouth which has so defiled itself. The Burmese were, up to a very
late date, ignorant of the art, and expressed great astonishment when an American whistled
an air, exclaiming that 'he made music with his mouth.' The natives of Tonga Islands, in Polynesia,
consider whistling most disrespectful to their gods, and even in European countries it is objected
to at certain times. In Northern Germany peasants say that whistling in the evening makes the
angels weep, and in Iceland the feeling is so strong that even swinging a stick or whip, which
may make the air whistle, is supposed to have an evil effect.

The curious little instruments called by the Chinese 'Hinen' are of very ancient construction.
They are made of baked clay with five finger-holes, three in front and two behind. They are
wind instruments blown by the mouth and tuned in what is called the Pentatonic scale, which
sounds much as the scale of C Major would if F and B were omitted.

HELENA HEATH.

FLOWERS OF THE NIGHT.

People often speak of flowers going to sleep at night, and it is perfectly true that many of
them do close up their petals when it is dark. Some, indeed, sleep very early--our British
wild plant, the goat's beard, is also called 'Jack go to bed at noon,' because the tops close
about mid-day. We have other plants, such as the daisy and the dandelion, which shut their
flowers early in the evening. But numerous are the blossoms that are open all night, both wild
and garden kinds, affording food to night-flying insects. Then, again, we have flowers which
are usually closed by daylight, but open after sunset, and which we should call 'flowers of
the night.' Most of these are garden species, though there are a few wild ones. Often we are
drawn to them by a fragrance which is wafted upon the evening air.

Perhaps the best known of all, a flower which seems to be at home even in a city garden, is
the evening primrose, an American plant, which does not belong to the family of the true primroses.
But the flowers have a primrose tint, and they are slightly fragrant, opening usually about
six or seven in the evening, though an occasional bud may expand during the day. The flower
has little hooks upon what is called the calyx, and when the petals open they burst the hooks
with a snapping noise. One of the garden varieties has snow-white flowers. Another name for
the plant is 'evening star.'

The most splendid of all the flowers of darkness is the cereus, the blossoms of which begin
to open at seven or eight o'clock in the evening, and are fully out when midnight comes. Before
daylight arrives the flowers have generally decayed, so rapid is their progress. So huge are
these that they quite surpass the largest blooms found on the sun-flower, being nearly three
feet in circumference. The outer portion is dark brown; the inner shades range from yellow
to a pure white. When a dozen or so happen to expand at the same time the effect is startling.
They also give out a fine scent.

One of these plants of the night caused such wonder when it arrived in England, that folks
called it the 'marvel of Peru.' It is not at all uncommon now amongst the choice garden plants
of other lands. The flowers are of several colours and open when the sun has set; the most
conspicuous kind has long, dull, white flowers, which have a scent like the orange blossom
or the heliotrope. One kind, however, opens earlier in the afternoon, and so that is known
as the 'four-o'clock flower.' They are plants fond of warmth, but they do well out of doors
during a hot summer.

One of the jessamines is named the night-flower, because it opens towards evening; and that
grand species of lily called the Victoria Regina comes amongst the flowers that prefer night
to-day.

We have in Britain a family of wild plants named the 'catch-flies.' They do not catch flies
or other insects by their flowers, as some plants can, but they take them by the stems, which
are sticky, and insects coming against these are entangled. The Latin name of Silena arose
from an old legend that it belonged first to a young man whom the goddess Minerva employed
to catch flies for her owls. She found him one day idling about, and in her anger turned him
into a plant which should be always catching flies. Yorkshire has a night-flowering plant of
this kind, with pale flowers and a forked stem. Then there is the white or evening campion
of our hedgerows, which opens generally in the twilight, sending forth a perfume. Another,
rather rarer, is the 'dame's rocket,' also a night flower. Yet another well-known evening flower
in gardens is the tobacco plant, which has a white flower and a very strong, sweet scent.

SOWING AND REAPING.

The day had really been very sultry, and it was not to be wondered at that Miss Allan had not
explained the lesson quite so clearly as she generally did. The children, too, had been troubled
by the heat, and let their attention wander, so that a few of them went home with very vague
ideas about spring-time and harvest, sowing and reaping, planting and watering. Ella and Willie
Hope especially had their heads full of ideas which would have greatly surprised any farmer
had he heard them.

'Dead things become alive in the earth,' said Ella.

'Little things grow big underground,' declared Willie.

One thing turns into many if we bury it,' continued Ella.

They walked on in silence for some time, then Ella's face began to shine. 'Just think, Willie,'
exclaimed she, eagerly, 'if I bury my doll, it may turn into a real baby.'

'Yes,' assented the boy, 'and if I bury my box of tin soldiers, before long I shall have a
regiment of strong men to fight the Russians with.'

'And--who knows?--if Mother were to give us her purse, we might make a whole tree of sovereigns
grow! How happy Mother would be if she could have money without Father tiring himself so much
to gain it!'

A moment's pause to enjoy the thought of such happiness, and then Willie remarked, a little
doubtfully, 'Ella, don't you think that if it were so easy to make live soldiers and trees
of gold grow up, people would have thought of it before now? I don't understand why nobody
has ever tried.'

Ella wrinkled her brow, and looked very serious indeed. The remark was not to be slighted,
and yet she felt quite sure that no real objection could be made to the conclusion at which
they had arrived. Indeed, her brow soon cleared again, and, turning to her brother with a triumphant
air, she exclaimed, 'Now I know! Of course, if we have ideas that other people never think
of, it means we are geniuses! Most people never think of the plainest things till some genius
has done so, and then it all seems so easy. I remember what Miss Allan said when she told us
the story of Christopher Columbus. Any one could have taken a ship and sailed away to Africa---- '

'America,' murmured Willie, timidly.

'Well, America, then; it's all the same,' went on Ella, with an impatient shrug of her shoulder.
'But nobody did. There were no geniuses except Columbus, and he thought, "People are stupid
not to go to America, but I will show them the way." What did he go for, Willie? Do you remember?'

'Cousin Jack said he went to find the egg conjurors play with, but I think he was joking.'

'Well, anyhow, he was a genius, and that's why we read about him in our school-books. Wouldn't
it be fun, Willie, if children were to read about us at school?'

Willie looked doubtful. 'I don't think they'd like us,' he answered. 'People in school-books
are often not nice.'

'Well, it doesn't matter much,' said Ella.

Then the children went home in silence with all their wonderful plans dancing wildly in their
brains. What grand things they would do, what a marvellous garden they would have, and how
every one would try to discover their secret! They were rather old for such fancies; but they
had not begun lessons very early in their lives, owing to both being in rather weak health.

Unhappily there was no one at home to whom they could tell their plans. Mother was away, Father
was too busy to listen to all the stories of his children, and their elder sister, Mary, had
laughed at them too often to be taken into their confidence. But, after, all, they concluded
it was better so. Their secret would remain a real, real secret, and so, at the right moment,
all the world, even the world of home, would be struck with surprise!

That night nothing could be done; they had too many lessons to learn, too many toys to put
away, too many tiresome questions about school to answer. Besides, there were so many important
things to think about before beginning the great work. In what ground, for example, would it
be best to plant the soldiers, and was not the season too far advanced? It would be such a
pity if any stupid mistake should spoil their beautiful plan, for then nobody would believe
they were geniuses.

'I tell you what,' said Ella next morning, 'we must begin with only one thing. Let us try your
soldiers first. If they grow well, then I will plant my doll. If she turns into another doll,
then we will tell Mother, and she will give us her money to sow. How many soldiers have you,
Willie?'

'Only one boxful,' answered Willie, sadly. 'Perhaps we had better sow our pennies first, and
then, when the tree of sovereigns comes up, we can buy whole regiments of soldiers.'

But Ella shook her head. 'No,' said she, seriously. 'You forget that the Japanese are losing
a lot of men at the front. Father said so this morning, and they must not be kept waiting for
two harvests. You have sixpence, I have twopence; with that let us buy all the soldiers we
can, and plant them at once; then they may reach Port--Port Alfred--in time.'

'Port Arthur, Father said.' murmured Willie, timidly, feeling, however, that Ella was decidedly
a genius. Yet he had still an objection to make. 'The soldiers should be Japanese,' said he.
'When I asked Father why our soldiers did not help the Japanese, he answered that we were at
peace with the Russians, and the army dared not go without the permission of the Government.
So, even if the soldiers grew, they would have to stay in England. Perhaps it would be better
to send the boxes there to the Japanese. They could put the soldiers into the ground and use
them as soon as they come up.'

'No, stupid!' exclaimed Ella, rudely. 'You'd give our secret away if you did that. Besides,
if you planted a turnip in a cabbage-field, that does not make it a cabbage. The men would
be English just the same. Instead, we can buy a box of Japs and paint those you have, so that
no one will ever think they are English soldiers. Mind you plant them with all their arms,
so that they may grow up all ready for the war.'

'And, Ella, what do you think?' asked Willie, a little hesitatingly; 'should I plant one of
my ships too, so that they may sail away at once?'

'Do!' replied Ella, enthusiastically. And Willie felt his spirits return.

That evening, in the twilight, the roses were awakened from their dreams by the sound of children's
voices, and by strange movements at their roots. If ever roses were indignant, I am sure these
were so then. What! Their sweet, fragrant, dewy earth invaded by rough soldiers! The soil around
their roots violently scraped away to make room for Willie's ship! What did the fair flowers
know of war and the Far East? How could they guess that Ella was a genius? The Wind, it is
true, told them many things he saw in his wanderings, but he did not care to talk about violence
and bloodshed to things so sweet.

But the children did not hear the roses' sighs, and did not try to explain. Had they done so,
perhaps they would have heard some murmured words, 'Sow seeds of peace! sow seeds of peace!'
The moon saw the children and smiled, thinking perhaps that they ought to have been born in
her land. Anyhow, the great work was soon accomplished, and the children stole back to their
room full of hope and excitement.

A sudden thought made Ella tremble as she ran along the passage, 'Oh, Willie!' she exclaimed,
catching him by the arm, 'if the soldiers come up little by little, they will be seen by everybody,
and if they spring up all at once, they will frighten every one. Fancy the garden full of armed
men, and nobody knowing where they come from!'

'They are sure to grow up, all at once,' replied Willie, after a moment's reflection. 'Just
like mushrooms, you know. They are men toys, not baby toys, so they must spring up men. But
they will frighten everybody; what shall we do, Ella?'

Poor Ella! Even her busy brain was puzzled for a moment. But, of course, being a genius, she
found a solution even to that difficulty, and Willie was obliged to admire her more than ever.

'Let's write a letter to the General,' suggested she a little while before they went to bed,
'and ask him to go away quietly, without frightening any one. If we bury the letter beside
the soldiers, as soon as they become alive they will find it, and read it. We can ask him to
come secretly into our room and salute us before he goes.'

(Concluded on page 122.)

THE HONEST SAILOR.

Many years ago, a young sailor entered a shop in Glasgow, to make a purchase. As he was about
to leave, he placed a letter upon a counter near the window, and was sticking a postage stamp
upon it, when he clumsily knocked his elbow against the window and broke one of its panes.
The poor fellow was much confused when he saw the damage which he had done. He had no money
to pay for a new pane, as he had spent his few last coppers in preparing this letter for his
mother. He apologised to the shopkeeper as best he could, and promised to pay for the broken
square when he returned from his next voyage. The shopkeeper accepted his promise, though he
may very well have doubted whether he would ever see the sailor again.

Months and years passed by, and the shopkeeper forgot all about the sailor and the broken square
of glass. One day, however, a seaman came into the shop, and looking the shopkeeper full in
the face said, 'Do you know me?'

The shopkeeper replied that he did not.

'Well, I am the lad who broke that square,' said the seaman, pointing to the window. 'I have
been to China and the Indies since then, but I have not forgotten my debt. Here is the money.'

He placed a sovereign on the counter, and having received the change which was due to him,
went out of the shop with the light heart and cheerful face of a man who has got rid of a heavy
'obligation.'

SOWING AND REAPING.

(Concluded from page 119.)

Willie was startled by the roll of drums, and a sharp call of 'To arms!' He sat up hastily
in his bed, and returned the salute of the Japanese General standing at the foot of his bed.
'Sire,' said the gallant soldier bravely, 'the moment has come. Our country expects that every
man this day will do his duty. We depart with your permission, and when we have taken the Czar
prisoner, we shall bring him to you in chains.'

Another roll of drums and the room was filled with soldiers, all of whom greeted Willie with
profound respect. They waved their swords in the air, and with a loud 'Hurrah!' which sounded
very English indeed, they whirled rapidly out of the room, leaving the little boy quite dazed.

The roll of drums and the blowing of trumpets continued, and Willie thought he heard the sound
of cannon, but he was quite unable to leave his bed, something seeming to hold him there. So,
with those warlike sounds in his ears, he fell asleep again, and only woke up when Ella rushed
into his room all flushed and excited, holding in her hand a tin soldier, like those they had
buried the night before. 'Oh. Willie!' she exclaimed, 'wasn't it dreadful? However did those
horrid Russians find their way here? I'm quite sure we didn't bury any of them in the garden.
What a dreadful battle! And how strange that only you and I should know anything about it!
But the Japanese won! This morning I found this soldier on the ground, but he is quite a toy
again, and has not a single wound. I'm afraid he's a coward!'

'I don't understand, Ella,' said Willie, quite dumbfounded. 'I didn't see any battle. The General
came to salute me before leaving for Japan--for where the war is, I mean--but the troops left
quite quietly. Oh, no! I remember now, I did hear the sound of cannon, but somehow I fell asleep.
Anyhow, I am sure--quite sure--that I saw no battle. Tell me about it, do!'

Ella looked at him indignantly. 'I hate boys who don't tell the truth,' exclaimed she indignantly.
'As if you hadn't fought yourself last night! Why, you killed a Russian as easily as if he
had been a fly!'

'Where is he?' asked Willie, half convinced. 'I really don't remember, but I'd like to see
him.' Then, hesitatingly, 'Is he really dead, Ella?'

'I know nothing about him,' answered she, quite snappishly. 'The Japs are very ungrateful and
have gone away without a word, and there is not a sign of them, either in the house or in the
garden.'

'We told them to go away quietly,' said Willie; 'perhaps they will telegraph from Port Arthur.
Do tell me about the battle.'

'Nonsense!' replied she, pettishly. 'You saw the battle as well as I did. Be quick and come
into the garden, and you'll see that the soldiers are no longer under the bushes.'

It was quite true. The earth bore signs of having been moved, and neither soldiers nor ship
were to be seen.

'Then it is quite true,' murmured Willie, awe-struck, 'and the army has gone to the Japanese.
But I really can't remember about the battle. Ella, how do you think the Russian soldiers came
here?'

'That's why I'm so cross,' confessed Ella. 'Of course, there must have been another genius
at school, who likes the Russians, and who wanted them to win. So he, too, buried a box of
soldiers, and when they became alive, they met ours. Anyhow, ours won. Isn't it funny that
there's no sign of the battle?'

'Shall we try again with your doll?' asked Willie.

'No,' replied Ella, decidedly. 'If some one else has had the same idea I don't care to have
anything more to do with it.'

Some days later, while the children were at breakfast, their father read of a great Japanese
victory. The two young ones looked up proudly, then triumphantly told their strange story to
their father. He listened with a quiet smile, and gently remarked, 'Did you give any of your
soldiers to Tim Jones, or a ship like the one you buried?'

'No, never,' they replied, surprised at the question.

'Well,' continued he, 'I saw him playing with some very like them, to-day; and I have been
told he was seen on the garden wall the very night Ella dreamt of the battle.'

Poor Willie! Poor Ella! They were quite astonished to hear such an explanation of the mystery,
and rather sad. But their father, talking to them kindly and wisely, comforted them, and explained
that nothing made by the hands of man can grow in the earth, but only things produced by Providence
in the earth itself, from living seeds fallen from living plants. He led them into the garden
and showed them the plants and the roots, and explained how from the living seeds spring up
the living plants. He showed them, too, the dead trunks and dry branches, and explained how
from them nothing could ever spring any more.

'Well, I'm glad I didn't kill the Russian,' confessed Willie. 'And it did seem all too easy
as we had thought of it. I suppose the battle and all that was only a dream.'

'But I believed we were geniuses,' owned Ella, with a little blush; and then Father laughed.
Oh, how he laughed!

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 115.)

CHAPTER VII.

