I have proposed to my self, to make some Animadversions upon such particulars, as may in my
judgment produce much mischief in the World, in a Book of great Name, and which is entertain'd
and celebrated (at least enough) in the World; a Book which contains in it good learning of
all kinds, politely extracted, and very wittily and cunningly disgested, in a very commendable
method, and in a vigorous and pleasant Style: which hath prevailed over too many, to swallow
many new tenets as maximes without chewing; which manner of diet for the indigestion M'r Hobbes
himself doth much dislike. The thorough novelty (to which the present age, if ever any, is
too much inclin'd) of the work receives great credit and authority from the known Name of the
Author, a Man of excellent parts, of great wit, some reading, and somewhat more thinking; One
who ha's spent many years in forreign parts and observation, understands the Learned as well
as modern Languages, hath long had the reputation of a great Philosopher and Mathematician,
and in his age hath had conversation with very many worthy and extraordinary Men, to which,
it may be, if he had bin more indulgent in the more vigorous part of his life, it might have
had a greater influence upon the temper of his mind, whereas age seldom submits to those questions,
enquiries, and contradictions, which the Laws and liberty of conversation require: and it hath
bin alwaies a lamentation amongst M'r Hobbes his Friends, that he spent too much time in thinking,
and too little in exercising those thoughts in the company of other Men of the same, or of
as good faculties; for want whereof his natural constitution, with age, contracted such a morosity,
that doubting and contradicting Men were never grateful to him: In a word, M'r Hobbes is one
of the most antient acquaintance I have in the World, and of whom I have alwaies had a great
esteem, as a Man who besides his eminent parts of Learning and knowledg, hath bin alwaies looked
upon as a Man of Probity, and a life free from scandal; and it may be there are few Men now
alive, who have bin longer known to him then I have bin in a fair and friendly conversation
and sociableness.

55.

Notes by JOHN AUBREY.

I have heard his brother Edm and M'r Wayte his schoole fellow &c, say that when he was a Boy
he was playsome enough: but withall he had even then a contemplative Melancholinesse. he would
gett him into a corner, and learne his Lesson by heart presently. His haire was black, & his
schoolefellows[1] were wont to call him Crowe.

[Footnote 1: 'his schoolefellows' written above 'the boyes'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

The Lord Chancellour Bacon loved to converse with him. He assisted his Lo'p: in translating
severall of his Essayes into Latin, one I well remember is[1] that, of the Greatnes of Cities.
the rest I have forgott. His Lo'p: was a very Contemplative person, and was wont to contemplate
in his delicious walkes at Gorambery, and dictate to M'r Thomas Bushell or some other of his
Gentlemen, that attended him with inke & paper ready, to sett downe presently his thoughts.
His Lo'p: would often say that he better liked M'r Hobbes's taking his Notions[2], then any
of the other, because he understood what he wrote; which the others not understanding my Lord
would many times have a hard taske to make sense of what they writt.

[Footnote 1: 'is' above 'was'.]

[Footnote 2: 'Notions' above 'thoughts'.]

It is to be remembred that about these times, M'r T.H. was much addicted to Musique, and practised
on the Base-Violl.

       *       *       *       *       *

... LEVIATHAN, the manner of writing of which Booke (he told me) was thus. He walked much and
contemplated, and he had in the head of his staffe[1] a pen and inkehorne; carried alwayes
a Note-booke in his pocket, and as soon as a though[t][2] darted, he presently entred it into
his Booke, or otherwise[3] he might perhaps[4] have lost it. He had drawne the Designe of the
Booke into Chapters &c; so he knew where about it would come in. Thus that Booke was made.

[Footnote 1: 'staffe' above 'Cane'.]

[Footnote 2: 'though' above 'notion'.]

[Footnote 3: 'otherwise' above 'els'.]

[Footnote 4: 'might perhaps' above 'should'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

He was marvellous happy and ready in his replies; and Replies that without rancor, (except
provoked). but now I speake of his readinesse in replies as to witt & drollery, he would say
that, he did not care to give, neither was he adroit[1] at a present answer to a serious quaere;
he had as lieve they should have expected a[n] extemporary solution[2] to an Arithmeticall
probleme, for he turned and winded & compounded in philosophy, politiques &c. as if he had
been at Analyticall[3] worke. he alwayes avoided as much as he could, to conclude hastily.

[Footnote 1: 'adroit' above 'good'.]

[Footnote 2: 'extemporary' above 'present', 'solution' in place of 'answer'.]

[Footnote 3: 'Analyticall' above 'Mathematicall'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: His manner[1] of thinking]

He sayd that he sometimes would sett his thoughts upon researching and contemplating, always
with this Rule[2], that he very much & deeply considered one thing at a time. Sc. a weeke,
or sometimes a fortnight.

[Footnote 1: 'recalvus' above 'very bald'.]

[Sidenote: Eie]

He had a good Eie, and that of a hazell colour, which was full of life & spirit, even to his
last: when he was earnest, in discourse, there shone (as it were) a bright live-coale within
it. he had two kind of Lookes: when he laught, was witty, & in a merry humour, one could scarce
see his Eies: by and by when he was serious and earnest[1], he open'd his eies round (i.) his
eielids. he had midling eies, not very big, nor very little.

[Footnote 1: 'earnest' above 'positive'.]

[Sidenote: Stature]

He was six foote high and something better, and went indifferently erect; or, rather considering
his great age, very erect.

[Sidenote: Sight Witt]

His Sight & Witt continued to his last. He had a curious sharp sight, as he had a sharpe Witt;
which was also so sure and steady, (and contrary to that men call Brodwittednes,) that I have
heard him oftentimes say, that in Multiplying & Dividing he never mistooke a figure[1]: and
so, in other things. He thought much & with excellent Method, & Stedinesse, which made him
seldome make a false step.

[Footnote 1: 'never ... figure' above 'was never out' ('out' corrected to 'mistooke').]

[Sidenote: Reading]

He had read much, if one considers his long life; but his Contemplation was much more then
his Reading. He was wont to say that, if he had read as much as other men, he should have knowne
no more then[1] other men.

[Footnote 1: 'knowne ... then' above 'continued still as ignorant as'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Singing]

He had alwayes bookes of prick-song lyeing on his Table: e.g. of H. Lawes &c. Songs: which
at night when he was a bed, & the dores made fast, & was sure no body heard him, he sang aloud,
(not that he had a very good voice) but to cleare his pipes[1]: he did beleeve it did his Lunges
good, & conduced much to prolong his life.

[Footnote 1: 'to cleare his pipes' above 'for his healths sake'.]

56.

THOMAS FULLER.

Born 1608. Died 1661.

He was of Stature somewhat Tall, exceeding the meane, with a proportionable bigness to become
it, but no way inclining to Corpulency: of an exact Straightnesse of the whole Body, and a
perfect Symmetry in every part thereof. He was of a Sanguine constitution, which beautified
his Face with a pleasant Ruddinesse, but of so Grave and serious an aspect, that it Awed and
Discountenanced the smiling Attracts of that complexion. His Head Adorned with a comely Light-Coloured
Haire, which was so, by Nature exactly Curled (an Ornament enough of it self in this Age to
Denominate a handsome person, and wherefore all Skill and Art is used) but not suffered to
overgrow to any length unseeming his modesty and Profession.

His Gate and Walking was very upright and graceful, becoming his well shapen Bulke: approaching
something near to that we terme Majesticall; but that the Doctor was so well known to be void
of any affectation or pride. Nay so Regardlesse was he of himselfe in his Garb and Rayment,
in which no doubt his Vanity would have appeared, as well as in his stately pace: that it was
with some trouble to himselfe, to be either Neat or Decent; it matter'd not for the outside,
while he thought himself never too Curious and Nice in the Dresses of his mind.

Very Carelesse also he was to seeming inurbanity in the modes of Courtship and demeanour, deporting
himself much according to the old English Guise, which for its ease and simplicity suited very
well with the Doctor, whose time was designed for more Elaborate businesse: and whose MOTTO
might have been sincerity.

As inobservant he was of persons, unless businesse with them, or his concerns pointed them
out and adverted him; seeing and discerning were two things: often in several places, hath
he met with Gentlemen of his nearest and greatest Acquaintance, at a full rencounter and stop,
whom he hath endeavoured to passe by, not knowing, that is to say, not minding of them, till
rectifyed and recalled by their familiar compellations.

This will not (it may be presumed) and justly cannot be imputed unto any indisposednesse and
unaptnesse of his Nature, which was so far from Rude and untractable, that it may be confidently
averred, he was the most complacent person in the Nation, as his Converse and Writings, with
such a freedome of Discourse and quick Jocundity of style, do sufficiently evince.

He was a perfect walking Library, and those that would finde delight in him must turn him;
he was to be diverted from his present purpose with some urgency: and when once Unfixed and
Unbent, his mind freed from the incumbency of his Study; no Man could be more agreeable to
Civil and Serious mirth, which limits his most heightned Fancy never transgressed.

He had the happinesse of a very Honourable, and that very numerous acquaintance, so that he
was noway undisciplined in the Arts of Civility; yet he continued semper idem, which constancy
made him alwaies acceptable to them. At his Diet he was very sparing and temperate, but yet
he allowed himself the repasts and refreshings of two Meals a day: but no lover of Danties,
or the Inventions of Cookery: solid meats better fitting his strength of Constitution; but
from drink very much abstemious, which questionlesse was the cause of that uninterrupted Health
he enjoyed till this his First and Last sicknesse: of which Felicity as he himself was partly
the cause of by his exactnesse in eating and drinking, so did he the more dread the sudden
infliction of any Disease, or other violence of Nature, fearing this his care might amount
to a presumption, in the Eyes of the great Disposer of all things, and so it pleased GOD it
should happen.

But his great abstinence of all was from Sleep, and strange it was that one of such a Fleshly
and sanguine composition, could overwatch so many heavy propense inclinations to Rest. For
this in some sort he was beholden to his care in Diet aforesaid, (the full Vapours of a repletion
in the Stomack ascending to the Brain, causing that usual Drowsinesse we see in many) but most
especially to his continual custome, use, and practise, which had so subdued his Nature, that
it was wholy Governed by his Active and Industrious mind.

And yet this is a further wonder: he did scarcely allow himself, from his First Degree in the
University, any Recreation or Easie Exercise, no not so much as walking, but very Rare and
Seldome; and that not upon his own choice, but as being compelled by friendly, yet, Forcible
Invitations; till such time as the War posted him from place to place, and after that his constant
attendance on the Presse in the Edition of his Books: when was a question, which went the fastest,
his Head or his Feet: so that in effect he was a very stranger, if not an Enemy to all pleasure.

Riding was the most pleasant, because his necessary convenience; the Doctors occasions, especially
his last work, requiring Travel, to which he had so accustomed himself: so that this Diversion,
(like Princes Banquets only to be lookt upon by them, not tasted of) was rather made such then
enjoyed by him.

So that if there were any Felicity or Delight, which he can be truly said to have had: it was
either in his Relations or in his Works. As to his Relations, certainly, no man was more a
tender, more indulgent a Husband and a Father: his Conjugal Love in both matches being equally
blest with the same Issue, kept a constant Tenour in both Marriages, which he so improved,
that the Harmony of his Affections still'd all Discord, and Charmed the noyse of passion.

Towards the Education of his Children, he was exceeding carefull, allowing them any thing conducing
to that end, beyond the present measure of his estate; which its well hoped will be returned
to the Memory of so good a Father, in their early imitation of him in all those good Qualities
and Literature, to which they have now such an Hereditary clayme.

As to his Books, which we usually call the Issue of the Brain, he was more then Fond, totally
abandoning and forsaking all things to follow them. And yet if Correction and Severity (so
this may be allowed the gravity of the Subject) be also the signes of Love: a stricter and
more carefull hand was never used. True it is they did not grow up without some errours, like
the Tares: nor can the most refined pieces of any of his Antagonists boast of perfection. He
that goes an unknown and beaten Track in a Dubious way, though he may have good directions,
yet if in the journey he chance to stray, cannot well be blamed; they have perchance plowed
with his Heifer, and been beholden to those Authorities (for their Exceptions) which he first
gave light to.

To his Neighbours and Friends he behaved himselfe with that chearfulnesse and plainnesse of
Affection and respect, as deservedly gained him their Highest esteeme: from the meanest to
the highest he omitted nothing what to him belonged in his station, either in a familiar correspondency,
or necessary Visits; never suffering intreaties of that which either was his Duty, or in his
power to perform. The quickness of his apprehension helped by a Good Nature, presently suggested
unto him (without putting them to the trouble of an innuendo) what their severall Affairs required,
in which he would spare no paynes: insomuch that it was a piece of Absolute Prudence to rely
upon his Advice and Assistance. In a word, to his Superiours he was Dutifully respectfull without
Ceremony or Officiousnesse; to his equalls he was Discreetly respectful, without neglect or
unsociableness; and to his Inferiours, (whom indeed he judged Christianly none to be) civilly
respectfull without Pride or Disdain.

But all these so eminent vertues, and so sublimed in him, were but as foyles to those excellent
gifts wherewith God had endued his intellectuals. He had a Memory of that vast comprehensiveness,
that he is deservedly known for the first inventer of that Noble Art, whereof having left behind
him no Rules, or directions, save, onely what fell from him in discours, no further account
can be given, but a relation of some very rare experiments of it made by him.

He undertook once in passing to and fro from Templebar to the furthest Conduit in Cheapside,
at his return again to tell every Signe as they stood in order on both sides of the way, repeating
them either backward or forward, as they should chuse, which he exactly did, not missing or
misplacing one, to the admiration of those that heard him.

The like also would he doe in words of different Languages, and of hard and difficult prolation,
to any number whatsoever: but that which was most strange, and very rare in him, was his way
of writing, which something like the Chineses, was from the top of the page to the bottom:
the manner thus. He would write near the Margin the first words of every Line down to the Foot
of the Paper, then would he begining at the head againe, fill up every one of these Lines,
which without any interlineations or spaces but with the full and equal length, would so adjust
the sense and matter, and so aptly Connex and Conjoyn the ends and beginnings of the said Lines,
that he could not do it better, as he hath said, if he had writ all out in a Continuation.

57.

JOHN MILTON.

Born 1608. Died 1674.

Notes by JOHN AUBREY.

He was of middle stature,[1] he had light abroun[2] hayre, his complexion exceeding[3] faire.
he was so faire, that they called him the Lady of Christs college. ovall face. his eie a darke
gray.... he was a Spare man.

[Footnote 1: Aubrey wrote first 'He was scarce so tall as I am'; then added above the last
six words, 'q[uaere] quot feet I am high'; and then above this 'Resp: of middle stature'.]

[Footnote 2: 'abroun' (i.e. auburn) written above 'browne'.]

[Footnote 3: 'exceeding' above 'very'.]

       *       *       *       *       *

He was an early riser: Sc: at 4 a clock manè. yea, after he lost his sight: He had a man read
to him: The first thing he read was the Hebrew bible, and that was at 4'h. manè 1/2'h.+. Then
he contemplated. At 7 his man came to him again & then read to him and wrote till dinner: the
writing was as much as the reading. His daughter Deborah 2[1] could read to him Latin, Italian,
& French, & Greeke; married in Dublin to one M'r Clarke [sells silke &c[2]] very like her father.
The other sister is Mary 1[1], more like her mother. After dinner he usd to walke 3 or 4 houres
at a time, he alwayes had a Garden where he lived: went to bed about 9. Temperate, rarely drank
between meales. Extreme pleasant in his conversation, & at dinner, supper &c: but Satyricall.
He pronounced the letter R very hard. a certaine signe of a Satyricall Witt. from Jo. Dreyden.

[Footnote 1: '2' and '1', marking seniority, above the names.]

[Footnote 2: 'sells silke &c' above 'a Mercer'.]

[Sidenote: Litera Canina.]

He had a delicate tuneable Voice & had good skill: his father instructed him: he had an Organ
in his house: he played on that most. His exercise was chiefly walking.

He was visited much by learned[1]: more then he did desire.

[Footnote 1: 'by learned' added above the line.]

He was mightily importuned to goe into France & Italie. Foraigners came much to see him, and
much admired him, & offered to him great preferments to come over to them, & the only inducement
of severall foreigners that came over into England, was chifly to see O. Protector & M'r J.
Milton, and would see the house and chamber wher he was borne: he was much more admired abrode
then at home.

       *       *       *       *       *

His harmonicall, and ingeniose soule did lodge[1] in a beautifull and well proportioned body--In
toto nusquam corpore menda fuit. Ovid.

[Footnote 1: 'did lodge' above 'dwelt'.]

He had a very good memory: but I believe that his excellent Method of thinking, & disposing
did much helpe his memorie.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of a very cheerfull humour.

He was very healthy, & free from all diseases, seldome tooke any Physique, only sometimes he
tooke Manna[1], and only towards his later end he was visited with the Gowte--Spring & Fall:
he would be chearfull even in his Gowte-fitts: & sing.

[Footnote 1: 'seldome ... Manna' added above the line.]

He died of the gowt struck in the 9th or 10th of Novemb 1674, as appeares by his Apothecaryes
Booke.

One that had Often seen him, told me he us'd to come to a House where He Liv'd, and he has
also Met him in the Street, Led by Millington, the same who was so Famous an Auctioneer of
Books about the time of the Revolution, and Since. This Man was then a Seller of Old Books
in Little Britain, and Milton lodg'd at his house.

       *       *       *       *       *

... besides what Affliction he Must have from his Disappointment on the Change of the Times,
and from his Own Private Losses, and probably Cares for Subsistence, and for his Family; he
was in Perpetual Terror of being Assassinated, though he had Escap'd the Talons of the Law,
he knew he had Made Himself Enemies in Abundance. he was So Dejected he would lie Awake whole
Nights. He then kept Himself as Private as he could. This Dr. Tancred Robinson had from a Relation
of Milton's, Mr. Walker of the Temple. and This is what is Intimated by Himself, VII. 26.

    On Evil Daies though fall'n and Evil Tongues, in Darkness,
    and with Dangers compast round, and Solitude.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Bendish has heard the Widow or Daughter or Both say it, that Soon after the Restauration
the King Offer'd to Employ this Pardon'd Man as his Latin Secretary, the Post in which he Serv'd
Cromwell with So much Integrity and Ability; (that a like Offer was made to Thurlow is not
Disputed as ever I heard) Milton Withstood the Offer; the Wife press'd his Compliance. Thou
art in the Right (says he) You, as Other Women, would ride in your Coach; for Me, My Aim is
to Live and Dye an Honest Man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Other Stories I have heard concerning the Posture he was Usually in when he Dictated, that
he Sat leaning Backward Obliquely in an Easy Chair, with his Leg flung over the Elbow of it.
that he frequently Compos'd lying in Bed in a Morning ('twas Winter Sure Then) I have been
Well inform'd, that when he could not Sleep, but lay Awake whole Nights, he Try'd; not One
Verse could he make; at Other times flow'd Easy his Unpremeditated Verse, with a certain Impetus
and Æstro, as Himself seem'd to Believe.

60.

ABRAHAM COWLEY.

Born 1618. Died 1667.

Of My self.

It is a hard and nice Subject for a man to write of himself, it grates his own heart to say
any thing of disparagement, and the Readers Eares to hear any thing of praise from him. There
is no danger from me of offending him in this kind; neither my Mind, nor my Body, nor my Fortune,
allow me any materials for that Vanity. It is sufficient, for my own contentment, that they
have preserved me from being scandalous, or remarkable on the defective side. But besides that,
I shall here speak of myself, only in relation to the subject of these precedent discourses,
and shall be likelier thereby to fall into the contempt, then rise up to the estimation of
most people. As far as my Memory can return back into my past Life, before I knew, or was capable
of guessing what the world, or glories, or business of it were, the natural affections of my
soul gave me a secret bent of aversion from them, as some Plants are said to turn away from
others, by an Antipathy imperceptible to themselves, and inscrutable to mans understanding.
Even when I was a very young Boy at School, instead of running about on Holy-daies and playing
with my fellows, I was wont to steal from them, and walk into the fields, either alone with
a Book, or with some one Companion, if I could find any of the same temper. I was then too,
so much an Enemy to all constraint, that my Masters could never prevail on me, by any perswasions
or encouragements, to learn without Book the common rules of Grammar, in which they dispensed
with me alone, because they found I made a shift to do the usual exercise out of my own reading
and observation. That I was then of the same mind as I am now (which I confess, I wonder at
my self) may appear by the latter end of an Ode, which I made when I was but thirteen years
old, and which was then printed with many other Verses. The Beginning of it is Boyish, but
of this part which I here set down (if a very little were corrected) I should hardly now be
much ashamed.

9.

  This only grant me, that my means may lye
  Too low for Envy, for Contempt too high.

10.

11. With these affections of mind, and my heart wholly set upon Letters, I went to the University;
But was soon torn from thence by that violent Publick storm which would suffer nothing to stand
where it did, but rooted up every Plant, even from the Princely Cedars to Me, the Hyssop. Yet
I had as good fortune as could have befallen me in such a Tempest; for I was cast by it into
the Family of one of the best Persons, and into the Court of one of the best Princesses of
the World. Now though I was here engaged in wayes most contrary to the Original design of my
life, that is, into much company, and no small business, and into a daily sight of Greatness,
both Militant and Triumphant (for that was the state then of the English and French Courts)
yet all this was so far from altering my Opinion, that it oncly added the confirmation of Reason
to that which was before but Natural Inclination. Though I was in a croud of as good company
as could be found any where, though I was in business of great and honourable trust, though
I eate at the best Table, and enjoyed the best conveniences for present subsistance that ought
to be desired by a man of my condition in banishment and publick distresses, yet I could not
abstain from renewing my old School-boys Wish in a Copy of Verses to the same effect.

  Well then; I now do plainly see
  This busie World and I shall ne're agree, &c.

And I never then proposed to my self any other advantage from His Majesties Happy Restoration,
but the getting into some moderately convenient Retreat in the Country, which I thought in
that case I might easily have compassed, as well as some others, who[2] with no greater probabilities
or pretences have arrived to extraordinary fortunes: But I had before written a shrewd Prophesie
against my self, and I think Apollo inspired me in the Truth, though not in the Elegance of it.

  Thou, neither great at Court nor in the War,
  Nor at th' Exchange shal't be, nor at the wrangling Barr;
  Content thy self with the small barren praise
  Which neglected Verse does raise, &c.

However by the failing of the Forces which I had expected, I did not quit the Design which
I had resolved on, I cast my self into it A Corps perdu, without making capitulations, or taking
counsel of Fortune. But God laughs at a Man, who sayes to his Soul, Take thy ease: I met presently
not onely with many little encumbrances and impediments, but with so much sickness (a new misfortune
to me) as would have spoiled the happiness of an Emperour as well as Mine: Yet I do neither
repent nor alter my course. Non ego perfidum Dixi Sacramentum; Nothing shall separate me from
a Mistress, which I have loved so long, and have now at last married; though she neither has
brought me a rich Portion, nor lived yet so quietly with me as I hoped from Her.

      --Nec vos, dulcissima mundi
  Nomina, vos Musæ, Libertas, Otia, Libri,
  Hortique Syluæq; anima remanente relinquam.

      Nor by me ere shall you,
  You of all Names the sweetest, and the best,
  You Muses, Books, and Liberty and Rest;
  You Gardens, Fields, and Woods forsaken be,
  As long as Life it self forsakes not Me.

[Footnote 1: 'irremediably' text 1668, 'immediately' errata 1668.]

[Footnote 2: 'who' omitted 1668, inserted 1669.]

61.

By THOMAS SPRAT.

I think it fit to direct my Speech concerning him, by the same rule by which he was wont to
judge of others. In his esteem of other men, he constantly prefer'd the good temper of their
minds, and honesty of their Actions, above all the excellencies of their Eloquence or Knowledge.
The same course I will take in his praise, which chiefly ought to be fixed on his life. For
that he deserves more applause from the most virtuous men, than for his other abilities he
ever obtained from the Learned.

He had indeed a perfect natural goodness, which neither the uncertainties of his condition,
nor the largeness of his wit could pervert. He had a firmness and strength of mind, that was
of proof against the Art of Poetry it self. Nothing vain or fantastical, nothing flattering
or insolent appeared in his humour. He had a great integrity, and plainness of Manners; which
he preserv'd to the last, though much of his time was spent in a Nation, and way of life, that
is not very famous for sincerity. But the truth of his heart was above the corruption of ill
examples: And therefore the sight of them rather confirm'd him in the contrary Virtues. He
never opprest any mans parts, nor ever put any man out of countenance. He never had any emulation
for Fame, or contention for Profit with any man. When he was in business he suffer'd others
importunities with much easiness: When he was out of it he was never importunate himself. His
modesty and humility were so great, that if he had not had many other equal Virtues, they might
have been thought dissimulation.

His Conversation was certainly of the most excellent kind; for it was such as was rather admired
by his familiar Friends, than by Strangers at first sight. He surpriz'd no man at first with
any extraordinary appearance: he never thrust himself violently into the good opinion of his
company. He was content to be known by leisure and by degrees: and so the esteem that was conceiv'd
of him, was better grounded and more lasting.

In his Speech, neither the pleasantness excluded gravity, nor was the sobriety of it inconsistent
with delight. No man parted willingly from his Discourse: for he so ordered it, that every
man was satisfied that he had his share.

His Wit was so temper'd, that no man had ever reason to wish it had been less: he prevented
other mens severity upon it by his own: he never willingly recited any of his Writings. None
but his intimate friends ever discovered he was a great Poet, by his discourse. His Learning
was large and profound, well compos'd of all Antient and Modern Knowledge. But it sat exceeding
close and handsomly upon him: it was not imbossed on his mind, but enamelled.

He never guided his life by the whispers, or opinions of the World. Yet he had a great reverence
for a good reputation. He hearkened to Fame when it was a just Censurer: But not when an extravagant
Babler. He was a passionate lover of Liberty and Freedom from restraint both in Actions and
Words. But what honesty others receive from the direction of Laws, he had by native Inclination:
And he was not beholding to other mens wills, but to his own for his Innocence.

62.

CHARLES II.

Born 1630. Died 1685.

By HALIFAX.

His DISSIMULATION.

One great Objection made to him was the concealing himself, and disguising his Thoughts. In
this there ought a Latitude to be given; it is a Defect not to have it at all, and a Fault
to have it too much. Human Nature will not allow the Mean: like all other things, as soon as
ever Men get to do them well, they cannot easily hold from doing them too much. 'Tis the case
even in the least things, as singing, &c.

In France, he was to dissemble Injuries and Neglects, from one reason; in England, he was to
dissemble too, though for other Causes; A King upon the Throne hath as great Temptations (though
of another kind) to dissemble, as a King in Exile. The King of France might have his Times
of Dissembling as much with him, as he could have to do it with the King of France: So he was
in a School.

No King can be so little inclined to dissemble but he must needs learn it from his Subjects,
who every Day give him such Lessons of it. Dissimulation is like most other Qualities, it hath
two Sides; it is necessary, and yet it is dangerous too. To have none at all layeth a Man open
to Contempt, to have too much exposeth him to Suspicion, which is only the less dishonourable
Inconvenience. If a Man doth not take very great Precautions, he is never so much shewed as
when he endeavoureth to hide himself. One Man cannot take more pains to hide himself, than
another will do to see into him, especially in the Case of Kings.

It is none of the exalted Faculties of the Mind, since there are Chamber-Maids will do it better
than any Prince in Christendom. Men given to dissembling are like Rooks at play, they will
cheat for Shillings, they are so used to it. The vulgar Definition of Dissembling is downright
Lying; that kind of it which is less ill-bred cometh pretty near it. Only Princes and Persons
of Honour must have gentler Words given to their Faults, than the nature of them may in themselves
deserve.

Princes dissemble with too many, not to have it discovered; no wonder then that He carried
it so far that it was discovered. Men compared Notes, and got Evidence; so that those whose
Morality would give them leave, took it for an Excuse for serving him ill. Those who knew his
Face, fixed their Eyes there; and thought it of more Importance to see, than to hear what he
said. His Face was as little a Blab as most Mens, yet though it could not be called a prattling
Face, it would sometimes tell Tales to a good Observer. When he thought fit to be angry, he
had a very peevish Memory; there was hardly a Blot that escaped him. At the same time that
this shewed the Strength of his Dissimulation, it gave warning too; it fitted his present Purpose,
but it made a Discovery that put Men more upon their Guard against him. Only Self-flattery
furnisheth perpetual Arguments to trust again: The comfortable Opinion Men have of themselves
keepeth up Human Society, which would be more than half destroyed without it.

Of his WIT and CONVERSATION.

His Wit consisted chiefly in the Quickness of his Apprehension. His Apprehension made him find
Faults, and that led him to short Sayings upon them, not always equal, but often very good.

By his being abroad, he contracted a Habit of conversing familiarly, which added to his natural
Genius, made him very apt to talk; perhaps more than a very nice judgment would approve.

He was apter to make broad Allusions upon any thing that gave the least occasion, than was
altogether suitable with the very Good-breeding he shewed in most other things. The Company
he kept whilst abroad, had so used him to that sort of Dialect, that he was so far from thinking
it a Fault or an Indecency, that he made it a matter of Rallery upon those who could not prevail
upon themselves to join in it. As a Man who hath a good Stomach loveth generally to talk of
Meat, so in the vigour of his Age, he began that style, which, by degrees grew so natural to
him, that after he ceased to do it out of Pleasure, he continued to do it out of Custom. The
Hypocrisy of the former Times inclined Men to think they could not shew too great an Aversion
to it, and that helped to encourage this unbounded liberty of Talking, without the Restraints
of Decency which were before observed. In his more familiar Conversations with the Ladies,
even they must be passive, if they would not enter into it. How far Sounds as well as Objects
may have their Effects to raise Inclination, might be an Argument to him to use that Style;
or whether using Liberty at its full stretch, was not the general Inducement without any particular
Motives to it.

The manner of that time of telling Stories, had drawn him into it; being commended at first
for the Faculty of telling a Tale well, he might insensibly be betrayed to exercise it too
often. Stories are dangerous in this, that the best expose a Man most, by being oftenest repeated.
It might pass for an Evidence for the Moderns against the Ancients, that it is now wholly left
off by all that have any pretence to be distinguished by their good Sense.

He had the Improvements of Wine, &c. which made him pleasant and easy in Company; where he
bore his part, and was acceptable even to those who had no other Design than to be merry with him.

The Thing called Wit, a Prince may taste, but it is dangerous for him to take too much of it;
it hath Allurements which by refining his Thoughts, take off from their dignity, in applying
them less to the governing part. There is a Charm in Wit, which a Prince must resist: and that
to him was no easy matter; it was contesting with Nature upon Terms of Disadvantage.

His Wit was not so ill-natured as to put Men out of countenance. In the case of a King especially,
it is more allowable to speak sharply of them, than to them.

His Wit was not acquired by Reading; that which he had above his original Stock by Nature,
was from Company, in which he was very capable to observe. He could not so properly be said
to have a Wit very much raised, as a plain, gaining, well-bred, recommending kind of Wit.

But of all Men that ever liked those who had Wit, he could the best endure those who had none.
This leaneth more towards a Satire than a Compliment, in this respect, that he could not only
suffer Impertinence, but at some times seemed to be pleased with it.

He encouraged some to talk a good deal more with him, than one would have expected from a Man
of so good a Taste: He should rather have order'd his Attorney-General to prosecute them for
a Misdemeanour, in using Common-sense so scurvily in his Presence. However, if this was a Fault,
it is arrogant for any of his Subjects to object to it, since it would look like defying such
a piece of Indulgence. He must in some degree loosen the Strength of his Wit, by his Condescension
to talk with Men so very unequal to him. Wit must be used to some Equality, which may give
it Exercise, or else it is apt either to languish, or to grow a little vulgar, by reigning
amongst Men of a lower Size, where there is no Awe to keep a Man upon his guard.

It fell out rather by Accident than Choice, that his Mistresses were such as did not care that
Wit of the best kind should have the Precedence in their Apartments. Sharp and strong Wit will
not always be so held in by Good-manners, as not to be a little troublesome in a Ruelle. But
wherever Impertinence hath Wit enough left to be thankful for being well used, it will not
only be admitted, but kindly received; such Charms every thing hath that setteth us off by
Comparison.

His Affability was a Part, and perhaps not the least, of his Wit.

It is a Quality that must not always spring from the Heart, Mens Pride, as well as their Weakness,
maketh them ready to be deceived by it: They are more ready to believe it a Homage paid to
their Merit, than a Bait thrown out to deceive them. Princes have a particular Advantage.

There was at first as much of Art as Nature in his Affability, but by Habit it became Natural.
It is an Error of the better hand, but the Universality taketh away a good deal of the Force
of it. A Man that hath had a kind Look seconded with engaging Words, whilst he is chewing the
Pleasure, if another in his Sight should be just received as kindly, that Equality would presently
alter the Relish: The Pride of Mankind will have Distinction; till at last it cometh to Smile
for Smile, meaning nothing of either Side; without any kind of Effect; mere Drawing-room Compliments;
the Bow alone would be better without them. He was under some Disadvantages of this kind, that
grew still in proportion as it came by Time to be more known, that there was less Signification
in those Things than at first was thought.

The Familiarity of his Wit must needs have the Effect of lessening the Distance fit to be kept
to him. The Freedom used to him whilst abroad, was retained by those who used it longer than
either they ought to have kept it, or he have suffered it, and others by their Example learned
to use the same. A King of Spain that will say nothing but Tiendro cuydado, will, to the generality,
preserve more Respect; an Engine that will speak but sometimes, at the same time that it will
draw the Raillery of the Few who judge well, it will create Respect in the ill-judging Generality.
Formality is sufficiently revenged upon the World for being so unreasonably laughed at; it
is destroyed it is true, but it hath the spiteful Satisfaction of seeing every thing destroyed
with it.

His fine Gentlemanship did him no Good, encouraged in it by being too much applauded.

His Wit was better suited to his Condition before he was restored than afterwards. The Wit
of a Gentleman, and that of a crowned Head, ought to be different things. As there is a Crown
Law, there is a Crown Wit too. To use it with Reserve is very good, and very rare. There is
a Dignity in doing things seldom, even without any other Circumstance. Where Wit will run continually,
the Spring is apt to fail; so that it groweth vulgar, and the more it is practised, the more
it is debased.

He was so good at finding out other Mens weak Sides, that it made him less intent to cure his
own: That generally happeneth. It may be called a treacherous Talent, for it betrayeth a Man
to forget to judge himself, by being so eager to censure others: This doth so misguide Men
the first Part of their Lives, that the Habit of it is not easily recovered, when the greater
Ripeness of their Judgment inclineth them to look more into themselves than into other Men.

Men love to see themselves in the false Looking-glass of other Mens Failings. It maketh a Man
think well of himself at the time, and by sending his Thoughts abroad to get Food for Laughing,
they are less at leisure to see Faults at home. Men choose rather to make the War in another
Country, than to keep all well at home.

His TALENTS, TEMPER, HABITS, &c.

He had a Mechanical Head, which appeared in his inclination to Shipping and Fortification,
&c. This would make one conclude, that his Thoughts would naturally have been more fixed to
Business, if his Pleasures had not drawn them away from it.

He had a very good Memory, though he would not always make equal good Use of it. So that if
he had accustomed himself to direct his Faculties to his Business, I see no Reason why he might
not have been a good deal Master of it. His Chain of Memory was longer than his Chain of Thought;
the first could bear any Burden, the other was tired by being carried on too long; it was fit
to ride a Heat, but it had not Wind enough for a long Course.

A very great Memory often forgetteth how much Time is lost by repeating things of no Use. It
was one Reason of his talking so much; since a great Memory will always have something to say,
and will be discharging itself, whether in or out of Season, if a good Judgment doth not go
along with it, to make it stop and turn. One might say of his Memory, that it was a Beauté
Journaliere; Sometimes he would make shrewd Applications, &c. at others he would bring things
out of it, that never deserved to be laid in it. He grew by Age into a pretty exact Distribution
of his Hours, both for his Business, Pleasures, and the Exercise for his Health, of which he
took as much care as could possibly consist with some Liberties he was resolved to indulge
in himself. He walked by his Watch, and when he pulled it out to look upon it, skilful Men
would make haste with what they had to say to him.

He was often retained in his personal against his politick Capacity. He would speak upon those
Occasions most dexterously against himself; Charles Stuart would be bribed against the King;
and in the Distinction, he leaned more to his natural Self, than his Character would allow.
He would not suffer himself to be so much fettered by his Character as was convenient; he was
still starting out of it, the Power of Nature was too strong for the Dignity of his Calling,
which generally yielded as often as there was a contest.

It was not the best use he made of his Back-stairs to admit Men to bribe him against himself,
to procure a Defalcation, help a lame Accountant to get off, or side with the Farmers against
the Improvement of the Revenue. The King was made the Instrument to defraud the Crown, which
is somewhat extraordinary.

That which might tempt him to it probably was, his finding that those about him so often took
Money upon those Occasions; so that he thought he might do well at least to be a Partner. He
did not take the Money to hoard it; there were those at Court who watched those Times, as the
Spaniards do for the coming in of the Plate Fleet. The Beggars of both Sexes helped to empty
his Cabinet, and to leave room in them for a new lading upon the next Occasion. These Negotiators
played double with him too, when it was for their purpose so to do. He knew it, and went on
still; so he gained his present end, at the time, he was less solicitous to enquire into the
Consequences.

He could not properly be said to be either covetous or liberal; his desire to get was not with
an Intention to be rich; and his spending was rather an Easiness in letting Money go, than
any premeditated Thought for the Distribution of it. He would do as much to throw off the burden
of a present Importunity, as he would to relieve a want.

When once the Aversion to bear Uneasiness taketh place in a Man's Mind, it doth so check all
the Passions, that they are dampt into a kind of Indifference; they grow faint and languishing,
and come to be subordinate to that fundamental Maxim, of not purchasing any thing at the price
of a Difficulty. This made that he had as little Eagerness to oblige, as he had to hurt Men;
the Motive of his giving Bounties was rather to make Men less uneasy to him, than more easy
to themselves; and yet no ill-nature all this while. He would slide from an asking Face, and
could guess very well. It was throwing a Man off from his Shoulders, that leaned upon them
with his whole weight; so that the Party was not glader to receive, than he was to give. It
was a kind of implied bargain; though Men seldom kept it, being so apt to forget the advantage
they had received, that they would presume the King would as little remember the good he had
done them, so as to make it an Argument against their next Request.

This Principle of making the love of Ease exercise an entire Sovereignty in his Thoughts, would
have been less censured in a private Man, than might be in a Prince. The Consequence of it
to the Publick changeth the Nature of that Quality, or else a Philosopher in his private Capacity
might say a great deal to justify it. The truth is, a King is to be such a distinct Creature
from a Man, that their Thoughts are to be put in quite a differing Shape, and it is such a
disquieting task to reconcile them, that Princes might rather expect to be lamented than to
be envied, for being in a Station that exposeth them, if they do not do more to answer Mens
Expectations than human Nature will allow.

That Men have the less Ease for their loving it so much, is so far from a wonder, that it is
a natural Consequence, especially in the case of a Prince. Ease is seldom got without some
pains, but it is yet seldomer kept without them. He thought giving would make Men more easy
to him, whereas he might have known it would certainly make them more troublesome.

When Men receive Benefits from Princes, they attribute less to his Generosity than to their
own Deserts; so that in their own Opinion, their Merit cannot be bounded; by that mistaken
Rule, it can as little be satisfied. They would take it for a diminution to have it circumscribed.
Merit hath a Thirst upon it that can never be quenched by golden Showers. It is not only still
ready, but greedy to receive more. This King Charles found in as many Instances as any Prince
that ever reigned, because the Easiness of Access introducing the good Success of their first
Request, they were the more encouraged to repeat those Importunities, which had been more effectually
stopt in the Beginning by a short and resolute Denial. But his Nature did not dispose him to
that Method, it directed him rather to put off the troublesome Minute for the time, and that
being his Inclination, he did not care to struggle with it.

I am of an Opinion, in which I am every Day more confirmed by Observation, that Gratitude is
one of those things that cannot be bought. It must be born with Men, or else all the Obligations
in the World will not create it. An outward Shew may be made to satisfy Decency, and to prevent
Reproach; but a real Sense of a kind thing is a Gift of Nature, and never was, nor can be acquired.

The Love of Ease is an Opiate, it is pleasing for the time, quieteth the Spirits, but it hath
its Effects that seldom fail to be most fatal. The immoderate Love of Ease maketh a Man's Mind
pay a passive Obedience to any thing that happeneth: It reduceth the Thoughts from having Desire
to be content.

It must be allowed he had a little Over-balance on the well-natured Side, not Vigour enough
to be earnest to do a kind Thing, much less to do a harsh one; but if a hard thing was done
to another Man, he did not eat his Supper the worse for it. It was rather a Deadness than Severity
of Nature, whether it proceeded from a Dissipation of Spirits, or by the Habit of Living in
which he was engaged.

If a King should be born with more Tenderness than might suit with his Office, he would in
time be hardned. The Faults of his Subjects make Severity so necessary, that by the frequent
Occasions given to use it, it comes to be habitual, and by degrees the Resistance that Nature
made at first groweth fainter, till at last it is in a manner quite extinguished.

In short, this Prince might more properly be said to have Gifts than Virtues, as Affability,
Easiness of Living, Inclinations to give, and to forgive: Qualities that flowed from his Nature
rather than from his Virtue.

He had not more Application to any thing than the Preservation of his Health; it had an intire
Preference to any thing else in his Thoughts, and he might be said without Aggravation to study
that, with as little Intermission as any Man in the World. He understood it very well, only
in this he failed, that he thought it was more reconcilable with his Pleasures, than it really
was. It is natural to have such a Mind to reconcile these, that 'tis the easier for any Man
that goeth about it, to be guilty of that Mistake.

This made him overdo in point of Nourishment, the better to furnish to those Entertainments;
and then he thought by great Exercise to make Amends, and to prevent the ill Effects of his
Blood being too much raised. The Success he had in this Method, whilst he had Youth and Vigour
to support him in it, encouraged him to continue it longer than Nature allowed. Age stealeth
so insensibly upon us, that we do not think of suiting our way of Reasoning to the several
Stages of Life; so insensibly that not being able to pitch upon any precise Time, when we cease
to be young, we either flatter ourselves that we always continue to be so, or at least forget
how much we are mistaken in it.

63.

By BURNET.

The King was then thirty years of age, and, as might have been supposed, past the levities
of youth and the extravagance of pleasure. He had a very good understanding. He knew well the
state of affairs both at home and abroad. He had a softness of temper that charmed all who
came near him, till they found how little they could depend on good looks, kind words, and
fair promises; in which he was liberal to excess, because he intended nothing by them, but
to get rid of importunities, and to silence all farther pressing upon him. He seemed to have
no sense of religion: Both at prayers and sacrament he, as it were, took care to satisfy people,
that he was in no sort concerned in that about which he was employed. So that he was very far
from being an hypocrite, unless his assisting at those performances was a sort of hypocrisy,
(as no doubt it was:) But he was sure not to encrease that by any the least appearance of religion.
He said once to my self, he was no atheist, but he could not think God would make a man miserable
only for taking a little pleasure out of the way. He disguised his Popery to the last. But
when he talked freely, he could not help letting himself out against the liberty that under
the Reformation all men took of enquiring into matters of religion: For from their enquiring
into matters of religion they carried the humour farther, to enquire into matters of state.
He had made such observations on the French government, that he thought a King who might be
checkt, or have his Ministers called to an account by a Parliament, was but a King in name.
He had a great compass of knowledge, tho' he was never capable of much application or study.
He understood the Mechanicks and Physick; and was a good Chymist, and much set on several preparations
of Mercury, chiefly the fixing it. He understood navigation well: But above all he knew the
architecture of ships so perfectly, that in that respect he was exact rather more than became
a Prince. His apprehension was quick, and his memory good. He was an everlasting talker. He
told his stories with a good grace: But they came in his way too often. He had a very ill opinion
both of men and women; and did not think that there was either sincerity or chastity in the
world out of principle, but that some had either the one or the other out of humour or vanity.
He thought that no body did serve him out of love: And so he was quits with all the world,
and loved others as little as he thought they loved him. He hated business, and could not be
easily brought to mind any: But when it was necessary, and he was set to it, he would stay
as long as his Ministers had work for him. The ruine of his reign, and of all his affairs,
was occasioned chiefly by his delivering himself up at his first coming over to a mad range
of pleasure.

64.

By BURNET.

Thus lived and died King Charles the second. He was the greatest instance in history of the
various revolutions of which any one man seemed capable. He was bred up, the first twelve years
of his life, with the splendor that became the heir of so great a Crown. After that he past
thro' eighteen years in great inequalities, unhappy in the war, in the loss of his Father,
and of the Crown of England. Scotland did not only receive him, tho' upon terms hard of digestion,
but made an attempt upon England for him, tho' a feeble one. He lost the battle of Worcester
with too much indifference: And then he shewed more care of his person, than became one who
had so much at stake. He wandered about England for ten weeks after that, hiding from place
to place. But, under all the apprehensions he had then upon him, he shewed a temper so careless,
and so much turned to levity, that he was then diverting himself with little houshold sports,
in as unconcerned a manner, as if he had made no loss, and had been in no danger at all. He
got at last out of England. But he had been obliged to so many, who had been faithful to him,
and careful of him, that he seemed afterwards to resolve to make an equal return to them all:
And finding it not easy to reward them all as they deserved, he forgot them all alike. Most
Princes seem to have this pretty deep in them; and to think that they ought never to remember
past services, but that their acceptance of them is a full reward. He, of all in our age, exerted
this piece of prerogative in the amplest manner: For he never seemed to charge his memory,
or to trouble his thoughts, with the sense of any of the services that had been done him. While
he was abroad at Paris, Colen, or Brussells, he never seemed to lay any thing to heart. He
pursued all his diversions, and irregular pleasures, in a free carrier; and seemed to be as
serene under the loss of a Crown, as the greatest Philosopher could have been. Nor did he willingly
hearken to any of those projects, with which he often complained that his Chancellor persecuted
him. That in which he seemed most concerned was, to find money for supporting his expence.
And it was often said, that, if Cromwell would have compounded the matter, and have given him
a good round pension, that he might have been induced to resign his title to him. During his
exile he delivered himself so entirely to his pleasures, that he became incapable of application.
He spent little of his time in reading or study, and yet less in thinking. And, in the state
his affairs were then in, he accustomed himself to say to every person, and upon all occasions,
that which he thought would please most: So that words or promises went very easily from him.
And he had so ill an opinion of mankind, that he thought the great art of living and governing
was, to manage all things and all persons with a depth of craft and dissimulation. And in that
few men in the world could put on the appearances of sincerity better than he could: Under
which so much artifice was usually hid, that in conclusion he could deceive none, for all were
become mistrustful of him. He had great vices, but scarce any vertues to correct them: He had
in him some vices that were less hurtful, which corrected his more hurtful ones. He was during
the active part of life given up to sloth and lewdness to such a degree, that he hated business,
and could not bear the engaging in any thing that gave him much trouble, or put him under any
constraint. And, tho' he desired to become absolute, and to overturn both our religion and
our laws, yet he would neither run the risque, nor give himself the trouble, which so great
a design required. He had an appearance of gentleness in his outward deportment: But he seemed
to have no bowels nor tenderness in his nature: And in the end of his life he became cruel.
He was apt to forgive all crimes, even blood it self: Yet he never forgave any thing that was
done against himself, after his first and general act of indemnity, which was to be reckoned
as done rather upon maxims of state than inclinations of mercy. He delivered himself up to
a most enormous course of vice, without any sort of restraint, even from the consideration
of the nearest relations: The most studied extravagancies that way seemed, to the very last,
to be much delighted in, and pursued by him. He had the art of making all people grow fond
of him at first, by a softness in his whole way of conversation, as he was certainly the best
bred man of the age. But when it appeared how little could be built on his promise, they were
cured of the fondness that he was apt to raise in them. When he saw young men of quality, who
had something more than ordinary in them, he drew them about him, and set himself to corrupt
them both in religion and morality; in which he proved so unhappily successful, that he left
England much changed at his death from what he had found it at his Restoration. He loved to
talk over all the stories of his life to every new man that came about him. His stay in Scotland,
and the share he had in the war of Paris, in carrying messages from the one side to the other,
were his common topicks. He went over these in a very graceful manner; but so often, and so
copiously, that all those who had been long accustomed to them grew weary of them: And when
he entred on those stories they usually withdrew: So that he often began them in a full audience,
and before he had done there were not above four or five left about him: Which drew a severe
jest from Wilmot, Earl of Rochester. He said, he wondred to see a man have so good a memory
as to repeat the same story without losing the least circumstance, and yet not remember that
he had told it to the same persons the very day before. This made him fond of strangers; for
they hearkned to all his often repeated stories, and went away as in a rapture at such an uncommon
condescension in a King. At Rome I saw one of the last statues made for Tiberius, after he
had lost his teeth. But, bating the alteration which that made, it was so like King Charles,
that Prince Borghese, and Signior Dominica to whom it belonged, did agree with me in thinking
that it looked like a statue made for him.

65.

THE EARL OF CLARENDON.

Edward Hyde, knighted 1643, created Baron Hyde 1660, Earl of Clarendon 1661. Lord Chancellor
1658-1667.

Born 1609. Died 1674.

By BURNET.

The Earl of Clarendon was bred to the Law, and was like to grow eminent in his profession when
the wars began. He distinguished himself so in the House of Commons, that he became considerable,
and was much trusted all the while the King was at Oxford. He stayed beyond sea following the
King's fortune till the Restoration; and was now an absolute favourite, and the chief or the
only Minister, but with too magisterial a way. He was always pressing the King to mind his
affairs, but in vain. He was a good Chancellour, only a little too rough, but very impartial
in the administration of justice. He never seemed to understand foreign affairs well: And yet
he meddled too much in them. He had too much levity in his wit, and did not always observe
the decorum of his post. He was high, and was apt to reject those who addressed themselves
to him with too much contempt. He had such a regard to the King, that when places were disposed
of, even otherwise than as he advised, yet he would justify what the King did, and disparage
the pretensions of others, not without much scorn; which created him many enemies. He was indefatigable
in business, tho' the gout did often disable him from waiting on the King: Yet, during his
credit, the King came constantly to him when he was laid up by it.

Born 1616. Died 1682.

By CLARENDON.

The Earle of Latherdale, who had bene very eminent in contrivinge and carryinge on the kings
service, when his Majesty was crowned in Scotlande, and therby had wrought himselfe into a
very particular esteme with the kinge, had marched with him into Englande, and behaved himselfe
well at Worcester, wher he was taken prissoner, had besydes that meritt, the sufferinge an
imprysonment from that very tyme, with some circumstances of extreme rigour, beinge a man against
whome Crumwell had alwayes professed a more then ordinary animosity, and though the sceane
of his imprysonment had bene altred, accordinge to the alterations of the goverments which
succeeded, yett he never founde himselfe in compleate liberty, till the kinge was proclaymed
by the Parliament, and then he thought it not necessary to repayre into Scotlande for authority
or recommendation, but sendinge his advise thither to his frends, he made hast to transporte
himselfe with the Parliament Commissyoners to the Hague, where he was very well receaved by
the kinge, and left nothinge undone on his parte, that might cultivate these old inclinations,
beinge a man of as much addresse, and insinuation, in which that nation excells, as was then
amongst them. He applyed himselfe to those who were most trusted by the kinge with a marvellous
importunity, and especially to the Chancellour, with whome as often as they had ever bene togither,
he had a perpetuall warr. He now magnifyed his constancy with lowde elogiums as well to his
face, as behinde his backe, remembred many sharpe exspressions formerly used by the Chancellour
which he confessed had then made him mad, though upon recollection afterwards he had founde
to be very reasonable. He was very polite in all his discources, called himselfe and his nation
a thousand Traytors, and Rebells, and in his discourses frequently sayd, when I was a Traytour,
or when I was in rebellion, and seemed not æqually delighted with any argument, as when he
skornefully spake of the Covenante, upon which he brake a hundred jests: in summ all his discourses
were such, as pleased all the company, who commonly believed all he sayd, and concurred with
him. He [renew]ed his old acquaintance and familiarity with Middleton, by all the protestations
of frendshipp, assured him of the unanimous desyre of Scotlande, to be [un]der his commaunde,
and declared to the kinge, that he could not send any man into Scotlande who would be able
to do him so much service in the place of Commissyoner as Middleton, and that it was in his
Majestys power to unite that whole kingdome to his service as one m[an:] all which pleased
the kinge well, so that by the tyme that the Commissioners appeared at London, upon some old
promise in Scotlande, or new inclination upon his longe sufferings, which he magnifyed enough,
the kinge gave him the Signett, and declared him to be Secretary of State of that kingdome,
and at the same tyme declared that Middleton should be his Commissyoner, the Earle of Glengarne
his Chancellour, the Earle of Rothesse, who was likewise one of the Commissyoners, and his
person very agreable to the kinge, President of the Councell, and conferred all other inferiour
offices, upon men most notable for ther affection to the old goverment of Church and State.

67.

By BURNET.

The Earl of Lauderdale, afterwards made Duke, had been for many years a zealous Covenanter:
But in the year forty seven he turned to the King's interests; and had continued a prisoner
all the while after Worcester fight, where he was taken. He was kept for some years in the
tower of London, in Portland castle, and in other prisons, till he was set at liberty by those
who called home the King. So he went over to Holland. And since he continued so long, and contrary
to all mens opinions in so high a degree of favour and confidence, it may be expected that
I should be a little copious in setting out his character; for I knew him very particularly.
He made a very ill appearance: He was very big: His hair red, hanging odly about him: His tongue
was too big for his mouth, which made him bedew all that he talked to: And his whole manner
was rough and boisterous, and very unfit for a Court. He was very learned, not only in Latin,
in which he was a master, but in Greek and Hebrew. He had read a great deal of divinity, and
almost all the historians ancient and modern: So that he had great materials. He had with these
an extraordinary memory, and a copious but unpolished expression. He was a man, as the Duke
of Buckingham called him to me, of a blundering understanding. He was haughty beyond expression,
abject to those he saw he must stoop to, but imperious to all others. He had a violence of
passion that carried him often to fits like madness, in which he had no temper. If he took
a thing wrong, it was a vain thing to study to convince him: That would rather provoke him
to swear, he would never be of another mind: He was to be let alone: And perhaps he would have
forgot what he had said, and come about of his own accord. He was the coldest friend and the
violentest enemy I ever knew: I felt it too much not to know it. He at first seemed to despise
wealth: But he delivered himself up afterwards to luxury and sensuality: And by that means
he ran into a vast expence, and stuck at nothing that was necessary to support it. In his long
imprisonment he had great impressions of religion on his mind: But he wore these out so entirely,
that scarce any trace of them was left. His great experience in affairs, his ready compliance
with every thing that he thought would please the King, and his bold offering at the most desperate
counsels, gained him such an interest in the King, that no attempt against him nor complaint
of him could ever shake it, till a decay of strength and understanding forced him to let go
his hold. He was in his principles much against Popery and arbitrary government: And yet by
a fatal train of passions and interests he made way for the former, and had almost established
the latter. And, whereas some by a smooth deportment made the first beginnings of tyranny less
discernible and unacceptable, he by the fury of his behaviour heightned the severity of his
ministry, which was liker the cruelty of an inquisition than the legality of justice. With
all this he was a Presbyterian, and retained his aversion to King Charles I. and his party
to his death.

68.

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY.

Anthony Ashley Cooper, created Earl of Shaftesbury 1662.

Born 1621. Died 1683.

By BURNET.

The man that was in the greatest credit with the Earl of Southampton was Sir Anthony Ashly
Cooper, who had married his niece, and became afterwards so considerable that he was raised
to be Earl of Shaftsbury. And since he came to have so great a name, and that I knew him for
many years in a very particular manner, I will dwell a little longer on his character; for
it was of a very extraordinary composition. He began to make a considerable figure very early.
Before he was twenty he came into the House of Commons, and was on the King's side; and undertook
to get Wiltshire and Dorsetshire to declare for him: But he was not able to effect it. Yet
Prince Maurice breaking articles to a town, that he had got to receive him, furnished him with
an excuse to forsake that side, and to turn to the Parliament. He had a wonderful faculty in
speaking to a popular assembly, and could mix both the facetious and the serious way of arguing
very agreeably. He had a particular talent to make others trust to his judgment, and depend
on it: And he brought over so many to a submission to his opinion, that I never knew any man
equal to him in the art of governing parties, and of making himself the head of them. He was
as to religion a Deist at best: He had the dotage of Astrology in him to a high degree: He
told me, that a Dutch doctor had from the stars foretold him the whole series of his life.
But that which was before him, when he told me this, proved false, if he told me true: For
he said, he was yet to be a greater man than he had been. He fancied, that after death our
souls lived in stars. He had a general knowledge of the slighter parts of learning, but understood
little to the bottom: So he triumphed in a rambling way of talking, but argued slightly when
he was held close to any point. He had a wonderful faculty at opposing, and running things
down; but had not the like force in building up. He had such an extravagant vanity in setting
himself out, that it was very disagreeable. He pretended that Cromwell offered to make him
King. He was indeed of great use to him in withstanding the enthusiasts of that time. He was
one of those who press'd him most to accept of the Kingship, because, as he said afterwards,
he was sure it would ruin him. His strength lay in the knowledge of England, and of all the
considerable men in it. He understood well the size of their understandings, and their tempers:
And he knew how to apply himself to them so dextrously, that, tho' by his changing sides so
often it was very visible how little he was to be depended on, yet he was to the last much
trusted by all the discontented party. He was not ashamed to reckon up the many turns he had
made: And he valued himself on the doing it at the properest season, and in the best manner.
This he did with so much vanity, and so little discretion, that he lost many by it. And his
reputation was at last run so low, that he could not have held much longer, had he not died
in good time, either for his family or for his party: The former would have been ruined, if
he had not saved it by betraying the latter.

69.

By DRYDEN.

  Some by their Friends, more by themselves thought wise,
  Oppos'd the Pow'r, to which they could not rise.
  Some had in Courts been Great, and thrown from thence,
  Like Fiends, were harden'd in Impenitence.
  Some, by their Monarch's fatal mercy grown,
  From Pardon'd Rebels, Kinsmen to the Throne,
  Were raised in Pow'r and publick Office high:
  Strong Bands, if Bands ungrateful men coud tie.
  Of these the false Achitophel was first:
  A Name to all succeeding Ages curst.
  And all to leave, what with his Toil he won,
  To that unfeather'd, two-legg'd thing, a Son:
  Got, while his Soul did huddled Notions trie;
  And born a shapeless Lump, like Anarchy.
  In Friendship false, implacable in Hate:
  Resolv'd to Ruine or to Rule the State.
  To Compass this, the Triple Bond he broke;
  The Pillars of the Publick Safety shook:
  And fitted Israel for a Foreign Yoke.
  Then, seiz'd with Fear, yet still affecting Fame,
  Usurp'd a Patriot's All-attoning Name.
  So easie still it proves in Factious Times,
  With publick Zeal to cancel private Crimes:
  How safe is Treason, and how sacred ill,
  here none can sin against the Peoples Will:
  Where Crouds can wink; and no offence be known,
  Since in anothers guilt they find their own.
  Yet, Fame deserv'd, no Enemy can grudge;
  The Statesman we abhor, but praise the Judge.
  In Israels Courts ne'r sat an Abbetbdin
  With more discerning Eyes, or Hands more clean:
  Unbrib'd, unsought, the Wretched to redress;
  Swift of Dispatch, and easie of Access.
  Oh, had he been content to serve the Crown,
  With Vertues onely proper to the Gown;
  Or, had the rankness of the Soil been freed
  From Cockle, that opprest the Noble Seed:
  David, for him his tuneful Harp had strung,
  And Heav'n had wanted one Immortal Song.
  But wild Ambition loves to slide, not stand;
  And Fortunes Ice prefers to Vertues Land:
  Achitophel, grown weary to possess
  A lawful Fame, and lazie Happiness,
  Disdain'd the Golden Fruit to gather free,
  And lent the Croud his Arm to shake the Tree.
  Now, manifest of Crimes, contriv'd long since,
  He stood at bold Defiance with his Prince:
  Held up the Buckler of the Peoples Cause,
  Against the Crown; and sculk'd behind the Laws,
  The wish'd occasion of the Plot he takes;
  Some Circumstances finds, but more he makes.
  By buzzing Emissaries, fills the ears
  Of listning Crouds, with Jealousies and Fears
  Of Arbitrary Counsels brought to light,
  And proves the King himself a Jebusite.
  Weak Arguments! which yet he knew full well,
  Were strong with People easie to Rebel.
  For, govern'd by the Moon, the giddy Jews
  Tread the same Track when she the Prime renews:
  And once in twenty Years, their Scribes Record,
  By natural Instinct they change their Lord.
  Achitophel still wants a Chief, and none
  Was found so fit as Warlike Absalon:
  Not, that he wish'd his Greatness to create,
  (For Polititians neither love nor hate:)
  But, for he knew, his Title not allow'd,
  Would keep him still depending on the Croud:
  That Kingly pow'r, thus ebbing out, might be
  Drawn to the Dregs of a Democracie.

70.

THE DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM.

George Villiers, second Duke 1628.

Born 1628. Died 1687.

By BURNET. The madness of vice appeared in his person in very eminent instances; since at last
he became contemptible and poor, sickly, and sunk in his parts, as well as in all other respects,
so that his conversation was as much avoided as ever it had been courted. He found the King,
when he came from his travels in the year 45, newly come to Paris, sent over by his father
when his affairs declined: And finding the King enough inclined to receive ill impressions,
he, who was then got into all the impieties and vices of the age, set himself to corrupt the
King, in which he was too successful, being seconded in that wicked design by the Lord Percy.
And to compleat the matter, Hobbs was brought to him, under the pretence of instructing him
in mathematicks: And he laid before him his schemes, both with relation to religion and politicks,
which made deep and lasting impressions on the King's mind. So that the main blame of the King's
ill principles, and bad morals, was owing to the Duke of Buckingham.

71.

By DRYDEN.
  Railing and praising were his usual Theams;
  And both (to shew his Judgment) in Extreams:
  So over Violent, or over Civil,
  That every Man, with him, was God or Devil.
  In squandring Wealth was his peculiar Art:
  Nothing went unrewarded, but Desert.
  Begger'd by Fools, whom still he found too late:
  He had his Jest, and they had his Estate.
  He laugh'd himself from Court; then sought Relief
  By forming Parties, but could ne'r be Chief:
  For, spight of him, the weight of Business fell
  On Absalom and wise Achitophel:
  Thus, wicked but in Will, of Means bereft,
  He left not Faction, but of that was left.

72.

THE MARQUIS OF HALIFAX.

Born 1633. Died 1695.

By BURNET.

I name Sir George Saville last, because he deserves a more copious character. He rose afterwards
to be Viscount, Earl, and Marquis of Halifax. He was a man of a great and ready wit; full of
life, and very pleasant; much turned to satyr. He let his wit run much on matters of religion:
So that he passed for a bold and determined Atheist; tho' he often protested to me, he was
not one; and said, he believed there was not one in the world: He confessed, he could not swallow
down every thing that divines imposed on the world: He was a Christian in submission: He believed
as much as he could, and he hoped that God would not lay it to his charge, if he could not
disgest iron, as an ostrich did, nor take into his belief things that must burst him: If he
had any scruples, they 20 were not sought for, nor cherished by him; for he never read an atheistical
book. In a fit of sickness, I knew him very much touched with a sense of religion. I was then
often with him. He seemed full of good purposes: But they went off with his sickness. He was
always talking of morality and friendship. He was punctual in all payments, and just in all
his private dealings. But, with relation to the publick, he went backwards and forwards, and
changed sides so often, that in conclusion no side trusted him. He seemed full of Common-wealth
notions: Yet he went into the worst part of King Charles's reign. The liveliness of his imagination
was always too hard for his judgment. A severe jest was preferred by him to all arguments whatsoever.
And he was endless in consultations: For when after much discourse a point was settled, if
he could find a new jest, to make even that which was suggested by himself seem ridiculous,
he could not hold, but would study to raise the credit of his wit, tho' it made others call
his judgment in question. When he talked to me as a philosopher of his contempt of the world,
I asked him, what he meant by getting so many new titles, which I call'd the hanging himself
about with bells and tinsel. He had no other excuse for it, but this, that, since the world
were such fools as to value those matters, a man must be a fool for company: He considered
them but as rattles: Yet rattles please children: So these might be of use to his family. His
heart was much set on raising his family. But, tho' he made a vast estate for them, he buried
two of his sons himself, and almost all his grandchildren. The son that survived was an honest
man, but far inferior to him.

73.

SIR EDMUND SAUNDERS.

Lord Chief Justice 1682. Died 1683.

By ROGER NORTH.

The Lord Chief Justice Saunders succeeded in the Room of Pemberton. His Character, and his
Beginning, were equally strange. He was at first no better than a poor Beggar Boy, if not a
Parish Foundling, without known Parents, or Relations. He had found a way to live by Obsequiousness
(in Clement's-Inn, as I remember) and courting the Attornies Clerks for Scraps. The extraordinary
Observance and Diligence of the Boy, made the Society willing to do him Good. He appeared very
ambitious to learn to write; and one of the Attornies got a Board knocked up at a Window on
the Top of a Staircase; and that was his Desk, where he sat and wrote after Copies of Court
and other Hands the Clerks gave him. He made himself so expert a Writer that he took in Business,
and earned some Pence by Hackney-writing. And thus, by degrees, he pushed his Faculties, and
fell to Forms, and, by Books that were lent him, became an exquisite entering Clerk; and, by
the same course of Improvement of himself, an able Counsel, first in special Pleading, then,
at large. And, after he was called to the Bar, had Practice, in the King's Bench Court, equal
with any there. As to his Person, he was very corpulent and beastly; a mere Lump of morbid
Flesh. He used to say, by his Troggs, (such an humourous Way of talking he affected) none could
say be wanted Issue of his Body, for he had nine in his Back. He was a fetid Mass, that offended
his Neighbours at the Bar in the sharpest Degree. Those, whose ill Fortune it was to stard
near him, were Confessors, and, in Summer-time, almost Martyrs. This hateful Decay of his Carcase
came upon him by continual Sottishness; for, to say nothing of Brandy, he was seldom without
a Pot of Ale at his Nose, or near him. That Exercise was all he used; the rest of his Life
was sitting at his Desk, or piping at home; and that Home was a Taylor's House in Butcher-Row,
called his Lodging, and the Man's Wife was his Nurse, or worse; but, by virtue of his Money,
of which he made little Account, though he got a great deal, he soon became Master of the Family;
and, being no Changling, he never removed, but was true to his Friends, and they to him, to
the last Hour of his Life.

So much for his Person and Education. As for his Parts, none had them more lively than he.
Wit and Repartee, in an affected Rusticity, were natural to him. He was ever ready, and never
at a Loss; and none came so near as he to be a Match for Serjeant Mainard. His great Dexterity
was in the Art of special Pleading, and he would lay Snares that often caught his Superiors
who were not aware of his Traps. And he was so fond of Success for his Clients that, rather
than fail, he would set the Court hard with a Trick; for which he met sometimes with a Reprimand,
which he would wittily ward off, so that no one was much offended with him. But Hales could
not bear his Irregularity of Life; and for that, and Suspicion of his Tricks, used to bear
hard upon him in the Court. But no ill Usage from the Bench was too hard for his Hold of Business,
being such as scarce any could do but himself. With all this, he had a Goodness of Nature and
Disposition in so great a Degree that he may be deservedly styled a Philanthrope. He was a
very Silenus to the Boys, as, in this Place, I may term the Students of the Law, to make them
merry whenever they had a Mind to it. He had nothing of rigid or austere in him. If any, near
him at the Bar, grumbled at his Stench, he ever converted the Complaint into Content and Laughing
with the Abundance of his Wit. As to his ordinary Dealing, he was as honest as the driven Snow
was white; and why not, having no Regard for Money, or Desire to be rich? And, for good Nature
and Condescension, there was not his Fellow.

It will be readily conceived that this Man was never cut out to be a Presbyter, or any Thing
that is severe and crabbed. In no Time did he lean to Faction, but did his Business without
Offence to any. He put off officious Talk of Government or Politicks, with Jests, and so made
his Wit a Catholicon, or Shield, to cover all his weak Places and Infirmities. When the Court
fell into a steddy Course of using the Law against all Kinds of Offenders, this Man was taken
into the King's Business; and had the Part of drawing, and Perusal of almost all Indictments
and Informations that were then to be prosecuted, with the Pleadings thereon if any were special;
and he had the settling of the large Pleadings in the Quo Warranto against London. His Lordship
had no sort of Conversation with him, but in the Way of Business, and at the Bar; but once,
after he was in the King's Business, he dined with his Lordship, and no more. And then he shewed
another Qualification he had acquired, and that was to play Jigs upon an Harpsichord; having
taught himself with the Opportunity of an old Virginal of his Landlady's; but in such a Manner,
not for Defect but Figure, as to see him were a Jest. The King, observing him to be of a free
Disposition, Loyal, Friendly, and without Greediness or Guile, thought of him to be the Chief
Justice of the King's Bench at that nice Time. And the Ministry could not but approve of it.
So great a Weight was then at stake, as could not be trusted to Men of doubtful Principles,
or such as any Thing might tempt to desert them. While he sat in the Court of King's Bench,
he gave the Rule to the general Satisfaction of the Lawyers. But his Course of Life was so
different from what it had been, his Business incessant, and, withal, crabbed; and his Diet
and Exercise changed, that the Constitution of his Body, or Head rather, could not sustain
it, and he fell into an Apoplexy and Palsy, which numbed his Parts; and he never recovered
the Strength of them. He out-lived the Judgment on the Quo Warranto; but was not present otherwise
than by sending his Opinion, by one of the Judges, to be for the King, who, at the pronouncing
of the Judgment, declared it to the Court accordingly, which is frequently done in like Cases.

74.

TWO GROUPS OF DIVINES.

BENJAMIN WHITCHCOT or WHICHCOTE (1609-83), Provost of King's College, Cambridge, 1645. RALPH
CUDWORTH (1617-88), Master of Clare College, Cambridge, 1645, and Christ's College, 1654. JOHN
WILKINS (1614-72), Warden of Wadham College, Oxford, 1648; Master of Trinity College, Cambridge,
1659; Bishop of Chester, 1668. HENRY MORE (1614-87), Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge,
1639. JOHN WORTHINGTON (1618-71), Master of Jesus College, Cambridge, 1650.

JOHN TILLOTSON (1630-94), Archbishop of Canterbury, 1691. EDWARD STILLINGFLEET (1635-99), Bishop
of Worcester, 1689. SIMON PATRICK (1626-1707), Bishop of Chichester, 1689; Ely, 1691. WILLIAM
LLOYD (1627-1717), Bishop of St. Asaph, 1680; Lichfield, 1692; Worcester, 1700. THOMAS TENISON
(1636-1715), Archbishop of Canterbury, 1694.

By BURNET. And with this overset of wealth and pomp, that came on men in the decline of their
parts and age, they, who were now growing into old age, became lazy and negligent in all the
true concerns of the Church: They left preaching and writing to others, while they gave themselves
up to ease and sloth.

These were generally of Cambridge, formed under some divines, the chief of whom were Drs. Whitchcot,
Cudworth, Wilkins, More, and Worthington. Whitchcot was a man of a rare temper, very mild and
obliging. He had great credit with some that had been eminent in the late times; but made all
the use he could of it to protect good men of all persuasions. He was a man of great conduct
and prudence: Upon which his enemies did very falsly accuse him of craft and dissimulation.
Wilkins was of Oxford, but removed to Cambridge. His first rise was in the Elector Palatine's
family, when he was in England. Afterwards he married Cromwell's sister; but made no other
use of that alliance, but to do good offices, and to cover the University from the sourness
of Owen and Goodwin. He was also a great observer and a promoter of experimental philosophy,
which was then a new thing, and much looked after. He was naturally ambitious, but was the
wisest Clergy-man I ever knew. He was a lover of mankind, and had a delight in doing good.
More was an open hearted, and sincere Christian philosopher, who studied to establish men in
the great principles of religion against atheism, that was then beginning to gain ground, chiefly
by reason of the hypocrisy of some, and the fantastical conceits of the more sincere enthusiasts.

Hobbs, who had long followed the Court, and passed there for a mathematical man, tho' he really
knew little that way, being disgusted by the Court, came into England in Cromwell's time, and
published a very wicked book, with a very strange title, The Leviathan. And this set of notions
came to spread much. The novelty and boldness of them set many on reading them. The impiety
of them was acceptable to men of corrupt minds, which were but too much prepared to receive
them by the extravagancies of the late times. So this set of men at Cambridge studied to assert,
and examine the principles of religion and morality on clear grounds, and in a philosophical
method. In this More led the way to many that came after him. Worihington was a man of eminent
piety and great humility, and practised a most sublime way of self-denial and devotion. All
these, and those who were formed under them, studied to examine farther into the nature of
things than had been done formerly. They declared against superstition on the one hand, and
enthusiasm on the other. They loved the constitution of the Church, and the Liturgy, and could
well live under them: But they did not think it unlawful to live under another form. They wished
that things might have been carried with more moderation. And upon this men of narrower thoughts
and fiercer tempers fastened upon them the name of Latitudinarians. They read Episcopius much.
And the making out the reasons of things being a main part of their studies, their enemies
called them Socinians. They were all very zealous against popery. And so, they becoming soon
very considerable, the Papists set themselves against them to decry them as Atheists, Deists,
or at best Socinians. And now that the main principle of religion was struck at by Hobbs and
his followers, the Papists acted upon this a very strange part. They went in so far even into
the argument for Atheism, as to publish many books, in which they affirmed, that there was
no certain proofs of the Christian religion, unless we took it from the authority of the Church
as infallible. This was such a delivering up of the cause to them, that it raised in all good
men a very high indignation at Popery; that party shewing, that they chose to make men, who
would not turn Papists, become Atheists, rather than believe Christianity upon any other ground
than infallibility.

The most eminent of those, who were formed under those great men I have mention'd, were Tillotson,
Stillingfleet, and Patrick. The first of these was a man of a clear head, and a sweet temper.
He had the brightest thoughts, and the most correct style of all our divines; and was esteemed
the best preacher of the age. He was a very prudent man; and had such a management with it,
that I never knew any Clergy-man so universally esteemed and beloved, as he was for above twenty
years. He was eminent for his opposition to Popery. He was no friend to persecution, and stood
up much against Atheism. Nor did any man contribute more to bring the City to love our worship,
than he did. But there was so little superstition, and so much reason and gentleness in his
way of explaining things, that malice was long levelled at him, and in conclusion broke out
fiercely on him. Stillingfleet was a man of much more learning, but of a more reserved, and
a haughtier temper. He in his youth writ an Irenicum for healing our divisions, with so much
learning and moderation, that it was esteemed a masterpiece. His notion was, that the Apostles
had settled the Church in a constitution of Bishops, Priests, and Deacons, but had made no
perpetual law about it, having only taken it in, as they did many other things, from the customs
and practice of the synagogue; from which he inferred, that certainly the constitution was
lawful since authorised by them, but not necessary, since they had made no settled law about
it. This took with many; but was cried out upon by others as an attempt against the Church.
Yet the argument was managed with so much learning and skill, that none of either side ever
undertook to answer it. After that, he wrote against infidelity, beyond any that had gone before
him. And then he engaged to write against Popery, which he did with such an exactness and liveliness,
that no books of controversy were so much read and valued, as his were. He was a great man
in many respects. He knew the world well, and was esteemed a very wise man. The writing of
his Irenicum was a great snare to him: For, to avoid the imputations which that brought upon
him, he not only retracted the book, but he went into the humours of that high sort of people
beyond what became him, perhaps beyond his own sense of things. He applied himself much to
the study of the law and records, and the original of our constitution, and was a very extraordinary
man. To these I shall add another divine, who, tho' of Oxford, yet as he was formed by Bishop
Wilkins, so he went into most of their principles; but went far beyond them in learning. Lloyd
was a great critick in the Greek and Latin authors, but chiefly in the Scriptures; of the words
and phrases of which he carried the most perfect concordance in his memory, and had it the
readiest about him, of all men that ever I knew. He was an exact historian, and the most punctual
in chronology of all our divines. He had read the most books, and with the best judgment, and
had made the most copious abstracts out of them, of any in this age: So that Wilkins used to
say, he had the most learning in ready cash of any he ever knew. He was so exact in every thing
he set about, that he never gave over any part of study, till he had quite mastered it. But
when that was done, he went to another subject, and did not lay out his learning with the diligence
with which he laid it in. Yet, as much as he was set on learning, he had never neglected his
pastoral care. For several years he had the greatest cure in England, St. Martins, which he
took care of with an application and diligence beyond any about him; to whom he was an example,
or rather a reproach, so few following his example. He was a holy, humble, and patient man,
ever ready to do good when he saw a proper opportunity: Even his love of study did not divert
him from that. He did upon his promotion find a very worthy successor in his cure, Tenison,
who carried on and advanced all those good methods that he had begun in the management of that
great cure. He endowed schools, set up a publick library, and kept many Curates to assist him
in his indefatigable labours among them. He was a very learned man, and took much pains to
state the notions and practices of heathenish idolatry, and so to fasten that charge on the
Church of Rome. And, Whitehall lying within that parish, he stood as in the front of the battel
all King James's reign; and maintained, as well as managed, that dangerous post with great
courage and much judgment, and was held in very high esteem for his whole deportment, which
was ever grave and moderate. These have been the greatest divines we have had these forty years:
And may we ever have a succession of such men to fill the room of those who have already gone
off the stage, and of those who, being now very old, cannot hold their posts long. Of these
I have writ the more fully, because I knew them well, and have lived long in great friendship
with them; but most particularly with Tillotson and Lloyd. And, as I am sensible I owe a great
deal of the consideration that has been had for me to my being known to be their friend, so
I have really learned the best part of what I know from them. But I owed them much more on
the account of those excellent principles and notions, of which they were in a particular manner
communicative to me. This set of men contributed more than can be well imagined to reform the
way of preaching; which among the divines of England before them was over-run with pedantry,
a great mixture of quotations from fathers and ancient writers, a long opening of a text with
the concordance of every word in it, and a giving all the different expositions with the grounds
of them, and the entring into some parts of controversy, and all concluding in some, but very
short, practical applications, according to the subject or the occasion. This was both long
and heavy, when all was pye-balled, full of many sayings of different languages. The common
style of sermons was either very flat and low, or swelled up with rhetorick to a false pitch
of a wrong sublime. The King had little or no literature, but true and good sense; and had
got a right notion of style; for he was in France at a time when they were much set on reforming
their language. It soon appear'd that he had a true taste. So this help'd to raise the value
of these men, when the King approved of the style their discourses generally ran in; which
was clear, plain, and short. They gave a short paraphrase of their text, unless where great
difficulties required a more copious enlargement: But even then they cut off unnecessary shews
of learning, and applied themselves to the matter, in which they opened the nature and reasons
of things so fully, and with that simplicity, that their hearers felt an instruction of another
sort than had commonly been observed before. So they became very much followed: And a set of
these men brought off the City in a great measure from the prejudices they had formerly to
the Church.

75.

JAMES II.

Born 1633. Created Duke of York. Succeeded Charles II 1685. Fled to France 1688. Died 1701.

By BURNET.

I will digress a little to give an account of the Duke's character, whom I knew for some years
so particularly, that I can say much upon my own knowledge. He gave me this account of his
changing his religion: When he escaped out of the hands of the Earl of Northumberland, who
had the charge of his education trusted to him by the Parliament, and had used him with great
respect, all due care was taken, as soon as he got beyond sea, to form him to a strict adherence
to the Church of England: Among other things much was said of the authority of the Church,
and of the tradition from the Apostles in support of Episcopacy: So that, when he came to observe
that there was more reason to submit to the Catholick Church than to one particular Church,
and that other traditions might be taken on her word, as well as Episcopacy was received among
us, he thought the step was not great, but that it was very reasonable to go over to the Church
of Rome: And Doctor Steward having taught him to believe a real but unconceivable presence
of Christ in the Sacrament, he thought this went more than half way to transubstantiation.
He said, that a Nun's advice to him to pray every day, that, if he was not in the right way,
God would set him right, did make a great impression on him. But he never told me when or where
he was reconciled. He suffered me to say a great deal to him on all these heads. I shewed the
difference between submission and obedience in matters of order and indifferent things, and
an implicite submission from the belief of infallibility. I also shewed him the difference
between a speculation of a mode of Christ's presence, when it rested in an opinion, and an
adoration founded on it: Tho' the opinion of such a presence was wrong, there was no great
harm in that alone: But the adoration of an undue object was idolatry. He suffered me to talk
much and often to him on these heads. But I plainly saw, it made no impression: And all that
he seemed to intend by it was, to make use of me as an instrument to soften the aversion that
people began to be possessed with to him. He had a very able Secretary about him, Sir William
Coventry; a man of great notions and eminent vertues, the best Speaker in the House of Commons,
and capable of bearing the chief ministry, as it was once thought he was very near it. The
Duke found, all the great seamen had a deep tincture from their education: They both hated
Popery, and loved liberty: They were men of severe tempers, and kept good discipline. But in
order to the putting the fleet into more confident hands, the Duke began a method of sending
pages of honour, and other young persons of quality, to be bred to the sea. And these were
put in command, as soon as they were capable of it, if not sooner. This discouraged many of
the old seamen, when they saw in what a channel advancement was like to go; who upon that left
the service, and went and commanded merchantmen. By this means the vertue and discipline of
the navy is much lost. It is true, we have a breed of many gallant men, who do distinguish
themselves in action. But it is thought, the Nation has suffered much by the vices and disorders
of those Captains, who have risen by their quality, more than by merit or service.

76.

By BURNET.

He was a Prince that seemed made for greater things, than will be found in the course of his
Life, more particularly of his Reign: He was esteemed in the former parts of his Life, a Man
of great Courage, as he was quite thro' it a man of great application to business: He had no
vivacity of thought, invention or expression: But he had a good judgment, where his Religion
or his Education gave him not a biass, which it did very often: He was bred with strange Notions
of the Obedience due to Princes, and came to take up as strange ones, of the Submission due
to Priests: He was naturally a man of truth, fidelity, and justice: But his Religion was so
infused in him, and he was so managed in it by his Priests, that the Principles which Nature
had laid in him, had little power over him, when the concerns of his Church stood in the way:
He was a gentle Master, and was very easy to all who came near him: yet he was not so apt to
pardon, as one ought to be, that is the Vicegerent of that God, who is slow to anger, and ready
to forgive: He had no personal Vices but of one sort: He was still wandring from one Amour
to another, yet he had a real sense of Sin, and was ashamed of it: But Priests know how to
engage Princes more entirely into their interests, by making them compound for their Sins,
by a great zeal for Holy Church, as they call it. In a word, if it had not been for his Popery,
he would have been, if not a great yet a good Prince. By what I once knew of him, and by what
I saw him afterwards carried to, I grew more confirmed in the very bad opinion, which I was
always apt to have, of the Intrigues of the Popish Clergy, and of the Confessors of Kings:
He was undone by them, and was their Martyr, so that they ought to bear the chief load of all
the errors of his inglorious Reign, and of its fatal Catastrophe. He had the Funeral which
he himself had desired, private, and without any sort of Ceremony.

NOTES

1.

The History of Great Britain, Being the Life and Reign of King James The First, Relating To
what passed from his first Accesse to the Crown, till his Death. By Arthur Wilson, Esq. London,
1653. (pp. 289-90.)

Arthur Wilson (1595-1652) was a gentleman-in-waiting to Robert Devereux, third Earl of Essex,
during James's reign, and was afterwards in the service of Robert Rich, second Earl of Essex.
The History was written towards the end of his life, and published the year after his death.
He was the author also of an autobiography, Observations of God's Providence in the Tract of
my Life (first printed in Francis Peck's Desiderata Curiosa, 1735, Lib. XII, pp. 6-34), and
of three plays, The Swisser (performed at Blackfriars, 1633, first printed in 1904, ed. Albert
Feuillerat, from the MS. in the British Museum), The Corporall (performed, 1633, but not extant),
and The Inconstant Lady (first printed in 1814, ed. Philip Bliss, from the MS. in the Bodleian
Library). The three plays were entered in the Registers of the Stationers' Company, September
4, 1646, and September 9, 1653. But nothing he wrote appears to have been published during
his life.

Page 2, l. 24. Peace begot Plenty. An adaptation of the wellknown saying which Puttenham in
his Arte of English Poesie (ed. Arber, p. 217) attributes to Jean de Meung.

It is found also in Italian and Latin. Allusions to it are frequent in the seventeenth century.
Compare the beginning of Swift's Battle of the Books, and see the correspondence in The Times
Literary Supplement, February 17-March 30, 1916.

2.

The Court and Character of King James. Written and taken by Sir A.W. being an eye, and eare
witnesse. Qui nescit dissimulare, nescit regnare. Published by Authority. London, MDCL.

'The Character of King James' forms a section by itself at the conclusion of the volume, pp.
177-89. The volume was reprinted in the following year, when there were added to it 'The Court
of King Charles' and 'Observations (instead of a Character) upon this King, from his Childe-hood'.
Both editions are carelessly printed. The second, which corrects some of the errors of the
first but introduces others, has been used for the present text.

Weldon was clerk of the kitchen to James I and afterwards clerk of the Green Cloth. He was
knighted in 1617, and accompanied James to Scotland in that year, but was dismissed from his
place at court for his satire on the Scots. He took the side of the parliament in the Civil
War. The dedication to Lady Elizabeth Sidley (first printed in the second edition) states that
the work 'treads too near the heeles of truth, and these Times, to appear in publick'. According
to Anthony à Wood she had suppressed the manuscript, which was stolen from her. Weldon had
died before it was printed. The answer to it called Aulicus Coquinariæ describes it as 'Pretended
to be penned by Sir A.W. and published since his death, 1650'.

Other works of the same kind, though of inferior value, are Sir Edward Peyton's The Divine
Catastrophe of The Kingly Family Of the House of Stuarts, 1652, and Francis Osborne's Traditionall
Memoyres on The Raigne of King James, 1658. They were printed together by Sir Walter Scott
in 1811 under the title The Secret History of the Court of James the First, a collection which
contains the historical material employed in The Fortunes of Nigel.

Though carelessly written, and as carelessly printed, Weldon's character of James is in parts
remarkably vivid. It was reprinted by itself in Morgan's Pboenix Britannicus, 1732, pp. 54-6;
and it was incorporated in the edition of Defoe's Memoirs of a Cavalier published in 1792:
see The Retrospective Review, 1821, vol. iii, pt. ii, pp. 378-9.

There is a valuable article on Weldon's book as a whole in The Retrospective Review, 1823,
vol. vii, pt. I.

PAGE 4, l. 6. before he was born, probably an allusion to the murder of Rizzio in Mary's presence.

l. 11. The syntax is faulty: delete 'and'?

On James's capacity for strong drinks, compare Roger Coke's Detection of the Court and State
of England (1694), ed. 1719, vol. i, p. 78.

l. 27. that foul poysoning busines, the poisoning of Sir Thomas Overbury, the great scandal
of the reign. Robert Ker, or Carr, created Viscount Rochester 1611 and Earl of Somerset 1613,
had cast his eye on the Countess of Essex, and, after a decree of nullity of marriage with
Essex had been procured, married her in December 1613. Overbury, who had been Somerset's friend,
opposed the projected marriage. On a trumped up charge of disobedience to the king he was in
April 1613 committed to the Tower, where he was slowly poisoned, and died in September. Somerset
and the Countess were both found guilty in 1616, but ultimately pardoned; four of the accomplices
were hanged. Weldon deals with the scandal at some length in the main part of his work, pp. 61 ff.

l. 30. Mountgomery, Philip Herbert, created Earl of Montgomery 1605, succeeded his brother,
William Herbert, as fourth Earl of Pembroke in 1630 (see No. 7). To this 'most noble and incomparable
paire of brethren' Heminge and Condell dedicated the First Folio of Shakespeare's plays, 1623.
Montgomery's character is given by Clarendon, History, ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 74-5; and, as
fourth Earl of Pembroke, vol. ii, pp. 539-41.

Page 5, l. 22. unfortunate in the marriage of his Daughter. James's daughter Elizabeth married
the Elector Palatine, Frederick V, in 1613. His election as King of Bohemia led to the Thirty
Years' War (1618-48) in which James long hesitated to become involved and played at best an
ineffectual part. The opinion here expressed is explained by an earlier passage in Weldon's
book, pp. 82-4: 'In this Favourites (Somerset's) flourishing time, came over the Palsgrave
to marry our Kings daughter, which for the present, gave much content, and with the generall
applause, yet it proved a most infortunate match to him and his Posterity, and all Christendome,
for all his Alliance with so many great Princes, which put on him aspiring thoughts, and was
so ambitious as not to content himselfe with his hereditary patrimony of one of the greatest
Princes in Germany; but must aspire to a Kingdome, beleeving that his great allyance would
carry him through any enterprise, or bring him off with honour, in both which he failed; being
cast out of his own Country with shame, and he and his, ever after, living upon the devotion
of other Princes; but had his Father in Law spent halfe the mony in Swords he did in words,
for which he was but scorned, it had kept him in his own inheritance, and saved much Christian
bloud since shed; but whiles he, being wholly addicted to peace, spent much treasure, in sending
stately Embassadours to treat, his Enemies (which he esteemed friends) sent Armies with a lesse
charge to conquer, so that it may be concluded, that this then thought the most happy match
in Christendome, was the greatest unhappinesse to Christendome, themselves, and posterity.'

l. 27. Sir Robert Mansell (1573-1656), Vice-Admiral of England under Charles I. Clarendon,
writing of the year 1642, says that 'his courage and integrity were unquestionable' (ed. Macray,
vol. ii, p. 219). 'Argiers' or 'Argier' was the common old form of 'Algiers': cf. The Tempest,
I. ii. 261, 265.

Page 6, l. 2. Cottington, Francis Cottington (1578-1652), baronet 1623, Baron Cottington, 1631.
He was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1629 to 1642.

Page 7, l. 5. The first edition reads 'In sending Embassadours, which were'. The printer's
substitution of 'His' for 'In' and omission of 'which' do not wholly mend the syntax.

l. 10. peace with honour. An early instance of the phrase made famous by Lord Beaconsfield
in his speech of July 16, 1878, after the Congress of Berlin, 'Lord Salisbury and myself have
brought you back peace, but a peace I hope with honour.' Cf. Notes and Queries, 1887, Seventh
Series, vol. iii, p. 96.

l. 14. Nullum tempus, &c., the law maxim Nullum tempus occurrit regi, lapse of time does not
bar the crown. The Parliament which met in February 1624 passed 'An Act for the generall quiett
of the Subject agaynst all pretences of Concealement' (21° Jac. I, c. 2) which declared sixty
years' possession of Lands, &c., to be a good title against the Crown.

l. 18. his Tuesday Sermons, likewise explained by an earlier passage in Weldon's book, pp.
8, 9: 'the chiefe of those secrets, was that of Gowries Conspiracy, though that Nation [the
Scots] gave little credit to the Story, but would speak sleightly and despitefully of it, and
those of the wisest of that Nation; yet there was a weekly commemoration by the Tuesday Sermon,
and an anniversary Feast, as great as it was possible, for the Kings preservation, ever on
the fifth of August.' James attempted to force the Tuesday sermon on the University of Oxford;
it was to be preached by members of each college in rotation. See Brodrick's Memorials of Merton
College, 1885, p. 70.

Page 8, l. 1. a very wise man. Compare The Fortunes of Nigel, chap. v: 'the character bestowed
upon him by Sully--that he was the wisest fool in Christendom'. Two volumes of the Mémoires
of Maximilien de Béthune, Duc de Sully (1560-1641), appeared in 1638; the others after 1650.
There is much about James in the second volume, but this description of him does not appear
to be there.

ll. 10-12. two Treasurers, see p. 21, ll. 15-22: three Secretaries, Sir Thomas Lake; Sir Robert
Naunton; Sir George Calvert, Baron Baltimore; Sir Edward Conway, Viscount Conway: two Lord
Keepers, Sir Francis Bacon; John Williams, Bishop of Lincoln (see p. 18, l. 5): two Admiralls,
Charles Howard of Effingham, Earl of Nottingham; the Duke of Buckingham: three Lord chief Justices,
Sir Edward Coke; Henry Montagu, Earl of Manchester; James Ley, Earl of Marlborough.

Weldon's statement is true of the year 1623; he might have said 'three Treasurers' and 'four
Secretaries'.

3.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 7-9, 18-20; History, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp. 9-11, 26-9; ed.
Macray, vol. i, pp. 10-13, 38-43.

This is the first of the portraits in Clarendon's great gallery, and it is drawn with great
care. Clarendon was only a youth of twenty when Buckingham was assassinated, and he had therefore
not the personal knowledge and contact to which the later portraits owe so much of their value.
But he had throughout all his life been interested in the remarkable career of this 'very extraordinary
person'. Sir Henry Wotton's 'Observations by Way of Parallel' on the Earl of Essex and Buckingham
had suggested to him his first character study, 'The Difference and Disparity' between them.
(It is printed after the 'Parallel' in Reliquiæ Wottonianæ, and described in the third edition,
1672, as 'written by the Earl of Clarendon in his younger dayes'.) His two studies offer an
interesting comparison. Many of the ideas are the same, but there is a marked difference in
the precision of drawing and the ease of style. The character here reprinted was written when
Clarendon had mastered his art.

Page 11, l. 5. See p. 4, l. 27.

Page 13, l. 25. The passage here omitted deals with Buckingham's unsuccessful journey to Spain
with Prince Charles, and with his assassination.

Page 16, l. 28. touched upon before, ed. Macray, vol. i, p. 38; here omitted.

4.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 27, 28; History, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp. 36-8; ed. Macray, vol.
i, pp. 56-9.

Page 18, l. 5. the Bishopp of Lincolne, John Williams (1582-1650), afterwards Archbishop of
York. He succeeded Bacon as Lord Keeper. He is sketched in Wilson's History of Great Britain,
pp. 196-7, and Fuller's Church-History of Britain, 1655, Bk. XI, pp. 225-8. His life by John
Hacket, Scrinia Reserata, 1693, is notorious for the 'embellishments' of its style; a shorter
life, based on Hacket's, was an early work of Ambrose Philips.

l. 22. the Earle of Portlande, Sir Richard Weston: see No. 5.

l. 24. Hambleton, Clarendon's usual spelling of 'Hamilton'.

5.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 28-32; History, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp. 31-43; ed. Macray, vol.
i, pp. 59-67.

Another and more favourable character of Weston is the matter of an undated letter which Sir
Henry Wotton sent to him as 'a strange New years Gift' about 1635. 'In short, it is only an
Image of your Self, drawn by memory from such discourse as I have taken up here and there of
your Lordship, among the most intelligent and unmalignant men; which to pourtrait before you
I thought no servile office, but ingenuous and real'. See Reliquiæ Wottonianæ, ed. 1672, pp. 333-6.

Page 21, l. 7. the white staffe. 'The Third Great Officer of the Crown, is the Lord High Treasurer
of England, who receives this High Office by delivery of a White Staffe to him by the King,
and holds it durante bene placito Regis' (Edward Chamberlayne, Angliæ Notitia, 1674, p. 152).

Page 23, l. 4. L'd Brooke, Sir Fulke Greville (1554-1628) the friend and biographer of Sir
Philip Sidney. He was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1614 to 1621.

Page 28, l. 18. eclarcicement, introduced into English about this time, and in frequent use
till the beginning of the nineteenth century.

l. 28. a younge, beautifull Lady, Frances, daughter of Esmé, third Duke of Lennox, married
to Jerome Weston, afterwards second Earl of Portland, in 1632.

6.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 33, 34; History, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i, p. 44; ed. Macray, vol.
i, pp. 69-71.

This is one of Clarendon's most unfriendly portraits. It was seriously edited when first printed.
The whole passage about the coldness and selfishness of Arundel's nature on p. 31, ll. 12-30,
was omitted, as likewise the allusion to his ignorance on p. 30, ll. 25-7, 'wheras in truth
he was only able to buy them, never to understande them.' Minor alterations are the new reading
'thought no part of History so considerable, as what related to his own Family' p. 30, ll.
28, 29, and the omission of 'vulgar' p. 31, l. 11. The purpose of these changes is obvious.
They are extreme examples of the methods of Clarendon's first editors. In no other character
did they take so great liberties with his text.

Arundel's great collection of ancient marbles is now in the Ashmolean Museum in the University
of Oxford. The inscriptions were presented to the University in 1667 by Lord Henry Howard,
Arundel's grandson, afterwards sixth Duke of Norfolk, and the statues were reunited to them
in 1755 by the gift of Henrietta Countess of Pomfret. As Clarendon's History was an official
publication of the University, it is probable that the prospect of receiving the statues induced
the editors to remove or alter the passages that might be thought offensive.

As a whole this character does not show Clarendon's usual detachment. Arundel was Earl Marshal,
and Clarendon in the Short Parliament of 1640 and again at the beginning of the Long Parliament
had attacked the jurisdiction of the Earl Marshal's Court, which, as he says, 'never presumed
to sit afterwards'. The account given in Clarendon's Life, ed. 1759, pp. 37-9, explains much
in this character. Clarendon there says that Arundel 'did him the honour to detest and hate
him perfectly'. There was resentment on both sides. The character was written in Clarendon's
later years, but he still remembered with feeling the days when as Mr. Edward Hyde he was at
cross purposes with this Earl of ancient lineage.

A different character of Arundel is given in the 'Short View' of his life written by Sir Edward
Walker (1612-77), Garter King of Arms and Secretary of War to Charles I:

'He was tall of Stature, and of Shape and proportion rather goodly than neat; his Countenance
was Majestical and grave, his Visage long, his Eyes large black and piercing; he had a hooked
Nose, and some Warts or Moles on his Cheeks; his Countenance was brown, his Hair thin both
on his Head and Beard; he was of a stately Presence and Gate, so that any Man that saw him,
though in never so ordinary Habit, could not but conclude him to be a great Person, his Garb
and Fashion drawing more Observation than did the rich Apparel of others; so that it was a
common Saying of the late Earl of Carlisle, Here comes the Earl of Arundel in his plain Stuff
and trunk Hose, and his Beard in his Teeth, that looks more like a Noble Man than any of us.
He was more learned in Men and Manners than in Books, yet understood the Latin Tongue very
well, and was Master of the Italian; besides he was a great Favourer of learned Men, such as
Sir Robert Cotton, Sir Henry Spelman, Mr. Camden, Mr. Selden, and the like. He was a great
Master of Order and Ceremony, and knew and kept greater Distance towards his Sovereign than
any Person I ever observed, and expected no less from his inferiours; often complaining that
the too great Affability of the King, and the French Garb of the Court would bring MAJESTY
into Contempt.... He was the greatest Favourer of Arts, especially Painting, Sculpture, Designs,
Carving, Building and the like, that this Age hath produced; his Collection of Designs being
more than of any Person living, and his Statues equal in Number, Value and Antiquity to those
in the Houses of most Princes; to gain which, he had Persons many Years employed both in Italy,
Greece, and so generally in any part of Europe where Rarities were to be had. His Paintings
likewise were numerous and of the most excellent Masters, having more of that exquisite Painter
Hans Holben than are in the World besides.... He was a Person of great and universal Civility,
but yet with that Restriction as that it forbad any to be bold or sawcy with him; though with
those whom he affected, which were Lovers of State, Nobility and curious Arts, he was very
free and conversible; but they being but few, the Stream of the times being otherwise, he had
not many Confidents or Dependents; neither did he much affect to have them, they being unto
great Persons both burthensome and dangerous. He was not popular at all, nor cared for it,
as loving better by a just Hand than Flattery to let the common People to know their Distance
and due Observance. Neither was he of any Faction in Court or Council, especially not of the
French or Puritan.... He was in Religion no Bigot or Puritan, and professed more to affect
moral Vertues than nice Questions and Controversies.... If he were defective in any thing,
it was that he could not bring his Mind to his Fortune; which though great, was far too little
for the Vastness of his noble Designs.'

Walker's character was written before Clarendon's. It is dated 'Iselsteyne the 7th of June
1651'. It was first published in 1705 in his Historical Discourses upon Several Occasions,
pp. 221-3.

Page 30, l. 15. his wife, 'the Lady Alithea Talbot, third Daughter and Coheir of Gilbert Talbot
Earl of Shrewsbury, Grandchild of George Talbot Earl of Shrewsbury and Earl Marshal of England'
(Walker, Historical Discourses, p. 211).

7.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 34, 35; History, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp. 44-6; ed. Macray, vol.
i, pp. 71-3.

This pleasing portrait of Pembroke, one of the great patrons of literature of James's reign,
follows immediately after the unfriendly portrait of Arundel, the art collector. Clarendon
knew the value of contrast in the arrangement of his gallery.

Pembroke is sometimes supposed to have been the patron of Shakespeare. It cannot, however,
be proved that there were any personal relations, though the First Folio was dedicated to him
and his brother, the Earl of Montgomery, afterwards fourth Earl of Pembroke. See note, p. 4,
l. 30. He was the patron of Ben Jonson, who dedicated to him his Catiline, his favourite play,
and his Epigrams, 'the ripest of my studies'; also of Samuel Daniel, Chapman, and William Browne.
See Shakespeare's England, vol. ii, pp. 202-3.

Clarendon has also given a character of the fourth Earl, 'the poor Earl of Pembroke', History,
ed. Macray, vol. ii, pp. 539-41.

8.

Timber: or, Discoveries; Made Vpon Men and Matter. By Ben: Iohnson. London, Printed M.DC.XLI.
(pp. 101-2.)

This character is a remarkable testimony to the impression which Bacon's restrained eloquence
made on his contemporaries. Yet it is little more than an exercise in free translation. Jonson
has pieced together two passages in the Controversies of Marcus Seneca, and placed the name
of 'Dominus Verulanus' in the margin. The two passages are these:

'Non est unus, quamvis præcipuus sit, imitandus: quia nunquam par fit imitator auctori. Hæc
natura est rei. Semper citra veritatem est similitudo.' Lib. I, Præfatio (ed. Paris, 1607, p. 58).

'Oratio eius erat valens cultu, ingentibus plena sententiis. Nemo minus passus est aliquid
in actione sua otiosi esse. Nulla pars erat, quæ non sua virtute staret. Nihil, in quo auditor
sine damno aliud ageret. Omnia intenta aliquo, petentia. Nemo magis in sua potestate habuit
audientium affectus. Verum est quod de illo dicit Gallio noster. Cum diceret, rerum potiebatur,
adeo omnes imperata faciebant. Cum ille voluerat, irascebantur. Nemo non illo dicente timebat,
ne desineret.' Epit. Declamat. Lib. III (p. 231).

From the continuation of the first passage Jonson took the words 'insolent Greece' ('insolenti
Græciæ') in his verses 'To the memory of Shakespeare'.

Jonson has left a more vivid picture of Bacon as a speaker in a short sentence of his Conversations
with Drummond of Hawthornden: 'My Lord Chancelor of England wringeth his speeches from the
strings of his band.'

9.

Reign of King James the First, 1653, pp. 158-60.

Page 36, l. 18. which the King hinted at, in the King's Speech to the Lords, 1621: 'But because
the World at this time talks so much of Bribes, I have just cause to fear the whole Body of
this House hath bribed him [Prince Charles] to be a good Instrument for you upon all occasions:
He doth so good Offices in all his Reports to me, both for the House in generall, and every
one of you in particular.' The speech is given in full by Wilson before the passage on Bacon.

Page 37, l. 25. The passage here omitted is 'The humble Submission and Supplication of the
Lord Chancellour'.

Page 38, l. 10. a good Passeover, a good passage back to Spain. Gondomar was Spanish ambassador.

10. Endeavoured By Thomas Fuller. London, 1655. (Bk. x, p. 89.)

11.

Resuscitatio, Or, Bringing into Publick Light Severall Pieces, of the Works, Civil, Historical,
Philosophical, & Theological, Hitherto Sleeping; Of the Right Honourable Francis Bacon Baron
of Verulam, Viscount Saint Alban. According to the best Corrected Coppies. Together, With his
Lordships Life. By William Rawley, Doctor in Divinity, His Lordships First, and Last, Chapleine.
Afterwards, Chapleine, to His late Maiesty. London, 1657.

'The Life of the Honourable Author' serves as introduction to this volume of Bacon's literary
remains. It runs to fourteen pages, unnumbered. The passage quoted from this life (c1v-c2v)
is of the nature of a character.

Rawley's work is disfigured by pedantically heavy punctuation. He carried to absurd excess
the methods which his Master adopted in the 1625 edition of his Essays. It has not been thought
necessary to retain all his commas.

Page 41, l. 4. Et quod tentabam, &c. Ovid, Tristia, IV. x. 26.

12.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 48; Life, ed. 1759, p. 16.

Page 42, l. 23. M'r Cowly, an indication of Cowley's fame among his contemporaries. This was
written in 1668, after the publication of Paradise Lost, but Clarendon ignores Milton.

l. 25. to own much of his, 'to ascribe much of this' Life 1759.

Page 43, l. 2. M'r Hyde, Clarendon himself.

13.

A New Volume of Familiar Letters, Partly Philosophicall, Politicall, Historicall. The second
Edition, with Additions. By James Howell, Esq. London, 1650. (Letter XIII, pp. 25-6.)

This is the second volume of Epistolæ Ho-Elianæ, first published 1645 (vol. 1) and 1647 (vol.
2). The text is here printed from the copy of the second edition which Howell presented to
Selden with an autograph dedication: 'Ex dono Authoris ... Opusculum hoc honoris ergô mittitur,
Archiuis suis reponendum. 3° non: Maij 1652.' The volume now reposes in the Selden collection
in the Bodleian library. The second edition of this letter differs from the first in the insertion
of the bracketed words, ll. 22, 23, and the date.

The authenticity of the letters as a whole is discussed in Joseph Jacob's edition, 1890, pp.
lxxi ff. This was probably not a real letter written to his correspondent at the given date.
But whenever, and in whatever circumstances, Howell wrote it, the value of the picture it gives
us of Ben Jonson is not impaired.

PAGE 43, l. 9. Sir Tho. Hawk. Sir Thomas Hawkins, translator of Horace's Odes and Epodes, 1625;
hence 'your' Horace, p. 44, l. 4.

l. 17. T. Ca. Thomas Carew, the poet, one of the 'Tribe of Ben'.

PAGE 44, l. 6. Iamque opus, Ovid, Metam. xv. 871; cf. p. 202, l. 13. l. 8. Exegi monumentum,
Horace, Od. iii. 30. i. l. 10. O fortunatam, preserved in Quintilian, Inst. Orat. ix. 4. 41
and xi. I. 24, and in Juvenal, Sat. x. 122.

14.

This remarkable portrait of a country gentleman of the old school is from the 'Fragment of
Autobiography', written by the first Earl of Shaftesbury (see Nos. 68, 69) towards the end
of his life. The manuscript is among the Shaftesbury papers in the Public Record Office, but
at present (1918) has been temporarily withdrawn for greater safety, and is not available for
reference. The text is therefore taken from the modernized version in W.D. Christie's Memoirs
of Shaftesbury, 1859, pp. 22-5, and Life of Shaftesbury, 1871, vol. i, appendix i, pp. xv-xvii.

The character was published in Leonard Howard's Collection of Letters, from the Original Manuscripts,
1753, pp. 152-5, and was reprinted in The Gentleman's Magazine for April 1754, pp. 160-1, and
again in The Connoisseur, No. 81, August 14, 1755. The Gentleman's Magazine (1754, p. 215)
is responsible for the error that it is to be found in Peck's Desiderata Curiosa.

Hastings was Shaftesbury's neighbour in Dorsetshire. A full-length portrait of him in his old
age, clad in green cloth and holding a pike-staff in his right hand, is at St. Giles, the seat
of the Shaftesbury family. It is reproduced in Hutchins's History of Dorset, ed. 1868, vol.
iii, p. 152.

PAGE 44, ll. 24-26. He was the second son of George fourth Earl of Huntingdon. Shaftesbury
is describing his early associates after his marriage in 1639: 'The eastern part of Dorsetshire
had a bowling-green at Hanley, where the gentlemen went constantly once a week, though neither
the green nor accommodation was inviting, yet it was well placed for to continue the correspondence
of the gentry of those parts. Thither resorted Mr. Hastings of Woodland,' &c.

Page 47, l. 12. 'my part lies therein-a.' As was pointed out by E.F. Rimbault in Notes and
Queries, 1859, Second Series, vol. vii, p. 323, this is part of an old catch printed with the
music in Pammelia. Musicks Miscellanie. Or, Mixed Varietie of Pleasant Roundelayes, and delightfull
Catches, 1609:

  There lies a pudding in the fire,
    and my parte lies therein a:
  whome should I call in,
    O thy good fellowes and mine a.

Pammelia, 'the earliest collection of rounds, catches, and canons printed in England', was
brought out by Thomas Ravenscroft. Another edition appeared in 1618.

15.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 383-4; History, Bk. XI, ed. 1704, vol. iii, pp. 197-9; ed. Macray,
vol. iv, pp. 488-92.

The sense of Fate overhangs the portrait in which Clarendon paints for posterity the private
virtues of his unhappy master. The easy dignity of the style adapts itself to the grave subject.
This is one of Clarendon's greatest passages. It was written twenty years after Charles's death,
but Time had not dulled his feelings. 'But ther shall be only incerted the shorte character
of his person, as it was found in the papers of that person whose life is heare described,
who was so nerely trusted by him, and who had the greatest love for his person, and the greatest
reverence for his memory, that any faythfull servant could exspresse.' So he wrote at first
in the account of his own life. On transferring the passage to the History he substituted the
more impersonal sentence (p. 48, l. 27--p. 49, l. 5) which the general character of the History
demanded.

Page 48, l. 15. our blessed Savyour. Compare 'The Martyrdom of King Charls I. or His Conformity
with Christ in his Sufferings. In a Sermon preached at Bredah, Before his Sacred Majesty King
Charls The Second, And the Princess of Orange. By the Bishop of Downe. Printed at the Hage
1649, and reprinted at London ... 1660'. Clarendon probably heard this sermon.

l. 21. have bene so much, substituted in MS. for 'fitt to be more'.

treatises. E.g. Elenchus Motuum Nuperorum in Anglia (part 1), 1649, by George Bate or Bates,
principal physician to Charles I and II; England's black Tribunall. Set forth in the Triall
of K. Charles I, 1660; and the sermon mentioned above.

Page 51, l. 20. educated by that people. His tutor was Sir Peter Young (1544-1628), the tutor
of James. Patrick Young (1584-1652), Sir Peter's son, was Royal Librarian.

l. 26. Hambleton. Cf. p. 18, l. 24.

16.

Mémoires Of the reigne of King Charles I. With a Continuation to the Happy Restauration of
King Charles II. By Sir Philip Warwick, Knight. Published from the Original Manuscript. With
An Alphabetical Table. London, 1701. (pp. 64-75.)

Warwick (1609-83) was Secretary to Charles in 1647-8. 'When I think of dying', he wrote, adapting
a saying of Cicero, 'it is one of my comforts, that when I part from the dunghill of this world,
I shall meet King Charles, and all those faithfull spirits, that had virtue enough to be true
to him, the Church, and the Laws unto the last.' (Mémoires, p. 331.) Passages in the Mémoires
show that they were begun after the summer of 1676 (p. 37), and completed shortly after May
18, 1677 (p. 403).

Page 55, l. 13. Sir Henry Vane, the elder.

l. 14. dyet, allowance for expenses of living.

Page 56, l. 26. [Greek: Eikon Basilikae]. The Pourtraicture of His Sacred Maiesty in his Solitudes
and Sufferings was published in February 1649. Charles's authorship was at once doubted in
Milton's [Greek: EIKONOKLASTAES] and in [Greek: EIKON ALAETHINAE]. The Pourtraicture of Truths
most sacred Majesty truly suffering, though not solely, and supported in [Greek: EIKON AKLASTOS],
in [Greek: EIKON AE PISTAE], and in The Princely Pellican, all published in 1649. The weight
of evidence is now strongly in favour of the authorship of John Gauden (1605-62), bishop of
Exeter at the Restoration. Gauden said in 1661 that he had written it, and examination of his
claims is generally admitted to have confirmed them. See H.J. Todd's Letter concerning the
Author, 1825, and Gauden the Author, further shewn, 1829; and C.E. Doble's four letters in
The Academy, May 12-June 30, 1883.

Carlyle had no doubt that Charles was not the author. 'My reading progresses with or without
fixed hope. I struggled through the "Eikon Basilike" yesterday; one of the paltriest pieces
of vapid, shovel-hatted, clear-starched, immaculate falsity and cant I have ever read. It is
to me an amazement how any mortal could ever have taken that for a genuine book of King Charles's.
Nothing but a surpliced Pharisee, sitting at his ease afar off, could have got up such a set
of meditations. It got Parson Gauden a bishopric.'--Letter of November 26, 1840 (Froude's Thomas
Carlyle, 1884, vol. i, p. 199).

Page 57, l. 4. Thomas Herbert (1606-82), made a baronet in 1660. Appointed by Parliament in
1647 to attend the King, he was latterly his sole attendant, and accompanied him with Juxon
to the scaffold. His Threnodia Carolina, reminiscences of Charles's captivity, was published
in 1702 under the title, Memoirs of the Two last Years of the Reign of that unparalleled Prince,
of ever Blessed Memory, King Charles I. It was 'printed for the first time from the original
MS.' (now in private possession), but in modernized spelling, in Allan Fea's Memoirs of the
Martyr King, 1905, pp. 74-153.

l. 10. Gilbert Burnet (1643-1715), bishop of Salisbury, 1689, the historian whose characters
are given in the later part of this volume. His Mémoires of the Lives and Actions of James
and William Dukes of Hamilton, 1677, his first historical work, appeared while Warwick was
writing his Mémoires of Charles. It attracted great attention, as its account of recent events
was furnished with authentic documents. 'It was the first political biography of the modern
type, combining a narrative of a man's life with a selection from his letters' (C.H. Firth,
introduction to Clarke and Foxcroft's Life of Burnet, 1907, p. xiii).

l. 15. affliction gives understanding. Compare Proverbs 29. 15, and Ecclesiasticus 4. 17 and
34. 9; the exact words are not in the Authorised Version.

l. 30. Robert Sanderson (1587-1663), Regius Professor of Divinity at Oxford, 1642, Bishop of
Lincoln, 1660. Izaak Walton wrote his Life, 1678.

Page 58, l. 20. Sir Dudley Carleton (1573-1632), created Baron Carleton, 1626, and Viscount
Dorchester, 1628; Secretary of State, 1628.

l. 21. Lord Falkland, see pp. 71-97; Secretary of State, 1642.

Page 59, ll. 11-13. Plutarch, Life of Alexander the Great; opening sentences, roughly paraphrased.

Page 60, l. 20. Venient Romani, St. John, xi. 48. See The Archbishop of Canterbury's Speech
or His Funerall Sermon, Preacht by himself on the Scaffold on Tower-Hill, on Friday the 10.
of Ianuary, 1644. London, 1644, p. 10: 'I but perhaps a great clamour there is, that I would
have brought in Popery, I shall answer that more fully by and by, in the meane time, you know
what the Pharisees said against Christ himself, in the eleventh of Iohn, If we let him alone,
all men will beleeve on him, Et venient Romani, and the Romanes will come and take away both
our place and the Nation. Here was a causelesse cry against Christ that the Romans would come,
and see how just the Iudgement of God was, they crucified Christ for feare least the Romans
should come, and his death was that that brought in the Romans upon them, God punishing them
with that which they most feared: and I pray God this clamour of veniunt Romani, (of which
I have given to my knowledge no just cause) helpe not to bring him in; for the Pope never had
such a Harvest in England since the Reformation, as he hath now upon the Sects and divisions
that are amongst us.'

ll. 22-30. Hugo Grotius (1583-1645) brought out his De Jure Belli ac Pacis Libri Tres at Paris
in 1625. Towards the end of the dedication to Louis XIII Grotius says: 'Pertæsos discordiarum
animos excitat in hanc spem recens contracta inter te & sapientissimum pacisque illius sanctæ
amantissimum Magnæ Britanniæ Regem amicitia & auspicatissimo Sororis tuæ matrimonio federata.'

17.

Clarendon, MS. History, p. 59; History, Bk. III, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp. 203-4; ed. Macray, vol.
i, pp. 340-2.

Page 62, l. 23. Thomas Savile (1590-1658), created Viscount Savile, 1628, Privy Councillor,
1640, Controller and then Treasurer of the Household. 'He was', says Clarendon, 'a man of an
ambitious and restless nature, of parts and wit enough, but in his disposition and inclination
so false that he could never be believed or depended upon. His particular malice to the earl
of Strafford, which he had sucked in with his milk, (there having always been an immortal feud
between the families, and the earl had shrewdly overborne his father), had engaged him with
all persons who were willing, and like to be able, to do him mischieve' (History, Bk. VI, ed.
Macray, vol. ii, p. 534).

Page 63, l. 25. S'r Harry Vane. See p. 152, ll. 9 ff.

l. 26. Plutarch recordes, Life of Sylla, last sentence.

18.

Mémoires of the reigne of King Charles I, 1701, pp. 109-13.

Page 65, l. 21. Warwick was member for Radnor in the Long Parliament from 1640 to 1644. The
Bill of Attainder passed the Commons on April 21, 1641, by 204 votes to 59 (Clarendon, ed.
Macray, vol. i, p. 306; Rushworth, Historical Collections, third part, vol. i, 1692, p. 225).
The names of the minority were posted up at Westminster, under the heading 'These are Straffordians,
Betrayers of their Country' (Rushworth, id., pp. 248-9). There are 56 names, and 'Mr. Warwick'
is one of them.

19.

Clarendon, MS. History, p. 398; History, Bk. VI, ed. 1703, vol. ii, pp. 115-6; ed. Macray,
vol. ii, pp. 477-8.

Page 68, l. 5. Et velut æquali. The source of this quotation is not yet found.

l. 15. the Standard was sett up, at Nottingham, on August 22, 1642.

l. 17. Robert Greville (1608-43), second Baron Brooke, cousin of Sir Fulke Greville, first
Baron (p. 23, l. 4). See Clarendon, ed. Macray, vol. ii, pp. 474-5.

l. 27. all his Children. Compare Warwick's account of 'that most noble and stout Lord, the
Earle of Northampton', Mémoires, pp. 255-7: 'This may be said of him, that he faithfully served
his Master, living and dead; for he left six eminent sons, who were all heirs of his courage,
loyalty, and virtue; whereof the eldest was not then twenty.'

20.

Clarendon, MS. History, pp. 477-8; History, Bk. VII, ed. 1703, vol. ii, pp. 269-70; ed. Macray,
vol. iii, pp. 177-8.

Carnarvon's character has much in common with Northampton's. Though separated in the History,
they are here placed together as companion portraits of two young Royalist leaders who fell
early in the Civil War.

Page 70, l. 21. Dorchester and Weymouth surrendered to Carnarvon on August 2 and 5, 1643. They
were granted fair conditions, but on the arrival of the army of Prince Maurice care was not
taken 'to observe those articles which had been made upon the surrender of the towns; which
the earl of Carnarvon (who was full of honour and justice upon all contracts) took so ill that
he quitted the command he had with those forces, and returned to the King before Gloster' (Clarendon,
vol. iii, p. 158).

21. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 178-90.

Clarendon wrote two characters of Falkland, the one in 1647 in the 'History' and the other
in 1668 in the 'Life'. Both are long, and both are distinguished by sustained favour of affection
and admiration as well as by wealth of detail. He was aware that the earlier character was
out of scale in a history, but he would not condense it. He even thought of working it up into
a book by itself, wherein he would follow the example of Tacitus who wrote the Agricola before
the Annals and Histories. He corresponded about it with John Earle (see No. 50). And if you
are not of another opinion, you cannot in justice deny me this assistance' (March 16, 1646-7:
State Papers, 1773, vol. ii, p. 350).

Page 71, l. 22. Turpe mori. Lucan, ix. 108.

l. 26. His mother's father, Sir Lawrence Tanfield, Chief Baron of the Exchequer. He died in
May 1625. See p. 87, ll. 21 ff.

Page 72, l. 3. His education. See p. 87, ll. 6-13. His father, Henry Carey, first Viscount,
was Lord Deputy of Ireland from 1622 to 1629, when he was recalled. He died in 1633.

l. 30. his owne house, at Great Tew, 16 miles NW. of Oxford; inherited from Sir Lawrence Tanfield.
The house was demolished in 1790, but the gardens remain.

PAGE 74, l. 14. two large discources. See p. 94, ll. 10-15. Falkland's Of the Infallibilitie
of the Church of Rome ... Now first published from a Copy of his owne hand had appeared at
Oxford in 1645, two years before Clarendon wrote this passage. It is a short pamphlet of eighteen
quarto pages. It had been circulated in manuscript during his lifetime, and he had written
a Reply to an Answer to it. The second 'large discource' may be this Reply. Or it may be his
Answer to a Letter of Mr. Mountague, justifying his change of Religion, being dispersed in
many Copies. Both of these were first published, along with the Infallibilitie, in 1651, under
the editorship of Dr. Thomas Triplet, tutor of the third Viscount, to whom the volume is dedicated.
The dedication is in effect a character of Falkland, and dwells in particular on his great
virtue of friendship. A passage in it recalls Clarendon. 'And your blessed Mother', says Triplet,
'were she now alive, would say, she had the best of Friends before the best of Husbands. This
was it that made Tew so valued a Mansion to us: For as when we went from Oxford thither, we
found our selves never out of the Universitie: So we thought our selves never absent from our
own beloved home'.

l. 25. He was Member for Newport in the Isle of Wight in The Short Parliament, and again in
The Long Parliament.

Page 75, l. 5. His father was Controller of the Household before his appointment as Lord Deputy
of Ireland. Cf. p. 91, ll. 3, 4.

l. 18. L'd Finch, Sir John Finch (1584-1660), Speaker, Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and
Lord Keeper, created Baron Finch, 1640. He was impeached in 1640 and fled to Holland. 'The
Lord Falkland took notice of the business of ship-money, and very sharply mentioned the lord
Finch as the principal promoter of it, and that, being then a sworn judge of the law, he had
not only given his own judgement against law, but been the solicitor to corrupt all the other
judges to concur with him in their opinion; and concluded that no man ought to be more severely
prosecuted than he' (Clarendon, vol. i, p. 230).

Page 77, l. 26. haud semper, Tacitus, Agricola, ix.

Page 78, l. 17. in republica Platonis, Cicero, Epis. ad Atticum, ii. 1.

l. 20. it, i.e. his avoiding them.

l. 30. Sir Harry Vane, the elder, was dismissed from the Secretaryship of State in November
1641. In an earlier section of the History (vol. i, p. 458) Clarendon claims responsibility
for Falkland's acceptance of the Secretaryship: 'It was a very difficult task to Mr. Hyde,
who had most credit with him, to persuade him to submit to this purpose of the King cheerfully,
and with a just sense of the obligation, by promising that in those parts of the office which
required most drudgery he would help him the best he could, and would quickly inform him of
all the necessary forms. But, above all, he prevailed with him by enforcing the ill consequence
of his refusal', &c.

Page 80, l. 19. in tanto viro, Tacitus, Agricola, ix.

l. 20. Some sharpe expressions. See the quotation by Fuller, p. 105, ll. 14, 15. Clarendon
refers to Falkland's speech 'Concerning Episcopacy' in the debate on the bill for depriving
the bishops of their votes, introduced on March 30, 1641: 'The truth is, Master Speaker, that
as some ill Ministers in our state first tooke away our mony from us, and after indeavoured
to make our mony not worth the taking, by turning it into brasse by a kind of Antiphilosophers-stone:
so these men used us in the point of preaching, first depressing it to their power, and next
labouring to make it such, as the harme had not beene much if it had beene depressed, the most
frequent subjects even in the most sacred auditories, being the Jus divinum of Bishops and
tithes, the sacrednesse of the clergie, the sacriledge of impropriations, the demolishing of
puritanisme and propriety, the building of the prerogative at Pauls, the introduction of such
doctrines, as, admitting them true, the truth would not recompence the scandall; or of such
as were so far false, that, as Sir Thomas More sayes of the Casuists, their businesse was not
to keepe men from sinning, but to enforme them Quam prope ad peccatum sine peccato liceat accedere:
so it seemed their worke was to try how much of a Papist might bee brought in without Popery,
and to destroy as much as they could of the Gospell, without bringing themselves into danger
of being destroyed by the Law.'--Speeches and Passages of This Great and Happy Parliament:
From the third of November, 1640 to this instant June, 1641, p. 190.

Page 82, ll. 23-6. See p. 90, ll. 6-13.

Page 83, l. 2. Falkland's participation in 'the Northern Expedition against the Scots', 1639,
was the subject of a eulogistic poem by Cowley:

  Great is thy Charge, O North; be wise and just,
  England commits her Falkland to thy trust;
  Return him safe: Learning would rather choose
  Her Bodley, or her Vatican to loose.
  All things that are but writ or printed there,
  In his unbounded Breast engraven are, &c.

It was the occasion also of Waller's 'To my Lord of Falkland'.

l. 14. et in luctu, Tacitus, Agricola, xxix.

l. 15. the furious resolution, passed on November 24, 1642, after the battle at Brentford:
see Clarendon, vol. ii, pp. 395-9.

Page 84, l. 9. adversus malos, Tacitus, Agricola, xxii.

ll. 11-28. The date of this incident is uncertain. Professor Firth believes it to have happened
when the House resolved that Colonel Goring 'deserved very well of the Commonwealth, and of
this House', for his discovery of the army plot, June 9, 1641 (Journals of the House of Commons,
vol. ii, p. 172).

Page 85, l. 18. the leaguer before Gloster. The siege of Gloucester was raised by the Earl
of Essex on September 8, 1643. Clarendon had described it (vol. iii, pp. 167 ff.) just before
he came to the account of Falkland.

Page 86, l. 1. the battell, i.e. of Newbury, September 20, 1643. How Falkland met his death
is told in Byron's narrative of the fight: 'My Lord of Falkland did me the honour to ride in
my troop this day, and I would needs go along with him, the enemy had beat our foot out of
the close, and was drawne up near the hedge; I went to view, and as I was giving orders for
making the gap wide enough, my horse was shott in the throat with a musket bullet and his bit
broken in his mouth so that I was forced to call for another horse, in the meanwhile my Lord
Falkland (more gallantly than advisedly) spurred his horse through the gapp, where both he
and his horse were immediately killed.' See Walter Money, The Battles of Newbury, 1884, p.
52; also p. 93.

A passage in Whitelocke's Memorials, ed. Being diswaded by his friends to goe into the fight,
as having no call to it, and being no Military Officer, he said he was weary of the times,
and foresaw much misery to his own Countrey, and did beleive be should be out of it ere night,
and could not be perswaded to the contrary, but would enter into the battle, and was there slain.'

22.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 51-4; Life, ed. 1759, pp. 19-23.

This is Falkland in his younger days, amid the hospitable pleasures of Tew, before he was overwhelmed
in politics and war.

Page 86, l. 20. he, i.e. Clarendon.

Page 88, l. 2. the two most pleasant places, Great Tew (see p. 72, l. 30) and Burford, where
Falkland was born. He sold Burford in 1634 to William Lenthall, the Speaker of the Long Parliament:
see p. 91, l. 5.

Page 89, l. 2. He married Lettice, daughter of Sir Richard Morrison of Tooley Park, Leicestershire.
His friendship with her brother Henry is celebrated in an ode by Ben Jonson, 'To the immortall
memorie, and friendship of that noble paire, Sir Lucius Cary, and Sir H. Morison' (Under-woods,
1640, p. 232).

Page 91, ll. 17-20. So in the MS. The syntax is confused, but the sense is clear.

Page 92, ll. 21, 22. Gilbert Sheldon (1598-1677), Archbishop of Canterbury, 1663; Chancellor
of the University of Oxford, and builder of the Sheldonian Theatre there.

George Morley (1597-1684), Bishop of Worcester, 1660.

Henry Hammond (1605-60), chaplain to Charles I.

Clarendon has given short characters of Sheldon and Morley in his Life. For his characters
of Earle and Chillingworth, see Nos. 50 and 52.

Page 94, l. 11. See note p. 74, l. 14.

Page 95, l. 3. Cf. p. 78, l. 17.

l. 17. It is notable that Clarendon nowhere suggests that Falkland was also a poet. Cowley
gives his verses the highest praise in his address to him on the Northern Expedition (see p.
83, l. 2, note); and they won him a place in Suckling's Sessions of the Poets:

  He was of late so gone with Divinity
  That he had almost forgot his Poetry,
  Though to say the truth (and Apollo did know it)
  He might have been both his Priest and his Poet.

His poems were collected and edited by A.B. Grosart in 1871.

23.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 55; Life, ed. 1759, p. 24.

This very pleasing portrait of Godolphin serves as a pendant to the longer and more elaborate
description of his friend. Clarendon wrote also a shorter character of him in the History (vol.
ii, pp. 457-8).

Page 96, l. 2. so very small a body. He is the 'little Cid' (i.e. Sidney) of Suckling's Sessions
of the Poets.

PAGE 97, l. 1. He was member for Helston from 1628 to 1643.

l. 6. In the character in the History Clarendon says that he left 'the ignominy of his death
upon a place which could never otherwise have had a mention to the world'. The place was Chagford.

24.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 69-70; History, Bk. I, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp. 69-73; ed. Macray, vol.
i, pp. 119-25.

The three characters of Laud here given supplement each other. They convey the same idea of
the man.

Page 97, l. 20. George Abbott (1562-1633), Archbishop of Canterbury, 1611. In the preceding
paragraph Clarendon had written an unfavourable character of him. He 'considered Christian
religion no otherwise than as it abhorred and reviled Popery, and valued those men most who
did that most furiously': 'if men prudently forbore a public reviling and railing at the hierarchy
and ecclesiastical government, let their opinions and private practice be what it would, they
were not only secure from any inquisition of his, but acceptable to him, and at least equally
preferred by him': his house was 'a sanctuary to the most eminent of that factious party'.
Cf. p. 100, ll. 21-7.

Page 101, l. 2. In the omitted portion Clarendon dealt with the 'Arminianism', as it was then
understood in England: 'most of the popular preachers, who had not looked into the ancient
learning, took Calvin's word for it, and did all they could to propagate his opinions in those
points: they who had studied more, and were better versed in the antiquities of the Church,
the Fathers, the Councils, and the ecclesiastical histories, with the same heat and passion
in preaching and writing, defended the contrary. But because in the late dispute in the Dutch
churches, those opinions were supported by Jacobus Arminius, the divinity professor in the
university of Leyden in Holland, the latter men we mentioned were called Arminians, though
many of them had never read a word written by Arminius'. Arminius (the name is the Latinized
form of Harmens or Hermans) died in 1609.

25.

The Church-History of Britain, 1648, Bk. XI, pp. 217-9.

Page 104, l. 15. Canterbury College was founded at Oxford in 1363 by Simon Islip, Archbishop
of Canterbury. It was incorporated in Christ Church, Wolsey's foundation, and so 'lost its
name'; but the name survives in the Canterbury quadrangle.

Page 105, l. 13. Lord F., i.e. Lord Falkland: see p. 80, l. 20 note.

26.

Mémoires of the reigne of King Charles I, 1701, pp. 78-82, 89-93.

Page 107, l. 27. cleansed it by fire. Perhaps a reminiscence of Dryden's Annus Mirabilis, 1667,
stanza 276:

  The daring Flames peep't in, and saw from far
    The awful Beauties of the Sacred Quire:
  But since it was prophan'd by Civil War,
    Heav'n thought it fit to have it purg'd by fire.

l. 29. too too, so in the original; perhaps but not certainly a misprint.

27.

Mémoires, 1701, pp. 93-6.

Page 112, l. 9. Lord Portland, Sir Richard Weston: see No. 5.

l. 13. white staff, see p. 21, l. 7 note.

28.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 152-3; History, Bk. IV, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp. 332-3; ed. Macray, vol.
i, pp. 563-5.

This is the first of three characters of Hertford in Clarendon's History. The others, in Bk.
VI (MS. Life) ed. Macray, ii. 528, and Bk. VII (MS. History) iii. 128, are supplementary.

Page 114, l. 10. disobligations, on account of his secret marriage with James's cousin, Arabella
Stuart, daughter of Charles Stuart, Earl of Lennox, brother of the Earl of Darnley. She died
a prisoner in the Tower; he escaped to France, but after her death was allowed to return to
England in 1616. He succeeded his grandfather as Earl of Hertford in 1621. He lived in retirement
from the dissolution of Parliament in March 1629 to 1640, when he was made a Privy Councillor.

Page 115, l. 5. He was appointed Governor to the Prince of Wales in May 1641, in succession
to the Earl of Newcastle. He was then in his fifty-third year. In the following month he was
made a Marquis. See his life in Lady Theresa Lewis's Lives of the Friends of Clarendon, vol.
ii, pp. 436-42.

Page 116, l. 2. attacque, an unexpected form of 'attach' at this time, and perhaps a slip,
but 'attack' and 'attach' are ultimately the same word; cf. Italian attaccare. The New English
Dictionary gives an instance in 1666 of 'attach' in the sense of 'attack'.

29.

Clarendon, MS. History, Transcript, vol. iv, pp. 440-2; History, Bk. VIII, ed. 1703, vol. ii,
pp. 391-3; ed. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 380-3.

The original manuscript of much of Book VIII is lost. The text is taken from the transcript
that was made for the printers.

This is the portrait of a great English nobleman whose tastes lay in music and poetry and the
arts of peace, but was forced by circumstances into the leadership of the Royalist army in
the North. He showed little military talent, though he was far from devoid of personal courage;
and he escaped from the conflict, weary and despondent, when other men were content to carry
on the unequal struggle. He modelled himself on the heroes of Romance. The part he tried to
play could not be adjusted to the rude events of the civil war.

His romantic cast of mind is shown in his challenge to Lord Fairfax to follow 'the Examples
of our Heroick Ancestors, who used not to spend their time in scratching one another out of
holes, but in pitched Fields determined their Doubts'. Fairfax replied by expressing his readiness
to fight but refusing to follow 'the Rules of Amadis de Gaule, or the Knight of the Sun, which
the language of the Declaration seems to affect in appointing pitch'd battles' (Rushworth,
Historical Collections, third part, vol. ii, 1692, pp. 138, 141).

Warwick's short character of Newcastle resembles Clarendon's: 'He was a Gentleman of grandeur,
generosity, loyalty, and steddy and forward courage; but his edge had too much of the razor
in it: for he had a tincture of a Romantick spirit, and had the misfortune to have somewhat
of the Poet in him; so as he chose Sir William Davenant, an eminent good Poet, and loyall Gentleman,
to be Lieutenant-Generall of his Ordnance. This inclination of his own and such kind of witty
society (to be modest in the expressions of it) diverted many counsels, and lost many opportunities;
which the nature of that affair, this great man had now entred into, required' (Mémoires, pp.
235-6).

His life by the Duchess of Newcastle--the 'somewhat fantastical, and original-brain'd, generous
Margaret Newcastle', as Charles Lamb calls her--was published in 1667. The edition by C.H.
Firth, 1886, contains copious historical notes, and an introduction which points out Newcastle's
place as a patron and author.

Page 116, ll. 15-22. Newcastle had been besieged at York. He was relieved by Prince Rupert,
who, against Newcastle's advice, forced on the disastrous battle of Marston Moor (July 2, 1644)
without waiting for reinforcements. In this battle Newcastle was not in command but fought
at the head of a company of volunteers. The next day he embarked at Scarborough for the continent,
where he remained till the Restoration.

l. 24. He published two books on horsemanship--La Méthode et Invention Nouvelle de Dresser
les Chevaux, written originally in English, but printed in French at Antwerp in 1658, and A
New Method and Extraordinary Invention to Dress Horses, 1667. The former was dedicated to Prince
Charles, whom, as Governor, he had taught to ride. On his reputation as a horseman, see C.H.
Firth, op. cit., pp. xx-xxii.

Page 117, l. 20. He was Governor of the Prince from 1638 to 1641: cf. note on p. 115, l. 5.

l. 29. Newcastle-upon-Tyne (from which he took his title) was 'speedily and dexterously' secured
for the King at the end of June 1642 'by his lordship's great interest in those parts, the
ready compliance of the best of the gentry, and the general good inclinations of the place'
(Clarendon, vol. ii, p. 227).

Page 118, l. 17. Henry Clifford (1591-1643) fifth Earl of Cumberland. He had commanded the
Royalist forces in Yorkshire, but was 'in his nature inactive, and utterly inexperienced'.
He willingly gave up the command (Clarendon, vol. ii, pp. 282, 464-5). He died shortly afterwards.

l. 28. this last, Marston Moor.

Page 119, l. 8. unacquainted with War. Clarendon expressed himself privately on this point
much more emphatically than the nature of his History would allow: 'you will find the Marquis
of Newcastle a very lamentable man and as fit to be a General as a Bishop.' (Letter to Sir
Edward Nicholas, dated Madrid, June 4, 1650: State Papers, 1786, vol. iii, p. 20.)

l. 10. James King (1589?-1652?), created Baron Eythin and Kerrey in the Scottish peerage in
1643. He had been a general in the army of the King of Sweden, and returned to this country
in 1640. He left it with Newcastle after Marston Moor. He entirely disapproved of Rupert's
plans for the battle; his comment, as reported by Clarendon, was 'By God, sir, it is very fyne
in the paper, but ther is no such thinge in the Feilds' (vol. iii, p. 376).

30.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 136; History, Bk. IV, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp. 270-1; ed. Macray, vol.
i, pp. 461-3.

The references to Digby in various parts of the History show the interest--sometimes an amused
interest--that Clarendon took in his strange and erratic character. 'The temper and composition
of his mind was so admirable, that he was always more pleased and delighted that he had advanced
so far, which he imputed to his virtue and conduct, than broken or dejected that his success
was not answerable, which he still charged upon second causes, for which he could not be accountable'
(vol. iv, p. 122). 'He was a person of so rare a composition by nature and by art, (for nature
alone could never have reached to it,) that he was so far from being ever dismayed by any misfortune,
(and greater variety of misfortunes never befell any man,) that he quickly recollected himself
so vigorously, that he did really believe his condition to be improved by that ill accident'
(id., p. 175). But the interest is shown above all by the long study of Digby that he wrote
at Montpelier in 1669. It was first printed in his State Papers, 1786, vol. iii, supplement,
pp. li-lxxiv. The manuscript--a transcript revised by Clarendon--is in the Bodleian Library,
Clarendon MS. 122, pp. 1-48.

Page 120, l. 8. the other three, Sir John Culpeper, or Colepeper; Lord Falkland; and Clarendon.

Page 121, l. 2. sharpe reprehension. 'He was committed to the Fleet in June 1634, but released
in July, for striking Mr. Crofts in Spring Garden, within the precincts of the Court. Cal.
Dom. State. Papers, 1634-5 (1864), pp. 81, 129'--Macray, vol. i, p. 461.

Shaftesbury gives a brief sketch of him at this time in his fragmentary autobiography: 'The
Earl of Bristoll was retired from all business and lived privately to himself; but his son
the Lord Digby, a very handsome young man of great courage and learning and of a quick wit,
began to show himself to the world and gave great expectations of himself, he being justly
admired by all, and only gave himself disadvantage with a pedantic stiffness and affectation
he had contracted.'

l. 19. As Baron Digby, during the lifetime of his father; June 9, 1641.

Page 123, l. 5. a very unhappy councell, the impeachment and attempted 'Arrest of the Five
Members', January 3 and 4, 1642. Compare Clarendon, vol. i, p. 485: 'And all this was done
without the least communication with any body but the Lord Digby, who advised it.'

31. Macray, vol. iv, pp. 510-11.

This admirable character was not all written at the same time. The first sentence is from Clarendon's
Life, and the remainder from the History, where the date, '21 Nov. 1671', is appended. 123,
l. 15. Crumwells owne character,--in the debate in Parliament on carrying out the sentence
of death, March 8, 1649. Clarendon had briefly described Cromwell's speech: 'Cromwell, who
had known him very well, spake so much good of him, and professed to have so much kindness
and respect for him, that all men thought he was now safe, when he concluded, that his affection
to the public so much weighed down his private friendship, that he could not but tell them,
that the question was now, whether they would preserve the most bitter and the most implacable
enemy they had' (vol. iv, p. 506).

l. 22. He married in November 1626, Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Charles Morrison, of Cassiobury,
Hertfordshire, and granddaughter of the first Viscount Campden. Their daughter Theodosia was
the wife of the second Earl of Clarendon.

Page 124, l. 13. an indignity, probably a reference to Lord Hopton's command of the army in
the west; see vol. iv, p. 131.

32. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 443-5.

The four generals in this group are described on various occasions in the History. In this
passage Clarendon sums up shortly what he says elsewhere, and presents a parallel somewhat
in the manner of Plutarch.

Page 125, l. 23. Clarendon has a great passage in Book VII (vol. iii, pp. 224-6) on the value
of Councils, even when the experience and wisdom of the councillors individually may not promise
the right decisions. The passage is suggested by, and immediately follows, a short character
of Prince Rupert.

Page 126, ll. 15, 16. Clarendon refers to the retreat of the Parliamentary Army at Lostwithiel,
on August 31, 1644, when Essex embarked the foot at Fowey and escaped by sea, and Sir William
Balfour broke away with the horse. In describing it, Clarendon says that 'the notice and orders
came to Goring when he was in one of his jovial exercises; which he received with mirth, and
slighting those who sent them, as men who took alarms too warmly; and he continued his delights
till all the enemy's horse were passed through his quarters, nor did then pursue them in any
time' (vol. iii, p. 403; cf. p. 391). But Goring's horse was not so posted as to be able to
check Balfour's. See the article on Goring by C.H. Firth in the Dictionary of National Biography
and S.R. Gardiner's Civil War, 1893, vol. ii, pp. 13-17. Clarendon was misinformed; yet this
error in detail does not impair the truth of the portrait.

33.

Clarendon, MS. History, pp. 447-8; History, Bk. VII, ed. 1704, vol. ii, pp. 204-6; ed. Macray,
vol. iii, pp. 61-4.

The studied detachment that Clarendon tried to cultivate when writing about his political enemies
is nowhere shown better than in the character of Hampden. The absence of all enthusiasm makes
the description of Hampden's merits the more telling. But there is a tail with a sting in it.

The last sentence, it must be admitted, is not of a piece with the rest of the character. There
was some excuse for doubting its authenticity. But doubts gave place to definite statements
that it had been interpolated by the Oxford editors when seeing the History through the press.
Edmund Smith, the author of Phædra and Hippolytus, started the story that while he was resident
in Christ Church he was 'employ'd to interpolate and alter the Original', and specially mentioned
this sentence as having been 'foisted in'; and the story was given a prominent place by Oldmixon
in his History of England, during the Reigns of the Royal House of Stuart (see Letters of Thomas
Burnat to George Duckett, ed. Nichol Smith, 1914, p. xx). A controversy ensued, the final contribution
to which is John Burton's Genuineness of L'd Clarendon's History Vindicated, 1744. Once the
original manuscript was accessible, all doubt was removed. Every word of the sentence is there
to be found in Clarendon's hand. But it is written along the margin, to take the place of a
deleted sentence, and is evidently later than the rest of the character. This accounts for
the difference in tone.

Page 129, ll. 22 ff. Compare Warwick, Mémoires, p. 240: 'He was of a concise and significant
language, and the mildest, yet subtillest, speaker of any man in the House; and had a dexterity,
when a question was going to be put, which agreed not with his sense, to draw it over to it,
by adding some equivocall or sly word, which would enervate the meaning of it, as first put.'

At the beginning of this short character of Hampden, Warwick says that 'his blood in its temper
was acrimonious, as the scurfe commonly on his face shewed'.

Page 131, l. 4. this that was at Oxforde, i.e. the overture, February and March 1643: Clarendon,
vol. ii, pp. 497 ff.

ll. 24-6. Erat illi, &c. Cicero, Orat. in Catilinam iii. 7. 'Cinna' should be 'Catiline'.

34. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 321-4.

The character of Pym does not show the same detachment as the character of Hampden. Clarendon
has not rejected unauthenticated Royalist rumour.

Page 132, ll. 7-9. This rumour occasioned the publication of an official narrative of his disease
and death, 'attested under the Hands of his Physicians, Chyrurgions, and Apothecary', from
which it appears that he died of an intestinal abscess. See John Forster's John Pym ('Lives
of Eminent British Statesmen', vol. iii), pp. 409-11.

l. 19. He was member for Tavistock from 1624.

Page 133, l. 26. Oliver St. John (1603-42), Solicitor-General, mortally wounded at Edgehill.

ll. 29, 30. Cf. p. 129, ll. 15-18.

Page 134, l. 3. Francis Russell (1593-1641), fourth Earl of Bedford. 'This lord was the greatest
person of interest in all the popular party, being of the best estate and best understanding
of the whole pack, and therefore most like to govern the rest; he was besides of great civility,
and of much more good-nature than any of the others. And therefore the King, resolving to do
his business with that party by him, resolved to make him Lord High Treasurer of England, in
the place of the Bishop of London, who was as willing to lay down the office as any body was
to take it up; and, to gratify him the more, at his desire intended to make Mr. Pimm Chancellor
of the Exchequer, as he had done Mr. St. John his Solicitor-General' (Clarendon, vol. i, p.
333). The plan was frustrated by Bedford's death in 1641. The Chancellorship of the Exchequer
was bestowed on Culpeper (id., p. 457).

ll. 27 ff. The authority for this story is the Mercurius Academicus for February 3, 1645-6
(pp. 74-5), a journal of the Court party published at Oxford (hence the title), and the successor
of the Mercurius Aulicus. The Irishman is there reported to have made this confession on the
scaffold.

Page 135, ll. 25-8. The last Summer, i.e. before Pym's death, 1643. See Clarendon, vol. iii,
pp. 116, 135, 141.

Page 136, ll. 7-10. He died on December 8, 1643, and was buried on December 13 in Westminster
Abbey, whence his body was ejected at the Restoration.

35.

Clarendon, MS. History, Bk. X, p. 24 (or 570); History, ed. 1704, vol. iii, pp. 84-5; ed. Macray,
vol. iv, pp. 305-7.

The two characters of Cromwell by Clarendon were written about the same time. Though the first
is from the manuscript of the History, it belongs to a section that was added in 1671, when
the matter in the original History was combined with the matter in the Life. It describes Cromwell
as Clarendon remembered him before he had risen to his full power. He was then in Clarendon's
eyes preeminently a dissembler--'the greatest dissembler living'. The other character views
him in the light of his complete achievement. It represents him, with all his wickedness, as
a man of 'great parts of courage and industry and judgement'. He is a 'bad man', but a 'brave,
bad man', to whose success, remarkable talents, and even some virtues, must have contributed.
The recognition of his greatness was unwilling; it was all the more sincere.

'Crumwell' is Clarendon's regular spelling.

Page 136, l. 22. Hampden's mother, Elizabeth Cromwell, was the sister of Cromwell's father.

Page 138, l. 18. the Modell, i.e. the New Model Army, raised in the Spring of 1645. See C.H.
Firth's Cromwell's Army, 1902, ch. iii.

l. 21. chaunged a Generall, the Earl of Essex. See No. 40.

36.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 549-50; History, Bk. XV, ed. 1704, vol. iii, pp. 505-6, 509; ed. Macray,
vol. vi, pp. 91-2, 97.

Page 139, ll. 3, 4. quos vituperare, Cicero, Pro Fonteio, xvii. 39 'Is igitur vir, quem ne
inimicus quidem satis in appellando significare poterat, nisi ante laudasset.'

ll. 19, 20. Ausum eum, Velleius Paterculus, ii. 24.

Page 140, ll. 9-12. Machiavelli, The Prince, ch. vii.

ll. 17-22. Editorial taste in 1704 transformed this sentence thus: 'In a word, as he was guilty
of many Crimes against which Damnation is denounced, and for which Hell-fire is prepared, so
he had some good Qualities which have caused the Memory of some Men in all Ages to be celebrated;
and he will be look'd upon by Posterity as a brave wicked Man.'

37.

Mémoires Of the reigne of King Charles I, 1701, pp. 247-8.

Page 141, l. 17. a servant of Mr. Prynn's, John Lilburne (1614-57). But it is doubtful if he
was Prynne's servant; see the article in the Dictionary of National Biography. Lilburne's petition
was presented by Cromwell on November 9, 1640, and referred to a Committee; and on May 4, 1641,
the House resolved 'That the Sentence of the Star-Chamber, given against John Lilborne, is
illegal, and against the Liberty of the Subject; and also, bloody, wicked, cruel, barbarous,
and tyrannical' (Journals of the House of Commons, vol. ii, pp. 24, 134).

ll. 29, 30. Warwick was imprisoned on suspicion of plotting against the Protector's Government
in 1655.

38.

A Collection of the State Papers of John Thurloe, Esq.; Edited by Thomas Birch, 1742, vol.
i, p. 766.

This passage is from a letter written to 'John Winthrop, esq; governor of the colony of Connecticut
in New England', and dated 'Westminster, March 24, 1659'.

Maidston was Cromwell's servant.

39. Faithfully Publish'd from his own Original Manuscript, By Matthew Sylvester. London: MDCXCVI.
(Lib. I, Part I, pp. 98-100.)

The interest of this character lies largely in its Presbyterian point of view. It is a carefully
balanced estimate by one who had been a chaplain in the Parliamentary army, but opposed Cromwell
when, after the fall of Presbyterianism, he assumed the supreme power.

Page 144, ll. 19-24. See the article by C.H. Firth on 'The Raising of the Ironsides' in the
Transactions of the Royal Historical Society, 1899, vol. xiii, and its sequel, 'The Later History
of the Ironsides', 1901, vol. xv; and the articles on John Desborough (who married Cromwell's
sister) and James Berry in the Dictionary of National Biography. 'Who Captain Ayres was it
is difficult to say ... He left the regiment about June 1644, and his troop was given to James
Berry ... the captain-lieutenant of Cromwell's own troop'. (R.H.S. Trans., vol. xiii, pp. 29,
30). Berry subsequently became one of Cromwell's major-generals. His character is briefly sketched
by Baxter, who calls him 'my old Bosom Friend', Reliquiæ, 1696, p. 57. For Captain William
Evanson, see R.H.S. Trans., vol. xv, pp. 22-3.

Page 146, l. 12. A passage from Bacon's essay 'Of Faction' (No. 51) is quoted in the margin
in the edition of 1696. 'Fraction' in l. 12 is probably a misprint for 'Faction'.

Page 148, ll. 7-10. The concluding sentence of the essay 'Of Simulation and Dissimulation'.
Brackets were often used at this time to mark a quotation.

40.

Reliquiæ Baxterianæ, 1696, Lib. I, Part I, p. 48.

Much the same opinion of Fairfax was held by Sir Philip Warwick and Clarendon. Warwick says
he was 'a man of a military genius, undaunted courage and presence of mind in the field both
in action and danger, but of a very common understanding in all other affairs, and of a worse
elocution; and so a most fit tool for Mr. Cromwel to work with' (Mémoires, p. 246). Clarendon
alludes to him as one 'who had no eyes, and so would be willinge to be ledd' (p. 138, l. 24).

Fairfax's military capacity is certain, and his private virtues are unquestioned. Writing in
1648, Milton credited him with the power to settle the affairs of the nation. But Fairfax was
not a politician. He broke with Cromwell over the execution of the king, and in July 1650 retired
into private life. Baxter, Warwick, and Clarendon all wrote of him at a distance of time that
showed his merits and limitations in truer perspective.

Milton addressed him again when singing the praises of Bradshaw and Cromwell and other Parliamentary
leaders in his Pro Populo Anglicano Defensio Secunda, 1654. As a specimen of a contemporary
Latin character, and a character by Milton, the passage is now quoted in full:

'Sed neque te fas est præterire, Fairfaxi, in quo cum summa fortitudine summam modestiam, summam
vitæ sanctitatem, & natura & divinus favor conjunxit: Tu harum in partem laudum evocandus tuo
jure ac merito es; quanquam in illo nunc tuo secessu, quantus olim Literni Africanus ille Scipio,
abdis te quoad potes; nec hostem solum, sed ambitionem, & quæ præstantissimum quemque mortalium
vincit, gloriam quoque vicisti; tuisque virtutibus & præclare factis, jucundissimum & gloriosissimum
per otium frueris, quod est laborum omnium & humanarum actionum vel maximarum finis; qualique
otio cum antiqui Heroes, post bella & decora tuis haud majora, fruerentur, qui eos laudare
conati sunt poetæ, desperabant se posse alia ratione id quale esset digne describere, nisi
eos fabularentur, coelo receptos, deorum epulis accumbere. Verum te sive valetudo, quod maxime
crediderim, sive quid aliud retraxit, persuasissimum hoc habeo, nihil te a rationibus reipublicæ
divellere potuisse, nisi vidisses quantum libertatis conservatorem, quam firmum atque fidum
Anglicanæ rei columen ac munimentum in successore tuo relinqueres' (ed. 1654, pp. 147-8).

Page 149, l. 9. The Self-denying Ordinance, discharging members of Parliament from all offices,
civil and military, passed both Houses on April 3, 1645.

l. 18. He succeeded his father as third Lord Fairfax in 1648.

l. 21. See p. 118, ll. 8 ff.

41.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 103; History, Bk. III, ed. 1702, vol. i, pp. 148-9; ed. Macray, vol.
i, pp. 247-9.

Baxter has an account of Vane in his Autobiography: 'He was the Principal Man that drove on
the Parliament to go too high, and act too vehemently against the King: Being of very ready
Parts, and very great Subtilty, and unwearied Industry, he laboured, and not without Success,
to win others in Parliament, City and Country to his Way. When the Earl of Strafford was accused,
he got a Paper out of his Father's Cabinet (who was Secretary of State) which was the chief
Means of his Condemnation: To most of our Changes he was that within the House, which Cromwell
was without. His great Zeal to drive all into War, and to the highest, and to cherish the Sectaries,
and especially in the Army, made him above all Men to be valued by that Party ... When Cromwell
had served himself by him as his surest Friend, as long as he could; and gone as far with him
as their way lay together, (Vane being for a Fanatick Democracie, and Cromwell for Monarchy)
at last there was no Remedy but they must part; and when Cromwell cast out the Rump (as disdainfully
as Men do Excrements) he called Vane a Jugler' (Reliquiæ Baxterianæ, Lib. I, Part I, p. 75).
This account occurs in Baxter's description of the sectaries who were named after him 'Vanists'.

Clarendon and Baxter both lay stress on the element of the fanatic in Vane's nature; and in
a later section of the History Clarendon speaks of it emphatically: ... 'Vane being a man not
to be described by any character of religion; in which he had swallowed some of the fancies
and extravagances of every sect or faction, and was become (which cannot be expressed by any
other language than was peculiar to that time) a man above ordinances, unlimited and unrestrained
by any rules or bounds prescribed to other men, by reason of his perfection. He was a perfect
enthusiast, and without doubt did believe himself inspired' (vol. vi, p. 148).

Milton's sonnet, to Vane 'young in yeares, but in sage counsell old' gives no suggestion of
the fanatic:

          besides to know
  Both spirituall powre & civill, what each meanes
  What severs each thou 'hast learnt, which few have don.
  The bounds of either sword to thee wee ow.
  Therfore on thy firme hand religion leanes
  In peace, & reck'ns thee her eldest son.

There was much in Vane's views about Church and State with which Milton sympathized; and the
sonnet was written in 1652, before Cromwell broke with Vane.

See also Pepys's Diary, June 14, 1662, and Burnet's History of His Own Time, ed. Osmund Airy,
vol. i, pp. 284-6.

Page 150, ll. 13, 14. Magdalen College, a mistake for Magdalen Hall, of which Vane was a Gentleman
Commoner; but he did not matriculate. See Wood's Athenæ Oxonienses, ed. Bliss, vol. iii, col. 578.

l. 17. He returned to England in 1632; he had been in the train of the English ambassador at
Vienna.

ll. 25 ff. He transported himself into New England in 1635. He was chosen Governor of Massachusetts
in March 1636 and held the post for one year, being defeated at the next election. He retransported
himself into England in August 1637.

Page 151, ll. 27-9. 'In New Hampshire and at Rhode Island. The grant by the Earl of Warwick
as the Governor of the King's Plantations in America of a charter for Providence, &c., Rhode
Island, is dated March 14, 164-3/4; Calendar of Colonial State Papers, 1574-1660, p. 325. The
code of laws adopted there in 1647 declares "sith our charter gives us power to govern ourselves
... the form of government established in Providence plantations is democratical." Collections
of the Massachusetts Hist. Soc., second series, vol. vii, p. 79.'--Note by Macray.

Page 152, ll. 2, 3. He married Frances, daughter of Sir Christopher Wray, of Ashby, Lincolnshire.

ll. 5, 6. He was made joint Treasurer of the Navy in January 1639, and was dismissed in December
1641.

ll. 10 ff. Strafford was created Baron of Raby in 1640. At the conclusion of Book VI Clarendon
says that the elder Vane's 'malice to the Earl of Strafford (who had unwisely provoked him,
wantonly and out of contempt) transported him to all imaginable thoughts of revenge'. Cf. p.
63, l. 25.

42.

Clarendon, MS. History, p. 486 (first paragraph) and Life, p. 249 (second paragraph); History,
Bk. VII, ed. 1703, vol. ii, p. 292; ed. Macray, vol. iii, pp. 216-17.

Clarendon added the first paragraph in the margin of the manuscript of his earlier work when
he dovetailed the two works to form the History in its final form.

Page 152, l. 27. this Covenant, the Solemn League and Covenant, which passed both Houses on
September 18, 1643: 'the battle of Newbery being in that time likewise over (which cleared
and removed more doubts than the Assembly had done), it stuck very few hours with both Houses;
but being at once judged convenient and lawful, the Lords and Commons and their Assembly of
Divines met together at the church, with great solemnity, to take it, on the five and twentieth
day of September' (Clarendon, vol. iii, p. 205).

43.

Memoirs of the Life of Colonel Hutchinson, Governor of Nottingham Castle and Town ... Written
by His Widow Lucy, Daughter of Sir Allen Apsley, Lieutenant of the Tower, &c. Now first published
from the original manuscript by the Rev. Julius Hutchinson ... London: 1806. (pp. 4-6.)

The original manuscript has disappeared, and the edition of 1806 is the only authoritative
text. It has been many times reprinted. It was edited with introduction, notes, and appendices
by C.H. Firth in 1885 (new edition, 1906).

The Memoirs as a whole are the best picture we possess of a puritan soldier and household of
the seventeenth century. They were written by his widow as a consolation to herself and for
the instruction of her children. To 'such of you as have not seene him to remember his person',
she leaves, by way of introduction, 'His Description.' It is this passage which is here reprinted.

44, 45, 46, 47, 48. Macray, vol. ii, pp. 541-8.

These five characters of Parliamentary peers follow one another at the conclusion of Clarendon's
sixth book, and are part of his 'view of those persons who were of the King's Council, and
had deserted his service, and stayed in the Parliament to support the rebellion'. A short passage
on the Earl of Holland, between the characters of Warwick and Manchester, is omitted.

Taken as a group, they are yet another proof of Clarendon's skill in portraiture. Each character
is clearly distinguished.

Page 159, ll. 7-10. His grandfather was William Cecil (1520-98), Lord Burghley, the great minister
of Elizabeth; his father was Robert Cecil (1563-1612), created Earl of Salisbury, 1605, Secretary
of State at the accession of James.

Page 160, l. 9. He was member for King's Lynn in 1649, and Hertfordshire in 1654 and 1656.

ll. 13-16. Hic egregiis, &c. Seneca, De Beneficiis, iv, cap. 30.

Page 161, ll. 3-19. 'Clarendon's view that Warwick was a jovial hypocrite is scarcely borne
out by other contemporary evidence. The "jollity and good humour" which he mentions are indeed
confirmed. "He was one of the most best-natured and cheerfullest persons I have in my time
met with," writes his pious daughter-in-law (Autobiography of Lady Warwick, ed. Croker, p.
27). Edmund Calamy, however, in his sermon at Warwick's funeral, enlarges on his zeal for religion;
and Warwick's public conduct during all the later part of his career is perfectly consistent
with Calamy's account of his private life (A Pattern for All, especially for Noble Persons,
&c., 1658, 410, pp. 34-9).'--C.H. Firth, in the Dictionary of National Biography.

l. 13. Randevooze (or -vouze, or -vouce, or -vowes) is a normal spelling of Rendezvous in the
seventeenth century. The words had been introduced into English by the reign of Elizabeth.

ll. 20-2. The proceedings are described at some length by Clarendon, vol. ii, pp. 19-22, 216-23.
Warwick was appointed Admiral by the Parliament on July 1, 1642.

l. 23. The expulsion of the Long Parliament on April 20, 1653. A thorough examination of all
the authorities for the story of the expulsion will be found in two articles by C.H. Firth
in History, October 1917 and January 1918.

ll. 24-5. Robert Rich, his grandson, married Frances, Cromwell's youngest daughter, in November
1657, but died in the following February, aged 23. See Thurloe's State Papers, vol. vi, p. 573.

Page 162, l. 11. in Spayne, on the occasion of the proposed Spanish match.

ll. 22-3. He resigned his generalship on April 2, 1645, the day before the Self-Denying Ordinance
was passed.

ll. 24 ff. His first wife was Buckingham's cousin, their mothers being sisters. He married
his second wife in 1626, before Buckingham's death. He was five times married.

Page 163, l. 11. his father, Henry Montagu (1563-1642), created Baron Montagu of Kimbolton
and Viscount Mandeville, 1620, and Earl of Manchester, 1628. By the favour of Buckingham he
had been made Lord Treasurer in 1620, but within a year was deprived of the office and 'reduced
to the empty title of President of the Council'; see the character (on the whole favourable)
by Clarendon, vol. i, pp. 67-9.

l. 12. Manchester and Warwick are described by Clarendon as 'the two pillars of the Presbyterian
party' (vol. iv, p. 245).

Page 164, l. 16. He was accused with the five members of the House of Commons, January 3, 1642.
Cf. p. 123, l. 5.

l. 26. Elsewhere Clarendon says that Manchester 'was known to have all the prejudice imaginable
against Cromwell' (vol. iv, p. 245). He lived in retirement during the Commonwealth, but returned
to public life at the Restoration, when he was made Lord Chamberlain.

This character may be compared with Clarendon's other character of Manchester, vol. i, pp.
242-3, and with the character in Warwick's Mémoires, pp. 246-7. Burnet, speaking of him in
his later years, describes him as 'A man of a soft and obliging temper, of no great depth,
but universally beloved, being both a vertuous and a generous man'.

Page 165, ll. 6-9. See Clarendon, vol. i, p. 259.

l. ii. that unhappy kingdome. This was written in France.

ll. 20-5. Antony à Wood did not share Clarendon's scepticism about Say's descent, though he
shared his dislike of Say himself: see Athenæ Oxonienses, ed. Bliss, vol. in, col. 546.

Page 166, ll. 25 ff. See Clarendon, ed. Macray, vol. i, pp. 333-5. Cf. note p. 134, l. 3. After
the King's execution he took little part in public affairs, but at the Restoration he managed
to be made a Privy Councillor and Lord Privy Seal.

Clarendon has another and shorter character of Say, which supplements the character here given,
and deals mainly with his ecclesiastical politics (vol. i, p. 241). He was thought to be the
only member of the Independent party in the House of Peers (vol. iii, p. 507).

Arthur Wilson gives short characters of Essex, Warwick, and Say: 'Saye and Seale was a seriously
subtil Peece, and alwayes averse to the Court wayes, something out of pertinatiousnesse; his
Temper and Constitution ballancing him altogether on that Side, which was contrary to the Wind;
so that he seldome tackt about or went upright, though he kept his Course steady in his owne
way a long time: yet it appeared afterwards, when the harshnesse of the humour was a little
allayed by the sweet Refreshments of Court favours, that those sterne Comportments supposed
naturall, might be mitigated, and that indomitable Spirits by gentle usage may be tamed and
brought to obedience' (Reign of King James I, p. 162).

49.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 48-9: Life, ed. 1759, p. 16.

This and the four following characters of men of learning and letters are taken from the early
section of the Life where Clarendon proudly records his friendships and conversation with 'the
most excellent men in their several kinds that lived in that age, by whose learning and information
and instruction he formed his studies, and mended his understanding, and by whose gentleness
and sweetness of behaviour, and justice, and virtue, and example, he formed his manners.' The
characters of Jonson, Falkland, and Godolphin which belong to the same section have already
been given.

Page 167, l. 27. his conversation, fortunately represented for us in his Table-Talk, a collection
of the 'excellent things that usually fell from him', made by his amanuensis Richard Milward,
and published in 1689.

Page 168, l. 3. M'r Hyde, i.e. Clarendon himself.

l. 5. Seldence, a phonetic spelling, showing Clarendon's haste in composition.

l.10. Selden was member for Oxford during the Long Parliament.

ll. 15, 16. Compare Clarendon's History, vol. ii, p. 114: 'he had for many years enjoyed his
ease, which he loved, was rich, and would not have made a journey to York, or have lain out
of his own bed, for any preferment, which he had never affected. Compare also Aubrey's Brief
Lives, ed. A. Clark, vol. ii, p. 224: 'He was wont to say "I'le keepe myselfe warme and moyst
as long as I live, for I shall be cold and dry when I am dead ".'

50.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 57; Life, ed. 1759, pp. 26-7. Bliss, vol. iii, cols. 716-9.

Page 168, l. 25. Earle of Pembroke, the fourth Earl, Lord Chamberlain 1626-1641: see p. 4,
l. 30, note.

Page 169, l. 3. Proctour, in 1631. The 'very witty and sharpe discourses' are his Micro-cosmographie,
first published anonymously in 1628.

l. 23. Compare p. 72, ll. 29 ff., and p. 90, ll. 21 ff.

l. 28. He was made chaplain and tutor to Prince Charles in 1641. His 'lodginge in the court'
as chaplain to the Lord Chamberlain had made him known to the king.

51.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 57-8; Life, ed. 1759, pp. 27-8.

'The Ever Memorable Mr. John Hales, of Eaton-Colledge', as he is called on the title-page of
his Golden Remains, published in 1659 (second impression, 1673), is probably best known now
by his remark 'That there was no subject of which any Poet ever writ, but he would produce
it much better treated of in Shakespeare'. But it had apparently been made somewhere between
1633 and 1637 in the company of Lord Falkland. It is the one gem that survives of this retired
student's 'very open and pleasant conversation'.

Clarendon's portrait explains the honour and affection in which the 'ever memorable' but now
little known scholar was held by all his friends. The best companion to it is the life by Wood,
Athenæ Oxonienses, ed. Bliss, vol. iv, cols. 409-15. See also John Pearson's preface to Golden
Remains.

Page 170, ll. 10 ff. Hales was elected Fellow of Merton College in 1605, and Regius Professor
of Greek in 1615. His thirty-two letters to Sir Dudley Carlton (cf. p. 58, l. 20) reporting
the proceedings of the Synod of Dort, run from November 24, 1618, to February 7, 1619, and
are included in his Golden Remains. On his return to England in 1619 he withdrew to his fellowship
at Eton.

Sir Henry Savile's monumental edition of the Greek text of St. Chrysostom, in eight large folio
volumes, was published at Eton, 1610-12. Savile was an imperious scholar, but when Clarendon
says that Hales 'had borne all the labour' of this great edition, he can only mean that Hales
had given his assistance at all stages of its production. In Brodrick's Memorials of Merton
College, p. 70, it is stated that Hales was voted an allowance for the help he had given. Savile
was appointed Warden of Merton in 1585 and Provost of Eton in 1596, and continued to hold both
posts at the same time till his death in 1622.

Page 171, ll. 8-12. Compare the verse epistle in Suckling's Fragmenta Aurea, which was manifestly
addressed to Hales, though his name is not given (ed. 1648, pp. 34-5):

  Whether these lines do find you out,
  Putting or clearing of a doubt;
   ... know 'tis decreed
  You straight bestride the Colledge Steed ...
  And come to Town; 'tis fit you show
  Your self abroad, that men may know
  (What e're some learned men have guest)
  That Oracles are not yet ceas't ...
  News in one day as much w' have here
  As serves all Windsor for a year.

In Suckling's Sessions of the Poets, 'Hales set by himselfe most gravely did smile'.

ll. 14 ff. Compare the story told by Wood: 'When he was Bursar of his Coll. and had received
bad money, he would lay it aside, and put good of his own in the room of it to pay to others.
Insomuch that sometimes he has thrown into the River 20 and 30l. at a time. All which he hath
stood to, to the loss of himself, rather than others of the Society should be endamaged.'

l. 19. Reduced to penury by the Civil Wars, Hales was 'forced to sell the best part of his
most admirable Library (which cost him 2500l.) to Cornelius Bee of London, Bookseller, for
700l. only'. But Wood also says that he might be styled 'a walking Library'. Another account
of his penury and the sale of his library is found in John Walker's Sufferings of the Clergy,
1714, Part II, p. 94.

l. 24. syded, i.e. stood by the side of, equalled, rivalled.

Page 173, ll. 1 ff. His Tract concerning Schisme and Schismaticks was published in 1642, and
was frequently reissued. It was written apparently about 1636, and certainly before 1639. He
was installed as canon of Windsor on June 27, 1639.

52.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 58-9; Life, ed. 1759, pp. 28-30.

Clarendon clearly enjoyed writing this character of Chillingworth. The shrewd observation is
tempered by subdued humour. Looking back on his friendship at a distance of twenty years, he
felt an amused pleasure in the disputatiousness which could be irritating, the intellectual
vanity, the irresolution that came from too great subtlety. Chillingworth was always 'his own
convert'; 'his only unhappiness proceeded from his sleeping too little and thinking too much'.
But Clarendon knew the solid merits of The Religion of Protestants (History, vol. i, p. 95);
and he felt bitterly the cruel circumstances of his death.

Page 174, ll. 17-19. Compare the character of Godolphin, p. 96, ll. 1 ff.

Page 176, l. 14. the Adversary, Edward Knott (1582-1656), Jesuit controversialist.

l. 29. Lugar, John Lewgar (1602-1665): see Wood's Athenæ Oxonienses, ed. Bliss, vol. iii, cols.
696-7.

Page 177, l. 24. This Engine is described in the narrative of the siege of Gloucester in Rushworth's
Historical Collections, ed. 1692, Part III, vol. ii, p. 290: 'The King's Forces, by the Directions
of Dr. Chillingworth, had provided certain Engines, after the manner of the Roman Testudines
cum Pluteis, wherewith they intended to Assault the City between the South and West Gates;
They ran upon Cart-Wheels, with a Blind of Planks Musquet-proof, and holes for four Musqueteers
to play out of, placed upon the Axle-tree to defend the Musqueteers and those that thrust it
forwards, and carrying a Bridge before it; the Wheels were to fall into the Ditch, and the
end of the Bridge to rest upon the Towns Breastworks, so making several compleat Bridges to
enter the City. To prevent which, the Besieged intended to have made another Ditch out of their
Works, so that the Wheels falling therein, the Bridge would have fallen too short of their
Breastworks into their wet Mote, and so frustrated that Design.'

ll. 26 ff. Hopton took Arundel Castle on December 9, 1643, and was forced to surrender on January
6 (Clarendon, vol. iii, pp. 330-5). Aubrey says that Chillingworth 'dyed of the morbus castrensis
after the taking of Arundel castle by the parliament: wherin he was very much blamed by the
king's soldiers for his advice in military affaires there, and they curst that little priest
and imputed the losse of the castle to his advice'. (Brief Lives, ed. A. Clark, vol. i, p.
172). The chief actor in the final persecution was Francis Cheynell (1608-65), afterwards intruded
President of St. John's College and Professor of Divinity in the University of Oxford; see
his Chillingworthi Novissima. Or, the Sicknesse, Heresy, Death, and Buriall of William Chillingworth
(In his own phrase) Clerk of Oxford, and in the conceit of his fellow Souldiers, the Queens
Arch-Engineer, and Grand-Intelligencer, 1644.

53.

Clarendon, MS. Life, p. 55; Life, ed. 1759, pp. 24, 25.

Weakness of character disguised by ready wit, pleasant discourse, and charm of manner is Clarendon's
judgement on Waller. They had been friends in their early days when Waller was little more
than an opulent poet who could make a good speech in parliament; but his behaviour on the discovery
of 'Waller's plot', the purpose of which was to hold the city for the king, his inefficiency
in any action but what was directed to his own safety and advancement, and his subsequent relations
with Cromwell, definitely estranged them. To Clarendon, Waller is the time-server whose pleasing
arts are transparent. 'His company was acceptable, where his spirit was odious.' The censure
was the more severe because of the part which Waller had just played at Clarendon's fall. The
portrait may be overdrawn; but there is ample evidence from other sources to confirm its essential
truth. 1724, vol. i, p. 388). He is described by Aubrey, Brief Lives, ed. A. Clark, vol. ii,
pp. 276-7.

Clarendon's character was included by Johnson in his Life of Waller, with a few comments. Page
179, l. 1. a very rich wife, Anne, only daughter of John Bankes, mercer; married 1631, died
1634. 'The fortune which Waller inherited from his father, which must have been largely increased
during his long minority, has been variously estimated at from £2,000 to £3,500 a year; adding
to this the amount which he received with Miss Bankes, said to have been about £8,000, and
allowing for the difference in the value of the money, it appears probable that, with the exception
of Rogers, the history of English literature can show no richer poet' (Poems of Waller, ed.
Thorn Drury, vol. i, p. xx).

l. 4. M'r Crofts, William Crofts (1611-77), created Baron Crofts of Saxham in 1658 at Brussels.
He was captain of Queen Henrietta Maria's Guards.

l. 6. D'r Marly. See p. 92, l. 21, note.

ll. 10-14. Waller's poems were first published in 1645, when Waller was abroad. But they had
been known in manuscript. They appear to have first come to the notice of Clarendon when Waller
was introduced to the brilliant society of which Falkland was the centre. If the introduction
took place, as is probable, about 1635, this is the explanation of Clarendon's 'neere thirty
yeeres of age'. But some of his poems must have been written much earlier. What is presumably
his earliest piece, on the escape of Prince Charles from shipwreck at Santander on his return
from Spain in 1623, was probably written shortly after the event it describes, though like
other of his early pieces it shows, as Johnson pointed out, traces of revision.

l. 21. nurced in Parliaments. He entered Parliament in 1621, at the age of sixteen, as member
for Amersham. See Poems, ed. Drury, vol. i. p. xvii.

Page 180, l. 5. The great instance of his wit is his reply to Charles II, when asked why his
Congratulation 'To the King, upon his Majesty's happy Return' was inferior to his Panegyric
'Upon the Death of the Lord Protector'--'Poets, Sir, succeed better in fiction than in truth'
(quoted from Menagiana in Fenton's 'Observations on Waller's Poems', and given by Johnson).
See Lives of the Poets, ed. G.B. Hill, vol. i, p. 271.

54. By Edward Earl of Clarendon. Oxford, 1676. (pp. 2-3.)

It is a misfortune that Clarendon did not write a character of Hobbes, and, more than this,
that there is no character of Hobbes by any one which corresponds in kind to the other characters
in this collection. But in answering the Leviathan, Clarendon thought it well to state by way
of introduction that he was on friendly terms with the author, and the passage here quoted
from his account of their relations is in effect a character. He condemned Hobbes's political
theories; 'Yet I do hope', he says, 'nothing hath fallen from my Pen, which implies the least
undervaluing of Mr. Hobbes his Person, or his Parts.'

Page 181, l. 21. ha's, a common spelling at this time and earlier, on the false assumption
that has was a contraction of haves.

55.

Bodleian Library, MS. Aubrey 9, foll. 34-7, 41, 42, 46-7.

The text of these notes on Hobbes is taken direct from Aubrey's manuscript, now in the Bodleian
Library. The complete life is printed in Brief Lives by John Aubrey, edited by Andrew Clark,
1898, vol. i, pp. 321-403.

Aubrey collected most of his biographical notes, to which he gave the title '[Greek: Schediasmata.]
Brief Lives', in order to help Anthony à Wood in the compilation of his Athenæ Oxonienses.
'I have, according to your desire', he wrote to Wood in 1680, 'putt in writing these minutes
of lives tumultuarily, as they occur'd to my thoughts or as occasionally I had information
of them.... 'Tis a taske that I never thought to have undertaken till you imposed it upon me.'
Independently of Wood, Aubrey had collected material for a life of Hobbes, in accordance with
a promise he had made to Hobbes himself. All his manuscript notes were submitted to Wood, who
made good use of them. On their return Aubrey deposited them in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford,
the library of which is now merged in the Bodleian.

The notes were written 'tumultuarily', jotted down hastily, and as hastily added to, altered,
and transposed. They are a first draft for the fair copy which was never made. The difficulty
of giving a true representation of them in print is increased by Aubrey's habit of inserting
above the line alternatives to words or phrases without deleting the original words or even
indicating his preference. In the present text the later form has, as a rule, been adopted,
the other being given in a footnote.

'The Life of Mr. Thomas Hobbes, of Malmesburie' is by far the longest of Aubrey's 'Brief Lives',
but it does not differ from the others in manner. The passages selected may be regarded as
notes for a character.

Page 183, ll. 1 ff. Aubrey is a little more precise in his notes on Bacon. 'Mr. Thomas Hobbes
told me ... that he was employed in translating part of the Essayes, viz. three of them, one
whereof was that of the Greatnesse of Cities, the other two I have now forgott' (ed. A. Clark,
vol. i, p. 83). On the evidence of style, Aldis Wright thought that the other two essays translated
by Hobbes were 'Of Simulation and Dissimulation' and 'Of Innovation': see the preface to his
edition of Bacon's Essays, 1862, pp. xix, xx. The translation appeared in 1638 under the title
Sermones fideles, sive interiora rerum.

l. 4. Gorhambury was Bacon's residence in Hertfordshire, near St. Alban's, inherited from his
father. Aubrey described it in a long digression 'for the sake of the lovers of antiquity',
ed. Clark, vol. i, pp. 79-84, and p. 19.

l. 5. Thomas Bushell (1594-1674), afterwards distinguished as a mining engineer and metallurgist:
see his life in the Dictionary of National Biography.

Page 185, l. 2. (i.) or i., a common form at this time for i.e.

l. 20. Henry Lawes (1596-1662), who wrote the music for Comus, and to whom Milton addressed
one of his sonnets:

  Harry whose tuneful and well measur'd Song
  First taught our English Musick how to span
  Words with just note and accent,...
  To after age thou shalt be writ the man,
  That with smooth aire couldst humor best our tongue.

This sonnet was prefixed to Lawes's Choice Psalmes in 1648; his Ayres and Dialogues for One,
Two, and Three Voices appeared in three books from 1653 to 1658.

56.

The Life of That Reverend Divine, and Learned Historian, Dr. Thomas Fuller. London, 1661. (pp.
66-77.)

This work was twice reissued with new title-pages at Oxford in 1662, and was for the first
time reprinted in 1845 by way of introduction to J.S. Brewer's edition of Fuller's Church History.
It is the basis of all subsequent lives of Fuller. But the author is unknown.

The passage here quoted from the concluding section of this Life is the only contemporary sketch
of Fuller's person and character that is now known. Aubrey's description is a mere note, and
is considerably later: 'He was of a middle stature; strong sett; curled haire; a very working
head, in so much that, walking and meditating before dinner, he would eate-up a penny loafe,
not knowing that he did it. His naturall memorie was very great, to which he had added the
art of memorie: he would repeate to you forwards and backwards all the signes from Ludgate
to Charing-crosse' (ed. A. Clark, vol. i, p. 257).

Page 187, l. 20. a perfect walking Library, Compare p. 171, l. 19, note.

Page 191, ll. 3 ff. Compare Aubrey. But Fuller disclaimed the use of an art of memory. 'Artificiall
memory', he said, 'is rather a trick then an art.' He condemned the 'artificiall rules which
at this day are delivered by Memory-mountebanks'. His great rule was 'Marshall thy notions
into a handsome method'. See his section 'Of Memory' in his Holy State, 1642, Bk. III, ch.
10; and compare J.E. Bailey, Life of Thomas Fuller, 1874, pp. 413-15.

57.

Bodleian Library, MS. Aubrey 8 foll. 63, 63 v, 68.

The text is taken direct from Aubrey's manuscript, such contractions as 'X'ts coll:' and 'da:'
for daughter being expanded. For the complete life, see Brief Lives, ed. A. Clark, vol. ii,
pp. 62-72.

There is no character of Milton. We have again to be content with notes for a character.

Page 192, l. 7. Christ's College, Cambridge, which Milton entered in February 1625, aged sixteen.

ll. 15-18. Milton had three daughters, by his first wife--Anne, Mary, and Deborah. Mary died
unmarried. Deborah's husband, Abraham Clarke, left Dublin for London during the troubles in
Ireland under James II: see Masson's Life of Milton, vol. vi, p. 751. He is described by Johnson
as a 'weaver in Spitalfields': see Lives of the Poets, ed. G.B. Hill, vol. i, pp. 158-60.

Page 193, ll. 2-4. Litera Canina. See Persius, Sat. i. 109 'Sonat hic de nare canina littera';
and compare Ben Jonson, English Grammar, 'R Is the Dogs Letter, and hurreth in the sound.'

ll. 11, 12. But the Comte de Cominges, French Ambassador to England, 1662-5, in his report
to Louis XIV on the state of literature in England, spoke of 'un nommé Miltonius qui s'est
rendu plus infâme par ses dangereux écrits que les bourreaux et les assassins de leur roi'.
This was written in 1663, and Cominges knew only Milton's Latin works. See J.J. Jusserand,
A French Ambassador at the Court of Charles the Second, 1892, p. 58, and Shakespeare en France,
1898, p. 107.

l. 19. In toto nusquam. Ovid, Amores, i. 5. 18.

Page 194, l. 4. Milton died November 8: see Masson, Life of Milton, vol. vi, p. 731.

58. To which is added, An Account of his Life.... London: Printed in the Year, 1694. (p. xxxvi.)

'The Life of Mr. John Milton' (pp. i-xliv) serves as introduction to this little volume of
State Papers. It is the first life of Milton. Edward Phillips (1630-96) was the son of Milton's
sister, and was educated by him. Unfortunately he failed to take proper advantage of his great
opportunity. The Life is valuable for some of its details, but as a whole it is disappointing;
and it makes no attempt at characterization. The note on Milton in his Theatrum Poetarum, or
a Compleat Collection of the Poets, 1675, is also disappointing.

59. With the Life of the Author, and a Discourse on the Poem. By J.R. Sen. London: M.DCC.XXXIV.
(pp. iii-v; xciv; c; cxiv.)

Jonathan Richardson (1665-1745) was one of the chief portrait-painters of his time. There are
portraits by him of Pope, Steele, and Prior--all now in the National Portrait Gallery; and
his writings on painting were standard works till the time of Reynolds. His book on Milton
was an excursion late in life, with the assistance of his son, into another field of criticism.
His introductory life of Milton (pp. i-cxliii) is a substantial piece of work, and is valuable
as containing several anecdotes that might otherwise have been lost. Those that bear on Milton's
character are here reproduced. The typographical eccentricities have been preserved.

Page 194, ll. 28 ff. Edward Millington's place of business was 'at the Pelican in Duck Lane'
in 1670; from Michaelmas, 1671, it was 'at the Bible in Little Britain' (see Arber's Term Catalogues,
vol. i, pp. 31, 93). It was about 1680 that he turned auctioneer of books, though he did not
wholly abandon publishing. 'There was usually as much Comedy in his "Once, Twice, Thrice",
as can be met with in a modern Play.' See the Life and Errors of John Dunton, ed. 1818, pp.
235-6. He died at Cambridge in 1703.

Page 196, l. 4. Dr. Tancred Robinson (d. 1748), physician to George I, and knighted by him.

l. 10. Henry Bendish (d. 1740), son of Bridget Ireton or Bendish, Cromwell's granddaughter:
see Letters of John Hughes, ed. John Duncombe, vol. ii (1773), pp. x, xlii.

l. 14. John Thurloe (1616-68), Secretary of State under Cromwell. Compare No. 38 note.

l. 25. 'Easy my unpremeditated verse', Paradise Lost, ix. 24.

60.

The Works of M'r Abraham Cowley. Consisting of Those which were formerly Printed: and Those
which he Design'd for the Press, Now Published out of the Authors Original Copies. London,
1668.--'Several Discourses by way of Essays, in Verse and Prose,' No. II. (pp. 143-6.)

Cowley's Essays were written towards the close of his life. They were 'left scarce finish'd',
and many others were to have been added to them. They were first published posthumously in
the collected edition of 1668, under the superintendence of Thomas Sprat (see No. 61). This
edition, which alone is authoritative, has been followed in the present reprint of the eleventh
and last Essay, probably written at the beginning of 1667.

Page 198, l. 1. at School, Westminster.

ll. 19 ff. The concluding stanzas of 'A Vote', printed in Cowley's Sylva, 1636. Cowley was
then aged eighteen. The first stanza contains three new readings, 'The unknown' for 'Th' ignote',
'I would have' for 'I would hug', and 'Not on' for 'Not from'.

Page 199, l. 15. out of Horace, Odes, iii. 29. 41-5.

Page 200, l. 4. immediately. The reading in the text of 1668 is 'irremediably', but 'immediately'
is given as the correct reading in the 'Errata' (printed on a slip that is pasted in at the
conclusion of Cowley's first preface). The edition of 1669 substitutes 'immediately' in the
text. The alteration must be accepted on Sprat's authority, but it is questionable if it gives
a better sense.

ll. 6-10. Cowley was admitted to Trinity College, Cambridge, as a Westminster scholar on June
14, 1637. He was admitted Minor Fellow in 1640, and graduated M.A. in 1643. He was ejected
in the following year as a result of the Earl of Manchester's commission to enforce the solemn
League and Covenant in Cambridge. See Cowley's Pure Works, ed. J.R. Lumby, pp. ix-xiii, and
Johnson's Lives of the Poets, ed. G.B. Hill, vol. i, p. 5.

ll. 9, 10. Cedars ... Hyssop. I Kings, iv. 33.

l. 12. one of the best Persons, Henry Jermyn, created Baron Jermyn, 1643, and Earl of St. Albans,
1660, chief officer of Henrietta Maria's household in Paris: see Clarendon, vol. iv, p. 312.
He told Sprat that he intended to dedicate all his Essays to St. Albans 'as a testimony of
his entire respects to him'.

Page 201, l. 10. Well then. The opening lines of 'The Wish', included in The Mistress, 1647
(ed. 1668, pp. 22-3).

ll. 14 ff. At the instance of Jermyn, Cowley had been promised by both Charles I and Charles
II the mastership of the Savoy Hospital, but the post was given in 1660 to Sheldon, and in
1663, on Sheldon's promotion to the Archbishopric of Canterbury, to Henry Killigrew: see W.J.
Loftie, Memorials of the Savoy, 1878, pp. 145 ff., and Wood, Fasti Oxonienses, ed. Bliss, part
I, col. 494. In the Calendar of State Papers, Domestic Series, 1661-2, p. 210, there is the
statement of the case of Abraham Cowley, 'showing that the place may be held by a person not
a divine, and that Cowley ... having seen all preferments given away, and his old University
companions advanced before him, is put to great shame by missing this place'. He is called
'Savoy missing Cowley' in the Restoration Session of the Poets, printed in Poems on State Affairs.

l. 21. Thou, neither. In the ode entitled 'Destinie', Pindarique Odes, 1656 (ed. 1668, p. 31,
'That neglected').

l. 28. A Corps perdu, misprinted A Corps perdi, edd. 1668, 1669, A Corpus perdi, 1672, 1674,
&c.; Perdue, Errata, 1668.

Page 202, l. 1. St. Luke, xii. 16-21.

ll. 3-5. Having languish'd under this for some months, he seem'd to be pretty well cur'd of
its ill Symptomes. In the Latin life prefixed to Cowley's Poemata Latina, 1668, Sprat is more
specific: 'Initio superioris Anni, inciderat in Morbum, quem Medici Diabeten appellant.'

l. 6. Non ego. Horace, Odes, ii. 17. 9, 10.

ll. 11 ff. Nec vos. These late Latin verses may be Cowley's own, but they are not in his collected
Latin poems. Compare Virgil, Georgics, ii. 485-6. 'Syluæq;' = 'Sylvæque': 'q;' was a regular
contraction for que: cf. p. 44, l. 6.

61.

The Works of Mr. Abraham Cowley, 1668.--'An Account of the Life and Writings of M'r Abraham
Cowley'. (pp. [18]-[20].)

Thomas Sprat (1635-1713), author of The History of the Royal-Society, 1667, afterwards Bishop
of Rochester, 1684, was entrusted by Cowley's will with 'the revising of all his Works that
were formerly printed, and the collecting of those Papers which he had design'd for the Press';
and as literary executor he brought out in 1668 a folio edition of the English works, and an
octavo edition of the Latin works. To both he prefixed a life, one in English and the other
in Latin. The more elaborate English life was written partly in the hope that 'a Character
of Mr. Cowley may be of good advantage to our Nation'. Unfortunately the ethical bias has injured
the biography. His method is the more to be regretted as no one knew Cowley better in his later
years. His greatest error of judgement was to suppress his large collection of Cowley's letters.
But with all its faults Sprat's Life of Cowley occupies an important place at the beginning
of English biography of men of letters. It is the earliest substantial life of a poet whose
reputation rested on his poetry. Fulke Greville's life of Sir Philip Sidney was the life of
a soldier and a statesman of promise; and to Izaak Walton, Donne was not so much a poet as
a great Churchman.

In the edition of 1668 the life of Cowley runs to twenty-four folio pages. The passage here
selected deals directly with his character.

Page 203, ll. 25-7. It is evidently the impression of a stranger at first sight that Aubrey
gives in his short note: 'A.C. discoursed very ill and with hesitation' (ed. A. Clark, vol.
i, p. 190).

62.

A Character of King Charles the Second: And Political, Moral and Miscellaneous Thoughts and
Reflections. By George Savile, Marquis of Halifax. London: MDCCL.

Halifax's elaborate and searching account of Charles II was first published in 1750 'from his
original Manuscripts, in the Possession of his Grand-daughter Dorothy Countess of Burlington'.
It consists of seven parts: I. Of his Religion; II. His Dissimulation; III. His Amours, Mistresses,
&c.; IV. His Conduct to his Ministers; V. Of his Wit and Conversation; VI. His Talents, Temper,
Habits, &c.; VII. Conclusion. Only the second, fifth, and sixth are given here. The complete
text is reprinted in Sir Walter Raleigh's Works of Halifax, 1912, pp. 187-208.

For other characters of Charles, in addition to the two by Burnet which follow, see Evelyn's
Diary, February 4, 1685; Dryden's dedication of King Arthur, 1691; 'A Short Character of King
Charles the II' by John Sheffield, Earl of Mulgrave, Duke of Buckingham, 'Printed from the
Original Copy' in Miscellaneous Works Written by George, late Duke of Buckingham, ed. Tho.
Brown, vol. ii, 1705, pp. 153-60, and with Pope's emendations in Works, 1723, vol. ii, pp.
57-65; and James Welwood's Memoirs Of the Most Material Transactions in England, for the Last
Hundred Years, Preceding the Revolution, 1700, pp. 148-53.

For Halifax himself, see No. 72.

Page 208, l. 12. An allusion to the Quarrel of the Ancients and Moderns, which assumed prominence
in England with the publication in 1690 of Sir William Temple's Essay upon the Ancient and
Modern Learning. Compare Burnet, p. 223, l. 11 and note.

PAGE 209, l. 29. Ruelle. Under Louis XIV it was the custom for ladies of fashion to receive
morning visitors in their bedrooms; hence ruelle, the passage by the side of a bed, came to
mean a ladies' chamber. Compare The Spectator, Nos. 45 and 530.

Page 211, l. 2. Tiendro cuydado, evidently an imperfect recollection of the phrase se tendrá
cuydado, 'care will be taken', 'the matter will have attention': compare Cortes de Madrid,
1573, Peticion 96,... 'se tendrá cuidado de proueher en ello lo que conuiniere'.

Page 212, ll. 7, 8. Also, Evelyn's Diary, February 4, 1685: 'a lover of the sea, and skilful
in shipping; not affecting other studies, yet he had a laboratory and knew of many empirical
medicines, and the easier mechanical mathematics.' Also, Buckingham, ed. Also, Burnet, infra,
p. 219.

Page 213, l. 10. 11 ff. Compare Welwood's Memoirs, p. 149.

63.

Bishop Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. From the Restoration of King Charles II. to
the Settlement of King William and Queen Mary at the Revolution. London: 1724. (pp. 93-4.)

Burnet began his History of His Own Time in 1683, after the publication of his History of the
Reformation. In its original form it partook largely of the nature of Memoirs. But on the appearance
of Clarendon's History in 1702 he was prompted to recast his entire narrative on a method that
confined the strictly autobiographical matter to a section by itself and as a whole assured
greater dignity. The part dealing with the reign of Charles II was rewritten by August 1703.
The work was brought down to 1713 and completed in that year. Two years later Burnet died,
leaving instructions that it was not to be printed till six years after his death.

The History was published in two folio volumes, dated 1724 and 1734. The first, which contains
the reigns of Charles II and James II, came out at the end of 1723 and was edited by Burnet's
second son, Gilbert Burnet, then rector of East Barnet. The second volume was edited by his
third son, Thomas Burnet, afterwards a Judge of the Court of Common Pleas. The complete autograph
of the History, and the transcript which was prepared for the press under the author's directions,
are now both in the Bodleian Library.

The original form of the work survives in two transcripts (one of them with Burnet's autograph
corrections) in the Harleian collection in the British Museum, and in a fragment of Burnet's
original manuscript in the Bodleian. The portions of this original version that differ materially
from the final printed version were published in 1902 by Miss H.C. Foxcroft under the title
A Supplement to Burnet's History.

Much of the interest of the earlier version lies in the characters, which are generally longer
than they became on revision, and sometimes contain details that were suppressed. But in a
volume of representative selections, where the art of a writer is as much our concern as his
matter, the preference must be given to what Burnet himself intended to be final. The extracts
are reprinted from the two volumes edited by his sons. There was not the same reason to go
direct to his manuscript as to Clarendon's: see notes p. 231, l. 26; p. 252, l. 10; and p.
255, l. 6.

64.

Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. (pp. 611-3.)

Burnet's two characters of Charles II are in striking agreement with the more elaborate study
by Halifax.

Page 221, ll. 1 ff. Compare Halifax, p. 216, ll. 10 ff.

l. 14. his Chancellor, Clarendon.

Page 222, l. 16. he became cruel. This statement was attacked by Roger North, Lives of the
Norths, ed. 1890, vol. i, p. 330: 'whereas some of our barbarous writers call this awaking
of the king's genius to a sedulity in his affairs, a growing cruel, because some suffered for
notorious treasons, I must interpret their meaning; which is a distaste, because his majesty
was not pleased to be undone as his father was; and accordingly, since they failed to wound
his person and authority, they fell to wounding his honour.' Buckingham says, 'He was an Illustrious
Exception to all the Common Rules of Phisiognomy; for with a most Saturnine harsh sort of Countenance,
he was both of a Merry and a Merciful Disposition' (ed. 1705, p. 159); with which compare Welwood,
ed. 1700, p. 149. The judicial verdict had already been pronounced by Halifax: see p. 216,
ll. 23 ff.

ll. 21-3. See Burnet, ed. Osmund Airy, vol. i, p. 539, for the particular reference. The scandal
was widespread, but groundless.

Page 223, l. 9. the war of Paris, the Fronde. See Clarendon, vol. v, pp. 243-5.

ll. 11 ff. Compare Buckingham, ed. 1705, p. 157: 'Witty in all sorts of Conversation; and telling
a Story so well, that, not out of Flattery, but the Pleasure of hearing it, we seem'd Ignorant
of what he had repeated to us Ten Times before; as a good Comedy will bear the being often
seen.' Also Halifax, p. 208, ll. 7-14.

l. 17. John Wilmot (1647-80), second Earl of Rochester, son of Henry Wilmot, first Earl (No.
32). G.B. Hill, vol. i, p. 222).

ll. 25 ff. The resemblance to Tiberius was first pointed out in print in Welwood's Memoirs,
p. 152, which appeared twenty-four years before Burnet's History. But Welwood was indebted
to Burnet. He writes as if they had talked about it; or he might have seen Burnet's early manuscript.

65.

Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. (pp. 94-5.)

The author of most of the characters in this volume himself deserves a fuller character. The
main portions of Burnet's original sketch (1683) are therefore given here, partly by way of
supplement, and partly to illustrate the nature of Burnet's revision (1703):

'The great man with the king was chancellor Hyde, afterwards made Earl of Clarendon. He had
been in the beginning of the long parliament very high against the judges upon the account
of the ship-money and became then a considerable man; he spake well, his style had no flaw
in it, but had a just mixture of wit and sense, only he spoke too copiously; he had a great
pleasantness in his spirit, which carried him sometimes too far into raillery, in which he
sometimes shewed more wit than discretion. He went over to the court party when the war was
like to break out, and was much in the late king's councils and confidence during the war,
though he was always of the party that pressed the king to treat, and so was not in good terms
with the queen. The late king recommended him to this king as the person on whose advices he
wished him to rely most, and he was about the king all the while that he was beyond sea, except
a little that he was ambassador in Spain; he managed all the king's correspondences in England,
both in the little designs that the cavaliers were sometimes engaged in, and chiefly in procuring
money for the king's subsistence, in which Dr. Sheldon was very active; he had nothing so much
before his eyes as the king's service and doated on him beyond expression: he had been a sort
of governor to him and had given him many lectures on the politics and was thought to assume
and dictate too much ... But to pursue Clarendon's character: he was a man that knew England
well, and was lawyer good enough to be an able chancellor, and was certainly a very incorrupt
man. In all the king's foreign negotiations he meddled too much, for I have been told that
he had not a right notion of foreign matters, but he could not be gained to serve the interests
of other princes. Mr. Fouquet sent him over a present of 10,000 pounds after the king's restoration
and assured him he would renew that every year, but though both the king and the duke advised
him to take it he very worthily refused it. He took too much upon him and meddled in everything,
which was his greatest error. He fell under the hatred of most of the cavaliers upon two accounts.
The one was the act of indemnity which cut off all their hopes of repairing themselves of the
estates of those that had been in the rebellion, but he said it was the offer of the indemnity
that brought in the king and it was the observing of it that must keep him in, so he would
never let that be touched, and many that had been deeply engaged in the late times having expiated
it by their zeal of bringing home the king were promoted by his means, such as Manchester,
Anglesey, Orrery, Ashley, Holles, and several others. The other thing was that, there being
an infinite number of pretenders to employments and rewards for their services and sufferings,
so that the king could only satisfy some few of them, he upon that, to stand between the king
and the displeasure which those disappointments had given, spoke slightly of many of them and
took it upon him that their petitions were not granted; and some of them having procured several
warrants from the secretaries for the same thing (the secretaries considering nothing but their
fees), he who knew on whom the king intended that the grant should fall, took all upon him,
so that those who were disappointed laid the blame chiefly if not wholly upon him. He was apt
to talk very imperiously and unmercifully, so that his manner of dealing with people was as
provoking as the hard things themselves were; but upon the whole matter he was a true Englishman
and a sincere protestant, and what has passed at court since his disgrace has sufficiently
vindicated him from all ill designs' (Supplement, ed. Foxcroft, pp. 53-6).

There is a short character of Clarendon in Warwick's Mémoires, pp. 196-8; compare also Pepys's
Diary, October 13, 1666, and Evelyn's Diary, August 27, 1667, and September 18, 1683.

66.

Clarendon, MS. Life, pp. 638-9; Continuation of the Life of Edward Earl of Clarendon, ed. 1759,
pp. 51-2.

Page 226, l. 8. He was released from Windsor Castle in March 1660. Compare Burnet's character,
p. 228, ll. 2-4.

l. 19. the Chancellour, i.e. Clarendon himself.

Page 227, ll. 5 ff. John Middleton (1619-74), created Earl of Middleton, 1656. He was taken
prisoner at Worcester, but escaped to France. As Lord High Commissioner for Scotland and Commander-in-chief,
he was mainly responsible for the unfortunate methods of forcing episcopacy on Scotland.

William Cunningham (1610-64), ninth Earl of Glencairn, Lord Chancellor of Scotland.

John Leslie (1630-81), seventh Earl and first Duke of Rothes, President of the Council in Scotland;
Lord Chancellor, 1667.

On the composition of the ministry in Scotland, compare Burnet, ed. Osmund Airy, vol. i, pp.
199, ff.

67.

Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. (pp. 101-2.)

We are fortunate in having companion characters of Lauderdale by Clarendon and Burnet. Their
point of view is different. Clarendon describes the Lauderdale of the Restoration who is climbing
to power and is officially his inferior. Burnet looks back on him at the height of power and
remembers how it was made to be felt. But the two characters have a strong likeness. Burnet
is here seen at his best.

Page 228, ll. 14-17. Compare Roger North's Lives of the Norths, ed. 1890, vol. i, p. 231: 'the
duke himself, being also learned, having a choice library, took great pleasure ... in hearing
him talk of languages and criticism'. Compare also Evelyn's Diary, August 27, 1678. His library
was dispersed by auction--the French, Italian, and Spanish books on May 14, and the English
books on May 27, 1690: copies of the sale catalogues are in the Bodleian. The catalogue of
his manuscripts, 1692, is printed in the Bannatyne Miscellany, vol. ii, 1836, p. 149.

l. 30. As Professor of Theology in the University of Glasgow Burnet had enjoyed the favour
of Lauderdale, and had dedicated to him, in fulsome terms, A Vindication of the Church and
State of Scotland. The break came suddenly, and with no apparent cause, in 1673, when Burnet
was appointed royal chaplain and was winning the ears of the King. Henceforward Lauderdale
continued a 'violent enemy'. Their relations at this time are described in Clarke and Foxcroft's
Life of Gilbert Burnet, 1907, pp. 109 ff., where Burnet's concluding letter of December 15,
1673, is printed in full.

Page 229, ll. 2-7. Richard Baxter delivered himself to Lauderdale in a long letter about his
lapse from his former professions of piety--'so fallne from all that can be called serious
religion, as that sensuality and complyance with sin is your ordinary course.' The letter (undated,
but before 1672) is printed in The Landerdale Papers, ed. Osmund Airy, Camden Society, vol.
iii, 1885, pp. 235-9.

ll. 8-12. 'The broad and pungent wit, and the brutal bonhomie.. probably went as far as anything
else in securing Charles's favour.' Osmund Airy, Burnet's History, vol. i, p. 185.

68.

Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. (pp. 96-7.)

Page 230, l. 14. He was chosen for Tewkesbury in March 1640, but he did not sit in the Long
Parliament.

l. 18, a town, Weymouth: see p. 70, l. 21 note. He had been appointed governor of it in August
1643 after some dispute, but was shortly afterwards removed (Clarendon, vol. iii, pp. 163-5, 362).

