At this moment Rustem rode up. The King gave him a place at his right hand, and asked him of
his welfare. Rustem, for answer, gave him the letter of Kei-Kaöus. When the King had read the
letter, his face became black as thunder. Then he said, "Carry back this answer to your master:
'You are lord of Persia, and I of Mazanderan. Be content; seek not that which is not yours.
Otherwise your pride will lead you to your fall.'"

The King would have given Rustem royal gifts, robes of honor, and horses, and gold. But the
hero would have none of them, but went away in anger. When he had returned to the King of Persia,
he said to him, "Fear nothing, but make ready for battle. As for the warriors of this land
of Mazanderan, they are nothing; I count them no better than a grain of dust."

Meanwhile the king of the magicians prepared for war. He gathered an army, horsemen and foot-soldiers
and elephants, that covered the face of the earth, and approached the borders of Persia; and,
on the other hand, King Kaoüs marshaled his men of war and went out to encounter him. The King
himself took his place in the center of the line of battle, and in front of all stood the great
Rustem.

One of the nobles of Mazanderan came out of their line, with a great club in his hands, and
approaching the Persian army, cried in a loud voice, "Who is ready to fight with me? He should
be one who is able to change water into dust."

None of the Persian nobles answered him, and King Kaoüs said, "Why is it, ye men of war, that
your faces are troubled, and your tongues silent before this Genius?"

But still the nobles made no answer. Then Rustem caught the rein of his horse, and, putting
the point of his lance over his shoulder, rode up to the King, and said, "Will the King give
me permission to fight with this Genius?"

The King said, "The task is worthy of you, for none of the Persians dare to meet this warrior.
Go and prosper!"

So Rustem set spurs to Raksh, and rode against the warrior who had challenged the Persians.

"Hear," he said, as soon as he came near, "your name is blotted out of the list of the living;
for the moment is come when you shall suffer the recompense of all your misdeeds."

The warrior answered, "Boast not yourself so proudly. My sword makes mothers childless."

When Rustem heard this, he cried with a voice of thunder, "I am Rustem!" and the warrior, who
had no desire to fight the champion of the world, turned his back and fled. But Rustem pursued
him, and thrust at him with his lance where the belt joins the coat of mail, and pierced him
through, for the armor could not turn the point of the great spear. Then he lifted him out
of his saddle, and raised him up in the air, as if he were a bird which a man had run through
with a spit. This done, he dashed him down dead upon the ground, and all the nobles of Mazanderan
stood astonished at the sight.

After this the two armies joined battle. The air grew dark, and the flashing of the swords
and clubs flew like the lightning out of a thunder-cloud, and the mountains trembled with the
cries of the combatants. Never had any living man seen so fierce a fight before.

For seven days the battle raged, and neither the one side nor the other could claim the victory.
On the eighth day King Kaoüs bowed himself before God, taking his crown from his head, and
prayed with his face to the ground, saying, "O Lord God, give me, I beseech thee, the victory
over the Genii who fear thee not."

