As often as a scrawl came from Colonel Ames reporting progress, and the plans he and his sister
were making, the deeds they were doing, the grand-jury was sworn and the surgeon arraigned
before it; the chief justice came into court, and all the witnesses, and the accusation was
read. Then the counsel for the defendant and the counsel for the plaintiff appeared. But, with
every new trial of the case, new charges and new specifications were brought forward and made,
and it was equal to being in chancery. If the war lasted through a generation, it was likely
that the surgeon's suit would last as long.

This was as notable a divorce case as ever was made public.

On the plaintiff's behalf the argument ran thus: Here was a man, a gentleman by birth, education,
and profession, legally united to a woman low-born, low-bred, and so ignorant that she could
neither read nor write. He had come to the neighborhood where she lived, to the door of the
very house she occupied, sick in body and in mind. Disappointments and ill-health had reduced
him to the shadow of himself in person, and his mind, of course, shared his body's disaffection.

A sick person, as all experience in practice has proved over and over again, is hardly to be
called a responsible being. Invalids love and hate without reason,--which is contrary, he said,
as he stood in the presence of the court,--contrary to what is done among persons in sound health.

Under the shelter of her uncle's roof he had lain for weeks, sick of a fever. He was saved
alive, but so as by fire. This girl waited on him through that time as a servant. He was thrown
chiefly on her hands,--no other person could be spared to wait on the poor stranger. She comforted
him. Her ways were not refined and gentle as if she had been taught refinement and tenderness
by precept or example. She had strong good-sense. So far as she understood his orders, she
obeyed them. When he could not give any, she made use of her own judgment, and sought first
of all his comfort. She was kind. In her rough honesty and unwearied attention he found cause
for gratitude.

Rising for the first time from his bed of sickness, he would have fallen if she had not lifted
him and laid him back upon his bed. When he became strong enough to stand, but not without
support, she gave him that support. She assisted him from the little room, and the little house
when the walls became intolerable to him, and it happened to be in the early morning of a day
so magnificent that it seemed another could never be made like it. He could not forget how
the world looked that morning; how the waters shone; how the islands stood about; how the surrounding
hills were arrayed in purple glory; how the birds sang. This land to which he was a stranger,
which he had seen before only on that night when he came in the dark to her uncle's door, looked
like Paradise to him; he gazed and gazed, and silent tears ran down his pale face through the
furrows of his wasted cheeks. She saw them shining in his beard, and said something to soothe
him in a comforting way, as any woman would have spoken who saw any creature in weakness and
pain. The manner or the word, whatever it was, expressed a superiority of health, if of no
other kind, and he was in no condition to investigate either its quality or its degree.

When, with voice feeble and broken as a sick child's, he thanked her for all she had done,
and she answered that it was nothing but a pleasure, and he need not thank her, he did not
forthwith forget that she had watched day and night over him for nearly two months; that many
a time weariness so overpowered her that she sat and slept in the broad daylight, and looked
paler than when he lay like a dead weight on her hands.

He remembered in court, and could not deny it, that when, believing that this was destiny as
it was also pleasure, he asked the girl to marry him, she answered, "No,"--as if she did not
trust what he said, that she was necessary to his happiness. She told him that he did not belong
in Dalton, and that he would not be happy there with her and her people. He answered that all
he desired to know was whether she loved him. By and by he was able to gather from the answers
she gave, as well as failed to give, all he desired to know, and they were married.

And, since he was beginning life anew, it was shown in court, nothing of the old life should
enter into this of Dalton. He buried his profession in the past, and undertook other labors,--labors
like those of Uncle Elkins; he would abide on that level where he found himself on his recovery,
and make no effort to lift his wife to that he had renounced. She was a child of Nature. He
would learn life anew of her; but he failed of success in all his undertakings. Shall a man
attempt to extenuate his failures? It seemed new to him; he acknowledged it in open court,
that from the day of his entrance into Dalton to the day he left it, he was under some enchantment
there. And if an insane man is not to be held responsible in law for his offences, he had the
amplest title to a quitclaim deed from that which had grown out of the Dalton experience.

So the lower courts disposed of the case. He was free. But after a time the suit was carried
up before superior powers, and thus the advocate for the defendant showed cause on the new trial.

She was living among the people of whom she had been born. In person she was attractive as
any girl to be found on all the lake or hillside; a rosy-cheeked, fair-faced, fair-haired blue-eyed
girl, with a frank voice and easy address. She had a "Hail fellow! well met!" for every man,
woman, and child of the vicinity. She had lovers, all the way up from her childhood, rustic
admirers, and one who looked at her from a not far distance, who dressed himself in his best
and went to her uncle's house on Sundays and other holidays, and who was courting Nancy after
his fashion, with all plans for their future marked out fully in his mind,--and these would
have fulfilment if his suit were only successful; and in regard to that he had no fears or doubts.

Until this stranger came to Uncle Elkins's house! During his long sickness the young lover
was helpful in many ways to Nancy. But he began to be suspicious by and by of the results of
this much waiting. At last, before he was himself ready to do it, he asked Nancy to be his
wife; but he was too late. She had "given her word" to the poor fellow whom she had lured back
from Death's door.

The court was admonished to take cognizance of this fact, that, if Nancy had married the man
in whom her heart had been interested up to the time when the stranger came, she would have
married in her own sphere, a man of her own rank, and would have loved him as he did her, with
an equal love; they would have lived out their lives, animating them with skirmishes and small
warfare, and winning victories over each other, which would have proved disastrous as defeats
to neither.

It would have been no high crime to such a man that Nancy was ignorant up and down through
the range of knowledge; he would not have turned away in disgust from his endeavors to teach
her, if she took it into her head to learn, though she dropped and regained the ambition through
every winter of her life. He would have plodded on in his accustomed ways, would have protected
his wife and child from starvation and cold, without imagining that a husband and father could
retire from his position as such, or abrogate his duties. No vague expectations in regard to
herself, no bitter disappointment in regard to him, would have attended her. The very changes
in her character, which had made her not to be endured,--how far was he whose name she bore
responsible for them? She had been accustomed to thrift and labor, she saw in him idleness
and waste of power and life. She had exhausted the resources readiest to her hand in vain,
and had only then given up her expectation.

It was not be denied that it was humiliation and wrath to live with her; but her husband had
sought her,--she had not sought him! If he could plead for himself the force and constraint
of circumstances, should not the same defence be set up for her? And what might not patience,
and better management, and gentler and more noble demeanor towards her, have done for her?
Was he the same man he was when he went away from Dalton? Was he the same man in Dalton that
he had been in his youth? Was it not out of the pit that he himself had been digged? It became
evident that the arguments for the defendant were producing a result in court. The judge on
his throne, as well as the grand-jury, listened to the argument in favor of the woman. And
at last the case was decided; for the judge charged the jury, that, if it could be shown that
there was mere incompatibility, it was the business of the superior mind to make straight a
highway for the Lord across those lives. Let every valley be exalted, every hill be brought low.

Dr. Saunders acquiesced in this verdict, and wrote a letter to his wife. He knew she could
not read it, but he knew also that she could procure it to be read to her. He filled it with
accounts of his situation, occupation, expectation; and he sent her money. He said that, if
he could get a furlough, he might run up North for a few days, as other men went home who could
get leave of absence, to see that those whom he had left behind him were doing well; and they
would both perhaps be able to go and see their daughter Jenny, or else they might have her
home for a holiday. He wrote a letter saying these things and others, and any wife might have
been proud to receive such from her husband, "in the war."

And when he had sent it, he looked for no answer. This was a kind of giving which must look
for no return. And yet an answer was sent him. He did not receive it, however, it was sent
at so late a date; he was then on his way to Dalton.

When the whistle of the miniature boat which plied the lake sent a warning along the hillside
that a passenger was on board who wished to land, or that mail was to be sent ashore, a small
boat was rowed from the Point by a lad who was lingering about, waiting to know if any such
signal were to come, and one passenger stood at the head of the ladder, waiting for him to
come alongside. This was Dr. Saunders, who, having been rowed ashore, walked three miles down
the road, and up along the mountain, to the Dalton neighborhood.

The first man whom he met as he walked on was the blacksmith, who had been instrumental in
getting Jenny's letter written. He was sitting in front of his shop, alone. There was nothing
about this man who was walking into Dalton to excite a suspicion in the mind of the shrewdest
old inhabitant who should meet him that his personality was familiar to Dalton eyes. He might
safely ask what questions he would, and pursue his way if he chose to do it. Nobody would recognize
him.

The doctor lingered as he went past the shop; but the blacksmith did not speak, and he walked
on; and he passed others, his old neighbors, as he went. This was hardly pleasant, though it
might be the thing he desired.

He walked on until he came to the red farm-gate of Farmer Elkins, Nancy's uncle. There he stopped.
Under the chestnut-trees, before the door, the farmer sat. The doctor walked in, and towards
him like a man at home, and said, "Good evening, Uncle."

The wrinkled old farmer looked up from his drowse. He had hardly heard the words spoken; but
the voice that spoke had in it a tone that was familiar, were it not for the cheeriness of
it; and--but no! one glance at the figure before him assured him of anything rather than Saunders!
Yet the old man, either because of his vague expectation or because of the confusion of his
half-awake condition, said something audibly, of which the name of Nancy, and her name alone,
was intelligible.

"Well, where is Nancy," said the other, laying his hand on the farmer's shoulder in a manner
calculated to dissipate his dream.

The old man looked at the doctor with serious, suspicious eyes, scanned him from head to foot,
and there was a dash of anger, of unbelief, of awe, and of deference in the spirit with which
he said, "If you're Saunders, I'm glad you've come, but you might 'a' come sooner."

"You're right, and you're wrong, Uncle. I'm Saunders, true enough. But I couldn't come before,--this
is my first furlough."

"Did you get the letter?"

"No, what letter? Who wrote to me?"

The judge and the jury looked down from the awful circle, in the midst of which stood Saunders,
and surveyed the little hard-faced, yellow-haired farmer, with eyes which seemed intent on
searching him through all his shadowy ambiguity. If only he would make such answer as any other
man in all the land might expect,--thought the prisoner,--"Why, your wife, of course." The
doctor was prepared to believe in a miracle. Since he went away his wife might have been spurred
on by the ambition to rival her daughter, who was being educated. She perhaps had learned to
write, and in her pride had written to her husband!

The answer Elkins gave was the only one of which the doctor's mind had taken no thought.

"Nancy died a month ago." There the old man paused. But as the doctor made no answer, merely
stood looking at him, he went on. "She got your letter first, though, Nancy did. I think, if
anything could a-hindered her dying, that would. She came out here to read your letter," (he
did not say to hear it read, and Saunders noticed that,) "and my folks, she found, was busy,
and nobody was round to talk it over with her, so nothing could stop her, but she put right
in and worked till night, and on top o' that she would go back to the village, and it was raining,
and so dark you could scurce see the road; but she'd made up her mind to go South and find
you, and so we couldn't persuade her to stop over night. But the next day, when she come back
to tell us when she was going to start for Dixie, she was took down right here, that suddin.
There's been a good deal of that sickness round here sense, and fatalish, most always. But
I tell 'em it took the smartest of the lot off first, when it took Nancy."

The doctor stood there when the teller of this story had stopped speaking. He was not looking
at him,--of that the old man was certain. He seemed to be looking nowhere, and to see nothing
that was near or visible.

"Come into the house and take something," said Uncle Elkins, for he began to be alarmed.

"Was Janet here?" asked the doctor, as if he had not heard the invitation.

"We had to send for her. Nancy was calling for her all the time," said Farmer Elkins, as if
he doubted how far this story ought to be continued, for he did not understand the man before
him. He only knew that once he had fallen down on his door-step, and lain helpless beneath
his roof hard on to two months; and he watched him now as if he anticipated some renewal of
that old attack,--and there was no Nancy now to nurse, and watch, and slave herself to death
for him; for that was the way folk in the house were talking about Nancy and her husband in
these days.

"Did she get here in time? Who went after her?"

"The minister went. We had 'em here a fortnight,--well on to 't."

"What, the minister, too?"

"No, I mean the young woman who come from Charlestown with Jenny. Her name was--" He paused
long, endeavoring to recall that name. It trembled on the doctor's lips, but he did not utter
it. At last said Farmer Elkins, "There! it was Miss Amey,--Amey? Yes. She took the little girl
back hum with her. It was right in there, in the room where you had that spell of fever of
yourn. She got you well through that! Ef anything could 'a' brought her through that turn,
your letter would. It came across my mind once that, as she'd saved your life, may be you was
going to save hern by that are letter! And she was so determined to get to your hospital!"

"Thank God she got the letter, any way!" exclaimed the doctor.

At that the old man walked into the house to set its best cheer before Nancy's husband, who
looked so much like a mourner as he stood there under the trees, with the bitter recollections
of the past overwhelming every other thought and feeling of the present.

Because it seemed to him that he could not sleep under old Elkins's roof that night, he remained
there and slept there,--in the room where his fever ran its course,--in the room where Nancy died.

Because this story of the last months of her life was as gall and wormwood to him, he refused
it not, but went over it with his wife's relations, and helped them spread a decent pall, according
to the custom of mourners; over what had been.

Was he endeavoring to deceive himself and others into the belief that he was a mourning man?
He was but accepting the varied humiliations of death; for they do not all pertain to the surrendering
life. He was not thinking at all of his loss through her, nor of his gain by her. He was thinking,
as he stood above the grave of fifteen years, how high Disgrace and Misery had heaped the mound.
So bitterly he was thinking of the past, it was without desire that he at last arose and faced
the future.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he went to Charlestown--for a man on furlough had no time to lose--and saw his Janet in
the Colonel's house,--Miss Ames took Janet home with her after that death and funeral,--when
he saw how fair and beautiful a promise of girlhood was budding on the poor neglected branch,
he said to his assistant, "Will you keep this child with you until the war is over? I am afraid
to touch her, or interfere with her destiny. It has been so easy for me to mar, so hard to mend."

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Ames kept the child; the war ended. The surgeon then, like other men, returned home; his
regiments were disbanded, and now, one duty, to mankind and the ages, well discharged, another,
less conspicuous, but as urgent, claimed him. There was Janet, and Janet's mother,--she who
had risen, not from the grave indeed, but from the midst of dangers, sacredly to guard and
guide the child.

On his way to them he asked himself this question, "How many times must a man be born before
he is fit to live?"

He did not answer that question; neither can I.

He informed his assistant of the court's decision in reference to the plea of "incompatibility,"
and she said that the justice of the sentence was not to be controverted with success by any
counsellor on earth; but the reader may smile, and say that it was not difficult to come to
this decision under the circumstances.

We will not argue that point. I had only the story to tell, and have told it.

ON TRANSLATING THE DIVINA COMMEDIA.

THIRD SONNET.

WOMAN'S WORK IN THE MIDDLE AGES.

Sir Bedivere's heart misgave him twice ere he could obey the dying commands of King Arthur,
and fling away so precious a relic. The lonely maiden's industry has been equalled by many
of her mortal sisters, sitting, not indeed "upon the hidden bases of the hills," but in all
the varied human habitations built above them since the days of King Arthur.

The richness, beauty, and skill displayed in the needle-work of the Middle Ages demonstrate
the perfection that art had attained; while church inventories, wills, and costumes represented
in the miniatures of illuminated manuscripts and elsewhere, amaze us by the quantity as well
as the quality of this department of woman's work. Though regal robes and heavy church vestments
were sometimes wrought by monks, yet to woman's taste and skill the greater share of the result
must be attributed, the professional hands being those of nuns and their pupils in convents.
The life of woman in those days was extremely monotonous. For the mass of the people, there
hardly existed any means of locomotion, the swampy state of the land in England and on the
Continent allowing few roads to be made, except such as were traversed by pack-horses. Ladies
of rank who wished to journey were borne on litters carried upon men's shoulders, and, until
the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, few representations of carriages appear. Such a conveyance
is depicted in an illustration of the Romance of the Rose, where Venus, attired in the fashionable
costume of the fifteenth century, is seated in a chare, by courtesy a chariot, but in fact
a clumsy covered wagon without springs. Six doves are perched upon the shafts, and fastened
by mediæval harness. The goddess of course possessed superhuman powers for guiding this extraordinary
equipage, but to mere mortals it must have been a slow coach, and a horribly uncomfortable
conveyance even when horses were substituted for doves. An ordinance of Philip le Bel, in 1294,
forbids any wheel carriages to be used by the wives of citizens, as too great a luxury. As
the date of the coach which Venus guides is two hundred years later, it is difficult to imagine
what style of equipage belonged to those ladies over whom Philip le Bel tyrannized.

With so little means of going about, our sisters of the Middle Ages were perforce domestic;
no wonder they excelled in needle-work. To women of any culture it was almost the only tangible
form of creative art they could command, and the love of the beautiful implanted in their souls
must find some expression. The great pattern-book of nature, filled with graceful forms, in
ever-varied arrangement, and illuminated by delicate tints or gorgeous hues, suggested the
beauty they endeavored to represent. Whether religious devotion, human affection, or a taste
for dress prompted them, the needle was the instrument to effect their purpose. The monogram
of the blessed Mary's name, intertwined with pure white lilies on the deep blue ground, was
designed and embroidered with holy reverence, and laid on the altar of the Lady-chapel by the
trembling hand of one whose sorrows had there found solace, or by another in token of gratitude
for joys which were heightened by a conviction of celestial sympathy. The pennon of the knight--a
silken streamer affixed to the top of the lance--bore his crest, or an emblematic allusion
to some event in his career, embroidered, it was supposed, by the hand of his lady-love. A
yet more sacred gift was the scarf worn across the shoulder, an indispensable appendage to
a knight fully equipped. The emotions of the human soul send an electric current through the
ages, and women who during four years of war toiled to aid our soldiers in the great struggle
of the nineteenth century felt their hearts beat in unison with hers who gave, with tears and
prayers, pennon and scarf to the knightly and beloved hero seven hundred years ago.

Not only were the appointments of the warriors adorned by needle-work, but the ladies must
have found ample scope for industry and taste in their own toilets. The Anglo-Saxon women as
far back as the eighth century excelled in needle-work, although, judging from the representations
which have come down to us, their dress was much less ornamented than that of the gentlemen.
During the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries there were few changes in fashion. A purple gown
or robe, with long yellow sleeves, and coverchief wrapt round the head and neck, frequently
appears, the edges of the long gown and sleeves being slightly ornamented by the needle. How
the ladies dressed their hair in those days is more difficult to decide, as the coverchief
conceals it. Crisping-needles to curl and plat the hair, and golden hair-cauls, are mentioned
in Saxon writings, and give us reason to suppose that the locks of the fair damsels were not
neglected. In the eleventh century the embroidery upon the long gowns becomes more elaborate,
and other changes of the mode appear.

From the report of an ancient Spanish ballad, the art of needle-work and taste in dress must
have attained great perfection in that country while our Anglo-Saxon sisters were wearing their
plain long gowns. The fair Sybilla is described as changing her dress seven times in one evening,
on the arrival of that successful and victorious knight, Prince Baldwin. First, she dazzles
him in blue and silver, with a rich turban; then appears in purple satin, fringed and looped
with gold, with white feathers in her hair; next, in green silk and emeralds; anon, in pale
straw-color, with a tuft of flowers; next, in pink and silver, with varied plumes, white, carnation,
and blue; then, in brown, with a splendid crescent. As the fortunate Prince beholds each transformation,
he is bewildered (as well he may be) to choose which array becomes her best; but when

    "Lastly in white she comes, and loosely
      Down in ringlets floats her hair,
    'O,' exclaimed the Prince, 'what beauty!
      Ne'er was princess half so fair.'"

Simplicity and natural grace carried the day after all, as they generally do with men of true
taste. "Woman is fine for her own satisfaction alone," says that nice observer of human nature,
Jane Austen. "Man only knows man's insensibility to a new gown." We hope, however, that the
dressmakers and tirewomen of the fair Sybilla, who had expended so much time and invention,
were handsomely rewarded by the Prince, since they must have been most accomplished needle-women
and handmaids to have got up their young lady in so many costumes and in such rapid succession.

A very odd fashion appears in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, of embroidering heraldic
devices on the long gowns of the ladies of rank. In one of the illuminations of a famous psalter,
executed for Sir Geoffery Loutterell, who died in 1345, that nobleman is represented armed
at all points, receiving from the ladies of his family his tilting helmet, shield, and pavon.
His coat of arms is repeated on every part of his own dress, and is embroidered on that of
his wife, who wears also the crest of her own family.

Marie de Hainault, wife of the first Duke of Bourbon, 1354, appears in a corsage and train
of ermine, with a very fierce-looking lion rampant embroidered twice on her long gown. Her
jewels are magnificent. Anne, Dauphine d'Auvergne, wife of Louis, second Duke of Bourbon, married
in 1371, displays an heraldic dolphin of very sinister aspect upon one side of her corsage,
and on the skirt of her long gown,--which, divided in the centre, seems to be composed of two
different stuffs, that opposite to the dolphin being powdered with fleurs de lis. Her circlet
of jewels is very elegant, and is worn just above her brow, while the hair is braided close
to the face. An attendant lady wears neither train nor jewels, but her dress is likewise formed
of different material, divided like that of the Dauphine. Six little parrots are emblazoned
on the right side, one on her sleeve, two on her corsage, and three on her skirt. The fashion
of embroidering armorial bearings on ladies' dresses must have given needle-women a vast deal
of work. It died out in the fifteenth century.

It was the custom in feudal times for knightly families to send their daughters to the castles
of their suzerain lords, to be trained to weave and embroider. The young ladies on their return
home instructed the more intelligent of their female servants in these arts. Ladies of rank
in all countries prided themselves upon the number of these attendants, and were in the habit
of passing the morning surrounded by their workwomen, singing the chansons à toile, as ballads
composed for these hours were called.

Estienne Jodelle, a French poet, 1573, addressed a fair lady whose cunning fingers plied the
needle in words thus translated:--

    "I saw thee weave a web with care,
    Where at thy touch fresh roses grew,
    And marvelled they were formed so fair,
    And that thy heart such nature knew.
    Alas! how idle my surprise,
    Since naught so plain can be:
    Thy cheek their richest hue supplies,
    And in thy breath their perfume lies;
    Their grace and beauty all are drawn from thee."

If needle-work had its poetry, it had also its reckonings. Old account-books bear many entries
of heavy payments for working materials used by industrious queens and indefatigable ladies
of rank. Good authorities state that, before the sixth century, all silk materials were brought
to Europe by the Seres, ancestors of the ancient Bokharians, whence it derived its name of
Serica. In 551, silk-worms were introduced by two monks into Constantinople, but the Greeks
monopolized the manufacture until 1130, when Roger, king of Sicily, returning from a crusade,
collected some Greek manufacturers, and established them at Palermo, whence the trade was disseminated
over Italy.

In the thirteenth century, Bruges was the great mart for silk. The stuffs then known were velvet,
satin (called samite), and taffeta,--all of which were stitched with gold or silver thread.
The expense of working materials was therefore very great, and royal ladies condescended to
superintend sewing-schools.

Editha, consort of Edward the Confessor, was a highly accomplished lady, who sometimes intercepted
the master of Westminster School and his scholars in their walks, questioning them in Latin.
She was also skilled in all feminine works, embroidering the robes of her royal husband with
her own hands.

Of all the fair ones, however, who have wrought for the service of a king, since the manufacture
of Excalibur, let the name of Matilda of Flanders, wife of William the Conqueror, stand at
the head of the record, in spite of historians' doubts. Matilda, born about the year 1031,
was carefully educated. She had beauty, learning, industry; and the Bayeux tapestry connected
with her name still exists, a monument of her achievements in the art of needle-work. It is,
as everybody knows, a pictured chronicle of the conquest of England,--a wife's tribute to the
glory of her husband.

As a specimen of ancient stitchery and feminine industry, this work is extremely curious. The
tapestry is two hundred and twenty-two feet in length and twenty in width. It is worked in
different-colored worsteds on white cloth, now brown with age. The attempts to represent the
human figure are very rude, and it is merely given in outline. Matilda evidently had very few
colors at her disposal, as the horses are depicted of any hue,--blue, green, or yellow; the
arabesque patterns introduced are rich and varied.

During the French Revolution, this tapestry was demanded by the insurgents to cover their guns;
but a priest succeeded in concealing it until the storm had passed. Bonaparte knew its value.
He caused it to be brought to Paris and displayed, after which he restored the precious relic
to Bayeux.

We have many records of royal ladies who practised and patronized needle-work. Anne of Brittany,
first wife of Louis XII. of France, caused three hundred girls, daughters of the nobility,
to be instructed in that art under her personal supervision. Her daughter Claude pursued the
same laudable plan. Jeanne d'Albret, queen of Navarre, and mother of Henry IV. of France, a
woman of vigorous mind, was skilled also in the handicraft of the needle, and wrought a set
of hangings called "The Prison Opened," meaning that she had broken the bonds of the Pope.

The practice of teaching needle-work continued long at the French court, and it was there that
Mary of Scotland learned the art in which she so much excelled. When cast into prison, she
beguiled the time, and soothed the repentant anxieties of her mind, with the companionship
of her needle. The specimens of her work yet existing are principally bed-trimmings, hangings,
and coverlets, composed of dark satin, upon which flowers, separately embroidered, are transferred.

The romances and lays of chivalry contain many descriptions of the ornamental needle-work of
those early days. In one of the ancient ballads, a knight, after describing a fair damsel whom
he had rescued and carried to his castle, adds that she "knewe how to sewe and marke all manner
of silken worke," and no doubt he made her repair many of his mantles and scarfs frayed and
torn by time and tourney.

When he went to the tourney she gave him a red sleeve "broidered with great pearls," which
he bound upon his helmet. These sleeves were made of a different material from the dress, and
generally of a richer fabric elaborately ornamented; so they were considered valuable enough
to form a separate legacy in wills of those centuries. Maddalena Doni, in her portrait, painted
by Raphael, which hangs in the Pitti Palace at Florence, wears a pair of these rich, heavy
sleeves, fastened slightly at the shoulder, and worn over a shorter sleeve belonging to her
dress. Thus we see how it was that a lady could disengage her sleeve at the right moment, and
give it to the fortunate knight.

The art of adorning linen was practised from the earliest times. Threads were drawn and fashioned
with the needle, or the ends of the cloth unravelled and plaited into geometrical patterns.
St. Cuthbert's curious grave-clothes, as described by an eyewitness to his disinterment in
the twelfth century, were ornamented with cut-work, which was used principally for ecclesiastical
purposes, and was looked upon in England till the dissolution of the monasteries as a church
secret. The open-work embroidery, which went under the general name of cut-work, is the origin
of lace.

The history of lace by Mrs. Bury Palliser, recently published in London, is worthy of the exquisite
fabric of which it treats. The author has woven valuable facts, historical associations, and
curious anecdotes into the web of her narrative, with an industry and skill rivalling the work
of her mediæval sisters. The illustrations of this beautiful volume are taken from rare specimens
of ancient and modern lace, so perfectly executed as quite to deceive the eye, and almost the
touch.

Italy and Flanders dispute the invention of point or needle-made lace. The Italians probably
derived the art of needle-work from the Greeks who took refuge in Italy during the troubles
of the Lower Empire. Its origin was undoubtedly Byzantine, as the places which were in constant
intercourse with the Greek Empire were the cities where point-lace was earliest made. The traditions
of the Low Countries also ascribe it to an Eastern origin, assigning the introduction of lace-making
to the Crusaders on their return from the Holy Land. A modern writer, Francis North, asserts
that the Italians learned embroidery from the Saracens, as Spaniards learned the same art from
the Moors, and, in proof of his theory, states that the word embroider is derived from the
Arabic, and does not belong to any European language. In the opinion of some authorities, the
English word lace comes from the Latin word licina, signifying the hem or fringe of a garment;
others suppose it derived from the word laces, which appears in Anglo-Norman statutes, meaning
braids which were used to unite different parts of the dress. In England the earliest lace
was called passament, from the fact that the threads were passed over each other in its formation;
and it is not until the reign of Richard III. that the word lace appears in royal accounts.
The French term dentelle is also of modern date, and was not used until fashion caused passament
to be made with a toothed edge, when the designation passament dentelé appears.

But whatever the origin of the name, lace-making and embroidery have employed many fingers,
and worn out many eyes, and even created revolutions. In England, until the time of Henry VIII.,
shirts, handkerchiefs, sheets, and pillow-cases were embroidered in silks of different colors,
until the fashion gave way to cut-work and lace. Italy produced lace fabrics early in the fifteenth
century; and the Florentine poet, Firenzuola, who flourished about 1520, composed an elegy
upon a collar of raised point lace made by the hand of his mistress. Portraits of Venetian
ladies dated as early as 1500 reveal white lace trimmings; but at that period lace was, professedly,
only made by nuns for the service of the Church, and the term nuns' work has been the designation
of lace in many places to a very modern date. Venice was famed for point, Genoa for pillow
laces. English Parliamentary records have statutes on the subject of Venice laces; at the coronation
of Richard III., fringes of Venice and mantle laces of gold and white silk appear.

    "To know the age and pedigrees
    Of points of Flanders and Venise,"

depends much upon the ancient pattern-books yet in existence. Parchment patterns, drawn and
pricked for pillow lace, bearing the date of 1577, were lately found covering old law-books,
in Albisola, a town near Savona, which was a place celebrated for its laces, as we infer from
the fact that it was long the custom of the daughters of the nobles to select these laces for
their wedding shawls and veils. There is a pretty tradition at Venice, handed down among the
inhabitants of the Lagoons, which says that a sailor brought home to his betrothed a branch
of the delicate coralline known as "mermaids' lace." The girl, a worker in points, attracted
by the grace of the coral, imitated it with her needle, and after much toil produced the exquisite
fabric which, as Venice point, soon became the mode in all Europe. Lace-making in Italy formed
the occupation of many women of the higher classes, who wished to add to their incomes. Each
lady had a number of workers, to whom she supplied patterns, pricked by herself, paying her
workwomen at the end of every week, each day being notched on a tally.

In the convent of Gesù Bambino, at Rome, curious specimens of old Spanish conventual work--parchment
patterns with lace in progress--have been found. They belonged to Spanish nuns, who long ago
taught the art of lace-making to novices. Like all point lace, this appears to be executed
in separate pieces, given out by the nuns, and then joined together by a skilful hand. We see
the pattern traced, the work partly finished, and the very thread left, as when "Sister Felice
Vittoria" laid down her work, centuries ago. Mrs. Palliser received from Rome photographs of
these valuable relics, engravings from which she has inserted in her history of lace. Aloe-thread
was then used for lace-making, as it is now in Florence for sewing straw-plait. Spanish point
has been as celebrated as that of Flanders or Italy. Some traditions aver that Spain taught
the art to Flanders. Spain had no cause to import laces: they were extensively made at home,
and were less known than the manufacture of other countries, because very little was exported.
The numberless images of the Madonna and patron saints dressed and undressed daily, together
with the albs of the priests and decorations of the altars, caused an immense consumption for
ecclesiastical uses. Thread lace was manufactured in Spain in 1492, and in the Cathedral of
Granada is a lace alb presented to the church by Ferdinand and Isabella,--one of the few relics
of ecclesiastical grandeur preserved in the country. Cardinal Wiseman, in a letter to Mrs.
Palliser, states that he had himself officiated in this vestment, which was valued at ten thousand
crowns. The fine church lace of Spain was little known in Europe until the revolution of 1830,
when splendid specimens were suddenly thrown into the market,--not merely the heavy lace known
as Spanish point, but pieces of the most exquisite description, which could only have been
made, says Mrs. Palliser, by those whose time was not money.

Among the Saxon Hartz Mountains is the old town of Annaburg, and beneath a lime-tree in its
ancient burial-ground stands a simple monument with this inscription:--

"Here lies Barbara Uttman, died on the 14th of January, 1576, whose invention of lace in the
year 1561 made her the benefactress of the Hartz Mountains.

    'An active mind, a skilful hand,
    Bring blessings down on Fatherland.'"

Barbara was born in 1514. Her parents, burghers of Nuremberg, removed to the Hartz Mountains
for the purpose of working a mine in that neighborhood. It is said that Barbara learned the
art of lace-making from a native of Brabant, a Protestant, whom the cruelties of the Duke of
Alva had driven from her country. Barbara, observing the mountain girls making nets for the
miners to wear over their hair, took great interest in the improvement of their work, and succeeded
in teaching them a fine knitted tricot, and afterwards a lace ground. In 1561, having procured
aid from Flanders, she set up a work-shop in Annaburg for lace-making. This branch of industry
spread beyond Bavaria, giving employment to thirty thousand persons, and producing a revenue
of one million thalers.

Italy and Flanders dispute the invention of lace, but it was probably introduced into both
countries about the same time. The Emperor Charles V. commanded lace-making to be taught in
schools and convents. A specimen of the manufacture of his day may be seen in his cap, now
preserved in the museum at Hôtel Cluny, Paris. It is of fine linen, with the Emperor's arms
embroidered in relief, with designs in lace, of exquisite workmanship. The old Flemish laces
are of great beauty and world-wide fame.

Many passages in the history of lace show how severely the manufacture of this beautiful fabric
has strained the nerves of eye and brain. The fishermen's wives on the Scottish coast apostrophize
the fish they sell, after their husbands' perilous voyages, and sing,

    "Call them lives o' men."

Not more fatal to life are the blasts from ocean winds than the tasks of laborious lace-makers;
and this thought cannot but mingle with our admiration for the skill displayed in this branch
of woman's endless toil and endeavor to supply her own wants and aid those who are dear to
her, in the present as well as in the past centuries.

In the British Museum there is a curious manuscript of the fourteenth century, afterwards translated
"into our maternall englisshe by me William Caxton, and emprynted at Westminstre the last day
of Januer, the first yere of the regne of King Richard the thyrd," called "the booke which
the Knight of the Towere made for the enseygnement and teching of his doughtres."

The Knight of the Tower was Geoffory Landry, surnamed De la Tour, of a noble family of Anjou.
In the month of April, 1371, he was one day reflecting beneath the shade of some trees on various
passages in his life, and upon the memory of his wife, whose early death had caused him sorrow,
when his three daughters walked into the garden. The sight of these motherless girls naturally
turned his thoughts to the condition of woman in society, and he resolved to write a treatise,
enforced by examples of both good and evil, for their instruction. The state of society which
the "evil" examples portray might well cause a father's heart to tremble.

The education of young ladies, as we have before stated, was in that age usually assigned to
convents or to families of higher rank. It consisted of instruction in needle-work, confectionery,
surgery, and the rudiments of church music. Men were strongly opposed to any high degree of
mental culture for women; and although the Knight of the Tower thinks it good for women to
be taught to read their Bibles, yet the pen is too dangerous an instrument to trust to their
hands. The art of writing he disapproves,--"Better women can naught of it." Religious observances
he strictly recommends; but we shudder at some of the stories which even this well-meaning
father relates as illustrations of the efficacy of religious austerities. Extravagance in dress
prevailed at that time among men and women to such a degree that Parliament was appealed to
on the subject in 1363. From the Knight's exhortations on the subject, this mania seems to
have affected the women alarmingly, and the examples given of the passion for dress appear
to surpass what is acknowledged in our day. Yet the vast increase of materials, as well as
the extended interests and objects opened to woman now, renders the extravagance of dress in
the Middle Ages far less reprehensible.

The record of woman's work in the Middle Ages includes far more than the account of what her
needle accomplished. The position of the mistress of a family in those centuries was no sinecure.
When we look up at castles perched on rocks, or walk through the echoing apartments of baronial
halls, we know that woman must have worked there with brain and fingers. The household and
its dependencies, in such mansions, consisted of more than a score of persons, and provisions
must be laid in during the autumn for many months. As we glance at the enormous fireplaces
and ovens in the kitchens of those castles and halls, and remember the weight of the armor
men wore, we can readily imagine that no trifling supply of brawn and beef was needed for their
meals; and the sight of a husband frowning out of one of those old helmets because the dinner
was scanty, must have been a fearful trial to feminine nerves. The title of "Lady" means the
"Giver of bread" in Saxon, and the lady of the castle dispensed food to many beyond her own
household.

The task of preparing the raiment of the family devolved upon the women; for there were no
travelling dealers except for the richest and most expensive articles. Wool, the produce of
the flock, was carded and spun; flax was grown, and woven into coarse linen; and both materials
were prepared and fashioned into garments at home. Glimpses of domestic life come down to us
through early legends and records, some of which modern genius has melodized. Authentic history
and romantic story often show us that women of all ranks were little better, in fact, than
household drudges to these splendid knights and courtly old barons. The fair Enid sang a charming
song as she turned her wheel; but when Geraint arrived, she not only assisted her mother to
receive him, but, by her father's order, led the knight's charger to the stall, and gave him
corn. If she also relieved the noble animal of his heavy saddle and horse-furniture, gave him
water as well as corn, and shook down the dry furze for his bed, she must have had the courage
and skill of a feminine Rarey; and we fear her dress of faded silk came out of the stable in
a very dilapidated condition. After the horse was cared for, Enid put her wits and hands to
work to prepare the evening meal, and spread it before her father and his guest. The knight,
indeed, condescended to think her "sweet and serviceable"!

The women of those days are often described only as they appeared at festivals and tournaments,--Ladies
of Beauty, to whom knights lowered their lances, and of whom troubadours sang. They had their
amusements and their triumphs, doubtless; but they also had their work, domestic, industrial,
and sanitary. They knew how to bind up wounds and care for the sick, and we read many records
of their knowledge in this department. Elaine, when she found Sir Launcelot terribly wounded
in the cave, so skilfully aided him that, when the old hermit came who was learned in all the
simples and science of the times, he told the knight that "her fine care had saved his life,"--a
pleasing assurance that there were medical men in those days, as well as in our own, who expressed
no unwillingness to allow a woman credit for success in their own profession.

Illuminated books sometimes show us pictures of women of the humbler ranks of life at their
work. On the border of a fine manuscript of the time of Edward IV. there is the figure of a
woman employed with her distaff, her head and neck enveloped in a coverchief. The figure rises
out of a flower. In a manuscript of 1316, a country-woman is engaged in churning, dressed in
a comfortable gown and apron, the gown tidily pinned up, and her head and neck in a coverchief.
The churn is of considerable height, and of very clumsy construction. A blind beggar approaches
her, led by his dog, who holds apparently a cup in his mouth to receive donations. In another
part of the same volume is a beautiful damsel with her hair spread over her shoulders, while
her maid arranges her tresses with a comb of ivory set in gold. The young lady holds a small
mirror, probably of polished steel, in her hand. Specimens of these curious combs and mirrors
yet exist in collections. A century later we see a pretty laundress, holding in her hands a
number of delicately woven napkins, which look as if they might have come out of the elaborately
carved napkin press of the same period in the collection of Sir Samuel Myrick at Goodrich Court.

Although the Knight of the Tower disapproved of young ladies being taught to write, there were
women whose employment writing seems to have been; but these were nuns safely shut up from
the risk of billets-doux. In Dr. Maitland's Essays on the Dark Ages, he quotes from the biography
of Diemudis, a devout nun of the eleventh century, a list of the volumes which she prepared
with her own hand, written in beautiful and legible characters, to the praise of God, and of
the holy Apostles Peter and Paul, the patrons of the monastery, which was that of Wessobrunn
in Bavaria. The list comprises thirty-one works, many of them in three or four volumes; and
although Diemudis is not supposed to have been an authoress, she is certainly worthy of having
her name handed down through eight centuries in witness of woman's indefatigable work in the
scriptorium. One missal prepared by Diemudis was given to the Bishop of Treves, another to
the Bishop of Augsburg, and one Bible in two volumes is mentioned, which was exchanged by the
monastery for an estate.

We can picture to ourselves Diemudis in her conventual dress, seated in the scriptorium, with
her materials for chirography. The sun, as it streams through the window, throws a golden light
over the vellum page, suggesting the rich hue of the gilded nimbus, while in the convent garden
she sees the white lily or the modest violet, which, typical of the Madonna, she transfers
to her illuminated borders. Thus has God ever interwoven truth and love with their correspondences
of beauty and development in the natural world, which were open to the eyes of Diemudis eight
hundred years ago, perhaps as clearly as to our own in these latter days. That women of even
an earlier century than that of Diemudis were permitted to read, if not to write, is proved
by the description of a private library, given in the letters of C. S. Sidonius Apollinaris,
and quoted in Edwards's "History of Libraries." This book-collection was the property of a
gentleman of the fifth century, residing at his castle of Prusiana. It was divided into three
departments, the first of which was expressly intended for the ladies of the family, and contained
books of piety and devotion. The second department was for men, and is rather ungallantly stated
to have been of a higher order; yet, as the third department was intended for the whole family,
and contained such works as Augustine, Origen, Varro, Prudentius, and Horace, the literary
tastes of the ladies should have been satisfied. We are also told that it was the custom at
the castle of Prusiana to discuss at dinner the books read in the morning,--which would tend
to a belief that conversation at the dinner-tables of the fifth century might be quite as edifying
as at those of the nineteenth.

A few feminine names connected with the literature of the Middle Ages have come down to us.
The lays of Marie de France are among the manuscripts in the British Museum. Marie's personal
history, as well as the period when she flourished, is uncertain. Her style is extremely obscure;
but in her Preface she seems aware of this defect, yet defends it by the example of the ancients.
She considers it the duty of all persons to employ their talents; and as her gifts were intellectual,
she cast her thoughts in various directions ere she determined upon her peculiar mission. She
had intended translating from the Latin a good history, but some one else unluckily anticipated
her; and she finally settled herself down to poetry, and to the translation of numerous lays
she had treasured in her memory, as these would be new to many of her readers. Like other literary
ladies, she complains of envy and persecution, but she perseveres through all difficulties,
and dedicates her book "to the King."

Marie was born in France. Some authorities suppose she wrote in England during the reign of
Henry III., and that the patron she names was William Langue-espée, who died in 1226; others,
that this plus vaillant patron was William, Count of Flanders, who accompanied St. Louis on
his first crusade in 1248, and was killed at a tournament in 1251. A later surmise is that
the book was dedicated to Stephen, French being his native language. Among the manuscripts
of the Bibliothèque Royale at Paris, is Marie's translation of the fables which Henry Beauclerc
translated from Latin into English, and which Marie renders into French. A proof that Marie's
poems are extremely ancient is deduced from the names in one of these fables applied to the
wolf and the fox. She uses other names than those of Ysengrin and Renard, which were introduced
as early as the reign of Coeur de Lion, and it would seem that she could not have failed to
notice these remarkable names, had they existed in her time. A complete collection of the works
of Marie de France was published in Paris in 1820, by M. de Roquefort, who speaks of her in
the following terms: "She possessed that penetration which distinguishes at first sight the
different passions of mankind, which seizes upon the different forms they assume, and, remarking
the objects of their notice, discovers at the same time the means by which they are attained."
If this be a true statement, the acuteness of feminine observation has gained but little in
the progress of the centuries, and her literary sisters of the present era can hardly hope
to eclipse the penetration of Marie de France.

The Countesses de Die, supposed to be mother and daughter, were both poetesses. The elder lady
was beloved by Rabaud d'Orange, who died in 1173, and the younger is celebrated by William
Adhémar, a distinguished troubadour. He was visited on his death-bed by both these ladies,
who afterwards erected a monument to his memory. The younger countess retired to a convent,
and died soon after Adhémar.

In the Harleian Collection is a fine manuscript containing the writings of Christine de Pisan,
a distinguished woman of the fourteenth century. Her father, Thomas de Pisan, a celebrated
savant of Bologna, had married a daughter of a member of the Grand Council of Venice. So renowned
was Thomas de Pisan that the kings of Hungary and France determined to win him away from Bologna.
Charles V. of France, surnamed the Wise, was successful, and Thomas de Pisan went to Paris
in 1368; his transfer to the French court making a great sensation among learned and scientific
circles of that day. Charles loaded him with wealth and honors, and chose him Astrologer Royal.
According to the history, as told by Louisa Stuart Costello, in her "Specimens of the Early
Poetry of France," Christine was but five years old when she accompanied her parents to Paris,
where she received every advantage of education, and, inheriting her father's literary tastes,
early became learned in languages and science. Her personal charms, together with her father's
high favor at court, attracted many admirers. She married Stephen Castel, a young gentleman
of Picardy, to whom she was tenderly attached, and whose character she has drawn in most favorable
colors. A few years passed happily, but, alas! changes came. The king died, the pension and
offices bestowed upon Thomas de Pisan were suspended, and the Astrologer Royal soon followed
his patron beyond the stars. Castel was also deprived of his preferments; and though he maintained
his wife and family for a time, he was cut off by death at thirty-four years of age.

Christine had need of all her energies to meet such a succession of calamities, following close
on so brilliant a career. Devoting herself anew to study, she determined to improve her talents
for composition, and to make her literary attainments a means of support for her children.
The illustrations in the manuscript volume of her works picture to us several scenes in Christine's
life. In one, the artist has sliced off the side of a house to allow us to see Christine in
her study, giving us also the exterior, roof, and dormer-windows, with points finished by gilt
balls. The room is very small, with a crimson and white tapestry hanging. Christine wears what
may be called the regulation color for literary ladies,--blue, with the extraordinary two-peaked
head-dress of the period, put on in a decidedly strong-minded manner. At her feet sits a white
dog, small, but wise-looking, with a collar of gold bells round his neck. Before Christine
stands a plain table, covered with green cloth; her book, bound in crimson and gold, in which
she is writing, lies before her.

Christine's style of holding the implements,--one in each hand,--and the case of materials
for her work which lies beside her, are according to representations of the miniatori caligrafi
at their labors; and, as the art of caligraphy was well known at Bologna, so learned a man
as Thomas de Pisan must have been acquainted with it, and would have caused his talented daughter
to be instructed in so rare an accomplishment. It is not therefore unreasonable to believe
that, in the beautiful volume now in the British Museum, the work of Christine's hand, as well
as the result of her genius, is preserved. The next picture shows us Christine presenting her
book to Charles VII. of France, who is dressed in a black robe edged with ermine; he wears
a golden belt, order, and crown. The king is seated beneath a canopy, blue, powdered with fleurs
de lis. Four courtiers stand beside him, dressed in robes of different colors,--one in pink,
and wearing a large white hat of Quaker-like fashion. Christine has put on a white robe over
her blue dress, perhaps as a sign of mourning,--she being then a widow. A white veil depends
from the peaks of her head-dress. She kneels before the king, and presents her book.

Another and more elaborate picture represents the repetition of the same ceremony before Isabelle
of Bavaria, queen of Charles VI. We are here admitted into the private royal apartments of
the fourteenth century. The hangings of the apartment consist of strips, upon which are alternately
emblazoned the armorial devices of France and Bavaria. A couch or bed, with a square canopy
covered with red and blue, having the royal arms embroidered in the centre, stands on one side
of the room. The queen is seated upon a lounge of modern shape, covered to correspond with
the couch. She is dressed in a splendid robe of purple and gold, with long sleeves sweeping
the ground, lined with ermine; upon her head arises a structure of stuffed rolls, heavy in
material and covered with jewels, which shoots up into two high peaks above her forehead. Six
ladies are in waiting, two in black and gold, with the same enormous head-gears. They sit on
the edge of her Majesty's sofa, while four ladies of inferior rank and plainer garments are
contented with low benches. Christine reappears in her blue dress, and white-veiled, peaked
cap. She kneels before the queen, on a square carpet with a geometrical-patterned border, and
presents her book. A white Italian hound lies at the foot of the couch, while beside Isabelle
sits a small white dog, resembling the one we saw in Christine's study. As we can hardly suppose
Christine would bring her pet on so solemn an occasion,--far less allow him to jump up beside
the queen,--and as this little animal wears no gold bells, we are led to suppose that little
white dogs were in fashion in the fourteenth century.

We cannot say that the portrait of Isabelle gives us any idea of her splendid beauty; but "handsome
is that handsome does," and as Isabelle's work was a very bad one in the Middle Ages, we will
say no more about her.

Christine was but twenty-five years of age when she became a widow, and her personal charms
captivated the heart of no less a personage than the Earl of Salisbury, who came ambassador
from England to demand the hand of the very youthful princess, Isabelle, for his master.

They exchanged verses; and although Salisbury spoke by no means mysteriously, the sage Christine
affected to view his declarations only in the light of complimentary speeches from a gallant
knight. The Earl considered himself as rejected, bade adieu to love, and renounced marriage.
To Christine he made a very singular proposal for a rejected lover,--that of taking with him
to England her eldest son, promising to devote himself to his education and preferment. The
offer was too valuable to be declined by a poor widow, whose pen was her only means of supporting
her family. That such a proof of devotion argued a tenderer feeling than that of knightly gallantry
must have been apparent to Christine; but for reasons best understood by herself,--and shall
we not believe with a heart yet true to her husband's memory?--she merely acknowledged the
kindness shown to her son; and the Earl and his adopted boy left France together. When Richard
II. was deposed, Henry Bolingbroke struck off the head of the Earl of Salisbury. Among the
papers of the murdered man the lays of Christine were found by King Henry, who was so much
struck with their purity and beauty, that he wrote to the fair authoress of her son's safety,
under his protection, and invited her to his court.

This invitation was at once a compliment and an insult, for the hand that sent it was stained
with the blood of her friend. Christine, however, had worldly wisdom enough to send a respectful,
though firm refusal, to a crowned head, a successful soldier, and one, moreover, who held her
son in his power. Feminine tact must have guided her pen, for Henry was not offended, and twice
despatched a herald to renew the invitation to his court. She steadily declined to leave France,
but managed the affair so admirably that she at last obtained the return of her son from England.

Like her father, Thomas de Pisan, Christine seems to have been sought as an ornament of their
courts by several rulers. Henry Bolingbroke could not gain her for England, and the Duke of
Milan in vain urged her to reside in that city. Seldom has a literary lady in any age received
such tempting invitations; yet Christine refused to leave France, although her own fortunes
were anything but certain. The Duke of Burgundy took her son under his protection, and urged
Christine to write the history of her patron, Charles V. of France. This was a work grateful
to her feelings, and she had commenced the memoir when the death of the Duke deprived her of
his patronage, and threw her son again upon her care, involving her in many anxieties. But
Christine bore herself through all her trials with firmness and prudence, and her latter days
were more tranquil. She took a deep interest in the affairs of her adopted country, and welcomed
in her writings the appearance of the Maid of Orleans. We believe, however, that she was spared
the pain of witnessing the last act in that drama of history, where an innocent victim was
given up by French perfidy to English cruelty.

The deeds of Joan of Arc need no recital here. A daughter of France in the nineteenth century
had a soul pure enough to reflect the image of the Maid of Orleans, and with a skilful hand
she embodied the vision in marble. The statue of Joan of Arc, modelled by the Princess Marie,
adorns--or rather sanctifies--the halls of Versailles.

Of woman's work as an artist in the early centuries we have a curious illustration in a manuscript
belonging to the Bibliothèque Royale at Paris, which exhibits a female figure painting the
statue of the Madonna. The artist holds in her left hand a palette, which is the earliest notice
of the use of that implement with which antiquarians are acquainted. The fashion of painting
figures cut in wood was once much practised, and we see here the representation of a female
artist of very ancient date. Painting, music, and dancing come under the designation of accomplishments;
yet to obtain distinction in any of these branches implies a vast amount of work. An illustration
of Lygate's Pilgrim shows us a young lady playing upon a species of organ with one hand; in
the other she holds to her lips a mellow horn, through which she pours her breath, if not her
soul; lying beside her is a stringed instrument called a sawtry. Such varied musical acquirements
certainly argue both industry and devotion to art. Charlemagne's daughters were distinguished
for their skill in dancing; and we read of many instances in the Middle Ages of women excelling
in these fine arts.

The period of time generally denominated the Middle Ages commences with the fifth century,
and ends with the fifteenth. We have in several instances ventured to extend the limits as
far as a part of the sixteenth century, and therefore include among female artists the name
of Sofonisba Anguisciola, who was born about 1540. She was a noble lady of Cremona, whose fame
spread early throughout Italy. In 1559, Philip II. of Spain invited her to his court at Madrid,
where on her arrival she was treated with great distinction. Her chief study was portraiture,
and her pictures became objects of great value to kings and popes.

Her royal patrons of Spain married their artist to a noble Sicilian, giving her a dowry of
twelve thousand ducats and a pension of one thousand ducats, beside rich presents in tapestries
and jewels. She went with her husband to Palermo, where they resided several years. On the
death of her husband the king and queen of Spain urged her to return to their court; but she
excused herself on account of her wish to visit Cremona. Embarking on board a galley for this
purpose, bound to Genoa, she was entertained with such gallantry by the captain, Orazio Lomellini,
one of the merchant princes of that city, that the heart of the distinguished artist was won,
and she gave him her hand on their arrival at Genoa.

History does not tell us whether she ever revisited Cremona, but she dwelt in Genoa during
the remainder of her long life, pursuing her art with great success. On her second marriage,
her faithful friends in the royal family of Spain added four hundred crowns to her pension.
The Empress of Germany visited Sofonisba on the way to Spain, and accepted from her hand a
little picture. Sofonisba became blind in her old age, but lost no other faculty. Vandyck was
her guest when at Genoa, and said that he had learned more of his art from one blind old woman
than from any other teacher. A medal was struck in her honor at Bologna. The Academy of Fine
Arts at Edinburgh contains a noble picture by Vandyck, painted in his Italian manner. It represents
individuals of the Lomellini family, and was probably in progress when he visited this illustrious
woman, who had become a member of that house.

Stirling in his "Artists of Spain" states that few of Sofonisba's pictures are now known to
exist, and that the beautiful portrait of herself, probably the one mentioned by Vasari in
the wardrobe of the Cardinal di Monte at Rome, or that noticed by Soprani in the palace of
Giovanni Lomellini at Genoa, is now in the possession of Earl Spencer at Althorp. The engraving
from this picture, in Dibdin's Ædes Althorpianæ, lies before us. We think the better of kings
and queens who prized a woman with eyes so clear, and an expression of such honesty and truth.
The original is said to be masterly in its drawing and execution. Sofonisba is represented
in a simple black dress, and wears no jewels. She touches the keys of a harpsichord with her
beautiful hands; a duenna-like figure of an old woman stands behind the instrument, apparently
listening to the melody.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whatever of skill or fame women have acquired through the ages in other departments, the nursery
has ever been an undisputed sphere for woman's work. Nor have we reason to think that, in the
centuries we have been considering, she was not faithful to this her especial province. The
cradle of Henry V., yet in existence, is one of the best specimens of nursery furniture in
the fourteenth century which have come down to us. Beautifully carved foliage fills the space
between the uprights and stays and stand of the cradle, which is not upon rockers, but apparently
swings like the modern crib. On each of these uprights is perched a dove, carefully carved,
whose quiet influences had not much effect on the infant dreams of Prince Hal.

Henry was born at Monmouth, 1388, and sent to Courtfield, about seven miles distant, where
the air was considered more salubrious. There he was nursed under the superintendence of Lady
Montacute, and in that place this cradle was preserved for many years. It was sold by a steward
of the Montacute property, and, after passing through several hands, was in the possession
of a gentleman near Bristol when engraved for Shaw's "Ancient Furniture," in 1836.

In the Douce Collection of the Bodleian Library, Oxford, there is figured in a manuscript of
the fifteenth century a cradle, with the baby very nicely tucked up in it. The cradle resembles
those of modern date, and is upon rockers. Another illustration of the same period shows us
a cradle of similar form, the "cradle, baby, and all" carried on the head of the nursery-maid,--a
caryatid style of baby-tending which we cannot suppose to have been universal. The inventories
of household furniture belonging to Reginald de la Pole, after enumerating some bed-hangings
of costly stuff, describe: "Item, a pane" (piece of cloth which we now call counterpane) "and
head-shete for y'e cradell, of same sute, bothe furred with mynever,"--giving us a comfortable
idea of the nursery establishment in the De la Pole family. The recent discovery in England
of that which tradition avers to be the tomb of Canute's little daughter, speaks of another
phase in nursery experience. The relics, both of the cradle and the grave, bear their own record
of the joys, cares, and sorrows of the nursery in vanished years, and bring near to every mother's
heart the baby that was rocked in the one, and the grief which came when that little form was
given to the solemn keeping of the other.

A miniature in an early manuscript, called "The Birth of St. Edmund," gives us a picture of
a bedroom and baby in the fifteenth century. St. Edmund himself was born five hundred years
previous to that date; but as saints and sinners look very much alike when they are an hour
old, we can imagine that, as far as the baby is concerned, it may be considered a portrait.
A pretty young woman, in a long white gown, whose cap looks like magnified butterflies' wings
turned upside down, sits on a low seat before the blazing wood-fire burning on great andirons
in a wide fireplace, which, instead of a mantelpiece, has three niches for ornamental vases.
She holds the baby very nicely, and, having warmed his feet, has wrapt him in a long white
garment, so that we see only his little head in a plain night-cap, surrounded indeed by the
gilded nimbus of his saintship, which we hope was not of tangible substance, as it would have
been an appendage very inconvenient to all parties concerned. The mother reposes in a bed with
high posts and long curtains. She must have been a woman of strong nerves to have borne the
sight of such stupendous head-gears as those in which her attendants are nid-nodding over herself
and baby, or to have supported the weight of that which she wears by way of night-cap. One
nurse raises the lady, while another, who, from her showy dress, appears to be the head of
the department, offers a tall, elegant, but very inconveniently-shaped goblet, which contains,
we presume, mediæval gruel. The room has a very comfortable aspect, from which we judge that
some babies in those times were carefully attended.

Many centuries ago, a young woman sat one day among the boys to whom she had come, as their
father's bride, from a foreign land, to take the name and place of their mother. She showed
to them a beautiful volume of Saxon poems, one of her wedding-gifts,--perhaps offered by the
artists of the court of Charles le Chauve, of whose skill such magnificent specimens yet exist.
As the attention of the boys was arrested by the brilliant external decorations, Judith, with
that quick instinct for the extension of knowledge which showed her a true descendant of Charlemagne,
promised that the book should be given to him who first learned to read it. Young Alfred won
the prize, and became Alfred the Great.

We are brought near to the presence of a woman of the Middle Ages when we stand beside the
monument of Eleanor of Castile, queen of Edward I., in Westminster Abbey. The figure is lifelike
and beautiful, with flowing drapery folded simply around it. The countenance, with its delicate
features, wears a look of sweetness and dignity as fresh to-day as when sculptured seven hundred
years ago. The hair, confined by a coronet, falls on each side of her face in ringlets; one
hand lies by her side, and once held a sceptre; the other is brought gracefully upward; the
slender fingers, with trusting touch, are laid upon a cross suspended from her neck.

Historians have done their best, or their worst, to throw doubt upon the story of Eleanor's
sucking the poison with her lips from the arm of her husband when a dastardly assassin of those
days struck at the life of Edward. But such a tradition, whether actually a fact or not, is
a tribute to the affection and strength of Eleanor's character; and all historians agree that
she instilled no poison into the life of king or country. As a wife, a mother, and a queen,
Eleanor of Castile stands high on the record of the women of the Middle Ages.

Coming from Westminster Abbey, in the spring of 1856, we stood one day at a window in the Strand,
and watched a multitude which no man could number, pulsing through that great artery of the
mighty heart of London. It was the day of the great Peace celebration, and a holiday. Hour
after hour the mighty host swept on, in undiminished numbers. The place where we stood was
Charing Cross, and our thoughts went back seven hundred years, when Edward, following the mortal
remains of his beloved Eleanor, erected on this spot, then a country suburb of London, the
last of that line of crosses which marked those places where the mournful procession paused
on its way from Hereby to Westminster. It was the cross of the dear queen, la chère reine,
which time and changes of language have since corrupted into Charing Cross. Through this pathway
crowds have trodden for many centuries, and few remember that its name is linked with the queenly
dead or with a kingly sorrow. Thus it is, as we hasten on through the busy thoroughfares of
life from age to age, even as one of our own poets hath said,--

    "We pass, and heed each other not."

In these pages we have made some record of woman's work in past centuries, and also caught
glimpses of duties, loves, hopes, fears, and sorrows not unlike our own. A wider sphere is
now accorded, and a deeper responsibility devolves upon woman to fill it wisely and well. We
should never forget that, as far as they were faithful to the duties appointed to them, they
elevated their sex to a higher and nobler position, and therein performed the best work of
the women of the Middle Ages.

PASSAGES FROM HAWTHORNE'S NOTE-BOOKS.

IX.

AN ADDRESS TO THE ALUMNI OF HARVARD, AT THEIR TRIENNIAL FESTIVAL, JULY 19, 1866.

We meet to-day under auspices how different from those which attended our last triennial assembling!
We were then in the midst of a civil war, without sight of the end, though not without hope
of final success to the cause of national integrity. The three days' agony at Gettysburg had
issued in the triumph of the loyal arms, repelling the threatened invasion of the North. The
surrender of Vicksburg had just reopened the trade of the Mississippi. The capture of Port
Hudson was yet fresh in our ears, when suddenly tidings of armed resistance to conscription
in the city of New York gave ominous note of danger lurking at the very heart of the Union.
In the shadow of that omen, we celebrated our academic festival of 1863.

The shadow passed. With varying fortunes, but unvarying purpose, the loyal States pursued the
contest. And when, in the autumn of 1864, by a solemn act of self-interrogation, they had certified
their will and their power to maintain that contest to the end of disunion, and when a popular
election expressing that intent had overcome the land like a summer-cloud without a bolt in
its bosom, the victory was sown with the ballot which Grant and Sherman reaped with the sword.

Secession collapsed. Its last and most illustrious victim, borne to his rest through territories
draped in mourning, through sobbing commonwealths, through populations of uncovered heads,
revealed to all time the spirit that was in it and the spirit that subdued it. And to-day,
as we meet our Reverend Mother in this scene of old affections, the stupendous struggle has
already receded into the shadow-land of History. The war is a thing of the past. If hatred
still rankles, open hostilities have ceased. If rumblings of the recent tempest still mutter
along the track of its former desolation, the storm is over. The conflict is ended. No more
conscription of husbands, sons, and brothers for the weary work of destruction; no more the
forced march by day, the bivouac at night, and to-morrow the delirium of carnage. No more anxious
waiting in distant homes for tidings from the front, and breathless conning of the death-list
to know if the loved ones are among the slain. No more the fresh grief-agony over the unreturning
brave. All that is past,--

    "For the terrible work is done,
    And the good fight is won
        For God and for Fatherland."

The sword has returned to its sheath. The symbol-flags that shed their starry pomp on the field
of death hang idly drooping in the halls of state. And before new armies in hostile encounter
on American soil shall unfurl new banners to the breeze, may every thread and thrum of their
texture ravel and rot and resolve itself into dust!

Another and nearer interest distinguishes this occasion and suggests its appropriate theme,--our
Alma Mater.

The General Court of Massachusetts, which has hitherto elected the Board of Overseers of Harvard
College, after so many years of fitful and experimental legislation, has finally enacted, that
"the places of the successive classes in the Board of Overseers of Harvard College, and the
vacancies in such classes, shall hereafter be annually supplied by ballot of such persons as
have received from the College a degree of Bachelor of Arts, or Master of Arts, or any honorary
degree, voting on Commencement-day in the city of Cambridge; such election to be first held
in the year 1866."

This act initiates a radical change in the organization of this University. It establishes
for one of its legislative Houses a new electorate. The State hereby discharges itself of all
active participation in the conduct of the College, and devolves on the body of the Alumni
responsibilities assumed in former enactments extending through a period of more than two hundred
years. The wisdom or justice of this measure I am not inclined to discuss. Certainly there
is nothing in the history of past relations between the Commonwealth and the University that
should make us regret the change. That history has not been one of mere benefactions on one
side, and pure indebtedness on the other. Whatever the University may owe to the State, the
balance of obligation falls heavily on the other side. In the days of Provincial rule the Colony
of Massachusetts Bay appears to have exhausted its zeal for collegiate education in the much-lauded
promissory act by which the General Court, in 1636, "agree to give four hundred pounds towards
a school or college, whereof two hundred pounds shall be paid next year." The promise was not
fulfilled, and the record of those years leaves it doubtful whether legislative action alone
would during that or the next generation have accomplished the work, had not a graduate of
Emanuel College in English Cambridge, who seems providentially enough to have dropped on these
shores, where he lived but a year, for that express purpose, supplied the requisite funds.

The College once started and got under way, the fathers of the Province assumed a vigilant
oversight of its orthodoxy, but discharged with a lax and grudging service the responsibility
of its maintenance. They ejected the first President, the protomartyr of American learning,
the man who sacrificed more to the College than any one individual in the whole course of its
history, on account of certain scruples about infant baptism, of which, in the language of
the time, "it was not hard to discover that they came from the Evil One," and for which poor
Dunster was indicted by the grand-jury, sentenced to a public admonition, and laid under bonds
for good behavior.

They starved the second President for eighteen years on a salary payable in Indian corn; and
in answer to his earnest prayer for relief, alleging instant necessity, the sacrifice of personal
property, and the custom of English universities, a committee of the General Court reported
that "they conceive the country to have done honorably toward the petitioner, and that his
parity with English colleges is not pertinent."

The third President, by their connivance and co-operation, was sacrificed to the machinations
of the students, egged on, it is thought, by members of the Corporation, and died, "as was
said, with a broken heart."

Meanwhile, through neglect of the Province to provide for its support, the material fortunes
of the College, in the course of thirty years, had fallen into such decay that extinction was
inevitable, had not the people of another Colony come to the rescue. The town of Portsmouth,
in New Hampshire, hearing, says their address, "the loud groans of the sinking College,...
and hoping that their example might provoke ... the General Court vigorously to act for the
diverting of the omen of calamity which its destruction would be to New England," pledged themselves
to an annual contribution of sixty pounds for seven years. This act of chivalrous generosity
fairly shamed our lagging Commonwealth into measures for the resuscitation of an institution
especially committed to its care.

The most remarkable feature of this business is that the Province all this while was drawing,
not only moral support, but pecuniary aid, from the College. "It is manifest," says Quincy,[A]
"that the treasury of the Colony, having been the recipient of many of the early donations
to the College, was not a little aided by the convenience which these available funds afforded
to its pecuniary necessities. Some of these funds, although received in 1647, were not paid
over to the treasury of the College until 1713; then, indeed, the College received an allowance
of simple interest for the delay. With regard, therefore, to the annual allowance of £100,
whereby," during the first seventy years, "they enabled the President of the College simply
to exist, it is proper to observe, that there was not probably one year in the whole seventy
in which, by moneys collected from friends of the institution in foreign countries, by donations
of its friends in this country, by moneys brought by students from other Colonies, and above
all by furnishing the means of education at home, and thus preventing the outgoing of domestic
wealth for education abroad, the College did not remunerate the Colony for that poor annual
stipend five hundred fold."

The patronage extended to the College after the Revolution was not more cordial and not more
adequate than the meagre succors of Colonial legislation. The first Governor of independent
Massachusetts, from the height of his impregnable popularity, for more than twelve years defied
the repeated attempts of the Corporation, backed by the Overseers, to obtain the balance of
his account as former Treasurer of the College, and died its debtor in a sum exceeding a thousand
pounds. The debt was finally paid by his heirs, but not without a loss of some hundreds of
dollars to the College.

At the commencement of hostilities between the Colonies and the mother country, the Revolutionary
authorities had taken possession of these grounds. Reversing the old order, "Cedant arma togæ,"
they drove out the togæ and brought in the arms. The books went one way, the boys another,--the
books to Andover, the boys to Concord. The dawn of American liberty was not an "Aurora musis
amica." The Muse of History alone remained with Brigadier Putnam and General Ward. The College
was turned into a camp,--a measure abundantly justified by public necessity, but causing much
damage to the buildings occupied as barracks by the Continentals. This damage was nominally
allowed by the General Court, but was reckoned in the currency of that day, whereby the College
received but a quarter of the cost.

In 1786, the State saw fit to discontinue the small pittance which till then had been annually
granted toward the support of the President; and from that time to this, with the exception
of the proceeds of a bank-tax, granted for ten years in 1814, and the recent large appropriation
from the School Fund for the use of the Museum of Natural History, the College has received
no substantial aid from the State. The State has, during the last ten years, expended two millions
of dollars in a vain attempt to bore a hole through one of her hills: in the whole two hundred
and thirty years of our academic history she has not expended a quarter of that sum in filling
up this hole in her educational system.

I intend no disrespect to the noble Commonwealth of which no native can be insensible to the
glory of his birthright. No State has done more for popular education than the State of Massachusetts.
But for reasons satisfactory, no doubt, to themselves, her successive legislators have not
seen fit to extend to her colleges the fostering care bestowed on her schools. And certainly,
if one or the other must be neglected, we shall all agree in saying, Let the schools be cherished,
and let the colleges take care of themselves. Let due provision be made for popular instruction
in the rudiments of knowledge, which are also rudiments of good citizenship; let every citizen
be taxed for that prime exigency, and let literature and science find patrons where they can.
Literature and science will find patrons, and here in Massachusetts have always found them.
If the legislators of the State have been sparing of their benefactions, the wealthy sons of
the State have been prodigal of theirs. In no country has the private patronage of science
been more liberal and prompt than in Massachusetts. Seldom, in the history of science, has
there been a nobler instance of that patronage than this University is now experiencing, in
the mission of one of her professors on an enterprise of scientific exploration, started and
maintained by a private citizen of Boston. When our Agassiz shall return to us reinforced with
the lore of the Andes, and replenished with the spoils of the Amazon,--tot millia squamigeræ
gentis,--the discoveries he shall add to science, and the treasures he shall add to his Museum,
whilst they splendidly illustrate his own qualifications for such a mission, will forever attest
the liberality of a son of Massachusetts.

The rich men of the State have not been wanting to literature and science. They have not been
wanting to this University. Let their names be held in everlasting remembrance. When the Memorial
Hall, which your committee have in charge, shall stand complete, let its mural records present,
together with the names of those who have deserved well of the country by their patriotism,
the names of those who have deserved well of the College by their benefactions. Let these fautors
of science, the heroes of peace, have their place side by side with the heroes of war.

Individuals have done their part, but slow is the growth of institutions which depend on individual
charity for their support. As an illustration of what may be done by public patronage, when
States are in earnest with their universities, and as strangely contrasting the sluggish fortunes
of our own Alma, look at the State University of Michigan. Here is an institution but twenty-five
years old, already numbering thirty-two professors and over twelve hundred students, having
public buildings equal in extent to those which two centuries have given to Cambridge, and
all the apparatus of a well-constituted, thoroughly furnished university. All this within twenty-five
years! The State itself which has generated this wonderful growth had no place in the Union
until after Harvard had celebrated her two hundredth birthday. In twenty-five years, in a country
five hundred miles from the seaboard,--a country which fifty years ago was known only to the
fur trade,--a University has sprung up, to which students flock from all parts of the land,
and which offers to thousands, free of expense, the best education this continent affords.
Such is the difference between public and private patronage, between individual effort and
the action of a State.

A proof of the broad intent and oecumenical consciousness of this infant College appears in
the fact that its Medical Department, which alone numbers ten professors and five hundred students,
allows the option of one of four languages in the thesis required for the medical degree. It
is the only seminary in the country whose liberal scope and cosmopolitan outlook satisfy the
idea of a great university. Compared with this, our other colleges are all provincial; and
unless the State of Massachusetts shall see fit to adopt us, and to foster our interest with
something of the zeal and liberality which the State of Michigan bestows on her academic masterpiece,
Harvard cannot hope to compete with this precocious child of the West.

Meanwhile, Alumni, the State has devolved upon us, as electors of the Board of Overseers, an
important trust. This trust conveys no right of immediate jurisdiction, but it may become the
channel of an influence which shall make itself felt in the conduct of this University. It
invites us to take counsel concerning her wants and her weal. I therefore pursue the theme
which this crisis in our history suggests.

Of existing universities the greater part are the product of an age whose intellectual fashion
differed as widely from the present as it did from that of Greek and Roman antiquity. Our own
must be reckoned with that majority, dating, as it does, from a period antecedent, not only
to all other American colleges, but to some of the most eminent of other lands. Half of the
better known and most influential of German universities are of later origin than ours. The
University of Göttingen, once the most flourishing in Germany, is younger than Harvard by a
hundred years. Halle is younger, and Erlangen, and Munich with its vast library, and Bonn,
and Berlin, by nearly two hundred years.

When this College was founded, two of the main forces of the intellectual world of our time
had scarcely come into play,--modern literature and modern science. Science knew nothing as
yet of chemistry, nothing of electricity, of geology, scarce anything of botany. In astronomy,
the Copernican system was just struggling into notice, and far from being universally received.
Lord Bacon, I think, was the latest author of note in the library bequeathed by John Harvard;
and Lord Bacon rejected the Copernican system. English literature had had its great Elizabethan
age; but little of the genius of that literature had penetrated the Puritan mind. It is doubtful
if a copy of Shakespeare had found its way to these shores in 1636. Milton's star was just
climbing its native horizon, invisible as yet to the Western world.

The College was founded for the special and avowed purpose of training young men for the service
of the Church. All its studies were arranged with reference to that object: endless expositions
of Scripture, catechetical divinity, "commonplacing" of sermons,--already, one fancies, sufficiently
commonplace,--Chaldee, Syriac, Hebrew without points, and other Semitic exasperations. Latin,
as the language of theology, was indispensable, and within certain limits was practically better
understood, perhaps, in Cambridge of the seventeenth century, than in Cambridge of the nineteenth.
It was the language of official intercourse. Indeed, the use of the English was forbidden to
the students within the College walls. Scholares vernacula lingua intra Collegii limites nullo
prætextu utuntor, was the law,--a law which Cotton Mather complains was so neglected in his
day "as to render our scholars very unfit for a conversation with strangers." But the purpose
for which chiefly the study of Latin is now pursued--acquaintance with the Roman classics--was
no recognized object of Puritan learning. Cicero appears to have been for a long time the only
classic of whom the students were supposed to have any knowledge. The reading of Virgil was
a daring innovation of the eighteenth century. The only Greek required was that of the New
Testament and the Greek Catechism. The whole rich domain of ancient Greek literature, from
Homer to Theokritos, was as much an unexplored territory as the Baghavad-Gita or the Mababharata.
Logic and metaphysic and scholastic disputations occupied a prominent place. As late as 1726,
the books most conspicuous in Tutor Flynt's official report of the College exercises, next
to Cicero and Virgil, are such as convey to the modern scholar no idea but that of intense
obsoleteness,--Ramus's Definitions, Burgersdicius's Logic, Heereboord's Meletemata; and for
Seniors, on Saturday, Ames's Medulla. This is such a curriculum as Mephistopheles, in his character
of Magister, might have recommended in irony to the student who sought his counsel.

With the multiplication of religious sects, with the progress of secular culture, with the
mental emancipation which followed the great convulsions of the eighteenth century, the maintenance
of the ecclesiastical type originally impressed on the College ceased to be practicable,--ceased
to be desirable. The preparation of young men for the service of the Church is still a recognized
part of the general scheme of University education, but is only one in the multiplicity of
objects which that scheme embraces, and can never again have the prominence once assigned to
it. This secularization, however it might seem to compromise the design of the founders of
the College, was inevitable,--a wise and needful concession to the exigencies of the altered
time. Nor is there, in a larger view, any real contravention here of the purpose of the founders.
The secularization of the College is no violation of its motto, "Christo et Ecclesiæ." For,
as I interpret those sacred ideas, the cause of Christ and the Church is advanced by whatever
liberalizes and enriches and enlarges the mind. All study, scientifically pursued, is at bottom
a study of theology; for all scientific study is the study of Law; and "of Law nothing less
can be acknowledged than that her seat is in the bosom of God."

But something more than secularization of the course of study is required to satisfy the idea
of a university. What is a university? Dr. Newman answers this question with the ancient designation
of a Studium Generale,--a school of universal learning. "Such a university," he says, "is in
its essence a place for the communication and circulation of thought by means of personal intercourse
over a wide tract of country."[B] Accepting this definition, can we say that Harvard College,
as at present constituted, is a University? Must we not rather describe it as a place where
boys are made to recite lessons from text-books, and to write compulsory exercises, and are
marked according to their proficiency and fidelity in these performances, with a view to a
somewhat protracted exhibition of themselves at the close of their college course, which, according
to a pleasant academic fiction, is termed their "Commencement"? This description applies only,
it is true, to what is called the Undergraduate Department. But that department stands for
the College, constitutes the College, in the public estimation. The professional schools which
have gathered about it are scarcely regarded as a part of the College. They are incidental
appendages, of which, indeed, one has its seat in another city. The College proper is simply
a more advanced school for boys, not differing essentially in principle and theory from the
public schools in all our towns. In this, as in those, the principle is coercion. Hold your
subject fast with one hand, and pour knowledge into him with the other. The professors are
task-masters and police-officers, the President the chief of the College police.

Now, considering the great advance of our higher town schools, which carry their pupils as
far as the College carried them fifty years ago, and which might, if necessary, have classes
still more advanced of such as are destined for the university, I venture to suggest that the
time has come when this whole system of coercion might, with safety and profit, be done away.
Abolish, I would say, your whole system of marks, and college rank, and compulsory tasks. I
anticipate an objection drawn from the real or supposed danger of abandoning to their own devices
and optional employment boys of the average age of college students. In answer, I say, advance
that average by fixing a limit of admissible age. Advance the qualifications for admission;
make them equal to the studies of the Freshman year, and reduce the college career from four
years to three; or else make the Freshman year a year of probation, and its closing examination
the condition of full matriculation. Only give the young men, when once a sufficient foundation
has been laid, and the rudiments acquired, the freedom of a true University,--freedom to select
their own studies and their own teachers from such material, and such personnel, as the place
supplies. It is to be expected that a portion will abuse this liberty, and waste their years.
They do it at their peril. At the peril, among other disadvantages, of losing their degree,
which should be conditioned on satisfactory proof that the student has not wholly misspent
his time.

An indispensable condition of intellectual growth is liberty. That liberty the present system
denies. More and more it is straitened by imposed tasks. And this I conceive to be the reason
why, with increased requirements, the College turns out a decreasing proportion of first-class
men. If the theory of college rank were correct, the highest marks should indicate the men
who are to be hereafter most conspicuous, and leaders in the various walks of life. This is
not the case,--not so much so now as in former years. Of the present chief lights of American
literature and science, how many, if graduates of Harvard, took the first honors of the University
here? Or, to put the question in another form, Of those who took the first honors at Harvard,
within the last thirty years, how many are now conspicuous among the great lights of American
literature and science?

Carlyle, in his recent talk to the students at Edinburgh, remarks that, "since the time of
Bentley, you cannot name anybody that has gained a great name for scholarship among the English,
or constituted a point of revolution in the pursuits of men, in that way." The reason perhaps
is, that the system of the English universities, though allowing greater liberty than ours,
is still a struggle for college honors, in which renown, not learning for the sake of learning,
is the aim. The seeming proficiency achieved through the influence of such motives--knowledge
acquired for the nonce, not assimilated--is often delusive, and is apt to vanish when the stimulus
is withdrawn. The students themselves have recorded their judgment of the value of this sort
of learning in the word "cramming," a phrase which originated in one of the English universities.

The rudiments of knowledge may be instilled by compulsory tasks; but to form the scholar, to
really educate the man, there should intervene between the years of compulsory study and the
active duties of life a season of comparative leisure. By leisure I mean, not cessation of
activity, but self-determined activity,--command of one's time for voluntary study.

There are two things which unless a university can give, it fails of its legitimate end. One
is opportunity, the other inspiration. But opportunity is marred, not made, and inspiration
quenched, not kindled, by coercion. Few, I suspect, in recent years, have had the love of knowledge
awakened by their college life at Harvard,--more often quenched by the rivalries and penalties
with which learning here is associated. Give the student, first of all, opportunity; place
before him the best apparatus of instruction; tempt him with the best of teachers and books;
lead him to the fountains of intellectual life. His use of those fountains must depend on himself.
There is a homely proverb touching the impossibility of compelling a horse to drink, which
applies to human animals and intellectual draughts as well. The student has been defined by
a German pedagogue as an animal that cannot be forced, but must be persuaded. If, beside opportunity,
the college can furnish also the inspiration which shall make opportunity precious and fruitful,
its work is accomplished. The college that fulfils these two conditions--opportunity and inspiration--will
be a success, will draw to itself the frequency of youth, the patronage of wealth, the consensus
of all the good. Such a university, and no other, will be a power in the land.

Nothing so fatal to inspiration as excessive legislation. It creates two parties, the governors
and the governed, with efforts and interests mutually opposed; the governors seeking to establish
an artificial order, the governed bent on maintaining their natural liberty. I need not ask
you, Alumni, if these two parties exist at Cambridge. They have always existed within the memory
of "the oldest graduate."

Professors should not be responsible for the manners of students, beyond the legitimate operation
of their personal influence. Academic jurisdiction should have no criminal code, should inflict
no penalty but that of expulsion, and that only in the way of self-defence against positively
noxious and dangerous members. Let the civil law take care of civil offences. The American
citizen should early learn to govern himself, and to re-enact the civil law by free consent.
Let easy and familiar relations be established between teachers and taught, and personal influence
will do more for the maintenance of order than the most elaborate code. Experience has shown
that great reliance may be placed on the sense of honor in young men, when properly appealed
to and fairly brought into play. Raumer, in his "History of German Universities," testifies
that the Burschenschaften abolished there the last vestige of that system of hazing practised
on new-comers, which seems to be an indigenous weed of the college soil. It infested the ancient
universities of Athens, Berytus, Carthage,[C] as well as the mediæval and the modern. Our ancestors
provided a natural outlet for it when they ordained that the Freshmen should be subject to
the Seniors, should take off their hats in their presence, and run of their errands. This system,
under the name of "Pennalism," had developed, in the German universities, in the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries, a degree of oppression and tyrannous abuse of the new-comer unknown
to American colleges, and altogether incredible were it not sufficiently vouched by contemporary
writers, and by the acts of the various governments which labored to suppress it. A certain
German worthy writes to his son, who is about to enter the university: "You think, perhaps,
that in the universities they sup pure wisdom by spoonfuls,... but when you are arrived there,
you will find that you must be made a fool of for the first year.... Consent to be a fool for
this one year; let yourself be plagued and abused; and when an old veteran steps up to you
and tweaks your nose, let it not appear singular; endure it, harden yourself to it. Olim meminisse
juvabit."[D] The universities legislated against this barbarism; all the governments of Germany
conspired to crush it; but in spite of all their efforts, which were only partially successful,
traces of it still lingered in the early years of this century. It was not completely abolished
until, in 1818, there was formed at Jena by delegates from fourteen universities a voluntary
association of students on a moral basis, known as "The General German Burschenschaft," the
first principle in whose constitution was, "Unity, freedom, and equality of all students among
themselves,--equality of all rights and duties,"--and whose second principle was "Christian
German education of every mental and bodily faculty for the service of the Fatherland." This,
according to Raumer, was the end of Pennalism in Germany. What the governments, with their
stringent enactments and formidable penalties, failed to accomplish, was accomplished at last
by a voluntary association of students, organizing that sense of honor which, in youth and
societies of youth, if rightly touched, is never appealed to in vain.

       *       *       *       *       *

The question has been newly agitated in these days, whether knowledge of Greek and Latin is
a necessary part of polite education, and whether it should constitute one of the requirements
of the academic course. It has seemed to me that those who take the affirmative in this discussion
give undue weight to the literary argument, and not enough to the glossological. The literary
argument fails to establish the supreme importance of a knowledge of these languages as a part
of polite education. The place which the Greek and Latin authors have come to occupy in the
estimation of European scholars is due, not entirely to their intrinsic merits, great as those
merits unquestionably are, but in part to traditional prepossessions. When after a millennial
occultation the classics, and especially, with the fall of the Palæologi, the Greek classics
burst upon Western Europe, there was no literature with which to compare them. The Jewish Scriptures
were not regarded as literature by readers of the Vulgate. Dante, it is true, had given to
the world his immortal vision, and Boccaccio, its first expounder, had shown the capabilities
of Italian prose. But the light of Florentine culture was even for Italy a partial illumination.
On the whole, we may say that modern literature did not exist, and the Oriental had not yet
come to light. What wonder that the classics were received with boundless enthusiasm! It was
through the influence of that enthusiasm that the study of Greek was introduced into schools
and universities with the close of the fifteenth century. It was through that influence that
Latin, still a living language in the clerical world, was perpetuated, instead of becoming
an obsolete ecclesiasticism. The language of Livy and Ovid derived fresh impulse from the reappearing
stars of secular Rome.

It is in vain to deny that those literatures have lost something of the relative value they
once possessed, and which made it a literary necessity to study Greek and Latin for their sakes.
The literary necessity is in a measure superseded by translations, which, though they may fail
to communicate the aroma and the verbal felicities of the original, reproduce its form and
substance. It is furthermore superseded by the rise of new literatures, and by introduction
to those of other and elder lands. The Greeks were masters of literary form, but other nations
have surpassed them in some particulars. There is but one Iliad, and but one Odyssee; but also
there is but one Job, but one Sakoontalà, but one Hafiz-Nameh, but one Gulistan, but one Divina
Commedia, but one Don Quixote, but one Faust. If the argument for the study of Greek and Latin
is grounded on the value of the literary treasures contained in those tongues, the same argument
applies to the Hebrew, to the Sanscrit, to the Persian, to say nothing of the modern languages,
to which the College assigns a subordinate place.

But, above all, the literary importance of Greek and Latin for the British and American scholar
is greatly qualified by the richness and superiority of the English literature which has come
into being since the Græcomania of the time of the Tudors, when court ladies of a morning,
by way of amusement, read Plato's Dialogues in the original. If literary edification is the
object intended in the study of those languages, that end is more easily and more effectually
accomplished by a thorough acquaintance with English literature, than by the very imperfect
knowledge which college exercises give of the classics. Tugging at the Chained Prometheus,
with the aid of grammar and lexicon, may be good intellectual discipline, but how many of the
subjects of that discipline ever divine the secret of Æschylus's wonderful creation, or receive
any other impression from it than the feeling perhaps that the worthy Titan's sense of constraint
could hardly have been more galling than their own.

Give them Shakespeare's Tempest to read, and with no other pony than their own good will, though
they may not penetrate the deeper meaning of that composition, they will gain more ideas, more
nourishment from it, than they will from compulsory study of the whole trio of Greek tragedians.
And if this be their first introduction to the great magician, they will say, with Miranda,

            "O, wonder!
    How many goodly creatures are there here!
    ... O brave new world,
    That has such people in it!"

The literary argument for enforced study of Greek and Latin in our day has not much weight.
What I call the glossological argument has more. Every well-educated person should have a thorough
understanding of his own language, and no one can thoroughly understand the English without
some knowledge of languages which touch it so nearly as the Latin and the Greek. Some knowledge
of those languages should constitute, I think, a condition of matriculation. But the further
prosecution of them should not be obligatory on the student once matriculated, though every
encouragement be given and every facility afforded to those whose genius leans in that direction.
The College should make ample provision for the study of ancient languages, and also for the
study of the mathematics, but should not enforce those studies on minds that have no vocation
for such pursuits. There is now and then a born philologer, one who studies language for its
own sake,--studies it perhaps in the spirit of "the scholar who regretted that he had not concentrated
his life on the dative case." There are also exceptional natures that delight in mathematics,
minds whose young affections run to angles and logarithms, and with whom the computation of
values is itself the chief value in life. The College should accommodate either bias, to the
top of its bent, but should not enforce either with compulsory twist. It should not insist
on making every alumnus a linguist or a mathematician. If mastery of dead languages is not
an indispensable part of polite education, mathematical learning is still less so. Excessive
requirements in that department have not even the excuse of intellectual discipline. More important
than mathematics to the general scholar is the knowledge of history, in which American scholars
are so commonly deficient. More important is the knowledge of modern languages and of English
literature. More important the knowledge of Nature and Art. May the science of sciences never
want representatives as able as the learned gentlemen who now preside over that department
in the mathematical and presidential chairs. Happy will it be for the University if they can
inspire a love for the science in the pupils committed to their charge. But where inspiration
fails, coercion can never supply its place. If the mathematics shall continue to reign at Harvard,
may their empire become a law of liberty.

I have ventured, fellow-graduates, to throw out these hints of University Reform, well aware
of the opposition such views must encounter in deep-rooted prejudice and fixed routine; aware
also of the rashness of attempting, within the limits of such an occasion, to grapple with
such a theme; but strong in my conviction of the pressing need of a more emancipated scheme
of instruction and discipline, based on the facts of the present and the real wants of American
life. It is time that the oldest college in the land should lay off the prætexta of its long
minority, and take its place among the universities, properly so called, of modern time.

       *       *       *       *       *

One thing more I have to say while standing in this presence. The College has a duty beyond
its literary and scientific functions,--a duty to the nation,--a patriotic, I do not scruple
to say a political duty.

Time was when universities were joint estates of the realms they enlightened. The University
of Paris was, in its best days, an association possessing authority second only to that of
the Church. The faithful ally of the sovereigns of France against the ambition of the nobles
and against the usurpations of Papal Rome, she bore the proud title of "The eldest Daughter
of the King,"--La Fille aînée du Roi. She upheld the Oriflamme against the feudal gonfalons,
and was largely instrumental in establishing the central power of the crown.[E] In the terrible
struggle of Philip the Fair with Boniface VIII., she furnished the legal weapons of the contest.
She furnished, in her Chancellor Gerson, the leading spirit of the Council of Constance. In
the Council of Bâle she obtained for France the "Pragmatic Sanction." Her voice was consulted
on the question of the Salic Law; unhappily, also in the trial of Jeanne d'Arc; and when Louis
XI. concluded a treaty of peace with Maximilian of Austria, the University of Paris was the
guaranty on the part of France.

Universities are no longer political bodies, but they may be still political powers,--centres
and sources of political influence. Our own College in the time of the Revolution was a manifest
power on the side of liberty, the political as well as academic mother of Otis and the Adamses.
In 1768, "when the patronage of American manufactures was the test of patriotism," the Senior
Class voted unanimously to take their degrees apparelled in the coarse cloths of American manufacture.
In 1776, the Overseers required of the professors a satisfactory account of their political
faith. So much was then thought of the influence on young minds of the right or wrong views
of political questions entertained by their instructors. The fathers were right. When the life
of the nation is concerned,--in the struggle with foreign or domestic foes,--there is a right
and a wrong in politics which casuistry may seek to confuse, but which sound moral sentiment
cannot mistake, and which those who have schools of learning in charge should be held to respect.
Better the College should be disbanded than be a nursery of treason. Better these halls even
now should be levelled with the ground, than that any influence should prevail in them unfriendly
to American nationality. No amount of intellectual acquirements can atone for defective patriotism.
Intellectual supremacy alone will not avert the downfall of states. The subtlest intellect
of Greece, the sage who could plan an ideal republic of austere virtue and perfect proportions,
could not preserve his own; but the love of country inspired by Lycurgus kept the descendants
of the Dorians free two thousand years after the disgrace of Chæronea had sealed the fate of
the rest of Greece.

In my college days it was the fashion with some to think lightly of our American birthright,
to talk disparagingly of republics, and to sigh for the dispositions and pomps of royalty.

All such nonsense, if it had not already yielded to riper reason, would ere this have been
washed out of us by the blood of a hundred thousand martyrs. The events of recent years have
enkindled, let us hope, quite other sentiments in the youth of this generation. May those sentiments
find ample nutriment within these precincts evermore.

Soon after the conquest of American independence, Governor Hancock, in his speech at the inauguration
of President Willard, eulogized the College as having "been in some sense the parent and nurse
of the late happy Revolution in this Commonwealth." Parent and nurse of American nationality,--such
was the praise accorded to Harvard by one of the foremost patriots of the Revolution! Never
may she cease to deserve that praise! Never may the Mother refuse to acknowledge the seed herself
has propagated! Never may her seed be repelled by the Mother's altered mind!

    "Mutatam ignorent subito ne semina matrem."

When Protagoras came to Athens to teach in the university as self-appointed professor, or sophist,
according to the fashion of that time, it was not to instruct Athenian youth in music or geometry
or astronomy, but to teach them the art of being good citizens,--[Greek: Tên politikên technên,
kai poiein andras agathous politas.] That was his profession. With which, as we read, Hippocrates
was so well pleased, that he called up Socrates in the middle of the night to inform him of
the happy arrival. We have no professorship at Cambridge founded for the express purpose of
making good citizens. In the absence of such, may all the professorships work together for
that end. The youth intrusted to their tutelage are soon to take part, if not as legislators,
at least as freemen, in the government of our common land. May the dignity and duty and exceeding
privilege of an American citizen be impressed upon their minds by all the influences that rule
this place! Trust me, Alumni, the country will thank the University more for the loyalty her
influences shall foster, than for all the knowledge her schools may impart. Learning is the
costly ornament of states, but patriotism is the life of a nation.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] The History of Harvard University, by Josiah Quincy, LL. D., Vol. I. pp. 42, 43. All the
facts relating to the history of the College are taken from this work.

[B] The Office and Work of Universities, by John Henry Newman.

[C] St. Augustine records his connection, when a student at Carthage, with the "Eversores"
(Destructives), an association which flourished at that university.

[D] Raumer's "History of German Universities." Translated by Frederic B. Perkins.

[E] "C'est ainsi que peu à peu ils [that is, "les lettres"] parvinrent à sapper les fondements
du pouvoir féodal et à élever l'étendard royal là où flottait la bannière du baron."--Histoire
de l'Université, par M. Eugene Dubarle, Vol. I. p. 135.

THE VOICE.

    A saintly Voice fell on my ear,
    Out of the dewy atmosphere:--
    "O hush, dear Bird of Night, be mute,--
    Be still, O throbbing heart and lute!"
    The Night-Bird shook the sparkling dew
    Upon me as he ruffed and flew:
    My heart was still, almost as soon,
    My lute as silent as the moon:
    I hushed my heart, and held my breath,
    And would have died the death of death,
    To hear--but just once more--to hear
    That Voice within the atmosphere.

    Again The Voice fell on my ear,
    Out of the dewy atmosphere!--
    The same words, but half heard at first,--
    I listened with a quenchless thirst;
    And drank as of that heavenly balm,
    The Silence that succeeds a psalm:
    My soul to ecstasy was stirred:--
    It was a Voice that I had heard
    A thousand blissful times before;
    But deemed that I should hear no more
    Till I should have a spirit's ear,
    And breathe another atmosphere!

    Then there was Silence in my ear,
    And Silence in the atmosphere,
    And silent moonshine on the mart,
    And Peace and Silence in my heart:
    But suddenly a dark Doubt said,
    "The fancy of a fevered head!"
    A wild, quick whirlwind of desire
    Then wrapt me as in folds of fire.
    I ran the strange words o'er and o'er,
    And listened breathlessly once more:
    And lo, the third time I did hear
    The same words in the atmosphere!

    They fell and died upon my ear,
    As dew dies on the atmosphere;
    And then an intense yearning thrilled
    My Soul, that all might be fulfilled:
    "Where art thou, Blessed Spirit, where?--
    Whose Voice is dew upon the air!"
    I looked, around me, and above,
    And cried aloud: "Where art thou, Love?
    O let me see thy living eye,
    And clasp thy living hand, or die!"--
    Again upon the atmosphere
    The self-same words fell: "I Am Here."

    "Here? Thou art here, Love!"--"I Am Here."
    The echo died upon my ear!
    I looked around me--everywhere,--
    But ah! there was no mortal there!
    The moonlight was upon the mart,
    And awe and wonder in my heart.
    I saw no form!--I only felt
    Heaven's Peace upon me as I knelt,
    And knew a Soul Beatified
    Was at that moment by my side:--
    And there was Silence in my ear,
    And Silence in the atmosphere!

LIFE ASSURANCE.

One of the subjects which for some time has commanded the public attention is that of Life
Assurance: the means by which a man may, through a moderate annual expenditure, make provision
for his family when death shall have deprived them of his protection.

The number of companies organized for this purpose, their annual increase, the assiduity with
which their agents press their respective claims, the books, pamphlets, and circulars which
are disseminated, and the large space occupied by their announcements in the issues of the
press, all unite in creating a spirit of inquiry on this interesting subject. We propose in
this article to submit a few statements, the collection of which has been greatly furthered
by recourse to the treatises of Babbage, Park, Duer, Ellis, Angell, Bunyon, Blayney, and other
writers on insurance.

In the early history of insurance, objection was continually made that it was of the nature
of a wager, and consequently not only unlawful, but contra bonos mores; yet the courts of law
in England from the first drew a distinction between a wager and a contract founded on the
principle of indemnity, which principle runs through and underlies the whole subject of insurance.
Lord Mansfield denominated insurance "a contract upon speculation," and it has universally
been considered as a contract of indemnity against loss or damage arising from some uncertain
and future events.

Insurance may be defined generally as "a contract by which one of the parties binds himself
to the other to pay him a sum of money, or otherwise indemnify him, in the case of the happening
of a fortuitous event provided for in a general or special manner in the contract, in consideration
of the sum of money which the latter party pays or binds himself to pay"; or, in the words
of an eminent English judge, "It is a contract to protect men against uncertain events which
in any wise may be a disadvantage to them."

The contract securing this indemnity is called a policy, from the Italian polizza d' assicurazione,
or di sicurtà, which signifies a memorandum in writing, or bill of security. The sum paid for
the indemnity is called a premium, or price; the party taking upon himself the risk being termed
the underwriter, because his name is written at the bottom of the policy, while the person
protected by the instrument is called the assured. Says one, "The premium paid by the latter
and the peril assumed by the former are two correlatives inseparable from each other, and the
union constitutes the essence of the contract."

Some writers, Mr. Babbage among others, use the words "assurance" and "insurance" as having
distinct meanings; but with all underwriters at this day they are considered synonymous.

Insurance in the first instance was exclusively maritime, and great efforts have been made
to prove its antiquity. Some have endeavored, by appeals to Livy, Suetonius, Ulpian, and Cicero,
to show that insurance was in use in ancient Rome, and that it was invented at Rhodes a thousand
years before the Christian era; while others claim that it existed at Tyre, Carthage, Corinth,
Athens, and Alexandria.

There is little doubt, however, that it was first practised by the Lombards, and was introduced
into England by a Lombard colony, which in the thirteenth century settled in London, and controlled
entirely the foreign trade of the kingdom. After the great fire in London, in 1666, the protection
hitherto afforded by insurance to ships only was extended to goods and houses; and insurance
as a contract of indemnity was subsequently extended to human life.

It is a singular fact that the subject of effecting insurance on lives was largely and excitingly
discussed on the continent of Europe before it had attracted the slightest attention in England;
yet at this day it prevails throughout Great Britain, while upon the Continent it is comparatively
unknown; its operations there being chiefly confined to France, the Netherlands, Germany, and
Denmark.

In Holland, as early as 1681, Van Hadden and De Witt produced elaborate works upon the subject,
while no publication appeared in England until twenty years after. These writers were followed
by Struyck, in 1740, and by Kirseboon, in 1743; while Parcieux, father and son, St. Cyran,
and Duvillard, in France, with Euler, Suchmilch, and Wargentin, in Germany, were with great
ability pressing the subject upon the notice of their countrymen. But these efforts led to
no practical results, and it was reserved for England at a later day to illustrate the principles
of life assurance, and enable the public to enjoy extensively its privileges.

Policies of life assurance were issued in England before any companies were organized to prosecute
the business. Like marine policies, they were subscribed by one or more individuals; and the
first case we find is that of a ship captain, in 1641, whose life had been insured by two persons
who had become his bail. The policy was subscribed by individual underwriters, and an able
author observes that the case singularly illustrates the connection which probably once existed
between life and maritime insurance, and shows how naturally the latter may have sprung from
the former.

No business, with the exception, perhaps, of the express system and of photography, has grown
in the United States so rapidly as that of life assurance. There is scarcely a State that has
not one or more companies organized for the prosecution of this business. There are six chartered
under the laws of Massachusetts, and twenty-six of those organized in other States are doing
business in this Commonwealth, These companies had in force, November 1, 1865, 211,537 policies,
assuring the sum of $563,396,862.30. In 1830 the New York Life and Trust Company was the only
life assurance company in New York. At the close of the year 1865 there were eighteen companies
chartered under the laws of that State. They had 101,780 policies in force, assuring the sum
of $289,846,316.50, while their gross combined assets reach the sum of $32,296,832.03.

An insurance upon life is defined as "a contract by which the underwriter, for a certain sum
proportioned to the age, health, profession, and other circumstances of the person whose life
is the object of insurance, engages that that person shall not die within the time limited
in the policy; or if he do, that he will pay a sum of money to him in whose favor the policy
was granted."

A person desiring to effect an insurance on his life usually procures from the office in which
he proposes to insure a blank form, containing a series of interrogatories, all of which must
be answered in writing by the applicant. To these answers must be appended the certificate
of his usual medical attendant as to his present and general state of health, with a like certificate
from an intimate personal friend. The party is then subjected to an examination by the medical
examiner of the company, and, if the application is in all respects satisfactory, a policy
is issued.

On the death of the party assured, and due proof being made thereof, the company must pay the
full sum insured. The time fixed for this payment varies with different companies. Some agree
to pay at thirty, some at sixty, and some at ninety days after the proofs of death have been
received and duly approved.

The peculiarity of life assurance companies is, that they are required to pay the entire sum
assured on the happening of a single event, making the loss a total one; but in fire and marine
policies there is a distinction made between total and partial loss.

A clause is usually inserted declaring the policy void in case the assured should fall in a
duel, die by the hands of justice, or by his own hand, or while engaged in the violation of
any public law. An interesting case in point is reported in the English books. On the 25th
of November, 1824, Henry Fauntleroy, a celebrated banker in London, was executed for forgery.
The Amicable Society of London, the first company established in England, had written a policy
on his life, upon which all the premiums had been paid. The rules of the company declared that
in such cases the policy was vitiated, but the clause was not inserted in the instrument. The
company resisted payment, but a decision was given sustaining the validity of the contract,
which was, however, reversed, on an appeal being made to the House of Lords.

This clause, declaring a policy void in case the assured commits suicide, has given rise to
much litigation. Some companies use the word "suicide," while others insert the words "shall
die by his own hand"; but the courts of law in various adjudications have considered the expressions
as amounting to the same thing. The word "suicide" is not to be found in any English author
anterior to the reign of Charles II. Lexicographers trace it to the Latin word suicidum, though
that word does not appear in the older Latin dictionaries. It is really derived from two Latin
words, se and cædere,--to slay one's self. The great commentator on English law, Sir William
Blackstone, defines suicide to be "the act of designedly destroying one's own life. To constitute
suicide, the person must be of years of discretion and of sound mind."

In a case submitted to the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Chief-Justice Nelson settled
the whole question. A life company resisted payment of the amount specified in their policy,
on the ground that the assured had committed suicide by drowning himself in the Hudson River.
To this it was replied, that, when he so drowned himself, he was of unsound mind, and wholly
unconscious of the act.

Judge Nelson, after stating the question to be whether the act of self-destruction by a man
in a fit of insanity can be deemed a death by his own hand within the meaning of the policy,
decided that it could not be so considered. That the terms "commit suicide," and "die by his
own hand," as used indiscriminately by different companies, express the same idea, and are
so understood by writers in this branch of law. That self-destruction by a man bereft of reason
can with no more propriety be ascribed to the act of his own hand, than to the deadly instrument
that may have been used for the purpose. That the drowning was no more the act of the assured,
in the sense of the law, than if he had been impelled by irresistible physical power; and that
the company could be no more exempt from payment, than if his death had been occasioned by
any uncontrollable means. That suicide involved the deliberate termination of one's existence
while in the full possession of the mental faculties. That self-slaughter by an insane man
or a lunatic was not suicide within the meaning of the law.

This opinion of Judge Nelson was subsequently affirmed by the Court of Appeals.

The whole current of legal decisions, the suggestions thrown out by learned judges, and the
growing opinion that no sane man would be guilty of self-slaughter, have induced several new
companies to exclude this proviso from their policies, while many older ones have revised their
policies and eliminated the obnoxious clause. It is not that any man contemplates the commission
of suicide; but every one feels that, if there should be laid upon him that most fearful of
all afflictions, insanity, or if, when suffering from disease, he should, in the frenzy of
delirium, put an end to his existence, every principle of equity demands that the faithful
payments of years should not be lost to his family.

Another important principle, which has involved much discussion, is, that "the party insuring
upon a life must have an interest in the life insured." Great latitude has been given in the
construction of the law as to this point; the declaration of a real, subsisting interest being
all that is required by the underwriters. In fact, the offices are constantly taking insurances
where the interest is upon a contingency which may very shortly be determined, and if the parties
choose to continue the policy, bona fide, after the interest ceases, they never meet with any
difficulty in recovering. So also offices frequently grant policies upon interests so slender
that, although it may be difficult to deny some kind of interest, it is such as a court of
law would scarcely recognize. This practice of paying upon policies without raising the question
of interest is so general, that it has even been allowed in courts of law.

The great advantages derived from life assurance are proved by its rapid progress, both in
Great Britain and the United States, after its principles had once been fully explained. As
already stated, the first society for the general assurance of life was the Amicable, founded
in 1706; but, most unreasonably, its rates of premium were made uniform for all ages assured;
nor was any fixed amount guaranteed in case of death. Hence very little was done; and it was
not until 1780 that the business of life assurance may be said to have fairly begun. Since
then, companies have been formed from time to time, so that at present there are in Great Britain
some two hundred in active operation, and the amount assured upon life is estimated at more
than £200,000,000.

In America, the first life-assurance company open to all was the Pennsylvania, established
in 1812. And though many others, devoted in whole or in part to this object, were formed in
the interim, so little pains was taken to inform the public upon the system, that in 1842 the
amount assured probably did not exceed $5,000,000. But, in a Christian country, all material
enterprises go swiftly forward, and of late years the progress of life assurance has equalled
that of railroads and telegraphs; so that there are in the United States at least fifty companies,
which are disbursing in claims, chiefly to widows and orphans, about five millions of dollars
annually.

With this large extension of business, the fundamental principles of life assurance are now
universally agreed on; but, in carrying them out, there are differences deserving attention.

Life-assurance companies may be divided into three classes,--the stock, the mutual, and the
mixed. In the stock company, the management is in the hands of the stockholders, or their agents,
with whom the applicant for insurance contracts to pay so much while living, in consideration
of a certain sum to be paid to his representatives at his death; and here his connection with
it ceases; the profits of the business being divided among the stockholders. In the mutual
company the assured themselves receive all the surplus premium or profit. The law of the State
of New York passed in 1849 requires that all life-insurance companies organized in the State
shall have a capital of at least one hundred thousand dollars. Mutual life-insurance companies
organized in that State since 1849 pay only seven per cent on their capital, which their stock
by investment may produce. In the mixed companies there are various combinations of the principles
peculiar to the other two. They differ from the mutual companies only in the fact that, besides
paying the stockholders legal interest, they receive a portion of the profits of the business,
which in some cases in this country has caused the capital stock to appreciate in value over
three hundred per cent, and in England over five hundred per cent.

To decide which of these is most advantageous to the assured, we must consider the subject
of premiums, and understand whence companies derive their surplus, or, as it is sometimes called,
the profits. This is easily explained. As the liability to death increases with age, the proper
annual premium for assurance would increase with each year of life. But as it is important
not to burden age too heavily, and as it is simpler to pay a uniform sum every year, a mean
rate is taken,--one too little for old age, but greater than is absolutely necessary to cover
the risk in the first years of the assurance. Hence the company receives at first more than
it has to pay, and thus accumulates funds to provide for the time when its payments will naturally
be in excess of its receipts. Now these funds may be invested so as of themselves to produce
an income, and the increase thence derived may, by the magical power of compound interest,
reaching through a long series of years, become very large. In forming rates of premium, regard
is had to this; but, to gain security in a contract which may extend far into the future, it
is prudent to base the calculations on so low a rate of interest that there can be a certainty
of obtaining it. The rate adopted is usually three per cent in England, and four or five per
cent in this country. But, in point of fact, the American companies now obtain on secure investments
six or seven per cent.

Again, in order to cover expenses and provide against possible contingencies, it is common
to add to the rates obtained by calculation from correct tables of mortality a certain percentage,
called loading, which is usually found more than is necessary, and forms a second source of profit.

Again, most tables of mortality are derived from the experience of whole communities, while
all companies now subject applicants to a medical examination, and reject those found diseased;
it being possible to discover, through the progress of medical science, even incipient signs
of disease. Hence one would expect that among these selected lives the rates of mortality would
be less than by ordinary statistics; and this is confirmed by the published experience of many
companies. Here we find a third source of profit.

In these three ways, and others incidental to the business, it happens that all corporations
managed with ordinary prudence accumulate a much larger capital than is needed for future losses.
The advocates of the stock plan contend that, by a low rate of premium, they furnish their
assured with a full equivalent for that division of profits which is the special boast of other
companies. In a corporation purely mutual, the whole surplus is periodically applied to the
benefit of the assured, either by a dividend in cash, or by equitable additions to the amount
assured without increase of premium, or by deducting from future premiums, while the amount
assured remains the same. The advantages of the latter system must be evident to every one.

It is of course important in all companies, whether mutual or not, that the officers should
be men of integrity, sagacity, and financial experience, as well as that due precautions should
be taken in the care and investment of the company's fund; and it is now proved by experience
in this country, that, when a company is thus managed, so regular are the rates of mortality,
so efficient the safeguards derived from the selection of lives, the assumption of low rates
of interest, and the loading of premiums, that no company, when once well established, has
ever met with disaster. On the other hand, there has been a rapid accretion of funds, in some
instances to the amount of many millions of dollars. The characteristics of a good company
are security and assurance at cost. It should sell, not policies merely, but assurance; and
it should not make a profit for the capitalist out of the widow and orphan.

The policies issued by life companies vary in their form and nature. The ordinary one is called
the life policy, by which the company contracts to pay, on the death of the assured, the sum
named in the policy, to the person in whose behalf the assurance is made.

In mutual (cash) companies, when the premium has been paid in full for about sixteen years,
judging from past experience, the policy-holder may expect that his annual dividend on policy
and additions will exceed the annual premium, thus obviating the necessity of further payments
to the company, while his policy annually increases in amount for the remainder of life. But,
on the contrary, when the dividends have been anticipated, as in the note system, by giving
a note for part of the premium, the policy-holder insuring in this way, although he may at
first receive a larger policy than he has the ability to pay for in cash, may lose the chief
benefit of life insurance. For should he become unable, either by age, disease, or loss of
property, to continue the payment of his premiums, his policy must lapse, because there is
no accumulation of profits to his credit on which it can be continued.

In other forms of life policies, called "Non-forfeitable," premiums are made payable in "one,"
"five," or "ten" annual payments. In all cash companies, and in some of the note companies,
after the specified number of premiums have been paid, the policy-holder draws an annual dividend
in cash.

A further advantage arising from this plan is, that the policy-holder, at any time after two
annual payments have been made, is always entitled to a "paid-up" policy for as many "fifths"
or "tenths" of the sum assured as he shall have paid annual premiums. For example: a "five-annual-payment
policy" for $10,000, on which three premiums had been paid, would entitle the holder to a "paid-up
policy" for $6,000; a "ten-annual-payment policy" for $10,000, on which three payments had
been made, would entitle the holder to $3,000; and so on for any number of payments and for
any amount, in accordance with the face of the policy.

Another form is denominated the Endowment Policy, in which the amount assured is payable when
the party attains a certain age, or at death, should he die before reaching that age. This
policy is rapidly gaining favor, as it provides for the man himself in old age, or for his
family in case of his death. It is also fast becoming a favorite form of investment. We can
show instances where the policy-holders have received a surplus above all they have paid to
the company, with compound interest at six per cent, and no charge whatever for expenses or
cost of insurance meanwhile.

The Term Policy, as its name implies, is issued for a term of one or more years.

Policies are also issued on joint lives, payable at the death of the first of two or more parties
named in the policy; and on survivorship, payable to a party named in case he survives another.

Some companies require all premiums to be paid in cash, while others take the note of the assured
in part payment. These are denominated cash and note companies, and much difference of opinion
exists as to their comparative merits.

The latter is at first sight an attractive system, and its advocates present many specious
arguments in its favor. The friends of cash payments, however, contend that the note system
is detrimental and delusive, from the fact that these notes are liable to assessment, and,
in case of death, to be deducted from the amount assured; also that the notes accumulate as
the years roll on, the interest growing annually larger, and the total cash payment consequently
heavier, while the actual amount of assurance, that is, the difference between its nominal
amount and the sum of the notes, steadily lessens; and thus a provision for one's family gradually
changes into a burden upon one's self.

But whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the comparative value of various systems,
few will deny the advantages which life assurance has conferred upon the public, especially
in America, whose middle classes, ambitiously living up to their income, are rich mostly in
their labor and their homesteads,--in their earnings rather than their savings; and whose wealthy
classes are rich chiefly through the giddy uncertainties of speculation,--magnificent to-day,
in ruins to-morrow. In a country like this, no one can estimate the amount of comfort secured
by investment in life assurance. It is the one measure of thrift which remains to atone for
our extravagance in living and recklessness in trade.

Henry Ward Beecher spoke wisely when he advised all men to seek life assurance. He says:--

"It is every man's duty to provide for his family. That provision must include its future contingent
condition. That provision, in so far as it is material, men ordinarily seek to secure by their
own accumulations and investments. But all these are uncertain. The man that is rich to-day,
by causes beyond his reach is poor to-morrow. A war in China, a revolution in Europe, a rebellion
in America, overrule ten thousand fortunes in every commercial community.

"But in life assurance there are no risks or contingencies. Other investments may fail. A house
may burn down. Banks may break; and their stock be worthless. Bonds and mortgages may be seized
for debt, and all property or evidences of property may fall into the bottomless gulf of bankruptcy.
But money secured to your family by life assurance will go to them without fail or interruption,
provided you have used due discretion in the selection of a sound and honorable assurance company.
Of two courses, one of which may leave your family destitute, and the other of which assures
them a comfortable support at your decease, can there be a doubt which is to be chosen? Can
there be a doubt about duty?"

A DISTINGUISHED CHARACTER.

In order to prevent conjectures which might not be entirely pleasant to one or two persons
whom I have in my mind, I prefer to state, at once and frankly, that I, Dionysius Green, am
the author of this article. It requires some courage to make this avowal, I am well aware;
and I am prepared to experience a rapid diminution of my present rather extensive popularity.
One result I certainly foresee, namely, a great falling-off in the number of applications for
autographs ("accompanied with a sentiment"), which I daily receive; possibly, also, fewer invitations
to lecture before literary societies next winter. Fortunately, my recent marriage enables me
to dispense with a large portion of my popularity, without great inconvenience; or, rather,
I am relieved from the very laborious necessity of maintaining it in the face of so many aggressive
rivalries.

The day may arrive, therefore, when I shall cease to be a Distinguished Character. Since I
have admitted this much, I may as well confess that my reputation--enviable as it may be considered
by the public--is of that kind which seems to be meant to run for a certain length of time,
at the expiration whereof it must be wound up again. I was fortunate enough to discover this
secret betimes, and I have since then known several amiable and worthy persons to slip out
of sight, from the lack of it. There was Mr. ----, for example, whose comic articles shook
the fat sides of the nation for one summer, and whose pseudonyme was in everybody's mouth.
Alas! what he took for perpetual motion was but an eight-day clock, and I need not call your
attention to the present dead and leaden stillness of its pendulum.

Although my earliest notoriety was achieved in very much the same way,--that is, by a series
of comic sketches, as many of my admirers no doubt remember,--I soon perceived the unstable
character of my reputation. I was at the mercy of the next man who should succeed in inventing
a new slang, or a funnier way of spelling. These things, in literature, are like "fancy drinks"
among the profane. They tickle the palates of the multitude for a while, but they don't wear
like the plain old beverages. I saw very plainly, that much more was to be gained, in the long
run, by planting myself--not with a sudden and startling jump, but by a graceful, cautious
pirouette--upon a basis of the Moral and the Didactic. I should thus reach a class of slow,
but very tough stomachs, which would require ample time to assimilate the food I intended to
offer. If this were somewhat crude, that would be no objection whatever: they always mistake
their mental gripings for the process of digestion. Why, bless your souls! I have known Tupper's
"Proverbial Philosophy" to fill one of them to repletion, for the space of ten years!

I owe this resolution to my natural acuteness of perception, but my success in carrying it
into execution was partly the result of luck. The field, now occupied by such a crowd, (I name
no names,) was at that time nearly clear; and I managed to shift my costume before the public
fairly knew what I was about. I found, indeed, that a combination of the two styles enabled
me to retain much of my old audience while acquiring the new. It was like singing a hymn of
serious admonition to a lively, rattling tune. One is diverted: there is a present sense of
fun, while a gentle feeling of the grave truths inculcated lingers in one's mind afterwards.
The pious can find no fault with the matter, nor the profane with the manner. Instead of approaching
the moral consciousness of one's readers with stern, lugubrious countenance, and ponderous
or lamentable voice, you make your appearance with a smile and a joke, punch the reader playfully
in the ribs, and say, as it were, "Ha! ha! I've a good thing to tell you!" Although I have
many imitators, some of whom have attained an excellence in the art which may be considered
classic, yet I may fairly claim to have originated this branch of literature, and, while it
retains its present unbounded popularity, my name cannot wholly perish.

Nevertheless, greatness has its drawbacks. I appeal to all distinguished authors, from Tupper
to Weenie Willows, to confirm the truth of this assertion. I have sometimes, especially of
late, doubted seriously whether it is a good thing to be distinguished. Alas! my dear young
gentleman and lady, whose albums would be so dismally incomplete without my autograph ("accompanied
with a sentiment"), would that you could taste the bitter with the sweet,--the honey and aloes
of an American author's life! At first, it is exceedingly pleasant. You are like a newly-hatched
chicken, or a pup at the end of his nine-days' blindness. You are petted, and stroked, and
called sweet names, and fed with dainties, and carried in the arms of the gentlemen, and cuddled
in the laps of the ladies. But when you get to be a big dog or a full-grown game-cock, take
care! If people would but fancy that you still wore your down or silken skin, they might continue
to be delighted with every gambol of your fancy. But they suspect pin-feathers and bristles,
whether the latter grow or not; and, after doing their best to spoil you, they suddenly demand
the utmost propriety of behavior. However, let me not anticipate. I can still call myself,
without the charge of self-flattery, a Distinguished Character; at least I am told so, every
day, each person who makes the remark supposing that it is an entirely original and most acceptable
compliment. While this distinction lasts, (for I find that I lose it in proportion as I gain
in sound knowledge and independent common-sense,) I should like to describe, for the contemplation
of future ages, some of the penalties attached to popularity at present.

I was weak enough, I admit, to be immensely delighted with the first which I experienced,--not
foreseeing whitherward they led. The timid, enthusiastic notes of girls of fifteen, with the
words "sweet" and "exquisite," duly underscored, the letters of aspiring boys, enclosing specimens
of their composition, and the touching pleas of individuals of both sexes, in reduced circumstances,
were so many evidences of success, which I hugged to my bosom. Reducing the matter to statistics,
I have since ascertained that about one in ten of these letters is dictated either by honest
sympathy, the warm, uncritical recognition of youth (which I don't suppose any author would
diminish, if he could), or the craving for encouragement, under unpropitious circumstances
of growth. But how was I, in the beginning, to guess at the motives of the writers? They offered
sugar-plums, which I swallowed without a suspicion of the drastic ingredients so many of them
contained. Good Mrs. Sigourney kept a journal of her experiences in this line. I wish I had
done the same.

The young lady correspondent, I find, in most cases replies to your reply, proposing a permanent
correspondence. The young gentleman, who desires, above all things, your "candid opinion of
the poems enclosed,--be sure and point out the faults, and how they can be improved"--is highly
indignant when you take him at his word, and do so. You receive a letter of defence and explanation,
showing that what you consider to be faults are not such. Moreover, his friends have assured
him that the poem which you advise him to omit is one of his finest things! The distressed
aspirant for literary fame, who only requests that you shall read and correct his or her manuscript,
procure a publisher, and prefix a commendatory notice, signed with your name, to the work,
writes that he or she is at last undeceived in regard to the character of authors. "I thank
you, Mr. Green, for the lesson! The remembrance of your former struggles is happily effaced
in your present success. It is hard for a heart throbbing with warmth to be chilled, and a
guileless confidence in human brotherhood to be crushed forever! I will strive to bury my disappointed
hopes in my own darkened bosom; and that you may be saved from the experience which you have
prepared for another, is the wish of, Sir, yours, ----."

For a day or two I went about with a horrible feeling of dread and remorse. I opened the morning
paper with trembling hands, and only breathed freely when I found no item headed "Suicide"
in the columns. A year afterwards, chance threw me in the way of my broken-hearted victim.
I declare to you I never saw a better specimen of gross animal health. She--no, he (on second
thoughts, I won't say which)--was at an evening party, laughing boisterously, with a plate
of chicken-salad in one hand and a glass of champagne in the other.

One of my first admirers was a gentleman of sixty, who called upon me with a large roll of
manuscript. He had retired from business two years before, so he informed me, and, having always
been a great lover of poetry, he determined to fill up the tedium of his life of ease by writing
some for himself. Now everybody knows that I am not a poet,--the few patriotic verses which
I wrote during the war having simply been the result of excitement,--and why should he apply
to me? O, there was a great deal of poetry in my prose, he said. My didactic paper called "Wait
for the Wagon!" showed such a knowledge of metaphor! I looked over the innumerable leaves,
here and there venturing the remark that "rain" and "shame" were not good rhymes, and that
my friend's blank verse had now and then lines of four and six feet. "Poetic license, sir!"
was the reply. "I thought you were aware that poets are bound to no rules!"

What could I do with such a man? What, indeed, but to return him the manuscript with that combined
gentleness and grace which I have endeavored to cultivate in my demeanor, and to suggest, in
the tenderest way, that he should be content to write, and not publish? He got up, stiffened
his backbone, placed his conventional hat hard upon his head, gave a look of mingled mortification
and wrath, and hurried away without saying a word. That man, I assure you, will be my secret
enemy to the day of his death. He is no doubt a literary authority in a small circle of equal
calibre. When my name is mentioned, he will sneer down my rising fame, and his sneer will control
the sale of half a dozen copies of my last volume.

This is a business view of the subject, I grant; but then I have always followed literature
with an eye to business. The position of a popular writer is much more independent than that
of a teacher or a clergyman, for which reason I prefer it. The same amount of intellect, made
available in a different way, will produce material results just as satisfactory. Compensation,
however, is the law of the world; hence I must pay for my independence; and this adventure
with the old gentleman is one of the many forms in which the payment is made.

When the applications for autographs first began to pour in upon me, I gladly took a sheet
of Delarue's creamiest note-paper and wrote thereon an oracular sentence from one of my most
popular papers. After a while my replies degenerated to "Sincerely, Your Friend, Dionysius
Green," and finally, (daily blessings come at last to be disregarded,) no application was favored,
which did not enclose a postage-stamp. When some school-boy requested an autograph, "accompanied
with a sentiment," and forwarded slips of paper on behalf of "two other boys," I sometimes
lost my patience, and left the letters unanswered for a month at a time. There was a man in
Tennessee, just before the war, who had a printed circular, with a blank for the author's name;
and I know of one author who replied to him with a printed note, and a printed address on the
envelope, not a word of manuscript about it!

Next in frequency are the applications for private literary contributions,--such as epithalamia,
obituaries, addresses for lovers, and the like. One mourning father wished me to write an article
about the death of his little girl, aged four months, assuring me that "her intellect was the
astonishment of all who knew her." A young lady wished for something that would "overwhelm
with remorse the heart of a gentleman who had broken off an engagement without any cause."
A young gentleman, about to graduate, offered five dollars for an oration on "The Past and
Probable Future History of the Human Race," long enough to occupy twenty minutes in speaking,
and "to be made very fine and flowery." (I had a mind to punish this youth by complying with
his request, to the very letter!) It is difficult to say what people won't write about, when
they write to a Distinguished Character.

There is a third class of correspondents, whose requests used to astonish me profoundly, until
I surmised that their object was to procure an autograph in a roundabout way. One wants to
know who is the publisher of your book; one, whether you can give the post-office address of
Gordon Cumming or Thomas Carlyle; one, which is the best Latin Grammar; one, whether you know
the author of that exquisite poem, "The Isle of Tears"; and one, perhaps, whether Fanny Forrester
was the grandmother of Fanny Fern. And when you consider that what letters I get are not a
tithe of what older and more widely known authors receive, you may form some idea of the immense
number of persons engaged in this sort of correspondence.

But I have not yet come to the worst. So long as you live at home, whether it's in the city
or country, (the city would be preferable, if you could keep your name out of the Directory,)
the number of applicants in person is limited; and as for the letters, we know that the post-office
department is very badly managed, and a great many epistles never reach their destination.
Besides, it's astonishing how soon and how easily an author acquires the reputation of being
unapproachable. If he don't pour out his heart, in unlimited torrents and cascades of feeling,
to a curious stranger, the latter goes away with the report that the author, personally, is
"icy, reserved, uncommunicative; in the man, one sees nothing of his works; it is difficult
to believe that that cold, forbidding brow conceived, those rigid, unsmiling lips uttered,
and that dry, bloodless hand wrote, the fervid passion of"--such or such a book. When I read
a description of myself, written in that style, I was furious; but I afterwards noticed that
the number of my visitors fell off very rapidly.

Most of us American authors, however, now go to the people, instead of waiting for them to
come to us. And this is what I mean by coming to the worst. Four or five years ago, I determined
to talk as well as write. Everybody was doing it, and well paid; nothing seemed to be requisite
except a little distinction, which I had already acquired by my comic and didactic writings.
There was Mr. E---- declaiming philosophy; Drs. B---- and C---- occupying secular pulpits;
Mr. C---- inculcating loftier politics; Mr. T---- talking about all sorts of countries and
people; Mr. W---- reading his essays in public; and a great many more, whom you all know. Why
should I not also "pursue the triumph and partake the gale"? I found that the lecture was in
most cases an essay, written in short, pointed sentences, and pleasantly delivered. The audience
must laugh occasionally, and yet receive an impression strong enough to last until next morning.
The style which, as I said before, I claim to have invented, was the very thing! I noticed,
further, that there was a great deal in the title of the lecture. It must be alliterative,
antithetical, or, still better, paradoxical. There was profound skill in Artemus Ward's "Babes
in the Wood." Such titles as "Doubts and Duties," "Mystery and Muffins," "Here, There, and
Nowhere," "The Elegance of Evil," "Sunshine and Shrapnel," "The Coming Cloud," "The Averted
Agony," and "Peeps at Peccadillos," will explain my meaning. The latter, in fact, was the actual
title of my first lecture, which I gave with such signal success,--eighty-five times in one winter.

The crowds that everywhere thronged to hear me gave me a new and delicious experience of popularity.
How grand it was to be escorted by the president of the society down the central aisle, amid
the rustling sound of turning heads, and audible whispers of "There he is! there he is!" And
always, when the name of Dionysius Green was announced, the applause which followed! Then the
hush of expectation, the faint smile and murmur coming with my first unexpected flash of humor
(unexpectedness is one of my strong points), the broad laugh breaking out just where I intended
it, and finally the solemn peroration, which showed that I possessed depth and earnestness
as well as brilliancy! Well, I must say that the applauses and the fees were honestly earned.
I did my best, and the audiences must have been satisfied, or the societies wouldn't have invited
me over and over again to the same place.

If my literary style was so admirably adapted to this new vocation, it was, on the other hand,
a source of great annoyance. Only a small class was sufficiently enlightened to comprehend
my true aim in inculcating moral lessons under a partly humorous guise. All the rest, unfortunately,
took me to be either one thing or the other. While some invited me to family prayer-meetings,
as the most cheering and welcome relief after the fatigue of speaking, the rougher characters
of the place would claim me (on the strength of my earlier writings) as one of themselves,
would slap me on the back, call me familiarly "Dionysius," and insist on my drinking with them.
Others, again, occupied a middle or doubtful ground; they did not consider that my personal
views were strictly defined, and wanted to be enlightened on this or that point of faith. They
gave me a deal of trouble. Singularly enough, all these classes began their attacks with the
same phrase, "O, we have a right to ask it of you: you're a Distinguished Character, you know!"

It is hardly necessary to say that I am of rather a frail constitution: so many persons have
seen me, that the public is generally aware of the fact. A lecture of an hour and a quarter
quite exhausts my nervous energy. Moreover, it gives me a vigorous appetite, and my two overpowering
desires, after speaking, are, first to eat, and then to sleep. But it frequently happens that
I am carried, perforce, to the house of some good but ascetic gentleman, who gives me a glass
of cold water, talks until midnight, and then delivers me, more dead than alive, to my bed.
I am so sensitive in regard to the relation of guest and host that I can do naught but submit.
Astræa, I am told, always asks for what she wants, and does what she feels inclined to do,--indeed,
why shouldn't she?--but I am cast in a more timid mould.

There are some small country places which I visit where I have other sufferings to undergo.
Being a Distinguished Character, it would be a neglect and a slight if I were left alone for
two minutes. And the people seem to think that the most delightful topic of conversation which
they can select is--myself. How weary of myself I become! I have wished, a thousand times,
that my popular work, "The Tin Trumpet," had never been written. I cannot blame the people,
because there are ---- and ----, who like nothing better than to be talked about to their faces,
and to take the principal part in the conversation. Of course the people think, in regard to
lecturers, ex uno disce omnes.

In travelling by rail, the same thing happens over and over. When I leave a town in the morning,
some one is sure to enter the car and greet me in a loud voice: "How are you, Mr. Green? What
a fine lecture you gave us last night!" Then the other travellers turn and look at me, listen
to catch my words, and tell the new-comers at every station, until I'm afraid to take a nap
for fear of snoring, afraid to read lest somebody should be scandalized at my novel, or to
lunch lest I should be reported as a drunkard for taking a sip of sherry (the physician prescribes
it) from a pocket-flask. At such times I envy the fellow in homespun on the seat in front of
me, who loafs, yawns, eats, and drinks as he pleases, and nobody gives him a second glance.

When I am not recognized, I sometimes meet with another experience, which was a little annoying
until I became accustomed to it. I am the subject of very unembarrassed conversation, and hear
things said of me that sometimes flatter and sometimes sting. It is true that I have learned
many curious and unsuspected facts concerning my birth, parentage, history, and opinions; but,
on the other hand, I am humiliated by the knowledge of what texture a great deal of my reputation
is made. Sometimes I am even confounded with Graves, whom, as an author, I detest; my "Tin
Trumpet" being ascribed to him, and his "Drippings from the Living Rock" being admired as mine!
At such times, it is very difficult to preserve my incognito. I have wondered that nobody ever
reads the truth in my indignant face.

As a consequence of all these trials, I sometimes become impatient, inaccessible to compliment,
and--since the truth must be told--a little ill-tempered. My temperament, as my family and
friends know, is of an unusually genial and amiable quality, and I never snub an innocent but
indiscreet admirer without afterwards repenting of my rudeness. I have often, indeed, a double
motive for repentance; for those snubs carry their operation far beyond their recipients, and
come back to me sometimes, after months or even years, in "Book Notices," or other newspaper
articles. Thus the serene path of literature, which the aspiring youth imagines to be so fair
and sunny, overspread with the mellowest ideal tints, becomes rough and cloudy. No doubt I
am to blame: possibly I am rightly treated: I "belong to the public," I am told with endless
congratulatory iteration, and therefore I ought not to feel the difference between the public's
original humoring of my moods, and my present enforced humoring of its moods. But I do feel
it, somehow. I have of late entertained the suspicion, that I am not wholly the creation of
popular favor. "The public," I am sure, never furnished me with my comic or my lively-serious
vein of writing. If either of those veins had not been found good, they would not have encouraged
me to work them. I declare, boldly, that I give an ample return for what I get, and when I
satisfy curiosity or yield to unreasonable demands upon my patience and good-humor, it is "to
boot."

Nevertheless, it is a generous public, on the whole, and gives trouble only through thoughtlessness,
not malice. It delights in its favorites, because imagining that they so intensely enjoy its
favor. And don't we, after all? (I say we purposely, and my publisher will tell you why.) Now
that I have written away my vexation, I recognize very clearly that my object in writing this
article is apology rather than complaint. All whom I have ever rudely treated will now comprehend
the unfortunate circumstances under which the act occurred. If some one should visit me to-morrow,
I have no doubt he will write: "Mr. Dionysius Green is all, and more than all, one would anticipate
from reading his charming works. Benevolence beams from his brow, fancy sparkles from his eyes,
and genial sympathy with all mankind sits enthroned upon his lips. It was a rare pleasure to
me to listen to his conversation, and I could but wish that the many thousands of his admirers
might enjoy the privilege of an interview with so Distinguished a Character!"

THE BOBOLINKS.

    When Nature had made all her birds,
      And had no cares to think on,
    She gave a rippling laugh--and out
      There flew a Bobolinkon.

    She laughed again,--out flew a mate.
      A breeze of Eden bore them
    Across the fields of Paradise,
      The sunrise reddening o'er them.

    Incarnate sport and holiday,
      They flew and sang forever;
    Their souls through June were all in tune,
      Their wings were weary never.

    The blithest song of breezy farms,
      Quaintest of field-note flavors,
    Exhaustless fount of trembling trills
      And demisemiquavers.

    Their tribe, still drunk with air and light
      And perfume of the meadow,
    Go reeling up and down the sky,
      In sunshine and in shadow.

    One springs from out the dew-wet grass,
      Another follows after;
    The morn is thrilling with their songs
      And peals of fairy laughter.

    From out the marshes and the brook,
      They set the tall reeds swinging,
    And meet and frolic in the air,
      Half prattling and half singing.

    When morning winds sweep meadow lands
      In green and russet billows,
    And toss the lonely elm-tree's boughs,
      And silver all the willows,

    I see you buffeting the breeze,
      Or with its motion swaying,
    Your notes half drowned against the wind,
      Or down the current playing.

    When far away o'er grassy flats,
      Where the thick wood commences,
    The white-sleeved mowers look like specks
      Beyond the zigzag fences,

    And noon is hot, and barn-roofs gleam
      White in the pale-blue distance,
    I hear the saucy minstrels still
      In chattering persistence.

    When Eve her domes of opal fire
      Piles round the blue horizon,
    Or thunder rolls from hill to hill
      A Kyrie Eleison,--

    Still, merriest of the merry birds,
      Your sparkle is unfading,--
    Pied harlequins of June, no end
      Of song and masquerading.

    What cadences of bubbling mirth
      Too quick for bar or rhythm!
    What ecstasies, too full to keep
      Coherent measure with them!

    Nay,--let me not profane such joy
      With similes of folly,--
    No wine of earth could waken songs
      So delicately jolly!

    O boundless self-contentment, voiced
      In flying air-born bubbles!
    O joy that mocks our sad unrest,
      And drowns our earth-born troubles!

    Hope springs with you: I dread no more
      Despondency and dullness;
    For Good Supreme can never fail
      That gives such perfect fullness.

    The Life that floods the happy fields
      With song and light and color
    Will shape our lives to richer states,
      And heap our measures fuller.

GRIFFITH GAUNT; OR, JEALOUSY.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

She recoiled with a violent shudder at first; and hid her face with one hand. Then she gradually
stole a horror-stricken side-glance.

She had not looked at it a moment, when she uttered a loud cry, and pointed at its feet with
quivering hand.

"THE SHOES! THE SHOES!--IT IS NOT MY GRIFFITH."

With this she fell into violent hysterics, and was carried out of the room at Houseman's earnest
entreaty.

As soon as she was gone, Mr. Houseman, being freed from his fear that his client would commit
herself irretrievably, recovered a show of composure, and his wits went keenly to work.

"On behalf of the accused," said he, "I admit the suicide of some person unknown, wearing heavy
hobnailed shoes; probably one of the lower order of people."

This adroit remark produced some little effect, notwithstanding the strong feeling against
the accused.

The coroner inquired if there were any bodily marks by which the remains could be identified.

"My master had a long black mole on his forehead," suggested Caroline Ryder.

"'Tis here!" cried a juryman, bending over the remains.

And now they all gathered in great excitement round the corpus delicti; and there, sure enough,
was a long black mole.

Then was there a buzz of pity for Griffith Gaunt, followed by a stern murmur of execration.

"Gentlemen," said the coroner solemnly, "behold in this the finger of Heaven. The poor gentleman
may well have put off his boots, since, it seems, he left his horse; but he could not take
from his forehead his natal sign; and that, by God's will, hath strangely escaped mutilation,
and revealed a most foul deed. We must now do our duty, gentlemen, without respect of persons."

A warrant was then issued for the apprehension of Thomas Leicester. And, that same night, Mrs.
Gaunt left Hernshaw in her own chariot between two constables, and escorted by armed yeomen.

Her proud head was bowed almost to her knees, and her streaming eyes hidden in her lovely hands.
For why? A mob accompanied her for miles, shouting, "Murderess!--Bloody Papist!--Hast done
to death the kindliest gentleman in Cumberland. We'll all come to see thee hanged.--Fair face
but foul heart!"--and groaning, hissing, and cursing, and indeed only kept from violence by
the escort.

And so they took that poor proud lady and lodged her in Carlisle jail.

She was enceinte into the bargain. By the man she was to be hanged for murdering.

CHAPTER XL.

The county was against her, with some few exceptions. Sir George Neville and Mr. Houseman stood
stoutly by her.

Sir George's influence and money obtained her certain comforts in jail; and, in that day, the
law of England was so far respected in a jail that untried prisoners were not thrown into cells,
nor impeded, as they now are, in preparing their defence.

Her two stanch friends visited her every day, and tried to keep her heart up.

But they could not do it. She was in a state of dejection bordering upon lethargy.

"If he is dead," said she, "what matters it? If, by God's mercy, he is alive still, he will
not let me die for want of a word from him. Impatience hath been my bane. Now, I say, God's
will be done. I am weary of the world."

Houseman tried every argument to rouse her out of this desperate frame of mind; but in vain.

It ran its course, and then, behold, it passed away like a cloud, and there came a keen desire
to live and defeat her accusers.

She made Houseman write out all the evidence against her; and she studied it by day, and thought
of it by night, and often surprised both her friends by the acuteness of her remarks.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Atkins discontinued his advertisements. It was Houseman, who now filled every paper with
notices informing Griffith Gaunt of his accession to fortune, and entreating him for that,
and other weighty reasons, to communicate in confidence with his old friend, John Houseman,
attorney at law.

Houseman was too wary to invite him to appear and save his wife; for, in that case, he feared
the Crown would use his advertisements as evidence at the trial, should Griffith not appear.

The fact is, Houseman relied more upon certain lacunæ in the evidence, and the absence of all
marks of violence, than upon any hope that Griffith might be alive.

The assizes drew near, and no fresh light broke in upon this mysterious case.

Mrs. Gaunt lay in her bed at night, and thought and thought.

Now the female understanding has sometimes remarkable power under such circumstances. By degrees
Truth flashes across it, like lightning in the dark.

After many such nightly meditations, Mrs. Gaunt sent one day for Sir George Neville and Mr.
Houseman, and addressed them as follows:--"I believe he is alive, and that I can guess where
he is at this moment."

Both the gentlemen started, and looked amazed.

"Yes, sirs; so sure as we sit here, he is now at a little inn in Lancashire, called the 'Packhorse,'
with a woman he calls his wife." And, with this, her face was scarlet, and her eyes flashed
their old fire.

She exacted a solemn promise of secrecy from them, and then she told them all she had learned
from Thomas Leicester.

"And so now," said she, "I believe you can save my life, if you think it is worth saving."
And with this, she began to cry bitterly.

But Houseman, the practical, had no patience with the pangs of love betrayed, and jealousy,
and such small deer, in a client whose life was at stake. "Great Heaven! madam," said he, roughly:
"why did you not tell me this before?"

"Because I am not a man--to go and tell everything, all at once," sobbed Mrs. Gaunt. "Besides,
I wanted to shield his good name, whose dear life they pretend I have taken."

As soon as she recovered her composure, she begged Sir George Neville to ride to the "Packhorse"
for her. Sir George assented eagerly, but asked how he was to find it. "I have thought of that,
too," said she. "His black horse has been to and fro. Ride that horse into Lancashire, and
give him his head: ten to one but he takes you to the place, or where you may hear of it. If
not, go to Lancaster, and ask about the 'Packhorse.' He wrote to me from Lancaster: see." And
she showed him the letter.

Sir George embraced with ardor this opportunity of serving her. "I'll be at Hernshaw in one
hour," said he, "and ride the black horse south at once."

"Excuse me," said Houseman; "but would it not be better for me to go? As a lawyer, I may be
more able to cope with her."

"Nay," said Mrs. Gaunt, "Sir George is young and handsome. If he manages well, she will tell
him more than she will you. All I beg of him is to drop the chevalier for this once, and see
women with a woman's eyes and not a man's,--see them as they are. Do not go telling a creature
of this kind that she has had my money, as well as my husband, and ought to pity me lying here
in prison. Keep me out of her sight as much as you can. Whether Griffith hath deceived her
or not, you will never raise in her any feeling but love for him, and hatred for his lawful
wife. Dress like a yeoman; go quietly, and lodge in the house a day or two; begin by flattering
her; and then get from her when she saw him last, or heard from him. But indeed I fear you
will surprise him with her."

"Fear?" exclaimed Sir George.

"Well, hope, then," said the lady; and a tear trickled down her face in a moment. "But if you
do, promise me, on your honor as a gentleman, not to affront him. For I know you think him
a villain."

"A d----d villain, saving your presence."

"Well, sir, you have said it to me. Now promise me to say naught to him, but just this: 'Rose
Gaunt's mother, she lies in Carlisle jail, to be tried for her life for murdering you. She
begs of you not to let her die publicly upon the scaffold; but quietly at home, of her broken
heart.'"

"Write it," said Sir George, with the tears in his eyes, "that I may just put it in his hand;
for I can never utter your sweet words to such a monster as he is."

Armed with this appeal, and several minute instructions, which it is needless to particularize
here, that stanch friend rode into Lancashire.

And next day the black horse justified his mistress's sagacity, and his own.

He seemed all along to know where he was going, and late in the afternoon he turned off the
road on to a piece of green: and Sir George, with beating heart, saw right before him the sign
of the "Packhorse," and, on coming nearer, the words

    THOMAS LEICESTER.

He dismounted at the door, and asked if he could have a bed.

Mrs. Vint said yes; and supper into the bargain, if he liked.

He ordered a substantial supper directly.

Mrs. Vint saw at once it was a good customer, and showed him into the parlor.

He sat down by the fire. But the moment she retired, he got up and made a circuit of the house,
looking quietly into every window, to see if he could catch a glance of Griffith Gaunt.

There were no signs of him; and Sir George returned to his parlor heavy-hearted. One hope,
the greatest of all, had been defeated directly. Still, it was just possible that Griffith
might be away on temporary business.

In this faint hope Sir George strolled about till his supper was ready for him.

When he had eaten his supper, he rang the bell, and, taking advantage of a common custom, insisted
on the landlord, Thomas Leicester, taking a glass with him.

"Thomas Leicester!" said the girl. "He is not at home. But I'll send Master Vint."

Old Vint came in, and readily accepted an invitation to drink his guest's health.

Sir George found him loquacious, and soon extracted from him that his daughter Mercy was Leicester's
wife, that Leicester was gone on a journey, and that Mercy was in care for him. "Leastways,"
said he, "she is very dull, and cries at times when her mother speaks of him; but she is too
close to say much."

All this puzzled Sir George Neville sorely.

But greater surprises were in store.

The next morning, after breakfast, the servant came and told him Dame Leicester desired to see him.

He started at that, but put on nonchalance, and said he was at her service.

He was ushered into another parlor, and there he found a grave, comely young woman, seated
working, with a child on the floor beside her. She rose quietly; he bowed low and respectfully;
she blushed faintly; but, with every appearance of self-possession, courtesied to him; then
eyed him point-blank a single moment, and requested him to be seated.

"I hear, sir," said she, "you did ask my father many questions last night. May I ask you one?"

Sir George colored, but bowed assent.

"From whom had you the black horse you ride?"

Now, if Sir George had not been a veracious man, he would have been caught directly. But, although
he saw at once the oversight he had committed, he replied, "I had him of a lady in Cumberland,
one Mistress Gaunt."

Mercy Vint trembled. "No doubt," said she, softly. "Excuse my question: you shall understand
that the horse is well known here."

"Madam," said Sir George, "if you admire the horse, he is at your service for twenty pounds,
though indeed he is worth more."

"I thank you, sir," said Mercy; "I have no desire for the horse whatever. And be pleased to
excuse my curiosity: you must think me impertinent."

"Nay, madam," said Sir George, "I consider nothing impertinent that hath procured me the pleasure
of an interview with you."

He then, as directed by Mrs. Gaunt, proceeded to flatter the mother and the child, and exerted
those powers of pleasing which had made him irresistible in society.

Here, however, he found they went a very little way. Mercy did not even smile. She cast out
of her dove-like eyes a gentle, humble, reproachful glance, as much as to say, "What! do I
seem so vain a creature as to believe all this?"

Sir George himself had tact and sensibility; and by and by became discontented with the part
he was playing, under those meek, honest eyes.

There was a pause; and, as her sex have a wonderful art of reading the face, Mercy looked at
him steadily, and said, "Yes, sir, 'tis best to be straightforward, especially with women-folk."

Before he could recover this little facer, she said, quietly, "What is your name?"

"George Neville."

"Well, George Neville," said Mercy, very slowly and softly, "when you have a mind to tell me
what you came here for, and who sent you, you will find me in this little room. I seldom leave
it now. I beg you to speak your errand to none but me." And she sighed deeply.

Sir George bowed low, and retired to collect his wits. He had come here strongly prepossessed
against Mercy. But, instead of a vulgar, shallow woman, whom he was to surprise into confession,
he encountered a soft-eyed Puritan, all unpretending dignity, grace, propriety, and sagacity.

"Flatter her!" said he, to himself. "I might as well flatter an iceberg. Outwit her! I feel
like a child beside her."

He strolled about in a brown study, not knowing what to do.

She had given him a fair opening. She had invited him to tell the truth. But he was afraid
to take her at her word; and yet what was the use to persist in what his own eyes told him
was the wrong course?

Whilst he hesitated, and debated within himself, a trifling incident turned the scale.

A poor woman came begging, with her child, and was received rather roughly by Harry Vint. "Pass
on, good woman," said he, "we want no tramps here."

Then a window was opened on the ground floor, and Mercy beckoned the woman. Sir George flattened
himself against the wall, and listened to the two talking.

Mercy examined the woman gently, but shrewdly, and elicited a tale of genuine distress. Sir
George then saw her hand out to the woman some warm flannel for herself, a piece of stuff for
the child, a large piece of bread, and a sixpence.

He also caught sight of Mercy's dove-like eyes as she bestowed her alms, and they were lit
with an inward lustre.

"She cannot be an ill woman," said Sir George. "I'll e'en go by my own eyes and judgment. After
all, Mrs. Gaunt has never seen her, and I have."

He went and knocked at Mercy's door.

"Come in," said a mild voice.

Neville entered, and said, abruptly, and with great emotion, "Madam, I see you can feel for
the unhappy; so I take my own way now, and appeal to your pity. I have come to speak to you
on the saddest business."

"You come from him," said Mercy, closing her lips tight; but her bosom heaved. Her heart and
her judgment grappled like wrestlers that moment.

"Nay, madam," said Sir George, "I come from her."

Mercy knew in a moment who "her" must be.

She looked scared, and drew back with manifest signs of repulsion.

The movement did not escape Sir George: it alarmed him. He remembered what Mrs. Gaunt had said,--that
this woman would be sure to hate Gaunt's lawful wife. But it was too late to go back. He did
the next best thing, he rushed on.

He threw himself on his knees before Mercy Vint.

"O madam," he cried, piteously, "do not set your heart against the most unhappy lady in England.
If you did but know her, her nobleness, her misery! Before you steel yourself against me, her
friend, let me ask you one question. Do you know where Mrs. Gaunt is at this moment?"

Mercy answered coldly, "How should I know where she is?"

"Well, then, she lies in Carlisle jail."

"She--lies--in Carlisle jail?" repeated Mercy, looking all confused.

"They accuse her of murdering her husband."

Mercy uttered a scream, and, catching her child up off the floor, began to rock herself and
moan over it.

"No, no, no," cried Sir George, "she is innocent, she is innocent."

"What is that to me?" cried Mercy, wildly. "He is murdered, he is dead, and my child an orphan."
And so she went on moaning and rocking herself.

"But I tell you he is not dead at all," cried Sir George. "'Tis all a mistake. When did you
see him last?"

"More than six weeks ago."

"I mean, when did you hear from him last?"

"Never, since that day."

Sir George groaned aloud at this intelligence.

And Mercy, who heard him groan, was heart-broken. She accused herself of Griffith's death.
"'T was I who drove him from me," she said. "'T was I who bade him go back to his lawful wife;
and the wretch hated him. I sent him to his death." Her grief was wild, and deep. She could
not hear Sir George's arguments.

But presently she said, sternly, "What does that woman say for herself?"

"Madam," said Sir George, dejectedly, "Heaven knows you are in no condition to fathom a mystery
that hath puzzled wiser heads than yours or mine; and I am little able to lay the tale before
you fairly; for your grief, it moves me deeply, and I could curse myself for putting the matter
to you so bluntly and so uncouthly. Permit me to retire a while and compose my own spirits
for the task I have undertaken too rashly."

"Nay, George Neville," said Mercy, "stay you there. Only give me a moment to draw my breath."

She struggled hard for a little composure, and, after a shower of tears, she hung her head
over the chair like a crushed thing, but made him a sign of attention.

Sir George told the story as fairly as he could; only of course his bias was in favor of Mrs.
Gaunt; but as Mercy's bias was against her, this brought the thing nearly square.

When he came to the finding of the body, Mercy was seized with a deadly faintness; and though
she did not become insensible, yet she was in no condition to judge, or even to comprehend.

Sir George was moved with pity, and would have called for help; but she shook her head. So
then he sprinkled water on her face, and slapped her hand; and a beautifully moulded hand it was.

When she got a little better she sobbed faintly, and sobbing thanked him, and begged him to go on.

"My mind is stronger than my heart," she said. "I'll hear it all, though it kill me where I sit."

Sir George went on, and, to avoid repetition, I must ask the reader to understand that he left
out nothing whatever which has been hitherto related in these pages; and, in fact, told her
one or two little things that I have omitted.

When he had done, she sat quite still a minute or two, pale as a statue.

Then she turned to Neville, and said, solemnly, "You wish to know the truth in this dark matter:
for dark it is in very sooth."

Neville was much impressed by her manner, and answered, respectfully, Yes, he desired to know,--by
all means.

"Then take my hand," said Mercy, "and kneel down with me."

Sir George looked surprised, but obeyed, and kneeled down beside her, with his hand in hers.

There was a long pause, and then took place a transformation.

The dove-like eyes were lifted to heaven and gleamed like opals with an inward and celestial
light; the comely face shone with a higher beauty, and the rich voice rose in ardent supplication.

"Thou God, to whom all hearts be known, and no secrets hid from thine eye, look down now on
thy servant in sore trouble, that putteth her trust in thee. Give wisdom to the simple this
day, and understanding to the lowly. Thou that didst reveal to babes and sucklings the great
things that were hidden from the wise, O show us the truth in this dark matter: enlighten us
by thy spirit, for His dear sake who suffered more sorrows than I suffer now. Amen. Amen."

Then she looked at Neville; and he said "Amen," with all his heart, and the tears in his eyes.

He had never heard real live prayer before. Here the little hand gripped his hard, as she wrestled;
and the heart seemed to rise out of the bosom and fly to Heaven on the sublime and thrilling voice.

They rose, and she sat down; but it seemed as if her eyes once raised to Heaven in prayer could
not come down again: they remained fixed and angelic, and her lips still moved in supplication.

Sir George Neville, though a loose liver, was no scoffer. He was smitten with reverence for
this inspired countenance, and retired, bowing low and obsequiously.

He took a long walk, and thought it all over. One thing was clear, and consoling. He felt sure
he had done wisely to disobey Mrs. Gaunt's instructions, and make a friend of Mercy, instead
of trying to set his wits against hers. Ere he returned to the "Packhorse" he had determined
to take another step in the right direction. He did not like to agitate her with another interview,
so soon. But he wrote her a little letter.

     "MADAM,--When I came here, I did not know you; and therefore I
     feared to trust you too far. But, now I do know you for the
     best woman in England, I take the open way with you.

     "Know that Mrs. Gaunt said the man would be here with you; and
     she charged me with a few written lines to him. She would be
     angry if she knew that I had shown them to any other. Yet I
     take on me to show them to you; for I believe you are wiser
     than any of us, if the truth were known. I do therefore entreat
     you to read these lines, and tell me whether you think the hand
     that wrote them can have shed the blood of him to whom they are
     writ.

    "I am, madam, with profound respect,

        "Your grateful and very humble servant,

            "GEORGE NEVILLE."

He very soon received a line in reply, written in a clear and beautiful handwriting.

     "Mercy Vint sends you her duty; and she will speak to you at
     nine of the clock to-morrow morning. Pray for light."

At the appointed time, Sir George found her working with her needle. His letter lay on a table
before her.

She rose and courtesied to him, and called the servant to take away the child for a while.
She went with her to the door and kissed the bairn several times at parting, as if he was going
away for good. "I'm loath to let him go," said she to Neville; "but it weakens a mother's mind
to have her babe in the room,--takes her attention off each moment. Pray you be seated. Well,
sir, I have read these lines of Mistress Gaunt, and wept over them. Methinks I had not done
so, were they cunningly devised. Also I lay all night, and thought."

"That is just what she does."

"No doubt, sir; and the upshot is, I don't feel as if he was dead. Thank God."

"That is something," said Neville. But he could not help thinking it was very little; especially
to produce in a court of justice.

"And now," said she, thoughtfully, "you say that the real Thomas Leicester was seen thereabouts
as well as my Thomas Leicester. Then answer me one little question. What had the real Thomas
Leicester on his feet that night?"

"Nay, I know not," was the half-careless reply.

"Bethink you. 'Tis a question that must have been often put in your hearing."

"Begging your pardon, it was never put at all; nor do I see--"

"What, not at the inquest?"

"No."

"That is very strange. What, so many wise heads have bent over this riddle, and not one to
ask how was yon pedler shod!"

"Madam," said Sir George, "our minds were fixed upon the fate of Gaunt. Many did ask how was
the pedler armed, but none how was he shod."

"Hath he been seen since?"

"Not he; and that hath an ugly look; for the constables are out after him with hue and cry;
but he is not to be found."

"Then," said Mercy, "I must e'en answer my own question. I do know how that pedler was shod.
WITH HOBNAILED SHOES."

Sir George bounded from his chair. One great ray of daylight broke in upon him.

"Ay," said Mercy, "she was right. Women do see clearer in some things than men. The pair went
from my house to hers. He you call Griffith Gaunt had on a new pair of boots; and by the same
token 't was I did pay for them, and there is the receipt in that cupboard: he you call Thomas
Leicester went hence in hobnailed shoes. I think the body they found was the body of Thomas
Leicester, the pedler. May God have mercy on his poor unprepared soul."

Sir George uttered a joyful exclamation. But the next moment he had a doubt. "Ay, but," said
he, "you forget the mole! 'T was on that they built."

"I forget naught," said Mercy, calmly. "The pedler had a black mole over his left temple. He
showed it me in this very room. You have found the body of Thomas Leicester, and Griffith Gaunt
is hiding from the law that he hath broken. He is afeared of her and her friends, if he shows
his face in Cumberland; he is afeared of my folk, if he be seen in Lancashire. Ah, Thomas,
as if I would let them harm thee."

Sir George Neville walked to and fro in grand excitement. "O blessed day that I came hither!
Madam, you are an angel. You will save an innocent, broken-hearted lady from death and dishonor.
Your good heart and rare wit have read in a moment the dark riddle that hath puzzled a county."

"George," said Mercy, gravely, "you have gotten the wrong end of the stick. The wise in their
own conceit are blinded. In Cumberland, where all this befell, they went not to God for light,
as you and I did, George."

In saying this, she gave him her hand to celebrate their success.

He kissed it devoutly, and owned afterward that it was the proudest moment of his life, when
that sweet Puritan gave him her neat hand so cordially, with a pressure so gentle yet frank.

And now came the question how they were to make a Cumberland jury see this matter as they saw it.

He asked her would she come to the trial as a witness?

At that she drew back with manifest repugnance.

"My shame would be public. I must tell who I am; and what. A ruined woman."

"Say rather an injured saint. You have nothing to be ashamed of. All good men would feel for you."

Mercy shook her head. "Ay, but the women. Shame is shame with us. Right or wrong goes for little.
Nay, I hope to do better for you than that. I must find him, and send him to deliver her. 'Tis
his only chance of happiness."

She then asked him if he would draw up an advertisement of quite a different kind from those
he had described to her.

He assented, and between them they concocted the following:--

     "If Thomas Leicester, who went from the 'Packhorse' two months
     ago, will come thither at once, Mercy will be much beholden to
     him, and tell him strange things that have befallen."

Sir George then, at her request, rode over to Lancaster, and inserted the above in the county
paper, and also in a small sheet that was issued in the city three times a week. He had also
handbills to the same effect printed, and sent into Cumberland and Westmoreland. Finally, he
sent a copy to his man of business in London, with orders to insert it in all the journals.

Then he returned to the "Packhorse," and told Mercy what he had done.

The next day he bade her farewell, and away for Carlisle. It was a two days' journey. He reached
Carlisle in the evening, and went all glowing to Mrs. Gaunt. "Madam," said he, "be of good
cheer. I bless the day I went to see her; she is an angel of wit and goodness."

He then related to her, in glowing terms, most that had passed between Mercy and him. But,
to his surprise, Mrs. Gaunt wore a cold, forbidding air.

"This is all very well," said she. "But 't will avail me little unless he comes before the
judge and clears me; and she will never let him do that."

"Ay, that she will,--if she can find him."

"If she can find him? How simple you are!"

"Nay, madam, not so simple but I can tell a good woman from a bad one, and a true from a false."

"What! when you are in love with her? Not if you were the wisest of your sex."

"In love with her?" cried Sir George; and colored high.

"Ay," said the lady. "Think you I cannot tell? Don't deceive yourself. You have gone and fallen
in love with her. At your years! Not that 'tis any business of mine."

"Well, madam," said Sir George, stiffly, "say what you please on that score; but at least welcome
my good news."

Mrs. Gaunt begged him to excuse her petulance, and thanked him kindly for all he had just done.
But the next moment she rose from her chair in great agitation, and burst out, "I'd as lief
die as owe anything to that woman."

Sir George remonstrated. "Why hate her? She does not hate you."

"O, yes, she does. 'Tis not in nature she should do any other."

"Her acts prove the contrary."

"Her acts! She has done nothing, but make fair promises; and that has blinded you. Women of
this sort are very cunning, and never show their real characters to a man. No more; prithee
mention not her name to me. It makes me ill. I know he is with her at this moment Ah, let me
die, and be forgotten, since I am no more beloved."

The voice was sad and weary now, and the tears ran fast.

Poor Sir George was moved and melted, and set himself to flatter and console this impracticable
lady, who hated her best friend in this sore strait, for being what she was herself, a woman;
and was much less annoyed at being hanged than at not being loved.

When she was a little calmer, he left her, and rode off to Houseman. That worthy was delighted.

"Get her to swear to those hobnailed shoes," said he, "and we shall shake them." He then let
Sir George know that he had obtained private information which he would use in cross-examining
a principal witness for the crown. "However," he added, "do not deceive yourself, nothing can
make the prisoner really safe but the appearance of Griffith Gaunt. He has such strong motives
for coming to light. He is heir to a fortune, and his wife is accused of murdering him. The
jury will never believe he is alive till they see him. That man's prolonged disappearance is
hideous. It turns my blood cold when I think of it."

"Do not despair on that score," said Neville. "I believe our good angel will produce him."

Three days only before the assizes, came the long-expected letter from Mercy Vint. Sir George
tore it open, but bitter was his disappointment. The letter merely said that Griffith had not
appeared in answer to her advertisements, and she was sore grieved and perplexed.

There were two postscripts, each on a little piece of paper.

First postscript, in a tremulous hand, "Pray."

Second postscript, in a firm hand, "Drain the water."

Houseman shrugged his shoulders impatiently. "Drain the water? Let the crown do that. We should
but fish up more trouble. And prayers quo' she! 'Tis not prayers we want, but evidence."

He sent his clerk off to travel post night and day, and subpoena Mercy, and bring her back
with him to the trial. She was to have every comfort on the road, and be treated like a duchess.

The evening before the assizes, Mrs. Gaunt's apartments were Mr. Houseman's head-quarters,
and messages were coming and going all day, on matters connected with the defence.

Just at sunset, up rattled a post-chaise, and the clerk got out and came haggard and bloodshot
before his employer. "The witness has disappeared, sir. Left home last Tuesday, with her child,
and has never been seen nor heard of since."

Here was a terrible blow. They all paled under it: it seriously diminished the chances of an
acquittal.

But Mrs. Gaunt bore it nobly. She seemed to rise under it.

She turned to Sir George Neville, with a sweet smile. "The noble heart sees base things noble.
No wonder then an artful woman deluded you. He has left England with her, and condemned me
to the gallows, in cold blood. So be it. I shall defend myself."

She then sat down with Mr. Houseman, and went through the written case he had prepared for
her, and showed him notes she had taken of full a hundred criminal trials great and small.

While they were putting their heads together, Sir George sat in a brown study, and uttered
not a word. Presently he got up a little brusquely, and said, "I'm going to Hernshaw."

"What, at this time of night? What to do?"

"To obey my orders. To drain the mere."

"And who could have ordered you to drain my mere?"

"Mercy Vint."

Sir George uttered this in a very curious way, half ashamed, half resolute, and retired before
Mrs. Gaunt could vent in speech the surprise and indignation that fired her eye.

Houseman implored her not to heed Sir George and his vagaries, but to bend her whole mind on
those approved modes of defence with which he had supplied her.

Being now alone with her, he no longer concealed his great anxiety.

"We have lost an invaluable witness in that woman," said he. "I was mad to think she would come."

Mrs. Gaunt shivered with repugnance. "I would not have her come, for all the world," said she.
"For Heaven's sake never mention her name to me. I want help from none but friends. Send Mrs.
Houseman to me in the morning; and do not distress yourself so. I shall defend myself far better
than you think. I have not studied a hundred trials for naught."

Thus the prisoner cheered up her attorney, and soon after insisted on his going home to bed;
for she saw he was worn out by his exertions.

And now she was alone.

All was silent.

A few short hours, and she was to be tried for her life: tried, not by the All-wise Judge,
but by fallible men, and under a system most unfavorable to the accused.

Worse than all this, she was a Papist; and, as ill-luck would have it, since her imprisonment
an alarm had been raised that the Pretender meditated another invasion. This report had set
jurists very much against all the Romanists in the country, and had already perverted justice
in one or two cases, especially in the North.

Mrs. Gaunt knew all this, and trembled at the peril to come.

She spent the early part of the night in studying her defence. Then she laid it quite aside,
and prayed long and fervently. Towards morning she fell asleep from exhaustion.

When she awoke, Mrs. Houseman was sitting by her bedside, looking at her, and crying.

They were soon clasped in each other's arms, condoling.

But presently Houseman came, and took his wife away rather angrily.

Mrs. Gaunt was prevailed on to eat a little toast and drink a glass of wine, and then she sat
waiting her dreadful summons.

She waited and waited, until she became impatient to face her danger.

But there were two petty larcenies on before her. She had to wait.

At last, about noon, came a message to say that the grand jury had found a true bill against her.

"Then may God forgive them!" said she.

Soon afterwards she was informed her time drew very near.

She made her toilet carefully, and passed with her attendant into a small room under the court.

Here she had to endure another chilling wait, and in a sombre room.

Presently she heard a voice above her cry out, "The King versus Catharine Gaunt."

Then she was beckoned to.

She mounted some steps, badly lighted, and found herself in the glare of day, and greedy eyes,
in the felon's dock.

In a matter entirely strange, we seldom know beforehand what we can do, and how we shall carry
ourselves. Mrs. Gaunt no sooner set her foot in that dock, and saw the awful front of Justice
face to face, than her tremors abated, and all her powers awoke, and she thrilled with love
of life, and bristled with all those fine arts of defence that Nature lends to superior women.

She entered on that defence before she spoke a word; for she attacked the prejudices of the
court, by deportment.

She courtesied reverently to the Judge, and contrived to make her reverence seem a willing
homage, unmixed with fear.

She cast her eyes round and saw the court thronged with ladies and gentlemen she knew. In a
moment she read in their eyes that only two or three were on her side. She bowed to those only;
and they returned her courtesy. This gave an impression (a false one) that the gentry sympathized
with her.

After a little murmur of functionaries, the Clerk of Arraigns turned to the prisoner, and said,
in a loud voice, "Catharine Gaunt, hold up thy hand."

She held up her hand, and he recited the indictment, which charged that, not having the fear
of God before her eyes, but being moved by the instigation of the Devil, she had on the fifteenth
of October, in the tenth year of the reign of his present Majesty, aided and abetted one Thomas
Leicester in an assault upon one Griffith Gaunt, Esq., and him, the said Griffith Gaunt, did
with force and arms assassinate and do to death, against the peace of our said Lord the King,
his crown and dignity.

After reading the indictment, the Clerk of Arraigns turned to the prisoner: "How sayest thou,
Catharine Gaunt; art thou guilty of the felony and murder whereof thou standest indicted,--or
not guilty?"

"I am not guilty."

"Culprit, how wilt thou be tried?"

"Culprit I am none, but only accused. I will be tried by God and my country."

"God send thee a good deliverance."

Mr. Whitworth, the junior counsel for the crown, then rose to open the case; but the prisoner,
with a pale face, but most courteous demeanor, begged his leave to make a previous motion to
the court. Mr. Whitworth bowed, and sat down. "My Lord," said she, "I have first a favor to
ask; and that favor, methinks, you will grant, since it is but justice, impartial justice.
My accuser, I hear, has two counsel; both learned and able. I am but a woman, and no match
for their skill Therefore I beg your Lordship to allow me counsel on my defence, to matter
of fact as well as of law. I know this is not usual; but it is just, and I am informed it has
sometimes been granted in trials of life and death, and that your Lordship hath the power,
if you have the will, to do me so much justice."

The Judge looked towards Mr. Serjeant Wiltshire, who was the leader on the other side. He rose
instantly and replied to this purpose: "The prisoner is misinformed. The truth is, that from
time immemorial, and down to the other day, a person indicted for a capital offence was never
allowed counsel at all, except to matters of law, and these must be started by himself. By
recent practice the rule hath been so far relaxed that counsel have sometimes been permitted
to examine and cross-examine witnesses for a prisoner; but never to make observations on the
evidence, nor to draw inferences from it to the point in issue."

Mrs. Gaunt. So, then, if I be sued for a small sum of money, I may have skilled orators to
defend me against their like. But if I be sued for my life and honor, I may not oppose skill
to skill, but must stand here a child against you that are masters. 'Tis a monstrous iniquity,
and you yourself, sir, will not deny it.

Serjeant Wiltshire. Madam, permit me. Whether it be a hardship to deny full counsel to prisoners
in criminal cases, I shall not pretend to say; but if it be, 'tis a hardship of the law's making,
and not of mine nor of my lord's; and none have suffered by it (at least in our day) but those
who had broken the law.

The Serjeant then stopped a minute, and whispered with his junior. After which he turned to
the Judge. "My Lord, we that are of counsel for the crown desire to do nothing that is hard
where a person's life is at stake. We yield to the prisoner any indulgence for which your Lordship
can find a precedent in your reading; but no more: and so we leave the matter to you."

The Clerk of Arraigns. Crier, proclaim silence.

The Crier. Oyez! Oyez! Oyez! His Majesty's Justices do strictly charge all manner of persons
to keep silence, on pain of imprisonment.

The Judge. Prisoner, what my Brother Wiltshire says, the law is clear in. There is no precedent
for what you ask, and the contrary practice stares us in the face for centuries. What seems
to you a partial practice, and, to be frank, some learned persons are of your mind, must be
set against this,--that in capital cases the burden of proof lies on the crown, and not on
the accused. Also it is my duty to give you all the assistance I can, and that I shall do.
Thus then it is: you can be allowed counsel to examine your own witnesses, and cross-examine
the witnesses for the crown, and speak to points of law, to be started by yourself,--but no
further.

He then asked her what gentleman there present he should assign to her for counsel.

Her reply to this inquiry took the whole court by surprise, and made her solicitor, Houseman,
very miserable. "None, my Lord," said she. "Half-justice is injustice; and I will lend it no
color. I will not set able men to fight for me with their hands tied, against men as able whose
hands be free. Counsel, on terms so partial, I will have none. My counsel shall be three, and
no more,--Yourself, my Lord, my Innocence, and the Lord God Omniscient."

These words, grandly uttered, caused a dead silence in the court, but only for a few moments.
It was broken by the loud mechanical voice of the crier, who proclaimed silence, and then called
the names of the jury that were to try this cause.

Mrs. Gaunt listened keenly to the names,--familiar and bourgeois names, that now seemed regal;
for they who owned them held her life in their hands.

Each juryman was sworn in the grand old form, now slightly curtailed.

Mr. Whitworth, for the crown, then opened the case, but did little more than translate the
indictment into more rational language.

He sat down, and Serjeant Wiltshire addressed the court somewhat after this fashion:--

     "May it please your Lordship, and you, gentlemen of the jury,
     this is a case of great expectation and importance. The
     prisoner at the bar, a gentlewoman by birth and education, and,
     as you must have already perceived, by breeding also, stands
     indicted for no less a crime than murder.

     "I need not paint to you the heinousness of this crime: you
     have but to consult your own breasts. Who ever saw the ghastly
     corpse of the victim weltering in its blood, and did not feel
     his own blood run cold through his veins? Has the murderer
     fled? With what eagerness do we pursue! with what zeal
     apprehend! with what joy do we bring him to justice! Even the
     dreadful sentence of death does not shock us, when pronounced
     upon him. We hear it with solemn satisfaction; and acknowledge
     the justice of the Divine sentence, 'Whoso sheddeth man's
     blood, by man shall his blood be shed.'

     "But if this be the case in every common murder, what shall be
     thought of her who has murdered her husband,--the man in whose
     arms she has lain, and whom she has sworn at God's altar to
     love and cherish? Such a murderer is a robber as well as an
     assassin; for she robs her own children of their father, that
     tender parent, who can never be replaced in this world.

     "Gentlemen, it will, I fear, be proved that the prisoner at the
     bar hath been guilty of murder in this high degree; and, though
     I will endeavor rather to extenuate than to aggravate, yet I
     trust [sic] I have such a history to open as will shock the
     ears of all who hear me.

     "Mr. Griffith Gaunt, the unfortunate deceased, was a man of
     descent and worship. As to his character, it was inoffensive.
     He was known as a worthy, kindly gentleman, deeply attached to
     her who now stands accused of his murder. They lived happily
     together for some years; but, unfortunately, there was a thorn
     in the rose of their wedded life: he was of the Church of
     England; she was, and is, a Roman Catholic. This led to
     disputes; and no wonder, since this same unhappy difference
     hath more than once embroiled a nation, let alone a single
     family.

     "Well, gentlemen, about a year ago there was a more violent
     quarrel than usual between the deceased and the prisoner at the
     bar; and the deceased left his home for several months.

     "He returned upon a certain day in this year, and a
     reconciliation, real or apparent, took place. He left home
     again soon afterwards, but only for a short period. On the 15th
     of last October he suddenly returned for good, as he intended;
     and here begins the tragedy, to which what I have hitherto
     related was but the prologue.

     "Scarce an hour before he came, one Thomas Leicester entered
     the house. Now this Thomas Leicester was a creature of the
     prisoner's. He had been her gamekeeper, and was now a pedler.
     It was the prisoner who set him up as a pedler, and purchased
     the wares to start him in his trade.

     "Gentlemen, this pedler, as I shall prove, was concealed in the
     house when the deceased arrived. One Caroline Ryder, who is the
     prisoner's gentlewoman, was the person who first informed her
     of Leicester's arrival, and it seems she was much moved: Mrs.
     Ryder will tell you she fell into hysterics. But, soon after,
     her husband's arrival was announced, and then the passion was
     of a very different kind. So violent was her rage against this
     unhappy man that, for once, she forgot all prudence, and
     threatened his life before a witness. Yes, gentlemen, we shall
     prove that this gentlewoman, who in appearance and manners
     might grace a court, was so transported out of her usual self
     that she held up a knife,--a knife, gentlemen,--and vowed to
     put it into her husband's heart. And this was no mere temporary
     ebullition of wrath. We shall see presently that, long after
     she had had time to cool, she repeated this menace to the
     unfortunate man's face. The first threat, however, was uttered
     in her own bedroom, before her confidential servant, Caroline
     Ryder aforesaid. But now the scene shifts. She has, to all
     appearance, recovered herself, and sits smiling at the head of
     her table; for, you must know, she entertained company that
     night,--persons of the highest standing in the county.

     "Presently her husband, all unconscious of the terrible
     sentiments she entertained towards him, and the fearful purpose
     she had announced, enters the room, makes obeisance to his
     guests, and goes to take his wife's hand.

     "What does she? She draws back with so strange a look, and such
     forbidding words, that the company were disconcerted.
     Consternation fell on all present; and erelong they made their
     excuses, and left the house. Thus the prisoner was left alone
     with her husband; but, meantime, curiosity had been excited by
     her strange conduct, and some of the servants, with foreboding
     hearts, listened at the door of the dining-room. What did they
     hear, gentlemen? A furious quarrel, in which, however, the
     deceased was comparatively passive, and the prisoner again
     threatened his life, with vehemence. Her passion, it is clear,
     had not cooled.

     "Now it may fairly be alleged, on behalf of the prisoner, that
     the witnesses for the crown were on one side of the door, the
     prisoner and the deceased on the other, and that such evidence
     should be received with caution. I grant this--where it is not
     sustained by other circumstances, or by direct proofs. Let us
     then give the prisoner the benefit of this doubt, and let us
     inquire how the deceased himself understood her,--he, who not
     only heard the words, and the accents, but saw the looks,
     whatever they were, that accompanied them.

     "Gentlemen, he was a man of known courage and resolution; yet
     he was found, after this terrible interview, much cowed and
     dejected. He spoke to Mrs. Ryder of his death as an event not
     far distant, and so went to his bedroom in a melancholy and
     foreboding state. And where was that bedroom? He was thrust, by
     his wife's orders, into a small chamber, and not allowed to
     enter hers,--he, the master of the house, her husband, and her
     lord.

     "But his interpretation of the prisoner's words did not end
     there. He left us a further comment by his actions next
     ensuing. He dared not--(I beg pardon, this is my inference:
     receive it as such)--he did not, remain in that house a
     single night. He at all events bolted his chamber door inside;
     and in the very dead of night, notwithstanding the fatigues of
     the day's journey, (for he had ridden some distance,) he let
     himself out by the window, and reached the ground safely,
     though it was a height of fourteen feet,--a leap, gentlemen,
     that few of us would venture to take. But what will not men
     risk when destruction is at their heels? He did not wait even
     to saddle his horse, but fled on foot. Unhappy man, he fled
     from danger, and met his death.

     "From the hour when he went up to bed, none of the inmates of
     the house ever saw Griffith Gaunt alive; but one Thomas Hayes,
     a laborer, saw him walking in a certain direction at one
     o'clock that morning; and behind him, gentlemen, there walked
     another man.

     "Who was that other man?

     "When I have told you (and this is an essential feature of the
     case) how the prisoner was employed during the time that her
     husband lay quaking in his little room, waiting an opportunity
     to escape,--when I have told you this, I fear you will divine
     who it was that followed the deceased, and for what purpose.

     "Gentlemen, when the prisoner had threatened her husband in
     person, as I have described, she retired to her own room, but
     not to sleep. She ordered her maid, Mrs. Ryder, to bring Thomas
     Leicester to her chamber. Yes, gentlemen, she received this
     pedler, at midnight, in her bedchamber.

     "Now, an act so strange as this admits, I think, but of two
     interpretations. Either she had a guilty amour with this
     fellow, or she had some extraordinary need of his services. Her
     whole character, by consent of the witnesses, renders it very
     improbable that she would descend to a low amour. Moreover, she
     acted too publicly in the matter. The man, as we know, was her
     tool, her creature: she had bought his wares for him, and set
     him up as a pedler. She openly summoned him to her presence,
     and kept him there about half an hour.

     "He went from her, and very soon after is seen, by Thomas
     Hayes, following Griffith Gaunt, at one o'clock in the
     morning,--that Griffith Gaunt who after that hour was never
     seen alive.

     "Gentlemen, up to this point, the evidence is clear, connected,
     and cogent; but it rarely happens in cases of murder that any
     human eye sees the very blow struck. The penalty is too severe
     for such an act to be done in the presence of an eyewitness;
     and not one murderer in ten could be convicted without the help
     of circumstantial evidence.

     "The next link, however, is taken up by an ear-witness; and, in
     some cases, the ear is even better evidence than the eye,--for
     instance, as to the discharge of firearms,--for, by the eye
     alone, we could not positively tell whether a pistol had gone
     off or had but flashed in the pan. Well, then, gentlemen, a few
     minutes after Mr. Gaunt was last seen alive,--which was by
     Thomas Hayes,--Mrs. Ryder, who had retired to her bedroom,
     heard the said Gaunt distinctly cry for help; she also heard a
     pistol-shot discharged. This took place by the side of a lake
     or large pond near the house, called the mere. Mrs. Ryder
     alarmed the house, and she and the other servants proceeded to
     her master's room. They found it bolted from the inside. They
     broke it open. Mr. Gaunt had escaped by the window, as I have
     already told you.

     "Presently in comes the prisoner from out of doors. This was at
     one o'clock in the morning. Now she appears to have seen at
     once that she must explain her being abroad at that time, so
     she told Mrs. Ryder she had been out--praying."

(Here some people laughed harshly, but were threatened severely, and silenced.)

     "Is that credible? Do people go out of doors at one o'clock in
     the morning, to pray? Nay, but I fear it was to do an act that
     years of prayer and penitence cannot efface.

     "From that moment Mr. Gaunt was seen no more among living men.
     And what made his disappearance the more mysterious was that he
     had actually at this time just inherited largely from his
     namesake, Mr. Gaunt of Biggleswade; and his own interest, and
     that of the other legatees, required his immediate presence.
     Mr. Atkins, the testator's solicitor, advertised for this
     unfortunate gentleman; but he did not appear to claim his
     fortune. Then plain men began to put this and that together,
     and cried out, 'Foul play!'

     "Justice was set in motion at last, but was embarrassed by the
     circumstance that the body of the deceased could not be found.

     "At last, Mr. Atkins, the solicitor, being unable to get the
     estate I have mentioned administered, for want of proof of
     Griffith Gaunt's decease, entered heartily in this affair, on
     mere civil grounds. He asked the prisoner, before several
     witnesses, if she would permit him to drag that piece of water
     by the side of which Mr. Gaunt was heard to cry for help and,
     after that seen no more.

     "The prisoner did not reply, but Mr. Houseman, her solicitor, a
     very worthy man, who has, I believe, or had, up to that moment,
     a sincere conviction of her innocence, answered for her, and
     told Mr. Atkins he was welcome to drag it or drain it. Then the
     prisoner said nothing. She fainted away.

     "After this, you may imagine with what expectation the water
     was dragged. Gentlemen, after hours of fruitless labor, a body
     was found.

     "But here an unforeseen circumstance befriended the prisoner.
     It seems that piece of water swarms with enormous pike and
     other ravenous fish. These had so horribly mutilated the
     deceased, that neither form nor feature remained to swear by;
     and, as the law wisely and humanely demands that in these cases
     a body shall be identified beyond doubt, justice bade fair to
     be baffled again. But lo! as often happens in cases of murder,
     Providence interposed and pointed with unerring finger to a
     slight, but infallible mark. The deceased gentleman was known
     to have a large mole over his left temple. It had been noticed
     by his servants and his neighbors. Well, gentlemen, the greedy
     fish had spared this mole,--spared it, perhaps, by His command,
     who bade the whale swallow Jonah, yet not destroy him. There it
     was, clear and infallible. It was examined by several
     witnesses, it was recognized. It completed that chain of
     evidence, some of it direct, some of it circumstantial, which I
     have laid before you very briefly, and every part of which I
     shall now support by credible witnesses."

He called thirteen witnesses, including Mr. Atkins, Thomas Hayes, Jane Banister, Caroline Ryder,
and others; and their evidence in chief bore out every positive statement the counsel had made.

In cross-examining these witnesses, Mrs. Gaunt took a line that agreeably surprised the court.
It was not for nothing she had studied a hundred trials, with a woman's observation and patient
docility. She had found out how badly people plead their own causes, and had noticed the reasons:
one of which is that they say too much, and stray from the point. The line she took, with one
exception, was keen brevity.

She cross-examined Thomas Hayes as follows.

THE CHIMNEY-CORNER FOR 1866.

IX.

AN ITALIAN RAIN-STORM.

The coast-road between Nice and Genoa,--known throughout the world for its unrivalled beauty
of scenery, the altitudes to which it climbs, and the depths to which it dives,--now on the
olive-clad heights, now close down upon the shore shaded by palm or carob-trees, now stretching
inland amid orange-grounds and vineyards, now rounding some precipitous point that hangs hundreds
of feet over the Mediterranean,--is generally seen with all the advantage of an unclouded sky
above, and a sea as blue beneath.

It was the fortune of a certain party of four to behold it under the unusual aspect of bad
weather. They set out in the diligence one winter evening, expecting to arrive at Genoa by
the same time next day, according to ordinary course. But no one unaccustomed to the effect
of rain, continuous rain, in mountainous districts, can conceive the wonders worked by a long
succession of wet days. The arrival was retarded six hours, and the four found themselves in
Genova la superba somewhere about midnight. However, this was only the commencement of the
pouring visitation; and the roads had been rendered merely so "heavy" as to make the horses
contumacious when dragging the ponderous vehicle up hill, which contumacy had occasioned the
delay in question. Despite the hopes entertained that the weather would clear, the rain set
in; and during no interval did it hold up, with the exception of a short period, which permitted
one gentleman of the party of four to visit on business two bachelor brothers, manufacturers
in Genoa. The residence of these brothers being in rather an out-of-the-way quarter of the
city, and being very peculiar in itself, the gentleman advised the rest of his party to accompany
him on this visit.

The four, only too glad to find themselves able to get out of doors, set forth on foot through
the steep and narrow streets of Genoa, which make driving in a carriage a fatigue, and walking
a feat of great excitement, especially when mud prevails. Trucks, ponderously laden with bales
of goods, and pushed along at a reckless rate of speed by mahogany-complexioned men; dashing
coaches, impelled by drivers hallooing when close upon you with distracting loudness and abruptness;
mules coming onward with the blundering obtuseness peculiar to their tribe, or with their heads
fastened to doorways, and their flanks extending across the street, affording just space enough
for the passenger to slide behind their heels; a busy, jostling crowd of people hurrying to
and fro, with no definite current, but streaming over any portion of the undistinguishable
carriage-way and foot-way,--all combine to make Genoese pedestrianism a work only less onerous
than driving.

Choosing the minor trouble, our party trusted to their own legs; and, after picking their way
through sludge and mire, along murky alleys that branched off into wharves and quays, and up
slippery by-ways that looked like paved staircases without regular steps, the four emerged
upon an open space in front of a noble church. Leaving this on their left hand, they turned
short into a place that wore something the appearance of a stable-yard,--with this difference,
that there were neither steeds nor stabling to be seen; but instead there were blank walls,
enclosing a kind of court adjoining a huge old mansion, and beyond there was a steep descent
leading down to the sea-side.

On ringing a bell that hung beside a gate in the wall enclosure, the door opened apparently
of itself, and a dismal scream ensued. The scream proceeded from a sea-gull, peering out of
a kind of pen formed by a wooden paling in one corner of a grass-grown patch, half cabbage-garden,
half excavated earth and rock; and the mysterious opening of the door was explained by a connecting
cord pulled by some unseen hand within a smaller house that stood near to the huge old mansion.
From the house appeared, advancing towards us, the two bachelor brothers, who welcomed our
friend and his three companions with grave Italian courtesy. Understanding the curiosity the
four felt to see their premises, they did the honors of their place, with a minuteness as politely
considerate towards the strangers as it was gratifying to the interest felt by them.

First the visitors were led by the bachelor brothers to see the huge old mansion, which they
called the Palazzo. Let no one who has seen an ordinary Genoese palace, magnificent with gilding,
enriched by priceless pictures, supplied with choice books, and adorned with gorgeous furniture,
figure to himself any such combination in the palazzo in question. This was a vast pile of
building, that would make five moderate-sized dwelling-houses, one in the roof, and the other
four in the habitable portion of the edifice. A general air of ramshackledness pervaded the
exterior, while the interior presented an effect of interminable ranges of white-washed walls,
divided off into numberless apartments of various sizes, from a saloon on the piano nobile,
or principal floor, measuring more than forty feet long, to small square attic rooms that were
little more than cupboards. But this attic story was not all composed of chambers thus dimensioned.
Among its apartments were rooms that might have accommodated a banqueting assemblage, had diners
been so inclined; while among the accommodations comprised in this garret range was a kitchen,
with spacious dressers, stoves, closets, and a well of water some hundred and odd feet deep.
It was impossible for the imagination to refrain from picturing the troops of ghosts which
doubtless occupied these upper chambers of the old palazzo, and held nightly vigil, undisturbed,
amid the silence and solitude of their neglected spaces. Through one of the dwarf windows that
pierced at intervals all sides of the mansion, just beneath the lofty roof, and which gave
light to the attic story, we were directed to look by the emphatic words of the elder bachelor
brother,--"Ma, veda che vista c' è!"

The view thence was indeed well worthy his praise; and he himself formed an appropriate companion-picture
to the scene. Bluish-gray eyes, a fairer complexion than usually belongs to men of his clime
and country, a look of penetration, combined with an expression of quiet content, were surmounted
by a steeple-crowned hat that might have become a Dutch burgomaster, or one of Teniers's land-proprietors,
rather than a denizen of a southern city. Yet the association which his face, figure, and costume
had with some of George Cruikshank's illustrations of German tales afforded pictorial harmony
with the range of ghostly rooms we were viewing. He "marshalled us the way that we should go,"
by leading us down a steep flight of steps, which landed us on the piano nobile. This, for
the present, was tenanted by a set of weavers, to whom the principal floor of the palazzo had
been let for a short term. They had proved but turbulent occupants, being in a constant state
of refractoriness against their landlords, the bachelor brothers, who seemed to be somewhat
in awe of them. On the present occasion, for instance, the brothers apologized for being unable
to show us the grand saloon, as the weavers (whom we could hear, while he spoke, singing in
a loud, uproarious, insurgent kind of way, that might well have drawn three souls out of one
of their own craft, and evidently made the souls of their two landlords quail) did not like
to be disturbed.

Their contumacious voices, mingled with the clamor of their looms, died off in the distance,
while we proceeded down the back staircase to the ground-floor. We at first fancied that this
apparently surreptitious proceeding was perhaps traceable to the awe entertained by the bachelor
brothers for their unruly tenants; but we were relieved from the sense of acting in a style
bordering on poltroonery, by finding that the principal staircase had been boarded up to preserve
its marble steps and sides from injury. On arriving at the foot we found ourselves in a spacious
hall, opposite the approach to the grand staircase, which looked like an archway built for
giants, toweringly defined above the scaffold-planks by which it was barricaded. Many doors
opened from this hall, to each of which, in turn, one of the bachelor brothers applied successive
keys from a ponderous bunch that he held in his hand. These doors led to vast suites of apartments,
all unfurnished, like the upper rooms, with the exception of one suite, which the brothers
had lent to a friend of theirs, and which was sparely supplied with some old Italian furniture,
of so antique a fashion that each article might have been a family heirloom ever since the
times of that famous Genoese gentleman, Christopher Columbus. One peculiarity the four remarked,
which spoke volumes for the geniality of the climate: in all this huge rambling edifice they
saw only one room which could boast of a fireplace. The sun's warmth evidently supplied all
the heat necessary, and--as might be conjectured from its other peculiarities as well as this--anything
like what the English call "the joys and comforts of the domestic hearth" seemed an impossible
attainment in this dreary old palazzo. The social amenities must wither in its desolate atmosphere,
and dwindle to chill shadows, like the ghosts that haunt the attic story.

To complete the air of saddening vacancy that clung like a damp to the really arid white walls,
when the brothers led us down a wide staircase to the vaulted space beneath the basement, we
came upon some hundreds of small bird-cages, containing each a miserable linnet, titmouse,
or finch, condemned to chirp out its wretched existence in this airless underground region.
In reply to our pitying exclamation, we were told that the bachelors' friend who occupied the
corner apartment on the ground-floor was a great sportsman, and devotedly fond of la caccia;
that these unhappy little prisoners were employed by him in the season as decoy-birds; that
they were kept in these dungeons during the other months of the year; and that they were BLINDED
to make them sing better and be more serviceable at the period when he needed them. As we looked
shudderingly at these forlorn little creatures, and expressed our commiseration at their fate,
the younger brother stepped forward, and, examining one of the cages, in which sat hunched
up in one corner a stiff lump of feathers, coolly announced that "this goldfinch" was dead.

It was with a feeling of relief that we left the death-released bird, and the vaults beneath
the old palazzo, to return once more to the fresh air and the breathing-space of the broad
earth and sky. Our next visit was to the bachelor brothers' factory, which was for the fabrication
of wax candles. Adjoining this was a terrace-plot of ground, dotted over with what looked like
Liliputian tombstones. We were beginning to wonder whether this were a cemetery for the dead
birds,--speculating on the probability that these might be the monumental tributes placed over
their graves by the sportsman friend of the two brothers,--when the elder informed us that
this was the place they used for bleaching the wax, and that the square stones we saw were
the supports on which rested the large flat stands whereon it was laid to whiten in the sun.
From this terrace-plot of ground,--which projected in a narrowish green ledge, skirted by a
low ivy-grown wall, over the sea,--we beheld a prospect of almost matchless beauty. Before
us stretched a wide expanse of Mediterranean waters; to the extreme left was just visible the
bold rocky point of Porto Fino; to the right extended westward a grand line of picturesque
coast, including the headlands of Capo di Noli and Capo delle Mele; and near at hand lay the
harbor of Genoa, with its shipping, its amphitheatre of palaces, surmounted by the high ground
above, and crowned by the fortressed summits beyond.

We were roused from the absorbing admiration which this majestic sea and land view had excited,
by one of the four asking whether there were any access to the palazzo from this terrace. Whereupon
the brothers showed us a winding turret staircase, which led by a subterranean passage into
one of the lower vaulted rooms. Nothing more like a place in a wonderful story-book ever met
us in real life; and while we were lost in a dream of romantic imaginings, one of the brothers
was engaged in giving a prosaic relation of how the old palazzo had come into their family
by a lawsuit, which terminated in their favor, and left them possessors of this unexpected
property. During the narrative a brood of adolescent chickens had come near to where we stood
listening on the green plot, and eyed us with expectant looks, as if accustomed to be fed or
noticed. The elder brother indulged the foremost among the poultry group--a white bantam cock
of courageous character--by giving him his foot to assault. Valiantly the little fellow flew
at, and spurred, and pecked the boot and trousers; again and again he returned to the charge,
while the blue-gray eyes beamed smilingly down from beneath the steeple-crowned hat, as the
old man humored the bird's pugnacious spirit.

Presently a shy little girl of some ten or twelve years came peering out at the strangers from
beneath a row of evergreen oaks that ornamented the back of the dwelling-house overlooking
the terrace. There she stood at the foot of the ilexes, shading her eyes with one hand, (for
the sun coyly gleamed through the rain-clouds at that moment,) while the other was employed
in restraining the lumbering fondness of two large bull-dogs, that gambolled heavily round
her. She was introduced to us as the daughter of the younger of the two brothers; who proved
after all to be no bachelor, but a widower. One ponderous brindled brute poked his black muzzle
against the child with such a weight of affection that we expected to see her overturned on
the sward; but she seemed to have complete control over her canine favorites, and to live with
them and a large macaw she had up stairs in her own room (we afterwards found it perched there,
when taken to see the upper floor of the bachelor residence), as her familiars and sole associates,--like
some enchanted princess in a fairy-tale.

On entering the house from the terrace, we found ourselves in its kitchen, which strongly resembled
a cavern made habitable. It was hewn out of the rock on which the dwelling stood; and it only
required the presence of the black man and the old woman who figure in Gil Blas's story to
give, to the life, the cooking-department of the robbers' cave there. As we ascended a rude
stone staircase that led from it, we heard the lowing of cows; and, turning, we saw two of
these animals comfortably stalled in a side recess, not far from the rocky ledge on which the
culinary apparatus for dressing the food of the establishment was deposited. Mounting into
the parlor, we discovered a good-sized apartment, its windows looking out through the foliage
of the ilexes over the sea, skirted by the extensive coast view. Behind was the dining-room;
on each side were the brothers' bedrooms; and leading from a small entrance-hall at the back
was a large billiard-room. This opened on a small garden nook, in which were orange-trees and
camellias, full of bud and blossom,--from which some of the flowers were gathered for us by
the Italian brethren, on our taking leave and thanking them for the unusual treat we had had
in going over their curious abode.

The transient gleam of sunshine that had shone forth while we were there was the only intermission
vouchsafed by the rain, which afterwards poured down with a steady vehemence and pertinacity
seldom seen on the Ligurian Riviera. The effects of this rare continuance of wet weather were
soon made impressively perceptible to the four as they emerged upon the open road, after passing
the Lighthouse of Genoa and the long straggling suburbs of San Pier d'Arena, Pegli, and Voltri.
The horses splashed through channels of water which filled the spongy ruts, smoking, and toiling,
and plunging on; while the whoops and yells of the postilion urging them forward, together
with the loud smacks of his whip, made a savage din. This was farther increased as we crashed
along a ledge road, cut in a cliff overhanging the sea;--the waves tearing up from beneath
with a whelming roar; the rocks jutting forth in points, every one of which was a streaming
water-spout; the rain pelting, the wind rushing, the side-currents pouring and dashing. These
latter, ordinarily but small rills, carrying off the drainage of the land by gentle course,
were now swollen to rough cataracts, leaping with furious rapidity from crag to crag in deluges
of turbid water, discolored to a dingy yellow-brown by the heaps of earth and stone which they
dislodged and brought down with them, and hurled hither and thither over the precipitous projections,
and occasionally flung athwart the highway. At one spot, where a heap of such stones--large,
flat slabs--had been tossed upon the road, and a few of their companions were in the very act
of plunging down after them, our postilion drew up to guide his cattle among those already
fallen; and, raising his voice above the thunder of the sea-waves, rain, wind, and waters,
shouted out in broad Genoese to the falling ones, "Halloo, you there, up above! Stop a bit,
will you? Wait a moment, you up there!" Then, driving on carefully till he had steered by the
largest of the fragments that lay prostrate, he turned back his head, shook his whip at it,
and apostrophised it with, "Ah, you big pig! I've passed you, for this time!"

The first change of horses took place at a village close down on the sea-shore, where some
fishermen were busily employed hauling up the last of a row of boats that lay upon the beach.
Every available hand, not occupied in aiding the conductor and postilion to unharness the diligence
horses and put to the fresh team, was enlisted in the service of the boat-hauling. Young gentlemen
out for an evening's amusement, attired in sacks or tarpaulins thrown over their shoulders,
while their nether garments were rolled up tightly into a neat twist that encircled the top
of each thigh, were frisking about a line of men with weather-beaten countenances and blown
hair, who tugged bare-legged at the sides of the fishing-boat, half in the water and half out.
Occasionally one of these young gentry, feeling perhaps that he had aided sufficiently in the
general work, betook himself to a doorway near, dripping and shaking himself, and looking out
through the sheeted rain at his companions, who were still in the excitement of whisking round
the heaving and tugging fishermen, while the waves rose high, the spray dashed up in mist over
their grizzled heads and beards, and the wind whistled sharply amid the deeper tumult of the
sea and torrent waters. To heighten the grim wildness of the scene, the shades of evening were
closing round, and by the time the four travellers were off again and proceeding on their way,
darkness was fast setting in.

Nightfall found them toiling up a steep ascent that diverges inland for a few miles, winding
round the estate of some inflexible proprietor, upon whom nothing can prevail to permit the
high-road to take its passage through his land, there bordering the sea-side. Up the ascent
we labored, and down the descent we lunged, the wheels lodging in deep mire at every moment,
and threatening to abide in the deeper holes and furrows which the water-courses (forced from
their due channels by overflowing and by obstructive fallen masses) had cut and dug into the
road as they strayed swiftly over it.

By the time the next stage was reached, the conductor consulted the four on the advisability
of stopping to sleep, instead of proceeding on such a tempestuous night, the like of which,
for perilous effects, he said he had but once before encountered during the whole of the sixteen
years he had been in office on this road. The three coupé passengers, consisting of two ladies--sisters--and
a ruddy-faced, cheerful gentleman in a velvet travelling-cap, who made it a principle, like
Falstaff, to take things easily, and "not to sweat extraordinarily," warmly approved the conductor's
proposal as a sensible one; and even the alert gentleman in the banquette agreed that it would
be more prudent to remain at the first good inn the diligence came to. This, the conductor
replied, was at Savona, one stage farther, as the place they now were at was a mere boat-building
hamlet, that scarcely boasted an inn at all,--certainly not "good beds." A group of eager,
bronzed faces were visible by lamp-light, assembled round the conductor, listening to him as
he held this conference with his coach-passengers; and at its close the bronze-faced crowd
broke into a rapid outburst of Genoese dialect, which was interrupted by our conductor's making
his way through them all, and disappearing round the corner of the small piazza wherein the
diligence stood to have its horses changed. After some moments' pause,--not in the rain, or
wind, or sea-waves, for they kept pouring and rushing and roaring on,--but in the hurly-burly
of rapid talk, which ceased, owing to the talkers' hurrying off in pursuit of the vanished
conductor, he returned, saying, "Andiamo a Savona." It soon proved that he had been to ascertain
the feasibility of what the group of bronze-faced men had proposed, namely, that they would
undertake to convey the diligence (without its horses, its "outsides," and its "insides") bodily
over a high, steep, slippery mule-bridge, which crossed a torrent near at hand, now swollen
to an unfordable depth and swiftness. The four beheld this impassable stream, boiling and surging
and sweeping on to mingle itself with the madly leaping sea-waves out there in the dim night-gloom
to the left, as they descended from the diligence and prepared to go on foot across something
that looked like a rudely-constructed imitation of the Rialto Bridge at Venice, seen through
a haze of darkness, slanting rain, faintly-beaming coach-lamps, pushing and heaving men, panting
led horses, passengers muffled up and umbrellaed, conductor leading and directing. Then came
the reharnessing of the horses, the reassembling of the passengers, the remounting of the "insides,"
the reclambering to his seat of the alert banquette "outside" (after a hearty interchange of
those few brief, smiling words with his coupé companions which, between English friends, say
so much in so little utterance at periods of mutual anxiety and interest), the payment of the
agreed-for sum by the conductor to the bronze-faced pushers and heavers, amid a violent renewal
of the storm of Genoese jargon, terminated by an authoritative word from the payer as he swung
himself up into his place by a leathern strap dangling from the coach-side, a smart crack of
the postilion's whip, a forward plunge of the struggling horses, an onward jerk of the diligence,
and the final procedure into the wet and dark and roar of the wild night.

The gas and stir of Savona came as welcome tokens of repose to the toilsome journey; and the
four alighted at one of the hotels there with an inexpressible sense of relief. His fellow-travellers
were warned, however, by the alert gentleman, that they must hold themselves in readiness to
start before dawn next morning, as the conductor wished to avail himself of the first peep
of daylight in passing several torrents on the road which lay beyond Savona. Velvet-cap assented
with a grunt; one of the sisters--all briskness at night, but fit for nothing of a morning--proposed
not to go to bed at all; while the other--quite used up at night, but "up to everything" of
a morning--undertook to call the whole party in time for departure.

This she did,--ordering coffee, seeing that some was swallowed by the sister who had been unwillingly
roused from the sleep she had willingly offered to forego overnight, collecting cloaks, baskets,
and travelling-rugs, and altogether looking so wakeful and ready that she wellnigh drove her
drowsy sister to desperation.

The preannounced torrents proved as swollen as were expected; so that the passengers had to
unpack themselves from the heaps of wrappings stowed snugly round their feet and knees, and
issue forth into the keen morning air, armed with difficultly-put-up umbrellas, to traverse
certain wooden foot-bridges, in the midst of which they could not help halting to watch the
lightened diligence dragged splashingly through the deep and rapid streams, expecting, at every
lunge it made into the water-dug gullies, to see it turn helplessly over on its side in the
very midst of them. Nevertheless, no such accident occurred; and the four jogged on, along
soaking, soppy, drenched roads, that seemed never to have known dust or drought. At one saturated
village, they saw a dripping procession of people under crimson umbrellas, shouldering two
rude coffins of deal boards, which were borne to the door of a church that stood by the wayside,--where
the train waited in a kind of moist dejection to be admitted, and to look dispiritedly after
the passing diligence. The alert gentleman heard from what the conductor gathered from an old
woman wrapped in a many-colored gaudy-patterned scarf of chintz, which, wet through, covered
her head and shoulders clingingly, that this was the funeral of a poor peasant-man and his
wife, who had both died suddenly and both on the same day. The old woman held up her brown,
shrivelled hands, and gesticulated pityingly with them in the pouring rain, as she mumbled
her hurried tale of sorrow; while the postilion involuntarily slackened pace, that her words
might be heard where he and the conductor sat.

The horses were suffered to creep on at their own snail pace, while the influence of the funeral
scene lasted; but soon the long lash was plied vivaciously again, and we came to another torrent,
more deep, more rapid, more swollen than any previous one. Fortunately for us, a day or two
before there had been a postilion nearly drowned in attempting to drive through this impassable
ford; and still more fortunately for us, this postilion chanced to have a relation who was
a servant in the household of Count Cavour, then prime-minister to King Victor Emanuel. "Papa
Camillo's" servant's kinsman's life being endangered, an order had come from Turin only a few
hours before our diligence arrived at the bank of the dangerous stream,--now swollen into a
swift, broad river,--decreeing that the new road and bridge, lately in course of construction
on this spot, should be opened immediately for passage to and fro. The road was more like a
stone-quarry than a carriageable public highway, so encumbered was it with granite fragments,
heaped ready for top-dressing and finishing; and the bridge led on to a raised embankment,
coming to a sudden fissure, where the old coach-road crossed it. Still, our conductor, finding
that some few carts and one diligence had actually passed over the ground, set himself to the
work of getting ours also across. First, the insides and outsides were abstracted from the
coach,--which they had by this time come to regard as quite an extraneous part of their travelling,
not so much a "conveyance" as something to be conveyed,--and the four took their way over the
stones, amused at this new and most unexpected obstacle to their progress. Hastening across
the fissure, they went and placed themselves (always under umbrellas) beside a troop of little
vagabond boys,--who had come to see the fun, and had secured good front places on the opposite
bank,--to view the diligence brought down the sharp declivity of the embankment to the old
road below. The spectators beheld the jolting vehicle come slowly and gratingly along, like
a sturdy recusant, holding back, until the straining horses had tugged it by main force to
the brink of the fissure. Here the animals stopped, snorted, eyed the sheer descent with twitching
ears and quivering skins, as though they said in equine language, "We're surely not required
to drag it down this!" They were soon relieved from their doubt, by being taken out of the
traces, patted, and gently led down the embankment, leaving their burdensome charge behind.
There it stuck, helplessly alone,--even more thoroughly belying its own name than diligences
usually do,--perched on the edge of a declivity of the height of a tall house, stock still,
top-heavy with piled luggage, deserted by its passengers, abandoned of its friend in the velvet
cap, a motionless and apparently objectless coach. How it was to be dislodged and conveyed
down the "vast abrupt" became matter of conjecture to the four, when presently some men came
to the spot with a large coil of cable-cord, which they proceeded to pass through the two hindmost
side-windows of the diligence, threading it like a bead on a string; and then they gradually
lowered the lumbering coach down the side of the descent, amid the evvivas of the vagabond
boys, led by an enthusiastic "Bravissimo!" from Velvet-cap.

This incident occupied much time; and though the travellers made some progress during the afternoon,
the gray shades of twilight were gathering over and deepening the gloom of the already gray
sky and gray landscape,--deadened to that color from their naturally brilliant hues by the
prevailing wet,--as the travellers stopped to change horses again at the entrance of the town
of Oneglia. Here, while the conductor ran into a house to make purchase of a loaf about half
a yard in length and a corpulent bottle of wine, the four saw another funeral train approaching.
This time it was still more dreary, being attended by a show of processional pomp, inexpressibly
forlorn and squalid. The coffin was palled with a square of rusty black velvet, whence all
the pile had long been worn, and which the soaking rain now helped age to embrown and make
flabby; a standard cross was borne by an ecclesiastical official, who had on a quadrangular
cap surmounted by a centre tuft; two priests followed, sheltered by umbrellas, their sacerdotal
garments dabbled and draggled with mud, and showing thick-shod feet beneath the dingy serge
and lawn that flapped above them, as they came along at a smart pace, suggestive of anything
but solemnity. As little of that effect was there in the burial-hymn which they bawled, rather
than chanted, in a careless, off-hand style, until they reached the end of the street and of
the town, when the bawlers suddenly ceased, took an abrupt leave of the coffin and its bearers,
fairly turned on their heels, accompanied by the official holy standard-bearer, and went back
at a brisk trot, having, it seems, fulfilled the functions required of them. Obsequies more
heartless in their manner of performance, it was never the fate of the four to behold. The
impression left by this sight assorted well with the deep and settled murkiness that dwelt
like a thick veil on all around. Even the cheery tones of Velvet-cap's voice lost their elasticity,
and the sprightliness of the sister's spirits, that invariably rose with the coming on of night,
failed under the depressing influence of that rain-hastened funeral and that "set-in" rainy
evening. As for the sister whose spirits fell with the fall of day, she was fast lapsing into
a melancholy condition of silence and utter "giving-up."

Rattling over the pavement of the long, straggling town,--plashing along a few miles of level
road,--struggling up hill,--rattling through another pavemented town,--striking into the country
again,--we came to another long ascent. As we toiled to the top, a postilion, having the care
of five return horses, joined company with ours, the two men walking up hill together, while
their beasts paced slowly on, with drooping heads and smoking sides. Now and then, when the
road was less steep, and levelled into trotting-ground, the postilions climbed to their seats,--ours
on his rightful box-seat, the other on an impromptu one, which he made for himself upon a sack
of corn slung beneath the front windows of the coupé,--and while our horses fell into an easy
jog, we could see the return ones go on before at a swagging run, with their loosened harness
tossing and hanging from them as they took their own course, now on one side of the way, now
on the other, according to the promptings of their unreined fancy.

