The other's only reply was to take off the ring and offer it for inspection.  As it was passed
from hand to hand, various exclamations were uttered: "Eh, it's a bonny stone!"--"I never seed
the like in all my born days!"--"It's fit for the Queen's crown!"--"Where did you get it, Betsy?"--"Her
young man gave it her, of course!"--"Nay, you're wrong there," said another; "he's got more
sense than to spend his brass on such things as that,--he's saving it up for a new clock and
a dresser!"--"Come, Betsy, where did you get it?"

"You'll never guess, so it's no use axing," said Betsy, laughing.  "It ain't mine; but it'll
be mine till its proper owner comes and claims it."

"Oh, you picked it up as you was coming to the mill!"

"Ah yes!" cried another; "like enough it's been dropped by the vicar's lady, or by some one
as has been staying at the vicarage!"

"You're wrong there," replied Betsy; "I didn't find it, and nobody's lost it exactly."

"Well, I never!" cried several, and then there was a general move towards their different homes.

Betsy continued wearing the ring for the next day or two, and always dexterously parried any
attempt to find out how she came by it.  Odd stories began to fly about on the subject, and
work-people from other mills came to have a look at the ring, Betsy being always ready to gratify
any respectable person with a sight of it.  But still she persisted in refusing to tell how
it had come into her possession.  At last, one afternoon, just as the mills were loosing, one
of the railway clerks came up to her, and said,--

"Are you looking out for an owner to that ring you're wearing?  I've been told something of
the sort."

"I ain't been exactly looking out," was the reply; "but I shall be quite ready to give it up
when I'm sure it's the right owner as wants it."

"Well, I've a shrewd guess I know whose it is," said the young man.

"Indeed!  And who may that be?"

"Oh, never mind just now; but, please, let me look at the ring."

She took it from her finger and handed it to him.  He examined it carefully, and then nodding
his head, with a smile on his lips, said, "I'll be bound I've had this ring in my hands before."

"It's yours, then?"

"Nay, it's not mine.  But do you particularly want to know whose it is?"

"Yes, I do; or, rather, my father does, for the simple truth is, it's father as has got me
to wear it; and if you can find out the proper owner, he'll be obliged to you."

"Just so.  If you don't mind, then, lending me the ring, I'll soon find out if I'm right; and
I'll bring it back to your father to-morrow night, and tell him all about it."

To this Betsy immediately assented, and the clerk went away with the ring in his charge.  The
following evening he and Thomas Bradly were closeted together in the "Surgery."

"So," said Thomas, "you can tell me, I understand, who is the owner of this ring you've just
returned to me."

"I think I can," replied the other; "indeed, I feel pretty sure that I can, though, strangely
enough, the owner won't own to it."

"How's that?"

"I can't say, I'm sure, but so it is."

"Well, be so good as to tell me what you know about it."

"I will.  You know the Green Dragon,--perhaps I ought to say, you know where it is.  I wish
I knew as little of the inside of it as you do; it would be better for me, though I'm no drunkard,
as you are aware.  But, however, I go now and then into the tap-room of the Green Dragon to
get a glass of ale, as it's near my lodgings.  Mrs Philips, she's the landlady, you know. 
Well, she's a bit of a fine lady, and so is her daughter.  Her mother had her sent to a boarding-school,
and she has got rather high notions in consequence.  But she and I are very good friends, and
she often tells me about her school-days.  Among other things, she has been very fond of talking
about the way in which the other young ladies and herself used to be bosom friends; and one
afternoon, when I was with her and her mother alone in the parlour, she took a ring off her
finger, and asked me to look at it, and if I didn't admire it.  And she said that one of her
schoolfellows, whose parents were very wealthy, had given it to her as a birthday present a
short time before she left school.  The ring was the very image of the one your daughter Betsy
lent me."--So saying, he took it up from the table, on which Thomas Bradly had placed it, and
held it up to the light.--"I could almost swear to the ring," he continued, "for I've had Miss
Philips's ring in my hands many a time.  She's very proud of her rings, and likes to talk about
them; and I had noticed that she used to wear this ring with the ruby in it over one or two
others, and that it slipped off and on very easily.  And I used often to ask her to show it
me, partly to please her, and partly for a bit of fun.  Well, now, it's curious enough, I've
missed that ring off her finger for several weeks past.  I couldn't help noticing that it was
gone, for she always took care that I should see it when she had it on.  I asked her some time
back what had become of it; but she looked confused, and made some sort of excuse which seemed
odd to me at the time.  But when I asked her again, which was very soon after, she said she
had put it by in her jewel-case, for it was rather loose, and she was afraid of its getting
lost.  But somehow or other I didn't quite believe what she said, so I asked her once more,
and she snapped me up so sharply that I found it was best to ask no more questions about it.
However, when I heard about your daughter wearing a ring with a red stone in it, and that it
was looking out for an owner, it occurred to me at once that it might be Lydia Philips's ring--that
she had dropped it by accident, and didn't like to own that she had lost it for some reason
best known to herself, and that she'd be only too glad to get it back again.  So when your
daughter lent it me yesterday, I took it up in the evening; and getting her by herself in the
parlour, I pulled it out, and said, `See, Miss Lyddy, what will you give me for finding this
for you?'  I expected thanks at the least; but to my great surprise she turned first very pale,
and then very red; and then, taking up the ring between her finger and thumb as cautiously
as if she was afraid it would bite or burn her, she said--but I didn't believe her--`It ain't
mine, and I don't want to have anything to do with it.'  I tried to make her change her opinion,
and told her I knew her ring as well as she knew it herself, that she must have lost it, and
that I was certain this was the very ring she had showed me so often; but she only got angry,
and flung the ring at me, and told me to mind my own business.  So I picked up the ring off
the floor, and slunk off like a dog with his tail between his legs, and I've brought you back
the ring.  But it's the most mysterious thing to me.  I can't make it out a bit.  I'm as sure
now as I can be sure of anything that it's the same ring I've often handled, and that it belongs
to her. Her own ring is gone from her finger, and that and this are as like as two peas; but,
for some reason or other, she won't have it to be hers, so I must just leave matters as I found
them."

"Thank you for your trouble," said Bradly, "and I'll keep the ring till the real owner turns
up; and meanwhile, my friend, just take my advice, and keep as clear of the inside of the Green
Dragon as you possibly can."

When the railway clerk had left him, Thomas Bradly sat for some minutes in deep thought, and
then sought his sister.  "Dear Jane," he said, "there's just another step we're being guided;
'tain't a very broad one, but I believe it's in the right direction."  He then gave her an
account of what he had just heard from his visitor.

"And what do you make of his story, Thomas?" she asked.  "Do you think that the ring really
belongs to Lydia Philips, and that she knows anything about the bag?"

"Yes, Jane, I do; and I'll tell you why.  I believe that she was the person who dropped the
Bible in at William Foster's window.  Why she did so, of course I can't say.  But I believe
the ring slipped off while she was dropping the book, and now she's afraid to acknowledge the
ring for her own.  You know the Bible and the bracelet were in the same bag; so, as she knew
about the Bible, it seems pretty certain she must have known about the bracelet too.  If she
owns to the ring, of course it's as good as owning as she was the person who dropped the Bible.
She knows quite well, you may be sure, that the ring fell into Foster's room, and that it can
only be Foster or his wife that's produced the ring, and she's afraid of inquiries being set
on foot which may trace the missing bag and bracelet to her.  So she's content to lose her
ring, and persists in saying it ain't hers; because if she owned to it, it would raise suspicions
that she or some of her people was concerned with making away with or hiding away the bag and
bracelet, and that might get the Green Dragon a bad name, and spoil their custom, or even get
her and her family into worse trouble.  That's just my opinion; there's foul play, somewhere,
and she knows something about it.  The bag's in the place, hid away somewhere, and she knows
where, or she knows them as has had to do with getting hold of it, and keeping it for their
own purposes.  So we must watch and be patient.  I feel convinced we're getting nearer and
nearer to the light.  So let us leave it now in the Lord's hands, and be satisfied for him
to guide us step by step, one at a time.  I haven't a doubt we've traced the ring to its right
owner, so we'll put it by for the present, and it can come out and give its evidence when it's
wanted."

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

WILD WORK AT CROSSBOURNE.

It was now the beginning of April; a month had passed since the temperance meeting, and James
Barnes and William Foster were keeping clear of the drink and of their old ungodly companions.
But it was not to be supposed that the enemies were asleep, or willing to acquiesce patiently
in such a desertion from their ranks.  Nevertheless, little stir was made, and open opposition
seemed nearly to have died out.

"How quietly and peaceably matters are going on," said the vicar to Thomas Bradly one morning;
"I suppose the intemperate party feel they can do our cause no real harm, and so are constrained
to let Foster and Barnes alone."

"I'm not so sure about that, sir," was Bradly's reply.  "I'm rather looking out for a breeze,
for things are too quiet to last; there's been a queerish sort of grin on the faces of Foster's
old mates when they've passed me lately, as makes me pretty sure there's something in the wind
as mayn't turn out very pleasant.  But I'm not afraid: we've got the Lord and the right on
our side, and we needn't fear what man can do unto us."

"True, Thomas, we must leave it there; and we may be sure that all will work together for the
furtherance of the good cause in the end."

"I've not a doubt of it, sir; but for all that, I mean to keep a bright look-out.  I'm not
afraid of their trying their games with me; it's Barnes and Foster as they mean to pay off
if they can."

That same evening James Barnes knocked at Bradly's Surgery door, and closed it quickly after
him.  There was a scared look in his eyes; his dress was all disordered; and, worse still,
he brought with him into the room an overpowering odour of spirits.  Poor Thomas's heart died
within him.  Alas! was it really so?  Had the enemy gained so speedy a triumph?

"So, Jim, you've broken, I see," exclaimed Bradly sorrowfully.  "The Lord pardon and help you!"

"Nothing of the sort," cried the other; "I've never touched a drop, Thomas, since I signed,
though a good big drop has touched me."

"What do you mean, Jim?" asked Bradly, greatly relieved at the tone of his voice.  "Are you
sure it's all right?  Come, sit down, and tell me all about it."

"That I will, Thomas; it's what I've come for.  You'll easily believe me when I tell you,"
he continued, after taking a seat, "that they've been at me every road to try and get me back,
badgering, chaffing, threatening, and coaxing: it's strange what pains they'll take as is working
for the devil.  But it wouldn't act.  Well, three or four nights ago, when I got home from
my work, I found two bottles on my table. They was uncorked; one had got rum, and the other
gin in it.  Now, I won't say as my mouth didn't water a bit, and the evil one whispered `Just
take a glass;' but no, I wasn't to be done that way, so I lifts up a prayer for strength, and
just takes the bottles at once out into the road, and empties them straight into the gutter.
There was some looking on as would let the enemy know.  So to-night, as smooth ways wouldn't
act, they've been trying rough 'uns.  Four of my old mates, Ned Taylor among 'em, watches when
my missus went off to the shop, and slips into the kitchen where I was sitting.  They'd brought
a bottle of rum with them, and began to talk friendly fashion, and tried might and main to
get me to drink.  But I gave the same answer--I'd have none of it.  Then one of them slipped
behind my chair, and pinned me down into it, and Ned Taylor tried to force my mouth open, while
another man held the bottle, ready to pour the rum down my throat.  But just then our little
Bob, seeing how roughly they were handling me, bolted out into the street, screaming, `They're
killing daddy!  They're killing daddy!'  So the cowardly chaps, seeing it was time to be off,
took to their heels, all but Ned Taylor.  He'd taken the bottle of rum from the man as held
it, and he took and poured it all down my coat and waistcoat, and said, `If you won't have
it inside, you shall have it out;' and then he burst out into a loud laugh, and went after
the rest of them.  If you examine my clothes, Thomas, you can see as I'm telling the truth.
However, they've just been and cut their own throats, for they've only made me more determined
than ever to stick to my tee-totalism."

"All right, Jim," said the other cheerfully; "they've outwitted themselves.  I've an old coat
and waistcoat as I've nearly done with, but they've got a good bit of wear in them yet.  They'll
just about fit you, I reckon.  You shall go back in them, and keep them and welcome, and we'll
make these as they've spoilt a present to the dunghill.  I only wish all other bad habits,
and more particularly them as comes through rum, brandy, and such like, could be cast away
on to the same place.  You did quite right, Jim, to come straight to me."

"Ay, Thomas, I felt as it were best; for I were in a towering rage at first, and I think I
should have half killed some of 'em, if I could only have got at them."

"Ah, well, Jim, you just let all that alone.  `Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord.'
We'll get our revenge in another way some day; we may heap coals of fire on some of their heads
yet.  But you leave matters now to me.  I shall see Ned Taylor to-morrow myself, and give him
a bit of my mind; and warn him and his mates that if they try anything of the kind on again,
they'll get themselves into trouble."

"Thank you, Thomas, with all my heart, for your kindness: `a friend in need's a friend indeed.'
But there's just another thing as I wants to talk to you about afore I go.  I meant to come
up to-night about it anyhow, even if this do hadn't happened."

"Well, Jim, let's hear it."

"Do you remember Levi Sharples, Thomas?"

"What!  That tall, red-haired chap, with a cast in his left eye, and a mouth as wide and ugly
as an ogre's?"

"Yes, that's the man.  You'll remember, Thomas, he was concerned in that housebreaking job
four years ago, and the police have been after him ever since."

"To be sure, Jim, I remember him fast enough; he's not a man one's likely to forget.  I suppose
a more thorough scoundrel never set foot in Crossbourne.  It was a wonderful thing how he managed
to escape and keep out of prison after that burglary business.  But what about him?"

"Why, Thomas, I seed him in this town the day before yesterday."

"Surely, Jim, you must be mistaken.  He durstn't show his face in Crossbourne for the life of him."

"No, I know that; but he's got himself made up to look like another man,--black hair, great
black whiskers, and a thick black beard, and a foreign sort of cap on his head,--and he's lodging
at the Green Dragon, and pretends as he's an agent for some foreign house to get orders for
rings, and brooches, and watches, and things of that sort."

"But are you certain, Jim, you're not mistaken?"

"Mistaken!  Not I.  I used to know him too well in my drinking days. He'll never disguise that
look of that wicked eye of his from them as knows him well; and though he's got summat in his
mouth to make him talk different, I could tell the twang of his ugly voice anywheres."

"Well, Jim?"

"Ah, but it ain't well, Thomas, I'm sorry to say: there's mischief, you may be sure, when the
like of him's about.  You know he used to be a great man with Will Foster's old set; and, would
you believe it, I saw him yesterday evening, when it was getting dark, standing near Foster's
house talking with him.  They didn't see me, for I was in the shadow; I'd just stooped down
to fasten my boot-lace as they came up together. I'd had a message to take to William's wife,
and was coming out the back way, when I heard footsteps, and I knew Levi in a moment, as the
gas lamp shone on him.  I didn't want to play spy, but I did want to know what that chap was
up to.  So, while their backs was towards me, I crawled behind the water-butt without making
any noise, and I could catch a few words now and then, as they were not far-off from me."

"Well, Jim, and what did you hear?"

"Why, Levi said, `It won't do for me to be seen here, so let us have a meeting in some safe
place.'--`Very well,' says William, and then they spoke so low I could only catch the words,
`Cricketty Hall;' but just as Levi were moving off, he said in a loud whisper, `All right,
then-- Friday night;' and I think he mentioned the hour, but he spoke so low I couldn't clearly
mate out any more.  So I've come to tell you, Thomas Bradly, for there's mischief of some sort
up, I'll be bound."

Bradly did not answer, but for a time a deep shade of anxiety settled on his features.  But
after a while the shadow passed away.  "James," he said earnestly, "I can't believe as there's
anything wrong in this matter in William Foster.  I can't believe the Lord's led him so far,
in the right way, and has now left him to stray into wrong paths.  I've watched him narrowly,
and I'm certain he's as true as steel.  But I think with you as there's mischief brewing. 
Though William has got a clever head, yet he's got a soft heart along with it, and he's not
over wide-awake in some things; and I'll be bound he's no match for a villain like that Levi.
I tell you what it is, Jim: it strikes me now, just as we're speaking, as Levi's being set
on by some of William's old mates to draw him out of the town to a place where they can play
him some trick, or do him some harm, without being hindered or found out.  I can't explain
how, of course, but that's my thought.  Now, if you'll lend me a helping hand, I'm persuaded
as we shall be able, if the Lord will, to turn the tables on these fellows in such a way as'll
effectually tie their hands and stop their tongues for many a long day to come."

"All right, Thomas," cried Barnes, "I'm your man; I think you're on the right scent."

"Very good, Jim; Cricketty Hall, and Friday night, that's where and when the meeting's to be.
It means next Friday no doubt, for Levi Sharples won't stay in this neighbourhood a moment
longer than he can help.  You may depend upon it, when these two meet at the old ruin, Levi'll
have some of their old mates not far-off, and there'll be wild work with poor William when
they've got the opportunity.  But we'll give 'em more company than they'll reckon for.  But
now, Jim, we must be cautious how we act.  Of course I could go and tell William privately
what I think Levi's up to, but I shall not do that; I want to catch that rascal in his own
trap, and get him out of the country for good and all, and give the rest of them such a lesson
as they'll not soon forget.  So it won't do for you or me to be seen going out towards Cricketty
Hall on Friday evening, for they are sure to set spies about, and we should spoil all. I'll
tell you how we'll manage.  I've been wanting a day at Foxleigh for some time, as I've some
business of my own there.  You get leave to meet me there, and I'll pay your fare.  Go by the
eight a.m. train on Friday morning, and I'll take the train that starts at dinner-time.  No
one'll ever suspect us of going to Cricketty Hall that way.  I shall tell the police at Foxleigh
my business, and they'll be glad enough to send some men with us when they know that Levi Sharples
will be there, the man they've been wanting to catch.  We can get round to the woods above
Cricketty Hall from Foxleigh without being seen, when it begins to be dark, and can get down
into the ruins without their noticing us, for they'll never think of any one coming by that
road, such a roundabout way.  And mind, Jim, not a word to any one, not even to your missus.
All you need tell her is, that I've wanted you to meet me about some business at Foxleigh,
and you won't be back till late."

"All right, Thomas," said Barnes; "you may depend on it I shan't say nothing to nobody.  I
shall just tell my missus afore I'm setting off on the Friday morning as I've got a job to
do for you, and she mustn't expect me home till she sees me; and no one'll be surprised at
my turning up at the station, as they all know as I used to be porter there."

Cricketty Hall was one of those decayed family mansions which are to be met with in many parts
of England.  Its original owners had been persons of importance many generations back, but
their name and fame had passed away.  The lands connected with the Hall had become absorbed
into other properties; and the building itself had gradually crumbled down, many a neighbouring
farm-house owing some of its most solid and ornamental portions to the massive ruins from which
they had been borrowed or taken.  Still, enough had been left to show that the place had once
been a mansion of considerable pretensions.  The old gateway, with its portcullis and drawbridge,
was still standing, while the moat which surrounded the entire building indicated that it had
been originally of very capacious dimensions.  The roof and most of the walls had long since
disappeared; trees grew in the centre, and spread out their branches over the space once occupied
by the dormitories, while a profusion of ivy concealed many a curiously carved arch and window.
From the gateway the ground sloped rapidly, affording a fine view of the neighbouring country.
Behind the house was high ground, once thickly wooded, and still partially covered with trees
and underwood.  The Hall was about two miles distant from Crossbourne, and was well-known to
most of its inhabitants, though but seldom visited, except occasionally by picnic parties in
summer-time.  Old tradition pronounced it to be haunted, but though such an idea was ridiculed
now by everybody whenever the superstition was alluded to, yet very few persons would have
liked to venture into the ruins alone after dark; and, indeed, the loneliness of the situation
made it by no means a desirable place for solitary evening musings.

The ordinary way to the Hall was by a footpath leading to it out of the highroad across fields
for a distance of nearly a quarter of a mile.  It could also be approached by a much less frequented
track, which passed along sequestered lanes out of the main road from the town of Foxleigh,
the nearest town to Crossbourne by rail, and brought the traveller to it, after a walk of six
miles from Foxleigh, through the overhanging wooded ground which has been mentioned as rising
up in the rear of the old ruins.

The only exception to the dilapidated state of the premises was a large vaulted cellar or underground
room.  Its existence, however, had been well-nigh forgotten, except by a few who occasionally
visited it, and kept the secret of the entrance to it to themselves.

The Friday on which the appointment between Foster and Levi Sharples was to be kept at Cricketty
Hall, was one of those dismal April days which make you forget that there is any prospect of
a coming summer in the chilly misery of the present.  Cold showers and raw breezes made the
passers through the streets of Crossbourne fold themselves together, and expose as little surface
as was possible to the inclemency of the weather; so that when James Barnes and Thomas Bradly
left the station by the early and mid-day trains, there were but few idlers about to notice
their departure.

At length the mills loosed, and Foster hurried home, and, after a hasty tea, told his wife
that an engagement would take him from home for a few hours, and that she must not be alarmed
if he was a little late.  Then, having put on a stout overcoat, he made his way through the
higher part of the town, and past the vicarage, and was soon in the open country. It was past
seven o'clock when he reached the place where the footpath leading to the old Hall met the
highroad.  It was still raining, though not heavily; but thick, leaden-coloured clouds brooded
over the whole scene, and served to deepen the approaching darkness.  It was certainly an evening
not calculated to raise any one's spirits; and the harsh wind, as it swept over the wide expanse
of the treeless fields, with their stern-looking stone fences, added to the depressing influences
of the hour.  But Foster was a man not easily daunted by such things, and he had stridden on
manfully, fully occupied by his own thoughts, till he reached the stile where the footpath
to the ruins began.  Here he paused, looked carefully in all directions, listened attentively
without hearing sound of traveller or vehicle, and then whistled in a low tone twice.  A tall
figure immediately rose up from the other side of the hedge and joined him.

"Well, Levi," said Foster, "I have kept my appointment; and now what would you have with me?"

