My Dear Mrs. Stanton:--I regard the Bible as I do the other so-called sacred books of the world.
They were all produced in savage times, and, of course, contain many things that shock our
sense of justice. In the days of darkness women were regarded and treated as slaves. They were
allowed no voice in public affairs. Neither man nor woman were civilized, and the gods were
like their worshipers. It gives me pleasure to know that women are beginning to think and are
becoming dissatisfied with the religion of barbarians.

I congratulate you on what you have already accomplished and for the work you are now doing.
Sincerely yours,

Eva A. Ingersoll.

In reading some of these letters and comments I have been deeply impressed with the difficulty
of substituting reason for superstition in minds once perverted by a false faith. Women have
been taught by their religious guardians that the Bible, unlike all other books, was written
under the special inspiration of the Great Ruling Intelligence of the Universe. Not conversant
with works on science and higher criticism, which point out its fabulous pretensions, they
cling to it with an unreasoning tenacity, like a savage to his fetich. Though it is full of
contradictions, absurdities and impossibilities, and bears the strongest evidence in every
line of its human origin, and in moral sentiment is below many of the best books of our own
day, they blindly worship it as the Word of God.

When you point out what in plain English it tells us God did say to his people in regard to
woman, and there is no escape from its degrading teaching as to her position, then they shelter
themselves under false translations, interpretations and symbolic meanings. It does not occur
to them that men learned in the languages have revised the book many times, but made no change
in woman's position. Though familiar with "the designs of God," trained in Biblical research
and higher criticism, interpreters of signs and symbols and Egyptian hieroglyphics, learned
astronomers and astrologers, yet they cannot twist out of the Old or New Testaments a message
of justice, liberty or equality from God to the women of the nineteenth century!

The real difficulty in woman's case is that the whole foundation of the Christian religion
rests on her temptation and man's fall, hence the necessity of a Redeemer and a plan of salvation.
As the chief cause of this dire calamity, woman's degradation and subordination were made a
necessity. If, however, we accept the Darwinian theory, that the race has been a gradual growth
from the lower to a higher form of life, and that the story of the fall is a myth, we can exonerate
the snake, emancipate the woman, and reconstruct a more rational religion for the nineteenth
century, and thus escape all the perplexities of the Jewish mythology as of no more importance
than those of the Greek, Persian and Egyptian.

Elizabeth Cady Stanton.

"THE WOMAN'S BIBLE" REPUDIATED.

At the twenty-eighth annual convention of the National-American Woman Suffrage Association,
held in Washington, D. C., in January, 1896, the following, was reported by the Committee on
Resolutions:

"That this Association is non-sectarian, being composed of persons of all shades of religious
opinion, and that it has no official connection with the so-called 'Woman's Bible,' or any
theological publication."

Charlotte Perkins Stetson moved to amend by striking out everything after the word "opinion."

Anna R. Simmons moved, as an amendment to the amendment, to omit the words "the so-called Woman's
Bible, or."

This was followed by a long and animated discussion, in which the following persons participated:

Frances A. Williamson, Helen Morris Lewis, Annie L. Diggs, Carrie Chapman Catt, Rachel Foster
Avery, Henry B. Blackwell, Laura M. Johns, Elizabeth U. Yates, Katie R. Addison, Alice Stone
Blackwell and Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, speaking for the resolution; and Charlotte Perkins Stetson,
Mary Bentley Thomas, J. B. Merwin, Clara B. Colby, Harriette A. Keyser, Lavina A. Hatch, Lillie
Devereux Blake, Caroline Hallowell Miller, Victoria Conkling Whitney, Althea B. Stryker, and
Cornelia H. Cary speaking against it. The religious persecution of the ages has been done under
what was claimed to be the command of God. Twenty-five years ago a prominent woman, who stood
on our platform for the first time, wanted us to pass a resolution that we were not free lovers;
and I was not more shocked than I am to-day at this attempt. The question is whether you will
sit in judgment on one who has questioned the Divine inspiration of certain passages in the
Bible derogatory to women. It is the reviving of the old time censorship, which I hoped we
had outgrown.

"Are you going to cater to the whims and prejudices of people who have no intelligent knowledge
of what they condemn?

The Resolution was then adopted by a vote of 53 to 41.

"The Truth shall make you free."--John viii., 32-

THE END.

Advertisements from original, Vol. 2

"Of all Magazines the most American in interest."

The National Magazine.

A MONTHLY ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE OF THE BEST READING FOR THE HOME. BRIGHT, TIMELY AND ORIGINAL.

FOR SALE BY ALL NEWSDEALERS AND IN THE TRAINS. PRICE 10 CENTS.

"It is only $1.00 per annum, and is equal to some that charge thrice that price."--NEW ERA, Pa.

It is the aim of THE NATIONAL to differentiate itself from other monthlies by devoting its
pages FIRST, to subjects that are of distinctly American nature and of current American interest,
and second, to whatever foreign topics are deserving of occasional attention. Each number contains
five or six profusely illustrated articles, several of the most readable short stories published,
and the regular club women and literary departments.

THE NATIONAL began in November, 1896, the publication of what is proving itself to be "THE
MOST REMARKABLE MAGAZINE SERIAL OF THE YEAR," entitled:

CHRIST AND HIS TIME.

BY DALLAS LORE SHARP. AN INTENSELY INTERESTING HISTORY OF THE WORLD'S

GREATEST PERSONALITY.

Written for the Average Magazine Reader. TO BE ILLUSTRATED FROM THE

FAMOUS PAINTINGS OF THE WORLD.

THIS serial, which began In November, of 1896, will be completed In the March, 1896, Issue.
Persons wishing the entire serial can secure It by sending $1.00 to publishers.

Each number as it appears keeps notably abreast of the best that is in American life, making
the magazine one of the most readable of the ten cent publications.

CLUB WOMEN AND THEIR WORK.

THE NATIONAL publishes monthly an intensely interesting department under the above title. Short
articles appear on live subjects by prominent club women throughout the country. Mrs. Ellen
M. Henrotin has articles in the October and January issues. In November, Alice Ives Breed is
a contributor. The work of the different clubs receives full attention.

NATIONAL QUESTION CLASS.

This is a new department just established. Fifteen questions in art, literature and current
topics are given each month, and FOUR PRIZES are awarded for the four best sets of answers.
Every subscriber to THE NATIONAL becomes a member of this class by merely writing for a certificate
of entry.

The search for the answers to these fifteen questions monthly is not only a pleasure but an
education. Mothers should have their children try these contests.

Your newsdealer will sell you THE NATIONAL or take your subscription.

The W. W. Potter Co.,

Arthur W. Tarbell, Editor.

91 Bedford Street, Boston, Mass.

JOE. M. CHAPPLE, Publisher.

A MONTHLY MAGAZINE

Subscription $2.50 a Year. 25 Cents a Copy.

THE ARENA

Edited by

John Clark Ridpath, LL.D.

