(2) Not more than two meals shall be eaten by any person, of whatever size, age or sex, in
a day of twenty-four hours.

(3) No meal shall last more than ten minutes.

(4) The mastication of every mouthful shall last not less than thirty seconds.

(5) A mouthful for the purpose of this Order shall not consist of more food than can be conveyed
to the mouth in an ordinary teaspoon.

I venture to think that this order, if issued at once and drastically applied, will meet every
difficulty, and that we shall hear no more of a shortage.

       *       *       *       *       *

II.--From Joshua Stodmarsh.

DEAR OLD SPORT,--It won't do--really it won't. I've been doing my best to give your plan of
food rations a fair run, and every week I've found myself on the wrong side of the fence. I
have never considered myself a large or reckless eater, though I own to having had a liking
for a good breakfast (fish, kidneys and eggs, with muffin or buttered toast and marmalade)
as a start for the day. Then came luncheon--steak or chop or Irish stew, with a roly-poly pudding
to follow, and a top-up of bread-and-butter and cheese. Tea, of course, at five o'clock, with
more buttered toast, and then home to a good solid dinner of soup, fish and entrée and joint
and some sort of sweet. This just left room for an occasional supper--say three times a week.
It doesn't sound out of the way, now does it? And you must remember that I'm not one of your
thin, dwarfish, anæmic blokes that you could feed out of a packet of bird-seed. No, I stand
six foot, and I don't weigh an ounce under seventeen stone. Dear old boy, you can't have the
heart to ask me to do it.

       *       *       *       *       *

III.--From Miss Lavinia Fluttermere.

DEAR LORD DEVONPORT,--I am writing on behalf of my sister Penelope as well as on my own to
bring before you a difficulty under which we are labouring in connection with your Lordship's
order in regard to the consumption of food. We are two sisters, the daughters of a country
clergyman, who died when I was eighteen and Penelope a year and a half younger. I tell you
this to show you that we were not accustomed in our youth to luxurious living. For many years
now Penelope and I have lived together in a very small way on the income of an annuity for
our joint lives which was bought with a sum of money left to us by an uncle. On this we have
managed to get along comfortably, and have even been able to pay for occasional help in the
work of our very modest household. When your Lordship's food order was issued we determined
to obey it strictly, being glad of an opportunity to show our patriotic devotion to the cause
of our country. "It will be hard for us, Penelope," I said, "for we are not used to such quantities
of meat, and even the allowance of bread is too great, I fear, for our poor appetites; but,
since Lord DEVONPORT wishes it, all we can do is to obey, even though this may entail a change
in our manner of living and an increase in our weekly expenses." Penelope agreed, and on this
principle we have endeavoured to act. We have, however, now found the task to be beyond our
capacity, though we have struggled loyally to fulfil the duty imposed upon us; and we write
to ask your Lordship to grant us some dispensation, lest permanent plethora should ensue.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN A GOOD CAUSE.

Mr. Punch desires to support very heartily Lord BERESFORD'S appeal on behalf of the fine work
of the Ladies' Emergency Committee of the Navy League, who supply warm clothing to the crews
of men-of-war and mercantile auxiliaries; equipment to Naval hospitals, and parcels of food
and other necessaries to Naval prisoners of war. The strain upon the Committee's resources
has been very heavy, and Mr. Punch is confident that his friends will not allow our gallant
sea-services to suffer through any need which it is within their power to supply.

Cheques may be made payable to Admiral Lord BERESFORD, and addressed to the Hon. Secretary,
Ladies' Emergency Committee of the Navy League, 56, Queen Anne Street, Cavendish Street, W.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "£1 REWARD.--Lost, Umbrella, engraved W.C.B. 1865-1915."--The Times.

We do not believe that such a faithful friend is lost; it has simply gone out to celebrate
its jubilee.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "FOOD IN FRANCE.

    A friend who was in France last week tells me that the only cheap
    article of diet just now is eggs, which are about 1-1/2d. each. Meat,
    he said, averages 5f. a kilo, which is about the equivalent of 5s. a
    pound."--Daily Mirror.

No wonder we are not allowed to have the metric system. Her last captain, who had some mad
savage hatred of ship and crew, died aboard her and was buried in latitude 8° 20'. The chief-mate,
who got the vessel back to port and remained under her new captain, is convinced that the dead
man haunts her vengefully; and one desperate accident after another, racking a crew overwhelmed
with fever, almost persuades the captain to share the mate's illusion that 8° 20'--The Shadow
Line (DENT)--is possessed by the dead scoundrel. I found the book less interesting as a yarn
than as an example of the astonishingly conscious and perfect artistry of this really great
master of the ways of men and words. Mr. CONRAD never made me believe that the new captain
would go so near sharing his mate's superstitious panic (which is perhaps because I know little
of sailor-men save what he has taught me); and in the incident, so curiously and deliberately
detailed, of his finding the quinine bottles filled with a worthless substitute, and letting
them "each in turn" slip to ground, I had again the most unusual shock of being unable to accept
the credibility of his invention. This is so rare an experience that it only throws into relief
for me the fine craft of this most brilliant of our impressionists, who tells so much with
such delicate strokes, so conscientiously considered, so unerringly conveyed.

       *       *       *       *       *

This is the End (MACMILLAN) is the kind of book that only youth can write--youth at its best.
It has the qualities and defects of its parentage; but the qualities, a fine careless rapture,
sensitive vision, a wayward and jolly fantasy, challenging provocativeness, faintly malicious
humour, are dominant. Miss STELLA BENSON will grow out of her youthful cynicisms and intolerances,
will focus her effects, without losing any of her substantial equipment. This is by no means
the end. It is the second step of a very brilliant beginning. Already it shows improvement
upon her first clever book, I Pose; a surer touch, a finer restraint. What is it all about?
Does that matter? It is the manner of the telling rather than what is told that constitutes
the charm. If I tell, you that Jay runs away from a respectable home, and, after a grievous
experiment as a bolster-filler, becomes a bus-conductor, has a romantic friendship with a middle-aged
married man, and marries the faithful Mr. Morgan, her dead brother's soldier friend, I have
told you just nothing at all. I will merely add that you will be foolish if you miss this book.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have to begin by confessing that, despite its most attractive title, my first glance into
French Windows (ARNOLD) produced in me some feeling of prejudice. It was not that I failed
to recognise both dignity and beauty of phrase in the writing; on the contrary, I told myself
that "Mr. JOHN AYSCOUGH" had been betrayed by his own appreciation of beautiful phrases into
an indulgence in "style," a deliberate arrangement of his war-pictures that was somehow out
of harmony with the stark and horrible simplicity of their subject. But I hasten to make confession
that this was but a passing and, I am convinced, a wrong judgment. Indeed, the abiding impression
that the book has left upon me is one of enormous sincerity. Both as a soldier and a priest,
the writer enjoyed (as his publishers quite justly say) special opportunities for getting into
touch with men of all sorts and conditions. This, aided by his own gift of sympathy and comradeship,
has resulted in a book that is very largely a record of fleeting but genuine friendships, made
with individual soldiers, both French and English, in the Western battle. Many of them contain
portraits and character-studies (a pedantic term for anything so sensitive and sympathetic
as these tributes to nameless heroes, but I can find no better) that linger in the memory.
I defy you, for example, to forget soon the story of that winter walk taken by the writer and
certain officer-boys of his unit to the Cistercian Monastery, and what Chutney said by the
way; and what happened afterwards. For the sake of such sincere and memorable sketches as this
I am more than ready to forgive what seemed like a touch of artifice elsewhere.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. GEORGE MOORE, continuing his labours as reviser and editor-in-chief of the Moorish masterpieces,
has now directed his attention to A Modern Lover. Finding this (presumably) not modern enough,
he has refashioned and republished it under the admirably comprehensive title of Lewis Seymour
and Some Women (HEINEMANN). Not having the original at hand, I am unable to indulge in comparisons;
but there seems good reason to suppose that Lewis Seymour's relations with the three amiable
ladies who assist his artistic and amatory career remain very much what they probably were
in the beginning. As for the tale itself, that too will hardly belie your expectation, being
full of cleverness, carried off with an infectious gaiety, and boasting (I use the word advisedly)
more than a sufficiency of that rather assertive and school-boy impropriety which the charitable
might quote as evidence of our author's perpetual youth. It is an interesting, though perhaps
futile, speculation to reflect how Mr. THOMAS HARDY, to whose plots the present bears some
resemblance, might have handled it. Had Lewis Seymour pursued his education in womanhood under
the guidance of the wizard of Dorchester there would probably have been less of the atmosphere
of holiday humour; but, on the other hand, we should almost certainly have been spared the
quite superfluous naughtiness of the Parisian scenes. By the way, talking of Paris, surely
I am right in supposing that the vision of a revived Versailles was an experience of two ladies?
It is unexpected to find Mr. MOORE denying anything to "the sex."

       *       *       *       *       *

