And, after all, the common abuse of you is absurd. I have heard grave and industrious persons
declare emphatically that any one who allows himself to fall under your sway debars himself
utterly from every chance of success. Fiddlesticks! I snap my fingers at such folly. What do
these gentlemen say to the case of FIGTREE, the great Q.C.? Everybody knows that FIGTREE is,
without exception, the most indolent man in the world. Let any doubter walk down Middle Temple
Lane and ask the first young barrister he meets what he thinks of FIGTREE. I am ready to wager
my annual income that the reply will be, "What, Old FIGTREE! Why, he's the laziest man at the
Bar. I thought everybody knew that." I may be told, of course, that FIGTREE appears in all
the big cases--that his management of them is extraordinarily successful; that the Judges defer
to him; that his speech in the Camberwell poisoning case lasted a day and a half, and is acknowledged
to be a masterpiece of forensic eloquence, fit to rank with the best efforts of ERSKINE; that
his fees always exceed ten thousand pounds a year and that his book on Fines and Recoveries
is a monument of industry. All this I shall hear from some member of the outside public, who
does not know his FIGTREE. But the fact remains. FIGTREE is the most indolent being alive.
I doubt if he can be induced to read a brief before he goes into Court. Many are the tales
told by those who have been his juniors of the marvellous skill and address with which FIGTREE
has time after time extricated himself from awkward situations into which he had been led by
his ignorance of the details of the case in which he happened to be engaged. In the sensational
libel case of Bagwell v. Muter, FIGTREE, as you must remember, appeared for the defendant.
When the plaintiff's Junior Counsel had opened the pleadings, FIGTREE actually got up, and,
had not his own Junior pulled him down, he would then and there have opened the case for the
plaintiff. Yet FIGTREE's cross-examination of that same plaintiff, travelling as it did over
a long period of time, and dealing with a most complicated story, in which dates were of the
first importance, is still cited by those who heard it as the most remarkable display of its
kind which the English Courts have afforded for years past. Whether the unfortunate BAGWELL,
whom it showed conclusively to be a swindler and an impostor, has an equal admiration for it,
I know not, nor is he, I fancy, likely to tell us, even when he returns from the prison which
is now the scene of his labours. How FIGTREE, who at the outset did not even know on which
side he appeared, managed in the time at his command to master this intricate case, must ever
remain a mystery. HARRY ADDLESTONE, his Junior, is accustomed to talk darkly of a marvellous
chronological analysis of the case which he had prepared for his leader, and evidently wishes
me to believe that he, rather than FIGTREE, is to be credited with the success achieved. But
the Solicitors have not yet withdrawn their confidence from FIGTREE to transfer it to ADDLESTONE.

Here, then, is an instance of a perfectly indolent man rising higher and higher every year
on the ladder of professional advancement. I can only attribute it, my dear LAZINESS, to your
beneficent influence, which preserves the great barrister from the weary labours to which his
rivals daily submit. They say of him that he knows nothing of law. If I grant that, it merely
proves that a knowledge of law is not required for success in the profession of the law. The
deduction is dangerous, but obvious, and I recommend it warmly to all who are about to be called
to the Bar.

I don't think I have anything more to say to you to-day; indeed, I know that you would be the
last to desire that the writing of this letter should he in any way irksome to me. Besides,
it is five o'clock P.M. My arm-chair invites me. I feel tired, and, that being so, I am convinced
it would he an act of pedantic folly to deny myself the sweet refreshment of half-an-hour's
sleep. Farewell, kindly one. I shall always rejoice to honour you, and celebrate your praise.

Yours, with all goodwill, DIOGENES ROBINSON.

P.S.--I reopen this letter to say that I have just read in an evening paper a terrible account
of the total destruction by a tornado of the town in Canada which was poor TOM's place of exile.
"The loss of life," it is added, "has been great, and several Englishmen are amongst the victims."
No names are given. Good gracious! If TOM has indeed perished, how am I ever to forgive myself
for neglecting him? What must he have thought of me? I curse myself in vain for my--bah! What
is the use of telling you this? The same paper informs me, in the elegant language appropriate
to these occasions, that "Mr. FIGTREE, Q.C., has been offered, and has accepted, the vacant
Lord-Justiceship of Appeal."

       *       *       *       *       *

AN OPPORTUNITY.--A Lyme Regis Correspondent sends us the following advertisement, found, he
says, in the Bridport News; we omit dates and names:--

    ---- will SELL by AUCTION, Three Fine DAIRY COWS to calve
    respectfully in Dec., April, and May next. An excellent
    double-feeding chaff-cutter, &c.

A respectful cow will no doubt fulfil her engagements honorably. "A double-feeding chaff-cutter"
ought to be an acquisition to a fast set on a coach at the Derby, though of course his "double-feeding"
powers would have to be amply provided for at luncheon time.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The nearest thing to 'setting the Thames on fire,'" said a quiet traveller by the Underground,
"is the announcement which you will now see at the St. James's Park Station:--'A LIGHT HERE
FOR NIAGARA.'" "Why," exclaimed an irate passenger to the timid suggestion of the above, "of
course it doesn't mean that." Then he added, contemptuously, "Get out!" Which he did.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RUSTICUS EXPECTANS;

OR, THE NEW DUMBLEDUMDEARY.

HORACE.

AIR--"DUMBLEDUMDEARY."

  In the fall of the year, when M.P.'s were about,
  And speeches burst forth like a waterspout,
  HODGE took up his bundle, and caught up his staff,
  And went for a walk--if you please, don't laugh!--
      Singing dumbledumdeary, dumbledumdeary,
      Dumble, dumble, dumbledumdee!

  Oh, HODGE had put on his bettermost smock,
  And wore his billycock gaily a-cock;
  For HODGE nowadays is a person of note,
  And great Governments bow to the "hind,"--with a vote.
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  So he strolled on wi'out dread or fear
  Of Squoire or Parson, or County Peer,
  For the spouting M.P. and the Liberal Van
  Had made of the shock-headed joskin a Man!
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  With promises stuffed, and with hope inspired,
  HODGE walked, and walked till he felt quite tired;
  So he sat himself down on the bank of a stream,
  And, falling asleep, dreamed a wonderful dream.
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  The old, old stream was no longer the brook
  Where he'd angled for minnows with worm and hook;
  It swelled and swirled, and its rippling voice
  Was changed to loud echoes of platform noise.
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  And it seemed to address him, "How long, friend HODGE,
  In a smock you will slave, in a pig-stye lodge?
  The Town revolts, but the landlord crew
  Still rule the rustics. What can you do?"
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  "Oh, I can reap, and I can sow;
  And I can plough, and I can mow;
  And, as Lord RIPON doth treuly say,
  I can yarn my eighteen-pence a day!"
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  "Oh, that," cried the Voices, "will never do!
  HODGE now must have freedom, and comfort too,
  And Village Councils, Allotments, and Larks!
  Though the Landlords take fright for their Manors and Parks,"
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  "No more must he live like a pig in a stye,
  Or we (Tory Codlir, Rad Short) will know why.
  And if you'll consent just to vote for us now,
  We'll put a new tune to your old 'Speed the Plough!'"
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  Then HODGE, slightly puzzled, beheld (in his dream)
  A legion of faces that flowed with the stream.
  "There's two WILLIAMS, and JOEY, and JESSE!" he cried,
  "SOLLY, BALFY, and JOKIM talk, too, from the tide,--"
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  "They're making a vast sight o' noise, and I fear,
  Whilst they all shout together, their meaning's scarce clear.
  They all drift one way, though, out yonder I'll sit!
  And wait till the shindying slackens a bit."
      Singing dumbledumdeary, &c.

  So HODGE, like old HORACE's Rustic, still waits
  Till the waters flow by, or their turmoil abates;
  And then hopes to reach "Happy Home" o'er that stream.
  Let us hope that he mayn't find it only a dream!
      Singing dumbledumdeary, dumbledumdeary,
      Dumble, dumble, dumbledumdee!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"DICK" POWER.

When the House of Commons meets in February, it will find many vacant places. Save, perhaps,
on that sacred to the memory of OLD MORALITY, none will draw towards it such sorrowful glances
as the bench below the Gangway, where, last Session, DICK POWER's smiling face was found. Everyone
in the House knew "DICK," and all liked him--a modest-mannered, merry-hearted man, whom a strange
destiny had not only dragged into political life, but, as Whip of the Parnellite Party, had
made him the official representative of a body for the most part socially unknown, and disliked
with a fervour happily not often imported into Parliamentary warfare. DICK POWER, whilst never
swerving by a hair's breadth from loyalty to his colleagues and his leader, so bore himself
that he was welcome in any Parliamentary circle, from "GOSSET's Room" to the floor of the House,
which he sometimes "took" to deliver a witty speech in support of a Motion for adjourning over
the Derby. He was only in his fortieth year, married scarce a fortnight, when comes the blind
Fury with the abhorrëd shears and slits the thin-spun thread. "LYCIDAS is dead!"; but he will
long be remembered as shedding through seventeen years a genial light on Irish politics, too
often obscured by aggressive vulgarity, and the sacrifice of patriotic interests to the ends
of personal vanity.

       *       *       *       *       *

ONLY FANCY!

We are in a position to state that overtures were recently made to a well-known and popular
member of the aristocracy in connection with a certain high office lately vacated. It is felt
that a gentleman with the varied experience and capacity indicated by the circumstance (to
which we may allude as not involving breach of confidence), that his name was successively
mentioned in connection with the offices, recently vacant, of Postmaster-General, Undersecretary
of State for Foreign Affairs, and Leader of the House of Commons, is peculiarly well qualified
for the post.

       *       *       *       *       *

The PRIME MINISTER has, we learn, been much gratified by the receipt of a letter volunteered
by one of his colleagues, expressing generous satisfaction at his selection of Mr. ARTHUR BALFOUR
to the Leadership of the House of Commons. It was the more pleasing as the name of Lord SALISBURY's
correspondent had, in Conservative circles, been prominently mentioned in connection with the
office. "It is true," the Abounding Baron wrote, "that the public with unerring instinct has
looked in another direction. I should therefore like to be the first to say that your Lordship
has done well in recognising the services to the Unionist cause performed by Mr. BALFOUR. Of
course there may be other openings, and in case your Lordship has occasion to communicate with
me, it may be convenient to mention that, having come to town this morning and transacted business
at my office in Bouverie Street, I am about to return to my country residence at Stow-in-the-Wold."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is announced that Lord SALISBURY's new house at Beaulieu is to be let furnished for the
winter months, the PREMIER not intending to return till the Spring. We understand that one
of Mr. GLADSTONE's friends and admirers is in treaty for the residence, intending to place
it for a few weeks at the disposal of the Leader of the Opposition. We have not yet heard how
far this happily-conceived scheme has progressed.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.

NO. XVIII.

    SCENE--The roof of Milan Cathedral; the innumerable statues
    and fretted pinnacles show in dazzling relief against the
    intense blue sky. Through the open-work of the parapet is seen
    the vast Piazza, with its yellow toy tram-cars, and the small
    crawling figures which cast inordinately long shadows. All
    around is a maze of pale brown roofs, and beyond, the green
    plain blending on the horizon with dove-coloured clouds in
    a quivering violet haze. CULCHARD is sitting by a small
    doorway at the foot of a flight of steps leading to the
    Spire.

Culchard (meditating). I think MAUD must have seen from the tone in which I said I preferred
to remain below, that I object to that cousin of hers perpetually coming about with us as he
does. She's far too indulgent to him--a posing, affected prig, always talking about the wonderful
things he's going to write! He had the impudence to tell me I didn't know the most elementary
laws of the sonnet this morning! Withering repartee seems to have no effect whatever on him,
I wish I had some of PODBURY's faculty for flippant chaff! I wonder if he and the PRENDERGASTS
really are at Milan. I certainly thought I recognised ----. If they are, it's very bad taste
of them, after the pointed way in which they left Bellagio. I only hope we shan't--

    [Here the figure of Miss PRENDERGAST suddenly emerges from
    the door; CULCHARD rises and stands aside to let her pass;
    she returns his salutation distantly, and passes on with her
    chin in the air; her brother follows, with a side-jerk of
    recognition. PODBURY comes last, and halts undecidedly.

Podb. (with a rather awkward laugh). Here we are again, eh? (Looks after Miss P., hesitates,
and finally sits down by CULCHARD.) Where's the fascinating Miss TROTTER? How do you come to
be off duty like this?

Culch. (stiffly). The fascinating Miss TROTTER is up above with VAN BOODELER, so my services
are not required.

Podb. Up above? And HYPATIA just gone up with BOB! Whew, there'll be ructions presently! Well
out of it, you and I! So it's BOODELER's turn now? That's rough on you--after HYPATIA had whistled
poor old BOB off. As much out in the cold as ever, eh?

Culch. I am nothing of the kind. I find him distasteful to me, and avoid him as much as I can,
that's all. I wish, PODBURY, er--I almost wish you could have stayed with me, instead of allowing
the PRENDERGASTS to carry you off as you did. You would have kept VAN BOODELER in order.

Podb. Much obliged, old chap; but I'm otherwise engaged. Being kept in order myself. Oh, I
like it, you know. She's developing my mind like winking. Spent the whole morning at the Brera,
mugging up these old Italian Johnnies. They really are clinkers, you know. RAPHAEL, eh?--and
GIOTTO, and MANTEGNA, and all that lot. As HYPATIA says, for intensity of--er religious feeling,
and--and subtlety of symbolism, and--and so on, they simply take the cake--romp in, and the
rest nowhere! I'm getting quite the connoisseur, I can tell you!

Culch. Evidently. I suppose there's no chance of a--a reconciliation up there? [With some alarm.

Podb. Don't you be afraid. When HYPATIA once gets her quills up, they don't subside so easily!
Hallo! isn't this old TROTTER?

    [That gentleman appears in the doorway.

Mr. T. Why, Mr. PODBURY, so you've come along here? That's right! And how do you like Milan?
I like the place first-rate--it's a live city, Sir. And I like this old cathedral, too; it's
well constructed--they've laid out money on it. I call it real ornamental, all these little
figgers they've stuck around--and not two of 'em a pair either. Now, they might have had 'em
all alike, and no one any the wiser up so high as this; but it certainly gives it more variety,
too, having them different. Well, I'm going up as high as ever I can go. You two better come
along up with me.

ON THE TOP.

Miss P. (as she perceives Miss T. and her companion). Now, BOB, pray remember all I've told
you! [BOB turns away, petulantly.

Miss T. (aside, to VAN B.). I guess the air's got cooler up here, CHARLEY. But if that girl
imagines she's going to freeze me! (Advancing to Miss P.) Why, my dear, it's almost too sweet
for anything, meeting you again!

Miss P. You're extremely kind, MAUD; I wish I could return the compliment; but really, after
what took place at Bellagio, I--

Miss T. (taking her arm). Well, I'll own up to being pretty horrid--and so were you; but there
don't seem any sense in our meeting up here like a couple of strange cats on tiles. I won't
fly out anymore, there! I'm just dying for a reconciliation; and so is Mr. VAN BOODELER. The
trouble I've had to console that man! He never met anybody before haff so interested in the
great Amurrcan Novel. And he's wearying for another talk. So you'd better give that hatchet
a handsome funeral, and come along and take pity on him.

    [HYP., after a struggle, yields, half-reluctantly, and allows
    herself to be taken across to Mr. VAN B., who greets her
    effusively. Miss T. leaves them together.

Bob P. (who has been prudently keeping in the background till now, decides that his chance
has come). How do you do. Miss TROTTER? It's awfully jolly to meet you again like this!

Miss. T. Well, I guess that remark would have been more convincing if you'd made it a few minutes
earlier.

Bob. I--I--you see, I didn't know.... I was afraid--I rather thought--

Miss T. You don't get much further with rather thinking, as a general rule, than if you didn't
think at all. But if you're at all anxious to run away the way you did at Bellagio, you needn't
be afraid I'll hinder you.

Bob. (earnestly). Run away! Do you think I'd have gone if--I've felt dull enough ever since,
without that.'

Miss T. Oh, I expect you've had a beautiful time. We have.

Miss P. (coming up). ROBERT, I thought you wanted to see the Alps? You should come over to
the other side, and--

Miss T. I'll undertake that he sees the Alps, darling, presently--when we're through our talk.

Miss P. As you please, dear. But (pointedly) did I not see Mr. CULCHARD below?

Miss T. You don't mean to say you're wearied of Mr. VAN BOODELER already! Well, Mr. CULCHARD
will be along soon, and I'll loan him to you. I'll tell him you're vurry anxious to converse
with him some more. He's just coming along now, with Mr. PODBURY and Poppa.

Miss P. (under her breath). MAUD! if you dare--!

Miss T. Don't you dare me, then--or you'll see. But I don't want to be mean unless I'm obliged to.

    [Mr. TROTTER, followed by CULCHARD and PODBURY, arrives
    at the upper platform. CULCHARD and PODBURY efface
    themselves as much as possible. Mr. TROTTER greets Miss
    PRENDERGAST heartily.

