"No," he replied, more quietly. "I think for God. If I was wrong, may He forgive me!"

"I never will!" she protested.

"I shall not ask for your forgiveness," he retorted. He looked at her silently, and then, in
an altered tone, "The more," he said, "as my mind is changed again. Ay, thank God, changed
again. A minute ago I was weak; now I am strong, and I will do my duty as I have set myself
to do it. When I came here I came to be a peacemaker, I came to save the great from his folly
and the poor from his ignorance, to shield the house of my fathers from ruin and my kin from
the gaol and the gibbet. And I stand here still, and I shall persist--I shall persist."

"You will?" she exclaimed.

"I shall! I shall remain and persist."

Passion choked her. She could not find words. After all she had said he would persist. He was
not to be moved--he would persist. He would still trample upon them, still be master. The house
was no longer theirs, nor was anything theirs. They were to have no life, no will, no freedom--while
he lived. Ah, while he lived. She made an odd gesture with her hands, and turned and went up
the stairs, leaving him master of the field. The worse for him! The worse, the worse, the worse
for him!

CHAPTER XVIII

A COUNTERPLOT

Luke Asgill rode slowly from the gates, not without a backward glance that raked the house.
The McMurrough walked by his stirrup, talking rapidly--he, too, with furtive backward glances.
In five minutes he had explained the situation and the Colonel's vantage ground. At the end
of those minutes, and when they were at some distance from the house, "I see," Asgill said
thoughtfully. "Easy to put him under the sod! But you're thinking him worse dead than alive."

"Sorra a doubt of it!"

"Yet the bogs are deep," Asgill returned, his tone smacking faintly of raillery. "You might
deal with him first, and his heir when the time came. Why not?"

"God knows!" James answered. "And I've no taste to make the trial." He did not name the oath
he had taken to attempt nothing against Colonel John, nor to be a party to any attempt. He
had slurred over that episode. He had dwelt in preference on the fact of the will and the dilemma
in which it placed him.

Asgill looked for some moments between his horse's ears, flicking his foot the while with his
switch. When he spoke he proved in three or four sentences that if his will was the stronger,
his cunning was also the more subtle. "A will is revocable," he said. "Eh?"

"It is."

"And the man that's made one may make another?"

"Who's doubting it?"

"But you're doubting," Asgill rejoined--and he laughed as he spoke--"that it would not be in
your favour, my lad."

"Devil a bit do I doubt it!" James said.

"No, but in a minute you will," Asgill answered. And stooping from his saddle--after he had
assured himself that his groom was out of earshot--he talked for some minutes in a low tone.
When he raised his head again he clapped The McMurrough on the shoulder. "There!" he said,
"now won't that be doing the trick for you?"

"It's clever," James answered, with a cruel gleam in his eyes. "It is d--d clever! The old
devil himself couldn't be beating it by the length of his hoof! But----"

"What's amiss with it?"

"A will's revocable," James said, with a cunning look. "And what he can do once he can do twice."

"Sorrow a doubt of that, too, if you're innocent enough to let him make one! But you're not,
my lad. No; the will first, and then----" Luke Asgill did not finish the sentence, but he grinned.
"Anything else amiss with it?" he asked.

"No. But the devil a bit do I see why you bring Flavvy into it?"

"Don't you?"

"I do not."

Asgill drew rein, and by a gesture bade his groom ride on. "No?" he said. "Well, I'll be telling
you. He's an obstinate dog; faith, and I'll be saying it, as obstinate a dog as ever walked
on two legs! And left to himself, he'd, maybe, take more time and trouble to come to where
we want him than we can spare. But, I'm thinking, James McMurrough, that he's sweet on your
sister!"

The McMurrough stared. The notion had never crossed his mind. "It's jesting you are?" he said.

"It's the last thing I'd jest about," Asgill answered sombrely. "It is so; whether she knows
it or not, I know it! And so d'you see, my lad, if she's in this, 'twill do more--take my word
for it that know--to break him down and draw the heart out of him, so that he'll care little
one way or the other, than anything you can do yourself!"

James McMurrough's face, turned upwards to the rider, reflected his admiration. "If you're
in the right," he said, "I'll say it for you, Asgill, you're the match of the old one for cleverness.
But do you think she'll come to it, the jewel?"

"She will."

James shook his head. "I'm not thinking it," he said.

"Are you not?" Asgill answered, and his face fell and his voice was anxious. "And why?"

"Sure and why? I'll tell you. It was but a day or two ago I'd a plan of my own. It was just
to swear the plot upon him; swear he'd come off the Spanish ship, and the rest, d' you see,
and get him clapped in Tralee gaol in my place. More by token, I was coming to you to help
in it. But I thought I'd need the girl to swear to it, and when I up and told her she was like
a hen you'd take the chickens from!"

Asgill was silent for a moment. Then, "You asked her to do that?" he said, in an odd tone.

"Just so."

"And you're wondering she didn't do it?"

"I am."

"And I'm thanking God she'd not be doing it!" Asgill retorted.

"Oh!" James exclaimed. "You're mighty particular all in a minute, Mr. Asgill. But if not that,
why this. Eh? Why this?"

"For a reason you'd not be understanding," Asgill answered coolly. "But I know it myself in
my bones. She'll do this if she's handled. But there's a man that'll not be doing it at all,
at all, and that's Ulick Sullivan. You'll have to be rid of him for a time, and how I'm not
saying."

"I'll be planning that."

"Well, make no mistake about it. He must not get wind of this."

"Ain't I knowing it?" James returned restively. He had been snubbed, and he was sore.

"Well, there was a thing you were not knowing," Asgill retorted, with a look which it was fortunate
that the other did not see. "And still there's a thing you've not thought of, my lad. It's
only to a Protestant he can leave it, and you must have one ready. Now if I----"

"No!" James cried, with sudden energy. And he drew back a step, and looked the other in the
face. "No, Mr. Asgill," he continued; "if it is to that you've been working, I'd as soon him
as you! Ay, by G----d, I would! I'd sooner turn myself!"

"I can believe that."

"A hundred times sooner!" James repeated. "And what for not? What's to prevent me? Eh? What's
to prevent me?"

"Your sister," Asgill answered.

James's face, which had flamed with passion, lost its colour.

"Your sister," Asgill repeated with gusto. "I'd like fine to see you asking her to help you
turn Protestant! Faith, and, for a mere word of that same, I'll warrant she'd treat you as
the old gentleman treated you!"

"Anyway, I'll not trust you," James replied, with venom. "Sooner than that I'll have--ay, that
will do finely--I'll have Constantine Hussey of Duppa. He's holder for three or four already,
and the whole country calls him honest! I'll have him and be safe."

"You'll do as you please about that," Asgill answered equably. If he felt any chagrin, he hid
it well. "And that being settled, I wish you luck. Only, mind you, I don't use my wits for
nothing. If the estate's to be yours, Flavia's to be mine--if she's willing."

"Willing or unwilling for what I care!" James answered brutally.

Asgill did not hide his scorn. "An excellent brother!" he said. "And so, good-day to you. But
have a care of old Ulick."

"Do you think I'm a fool?" James shouted after him.

It was well, perhaps, that the wind carried Asgill's answer across the water and wasted it
on the dusk, which presently swallowed his retreating form. The McMurrough stood awhile where
the other had left him. He watched the rider go, and twice he shook his fist after him.

"Marry my sister, you dog," he muttered. "Ay, if it will give me my place again! But for helping
you to the land first and to her afterwards, as you'd have me, you schemer, you bog-trotter,
it would make Tophet's dog sick! You d----d dirty son of an upstart! You'd marry my sister,
would you? It will be odd"--he paused--"if I don't jink you yet, when I've made my use of you!
I'm a schemer too, Mister Asgill, only--one at a time, one at a time! The Colonel first, and
you afterwards! Ay, you afterwards, brother-in-law!"

With a last gesture of defiance--Asgill had long passed out of sight--he returned to the house.

It was two or three days after this interview that Colonel Sullivan, descending at the breakfast
hour, found Flavia in the room. He saw her with surprise; with greater surprise he saw that
she remained, for during those three days the girl had not sat at meals with him. Once or twice
his entrance had surprised her, but it had been the signal for her departure; and he had seen
no more of her than the back of her head or the tail of her gown. More often he had found the
men alone and had sat down with them. Far from resenting this avoidance, he had found it natural
and even proper; and suffering it patiently, he had hoped, though almost against hope, that
steering a steady course he would gradually force her to change her opinion of him. He, on
his part, must not give way. He had saved the house from a great peril; he had cleared it of--vermin.
As he had begun he must continue, and hug, for comfort, the old proverb, Femme souvent varie.

That she was already beginning to change he could scarcely hope; yet, when he saw on this morning
that she meant to abide his coming, he was elated--secretly and absurdly elated.

She was at the window, but she turned on hearing his step. "I am wishing to speak to you,"
she said. But her unforgiving eyes looked out of a hard-cut face, and her figure was stiff
as a sergeant's cane.

After that he did not try to compass a commonplace greeting. He bowed gravely. "I am ready
to listen," he answered.

"I am wanting to give you a warning," she said. "Your man Bale--I have no reason to wish him
ill. But he does not share the immunity which you have secured, and if you'll be taking my
advice you will send him away. My uncle is riding as far as Mallow; he will be absent ten days.
If you think fit, you will allow your man to go with him. The interval may"--she halted as
if in search of a word, but her eyes did not leave his--"I do not say it will, but it may mend
matters."

"I am obliged to you," he answered. Then he was silent, reflecting.

"You are not wishing," she said, with a touch of contempt, "to expose the man to a risk you
do not run yourself?"

"Heaven forbid!" he answered. "But----"

"If you think he is a protection to you," she continued in the same tone, "do not send him."

"He is not that," he replied, unmoved by her taunt. "But I am alone, and he is a comfort to me."

"As you please," she answered.

"Nevertheless he shall go," he continued. "It may be for the best." He was thinking that if
he rejected this overture, she might make no other: and, hard as it would prove to persuade
Bale to leave him, he must undertake it. "In any case," he added, "I thank you."

She did not deign to answer, but she turned on her heel and went out. On the threshold she
met a serving-boy and she paused an instant, and the Colonel caught a momentary glimpse of
her face. It wore a strange look, of disgust or of horror--he was not sure which--that appalled
him; so that when the door closed upon her, he remained gazing at it. Had he misread the look?
Or--what was its meaning? Could it be that she hated him to that degree! At once the elation
which the interview and her thoughtfulness for Bale had roused in him sank; and he was in a
brown study when Uncle Ulick, the only person, Bale excepted, to whom he could look for support
or sympathy, came in and confirmed the story of his journey.

"You had better come with me," he said, with a meaning look at James and the O'Beirnes, who
talked with averted faces, turned their shoulders on their elders and flouted the Colonel as
far as they dared. "I shall lie at Tralee one night, and at Ross Castle one night, and at Mallow
the third."

But Colonel John had set his course, and was resolved to abide by it. After breakfast he saw
Bale, and he had the trouble with him which he had foreseen. But in the end military obedience
prevailed and the man consented to go--with forebodings at which his master affected to smile.

"None the less I misdoubt them," the man said, sticking to his point with the east-country
doggedness, which is the antipodes of the Irish character. "I misdoubt them, your honour. They
were never so careful for me," he added grimly, "when they were for piking me in the bog!"

"The young lady had naught to do with that," Colonel John replied.

"D----n me if I know!"

"Nonsense, man!" the Colonel said sharply. "I'll not hear such words."

"But why separate us, your honour?" Bale pleaded. "Not for good, I swear. No, not for good!"

"For your greater safety, I hope."

"Oh, ay, I understand that! But what of your honour's?"

"I have explained to you," the Colonel said patiently, "why I am safe here."

"For my part, and that's flat, I hate their soft sawder!" the man burst out. "It's everything
to please you while they sharpen the pike to stick in your back. If old Oliver, that was a
countryman of my own, and bred not so far off, had dealt with a few more of the rogues----"

"Hush!" Colonel John cried sternly. "And, for my sake, keep your tongue between your teeth.
Have done with such talk, or you'll not be safe, go or stay; Be more prudent, man!"

"It's my belief I'll never see your honour again!" the man cried, with passion. "That's my
belief! That's my belief and you'll not stir it."

"We've parted before in worse hap," Colonel John answered, "and come together again. And, please
God, we'll do the same this time."

The man did not answer, but he shook his head obstinately. For the rest of the day he clung
to his master like a burr, and it was with an unusual sinking of the heart that Colonel John
saw him ride away on the morrow. With him went Uncle Ulick, the Colonel's other friend in the
house; and certainly the departure of these two seemed unlucky, if it was nothing worse. But
the man who was left behind was not one to give way to vain fears. He thrust down the rising
doubt, and chid himself for a presentiment that belittled Providence. Perhaps in the depths
of his heart, he welcomed a change, finding cheer in the thought that the smaller the household
at Morristown, the more prominently, and therefore the more fairly, he must stand in Flavia's view.

Be that as it might, he saw nothing of her on that day or the following day. But though she
shunned him, others did not. He began to remark that he was seldom alone, even in the house.
James and the O'Beirnes were always at his elbow--watching, watching, watching, it seemed to
him. They said little, and what they said they whispered to one another in corners; but if
he came out of his chamber, he found one in the passage, and if he mounted to it, one forewent
him! This dogging, these whisperings, this endless watching, would have got on the nerves of
a more timid man; it began to disturb him. He began to fancy that even Darby and the serving-boys
looked askance at him and kept him in view. Once he took a notion that the butler, who had
been friendly within limits--for the sake of that father who had met his man in Tralee churchyard--wished
to say something to him. But at the critical moment Morty O'Beirne popped up from somewhere,
and Darby sneaked off in silence.

The Colonel disdained to ask what was afoot, but he thought that he would give Morty a chance
of speaking. "Are you looking for your brother?" he asked suavely.

"I am not," Morty answered, with a gloomy look.

"Nor for The McMurrough?"

"I am not. I am thinking," he added, with a grin, "that he has his hands full with the young lady."

Colonel John was somewhat startled. "What's the matter?" he asked.

"Oh, two minds in a house. Sorrow a bit more than that. It's no very new thing in a family,"
Morty added. And he went out whistling "'Twas a' for our rightful King." But he went, as the
Colonel noted, no farther than the courtyard, whence he could command the room through the
window. He lounged there, whistling, and now and again peeping.

Suddenly, on the upper floor, Colonel John heard a door open, and the clamour of a voice raised
in anger. It was James's voice. "Tell him? Curse me if you shall!" Colonel John heard him say.
The next moment the door was sharply closed and he caught no more.

But he had heard enough to quicken his pulses. What was it she wished to tell him? Souvent
femme varie? Was she already seeking to follow up the hint which she had given him on Bale's
behalf? And was the special surveillance to which he had been subjected for the last two days
aimed at keeping them apart, that she might have no opportunity of telling him--something?

Colonel John suspected that this might be so. And his heart beat, as has been hinted, more
quickly. At the evening meal he was early in the room, on the chance that she might appear
before the others. But she did not descend, and the meal proved unpleasant beyond the ordinary,
James drinking more than was good for him, and taking a tone, brutal and churlish, if not positively
hostile. For some reason, the Colonel reflected, the young man was beginning to lose his fears.
Why? What was he planning? How was he, even if he had no respect for his oath, thinking to
evade that dilemma which ensured his guest's safety?

"Secure as I seem, I must look to myself," Colonel John thought. And he slept that night with
his door bolted and a loaded pistol under his pillow. Next morning he took care to descend
early, on the chance of seeing Flavia before the others appeared. She was not down: he waited,
and she did not come. But neither did his watchers; and when he had been in the room five minutes
a serving-girl slipped in at the back, showed him a scared face, held out a scrap of paper
and, when he had taken it, fled in a panic and without a spoken word.

He hid the paper about him and read it later. The message was in Flavia's hand; he had seen
her write more than once. But if he had not, he knew that neither James nor the O'Beirnes were
capable of penning a grammatical sentence. Colonel John's spirits rose as he read the note.

    "Be at the old Tower an hour after sunset. You must not be
    followed."

"That is more easily said than done," he commented.

Nor, if he were followed through the day as closely as on previous days, did he see how it
was to be done. He stood, cudgelling his brains to evolve a plan that would enable him to give
the slip to the three men and to the servants who replaced them when they were called away.
But he found none that might not, by awakening James's suspicions, make matters worse; indeed,
it seemed to him that James was already suspicious. He had at last to let things take their
course, in the hope that when the time came they would shape themselves favourably.

They did. For before noon he gathered that James wanted to go fishing. The O'Beirnes also wanted
to go fishing, and for the general convenience it became him to go with them. He said neither
No nor Yes; but he dallied with the idea until it was time to start and they had made up their
minds that he was coming. Then he declined.

James swore, the O'Beirnes scowled at him and grumbled. Presently the three went outside and
held a conference. His hopes rose as he sat smiling to himself, for their next step was to
call Darby. Evidently they gave him orders and left him in charge, for a few minutes later
they went off, spending their anger on one another, and on the barefoot gossoons who carried
the tackle.

Late in the afternoon Colonel John took up his position on the horse-block by the entrance-gates,
where the June sun fell on him; there he affected to be busy plaiting horse-hair lines. Every
two or three minutes Darby showed himself at the door: once in a quarter of an hour the old
man found occasion to cross the court to count the ducks or rout a trespassing beggar. Towards
sunset, however, he came less often, having to busy himself with the evening meal. The Colonel
smiled and waited, and presently the butler came again, found him still seated there, and withdrew--this
time with an air of finality. "He's satisfied," the Colonel muttered, and the next moment--for
the sun had already set a full hour--he was gone also. The light was waning fast, night was
falling in the valley. Before he had travelled a hundred yards he was lost to view.

The fishing-party had started the contrary way, so that he had nothing to fear from them. But
that he might omit no precaution, when he had gone a quarter of a mile he halted and listened,
with his ear near the ground, for the beat of pursuing footsteps. He heard none, nor any sounds
but the low of a cow whose calf was being weaned, the "Whoo! hoo! hoo!" of owls beginning to
mouse beside the lake, and the creak of oars in a boat which darkness already hid. He straightened
himself with a sigh of relief, and hastened at speed in the direction of the waterfall.

He gave Flavia credit for all the virtues, if for some of the faults of a proud, untamed nature.
Therefore he believed her to be fearless. Nevertheless, before he stood on the platform and
made out the shape of the Tower looming dark and huge above him, he had come to the conclusion
that the need which forced her to such a place at such an hour must be great. The moon would
not rise before eleven o'clock, the last shimmer of the water had faded into unfathomable blackness
beneath him; he had to tread softly and with care to avoid the brink.

He peered about him, hoping to see her figure emerge beside him. He did not, and, disappointed,
he coughed. Finally, in a subdued voice, he called her by name, once and twice. Alas! only
the wind, softly stirring the grass and whispering in the ivy, answered him. He was beginning
to think--with a chill of disappointment, excessive at his age and in the circumstances--that
she had failed to come, when, at no great distance before him, he fancied some one moved. He
groped his way forward half a dozen paces, found a light break on his view, and stood in astonishment.

The movement had carried him beyond the face of the Tower, and so revealed the light, which
issued from a doorway situate in the flank of the building. He paused; but second thoughts,
treading on the heels of surprise, reassured him. He saw that in that position the light was
not visible from the lake or the house; and he moved quickly to the open door, expecting to
see Flavia. Three steps led down to the basement room of the Tower; great was his surprise
when he saw below him in this remote, abandoned building--in this room three feet below the
level of the soil--a table set handsomely with four lighted candles in tall sticks, and furnished
besides with a silver inkhorn, pens, and paper. Beside the table stood a couple of chairs and
a stool. Doubtless there was other furniture in the room, but in his astonishment he saw only
these.

He uttered an exclamation, and descended the steps. "Flavia!" he cried. "Flavia!" He did not
see her, and he moved a pace towards that part of the room which the door hid from him.

Crash! The door fell to, dragged by an unseen hand. Colonel John sprang towards it; but too
late. He heard the grating of a rusty key turned in the lock; he heard through one of the loopholes
the sound of an inhuman laugh; and he knew that he was a prisoner. In that moment the cold
air of the vault struck a chill to his bones; but it struck not so cold nor so death-like as
the knowledge struck to his heart that Flavia had duped him. Yes, on the instant, before the
crash of the closing door had ceased to echo in the stone vaulting above him, he knew that,
he felt that! She had tricked him. She had deceived him. He let his chin sink on his breast.
Oh, the pity of it!

CHAPTER XIX

PEINE FORTE ET DURE

For many minutes, fifteen, twenty perhaps, Colonel John sat motionless in the chair into which
he had sunk, his eyes fixed on the flames of the candles that, so still was the night, burned
steadily upwards. His unwinking gaze created about each tongue of flame strange effects of
vapour, halo-like circles that widened and again contracted, colours that came and went. But
he saw these things with his eyes without seeing them with his mind. It was not of them, it
was not of the death-cold room about him, in which the table and chairs formed a lighted oasis
out of character with the earthen floor, the rough walls, and the vaulted roof--it was not
of anything within sight he was thinking; but of Flavia!

Of Flavia, who had deceived him, duped him, cajoled him. Who, for all he knew--and he thought
it likely--had got rid of Uncle Ulick. Who had certainly got rid of Bale by playing on his
feeling for the man. Who, by affecting a quarrel with her brother, had thrown him off his guard,
and won his confidence, only to betray it. Who, having lured him thither, had laughed--had
laughed! Deep sighs broke at long intervals from Colonel John's breast as he thought of her
treachery. It cut him to the heart. He looked years older as he sat and pondered.

At length, with a sigh drawn from his very soul, he roused himself, and, taking a candle, he
made the round of the chamber. The door by which he had entered was the only outlet, and it
was of stout oak, clamped with iron, and locked. For windows, a pair of loopholes, slits so
narrow that on the brightest day the room must be twilit, pierced the wall towards the lake.
If the room had not been used of old as a prison, it made an admirable one; for the ancient
walls were two feet thick, and the groined roof was out of reach, and of stone, hard as the
weathering of centuries had left it. But not so hard, not so cruel as her heart! Flavia! The
word almost came from his lips in a cry of pain.

Yet what was her purpose? He had been lured hither; but why? He tried to shake off the depression
which weighed on him, and to think. His eyes fell on the table; he reflected that the answer
would doubtless be found among the papers that lay on it. He sat down in the chair which was
set before it, and he took up the first sheet that came to hand, a note of a dozen lines in
her handwriting--alas! in her handwriting.

    "SIR," so it ran,--

    "You have betrayed us; and, were that all, I'd still be finding it
    in my heart to forgive you. But you have betrayed also our Country,
    our King, and our Faith; and for this it's not with me it lies to
    pardon. Over and above, you have thought to hold us in a web that
    would make you safe at once in your life and your person; but you
    are meshed in your turn, and will fare as you can, without water,
    food, or fire, until you have signed and sealed the grant which
    lies beside this paper. We're not unmerciful; and one will visit
    you once in twenty-four hours until he has it under your hand, when
    he will witness it. That done, you will go where you please; and
    Heaven forgive you. I, who write this, am, though unjustly, the
    owner of that you grant, and you do no wrong.

    "FLAVIA MCMURROUGH."

He read the letter with a mixture of emotions. Beside it lay a deed, engrossed on parchment,
which purported to grant all that he held under the will of the late Sir Michael McMurrough
to and for the sole use of Constantine Hussey, Esquire, of Duppa. But annexed to the deed was
a separate scroll, illegal but not unusual in Ireland at that day, stating that the true meaning
was that the lands should be held by Constantine Hussey for the use of The McMurrough, who,
as a Roman Catholic, was not capable of taking in his own name.

Fully, only too fully, enlightened by Flavia's letter, Colonel John barely glanced at the parchments;
for, largely as these, with their waxen discs, prepared to receive the impress of the signet
on his finger, bulked on the table, the gist of all lay in the letter. He had fallen into a
trap--a trap as cold, cruel, heartless as the bosom of her who had decoyed him hither. Without
food or water! And already the chill of the earthen floor was eating into his bones, already
the damp of a hundred years was creeping over him.

For the moment he lacked the spirit to rise and contend by movement against the one or the
other. He sat gazing at the paper with dull eyes. For, after all, whose interests had he upheld?
Whose cause had he supported against James McMurrough and his friends? For whose sake had he
declared himself master at Morristown, with no intention, no thought, as Heaven was his witness,
of deriving one jot or one tittle of advantage for himself? Flavia's! Always Flavia's! And
she had penned this! she had planned this! She had consigned him to this, playing to its crafty
end the farce that had blinded him!

His mind, as he sat brooding, travelled back to the beginning of it all; to the day on which
Sir Michael's letter, with a copy of his will, had reached his hands, at Stralsund on the Baltic,
in his quarters beside the East Gate, in one of those Hanse houses with the tall narrow fronts
which look like nothing so much as the gable-ends of churches. The cast of his thoughts at
the reading rose up before him; the vivid recollections of his home, his boyhood, his father,
which the old man's writing had evoked, and the firmness with which, touched by the dead man's
confidence, a confidence based wholly on report, he had resolved to protect the girl's interests.
Sir Michael had spoken so plainly of James as to leave the reader under no delusion about him.
Nevertheless, Colonel John had conceived some pity for him; in a vague way he had hoped that
he might soften things for him when the time came. But that the old man's confidence should
be justified, the young girl's inheritance secured to her--this had been the purpose in his
mind from first to last.

And this was his reward!

True, that purpose would not have embroiled him with her, strong as was her love for her brother,
if it had not become entwined under the stress of events with another--with the resolve to
pluck her and hers from the abyss into which they were bent on flinging themselves. It was
that resolution which had done the mischief, and made her his enemy to this point. But he could
not regret that. He could not repent of that--he who had seen war in all its cruel phases,
and fierce rebellions, and more cruel repressions. Perish--though he perished himself in this
cold prison--perish the thought! For even now some warmth awoke at his heart, some heat was
kindled in him by the reflection that, whatever befell him, he had saved scores and hundreds
from misery, a countryside from devastation, women and children from the worst of fates. Many
and many a one who cursed his name to-day had cause, did he know it, to remember him in his
prayers. And though he never saw the sun again, though the grim walls about him proved indeed
his grave, though he never lived to return to the cold lands where he had made a name and a
place for himself, he would at least pass beyond with full hands, and with the knowledge that
for every life he, the soldier of fortune, had taken, he had saved ten.

He sat an hour, two hours, thinking of this, and of her; and towards the end less bitterly.
For he was just, and could picture the wild, untutored heart of the girl, bred in solitude,
dwelling on the present wrongs and the past greatness of her race, taking dreams for realities,
and that which lay in cloudland for the possible. Her rough awakening from those dreams, her
disappointment, the fall from the heaven of fancy to the world as it was, might--he owned it--have
driven even a generous spirit to cruel and heartless lengths. And still he sighed--he sighed.

At the end of two hours he roused himself perforce. For he was very cold, and that could only
be mended by such exercise as the size of his prison permitted. He set himself to walk briskly
up and down. When he had taken a few turns, however, he paused with his eyes on the table.
The candles? They would serve him the longer if he burned but one at a time. He extinguished
three. The deed? He might burn it, and so put the temptation, which he was too wise to despise,
out of reach. But he had noticed in one corner a few half-charred fragments of wood, damp indeed,
but such as might be kindled by coaxing. He would preserve the deed for the purpose of kindling
the wood; and the fire, as his only luxury, he would postpone until he needed it more sorely.
In the end the table and the chairs--or all but one--should eke out his fuel, and he would
sleep. But not yet.

For he had no desire to die; and with warmth he knew that he could put up for a long time with
the lack of food. Every hour during which he had the strength and courage to bear up against
privation increased his chances; it was impossible to say what might not happen with time.
Uncle Ulick was due to return in a week--and Bale. Or his gaolers might relent. Nay, they must
relent for their own sakes, if he bore a stout heart and held out; for until the deed was signed
they dared not let him perish.

That was a good thought. He wondered if it had occurred to them. If it had, it was plain that
they relied on his faint-heartedness, and his inability to bear the pangs of hunger, even within
limits. For they could put him on the rack, but they dared not push the torment so far as to
endanger his life. With that knowledge, surely with that in his mind, he could outstay their
patience. He must tighten his belt, he must eke out his fuel, he must bear equably the pangs
of appetite; after all, in comparison with the perils and privations through which he had passed
on the cruel plains of Eastern Europe, and among a barbarous people, this was a small thing.

Or it would have been a small thing if that profound depression, that sadness at the heart
which had held him motionless so long had not still sapped his will, undermined his courage,
and bowed his head upon his breast. A small thing! a few hours, a few days even of hunger and
cold and physical privation--no more! But when it was overpast, and he had suffered and was
free, to what could he look forward? What prospect stretched beyond, save one grey, dull, and
sunless, a homeless middle age, an old age without solace? He was wounded in the house of his
friend, and felt not the pain only, but the sorrow. In a little while he would remember that,
if he had not to take, he had still to give: if he had not to enjoy, he had still to do. The
wounds would heal. Already shadowy plans rose before him.

Yet for the time--for he was human--he drew small comfort from such plans. He would walk up
and down for a few minutes, then he would sink into his chair with a stern face, and he would
brood. Again, when the cold struck to his bones, he would sigh, and rise of necessity and pace
again from wall to wall.

His had been a mad fancy, a foolish fancy, a fancy of which--for how many years rolled between
him and the girl, and how many things done, suffered, seen--he should have known the outcome.
But, taking its rise in the instinct to protect, which their relations justified, it had mastered
him slowly, not so much against his will as without his knowledge; until he had awakened one
day to find himself possessed by a fancy--a madness, if the term were fitter--the more powerful
because he was no longer young, and in his youth had known passion but once, and then to his
sorrow. By-and-by, for a certainty, the man's sense of duty, the principles that had ruled
him so long--and ruled more men then than now, for faith was stronger--would assert themselves.
And he would go back to the Baltic lands, the barren, snow-bitten lands of his prime, a greyer,
older, more sombre man--but not an unhappy man.

Something of this he told himself as he paced up and down the gloomy chamber, while the flame
of the candle crept steadily downward, and his shadow in the vault above grew taller and more
grotesque. It must be midnight; it must be two; it must be three in the morning. The loopholes,
when he stood between them and the candle, were growing grey; the birds were beginning to chirp.
Presently the sun would rise, and through the narrow windows he would see its beams flashing
on the distant water. But the windows looked north-west, and many hours must pass before a
ray would strike into his dungeon. The candle was beginning to burn low, and it seemed a pity
to light another, with the daylight peering in. But if he did not, he would lack the means
to light his fire. And he was eager to do without the fire as long as possible, though already
he shivered in the keen morning air. He was cold now, but he would be colder, he knew, much
colder by-and-by, and his need of the fire would be greater.

From that the time wore wearily on--he was feeling the reaction--to the breakfast hour. The
sun was high now; the birds were singing sweetly in the rough brakes and brambles about the
Tower; far away on the shining lake, of which only the farther end lay within his sight, three
men were fishing from a boat. He watched them; now and again he caught the tiny splash as they
flung the bait far out. And, so watching, with no thought or expectation of it, he fell asleep,
and slept, for five or six hours, the sleep of which excitement had cheated him through the
night. In warmth, morning and evening, night and day differed little in that sunken room. Still
the air in it profited a little by the high sun; and he awoke, not only less weary, but warmer.
But, alas! he awoke also hungry.

He stood up and stretched himself: and, seeing that two-thirds of the second candle had burned
away while he slept, he was thankful that he had lit it. He tried to put away the visions of
hot bacon, cold round, and sweet brown bread that rose before him; he smiled, indeed, considering
how much more hungry he would be by-and-by, this evening--and to-morrow. He wondered ruefully
how far they would carry it: and, on that, mind got the better of body, and he forgot his appetite
in a thought more engrossing.

