It is for this purpose only that I will briefly add two more traits of the Jews, equally valuable
and undeniable. One is their charity; they care for their poor, their sick, their aged, if
destitute, as the numerous institutions prove, found in every place where they dwell in sufficient
number to maintain them. Ungrudgingly they assume the heavy burdens which this "exclusiveness"
imposes upon them. Blame them for it who may; the right-minded will not, especially when assured
that this feeling of pity is not the privilege of the well-to-do among them only. The working
classes have always something to spare from their scanty earnings for "Z'dakah," the religious
term in common use for charity, which, significantly enough, in biblical Hebrew means "justice."
The idea that charity is an essential part of worship has been bred into them by long tradition,
and continues to be regarded as such, wherever rabbinical Judaism survives in full force. From
childhood every Jew knows the saying of Simon the Just, one of the last men of the Great Synagogue:--

    "The whole world rests on these three pillars;

          Law, Worship, and Charity."

The other trait is their zeal in the education of their children.

One of the standard objections to the Hebrews is their "forwardness"; socially, it is a disagreeable
and annoying fault, but otherwise a gift of no little value. Forwardness is the soul of all
progress and advancement. Call it that, call it self-help, call it energy, call it self-reliance,
call it by the popular name of wide-awakeness, and you transfigure the fault into a merit.
How the Jew was able to preserve it in any one of its forms is one of the many miracles of
his history, seeing that the world has left nothing untried to cast the Jews backward to the
last depth of self-despair. An exhibition of his forwardness might be seen at the doors of
the public schools in the lower districts of the city, notably at the time of admission of
new pupils. The poorest of the Jewish fathers and mothers would be seen wrangling for the registration
of their little ones, as if it were for their daily bread. And may this not also serve for
a proof that the parents are willing to surrender their offspring to the influence of these
schools, and see them thoroughly Americanized?

       *       *       *       *       *

By these signs ye shall know the Jews, wherever ye find them; they may, therefore, be called
racial. In every other respect they are neither better nor worse than other people of the corresponding
stages of life. Every variety of character is found among them; virtue and vice are distributed
among them. Let Americans not stigmatize them as "undesirable immigrants," and close their
hospitable gate upon them. They bring with them qualities which are an ample compensation for
their defects, and their well-to-do brethren are not behindhand in seeing to it that they become
no public burden. The American people have repeatedly shown the door to those who came hither
for the purpose of preaching anti-Semitism, thereby publicly testifying that they would have
none of that disgrace to our age. What exists of it in social life is not worth arguing against.
It will and must disappear in a country, the civil order of which is based upon the principle
of equal rights to all law-abiding citizens, to whatever race or religion they may belong.
"A fair field and no favor." This good old saying comprises all our demands.

       *       *       *       *       *