Of the carnage in February there are a few precise notes, sufficient to suggest the increasing
horror. The narrative grows quicker; the reader is aware of the pulse and the impetus of action,
the imperious summons of duty; the young sergeant is in charge of men, and has to execute terrible
tasks. But ever across the tumult and the slaughter, there are moments of recollection and
of compassion; and, in the evening of a day of battle, what infinite tranquillity among the
dead! At this period there are no more notes of landscape effects; the description is of the
war, technical; otherwise the writer's thought is not of earth at all. Once only, towards the
end, we find a sorrowful recollection of himself, a profound lamentation at the remembrance
of bygone hopes, of bygone work, of the immensity of the sacrifice. 'This war is long, too
long for those who had something else to do in the world! Why am I so sacrificed, when so many
others, not my equals, are spared? Yet I had something worth doing to do in the world!' Most
touching is that sigh, even more touching than the signs of greatness in his soul, for it suddenly
breathes an anguish long controlled. It is a human weakness--our own weakness--that is at last
confessed, on the eve of a Passion, as in the Divine example. At rare times such a question,
in the constant sight of death, in fatigue and weariness, in the long distress of rain and
mud, checks in him the impulse of life and of spiritual desire. He was himself the young plant
of which he writes, growing, creating fragrance and breaking into flower, sure of God, feeling
Him alive within itself. But all at once it knows frost is coming and the threat of unpitying
things. What if the universe were void, what if in the infinity of the exterior world there
were nothing, across the splendid vision, but an insensate fatality? What if sacrifice itself
were also a delusion? 'Dark days have come upon me, and nothingness seems the end of all, whereas
all that is in my being had assured me of the plenitude of the universe.' And he asks himself
the anxious question, 'Is it even sure that moral effort bears any fruit?' It is something
like abandonment by God. But that darkening of his lights passes quickly away. He comes again
to the regions of tranquil thought, and leaves them thenceforward only for the work in hand.
'I hope,' he writes, 'that when you think of me you will have in mind all those who have left
everything behind, and how their nearest and dearest think of them only in the past, and say
of them, "We had once a brother, who, many years ago, withdrew from this world."' How strange
is the serenity of these lofty thoughts, how entirely detached from self and from all human
things is this spirit of contemplation. Two slight traits give us signs: One night, on a battlefield
'scattered with fragments of men' and with burning dwellings, under a starry sky, he makes
his bed in an excavation, and lies there watching the crescent moon, and waits for dawn; now
and again a shell bursts, earth falls about him, and then silence returns to the frozen soil:
'I have paid the price, but I have had moments of solitude full of God.' Again, one evening,
after five days of horror ('we have no officers left--they all died as brave men'), he suddenly
comes upon the body of a friend; 'a white body, splendid under the moon. I lay down near him.'
In the quietness, by the side of the dead man, nothing remains but beauty and peace.

       *       *       *       *       *

These letters are to be anonymous, at least so long as any hope remains that he who was lost
may return. It is enough to know that they were written by a Frenchman who, in love and faith,
bore his part in the general effort, the common peril, glad to renounce himself in the pain
and the devotion of his countrymen. By a happy fortune that he did not foresee when he left
his clean solitude for the sweat, the servitude, and the throng, he no doubt produced the best
of himself in these letters; and it may be doubted whether, in the course of a successful artist's
life, it would have been given to him to express himself with so much completeness. This is
a thought that may strengthen those who love him to accept whatever has come to pass. His soul
is here, a more essential soul perhaps, and a more beautiful, than they had known. It was in
war that Marcus Aurelius also wrote his thoughts. Possibly the worst is needful for the manifestation
of the whole of human greatness. We marvel how the soul can so discover in itself the means
to oppose suffering and death. Thus have many of our sons revealed themselves in the day of
trial, to the wonder of France, until then unaware of all that she really was. That is how
these pages touch us so closely. He who wrote them had attuned himself with his countrymen.
Through the more mystical acts of his mind we perceive the sublime message sent to us from
the front, more or less explicitly, by others of our brothers and our sons--the high music
that goes up still from the whole of France at war. In all his comrades assembled for the great
task, he too had recognised the best and the deepest things that his own heart held, and so
he speaks of them constantly--especially of the simplest of the men--with so great respect
and love. Far from ordinary ambitions and cares, the things that this rough life among the
eternities brings into all hearts with a heretofore unknown amplitude are serenity of conscience
and a freshness of feeling in perpetual touch with the harmonies of nature. These men do but
reflect nature. Since they have renounced themselves and given themselves, all things have
become simple for them. They have the transparence of soul and the lights of childhood. 'We
spend childish days. We are children.' . . .

This new youthfulness of heart under the contemned menace of death, this innocence in the daily
fulfilment of heroic duty, is assured by a spiritual state akin to sanctity.

LETTERS

LETTERS OF A SOLDIER

August 6, 1914.

MY VERY DEAR MOTHER,--These are my first days of life at war, full of change, but the fatigue
I actually feel is very different from what I foresaw.

I am in a state of great nervous tension because of the want of sleep and exercise. I lead
the life of a government clerk. I belong to what is called the dépôt, I am one of those doing
sedentary work, and destined eventually to fill up the gaps in the fighting line.

What we miss is news; there are no longer any papers to be had in this town.

August 13.

We are without news, and so it will be for several days, the censorship being of the most rigorous
kind.

Here life is calm. The weather is magnificent, and all breathes quiet and confidence. We think
of those who are fighting in the heat, and this thought makes our own situation seem even too
good. The spirit among the reservists is excellent.

Sunday, August 16.

To-day a walk along the Marne. Charming weather after a little rain.

A welcome interlude in these troubled times. We are still without news, like you, but we have
happily a large stock of patience. I have had some pleasure in the landscape, notwithstanding
the invasion of red and blue. These fine men in red and blue have given the best impression
of their moral. Great levies will be made upon our dépôts, to be endured with fortitude.

August 16 (from a note-book).

The monotony of military life benumbs me, but I don't complain. After nine years these types
are to be rediscovered, a little less marked, improved, levelled down. Just now every one is
full of grave thoughts because of the news from the East.

The ordinary good-fellowship of the mess has been replaced by a finer solidarity and a praiseworthy
attempt at adaptation. One of the advantages of our situation is that we can, as it were, play
at being soldiers with the certainty of not wasting our time. All these childish and easy occupations,
which are of immediate result and usefulness, bring back calm to the mind and soothe the nerves.
Then the great stay which supports the men is a profound, vague feeling of brotherhood which
turns all hearts towards those who are fighting. Each one feels that the slight discomfort
which he endures is only a feeble tribute to the frightful expense of all energy and all devotedness
at the front.

August 25.

This letter will barely precede our own departure. The terrible conflict calls for our presence
close to those who are already in the midst of the struggle. I leave you, grandmother and you,
with the hope of seeing you again, and the certainty that you will approve of my doing all
that seems to me my duty.

Nothing is hopeless, and, above all, nothing has changed our idea of the part we have to play.

Tell all those who love me a little that I think of them. I have no time to write to any one.
My health is of the best.

. . . After such an upheaval we may say that our former life is dead. Dear mother, let us,
you and I, with all our courage adapt ourselves to an existence entirely different, however
long it may last.

Be very sure that I won't go out of my way to do anything that endangers our happiness, but
that I'll try to satisfy my conscience, and yours. Up till now I am without cause for self-reproach,
and so I hope to remain.

August 25 (2nd letter).

A second letter to tell you that, instead of our regiment, it was Pierre's that went. I had
the joy of seeing him pass in front of me when I was on guard in the town. I accompanied him
for a hundred yards, then we said good-bye. I had a feeling that we should meet again.

It is the gravest of hours; the country will not die, but her deliverance will be snatched
only at the price of frightful efforts.

Pierre's regiment went covered with flowers, and singing. It was a deep consolation to be together
till the end.

It is fine of André[1] to have saved his drowning comrade. We don't realise the reserve of
heroism there is in France, and among the young intellectual Parisians.

In regard to our losses, I may tell you that whole divisions have been wiped out. Certain regiments
have not an officer left.

As for my state of mind, my first letter will perhaps tell you better what I believe to be
my duty. Know that it would be shameful to think for one instant of holding back when the race
demands the sacrifice. My only part is to carry an undefiled conscience as far as my feet may lead.

[Footnote 1: Second Lieutenant André Cadoux, who died gloriously in battle on April 13, 1915.]

August 26.

MY VERY DEAR MOTHER,--I was made happy by Maurice Barrés's fine article, 'l'Aigle et le Rossignol,'
which corresponds in every detail with what I feel.

The dépôts contain some failures, but also men of fine energy, among whom I dare not yet count
myself, but with whom I hope to set out. The major had dispensed me from carrying a knapsack,
but I carry it for practice and manage quite well.

The only assurance which I can give you concerns my own moral and physical state, which is
excellent. The true death would be to live in a conquered country, above all for me, whose
art would perish.

I isolate myself as much as I can, and I am really unaffected, from the intellectual point
of view. Besides, the atmosphere of the mess is well above that of normal times: the trouble
is that the constant moving and changing drags us about from place to place, and growing confidence
falters before the perpetually recurring unknown.

August 30.

. . . My little mother, it is certain that though we did not leave yesterday, it is yet only
a question of hours. I won't say to you anything that I have already said, content only that
I have from you the approval of which I was certain.

. . . In the very hard march yesterday only one man fell out, really ill. France will come
out of this bad pass.

I can only repeat to you how well I am prepared for all eventualities, and that nothing can
undo our twenty-seven years of happiness. I am resolved not to consider myself foredoomed,
and I fancy the joy of returning, but I am ready to go to the end of my strength. If you knew
the shame I should endure to think that I might have done something more!

In the midst of all this sadness we live through magnificent hours, when the things that used
to be most strange take on an august significance.

September 4, 6 o'clock (on the way, in the train).

We have had forty hours of a journey in which the picturesque outdoes even the extreme discomfort.
The great problem is sleep, and the solution is not easy when there are forty in a cattle-truck.

The train stops every instant, and we encounter the unhappy refugees. Then the wounded: fine
spectacle of patriotism. The English army. The artillery.

We no longer know anything, having no more papers, and we can't trust the rumours which fly
among the distraught population.

Splendid weather.

Saturday, September 5 (at the end of 60 hours in a cattle-truck: 40 men to a truck).

On the same day we skirted the Seine opposite the forest of Fontainebleau and the banks of
the Loire. Saw the château de Blois and the château d'Amboise. Unhappily the darkness prevented
us from seeing more. How can I tell you what tender emotions I felt by these magnificent banks
of the Loire!

Are you bombarded by the frightful aeroplanes? I think of you in such conditions and above
all of poor Grandmother, who indeed had little need to see all this! However, we must hope.

We learn from wounded refugees that in the first days of August mistakes were made in the high
command which had terrible consequences. It falls to us now to repair those mistakes.

Masses of English troops arrive. We have crossed numbers of crowded trains.

Well, this war will not have been the mere march-past which many thought, but which I never
thought, it would be; but it will have stirred the good in all humanity. I do not speak of
the magnificent things which have no immediate connection with the war,--but nothing will be lost.

September 5, 1914 (1st halting-place, 66 hours in the cage without being able to stretch).

Still the same jolting and vibration, but three times after the horrible night there has come
the glory of the morning, and all fatigue has disappeared.

We have crossed the French country in several directions, from the rather harsh serenity, full
of suggestiveness, of Champagne, to the rich robust placidity of Brittany. On the way we followed
the full and noble banks of the Loire, and now . . .

O my beautiful country, the heart of the world, where lies all that is divine upon earth, what
monster sets upon you--a country whose offence is her beauty!

I used to love France with sincere love, which was more than a little dilettante; I loved her
as an artist, proud to live in the most beautiful of lands; in fact, I loved her rather as
a picture might love its frame. It needed this horror to make me know how filial and profound
are the ties which bind me to my country. . . .

September 7 (from a note-book).

. . . We are embarked on the adventure, without any dominant feeling except perhaps a sufficiently
calm acceptance of this fatality. But sensibility is kept awake by the sight of the victims,
particularly the refugees. Poor people, truly uprooted, or rather, dead leaves in the storm,
little souls in great circumstances.

Whole trains of cattle-trucks, which can hardly be said to have changed their use! Trains in
which is heaped up the desolation of these people torn from their homes, and how quickly become
as beasts! Misery has stripped them of all their human attributes. We take them food and drink,
and that is how they become exposed: the man drinks without remembering his wife and children.
The woman thinks of her child. But other women take their time, unable to share in the general
haste. Among these waifs there is one who assails my heart,--a grandmother of eighty-seven,
shaken, tossed about by all these blows, being by turns hoisted into and let down from the
rolling cages. So trembling and disabled, so lost. . . .

September 10 (from a note-book).

We arrive in a new part of the country on the track of good news: the strong impression is
that France's future is henceforth assured. Everything corroborates this feeling, from the
official report which formally announces a complete success down to the most fantastic rumours.

September 13 (from a note-book).

This is war; here are we approaching the place of horror. We have left behind the French villages
where peace was still sleeping. Now there is nothing but tumult. And here are direct victims
of the war.

The soldiers: blood, mud and dirt. The wounded. Those whom we pass at first are the least suffering--wounds
in arms, in hands. In most of them can clearly be seen, in the midst of their fatigue and distress,
great relief at having been let off comparatively easily.

Farther on, towards the ambulances, the burying of the dead: there are six, stretched on two
waggons. Smoothed out, and covered with rags, they are taken to an open pit at the foot of
a Calvary. Some priests conduct, rather than celebrate, the service, military as they have
become. A little straw and some holy water over all, and so we pass on. After all, these dead
are happy: they are cared-for dead. What can be said of those who lie farther on and who have
passed away after nights of the throes of death and abandonment.

. . . From this agony there will remain to us an immense yearning for pity and brotherhood
and goodness.

Wednesday, September 16, 1914.

In the horror-zone.

The rainy twilight shadows the road, and suddenly, in a ditch--the dead! They have dragged
themselves here from the battlefield--they are all corrupt now. The coming of darkness makes
it difficult to distinguish their nationality, but the same great pity envelops them all. Only
one word for them: poor boy! The night for these ignominies--and then again the morning. The
day rises upon the swollen bodies of dead horses. In the corner of a wood, carnage, long cold.

One sees only open sacks, ripped nose-bags. Nothing that looks like life remains.

Among them some civilians, whose presence is due to the German proceeding of making French
hostages march under our fire.

If these notes should reach any one, may they give rise in an honest heart to horror of the
foul crime of those responsible for this war. There will never be enough glory to cover all
the blood and all the mud.

September 21, 1914.

War in rain.

It is suffering beyond what can be imagined. Three days and three nights without being able
to do anything but tremble and moan, and yet, in spite of all, perfect service must be rendered.

To sleep in a ditch full of water has no equivalent in Dante, but what can be said of the awakening,
when one must watch for the moment to kill or to be killed!

Above, the roar of the shells drowns the whistling of the wind. Every instant, firing. Then
one crouches in the mud, and despair takes possession of one's soul.

When this torment came to an end I had such a nervous collapse that I wept without knowing
why--late, useless tears.

September 25.

Hell in so calm and pastoral a place. The autumnal country pitted and torn by cannon!

September 27.

If, apart from the greater lessons of the war, there are small immediate benefits to be had,
the one that means most to me is the contemplation of the night sky. Never has the majesty
of the night brought me so much consolation as during this accumulation of trials. Venus, sparkling,
is a friend to me. . . .

I am now familiar with the constellations. Some of them make great curves in the sky as if
to encircle the throne of God. What glory! And how one evokes the Chaldean shepherds!

O constellations! first alphabet!. . .

October 1.

I can say that, as far as the mind goes, I have lived through great days when all vain preoccupations
were swept away by a new spirit.

If there should ever be any lapse so that only one of my letters reaches you, may it be one
that says how beneficial, how precious have these torments been!

October 1 (from a note-book).

It follows from this that our suffering, every moment of it, should be considered as the most
marvellous source of feeling and of progress for the conscience.

I now know into what domain my destiny leads me. No longer towards the proud and illusory region
of pure speculation, but in the way of all little daily things--it is there that I must carry
the service of an ever-vigilant sensibility.

I see how easily an upright nature may dispense with the arts of expression in order to be
helpful in act and in influence. Precious lesson, which will enable me, should I return, to
suffer less if fate no longer allows me to paint.

October 9.

It seems that we have the order to attack. I do not want to risk this great event without directing
my thoughts to you in the few moments of quiet that are left. . . . Everything here combines
to maintain peace in the heart: the beauty of the woods in which we live, the absence of intellectual
complications. . . . It is paradoxical, as you say, but the finest moments of my moral life
are those that have just gone by. . . .

       *       *       *       *       *

Know that there will always be beauty on earth, and that man will never have enough wickedness
to suppress it. I have gathered enough of it to store my life. May our destiny allow me time
later to bring to fruit all that I have gathered now. It is something that no one can snatch
from us, it is treasure of the soul which we have amassed.

October 12.

Up till now your love and Providence do not forsake me. . . . We are still in the magnificent
devastated woods, in the midst of the finest autumn. Nature brings many joys which dominate
these horrors. Profound and powerful hope, whatever suffering still awaits us.

October 14.

It is true, dear mother, that some renunciation costs a great deal of effort, but be sure that
we both possess the necessary strength of soul to live through these difficult hours without
catching our breath in painful longing at the idea of the return we both crave for.

The great thing is to know the value of the present moment and to make it yield all that it
has of good and beauty and edification. For the rest, no one can guarantee the future, and
it would be vain and futile torment to live wondering what might happen to us. Don't you think
that life has dispensed us many blessings, and that one of the last, and the greatest, is that
we have been able to communicate with each other and to feel our union? There are many unfortunate
people here who do not know where their wives and children are, who have been for three months
isolated from all. You see that we are still among the lucky ones.

