A law of the Emperor Charles V., passed half a century before, had decreed the frightful punishment
of living burial against female heretics, and many executions of the kind had varied by their
bloodless atrocity the horrid butcheries committed all through the Low Countries during the
tyranny of Alva. After that period such sacrifices had been less frequent; but as late as three
years before the date of our story, an instance of this barbarity had publicly taken place
in Brussels, by the orders of Albert, who at that time held the highest dignity of the Christian
priesthood, next to that of its supreme head. A poor servant girl, named Anne Vanderhove, arrested
on a charge of heresy, refused, in all the pride of martyrdom, to renounce her faith. She was
condemned to the grave--not to the common occupancy of that cold refuge of the lifeless body,
but to all the horrors of living contact and hopeless struggles with the suffocating clay.
She suffered her punishment, in the midst of a crowd of curious fanatics; but such was the
disgust inspired by the spectacle, that it was thought impolitic to hazard in the face of day
another exhibition of the kind. Beatrice's judges, therefore, after a summary hearing, decreed
that she too should be buried alive--but at night. She heard her sentence, in just sufficient
exercise of reason to comprehend and shudder at it. But her mind, wandering and unsettled,
had not force enough to dwell on the contemplation of what awaited her, and unconscious of
her approaching fate gave her the semblance of indifference.

But Beatrice, with all her pride, and almost unfeminine force of character, was not proof against
a fate so horrible. As the hour drew nigh when she was to be led forth to execution, the blood
in her throbbing veins seemed suddenly frozen, like the hot streams of lava checked in its
molten flow. Her blanched cheeks and starting eyeballs told that her fever was quenched, and
her insensibility awakened to a full sense of her terror.

In darkness and silence the sad procession moved from the prison's most private door, on the
night fixed for the execution, the third after the hapless girl's arrival in Brussels. The
persons employed were few; no sympathizing crowd attended to strain the victim's pride and
courage, and make her for very shame's sake brave the terrific scene. Lone and desolate, she
was led along by two brutal men, with taunt and execration; they, dressed in the dark habits
of their office: she, bare-footed, and clothed in the yellow garment called a san benito, her
beautiful jet locks cut close, and her disfigured head and pallid face surmounted by the conical
cap in which the inquisition decked its victims for sacrifice. Four masked men walked first
in the procession, two carrying spades, and two bearing the insignia of the Holy Office. Next
followed the secretary, with a book and materials for writing, ready to record the particulars
of the execution. Then came Beatrice, dragged onwards by her supporters, and urged towards
the closing scene by the odious voice of Dom Lupo, pouring a strain of pious blasphemies into
her reluctant ears. He stepped close in her tract, and leant his head forward, determined that
she should not have a moment's respite till the damp earth closed those ears for ever. A dozen
armed men brought up the march; and no suspicion of the inquisitor's proceeding aroused the
citizens, in the narrow and unlit streets through which it moved.

In less than half an hour, Beatrice's bruised and lacerated feet, felt a sudden relief that
spread up refreshingly through her whole frame, on pressing a grass plot, moistened by the
night dew. At the same moment, a gleam from a lantern opened by one of the men close to her,
showed that she stood on the brink of a newly-dug grave. She started back at the appalling
sight--and was upheld from falling by her attendants, on whose faces she saw a malignant grin;
while the tones of Dom Lupo's voice seemed to hiss in her ears, like the serpent triumph of
a fiend.

"Erring daughter of the only true and most merciful church," gloomed he, "unrepented sinner,
on the verge of death--ere the grave close over thy living agony--ere the arm of Almighty wrath
shove thee into the pit of hell, and eternal flames enfold thee--listen to the last offer of
the mother thou hast outraged, of the faith thou hast defiled. Recant thy errors--renounce
thy false Gods--confess thy crimes--and return into the blessed bosom of the church!"

Beatrice, rousing the whole force of her latent energy, pushed the inquisitor from her, with
a look of scorn, burst from her keepers' arms, and sprang into the open grave.

"Lost and condemned for ever and ever--let the earth lie heavy on her head!" exclaimed the
furious priest, stamping his foot with rage, and motioning to the familiars, who instantly
commenced to shovel the earth into the grave. Not a sound was heard but the soft rustling of
the leaves overhead, for this scene took place in the open ground above the Sablon, formerly
mentioned as the scene of some earlier executions; and Beatrice's grave was dug at the very
foot of the tree, where the Jews, in 1370, had expiated their imputed sacrilege.

Not a murmur, not a movement betrayed an instant's shrinking from her fate, as the cold heap
of clay covered Beatrice to the very neck. Her face was still above ground, and the infuriated
bigot, whose word was to save her or stifle her voice for ever, once more approached. He knelt
beside her thrust his crucifix close to her still straining eyes, and in accents that faltered
from rage, he cried out--

"Dost thou still dare refuse? Death is on thy lips--hell gapes for thee!--Wretched woman, say
but one word--kiss the blessed relic, and thou art saved."

"There is but one God, and Mahomet is his prophet!" said Beatrice, in hollow and broken accents.

"It is done! Cover her quick! Let her perish in eternal fire!" cried the inquisitor.

The executioners heaped the earth still higher--the head was covered in--and only then a smothered
scream burst upwards, while the struggles of natural agony shook the mound to and fro.--Still
the legal and consecrated murderers went on, with trembling hands and quaking hearts; but as
they hastily closed their work, a deep and heavy groan came upon the air from a not distant
part of the waste ground; and the group looking round in guilty terror, saw a man close wrapped
in a cloak, but struggling with another, of aged and decrepit stature, as if he would break
from his hold, and rush upon their unholy labours. A weapon gleamed in his hand; and the whole
group of guilt, inquisitor, familiars and guards, struck with panic, and imagining rescue and
revenge from a hundred indignant arms, hastily fled from the scene with loud cries for help.

In a moment the grave was torn open, and Beatrice, still panting in the struggle between life
and death, snatched from its re-opened jaws, and about to be borne off in the close-locked
arms of her brother, when the insatiate inquisitor, his ardent vengeance overcoming his fears,
turned from his flight to give one assuring glance upon his victim's grave. By the light of
the lantern which streamed on the ground, he saw that, instead of the indignant crowd his apprehensions
had imagined, only two men were on the spot, one of them old and diminutive, and the other
encumbered with the exhumed body. In the glow of fanatic fury, he forgot all personal fears,
and while his dastard creatures held on their terrified course, he sprang back alone to the
burial-ground, and seizing the old man with one hand, he stretched forth the other to grasp
from the Moriscoe's hold his still insensible burthen.

"Sacrilegious villains!" cried he, "give up your impious purpose, and resign the body of the
recreant lost one. Let it rot in its earthy prison, till the last trumpet rouse it in resurged
life to burn in eternal fire."

A deep and silent plunge of the Moriscoe's poignard struck the blaspheming bigot in the throat;
another blow pierced his heart, as he fell into the imperfectly hollowed grave; and while he
lay there, several strokes were dealt on him by the feeble hands of the old man with one of
the spades, which he tremblingly seized. And then, in the instinct of terror at the deed, he
shovelled the loose earth over the bleeding carcass, while the Moriscoe's pale profile looked
stern and rigid in the expiring light. The work was soon complete; and the mound of earth thus
hastily thrown up (soon covered with as rank weeds as ever sprang from a polluted soil) were
long marked by shuddering superstition as "the grave of the Mahommedan girl." The fate of the
inquisitor was quite unsuspected; and he might have been still believed to have disappeared
supernaturally, or perished by some less awful visitation, had not unerring records thrown
light on his fate.

The tottering steps of the old man quickly led the way across the thickly planted site of the
little Sablon, and by many a winding lane and alley towards the hill of Caudenburgh, till the
Moriscoe, with his beloved burthen, found a safe refuge in the old man's dwelling, in the narrow
street on the side of the hill, not a hundred yards below the house of the Marquess of Assembourg.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

MUSICAL LITERATURE IN NORTH AMERICA.

We have just received two numbers of a New York periodical, entitled the "Euterpeiad, a Musical
Review and Tablet of the Fine Arts," published every fortnight, or, as our transatlantic fellow-labourers
express it, "semi-monthly," and feel flattered at finding our opinions quoted, our columns
referred to with acknowledgment, and, still more, our custom of giving good and cheap music,
followed, though on a smaller scale, by this critic of the new world. One of the two numbers
before us contains Paisiello's delightful serenade from the Barber of Seville, as arranged
by Bishop for two voices; and the other, a movement from Rossini's overture to William Tell;
both very creditable, as well to the selector's taste as to the progress of American musical
typography. The "Euterpeiad" is not confined to music, but embraces the whole circle of the
fine arts, theatrical criticism, and even original tales. We are concerned, however, only with
the musical part, and, as a specimen of the manner in which it is probable that department
will be conducted, give the following extract from the editor's address:

"In regard to music, since the appearance of Weber, an almost new era has commenced. In the
works of this celebrated composer, the proverb has been realized--the German Professor has
given to his notes the power of language: emotions are almost imbibed from the sounds as from
a visible transaction, or a well-told description. If the country which presents the highest
or most generally approved attainments in singing, be demanded, perhaps the correct answer
would be Italy. The contest afterwards for the highest eminence would lie between England,
Germany, and France. The Scottish, Irish, and Welsh compositions, and English ballad music,
must of course come under the aggregation of the English school, and availing itself of this
union, and taking into view the circumstance of having for a considerable period steadily adopted,
and engrafted upon its own stock, the beauty and excellence in the science manifested by the
Germans and Italians, the claims of this school become formidable. And it is this which, through
the medium of the same tongue, extends an immediate and irresistible influence over the United
States.

