Yesterday I saw issuing through St. Malo's eleventh century gates 300 Belgian refugees, headed
by our Dinard Mayor, M. Cralard. I try to write calmly of that procession of the half-starved,
terror-ridden throng, but with the memory of those pinched faces and the stories we heard of
murder, carnage, burning towns, insulted women, it is difficult to restrain indignation. They
had come from Charleroi and Mons--old men, women, and little children. Not a man of strength
or middle age among them, for they are dead or away fighting the barbarians who invested their
little country against all honorable dealings.

Such a procession! They had slept in fields, eaten berries, carrots dug from the earth by their
hands; drunk from muddy pools, always with those beings behind them who had driven them at
the point of their bayonets from their poor homes. Looking back, they had seen flames against
the sky, heard screams for pity from those too ill to leave, silenced by bullets.

Here are some of the tales, which our Mayor vouches for, which I heard:

One young mother, who had seen her husband shot, tried to put aside the rifle of the assassin.
She was holding her year-old baby on her breast. The butt of that rifle was beaten down, crushing
in her baby's chest. It still lives, and I heard it's gasping breath.

Another young girl, in remnants of a pretty silk dress, hatless, her fragile shoes soleless,
and her feet bleeding, is quite mad from the horrors of seeing her old father shot and her
two younger brothers taken away to go before the advancing enemy as shields against English
bullets. She has forgotten her name, town, and kin, and, "like a leaf in the storm," is adrift
on the world penniless.

I saw sitting in a row on a bench in the shed seven little girls, none of them more than six.
Not one of them has now father, mother, or home. None can tell whence they came, or to whom
they belong. Three are plainly of gentle birth. They were with nurses when the horde of Prussians
fell upon them, and the latter were kept--for the soldier's pleasure.

There is an old man, formerly the proud proprietor of a bakery, who escaped with the tiny delivery
cart pulled by a Belgian dog. Within the cart are the remains of his prosperous past--a coat,
photos of his dead wife, and his three sons at the front, and a brass kettle.

I heard from an aged man how he escaped death. He, with other villagers, was locked into a
room, and from without the German carbines were thrust through the blinds. Those within were
told to "dance for their lives," and the German bullets picked them off, one by one, from the
street. He had the presence of mind to fall as though dead, and when the house was set on fire
crawled out through a window into the cowshed and got away.

Now, these stories are not the worst or the only ones. Nor are these 300 refugees more than
a drop of sand on a beach of the thousands upon thousands who are at this moment in like case.
They are pouring through the country now, dazed with trouble, robbed of all they possess.

Who can help them, even to work? No one has money. Even those rich villa people, Americans,
are unable to pay their servants. There is no "work" save in the fields garnering crops, for
which no wages are paid. Their country is a devastated waste, tenanted by the enemy, who spread
like a tidal wave of destruction in all directions. We take the better class into our homes,
clothe them and feed them gladly, that we may in a minute way repay the debt civilization owes
their husbands, sons, and fathers. France, too, is invaded, and now thousands more of French
are homeless and penniless.

We in this formerly gay, fashionable little town see nothing of the pageantry of war--only
its horrors, as trains leave with us hundreds of wounded from the front. In their bodies we
find dumdum bullets, and we hear tales which confirm those of the refugees.

Will America help them? I, an American woman, could weep for the inadequacy of my pen, for
I beg your pity, your compassion, and your help. Not since the days of Rome's cruelty has civilization
been so outraged.

I beg your paper to print this, and to start a subscription for this far corner of France,
where the tide of war throws its wreckage. The Winter is ahead, and with hunger, cold, lack
of supplies, and isolation will create untold suffering. Paris, too, is now sending refugees
from its besieged gates. Every corner is already filled, and hundreds pour in every day. The
garages, best hotels, villas, and cafés are already filled with "those that suffer for honor's
sake." The Croix Rouge does splendid work for the wounded soldiers, but who will help these
victims of war? Fifty cents will buy shoes for a baby's feet. Ten cents will buy ten pieces
of bread. A dollar will buy a widow a shawl. Who will give? Deny yourselves some little pleasure--a
cigar, a drink of soda water, a theatre seat--and send the price to these starved, beaten people,
innocent of any crime.

You American women, who tuck your children into their clean beds at night, remember these children,
reared as carefully as yours, without relatives, money, or future. They will be placed on farms
to do a peasant's work with peasants. These women bereft of all that was dear face a barren
future. These aged men anticipate for their only remaining blessing death, which will take
them from a world which has used them ill.

America is neutral. Let her remain so, but compassion has no nationality. We are all children
of one Father. Send us help. These poor creatures hold out to you pleading hands for succor.

NINA LARREY DURYEE.

P.S.--I beg you to publish this. I am the daughter-in-law of the Gen. Duryee of the Duryee
Zouaves, who fought through our civil war with honor. Our Ambassador, Mr. Herrick, and his
wife know me socially. Any funds you can gather please send to M. Grolard, Marie de Dinard,
Municipality de Dinard, Ille-et-Vilaine, France, or to Le Banque Boutin, Dinard, France.

*A New Russia Meets Germany*

*By Perceval Gibbon.*

[From THE NEW YORK TIMES, Oct. 26, 1914.]

VILNA, Russia, Sept. 28.--For a fact as great as Russia one needs a symbol by which to apprehend
it For me, till now, the symbol has been a memory of Moscow in the Winter of 1905, the Winter
of revolution, when the barricades were up in the streets and the dragoons worked among the
crowds like slaughtermen in a shambles. Toward that arched gateway leading from the Red Square
into the Kremlin came soldiers on foot, bringing with them prisoners dredged out of the turmoil,
two armed men to each battered and terrified captive, whose white and bloodstained face stared
startling and ghastly between the gray uniform greatcoats. The first of them came to the deep
arch, in whose recess is a lamplit shrine; I stood aside to see them go past. The soldiers
were wrenching the man along by the arms, each holding him on one side; I recall yet the prisoner's
lean, miserable face, with the suggestion it had of dissolute and desperate youth; and as they
came abreast of the faintly gleaming ikon in the gate they let him go for a moment. His dazed
eyes wandered up to the shrine; he was already bareheaded, and with a shaking, uncertain hand
he crossed himself in the intricate Russian fashion. The soldiers who guarded him, too--they
shuffled their rifles to a convenient hold to have a right hand free; they crossed themselves
and their lips moved. Then they were through the arch and out upon the snow within the walls,
and once again they had hold of their man and were thrusting him along to the prison which
for him was the antechamber of death.

That was Russia then. Prisoner and captors, soldiers and revolutionaries, blinded and bewildered
by the rush and dazzle of affairs, straining asunder yet linked, knitted into a unity of the
spirit which they neither understood nor questioned.

But a week ago, on those still, dreary lands which border the Prussian frontier, there was
evidence of a Russia that has been born or made since those hectic days in Moscow. The Germans
who had forced Gen. Rennenkampf to withdraw to the border were making an attempt to envelop
his left wing. Their columns, issuing from the maze of lakes and hills in Masurenland, came
across the border on both banks of the little River Amulew, and fell upon him. There is a road
in those parts that drifts south along the frontier, an unmade, unholy Russian road, ribbed
with outcrops of stone, a purgatory to travel upon till the snow clothes it and one can go
by sledge. Away to the southwest, beyond the patches of firwood and the gray, steeply  rolling
land, there toned the far diapason of artillery; strings of army transport, Red Cross vehicles,
and miscellaneous men straggled upon the road.

From beyond the nearest shoulder of land sounded suddenly some gigantic and hoarse whistle,
an ear-shattering roar of warning and urgency. There was shouting and a stir of movement; the
wagons and Red Cross vans began to pull out to one side; and over the brow of the hill, hurtling
into sight, huge, unbelievably swift, roaring upon its whistle, tore a great, gray-painted
motor lorry, packed with khaki-clad infantrymen. It was going at a hideous speed, leaping its
tons of weight insanely from rock ridge to traffic-churned slough in the road; there was only
time to note its immensity and uproar and the ranked faces of the men swaying in their places,
and it was by, and another was bounding into sight behind it. A hundred and odd of them, each
with thirty men on board--three battalions to reinforce the threatened left wing--a mighty
instrument of war, mightily wielded. It was Russia as she is today, under way and gathering speed.

At Rennenkampf's headquarters at Wirballen, where formerly one changed trains going from Berlin
to Petersburg, one sees the fashion in which Russia shapes for war. Here, beneath a little
bridge with a black and white striped sentry box upon it, its muddy banks partitioned with
rotten planks into goose-pens, runs that feeble stream which separates Russia from Germany.
Upon its further side, what is left of Eydtkuhnen, the Prussian frontier village, looms drearily
through its screen of willows--walls smoke-blackened and roofless, crumbling in piles of fallen
brick across its single street, which was dreary enough at its best. To the north and south,
and behind to the eastward, are the camps, a city full, a country full of men armed and equipped;
the mean and ugly village thrills to the movement and purpose. On the roof of the schoolhouse
there lifts itself against the pale Autumn sky the cobweb mast and stays of the wireless apparatus,
and in the courtyard below and in the shabby street in front there is a surge of automobiles,
motor cycles, mounted orderlies--all the message-carrying machinery of a staff office. The
military telephone wires loop across the street, and spray out in a dozen directions over the
flat and trodden fields; for within the dynamic kernel to all this elaborate shell is Rennenkampf,
the Prussian-Russian who governs the gate of Germany.

Here is the brain of the army. Its limbs go swinging by at all hours, in battalions and brigades,
or at the trot, with a jingle of bits and scabbards, or at the walk, with bump and clank, as
the gun wheels clear the ruts. It is the infantry--that fills the eye--fine, big stuff, man
for man the biggest infantry in the world.

Their uniform of peaked cap, trousers tucked into knee-boots, and khaki blouse is workmanlike,
and the serious middle-aged officers trudging beside them are hardly distinguishable from the
men. They have not yet learned the use of the short, broad-bladed bayonets; theirs are of the
old three-cornered section type with which the Bulgarians drove the Turks to Chataldja; but
there is something else that they have learned. Since the first days of the mobilization that
brought them from their homes there is not a man among them that has tasted strong drink. In
1904 the men came drunk from their homes to the centres; one saw them about the streets and
on the railways and in the gutters. But these men have been sober from the start, and will
perforce be sober to the end.

Of all that elaborate and copious machinery of war which Russia has built up since her failure
in Manchuria there is nothing so impressive as this. Her thousand and odd aeroplanes, her murderously
expert artillery, her neat and successful field wireless telegraph, even her strategy, count
as secondary to it. The chief of her weaknesses in the past has been the slowness of her mobilization;
Germany, with her plans laid and tested for a mobilization in four days, could count on time
enough to strike before Russia could move. She used her advantage to effect when Austria planted
the seed of this present war by the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina; she was able to present
Russia in all her unpreparedness with the alternatives of war in twenty-four hours or accepting
the situation. But this time it has been different.

At Petrograd one sees how different. Hither from the northern and eastern Governments come
the men who are to swell Rennenkampf's force. Their cadres, the skeletons of the battalions
of which they are the flesh, are waiting for them--officers, organization, equipment, all is
ready. The endless trains decant them; they swing in leisurely columns through the streets
to their depots, motley as a circus--foresters, moujiks in fetid sheepskins, cattlemen, and
rivermen, Siberians, tow-haired Finns, the wide gamut of the races of Russia, all big or biggish,
with those impassive, blunt-featured faces that mask the Russian soul, and all sober. No need
now to make men of them before making soldiers; no inferno at the way side-stations and troop
trains turning up days late. It is as if, at the cost of those annual 780,000,000 rubles, Russia
had bought the clue to victory.

West beyond Eydtkuhnen, under the pearl-gray northern sky, lies East Prussia. Hereabout it
is flat and fertile, with lavish, eye-fatiguing levels of cornland stretching away to Insterburg
and beyond to Königsberg's formidable girdle of forts. Here are many villages, and scattered
between them innumerable hamlets of only two or three houses, and a small town or two. Most
of them are empty now; the German army that leans its back on the Vistula's fortresses has
cleared this country like a dancing floor for its work. It has rearranged it as one rearranges
the furniture in a room; whole populations have been transported, roads broken, bridges blown
up, strategically unnecessary; villages burned. Nothing remains on the ground that has not
its purpose assigned--not even the people, and their purpose has been clear for some time past.
The Russians have been over this ground already, and fell back from it after their defeat between
Osterode and Allenstein. Their advance was through villages lifeless and deserted and over
empty roads; the retreat was through a country that swarmed with hostile life. Roads were blocked
with farm carts, houses along their route took fire mysteriously, signaling their movement
and direction, and answered from afar by other conflagrations; bridges that had been sound
enough before blew up at the last moment. What the Belgians were charged with, and their country
laid waste for, all East Prussia is organized to do daily as an established and carefully schooled
auxiliary to the army.

A few days since there arrived a prisoner, driven in on foot by a mounted Cossack, sent back
by the officer commanding the reconnoissance party which had captured him. He came up the street,
shuffling at a quick walk to keep ahead of the horse and the thin, sinister Cossack--an elderly
farmer, in work-stained clothes, with the lean neck and pursed jaws of a hard bargainer. In
all his bearing and person there was evident the man of toilsome life who had prospered a little;
in that soldier-thronged street, in his posture of a prisoner with the Cossack's revolver at
his back, he was conspicuous and grotesque. His eyes, under the gray pent of his brows, were
uneasy, and through all his commonplace quality and his show of fortitude there was a gleam
of the fear of death that made him tragic. He had been found on his farm doing nothing in particular;
it was out of simply general suspicion that the Russian officer had ordered him to be searched.
The result was the discovery of a typewritten paper, giving precise instructions as to how
a German civilian in East Prussia must act toward the enemy--how to signal movements of infantry,
of cavalry, of artillery; how to estimate the numbers of a body of men, and what to say if
questioned, and the like--a document conceived and executed with true Prussian exactitude and
clearness, a masterpiece in the literature of espionage.

For him there was no hope; even The Hague Convention, which permits mine-laying, does not protect
spies, however earnestly and dangerously they serve their country. He passed, always at the
same forced shuffle of reluctant feet, toward his judges and his doom.

*Belgian Cities Germanized*

*By Cyril Brown,*

Staff Correspondent of THE NEW YORK TIMES.

BRUSSELS, Nov. 4.--Of all the war capitals of Europe, Brussels under the German occupation
is probably the gayest and the most deceptive. It certainly outrivals Berlin in life and brilliancy,
as Berlin outshines London. The Germans are free spenders afield; their influx here by thousands
has put large sums of money into circulation, resulting in a spell of artificial, perhaps superficial,
prosperity.

The crowds surging all day up and down the principal shopping street, the Rue Neuve, overflow
the sidewalks and fill the street. Well-dressed crowds promenade along the circular boulevard
all afternoon and into the night. Places of amusement and the cafés are crowded. The hundreds
of automobiles loaded with officers speeding about the streets, with musical military horns
blowing, add to the gay illusion.

Nowhere save at the Great Headquarters in France, where the Kaiser stays when not haranguing
his troops at the front, will you see such a brilliant galaxy of high officers--and every day
seems a holiday in Brussels.

You catch the sinister undercurrent in the more obscure little cafés. Here you will find some
Belgian patriot who is glad of the chance to unbosom himself to a safe American. Perhaps he
will speak with unprintable bitterness of the shame of the Brussels women who, he says, wave
handkerchiefs and smile friendly greetings at the singing troop trains passing through the
suburbs on their way to the front, or give flowers and cigars to the returning streams of wounded.
They ought to be shot as traitresses, he says. For the honor of the Belgian women, he adds,
these form only a small percentage.

You are not surprised when well-informed neutral residents tell you that these people "have
murder in their hearts, and that if the Germans ever retreat in a rout through Belgium, Heaven
help the straggler and the rear guard." Nor that copies of English papers, whose reading is
forbidden, are nevertheless smuggled in, and that copies of The London Times fetch as high
as 200 francs, reading circles being often formed at 20 francs per head.

But there are no hopeful signs here of a German retreat. Brussels has not been "practically
evacuated." On the contrary, one gets overwhelmingly the impression that the Germans expect
to stay forever. No cannon are posted on commanding avenues or squares. There are no serious
measures for the defense of the capital. The military and civil Governments occupy the principal
public buildings, and seem to be working with typical German thoroughness. The Government offices
begin to assume an air of permanence.

As conquerors go, the invaders seem to be bearing themselves well. There is apparently no desire
to "rub it in," the military Government seemingly pursuing the wise policy of trying to spare
the feelings of the natives as much as possible, perhaps in the impossible hope of ultimately
conciliating them. German flags are flown sparingly. Only small squads of Landsturm are now
occasionally seen marching through the streets. Even from the bitterest Belgians one hears
no stories of "insult, shame, or wrong."

At the same time, swift and harsh punishment is meted out to any one whose actions are thought
to tend to impair German military authority or dignity. Thus placards posted on many street
corners day before yesterday informed the people that a Belgian city policeman had been sentenced
to five years' imprisonment for "interfering with a German official in the discharge of his
duty, assaulting a soldier, and attempting to free a prisoner." For this, also, a fine of 5,000,000
france ($1,000,000) was imposed on the City of Brussels. Another policeman was sentenced to
three years' imprisonment for alleged similar offenses.

An interesting history of the German occupation can be reconstructed from these same placards
pasted on buildings. Here is one, dating from the early days, forbidding bicycle riding in
the country and announcing that civilian cyclists will be shot at sight. If you look long enough
you can also find a mutilated specimen of ex-Burgomaster Max's famous "dementi," in which he
virtually calls the German Military Governor of Liége and, by implication, the German Government,
"liar." The Bruxellois must be fickle and quick to forget, for I did not hear the picturesque
Max's name mentioned once.

The realities of the military occupation are brought home to the people perhaps most at the
Gare du Nord and the Place de la Gare, where the Civic Guards, in their curious comic opera
caps, are reinforced by German gendarmes with rifles slung over their shoulders. Civilians
are not allowed to cross this square in front of the railway station. "Keep to the sidewalk"
is the brusque order to those who stray. Also the park in front of the Royal Palace is closed
to the public. Three bright red gasoline tank wagons among the trees give it an incongruous
touch, while the walks and drives are used as an exercising ground for officers' mounts. All
the windows of the Royal Palace are decorated with the sign of the Red Cross.

Brussels just now is humorously a victim of the double standard--not moral, but financial.
All kinds of money go here on the basis of 1 mark equaling 1 franc 25 centimes, but shopkeepers
still fix prices and waiters bring bills in francs, and when payment is tendered in marks you
generally get change in both--a proceeding that involves elaborate mathematical computations.
At the next table to you in the restaurant of the Palace Hotel, once a favorite stopping place
for Anglo-American travelers, but now virtually an exclusive German officers' club, with the
distinction of a double guard posted at the front door, sits a short, fiercely mustached General
of some sort--evidently a person of great importance from the commotion his entry caused among
all the other officers in the room. In his buttonhole he wears the Iron Cross of the second
class, the Iron Cross of the first class pinned to his breast, and underneath the rare "Pour
le Merite Order, with Swords." His bill amounts to about 7 francs, for he consumed the regular
4-franc table d'hôte, plus a full bottle of red Burgundy. He tenders a blue 100-mark bill in
payment and gets in return a baffling heap of change, including 1 and 2 franc Belgium paper
notes, 5 and 10 mark German bills, Belgian and German silver, and Belgian nickel coins with
holes punched in the centres. The General takes out his pencil and begins elaborate calculations
on the menu--then sends for the head waiter. It takes some time and much talk to convince him
that he is not being "short changed." The double standard furnishes many of these humorous
interludes.

Equally exasperating is the double time standard. The Germans set their official clocks and
watches by Berlin time, but have made no attempt to force it on the natives, who continue loyal
to Belgian time, which is one hour behind Berlin.

Brand Whitlock, the American Minister to Belgium, who runs a strong risk of having a statue
erected to him some day by the grateful Belgian people, is quite the happiest, most relieved-looking
person in Brussels since he heard the good news that all America was hard at work collecting
food for the Belgians and that England would not prevent its delivery. Soon after the German
occupation of Brussels a committee was organized to give food to the poor here, of which Mr.
Whitlock and the Spanish Minister were patrons. Three weeks ago the Ministerial allies discovered
that the situation was exceedingly grave, not only here but all over Belgium. Committees came
to see Mr. Whitlock from Louvain, Liége, Namur, Charleroi, Mons, Dinant, &c., and the people,
I was told, were within four weeks of absolute starvation. Mr. Whitlock got the German Military
Governor of Belgium, Field Marshal von der Goltz, to give the Spanish Minister and himself
a guarantee in writing that any food sent in for the poor Belgians would not be requisitioned
for the German Army.

The next thing was to get the permission of England; so two weeks ago Secretary Gibson was
sent to London with Baron Lambert, a banker, and M. Franqui to get England's permission as
well as a first shipment of food. Two weeks ago Mr. Whitlock sent a long letter to the State
Department and to President Wilson, asking them to do something. At least one phrase of Mr.
Whitlock's coinage has been going the rounds here. In the various preliminary discussions as
to whose responsibility it was to take care of the Belgian people there was considerable talk
about Hague conventions. "Starving people can't eat Hague conventions" was his answer.

Minister Whitlock also feels vastly relieved that he has got practically all non-official Americans
out of Belgium, the twoscore still here being mostly resident business men, with a sprinkling
of the boldest tourists, who are staying "to see the fun," in spite of Ministerial warnings.

Mr. Whitlock believes he has broken the world's record by being eight Ministers at once. At
one time he was representing Germany, Austria, Great Britain, Japan, Servia, Denmark, and Lichtenstein.
When he told a German officer that he represented Lichtenstein--which is said to be a small
sovereign State somewhere, dependent on Austria--the officer laughed and said: "Theoretically,
Germany is still at war with Lichtenstein and has been since 1866, it having been overlooked
in the peace shuffle." The reason for representing Denmark, which isn't at war with anybody,
is that the Danish Minister is equally accredited to Belgium and The Hague, and had no Secretary
to leave behind when he departed Hagueward. Of course, the American flag does not fly over
the Danish Legation here. In addition, the French and Russian interests were also offered to
Mr. Whitlock, but he was so full of responsibility that he had to ask to be excused.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOUVAIN, Nov. 5.--Louvain now presents the ghastly spectacle of a dead city, buried under ruins,
slowly coming to life again, and continues to give full scope to the morbid streak in human
nature; for sightseers continue to flock here in increasing numbers from Antwerp, Brussels,
and, in fact, all over Belgium, excepting from over the deadline of the operating zone. With
the Bruxellois especially the trip is a favorite outing on a pleasant Sunday. The Germans have
succeeded in restoring the train service to the extent of two passenger trains daily between
here and Brussels and one between here and Antwerp, and the military authorities pursue a surprisingly
liberal policy in giving traveling passes to the Belgian population. In addition to those who
come by train, a steady procession of automobiles passes through all day; and next week, when
a Berlin-Brussels express service is to be started, the local touring season will have a further
boom.

About 5 per cent of the original population have come crawling back, and the three companies
of Landsturm garrisoned here, together with the sightseers, form their source of revenue. The
more courageous shopkeepers who have come back and reopened their stores are coining money
as never in peace times--especially the little confectionery and pastry shops, where the soldiers
off duty come for afternoon coffee, and the one tailor's shop which is open. Workmen are putting
the finishing touches to the new pine-board roof on the cathedral and are making efforts to
"restore" the stone exterior. The famous Gothic Hôtel de Ville is now protected by a high board
fence, and two bearded Landsturm men mount guard there day and night. A gang of laborers is
making headway in cleaning up the interior of the hopelessly ruined University Library, and
the streets are all cleared of débris. The academic halls of the main university building,
which suffered little damage, are not silent, for one of the Landsturm companies is quartered
there. I found half a hundred of them and two cows in the university quadrangle or campus.
The men were all unshaven, but of a good-natured sort, and many were the rough German jokes
as they watched a comrade milking the cows preparatory to their slaughter on the spot by the
company butcher, who stood in waiting, while at the same time the gray-haired university castellan
was getting ready to take a time exposure of the cows.

"And yet they say we Germans are barbarians," laughed an under officer. "I bet you won't find
that the French soldiers, or the highly civilized English gentlemen, either, have a photographer
come to take a picture of the cows they are about to eat."

The venerable university guardian continued to do a brisk business making group pictures and
solo portraits of Landsturm under officers and men at two francs per dozen postcards, till
a Lieutenant appeared on the scene and the bugle sounded in the court for "boot inspection."
All promptly lined up in double file against the brick university wall and presented feet for
the critical eye of the inspector--all except the company cooks, who were busy among their
pots and pans and open-air cook stoves set up in the academic stone portico.

The last of the former students of the University of Louvain was probably the well-dressed,
meek-looking young Chinese, eating luncheon at the near-by restaurant--the only one open in
town. The German soldiers, fortunately, did not mistake him for a Japanese, and he has not
been molested.

There are touches of grim humor among the ruins. Here on the main street, for example, is a
pink placard stuck on a stick on top of the heap of brick and mortar that was once a store.
It reads: "Elegant corsets: Removed to Rue Malines 21." And again, on a number of houses that
escaped the torch are pasted neatly printed little signs bearing the legend: "This house is
to be protected. Soldiers are not allowed to enter houses or to set fire to them without orders
from the Kommandantur."

The inhabitants who have no stores to keep seem continually to wander aimlessly in the streets;
and here, too, is the sight, common now all over Belgium, of many women with children begging.
Especially they linger around the entrances to the barracks, for hunger has given them a keen
nose for bread, and they have soon learned that the soldier will give them what they have left
over from their ample rations. The German Government is trying to stimulate the return of the
population, and is apparently doing its best to help them to earn a living by providing work.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTWERP, Nov. 6.--The Germans are working incessantly to repair the fortifications of Antwerp,
mount new and heavier guns, and put the whole place into a state of defense. His Excellency
von Frankenberg and Ludwigsdorf, Personal Adjutant of the Military Governor of Antwerp, said
to me in the course of a cordial interview:

"We have two principal interests in our work here: First, that Antwerp shall become a place
of great military importance again and be prepared against attacks from the enemy, although
that contingency doesn't seem very probable."

His Excellency was unwilling to hazard a guess as to how long the Germans could hold Antwerp
against an allied siege, but said: "I believe we could hold out longer against the Allies than
they did against the Germans. Our second interest is to revive trade and industry and the life
of the city generally. When we first came here there were only soldiers and hungry dogs on
the streets; now, as you can see, the dead city is coming to life in short order."

He scouted the idea that the people of Belgium had been or were on the brink of starvation
as the result of German occupation, saying that the very contrary was the case. "Belgium is
a country which cannot sustain itself--it produces only enough food for roughly 3,000,000 out
of its 5,000,000 population, because Belgium is an industrial country, and food for the remaining
2,000,000 has to be imported. Heretofore most of this food has come from Holland, whence some
is still coming, but in no great quantity. We have taken the problem of food supply up with
the Belgian Government, as much as there is one left, namely, with the municipalities, and
at our suggestion an 'Intercommunistic Commission' has been organized, so that everything possible
can be done to help the country. This commission sits in Brussels, and when any town or village
or district has no more food on hand the fact is reported and it gets from the commission what
is required. What food supplies we found here we took charge of to prevent their being plundered,
and also because we, as a belligerent, had to supply our own necessities; that is the right
of war. But by no means have we used up all the food supplies ourselves, nor set them aside
for our own use; but a large part has been set aside for this commission, to be used for the
poor, and another part will be given back in a short time for trade purposes, so that commerce
will be revived again.

"There is no place in Belgium where the people have starved. Their most pressing need now would
appear to be money, for many are unemployed and many others disinclined to work. At one place
where we were told the people were starving we found stores crammed full of food--but the inhabitants
had no money and the shopkeepers wouldn't give them credit.

"Everything is being done by us to revive business so that the people can again earn money.
If America had not been so tender-hearted as to send foodstuffs, and if the food supply had
run out, we should certainly have considered it our duty to bring food from Germany, for we
are for the time being the Government here, and it is our duty to see that the people do not
starve."

German newspaper readers are not aware that their Kaiser had a narrow escape from the bombs
of the Allies' airmen at Thielt, for the fact of the War Lord's recent invasion of Belgium
has been kept as nearly a dead secret as possible. I learned from an especially well-informed
source in Brussels that the object of the Kaiser's visit was not only to encourage his troops
but to reprove his Generals. According to this informant, who is frequently in touch with high
officers in their more mellow moods, when military reticence somewhat relaxes, the Kaiser was
said to be in a towering rage at the failure of his army to make headway against the English
and Belgians on the coast, and to have decided to go in person to see about it; also there
has been considerable cautiously veiled criticism of his persistent "interference" in the conduct
of the campaign.

Having last seen the Kaiser two weeks ago motoring at the German Great Headquarters in Eastern
France, I picked up his trail at Louvain, through which place he passed by night a week ago
in a special train in the direction of Lille, after a scouting pilot engine had returned and
reported "all safe." On his return journey from Flanders he was rumored to have "put up" at
the Palais d'Arenberg in Brussels.

It is significant that the following notice has been placarded on the outside of the building
occupied by the Military Government, next door to the Hotel St. Antoine: "Reports that the
French and English are marching on Antwerp are without foundation; the public is warned against
helping to circulate these false reports." All day crowds hang about the door where this notice
is posted among official German news bulletins. The burghers of Antwerp are well informed about
the varying fortunes of the war, for several papers printed in French are allowed to appear,
under the German censorship, which seems surprisingly easygoing here and eminently fair, allowing
them to print not merely the official German accounts circulated by the Wolff Bureau, but the
official English, French, Russian, and even Belgian bulletins as well, in addition to matter
copied from the Dutch papers, which are also allowed to circulate here.

If things look doubtful in the north, the Germans are looking confidently to the south, where
the next big victory is hoped for. I learn that Gen. von Beseler, "the conqueror of Antwerp,"
as his popular picture postcard title reads, is now in charge of operations around Verdun,
and that four of the new 42-centimeter mortars, in addition to more than thirty of the 30.5-centimeter,
are already in place there. On the strength of this combination well-informed German officers
confidently expect the quick fall of Verdun as soon as Beseler gives the order for the "Brummers"
to speak--rather high-priced oratory, for I was told by an artillery officer that it cost the
taxpayers 36,000 marks ($9,000) every time one of the 42-centimeter mortars was fired.

*The Belgian Ruin*

*By J.H. Whitehouse, M.P.*

[An Associated Press Interview, Published Oct. 2, 1914.]

LONDON, Oct. 1.--A graphic picture of the desolation of Belgium was brought to London today
by J.H. Whitehouse, member of Parliament from Lanarkshire, who has just returned from a tour
around Antwerp for the purpose of assisting in the relief measures.

"Having always regarded war as the negation of all that is good," said Mr. Whitehouse tonight,
"I desired to see what its ravages were in a country exposed to all its fury, and what steps
were possible to mitigate them. I do not think that any one here has realized the plight of
the civilian population of Belgium today, and can only attempt to give any picture of this
by describing some of my own experiences."

Mr. Whitehouse made the journey outside Antwerp with two military cars, attended by Belgian
officials. In describing the damage which he says the Belgians had to inflict upon themselves
to supplement the defenses of Antwerp, he said:

"Hundreds of thousands of trees had been cut down, so that at some points of our journey we
had the impression of passing through a wilderness of roots. The tree trunks had all been removed
so as to afford no cover to the enemy. All houses had been blown up or otherwise destroyed.
Later we passed through the country which had been flooded as a further measure of defense.
The damage resulting from these precautionary measures alone amounted to £10,000,000, ($50,000,000.)

"In the villages all ordinary life was arrested. Women and children were standing or sitting
dumb and patient by the roadside. Half way to Termonde we could plainly hear the booming of
guns and saw many evidences of the battle which was then raging.

"I had read newspaper accounts of the destruction of Termonde and had seen photographs, but
they had not conveyed to my mind any realization of the horror of what actually happened. Termonde
a few weeks ago was a beautiful city of about 16,000 inhabitants--a city in which the dignity
of its buildings harmonized with the natural beauty of its situation, a city which contained
some buildings of surpassing interest.

"I went through street after street, square after square, and I found every house entirely
destroyed with all its contents. It was not the result of the bombardment; it was systematic
destruction. In each house a separate bomb had been placed, which had blown up the interior
and set fire to the contents. All that remained in every case were portions of the outer walls,
which were still constantly falling, and inside the cinders of the contents of the buildings.
Not a shred of furniture or anything else remained.

"This sight continued throughout the entire extent of what had been a considerable town. It
had an indescribable influence upon observers which no printed description or even pictorial
record could give. This influence was increased by the utter silence of the city, broken only
by the sound of the guns.

"Of the population I thought that not a soul remained. I was wrong, for as we turned into a
square where the wreck of what had been one of the most beautiful of Gothic churches met my
eyes a blind woman and her daughter groped among the ruins. They were the sole living creatures
in the whole town.

"Shops, factories, churches, and houses of the wealthy--all were similarly destroyed. One qualification
only have I to make of this statement: Two or perhaps three houses bore the German command
in chalk that they were not to be burned. These remained standing, but deserted, amid the ruins
on either side. Where a destroyed house had obviously contained articles of value looting had
taken place.

"I inquired what had become of the population. It was a question to which no direct reply could
be given. They had fled in all directions. Some had reached Antwerp, but a greater number were
wandering about the country, panic-stricken and starving. Many were already dead.

"What happened at Termonde was similar to what had happened in other parts of Belgium under
military occupation of Germany. The result is that conditions have been set up for the civilian
population throughout the occupied territory of unexampled misery. Comparatively few refugees
have reached this country. Others remain wandering about Belgium, flocking into other towns
and villages, or flying to points a little way across the Dutch frontier.

"Sometimes when a town has been bombarded the Germans have withdrawn and the civilians have
returned to their homes, only to flee again at the renewed attack. A case in point is Malines,
which, on Sunday last, as I was about to try to reach it, was again bombarded. The inhabitants
were then unable to leave, as the town was surrounded, but when the bombardment ceased there
was a great exodus.

"The whole life of the nation has been arrested. Food supplies which would ordinarily reach
the civilian population are being taken by the German troops for their own support. The peasants
and poor are without the necessities of life, and conditions of starvation grow more acute
every day. Even where there is a supply of wheat available the peasants are not allowed to
use their windmills, owing to the German fear that they will send signals to the Belgian Army.

"We are, therefore, face to face with a fact which has rarely, if ever, occurred in the history
of the world--an entire nation is in a state of famine, and that within half a day's journey
of our own shores.

"The completeness of the destruction in each individual case was explained to me later by the
Belgian Ministers, who described numerous appliances which the German soldiers carried for
destroying property. Not only were hand bombs of various sizes and descriptions carried, but
each soldier was supplied with a quantity of small black disks a little bigger than a sixpenny
piece. I saw some of these disks which had been taken from German soldiers on the field of
battle. These were described to me as composed of compressed benzine. When lighted they burned
brilliantly for a few minutes, and are sufficient to start whatever fire is necessary after
the explosion of a bomb.

"To the conditions of famine and homelessness which exist on such a stupendous scale there
must be added one which is bad--the mental panic in which many survivors remain. I understood
how inevitable this was when I saw and heard what they passed through; eyewitnesses of unimpeachable
character described the sufferings of women and children at Liége. As they fled from their
burning houses, clinging to their husbands and fathers, they were violently pulled from them
and saw them shot a few yards from them.

"I should supplement what I have said regarding the condition of Belgium with some reference
to Antwerp itself, where the excited Government now sits. It is a wonderful contrast to the
rest of the country, and the first impression of the visitor is that there is little change
between its life now and in the days of peace. I approached it by water, and in the early morning
it rose before me like a fairy city. Its skyline was beautifully broken by the spires and towers
of its churches, including the incomparable Gothic Cathedral.

"When I entered its shops were open, its streets crowded, and everywhere there was eager activity.
By midday the streets became congested. Early editions of the papers were eagerly bought and
great crowds assembled wherever a telegram giving news could be read. This continued until
early evening, but by 8 o'clock a most extraordinary change had fallen upon the city.

"Not a light of any kind in house or shop was to be seen. No lamps were lit in the streets
and the city was plunged into absolute darkness. Not a soul remained in the streets. To the
darkness there was added profound silence. It was as though this amazing city had been suddenly
blotted out."

*The Wounded Serb*

[From The London Times, Oct. 18, 1914.]

VALIEVO, Sept. 25.

Valievo lies at the terminus of a narrow-gauge railway which joins the Belgrade-Salonika line
at Mladinovatz. Along this single track of iron road the entire transport of the Servian Army
is being effected. Westward come trains packed with food, fodder, munitions, and troops; eastward
go long convoys crowded with maimed humanity. At Mladinovatz all this mass of commissariat
and suffering must needs be transferred from or to the broad-gauge line. In this situation
lies not the least of the problems which beset the Servians in their struggle with the Austrian
invaders.

Valievo itself is a picturesque little town which in peace time is famous as the centre of
the Servian prune trade. Its cobbled streets are, in the main, spacious and well planned. There
still remain a few relics of the Turkish occupation--overhanging eaves, trellised windows,
and the like--but these one must needs seek in the by-ways. I picture Valievo under normal
conditions as one of the most attractive of Balkan townships.

Nor has the tableau lost anything in the framing, for it is encircled by a molding of verdant
hills which run off into a sweep of seeming endless woods. The vista from my hotel window is
almost aggravatingly English. Across the red-tiled roofs of intervening cottages rises the
hillside--a checkerboard of grassy slopes and patches of woodland intersected by a brown road
which runs upward until the summit, surmounted by a whitewashed shrine, amid a cluster of walnut
trees, touches the gray sky.

But Valievo is not now to be seen under normal conditions. From the street below rises the
sound of clatter and creak as the rude oxen wagons bump over the cobblestones. Morning, noon,
and night they rumble along unceasingly, and whenever I look down I see martial figures clad
in tattered, muddy, and blood-stained uniforms, with rudely bandaged body or head or foot.
Every now and then a woman breaks from the crowd of waiting loiterers and rushes up to a maimed
acquaintance. They exchange but a few sentences, and then she turns, buries her head in her
apron, and stumbles along the street wailing a bitter lament for some husband, brother, or
son who shall return no more. A friend supports and leads her home; but the onlooking soldiers
regard the scene with indifference and snap out a rude advice "not to make a fuss." They brook
no wailing for Serbs who have died for Servia.

The town itself has been transformed into one huge camp of wounded. All adaptable buildings--halls,
cafés, school-rooms--have been rapidly commandeered for hospitals. Sometimes there are beds,
more often rudely made straw mattresses, for little Servia, worn out by two hard wars, is ill-equipped
to resist the onslaught of a great power. For 16 days a fierce battle has been raging near
the frontier, and wounded have been pouring in much more rapidly than accommodation can be
found for them.

And in the streets--what misery! The lame, the halt, the maimed. Men with damaged leg or foot
hopping along painfully by the aid of a friendly baton; men nursing broken arms or shattered
hands; men with bandaged heads; men being carried from operating shops to café floors; men
with body wounds lying on stretchers--all with ragged, blood-bespattered remnants of what once
were uniforms. One sees little of the glory of war in Valievo. The Servian Medical Staff, deprived
on this occasion of outside assistance, and short alike of doctors, surgeons, nurses, and material,
is striving heroically to cope with its task. Where they have been able to equip hospitals
the work has been very creditably done. One building is almost exclusively devoted to cases
where amputations have been necessary. It is clean, orderly, and the patients are obviously
well cared for. Here, when I entered a ward of some thirty beds in which every man lay with
a bandaged stump where his leg should be, I think I saw the Servian spirit at its best. They
had been newly operated upon, their sufferings must have been great, and for them all the future
is black with forebodings. There is no patriotic fund in little Servia. Yet amid all the pain
of body and uncertainty of mind that must have been theirs they did not complain. All they
desired to know was whether the Schwaba (Austrians) had been beaten out of Servia.

But it is when one leaves the organized hospitals and wends one's way through the crowds of
wounded who block the pavements, and enters a lower-class café, that the appalling tragedy
of it all fills even the spectator with a sense of hopelessness. There, like cattle upon their
bed of straw, lie sufferers from all manner of hurts. They remain mute and uncomplaining, just
as they have been dropped down from the incoming oxen transports. Their wounds--three, four,
or five days old--have yet received no attention save the primitive first-aid of the battlefield.
Blood poisoning is setting in; limbs that prompt dressing would have saved are fast becoming
victims for the surgeon's knife. Most of them know the risk they run, for this is their third
war--often, too, their third wound--in two short years. Yet the doctors cannot come, because
every man of them is already doing more than human energy allows. It is a heartrending sight
to look down upon this helpless mass and to realize that many of them have been sentenced to
painful death for mere lack of primitive medical attention.

One wonders whether, now that half Europe has been transformed into a vast slaughterhouse,
appeals for sympathy can be other than in vain.

*ANOTHER "HAPPY THOUGHT."*

By WINIFRED ARNOLD.

The world is so full
  Of a number of Kings!--
That's probably what is the
  Matter with things.

*Spy Organization in England*

*British Home Office Communication, Oct. 9.*

In view of the anxiety naturally felt by the public with regard to the system of espionage
on which Germany has placed so much reliance and to which attention has been directed by recent
reports from the seat of war, it may be well to state briefly the steps which the Home Office,
acting on behalf of the Admiralty and War Office, has taken to deal with the matter in this
country. The secrecy which it has hitherto been desirable in the public interest to observe
on certain points cannot any longer be maintained owing to the evidence which it is necessary
to produce in cases against spies that are now pending.

It was clearly ascertained five or six years ago that the Germans were making great efforts
to establish a system of espionage in this country, and in order to trace and thwart these
efforts a Special Intelligence Department was established by the Admiralty and the War Office
which has ever since acted in the closest co-operation with the Home Office and metropolitan
police and the principal provincial police forces. In 1911, by the passing of the Official
Secrets act, 1911, the law with regard to espionage, which had hitherto been confused and defective,
was put on a clear basis and extended so as to embrace every possible mode of obtaining and
conveying to the enemy information which might be useful in war.

The Special Intelligence Department, supported by all the means which could be placed at its
disposal by the Home Secretary, was able in three years, from 1911 to 1914, to discover the
ramifications of the German Secret Service in England. In spite of enormous efforts and lavish
expenditure of money by the enemy, little valuable information passed into their hands. The
agents, of whose identity knowledge was obtained by the Special Intelligence Department, were
watched and shadowed without, in general, taking any hostile action or allowing them to know
that their movements were watched. When, however, any actual step was taken to convey plans
or documents of importance from this country to Germany, the spy was arrested, and in such
case evidence sufficient to secure his conviction was usually found in his possession. Proceedings
under the Official Secrets act were taken by the Director of Public Prosecutions, and in six
cases sentences were passed varying from eighteen months to six years' penal servitude. At
the same time steps were taken to mark down and keep under observation all the agents known
to be engaged in this traffic, so that when any necessity arose the police might lay hands
on them at once; and, accordingly, on the 4th of August, before the declaration of war, instructions
were given by the Home Secretary for the arrest of twenty known spies, and all were arrested.
This figure does not cover a large number--upward of 200--who were noted as under suspicion
or to be kept under special observation. The great majority of these were interned at or soon
after the declaration of war.

None of the men arrested in pursuance of the orders issued on Aug. 4 has yet been brought to
trial, partly because the officers whose evidence would have been required were engaged in
urgent duties in the early days of the war, but mainly because the prosecution by disclosing
the means adopted to track out the spies and prove their guilt would have hampered the Intelligence
Department in its further efforts. They were and still are held as prisoners under the powers
given to the Secretary of State by the Aliens Restriction act. One of them, however, who established
a claim to British nationality, has now been formally charged; and, the reasons for delay no
longer existing, it is a matter for consideration whether the same course should now be taken
with regard to some of the other known spies.

Although this action taken on August 4 is believed to have broken up the spy organization which
had been established before the war, it is still necessary to take the most rigorous measures
to prevent the establishment of any fresh organization and to deal with individual spies who
might previously have been working in this country outside the organization, or who might be
sent here under the guise of neutrals after the declaration of war. In carrying this out the
Home Office and War Office have now the assistance of the cable censorship, and also of the
postal censorship, which, established originally to deal with correspondence with Germany and
Austria, has been gradually extended (as the necessary staff could be obtained) so as to cover
communications with those neutral countries through which correspondence might readily pass
to Germany or Austria. The censorship has been extremely effective in stopping secret communications
by cable or letter with the enemy, but as its existence was necessarily known to them it has
not, except in a few instances, produced materials for the detection of espionage.

On Aug. 5 the Aliens Restriction act was passed, and within an hour of its passing an order
in council was made which gave the Home Office and the police stringent powers to deal with
aliens, and especially enemy aliens, who under this act could be stopped from entering or leaving
the United Kingdom, and were prohibited while residing in this country from having in their
possession any wireless or signaling apparatus of any kind, or any carrier or homing pigeons.
Under this order all those districts where the Admiralty or War Office considered it undesirable
that enemy aliens should reside have been cleared by the police of Germans and Austrians, with
the exception of a few persons, chiefly women and children, whose character and antecedents
are such that the local Chief Constable, in whose discretion the matter is vested by the order,
considered that all ground for suspicion was precluded. At the same time the Post Office, acting
under the powers given them by the Wireless Telegraphy acts, dismantled all private wireless
stations; and they established a special system of wireless detection by which any station
actually used for the transmission of messages from this country could be discovered. The police
have co-operated successfully in this matter with the Post Office.

New and still more stringent powers for dealing with espionage were given by the Defense of
the Realm act, which was passed by the Home Secretary through the House of Commons and received
the Royal Assent on Aug. 8. Orders in council have been made under this act which prohibit,
in the widest possible terms, any attempt on the part either of aliens or of British subjects
to communicate any information which "is calculated to be or might be directly or indirectly
useful to an enemy"; and any person offending against this prohibition is liable to be tried
by court-martial and sentenced to penal servitude for life. The effect of these orders is to
make espionage a military offense. Power is given both to the police and to the military authorities
to arrest without a warrant any person whose behavior is such as to give rise to suspicion,
and any person so arrested by the police would be handed over to the military authorities for
trial by court-martial. Only in the event of the military authorities holding that there is
no prima facie case of espionage or any other offense triable by military law is a prisoner
handed back to the civil authorities to consider whether he should be charged with failing
to register or with any other offense under the Aliens Restriction act.

The present position is therefore that espionage has been made by statute a military offense
triable by court-martial. If tried under the Defense of the Realm act the maximum punishment
is penal servitude for life; but if dealt with outside that act as a war crime the punishment
of death can be inflicted.

At the present moment one case is pending in which a person charged with attempting to convey
information to the enemy is now awaiting his trial by court-martial; but in no other case has
any clear trace been discovered of any attempt to convey information to the enemy, and there
is good reason to believe that the spy organization crushed at the outbreak of the war has
not been re-established.

How completely that system had been suppressed in the early days of the war is clear from the
fact disclosed in a German Army order--that on the 21st of August the German military commanders
were still ignorant of the dispatch and movements of the British expeditionary force, although
these had been known for many days to a large number of people in this country.

The fact, however, of this initial success does not prevent the possibility of fresh attempts
at espionage being made, and there is no relaxation in the efforts of the Intelligence Department
and of the police to watch and detect any attempts in this direction. In carrying out their
duties the military and police authorities would expect that persons having information of
cases of suspected espionage would communicate the grounds of the suspicion to local military
authority or to the local police, who are in direct communication with the Special Intelligence
Department, instead of causing unnecessary public alarm and possibly giving warning to the
spies by public speeches or letters to the press. In cases in which the Director of Public
Prosecutions has appealed to the authors of such letters and speeches to supply him with the
evidence upon which their statements were founded in order that he might consider the question
of prosecuting the offender, no evidence of any value has as yet been forthcoming.

Among other measures which have been taken has been the registration, by order of the Secretary
of State made under the Defense of the Realm act, of all persons keeping carrier or homing
pigeons. The importation and the conveyance by rail of these birds have been prohibited, and,
with the valuable assistance of the National Homing Union, a system of registration has been
extended to the whole of the United Kingdom, and measures have been taken which, it is believed,
will be effective to prevent the possibility of any birds being kept in this country which
would fly to the Continent.

Another matter which has engaged the closest attention of the police has been the possibility
of conspiracies to commit outrage. No trace whatever has been discovered of any such conspiracy,
and no outrage of any sort has yet been committed by any alien--not even telegraph wires having
been maliciously cut since the beginning of the war. Nevertheless it has been necessary to
bear in mind the possibility that such a secret conspiracy might exist or might be formed among
alien enemies resident in this country. Accordingly, immediately after the commencement of
hostilities, rigorous search was made by the police in the houses of Germans and Austrians,
in their clubs, and in all places where they were likely to resort. In a few cases individuals
were found who were in possession of a gun or pistol which they had not declared, and in one
or two cases there were small collections of ancient firearms, and in such cases the offenders
have been prosecuted and punished; but no store of effective arms--still less any bombs or
instruments of destruction--have so far been discovered. From the beginning any Germans or
Austrians who were deemed by the police to be likely to be dangerous were apprehended, handed
over to the military authorities, and detained as prisoners of war; and, as soon as the military
authorities desired it, general action was taken to arrest and hand over to military custody
Germans of military age, subject to exceptions which have properly been made on grounds of
policy. About 9,000 Germans and Austrians of military age have been so arrested and are held
as prisoners of war in detention camps, and among them are included those who are regarded
by the police as likely in any possible event to take part in any outbreak of disorder or incendiarism.

*Chronology of the War*

*Showing Progress of Campaigns on All Fronts and Collateral Events to and Including Oct. 15,
1914.[A]*

*CAMPAIGN IN EASTERN EUROPE*

July 21--Situation threatens European war; fear that Russia will aid Servia.

July 23--Austria sends ultimatum to Servia; Austrian Army Corps mobilized at Temesvar, and
fleet gathers at Semlin.

July 24--Russia will ask Austria to extend time for Servia's reply to ultimatum; Austria will
brook no interference.

July 25--Servia's reply to ultimatum unsatisfactory; Russian Army mobilizing.

July 26--Servian Army mobilizing; Russian warning to Germany.

July 27--Austrian Army invades Servia; Servians blow up bridge across Danube; report of mobilizing
of Montenegrin Army; Austria denounces Servia's reply to ultimatum; Cossacks fire on Germans
at frontier.

July 28--Austria declares war on Servia and Emperor issues manifesto; fighting along River
Drina; Russian forces mass on eastern border.

July 29--Russian intervention imminent; Austrians bombard Belgrade; Servians blow up bridges
at Semlin.

July 30--Kaiser calls on Russia to halt mobilization within twenty-four hours; war activity
in Warsaw; Austrians repulsed at Losnitza; Montenegrins occupy Cattaro.

July 31--Russians blow up railway bridge on Vienna-Warsaw line; Servians check Austrians at
Semendria and on Bosnian frontier; France replies to German note about Russia; Czar, Kaiser,
and King George may yet arrange peace; following Council of Ministers at Peterhof, Russia sends
no reply to German note and calls out reserves; France and England still trying to adjust matters
between Russia and Austria; Russian mobilization order; Austria orders military and naval mobilization.

Aug. 1--Germany declares war on Russia, Kaiser signs mobilization order; German patrol near
Prostken fired on by Russians.

Aug. 2--Russians cross German frontier and seize railroad station: Montenegrin King signs mobilization
order.

Aug. 3--Germans seize three cities in Russian Poland; Czar calls Russians to war; fighting
on Drina River.

Aug. 4--Russians defeated in attack on Memel; Serbs defeat Austrians near Semendria; Turkey
mobilizes.

Aug. 5--Austria declares war on Russia; Russian patrols raid East Prussia; Servian flag hoisted
at Delarme, Austria; Belgrade bombarded; Germans repulse Russian cavalry at Soldau and Neidenberg.

Aug. 7--Montenegro declares war against Austria; Austrians bombard Belgrade; Servians annihilate
Austrian regiment.

Aug. 8--Servia declares war on Germany; fighting between Germans and Russians at Eydtkuhnen;
German force lands in Finland; Austrians evacuate Visigard; Austrians burn Russian villages
near Rumanian border.

Aug. 9--Russians repulsed by Germans near Tilsit; Germans capture motor
cars carrying money to Russia; Russians enter Austria; Austrians occupy
town and customs station of Andrejew, Russian Poland; Turkey mobilizing
 on Bulgarian frontier.

Aug. 10--Montenegrins occupy Scutari; Belgrade again bombarded; Servians penetrate Bosnia;
Austrians bombard Antivari; Germans concentrate on Russian frontier.

Aug. 11--Russians guard Finland; Russian cavalry routs Austrians in Galicia; Italy demands
explanation from Austria of bombardment of Antivari; Russians advance into Germany.

Aug. 12--German attempt to reoccupy Eydtkuhnen unsuccessful; Austrians and Germans defeated
on Russian frontier; Russian visitors to German health resorts tell of ill-treatment; Servians
and Montenegrins advance on Bosnia; Prince George of Servia wounded.

Aug. 13--Russians capture Sokal; Cossacks annihilate two Austrian-cavalry regiments; German
troops before Kalisz threaten to shoot every tenth inhabitant if further resistance is shown.

Aug. 14--Russians defeat Austrians on the Dniester; unrest in Turkey.

Aug. 15--Berlin reports capture of 23 Russian Generals and Admirals by Germans; Greece wants
explanation from Turkey of concentration of troops near border; Russians raid East Prussia;
fighting between Austrians and Servians on the Save and the Danube; Turkish Ambassador says
Turkey was not hostile in buying German cruisers.

Aug. 16--Germans fail to retake Eydtkuhnen.

Aug. 17--Russia demands of Turkey unrestricted use of Dardanelles; prisoners a problem for
both sides; Russian Army marches on Austria and Germany; minor engagements on frontier; Servians
check Austrians' advance; Greece hears that Turkish troops are approaching and sends warning
that corresponding measures will be taken.

Aug. 18--Servia reports Austrian defeat near Saboc.

Aug. 19--Austrians defeated by Serbs at Shabats; Russians report victory over Austrians in
Padolia; Germans report capture of Russians in East Prussia; Russians driven out of Germany;
Italian refugees complain of German outrages.

Aug. 20--Russians occupy Gumbinnen and Lyck in East Prussia; Austrians occupy Miechow, Russian
Poland.

Aug. 21--Serbs defeat Austrians in four days' battle near Losnitza; Russians successfully advance
on Austro-German frontier.

Aug. 22--Russians report continued successes on Austro-German frontier; Servians report capture
of Austrian guns in pursuit of defeated force across the Drina.

Aug. 23--Russian Army pushes fifty miles into Prussia, capturing three towns; Servian version
of victory at Losnitza confirmed in Rome; Montenegrins continue attack.

Aug. 24--Austria abandons Servian campaign to meet Russian attack; two Russian armies crush
Germans in the east; retreating armies lay waste the country.

Aug. 25--Russians spread on broad front over East Prussia and Galicia and repulse Austrians
at Kielce; Germans report Russian defeat near Gumbinnen; Servians chase Austrians along whole
front; report of German outrages on Jews in Kalisz.

Aug. 26--Russians sweep over Prussia in three lines, menacing Königsberg and Posen; Germans
reported fleeing from Elbing district; report of Russian advance into Austria; Austrians drive
Russians from Krasnik.

Aug. 27--Russians take Tilsit; Germans retreat toward Königsberg and Allenstein; Austrians
routed in Galicia; French troops join Montenegrins to operate against Austria.

Aug. 28--Russians reach Allenstein; Russians continue advance in Galicia; Serbs defeat Austrians
at Shabats.

Aug. 29--Russians invest Königsberg and occupy Allenstein; Germans claim victories; Russians
draw net around Lemberg; Austrians claim occupation of Zamost.

Aug. 30--Russians advance in East Prussia, to the Vistula and bombard Thorn and Graudenz; panic
in Danzig; battle between Russians and Austrians in Poland; Austrians defeated at Lemberg;
Russians gain ground against Austrians and win battle at Zamost; Germans in East Prussia get
reinforcements and report capture of 30,000 Russians; Poland almost clear of German troops.

Sept. 1--Russians inflict crushing defeat on Austrians on Galician frontier; Germans announce
defeat of three Russian army corps near Allenstein.

Sept. 2--Russians seize fortified positions around Lemberg, admit advance into East Prussia
temporarily checked; new invasion of Germany planned; Turkey lands troops in Asia Minor; Montenegrins
defeat Austrians near Bilek.

Sept. 3--Austrians report success at Lublin; Cossacks rout German scouting party from Thorn;
Russians take capital of Bukowina.

Sept. 5--Russians take Lemberg and Halicz and march toward Poland; Austrians defeated at Tomaszow;
Russian refugees tell of destruction of Kalisch by Germans; twenty Russian army corps march
on Prussia, ten hold Austria back; Austrians defeated near Lublin.

Sept. 6--Russians attack Germans on left bank of the Vistula, occupy Stryk regions, capture
Forty-fifth Austrian Regiment near Krasnystaw, capture Austrian aeroplane and a Zeppelin and
take year's provisions at Lemberg.

Sept. 7--Austrians retreat; Russians closing in on Przemysl.

Sept. 8--Russians take Nikolaieff and Mikolajow; Gen. Ruzsky engages Gen. Auffenberg's army
in Poland; Austrians claim advance into Russian Poland and defeat of Serbs near Mitrovica;
Servian invasion of Bosnia begun.

Sept. 9--Battle at Rava-Russka; Austrians evacuate Russian Poland; Germans claim capture of
part of Russian Imperial Guard; Serbs and Montenegrins advance into Bosnia.

Sept. 10--Russians invade Silesia and menace Breslau; Austro-German forces defeated at Lublin;
Serbs cross the Save.

Sept. 11--Serbs take Semlin; Montenegrins take Folcha and join with Serbs in march on Serajevo;
Germans defeat invading Finland force at Lyck; Polish miners at Berdzin wreck German train
by concealing explosive in fuel; Russians occupy Suczawa and Hatna; Russians fight on Austrian
and German border; Austrians resume offensive near Lemberg.

Sept. 12--Russians defeat Austrians in battle near Tomaszow; German attack in East Prussia
checked; successes of Serbs against Austrians continue.

Sept. 13--Russian victories west and northwest of Lemberg; Russo-Serb Army plans advance on
Budapest; Montenegrins will invest Bosnia.

Sept. 14--Austrians rally for battle before Przemsyl; Russians cross the San; Germans defeated
near Miawa and send reinforcements to Memel.

Sept. 15--Russians occupy Grodek; Austrians hemmed in between Rivers San and Vistula; Germans
report defeat of Russian Armies of Vina and Grodno; Russians say Germans have been driven back
across frontier; Serbs invade Hungary.

Sept. 16--Austrians still retreat in Galicia; Servians continue advance into Bosnia; Montenegrins
defeat Austrians near Koulilovo.

Sept. 17--Austrians flee before Russians toward Cracow; Gen. Rennekampf blocks flanking movement
by Germans; Servian artillery repulses Austrian warships that shell Semlin and Belgrade.

Sept. 18--Russians take Siniava and Sambor; Austrian rear guard thrown back beyond the San;
prisoners and ammunition captured near Memirov; Germans advance against Russians in Suwalki
Province; Russians halt offensive German movement and plan new invasion of East Poland; Germans
retreat from Kielce Province to rally Austrians defeated at Krasnik; Russians enter Kazeshow.

Sept. 20--Russians attack Jaroslaw and Przemysl and seize Sambor and Kresheshov; Gen. Auffenberg's
army separated from Gen. Dankl's; Germans defeated near Sandomierz; Gen. Rennenkampf checks
German advance in East Prussia; Servians defeat Austrians near Novi-Bazar.

Sept. 21--Russians take Dubiecko and surround Gen. Dankl's army; Servians win near Krupani,
evacuate Semlin.

Sept. 22--Austrians defeated on the Drina near Krupani; Russians occupy Jaroslaw and again
move to attack Königsberg.

Sept. 23--Russians take Wislok; Austrian retreat from Przemysl through Carpathians cut off;
Cossacks raid Czenstochowa; French land guns at Antivari.

Sept. 24--Advance guards of Russian forces arrive before Cracow; Germans defeated at Subin;
Russians again occupy Soldau; Montenegrins report capture of Pratzho and Montak in Bosnia.

Sept. 25--Russians occupy Czyschky and Felstyn; Germans occupy Cracow, population flees; Przemysl
cut off from all communication; battle between Serbs and Austrians near Zvorkni.

Sept. 26--Greater part of Przemysl occupied by Russians; Germans concentrated in Prussia for
impending battle.

Sept. 27--Russians halt German advance in Suwalki and enter town of Przemysl; Serbs and Montenegrins
reach Rumania; Germans in weak position on the Niemen River.

Sept. 28--Montenegrins within artillery range of Serajevo; Serbs occupy mountains near by;
Bosnians join invading army; Russians occupy Dembica and take another fort at Przemysl, cross
Carpathians, and invade Hungary.

Sept. 29--Russians sweep across the Carpathians and over Northern Hungary; Servians retake Semlin.

Sept. 30--Germans fail in attempt to cross the River Niemen; retreating Austrians surrounded
near Dukia; Hungarians retake Uzsok Pass; Servians and Montenegrins close to capital of Bosnia.

Oct. 2--Russians break German centre and take up new battle line from Mariampol to Ossowitz;
Germans bombard Ossowitz; Russians claim victories in Lodz and Suwalki, and take two Przemysl
forts.

Oct. 3--Germans are evacuating Russian Poland; Russians advance on Transylvania; fighting at
Augustowo; Servians raid Semlin and destroy forts.

Oct. 4--Russians defeat Germans at Augustowo and advance reaches Nugy Valley in Hungary; Germans
make unsuccessful attacks on Ossowitz forts; Germans lured into a trap on the Niemen.

Oct. 5--Two Russian armies advance toward Allenstein; fighting near Warsaw; Russians are near
Cracow; Germans fortify heights between Breslau and Cracow; Austrians claim victory over Montenegrins
in East Bosnia; Servians approach Serajevo fortifications.

Oct. 6--Germans claim victories near Suwalki and Augustowo; Russian forces from the Baltic
close in on Germans, and announce German retreat from positions between Wirballen and Lyck;
Austrians claim victory at Uzsok Pass, but Cossacks are reported eighty miles from Budapest.

Oct. 7--Germans bring reinforcements from Königsberg and check Russians; Russians shell Przemysl;
Austrians report victory in Hungary near Tesco.

Oct. 8--Russians claim repulse of Germans in Russian Poland and capture of Biala; Germans deny
Russian advance in Suwalki; gains by Montenegrins in Herzegovina.

Oct. 9--Russians announce reoccupation of Lyck; Przemysl reported on fire.

Oct. 10--Russians claim that Germans are retiring from Lyck; Austrians report successes throughout
Galicia.

Oct. 11--Montenegrins defeat Austrians near Kalenovitch; Russians
 sweep through Bukoi Bukowina;
Austrians rush help to Przemysl.

Oct. 12--Russians abandon siege of Przemysl and retreat from Galicia; German-Austrian army
captures many prisoners.

Oct. 13--Fall of Warsaw believed near; British Consul asks for American protection; Montenegrins
defeat Austrians near Serajevo.

Oct. 14--Germans report defeat of Russians at Warsaw and recapture of Lyck; Servians in Bosnia
beaten back.

Oct. 15--Berlin reports advance of eight Russian army corps against Bast Prussia; account made
public of how Gen. von Hindenburg lured Gen. Rennenkampf into trap at Tennenberg; Russians
report victory over Austrians south of Przemysl.

*CAMPAIGN IN WESTERN EUROPE.*

July 26--Belgium increases army to enforce neutrality.

July 27--Belgian Army mobilizes, Holland prepares to maintain neutrality.

July 28--French Army moves to frontier.

July 29--Belgium calls out reserves.

July 30--England takes defensive measures.

July 31--Belgium mobilizes.

Aug. 1--France mobilizes after Germany asks her intentions; will respect neutrality of Belgium.

Aug. 2--Germany sends ultimatum to Belgium, seizes Luxemburg, and invades France; fighting
at Longwy, three German spies arrested in England.

Aug. 3--Berlin reports acts of hostility by French; England will protect French coast and defend
Belgium; France promises to guard Belgian neutrality; France holds that war with Germany began
automatically with invasion of her territory.

Aug. 4--England declares war on Germany as Kaiser rejects ultimatum on Belgian neutrality;
Germany declares war on Belgium; attack on Liége repulsed; Germans cross French border near
Mars-la-Tour and Moineville.

Aug. 5--French repulse Germans at border; many Germans killed in attack on Liége, Crown Prince
bringing aid, French Army rushing up.

Aug. 6--Germans take two forts at Liége; French Army coming; English coast towns arm.

Aug. 7--Rapid mobilization of French on frontier; French occupy two towns in Alsace-Lorraine;
Kaiser and King of Belgium call nations to arms; Bavarians beaten by French at Marrehan; Germans
enter Liége, forts still held by Belgians; Germans get armistice to bury dead.

Aug. 8--Holland guards frontier; conflicting reports of fall of Liége; French forces in Belgium;
British land on Continent; French take Mülhausen after battle at Altkirch; German spies try
to blow up tunnels and bridges near Paris.

Aug. 9--Germans in Alsace fall back on Neu Breisach; Kaiser leaves for front; Belgian War Minister
denies capture of Liége, Germans in city but forts untaken; French and English reinforce Belgians;
Governor and Bishop of Liége held as hostages; German warning of reprisals; Germans arrested
in England; Holland captures and disarms Uhlans at Maastricht.

Aug. 10--France breaks off diplomatic relations with Austria; French student tells how Germans
shot refugees; French patrols cover Eifel district in Germany; French open way into Alsace
by capturing Bonhomme and Sainte Marie; 100 German spies put to death in Belgium; more caught;
Germans forced by French to plan new campaign in Belgium; Allies claim success in cavalry encounters;
Germans moving through Esch.

Aug. 11--Germans attack French frontier, take Lagarde and intrench south of Liége; Belgians
retake Loncin fort; Kaiser claims victory at Liége; French Army forced back in Alsace; minor
checks to Germans; German siege guns before Liége; German advance directed at gap between Verdun
and Longwy.

Aug. 12--Germany tries again to negotiate with Belgium for passage of army; Germans bombard
Point-a-Mousson; Germans move on Brussels and are driven back by Belgians' left wing; Germans
report victory in Alsace; Germans reported to have shot French wounded; German spies terrorize
Belgium; battle near Tongres; German official says Kaiser halted attack on Liége and denies
heavy losses; Germans complete bridge for siege artillery; Paris papers say Germans burned
village of Affleville and shot farmers.

Aug. 13--England declares war on Austria; Belgians beat off Germans in two-day fight; Namur
defenses strengthened; battles at Diest, Haelen, and Eghezee; Germans shoot woman accused of
attempt to blow up Alsatian tunnel; British, French, and Belgians charge cruelties by German
troops; report that Germans hold Diest; German guns reported wrecked by fire from Liége forts;
French report severe defeat of Germans by counter-attack at Pont-a-Mousson; Swiss report that
Germans lost 10,000 in Alsace; Swiss disarm German troops; Italy's troops guard Alpine passes.

Aug. 14--Germans mass to attack Allies and move toward Brussels; bombardment of Liége renewed;
attempt to storm Pontisse fails; British Commander French and French Gen. Joffre meet at headquarters;
French and Belgian forts exchange officers; French win in battle in Vosges Mountains.

Aug. 15--Armies of Germany and Allies face each other on 248-mile battle front; French storm
three towns and retake Thann in Alsace; battling at Liége forts continues; Germans said to
have shot innocent people in Linsmeau for slaying an officer.

Aug. 16--Fighting at Mülhausen renewed; French take offensive along line from Lunéville to
Saarburg; clash near Dinant; Germans damage Vise; general advance of French on eastern frontier;
South Belgium barricaded; Belgian cyclists fight strong German force; rumor that Austrians
are in Belgium.

Aug. 17--French forces sweep on toward Strassburg; desultory fighting clears ground between
Germans and Allies; Belgians say Germans torture prisoners; Belgian seat of Government moved
to Antwerp.

Aug. 18--British force lands in France; German advance on Brussels checked; Germans evacuate
Saarburg; French take two batteries; Germans start second fire in Vise.

Aug. 19--Fighting near Altkirch; Paris prepares for eventualities; Allies fall back and may
quit Brussels; Germans occupy Louvain; French report further advance into Alsace; Germans retake
Ville.

Aug. 20--French reoccupy Mülhausen, but are checked in Lorraine; other French gains in Alsace;
German cavalry occupies Brussels; Belgian Army retires on Antwerp; French victory near Lunéville;
Germans defeat Belgians at Aerschot.

Aug. 21--French withdraw from Lorraine; Germans rush through Brussels, capture Ghent, levy
war taxes on Brussels and Liége, and will try to seize Ostend; England says tax levy is violation
of Hague treaty; German assault on Namur begins; report of German vengeance on town of Tongres;
Antwerp, new seat of Government, prepares for defense; Germans hold Audun-la-Roman and continue
to cross the Meuse.

Aug. 22--French deny German report of victory between Metz and the Vosges; Germans continue
bombardment of Namur forts and face Allies on twenty-mile front to Charleroi; main force is
aimed at Lille; battle between English and Germans at Waterloo; French close in on Colmar;
fight between German and English cavalry at Colmar; fear that Belgian cities may not be able
to pay indemnity; Germans accused of shooting Burgomaster and citizens of Aerschot without
provocation.

Aug. 23--Allies take offensive against Germans along 150-mile line from Mons to Luxemburg;
Belgian commander blows up one Liége fort; others hold out; French repel three days' attack
on Mülhausen intrenchments; France protests to Hague against use of dumdum bullets by Germans.

Aug. 24--Allies fall back before German attack on Belgium; report that Namur has fallen; account
made public of battle at Charleroi; Germans, led by Crown Prince in Lorraine, pursue French
beyond Longwy; success of force headed by Prince Rupprecht of Bavaria at Lunéville, Blamont
and Cirey; French defeated at Neuf-chateau by forces under Grand Duke Albrecht of Württemberg;
Germans begin another attack on Mülhausen; English cavalry brigade defeated by Germans south
of Brussels; Germans set fire to Hussigny and resume fire at Liége.

Aug. 25--Battle on new 200-mile-line between Germans and Allies; Germans capture five Namur
forts and are attacking others; French withdraw from Alsace to frontier; Allies gain to the
south; Germans levy tax on Brabant; report that Lorrainers betrayed French troops to Germans.

Aug. 26--Allies fall back a short distance in Belgium; Belgian success at Malines; French claim
success near Nancy and Lunéville; report that Lille is abandoned; big battle in Lorraine; Germans
fire houses in Liége; Berlin announces British rout at Maubeuge.

Aug. 27--Germans take Longwy and all Namur forts; British-French line falls back on right flank;
French reoccupy Lille; details given out of fighting at Mons; Germans take Malines and tax
Tourant and Charleroi; announcement of German bombardment of Malines; Paris prepares for possible
siege.

Aug. 28--Austria declares war on Belgium; Belgians retake Malines and advance to Brussels;
Germans defeat Allies along entire line; report that fall of Namur was due to heavy fog; Germans
sack and burn Louvain; art treasures destroyed.

Aug. 29--German force withdrawn from Belgium to meet Russians; French right wins at Guise,
left reinforced but repulsed; Germans march on La Fere; Allies evacuate Boulogne; account made
public of the heroic defense of Longwy; details given out of fall of Namur; Germans blow up
bridges on railway from Antwerp to frontier; French bayoneted company of Germans accused of
treachery; Military Governor of Paris orders destruction of houses obstructing forts' fire.

Aug. 30--French left wing again driven back; Allies' lines reinforced; Germans recalled to
Brussels to hold city; French reported successful near Amiens.

Aug. 31--Paris defense plans rushed; Allies' left flank again driven back.

Sept. 1--Allies' centre hard pressed; German attack on Belfort fails; British flank reinforced;
Germans fortify Brussels.

Sept. 2--French move capital temporarily to Bordeaux to allow Allies to pivot left wing on
Paris; German cavalry corps defeated by British near Compiègne; another pushes on to Soissons;
French report success in Lorraine.

Sept. 3--Report that Russian troops have been transported to Belgium; Germans take La Fere
and Amiens and move to attack Laon and Rheims; Austrians sent to reinforce German left wing;
Germans are twenty-five miles from Paris.

Sept. 4--Germans neglect Paris and move eastward; German right wing reported checked and driven
back to St. Quentin; Allies driven back behind Conde; Germans move toward Verdun; Germans bombard
Termonde; fighting in Alost.

Sept. 5--Germans take Rheims and three forts at Maubeuge; Belgians trap Germans in flooded
area near Malines; Germans take Termonde; Germans abandon attack on Belfort.

Sept. 6--German right wing checked near Paris; Kaiser directs attack on Nancy; account made
public of evacuation of Senlis and Chantilly.

Sept. 7--It is now plain that the German march on Paris has been deflected; Allies force Germans
back in 160-mile battle from Nanteuil-le-Hardouin to Verdun and report defeat of Crown Prince's
army; Germans defeat Belgians near Melle and march to occupy Ghent; repulsed at Capelle-au-Bois.

Sept. 8--British push German right over the Marne; French win on the Ourcq; fighting at Vitry.

Sept. 9--Germans claim capture of Maubeuge; British cross the Marne; Germans fall back; have
evacuated Upper Alsace.

Sept. 10--Gen. von Stein admits defeat by Allies; Belgians reoccupy Termonde, Aerschot, and
Diest; French join British across Marne in pursuing Germans; fighting near Vitry and other
points in centre.

Sept. 11--German line west of Revigny retreats, but captures fort near Verdun; Gen. Pau seizes
German supply train; account given out of battle at Meaux; British report annihilation of German
Jaeger regiment; French deny fall of Maubeuege and recapture Mülhausen; Germans march south
from Ghent, Belgians in pursuit.

Sept. 12--Belgians cut German Army in two by victory at Cortenberg; whole German line in France
retreats, Lunéville retaken; Belgians repulse German sortie at Louvain and advance on Brussels.

Sept. 13--Germans repulsed at Nancy and Lunéville, evacuate Amiens, lose Revigny and Brabant-le-Roi;
Crown Prince's Army threatened; fighting at Louvain and Malines; heavy fighting at Bortzy;
battle between Thann and Sennheim.

Sept. 14--Amiens reoccupied by French; Fort of Troyon relieved; Germans make stand on the Aisne;
Germans lay waste to Senlis.

Sept. 15--German Crown Prince's army driven back to the Orne; French reoccupy Rheims; fighting
on the Aisne; new intrenched positions taken by German armies; La Ferte ransacked by Germans;
Franco-Belgian successes at Alost and Rousbrugge.

Sept. 16--New battle on from Noyon to Verdun; army from Douen is circling von Kluck's corps;
Germans move nearer Antwerp.

Sept. 17--German Army strengthened between Berry-au-Bac and Argonne; French advance in Woevre
district; deadlock on right flank; Belgians repulse attack on Termonde.

Sept. 18--Germans complete bombardment of Termonde; now known that Maubeuge has fallen; Allies'
left advances six miles; Germans report gain in centre; Germans intrench on the Sambre; Germans
send scouting parties into Belgium.

Sept. 19--Germans fortify along the Rhine; Allies advance on left and right wings and drive
back army of German Crown Prince; heavy fighting at Rheims; Germans capture Beaumont; German
shells hit Cathedral of Notre Dame and Church of St. Remi in Rheims.

Sept. 20--Germans badly damage Rheims; Allies make slight gains; fighting near Soissons; Germans
report offensive move; Allies capture Souain; Belgians retake Lanaeken; Germans bring siege
guns up to Antwerp.

Sept. 21--Allies gain between Rheims and Argonne, take Massiges and Mesnil; Germans claim capture
of Craonne hills and Betheny; Belgians repulse German assault on Fort Waelhem; Termonde under
fire again.

Sept. 22--Germans claim victories at Craonne and Betheny; their right turned between Peronne
and St. Quentin; desultory fighting near Malines and Alost.

Sept. 23--Allies advance on left wing near Lassigny; Germans bombard Verdun; Germans prepare
for campaign in Southern Belgium.

Sept. 24--French take Peronne; Germans take Varennes; Belgians report victory near Antwerp.

Sept. 25--Allies beaten back by Germans at Noyon, but renew offensive after being reinforced;
Germans advance southeast of Verdun; quarries from Giraumont to Machemok strengthen German
position; campaign in Alsace halted by snow.

Sept. 26--Germans take Fort des Romaines and cross the Meuse; Germans burn Bilsen; Austrian
and German artillery menace Antwerp.

Sept. 27--Allies repulse charges on right and left wings; Germans gain in centre; Verdun forts
withdraw fire; French reinforced on the Meuse; Germans again bombard Malines.

Sept. 28--Allies make slight progress on heights of the Meuse; fog in Woevre district causes
suspension of fighting; Belgians retake Alost and repulse Germans at Malines.

Sept. 29--Germans occupy Moll and Malines, bombard Lierre, and shell outer forts of Antwerp;
fighting on the Aisne continues.

Sept. 30--Allies drive back both German wings and retake St. Mihiel; French trap Germans in
quarries; Germans destroy town of Orchies; Belgians renew bombardment of Lierre.

Oct. 1--Belgians repulse German attacks on Antwerp forts; Germans capture Roye and claim success
in attack on Albert; French report gains; French shell Germans in quarries; Scheldt River interferes
with attack of Germans on Antwerp; Belgians bombard church at Termonde to drive Germans from
steeple.

Oct. 2--Allies checked after pushing north to Arras; Germans driven back across the Meuse;
Germans report two Antwerp forts silenced; Cologne prepares for defense; Belgians report German
repulse at one Antwerp fort and at Termonde.

Oct. 3--Battle at Roye; Germans claim victory near Toul; Belgians near Antwerp fall back.

Oct. 4--Berlin reports capture of Forts Wavre, St. Catherine, and Dorpweld, and of Termonde;
Allies defeat flanking movement and battleground shifts to vicinity of Arras; Allies claim
success in Woevre and Soissons regions; British forces aid in defense of Antwerp; Fort Walheim
damaged; Germans take two villages on Dutch border near Maastricht.

Oct. 5--Germans gain on right wing, take three Antwerp forts, and resume offensive in Argonne
district and along the Meuse.

Oct. 6--Antwerp warned that bombardment is near; desperate fighting on the Oise; Allies gain
at Soissons; German column near Lille; French hold strong positions in Alsace.

Oct. 7--Germans report bombardment of Lanaeken when civilians attack them; Germans closing
in on Antwerp and have crossed the Nethe; fighting near Ghent; Allies drive German cavalry
back from Lille and gain at Roye; skirmish at Ypres; Allies reinforced; Germans are still shelling
Rheims.

Oct. 8--Antwerp bombarded by German siege guns and Zeppelins; Germans cross the Scheldt; Allies
gain near Arras, which is being shelled by Germans; Germans cut railway lines near Ypres; cavalry
fights on the Belgian frontier.

Oct. 9--Germans claim progress near St. Mihiel and in the Argonne district; Germans report
fall of Fort Breendonk; Antwerp aflame; fighting around Roye; cavalry battles near Lille; Germans
occupy Courtrai and destroy bridges between Brussels and Mons.

Oct. 10--Antwerp surrenders, Belgian Army escapes; widespread ruin in city; some British troops
driven into Holland; fighting at Arras continues; Germans bombard Lokeron; Germans report gains
at St. Mihiel and in the Argonne region.

Oct. 11--Germans occupy Antwerp; main British and Belgian defending armies reach Ostend; fighting
near Soissons; German attacks in Caronne region repulsed; Allies win in centre; Arras free
from Germans; British official report tells how the Germans were routed near Bray.

Oct. 12--Germans enter Ghent; Allies fight to check German reinforcements; fighting at Lasigny
and Lens; Germans mass around Ypres; cavalry fighting near Lille.

Oct. 13--Germans press on toward Ostend; severe fighting in Argonne district; Germans take
Lille and occupy Hazebrouck and Ypres; Germans occupy Ghent and move on Bruges.

Oct. 14--Belgian Army leaves Ostend and joins Allies in field; Allies reoccupy Ypres; French
gain near border; German battalion trapped in canal in Lorraine.

Oct. 15--Allies retake Estaires and report gains at several points; Germans deny repulses and
occupy Bruges, Thielt, Daume, and Esschen; German convoy captured by French.

*CAMPAIGN IN THE FAR EAST.*

Aug. 4--Japanese Government's proclamation prepares people for war in behalf of England.

Aug. 6--Germans fortify Tsing-tau.

Aug. 11--Japan requisitions transports.

Aug. 16--Japan sends ultimatum to Germany demanding withdrawal of fleet in Far Eastern waters
and giving up of Kiao-Chau.

Aug. 17--Official announcement that Japan's action will be limited to China Sea and to protection
of her trade; ultimatum to Germany made with concurrence of England.

Aug. 18--Count Okuma emphasizes Japan's limitation of war and England reassures United States.

Aug. 19--Germany will reject Japan's demands.

Aug. 20--Kaiser orders resistance to Japan at Kiao-Chau; Japanese Foreign Office makes statement
explaining ultimatum to Germany.

Aug. 22--Germany ignores Japan's demands: time limit ends, Japanese envoy ordered to leave
Berlin; Japan is expected to make war move at once.

Aug. 23--Japan declares war on Germany.

Aug. 24--Germans blow up bridges to halt Japanese invasion of Kiao-Chau.

Aug. 26--War declared by Austria against Japan; British destroy German wireless and cable stations
on Island of Yap.

Aug. 29--Germans lay mines at Kiao-Chau and fire at landing party at Cape Jaeschke.

Aug. 30--Japanese troops landed near Kiao-Chau; forts fire at destroyer.

Aug. 31--Japanese occupy two islands.

Sept. 2--Japan lands force at Lung-kow; German Legation protests against violation of China's
neutrality.

Sept. 3--Japanese occupy seven islands near Kiao-Chau, clear waters of mines, and land more
troops at Lung-kow; China protests against violation of her neutrality.

Sept. 9--Japanese advance southward in Shantung.

Sept. 14--Japanese flank Kiao-Chau.

Sept. 15--Japanese cavalry captures Chimo; vanguard of Japanese Army reaches Kiao-Chau.

Sept. 19--Japanese seize Kiao-Chau station and train and land troops at Laoshan.

Sept. 20--Japanese cavalry in clash with German outposts near Tsing-tau.

Sept. 22--Australians seize German wireless station on Island of Nauru.

Sept. 24--British troops land near Laoshan, China.

Sept. 26--Japanese advance on Fangate, where Germans hold valuable mines.

Sept. 27--Japanese defeat Germans on outskirts of Kiao-Chau; food supply in city short.

Sept. 28--Japanese approach Tsing-tau.

Sept. 29--Japanese invest Tsing-tau; Chinese blow up railroad bridges to hinder progress of
Japanese troops.

Sept. 30--Germans abandon artillery as Japanese reach Lao-Che.

Oct. 1--Germans destroy railroad bridge at Ta-yu-ho.

Oct. 4--Japanese march along railroad to Wei-Hsein; one Chinese killed.

Oct. 5--Japanese repulse night attack of Germans at Tsing-tau.

Oct. 6--Germans plan to destroy Shantung Railway.

Oct. 7--Japanese seize Island of Yap; Japanese bring siege guns before Tsing-tau.

Oct. 8--German fire slackens at Tsing-tau.

Oct. 13--Arrangements made for departure of non-combatants before final attack on Kiao-Chau.

*CAMPAIGN IN AFRICA.*

Aug. 8--British seize Port Lome, Togoland.

Aug. 9--French are in Togoland.

Aug. 26--Germans surrender Togoland.

Aug. 28--German troops attack Belgian Congo.

Sept. 10--Germans defeated by British in Nyassaland.

Sept. 13--Germans occupy Karangu, British East Africa.

Sept. 15--British defeat Germans in Namaqualand.

Sept. 18--Germans defeated by garrison of seven British at Nakob.

Sept. 22--Germans repulsed in attack on fort in Voi district.

Sept. 24--Germans at Schuckmannsberg surrender to police.

Sept. 25--Australian force takes German New Guinea.

Sept. 26--French seize Coco Beach, Kamerun; British occupy Luederitz Bay; Germans raid Walfish Bay.

Sept. 28--German Congo seized by British and French.

Oct. 13--Detachment of Boers under Col. Maritz rebels because of the pro-British stand taken
by the Government of South Africa; martial law proclaimed in colony; British imprison Germans
in British East Africa and Germans imprison British in German East Africa.

Oct. 14--There are but few men in the Maritz rebel force; silence of Boer leaders is found
disquieting in England.

Oct. 15--Col. Brits's force captures eighty rebels under Col. Maritz; Gen. Botha takes field;
prominent men arrested on charge of treason.

*NAVAL RECORD*.

July 26--British and French fleets ready for action; Servian vessels in Danube seized by Austrians;
German fleet ordered concentrated in home waters; Italy masses fleet.

July 29 and 30--British fleet leaves Portland; British and German fleets in Far East mobilize.

July 31--German squadron stops merchant vessels in Danish waters; British warships near; Montenegrin
King's yacht escapes Austrian destroyers.

Aug. 2--Fight between German and Russian cruisers off Libau; German High Sea Fleet seizes Wilson
liner Castro and a collier; fleets assemble in Far East.

Aug. 3--Germans chase Norwegian food ship.

Aug. 4--Rival warships off Port of New York; British mine layer sunk by German fleet; British
fleet will aim to destroy Kiel Canal.

Aug. 5--British third flotilla has battle with Germans in North Sea; cruiser Amphion damaged;
German mine layer Koenigen Luise sunk; many German merchant ships seized by English, French,
and Russians; Germans bombard Sveaborg, torpedo boat blown up.

Aug. 6--British cruiser Amphion sunk by mine; French capture German tank steamer; Germans capture
Russian ship.

Aug. 7--British and German cruisers reported in fight off Brazilian coast; British steamers
destroyed by mines off German and Turkish coasts; British capture German steamer Schlesien;
German merchant ship captured by French; Germans capture Russian cruiser; Japanese warships
off port of Tsing-tau; German cruisers Goeben and Breslau leave Genoa.

Aug. 8--Thirty-six German ships seized by Belgians; Russians capture Austrian and German merchant
steamers; British capture German ship, said to be North German Lloyd liner; naval fight in
Adriatic; interest in position of Goeben and Breslau; bombardment of Libau reported by ship
Captain.

Aug. 9--British sink German submarine; cruiser Essex takes ship at sea; Goeben and Breslau
in the Dardanelles; two German steamers taken at Rouen and one at Colombo; England and France
protest against German steamer Karlsruhe coaling at Porto Rico; firing off Shanghai; British
fleet proceeds to Tsing-tau; Austrian cruisers bombard Antivari.

Aug. 10--Cruiser Birmingham sinks German submarine U-15; British close North Sea to fishing
fleets; Dutch steamer sunk in Baltic; Belgians seize two Austrian steamers; English and Canadian
steamers hunt in Atlantic for German cruisers.

Aug. 11--Battle in the Adriatic; Russians capture twenty German merchant vessels in Baltic.

Aug. 12--German destroyer sunk by mine off South Gedser.

Aug. 13--German cruisers bombard Windau; France will check Austria's navy; British said to
have bottled up German Far Eastern squadron; German cruisers Goeben and Breslau are flying
Turkish flag.

Aug. 15--Japanese Navy sails to join British fleet; Triple Entente demands that Turkey repatriate
crews of German cruisers; Austrian liner blown up by mine in the Adriatic; British capture
Austrian liner Marienbad; German steamer W.W. Schneefels brought to Gibraltar as war prize.

Aug. 16--French fleet said to have sunk two Austrian ships in the Adriatic.

Aug. 17--German dreadnought said to be damaged in Norwegian port; French sink Austrian cruiser
in the Adriatic; German cruiser Karlsruhe said to have sunk four British merchantmen; British
cruisers capture Hamburg-American liners Cap Ortegal and Santa Catharina.

Aug. 18--Two German cruisers captured and taken to Hongkong; fight between British and German
patrol fleets.

Aug. 20--British steamer Hostilius captured by German cruiser Dresden; German fleet said to
have shelled three Russian ports.

Aug. 21--British and French warships and Montenegrin batteries bombard Cattaro; two German
Hansa liners seized at Bombay and Hamburg-American ship at Rangoon.

Aug. 22--Steamers Maryland and Broberg sunk by mines in North Sea; two Dutch steamers reported
sunk; German cruiser Dresden sinks British steamer Hyades; British cruiser Glasgow captures
German ship Santa Kathina; French capture German four-master and Austrian steamer; account
made public of sinking of Austrian battleship Zrinyi.

Aug. 23--Anglo-French fleets destroy Austrian cruiser Zenta and bombard Cattaro; Dutch steamer
Alcor blown up by Russians to block Hango harbor; report that French, English, and Russian
vessels are aiding Japan to blockade Kiao-Chau.

Aug. 24--Japanese fleet has begun bombardment of Tsing-tau; Cattaro badly damaged by British
and French fleets.

Aug. 25--German steamer Elizabeth sunk.

Aug. 26--British defeated in battle with German torpedo boat off Kiao-Chau.

Aug. 27--British cruiser Highflyer sinks Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse; British marines occupy
Ostend; German cruiser Magdeburg sunk in Gulf of Finland; mines in North Sea sink a Danish
and a Norwegian steamer; Japanese bombard island near Kiao-Chau and blockade port.

Aug. 28--British fleet sinks two German cruisers, sets fire to third, and sinks two torpedo
boats off Heligoland; Germans fire at Japanese fleet near Kiao-Chau; Austrian destroyer sunk
by British off Corfu; British cruiser Welland sinks German torpedo destroyer; other German
ships captured; six vessels blown up in North Sea by mines; Russians capture crew of German
cruiser Magdeburg.

Aug. 29--Port of Cape Jaeschke blocked by Japanese warships; passenger steamer destroyed by
mines near Russian port.

Aug. 30--British official account of battle off Heligoland; New Zealand expeditionary force
captures Apia.

Aug. 31--German gunboat shells abandoned Japanese destroyer at Kiao-Chau.

Sept. 2--British and French ships again bombard Cattaro; steam drifter Eyrie sunk by mine in
North Sea.

Sept. 4--British cruiser sinks Austrian steamer Bathori in Bay of Biscay; British gunboat Speedy
sunk by mine in North Sea; British steamship Bowes Castle sunk by German cruiser off St. Lucia.

Sept. 5--German ships sink fifteen British trawlers in North Sea.

Sept. 6--Cruiser Pathfinder destroyed by mine.

Sept. 7--British submarine strikes German warships in Bremerhaven Harbor.

Sept. 10--British capture German, collier.

Sept. 11--Germans destroy Russian steamer Uleaborg.

Sept. 12--Australian Navy occupies Herbertshoehe in Bismarck Archipelago; British take German
coal ship Heinze.

Sept. 14--Germans capture Fanning Island and cable station; German cruiser Hela sunk.

Sept. 17--German fleets fire on each other in Baltic by mistake; British cruiser seizes Holland-America,
liner Ryndam: French cruiser Conde captures German storeship Helna; Canadian Pacific liner
made a British cruiser in Pacific; German cruiser Luxemburg reported to have sunk three British
freighters in West Indies.

Sept. 19--Australian submarine AE-1 lost; Austrian warship Viribus Unitis damaged in Adriatic.

Sept. 20--Carmania sinks German merchant cruiser Cap Trafalgar; German cruiser Königsberg disables
British cruiser Pegasus; fighting between British and German ships in Kamerun River, Africa;
six British ships captured by German cruiser Emden; damaged Russian warships arrive at Helsingfors;
Austrian torpedo boat 27 sunk at Pola; German cruiser Stettin fights British warships.

Sept. 21--British steamer Clan Matheson sunk by German cruiser Emden; crews of six captured
vessels landed in India.

Sept. 22--British cruiser Berwick captures Hamburg-American liner Spreewald and two German
colliers; German submarine U-9 sinks British cruisers Cressy, Aboukir, and Hogue in North Sea;
British steamer Belgian King sunk near Cape Kureli.

Sept. 23--Russian cruiser Bayan sinks German cruiser and two torpedo boats; Germany says submarine
U-9 sunk British ships unaided in North Sea fight yesterday; Austrian cruisers Maria Theresia
and Admiral Staun damaged; trawler Kilmarnock sunk by mine.

Sept. 24--Two Austrian torpedo boats and one destroyer sunk by mines in the Adriatic; Norwegian
steamer Hesvik sunk in North Sea; cruiser Emden bombards Madras; Anglo-French fleet again bombards
Cattaro.

Sept. 25--Kronprinz Wilhelm sinks British steamer Indian Prince; British charge that Germans
fired on Carmania after white flag was raised.

Sept. 26--Fortress of Pelagosa dismantled by Anglo-French fleet; British cruiser Cornwall seizes
Dutch steamer with coal consigned to Rio de Janeiro; French gunboat Surprise sinks two German
ships and seizes Coco Beach, West Africa; British capture German ship Ossa and seize American
ship Lorenzo and Norwegian ship Thor accused of coaling German cruiser.

Sept. 28--French warship sunk at Cattaro by forts.

Sept. 29--German cruiser Emden has sunk five British steamers in Gulf of Bengal and has destroyed
all tank steamers at Madras; British warships bombard Tsing-tau forts.

Sept. 30--British cruiser Cumberland captures Hamburg-American liner Arnfried and nine merchant
steamers; Italian ships sunk by Austrian mines.

Oct. 1--Account given out of bombardment of Windau by German squadron; fighting between German
and Japanese warships in Kiao-Chau Harbor.

Oct. 2--British Admiralty plans to lay mines as counterstroke to German policy; German cruisers
shell Papeéte, capital of French Island of Tahiti; French gunboat sinks German auxiliary ships
Rhios and Itolo; German cruiser Liepzig sinks Union oil tanker Elsinore.

Oct. 3--German cruiser Karlsruhe sinks seven British ships; British steamer Dawdon and Norwegian
steamer Thomos sunk by mines; German steamer Mark bottled up in Philippine port; Italian boat
sunk by Austrian mine; Japanese cruiser blown up by mine in Laoshan Bay.

Oct. 4--Anglo-French fleet bombards Cattaro and destroys Lustica; Dutch steamer Nieuwland sunk
by mine in North Sea; Rear Admiral Troubridge recalled from Mediterranean to London to explain
escape of German cruisers Goeben and Breslau.

Oct. 5--Japanese capture Jaluit Island; British grain ship sunk by mine near Dover; Japanese
shells hit German gunboat Iltis in Tsing-tau Harbor.

Oct. 6--French lay mines in Adriatic to offset similar action by Austrians.

Oct. 7--British submarine sinks German destroyer off mouth of River Ems; six Austrian torpedo
craft reported sunk by mines in the Adriatic; British trawler blown up in the North Sea.

Oct. 9--It is announced that thirty-two German merchant ships were destroyed at Antwerp.

Oct. 10--Japanese warships silence Iltis forts.

Oct. 11--French fleet sinks two Austrian torpedo boats.

Oct. 12--German submarine sinks Russian cruiser Pallada.

Oct. 13--Russians claim that Germans lost two submarines in attack on Pallada.

Oct. 14--Report denied by Germans.

Oct. 15--British cruiser Yarmouth sinks German liner Markomannia.

*AERIAL RECORD.*

Aug. 2--Report that French aviators have dropped bombs on Nürnberg; German troops shoot down
French aeroplanes near Wesel; report that Garros, French aviator, wrecked German airship at
Longwy; French aeroplanes dispatched toward Nancy.

Aug. 3--German airships fly over Belgium.

Aug. 5--Duel between Belgian and German aviators; Austrians report destruction of Russian aeroplane.

Aug. 13--German aeroplane pursued by Belgians; German aviator throws bomb on Vesoul.

Aug. 15--Harmless bombs thrown by German aviators on Vesoul and Lure; French aviators throw
bombs on Zeppelins in Metz; five men wounded in Namur by bombs thrown from German aeroplanes.

Aug. 18--Three Zeppelins wrecked by gunfire, one by fall; German monoplane drops bombs on Lunéville;
German aeroplane destroyed near Samno, Russia.

Aug. 19--German monoplane captured in Belgium.

Aug. 20--Pegoud's airship destroyed in flight to drop bombs in Germany; Dutch capture German
aeroplanes.

Aug. 23--French destroy Zeppelin.

Aug. 24--France believes five German Zeppelins are out of action.

Aug. 25--Zeppelin bombs fall in Antwerp.

Aug. 29--Russians bring down Zeppelin.

Aug. 30--German aeroplane drops bombs on Paris; French Embassy in Washington denies that aeroplanes
bombarded Nürnberg.

Aug. 31--German aeroplane drops bombs on Paris.

Sept. 1--German aeroplane drops bombs on Paris.

Sept. 2--Fight between French and German aeroplanes; Zeppelin renews attack on Antwerp.

Sept. 3--German aeroplanes drop bombs on British transport on the Seine and on Belfort; German
aeroplane over Paris destroyed, aviators killed.

Sept. 4--Three German aeroplanes wrecked by French.

Sept. 9--Russian and Austrian aviators killed in battle.

Sept. 12--German aviators killed in battle with French near Troyes.

Sept. 14--Japanese aeroplane drops bomb in Kiao-Chau.

Sept. 17--Berlin claims that no Zeppelins have been destroyed.

Sept. 18--Bomb dropped on Antwerp; Japanese aviator sets fire to ship in Kiao-Chau Bay.

Sept. 20--Vedrines kills German aviator; French aviator Chevilliard captured by Germans.

Sept. 21--Japanese aeroplanes wreck two forts at Tsing-tau.

Sept. 23--British drop bombs on Zeppelin shed at Düsseldorf; London fears Zeppelin attacks
and reduces lights to minimum.

Sept. 24--Zeppelin drops three bombs in Belgium; French capture five Taube machines from Germans;
destruction of Zeppelin by Russians near Sieradz.

Sept. 25--Duel between Belgian and German aviators over Brussels; Zeppelin drops bombs in Ostend;
London prepares to repel attacks.

Sept. 26--Zeppelin raids Warsaw.

Sept. 27--Man killed and child crippled in Paris; three killed in Warsaw.

Sept. 29--Zeppelin drops bombs on two Belgian towns.

Sept. 30--Japanese aeroplanes attack Kiao-Chau Harbor.

Oct. 1--Zeppelin drops bomb near Antwerp, but is driven off.

Oct. 2--Germans report capture of thirty French aeroplanes; it is learned that aviators patrolled
the Straits of Dover during passage of British expeditionary force; German aviators drop messages
to Russian troops.

Oct. 5--Searchlight tests made in London in preparation for Zeppelin raids.

Oct. 6--It is announced that German airship aided in sinking British cruisers; commander and
crew decorated by Kaiser.

Oct. 7--London insures against damage from Zeppelin raids as air fleet is prepared at Wilhelmshaven;
French aviators set fire to German aeroplanes.

Oct. 8--German aeroplanes drop bombs on Paris and Antwerp.

Oct. 9--British air squadron destroys Zeppelin in hangar at Düsseldorf.

Oct. 11--Three killed, fourteen injured from bombs dropped on Paris by German aviators; Zeppelin
over Ostend driven away by guns; Japanese drop bombs in Tsing-tau.

Oct. 12--Six more bombs dropped on Paris.

Oct. 13--French rout German aviators near Paris.

Oct. 14--French aviator decorated for bringing down German; Cossacks bring down Zeppelin near
Warsaw; bombs dropped on Nancy.

*AMERICAN INTERESTS.*

July 26--Americans are leaving Carlsbad and other resorts.

July 29--Tourists in Paris abandon plans to go eastward; many in London take chances and go
into Austria.

July 31--Exodus from Geneva; war panic among American tourists in Paris; President Wilson directs
State Department to ask Ambassador Herrick to remain at his post; many left in London as sailing
of the Imperator is canceled.

Aug. 1--Many demand passports in France; Americans in London will organize for relief work.

Aug. 2--Americans in Paris form committee to aid countrymen; refugees from Continent arrive
in London; Ambassador Gerard appeals for funds; State Department has no funds, but will forward
deposits for refugees.

Aug. 3--Bankers and Treasury Department officials agree on plan for $3,500,000 gold shipment
to tourists; hundreds reach Paris after many hardships; fear in Berlin; both houses of Congress
pass bill appropriating $250,000 for relief; embassies will distribute funds.

Aug. 4--Mrs. O.H. Kahn loses automobiles in France; tourists unable to leave Germany; many
destitute in Paris; automobiles requisitioned for war; President Wilson approves plan to send
$5,000,000 from bankers and national appropriation of $2,500,000 in gold; cruiser Tennessee
will carry it.

Aug. 5--Ambassador Herrick issues transports to stranded in Paris; millionaires leave in cattle
train for Havre; Ambassador Page praises spirit of refugees; two committees in London to relieve
distress; cruiser Tennessee prepares to sail with relief fund; Congress votes $2,500,000 appropriation;
cruiser North Carolina will follow with more gold if needed; Mayor Mitchel appoints relief
committee.

Aug. 6--Americans in London get funds from Transportation Committee; many obtain certificates
of American citizenship in Paris; Tennessee leaves with gold; Secretary Garrison will use transports
rather than pay exorbitant prices to charter ships; Board of Relief named to supervise distribution
of funds appropriated by Congress.

Aug. 7--Baroness von Andre and Anne W.N. Davis tell of brutal treatment by German soldiers;
Mrs. Philip Lydig tells of kind treatment by French; Mrs. Herrick's American Ambulance Corps
organized; $100,000 sent by Treasury to Paris and $25,000 to Italy; many Americans leave via
Denmark; French and German railways will be open for departure of Americans after mobilization
is completed.

Aug. 8--A.M. Huntington and wife reported to be arrested in Bavaria and held as spies; 7,000
Americans leave England; committee of American and English bankers formed to administer $3,000,000
gold shipment; Secretary Garrison confers with Haniel von Heimhausen, German Chargé d'Affaires,
who says Americans will be allowed to leave Germany.

Aug. 9--One thousand five hundred Americans apply  at Paris Embassy for transports; refugees
arrive on the New York; mines menace relief cruisers.

Aug. 10--Mayor of Berlin and others move to care for refugees in Germany; many stranded in Bermuda.

Aug. 11--Cancellation of sailing of Olympic causes rush for steerage on ships leaving London;
Mrs. W.H. Page heads committee to look after school teachers; Secretary Bryan orders Ambassador
Gerard to make representations regarding Mr. and Mrs. Huntington.

Aug. 12--One thousand refugees arrive in New York, on S.S. Philadelphia; Embassy in Paris arranges
for relief of tourists all over France; Secretary Bryan says Huntingtons are safe; refugees
arrive on Holland-America liner Potsdam.

Aug. 13--Ambassador Page is seeking ships that may be chartered in London; army officers will
aid relief work in Paris; fourteen tourists reached England via Arctic Sea; Secretary Bryan
warns all Americans going abroad to get passports; emergency passports to be issued; people
in Berlin open homes to Americans; Minister Whitlock reports Consulate at Liége exposed to fire.

Aug. 14--More than 300 Americans arrive in Rotterdam from Berlin.

Aug. 15--Seven ships leave England; less need for transport; German Foreign Office says Huntington
was not arrested; Ambassador Herrick arranges for sailings of the Espagne and the Rochambeau;
refugees in Rotterdam report generous treatment while in Germany; Germany will provide trains
to carry Americans to Bremen and will let cruiser Tennessee land there; Gerard says Americans
are now free to leave Germany; ships leaving Italian ports.

Aug. 16--Cruisers Tennessee and North Carolina arrive at Falmouth with gold.

Aug. 17--Eighteen ships that will leave England, within a week can accommodate 20,000; London
refugees given gold from cruiser Tennessee; 5,000 stranded in Italy; Nieuw Amsterdam and Laconia
reach New York.

Aug. 18--Refugees from Copenhagen arrive on the United States; tourists flock into Genoa; members
of Mayor Mitchel's Committee meet every steamer and are prepared to help the needy.

Aug. 19--Relief cruiser North Carolina reaches Cherbourg with Major Hedekin; Miss Morgan's
villa accepted as hospital; the Tennessee held at Falmouth.

Aug. 20--Payment on funds sent on Tennessee delayed in London.

Aug. 21--American Rhodes scholars help in harvesting in Brittany; missionaries urge sending
ship with gold to Turkey; gold from the North Carolina sent to Italy.

Aug. 22--Refugees arrive on Campania, Baltic, and St. Louis; Ambassador Gerard denies that
Americans have been ill-treated in Germany; cruiser Tennessee at Rotterdam.

Aug. 23--Refugees in London tell of kindness of Austrians; the Tennessee left too little gold
in England and France.

Aug. 24--Assistant Secretary Breckinridge reaches Berlin with gold; Ambassador Herrick makes
arrangements for Americans in Switzerland.

Aug. 26--Art students in Paris in sad plight; few tourists now ask aid in London; students
leave German universities; refugees from Italy express satisfaction with arrangements of Government
Relief Committee; relief bureau established at The Hague.

Aug. 27--Cruiser North Carolina sent to Turkey.

Aug. 28--German Government furnishes gold to Ambassador Gerard.

Aug. 31--London again crowded with refugees; tourists in Denmark safe.

Sept. 3--Turkish Government will not permit the North Carolina to go to Constantinople; Americans
in London help Belgian refugees.

Sept. 4--Tennessee takes Americans across Channel; British soldiers give up quarters for them
at Havre; North Carolina starts for Smyrna.

Sept. 9--Refugee aid cost $100,000 in five days in London.

Sept. 10--Passports to be required of all in England.

Sept. 12--Major Hedekin reports nearly all tourists out of France and Switzerland.

Sept. 13--Treasury Department will receive no further deposits; sailors on the Tennessee cheer
British transport.

Sept. 23--Money from North Carolina reaches Constantinople.

Sept. 28--Americans leaving Brussels.

Sept. 29--Tennessee ordered to Adriatic.

Oct. 10--Consul Deedmeyer says he was forced to leave Chemnitz because of bad treatment from
Germans.

*AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.*

July 24--Minister at Belgrade prepares to leave.

July 25--Diplomatic relations severed with Servia; martial law proclaimed; Servian Gen. Putnik
seized.

July 26--Servian envoy dismissed; Emperor Francis Joseph takes decisive part in country's action;
war measures taken.

July 27--Army deserters sought in Cuba.

July 28--Emperor will take command at Vienna headquarters; food prices raised in Vienna.

July 29--Emperor sends letter to the Czar.

July 30--Government may declare war on Russia; newspaper correspondents expelled from Semlin;
Emperor cheered in Vienna; men up to 50 years of age called to service; Count Salm-Hoogstraetem
says Slavs in Austrian Army will be loyal.

July 31--Government assures Italy that there is no desire for more territory.

Aug. 1--Whole nation wants war; Government was pressed by Germany to discuss matters with Russia
and to localize war.

Aug. 2--Cadets in military academies made Lieutenants; Countess Széchényi places palace at
disposal of army.

Aug. 5--United States represents France at Vienna and Austria at Paris; food prices fixed;
Church permits marriages without publication of bans.

Aug. 6--Russian Ambassador receives passports.

Aug. 7--Pressure brought to bear on Italy to aid.

Aug. 8--Threat to declare war on Italy; full text published of ultimatum to Servia, of Servia's
reply, of circular note to powers, and of notes exchanged with Germany.

Aug. 10--Government acknowledges receipt of President Wilson's offer of good offices.

Aug. 11--Army corps marches along Swiss border to relieve Germans in Alsace; Italy demands
explanation of shelling of Antivari; United States will look after French interests.

Aug. 13--Troops mutiny on southern frontier; United States will look after interests in England;
Prince Hohenlohe arrested in Canada.

Aug. 14--Currency question acute; insubordination of troops; Government tells Italy British
declaration of war was based upon lies.

Aug. 16--Martial law, proclaimed on Italian border; Consul arrested in St. Petersburg.

Aug. 18--Army mobilization accompanied by disorder and mutiny.

Aug. 19--Massacre at Prague after Czech uprising.

Aug. 25--Troops massing on Italian frontier; Government will join war with Japan; passports
handed to Ambassador.

Aug. 27--Fortification of Vienna begun; children of murdered Archduke sent to Switzerland.

Aug. 29--Country reported seething with rebellion.

Aug. 30--Servians charge atrocities by retreating Austrians.

Sept. 3--Troops sent to reinforce German left wing.

Sept. 4--Mutiny of Czech soldiers in Vienna, many shot; Gen. Bobrinsky appointed Governor of
Galicia.

Sept. 5--Reports that Italians in Istria and Goerz have been shot for treason without trial
stirs Italy; England releases Austrian ships from her ports.

Sept. 6--Year's provisions seized at Lemberg; England orders Consular officers out of Egypt.

Sept. 7--Vienna makes hasty preparations for defense; possibility of famine.

Sept. 8--Government appeals to Jews in Poland to fight against Russia.

Sept. 10--Panic in Cracow; Archduke Frederick admits loss of 120,000 men in Galicia.

Sept. 11--Berlin paper tells of agreement with Germany before war started not to make peace
separately.

Sept. 14--Troops admit that there have been no Russian cruelties; Vienna official report claims
victories.

Sept. 16--Guns taken by Russians bear initials of German Emperor.

Sept. 17--Report of preliminary steps for peace with Russia; all available men called to arms.

Sept. 18--Police forbid public to spread unfavorable war news.

Sept. 21--Field Marshal Vodinowski executed on charge of aiding Russians; Field Marshal Foreich
commits suicide after being cashiered for defeat.

Sept. 23--Serbs captured at Shabats to be court-martialed for firing at troops.

Sept. 24--Italian frontier fortified.

Sept. 27--Cholera spreading among wounded soldiers.

Oct. 2--Emperor is urged to shift Government from Vienna.

Oct. 3--Alarm in Vienna over possibility of Russian invasion.

Oct. 8--Panic in Hungary as Russians advance.

Oct. 9--Much distress in Vienna.

Oct. 12--Archbishop accuses Hungarian soldiers of atrocities in Russian Poland.

Oct. 13--Report that eight commanders have been dismissed and two have killed themselves.

Oct. 14--Austrian guns were used by Germans at Antwerp.

*BELGIUM.*

July 29--Antwerp's trade paralyzed.

July 30--Forts provisioned; export of horses and vehicles prohibited.

July 31--State Railway trains into Germany suspended.

Aug. 1--Government buys entire wheat supply in Antwerp.

Aug, 2--Neutrality an issue with England; German Ambassador said to have promised that there
will be no invasion; guards mobilized at Liége and Namur to hold bridges; Civic Guard called
out; Parliament summoned.

Aug. 3--Antwerp in state of siege; King appeals to King George; England will defend neutrality;
frontier being intrenched.

Aug. 4--King addresses Parliament; Socialist Leader Vandervelde joins Cabinet.

Aug. 5--King Albert takes command of troops.

Aug. 7--King issues proclamation to army.

Aug. 8--King thanks President Poincaré for aid.

Aug. 9--Gratitude to Belgian people expressed by French Academy; English and French stamps
sold in Post Offices.

Aug. 10--Germans mobbed in Brussels.

Aug. 11--Government asks Holland's intentions if neutrality is violated; Germany tries to negotiate
for passage of her army.

Aug. 13--Tribute to Belgians from Premier Asquith; Government will appeal to neutrals because
of alleged German atrocities; German prisoners treated kindly.

Aug. 14--American Vice Consul Duras says Germans underrated Belgians; fighting spirit due to
inspiration of growing democracy; people of Liége deprived of all means of communication; Government
feeds soldiers' children.

Aug. 15--Refugees say that Germans executed priest held as hostage.

Aug. 22--France pledges aid; report that Minister Whitlock offered to take Brussels under American
protection at time of its surrender.

Aug. 23--Report persists, but United States denies that he was authorized to offer protection;
panic in Ghent and Ostend; German General's proclamation to Brussels; Cologne Gazette defends
levy on Brussels; country praised in French army bulletin.

Aug. 24--Government rejects another German plea for free passage for troops; Brussels pays
first installment of fine; documents sent to London in support of atrocity charges against
Germans; Minister at Washington protests to State Department against German statements of Belgium's
conduct on battlefield; legation in London issues note protesting against reprisals.

Aug. 25--Minister Whitlock reports to Secretary Bryan that he persuaded Brussels authorities
not to oppose Germans; statement made by Minister in London charging German atrocities; text
published of communications with Germany concerning passage of troops; fugitives rush to Holland.

Aug. 26--Refugees flock to Paris; Ministers of foreign powers protest to Berlin against Zeppelin
attack on Antwerp; Foreign Minister sends protest to Washington; Baron von der Goltz made military
ruler in part occupied by Germans.

Aug. 27--Resolution in British Parliament for expression of gratitude to Belgian heroes.

Aug. 28--Men in captured towns ordered by Germans to help with harvest; Germans name hostages
because of failure of Brussels to pay war levy.

Aug. 29--Germany defends destruction of Louvain and other repressive measures; commission to
protest against atrocities may not be received by President Wilson.

Aug. 30--Gen. Leman's defense of Liége praised by German officer; Antwerp in darkness to guard
against Zeppelin attacks; Government's reply to Austria's declaration of war; Gen. von Stein
says Germany will grant no concession.

Sept. 1--Mrs. H.H. Harjes tells of German cruelties; refugees must leave Antwerp because of
scarcity of food; four men guarantee payment of Brussels fine; Dutch artists protest to Kaiser
against destruction of Louvain.

Sept. 2--English residents ordered out of Brussels.

Sept. 4--Namur citizens starving; officials at Brussels warn citizens against giving Germans
excuse for reprisals.

Sept. 5--Germans change clocks to German time; new official German statement accuses citizens.

Sept. 6--American newspaper correspondents say they saw no cruel acts by Germans; names announced
of famous paintings ruined in Louvain and of buildings lost and saved; refugees flock to London.

Sept. 7--Officers tell of German atrocities; charges that Germans destroyed Dinant and shot
many inhabitants.

Sept. 8--Survivors tell of attack on Namur; list of fines made public imposed on Belgian cities.

Sept. 9--Mayor of Ghent sends appeal to President Wilson concerning German atrocities; council
of defense formed.

Sept. 10--Stories of German atrocities greatly exaggerated, says Bank Director Helfferich.

Sept. 11--Gen. Leman asks King to pardon him for losing Liége; Prince Henry of Reuss charges
atrocities; Mrs. N.L. Duryee describes horrors of German invasion; Gen. von Boehn replies to
charges of German atrocities in Aerschot; London Daily News says Termonde was burned for lack
of ransom; destruction in towns near Namur; lawyers and Judges in Brussels refuse to adopt
German customs.

Sept. 15--Foreign diplomats inspect conditions in Malines.

Sept. 16--Belgian Commission, which charges German atrocities, received by President Wilson.

Sept. 21--German official statement issued on destruction of Louvain.

Sept. 22--Only newspapers published in Germany allowed to be sold in Brussels.

Sept. 25--Nobleman charges that American and Spanish investigators were deceived by Germans
on sacking of Louvain.

Sept. 26--Ostend protests to President Wilson against dropping of bombs by Germans; outrages
against Germans charged by Bethmann-Hollweg.

Oct. 4--Government issues "Gray Paper" on negotiations with Germany, showing negotiations with
Germany and other powers concerning the war, (printed in full in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Oct. 18.)

Oct. 7--Government moved from Antwerp to Ostend; all able-bodied men of Antwerp called out
for defense of city.

Oct. 8--King and part of army move out of Antwerp; refugees flee in great numbers to Holland
and England.

Oct. 9--Government protests to neutrals against monopolizing by Germans of foodstuffs in Brussels.

Oct. 10--Germans deny that there is famine in Brussels; much suffering among Antwerp refugees;
German coin put on same basis as Belgian.

Oct. 12--Large quantities of stores fall into German hands in Antwerp and many prisoners taken;
refugees crowd Ostend; people will be allowed to return to their homes in Antwerp.

Oct. 13--Government moves to France, and will be established at Havre.

*CANADA*.

July 30--Halifax garrison active.

Aug. 1--Cabinet meets, will send to England offer of men.

Aug. 2--Ten thousand men volunteer; Royal Naval Reserve called out; fishermen will respond.

Aug. 3--Ports of Quebec and Montreal in charge of military authorities; militia called to duty;
reserves to sail for England.

Aug. 4--Cabinet meeting; mobilization of expeditionary force begins; message of appreciation
from King George; British and French reservists sail.

Aug. 5--Country-wide response to call for service; Government buys two submarines built for
Chilean Navy; Montreal port guarded; German Consulate at Vancouver attacked.

Aug. 6--Austrian and German Consulates stoned in Winnipeg; England accepts offer of expeditionary
force; Sydney is being fortified.

Aug. 7--German Consuls asked to leave country.

Aug. 9--Canada's offer of 1,000,000 bags of flour accepted by England.

Aug. 10--Cruisers hunt in Atlantic for German ships; ports closed; much grain goes to England.

Aug. 14--National Chapter of the Imperial Order of Daughters of the Empire will equip hospital
ship for Admiralty; married men not accepted for service without permission of wives; cruiser
Good Hope arrives at Halifax; American mass meeting called in Toronto.

Aug. 15--Japanese of British Columbia want to form regiment.

Aug. 17--Americans of Toronto will raise fund for soldiers' families.

Aug. 18--Emergency session of Parliament opened by Duke of Connaught; war vote to be $50,000,000.

Aug. 19--Parliament endorses  England's participation in war; speeches by Premier Borden and
Sir Wilfrid Laurier; women exercise veto power to prevent husbands from going to war.

Aug. 21--Move in Parliament to contribute million bags of flour to Belgium; all war measures
passed; Bank of Montreal will contribute $100,000 for patriotic purposes; two cruisers added
to naval force at Esquimalt.

Aug. 22--War session of Parliament ended; troops on way to Quebec.

Aug. 23--Princess Patricia presents flag to Light Infantry.

Aug. 25--Second army is being mobilized.

Aug. 26--Applications by letter from American citizens for army service refused.

Aug. 29--All available troops to be maintained under arms; Princess Patricia Light Infantry
sails from Montreal.

Aug. 30--Troops delayed at Quebec.

Aug. 31--England accepts food offers from Alberta and Quebec; unsuccessful  attempt to wreck
troop train near Montreal; volunteers will replace Bermuda garrison.

Sept. 10--Declared that Department of Militia and Defense kept secret the passage of Indian
troops through the Dominion.

Sept. 11--Passage of Indian troops denied; officials of White Pass & Yukon Railway warn Germans
and Austrians not to try to pass through the Yukon.

Sept. 24--Thirty-two thousand troops sail.

Sept. 28--Laurier wants French-Canadian regiment.

Sept. 30--Cadets from Royal Military College sail for England.

Oct. 5--Col. Hughes. Minister of Militia, says he can raise another large contingent of men;
second expeditionary force is to be organized.

Oct. 7--New York Staats-Zeitung barred from the mails.

Oct. 8--First  contingent of troops reaches Southampton.

*ENGLAND.*

July 24--England will side with Russia in event of hostilities with Austria.

July 27--Sir Edward Grey asks France, Italy, and Germany to confer with England to avert general
conflict.

July 28--Germany refuses to accept Sir Edward Grey's proposal for conference, but sends conciliatory
reply; nation averse to war, but will aid Allies; Home Rule strife forgotten.

July 29--Report that Grey is forming new peace proposals; London Times pessimistic.

July 30--Unionist papers declare England must fight if Germany attacks France; war preparations
continue; political parties declare truce; amending bill to Home Rule bill dropped; preparations
in Far East, at Malta, and Cape Town.

July 31--Government joins France in trying to adjust matters between Russia and Austria; country
is calm; preparations at Hongkong for hostilities.

Aug. 1--Sir Edward Grey favors throwing weight of navy at once in favor of France and Russia;
Lloyd George does not favor participation; special meeting of Cabinet called; King George appeals
to Czar for peace; Cabinet in night session; Belgian neutrality an issue; London Times denounces
Germany.

Aug. 3--Sir Edward Grey addresses House of Commons; country will defend French coast; Redmond
pledges Ireland's aid.

Aug. 4--Ambassador leaves Berlin; King issues call to arms and thanks colonies for their support;
Government controls railways and takes foreign warships building in her ports; Vice Admiral
Jellicoe takes command of fleet; papers in London reduced in size; people advised to economize.

Aug. 5--Food prices rise; order specifying contrabands of war; bill passes House of Commons
to restrain movements of undesirable aliens; many spies arrested; women volunteer as nurses;
King's message to fleet; Prince of Wales wants to fight; United States will care for interests
in Germany; German cable cut at Azores.

Aug. 6--House of Commons grants army increase of 500,000 men; royal decrees revoke prohibition
against importation of arms into Ireland, making trading with enemy illegal, prohibit English
vessels from carrying contraband of war between foreign ports, and make it high treason to
lend money to Germany; Asquith says "White Paper" issued by Government shows how Sir Edward
Grey tried to obtain peace; coast towns arm; contraband of war announced.

Aug. 7--Rush of volunteers; Prince of Wales receives commission in Grenadier Guards; Embassies
stoned in Dresden and Berlin.

Aug. 8--Parliament passes bill providing for Government seizure of foodstuffs; Capt. Fox, commander
of the lost Amphion, given new command.

Aug. 9--More Germans arrested.

Aug. 12--Exports of foodstuffs forbidden, no Americans barred.

Aug. 14--Prisoners of War Information Bureau formed; money situation improved; embassy informs
Secretary Bryan of rules governing aliens; Kitchener's plan for raising new army contemplates
long war.

Aug. 15--College men volunteer.

Aug. 16--Refugees from Berlin reach Scotland and tell of abuses; J.E. Redmond says he has rifles
for Irish volunteers.

Aug. 17--Government reassures the United States that Japan's activities will be limited.

Aug. 20--Troops impress French favorably.

Aug. 21--Public told to watch for notes from aeroplanes; country protests against German levy
of war tax on Liége and Brussels; press asks President Wilson to try to stop violation of rules
of war.

Aug. 22--Admiralty says Germany violates Hague rules by planting mines in North Sea; protest
to United States against allowing fuel to be carried to German cruisers at sea.

Aug. 23--Full text of British "White Paper" published in THE NEW YORK TIMES.

Aug. 24--First casualty list of expeditionary army includes Earl of Leven and Melville.

Aug. 25--Kitchener appeals for men; probability of three years' war discussed.

Aug. 26--Recruiting active; Indian Moslems loyal; members of staffs in Munich complain of bad
treatment by German military authorities; Daily Chronicle warns against quarrel with United
States on contraband question; army's marching song for this war is "It's a Long Way to Tipperary."

Aug. 27--Army's pluck lauded by Gen. Joffre; Parliament votes expression of admiration of Belgians.

Aug. 28--Sir John French's report on activities of troops read in Parliament; Peeresses sign
letter expressing devotion to country.

Aug. 29--Message to Scots Grays from Russian Czar; Lord Roberts says hundreds of thousands
of men will be needed and assails young men who go on playing games; navy congratulated by
Canadian Premier and Sir John French.

Aug. 30--Lord Kitchener tells of British share in fighting in Belgium and France and of loss
of life, but says troops have been reinforced.

Sept. 1--Government asks United States to care for her interests in event of war with Turkey;
Anglo-American corps being formed in London.

Sept. 3--Many recruits join army.

Sept. 4--Asquith, Balfour, Bonar Law, Churchill, and others speak in London Guildhall, appealing
for volunteers; 700 Ulster volunteers enroll in one hour.

Sept. 5--Allies sign agreement that none shall make peace without consent of all; official
denial that dumdum bullets were used; London agreement regarding contraband will be adhered
to as far as is practicable.

Sept. 6--Churchill announces formation of one marine and two naval brigades.

Sept, 8--Gen. Joffre expresses thanks for army's support; Kitchener's reply; five thousand
recruits in one day; German prisoners held in concentration camps.

Sept. 9--Government will not consent to peace proposals unless Germany will acknowledge that
Belgium is entitled to redress; troops praised by Belgians.

Sept. 10--House of Commons votes to add 500,000 men to regular army.

Sept. 12--Permission from Greece to establish naval base at Lemnos; complete equipment for
Territorials lacking.

Sept. 16--John Redmond calls Irish to arms.

Sept. 17--Prize courts established.

Sept. 19--Lloyd George appeals for Welsh recruits.

Sept. 20--Casualty list shows many officers killed or wounded.

Sept. 21--Percentage of officers in casualty lists out of proportion to number of men.

Sept. 24--Censorship tightened.

Sept. 25--Admiralty publishes report on sinking of three cruisers in North Sea, saying disabled
ships must look after themselves; shortage of rifles denied in London Spectator; Asquith and
Redmond appeal to Ireland for aid.

Oct. 4--Thousands of Irish enlist.

Oct. 8--Sportsmen's Battalion organized by Mrs. Cunliffe Owen.

Oct. 9--Government will not allow American army and navy officers to observe operations.

Oct. 11--Loss of officers is a peril.

Oct. 12--Fall of Antwerp aids recruiting; infantry standard lowered to admit more men; London
Morning Post condemns Churchill's attempt to relieve Antwerp with small naval force.

Oct. 14--Foreign Office denies existence of secret agreement with Belgium, which Germans charge
is shown by documents found in Brussels.

*FRANCE.*

July 24--Government will side with Russia in event of hostilities with Austria.

July 25--Paris mobs want war; President Poincaré and Premier Viviani absent from France.

July 26--Emergency council of Cabinet held; people see hand of Germany.

July 27--Government agrees to Sir Edward Grey's proposal for conference to avert conflict;
general impression that Germany inspired Austria's act; President Poincaré hurries home; anti-war
demonstrations in Paris; Ambassador tries to enlist Germany's aid for mediation.

July 28--Army moves to frontier; Socialists protest against war.

July 29--Demonstration as Poincaré returns from Russia; Cabinet council; business at standstill
in Paris.

July 30--Troops guard railroad.

July 31--Answer to Germany's note about Russia; Government joins with England in trying to
adjust matters between Russia and Austria; steamship La France taken over in service of Government.

Aug. 1--President Poincaré orders mobilization after Germany asks intention of Government concerning
her ultimatum to Russia; Cabinet council; Delcassé becomes. War Minister; American Ambassador
and Consul will look after German affairs; Government promises to respect Belgian neutrality
unless another power violates it; German Ambassador is leaving.

Aug. 2--Ambassador Cambon blames Germany for conflict; state of siege declared in France and
Algiers; Socialists patriotic; railway communication with Germany and Belgium cut off.

Aug. 3--Berlin reports acts of hostility by French; Ambassador leaves Berlin and German Ambassador
leaves Paris; riots in Paris.

Aug. 4--Paris newspapers reduced in size; General Staff prepared for German moves; Prince Roland
Bonaparte offers services; Gen. Joseph Joffre leaves for frontier; statement by Premier Viviani
in Chamber of Deputies; war measures passed; many Americans want to fight for France.

Aug. 5--War bills voted in Parliament; United States represents Austria at Paris and France
at Vienna; President Poincaré's address to nation; Gen. Pau will command one arm.

Aug. 6--Ambassador embraced by the Czar; Premier Viviani asks women to gather crops; army under
command of Gen. Joffre.

Aug. 8--President Poincaré replies to King Albert's message of thanks; Paris City Council changes
name of Rue de Berlin to Rue de Liége.

Aug. 9--Academy salutes Belgians; martial law proclaimed.

Aug. 17--Garibaldi offers to raise army; Prince Antoine of Orleans wants to fight for France.

Aug. 18--American volunteer corps raised in Paris; severe military law enforced; Carthusian
monks, who were expelled, return to fight.

Aug. 19--Third reserve army raised; Gen. Joffre in supreme command.

Aug. 20--Government will protest to powers against German atrocities which it charges.

Aug. 21--Prefects ordered to take note of atrocities; foreign volunteers mobilize in Paris;
service of Anglo-American Rough Riders accepted.

Aug. 22--Government charges Germans with using dumdum bullets; Paris food prices low.

Aug. 23--Government protests to The Hague against use of dumdum bullets by Germans; army bulletin
praises Belgians; success of Gen. Pau thrills people.

Aug. 26--Refugees from frontier flock to Paris; American volunteers go to Rouen to enter training.

Aug. 27--Government presents affidavits to neutral countries that German officer shot at Red
Cross nurses.

Aug. 30--1914 reserves to be called out; Paris stores food; Vice Admiral de Lapeyrere will
command allied forces in Mediterranean.

Sept. 2--Germans accused of setting fire to wood that sheltered St. Quentin refugees.

Sept. 3--Gen. Gallieni issues proclamation to people of Paris; many leave city; Government
in Bordeaux; Havre guarded.

Sept. 4--Exodus from Paris continues; sanitary precautions taken.

Sept. 5--Schools of Paris closed; Cabinet takes steps to send food to country districts.

Sept. 6--Gen. Joffre warns troops against premature attacks in mass; siege awaited calmly;
1915 recruits called out; neutral diplomats want Ambassador  Herrick to ask United States to
protest against possible destruction of Paris art treasures; Germans levy war taxes on captured
cities.

Sept. 8--Suggestion to have art works regarded as international property taken into consideration
by President Wilson.

Sept. 9--Decree ordering all men exempt from service because of ill-health to be reexamined;
many regret flight from Paris.

Sept. 10--Gens. Exelmans and Toutee wounded; military authorities warn Parisians against overconfidence;
intrenchments dug.

Sept. 11--President Poincaré sends message to President Wilson in answer to Kaiser's charges
on dumdum bullets; Government commandeers all automobiles; Gen. Joffre and army congratulated
by President Poincaré.

Sept. 12--Road from Havre to Paris reopened, rail service being resumed; fresh troops ready
in Paris.

Sept. 14--Much booty has been taken from Germans; Senlis laid waste.

Sept. 16--Troops accused of destroying German field hospital and killing doctors.

Sept. 18--Stricter watch on spies; minors allowed to enlist, with permission of mothers.

Sept. 19--Suffering in Lunéville; statement issued by Washington Embassy to show that Germany
began the war.

Sept. 20--Northern France is being laid waste; Menier château raided.

Sept. 21--Foreign Office sends protest to neutrals against bombardment of Rheims Cathedral;
Ambassador Jusserand lays complaint before United States State Department.

Sept. 22--Loss in officers very heavy; their uniforms may be changed; refugees return to Paris.

Sept. 23--Germans say they were compelled to bombard Rheims.

Sept. 24--Germans admit aiming one shell at Rheims Cathedral to drive out observers; refugees
advertise in newspapers for relatives.

Sept. 25--Germans again shell Rheims Cathedral; formal complaint of German atrocities filed
at United States State Department; statement by Ambassador Jusserand.

Sept. 26--Stricter news censorship in Paris; Belgian refugees aid in gathering grapes at Bordeaux.

Sept. 28--Joffre denies Rheims Cathedral was being used for observatory; two German spies shot.

Sept. 30--Association of Architects expels German members.

Oct. 2--French soldiers are charged by German Foreign Office with torturing wounded at Orchies.

Oct. 4--German charges officially denied.

Oct. 6--German prisoners sentenced to die for looting.

Oct. 7--French are charged by Germans with themselves pillaging French towns, an alleged order
of Gen. Joffre being quoted.

Oct. 11--Problem of caring for refugees becomes serious.

Oct. 15--Learned societies plan expulsion of German members.

*GERMANY.*

July 23--Government approves of Austria's course in Servian trouble.

July 25--Berlin mobs want war; Kaiser leaves Norway for Berlin.

July 26--War spirit in Berlin; French believe Government had hand in trouble, despite explanation
of Baron von Schoen; Government wants Austro-Servian quarrel localized.

July 27--Kaiser returns to Berlin and confers with military officers; Government was warned
of mobilization of entire Russian Army; France still suspects that Government inspired Austria's
note to Servia.

July 28--Socialist anti-war meetings fail.

July 29--Kaiser holds naval council of war and exchanges messages with the Czar.

July 30--Government calls on Russia to stop mobilization within twenty-four hours; three questions
put to Russia; panic at Saarbrucken; Cabinet meets at Potsdam; troops massing at Tsing-tau.

July 31--Nation put under martial law; Kaiser makes speech in Berlin; "nuptials of war" of
Prince Oscar and Countess von Bassewitz; Reichstag summoned; Crown Prince assigned to command.

Aug. 1--Government's inquiry about France's intentions concerning ultimatum to Russia causes
French mobilization; Kaiser signs mobilization order; Reichstag convoked; war speech by Chancellor;
Government pressed Austria hard for understanding with Russia and tried to localize war; reserves
in China go to Tsing-tau; officials in South Africa hurry home.

Aug. 2--Russian Ambassador receives passport; ships at sea ordered to seek neutral port; Minister
von Pourtales made demands upon Russian Foreign Minister three times; Albert Ballin says Kaiser
sought peace; martial law declared in Kiao-Chau.

Aug. 3--Rumor of invasion of Holland, but Minister gives assurance that neutrality will be
respected; United States will protect German interests in Russia and other countries.

Aug. 4--British envoy leaves Berlin; appeal made to Italy; Reichstag opens; speeches by Kaiser
and by Chancellor, who promises to make reparation to Luxemburg and Belgium after the war;
emergency measures.

Aug. 5--Russian Ambassador and staff assaulted in Berlin; Embassy in St. Petersburg wrecked;
school children sent to garner crops.

Aug. 7--Report that pressure was brought to bear on Italy to secure aid; Kaiser's proclamation
to nation; soldiers march cheerfully to war; British Embassies stoned in Dresden and Berlin.

Aug. 8--Threat to declare war on Italy; Russian official papers blame Germany for war; papers
says Government is traduced.

Aug. 9--Hermann Wendel, Socialist member of Reichstag, volunteers for service in the army.

Aug. 10--Men of the Landsturm being mobilized.

Aug. 11--Anti-war riots in Berlin.

Aug. 12--Official hints that Kaiser halted attack on Liége to prevent further loss of life;
attempt on life of Crown Prince at Aix-la-Chapelle; receipt of President Wilson's offer of
good offices acknowledged.

Aug. 13--Troops in Belgian Luxemburg said to be starving; British, French, and Belgians charge
cruelties by troops.

Aug. 14--Chancellor states Germany's case and calls war a life-and-death struggle of the German
and the Slav; report that Kaiser sent personal telegrams to Belgian King demanding surrender
of Liége forts; aviators drop pamphlets over Poland urging revolt against Russia.

Aug. 15--Government said to have asked Ambassador Whitlock to repeat to Belgium offer of increased
territory in return for free passage of troops; belief that acquisition of Russian Poland is
sought; many members of Hohenzollern family in field; French and English signs removed from shops.

Aug. 16--Prisoners well treated by French; French say officers' corps is tyrannical and demoralized;
Russians accused of cruelty.

Aug. 17--Untrained men called to colors; Paris journal reports prisoners bitter against Kaiser.

Aug. 18--Chancellor said to have called treaty guaranteeing Belgian neutrality a "scrap of
paper"; E.G. Treat says Kaiser called the Czar an Asiatic barbarian.

Aug. 19--Speech in Reichstag shows that Socialists are backing Government.

Aug. 20--Alsatian Deputies escape to France; Kaiser said to be responsible for attacks on Liége;
Government asks United States to represent her in Far East in event of war with Japan.

Aug. 21--Committee of merchants works to aid trade and addresses explanation of the war to
Americans; French charge German prisoners with robbing the dead.

Aug. 22--Japanese envoy ordered to leave Berlin; American Ambassador will look after interests
of Japan; dumdum bullets not used by Germans, it is declared; great mortality of officers attracts
attention; England protests to United States against allowing fuel to be carried to cruisers
at sea.

Aug. 24--Full text of German "White Paper" printed in THE NEW YORK TIMES; German-Japanese Commercial
Treaty will cease to be effective; statements on Belgium's conduct on battlefield protested
against by Belgian Minister at Washington; Berlin newspapers given to returning Americans to
meet alleged false reports.

Aug. 25--Kaiser decorates two sons and Duke of Württemberg for bravery; tax levied on Brabant;
boys from 16 to 19 years ordered to drill.

Aug. 26--Prince of Saxe-Meiningen killed at Namur; food supply limitless, says Count von Bernstorff.

Aug. 27--Food prices fixed by Government.

Aug. 28--Emperor orders Ministry to care for fleeing population of East Prussia; army to be
sent from Alsace.

Aug. 29--Force withdrawn from Belgium to meet Russians; name of Englische Strasse in Berlin
changed to Deutsche Strasse; Japanese State debt seized.

Aug. 31--Fourteen staff officers captives of Allies; many losses have occurred in charges of
massed infantry; Gen. von Stein says there will be no concession to Belgium; railways again open.

Sept. 1--German officers take charge of mobilization of Turkish Army; Socialist manifesto assailing
the Kaiser.

Sept. 2--Casualty lists show heavy losses; new gun developed by Krupp hurls powerful shell;
wireless reports to Washington Embassy accuse Russians of atrocities.

Sept. 4--Czar says he will take from Prussia more than Kaiser gets in Belgium; Namur citizens
starving.

Sept. 5--Six hundred Japanese students captured on Dutch frontier; new official statement puts
blame for destruction of Louvain on citizens; Prince Lichnowsky goes to front; Russian refugees
from Germany charge cruelty.

Sept. 6--Reichstag leaders pledge nation's entire strength.

Sept. 8--Professors in universities will renounce distinctions conferred upon them by British
universities.

Sept. 9--Attempts made to obtain Dutch sympathy; Kaiser sends message to President Wilson,
charging use of dumdum bullets by Allies.

Sept. 10--Experts from Krupp works brought down in aeroplane by Belgians.

Sept. 11--Prince Engalitcheff charges atrocities on Russian border; Consular officers leave
Egypt; aviators decorated by Kaiser.

Sept. 12--Crown Prince appeals for tobacco for men; many officers and men decorated.

Sept. 13--Gen. von Boehn's reply to Belgian charges of atrocities in Aerschot.

Sept. 16--Government notifies China that Germany reserves right to deal with Chinese Empire
as she sees fit because of breach of neutrality; placard set up in Compiègne asserting sovereignty
over territories occupied.

Sept. 17--Ambassador Gerard reports peace talk with Chancellor, who suggests that United States
ask Allies their terms; heavy losses reported.

Sept. 18--Prussian Guard Corps said to be wiped out; eight army corps leave Belgium and France
for eastern frontier; Crown Prince appeals for clothing for soldiers.

Sept. 19--Prince August William receives the Iron Cross; stories of looting in French towns;
fine demanded of Lunéville; food problem acute for army in the west.

Sept. 20--Some States of empire said to resent Prussia's plunging country into war.

Sept. 21--Dutch traffic along the Rhine halted; soldiers' diaries show shortage of rations;
discontent among Bavarian troops; French find iron crosses inscribed "1814-1914."

Sept. 22--Troops accused of atrocities in report of Sir John French; Frenchwoman says artillerymen
shelled hospital at Etain.

Sept. 24--Fine of $600,000 exacted from Tournai, Belgium, for death of one Uhaln.

Sept. 25--General Staff lists prisoners for exchange and admits totals announced were erroneous;
thirty-first casualty list given out.

Sept. 26--Krupp works running night and day.

Sept. 27--Epidemic of typhoid among soldiers.

Sept. 28--Brussels used as intrenched camp; shortage of horses.

Sept. 29--Big Krupp guns being placed on warships; Winter clothing for army ordered; Rotterdam
hears that soldiers are ill from lack of food because commissariat broke down.

Sept. 30--Krupp guns are dubbed "Busy Berthas"; women give gold ornaments in exchange for iron
rings.

Oct. 4--The King of Bavaria is in command of six army corps in Silesia.

Oct. 5--Losses at Antwerp shown to be heavy.

Oct. 8--Director of Berlin Royal Museum says that works of art brought into Germany will not
be retained.

Oct. 12--Prussia's losses estimated at 211,000; officials guard Antwerp from plunderers.

Oct. 14--Notice sent to Holland that status of River Scheldt will be continued as heretofore;
rejoicing in Berlin over fall of Antwerp.

*HOLLAND.*

July 30--Government declares neutrality.

July 31--Mobilization of army ordered; Austrian Government steamer detained for time, but released.

Aug. 2--Country may be flooded to prevent invasion; fear that Germany may not respect neutrality;
bill in Parliament to stabilize food prices.

Aug. 3--Rumor of invasion, but German Minister promises that neutrality will be respected.

Aug. 5--Reservists in America summoned.

Aug. 6--Neutrality in Anglo-German and Belgo-German wars declared.

Aug. 8--Frontier guarded.

Aug. 9--Uhlans captured and disarmed at Maastricht.

Aug. 10--Queen Wilhelmina suggests formation of committee to aid the needy.

Aug. 11--Martial law in several provinces.

Aug. 13--Troops massed on frontier; some districts flooded.

Aug. 15--Queen orders Court festivities canceled.

Aug. 16--Paralysis of trade in Rotterdam will render thousands destitute.

Aug. 18--Everything ready to flood frontier if Germany strikes.

Aug. 20--Food supply causes anxiety; patrols capture German aeroplane.

Aug. 21--Country prepared against invasion; soldiers fire on Zeppelin using searchlight; declaration
of neutrality renewed; bakers making bread from potatoes; people of Tongres flee from Germans.

Aug. 23--Minister of Industry and Commerce assures England that goods will not be improperly
supplied to Germany.

Aug. 25--Mobilization ceased.

Aug. 29--Southern frontier under martial law.

Sept. 9--Germans want people's sympathy; some places put in state of siege; rice substituted
for wheat flour.

Sept. 15--Artists protest to German Emperor against destruction of Louvain.

Sept. 26--Martial law on eastern frontier to stop smuggling of goods into Germany.

Oct. 2--Neutrality is being maintained at great cost; trade is paralyzed.

Oct. 3--Severe embargo on foodstuffs.

Oct. 7--Amsterdam fixes price of wheat.

*INDIA.*

Aug. 15--Mass meetings in Calcutta and Bombay to voice people's loyalty to England.

Aug. 26--Moslems still loyal to England.

Aug. 28--Troops will be sent to France.

Sept. 9--Men and money offered to England; message from Viceroy read in House of Commons.

Sept. 14--German tale of revolution denied; loyalty reported by British Foreign Office.

Sept. 15--Mussulmans in Russia support declaration of loyalty to England.

Sept. 21--Aga Khan, leader of Mohammedans, offers to enlist; potentates eager to serve.

Sept. 24--Preparations for comfort of soldiers being made in England.

Oct. 1--Troops land in France; message to them from King George.

Oct. 2--Great welcome given to troops at Marseilles.

*ITALY.*

July 24--Country will simply safeguard her interests in the Balkans and on the Adriatic; appeal
made to other countries to be conciliatory.

July 25--No disposition to espouse Austria's cause.

July 26--Government looks to England to prevent war.

July 28--Concentration of the first and second naval squadrons ordered at Gaeta; warships on
the Clyde ordered home.

July 31--Government assured that Austria is not seeking more territory.

Aug. 1--Government informs Germany of neutrality and says obligations under Triple Alliance
apply only to defensive war.

Aug. 2--Cabinet ratifies declaration of neutrality; Government orders all Bourses closed.

Aug. 3--Fleet assembles in Far East; neutrality formally proclaimed, but reserves are called
to colors.

Aug. 5--Report of German ultimatum to Italy; war may be declared on Austria.

Aug. 6--Ambassador to London justifies attitude of neutrality.

Aug. 7--Germany and Austria bring strong pressure to bear to obtain aid.

Aug. 8--Germany and Austria threaten war; King said to be indignant at reported offer of colonies
in return for aid.

Aug. 13--Alpine passes and northern frontier guarded.

Aug. 14--Government aroused by report that Turkey has purchased two German cruisers.

Aug. 16--Strong feeling in favor of England.

Aug. 19--Refugees from Germany complain, of outrages.

Aug. 21--Prefects vote against joining with Germany.

Aug. 24--German Ambassador's efforts fail to persuade press to advocate intervention; Allies
are pressing Italy.

Aug. 31--Romans leave cards at Belgian Legation to show sympathy over Louvain.

Sept. 7--Socialist Reform Party endorses  neutrality.

Sept. 13--Populace of Rome cheers for France.

Sept. 14--Radicals favor war; anti-Austrian demonstration in Rome.

Sept. 16--Rioters in large cities demand aid to Allies.

Sept, 20--More than 500,000 men are under arms.

Sept. 21--Damage to Rheims Cathedral arouses sympathy for France; British Embassy in Rome cheered.

Sept. 22--Thousands offer to enlist in British Army.

Sept. 30--Gabriele d'Annunzio urges country to join Allies.

*JAPAN.*

July 30--Alliance with England may involve Government in war in case of attack on British warships.

Aug. 1--Navy prepared.

Aug. 2--Emperor summons Council and asks War Minister to report on condition of army; warships
get ready.

Aug. 4--Proclamation prepares people for war on behalf of England.

Aug. 5--Count Okuma says Japan would have liked to join the United States in mediation offer.

Aug. 7--Warships off Tsing-tau; reserve army officers told to be ready; navy squadrons organized.

Aug. 11--Army aboard transports.

Aug. 12--Telegraphic communication with Europe interrupted; Ambassador confers with Russian
Foreign Minister.

Aug. 20--Count Okuma denies that Government has territorial ambitions.

Aug. 21--United States sends formal declaration of policy bearing on ultimatum.

Sept. 5--Baron Kato makes speech in Diet outlining events leading up to war with Germany and
break with Austria, and thanking United States for good offices.

Sept. 10--Government tells Russia that no peace will be concluded until Allies consent.

Sept. 15--Papers controlled by Germans ordered suppressed.

Sept. 26--Charges of misconduct on part of troops in China denied at Washington Embassy.

Oct. 5--Assurance given to China that Shantung Railroad will only be used temporarily.

Oct. 7--Ambassador Guthrie and embassy at Washington assure State Department that taking of
Jaluit Island is only a temporary move.

Oct. 15--England tells China that she cannot interfere with the occupation of railroad.

*RUSSIA.*

July 21--Belief that Government will aid Servia in possible conflict with Austria.

July 24--Cabinet meets; Government will ask Austria to extend time allowed for Servia's answer
to ultimatum.

July 25--Army is mobilizing.

July 26--Warning to Germany against invasion of Servia; army manoeuvres countermanded, but
Government still hopes for peace.

July 27--Czar warns Germany of general mobilization of army.

July 28--Force masses on eastern border; lights along Black Sea coast ordered extinguished.

July 29--Intervention imminent; prayers for Serb victory; Baltic lights out; Czar summons reservists.

July 30--Germany demands halting of mobilization within twenty-four hours and sends Grand Duke
of Hesse to urge peace; war activity in Warsaw; railroads taken over.

July 31--Railway bridge on Vienna-Warsaw line blown up; no reply sent to German note; mobilization
order.

Aug. 3--Czar issues statement outlining events leading up to war.

Aug. 8--Czar addresses Duma and Council of Empire; Duma pledges people to country's defense.

Aug. 9--Minister Sazonof, in speech before Duma, blames Austria for war.

Aug. 15--Home rule promised to Poland after war if people remain loyal.

Aug. 16--Poles enthusiastic over promise of autonomy.

Aug. 17--Unrestricted use of Dardanelles demanded of Turkey.

Aug. 18--Many Poles join army.

Aug. 24--Finns loyal.

Aug. 27--Poles loyal; St. Petersburg well supplied with food.

Sept. 1--Name of St. Petersburg changed to Petrograd; other cities with German names would
have them Russianized; Germany charges atrocities in East Prussia.

Sept. 3--Report that soldiers have been sent to Belgium through Scotland.

Sept. 4--Gen. Bobrinsky appointed Governor of Galicia.

Sept. 6--Year's provisions seized at Lemberg, which is to be called Lvov.

Sept. 12--Prisoners are proving a problem.

Sept. 14--British Press Bureau denies that troops have landed in Belgium or France.

Sept. 16--Proclamation issued to captured Austrian districts.

Sept. 21--"Orange Book" shows Government's negotiations in cause of peace.

Sept. 27--Full text of "Orange Book" printed in THE NEW YORK TIMES.

Sept. 28--Soldiers occupy Tilsit estate of German Emperor; war fund presented to Czar by Petrograd
bankers.

Oct. 8--Lemberg made a province.

Oct. 15--Refugees are a serious problem in Warsaw.

*SERVIA.*

July 25--Parliament will meet in special session; King Peter moves capital from Belgrade to
Kraguyavatz.

July 26--Army mobilizing; Crown Prince will command it; panic in Belgrade as people flee.

July 28--King Peter goes to Nish.

Aug. 4--Sending of press dispatches forbidden.

Aug. 8--Full text given out of Austria's ultimatum and of reply.

Sept. 19--Government will conclude peace with Austria only by acting with Triple Entente.

*RESERVISTS.*

July 26--Ambassador Dumba tells Consuls to warn Austrian reservists to prepare to return for
service; Serbs in New York ready to sail.

July 27--Austrians await call.

July 28--Chicago Serbs anxious to return home.

July 29--Reservists ordered to return to Austria; Servians in Indiana ordered to await call.

July 30--Servians in New York prepare to sail; Giuseppe Garibaldi will fight for Servia if
Italy remains neutral.

Aug. 1--Mass meeting of Slavs in Central Opera House, New York City; Dr. Winter issues proclamation
for general mobilization of Austrians in New York district.

Aug. 2--Swiss called to colors; Germany and France recall all military reserves; England sends
for naval reserves.

Aug. 4--Many flock to consulates; Servians fight to sail on Greek ship; French and British
reservists leave Canada; Austro-Hungarian Military Benevolent Society formed in New York; hotels
affected by leaving of French chefs.

Aug. 5--Canadians respond to call; 2,000 Frenchmen sail on La Lorraine.

Aug. 6--Attempt to ship Austrians, Hungarians and Germans given up; English and French to go;
many leave destitute families.

Aug. 7--Reservists will go as individuals, not as organized parties, by order of Department
of Commerce.

Aug. 15--Many Frenchmen sail on the Rochambeau; Dutch and Germans on the Potsdam; Secretary
Bryan says men in America cannot be forced to join foreign armies.

Aug. 22--British ordered to be ready for call to colors.

Aug. 25--German and Austrian reservists on the Potsdam taken prisoners at Falmouth, England.

Aug. 31--British vessels take Austrian and German reservists from two Pacific Mail liners near
Hongkong.

Sept. 5--German reservists from Holland-America liner Nieuw Amsterdam held prisoners by France;
French reservists sail on the Espagne; Germans from Puerto Colombia reach New York.

Sept. 9--British cruiser captures the Noordam and makes German reservists prisoners.

Sept. 25--Germans taken from Holland-America liner Absteldyk by British.

*RELIEF WORK.*

Aug. 1--Hungarians form committee to aid New York families.

Aug. 2--Austrian headquarters established in New York City.

Aug. 6--Prince of Wales starts fund.

Aug. 7--American women of title in England start fund; American Ambulance Corps organized in
Paris by Mrs. Herrick.

Aug. 8--Committee of American women formed in London to aid sufferers; gift from Mrs. Whitelaw
Reid and many other contributions; Belgians in New York form relief committee; French fund
started in New York.

Aug. 10--French-Belgian relief fund started in New York.

Aug. 11--Ambassador Herrick asks Red Cross to send hospital supplies to Paris.

Aug. 12--Duchess of Sutherland is at head of French Red Cross work in Brussels.

Aug. 13--Rothschilds give $200,000 to French fund.

Aug. 14--Prince of Wales fund reaches $5,000,000.

Aug. 15--English nurses arrive in Brussels; Germans in New York start fund.

Aug. 17--Servian societies aid Servian Red Cross.

Aug. 21--Relief fund started in New York by German Historical Society, which gives iron ring
as souvenir to contributors.

Aug. 24--Ex-Empress Eugenie contributes to French fund.

Aug. 27--Noblemen in England offer homes to Red Cross.

Aug. 31--Appeal for aid in equipment of American Hospital in Paris.

Sept. 1--British War Office accepts Oldway House equipped as hospital by American women; large
contributions in London.

Sept. 7--American ambulance corps first on field near Paris.

Sept. 8--Mrs. W.E. Corey places château in France at the disposal of the Red Cross.

Sept. 12--Hanotaux issues appeal for French refugees; Duchess of Marlborough to aid servants
out of work; Duchess of Westminster a nurse.

Sept. 13--Briand thanks American women for care of wounded in Paris; Ambassador Jusserand will
forward money for French Red Cross.

Sept. 14--Chinese send Red Cross men to aid Japanese and Germans at Kiao-Chau; American Red
Cross steamship Red Cross sails from New York.

Sept. 15--Work of rich American women praised by French Socialist organ; Mrs. Penfield organizes
corps of Red Cross workers in Vienna; Prince of Wales fund increased by soccer teams.

Sept. 17--Babies and Mothers' League formed in London.

Sept. 19--Committee of Mercy formed in New York City.

Sept. 20--Belgian Legation in Washington plans aid for women and children.

Sept. 23--Lady Paget appeals to American women for socks.

Sept. 25--American Women's Fund in London gives six motor ambulances; home of Mr. and Mrs.
C.M. Depew on the Oise used for hospital.

Sept. 28--Appeal for Belgian relief addressed to Canada repeated to United States.

Sept. 29--England generous in offering homes to Belgian refugees.

Sept. 30--Duchess of Marlborough to act for Committee of Mercy in Great Britain.

Oct. 5--Prince of Wales fund reaches $15,000,000.

Oct. 8--Mrs. J.P. Morgan on shipboard knits socks for soldiers; praise is given to the work
done by the American Ambulance Hospital in Paris under Dr. J.A. Blake.

*PEACE AND MEDIATION.*

Sept. 7--Germany reported ready for peace; Oscar Straus and diplomats confer with Secretary Bryan.

Sept. 8--Secretary Bryan and Ambassador Spring-Rice deny peace proposals.

Sept. 10--Bankers' peace movement afoot; German banks feel strain; Pope issues appeal.

Sept. 11--Apostolic Delegate in Washington has mission on mediation to President Wilson; opinion
in England that peace moves must wait.

Sept. 12--Kaiser has received informal inquiry from United States Government; Allies will unite
in demanding compensation for Belgium.

Sept. 17--Report of preliminary steps for peace between Austria and Russia; Ambassador Gerard
reports conversation with German Chancellor, suggesting that Allies state terms.

Sept. 18--England denies that Germany and Austria have made peace proposals; Gerard's message
will probably be sent to Allies, but United States will make no further move at present; President
Wilson receives appeal from women of all nations and from General Conference of Friends.

Sept. 19--Ambassador Gerard's message has not been forwarded to any embassy; National Peace
Council in England thanks President Wilson for mediation offer.

Sept. 21--President Wilson believes time has not come to move for peace; he receives appeal
from suffragists.

Sept. 23--Ambassador von Bernstorff denies that German Government initiated peace propositions.

Sept. 26--Churches start peace campaigns to further efforts made by President Wilson.

Oct. 4--Prayers for peace held in churches throughout United States in accordance with request
in proclamation by President Wilson.

*THE MEN OF THE EMDEN.*

By THOMAS R. YBARRA.

What matter if you
    Be stanch and true
To the British blood in the veins of you,
When it's "hip hurrah!" for a deed well done,
For a fight well fought and a race well run--
    What matter if you be true?
    Hats off to the Emden's crew!

Theirs was the life of the storm-god's folk,
  Uncounted miles from the Fatherland,
With a foe beneath every wisp of smoke,
  And a menace in every strip of strand.
Up, glasses! Paul Jones was but one of these,
  Hull, Bainbridge, Decatur, their brothers, too!
    (Ha! those pirate nights
      In a ring of foes,
    When you douse your lights
      And drive home your blows!)
      Hats off to the Emden's crew!

Erect on the wave-washed decks stood they
  And heard with a Viking's grim delight
The whirr of the wings of death by day
  And the voice of death in their dreams by night!
Under the sweep of the wings of death,
By the blazing gun, in the tempest's breath,
  While a world of enemies strove and fumed,
  Remote, unaided, undaunted, doomed,
They stood--is there any, friend or foe,
  Who will choke a cheer?--who can still but scoff?
    No, no, by the gods of valor, no!
      To the Emden's crew--
                        Hats off!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: The second installment of this chronology, recording events to and including Jan.
7, 1915, will appear in the next issue. The chronology will then be continued in each succeeding
issue.]