"But, my dear sir,"--and then, for twenty minutes, the lawyer went on proving that it would
by no means be the same thing; but, nevertheless, Mary Thorne did have her own way.

In the course of the winter, Lady de Courcy tried very hard to induce the heiress to visit
Courcy Castle, and this request was so backed by Lady Arabella, that the doctor said he thought
she might as well go there for three or four days. But here, again, Mary was obstinate.

"I don't see it at all," she said. "If you make a point of it, or Frank, or Mr Gresham, I will
go; but I can't see any possible reason." The doctor, when so appealed to, would not absolutely
say that he made a point of it, and Mary was tolerably safe as regarded Frank or the squire.
If she went, Frank would be expected to go, and Frank disliked Courcy Castle almost more than
ever. His aunt was now more than civil to him, and, when they were together, never ceased to
compliment him on the desirable way in which he had done his duty by his family.

And soon after Christmas a visitor came to Mary, and stayed a fortnight with her: one whom
neither she nor the doctor had expected, and of whom they had not much more than heard. This
was the famous Miss Dunstable. "Birds of a feather flock together," said Mrs Rantaway--late
Miss Gushing--when she heard of the visit. "The railway man's niece--if you can call her a
niece--and the quack's daughter will do very well together, no doubt."

"At any rate, they can count their money-bags," said Mrs Umbleby.

And in fact, Mary and Miss Dunstable did get on very well together; and Miss Dunstable made
herself quite happy at Greshamsbury, although some people--including Mrs Rantaway--contrived
to spread a report, that Dr Thorne, jealous of Mary's money, was going to marry her.

"I shall certainly come and see you turned off," said Miss Dunstable, taking leave of her new
friend. Miss Dunstable, it must be acknowledged, was a little too fond of slang; but then,
a lady with her fortune, and of her age, may be fond of almost whatever she pleases.

And so by degrees the winter wore away--very slowly to Frank, as he declared often enough;
and slowly, perhaps, to Mary also, though she did not say so. The winter wore away, and the
chill, bitter, windy, early spring came round. The comic almanacs give us dreadful pictures
of January and February; but, in truth, the months which should be made to look gloomy in England
are March and April. Let no man boast himself that he has got through the perils of winter
till at least the seventh of May.

It was early in April, however, that the great doings were to be done at Greshamsbury. Not
exactly on the first. It may be presumed, that in spite of the practical, common-sense spirit
of the age, very few people do choose to have themselves united on that day. But some day in
the first week of that month was fixed for the ceremony, and from the end of February all through
March, Lady Arabella worked and strove in a manner that entitled her to profound admiration.

It was at last settled that the breakfast should be held in the large dining-room at Greshamsbury.
There was a difficulty about it which taxed Lady Arabella to the utmost, for, in making the
proposition, she could not but seem to be throwing some slight on the house in which the heiress
had lived. But when the affair was once opened to Mary, it was astonishing how easy it became.

"Of course," said Mary, "all the rooms in our house would not hold half the people you are
talking about--if they must come."

Lady Arabella looked so beseechingly, nay, so piteously, that Mary had not another word to
say. It was evident that they must all come: the de Courcys to the fifth generation; the Duke
of Omnium himself, and others in concatenation accordingly.

"But will your uncle be angry if we have the breakfast up here? He has been so very handsome
to Frank, that I wouldn't make him angry for all the world."

"If you don't tell him anything about it, Lady Arabella, he'll think that it is all done properly.
He will never know, if he's not told, that he ought to give the breakfast, and not you."

"Won't he, my dear?" And Lady Arabella looked her admiration for this very talented suggestion.
And so that matter was arranged. The doctor never knew, till Mary told him some year or so
afterwards, that he had been remiss in any part of his duty.

And who was asked to the wedding? In the first place, we have said that the Duke of Omnium
was there. This was, in fact, the one circumstance that made this wedding so superior to any
other that had ever taken place in that neighbourhood. The Duke of Omnium never went anywhere;
and yet he went to Mary's wedding! And Mary, when the ceremony was over, absolutely found herself
kissed by a duke. "Dearest Mary!" exclaimed Lady Arabella, in her ecstasy of joy, when she
saw the honour that was done to her daughter-in-law.

"I hope we shall induce you to come to Gatherum Castle soon," said the duke to Frank. "I shall
be having a few friends there in the autumn. Let me see; I declare, I have not seen you since
you were good enough to come to my collection. Ha! ha! ha! It wasn't bad fun, was it?" Frank
was not very cordial with his answer. He had not quite reconciled himself to the difference
of his position. When he was treated as one of the "collection" at Gatherum Castle, he had
not married money.

It would be vain to enumerate all the de Courcys that were there. There was the earl, looking
very gracious, and talking to the squire about the county. And there was Lord Porlock, looking
very ungracious, and not talking to anybody about anything. And there was the countess, who
for the last week past had done nothing but pat Frank on the back whenever she could catch
him. And there were the Ladies Alexandrina, Margaretta, and Selina, smiling at everybody. And
the Honourable George, talking in whispers to Frank about his widow--"Not such a catch as yours,
you know; but something extremely snug;--and have it all my own way, too, old fellow, or I
shan't come to the scratch." And the Honourable John prepared to toady Frank about his string
of hunters; and the Lady Amelia, by herself, not quite contented with these democratic nuptials--"After
all, she is so absolutely nobody; absolutely, absolutely," she said confidentially to Augusta,
shaking her head. But before Lady Amelia had left Greshamsbury, Augusta was quite at a loss
to understand how there could be need for so much conversation between her cousin and Mr Mortimer
Gazebee.

And there were many more de Courcys, whom to enumerate would be much too long.

And the bishop of the diocese, and Mrs Proudie were there. A hint had even been given, that
his lordship would himself condescend to perform the ceremony, if this should be wished; but
that work had already been anticipated by a very old friend of the Greshams. Archdeacon Grantly,
the rector of Plumstead Episcopi, had long since undertaken this part of the business; and
the knot was eventually tied by the joint efforts of himself and Mr Oriel. Mrs Grantly came
with him, and so did Mrs Grantly's sister, the new dean's wife. The dean himself was at the
time unfortunately absent at Oxford.

And all the Bakers and the Jacksons were there. The last time they had all met together under
the squire's roof, was on the occasion of Frank's coming of age. The present gala doings were
carried on a very different spirit. That had been a very poor affair, but this was worthy of
the best days of Greshamsbury.

Occasion also had been taken of this happy moment to make up, or rather to get rid of the last
shreds of the last feud that had so long separated Dr Thorne from his own relatives. The Thornes
of Ullathorne had made many overtures in a covert way. But our doctor had contrived to reject
them. "They would not receive Mary as their cousin," said he, "and I will go nowhere that she
cannot go." But now all this was altered. Mrs Gresham would certainly be received in any house
in the county. And thus, Mr Thorne of Ullathorne, an amiable, popular old bachelor, came to
the wedding; and so did his maiden sister, Miss Monica Thorne, than whose no kinder heart glowed
through all Barsetshire.

"My dear," said she to Mary, kissing her, and offering her some little tribute, "I am very
glad to make your acquaintance; very. It was not her fault," she added, speaking to herself.
"And now that she will be a Gresham, that need not be any longer be thought of." Nevertheless,
could Miss Thorne have spoken her inward thoughts out loud, she would have declared, that Frank
would have done better to have borne his poverty than marry wealth without blood. But then,
there are but few so stanch as Miss Thorne; perhaps none in that county--always excepting Lady
Amelia.

And Miss Dunstable, also, was a bridesmaid. "Oh, no" said she, when asked; "you should have
them young and pretty." But she gave way when she found that Mary did not flatter her by telling
her that she was either the one or the other. "The truth is," said Miss Dunstable, "I have
always been a little in love with your Frank, and so I shall do it for his sake." There were
but four: the other two were the Gresham twins. Lady Arabella exerted herself greatly in framing
hints to induce Mary to ask some of the de Courcy ladies to do her so much honour; but on this
head Mary would please herself. "Rank," said she to Beatrice, with a curl on her lip, "has
its drawbacks--and must put up with them."

And now I find that I have not one page--not half a page--for the wedding-dress. But what matters?
Will it not be all found written in the columns of the Morning Post?

And thus Frank married money, and became a great man. Let us hope that he will be a happy man.
As the time of the story has been brought down so near to the present era, it is not practicable
for the novelist to tell much of his future career. When I last heard from Barsetshire, it
seemed to be quite settled that he is to take the place of one of the old members at the next
election; and they say, also, that there is no chance of any opposition. I have heard, too,
that there have been many very private consultations between him and various gentlemen of the
county, with reference to the hunt; and the general feeling is said to be that the hounds should
go to Boxall Hill.

At Boxall Hill the young people established themselves on their return from the Continent.
And that reminds me that one word must be said of Lady Scatcherd.

"You will always stay here with us," said Mary to her, caressing her ladyship's rough hand,
and looking kindly into that kind face.

But Lady Scatcherd would not consent to this. "I will come and see you sometimes, and then
I shall enjoy myself. Yes, I will come and see you, and my own dear boy." The affair was ended
by her taking Mrs Opie Green's cottage, in order that she might be near the doctor; Mrs Opie
Green having married--somebody.

And of whom else must we say a word? Patience, also, of course, got a husband--or will do so.
Dear Patience! it would be a thousand pities that so good a wife should be lost to the world.
Whether Miss Dunstable will ever be married, or Augusta Gresham, or Mr Moffat, or any of the
tribe of the de Courcys--except Lady Amelia--I cannot say. They have all of them still their
future before them. That Bridget was married to Thomas--that I am able to assert; for I know
that Janet was much put out by their joint desertion.

Lady Arabella has not yet lost her admiration for Mary, and Mary, in return, behaves admirably.
Another event is expected, and her ladyship is almost as anxious about that as she was about
the wedding. "A matter, you know, of such importance in the county!" she whispered to Lady
de Courcy.

Nothing can be more happy than the intercourse between the squire and his son. What their exact
arrangements are, we need not specially inquire; but the demon of pecuniary embarrassment has
lifted his black wings from the demesne of Greshamsbury.

And now we have but one word left for the doctor. "If you don't come and dine with me," said
the squire to him, when they found themselves both deserted, "mind I shall come and dine with
you." And on this principle they seem to act. Dr Thorne continues to extend his practice, to
the great disgust of Dr Fillgrave; and when Mary suggested to him that he should retire, he
almost boxed her ears. He knows the way, however, to Boxall Hill as well as he ever did, and
is willing to acknowledge, that the tea there is almost as good as it ever was at Greshamsbury.