DUTY OF SUBJECTS.--We ought not only to look at the queen's duty, but recollect also what is
our own; for the prosperity of a nation consists, not only in having a religious governor,
but also an obedient people. The events which have passed before our eyes during the few last
years, may serve, I think, to convince us of the truth of such an inference. Can we look back
on the loss of human lives, the almost paralyzing alarm excited by the threats of an infuriated
populace, and the absolute destruction of property which took place during the riots in the
city of Bristol, and not see that all those calamities sprung out of a want of obedience to
the existing authorities? Nor was that the only occurrence of the kind which has taken place.
What repeated acts of incendiarism have we as a nation suffered from, as well as from the still
more recent riots which have arisen in our south-western and other counties? and may we not
ask, whence have those scenes of strife, discontent, and tumult, sprang, but from the cause
I have already referred to?--want of subjection and obedience to the government of our kingdom.
What were the scenes of misery and horror which broke out from time to time, when internal
wars and insurrections so greatly depopulated our land? Cast your eye up and down our country,
and view the still remaining barrows--those unsculptured, unlettered monuments, which cover
the slain of our people--and ask, are these Britons slain in their own land, a Christian land,
a land where (to remind you of the present privileges of her constitution) we have a national
established church, of sound scriptural and protestant faith, and a preached gospel?[AB]

FOOTNOTE:

[AB] From "The Liturgy of the Church of England, Catechetically explained, for the use of children,
by Mrs. S. Maddock. 3 vols. London: Houlston and Co." These volumes seem well adapted to explain
to those for whose use they have been published--the liturgy of our church. The catechetical
form in which the subject is treated, rather, however, detracts from their value, and should
the authoress be called on for a new edition, we should advise her to publish in a different form.

London: Published by JAMES BURNS, 17 Portman Street, Portman Square; W. EDWARDS, 12 Ave-Maria
Lane, St. Paul's; and to be procured, by order, of all Booksellers in Town and Country.

                      PRINTED BY
  JOSEPH ROGERSON, 24 NORFOLK STREET, STRAND, LONDON.

The masthead in the original referred to Vol. IX., although this issue is in fact part of Vol.
X. of this publication. This has been corrected.

A table of contents has been added for the convenience of the reader.

Minor punctuation errors have been repaired.

Archaic spelling is preserved as printed. Please note that both Oronooco and Oronooko appear
in the text as variable spellings.

The following typographic errors have been fixed:

    Page 20--servicable amended to serviceable--"... both
    exogenous and endogenous, render them extremely
    serviceable to mankind."

    Page 21--organisable amended to organizable, for
    consistency--"... indeed gum is that organizable product
    which exists most universally ..."

    Page 23--productivenes amended to productiveness--"...
    of which there are several varieties, differing
    essentially in productiveness, ..."

    Page 23, fourth footnote--Hedwiz amended to
    Hedwig--"Eheu qualia! Hedwig."