We had letters to Mr. Ford, an American Missionary established here, and Signor di Picciotto,
who acts as American Vice-Consul. Both gentlemen have been very cordial in their offers of
service, and by their aid we have been enabled to see something of Aleppo life and society.
Mr. Ford, who has been here four years, has a pleasant residence at Jedaida, a Christian suburb
of the city. His congregation numbers some fifty or sixty proselytes, who are mostly from the
schismatic sects of the Armenians. Dr. Smith, who established the mission at Ain-tab (two days'
journey north of this), where he died last year, was very successful among these sects, and
the congregation there amounts to nine hundred. The Sultan, a year ago, issued a firman, permitting
his Christian subjects to erect houses of worship; but, although this was proclaimed in Constantinople
and much lauded in Europe as an act of great generosity and tolerance, there has been no official
promulgation of it here. So of the aid which the Turkish Government was said to have afforded
to its destitute Christian subjects, whose houses were sacked during the fanatical rebellion
of 1850. The world praised the Sultan's charity and love of justice, while the sufferers, to
this day, lack the first experience of it. But for the spontaneous relief contributed in Europe
and among the Christian communities of the Levant, the amount of misery would have been frightful.

To Feridj Pasha, who is at present the commander of the forces here, is mainly due the credit
of having put down the rebels with a strong hand. There were but few troops in the city at
the time of the outbreak, and as the insurgents, who were composed of the Turkish and Arab
population, were in league with the Aneyzehs of the Desert, the least faltering or delay would
have led to a universal massacre of the Christians. Fortunately, the troops were divided into
two portions, one occupying the barracks on a hill north of the city, and the other, a mere
corporal's guard of a dozen men, posted in the citadel. The leaders of the outbreak went to
the latter and offered him a large sum of money (the spoils of Christian houses) to give up
the fortress. With a loyalty to his duty truly miraculous among the Turks, he ordered his men
to fire upon them, and they beat a hasty retreat. The quarter of the insurgents lay precisely
between the barracks and the citadel, and by order of Feridj Pasha a cannonade was immediately
opened on it from both points. It was not, however, until many houses had been battered down,
and a still larger number destroyed by fire, that the rebels were brought to submission. Their
allies, the Aneyzehs, appeared on the hill east of Aleppo, to the number of five or six thousand,
but a few well-directed cannon-balls told them what they might expect, and they speedily retreated.
Two or three hundred Christian families lost nearly all of their property during the sack,
and many were left entirely destitute. The house in which Mr. Ford lives was plundered of jewels
and furniture to the amount of 400,000 piastres ($20,000). The robbers, it is said, were amazed
at the amount of spoil they found. The Government made some feeble efforts to recover it, but
the greater part was already sold and scattered through a thousand hands, and the unfortunate
Christians have only received about seven per cent. of their loss.

The burnt quarter has since been rebuilt, and I noticed several Christians occupying shops
in various parts of it. But many families, who fled at the time, still remain in various parts
of Syria, afraid to return to their homes. The Aneyzehs and other Desert tribes have latterly
become more daring than ever. Even in the immediate neighborhood of the city, the inhabitants
are so fearful of them that all the grain is brought up to the very walls to be threshed. The
burying-grounds on both sides are now turned into threshing-floors, and all day long the Turkish
peasants drive their heavy sleds around among the tomb-stones.

On the second day after our arrival, we paid a visit to Osman Pasha, Governor of the City and
Province of Aleppo. We went in state, accompanied by the Consul, with two janissaries in front,
bearing silver maces, and a dragoman behind. The seraï, or palace, is a large, plain wooden
building, and a group of soldiers about the door, with a shabby carriage in the court, were
the only tokens of its character. We were ushered at once into the presence of the Pasha, who
is a man of about seventy years, with a good-humored, though shrewd face. He was quite cordial
in his manners, complimenting us on our Turkish costume, and vaunting his skill in physiognomy,
which at once revealed to him that we belonged to the highest class of American nobility. In
fact, in the firman which he has since sent us, we are mentioned as "nobles." He invited us
to pass a day or two with him, saying that he should derive much benefit from our superior
knowledge. We replied that such an intercourse could only benefit ourselves, as his greater
experience, and the distinguished wisdom which had made his name long since familiar to our
ears, precluded the hope of our being of any service to him. After half an hour's stay, during
which we were regaled with jewelled pipes, exquisite Mocha coffee, and sherbet breathing of
the gardens of Gülistan, we took our leave.

The Pasha sent an officer to show us the citadel. We passed around the moat to the entrance
on the western side, consisting of a bridge and double gateway. The fortress, as I have already
stated, occupies the crest of an elliptical mound, about one thousand feet by six hundred,
and two hundred feet in height. It is entirely encompassed by the city and forms a prominent
and picturesque feature in the distant view thereof. Formerly, it was thickly inhabited, and
at the time of the great earthquake of 1822, there were three hundred families living within
the walls, nearly all of whom perished. The outer walls were very much shattered on that occasion,
but the enormous towers and the gateway, the grandest specimen of Saracenic architecture in
the East, still remain entire. This gateway, by which we entered, is colossal in its proportions.
The outer entrance, through walls ten feet thick, admitted us into a lofty vestibule lined
with marble, and containing many ancient inscriptions in mosaic. Over the main portal, which
is adorned with sculptured lions' heads, there is a tablet stating that the fortress was built
by El Melek el Ashraf (the Holiest of Kings), after which follows: "Prosperity to the True
Believers--Death to the Infidels!" A second tablet shows that it was afterwards repaired by
Mohammed ebn-Berkook, who, I believe, was one of the Fatimite Caliphs. The shekh of the citadel,
who accompanied us, stated the age of the structure at nine hundred years, which, as nearly
as I can recollect the Saracenic chronology, is correct. He called our attention to numbers
of iron arrow-heads sticking in the solid masonry--the marks of ancient sieges. Before leaving,
we were presented with a bundle of arrows from the armory--undoubted relics of Saracen warfare.

