THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 19. No. 550.]       SATURDAY, JUNE 2, 1832.     [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

RARE ARCTIC BIRDS.

Few of the results of recent expeditions of discovery have been so interesting to the public
as their contributions to zoological history. Many important additions to geographical science
have also been made by these journeys into countries hitherto unexplored, or but imperfectly
known by Europeans; but the interest is not of that attractive character which is more or less
attached to the natural history of these districts. The great delight that we take in the latter
species of knowledge is referable to the curiosity we feel respecting the inhabitants of a
country after we have once been assured of its existence. Our first inquiries naturally enough
relate to the tenants of our own species; we then ask what description of quadrupeds are found
over its plains, and how far they enlarge or circumscribe the enjoyments and liberty of sovereign
man; the birds that warble in its groves, the insects that flutter in its breeze, the fish
that tenant its seas, rivers, and lakes, and the plants that wave in wild luxuriance on its
hills and dales; and by comparing all these varieties with the natural characteristics of our
own country, and contrasting their differences with others, we are enabled, in some degree,
to appreciate, by the linked gradations, the order and harmony that reign throughout nature--the
minute beauty of parts which are so essential to the perfection of the grand whole.

The last overland expedition to the Polar sea, under the command of Captain Sir John Franklin,
was peculiarly fortunate in the collection of objects of natural history, which indeed were
too numerous for the limits of an appendix, such as had appeared with the narratives of previous
expeditions. Hence the number of the specimens warranted their publication in a separate form,
under the able superintendance of Dr. Richardson, surgeon and naturalist to the expedition,
aided by Mr. Swainson. The great expense of the requisite embellishment of the ornithological
portion, however, threatened a formidable obstacle to its completeness; but this was met by
a liberal grant of one thousand pounds by the British Government, to be applied solely towards
the expense of the engravings--the present being the first zoological work ever published with
the sterling assistance of His Majesty's Treasury. The first part of this truly great national
work appeared some time since, with 28 spirited figures of Mammalia, from drawings by Landseer;
the entomological and botanical parts are preparing for publication; and that of The Birds,
(to which we are indebted for the annexed Cuts,) has very recently appeared.[1]

    [1] Fauna Boreali-Americana, or the Zoology of the Northern
    Parts of British America. Part II., containing the Birds. By W.
    Swainson, Esq, F.R.S. and John Richardson, Esq., M.D. F.R.S.,
    &c. 4to. 253 pages, with 50 coloured plates, and 40 illustrative
    wood cuts. London, Murray, 1832.

