 CHAP. XLVII.--MONSIEUR GERMAINE, the forger--His trick--Cause of
 Germaine's arrest--An adroit and rapid forgery--Its detection     300

 CHAP. XLVIII.--Plan of escape--Germaine's project against
 Babette--A new scheme for New Year's night--Passports--PIETRO
 NAZZOLINI and DOMINICO ANTONETTI--Preparations for our "French
 leave"--How the attempt eventuated                                304

 CHAP. XLIX.--Condition of the sentinel when he was found--His
 story--Prison researches next day--How we avoid detection--Louis
 Philippe receives my petition favorably--Germaine's philosophic
 pilfering and principles--His plan to rob the SANTISSIMA CASA OF
 LORETTO--He designs making an attempt on the Emperor Nicholas--I
 am released and banished from France                              310

 CHAP. L.--I go to Portugal, and return in disguise to Marseilles,
 in order to embark for Africa--I resolve to continue a slaver--A
 Marseilles hotel during the cholera--DOCTOR DU JEAN and MADAME
 DUPREZ--Humors of the table d'hôte--Coquetry and flirtation--A
 phrenological denouement                                        316

 CHAP. LI.--I reach Goree, and hasten to Sierra Leone, where I
 become a coast-pilot to GALLINAS--Site of that celebrated
 factory--Don PEDRO BLANCO--His monopoly of the Vey
 country--Slave-trade and its territorial extent prior to
 the AMERICAN SCHEME OF COLONIZATION--Blanco's arrangements,
 telegraphs, &c. at Gallinas--Appearance and mode of life--Blanco
 and the Lords' prayer in Latin                                    324

 CHAP. LII.--Anecdotes of Blanco--Growth of slave-trade in
 the VEY country--Local wars--AMARAR and SHIAKAR--Barbarities
 of the natives                                                    330

 CHAP. LIII.--I visit LIBERIA, and observe a new phase of negro
 development--I go to NEW SESTROS, and establish trade--Trouble
 with Prince FREEMAN--The value of gunpowder physic                335

 CHAP. LIV.--My establishment at New Sestros, and how I created
 the slave-trade in that region--The ordeal of SAUCY-WOOD--My
 mode of attacking a superstitious usage, and of saving the
 victims--The story of BARRAH and his execution                    339

 CHAP. LV.--No river at New Sestros--Beach--Kroomen and
 Fishmen--Bushmen--Kroo boats--I engage a fleet of them for
 my factory--I ship a cargo of slaves in a hurry--My mode
 of operating--Value of rum and mock coral beads--Return
 of the cruiser                                                    344

 CHAP. LVI.--I go on a pleasure voyage in the Brilliant,
 accompanied by GOVERNOR FINDLEY--Murder of the Governor--I
 fit out an expedition to revenge his death--A fight with
 the beach negroes--We burn five towns--A disastrous retreat--I
 am wounded--Vindication of Findley's memory                       349

 CHAP. LVII.--What Don Pedro Blanco thought of my
 Quixotism--Painful effects of my wound--Blanco's
 liberality to Findley's family--My slave nurseries
 on the coast--Digby--I pack nineteen negroes on my launch,
 and set sail for home--Disastrous voyage--Stories--I land
 my cargo at night at MONROVIA, and carry it through the
 colony!--Some new views of commercial Morality!                   356

 CHAP. LVIII.--My compliments to British cruisers--The BONITO--I
 offer an inspection of my barracoons, &c., to her officers--A
 lieutenant and the surgeon are sent ashore--My reception of them,
 and the review of my slaves, feeding, sleeping, &c.--Our night
 frolic--Next morning--A surprise--The Bonito off, and her
 officers ashore!--Almost a quarrel--How I pacified my guests over
 a good breakfast--Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander     362

 CHAP. LIX.--Ups and downs--I am captured in a Russian vessel,
 and sent to Sierra Leone--It is resolved that I am to be despatched
 to England--I determine to take French leave--Preparation
 to celebrate a birthday--A feast--A martinet--CORPORAL
 BLUNT--Pleasant effects of cider--A swim for life and liberty
 at night--My concealment--I manage to equip myself, and depart
 in a Portuguese vessel--I ship thirty-one slaves at Digby--A
 narrow escape from a cruiser--My return to New Sestros--Report
 of my death--How I restored confidence in my actual existence--Don
 Pedro's notion of me--The gift of a donkey, and its disastrous
 effect on the married ladies of New Sestros                       369

 CHAP. LX.--The confession of a dying sailor--SANCHEZ--The story
 of the murder of Don Miguel, and destruction of his factory by
 THOMPSON--A piratical revenge--An auto-da-fé at sea             377

 CHAP. LXI.--My establishment at Digby--The rival kinsmen,
 and their quarrel--JEN-KEN, THE BUSHMAN--My arrival at
 Digby, carousal--A night attack by the rival and his
 allies--A rout--Horrid scenes of massacre, barbarity,
 and cannibalism--My position and ransom                           382

 CHAP. LXII.--I escape from the bloody scene in a boot with
 a Krooman--Storm on the coast--My perilous attempt to land
 at Gallinas--How I am warned off--An African tornado--The
 sufferings of my companion and myself while exposed in the
 boat, and our final rescue                                        387

 CHAP. LXIII.--Don Pedro Blanco leaves Gallinas--I visit Cape
 Mount, to restore his son to the Chief--His reception--I go
 to England in the GIL BLAS; she is run down by steamer in the
 Channel--Rescued, and reach Dover--I see London and the British
 Islands--The diversions, sufferings, and opinions of my servant
 LUNES in Great Britain--He leaves voluntarily for Africa--A queer
 chat and scene with the ladies--His opinion of negro dress and
 negro bliss                                                       391

 CHAP. LXIV.--I make arrangements for future trade and business
 with MR. REDMAN--I go to Havana, resolved to obtain a release
 from Blanco, and engage in lawful commerce--Don Pedro refuses,
 and sends me back with a freight--A voyage with two African
 females revisiting their native country--Their story in Cuba;
 results of frugality and industry--Shiakar's daughter--Her
 reception at home--Her disgust with her savage home in Africa,
 and return to Cuba                                                396

 CHAP. LXV.--I find my establishment in danger, from the colonists
 and others--A correspondence with LIEUT. BELL, U. S. N.--Harmless
 termination of GOVERNOR BUCHANAN's onslaught--Threatened with
 famine; my relief--The VOLADOR takes 749 slaves;--THE LAST CARGO
 I EVER SHIPPED                                                    399

 CHAP. LXVI.--I am attacked by the British cruiser TERMAGANT,
 Lieut. SEAGRAM--Correspondence and diplomacy--I go on board the
 cruiser in a damp uniform--My reception and jollification--I
 CONFESS MY INTENTION TO ABANDON THE SLAVE-TRADE--My compact
 with Seagram--How we manage Prince Freeman--His treaty with
 the Lieutenant for the suppression of the trade--The negro's
 duplicity outwits himself--The British officer guaranties
 the safe removal of my property, whereupon I release 100
 slaves--Captain DENMAN'S DESTRUCTION OF GALLINAS--Freeman
 begins to see my diplomacy, and regrets his inability to
 plunder my property, as the natives had done at Gallinas--His
 plot to effect this--How I counteract it                          405

 CHAP. LXVII.--My barracoons destroyed--Adieus to New Sestros--I
 sail with Seagram, in the Termagant, for Cape Mount--A slaver
 in sight--All the nautical men depart to attack her in boats
 during a calm--I am left in charge of Her Britannic Majesty's
 cruiser--The fruitless issue--Escape of the Serea                 411

 CHAP. LXVIII.--We land at Cape Mount, and obtain a cession of
 territory, by deed, from KING FANA-TORO and PRINCE GRAY--I
 explore the region--Site of old English slave factory--Difficulty
 of making the negroes comprehend my improvements at New
 Florence--Negro speculations and philosophy in regard to labor.   414

 CHAP. LXIX.--Visit to Monrovia--Description of the colony and
 its products--Speculations on the future of the republic, and
 the character of colored colonization                             419

 CHAP. LXX.--I remove, and settle permanently at New Florence--I
 open communications with cruisers to supply them with provisions,
 &c.--Anecdote of SOMA, the gambler--His sale and danger in the
 hands of a Bushman--Mode of gambling one's self away in Africa--A
 letter from Governor Macdonald destroys my prospect of British
 protection--I haul down the British flag--I determine to devote
 myself to husbandry--Bad prospect                                 424

 CHAP. LXXI.--Account of the character of the VEY negroes--The
 GREE-GREE bush--Description of this institution, its rites,
 services, and uses--Marriage and midwifery--A scene with
 Fana-Toro, at Toso--Human sacrifice of his enemy; frying a
 heart; indignity committed on the body--Anecdote of the king's
 endurance; burns his finger as a test, and rallies his men--Death
 of Prince Gray--Funeral rites among the Vey people--Smoking the
 corpse--I am offered the choice of his widows                    429

 CHAP. LXXII.--My workshops, gardens, and plantations at the Cape
 Mount settlement--I do not prosper as a farmer or trader with
 the interior--I decide to send a coaster to aid in the
 transfer of the Yankee clipper A---- to a slaver--I part on bad
 terms with the British--Game at Cape Mount--Adventure of a boy
 and an Ourang-outang--How we killed leopards, and saved our
 castle--Mode of hunting elephants--Elephant law                   437

 CHAP. LXXIII.--Fana-Toro's war, and its effect on my
 establishment--I decline joining actively in the conflict--I
 allow captives to be shipped by a Gallinas factor--Two years
 of blockade by the British--A miraculous voyage of a long-boat
 with thirty-three slaves to Bahia--My disasters and mishaps
 at Cape Mount in consequence of this war--Exaggerations of
 my enemies--My true character--Letter from Rev. JOHN SEYS to
 me--My desire to aid the missionaries--CAIN and CURTIS stimulate
 the British against me--Adventure of the Chancellor--the British
 destroy my establishment--Death of Fana-Toro--The natives revenge
 my loss--The end                                                  442

THEODORE CANOT.

CHAPTER I.

Whilst Bonaparte was busy conquering Italy, my excellent father, Louis Canot, a captain and
paymaster in the French army, thought fit to pursue his fortunes among the gentler sex of that
fascinating country, and luckily won the heart and hand of a blooming Piedmontese, to whom
I owe my birth in the capital of Tuscany.

My father was faithful to the Emperor as well as the Consul. He followed his sovereign in his
disasters as well as glory: nor did he falter in allegiance until death closed his career on
the field of Waterloo.

Soldiers' wives are seldom rich, and my mother was no exception to the rule. She was left in
very moderate circumstances, with six children to support; but the widow of an old campaigner,
who had partaken the sufferings of many a long and dreary march with her husband, was neither
disheartened by the calamity, nor at a loss for thrifty expedients to educate her younger offspring.
Accordingly, I was kept at school, studying geography, arithmetic, history and the languages,
until near twelve years old, when it was thought time for me to choose a profession. At school,
and in my leisure hours, I had always been a greedy devourer of books of travel, or historical
narratives full of stirring incidents, so that when I avowed my preference for a sea-faring
life, no one was surprised. Indeed, my fancy was rather applauded, as two of my mother's brothers
had served in the Neapolitan navy, under Murat. Proper inquiries were quickly made at Leghorn;
and, in a few weeks, I found myself on the mole of that noble seaport, comfortably equipped,
with a liberal outfit, ready to embark, as an apprentice, upon the American ship Galatea, of
Boston.

It was in the year 1819, that I first saluted the element upon which it has been my destiny
to pass so much of my life. The reader will readily imagine the discomforts to which I was
subjected on this voyage. Born and bred in the interior of Italy, I had only the most romantic
ideas of the sea. My opinions had been formed from the lives of men in loftier rank and under
more interesting circumstances. My career was necessarily one of great hardship; and, to add
to my misfortunes, I had neither companion nor language to vent my grief and demand sympathy.
For the first three months, I was the butt of every joker in the ship. I was the scape-goat
of every accident and of every one's sins or carelessness. As I lived in the cabin, each plate,
glass, or utensil that fell to leeward in a gale, was charged to my negligence. Indeed, no
one seemed to compassionate my lot save a fat, lubberly negro cook, whom I could not endure.
He was the first African my eye ever fell on, and I must confess that he was the only friend
I possessed during my early adventures.

Besides the officers of the Galatea, there was a clerk on board, whom the captain directed
to teach me English, so that, by the time we reached Sumatra, I was able to stand up for my
rights, and plead my cause. As we could not obtain a cargo of pepper on the island, we proceeded
to Bengal; and, on our arrival at Calcutta, the captain, who was also supercargo, took apartments
on shore, where the clerk and myself were allowed to follow him.

According to the fashion of that period, the house provided for our accommodation was a spacious
and elegant one, equipped with every oriental comfort and convenience, while fifteen or twenty
servants were always at the command of its inmates. For three months we lived like nabobs,
and sorry, indeed, was I when the clerk announced that the vessel's loading was completed,
and our holiday over.

On the voyage home, I was promoted from the cabin, and sent into the steerage to do duty as
a "light hand," in the chief mate's watch. Between this officer and the captain there was ill
blood, and, as I was considered the master's pet, I soon began to feel the bitterness of the
subordinate's spite. This fellow was not only cross-grained, but absolutely malignant. One
day, while the ship was skimming along gayly with a five-knot breeze, he ordered me out to
the end of the jib-boom to loosen the sail; yet, without waiting until I was clear of the jib,
he suddenly commanded the men who were at the halliards to hoist the canvas aloft. A sailor
who stood by pointed out my situation, but was cursed into silence. In a moment I was jerked
into the air, and, after performing half a dozen involuntary summersets, was thrown into the
water, some distance from the ship's side. When I rose to the surface, I heard the prolonged
cry of the anxious crew, all of whom rushed to the ship's side, some with ropes' ends, some
with chicken coops, while others sprang to the stern boat to prepare it for launching. In the
midst of the hurly-burly, the captain reached the deck, and laid the ship to; the sailor who
had remonstrated with the mate having, in the meantime, clutched that officer, and attempted
to throw him over, believing I had been drowned by his cruelty. As the sails of the Galatea
flattened against the wind, many an anxious eye was strained over the water in search of me;
but I was nowhere seen! In truth, as the vessel turned on her heel, the movement brought her
so close to the spot where I rose, that I clutched a rope thrown over for my rescue, and climbed
to the lee channels without being perceived. As I leaped to the deck, I found one half the
men in tumultuous assemblage around the struggling mate and sailor; but my sudden apparition
served to divert the mob from its fell purpose, and, in a few moments, order was perfectly
restored. Our captain was an intelligent and just man, as may be readily supposed from the
fact that he exclusively controlled so valuable an enterprise. Accordingly, the matter was
examined with much deliberation; and, on the following day, the chief mate was deprived of
his command. I should not forget to mention that, in the midst of the excitement, my sable
friend the cook leaped overboard to rescue his protegé. Nobody happened to notice the darkey
when he sprang into the sea; and, as he swam in a direction quite contrary from the spot where
I fell, he was nigh being lost, when the ship's sails were trimmed upon her course. Just at
that moment a faint call was heard from the sea, and the woolly skull perceived in time for rescue.

This adventure elevated not only "little Theodore," but our "culinary artist" in the good opinion
of the mess. Every Saturday night my African friend was allowed to share the cheer of the forecastle,
while our captain presented him with a certificate of his meritorious deed, and made the paper
more palatable by the promise of a liberal bounty in current coin at the end of the voyage.

I now began to feel at ease, and acquire a genuine fondness for sea life. My aptitude for languages
not only familiarized me with English, but enabled me soon to begin the scientific study of
navigation, in which, I am glad to say, that Captain Solomon Towne was always pleased to aid
my industrious efforts.

We touched at ST. HELENA for supplies, but as Napoleon was still alive, a British frigate met
us within five miles of that rock-bound coast, and after furnishing a scant supply of water,
bade us take our way homeward.

I remember very well that it was a fine night in July, 1820, when we touched the wharf at Boston,
Massachusetts. Captain Towne's family resided in Salem, and, of course, he was soon on his
way thither. The new mate had a young wife in Boston, and he, too, was speedily missing. One
by one, the crew sneaked off in the darkness. The second mate quickly found an excuse for a
visit in the neighborhood; so that, by midnight, the Galatea, with a cargo valued at about
one hundred and twenty thousand dollars, was intrusted to the watchfulness of a stripling cabin-boy.

I do not say it boastfully, but it is true that, whenever I have been placed in responsible
situations, from the earliest period of my recollection, I felt an immediate stirring of that
pride which always made me equal, or at least willing, for the required duty. All night long
I paced the deck. Of all the wandering crowd that had accompanied me nearly a year across many
seas, I alone had no companions, friends, home, or sweetheart, to seduce me from my craft;
and I confess that the sentiment of loneliness, which, under other circumstances, might have
unmanned me at my American greeting, was stifled by the mingled vanity and pride with which
I trod the quarter-deck as temporary captain.

When dawn ripened into daylight, I remembered the stirring account my shipmates had given of
the beauty of Boston, and I suddenly felt disposed to imitate the example of my fellow-sailors.
Honor, however, checked my feet as they moved towards the ship's ladder; so that, instead of
descending her side, I closed the cabin door, and climbed to the main-royal yard, to see the
city at least, if I could not mingle with its inhabitants. I expected to behold a second Calcutta;
but my fancy was not gratified. Instead of observing the long, glittering lines of palaces
and villas I left in India and on the Tuscan shore, my Italian eyes were first of all saluted
by dingy bricks and painted boards. But, as my sight wandered away from the town, and swept
down both sides of the beautiful bay, filled with its lovely islands, and dressed in the fresh
greenness of summer, I confess that my memory and heart were magically carried away into the
heart of Italy, playing sad tricks with my sense of duty, when I was abruptly restored to consciousness
by hearing the heavy footfall of a stranger on deck.

The intruder--as well as I could see from aloft--seemed to be a stout, elderly person. I did
not delay to descend the ratlins, but slid down a back-stay, just in time to meet the stranger
as he approached our cabin. My notions of Italian manners did not yet permit me to appreciate
the greater freedom and social liberty with which I have since become so familiar in America,
and it may naturally be supposed that I was rather peremptory in ordering the inquisitive Bostonian
to leave the ship. I was in command--in my first command; and so unceremonious a visit was
peculiarly annoying. Nor did the conduct of the intruder lessen my anger, as, quietly smiling
at my order, he continued moving around the ship, and peered into every nook and corner. Presently
he demanded whether I was alone? My self-possession was quite sufficient to leave the question
unanswered; but I ordered him off again, and, to enforce my command, called a dog that did
not exist. My ruse, however, did not succeed. The Yankee still continued his examination, while
I followed closely on his heels, now and then twitching the long skirts of his surtout to enforce
my mandate for his departure.

During this promenade, my unwelcome guest questioned me about the captain's health,--about
the mate,--as to the cause of his dismissal,--about our cargo,--and the length of our voyage.
Each new question begot a shorter and more surly answer. I was perfectly satisfied that he
was not only a rogue, but a most impudent one; and my Franco-Italian temper strained almost
to bursting.

