The constant increase of books is not, we are inclined to think, so great a curse or so wholly
to be ascribed to malevolent intentions as many despondent people suppose. A very considerable,
if not the greater, number of new works have for their aim not to add to, but to diminish,
the literature of the world, and so to lighten the burden imposed on each successive generation
of readers. The great bulk of the writers of our day are employed not in producing anything
new, but in summarizing, epitomizing, and, as far as possible, suppressing, what their predecessors
produced. Criticisms are offered to us as substitutes for the works criticised; volumes are
tapped that their sap and pith may be extracted; the analyst takes our labor upon himself and
generously presents us with the fruits. Up to a certain point the process is unobjectionable,
and we have reason to be grateful to those who are skilful in it. It used, however, to be thought
that there were limitations to the practice of it--that while it was lawful and right to treat
as a caput mortuum any work containing merely a certain amount of useful information or of
original thought, a sacredness attached to the masterpieces of literature and to books which,
having survived the accidents of time and changes of fashion, were ranked as classics and [Greek:
ktêmata es aei]. These were held entitled to a place in every library, and, far from being
subjected to condensation or abridgment, were too often supplemented by commentaries and illustrative
matter exceeding in bulk the original text. It is less than half a century since the publication
of Croker's edition of Boswell's Johnson, "with numerous additions and notes," excited a prolonged
tumult, and the editor was arrayed at the bar of criticism and solemnly condemned, not for
having contributed elucidations to the text, but for having mutilated it by insertions which
should have been relegated to an appendix. But now, while one literary craftsman announces
an edition from which all that is "obsolete" or "unimportant" is to be expurgated, another
offers us in lieu of the five venerated tomes a rifacimiento in a single volume of less than
two hundred pages. It is, of course, not to be denied that Boswell's Life includes a large
amount of matter wholly unimportant in itself, relating to persons and events that have no
independent claim on the interest of readers of the present day. But it does not follow that
such details are superfluous and may properly be weeded out. They give us the milieu, to use
M. Taine's word, in which Johnson's character and intellect were developed and displayed, the
perspective in which his career is to be viewed, the background from which his figure stands
out in bold relief. The impression they make upon us is an essential part of the effect which
is produced by the book, deepening the sense of reality and the charm of intimate familiarity
which have so much to do with its abiding fascination. And the style and manner of the narration
are no less an integral part of it. The book is not only a biography, but an autobiography.
Johnson without Boswell is Don Quixote without Sancho, Lear without the Fool, Orestes without
Pylades. It is safe to say, not only that a thousand incidents of Johnson's life and conversation
would never have been preserved but for Boswell, but that some of the most amusing and remarkable
of them would never have occurred. The tour to Scotland and the Hebrides, which may be said
to have been the one romantic episode of Johnson's life, bringing him into scenes and among
characters widely contrasted with his habitual surroundings, is one instance, and the memorable
midnight "frisk" in the neighborhood of the Temple is another, among many that might be cited.