"Slave quarters was lots of log cabins wid chimlies of criss-crossed sticks and mud. Pore white
folks lived in houses lak dat too. Our bed was made wid high posties and had cords, what run
evvy which a-way, for springs. 'Course dey had to be wound tight to keep dem beds from fallin'
down when you tried to git in 'em. For mattresses, de 'omans put wheat straw in ticks made
out of coarse cloth wove right dar on de plantation, and de pillows was made de same way. Ole
Miss, she let her special favorite Niggers, what wuked up at de big house, have feather mattresses
and pillows. Dem other Niggers shined dey eyes over dat, but dere warn't nothin' dey could
do 'bout it 'cept slip 'round and cut dem feather beds and pillows open jus' to see de feathers
fly. Kivver was 'lowanced out evvy year to de ones what needed it most. In dat way dere was
allus good kivver for evvybody.

"Grandma Liza b'longed to Marse Calvin Johnson long 'fore Marse John McCree buyed her. She
was cook at de big house. Grandpa Charlie, he b'longed to Marse Charlie Hardin, but atter him
and Grandma married, she still went by de name of McCree.

"Lawdy Miss! Who ever heared of folks payin' slaves to wuk? Leastwise, I never knowed 'bout
none of 'em on our place gittin' money for what dey done. 'Course dey give us plenty of somepin'
t'eat and clothes to wear, and den dey made us keep a-humpin' it. I does 'member seein' dem
paper nickels, dimes, and quarters what us chillun played wid atter de war. Us used to pretend
us was rich wid all dat old money what warn't no good den.

"'Bout dem eatments, Miss, it was lek dis, dere warn't no fancy victuals lak us thinks us got
to have now, but what dere was, dere was plenty of. Most times dere was poke sallet, turnip
greens, old blue head collards, cabbages, peas, and 'taters by de wholesale for de slaves to
eat and, onct a week, dey rationed us out wheat bread, syrup, brown sugar, and ginger cakes.
What dey give chillun de most of was potlicker poured over cornbread crumbs in a long trough.
For fresh meat, outside of killin' a shoat, a lamb, or a kid now and den, slaves was 'lowed
to go huntin' a right smart and dey fotch in a good many turkles (turtles), 'possums, rabbits,
and fish. Folks didn't know what iron cookstoves was dem days. Leastwise, our white folks didn't
have none of 'em. All our cookin' was done in open fireplaces in big old pots and pans. Dey
had thick iron skillets wid heavy lids on 'em, and dey could bake and fry too in dem skillets.
De meats, cornbread, biscuits, and cakes what was cooked in dem old skillets was sho' mighty good.

"De cotton, flax, and wool what our clothes was made out of was growed, spun, wove, and sewed
right dar on our plantation. Marse John had a reg'lar seamster what didn't do nothin' else
but sew. Summertime us chillun wore shirts what looked lak nightgowns. You jus' pulled one
of dem slips over your haid and went on 'cause you was done dressed for de whole week, day
and night. Wintertime our clothes was a heap better. Dey give us thick jeans pants, heavy shirts,
and brogan shoes wid brass toes. Summertime us all went bar'foots.

"Old Marster John McCree was sho' a good white man, I jus' tells you de truf, 'cause I ain't
in for tellin' nothin' else. I done jus' plum forgot Ole Miss' fust name, and I can't git up
de chilluns' names no way. I didn't play 'round wid 'em much nohow. Dey was jus' little young
chillun den anyhow. Dey lived in a big old plank house--nothin' fine 'bout it. I 'members de
heavy timbers was mortised together and de other lumber was put on wid pegs; dere warn't no
nails 'bout it. Dat's all I ricollects 'bout dat dere house right now. It was jus' a common
house, I'd say.

"Dere was a thousand or more acres in dat old plantation. It sho' was a big piece of land,
and it was plumb full of Niggers--I couldn't say how many, 'cause I done forgot. You could
hear dat bugle de overseer blowed to wake up de slaves for miles and miles. He got 'em up long
'fore sunup and wuked 'em in de fields long as dey could see how to wuk. Don't talk 'bout dat
overseer whuppin' Niggers. He beat on 'em for most anything. What would dey need no jail for
wid dat old overseer a-comin' down on 'em wid dat rawhide bull-whup?

"If dey got any larnin', it was at night. Dere warn't no school 'ouse or no church on dat plantation
for Niggers. Slaves had to git a pass when dey wanted to go to church. Sometimes de white preacher
preached to de Niggers, but most of de time a Nigger wid a good wit done de preachin'. Dat
Nigger, he sho' couldn't read nary a word out of de Bible. At de baptizin's was when de Nigger
boys shined up to de gals. Dey dammed up de crick to make de water deep enough to duck 'em
under good and, durin' de service, dey sung: It's de Good Old Time Religion.

"When folks died den, Niggers for miles and miles around went to de funeral. Now days dey got
to know you mighty well if dey bothers to go a t'all. Dem days folks was buried in homemade
coffins. Some of dem coffins was painted and lined wid cloth and some warn't. De onliest song
I ricollects 'em singin' at buryin's was: Am I Born to Lay Dis Body Down? Dey didn't dig graves
lak dey does now. Dey jus' dug straight down to 'bout five feet, den dey cut a vault to fit
de coffin in de side of de grave. Dey didn't put no boards or nothin' over de coffins to keep
de dirt off.

"'Bout dem patterollers! Well, you knowed if dey cotched you out widout no pass, dey was gwine
to beat your back most off and send you on home. One night my Pa 'lowed he would go to see
his gal. All right, he went. When he got back, his cabin door was fastened hard and fast. He
was a-climbin' in de window when de patterollers got to him. Dey 'lowed: 'Nigger, is you got
a pass?' Pa said: 'No Sir.' Den dey said: 'Us can't beat you 'cause you done got home on your
marster's place, but us is sho' gwine to tell your Marster to whup your hide off. But Old Marster
never tetched him for dat.

"Atter dey come in from de fields, dem Niggers et deir supper, went to deir cabins, sot down
and rested a little while, and den dey drapped down on de beds to sleep. Dey didn't wuk none
Sadday atter dinner in de fields. Dat was wash day for slave 'omans. De mens done fust one
thing and den another. Dey cleant up de yards, chopped wood, mended de harness, sharpened plow
points, and things lak dat. Sadday nights, Old Marster give de young folks passes so dey could
go from one place to another a-dancin' and a-frolickin' and havin' a big time gen'ally. Dey
done most anything dey wanted to on Sundays, so long as dey behaved deyselfs and had deir passes
handy to show if de patterollers bothered 'em.

"Yessum, slaves sho' looked forward to Christmas times. Dere was such extra good eatin's dat
week and so much of 'em. Old Marster had 'em kill a plenty of shoats, lambs, kids, cows, and
turkeys for fresh meat. De 'omans up at de big house was busy for a week ahead cookin' peach
puffs, 'tater custards, and plenty of cakes sweetened wid brown sugar and syrup. Dere was plenty
of home-made candy for de chilluns' Santa Claus and late apples and peaches had done been saved
and banked in wheat straw to keep 'em good 'til Christmas. Watermelons was packed away in cottonseed
and when dey cut 'em open on Christmas Dey, dey et lak fresh melons in July. Us had a high
old time for a week, and den on New Year's Day dey started back to wuk.

"Come winter, de mens had big cornshuckin's and dere was quiltin's for de 'omans. Dere was
a row of corn to be shucked as long as from here to Milledge Avenue. Old Marster put a gang
of Niggers at each end of de row and it was a hot race 'tween dem gangs to see which could
git to de middle fust. Dere was allus a big feast waitin' for 'em when de last ear of corn
was shucked. 'Bout dem quiltin's!" Now Lady, what would a old Nigger man know 'bout somepin'
dat didn't nothin' but 'omans have nothin' to do wid?

"Dem cotton pickin's was grand times. Dey picked cotton in de moonlight and den had a big feast
of barbecued beef, mutton, and pork washed down wid plenty of good whiskey. Atter de feast
was over, some of dem Niggers played fiddles and picked banjoes for de others to dance down
'til dey was wore out.

"When slaves got sick, our white folks was mighty good 'bout havin' 'em keered for. Dey dosed
'em up wid oil and turpentine and give 'em teas made out of hoarhound for some mis'ries and
bone-set for other troubles. Most all the slaves wore a sack of assfiddy (asafetida) 'round
deir necks all de time to keep 'em from gittin' sick.

"It was a happy day for us slaves when news come dat de war was over and de white folks had
to turn us 'loose. Marster called his Niggers to come up to de big house yard, but I never
stayed 'round to see what he had to say. I runned 'round dat place a-shoutin' to de top of
my voice. My folks stayed on wid Old Marster for 'bout a year or more. If us had left, it would
have been jus' lak swappin' places from de fryin' pan to de fire, 'cause Niggers didn't have
no money to buy no land wid for a long time atter de war. Schools was soon scattered 'bout
by dem Yankees what had done sot us free. I warn't big enough den to do nothin' much 'cept
tote water to de field and chop a little cotton.

"Me and Nettie Freeman married a long time atter de war. At our weddin' I wore a pair of brown
jeans pants, white shirt, white vest, and a cutaway coat. Nettie wore a black silk dress what
she had done bought from Miss Blanche Rutherford. Pears lak to me it had a overskirt of blue
what was scalloped 'round de bottom."

At this point, Nettie, who had been an interested listener, was delighted. She broke into the
conversation with: "Ed, you sho' did take in dat dress and you ain't forgot it yit."

"You is right 'bout dat, Honey," he smilingly replied, "I sho' ain't and I never will forgit
how you looked dat day."

"Miss Blanche give me a pair of white silk gloves to wear wid dat dress," mused Nettie.

"Us didn't have no sho' 'nough weddin'," continued Ed. "Us jus' went off to de preacher man's
house and got married up together. I sho' is glad my Nett is still a-livin', even if she is
down wid de rheumatiz."

"I'm glad I'm livin' too," Nettie said with a chuckle.

Ed ignored the question as to the number of their children and Nettie made no attempt to take
further part in the conversation. There is a deep seated idea prevalent among old people of
this type that if the "giver'ment folks" learn that they have able-bodied children, their pensions
and relief allowances will be discontinued.

Soon Ed was willing to talk again. "Yessum," he said. "I sho' had ruther be free. I don't never
want to be a slave no more. Now if me and Nett wants to, us can set around and not fix and
eat but one meal all day long. If us don't want to do dat, us can do jus' whatsomever us pleases.
Den, us had to wuk whether us laked it or not.

"Lordy Miss, I ain't never jined up wid no church. I ain't got no reason why, only I jus' ain't
never had no urge from inside of me to jine. 'Course, you know, evvybody ought to lissen to
de services in de church and live right and den dey wouldn't be so skeered to die. Miss, ain't
you through axin' me questions yit? I is so sleepy, and I don't know no more to tell you. Goodbye."

[HW: Dist. Yassum, Ah sho' does. Ah blong ter Marse Ned Carter in Walton county."

"Whut Ah 'members mos' is duh onliest beatin' Ah ebber got fum de overseer on Marse Ned's place.
De hawgs wuz dyin' moughty bad wid cholry, en Marse Ned hed 'is mens drag evvy dead hawg off
in de woods 'en bun 'em up ter keep de cholry fum spreadin' mongst de udder hawgs. De mens
wuz keerless 'bout de fire, en fo' long de woods wuz on fire, en de way dat fire spread in
dem dry grape vines in de woods mek it 'peer lak jedgment day tuh us chilluns. Us run 'bout
de woods lookin' at de mens fight de fire, en evvy time we see uh new place a-blaze we run
dis way en dat way, twel fus' thing us knows, we is plum off Marse Ned's plantation, en us
doan rightly know whar us is. Us play 'roun' in de woods en arter while Marse Ned's overseer
cum fine us, en he druv us back tuh de big house yahd en give evvy one uv us uh good beaten'.
Ah sho' wuz black en blue, en Ah nebber did fuhgit en run offen Marse Ned's lan' no mo' lessen
I hed uh pass."

"Mah mammy, she wuz cook at duh big house, en Ah wuz raised dah in de kitchen en de back yahd
at de big house. Ah wuz tuh be uh maid fer de ladies in de big house. De house servants hold
that dey is uh step better den de field niggers. House servants wuz niggah quality folks."

Ah mus' not a been mo' en thee uh fo' yeahs ole when Miss Millie cum out in de kitchen one
day, en 'gin tuh scold my mammy 'bout de sorry way mammy done clean de chitlins. Ah ain' nebber
heard nobuddy fuss et my mammy befo'. Little ez Ah wuz, Ah swell up en rar' back, en I sez
tuh Miss Millie, "Doan you no' Mammy is boss uh dis hyar kitchen. You cyan' cum a fussin' in
hyar." "Miss Millie, she jus laff, but Mammy grab a switch en 'gin ticklin' my laigs, but Miss
Millie mek her quit it." "Who wuz Miss Millie? Why, she wuz Marse Ned's wife."

"Whilst Marse Ned wuz 'way at de war, bad sojer mens cum thoo de country. Miss Millie done
hyar tell dey wuz on de way, an she had de mens haul all Marse Ned's cotton off in de woods
en hide it. De waggins wuz piled up high wid cotton, en de groun' wuz soft atter de rain. De
waggins leff deep ruts in de groun', but none us folks on de plantation pay no heed ter dem
ruts. When de sojer mens cum, dey see dem ruts en trail 'em right out dar in de woods ter de
cotton. Den dey sot fire ter de cotton en bun it all up. Dey cum back ter de big house en take
all de sweet milk in de dairy house, en help 'emselfs ter evvy thing in de smoke houses. Den
dey pick out de stronges' er Marse Ned's slave mens en take 'em 'way wid 'em. Dey take evvy
good horse Marse Ned had on de plantation. No Ma'am, dey diden' bun nuffin ceppen' de cotton."

"Us wuz mo' skeered er patter-rollers den any thing else. Patter-rollers diden' bodder folks
much, lessen dey caught 'em offen dar marsters plantations en dey diden' hab no pass. One night
en durin' de war, de patter-rollers cum ter our cabin, en I scrooge down under de kiver in
de bed. De patter-roller man tho' de kiver offen mah face, en he see me blong dar, en he let
me be, but Ah wuz skeered plumb ter death. Courtin' folks got ketched en beat up by de patter-rollers
mo' den enny buddy else, kazen dey wuz allus slippen' out fer ter meet one er nudder at night."

"When folks dat lived on diffunt plantations, en blonged ter diffunt marsters wanted ter git
married, dey hed ter ax both dar marsters fus'. Den effen dar marsters 'gree on it, dey let
'em marry. De mans marster 'ud give de man er pass so he cud go see his wife et night, but
he sho' better be back on his own marsters farm when de bell ring evvy morning. De chilluns
'ud blong ter de marster dat own de 'oman."

"Black folks wuz heap smarter den dey is now. Dem days de 'omans knowed how ter cyard, en spin,
en weave de cloff, en dey made de close. De mens know how ter mek shoes ter wear den. Black
folks diden' hev ter go cole er hongry den, kaze dey marsters made 'em wuk en grow good crops,
en den der marsters fed 'em plenty en tuk keer uv 'em."

