We were gathered round the fire, my wife, my daughter and I; Angela seated on what is known,
I believe, in upholstering circles as a humpty, while Peggy lay on her tummy on the floor,
pencil in hand and a sheet of paper before her; she was chewing the pencil with the ruminating
air of one who awaits inspiration. I myself occupied the armchair.

"You know," said Angela presently, "I think Mélisande has seemed worried about something the
last few days. I do hope the poor dear isn't bothering about rabies. One so often hears of
people actually producing a disease merely by thinking a lot about it. By the way, I'm told
that one of the earliest manifestations of rabies is a desire to bite inanimate objects; if
we see her doing that we shall know that the time has come to act."

At this juncture Mélisande entered the room through the open window.

Her manner exhibited a curious blend of dignity and caution; I could more readily have suspected
my own mother of having rabies. She advanced slowly towards us till suddenly her eye lighted
on Peggy, who still chewed her pencil awaiting inspiration.

Mélisande stopped as though she had been shot; I could only surmise that the sight of Peggy
thus occupied had confirmed her darkest suspicions. With one wild shriek of terror she fled
from the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEGLECTED PROBLEM.

  O dear and delectable journal that daily
    Appeasest my hungering mind
  With items recounted or gravely or gaily
  Of doings at Margate, Mayfair or Old Bailey,
    Or paragraphs rare and refined
  On "Who will the forthcoming cinema star be?"
  "What horse to support with your shirt for the Derby;"
  "How much will the next price of beer at the bar be?"
            "Are halibuts blind?"

  A question arises I prithee examine
    And ponder the pull that it has
  Over headings like "Foch and Parisian Gamine,"
    "Are Bolshevists really believers in Famine?"
    Or "Vocalist Lynched at La Paz."
  I look for it oft and in vain and say, "Blow it!
  There must be an answer and England should know it."
  Here, then, is the problem that's haunting the poet:
            Does Germany Jazz?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "William Henry ----, aged 110, fell off a tree whilst out
    playing with other boys and broke his right leg."--Provincial
    Paper.

We hope it will be a lesson to him for the rest of his life.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BIRD NOTES.

Nature Study has recently been recommended by a well-known Daily Paper as a means of gradual
relaxation from war-worry. Mr. Punch would therefore like to contribute for so noble an end
a few ornithological notes, having for a long time been addicted to the observation of bird-life.

CUCKOO.--This bird, which obtained its name on account of the similarity of its note to that
of the Cuckoo-clock, was one of the earliest sufferers of the housing problem, which it successfully
solved by depositing its eggs in the nests of other birds.

SEAGULL.--When the eggs of this bird are hatched the mother-parent feeds its young on the glutinous
substance that oozes from sea-weed--hence "Mother Seagull's Syrup."

THROSTLE.--See THRUSH.

PIGEON.--This bird was used as a message-carrier with great success during the War. An attempt
to cross it with the Parrot, to enable it to deliver verbal messages, was unfortunately a failure.

SPARROW.--Bird-fanciers experience great difficulty with this bird when kept in captivity,
as it frequently develops jaundice, in which case it can only be sold under the name of "Canary,"
at a big difference in price.

GUILLEMOT.--The name "Guillemot" is derived from the French word "Guillemot," which means a
Guillemot.

LARK.--The protective instinct in this bird is very marked. Although nesting on the ground
it soars high into the sky for the purpose of leading aviators and balloonists away from its young.

GOLDFINCH.--A favourite cage-bird. The best method of catching the goldfinch is to wait until
it settles on the lowest branch of a tree, then approach it from behind and gently tap its
right wing with your right hand. This causes it immediately to turn its head to see who has
touched it; you can then bring up your left hand unnoticed, into which it falls an easy victim.

BULLFINCH.--Another popular cage-bird. The best method of capturing it, which differs widely
from that in use with the Goldfinch, is as follows:--Hang head downwards from the fork of an
old tree in order to resemble a dead branch, having previously covered yourself with some adhesive
matter. In this position you should wait until as many Bullfinches as you want have settled
on your clothes and stuck there; then climb down from the tree and have them scraped off into
a large cage.

BARN OWL.--This bird invariably builds its nest in empty houses. There will be no nests this year.

STARLING.--Threepence was placed on the head of this destructive bird last year in many parts
of England. The old way was to put salt on its tail.

BLUE TITMOUSE.--The nest of this active little bird is often situated in most extraordinary
places. It is frequently found inside village pumps, and in consequence is much persecuted
by local milkmen. It is feared that unless The Daily Mail can be persuaded to take up the cause
of this unfortunate bird it will soon be faced with extermination.

ROOK.--The chief difference between this bird and the Crow is found in the way in which its
name is spelt.

THRUSH.--See THROSTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS OF SIMLA.

II.--SIMLA SOUNDS.

  I have heard the breezes rustle
    O'er a precipice of pines,
  And the half of a Mofussil
    Shiver at a jackal's whines.

  I have heard the monkeys strafing
    Ere the dawn begins to glow,
  And the long-tailed langur laughing
    As he lopes across the snow.

  I have heard the rickshaw varlets
    Clear the road with raucous cries,
  Coolies clad in greens or scarlets,
    As a mistress may devise.

  Well I know the tittle-tattle
    Of the caustic muleteer,
  And the Simla seismic rattle
    Is familiar to my ear.

  Though to-day my feet are climbing
    Bleaker heights and harder roads,
  Still the Christ-church bells are chiming,
    Still the mid-day gun explodes.

  But the sound which echoes loudest
    Is the sound I never knew
  Till I lunched (the very proudest)
    With the Staff at A.H.Q.

  'Twas a scene of peace and plenty,
    Plates a-steam and-spoons a-swoop;
  'Twas a sound of five-and-twenty
    Hungry Generals drinking soup.

  J.M.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

WAITING FOR THE SPARK.

(With thanks to the London Telephone Directory.)

I doubt if you have ever taken the book seriously, dear reader (if any). You dip into it for
a moment, choose a suitable quotation and scribble it down with a blunt pencil on your blotting-pad;
then you wind the lanyard of the listening-box round your neck and start talking to the germ-collector
in that quiet self-assured voice which you believe spells business success. Then you find you
have got on to the Institute of Umbrella-Fanciers instead of the Incorporated Association of
Fly-Swatters, which you wanted, and have to begin all over again. But that is not the way to
treat literature.

In calm hours of reflection, rather, when the mellow sunlight streams into the room and, instead
of the dull gray buildings opposite, you catch a mental glimpse of green tree-tops waving in
the wind, and hear, above the rumbling of the busy 'buses, the buzzes ... the bumbling ...
what I mean to say is you ought to sit down calmly and read the book from cover to cover, as
I am doing now.

For it isn't like a mere Street Directory, which puts all the plot into watertight compartments,
and where possibly all the people in Azalea Terrace know each other by sight, even across the
gap where it says:--

Here begins Aspidistra Avenue, like the lessons in church.

Nor, again, is it like Who's What, where your imagination is hampered and interfered with by
other people butting in to tell you that their recreations are dodging O.B.E.'s and the Income
Tax Commission. Publications: Hanwell Men as I knew Them. Club: The Philanderers, and so forth.
This cramps your style.

But the book before us now is pregnant with half-hidden romances, which you can weave into
any shape that you will, and, what is more, it is written in a noble beautiful English which
you have probably never had time to master. I want you to do that now. Suppose, for instance,
that in private life your hostess introduced you to Museum 88901 Wilkinson Arthur Jas.--let
us say at a Jazz tea. And suppose you were to ask him what his business was, and he told you
that he was an Actnr and Srvyr or a Pprhngr. Probably you would be surprised; possibly even
you wouldn't believe him. But it's all there in the book.

The type too is diversified by sudden changes which intrigue me greatly. All over London I
like to fancy little conversations of this sort are going on:--

Hop 1900 Tomkinson Edward C.-- "Hello, is that TOMKINSON EDWARD C.?"

GERRARD 22001 TOMKINSON EDWARD C.--"SPEAKING."

Hop 1900 Tomkinson Edward C.-- The Whlsl Slvrsmths?"

GERRARD, ETC.--"DON'T SPLUTTER LIKE THAT. WHO ARE YOU?"

Hop, etc.--"I'm Tomkinson Edward C. too. Little Edward C. of Hop. The Tbcnst. I only wanted
to have a talk with you, big brother."

Or sometimes it takes the shape of a novel, starting something like this:--

Kensington 100110 Williams Miss, Tpst., a beautiful but penniless girl, in love with--

Regent 8000 Air Ministry, Ext. 1009, a young aviator who has won the Mlty. Crss. (2 Brs). Their
path is crossed by--

City 66666 (12 lines), BLENKINSOP JEHORAM AND CO., Fnncrs. Blenkinsop wishes to marry Miss
Williams, on account of a large legacy which he has reason to believe will come to her from

Mayfair 5000 Dashwood-Jones H. See Jones H. Dashwood, and so on.

Sometimes, again, as I plunge still deeper into the fascinating volume, a poem seems to fashion
itself and leap from the burning page. Listen.

  She hears not Park appealing
    Nor Gerrard's wail of woe,
  Her heart is on to Ealing
    89200;

  For there her true love (smartest
    Of lcl plmbrs) speaks;
  For him our switch-board artist
    Puts powder on her cheeks.

  For him, the brave, the witty,
    When evening's shadows drop
  She flies from Rank and City
    To tread some Western hop.

  For him her spirit ranges
    Through realms of blissful thrall,
  And that is why Exchange is
    Not getting Lndn Wll.

  Little her mthr----

I'm sorry, reader; I really and truly am. There's my trunk call ... "Hello. No, I can't hear ..."

We must finish it some other time, and you must try READING THE BOOK for yourself srsly please.

"Hello! Hello! Hel-lo!"...

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VISIONARY TRIUMPH.

"This," he said, "is my favourite dream."

We were discussing our favourite dreams and prepared to listen.

"It is always," he went on, "the same--a cricket match: and the older I get and less able to
play cricket, the oftener I have it. It is a real match, you must understand--first-class cricket,
with thousands of spectators and excitement; and it is played a very long way from my home.
That is an important point, as I will explain.

"I am merely one of the spectators. How long I have been watching I cannot say, but the match
is nearing the end and our side--the side which has my sympathies--is nearly all out, but still
needs a few runs to win.

"What the side is I cannot clearly tell; all I know is that it is my own county, I mean the
county from which I come--say Kent--and the match is at Old Trafford or Bramall Lane, against
either Lancashire or Yorkshire. But the important thing is that my side is a man short. This
man either has been taken ill or has had to go away because of a bereavement. I am not clear
as to that, but he is not there, anyway, and unless a substitute can be found Kent will be
at a disadvantage and may lose."

We all got ready to say something.

"Oh, yes," he interpolated hurriedly, "I know, of course, that a substitute may not bat for
another at the end of a match, but this is a dream, remember. That, perhaps, is what dreams
are for--to provide the limited and frustrated life of the daytime with the compensations of
limitless adventure and success."

"Order!" we cried.

"I beg pardon," he said, and returned to the vernacular.

"Very well; that is the scenario. Meanwhile the last two batsmen are in--the Kent captain and
another: that is to say, the last two, unless another is forthcoming. And still there are six
runs needed--five to tie and six to win. The excitement is appalling. Everyone in the vast
concourse is tense. It is at this moment that the captain is bowled."

He stopped to wipe his forehead.

"What happens then?" he continued. "You would think the match was over. So it would be on any
ordinary ground and under ordinary conditions, and particularly so if that umpire in the Sussex
and Somerset match the other day were officiating. But he is not, and this is a dream. What
happens is that the Kent captain, instead of returning to the Pavilion, stops and talks to
the other captain and then he leaves the pitch and begins to walk towards the ring. When he
reaches the ring, some way from me, he begins to ask loudly, 'Is there a Kent man here who
can play at all and would help us out?' I can hear him at first only faintly; then, as he gets
closer, I hear more clearly, 'Is there a Kent man here who can play at all and would help us
out?' My heart beats faster and faster and I am nearly suffocated with suspense as he approaches,
because I am a Kent man who can bat a bit, and to play for my county has always been my desire,
and I am afraid that someone else will volunteer before the captain reaches me.

"You see now why the match has to be played so far away from home. If it were Kent v. Middlesex
at Lord's, for example, there would be loads of Kentish men on the ground. But not so many
up in the North.

"I always wonder why the captain does not begin in the Pavilion, but he does not. He comes
straight to the ring. Every moment he is drawing nearer and no one has offered himself; and
then at last he gets to me and I stand up and say that Kent is my county and I can play a bit
and would like to help. He hastens to accept my offer, and I take his bat and pads and gloves
and go to the pitch, amid the cheers of the crowd.

"At the wicket I am received with hearty greetings by the rival captain (this is a dream, remember),
and I take middle. Then I look round the field with perfect composure, as I have always seen
the best batsmen do, and have always wanted to do myself. I am the coolest thing there.

"The situation is electrical. Six runs are needed and I am the last man. The bowler against
me is a demon and I am dead out of practice and by no means fond of being hit on the body.
He begins his run towards the wicket, and the ball leaves his terrible long swinging arm and
comes towards me like a shell. I raise my bat, get it on the half-volley right in the middle,
hit it clean over the Pavilion for six, and the match is won.

"That is my favourite dream."

"No wonder," we said.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BUSINESS AS USUAL.

  Rolling stones like Edward Ross
  Never gather any moss.
  He was one of those who think it's
  Easier to gather trinkets--
  Silver watch or golden chain,
  Purse or bag or châtelaine;
  So that at the age of thirty,
  Though his clothes were old and dirty,
  Yet there were no flies upon
  Edward, as you'll see anon.

  Just before the Mons Retreat
  He emerged upon the street
  From His Majesty's Hotel,
  Where they'd kept him safe and well,
  Gratis. But, in spite of this, Ted
  Caught the fever and enlisted.

  'Twas our gallant pocket-sniper's
  Fate to find himself at Wipers,
  And because he showed no fear
  He was made a pioneer.

  For the very sight of wire
  Always set his soul afire
  (We are bound by early habits--
  It reminded him of rabbits);
  If the Huns but showed an inch of it
  Teddy took what he could pinch of it,
  Which was all, for, as I've said,
  Flies were not at home on Ted.

  Once our friend, by sad mishap,
  Fell into a German sap,
  And, on rising to depart,
  Found a pistol at his heart.
  Feeling almost at a loss,
  "Kamerad!" said Edward Ross.

  Through some miles of trench they went
  Till they reached a swagger tent
  Where a German General sat
  In a highly polished hat
  (Clearly an important man),
  Studying a priceless plan.
  Ted; who felt he simply hated him,
  While the man interrogated him,
  Quite adroitly picked the plan off
  That astonished Hun and ran off.

  Teddy's captor, who to stop him
  Simply had to shoot and drop him,
  Fired his pistol twice, but clicked it
  All in vain, for Ted had picked it--
  Picked the tool that looked so grim
  After they had collared him,
  While his escort dodged a dud
  Outside in the Flanders mud.
  For on Ross, remember, please,
  Flies were always ill at ease.

  But the crowning insult he
  Added to the injury
  Still remains to tell. As Teddy
  Snatched the priceless plan and fled, he
  Also pinched the polished hat,
  Saying, as he vanished, that,
  When in England far from here,
  He would like a souvenir
  Of the pleasant time he'd spent
  In a German General's tent,
  As a proof for English eyes
  That he wasn't telling lies.

  Though pursued by two or more
  Furious German Army Corps
  'Twere superfluous to say
  That our hero got away,
  For on coves of Edward's mettle
  Flies are ill-advised to settle.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "House Parlourmaid wanted; most comfortable home; small
    family; good outings; last one 7 years."--Times.

Quite a nice little holiday.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, May 26th.--On the whole I do not think that Sir AUCKLAND GEDDES, who has now definitely
succeeded Sir ALBERT STANLEY as President of the Board of Trade, is to be congratulated on
exchanging the academic serenity of McGill University for the turmoil of Whitehall (Bear) Gardens.
The modified system of Protection introduced under the stress of war seems to please nobody.
While Colonel WEDGWOOD complained that the price of gas-mantles (of which I should judge him
to be a large consumer) has gone up owing to the prohibition of foreign imports, others objected
that licences were issued so lavishly as to cause British producers to be undersold in the
home-market by their American, Japanese and Italian rivals.

To avoid treading upon any of these varied susceptibilities the great AUCKLAND had to execute
a sort of diplomatic egg-dance; but he did it with consummate skill and temporarily satisfied
everybody with the promise of a full statement upon trade policy so soon as Peace has been
signed. I hope this won't make the Germans more dilatory than ever.

At the Press Gallery dinner the other night the SPEAKER, who was the guest of the evening,
recalled the three golden rules for Parliamentary orators--"Stand up; speak up; shut up"; and
added that while some Members paid very little attention to the second of them there were a
few whose stentorian tones he would like to borrow in case of a disturbance. But really I don't
think he need worry.

I hope the fighting Services are not going to revive their pre-war jealousy of one another.
The tone in which Dr. MACNAMARA, when somebody asked a question about the Portsmouth "butchery
department," jerked out "War Office!" was calculated to give rise to misapprehension.

The Ministry of Health Bill found Mr. DEVLIN in a dilemma. He makes it a rule never to support
anything that emanates either from the House of Lords or from the Government. But on this occasion
his two bêtes noirs were in opposition, for the Lords had decided that the new Minister should
have but one Parliamentary Secretary, and the Government was determined to give him two. Whichever
way he voted the Nationalist Leader was bound to do violence to his principles. And so, with
that quick-wittedness for which his countrymen are justly renowned, he walked out without voting
at all.

Tuesday, May 27th.--It is odd that the House of Lords, which has done so much for the emancipation
of women still refuses to allow peeresses in their own right to take part in its debates. They
would have been very useful this afternoon, when two Bills affecting their sex were under discussion.
An extraordinary amount of heat was developed by the Nurses Registration Bill, introduced by
Lord GOSCHEN, and I am sure some of the charming ladies in the Strangers' Gallery must have
been longing to produce their clinical thermometers and descend to the floor to take the temperatures
of the disputants.

So far as one could gather, the Bill is the outcome of a quarrel between the College of Nurses
and the rest of the profession. Who shall decide when nurses disagree?

In Committee on the Bill for enabling women to become Justices of the Peace Lord STRACHIE moved
to restrict the privilege to those who have "attained the age of thirty years." The LORD CHANCELLOR
strongly resisted the limitation on the ground that the Government are pledged to establish
"equality between the sexes." He was supported by Lord BEAUCHAMP, who, however, thought it
unlikely that any ladies under that age would in fact be appointed. I am not so sure. Who knows
but that some day the Woolsack may be tenanted by a really susceptible Chancellor?

There are limits to the credulity of the House of Commons. Mr. BOTTOMLEY'S assertion that many
clergymen did not know whether they might marry a woman to her deceased husband's brother,
and had written to him for an authoritative opinion, only excited ribald laughter.

His inquiry whether the Recess could start three days earlier, in order that Members might
take advantage of the Epsom carnival to study the social habits of the people and form an opinion
as to the possibility of raising revenue from taxes on racing and betting, was in better vein,
and reminded old Members of the days when Lord ELCHO (now Lord WEMYSS) used annually to delight
the House with his views on the Derby adjournment. Entering into the spirit of the jest, Mr.
BONAR LAW replied that he regretted that his honourable friend should be put to inconvenience,
but he must do what we all have to do at times, and decide whether his duty lay at Epsom or
Westminster. From Mr. BOTTOMLEY'S rejoinder one gathered that he had already made up his mind,
and that Epsom had it.

Wednesday, May 28th.--Colonel WEDGWOOD'S complaint that aeroplanes were used to disperse rioters
in India was ostensibly based on the fact that, like the gentle rain from heaven, bombs fell
alike on the just and the unjust, but really, I fancy, on what I gather to be his rapidly-growing
belief that any anarchist is preferable to any Government. Mr. MONTAGU, however, declined to
interfere with the use of a weapon which for the moment has greatly strengthened the hands
of the Indian Administration in dealing with disorder, whether on the frontiers or in the cities.

The Ministry of Labour has lately introduced a course of domestic training for "wives and fiancées."
The indefiniteness of the latter term offended Captain LOSEBY, who wanted to know at what exact
period of "walking-out" a lady became a fiancée. Mr. WARDLE, although the author of a work
on "Problems of the Age," confessed that this one baffled him, and asked for notice.

The recent disturbance in the neighbourhood of the House by indiscreet friends of the unemployed
soldier led to a rambling debate, chiefly remarkable for the hard things said by and about
Mr. HOGGE, whose aim, according to ex-Private HOPKINSON, was to make soldiers uncomfortable;
and for a hopeful speech by Sir ROBERT HORNE, who said that, despite the "dole," unemployment
was beginning to diminish, and that four-fifths of the "demobbed" had already been reabsorbed
by industry.

Then followed a lively but inconclusive discussion upon that hardy annual, the alleged sale
of honours. General PAGE CROFT attributed it to the secrecy of party funds and proudly declared
that the. National Party published all the subscriptions it received, and heartily wished there
were more of them. The weakness of his case and that of his supporters was that no specific
instances of corruption were brought forward, if we may except Mr. BOTTOMLEY'S assertion that
some years ago he might have had a peerage if he had paid for it.

Thursday, May 29th--A constitutional crisis is impending on the question whether the MINISTER
OF HEALTH should have one Parliamentary Secretary or two; the Commons demand two; the Lords
will not allow more than one, even though tempted by Lord CURZON with the bribe that the second
shall sit in the Upper House. Having heavily defeated the Government on this point, the Peers
then decided that Miss VIOLET DOUGLAS-PENNANT was entitled to a judicial inquiry into the.
circumstances that led to her retirement from the Air Force. The LORD CHANCELLOR opposed the
proposal in a speech described by Lord SALISBURY as that "of an advocate rather than a judge;"
but in spite or because of this the Government were beaten by 69 to 20.

Somebody ought to move for a return of the amount expended by the Government on the hire of
furniture vans since the Armistice. Sir A. MOND stated that in order to release certain hotels
their official occupants had been transferred to the Alexandra Palace, while the interned aliens
recently housed in the Palace had been sent to certain country camps, whose late occupants
(we may infer) have now gone to the hotels. It is suggested that the Office of Works should
now be known as the "General Post" Office.

One can easily imagine what use a fiery demagogue would have made of the secret circular sent
out some months ago by the War Office, instructing commanding officers to ascertain the attitude
of their men to the trade unions in the event of a general strike. Fortunately Mr. ADAMSON
is not that type of man, and he couched his criticisms in a vein rather of sorrow than of anger.
There was more sting in the speech of Mr. DAVISON, and one Churchillian phrase: "They could
not maintain constitutional government on the theoretical inexactitudes of kaleidoscopic politicians,"
which evidently pleased the originator.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. CHURCHILL himself was more concerned with facts than phrases. The impugned circular, though
he took no responsibility for its wording, was essential at the time it was sent out, for the
State was bound to defend itself not against ordinary strikes, but against those which would
entail universal paralysis. Turning to Russia, he described Bolshevism as a disease rather
than a policy; it spread rapidly, but died out quickly and left its victims--as Colonel WEDGWOOD
might be glad to know--immune for the future.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW FACT PLAGIARIZES FROM FICTION.

From the report of a Landlord v. Tenant case:--

    "Mrs. Barkiss said she was quite willing to leave some
    day."--Local Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

"GATWICK MEETING.

    Never has this popular rendezvous looked more
    beautiful, thanks to the wealth of owers on the members'
    lawn."--Provincial Paper.

We gather that it had been a bad day for backers.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECOGNITION A LA MODE.

(A Romance of False Perspective.)

The Press, ever anxious, as the guardians of public sentiment, to correct the reaction that
is apt to follow upon any great outburst of popular enthusiasm, did well to describe the impending
arrival of Prince Ongtong, of the Solomon Islands, with his famous mixed choir, as the second
best news since the signing of the Armistice. We are glad to think that the reception of this
illustrious potentate in our midst was worthy of the occasion.

There was a time when our relations with the Solomon Islanders were strained. Their pagan and,
we regret to say, anthropophagous habits laid them open to a certain amount of criticism. Not
many years ago Mr. Bamberger, the famous violinist, in the course of a triumphal tour in the
Southern Pacific, was captured by the inhabitants of Kulambranga, detained for several weeks
in captivity in a mangrove swamp, where he suffered great inconvenience from the gigantic frogs
(Rana Guppyi) which infest this region, and was only rescued with great difficulty by a punitive
expedition--conducted by Sir Pompey Boldero--when on the eve of being sacrificed to the gastronomic
exigencies of his captors.

But this happily is all ancient history now. The Solomon Islanders for several years have been
confirmed vegetarians, and the pronounced modification in their mesocephalic skulls and the
improvement of their facial angle afford the surest guarantee against any relapse. Furthermore
the instruction in music which they received from Mr. Bamberger has exerted a profoundly mollifying
effect on their manners. Mr. Clutton Brock has pronounced them to be the most artistic of all
the Papuans. Their paintings show a remarkable affinity to the style of Picasso and Matisse.
Their choral singing is the glory of the South Pacific.

Prince Ongtong and his party, who made the journey by long sea in a flotilla of catamarans
and sampans, arrived at Southampton on Saturday, where they were met by perhaps the most representative
and influential gathering of public men ever seen in our times. The procession to the Town
Hall was headed by Lord READING, Lord SYDENHAM, Mr. BOTTOMLEY, Mr. HOGGE, Sir LEO CHIOZZA MONEY,
Mr. SMILLIE and Mr. EUSTACE MILES. Then followed Prince Ongtong and his choir, superbly gowned
in their flowing sarongs, wearing their long Papuan pampooties and followed in turn by a group
of instrumentalists playing on conchs, nose-flutes and a species of mouth-organ closely resembling
the jew's-harp, but much larger and more penetrating in its quality. The crowds in the street
were enormous; hundreds of strong women fainted, and the casualties are estimated at upwards
of five thousand.

The proceedings in the Town Hall were brief but most impressive. After the freedom of Southampton
had been conferred on the Prince by the Mayor, in a gold casket, Lord READING in a touching
speech announced, amid tempestuous cheers, that the Government had resolved to signalise Prince
Ongtong's services by conferring on him a dukedom and a grant of two million pounds.

Continuing, Lord READING said that the Solomon Islands had always appealed to him with peculiar
magic. He believed that they were the authentic seat of King SOLOMON'S Mines, in spite of the
rival claims of Africa put forward by Sir RIDER HAGGARD.

The Prince, who acknowledged the honour in fluent Melanesian, was understood to say that he
had only done his duty, that he was speechless with gratitude and that he would always regard
Lord READING as a brother. A recherché vegetarian luncheon was then served, after which Lord
ROTHERMERE presented each member of the choir with a cheque for ten thousand pounds, and Mr.
SMILLIE invited them to give evidence before the Coal Commission.

The Prince and party were anxious to proceed by special train to London, where rooms had been
engaged for them at the Grand Palestine Hotel, but, on leaving the Town Hall, were surrounded
by the crowd, which had now swelled to nearly a million and fought for the privilege of escorting
the visitors to the station with such desperate enthusiasm that at a late hour on Saturday
night no traces of Prince Ongtong or any of his choir could be discovered. This is all the
more to be regretted as arrangements had been made for a competition between the Solomon Islanders
and the Czecho-Slovakian singers, at which Lord ASKWITH had undertaken to adjudicate. All hope
however of tracing the missing party has not yet been given up, and a wireless message received
at Marconi House on Sunday night states that the Ringwood police had arrested a partially-clad
foreigner in the neighbourhood of the Rufus-stone.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANCE FOR THE HOMELESS.

    "For Sale, Hupmobile Car (1916 model), saloon body, self
    starter, electric light, lory on ground floor, 3 bedrooms,
    bathroom seater, with 2 extra chairs."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. ---- is forty-six and a man of business. He is chairman
    of the City Lands Committee, and a member of the Corporation.
    These things are not good training for championship
    lawn-tennis."--Evening Paper.

This applies more especially, of course, to the Corporation.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Duchess still looks quite a girl, and so does the
    Duke, particularly now that he has shaved off his tiny
    moustache."--Weekly Paper.

The Duke's motto: "Put me among the girls."

       *       *       *       *       *

N. Y. D.

Trench-foot, shell-shock and the other well-known by-products of war on the Western Front always
got the bulk of medical notice, while our rarer Macedonian efforts remained neglected. My friend
McTurtle has nervous prostration, with violent paroxysms at the mention of leave or demobilization,
and the medical profession can only classify him as "N. Y. D., or Not Yet Diagnosed (malignant)."

McTurtle is a Staff-officer. A famous Atlantic liner dumped him at Salonica in 1915, and when
the first infantrymen panted through the town in search of non-existent billets McTurtle was
to be seen in the window of a villa giving bird-seed to his canary. At Salonica it is not considered
good form to ask openly what a Staff-officer's job is, but he allowed friends to gather that
he had an indirect connection with that fine old regiment, the Macedonian Labour Corps.

