Now Burke gave orders to steam slowly forward, and for everybody to keep covered as much as
possible; and when in a few minutes the yacht's engine stopped and Shirley swam slowly around
her stern, there was a rush to the other side of the deck, a life preserver was dropped to
the swimmer, steps were let down, and the next minute Shirley was on deck, Burke's strong arm
fairly lifting him in over the rail. In a few moments the deck of the yacht was the scene of
wild and excited welcome and delight. Each person on board felt as if a brother had suddenly
been snatched from fearful danger and returned to their midst.

"I can't tell you anything now," said Shirley. "Give me a dram, and let me get on some dry
clothes! And now all of you go and attend to what you've got to do. Don't bother about that
steamer--she'll go down in half an hour! She's got a big hole stove in her bow!"

With a cry of surprise Burke turned and looked out at the Dunkery Beacon. Even now she had
keeled over to starboard so much that her deck was visible, and her head was already lower
than her stern. "She'll sink," he cried, "with all that gold on board!"

"Yes," said Shirley, turning with a weak smile as he made his way to the cabin, accompanied
by Mr. Hodgson, "she'll go down with every bar of it!"

There was great commotion now on the Dunkery Beacon. It was plain that the people on board
of her had discovered that it was of no use to try to save the vessel, and they were lowering
her boats. Burke and his companions stood and watched for some minutes. "What shall we do!"
exclaimed Mr. Arbuckle, approaching Burke. "Can we offer those unfortunate wretches any assistance?"

"All we can do," said Burke, "is to keep out of their way. I wouldn't trust one of them within
pistol shot." Now Shirley reappeared on deck--he had had his dram, and had changed his clothes.
"You're right," said he, "they're a set of pirates--every man of them! If we should take them
on board, they'd cut all our throats. They've got boats enough, and the other pirates can pick
them up. Keep her off, Burke; that's what I say!"

There was no time now for explanations or for any story to be told, and Burke gave orders that
the yacht should be kept away from the sinking steamer and her boats. Suddenly Burdette, from
the pilot house, sung out that there was a steamer astern, and the eyes which had been so steadfastly
fixed upon the Dunkery Beacon now turned in that direction. There they saw, less than a mile
away, a large steamer coming down from the north.

Burke's impulse was to give orders to go ahead at full speed, but he hesitated, and raised
his glass to his eye. Then in a few moments he put down his glass, turned around, and shouted,
"That's the Monterey! The Monterey! and Captain Horn!"

CHAPTER XXXIII

11° 30' 19" N. LAT. BY 56° 10' 49" W. LONG.

The announcement of the approach of Captain Horn created a sensation upon the Summer Shelter
almost equal to that occasioned by any of the extraordinary incidents which had occurred upon
that vessel. Burke and Shirley were wild with delight at the idea of meeting their old friend
and commander. Willy Croup had never seen Captain Horn, but she had heard so much about him
that she considered him in her mind as a being of the nature of a heathen deity who rained
gold upon those of whom he approved, and utterly annihilated the unfortunates who incurred
his displeasure.

