Tier upon tier, the rickety wooden houses crowded either bank, the prevailing brown being oddly
lighted up by the roofs, which were frequently covered with deep green turf. Here and there
the steep and peculiar dome of a Hindu temple flashed like polished silver in the keen sunlight,
while around and beyond all rose the ring of the everlasting hills, their peaks clear, yet
soft, against a background of cloudless blue.

Close below us stood a remarkably picturesque pile of buildings, of a mixed style of architecture,
yet harmonising well enough as a whole with its surroundings. Over it flew a great "banner
with a strange device," and we assumed (and rightly) that we looked upon the palace of His
Highness Sir Pratab Singh, Maharajah of Jammu and Kashmir.

Crossing the river, we dived into a bit of the native town, and were much struck by the want
of colour as compared with an Indian street. Everything seemed steeped in the same neutral
brown--houses, boats, people, and dogs! Emerging from the native street, with its open shop-fronts
and teeming life, we drove for some little way along a straight level road, flanked, as usual,
on either side by poplars of great size which ran through a brown, flat field, showing traces
of recent snow, and finally finished our two-hundred-mile drive in front of the one and only
hotel in all Kashmir.

Our two little chestnuts, which had brought us right through from Chakhoti to Srinagar--a distance
of about seventy-eight miles--in two days, were as lively and fit as possible, and playfully
nibbled at each other's noses as they were walked off to their well-earned rest.

The ekka horses, too, had brought our heavy luggage all the way from Abbotabad over a shocking
road in the most admirable manner, and we had every reason to congratulate ourselves on having
entrusted the arrangement of the whole business--the "bandobast" in native parlance--to our
henchman Sabz Ali, who had thus proved himself an energetic and trustworthy organiser, and
saving financier to the extent of some twenty rupees.

I may emphasise here the importance of keeping one's heavy baggage in sight, herding on the
ekkas in front, if possible, and keeping a wary eye and a firm hand on the drivers at all halts.
The Smithsons, who had sent on their gear from Rawal Pindi some days before we got there, did
not receive it in Srinagar until the 22nd of April. It took about five weeks to do the journey,
and the rifle which I was obliged to leave in Karachi on the 19th of March finally turned up
in Srinagar, after an infuriating and vain expenditure of telegrams, on the 1st of May!

Of course, part of the delay was due, and all was attributed, to the unusually bad state of
the roads. The heavy storms and floods which, by wrecking the road, had delayed us so much,
naturally checked the heavy transport still more; and severe congestion of bullock-carts resulted
at all the halting-places along the route. Still, the main cause of delay lies in the fact
that the monopoly of transport has been granted by the Maharajah to one Danjibhoy, who charges
what he pleases, and takes such time over his arrangements as suits his Oriental mind.

The motto over the Transport Office door might well be "Ohne Hast--mit Rast!"

The other (much-cherished) monopoly in this favoured land is that enjoyed by Mr. Nedou, the
owner of THE HOTEL in Kashmir.

We were advised when at Lahore to approach Mr. Nedou (who winters in his branch there) with
many salaams and much "kow-towing," in order to make a certainty of being received into his
select circle in Kashmir. The great man was quite kind, and promised that he would do his best
for us; and he was as good as his word, as we were immediately welcomed and permitted to add
two to the four persons already inhabiting the hostelry. I confess that, even after a dâk bungalow
of the most inferior quality--such as that at Ghari Habibullah or Baramula--Mr. Nedou's hotel
fails to impress one with an undue sense of luxury. In fact, it presented an even desolate
and forlorn appearance with its gloomy and chilly passages and cheerless bed-vaults.

[1] N. Smyrnensis (?).

CHAPTER V

FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF SRINAGAR

We learnt that the earthquake of this morning was far more than the ordinary affair that we
had taken it to be. The hotel showed signs of a struggle for existence. Large cracks in the
plaster, spanned by strips of paper gummed across to show if they widened, and little heaps
of crumbled mortar on the floors, betrayed that the grip of mother earth had been no feeble one.

Telegrams from Lahore inquired if the rumour was true that Srinagar had been much damaged,
and reported an awful destruction and loss of life at Dharmsala. I think if we had fully known
what an earthquake really meant, we should not have so calmly gone back to bed again!

The advent of Mrs. Smithson upon the scene relieved a certain anxiety which we had felt as
to immediate plans. The idea of rushing into Astor had been given up, we found--not so much
on account of our tardy arrival, permits being still obtainable, but on account of the impossibility--at
any rate for ladies--of forcing the high passes which the late season has kept safely sealed.

Walter, having pawed the ground in feverish impatience for some days, had gone off into a region
said to be full of bara singh; so we decided to possess our souls in patience for a little
time, and remain quietly in Srinagar. Accordingly, instead of unpacking our "detonating musquetoons,"
we exhumed our evening clothes, and began life in Srinagar with a cheerful dinner at the Residency.

Friday, April 7th.--We are evidently somewhat premature here as far as climate goes. The weather
since our arrival has become cold and grey, and we have seemed on the verge of another snowfall.
However, the clerk of the weather has refrained from such an insult, contenting himself with
sending a breeze down upon us fresh from the "Roof of the World," and laden with the chilly
moisture of the snows. We have consumed great quantities of wood, vainly endeavouring to warm
up the den which Mr. Nedou has let to us as a sitting-room. Fires are not the fashion in the
public rooms--probably because the only "public" besides ourselves consist of one or two enterprising
sportsmen, who doubtless are acclimatising themselves to camp life amid the snows, and have
implored the proprietor to save his fuel and keep the outer doors open.

Yesterday, we went on a shopping excursion down the river, our "hansom" being a long narrow
sort of canoe, propelled and dexterously steered by four or five paddlers, whose mode of digging
along by means of their heart-shaped blades reminded me not a little of the Kroo boys paddling
a fish-canoe off Elmina on the Gold Coast.

We embarked close to the back of the hotel, at the Chenar Bagh, and went gaily enough down
the strong current of what we took to be an affluent of the Jhelum. As a matter of fact, the
European quarter forms an island, low and perfectly flat, the banks of which are heaped into
a high dyke or "bund," washed on one side (the south) by the main river, and on the other by
the Sunt-i-kul Canal, down which we have been paddling.

The river life was most fascinating--crowds of heavy doungas lay moored along the banks--their
long, low bodies covered in by matting, and their extremities sloping up into long peaked platforms
for the crew. These--many of them women and children--were all clothed in neutral-tinted gowns,
the only bit of colour being an occasional note of red or white in the puggaree of the men
or skull-cap of the children. The married women invariably wore whity-brown veils over the
head. The wooden houses that lined the banks were all in the general low scheme of colour,
but a peculiar charm was added by the roofs covered in thick, green turf.

Srinagar has been called the "Venice of the East," and, inasmuch as waterways form the main
thoroughfares in both, there is a certain resemblance. Shikaras (the Kashmiri canoes) are first-cousins
to gondolas--rather poor relations perhaps; both are dingy and clumsy in appearance, and both
are managed with an extraordinary dexterity by their navigators.

Both cities are "smelly," though Venice, even at its worst, stands many degrees above the incredible
filth of Srinagar.

Finally--both cities are within sight of snowy ranges; although it seems hardly fair to place
in comparison the majestic range that overhangs Srinagar and the somewhat distant and sketchy
view of the Alps as seen from Venice.

Here, I think, all resemblance ceases. The charm of Venice lies in its architecture, its art
treasures, its historical memories, and its interesting people.

Srinagar has no architecture in particular, being but a picturesque chaos of tumble-down wooden
shanties. It has no history worth speaking of, and its inhabitants are--and apparently have
always been--a poor lot.

Shopping in Srinagar is not pure and unadulterated joy. Down the river, spanned by its seven
bridges, amidst a network of foul-smelling alleys, you are dragged to the emporiums of the
native merchants whose advertisements flare upon the river banks, and who, armed with cards,
and possessed of a wonderful supply of the English language, swarm around the victim at every
landing-place, and almost tear one another in pieces while striving to obtain your custom.

Samad Shall, in a conspicuous hoarding, announces that he can--and will--supply you with anything
you may desire, including money--for he proclaims himself to be a banker.

Ganymede, in his own opinion, is the only wood-carver worth attention.

Suffering Moses is the prince of workers in lacquer, according to his own showing.

The nose of the boat grates up against the slimy step of the landing-place, and you plunge
forthwith into Babel.

"Will you come to my shop?"

"No--you are going somewhere else."

"After?"

"Perhaps!"

"To-day, master?"

"No--no time to-day."

"To-morrow, then--I got very naice kyriasity [curiosity]--to-morrow, master--what time?"

"Oh! get out! and leave me alone."

"I send boat for you--ten o'clock to-morrow?"

"No."

"Twelve o'clock?" &c. &c.

After a short experience of Kashmiri pertinacity and business methods, you cease from politeness
and curtly threaten the river.

Certainly the Kashmiri are exceedingly clever and excellent workers in many ways. Their modern
embroideries (the old shawl manufacture is totally extinct) are beautiful and artistic. Their
wood-carving, almost always executed in rich brown walnut, is excellent; and their old papier-mâché
lacquer is very good. The tendency, however, is unfortunately to abandon their own admirable
designs, and assimilate or copy Western ideas as conveyed in very doubtful taste by English
visitors.

The embroidery has perhaps kept its individuality the best, although the trail of the serpent
as revealed in "quaint" Liberty or South Kensington designs is sometimes only too apparent.
Certain plants--Lotus, Iris, Chenar leaf, and so-called Dal Lake leaves, as well as various
designs taken from the old Kashmir shawls, give scope to the nimble brains and fingers of the
embroiderers, who, by-the-bye, are all male.

Their colours, almost invariably obtained from native dyes, are excellent, and they rarely
make a mistake in taste.

The coarser work in wool on cushions, curtains, and thick white numdahs is most effective and
cheap.

Curiously enough, the best of these numdahs (which make capital rugs or bath blankets) are
made in Yarkand; and Stein, in his Sand-Buried Cities of Kotan, found in ancient documents,
of the third century or so, "the earliest mention of the felt-rugs or 'numdahs' so familiar
to Anglo-Indian use, which to this day form a special product of Kotan home industry, and of
which large consignments are annually exported to Ladak and Kashmir."

The manufacture of carpets is receiving attention, and Messrs. Mitchell own a large carpet
factory. Designs and colours are good, but the prices are not low enough to enable them to
compete with the cheap Indian makes; nor, I make bold to say, is the quality such as to justify
high prices. The shop of Mohamed Jan is well worth a visit, for three good reasons--first,
because his Oriental carpets from Penjdeh and Khiva are of the best; second, because his house
is one of the first specimens of a high-class native dwelling existing; and third, because
he never worries his customers nor touts for orders--but, then, he is a Persian, and not a
Kashmiri!

The famous shawls which fetched such prices in England in early Victorian days are no longer
valued, having suffered an eclipse similar to that undergone by the pictures of certain early
Victorian Royal Academicians, and the loss of the shawl trade was a severe blow to Kashmir.
With the exception of occasional specimens of these shawls, which, however, can be bought cheaper
at sales in London, there are no old embroideries to be got.

The wood-carving industry, too, is quite modern; but, although of great excellence and ingenuity
in manipulation, it does not appeal to me, being too florid and copious in its application
of design. A restless confusion of dragons from Leh, lotus from the Dal Lake, and the ever-present
chenar leaf, hobnob together with British--very British--crests and monograms on the tops of
tables and the seats of chairs--portions of the furniture that should be left severely plain.

British taste is usually bad, and to it, and not to Kashmiri initiative, must be ascribed the
production of such exotic works as bellows embellished with chaste designs of lotus-buds, and
afternoon tea-tables flaunting coats-of-arms (doubtless dating from the Conquest), beautifully
carved in high relief just where the tray--the bottom of which is probably ornamented with
a flowing design of raised flowers--should rest!

The lacquered papier-maché work--often extremely pretty when left to its own proper Cabul pattern
or other native design--aims too often at attracting the eye of the mighty hunter by introducing
an inappropriate markhor's head. The old lacquer-work is difficult to get, and, when obtained,
is high in price; but comparison between the old and the new shows the gulf that lies between
the loving and skilful labour of the artist and the stupid and generally "scamped" achievement
of him who merely "knocks off" candlesticks and tobacco-boxes by the score, to sell to the
English visitor--papier-maché being superseded by wood, and lacquer by paint.

The workers in silver, copper, and brass are many, but their productions are usually rough
and inartistic. Genuine old beaten metal-work is almost unobtainable, although occasionally
desirable specimens from Leh do find their way into the Srinagar shops.

Chinese porcelain is to be got, usually in the form of small bowls; but it is not of remarkably
good quality, and the prices asked for it are higher than in London.

The jewellers' work is very far behind that of India. Amethysts of pale colour and yellow topaz
are cheap. Fine turquoise do not come into Kashmir, but plenty of the rough stones (as well
as imitations) are to be found, which, owing to a transitory fashion, are priced far above
their intrinsic value. They come from Thibet.

A great deal of a somewhat soft and ugly-coloured jade is sent from Yarkand, also agates and
carnelian; beads of these are strung into rather uncouth necklets, which may be bought for
half the sum first asked.

Bargaining is an invariable necessity in all shopping in Kashmir, as everywhere else in the
East, where the market value of an article is not what it costs to produce, but what can be
squeezed for it out of the purse of the--usually--ignorant purchaser.

Three things are essential to the successful prosecution of shopping in Srinagar:--

(1) Unlimited time.

(2) A command of emphatic language, sufficient to impress the native mind with the need for
keeping to the point.

(3) A liver in such thorough working order as to insure an extraordinary supply of good temper.

Without all these attributes the acquisition of objects of "bigotry and vertue" in Srinagar
is attended with pain and tribulation.

The descent of the river is accomplished with ease and rapidity, but revocare gradum involves
much hard paddling, with many pants and grunts; and it was both cold and dark when we again
lay alongside the bank of the Chenar Bagh, and scurried up the slippery bund to the hotel,
with scarcely time to dress for dinner.

Sunday, 9th April.--Friday was a horrible day--rainy, dull, and cold; but a thrill of excitement
was sent through us by the news that Walter has shot two fine bara singh! Charlotte (who is
nothing if not a keen sportswoman) was filled with zeal and the spirit of emulation, so we
resolved to dash off down the river to Bandipur, join Walter--who has now presumably joined
the ranks of the unemployed, being only permitted by the Game Laws to kill two stags--and take
our pick of the remaining "Royals," which, in our vivid imaginations, roamed in dense flocks
through the nullahs beyond Bandipur!

All Friday and yesterday, therefore, were devoted to preparation. I had already, through the
kindness of Major Wigram, secured a shikari, who immediately demonstrated his zeal and efficiency
by purchasing a couple of bloodthirsty knives and a huge bottle of Rangoon oil at my expense.
I pointed out that one "skian-dhu" seemed to me sufficient for "gralloching" purposes, but
he said two were better for bears. My acquaintance with bears being hitherto confined to Regent's
Park, I bowed to his superior knowledge and forethought.

A visit to Cockburn's agency resulted in the hire of the "boarded dounga" Cruiser, which the
helpful Mr. Cockburn procured for us, in which to go down the river; also a couple of tents
for ourselves with tent furniture, one for the servants, and a cooking tent.

The local bootmaker or "chaplie-wallah" appeared, as by magic, on the scene, and chaplies were
ordered. These consist of a sort of leather sandal strapped over soft leather boots or moccasins.
They are extremely comfortable for walking on ordinary ground, but perfectly useless for hill
work, even when the soles are studded with nails. The hideous but necessary grass shoe is then
your only wear. The grass shoe, which is made as required by the native, is an intricate contrivance
of rice straw, kept in position by a straw twist which is hauled taut between the big and next
toe, and the end expended round some of the side webbing. The cleft sock and woollen boot worn
underneath keep the feet warm, but do not always prevent discomfort and even much pain if the
cords are not properly adjusted. However, the remedy is simple. Tear off the shoe, using such
language as may seem appropriate to the occasion, throw it at the shikari's head, and order
another pair to be made "ek dam"! Jane and I each purchased a yakdan, a sort of roughly-made
leather box or trunk, strong, and of suitable size for either pony or coolie transport. Our
wardrobe was stowed in these and secured by padlocks, and the cooking gear, together with a
certain amount of stores in the shape of grocery, bread, and a couple of bottles of whisky
were safely housed in a pair of large covered creels or "kiltas."

Each of the party provided him or herself with a khudstick, consisting of a strong and tough
shaft about five feet long, tapering slightly towards the base, where it is shod with a chisel-shaped
iron end.

Our staff of retainers had now been brought up to five--the shikari, Ahmed Bot, having procured
a satellite, known as the chota shikari, a youth of not unprepossessing appearance, but whose
necessity in our scheme of existence I had not quite determined. Ahmed Bot, however, was of
opinion that all sahibs who wanted sport required two shikaris, so I imagined that while I
was to be engaged with one in pursuit of bara singh, the other would employ himself in "rounding
up" a few tigers for the next day's sport in another direction. Ahmed Bot agreed with me in
the main, but did not feel at all sure about the tigers--he proposed ibex.

The fifth wheel to our coach was a strikingly ugly person, like a hippopotamus, whose plainness
was not diminished by a pair of enormous goggles; this was the harmless necessary sweeper,
that pariah among domestics, whose usefulness is undreamed of out of India.

After dinner last night we left the hotel, truly thankful to shake the dust of its gloomy precincts
from our feet, and sought our boats, which were moored in the Chenar Bagh. How snug and bright
the "ship" seemed after the murky corridors of Nedou! And yet the Cruiser was not much to boast
of, really, in the way of luxury.

Let me describe a typical boarded dounga. Upon a long, low, flat-bottomed hull, which tapered
to a sharp point at bow and stern, was raised a light wooden superstructure with a flat roof,
upon which the passengers could sit. The interior was divided off into some half-a-dozen compartments,
a vestibule or outer cabin held boxes, &c., and through it one passed into the dining or parlour
cabin, which opened again to two little bedrooms and a couple of bathrooms. There was no furniture
to speak of, but we had hired from Cockburn all that we required for the trip.

The servants, as well as the crew of the dounga, were all stowed in a "tender" known as the
cook boat--no one, except for navigating duties, having any business on board the "flagship."

Charlotte Smithson had a smaller ship than ours--a light wooden frame, which supported movable
matting screens or curtains, taking the place of our wooden cabins. The matted dounga looked
as though it might be chilly, particularly if a strong wind came to play among the rather draughty-looking
mats which were all that our poor friend had between her and a cold world!

CHAPTER VI

OUR FIRST CAMP

The fleet, consisting of four sail (I use this word in its purely conventional sense, a dounga
having no more sails than a battleship), got under way about 5 A.M., while it was yet but barely
daylight, and so we were well clear of Srinagar when we emerged from our cosy cabins into a
world of clean air and brilliant colour.

The broad smooth current of the Jhelum flowed steadily and calmly through a level plain, bearing
us along at a comfortable four miles an hour, the crew doing little more than keep steerage-way
with pole and paddle.

Beyond the green, tree-studded levels to the south, the range of the Pir Panjal spread wide
its array of dazzling peaks, while on the right towered the mountains which enclose the Sind
Valley, culminating in the square-headed mass of Haramok. In the clear air the snows seemed
quite close, although we knew that the snow-line was really some three thousand feet above
the level of the valley.

A day like this, as we sit on the little roof of our floating home watching the silent river
unfold its shining curves, goes far to obliterate the memory of the fuss and worry inseparable
from the exodus from Srinagar. After lunch we tied up for a while, and I took my gun on shore
to try and pick up a few of the duck that dotted the waters of the little lakes or jheels which
lay flashing amid the hillocks beyond the river banks. The shores of these being perfectly
bare and open, it was obviously impossible to escape the keenly observant eyes of the duck,
which appeared, unlike all other birds in Kashmir, to retain their customary wariness.

Crouching low amid the furrows of a newly-ploughed field, I sent the shikari with a knot of
natives to the far side of the water, whence they advanced in open line, splashing and shouting.

Presently, with much fuss and indignant quacking, a cloud of duck rose, and, circling after
their fashion, as though reluctant to quit their resting-place, gave me several chances of
a long shot before, working high into the air, they departed with loud expostulation to some
quieter haunt.

Later in the afternoon we tied up to the bank for the night near a large jheel, where we all
landed, Charlotte to try a rifle which she had borrowed, and I, if possible, to slay a few
more duck, while Jane sat peacefully on a bank and enjoyed the glorious sunset.

The bag having been swelled by the addition of another dozen "specimens"--obtained by the same
manoeuvres as before--we strolled back to our ships in the luminous dusk, visions of roast
"canard" floating seductively before our mental vision.

There proved to be several varieties of duck among the countless flocks which I saw, notably
mallard, teal, pochard, and shoveller. Likewise there were many coots, while herons, disturbed
in their meditations by the untoward racket, flapped heavily away with disgusted squawks.

Jane is getting along remarkably well with her Hindustani. I have just found her diary, and
hasten to give an extract:--

"Woke up very early; much bitten by pice. Tom started off to try and shoot a burra sahib, as
he hears and hopes they've not yet shed all their horns."

"He really looked very nice in his new Pushtoo suit, with putty on his legs and chaplains on
his feet.... His chickory walked in front, carrying his bandobast."

"9 A.M.--Sat down to my solitary breakfast of poached ekkas and paysandu tonga, with excellent
chuprassies (something like scones). After breakfast, tried on my new kilta, which I have had
made quite short for walking. I generally prefer walking to being carried in a pagdandy."

"Then took another lesson in Hindustani from my murghi, though I really think I hardly require
it! My attention a good deal distracted by the antics of a pair of bul-buls (not at all the
same as our coo-coos) in the jungle overhead."

"7 P.M.--T. returned after what he called a blank blank day. He found some bheesties (one of
them a chikor ram or wild ghât) chewing the khud on a precipitous dâk."

"They were rather far off, about a mile he thinks, but he couldn't get any nearer owing to
a frightful ghari-wallah with deep piasses which lay between, so he put up his ornithoptic
sight for 2000 yards and 'pumped lead' into the bheesties for half-an-hour."

"He says he thinks he hit one, but they all went away--as his chickory remarked--'ek dam,'
and Tom agreed with him."

"He fell into a budmash on his way home and was half-drowned, but the chickory, assisted by
a friendly chota-hazri, managed to pull him out ... quite an eventful day!"

"10 P.M.--The body of the ram chikor has just been brought in. It looks as if it had been dead
for weeks, but the doolie, who found it, says that in this climate a few hours is sufficient
to obliterate a body.... Anyhow the head and tail seem all right.... Tom says the proper thing
to do is to measure something--he can't quite remember whether it is the horns or the tail,
but the latter seems the more remarkable, so we measured that, and found it to be 3 feet 4 inches."

"By a little judicious pulling, the chickory, who knows all about measuring things, elongated
it to 4 feet 3 inches."

"This, he says, is a 'Record'--how nice!"

Wednesday, April 12.--The place where we tied up was not far from the point where the Jhelum
expands into the Wular Lake--a broad expanse of water, some seven or eight miles wide in places,
which holds the proud record of being the largest lake in all India.

The mountains rise steeply from its northern shores, and from their narrow glens, squalls swift
and strong are said frequently to sweep over the open water, particularly in the afternoons.
The bold sailormen of Kashmir are not conspicuous for nautical daring--in fact their flat-bottomed
arks, top-heavy and unwieldy, destitute alike of anchor and rudder, are not fit to cope with
either wind or wave; they therefore aim at punting hurriedly across the danger space as soon
after dawn as may be--panting with exertion and terror, they hustle across the smooth and waveless
water, invoking at every breath the protection of local saints.

Long before we had left our beds, and blissfully unconscious of our awful danger, we were striking
out for Bandipur, which haven we safely reached about 8 A.M. on a still and glorious morning.

Then came the business of collecting coolies and ponies, and loading them up with the tents
and lesser baggage under the direction of Sabz Ali and the shikari.

By nine o'clock we were off. Charlotte and Jane, mounted astride a brace of native ponies,
led the way, and, in ragged array, the rest of the procession followed. A quarter of a mile
from the landing-place, clustered at the foot of a steep little hill--a spur from the higher
ranges--lies the village of Bandipur, dirty and picturesque, with, its rickety-looking wooden
houses, and its crowded little bazaar. It is a place of some importance in Kashmir, being the
starting-point for the Astor country and Gilgit--and here the sahib on shikar bent, obtains
coolies and ponies to take him over the Tragbal Pass into Gurais. A post and telegraph office
stands proudly in the middle of the little village, and behind it lies a range of "godowns"
filled with stores for the use of a flying column should the British Raj require to send troops
quickly along the Gilgit road.

Passing through into the open country, we found ourselves on a good road--good, that is to
say, for riding or marching, as no roads in Kashmir are adapted for wheeled traffic excepting
the main artery from Baramula to Srinagar, and the greater portion of the route from Srinagar
to Gulmarg. This road we followed up a gradually narrowing valley, and over a brawling little
river, until at Kralpura the Gilgit road begins the steep ascent to the Tragbal by a series
of wide zigzags up the face of a mountain. The pass which we should have had to tackle, had
we carried out our original intention of going into Astor for markhor and ibex, is nearly 12,000
feet above sea level, and is still securely and implacably closed to all but the hardiest sportsmen.
A short cut, which we took up the hill face, led us through a rough scrub of berberis and wild
daphne (the former just showing green and the latter in flower) until, somewhat scant of breath,
we regained the road, and followed it to the left up a gorge. As the mountains closed in on
either side, we began to look out for the camp, which we knew was not far up the nullah. Presently,
turning off the Gilgit road, along a track to the left, we came upon Walter--bearded like the
pard--a pard which had left off shaving for about a week. He was pensively sitting on a big
sun-warmed boulder, beguiling the time while awaiting us by contemplating the antics of a large
family of monkeys, which he pointed out to Jane, to her great joy.

Tender inquiries as to camp and consequent lunch revealed the sad fact that some miles of exceedingly
rough path yet lay betwixt us and the haven where we would be.

So we pricked forward, along a sort of cattle track, across dirty snow-filled little gullies,
and over rock-strewn slopes, until the white gleam of Walter's tent showed clear on its perch
atop of a flat-roofed native hut.

Crossing the stream which tumbled down the valley, by a somewhat "wobbly" bridge, and picking
our way through the mixen which forms the approach to every well-appointed hut, we arrived
upon the roof which supported the tent. This we achieved without any undue trouble, the building,
like most "gujar" homes, being constructed on the side of a hill sufficiently steep to obviate
the necessity for any back wall--the rear of the roof springing directly from the hillside.
A Gujar village, owing to this peculiarity of construction, always looks oddly like a deposit
of great half-open oysters clinging to the face of the hill.

After a welcome lunch, the ladies both pronounced decidedly against remaining in or near the
highly-scented precincts of the village. The argument that there was no flat ground excepting
roofs to be seen was overruled; so Walter and I climbed a neighbouring ridge, and selected
a site on the crest.

It was not, certainly, a very good site for a camp, as it was so narrow that the unwary might
easily step over the edge on either side, and toboggan gracefully either back on top of the
aforesaid roof, or forward into a very rocky-bedded stream which employed its superfluous energy
in tossing some frayed and battered logs from boulder to boulder, and which would have rejoiced
greatly in doing the same to a fallen nestling from the eyry above.

Neither was the ridge level, and our tents were pitched at such an angle that the slumberer
whose grasp of the bed-head relaxed

  "In the mist and shadow of sleep"

was brought to wakefulness by finding his toes gently sliding out into the nipping and eager
air of night.

The holding-ground for the tent-pegs was not all that could be desired, and visions of our
tents spreading their wings in the gale and vanishing into space haunted us.

No--it was not an ideal camping-ground, and Jane, whose rosy dreams of camping in Kashmir had
pictured her little white canvas home set up in a flowery mead by the side of a purling brook,
gazed upon the rugged slopes which rose around--the cold snow gleaming through the shaggy pine-trees--with
a shiver and a distinct air of disapproval.

It grew more than chilly too, as the sun dipped early behind the ridge that rose jealous between
us and the western light, and an icy breeze from the snow came stealing down the gorge and
whispering among the taller tree-tops in the nullah at our feet.

We were about 1500 feet above the Wular Lake, and snow lay in thick patches within a few yards
of our tents, and had obviously only melted quite recently from the site of the camp, leaving
more clammy mud about the place than we really required.

As it is reasonable to suppose that the bilingual lady who composes the fashion columns of
the Daily Horror is most anxious to know how the fair sex was accoutred at our dinner party
that night, I hasten to inform her that Charlotte was gowned in an elegant confection of Puttoo
of a simply indescribable nuance of crême de boue--the train, extremely décolletée at the lower
end, cunningly revealing at every turn glimpses of an enchanting pair of frou-frou putties.

The neat bottines, à la Diane Chasseresse, took a charming touch of lightness from the aluminium
nails which decorated the "uppers" with a quaint and original Dravidian cornice.

She carried a spring bouquet of wild onions en branche--ornaments (of course), diamonds.

Every one remarked that Jane was simply too lovely for words, as, with the sweet simplicity
of an ingénue, en combinaison with the craft of a Machiavella (I beg to point out that I know
my Italian genders), she draped her lissom form in the clinging folds of an enormous habit
de peau de brebis--portions of ear and the tip of her nose tilted over the edge of the deep
turned-up collar, which, on one side, supported the coquettish droop of the hairy "Tammy" that,
dexterously pinned to the spikes of a diamond fender, gave a clou to the entire "sac d'artifice."

Walter, having already shot two bara singh and a serow, came under the "statute of limitations"
of the Kashmir Game Laws, and had to sound the "cease firing" as regards these animals; but
Charlotte and I, having "khubbar" of game, started at 7 A.M. in pursuit. She, attended by Walter
and in tow of Asna (the best shikari in all Kashmir), followed up the nullah which lay to our
right, while I deflected to the north. Having donned grass shoes, I started off up a very steep
slope which rose directly behind the camp. Reaching snow within a few minutes of leaving my
tent, I was glad to find it hard and the going good, the early sun not yet having had time
to soften and destroy the crisp surface.

Up and up we toiled, I puffing like any grampus--partly by reason of not yet being in good
condition, and partly on account of the height, which was probably nearly 9000 feet above sea
level. As we rose to the shoulder of the hill the gradient became much easier, and I had leisure
to admire the panorama that stretched around the snowy ridge, which fell away abruptly on either
side through dense pine forests. The day was quite glorious.... The sun, blazing in a cloudless
sky, cast sharp steel-blue shadows where rock or tree stood between the snow and his nobility.
The white peaks that rose around in marvellous array seemed so near in the bright air that
it seemed as though one could see the smallest creature moving on their distant slopes. But
there was little life observable in this still and silent world--nothing but an occasional
pair of crows flapping steadily over the woods, or a far vulture circling at a giddy height
in the "blue dome of the air." Silence everywhere, except for the distant and perpetual voice
of many waters murmuring in the unseen depths below.

To the south--showing clear above the serrated back of the ridge beyond the camp--stood the
Pir Panjal; pale ivory in the pale horizon below the sun. At the foot of the valley up which
we had come yesterday, and partly screened by the intruding buttresses of its enfolding hills,
the Wular Lake lay a shimmering shield of molten silver.

In front, the sheeted mountains which guard Gurais and flank the icy portals of the Tragbal
stood, a series of glistening slopes and cold-crowned precipices, while to the east Haramok
reared his 17,000 feet into a threefold peak of snowy majesty.

It was a sight to thank God for, and to remember with joy all the days of one's life. Doubtless
there are many views as wonderful in this lovely land, but this was the first, and therefore
not to be effaced nor its memory dimmed by anything that may come after.

The shikari had not climbed the mountain's brow to waste time over scenery; so, having apparently
gone as far as he wanted on the ridge, he plunged down among the silver firs to the right,
and I, with my heart in my mouth, went after him. At first it seemed to the inexperienced that
we were slithering down the most awful places, and that, should the snow give way, I should
have to swiftly embrace the nearest tree to avoid being shot down, a human avalanche, farther
than I cared to think. However, I soon found it was all right. A welcome halt for lunch brought
the tiffin coolie to the front. A blanket spread upon the hard snow at the foot of a fir made
an excellent seat, and a cold roast teal, an apple, and a small flask of whisky were soon exhumed
from the basket. Water, or rather the want of it, was a difficulty, for I was uncommonly thirsty,
and no sign of any water was to be seen. A judicious blending of the dry teal with bits of
succulent apple overcame the drought, and the half-hour for refreshment passed all too quickly.

The men considered it now time to get up some "shikar," so they invented a bear. This was exciting!
They had separated (there were four of them) in search of traces of bara singh, &c., and some
one found the bear, or its den, or a lock of its wool--I really couldn't quite ascertain which--but
fearful excitement was the immediate result.

A consultation took place in frenzied whispers. My rifle was peeled from its case, and we proceeded
to scramble stealthily down a horribly steep face much broken by rocks. The shikari being in
front with my rifle over his shoulder, I was favoured with frequent glimpses down its ugly
black barrel as I, like Jill, "came tumbling after," and I rejoiced that all the cartridges
were safely stowed in my own pocket. Well! we searched like conspirators for that bear, peeped
round rocks and peered into holes, and anxiously eyed all possible and impossible places where
a bear might be supposed to reside, but there was no bear; and at length we arrived on the
bank of the torrent which rioted noisily down the bottom of the nullah.

I now began to realise that plunging about in snow, often over one's knees, and scrambling
among the fallen tree-trunks and great rocks selected by the torrent to make its bed, was distinctly
tiring work!

Presently we came to a bridge over the river. It consisted of a single log, and appeared extremely
slender. The stream was not deep enough to drown a man, but, all the same, a slip, sending
one into the foaming water among a particularly large and hard collection of boulders, seemed
most undesirable, and I stepped across, like Agag, delicately, carefully balancing myself with
a khudstick. The men came prancing over as if they were on a good high-road, the careless ease
with which they made the passage bordering on impertinence! I reflected, however, that sheep,
and such like beasts of humble brain, can stroll upon the brink of gruesome precipices without
any fear of falling, and my self-respect returned.

After another half-hour of stiff scrambling I sat down to rest awhile, leaving the men to spy
the neighbourhood. Of course they had to find something, so this time they found a "serow"--a
somewhat scarce beast. I awaited the coming of the serow at various coigns of vantage where
they said it was bound to pass, while the four men surrounded it from different directions.
Finally, like the Levite, it passed by on the other side--at least I never saw it. The shikari
afterwards informed me, in confidence, that it was, like the inexcusable baby in Peter Simple,
"a very little one."

We now made the best of our way down the nullah, and when an apology for a path became apparent
I rejoiced greatly, and followed it along its corkscrew course until the camp came suddenly
into view as we topped a spur, which gave the path a final excuse for dragging me up a stiff
two hundred feet, and then sending me down a knee-shaking descent, for no apparent reason but
pure "cussedness."

Charlotte had got home just before me, having seen nothing to shoot at. She, too, seemed anxious
for tea!

During the day Sabz Ali had been doing his level best to improve the position in our sleeping-tent.
The camp-beds had stood at such an angle that it was almost impossible to avoid sliding gradually
into the outer darkness, but S.A. had scraped out earth from the head, and filled up a terrace
at the foot, in a way which gave us hope of sound sleep. Our things had been carefully stowed,
too, and a sort of hole scooped for the bath. Luxury stared us in the face!

The sunset certainly was a little dull last night, but we were quite unprepared for the dreary
aspect of Dame Nature to which we awoke this morning. It was raining very heavily, and a dense
pall of mist hung low among the pines, giving an impression of melancholy durability.

There was obviously nothing to do but exist as cheerfully as might be until the weather improved.
The wet had shrunk canvas and rope gear till the tent-guys were as taut as fiddle-strings;
and as it did not seem to have occurred to any of the servants to attend to this, an immediate
tour of the camp had to be undertaken, in "rubbers" and waterproofs, to slack off guys and
inspect the drainage system, as we had no wish to have our earthen floor--already sufficiently
cold and clammy--turned into an absolute swamp.

These things done, we scuttled and slid down to the mess tent, and breakfasted as best we might;
and the best was surprisingly good, considering the difficulties the wretched servants must
have had in cooking anything in their wet lair, where the miserable fire of damp sticks produced
apparently little but acrid smoke.

We passed a dismal day, as, wrapped in our warmest clothes, we sat upon our beds watching the
rain turn to snow, then to hail and sleet, and finally back to rain again; while the ever-changing
wisps of grey mist gathered thick in the glens, or "put forth an arm and crept from pine to pine."

Towards evening the clouds broke a little, and the forest-clad steeps appeared through them,
powdered thickly with new snow. Walter and I sallied forth from our sodden tents and held a
council of war in the mud. It was decided to quit our somewhat unsatisfactory and precarious
position early to-morrow, if fine, as the weather looked so nasty, and a squall of wind might
have awkward consequences.

Friday, April 14.--A very fairly fine morning enabled us to strike camp yesterday, and get
the baggage off in good time. The Smithsons decided to make for the jheels near the river,
in order to give the duck a final worry round before the season closes on the 15th.

My shikari having reported a good bara singh in a small nullah off the Erin, I arranged to
go in search of him. The march down to Bandipur was a short and easy one, and we got comfortably
settled on board our boats early in the afternoon. About sunset the clouds gathered thick over
the hills which we had left, and a thunderstorm broke, its preliminary squall throwing the
crews of our fleet into a fearful fuss, and sending them on to the bank with extra ropes and
holdfasts to make all secure. An elderly lady, with a dirty red cap and very untidy ringlets,
superintended the business with much clamour. We take her to be the wife or grandmother (not
sure which) of the skipper.

It was with an undoubted sense of solid comfort that we lay in our cosy beds under a wooden
roof, whereon the fat rain-drops sputtered, while the thunder still crackled and banged in
the distance!

We shifted before dawn to a small village a couple of miles to the east, and at 6.30 Jane and
I set out to attack the bara singh, of which the shikari held out high hope. My wife, mounted
on a rough pony, was able to accomplish with great comfort the two miles of flat country which
we had to traverse before turning off sharp to the right along a track which led steeply upwards
through the scrub that clothed the lower part of the nullah.

There is something unusually charming in the dawn here--the crisp, buoyant air, the silent
hills, their lower slopes and corries still a purple mystery; on high, the silver peaks--looking
ridiculously close--change swiftly from their cold pallor into rosy life at the first touch
of the risen sun.

The first part of our day's work was easy enough. The sun was still hidden from us behind the
mountain flange on our left; the snow patches on the sky-line ahead seemed comparatively near,
and the diabolical swiftness of the shikari's stealthy walk was yet to be fully realised.

Up and up we went, first through a thick scrub or jungle of a highly prickly description, over
a few small streams, then out upon a grassy ridge, up which we slowly panted. The gradient
became sharper, and I began to feel a little anxious about Jane, as the short, brown grass
was slippery with frost--a slip would be very easy, and the results unpleasant. However, with
the able assistance of the shikari, she did very well, and, having crossed a shelving patch
of snow by cutting steps with our khudstick, we found ourselves, after an hour and a half's
stiff climbing, on the sky-line of the ridge that had seemed but an easy stroll from below.
The heights and distances are most deceptive, partly on account of the crystal clearness of
the air, and partly because of the magnitude of everything in proportion. The mountains are
not only high themselves, but their spurs and foothills would rank as able-bodied mountains
were they not dwarfed by peaks which average 15,000 feet in height above the sea. The pines
which clothe their sides, the chenars and poplars in the valley, are all enormous when compared
with their European cousins.

The view was most remarkable as we gained the crest of the ridge--a sea of white cloud came
boiling up from the valley to the east, and, pouring over the saddle upon which we stood, gave
only occasional glimpses of snow and pine and precipice above, or the glint of water in the
rice-fields far below. Once, between the swirling cloud masses, the near hills lay clear in
the sunshine for a few moments and revealed a party of five bara singh hinds, crossing the
slope in front of us, and not more than 150 yards away. Alas! there was no stag.

This was not satisfactory weather for stalking. However I was hopeful, as I have noticed that
in the fine forenoons a thick white belt of cloud often forms about the snow level--roughly,
some 8000 feet above the sea, or 3000 above the Wular Lake--and hangs there for an hour or
two, to disappear entirely by midday. And so it came about to-day; after a halt for tiffin,
I set forward in brilliant sunshine, while Jane remained quietly perched on the hillside, as
the shikari said the road was not good for a lady. The shikari was right, as, within ten minutes
of starting, we had to drop from the crest of the ridge to circumvent a big rock which barred
our way, to find ourselves confronted by a very unpleasant-looking slope of short brown grass,
which fell away at an angle of about 50° to what seemed an endless depth. This grass, having
only just become emancipated from its winter snow, had all its hair--so to speak--brushed straight
down, and there was mighty little stuff to hold on to! Carefully digging little holes with
our khudsticks, and not disdaining the help of my shikari, I got across, and thankfully scrambled
back to the safety of the ridge.

Now we reached snow, and the going became easier, whereupon Ahmed Bot promptly set a pace which
left me struggling far behind. As the sun grew stronger the surface-crust of the snow became
soft, and at every few steps one went through to the knees, until both muscles and temper became
sorely tried. For an hour or so we kept climbing up what was evidently one of the many steep
and rugged ranges which, radiating from Haramok, on this side flank the Wular with their lofty
bastions. Having apparently attained the height he deemed necessary, and got well above the
part of the pine forest in which he expected to find game, Ahmed Bot turned to the left of
the ridge, and we were immediately involved in the deep drifts which covered the pine-clad
slope of the nullah. Over snow-covered trunks of prostrate trees, over hidden holes and broken
rocks, we toiled and scrambled until, emerging breathless on a bare knoll--smooth and white
as a great wedding-cake--we obtained a searching view into the neighbouring gullies. Still
no sign or track of any "beast," so we worked back until, tired and hot, I regained the place
where Madame lay basking beneath her sunshade. The shikari and his myrmidons departed to "look"
another bit of country, while I, nothing loth, remained to await events in the neighbourhood
of the refreshment department.

On the return of the men, who had of course seen nothing, we set off for home, climbing down
the edge of the ridge where yellow colchicum starred the turf. It was steep--verging on the
precipitous in places--and Jane frankly expressed her satisfaction when we accomplished the
worst part and entered a dense jungle of scrubby bushes, all of which seemed to grow spines
of sorts. A bear was said to have been seen here yesterday, so we kept our weather eyelids
lifting, but were not favoured with a sight of him. We had almost gained the bottom of the
hill, with but two short miles to dinner and a tub, when weird shrieks and whistles were exchanged
between our people and an excited villager below. The shikari, his eyes gleaming with uncontrollable
excitement, announced that the "big stag" was waiting for me at that very moment!--and therewith
Ahmed Bot dashed off down the hill, leaving me to follow as best I might. Leaving my wife in
charge of the tiffin coolie, I tumbled off after the shikari, whom I found gloating with the
messenger over the inspiriting particulars of the monarch of the glen, which, I understood,
crouched expectant some paltry 2000 feet above us, near the top of the nullah!

It was past six o'clock, and the light already showing signs of waning, so we lost no time
in attacking the hill again. I was pretty well "done," and had to accept a tow from the shikari,
and hand in hand we pressed up that accursed hill until, at seven o'clock, the sun set and
it began to grow dusk. Lying down near the edge of the snow, to gain breath and let the shikari
crawl round and "look" the face of the hill, I was soon moved to activity by the news that
the stag was lying under a pine tree within a few hundred yards. A short "crawl" brought me
within sight of the beast, who lay half-hidden by a rock. It was now so dark that even with
my glasses I could only make sure that it was a "horn beast" and not a hind; there was no time
to lose, so, putting up my sight for 150 yards, I let him have it, and was nearly as much surprised
as gratified to see him roll out on the snow to the shot. My vexation and disgust may be imagined
when I found the noble beast to be a miserable 8-pointer, which I would never have fired at
if I could have seen its head properly. Heartily consigning the shikari, together with the
mendacious villager and all his kind, to a hot place, I dolefully stumbled away downhill again
in the gathering dark, and finally deposited my weary and dejected self on board the boat,
after fourteen hours of the hardest walking I have ever done.

There is a confused tale prevalent that the bear, taking a mean advantage of my absence, has
been down to the village and eaten a few ponies, or frightened them--I can't make out which.

CHAPTER VII

BACK TO SRINAGAR

Easter Day, April 23.--We left the Erin district early in the morning following the bara singh
fiasco, and punted and poled up the river to join the Smithsons in a last attack upon the duck.
We found the bold Colonel,

  "Rough with slaughter and red with fight,"

enjoying himself hugely among the jheels, and we prepared to join in the fray; but our chasse
was put an end to by the discovery that the 14th, and not the 15th, was the last legal day
for shooting. So we packed away our guns and towed up to Srinagar, which we reached on Sunday
afternoon.

Our brief experience of camping and "shikar" had proved to my wife that she was not cast in
the heroic mould of a female Nimrod. Not being a shot herself--as Charlotte is--she saw that,
as far as she was concerned, a shooting expedition with the Smithsons would entail a great
deal of solitary rumination in camp, while the rest of the party pursued the red bear to his
den, or chased the nimble markhor up and down the precipices. The joys of reading, knitting,
and washing the family clothes might--probably would--pall after a time; and the physical exertion
of "walking with the guns" in Kashmir is decidedly more of an undertaking than over a Perthshire
grouse moor! Our original arrangement, before coming out to join the Smithsons, was that the
time should be spent in camping, boating, "loafing," and shooting. Being perfectly ignorant
of the conditions of life out here, we were unaware of the fact that it is practically impossible
to combine serious shooting with any other form of amusement. In Scotland one may stalk one
day, fish the next, and golf the third, but out here it is not so. The worshipper of Diana
must be prepared to sacrifice everything else at her shrine; he must go far afield, and be
prepared to live hard and work hard, and even then it may befall that his trophies of the chase
are none too plentiful. That will depend a good deal on his shikari and his own knowledge,
together with luck.

Walter had the good fortune to come upon two fine stags not far from his camp almost as soon
as he got there. He was within fifty yards of them as they were moving slowly in deep snow,
and he killed them both; the best of these was a remarkably fine 10-pointer, length of horn
41 inches and span 38-1/2 inches. His wife spent an equal time in the same neighbourhood and
never saw anything.[1]

When we talked over plans with Colonel and Mrs. Smithson at Pindi, the general idea had crystallised
into a scheme for going into Astor to shoot, immediately upon our arrival in Kashmir, and,
in order to reach Srinagar before April 1st--the date of issue of shooting passes--we had struggled
hard to make our way into the country before it was really attractive to the ordinary visitor.

When we did reach Srinagar we found that our friends had abandoned all idea of an expedition
to Astor, partly on account of expense, but principally on account of the backwardness of the
season, which practically precluded ladies from crossing the Tragbal and Boorzil Passes for
some time. The merits and demerits of the Tilail district and Baltistan came up for review,
and then we almost decided to go to Leh until we reflected that the return journey over a bare
and open country--arid and hot as an Egyptian desert--in the month of August might not be unmixed
joy, and the Smithsons were assured that they would find no sport whatever en route, but would
have to go several marches beyond Leh to obtain the chance of an Ovis Ammon or Thibetan antelope.

The Leh scheme thus having come to naught, and our friends being still wholly intent on "shikar"
to the exclusion of all other pursuits, we decided to be independent, so we hired a nice-looking
boarded dounga, whose fresh and clean appearance pleased us, for a term of three months. Nedou's
Hotel offered so few attractions and so many drawbacks that we were prepared to do anything
rather than return to it, and, as a matter of economy, we scored heavily, as, on working it
out, we found that the boat, including the cook-boat, would cost 60 rupees per month. Our food
and the wages of those servants whom we should not have required at the hotel came to approximately
80 rupees per month, making a total of 140 rupees, or £9, 6s. 8d.; whereas our hotel bill would
have come to 12 rupees per day, without extras--or 360 rupees (£24) per month--a clear saving
in money as well as in comfort.

Our new habitation--the house dounga Moon--was owned and partly worked by Satarah, an astute
old rascal, whose "tawny beard," like Hudibras'--

    "Was the equal grace
  Both of his wisdom and his face;
  In cut and dye so like a tyle
  A sudden view it would beguile:
  The upper part whereof was whey,
  The nether orange mixt with grey."

His costume consisted of a curious sort of short nightgown worn over white and flappy trousers,
below which were revealed a pair of big, flat naval feet. The first lieutenant, Sabhana--sleek
and civil-spoken, but desperately afraid of work--was, we understand, son-in-law to the Admiral
Satarah, having to wife the Lady Jiggry, eldest daughter of that worthy, who, with her younger
sisters Nouri, Azizi, and "the Baba," completed the ship's company.

The Moon differed from an ordinary house-boat in being narrower, and possessing a long bow
and stern which projected far enough from the body of the boat to enable men to pole or paddle
with ease; a house-boat can only be towed. On embarking by means of a narrow gangway--a plank
possessed of an uncontrollable desire to "tip-up" at unexpected and disconcerting moments--one
entered first a small vestibule, or "ante-cabin," which held our big boxes and opened into
the drawing-room--quite a roomy apartment, about fifteen feet by ten feet, fitted with a fireplace,
a rough writing-table, and overmantel, surmounted by a photograph--something faded--of Mrs.
Langtry! A small table and a couple of deck chairs graced the floor, while upon the walls a
heterogeneous collection of pictures, including a coloured lithograph of a cottage and a brook,
a fearful and wonderful portrayal of an otter, and a very fancy stag of unlimited points dazzled
the eye. The ceiling was decorated with an elaborate and most effective design in wood--a fashion
very common in Srinagar, consisting of a sort of patchwork panelling of small pieces of wood,
cut to length and shape, and tacked on to a backing in geometrical designs. At a little distance
the effect is rich and excellent, but close inspection shows up the tintacks and the glue,
and a prying finger penetrates the solid-looking panel with perfect ease.

The drawing-room was separated from the dining "saloon" by a sliding door--which frequently
refused to slide at all, or else perversely slid so suddenly as to endanger finger-tips and
cause unseemly words to flow. This noble apartment of elegant dimensions (to borrow the undefiled
English of the house-agent) could contain four feasters at a pinch. Sabz Ali having cooked
the dinner, the cook-boat was laid alongside, and Sabz Ali, clambering in and out of the window,
proceeded to serve the repast, a black paw, presumably belonging to Ayata, the kitchenmaid-man,
appearing from time to time to retrieve the soiled plates or hand up the next course.

A funny little sideboard and cupboard contained a slender stock of knives, forks, and glasses,
and part of a broken-down dinner set, while the fireplace easily held three dozen of soda-water.

Then came Jane's bedroom, fitted with a cupboard and shelves, which were a constant source
of covetousness to me, who had none. A small bathroom completed our suite of apartments, and,
after the bare boards of the Cruiser, the Moon seemed to overflow with luxury.

We have been taking life easily here for the last week. The Smithsons intend going into Tilail
as soon as the Tragbal becomes feasible; we propose to remain in Srinagar for a while. The
weather has not been very fine--cold winds and a good deal of rain, varied by thunderstorms,
being our daily experience. The spring is, I am told, exceptionally backward, and, although
the almond is in full and lovely flower, the poplars and chenars are barely showing a sign of life.

My wife having gone to lunch at the Residency this afternoon, I walked half-way up the Takht-i-Suleiman,
whose sharp, rock-strewn pyramid rises a thousand feet above Srinagar.

The view of the Kashmir plain, through which the river winds like a silver snake; the solemn
ring of mountains, enclosing the valley with a rampart of rock and snow; the innumerable roofs
of the city, glittering like burnished scales in the keen sunlight, densely clustered round
the fort-crowned height of Hari Parbat, went to make up such a picture as Turner would have
kneeled to.

Of course it is simply futile to compare one magnificent view with another which differs entirely
in kind. All that one can do is to lay by in the memory a mental picture-gallery of recollection;
and as I sat in the shelter of a big rock, gazing out over the level plain stretching below,
where the changing shadows as they swept by turned the amber masses of the trees to gold, I
conjured up in my mind's eye other scenes whose beauties will remain with me while life shall
last:--The purple and gold of a glorious sunset over Etna, the Greek theatre of Taormina in
front of me, with the sea below--a shimmering opal that melted away in the haze beyond Syracuse;
the awful rapids raging furiously below Niagara, a very ocean tortured and maddened to blind
fury, pouring its irresistible torrents through the chasm above the whirlpool; and again, a
cloudless October morning, with just the keen zest of early autumn in the air, as I lay high
up on a hillside in Ardgour watching for deer--with the hills of Lochaber and Ballachulish
reflected in all their glory of purple and russet in the waters of Loch Linnhe, windless and still!

Chills can be caught amidst the most glorious scenery--the little tufts of purple self-heal
at my feet were shivering and shaking in a biting breeze that swept down from the snows to
the north-east, and although I am an admirer of Kingsley, I do not hold with him in his wrong-headed
admiration for a "nor'-easter"--so I quitted my perch in search of tea.

Easter Monday.--The Smithsons scuttled away in a great hurry to-day, their shikari, Asna (the
best shikari in Kashmir), having heard that, owing to the lateness of the season, the bara
singh have not even yet all shed their horns--so Charlotte is filled with high hope. The bears,
too, are said to be waking from their winter's doze and poking around in warm and balmy corners.

Armed to the teeth and thirsting for blood, the hunter and the huntress cast loose their matted
dounga and paddled away merrily down the Jhelum to Bandipur, thence to pursue the royal bara
singh, and later, if possible, scale the snow-barred slopes of the Tragbal and penetrate the
lonely Tilail Valley to assail the red bear and the multitudinous ibex.

Jane and I having decided that a purely shikar expedition into the more difficult parts of
the country was not suited to our prosaic habits, remained to enjoy the effeminate pleasures
of Srinagar till the weather should grow a few degrees warmer.

As we are bidden to a sort of state luncheon to-morrow, given by the Maharajah, it appeared
to me to be but right and seemly to go and inscribe my name in the visitors' book of His Highness,
and also to call upon his brother, the Rajah Sir Amar Singh. I went with the more alacrity
as I thought it might prove interesting. Strolling across the big bridge above the Palace,
I soon found myself in the purely native quarter, immersed in a seething crowd of men and beasts,
from beneath whose passing feet a cloud of dust rose pungent. The water-sellers, the hawkers
of vegetables and of sweets, the cattle, the loafers and the children got into the way and
out of it in kaleidoscopic confusion. By the side of the street, money-changers, wrapped in
silent consideration, bent over their trays of queer and outlandish coins. Bright cottons and
silks flaunted pennons of gorgeous colours. Brass, glowing like gold, rose piled on low wide
counters. In front stood the Palace, looking its best from this point, and showing huge beside
the huddle of wooden and plaster huts which hem it in.

General Raja Sir Amar Singh lives in a sort of glorified English villa. Were it not for the
flowering oleanders and hibiscus in front and the silvery gleam of temple domes beyond, one
might suppose oneself near the banks of Father Thames. And were it not for the group of stalwart
retainers at the door, the illusion need not be lost on entering the house.

The hall and staircase were decorated with a profusion of skins and horns, somewhat modern
and brilliant rugs, and tall glasses full of flowers closely copied from Nature; while the
drawing-room was of a type very frequently seen near London.

Like so many British reception-rooms, it shone replete with objets d'art, rather inclining
to Oriental luxury than Japanese restraint.

My host, who came in almost immediately, was charming, speaking English with fluency, although
he has never been in England.

He is essentially a strong man, and remarkably well posted in everything, both political and
social, that occurs in the state, mixing far more freely than his brother with the English,
towards whom his courtesy is proverbial.

His elder brother, the Maharajah of Jammu and Kashmir, is in many respects of a different type.
Keeping more aloof from the English colony, he spends much of his time in devotion and the
privacy of the inner Palace.

On leaving Sir Amar Singh, one of his henchmen conducted me across the iron bridge spanning
a cut from the Jhelum, and into the warren-like precincts of the Palace; presently we emerged
from an obscure passage, and found ourselves at the "front door," where, in the visitors' book,
by means of the stumpy pencil attached thereto, I inscribed my name and condition.

April 27.--His Highness the Maharajah having invited us to a luncheon given by him in honour
of Colonel Pears, the new Resident, we prepared to cross the famous Dal Lake to the Nishat
Bagh, the scene of the present feast, which we fondly hoped might recall the glorious days
of the Moguls when Jehangir dallied in the historic Shalimar with the fair Nourmahal.

  "Th' Imperial Selim held a feast
  In his magnificent Shalimar:--
  In whose saloons ...
  The valleys' loveliest all assembled."

Our shikara, a sort of canoe paddled by four active fellows, with the stern, where we sat on
cushions, carefully screened from the sun by an awning, was brought alongside the dounga at
about 11.30, as we had some seven or eight miles to accomplish before reaching the Nishat Bagh.

Leaving the main river just above the Club, we paddled down the Sunt-i-kul Canal, which runs
between the European quarter and the Takht-i-Suleiman, the rough brown hill which, crowned
with its temple, forms a constant background to Srinagar.

The canal was closely lined with house-boats and their satellite cook-boats, clinging to the
poplar-shaded banks. The golf-links lay on our left, and on a low spur to the right stood the
hospital, which the energy and philanthropy of the Neves has gained for the remarkably ungrateful
Kashmiri. It is told that a man, being exceedingly ill, was cared for and nursed during many
weeks in the Mission Hospital, his whole family likewise living on the kindly sahibs. When
he was cured and shown the door, he burst into tears because he was not paid wages for all
the time he had spent in hospital!

Just before entering the waterway of noble chenars, known as the Chenar Bagh (a camping-ground
reserved for bachelors only), we ported our helm (or at least would have done so had there
been any rudders in Kashmir), and pushed through the lock-gate, which gives entrance to the
Dal Lake, against a brisk current.

This gate, cunningly arranged upon the non-return-valve principle, is normally kept open by
the current from the Dal; but if the Jhelum, rising in flood, threatens to pour back into the
lake and swamp the low ground and floating gardens, it closes automatically, and so remains
sealed until the outward flow regains the mastery.

A sharp bout of paddling, puffing, and splashing shot us into the peaceful waters of the Dal
Lake, over which every traveller has gushed and raved. It is difficult, indeed, not to do so,
for it is truly a dream of beauty.

A placid sheet of still water, its surface only broken here and there by the silvery trails
of rippled wake left by the darting shikaras or slow-moving market boats, lay before us, shining
in the crystal-clear atmosphere. On the right rose the Takht, his thousand feet of rocky stature
dwarfed into insignificance by holy Mahadeo and his peers, whose shattered peaks ring round
the lake to the north, their dark cliffs and shaggy steeps mirrored in its peaceful surface.

On the lower slopes strong patches of yellow mustard and white masses of blossoming pear-trees
rose behind the tender green fringe of the young willows.

As we swept on, the lake widened. On the left a network of water lanes threaded the maze of
low-growing brushwood and whispering reeds, and round us extended the half-submerged patches
of soil which form the celebrated "floating gardens" of the lake. From any point of view except
the utilitarian, these gardens are a fraud. A combination of matted and decaying water-plants,
mud, and young cabbages kept in place by rows and thickets of willow scrub, is curious, but
not lovely; and our eyes turned away to where Hari Parbat raised his crown of crumbling forts
above the native city, or to the mysterious ruins of Peri Mahal, clinging like a swallow's
nest to the shelving slopes above Gupkar.

  "Still onward; and the clear canal
  Is rounded to as clear a lake;"

and we emerged from the willow-fringed water lanes, and saw across the wider shield of glistering
water the white cube of the Nishat Bagh Pavilion--the Garden of Joy, made for Jehangir the
Mogul--standing by the water's edge, and at its foot a great throng and clutter of boats, amidst
whose snaky prows we pushed our way and landed, something stiff after sitting for two hours
in a cramped shikara.

Other guests--some thirty in all--were arriving, either like us by boat, or by carriage viâ
Gupkar, and we strolled in groups up the sloping gardens, which still show, in their wild and
unrestrained beauty, the loving touch of the long-vanished hand of the Mogul.

Down seven wide grassy terraces a series of fountains splashed and twinkled in the sun. Broad
chenars, just beginning to break into leaf, gave promise of ample shade against the day when
the blaze should become overpowering. So far so good, but the grass that bordered the path
was not the sweet green turf of an English lawn, and the way was edged by big earthen pots,
into which were hastily stuck wisps of iris blooms and Persian lilac. The topmost terrace widened
out, enclosing a large basin of clear water, in the middle of which played a fountain. On one
side was raised a marquee, revealing welcome preparations for lunch. On the opposite side of
the fountain a profusion of chairs, shaded by a great awning, stood expectantly facing a bandstand.
Here we were welcomed by His Highness, a somewhat small man with exceedingly neat legs and
an enormous white pugaree, in his customary gracious manner.

It was now half-past two, and we had breakfasted early, so that a move towards the luncheon
tent was most welcome. Finding the fair lady whom I was detailed to personally conduct, and
the ticketed place where I was to sit, I prepared to make a Gargantuan meal. Was it not almost
on this very spot that

  "The board was spread with fruit and wine,
  With grapes of gold, like those that shine
  On Casbin's hills;--pomegranates full
    Of melting sweetness, and the pears
  And sunniest apples that Cabul
    In all its thousand gardens bears.
  Plantains, the golden and the green,
  Malaya's nectar'd mangusteen;
  Prunes of Bokara, and sweet nuts
    From the far groves of Samarcand,
  And Basra dates, and apricots,
    Seed of the sun, from Iran's land;--
  With rich conserve of Visna cherries,
  Of orange flowers, and of those berries
  That, wild and fresh, the young gazelles
  Feed on in Erac's rocky dells..
  Wines, too, of every clime and hue
  Around their liquid lustre threw;
  Amber Rosolli..
  And Shiraz wine, that richly ran..
  Melted within the goblets there!"

This reckless, but unsubstantial and very unwholesome meal, was not for us, and while waiting
patiently for the first course to appear, I glanced down the long table to admire the decorations.
They were delightful, consisting of glass flower-vases spaced regularly along the festive board,
and filled to overflowing with tufts and clumps of flowers. Innumerable plates filled with
fruit and sweetmeats graced the feast, and a magnificent array of knives and forks gave promise
of good things to come.

Presently the expected dainties arrived, resembling but little the lately-described poetic
feast; a strict attention to business enabled us to keep the wolf from the door, and a very
cheerful party finally emerged from the big tent to stroll by the fountains that flashed under
the chenars.

The Maharajah, of course, did not lunch with us, but held aloof, peeping occasionally into
the cook-house to satisfy himself that the lions were being fed properly, and in accordance
with their unclean customs.

Finally, he and his chief officers of state vanished into a secluded tent, where he probably
took a little refreshment, having first carefully performed the ablutions necessary after the
contamination of the unbeliever.

His Highness reappeared from nowhere in particular as his guests strolled across the terrace,
and, after a little polite conversation, we took our leave and set forth for Srinagar.

It was a glorious afternoon, and we deeply regretted that time would not permit us to visit
the neighbouring Shalimar Bagh, which lay hidden among the trees near by. The excursion must
remain a "hope deferred" for the present, as we had again to thread the maze of half-submerged
melon plots and miniature kitchen gardens which, even in the golden glow of a perfect evening,
could not be made to fit in with our preconceived ideas of "floating gardens." Jane was frankly
disappointed, as she admitted to having pictured in her mind's eye a series of peripatetic
herbaceous borders in full flower, cruising about the lake at their own sweet will and tended
by fair Kashmirian maidens.

By-the-bye, here let me expose, once for all, the fallacy of Moore's drivel about the lovely
maids of fair "Cashmere." There are none! This appears a startling statement and a sweeping;
but, as a matter of fact, the Eastern girl is not left, like her Western sister, to flirt and
frivol into middle age in single "cussedness," but almost invariably becomes a respectable
married lady at ten or twelve, and drapes her lovely, but not over clean, head in the mantle
of old sacking, which it is de rigueur for matrons to adopt.

The good Tommy Moore did not know this, but, letting his warm Irish imagination run riot through
a mixed bag of Eastern romancists and their works, he evolved, amid a pôt pourri of impossibilities,
an impossible damsel as unlike anything to be found in these parts as the celebrated elephant
evolved from his inner consciousness by the German professor!

  As I traversed the main, or rolled by train,
    From my Western habitation,
  I frequently thought--perhaps more than I ought--
    Upon many a quiet occasion
  Of the elegant forms and manifold charms
    Of the beautiful female Asian.

  For the good Tommy Moore, in his pages of yore,
    Sang as though he could never be weary
  Of fair Nourmahal--an adorable "gal"--
    And of Paradise and the Peri,
  Until, I declare, I was wild to be where
    I might gaze on the lovely Kashmiri.

  Through the hot plains of Ind I fled like the wind,
    Unenchanted by mistress or ayah,
  The dusky Hindu, I soon saw, wouldn't do,
    So I paused not, until in the sky----Ah!--
  Far upward arose the perpetual snows
    And the peaks of the proud Himalaya.

  But in Kashmir, alas! I found not a lass
    Who answered to Tommy's description--
  For the make of such maid I am sadly afraid
    The fond parents have lost the prescription,
  And I murmured; "No doubt, the old breed has died out,
    At least such is my honest conviction."

  In the horrible slums which form the foul homes
    Of the rag-covered dames of the city,
  I saw wrinkled hags, all wrapped in old rags,
    Whose appearance excited but pity.
  Beyond question the word which it would be absurd
    To apply to these ladies is "pretty."

  In the high Gujar huts were but brats and old sluts,
    These last being the plainest of women;
  Then I sought on the waters the sisters and daughters
    Of the Mangis--those "bold, able seamen"
  (I have often been told that the Mangi is bold,
    And as brave as at least two or three men).

  One lady I saw--I am told her papa
    In the market did forage and "gram" sell--
  Decked all over with rings, necklets, bangles and things,
    She appeared a desirable damsel;
  And I cried "Oh, Eureka! I've found what I seek:
    Tell me quick--Is she 'madam' or 'ma'mselle'?"

  It was comical, but to this question I put--
    A remarkably innocent query--
  I received but a sigh or evasive reply,
    Or a blush from the modest Kashmiri;
  And I gathered at last that the lady was "fast,"
    And her name should be Phryne, not Heré.

  Toddled up a small tot--her hair tied in a knot--
    Who remarked, "I can hardly consider
  You've the ghost of a chance on this wild-goosie dance
    Unless you should hap on a 'widder!'
  For our maidens at ten--ay, and less now and then--
    Are all booked to the wealthiest bidder."

  "My dear man, it's no use to indulge in abuse
    Of our customs, so be not enraged, sir--
  No woman a maid is--we're all married ladies.
    Our charms very early are caged, sir--
  I'm eleven myself," remarked the small elf,
    "And a year ago I was engaged, sir!"

Ah, well! The country is the loveliest I ever saw, and that goes far to make up for its disgusting
population.

Here, indeed, it is that

  "Every prospect pleases, and only man is vile."

We stopped to look at the ruins of an ancient mosque, built in the days of Akbar by the Shiahs.
Its remains may be deeply interesting to the archaeologist, but to me a neighbouring ziarat,
wooden, with its grassy roof one blaze of scarlet tulips, was far more attractive. Moving homeward,
we floated under a lovely old bridge, whose three rose-toned arches date from the sixteenth
century--the age of the Great Moguls. The extreme solidity of its piers contrasts strongly
with the exceedingly sketchy (and sketchable) bridges manufactured by the Kashmiri.

In fairness, though, I must point out that, as the bridge in Kashmir usually spans a stream
liable at almost any moment to overwhelming floods, it would appear to be a sound idea to build
as flimsily as possible, with an eye to economical replacement.

The Kashmiri carries this plan to its logical conclusion when he fells a tree across a raging
torrent, and calls it a bridge, to the unutterable discomfiture of the Western wayfarer.

[1] That lady subsequently killed a remarkably good 13-pointer bara singh
    and some bears in October.

CHAPTER VIII

THE LOLAB

May 1.--The pear and cherry blossom has been so lovely in and around Srinagar that we determined
to go to the Lolab Valley and see the apple blossom in full flower.

We started in some trepidation, for the warm weather lately has melted much snow on the hills,
and Jhelum is so full that we were told that our three-decker would be unable to pass under
the city bridges--of which there are seven. We decided to see for ourselves, so set forth about
eleven, and soon came to the first bridge, the Amira Kadal, which carries the main tonga road
into Srinagar, tying up just above it, amid the clamour and jabber of an idle crowd.

The Admiral solemnly measured the clear space between the top of the arch and the water with
a long pole, consulted noisily with the crowd, yelled his ideas to the crew, and decided to
attempt the passage.

Hen-coops, chairs, half-a-dozen flower-pots containing sickly specimens of plants, and all
other movables being cleared from the upper deck, we set sail, and shot the bridge very neatly,
only having a few inches of daylight between the upper deck and the wooden beams upon which
the roadway rests.

  Ce nest que, le premier "pont" que coute.

The other bridges were all easier than the first, and we shot them gaily, spending the rest
of the day in floating quietly down the river, and finally anchoring--or rather mooring, for
anchors are, like boat-hooks, masts, sails, rudders, and rigging, alike unknown to the "jollye
mariners" of the Jhelum--some two or three miles above the entrance to the dreaded Wular Lake.

This awful stretch of water, so feared by the Kashmiri that his eyes goggle when he even thinks
of it, is an innocent enough looking lake, generally occupied in reflectively reproducing its
surroundings upside down, but occasionally its calm surface is ruffled by a little breeze,
and it is reported that wild and horrible squalls sweep down the nullahs of Haramok at times,
and destroy the unwary. These squalls are said to be most frequent in the afternoons, and are
probably the accompaniments of the thunderstorms.

It is only considered possible to cross the Wular between dawn and 10 or 11 A.M., and no persuasion
will prevail upon a native boatman to risk his life on the lake after lunch.

Before turning in, I gave orders that a start should be made next morning at five o'clock,
but a heavy squall of rain and thunder during the night had the effect of causing orders to
be set at naught, and at breakfast-time there was no sign of "up anchor" nor even of "heaving
short." An interview with the Admiral showed me that the Wular, in his opinion, was too dangerous
to cross to-day--in fact he wouldn't dream of asking coolies to risk it. He was given to understand
that we intended to cross, and that the sooner he started the safer it would be.

No coolies being forthcoming, I inhumanly gave orders to get under way--the available crew
consisting of the wicked Satarah, the first lieutenant, and the Lady Jiggry. Sulkily and slowly
we wended our way past the wide flats which border the Wular, all blazing golden with mustard
in full pungent flower.

Before entering the lake the Admiral meekly requested to be allowed to try for coolies in a
small village near by. He was allowed quarter of an hour for pressgang work, and sure enough
he came back within a very reasonable time with a few spare hands, and then--paddling and poling
for dear life--we glided swiftly through the tangled lily-pads and the green rosettes of the
Singhara, and soon were in medias res and fairly committed to the deep.

The Wular lay like a burnished mirror, reflecting the buttresses of Haramok on our right, and
the snowy ranges by the Tragbal ahead, its silvery surface lined here and there with the wavering
tracks of other boats, or broken by bristling clumps of reeds and tall water-plants. Our transit
was perfectly peaceful, and by lunch-time we were safely tied up to a bank, purple with irises,
just below Bandipur.

A visit to the post-office and a stroll up the rocky hill behind it, where we sat for some
time and watched a pair of jackals sneaking about, completed a peaceful afternoon.

May 3.--We were up with the lark, and, having moved along the coast a few miles to the west
of Bandipur, left the ship before six of the clock in pursuit of bear. I had "khubbar" of one
in the Malingam Nullah, and, after a brisk walk over the lower slopes, we entered the nullah
and clambered up about 1500 feet to a quiet and retired spot under a shady thorn-bush, where
we breakfasted.

We thereafter climbed a little higher, and then sat down while the shikaris departed to spy,
their method of spying being, I believe, somewhat after this fashion:--Leaving the sahib with
his belongings--notably the tiffin coolie--in a spot carefully selected for its seclusion,
the miscreants depart hurriedly and rapidly up the nearest inaccessible crag; this is "business,"
and throws dust, so to say, in the eyes of the sahib, by means of an exhibition of activity
and zeal. Passing out of sight over the sky-line, the hunters pause, wink at one another, and,
choosing a shady and convenient corner, proceed to squat, light their pipes, and discuss matters--chiefly
financial--until they deem it time to return, scrambling and breathless with excitement, to
relate all that they have seen and done.

So, while the shikaris unceasingly spied for bear, for nine mortal hours Jane and I camped
out on a remarkably hard and unyielding stone, varied by other seats equally tiresome.

Fortunately we had brought books with us, and we relieved the monotony by observing the habits
of a pair of "kastooras," a hawk, and a brace of chikor at intervals, but it was truly a tedious
chase.

At four o'clock the sons of Nimrod returned, declaring that the bear had been seen, but that
as we had on chaplies and not grass shoes, it would be impossible for us to pursue him. I asked
the shikari why the ---- goose he had let me come out in chaplies instead of grass shoes if
the country was so rough? His reply was to the effect that whatever it pleased me to wear pleased
him!

May 4.--Armed cap-à-pie so to speak, with pith helmets and grass shoes, we again set forth
at dawn of day to hunt the bear. Breakfast under the same tree, sitting on the same patch of
rose-coloured flowers--a sort of fumitory (Corydalus rutaefolia)--followed by another nine-hour
bivouac, brought us to 5 P.M. and the extreme limit of boredom, when lo! the shikaris burst
upon us in a state of frenzied excitement to announce the bear! Off we went up a steep track
for a quarter of an hour, until, at the foot of a rough snow slope, the shikari told the much
disgusted Jane that she must wait there, the rest of the climb being too hard for her, and,
in truth, it was pretty bad. Up a very steep gully filled with loose stones and rotten snow,
scrambling, and often hauling ourselves up with our hands by means of roots and trailing branches,
we slowly worked our way up a place I would never have even attempted in cold blood.

Twenty minutes' severe exertion brought us to a shelf, or rather slope, of rock on the right,
sparsely covered with wiry brown grass from which the snow had but very recently gone, and
crowned by a crest of stunted pines. Up this we wriggled, I being mainly towed up by my shikari's
cummerbund, and, lying under a pine, we peered over the top.

A steep gully divided us from a rough ridge, upon a grassy ledge of which, about 200 yards
off, a big black beast was grubbing and rooting about.

The shikari, shaking with excitement, handed me the rifle, urging me to shoot. I did nothing
of the sort, having no breath, and my hand being unsteady from a fast and stiff climb.

I regret to be obliged to admit that, not realising that it would be little short of miraculous
to kill a bear stone-dead at 200 yards with a Mannlicher, and being also, naturally, somewhat
carried away by the sight of a real bear within possible distance, I waited until I was perfectly
steady, and fired. The brute fell over, but immediately picked himself up again and made off.
I saw I had broken his fore-shoulder and fired again as he disappeared over the far side of
the ledge, but missed, and I saw that bear no more.

We had the utmost difficulty in crossing the precipitous gully to a spot below the ledge upon
which the beast had been feeding--the ledge itself we could not reach at all; and the lateness
of the hour and the difficulty of the country in which we were, prevented us from trying to
enter the next ravine and work up and back by the way the bear had gone. A neck-breaking crawl
down a horrible grass slope brought us to better ground, and I sadly joined Jane to be well
and deservedly scolded for firing a foolish shot. The lady was very much disgusted at having
been defrauded of the sight of a bear "quite wild," as she expressed it--a certain short-tempered
animal which had eaten up her best umbrella in the Zoo at Dusseldorf not having fulfilled the
necessary condition of wildness.

Next day I sent out coolies to search for traces, promising lavish "backshish" in the event
of success, but I got no trustworthy news, "and that was the end of that hunting."

May 6.--Jane took a respite from the chase, and I sallied forth alone at dawn up a nullah from
Alsu to look for a bear which was said to frequent those parts. A brisk walk of some four miles
over the flat, followed by a climb up a track--steep as usual--to the left of the main track
to the Lolab, brought us to a grassy ridge, where I sat down patiently to await the bear's
pleasure. I took my note-book with me, and whiled away some time in writing the following:--

Let me jot down a sketch of my present position and surroundings; it will serve to bring the
scene back to me, perhaps, when I am again sitting in my own particular armchair watching the
fat thrushes hopping about the lawn.

Well, I am perched in a little hollow under a big grey boulder, which serves to shelter me
to a certain, but limited, extent from the brisk showers that come sweeping over from the Lolab
Valley. The hollow is so small that it barely contains my tiffin basket, rifle, gun, and self--in
fact, my grass-shod and puttied extremities dangle over the rim, whence a steep slope shelves
down some 200 feet to a brawling burn, the hum of which, mingling with the fitful sighing of
the pines as the breeze sweeps through their sounding boughs, is perpetually in my ears. Across
the little torrent, and not more than a hundred yards away, rises a slope, covered with rough
grass and scrub, similar to that in the face of which I am ensconced.

Here the bear was seen at 7 A.M. by a Gujar, who gave the fullest particulars to Ahmed Bot
(my shikari) in a series of yells from a hill-top as we came up the valley. We arrived on the
scene about seven, just in time to be too late, apparently. It is now 3 P.M., and the bear
is supposed to be asleep, and I am possessing my soul in patience until it shall be Bruin's
pleasure to awake and sally forth for his afternoon tea.

There is certainly no bear now, so I pass the time in sleeping, eating, smoking, writing, and
observing the manners and customs of a family of monkeys who are disporting themselves in a
deep glen to the left. Beyond this ravine rises a high spur, beautifully wooded, the principal
trees being deodar, blue pine (Excelsa) and yew. This is sloped at the invariable and disgusting
angle of 45 degrees. Beyond it rise further wooded slopes, with snow gleaming through the deep
green, and above all is the changing sky, where the clear blue gives way to a billowy expanse
of white rolling clouds or dark rain-laden masses, which pour into the upper clefts of the
ravine, and blot out the serried ranks of the pines, until a thorough drenching seems inevitable--when
lo! a glint of blue through the gloomy background, and soon again,

  "With never a stain, the pavilion of Heaven is bare."

The immediate foreground, as I said before, slopes sharply from my very feet, where a clump
of wild sage and jasmin (the leaves just breaking) grows over a charming little bunch of sweet
violets. Lower down I can see the lilac flowers of a self-heal, and the bottom of the little
gorge is clothed with a bush like a hazel, only with large, soft whitish flowers.

My solitude has just been enlivened by the appearance of a cheerful party of lovely birds.
They are very busy among the "hazels," flying from bush to bush with restless activity, and
wasting no time in idleness. They are about the size of large finches--slender in shape, with
longish tails. They are divided into two perfectly distinct kinds, probably male and female.
The former have the back, head, and wings black; the latter barred with scarlet, the breast
and underparts also scarlet. The others--which I assume to be the females--replace the black
with ashy olive, the wings being barred with yellow, the underparts yellowish. The very familiar
note of the cuckoo, somewhere up in the jungle, reminds me of an English spring.

4 P.M.--I knew it! I knew that if the wind held down the nullah I should be dragged up that
horrible ridge opposite. Hardly had I written the above when I was hunted from my lair, and
rushed down 200 steep feet, and then up some 500 or 600 on the other side of the stream, through
an abattis of clinging undergrowth that made a severe toil of what could never have been a
pleasure. There can be no doubt but that a pith helmet--a really shady, broad one--is a most
infernal machine under which to force one's way through brushwood.

Well, all things come to an end--wind first, temper next, and finally the journey.

My shikari is a fiend in human shape. He slinks along on the flat at what looks like a mild
three-miles-an-hour constitutional, but unless you are a real four-mile man you will be left
hopelessly astern; but when he gets upon his favourite "one in one" slope, then does he simply
sail away, with the tiffin coolie carrying a fat basket and all your spare lumber in his wake,
while you toil upward and ever upwards--gasping--until with your last available breath you
murmur "Asti," and sink upon the nearest stone a limp, perspiring worm!

5.30 P.M.--That bear has taken a sleeping draught!

I am now perched on a lonely rock, my hard taskmaster having routed me out of a very comfortable
place under a blue pine, whose discarded needles afforded me a really agreeable resting-place,
and dragged me away down again through the pine forest and jungle; hurried me across a roaring
torrent on a fallen tree trunk; personally conducted me hastily up a place like the roof of
a house; and finally, explaining that the bear, when disturbed, must inevitably come close
past me, has departed with his staff (the chota shikari, the tiffin coolie, and a baboon-faced
native) to wake up the bear and send him along.

After the first flurry of feeling all alone in the world, with only a probable bear for society,
and having loaded all my guns, clasped my visor on my head and my Bessemer hug-proof strait-waistcoat
round my "tummy," I felt calm enough to await events with equanimity.

6.15 P.M.--A large and solemn monkey is sitting on the top of a thick and squat yew tree regarding
me with unfeigned interest. The torrent is roaring away in the cleft below. Nothing else seems
alive, and I am becoming bored----What? A bear? No! The shikari, thank goodness!

"Well, shikari--Baloo dekho hai?" No, it is passing strange, but he has not seen a bear. "All
right! Pick up the blunderbuss, and let us make tracks for the ship."

Wednesday, May 10.--Beguiled by legends of many bears, detailed to me with apparently heartfelt
sincerity by Ahmed Bot, I have been pursuing these phantoms industriously.

On Monday we quitted our boat, and started upon a trip into the Lolab Valley. The views, as
the path wound up the green and flower-spangled slope, were very beautiful, and, when we had
ascended about 1500 feet and were about opposite to the supposed haunt of Saturday's bear,
we determined to camp and enjoy the scenery, not omitting an evening expedition in search of
our shy friend.

Jane joining me, we had a most charming ramble down a narrow track to the bed of the stream
which rushes down from the snow-covered ridge guarding the Lolab. Here we crossed into a splendid
belt of gaunt silver firs, the first I have seen here; whitish yellow marsh-marigolds and a
most vivid "smalt" blue forget-me-not with large flowers were abundant, also an oxalis very
like our own wood-sorrel.

Emerging from the pines, we crossed a grassy slope covered with tall primulas (P. denticulata)
of varying shades of mauve and lilac, and sat down for a bit among the flowers while the shikaris
looked for game. (I need hardly remark that the noble but elusive beast had appeared on the
scene shortly after I left on Saturday; a Gujar told the shikari, and the shikari told me,
so it must be true.) When we had gathered as many flowers as we could carry, we strolled back
to the camp to watch the sunset transmute the snowy crest of Haramok to a golden rose.

Yesterday, Tuesday, I left the camp at dawn, and went all over the same ground, but with no
better success, only seeing a couple of bara singh, hornless now, and therefore comparatively
uninteresting from a "shikar" point of view. After a delightful but bearless ramble I returned
to breakfast, and then we struck camp, and completed the ascent of the pass over into the Lolab.
Arrived at the top, we turned off the path to the right, and, climbing a short way, came out
upon the lower part of the Nagmarg, a pretty, open clearing among the pines where the grass,
dotted thickly with yellow colchicum, was only showing here and there through the melting snow.
Choosing a snug and dry place on some sun-warmed rocks at the foot of a tree, we prepared to
lunch and laze, and soon spread abroad the contents of the tiffin basket.

There is something, nay much, of charm in the utter freedom and solitude of Kashmir camp life.
There is no beaten track to be followed diligently by the tourist, German, American, or British,
guide-book in hand and guide at elbow. No empty sardine-tins, nor untidy scraps of paper, mar
the clean and lonely margs or village camping-grounds.

The happy wanderer, selecting a grassy dell or convenient shady tree with a clear spring or
dancing rivulet near by, invokes the tiffin coolie, and if a duly watchful eye has been kept
upon that incorrigible sluggard, in short space the contents of the basket deck the sward.
What have we here? Yes, of course, cold chicken--

  "For beef is rare within these oxless isles."

Bread! (how lucky we sent that coolie into Srinagar the other day). Butter, nicely stowed in
its little white jar, cheese-cakes (one of the Sabz Ali's masterpieces), and a few unconsidered
trifles in the form of "jam pups" and a stick of chocolate.

Whisky is there, if required, but really the cold spring water is "delicate to drink" without
spirituous accompaniment.

Hunger appeased, the beauty of the surrounding scenery becomes intensified when seen through
the balmy veil of smoke caused by the consumption of a mild cheroot, and peace and contentment
reign while we feed the sprightly crows with chicken bones and bits of cheese rind.

Shall we ever forget--Jane and I--that simple feast on the Nagmarg?

The sloping snow melting into little rills which trickled through the fresh-springing flower-strewn
grass; the extraordinary blue of the hillsides overlooking the Lolab Valley seen through the
sloping boughs of the pines; the crows hopping audaciously around or croaking on a dried branch
just above our heads; and above all, the glorious sense of freedom, of aloofness from all disturbing
elements, of utter and irresponsible independence in a lovely land unspoiled by hand of man?

The afternoon sun smote us full in the face as we descended the bare and not too smooth path
that led into the valley, and we were right glad to reach the shade of a grove of deodars that
covered the lower slopes of the hill. The Lolab Valley, into which we had now penetrated, is
a rich and picturesque expanse of level plain, some fifteen miles long by three or four broad,
apparently completely surrounded by a densely-wooded curtain of mountains, rising to an elevation
of some 3000 feet above the valley on the south and west, but ranging on the other sides up
into the lofty summits which bar the route into Gurais and the Tilail. The mountain chain is
not really continuous, the river Pohru, which drains the valley, finding outlet to the west
e'er it bends sharply to the south and enters the Wular near Sopor.

Perhaps the most noticeable objects in the Lolab are the walnut trees; they are now just coming
into full leaf, and their great trunks, hoary with age and softly velveted with dark green
moss, form the noble columns of many a lovely camping-ground. We pitched our tents at Lalpura
in a grove of giants, the majesty of which formed an exquisite contrast to the white foam of
a cluster of apple trees in bloom.

It has been so hot to-day that we have stayed quietly in camp, reading, sketching, and enjoying
the dolce far niente of an idle life.

Sunday, May 14.--On Thursday we left Lalpura and marched to Kulgam, a short distance of some
eight or ten miles. Mr. Blunt, the forest officer,[1] had most kindly placed the forest bungalows
of the Lolab at our disposal; but, as they all lie on the other side of the valley, we are
obliged to camp every night. We have been working along the north side of the Lolab, as the
shikari is full of bear "khubbar," and as long as the weather remains fair we really do not
much care where we go! Skirting the foot of the wooded ridge on our right, and with the flat
and populous levels of the valley on our left, we marched along a good path shaded in many
places by the magnificent walnuts and snowy fruit-trees for which the Lolab is justly famed,
until, crossing the Pohru by a rickety bridge, and toiling up a hot, bare slope, we reached
Kulgam, nestling at the foot of the hills.

After tiffin and a short rest we set forth up the nullah behind the village to look for (need
I say?) a bear. The gradient was stiff, as usual, and the path none too good. Feeling that
our laborious climb deserved to be rewarded by, at any rate, the sight of game, and Ahmed Bot
having sent a special message to the Lumbadhar at Kulgam directing him to keep the nullah quiet,
we were justly incensed when, having toiled up some couple of thousand weary feet, we met a
gay party of the élite of Kulgam prancing down the hill with blankets stuffed with wild leeks,
or some such delicacy.

Ahmed Bot showed reckless courage. Having overwhelmed the enemy with a vituperative broadside,
he fell upon them single-handed, tore from them their cherished blankets, and spilt the leeks
to the four winds.

I expected nothing less than to be promptly hurled down the khud, with Jill after me, by the
six enraged burghers of Kulgam. But no. They simply sat down together on a rock, and blubbered
loud and long; we sat down opposite them on another rock and laughed, and laughed--tableau!

On Friday I went for a delightful walk through the pine and deodar forests, the ostensible
objective being, of course, a bear. Putting aside all ideas of sport, I gave myself up to the
simple joy of mere existence in such a land; noting a handsome iris with broad red lilac blooms,
which I had not seen before; listening to the intermittent voice of the cuckoo, and pausing
every here and there to gaze over the fair valley, backed by its encircling ranges of sunlit
mountains.

The chota shikari is a youth of great activity, both mental and physical. He almost wept with
excitement on observing the mark of a bear's paw on a dusty bit of path. He said it was a bear
which had left that paw-mark, so I believed him. Late in the dusk of the afternoon he saw a
bear sitting looking out of a cave. I could only make out a black hole, but he saw its ears
move. I regarded the spot with a powerful telescope, but only saw more hole; still, I cannot
doubt the chota shikari. The burra shikari saw it too, but was of opinion that it was too late
to go and bag it. I think he was right, so we went back to camp without further adventure.

Yesterday we left Kulgam, and followed up a track to a small village which lies at the foot
of the track leading over to Gurais and the Tilail country. Here we camped in a grove of walnuts,
which stood by an icy spring. Jane and I went for a stroll, watched a couple of small woodpeckers
hunting the trunk of a young fir within a few feet of us, but retreated hurriedly to camp on
the approach of a heavy thunderstorm. This was but the prelude to a bad break in the weather;
all to-day it has rained in torrents, and everything is sopping and soaked. The little stream
which yesterday trickled by the camp is become a young river, and it is a perfect mystery how
Sabz Ali manages to cook our food over a fire guarded from the full force of the rain by blankets
propped up with sticks, and how, having cooked it, he can bring it, still hot, across the twenty
yards of rain-swept space which intervenes between the cook-house and our tent.

Monday, May 15.--The deluge continued all night, and only at about ten o'clock this forenoon
did the heavy curtain of rain break up into ragged swirls of cloud, which, torn by the serrated
ridges of the gloomy pines, rolled dense and dark up the gorges, resonant now with the roar
of full-fed torrents.

The men are all beginning to complain of fever, and have eaten up a great quantity of quinine.
Considering the dismal conditions under which they have been living for the last couple of
days, this is not surprising; so, with the first promise of an improvement in the weather,
we struck camp, determined to make for the forest bungalow at Doras and obtain the shelter
of a solid roof. Many showers, but no serious downpour, enlivened our march, and we arrived
at the snug little wooden house just in time to escape a particularly fine specimen of a thunderstorm.
The Doras bungalow seemed a very palace of luxury, with its dry, airy rooms and wide verandah,
all of sweet-smelling deodar wood. The men, too, were thankful to have a good roof over their
heads, and we heard no more of fever.

Wednesday, May 17.--Yesterday it rained without ceasing, until the valley in front of us took
the appearance of a lake--A party of terns, white above and with black breasts, skirled and
wrangled over the "casual" water. It was still very wet this morning, but as it cleared somewhat
after breakfast, we made up our minds to quit the Lolab and get back to our boat.

Doras has sad memories for Jane, for here died the "chota murghi," a black chicken endowed
with the most affectionate disposition. It was permitted to sit on the lady's knee, and scratch
its yellow beak with its little yellow claw; but I never cared to let it remain long upon my
shoulder--a perch it ardently affected. Well! it is dead, poor dear, and whether from shock
(the pony which carried its basket having fallen down with it en route from "Walnut Camp"),
or from a surfeit of caterpillars which were washed in myriads off the trees there, we cannot
tell. Sabz Ali brought the little corpse along, holding it by one pathetic leg to show the
horrified Jane, before giving it to the kites and crows. He has many "murghis" left; baskets
full, as he says, for they are cheap in the Lolab, but we shall never love another so dearly.

We had a shocking time while climbing to the pass which leads over to Rampur, the road being
deep in slimy mud, and so slippery that the unfortunate baggage ponies could hardly get along.
Jane, who is in splendid condition now, toiled nobly up a track which would have been delightful
had the weather been a little less hideous.

Reaching the ridge which divides the Lolab from the Pohru Valley, we turned to the left, along
the edge, instead of descending forthwith, as we had hoped and expected to do. It was raw and
cold, with flying wreaths of damp mist shutting out the view, and we were glad of a comforting
tiffin, swallowed somewhat hurriedly, under a forlorn and stunted specimen of a blue pine.
Then on along a rough and slippery catwalk that made us wonder if the baggage ponies would
achieve a safe arrival at Rampur.

Crossing a steep, rock-strewn ridge, covered with crown imperial in full flower, we began a
sharp descent through a wood of deodars; and now the thunder, which had been grumbling and
rumbling in the distance, came upon us, and a deafening peal sent us scurrying down the hill
at our best pace; the lightning-blasted trunks stretching skywards their blackened and tempest-torn
limbs in ghastly witness of what had been and what might be again.

At last we cleared the wood, and, plunging across a perfect slough of deep mud, crawled on
to the verandah of the Rampur forest-house, where we sat anxiously watching the hillside until
we saw our faithful ponies safely sliding down the hill.

Thursday, May 18.--The changes of weather in this country are sudden and surprising. This morning
we woke to a perfect day--the sun bathing the warm hillsides, the picturesque brown village,
and the brilliant masses of snowy blossoming fruit-trees with a radiant smile. And, but for
the tell-tale riot of the streams and the sponginess of the compound, there was nothing to
betray the past misdeeds of the clerk of the weather.

At noon we set out to cover the short distance that lay between us and Kunis, where we had
made tryst with Satarah. The country was like a series of English woodland glades--watered
by many purling streams, and bright with masses of apple blossom; the turf around the trees
all white and pink with petals torn from the branches by the recent storms. Clumps of fir clothed
the hills with sombre green--a perfect background to a perfect picture.

The flowers all along our path to-day were much in evidence after the rain. Little prickly
rose-bushes (R. Webbiana) were covered with pink blossoms just bursting into full glory; bushes
of white may, yellow berberis, Daphne (Oleoides?), and many another flowering shrub grew in
tangled profusion, while pimpernel (red and blue), a small androsace (rotundifolia), hawks-bit,
stork's bill, wild geranium, a tiny mallow, eye-bright, forget-me-not, a little yellow oxalis,
a speedwell, and many another, to me unknown, blossom starred the roadside. In the fields round
Kunis the poppies flared, and the iris bordered the fields with a ribbon of royal purple.

We reached Kunis at two o'clock, and found the village half submerged, the water being up and
over the low shores from the recent rain. Our boats were moored in a clump of willows, whose
feet stood so deeply in the water that we had to embark on pony-back! After lunch came the
usual difference of opinion with the Admiral, who seems to have great difficulty in grasping
the fact that our will is law as to times and seasons for sailing. He always assumes the rôle
of passive resister, and is always defeated with ignominy. He insisted that it was too late
to think of reaching Bandipur, but we maintained that we could get at any rate part of the
way; so he cast off from his willow-tree, and sulkily poked and poled out into the Wular, taking
uncommon good care to hug the shore with fervour.

Here and there a group of willows standing far out into the lake, or a half-drowned village,
drove us out into the open water, and once when, like a latter-day Vasco de Gama, the Admiral
was striving to double the dreadful promontory of a water-logged fence, a puff of wind fell
upon us, lashing the smooth water into ripples, whereupon the crew lost their wits with fright,
and the lady mariners in the cook-boat set up a dismal howling; the ark, taking charge, crashed
through the fence, her way carrying us to the very door of a frontier villa of an amphibious
village. With amazing alacrity the crew tied us up to the door-post, and prepared to go into
winter quarters.

This did not suit us at all, and

  "The harmless storm being ended,"

we ruthlessly broke away from our haven of refuge, and safely arrived at Alsu.

Friday, May 19.--An ominous stillness and repose at 3 o'clock this morning sent me forth to
see why the windlass was not being manned. A thing like a big grey bat flapping about, proved,
on inspection, to be that rascal the Lord High Admiral Satarah. He said he could not start,
as the hired coolies from Kunis had been so terrified by the horrors of yesterday that they
had departed in the night, sacrificing their pay rather than run any more risks with such daredevils
as the mem-sahib and me. This was vexatious and entirely unexpected, as I had never before
known a coolie to bolt before pay-day. Sabz Ali and Satarah were promptly despatched on a pressgang
foray, while I put to sea with the first-lieutenant to show that I meant business. A crew was
found in a surprisingly short time, and a frenzied dart was made for the mouth of the Jhelum.

All day we poled round the shore of the lake, over flooded fields where the mustard had spread
its cloth of gold a short week ago, over the very hedges we had scrambled through when duck-shooting
in April, until in the evening we entered the river just below Sumbal.

The towing-path was almost, in many places quite, under water, and the whole country looked
most forlorn and melancholy as the sun went down--a pale yellow ball in a pale yellow haze.

Sunday, May 21.--All yesterday we towed up the river against a current which ran swift and strong.

The passage of the bridge at Surahal gave us some trouble, as the flooded river brought our
upper works within a narrow distance of the highest point of the span, but we finally scraped
through with the loss of a portion of the railing which decorated our upper deck.

The strain of towing was severe, so, when a brisk squall and threatening thunder-shower overtook
us at the mouth of the Sind River, we decided to tie up there for the night.

This morning we started at four o'clock, but only reached our berth at Srinagar at two, having
spent no less than six hours in forcing the boats by pole and rope for the last three miles
through the town! An incredible amount of panting, pushing, yelling, and hauling, with frantic
invocations to "Jampaws" and other saints, was required to enable us to crawl inch by inch
against the racing water which met us in the narrow canal below the Palace.

All's well that ends well, and here we are once more in Srinagar, after a trip which has been
really delightful, albeit the weather latterly has not been by any means all that could have
been desired, and we have slain no bears![2]

[1] Commonly called the "Jungly-sahib."

[2] Can it be that Bernier was right? "Il ne s'y trouve ni serpens, ni
    tigres, ni ours, ni lions, si ce n'est très rarement."--Voyage de
    Kachemire.

CHAPTER IX

SRINAGAR AGAIN

We have spent the last three weeks or so quietly in Srinagar, our boats forming links in the
long chain that, during the "season," extends for miles along both banks of the river. A large
contingent of amphibians dwells in the canal leading to the Dal gates, and the Chenar Bagh,
sacred to the bachelor, shows not a spare inch along its shady length.

Not being either professional globe-trotters or Athenians, we have not felt obliged to be perpetually
in high-strung pursuit of some new thing; and to the seeker after mild and modest enjoyment
there is much to be said in favour of a sojourn at Srinagar.

Polo, gymkhanas, lawn-tennis, picnics, and golf are everyday occurrences, followed by a rendezvous
at the club, where every one congregates for a smoke and chat, until the sun goes down behind
the poplars, and the swift shikaras come darting over the stream like water-beetles to carry
off the sahibs to their boats, to dress, dine, and reassemble for "bridge," or perhaps a dance
at Nedou's Hotel, or at that most hospitable hub of Srinagar, the Residency.

Polo is, naturally, practically restricted to the man who brings up his ponies from the Punjab,
but golf is for all, and the nine-hole course, although flat, is not stale, and need not be
unprofitable, unless you are fallen upon--as I was--by two stalwart Sappers, sons of Canada
and potent wielders of the cleek, who gave me enough to do to keep my rupees in my pocket and
the honour of the mother country upheld!

On May 26th we took shikara and paddled across the Dal Lake to see something of the Mohammedan
festival, consisting in a pilgrimage to the Mosque of Hasrat Bal, where a hair of the prophet's
beard is the special object of adoration.

As we neared the goal the plot thickened. Hundreds of boats--from enormous doungas containing
the noisy inhabitants of, I should suppose, a whole village, down to the tiniest shikara, whose
passenger was perched with careful balance to retain a margin of safety to his two inches of
freeboard--converged upon the crowded bank, above which rose the mosque.

How can I best attempt to describe the din, the crush, the light, the colour? Was it like Henley?
Well, perhaps it might be considered as a mad, fantastic Henley. Replace the fair ladies and
the startling "blazers" with veiled houris and their lords clad in all colours of the rainbow;
for one immortal "Squash" put hundreds of "squashes," all playing upon weird instruments, or
singing in "a singular minor key"; let the smell of outlandish cookery be wafted to you from
the "family" boats and from the bivouacs on the shore; let a constant uproar fall upon your
ears as when the Hall defeats Third Trinity by half a length; and, finally, for the flat banks
of Father Thames and the trim lawns of Phyllis Court, you must substitute the Nasim Bagh crowned
with its huge chenars, and Mahadco looking down upon you from his thirteen thousand feet of
precipice and snow.

Half-an-hour of this kaleidoscopic whirl of gaiety satisfied us. The sun, in spite of an awning,
was a little trying, so we sought the quiet and shade of the Nasim Bagh for lunch and repose.

Returning towards Srinagar about sundown, we stopped to visit the ancient Mosque of Hassanabad,
which stands on a narrow inlet or creek of the Dal Lake, shaded by chenars and willows in all
their fresh spring green. A little lawn of softest turf slopes up gently to the ruined mosque,
of which a portion of an apse and vaulted dome alone stand sentinel over its fallen greatness.
Around lie the tombs of princes, whose bones have mouldered for eight hundred years under the
irises, which wave their green sabres crowned with royal purple in the whispering twilight.

Near by, the mud and timber walls of a ziarat stand, softly brown, supporting a deeply overhanging,
grass-grown roof, blazing with scarlet tulips. Through its very centre, and as though supporting
it, pierces the gnarled trunk of a walnut tree, reminding one of Ygdrasil, the Upholder of
the Universe.

May 27.--What an improvement it would be if a house-dounga could be fitted with torpedo netting!
Jane finds herself in the most embarrassing situations, while dressing in the morning, from
the unwelcome pertinacity of the merchants who swarm up the river in the early hours from their
lairs, and lay themselves alongside the helpless house-boats.

By 10 A.M. we have to repel boarders in all directions. Mr. Sami Joo is endeavouring to sell
boots from the bow, while Guffar Ali is pressing embroidery on our acceptance from the stern.
Ali Jan is in a boat full of carved-wood rubbish on the starboard side, while Samad Shah, Sabhana,
and half-a-dozen other robbers line the river bank opposite our port windows and clamour for
custom. A powerful garden-hose of considerable calibre might be useful, but for the present
I have given Sabz Ali orders to rig out long poles, which will prevent the enemy from so easily
getting to close quarters.

June 17.--It is quite curious that it should be so difficult to find time to keep up this journal.
Mark Twain, in that best of burlesques, The Innocents Abroad affirms, if I remember rightly,
that you could not condemn your worst enemy to greater suffering than to bind him down to keep
an accurate diary for a year.

It is the inexorable necessity for writing day by day one's impressions that becomes so trying;
and yet it must be done daily if it is to be done at all, for the only virtue I can attain
to in writing is truth; and impressions from memory, like sketches from memory, are of no value
from the hand of any but a master.

The time set apart for diary-writing is the hour which properly intervenes between chota hasri
and the announcement of my bath; but, somehow, there never seems to be very much time. Either
the early tea is late or bath is early, or a shikar expedition, with a grass slipper in pursuit
of flies, takes up the precious moments, and so the business of the day gets all behindhand.

The fly question is becoming serious. Personally, I do not consider that fleas, mosquitoes,
or any other recognised insect pests (excepting, perhaps, harvest bugs) are so utterly unendurable
as the "little, busy, thirsty fly." It seems odd, too, as he neither stings nor bites, that
he should be so objectionable; but his tickly method of walking over your nose or down your
neck, and the exasperating pertinacity with which he refuses to take "no" for an answer when
you flick him delicately with a handkerchief, but "cuts" and comes again, maddens you until
you rise, bloody-minded in your wrath, and, seizing the nearest sledgehammer, fall upon the
brute as he sits twiddling his legs in a sunny patch on the table, then lo--

  "Unwounded from the dreadful close "--

he frisks cheerfully away, leaving you to gather up cursefully the fragments of the china bowl
your wife bought yesterday in the bazaar!

How he manages to congregate in his legions in this ship is a mystery. Every window is guarded
by "meat safe" blinds of wire gauze; the doors are, normally, kept shut; and yet, after one
has swept round like an irate whirlwind with a grass slipper, and slain or desperately wounded
every visible fly in the cabin, and at last sat down again to pant and paint, hoping for surcease
from annoyance, not five minutes pass before one, two, nay, a round dozen of the miscreants
are gaily licking the moisture off the cobalt (may they die in agony!), or trying to swim across
the glass of water, or playing hop-scotch on the nape of my neck.

From what mysterious lair or hidden orifice they come I know not, but here they are in profusion
until another massacre of the innocents is decreed.

It is a sound thing to go round one's sleeping-cabin at night before "turning in," and make
a bag of all that can be found "dreaming the happy hours away" on the bulkheads and ceiling.
It sends us to bed in the virtuous frame of mind of the Village Blacksmith--

  "Something attempted, something done,
  Has earned a night's repose"

There are other microbes besides flies in Kashmir which are exasperating--coolies, for instance.

I had engaged men through Chattar Singh (the State Transport factotum at Srinagar) to take
us up the river, and decreed that we should start at 4 A.M. yesterday.

We had been to an al fresco gathering at the Residency the night before, and so were rather
sleepy in the early morning, and I did not wake at four o'clock. At six we had not got far
on our way, and at ten we were but level with Pandrettan, barely three miles from Srinagar
as the crow (that model of rectilinear volition) flies.

I was busy painting all the forenoon, and failed to note the sluggish steps of our coolies,
but in the afternoon it was borne in upon us that if we wanted to reach Avantipura that night,
as we had arranged, a little acceleration was necessary.

Then the trouble began. The coolies were bone-lazy, the admiral and first-lieutenant were sulky,
and the weather was stuffy and threatened thunder--the conditions were altogether detrimental
to placidity of temper.

By sunset we had the shikari, the kitchen-maid, and the sweeper on the tow-rope, and even the
great and good Sabz Ali was seen to bear a hand in poling. Much recrimination now ensued between
Sabz Ali and the Admiral, and the whole crowd made the air resound with Kashmiri "language,"
every one, apparently, abusing everybody else, and making very nasty remarks about their lady
ancestors.

At 10 P.M. I got four more coolies from a village, apparently chiefly inhabited by dogs, who
deeply resented our proximity, and at 2 o'clock this morning we reached the haven where we
would be--Avantipura.

This morning I discharged the Srinagar coolies and took a fresh lot, who pull better and talk less.

How differently things may be put and yet the truth retained. Yesterday we reclined at our
ease in our cosy floating cottage, towed up the lovely river by a picturesque crew of bronze
Kashmiris, the swish of the passing water only broken by their melodious voices. The brilliancy
of the morning gave way in the afternoon to a soft haze which fell over the snowy ranges, mellowing
their clear tones to a soft and pearly grey, while the reflections of the big chenars which
graced the river bank deepened us the afternoon shadows lengthened and spread over the wide
landscape. Towards evening we strolled along the river bank plucking the ripe mulberries, and
idly watching the terns and kingfishers busily seeking their suppers over the glassy water;
and at night we sat on deck while the moon rose higher in the quiet sky, and the dark river
banks assumed a clearer ebony as she rose above the lofty fringe of trees, until the towing-path
lay a track of pure silver reaching away to the dim belt of woodland which shrouded Avantipura.

That is a perfectly accurate description of the day, and so is this:--

It was very hot--and there is nothing hid from the heat of the sun on board a wooden house-dounga.
The flies, too, were unusually malevolent, and I could scarcely paint, and my wife could hardly
read by reason of their unwelcome attentions.

The coolies were a poor lot and a slack, and as the day grew stuffier and sultrier so did their
efforts on the tow-path become "small by degrees and beautifully less."

That irrepressible bird--the old cock--refused to consider himself as under arrest in his hen-coop,
and insisted upon crowing about fifteen times a minute with that fidgeting irregularity which
seems peculiar to certain unpleasant sounds, and which retains the ear fixed in nervous tension
for the next explosion of defiance or pride, or whatever evil impulse it is which causes a
cock to crow.

Driven overboard by the cock, and a feeling that exercise would be beneficial, we landed in
the afternoon, and plodded along the bank for some miles. The innumerable mulberry trees are
loaded with ripe fruit, the ground below being literally black with fallen berries. We ate
some, and pronounced them to be but mawkish things.

After dinner we sat on deck, as the lamp smelt too strongly to let us enjoy ourselves in the
cabin, and the coolies on the bank and the people in our boat and those in the cook-boat engaged
in a triangular duel of words, until the last few grains of my patience ran through the glass,
and I spake with my tongue.

There is certainly some curious quality in the air of this country which affects the nerves:
maybe it is the elevation at which one lives--certain it is that many people complain of unwonted
irritability and susceptibility to petty annoyances. And, while travelling in Kashmir is easy
and comfortable enough along beaten tracks, yet the petty worries connected with all matters
of transport and supply are incessant, and become much more serious if one cannot speak or
understand Hindustani.

It takes some little time for the Western mind to grasp the fact that the Kashmiri cannot and
must not be treated on the "man and brothel" principle.

He is by nature a slave, and his brain is in many respects the undeveloped brain of a child;
in certain ways, however, his outward childishness conceals the subtlety of the Heathen Chinee.

He has in no degree come to comprehend the dignity of labour any more than a Poplar pauper
comprehends it, but fortunately his Guardians, while granting certain advantages in his tenure
of land and payment of rent, have bound him, in return, to work for a fair payment, when required
to do so by his Government, as exercised by the local Tehsildhar.

The demand made upon a village for coolies is not, therefore, an arbitrary and high-handed
system of bullying, but simply a call upon the villages to fulfil their obligation towards
the State by doing a fair day's work for a fair day's pay of from four to six annas.

I do not, of course, propose to entangle myself in the working of the Land Settlement, which
is most fully and admirably explained in Lawrence's Valley of Kashmir.

The coolie, drawn from his native village reluctant, like a periwinkle from its shell, is never
a good starter, and when he finds himself at the end of a tow-rope or bowed beneath half a
hundredweight of the sahib's trinkets, with a three-thousand-feet pass to attain in front of
him, he is extremely apt to burst into tears--idle tears--or be overcome by a fit of that fell
disease--"the lurgies." Lest my reader should not be acquainted with this illness, at least
under that name, here is the diagnosis of the lurgies as given by a very ordinary seaman to
the ship's doctor.

"Well, sir, I eats well, and I sleeps well; but when I've got a job of work to do--Lor' bless
you, sir! I breaks out all over of a tremble!"

CHAPTER X

THE LIDAR VALLEY

We were glad enough to leave Srinagar, as that place has been undoubtedly trying lately, being
extremely hot and relaxing. The river, which had been up to the fourteen-foot level, as shown
on the gate ports at the entrance to the Sunt-i-kul Canal, had fallen to 9-1/2 feet, and the
mud, exposed both on its banks and in the fields and flats which had been flooded, must have
given out unwholesome exhalations, of which the riverine population, the dwellers in house-boats
and doungas, got the full benefit.

Jane has certainly been anything but well lately, and I confess to a certain feeling best described
as "slack and livery."

We had not intended to remain nearly so long in Srinagar, but the continuity of the chain of
entertainments proved too firm to break, and dances and dinners, bridge and golf, kept us bound
from day to day, until the fête at the Residency on the 15th practically brought the Srinagar
season to a close, and broke up the line of house-boats that had been moored along both banks
of the river.

We had arranged to start with a party of three other boats up the river, visiting Atchibal
with our friends, and then going up the Lidar Valley, while they retraced their way to Srinagar.

The most popular bachelor in Kashmir was appointed commodore, and deputed to set the pace and
arrange rendezvous. He began by sending on his big house-boat, dragged by many coolies, to
Pampur, a distance of some ten miles by water, and, following himself on horseback by road,
instituted a sort of "Devil take the hindmost" race, for which we were not prepared.

On reaching Pampur we heard that the "Baltic Fleet" had sailed for Avantipura, so we followed
on; but, alas! having made a forced march to this latter place, we found that Rodjestvenski
Phelps had again escaped us and "gone before."

We consigned him and the elusive "chota resident," who was in command of the rest of the party,
to perdition, and decided to pursue the even tenor of our way to the Lidar Valley.

The upper reaches of the Jhelum tire not wildly or excitingly lovely. The narrowed waters,
like sweet Thames, run softly between quiet British banks, willow veiled. The wide level flats
of the lower river give place to low sloping hills or "karewas," which fall in terraced undulations
from the foothills of the higher ranges which close in the eastern extremity of the Kashmir Valley.

It was well into the evening, and the sun had just set, throwing a glorious rosy flush over
the snows which surround the Lidar Valley, when we came to the picturesque bridge which crosses
the stream at Bejbehara.

The scene here was charming--a grand festa or religious tamasha being toward; the whole river
was swarming with boats--great doungas, with their festive crews yelling a monotonous chant,
paddled uproariously by. Light shikaras darted in and out, making up for want of volume in
their song by the piercing shrillness of their utterances. The banks and bridge teemed with
swarming life, and all Kashmir seemed to have contributed its noisiest members to the revel.

Beyond the bridge we could see through the gathering dusk many house-boats of the sahibs clustering
under a group of magnificent chenars, over whose dark masses the moon was just rising, full
orbed. The piers of the bridge seemed to be set in foliage, large willows having grown up from
their bases, giving a most curious effect. We marked with some apprehension the swiftness of
the oily current which came swirling round the piers, and soon we found ourselves stuck fast
about half-way under the bridge, apparently unable to force our boat another inch against the
stream which boiled past. An appalling uproar was caused by the coolies and the unemployed
upon the bridge, who all, as usual, gave unlimited advice to every one else as to the proper
management of affairs under the existing circumstances, but did nothing whatever in support
of their theories. The situation was becoming quite interesting, and the "mem-sahib" and I,
sitting on the roof of our boat, were speculating as to what would happen next when the Gordian
knot was cut by the unexpected energy and courage of the first-lieutenant, who boldly slapped
an argumentative coolie in the face, while the admiral dashed promiscuously into the shikara,
and--yelling "Hard-a-starboard!--Full speed ahead!--Sit on the safety--valve!"--boldly shot
into an overhanging mulberry tree, wherein our tow-rope was much entangled. The rope was cleared,
the crew poled like fury, the coolies hauled for all they were worth, every one yelled himself
hoarse, and we forged ahead. We crashed under the mulberry tree, which swept us from stem to
stern, nearly carrying the hen-coop overboard; while Jane and I lay flat under a perfect hail
of squashy black fruit which covered the upper deck.

We went on shore for a moonlight stroll after dinner. The place was like a glorified English
park; chenars of the first magnitude, taking the place of oaks, rose from the short crisp turf,
while a band of stately poplars stood sentry on the river bank. Through blackest shadow and
over patches of moonlit sward we rambled till we came upon the ruins of a temple, of which
little was left but a crumbled heap of masonry in the middle of a rectangular grassy hollow
which had evidently been a tank, small detached mounds, showing where the piers of a little
bridge had stood, giving access to the building from the bank. An avenue of chenars led straight
to the bridge, showing either the antiquity of the trees or the comparatively modern date of
the temple.

June 19.--Yesterday afternoon we left Bejbehara, and went on to Kanbal, the port of Islamabad.
A hot and sultry day, oppressive and enervating to all but the flies, which were remarkably
energetic and lively. The river below Islamabad is quite narrow, and hemmed in between high
mudbanks.

Here we found the "Baltic Fleet," but, knowing that our fugitive friends must have already
reached Atchibal, we held to our intention of going up the Lidar.

Having tied up to a remarkably smelly bank, which was just lofty enough to screen our heated
brows from any wandering breeze, we landed to explore. A hot walk of a mile or so along a dusty,
poplar-lined road brought us to the town of Islamabad, which, however, concealed its beauties
most effectually in a mass of foliage. Although it ranks as the second town in Kashmir, it
can hardly be said to be more than a big village, even allowing for its 9000 inhabitants, its
picturesque springs, and its boast of having been once upon a time the capital of the valley.
The first hundred yards of "city," consisting of a highly-seasoned bazaar paved with the accumulated
filth of ages, was enough to satisfy our thirst for sight-seeing, and after a visit to the
post-office we trudged back through a most oppressive grey haze to the boat. Crowds of the
élite of the neighbourhood were hastening into Islamabad, where the "tamasha," which we came
upon at Bejbehara, is to be continued to-morrow.

We had a good deal of difficulty in getting transport for our expedition, as the Assistant
Resident and his party had, apparently, cleared the place of available ponies and coolies.
An appeal to the Tehsildhar was no use, as that dignitary had gone to Atchibal in the Court
train. However, a little pressure applied to Lassoo, the local livery stablekeeper, produced
eight baggage ponies and a good-looking cream-coloured steed, with man's saddle, for my wife.

The syce, a jovial-looking little flat-faced fellow, was a native of Ladakh.

We made a fairly early start, getting off about six, and, having skirted the town and passed
the neat little Zenana Mission Hospital, we had a pretty but uneventful march of some six miles
to Bawan, where, under a big chenar, we halted for the greater part of the day.

Here let me point out that life is but a series of neglected opportunities. We were within
a couple of miles of Martand, the principal temple in Kashmir, and we did not go to see it!
I blush as I write this, knowing that hereafter no well-conducted globe-trotter will own to
my acquaintance, and, indeed, the case requires explanation. Well, then, it was excessively
hot; we were both in bad condition, and I had ten miles more to march, so we decided to visit
Martand on our way down the valley. Alas! we came this way no more.

Little knowing how much we were missing, we sat contented in the shade while the hot hours
went by, merely strolling down to visit a sacred tank full of cool green water and swarming
with holy carp, which scrambled in a solid mass for bits of the chupatty which Jane threw to them.

A clear stream gushed out of a bank overhung by a tangle of wild plants. To the left was a
weird figure of the presiding deity, painted red, and frankly hideous.

We were truly sorry to feel obliged, at four o'clock, to leave Bawan with its massy trees and
abundance of clear running water, and step out into the heat and glare of the afternoon.

I found it a trying march. The road led along a fairly good track among rice-fields, whence
the sloping sun glinted its maddening reflection, but here and there clumps of walnuts--the
fruit just at the pickling stage--cast a broad cool shadow, in which one lingered to pant and
mop a heated brow e'er plunging out again into the grievous white sunlight.

The cavalcade was increased during the afternoon by the addition to our numbers of a dog--a
distinctly ugly, red-haired native sort of dog, commonly called a pi-dog. He appeared, full
of business--from nowhere in particular--and his business appeared to be to go to Eshmakam with us.

As we neared that place the road began to rise through the loveliest woodland scenery--white
roses everywhere in great bushes of foamy white, and in climbing wreaths that drooped from
the higher trees, wild indigo in purple patches reminding one not a little of heather. Above
the still unseen village a big ziarat or monastery shone yellow in the sinking sunlight, and
overhead rose a rugged grey wall of strangely pinnacled crags, outliers of the Wardwan, showing
dusky blue in the clear-cut shadows, and rose grey where the low sun caught with dying glory
the projecting peaks and bastions.

In a sort of orchard of walnut trees, on short, clean, green grass, we pitched our tents, and
right glad was I to sit in a comfortable Roorkhee chair and admire the preparations for dinner
after a stiff day, albeit we only "made good" some sixteen miles at most.

June 20.--A brilliant morning saw us off for Pahlgam, along a road which was simply a glorified
garden. Roses white and roses pink in wild profusion, jasmin both white and yellow, wild indigo,
a tall and very handsome spiraea, forget-me-not, a tiny sort of Michaelmas daisy, wild strawberry,
and honeysuckle, among many a (to me unknown) blossom, clothed the hillside or drooped over
the bank of the clear stream, by whose flower-spangled margin lay our path, where, as in Milton's
description of Eden,

  "Each beauteous flower,
  Iris all hues, roses, and jessamine
  Reared high their flourished heads."

Soon the valley narrowed, and closer on our left roared the Lidar, foaming over its boulders
in wild haste to find peace and tranquil flow in the broad bosom of Jhelum.

The road became somewhat hilly, and at one steep zigzag the nerves of Jane failed her slightly
and she dismounted, rightly judging that a false step on the part of the cream-coloured courser
would be followed by a hurried descent into the Lidar. I explained to her that I would certainly
do what I could for her with a dredge in the Wular when I came down, but she preferred, she
said, not to put me to any inconvenience in the matter. We were asked to subscribe, a few days
later, at Pahlgam to provide the postman with a new pony, his late lamented "Tattoo" having
been startled by a flash of lightning at that very spot, and having paid for the error with
his life.

A halt was called for lunch under a blue pine, where we quickly discovered how paltry its shade
is in comparison with the generous screen cast by a chenar; scarcely has the heated traveller
picked out a seemingly umbrageous spot to recline upon when, lo! a flickering shaft of sunlight,
broken into an irritating dazzle by a quivering bunch of pine needles, strikes him in the eye,
and he sets to work to crawl vainly around in search of a better screen.

Nothing approaches the great circle of solid coolness thrown by a big chenar. The walnut does
its best, and comes in a good second. Pines (especially blue ones) are, as I remarked before,
unsatisfactory.

But if the pine is not all that can be wished as a shade-producer, he is in all his varieties
a beautiful object to look upon. First, I think, in point of magnificence towers the Himalayan
spruce, rearing his gaunt shaft,

  "Like the mast of some tall ammiral,"

from the shelving steeps that overhang the torrents, and piercing high into the blue. In living
majesty he shares the honours with the deodar, but he is merely good to look upon; his timber
is useless and in his decay his fallen and lightning-blasted remains lie rotting on these wild
hills, while the precious trunks of the deodar and the excelsa are laboriously collected, and
floated and dragged to the lower valleys, producing much good money to Sir Amar Singh and the
best of building timber to the purchaser.

The road towards Pahlgam is a charming woodland walk, where the wild strawberries, still hardly
out of flower, grow thick amidst a tangle of chestnut, yew, wild cherry, and flowering shrubs.
Overhead and to the right the rocky steeps rise abruptly until they culminate in the crags
of Kohinar, and on the left the snow-fed Lidar roars "through the cloven ravine in cataract
after cataract."

About four miles from Pahlgam, on turning a corner of the gorge, a splendid view bursts upon
the wayfarer. The great twin brethren of Kolahoi come suddenly into sight, where they stand
blocking the head of the valley, their double peaks shining with everlasting snow.

It needed all the beauty of the scene to make me forget that the thirteen miles from Eshmakam
were long and hot, and that I was woefully out of condition, and we rejoiced to see the gleam
of tents amid the pine-wood which constitutes the camping-ground of Pahlgam.

We sat peacefully on the thyme and clover-covered maiden, amongst a herd of happily browsing
cattle, until our tents were up and the irritating but needful bustle of arrival was over,
and the tea-table spread.

Pahlgam stands some 2000 feet above Srinagar, and although it is not supposed to be bracing,
yet to us, jaded votaries of fashion in stuffy Srinagar, the fresh, clear, pine-scented air
was purely delightful, and a couple of days saw us "like kidlings blythe and merry"--that is
to say, as much so as a couple of sedate middle-aged people could reasonably be expected to
appear. The camping-ground is in a wood of blue pines, which, extending from the steeper uplands,
covers much of the leveller valley, and abuts with woody promontories on the flowery strath
which borders the river. Here some dozen or so of visitors had already selected little clearings,
and the flicker of white tents, the squealing of ponies, and the jabber of native servants
banished all ideas of loneliness.

About half a mile below the camping-ground is the bungalow of Colonel Ward, clear of the wood
and with Kolahoi just showing over the green shoulder which hides him from Pahlgam. I was fortunate
enough to find the Colonel before he left for Datchgam to meet the Residency party, and to
get, through his kindness, certain information which I wanted about the birds of Kashmir.

An enthusiast in natural history, Colonel Ward has given himself with heart-whole devotion
for many years to the study of the beasts and birds of Kashmir, and he is practically the one
and only authority on the subject.

We were very anxious to cross the high pass above Lidarwat over into the Sind Valley, having
arranged to meet the Smithsons at Gangabal on their way back from Tilail. Knowing that Colonel
Ward would be posted as to the state of the snow, I had written to him from Srinagar for information.
His reply, which I got at Islamabad, was not encouraging, nor was his opinion altered now.
The pass might be possible, but was certainly not advisable for ladies at present.

Friday, June 23.--We were detained here at Pahlgam until about one o'clock to-day, as Colonel
Ward, as well as two minor potentates, had marched yesterday, employing every available coolie.
The fifteen whom I required were sent back to me by the Colonel, and turned up about noon,
so, after lunch, we set forth.

Camels are usually unwilling starters. I knew one who never could be induced to do his duty
until a fire had been lit under him as a gentle stimulant. He lived in Suakin, and existence
was one long grievance to him, but no other animal with which I am acquainted approaches a
Pahlgam coolie in vis inertiâ.

Whether a too copious lunch had rendered my men torpid, or whether the attractions of their
happy homes drew them, I know not, but after the loads (and these not heavy) had been, after
much wrangling, bound upon their backs, and they had limped along for a few hundred yards or
so, one fell sick, or said he was sick, and, peacefully squatting on a convenient stone, refused
to budge.

We were still close to some of the scattered huts of Pahlgam, so an authority, in the shape
of a lumbadhar or chowkidar, or some such, came to our help, and promptly collected for us
an elderly gentleman who was tending his flocks and herds in the vicinity. Doubtless it was
provoking, when he was looking forward to a comfortable afternoon tea in the bosom of his family,
after a hard day's work of doing nothing, to be called upon to carry a nasty angular yakdan
for seven miles along a distinctly uneven road; but was he therefore justified in blubbering
like a baby, and behaving like an ape being led to execution?

The first half-mile was dreadful. At every couple of hundred yards the coolies would sit down
in a bunch, groaning and crying, and nothing less than a push or a thump would induce them
to move. We felt like slave-drivers, and indeed Sabz Ali and the shikari behaved as such, although
their prods and objurgations were not so hurtful as they appeared, being somewhat after the
fashion of the tale told by an idiot,

  "Full of sound and fury, signifying nothing."

Presently we became so much irritated by the ceaseless row that we decided to sit down and
read and sketch by the roadside, in order to let the whole mournful train pass out of sight
and earshot.

Now, I wish to maintain in all seriousness that I am not a Legree, and that, although I by
no means hold the "man and brother" theory, yet I am perfectly prepared to respect the droits
de l'homme.

This may appear a statement inconsistent with my acknowledgment that I permitted coolies to
be beaten--the beating being no more than a technical "assault," and never a "thrashing!"--but
my contention is that when you have to deal with people of so low an organisation that they
can only be reached by elementary arguments, they must be treated absolutely as children, and
judiciously whacked as such.

No Kashmiri without the impulsion of force majeure would ever do any work--no logical argument
will enable him to see ultimate good in immediate irksomeness.

It is very difficult for the Western mind to give the Kashmiri credit for any virtues, his
failings being so conspicuous and repellent; for not only is he an outrageous coward, but he
feels no shame in admitting his cowardice. He is a most accomplished thief, and the truth is
not in him. He and his are much fouler than Neapolitan lazzaroni, and his morals--well, let
us give the Kashmiri his due, and turn to his virtues. He is, on the whole, cheerful and lively,
devoted to children, and kind to animals.[1]

Here is a story which is fairly characteristic of the charming Kashmiri.

During the floods which nearly ruined Kashmir in 1901, a village near a certain colonel's bungalow
was in danger of losing all its crops and half its houses, the neighbouring river being in
spate. My friend, on going to see if anything could be done, found the water rising, and the
adult male inhabitants of the village lying upon the ground, and beating their heads and hands
upon it in woebegone impotence.

He walked about upon their stomachs a little to invigorate them, and, sending forthwith for
a gang of coolies from an adjacent village which lay a little higher, he set the whole crowd
to work to divert part of the stream by means of driftwood and damming, and was, in the end,
able to save the houses and a good part of the crops.

When the hired coolies came to be paid for their labour, the villagers also put in a claim
for wages, and were desperately vexed at my friend's refusal to grant it, complaining bitterly
of having had to work hard for nothing!

You will find a good description of the Kashmiri in All's Well that Ends Well:--

    Parolles. He will steal, sir, an egg out of a cloister.... He
    professes not keeping of oaths, in breaking them, he is stronger
    than Hercules. He will lie, sir, with such volubility, that you
    would think truth were a fool: drunkenness is his best
    virtue; ... he has everything that an honest man should not have;
    what an honest man should have, he has nothing.

           *       *       *       *       *

    He excels his brother for a coward, yet his brother is reputed
    one of the best that is: in a retreat he outruns any lackey;
    marry, in coming on he has the cramp.

We had not long sat sketching and basking in the genial glow of a summer afternoon among the
mountains, when it began to be borne in upon us that the weather was going to change, and that
the usual thunderstorm was meditating a descent upon us. Black clouds came boiling up over
the mountain peaks, and the too familiar grumble of distant thunder sent us hurrying along
the lovely ravine, through which the path leads to Aru. Only a seven miles' journey, but ere
we had gone half-way the storm broke, and a thick veil of sweeping rain fell between us and
the surrounding mountains.

Presently we found a serious solution of continuity in the track, which, after leading us along
a precarious ledge by the side of the river, finished abruptly; sheared clean off by a recent
landslip.

We were very wet, but the river looked wetter still, and it boiled round the rocky point, where
the road should have been but was not, in a distinctly disagreeable manner.

However, Jane dismounting, I climbed upon the cream-coloured courser, and proceeded to ford
the gap. The water swirled well above the syce's knees, but the noble steed picked his way
with the greatest circumspection over and among the submerged boulders, till, after splashing
through some hundred yards of water, he deposited me, not much wetter than before, on the continuation
of the high-road, whence I had the satisfaction of watching Jane go through the same performance.

Hoping against hope that the coolies, by a little haste, might have got the tents pitched before
the storm came on, we plodded on, until, wet to the very skin, we slopped into Aru, to behold
a draggled party squatting round a central floppy heap in a wet field, which, as we gazed,
slowly upreared itself into a drooping tent.

In dear old England this sort of experience would have spelt shocking colds, and probably rheumatism
for life, but here--well, we crawled into our tent and found it, thanks to a couple of waterproof
sheets spread on the ground, surprisingly dry. A change of clothes, a good dinner, produced
under the most unfavourable circumstances from a wretched little cooking-tent, and a fire burning
goodness knows how, in the open, showed the world to be quite a nice place after all.

After dinner a great camp-fire was lit in front of our tent, the rain cleared off, and I sat
smoking with much content, while all our soaking garments were festooned on branches round
the blaze, and Jane and I turned them like roasting joints, at intervals, until the steam rose
like incense towards the stars.

The coolies, too, had quite got over their homesickness, and were extraordinarily cheerful,
their incessant jabber falling as a lullaby on our ears as we dropped off to sleep.

Saturday, June 24.--We got away in good time for our short eight-mile march to Lidarwat. The
coolies went off gaily--the day was warm and brilliant, and the views down the valley towards
Pahlgam superb.

We had camped on the low ground at Aru, just across the bridge, but about half a mile on, and
upon a grassy plateau there is an ideal camping-ground facing down the Lidar Valley, towards
the peaks which rise behind Pahlgam. Want of water is the only drawback to this spot, but if
mussiks are carried, water can easily be brought from a small nullah towards Lidarwat.

Tearing ourselves away from this spot, and turning our backs upon one of the most gorgeous
views in Kashmir, we plunged into a beautiful wood. Maidenhair and many another fern grew in
masses among the great roots which twined like snakes over the rocky slopes. Far below, with
muffled roar, the unseen river tore its downward way.

By-and-by, the path emerging from the wood shelved along a green hillside, where bracken and
golden spurge clothed the little hollows, while wild wall-flower, Jacob's Ladder, and a large
purple cranes-bill brightened the slopes where happy cattle, but lately released from their
winter's imprisonment, were feeding greedily on the young green grass.

I fancy the cattle have a remarkably poor time here in winter. Hay is not made, and very little
winter forage seems to be collected. As the snows fall lower on the hills, the flocks and herds
are driven down to the low ground, where they drag through the dark days as best they can,
on maize-stalks and such like.

I noticed early in May the water buffaloes just turned out to graze in the Lolab, and more
weakly, melancholy collections of skin--and--bone I have seldom seen.

Now, however, up high in every sunny grassy valley, the Gujars may be found camping with their
flocks--cattle, ponies, buffaloes, and goats, working upwards hard on the track of the receding
snow, where the primula and the gentian star the spring turf.

A series of grassy uplands brought us close to Lidarwat, when a sharp shower, arriving unexpectedly
from nowhere in particular, sent us to eat our lunch under the shelter of some fairly waterproof
trees in the company of a herd of water buffaloes of especially evil aspect.

One hoary brute in particular, with enormous horns and pale blue eyes, made me think of the
legend concerning the origin of the buffalo.

When the Almighty was hard at work creating the animals, the devil came and looked on until
he became filled with emulation, and begged the Deity to let him try his hand at creation.
So the Almighty agreed, asking him what beast he would prefer to make, and he said, "A cow."
So he went away and created a water buffalo, which so disgusted the Creator that the devil
was not permitted to make any more experiments.

As soon as the rain held up and the thunder had rolled off up the valley, we packed the tiffin
basket, had one more drink from an icy spring, and left the shelter of the friendly trees,
followed by the glares of all the buffaloes, who appear to have a decided antipathy to the
"sahib logue."

We soon came to Lidarwat, passing several tents there, pitched by the edge of a green lawn,
and sheltered by a deep belt of trees. Crossing to the right bank of the river by the usual
rickety bridge, we continued our way, as the farther up the glen we get to-night, the less
shall we leave for to-morrow, when we intend to visit the Kolahoi Glacier.

The cream-coloured courser nearly wrecked my Kashmir holiday at this point, owing to the silly
dislike of white folk which he possesses in common with the buffaloes. As I was incautiously
handing Jane her beloved parasol, he whisked round and let out at me, and I was only saved
from a nasty kick by my closeness to the beast, whose hock made such an impression upon my
thigh as to cause me to go a bit short for a while.

We camped in rather a moist-looking place, where the wood begins to show signs of finishing,
and the slopes fall steep and bare to the river.

A rather rank and weedy undergrowth was not inviting, and was strongly suggestive of dampness
and rheumatism. It was fairly chilly, too, at night, as our camp was some 11,000 feet above
the sea, and the little breezes that came sighing through the pines were straight from the snow.

Sunday, June 25.--A most glorious morning saw us start early for an expedition to the Kolahoi
Glacier. The sombre ravine in which we were camped amid the pines lay still in a mysterious
blue haze, but the sun had already caught the snow-streaked mountain-tops to our left, and
gilded their rugged sides with a swiftly descending mantle of warmth and light.

A very fine waterfall came tumbling down a wooded chasm on our right, and as fine waterfalls
are scarce in Kashmir we stopped for some time to admire it duly.

The track now led out into a wide and treeless valley, flanked by snow-crowned mountains, and
we pushed on merrily until we arrived at the brink of a rascally torrent, which gave us some
trouble to ford, being both exceeding swift and fairly deep. Luckily, it was greedy, and, not
content with one channel, had spread itself out into four or five branches, and thus so squandered
itself that Jane on her pony and I on coolie-back accomplished the passage without mishap.
For some miles we held on along an easy path which curved to the right along the right bank
of the river, which was spanned in many places by great snow bridges, often hundreds of yards
in width. We lunched sitting on the trunk of a dead birch which had been carried by the snow
down from its eyrie, and then left, a melancholy skeleton, bleaching on the slowly melting
avalanche. Some two miles farther on we could see the end of the Kolahoi Glacier, its grey
and rock-strewn snout standing abrupt above the white slopes of snow.

Behind rose the fine peak of Harbagwan, in as yet undisputed splendour, Kolahoi being still
hidden behind the cliffs which towered on our right.

Distances seem short in this brilliant air, but we walked for a long while over the short turf,
flushing crimson with primulas and golden with small buttercups, and then over snowy hillocks,
before we reached the solid ice of the great glacier.

It was so completely covered with fragments of grey rock that Jane could hardly he persuaded
that it really was an ice slope that we were scrambling up with such difficulty, until a peep
into a cold mysterious cleft convinced her that she was really and truly standing upon 200
feet of solid ice.

The sight that now burst upon us was one to be remembered. Kolahoi towered ethereal--a sunlit
wedge of sheer rock some six thousand feet above us--into the crystal air. From his feet the
white frozen billows of the great glacier rolled, a glistering sea, to where we, atoms in the
enormous loneliness, stood breathless in admiration. Around the head of the wide amphitheatre
wherein we stood rose a circle of stately peaks, their bases flanged with rocky buttresses,
dark amid the long sweeps of radiant snow, their shattered peaks reared high into the very
heavens. A great silence reigned. There was no wind with us, and yet, even as we watched, a
white cloud flitted past the virgin peak of Kolahoi--ghostly, intangible; and immediately,
even as vultures assemble suddenly, no one knows whence, so did the clouds appear, surging
over the gleaming shoulders of the mountain ridges, and up and round the grim precipices. We
turned and hurried down the face of the glacier, and made for camp, as we knew from much experience
that a thunderstorm was inevitable.

Over the beds of dirty snow, down by the side of the new-born torrent, which leaped full-grown
to life from the womb of a green cavern below the glacier; over patches of pulpy turf just
freed from its wintry bondage, and already carpeted with masses of rose-coloured primulas,
we hastened, keeping to the left bank of the stream, in order to avoid the torrent which had
so troubled us in the morning, which we knew would be deeper in the afternoon owing to the
melting of the snows in the sunshine.

We had got but a bare half of our journey done when the storm burst, and in a very short time
we were reduced to the recklessness which comes of being as wet as you can possibly be.

    "The thunder bellows far from snow to snow
  (Home, Rose and Home, Provence and La Palie),
    And loud and louder roars the flood below.
  Heigho! But soon in shelter we shall be
  (Home, Rose and Home, Provence and La Palie)."

Crossing the river on a big snow-bridge below the point where our old enemy came thundering
down the mountain-side, we tramped gaily through mud and mire and over slippery rocks until
we were gladdened by the sight of our camp, dripping away peacefully in the midst of the weeping
forest.

The rain, as usual, ceased in the evening. A great camp-fire was lit, and the neighbouring
buffaloes of Gujar-Kote having kindly supplied us with milk, we dined wisely and well and dropped
off to sleep, lulled by the roaring of the Kolahoi River, which raced through the darkness
close by.

Tuesday, June 27.--Being still hopeful of achieving the pass over into the Sind, we struck
camp early yesterday and marched down to Lidarwat, only to find that the party which we knew
had camped there with a view to crossing, had given up the idea and retreated down the valley;
so I sent a swift messenger to countermand the three days' supply of "rassad" which I had ordered
from Pahlgam for my men, and we marched on to Aru. Upon the spur which overlooks Aru we found
Dr. Neve encamped, and proceeded to discuss the possibility of crossing into the Sind Valley
viâ Sekwas, Khem Sar, and Koolan. The Doctor, who is an enterprising mountaineer, was himself
about to cross, but he did not encourage Jane to go and do likewise, as he said it would be
very difficult owing to the late spring, and would probably entail a good deal of work with
ropes and ice-axes.

This absolutely decided us, our valour being greatly tempered by discretion, and we camped
quietly at Aru, and came on into Pahlgam this forenoon. The river, for some reason best known
to itself, was so low that we got dry-shod past the corner which had worried us so much on
the way up.

[1] This is incorrect, the European Residents having frequently attempted,
    but hitherto vainly, to induce the native authorities to curb Kashmiri
    cruelty.

CHAPTER XI

GANGABAL

Friday, June 30.--The last few days have been somewhat uneventful. We left Pahlgam at early
dawn on Wednesday, just as the first lemon-coloured light was spreading in the east over the
pine-serrated heights above the camp.

The rapids below Colonel Ward's bungalow, which had been fierce and swollen as we passed them
on our upward way, were now reduced to roaring after the subdued fashion of the sucking dove;
so we hardly paused to contemplate either them or the big boulder, red-stained and holy, at
Ganesbal, but hastened on to the point where, just before turning a high bluff which shuts
him from sight for the last time, we got the view of Kolahoi, with the newly-risen sun glowing
on his upper slopes. An hour flew by much too fast, and it was with great reluctance that we
finally turned our back on the finest part of the Lidar Valley, and sadly resumed our march
to Sellar, crossing the river and following a rather hot and dull road. Sellar itself is not
nearly as pretty as Eshmakam, and we grew rather tired of it by evening, as we arrived soon
after one o'clock, and found little to do or see.

Yesterday we left Sellar and marched to Bejbehara, the hottest and dullest march I know of
in Kashmir. A shadeless road slopes gently down across the plains to the river. All along this
road we overtook parties of coolies laden with creels of silk cocoons, whose destination is
the big silk factory at Srinagar, small clouds of hot red dust rising into the still air, knocked
up by the shuffling tread of their grass-shod feet.

In the fields, dry and burnt to our eyes after the green valleys, squatted the reapers, snipping
the sparse ears, apparently one by one, with sickles like penknives. They seemed to get the
work done somehow, as little sheafs laid in rows bore witness; but the patience of Job must
have been upon them!

The chenars of Bejbehara threw a most welcome shade from the noonday sun, which was striking
down with evil force as we panted across the steamy rice-fields which surround them.

Hither we came at noon, only to find that our boats were not awaiting us as we had directed.
A messenger bearing bitter words was promptly despatched to root the lazy scoundrels out from
Islamabad, while Jane and I camped out beneath a huge tree and lunched, worked, and sketched
until four o'clock, when the Admiral brought the fleet in and fondly deemed his day's work done.

This was by no means our view of the case, and the usual trouble began--"No coolies"--"Very
late"--"Plenty tired," &c. &c.

Of course Satarah was defeated, and was soon to be seen sulkily poling away in the stern-sheets,
while his son-in-law still more sulkily paddled in the bow.

We made about eight or ten miles, having a swift current under us, before a strong squall came
up the valley, making the old ark slue about prodigiously, and inducing us to tie up for the night.

This morning we slipped down stream to Srinagar, only halting for a short while to obtain some
of the native bread for which Pampur is celebrated.

The river seemed exceedingly hot and stuffy after the lovely air which we have been breathing
lately, and we quite determined that the sooner we get out of the valley the better for our
pleasure, if not for our health.

We have been greatly exercised as to how best dispose of the time until September, for, during
the months of July and August, the heat in the valley is very considerable, and every one seeks
the higher summer retreats. The Smithsons suggested an expedition to Leh, which would, undoubtedly,
have been a most interesting trip, but which would in no wise have spared us in the matter
of heat. Had we started about this time for Leh we should have reached our destination towards
the end of July, and would therefore have found ourselves setting out again across an arid
and extremely hot country on the return journey somewhere about the middle of August.

The game did not seem to be worth the candle, and the Smithsons themselves shied at the idea
when it was borne in upon them that there would be little or no shooting to be done en route.

The alternatives seemed to lie between Gulmarg, where most of the beauty and fashion of Kashmir
disports itself during the hot weather, Sonamarg, and Pahlgam.

Sonamarg, from description, seemed likely to be quiet, not to say dull, as a residence for
two months. One cannot live by scenery alone, and even the loveliest may become toujours pâté
de l'anguille.

Pahlgam suffered in our eyes from the same failing, and our thoughts turned to Gulmarg. Here,
however, a difficulty arose. It is a notoriously wet place. We heard horrid tales of golf enthusiasts
playing in waders, and of revellers half drowned while returning from dinners in neighbouring
tents.

We thought of rooms in Nedou's Hotel, but our memories of this hostelry in Srinagar were not
altogether sweet, and we did not in the least hanker after a second edition; moreover, every
available room had been engaged long ago, and it was extremely doubtful, to say the least of
it, if the good Mr. Nedou could do anything for us. The prospect of a two-month sojourn in
a wet tent wherein no fire could ever be lighted, and in which Jane pictured her frocks and
smart hats lying in their boxes all crumpled and shorn of their dainty freshness, was far from
enticing!

Tent existence, when one lives the simple life far from the madding crowd, clad in puttoo and
shooting-boots, or grass shoes, is delightful; but tent life in the midst of a round of society
functions--golf, polo, with their attendant teas and dinners--was not to be thought of without
grave misgiving.

Sorely perplexed, and almost at our wits' end, the Gordian knot was cut by our being offered
a small hut which had been occupied by a clerk in the State employ, now absent, and which the
Resident most kindly placed at our disposal for a merely nominal rent. Needless to say we gratefully
accepted the offer, in spite of the assurance that the hut was of very minute dimensions.

Sunday, July 2.--Yesterday we toiled hard in the heat to get everything in train for a move
to Gulmarg. Subhana, that excellent tailor and embroiderer, arranged to have all our heavy
luggage sent up to meet us on the 10th, and from him, too, we arranged for the hire of such
furniture as we might require, for we knew that the hut was bare as the cupboard of nursery fame.

This morning we set off down the river to keep tryst with the Smithsons at Gangabal, where
we hope to meet them about the 5th on their way back from Tilail. The usual struggle with the
crew resulted, also as usual, in our favour, and we got right through to Gunderbal at the mouth
of the Sind River, where we now lie amid a flotilla of boats whose occupiers have fled away
from the sultriness and smelliness of Srinagar in search of the cool currents, both of air
and water, which are popularly supposed to flow down the Sind.

As Jane and I returned from a visit to the post-office along a sweltering path among the rice-fields,
from which warm waves of air rose steaming into the sunset, we failed to observe the celebrated
and superior coolness of Gunderbal'

Thursday, July 6.--The lumbadhar of Gunderbal, in spite of his magnificent name, is a rascal
of the deepest dye. He put much water in our milk, to the furious disgust of Sabz Ali, and
he failed to provide the coolies I had ordered; I therefore reported him to Chattar Singh,
and sent my messengers forth, like another Lars Porsena, to catch coolies.

This was early on Tuesday morning, and a sufficient number of ponies and coolies having been
got together by 5.30, we started.

I may here note that, owing to a confusion between Gunderbal (the port, so to speak, of the
Sind Valley, and route to Leh and Thibet) and Gangabal, a lake lying some 12,000 feet above
the sea behind Haramok, our arrangement to meet the Smithsons at Gangabal was altered by a
letter from them announcing their imminent arrival at Gunderbal! This was perturbing, but as
the mistake was not ours, we decided not to allow ourselves to be baulked of a trip for which
we had surrendered an expedition to Shisha Nag, beyond Pahlgam.

The lower part of the Sind Valley is in nowise interesting; the way was both tedious and hot,
and we rejoiced greatly when, having crossed the Sind River, we found a lovely spring and halted
for tiffin. After an hour's rest we followed the main road a little farther, and then, passing
the mouth of the Chittagul Nullah, turned up the Wangat Valley. The scenery became finer, and
the last hour's march along a steep mountain-side, with the Wangat River far below on our right,
was a great improvement on what we had left behind us.

The little village of Wangat, perched upon a steep spur above the river, was woefully deficient
of anything like a good camping-ground. We finally selected a small bare rice patch, which,
though extremely "knubbly," had the merits of being almost level, moderately remote from the
village and its smells, and quite close to a perfect spring.

Yesterday we achieved a really early start, leaving Wangat at 4.15, the path being weirdly
illuminated by extempore torches made of pine-wood which the shikari had prepared. A moderately
level march of some three miles brought us to the ruined temples of Vernag and the beginning
of our work, for here the path, turning sharply to the left, led us inexorably up the almost
precipitous face of the mountain by means of short zigzags.

It was a stiff pull. The sun was now peering triumphantly over the hills on the far side of
the valley, and the path was (an extraordinary thing in Kashmir) excessively dusty. Up and
on we panted, Jane partly supported by having the bight of the shikari's puggaree round her
waist while he towed her by the ends.

There was no relaxation of the steep gradient, no water, and no shade, and the height to be
surmounted was 4000 feet.

If the longest lane has a turning, so the highest hill has a top, and we came at last to the
blissful point where the path deigned to assume an approach to the horizontal, and led us to
the most delightful spring in Kashmir! The water, ice-cold and clear, gushes out of a crevice
in the rock, and with the joy of wandering Israelites we threw ourselves on the ground, basked
in the glorious mountain air, and shouted for the tiffin basket.

Only the faithful "Yellow Bag" was forthcoming, the tiffin coolie being still "hull down,"
and from its varied contents we extracted the only edibles, apricots and rock cakes.

Never have we enjoyed any meal more than that somewhat light breakfast, washed down by water
which was a pure joy to drink.

Alas! There were but two rock cakes apiece! Another half-hour's clamber, along a pretty rough
track, brought us to a point whence we looked down a long green slope to our destination, Tronkol--a
few Gujar huts, indistinct amidst a clump of very ancient birch-trees, standing out as a sort
of oasis among the bare and boulder-strewn slopes.

The view was superb. To the right, the mountain-side fell steeply to where, in the depths of
the Wangat Nullah, a tiny white thread marked the river foaming 4000 feet below, and beyond
rose a jagged range of spires and pinnacles, snow lying white at the bases of the dark precipices.
"These are the savage wilds" which bar the route from the Wangat into Tilail and the Upper Sind.

Over Tronkol, bare uplands, rising wave above wave, shut out the view of Gangabal and the track
over into the Erin Nullah and down to Bandipur.

On our left towered the bastions of Haramok, his snow-crowned head rising grimly into the clear
blue sky.

We pitched our camp at Tronkol about two o'clock, on a green level some little way beyond the
Gujar huts, and just above a stream which picked its riotous way along a bed of enormous boulders,
sheltered to a certain extent by a fringe of hoary birches.

We had never beheld such great birches as these, many of them, alas! mere skeletons of former
grandeur, whose whitening limbs speak eloquently of a hundred years of ceaseless struggle with
storm and tempest.

I saw no young ones springing up to replace these dying warriors. The Gujars and their buffaloes
probably prevent any youthful green thing from growing. It seems a pity.

Towards evening we observed baggage ponies approaching, and at the sight we felt aggrieved;
for, in our colossal selfishness, we fancied that Tronkol was ours, and ours alone. A small
tent was pitched, and presently to our surly eyes appeared a lonely lady, who proceeded solemnly
to play Patience in front of it while her dinner was being got ready.

A visit of ceremony, and an invitation to share our "irishystoo" and camp-fire, brought Mrs.
Locock across, and we made the acquaintance of a lady well known for her prowess as a shikari
throughout Kashmir--

  "There hunted 'she' the walrus, the narwal, and the seal.
    Ah! 'twas a noble game,
    And, like the lightning's flame;
  Flew our harpoons of steel"

I cannot resist the quotation, but I do not really think Mrs. Locock hunts walruses in Kashmir,
and I know she doesn't use a harpoon. No matter, she proved a cheery and delightful companion,
and we entirely forgave her for coming to Tronkol and poaching on our preserves.

We were extremely amused at the surprise she expressed at Jane's feat in climbing from Wangat.
Evidently Jane's reputation is not that of a bullock-workman in Srinagar!

This morning we all three went to see Lake Gangabal. An easy path leads over some three or
four miles of rolling down to our destination, which is one of a whole chain of lakes--or rather
tarns--which lie under the northern slopes of Haramok.

We came first upon a small piece of water, lying blue and still in the morning sun, and from
which a noisy stream poured forth its glacier water. This we had a good deal of trouble in
crossing, the ladies being borne on the broad backs of coolies, in attitudes more quaint than
graceful. A second and deeper stream being safely forded, we climbed a low ridge to find Gangabad
stretched before us--a smooth plane of turquoise blue and pale icy green, beneath the dark
ramparts of Haramok, whose "eagle-baffling" crags and glittering glaciers rose six thousand
sheer feet above. In the foreground the earth, still brown, and only just released from its
long winter covering of snow, bore masses of small golden ranunculus and rose-hued primulas.

An extraordinary sense of silence and solitude filled one--no birds or beasts were visible,
and only the tinkle of tiny rills running down to the lake, and the distant clamour of the
infant river, broke, or rather accentuated, the loneliness of the scene.

We had brought breakfast with us, and after eating it we made haste to recross the two rivers,
because, troublesome as they were to ford in the morning, they would certainly grow worse with
every hour of ice-melting sunshine.

Once more on the camp side, however, we strolled along in leisurely mood, staying to lunch
on top of the ridge overlooking Tronkol. I left the ladies then to find their leisurely way
back among the flowery hollows, and made for a peak overlooking the head of the Chittagul Nullah.
A sharp climb up broken rocks and over snow slopes brought me to the top, a point some 13,500
feet above the sea. In front of me Haramok, seamed with snow-filled gullies, still towered
far above; immediately below, the saddle--brown, bare earth, snow-streaked--divided the Chittagul
Nullah from Tronkol. Far away down the valley the Sind River gleamed like a silver thread in
the afternoon light, and beyond, the Wular lay a pale haze in the distance.

To the northward rose the fantastic range of peaks that overhang the Wangat gorge, and almost
below my feet, at a depth of some 1500 feet, lay a sombre lakelet, steely dark and still, in
the shadow of the ridge upon which I sat.

The sun was going down fast into a fleecy bed of clouds, amid which I knew that Nanga Parbat
lay swathed from sight. To see that mountain monarch had been the chief object of my climb,
so, recognising that the sight of him was a hope deferred, I made haste to scramble down to
the tarn below, stopping here and there to fill my pith hat with wild rhubarb, and to pick
or admire the new and always fascinating wild flowers as I passed. Large-flowered, white anemones;
tiny gentian, with vivid small blue blossoms; loose-flowered, purple primulas, and many strange
and novel blossoms starred the grassy patches, or filled the rocky crevices with abundant beauty.

By the lake side the moisture-loving, rose-coloured primula reappeared in masses, and as I
followed down its outgoing stream towards the camp, I waded through a tangle of columbine,
white and blue; a great purple salvia, arnica, and a profusion of varied flowers in rampant bloom.

Saturday, July 8.--An early start homewards yesterday, in the cold dawn, rewarded us by the
sight of the first beams of the rising sun lighting up the threefold head of Haramok with an
unspeakable glory, as we crossed the open boulder-strewn uplands, before descending into the
nullah, which lay below us still wrapped in a mysterious purple haze. The downward zigzags,
with their uncompromising steepness, proved almost as tiring as the ascent had been, and we
were more than ready for breakfast by the time we reached the ruined temples of Vernag.

These temples, built probably about the beginning of the eighth century, are, like all the
others which I have seen in Kashmir, small, and somewhat uninteresting, except to the archaeologist.
They consist, invariably, of a "cella" containing the object of veneration, the lingam, surmounted
by a high-pitched conical stone roof. In structure they show apparently signs of Greek influence
in the doorways, and the triangular pediments above them. Phallic worship would seem to have
been always confined to these temples, with ophiolatry--the nagas or water-snake deities being
accommodated in sacred tanks, in the midst of which the early Kashmir temples were usually placed.

Any one who wishes to study the temple architecture of Kashmir cannot do better than read Fergusson's
Indian Architecture, wherein he will find all the information he wants.

To the ordinary "man in the street" the ancient buildings of Kashmir do not appeal, either
by their aesthetic value or by the dignity of size. Martand, the greatest, and probably the
finest, both in point of grandeur and of situation, I regret to say, I did not see; but the
temples at Bhanyar, Pandrettan, and Wangat resemble one another closely in design and general
insignificance.

I do not remember ever to have seen it noted that all buildings which are impressive by the
mere majesty of size are to be found in plains and not in mountainous countries. This is probably
due to two causes. The one being the denser population of the fat plains, whereby a greater
concourse of builders and of worshippers would be sustained, and the other being the--probably
unconscious--instinct which debarred the architect from attempting to vie with nature in the
mountains and impel him to work out his most majestic designs amid wide and level horizons.

The fact remains, whatever may be the cause, that architecture has never been advanced much
beyond the mere domestic in very mountainous regions, with the exception of the mediaeval strongholds,
which formed the nucleus of every town or village, where a point d'appui was required against
invasion, for the protection of the community.

Breakfast, followed by a prowl among the ruins and a short space for sketching, gave the sun
time to pour his beams with quite unpleasant insistence into the confined fold in the hills,
where we began to gasp until the ladies mounted their ponies, and we took our way down the
valley, crossing the river below Wangat, and keeping along the left bank to Vernaboug, where
we camped, the only incident of any importance being the sad loss of Jane's field-glasses,
which, carried by her syce in a boot-bag, were dropped in a stream by that idiot while crossing,
he having lost his footing in a pool, and, clutching wildly at the pony's reins, let go the
precious binoculars.

This morning we were up betimes, Mrs. Locock having ordained a bear "honk"! This was, to me,
a new departure in shikar, and truly it was amusing to see the shikari, bursting with importance,
mustering the forty half-naked coolies whom he had collected to beat. A couple of men with
tom-toms slung round their necks completed the party, which marched in straggling procession
out of the village at dawn.

A mile of easy walking brought us to the rough jungly cliffs, seamed with transverse nullahs,
narrow and steep, which bordered the river. Here we were placed in passes, with great caution
and mystery, by the shikari and his chief-of-the-staff--the "oldest inhabitant" of Vernaboug;
and here we sat in the morning stillness until a distant clamour and the faint beating of tom-toms
afar off made us sit up more warily, and watch eagerly for the expected bear.

The yells increase, and the tom-toms, vigorously banged, seem calculated to fuss any self-respecting
bear into fits. We watch a narrow space between two bushes some dozen yards away, and see that
the Mannlicher across our knees and the smooth-bore, ball loaded in the right and chokeless
barrel, lie handy for instant use.

Hidden in the dense jungle, some hundred yards below, sits Mrs. Locock on the matted top of
a hazel, while Jane, chittering with suppressed excitement, crouches a few paces behind me.

The beaters approach, and pandemonium reigns. A few scared birds dart past, but no bear comes;
and when the first brown body shows among the brushwood we shout to stop the uproar, and all
move on to another beat.

Four "honks" produced nothing, so far as I was concerned; but a bear--according to her shikari--passed
close by Mrs. Locock, so thickly screened by jungle that she couldn't see it. This may be so,
but Kashmir shikaris have remarkably vivid imaginations.

After a delightful morning to all parties concerned--for we were much amused, the coolies were
adequately paid, and the bear wasn't worried--we returned to breakfast, and then marched fifteen
hot miles into Gunderbal, where we found the Smithsons, with whom we dined. They have been
in Gurais and the Tilail district ever since they left Srinagar on the 24th April, and have
had an adventurous and difficult time, with plenty of snow and torrents and avalanches, but
somewhat poor sport.

This is not according to one's preconceived ideas of shikar in Kashmir, as they went into a
nullah which no sahib had penetrated for five years; they had the best shikari in Kashmir (he
said it, and he ought to know); they worked very hard, and their bag consisted of one or two
moderate ibex and a red bear.

Tuesday, July 11.--On Sunday morning the combined fleet sailed for Palhallan. The Smithsons
had a "matted dounga," and she "walked away" from our heavier ark down the winding Sind at
a great pace. We reached Shadipur at 11 A.M., but the Smithsons had "gone before," so, crossing
the Jhelum, we made after them in hot pursuit, and reached them and Palhallan at sunset.

A narrow canal, bordered by low swampy marshland, allowed us to get within a mile of the village
and tie up among the shallows, whereupon the mosquitoes gathered from far and near, and fell
upon us.

The final packing, effected amid a hungry crowd of little piping fiends, was a veritable nightmare,
and yesterday morning we rescued our mangled remains from the enemy, and, having paid off our
boats, hurriedly clambered on to the ponies which had come--late, as usual--from Palhallan
to convey what was left by the mosquitoes to Gulmarg.

The unfortunate Jane--always a popular person--is especially so with insects; and if there
is a flea or a mosquito anywhere within range it immediately rushes to her.

She paid dearly for her fatal gift of attractiveness at Palhallan--her eyes, usually so keen,
being what is vulgarly termed "bunged up," and every vulnerable spot in like piteous plight!

We quitted Palhallan as the Lot family quitted Sodom and Gomorrah, but with no lingering tendency
to look backward; we cast our eyes unto the hills, and kicked the best pace we could out of
our "tattoos," halting for breakfast soon after crossing the hot, white road which runs from
Baramula to Srinagar.

As we left the steamy valley and wound up a rapidly ascending path among the lower fringes
and outliers of the forest our spirits rose, and by the time we had clambered up the last stiff
pull and emerged from the darkly-wooded track into the little clearing, where perches the village
of Babamarishi, we were positively cheerful.

Once more the air was fresh and buoyant, the spring water was cool and "delicate to drink,"
and from our tents we could look out over the valley lying dim in a yellow heat-haze far below.

Babamarishi is a picturesquely-grouped collection of the usual rickety-looking wooden huts,
no dirtier, but perhaps noisier than usual, owing to the presence of a very holy ziarat much
frequented by loudly conversational devotees. We spent the crisp, warm afternoon peacefully
stretched on the sloping sward in front of our tents, and making the acquaintance of the only
good thing that came out of Palhallan--a charming quartette of young geese which Sabz Ali had
bought and brought.

These delightful birds evinced the most perfect friendliness and confidence in us, and we became
greatly attached to them. They and the fowls seemed excellent travellers, and after a long
day's march would come up smiling, like the jackdaw of Rheims, "not a penny the worse."

This morning we had but a short and easy march from Babamarishi to Gulmarg, along a good road,
through a fine forest of silver fir.

CHAPTER XII

GULMARG

Somehow one's preconceived ideas of a place are almost always quite wrong, and so Gulmarg seemed
quite different from what I had expected. It seemed all twisted the wrong way, and was really
quite unlike the place which my imagination had evolved.

Turning through a narrow gap, we found ourselves facing a wide, green, undulating valley completely
surrounded by dense fir forest. Beyond, to the left, rose the sloping bulk of Apharwat, one
of the range of the Pir Panjal; while to the right low, wooded hillocks bounded the valley
and fell, on their outward flanks, to the Kashmir plain.

Immediately in front of us a small village or bazaar swarmed with native life, and sloped down
to a stream which wound through the hollows.

All round the edge of the forest a continuous ring of wooden huts and white tents showed that
the "sahib" on holiday intent had marked Gulmarg for his own.

As we rode through the bazaar the view expanded. Apharwat showed all his somewhat disappointing
face; his upper slopes, streaked with dirty snow, looked remarkably dingy when contrasted with
the dazzling white clouds which went sailing past his uninteresting summit. The absence of
all variety in form or light and shade, and the dull lines of his foreshortened front, made
it hard to realise that he stood some five thousand feet above us.

Near the centre of the marg, on a small hill, was a large wooden building surrounded by many
satellite huts and tents: this we rightly guessed to be Nedou's Hotel. Below, on a spur, was
the little church, and to the right, in the hollow, the club-house faced the level polo-ground.

A winding stream, which we subsequently found to be perfectly ubiquitous, and an insatiable
devourer of errant golf-balls, ran deviously through the valley, which seemed to be rather
over a mile long, and almost equally wide.

The Smithsons rode away vaguely in search of a camping-ground; while we, having found out where
our hut was, turned back and climbed a knoll behind the bazaar, and found ourselves in front
of our future home, a very plain and roughly-built rectangular wooden hut, containing a small
square room opening upon a verandah, and having a bedroom and bathroom on each side.

Such was our palace, and we were well satisfied with it.

The cook-house and servants' quarters were in a hut close by, and I could summon my retainers
or chide them for undue chatter from my bedroom window--a serviceable short cut for the dinner,
too, in wet and stormy weather!

Life at Gulmarg is extremely apt to degenerate into the "trivial round" of the golf links varied
by polo, or polo varied by golf, with occasional gymkhanas and picnics. There are, doubtless,
many delightful excursions to be made, but upon the whole it seems difficult to break far beyond
the "Circular Road," a fairly level and well-kept bridle-path, which for eight beautiful miles
winds through the pine forest, giving marvellous glimpses of snowy peaks and sunlit valleys.

The expedition to the top of Apharwat is, in my opinion, hardly worth making, but then I was
not very lucky in the weather. Major Cardew, R.F.A., and I arranged to do the climb together,
and duly started one excessively damp and foggy morning towards the middle of July.

Taking our ponies, we scrambled up a rough path through the forest to Killanmarg, a boulder-strewn
slope, some half a mile wide, which lies between the upper edge of the forest and the final
slopes of the mountain.

Sending our ponies home, we set about the ascent of the 3500 feet that remained between us
and our goal. The whole hillside was a perfect wild garden. Columbines, potentillas--yellow,
bronze, and crimson--primulas, anemones, gentian, arnica, and quantities of unknown blossoms
gave us ample excuse for lingering panting in the rarefied air, as we struggled through brushwood
first, and then over loose rocks and finally slopes of shelving snow, before we found ourselves
on the crest of the mountain, shivering slightly in the raw, foggy air.

Our view was narrowed down to the bleak slopes of rock and snow that immediately surrounded
us, for our hope that we should get above the cloud belt was not fulfilled, and beyond a dismal
tarn, lying just below us, in whose black waters forlorn little bergs of rotten snow floated,
and a very much circumscribed view of dull tops swathed in flying mist, we saw nothing.

Had the sky been clear, I am told that the view would have been magnificent, but I should think
probably no better than that from Killanmarg, as it is a mistake to suppose that a high, or
at least too high, elevation "lends enchantment." As a rule the view is finer when seen half-way
up a lofty mountain than that obtained from the summit.

We did not stay long upon the top of Apharwat discussing the best point of view, because Cardew
sagaciously remarked that if it grew much thicker he wouldn't be answerable for finding the
way down, and as I have a holy horror of rambling about strange (and possibly precipitous)
mountains in a fog, we set about retracing our own footsteps in the snow until we regained
the ridge we had come up by.

A remarkably wet couple we were when we presented ourselves at our respective front doors,
just in time for a "rub down" before lunch!

The golf at Gulmarg is very good, the 18-hole course being exceedingly sporting, and tricky
enough to defeat the very elect. Jane and I had conveyed our clubs out to Kashmir, knowing
that they were likely to prove useful. I had also taken the precaution to pack up a box or
two of balls, but I found my labour all in vain, as "Haskells" and "Kemshall-Arlingtons" were
supplied by the club at precisely the same price as in England--viz., 1 r. 8 an., or two shillings.

New clubs are also cheap and in plenty, but repairs to old favourites are not always satisfactory.
My pet driver, having been damaged, was very evilly treated by the native craftsman, who bound
up its wounds with large screws!

The mountains of Kashmir have been a constant joy to us. Varying with every change of light
and shade, custom cannot stale their infinite variety; but as yet I had not seen the great
monarch of Chilas, Nanga Parbat.

In July and early August he is rarely visible from Gulmarg, owing to the haziness of the atmosphere.
One clear morning, however, towards the end of July, after a night of rain and storm, I was
strolling along the Circular Road when, lo! far away in the north-west, soaring ethereal above
the blue ranges that overlook Gurais, above the cloud-banks floating beyond their summits,
the great mountain, unapproachable in his glory, stood revealed.

The early morning sun struck full on his untrodden snows, making it hard to realise that eighty-five
miles of air separated me from that clear-cut peak. Soon, very soon, a light cloud clung to
his eastern face, and within ten minutes the whole vision had faded into an up-piled tower
of seething clouds.

Later in the season, as the air grew clearer, Jane and I made almost daily pilgrimages to the
point, only a few minutes' walk from our hut, whence, framed by a foreground of columnar pines,
Nanga Parbat could generally be seen for a time in the morning.

Tuesday, August 1.--Society in Gulmarg is particularly cheery, as indeed might be expected
where two or three hundred English men and women are gathered together to amuse themselves
and lay in a fresh store of health and energy before returning to the routine of duty in the
plains.

There have been many picnics lately, the little glades or margs, which are frequent in the
forest slopes, being ideal places of rendezvous for merrymakers on horse or foot. Picnics of
all sorts and sizes, from the little impromptu gatherings of half-a-dozen congenial young souls
(always an even number, please), who ride off into the romantic shades to nibble biscuits and
make tea, to the dainty repasts provided by a hospitable lady, whose official hut overlooks
the Ferozepore Nullah, and who, in turn, overlooks her cook, to the great gratification of
her guests.

How small a thing will upset the best-laid plans of hospitality! It is said that a most carefully
planned picnic, where all the little tables, set for two, were discreetly screened apart among
the bushes, was entirely ruined by a piratical damsel undertaking a cutting-out expedition
for the capture of the hostess' best young man.

Our evenings are by no means dull. On many a starlit night has Jane mounted the noble steed
which, through the kindness of the Resident, we have hired from the "State," and ridden across
the marg attended by her slaves (her husband and the ancient shikari, to wit), to dine and
play bridge in some hospitable hut, or dance or see theatricals at Nedou's Hotel.

Last week we tore ourselves away from our daily golf, and joined the Smithsons in a futile
expedition to the foot of the Ferozepore Nullah for bear. Three days we spent in vain endeavour
to find "baloo," and on the fourth we wended our toilsome way up the hill again to Gulmarg.

Monday, August 27.--There are drawbacks as well as advantages in being perched, as it were,
just above the bazaar. Its proximity enables our good Sabz Ali to sally forth each morning
and secure the earliest consignment of "butter and eggs and a pound of cheese," which has come
up from Srinagar, and select the best of the fruit and vegetables. It affords also an interesting
promenade for the geese, who solemnly march down the main street daily for recreation and such
stray articles of food as may be found in the heterogeneous rubbish-heaps.

It possesses, however, a superabundance of pi-dogs, who gather together on the slope in front
of our hut in the watches of the night, and serenade us to a maddening extent.

The natives, too, have a sinful habit of chattering and shouting at an hour when all well-conducted
persons should be steeped in their beauty sleep.

A few nights ago this culminated in what Keats would have called a "purple riot." The sweeper
and his friends were holding a meeting for the purpose of conversation and the consumption
of apple brandy.

Having fruitlessly sent the shikari to try and stop the insufferable noise, I was fain to sally
forth myself to investigate matters.

Then to a happy and light-hearted party seated chattering round a blazing fire there came suddenly
the unwelcome apparition of an exceedingly irate sahib, in evening dress and pumps, brandishing
a khudstick.

A wild scurry, in which the bonfire was scattered, a few remarks in forcible English, a whack
which just missed the hindmost reveller, and the place became a deserted village.

Next morning Sabz Ali came to me in a towering rage to report that the sweeper--that unclean
outcast--had dared to say most opprobrious things to him, being inspired thereto by the devil
and apple brandy. Nothing less than the immediate execution of the culprit by hanging, drawing,
and quartering would satisfy the outraged feelings of our henchman.

I promised a yet severer punishment. I said I would "cut" the wretched minion's pay that month
to the amount of a rupee. Vengeance was satisfied, and the victim reduced to tears.

It is good to hear Jane--who for many years has been accustomed to having her own way in all
household matters--ordering breakfast.

"Well, Sabz Ali--what shall we have for breakfast to-morrow?"

"Jessa mem-sahib arder!"--with a friendly grin.

"Then I shall have kidneys."'

"No kidney, mem-sahib! Kidney plenty money--two annas six pice ek. Oh, plenty dear!"

"I'm tired of eggs. Is there any cold chicken you could grill?"

"Chota murghi one egg lay, mem-sahib, anda poach. Sahib, chicken grill laike!"

"Oh, all right! But I thought of a mutton-chop for the major sahib."

"Muttony stup" (mutton's tough). "Sahib no laike!"

"Very well, that will do--a poached egg for me and grilled chicken for the sahib."

"No, mem-sahib--no 'nuf. Sahib plenty 'ungry--chicken grill, peechy ramble-tamble egg!"

"Have it your own way. I daresay the major sahib would like scrambled eggs, and we'll have
coffee--not tea."

"No, mem-sahib. No coffee--coffee finish!"

"Send the shikari down to the bazaar, then, for a tin of coffee from Nusserwanjee."

"Shikari saaf kuro lakri ke major sahib" (cleaning the golf-clubs). "Tea breakfast, coffee
kal" (to-morrow).

And, utterly routed on every point, Jane gives in gracefully, and makes an excellent breakfast
as prearranged by Sabz Ali!

The news is spread that there will be an exhibition of pictures held in Srinagar in September.
Every second person is a--more or less--heaven-born artist out here, so there promises to be
no lack of exhibits. I dreamed a dream last night, and in my dream I was walking along the
bund and came upon an elderly gentleman laying Naples yellow on a canvas with a trowel. The
river was smooth and golden, and reflected the sensuous golden tones of the sky. Trees arose
from golden puddles, half screening a ziarat which, upon the glowing canvas, appeared remarkably
like a village church. "How beautiful!" I cried, "how gloriously oleographic!" and the painter,
removing a brush from his mouth, smiled, well pleased, and said, "I am a Leader among Victorian
artists and the public adores me!" and I left him vigorously painting pot-boilers. Then in
a damp dell among the willows of the Dal I found a foreigner in spectacles, and the light upon
his pictures was the light that never was on sea or land; but through a silvery mist the willows
showed ghostly grey, and a shadowy group of classic nymphs were ringed in the dance, and I
cried "O Corot! lend me your spectacles. I fain, like you, would see crude nature dimmed to
a silvery perpetual twilight." And Corot replied: "Mon ami moi je ne vois jamais le soleil,
je me plonge toujours, dans les ombres bleuâtres et les rayons pâles de l'aube."

Then upward I fared till, treading the clear heights, I found one frantically painting the
peaks and pinnacles of the mountains in weird stipples of alternate red and blue.

"Great heavens!" I exclaimed, "what disordered manner is this!"

The artist glanced swiftly at me, and said disdainfully: "I am a modern of the moderns, and
if you cannot see that mountains are like that, it is your fault--not mine. Go back, you stand
too close."

And as I went back I looked over my shoulder, and, truly, the flaring rose-colour had blended
amicably with the blue, and I admitted that perhaps Segantini was not so mad as he looked.

A little lower down a stout Scotchman painted a flowery valley. The flowers were many and bright,
but not so garish as they appeared to him, and I hinted as much; but he scorned my criticism.

"Mon," he shouted, "I painted the Three Graces, an' they made me an Academeesian. I painted
a flowery glen in the Tyrol (dearie me, but thae flowers cost me a fortune in blue paint),
and it was coft for the Chantry Bequest, and hoo daur you talk to me?"

Then I departed hurriedly and came upon four men, two of them with long beards, and all with
unkempt hair, laboriously depicting a blue pine, needle by needle, and every one in its proper
place. I asked them if theirs was not a very troublesome way of painting.

They looked at one another with earnest blue eyes, and remarked that here was evidently a Philistine
who knew not Cimabue and cared not a jot for Giotto; and the first said: "Sir, methinks he
who would climb the golden stairs should do so step by step;" and the second said, sadly: "We
are but scapegoats, truly, being cast forth by the vindictive Victorians of our day."

The third murmured in somewhat broken English.

  "Victoria Victrix,
  Beata Beatrix,"

whereby I recognised him to be a poet, if not a painter.

But the fourth--an energetic-looking man with a somewhat arrogant manner--said briskly: "Perchance
the ass is right; these pine needles are becoming monotonous, and I have seventeen million
four hundred and sixty-two thousand five hundred and eleven more to do. Beshrew me if I do
not take to pot-boiling!"

Down by the water-side a lady sat, sketching in water-colours for dear life; around her lay
a litter of half-finished works, scattered like autumn leaves in Vallombrosa. I approached
her, quite friendly, and offered to gather them up for her--at least some of them, saying soothingly,
for I saw she was in a temper--

"Dear, dear, Clara, why, what is the matter?"

"I am painting the Venice of the East," she cried petulantly, "but for the life of me I can't
see a campanile, and how can I possibly paint a picture without a campanile?"

I understood that, of course, she couldn't, so I stole away softly on tip-toe, leaving her
turning doungas into gondolas for all she was worth.

A dark, dapper man, with an alert air and an eyeglass, sat near the seventh bridge, writing.
Beside him stood an easel and other painting-gear. I asked him what he was doing, and he answered,
with a fine smile, "I am gently making enemies;" so, to turn the subject, I picked up a large
canvas, smeared over with invisible grey, like the broadside of a modern battleship, and sprinkled
here and there with pale yellow blobs.

"What have we here, James?" I inquired cheerfully, and he, staying his claw-like hand in mid-air,
made reply--

"A chromatic in tones of sad colour, with golden accidentals--Kashmir night-lights."

"Ah! quite so," I exclaimed; "but have I got it right side up?"

He looked at it doubtfully for a moment, then, pointing to a remarkable butterfly (Vanessa
Sifflerius) depicted in the corner, cried: "It's all right; you'll never make a mistake if
you keep this insect in the right bottom corner. It is put there on purpose."

Lastly, on an eminence I saw a man like an eagle, sitting facing full the sun, and upon his
glowing canvas was portrayed the heavens above and the earth beneath and the waters under the
earth, and behind him sat one who patted him upon the back, and looked at intervals over his
shoulder at the glorious work, and then wrote in a book a eulogy thereof; and I, too, came
and looked over the painter's shoulder, and I muttered, with Oliver Wendell Holmes,

  "The foreground golden dirt,
  The sunshine painted with a squirt."

Then the man who patted the painter on the back turned upon me aggressively, and said: "This
is the only painter who ever was, or will be, and if you don't agree with me you are a fool."
The painter, smiling a sly Monna-Lisan smile of triumph, remarked: "Right you are, John. I
rather think this will knock that rascal Claude," and I laughed so that I awoke; but the memory
of the dream remained with me, and it seemed to me that, perhaps, we poor amateurs might not
be any better able to compass aught but caricatures of this marvellous scenery than the ghostly
limners of my dream!

The hut just above ours was tenanted by a party of three young Lancers on leave from Rawal
Pindi, a gramophone, and a few dogs.

One of the soldiers was laid up with a bad ankle, and it soon became a daily custom for Jane
or me to play a game of chess or piquet with the invalid.

Later on, when leave had expired for the hale, when the dogs had departed, and the voice of
the gramophone was no more heard in the land, we came to see a great deal of the wounded warrior,
and finally arranged to personally conduct him off the premises, and return him, in time for
medical survey, to Rawal Pindi.

Many years ago I read a delightful poem called The Paradise of Birds--I believe it was by Mortimer
Collins,[1] but I am not sure. Now the Poet (who, together with Windbag, sailed to this very
paradise of birds) deemed that this happy asylum of the feathered fowls was somewhere at the
back of the North Pole. He cannot have known of Kashmir, or he would assuredly have sent the
persecuted birds thither, and placed the "Roc's Egg" as janitor, somewhere by the portals of
the Jhelum Valley. Kashmir is truly and indeed the paradise of birds, for there no man molests
them, and no schoolboy collects eggs, and the result is a fascinating fearlessness, the result
of perpetual peace and plenty.

I regret exceedingly that my ornithological knowledge is extremely limited. I could find no
books to help me,[2] and, as I did not care to kill any birds merely to enable me to identify
their species, my notes were merely "popular" and not "scientific."

Shall I confess that I began an erudite work on the birds of Kashmir, but got no further than
the Hoopoe? It began as follows:--

THE HOOPOE

Early history of.--Tereus, King of Thrace, annoyed his wife Procne so much by the very marked
attention which he paid to her sister Philomela, that she lost her temper so far as to chop
up her son Itylus, and present him to his papa in the form of a ragoût.

This, naturally, disgusted Tereus very much, and he "fell upon" the ladies with a sword, but,
just as he was about to stab them to the heart, he was changed into a Hoopoe, Philomela into
a nightingale, Procne into a swallow, while Itylus became a pheasant.

  "Vertitur in volucrem, cui stant in vertice cristae
  Prominet immodicum pro longa cuspide rostrum;
  Nomen epops volucri."

OVID, Metam. lib. vi.

His crest and patent of nobility.--Once upon a time, King Solomon, while making a royal progress,
was much, incommoded by the powerful rays of the sun, and as he had ascendency over the birds,
and knew their language, he called upon the vultures to come and fly betwixt the sun and his
nobility, but the vultures refused. Then the kindly Hoopoes assembled, and flew in close mass
above his head, thus forming a shade under which he proceeded on his journey in ease and comfort.

At sundown the monarch sent for the King of the Hoopoes, and desired him to name a reward for
the service which he and his followers had rendered.

Then the King of the Hoopoes answered that nothing could be more glorious than the golden crown
of King Solomon; and so Solomon decreed that the Hoopoes should thenceforward wear golden crowns
as a mark of his favour. But alas! when men found the Hoopoes all adorned with golden crowns,
they pursued and slew them in great multitudes for greed of the precious metal, until the King
of the Hoopoes, in heavy sorrow, hied hastily to King Solomon, and begged that the gift of
the golden crowns might be rescinded, ere every Hoopoe was slain.

Then Solomon, seeing the misery they had brought upon themselves by their presumption, transformed
their crowns of gold to crowns of feathers, which no man coveted (for the Eastern ladies didn't
wear hats), and the Hoopoes wear them to this day as a mark of royal favour, but all the feathers
fell off the necks of the disobliging vultures.

His amazing talent.--In those dark ages ... the Hoopoe was considered as prodigiously skilful
in defeating the machinations of witches, wizards, and hobgoblins. The female, in consequence
of this art, could preserve her offspring from these dreaded injuries.

She knew all the plants which defeat fascinations, those which give sight to the blind; and,
more wondrous still, those which open gates or doors, locked, bolted, or barred.

Aelian relates that a man having three times successively closed the nest of a Hoopoe, and
having remarked the herb with which the bird, as often, opened it, applied the same herb, and
with the same success, to charm the locks off the strongest coffer.--Naturalists' Magazine
(about 1805).

His personal appearance.--The beak is bent, convex and sub-compressed, and in some degree obtuse;
the tongue is obtuse, triangular and very short, and the feet are ambulatory. As this bird
has a great abundance of feathers, it appears considerably thicker than it is. It is, in fact,
about the size of a mistletoe thrush, but looks, while in its feathers, to be as large as a
common pigeon.--Naturalists' Magazine.

I had got no further in my magnum opus, when I unfortunately showed my notes to Colonel--well,
I will not mention his name, but he is the greatest authority on the birds and beasts of Kashmir.
He besought me to spare him, pathetically remarking that I should cut the ground from under
his feet, and take the bread out of his mouth, and the wind out of his sails, if I went any
further with my monograph on the Hoopoe. He saw at a glance that I was conversant with authorities
whom he had never consulted, and possessed a knowledge of my subject to which he could hardly
aspire, so I gracefully agreed to leave the field to him, and relinquished my magnum opus in
its very inception.

One of the chiefest charms of Kashmir, and one which is apt to be overlooked, is the entirely
unspoilt freshness of its scenery. No locust horde of personally-conducted "trippers" pollutes
its ways and byways, nor has the khansamah of the dâk bungalow as yet felt constrained to add
sauerkraut and German sausage to his bill of fare--for which Allah be praised!

The world is growing very small, and the globe-trotter rushes round it in eighty days. The
trail of the cheap excursionist is all over Europe, from the North Cape to Tarifa, from the
highest Alpine summit (which he attains in comfort by a funicular railway) to the deepest mines
of Cornwall. Egypt has become his footstool, and the shores of the Mediterranean his wash-pot.
Niagara is mapped and labelled for his benefit, and the Yosemite is his happy hunting-ground.
He "does" the West Indies in "sixty days for sixty pounds," and he is now arranging a special
cheap excursion from the Cape to Cairo. "But," it may be remarked, "what were Jane and I but
globe-trotters'? and am I not trying to sing the praises of Kashmir with the avowed object
of inducing people to go out and see it for themselves?"

By all manner of means let us travel. Far be it from me to wish folks to stay dully at home,
while the wonders and beauties of the wide world lie open for the admiration and education
of its inhabitants.

But there are globe-trotters and globe-trotters. My objection is only to those--alas! too numerous--vagrants
who cannot go abroad without casting shame on the country which bred them; whose vulgarity
causes offence in church and picture-gallery; who cannot see a monument or a statue without
desiring to chip off a fragment, or at least scrawl their insignificant names upon it.

