Of the fourteen Epistles ascribed to St. Paul, viz. Romans, 1 and 2 to the Corinthians, Galatians,
Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, 1 and 2 to the Thessalonians, 1 and 2 to Timothy, Titus,
Philemon, and Hebrews, the first thirteen have, in all ages of the Church, been universally
acknowledged to be written by him. Many doubts have been entertained concerning the author
of the Epistle to the Hebrews. St. Paul was born at Tarsus the principal city of Cilicia in
Asia Minor, and was by birth both a Jew and a citizen of Rome. St. Paul is not mentioned in
the Gospels, nor is it known whether he ever heard our Saviour preach. His name is first noticed
in the account of St. Stephen's Martyrdom, which was followed by a severe persecution of the
Church at Jerusalem, in which St. Paul, (who was then called Saul) distinguished himself among
its enemies, by his activity and violence. He was going to Damascus, to bring back bound any
Christians whom he might find there, when his miraculous conversion took place: after which,
he became one of the most zealous preachers of the Gospel; and as he devoted much of his time
to the instruction of the Gentiles, he is called the Apostle of the Gentiles. Gentiles, was
the appellation by which all nations were distinguished, that were not Jews, and consequently
the Gentiles were Pagans. St. Paul performed many voyages and journies in the service of the
Christian religion, and the New Testament history closes A. D. 63, with his release from a
two years imprisonment at Rome; no ancient author has left any particulars of the remaining
part of this Apostle's life.

The Epistle of St. James was written by that Apostle, who is called James the Less, the son
of Alphæus or Cleophat, which are supposed to be the same name, differently written. It contains
much excellent instruction.

The two Epistles of St. Peter, were written by that Apostle, who enjoyed the favour of his
divine master, in a peculiar degree. St. Peter seems to have been almost the constant companion
of our Lord, and was extremely zealous in propagating his religion, though he was occasionally
led into great errors, particularly the denial of his master, but his bitter remorse and repentance,
prove that his sorrow for this crime was sincere. He admitted Cornelius, the first Gentile
convert, into the Christian faith, but as the chief of his instructions were confined to the
Jews, he is called the apostle of the Jews.

The three Epistles of St. John, were written by the apostle who was favoured with the greatest
share of our Saviour's affection. He leaned on his bosom at the last supper, and was one of
the first who were made acquainted with his resurrection.

The Epistle of St. Jude was written by the apostle, who was also called Lebbæus and Thaddæus,
he was the brother of James the Less, and excepting in the catalogue of the apostles, is only
once mentioned in the Gospels. (John chap. 14, verse 22).

The Revelation of John the divine, was written by the same Evangelist and Apostle who wrote
the Gospels and Epistles bearing that name. The Revelation is a prophetical book, and was written
by St. John, during his banishment to the isle of Patmos, in the time of Domitian. St. John
is supposed to have been the youngest of the Apostles, and to have survived all the rest. He
died at Ephesus in Asia Minor, in the third year of the emperor Trajan's reign, A. D. 100.--The
Apostles were twelve good men, whom Jesus chose to be the ministers of his gospel.

The Disciples of Christ, were those who learned of him as their master.

Thus, my dear, I have given you a short account of all the books contained in the sacred volumes.
I will now mention to you, a few of the principal Jewish sects, and then proceed to some description
of the history of that people.

There does not appear to have been any difference of religious opinions among the Jews, till
after the cessation of prophecy: most of them sprang up, subsequent to the return from the
Babylonian captivity.

The Scribes are not usually considered as a religious sect: they were writers of the law, and
often perverted the meaning of the text, instead of explaining it. "Scribes," "doctors of the
law," and "lawyers," were only different names for the same class of men.

The Pharisees believed in the immortality of the soul, the resurrection of the dead, and in
a future state of rewards and punishments. "Trusting in themselves that they were righteous,"
they despised the rest of mankind, were entirely destitute of humility towards God, and paid
more attention to outward ceremonies than to the duties of moral virtue.

The Sadducees denied the resurrection of the dead, and the immortality of the soul; therefore,
confining all their hopes to this present world, they devoted themselves to its pleasures,
and only punished the crimes which disturbed the public tranquillity.

The Nazarites, of whom we read in the Old and New Testament, were persons either devoted to
God by their parents, or who devoted themselves for life, or for a limited time. The only three
instances of Nazarites devoted to God by their parents before their birth, are Sampson, Samuel,
and John the Baptist.

The Herodians were partizans of Herod the Great.

The Galileans, so called from their leader Judas of Galilee, were a very turbulent and seditious
sect, and by degrees united to themselves almost all the other sects.

The Publicans were not of any sect, civil or religious, but merely tax-gatherers, and collectors
of customs due to the Romans. The Publicans were generally Jews, and by their employment were
rendered odious to their brethren.

Proselytes were those persons, who being Gentiles by birth, came over to the Jewish religion,
but retained that name, till they were admitted into the congregation of the Lord, as adopted
children.

The land of Canaan, so named from Canaan the son of Ham, whose posterity possessed this land,
as well as Egypt or Mizraim, lies in the western part of Asia. Its boundaries were to the north,
Coelo Syria; to the west, the Mediterranean Sea; to the east, Arabia Deserta; and to the south
and south west, Arabia Petrea and Egypt. Its extent was about 200 miles from north to south,
and its breadth 100.--It was divided into two parts, by the river Jordan; the capital was Jerusalem,
(supposed to have been the Salem of Melchisedek.) The whole country was also called Palestine
from the Philistines, who inhabiting the western coast, were first known to the Romans, and
being by them corruptly called Palestines, gave that name to the country; but it was more commonly
called Judea, as the land of the Jews. Since our Saviour's advent it has been called the Holy
land, but in modern writers, all distinction is frequently lost in the name of Syria, which
is given to the whole country east of the Mediterranean, between the sea and the desert.

         *         *         *         *         *

The government of the Jews partook of the patriarchal form, as much as was consistent with
the condition and circumstances of a nation.

The leaders or princes of the 12 tribes, possessed a peculiar and supreme authority over each
tribe, as their chief magistrate and leader in time of war.

The elders or rulers of cities, only exercised authority in their own respective cities, and
as well as the princes were subject to the great council.

The Sanhedrim or great national council of the Jews was established by Moses: it consisted
of 70 persons, besides the president, who after the time of Moses was usually the High Priest.

         *         *         *         *         *

The Septuagint is a Greek translation of the Bible, made at Alexandria, when Ptolemy Philadelphus
was king of Egypt. It is often signified in books by "the LXX."

The Vulgate was a very ancient version of the Bible in Latin.

The Bible commences with an account of the creation of the world, 4004 B. C., the history of
our first parents, their deviation from virtue, and the evil consequences that ensued. To Adam
and Eve were born sons and daughters. The only three mentioned by name, are Cain, Abel and
Seth, and the sacred historian has chiefly confined himself to the posterity of Seth, from
whom Noah descended: in his time mankind became very wicked, and to punish them, God sent a
violent rain upon the earth which caused a general deluge, and all the inhabitants of the world
were drowned, except Noah, his wife, their three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japhet, and their wives,
and a few animals of every kind. The descendants of Noah and his sons multiplied greatly, and
"they were all of one language," after a time the whole race of men moved from their original
habitations in Armenia, and settled in the plains of Shinar near the Euphrates. Here they determined
to establish themselves, and build a tower whose top might reach the heavens. God was displeased
with this work, which seems to have been undertaken in defiance of his power, and he confounded
the language of those who were engaged in it. This obliged them to discontinue their labour;
they soon after dispersed, and the different parts of the world became inhabited.

Terah the father of Abraham was a descendant of Shem; he settled with his family in Haran in
Mesopotamia, where he died: God soon after commanded Abraham to remove with his wife Sarah
into the land of Canaan, and here when they were far advanced in age, their son Isaac was born.
God made many remarkable promises to Abraham, and one of them was, "that in him all the families
of the earth should be blessed." This was a declaration that the Messiah should be a descendant
of Abraham. To make trial of his obedience, God ordered him to offer up Isaac, as a burnt offering
on Mount Moriah, but just as he was going to slay him, an angel of the Lord appeared, and told
him not to touch the lad, but to take a ram and offer it up in his stead. It was upon this
mountain that Solomon's temple was afterwards built and here our Saviour was crucified, the
mountain being then called Calvary.

Isaac married Rebekah, and had two sons, Esau and Jacob. Jacob though the younger obtained
the rights of primogeniture; he also procured his father's blessing by very unjustifiable means;
and then repaired to Padan-aram to take a wife out of his own family. He married Leah and Rachel,
and had twelve sons, who were called the twelve Patriarchs or fathers of the 12 tribes of Israel,
their names were, Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Dan, Naphthali, Gad, Asher, Issachar, Zabulon,
Joseph and Benjamin. They were all born in Padan-aram; but Jacob returned to Canaan before
his father's death. Joseph was the favourite son of Jacob; on which account his brethren hated
him, and at length sold him to some Ishmaelites, who were merchants, and the descendants of
Ishmael a son of Abraham; these Ishmaelites carried Joseph into Egypt, where he became a slave
to Potiphar, the chief officer under the king. His good conduct soon gained the esteem and
confidence of his master, but the wickedness of Potiphar's wife caused him to be thrown into
prison. He was released from this confinement, in order to interpret two dreams of Pharoah's.
God enabled him to discover that they predicted seven years of plenty which would be followed
by seven years of famine; and the wise advice Joseph gave the king on this subject, induced
the monarch to raise him to a very high office in his kingdom, and entrust to him the whole
care of collecting and managing the corn. This famine was severely felt in Canaan, and Jacob
sent his sons into Egypt to purchase corn. Joseph recognised his brethren, and after putting
them to several trials, for the purpose of making them properly sensible of their former cruel
conduct, he discovered himself to them in a very affectionate manner; he enquired concerning
his father, and when he found the old man was still alive, he desired his brothers to fetch
him, and their families out of Canaan. Jacob who had bitterly wept the loss of his favourite
son, whom he believed from the accounts of his other children to have been devoured by a wild
beast, rejoiced when he heard of his safety, and desired to go to Egypt to see him before he
died. Pharoah gave Joseph's family the land of Goshen for their residence; and during his reign,
the Hebrews were held in great estimation. The descendants of Jacob multiplied to so great
a degree, that about sixty years after the death of Joseph, the king who then reigned over
Egypt became jealous of their numbers, and endeavoured to check their increase by slaying the
infants, and reducing the parents to a state of slavery. They suffered many hardships during
several years, but at length God was pleased to deliver them in a miraculous manner by the
hand of Moses, who would soon have conducted them into the promised land, had not their disobedience
and perverseness brought upon them the punishment of a forty years' wandering in the wilderness.
During this time, God commanded Moses to deliver his laws to the people of Israel. Aaron the
brother of Moses was made High Priest, and to him was committed the superintendance of religious
ceremonies.

Neither Moses nor Aaron were permitted to enter the promised land on account of their disobedience
to a command of God; and they both died in the wilderness during the last year of their wandering.
Joshua was appointed to succeed Moses in the important office of leader of the people, God
promised him his support, and when all things were prepared, he led the Israelites to the banks
of the river Jordan: as soon as their feet touched the water, the current was stopped, the
river became dry ground, and the people entered the country opposite to the city of Jericho,
which was taken in a miraculous manner.

Some time after Joshua's death, Judges were appointed to govern Israel: they were 12 in number
and their government lasted rather more than 300 years. Othniel was the first of the Judges,
and Samuel the last. In his time the people desired to have a king like other nations, and
God commanded him to anoint Saul of the tribe of Benjamin 1095 years B. C., to be the first
king of Israel. Johim succeeded David of the tribe of Judah, and at his death the throne devolved
to his son Solomon, who built a temple to the name of the "Lord his God;" in it were deposited
the ark--the holy Scriptures, and other sacred things.--Solomon was succeeded by his son Rehoboam,
the folly and wickedness of whose conduct induced ten of the tribes to revolt, and they chose
Jeroboam one of his officers for their king. The two tribes that remained faithful to Rehoboam
were Judah and Benjamin. Rehoboam's kingdom was called Judah, and the capital of it was Jerusalem.
Jeroboam's kingdom was named Israel and its chief city was Samaria.

Jeroboam was succeeded by his son Nadab; and after he had reigned two years, he was killed
by Baasha, who usurped the crown and destroyed the whole race of Jeroboam, a man remarkable
for his impiety.--All the succeeding kings of Judah were descendants of Rehoboam, which fulfilled
the promise made by God to David, that he would "establish his house and the throne of his
kingdom for ever:" this was a declaration that the Messiah was to be a descendant of David.

There were frequent wars between the kings of Judah and Israel, and between them and the neighbouring
kings,--the kings and people both of Judah and Israel, soon fell into the greatest depravity;
and at length God suffered Shalmaneser king of Assyria, by the capture of Samaria in the reign
of Hoshea, to put an end to the kingdom of Israel 721 years B. C. and about 250 years after
its first establishment into a separate kingdom. And 606 years B. C. and about 115 years after
the destruction of the kingdom of Israel, God permitted Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, to
invade Judea in the reign of Jehoiakim, and to besiege and take Jerusalem. Jehoiakim was carried
prisoner to Babylon, though afterwards restored to his kingdom, and succeeded by two other
kings, yet, from this period may be dated the commencement of the Babylonian captivity, which
according to the prediction of Jeremiah was to last 70 years. When this time was completed,
Cyrus, under whom were united the kingdoms of Persia, Media, and Babylon, permitted the Jews
to return to their own land, and rebuild their temple at Jerusalem.

They were conducted by Zerubbabel the grandson of Jeconias, and Joshua the son of Josedec the
high priest. The second temple was finished in the reign of king Darius of Persia.

The settlement of the people "after their old estate," together with the arrangement of all
civil and ecclesiastical matters, were completed by Ezra and Nehemiah.

At the period, about 430 years B. C. the Scripture history closes, and for the remaining particulars
of the Jewish history recourse must be had to uninspired writers, particularly to the books
of the Maccabees and to Josephus.

Judea continued subject to Persia until Alexander conquered that country; it then fell under
his dominion and he treated the Jews with great lenity. After the conqueror's death, Judea
became subject to his successors, till Mattathias, a priest eminent for his piety and resolution,
encouraged the people to shake off the Syrian yoke. Mattathias died before this was effected,
but his son Judas Maccabeus completed the deliverance of his country, and the government of
Judea remained in his family till the time of Herod the great, who put an end to the administration
of the Maccabees or Armenians, and prevailed upon the Roman senate to appoint him king of Judea.

It was in the thirty sixth year of the reign of Herod, and while Augustus was Emperor of Rome
that our Saviour Jesus Christ was born, four years before the common æra.

Herod was a cruel tyrant to his people, and even to his own children: but to keep the Jews
in subjection, and to erect a lasting monument to his own name, he repaired the temple at Jerusalem,
and considerably enlarged the kingdom of Judea.

At his death, the countries over which he had reigned were divided among his three sons, but
they were not allowed to take the title of kings; they were called ethnarchs or tetrarchs.
Archelaus one of Herod's sons, acting with great cruelty and injustice, was, by order of Augustus,
banished to Vienne in Gaul, where he died. His dominions were then reduced to a Roman province,
and from this time the Jews possessed but little civil authority. Justice was administered
in the name and by the laws of Rome, and taxes were paid immediately to the emperor. Several
of the Roman governors severely oppressed and persecuted the Jews, and at length, in the reign
of Nero they openly revolted from the Romans. Then began the Jewish war, which was terminated
after an obstinate defence and unparalleled suffering, on the part of the Jews, by the total
destruction of the city and temple of Jerusalem, by Titus son of Vespasian the Roman emperor.
Since that time the Jews have no where subsisted as a nation.

Though I have endeavoured, my dear, to give you as brief an account as possible of the Jewish
history, yet the subject is so interesting, that I perceive it has already occupied a much
longer time than I at first intended. The history of our Saviour's ministry and the Acts of
the Apostles we must therefore defer to a future opportunity: though I hardly know if these
subjects require any elucidation; the facts in the New Testament being recorded in so clear
a manner by the Evangelists themselves, that I think they must be intelligible even to your
apprehension.

I hope you will perceive that I have mentioned but very slightly some of the most interesting
and important events, purposely to induce you to seek a more detailed account of them in the
sacred volume itself. This inestimable treasure will I am sure furnish the most agreeable topic
of many of our future conversations. You, my dear, have never been taught to consider religion
as a dry and difficult study, but rather as a means of adding to the cheerful enjoyment of
the many blessings bestowed upon you by the almighty giver of all good, and I trust the gratitude
and piety of your future life will prove you worthy of being called a disciple of the benevolent
Jesus.

Anne. Indeed, mamma, I feel the truth of what you say, and I will endeavour to act as you wish
me.--I am sure I shall have much more pleasure in reading those parts of the Bible you think
proper for me, now I have some connected idea of the whole.

Mrs. Harley. I believe you will. But good bye, my love, for the present: when you go to bed
you will find the prayers you asked for on my table; there are besides two hymns which I have
selected from an admirable collection.

Anne. Thank you, mamma, I will learn to repeat them.

A Morning Prayer for a Child.

O Almighty God, the Father and Preserver of all mankind! I desire to offer thee my sincerest
thanks that I am arisen this morning in health and safety. May I spend the day on which I am
now entered in endeavouring to do thy will: let me carefully avoid all that I know to be displeasing
in thy sight, and diligently apply myself to perform all the good in my power. May I keep a
strict watch over my lips and temper, and try to live in peace with those around me. Grant
thy protection and blessing to my relations and friends; if it should please thee to preserve
us through this day, may the close of it find us more worthy of again addressing thee through
Jesus Christ,

Our Father, &c.

An Evening Prayer.

Almighty and Merciful God! at the close of another day which thou hast graciously permitted
me to spend in the enjoyment of many blessings, I would return thee humble thanksgivings from
a grateful heart. Conscious of the many errors I am continually committing, I would earnestly
implore thy pardon for whatsoever has been amiss in my conduct this day. Forgive me, O Lord,
every foolish and angry word I have spoken, every perverse thought I have indulged, all I have
done that I ought not to have done, and all I have left undone that I ought to have done. O
may I truly repent of these my past faults, and strive to amend my future life. Bless my relations
and friends; pardon all their past transgressions, and if it please thee to preserve us through
the night, may we arise in the morning to do thy will. Above all the other blessings thou hast
granted me, I would value that of having become early acquainted with the religion of Jesus.
May his example be my guide, and, with a thankful remembrance of all he did and suffered for
our sakes, I sum up my petitions for the whole human race in the prayer himself taught us, saying,

Our Father, &c.

    A MORNING HYMN.

    Lord of my life! O may thy praise
      Employ my noblest powers.
    Whose goodness lengthens out my days,
      And fills the circling hours!

    Preserved by thine almighty arm,
      I pass the shades of night,
    Serene, and safe from every harm,
      And see returning light.

    While many spent the night in sighs,
      And restless pains and woes;
    In gentle sleep I clos'd my eyes,
      And undisturb'd repose.

    When sleep, death's semblance o'er me spread,
      And I unconscious lay,
    Thy watchful care was round my bed,
      To guard my feeble clay.

    O let the same almighty care
      My waking hours attend;
    From every danger, every snare,
      My heedless steps defend.

    Smile on my minutes as they roll,
      And guide my future days;
    And let thy goodness fill my soul
      With gratitude and praise.

    AN EVENING HYMN.

    Great God! to thee my ev'ning song,
    With humble gratitude, I raise;
    O let thy mercy tune my tongue,
    And fill my heart with lively praise?

    My days unclouded, as they pass,
    And ev'ry gently rolling hour,
    Are monuments of wond'rous grace,
    And witness to thy love and power.

    Thy love and power, celestial guard,
    Preserve me from surrounding harms:
    Can danger reach me, while the Lord
    Extends his kind protecting arms?

    Let cheering hope my eyelids close,
    With sleep refresh my feeble frame,
    Safe in thy care may I repose,
    And wake with praises to thy name.

CHAPTER V.

MONDAY.

Mrs. Harley. The story you are to read this morning, my dear, is founded upon facts which come
within my own observation. I dare say you have frequently heard the French Revolution spoken
of: it was this event which gave rise to the incidents contained in

The History of the Melcour Family.

Mr. de Melcour was the son of a younger branch of a good family; his father died when he was
quite a child, and left him but a small patrimony. He early entered the army, where for many
years he served his country with honour and fidelity: he was present in several engagements,
and by his bravery and exemplary conduct, acquired the esteem of all his fellow officers. During
the peace which followed the American war he married an amiable lady, whose fortune united
to his own, enabled him to quit the noisy scenes of a military life, and settle on a beautiful
little estate he purchased in the province of Gascony. Here he enjoyed all the happiness which
a good conscience, a good temper, and a feeling heart can bestow, joined to the blessings of
domestic peace. Madame de Melcour spent her time in the bosom of her family; she had little
taste for the dissipation of the capital, and possessing only a limited income, had she indulged
herself in expensive pleasures, she must have foregone the higher satisfaction of contributing
to the comfort of those in less fortunate circumstances. She had profited by the excellent
education her parents had been careful to give her, and this enabled her to bring up her own
children with little assistance from others. Frederic and Elizabeth were the happiest little
boy and girl in the neighbourhood: they tenderly loved their parents, and feeling the necessity
of doing their duty, it became quite habitual to them. The little faults natural to childhood
they were conscious would not be punished with severity, and their good actions they knew would
never pass unrewarded. Frederic employed much of his time in working in a little garden that
his father had given him: Elizabeth assisted in the management of the flowers, and their highest
ambition was to present their mamma with a nosegay of roses, before any were blown in the great
garden.

Thus happily passed many years at Melcour; when the troubles attendant on the revolution came
to disturb the tranquillity of their domestic enjoyment. M. de Melcour was called upon to resume
a military command; and though he disapproved of many of the measures that had been pursued
by the government, yet, when he saw his sovereign in distress, he would not withhold his aid.
He was particularly active in endeavouring to put a stop to the devastation caused by a misguided
populace; and in a fray between some peasants and soldiers, he fell a victim to his benevolent
exertions in the cause of humanity.

The sad news was brought to Madame de Melcour just as she was recovering from the bed of sickness;
her constitution already much weakened, was unable to support the fatal shock, and she soon
after closed her eyes for ever in the arms of her beloved children.

At this period, Frederic was just fifteen, his sister two years younger; they were left without
any protector but an aged grandmother, who had constantly resided with her daughter since the
marriage of the latter with M. de Melcour. Already suffering from the infirmities of age, Madame
de Joinville felt herself unable to resist the persecutions of ill-disposed persons, and in
the course of a few months found it necessary to leave the chateau. It was her intention to
retire with her grandchildren into England, the country where she had spent much of the early
part of her life, and where she still hoped to discover some of her former friends. Accordingly,
having settled her affairs as well as the distracted state of the nation would permit, and,
accompanied by Frederic and Elizabeth, she proceeded to the nearest seaport. They encountered
many difficulties on the road, but at length, through Frederic's activity, succeeded in securing
their passage in a vessel that was on the point of sailing for England.

Madame de Joinville suffered extremely from the fatigues and anxieties she had lately undergone,
and on their arrival at ---- it was found necessary to remain there a few days in order to
recruit her exhausted strength.

As soon as Madame de Joinville was sufficiently recovered, they hastened to London, where,
by the assistance of some friends, a small house was hired for their reception. The expences
of a long journey had much diminished the sum Madame de Joinville had collected before her
departure from France, and the most rigid economy was necessary to prevent them from becoming
burthensome to others. In these circumstances, Frederic could not bear the idea of leading
an idle life; he greatly wished to follow the profession of his father, but the anxious fears
of his grandmother and sister long opposed his inclinations: however, he at length prevailed,
and entered a regiment that was ordered on foreign service. The parting between Elizabeth and
Frederic was a melancholy scene: she was long inconsolable for his loss, but religion, which
she had always been taught to consider as the best comforter of the afflicted, came to her
aid, and feeling the necessity of submission, she determined by active exertions to divert
her mind from past calamities.

It was now that Elizabeth felt the inestimable advantages of a good education; she perfectly
understood the English language; her industry and punctuality procured her many friends, who,
young as she was, entrusted her with the translation of papers of consequence, and the reward
she received for her labour, greatly contributed to the support of the family. Every instant
she could spare from her employment and the care of their domestic affairs, was devoted to
her grandmother. She nursed her when sick, read aloud for her amusement, and by every kind
attention endeavoured to lessen her regret for the blessings she had lost. Madame de Joinville
has often been heard to declare, that without the filial affection of her granddaughter she
could hardly have supported her afflictions. The infirmities of age must sometimes render those
advanced in years petulant and capricious: Elizabeth never murmured when her endeavours to
please failed of success; much less did she irritate her grandmother by contradiction; she
patiently submitted to these trials of her temper, and when evening came, and Madame de Joinville
retired to rest, Elizabeth thought herself amply repaid for any little disappointments she
had encountered during the day, by receiving her blessing and the assurance of her tenderest love.

Frederic remained two years abroad; whatever he could spare from his own actual wants he constantly
remitted to his sister; but without her industry they would often have been greatly distressed.
At length Elizabeth's noble and pious conduct was made known to a lady who had formerly been
an intimate acquaintance of Madame de Joinville's family. Her visits to the old lady gave her
constant opportunities of witnessing the amiable disposition of her granddaughter; and anxious
to reward her virtues, she interested herself so warmly in their concerns, that at length,
through the intercession of some powerful friends, a restitution of part of M. de Melcour's
property was procured for his children. Elizabeth when in happier circumstances preserved the
same humility of mind, and her never failing attention to her grandmother was rewarded by the
pleasure of seeing the comforts of her last days make amends for the sorrows that had embittered
so many of her former ones.

Frederic arrived in England soon after this happy change in their circumstances; he would have
wished his sister to return to their native country, but the inconvenience of removing her
grandmother, and the still unquiet state of the continent, induced her to prefer a residence
in that land where she was secured from the horrors she had once witnessed. Frederic yielded
to her reasons; and when their affairs obliged him to leave her, a constant correspondence
maintained the affection that had always subsisted from their earliest years.

         *         *         *         *         *

"Dear mamma," said Anne, "I think I like Elizabeth better than any of the young people I have
yet read about, but do you really believe there ever was so good a character?"

Mrs. Harley. Certainly, my dear; and I have no doubt but many such are to be found. They must
be depraved indeed, who can be wanting in affection to their parents. But I fear we must not
comment a great deal on this story at present, or there will not be time to give you some account
of Geography, which I intend for your study this morning.

Anne. I will then, mamma, after dinner, ask you to explain to me a few of the words I did not
quite understand.

Mrs. Harley. Do, my dear, I shall be happy to give you all the information you desire.

FOURTH LESSON.

Mrs. Harley. You know, my dear, what is meant by Geography?

Anne. O yes, mamma, Geography is a description of the earth we inhabit.

Mrs. Harley. And the earth (which the globe before us represents,) is divided into four parts,
viz. Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. The three first are contained in the eastern hemisphere,
and are called the old world. America is situated in the western hemisphere, and is called
the new world, because discovered in modern times.

Anne. Pray, mamma, is not a continent one of the divisions of the land?

Mrs. Harley. Yes, my dear; for after we have divided the whole globe into land and water, we
again subdivide the land into Continents, Islands, Peninsulas, Isthmusses, and Promontories,--the
water into Oceans, Seas, Straits, Gulfs, Bays, Lakes, Rivers, and Creeks.

A Continent is a large tract of land containing several countries which are not separated by
seas; as Europe, Asia, Africa, and America.

An Island, is a tract of land entirely surrounded by water, as Britain, Ireland, Sicily, &c.

A Peninsula, is a tract of land almost surrounded by water, and is joined to the main land
by an isthmus, as the Morea.

An Isthmus, is a narrow neck of land that joins a peninsula to the continent, as the Isthmus
of Corinth.

A Cape or Promontory, is that high part of land which shoots into the sea, and appears to terminate
in a point, as the Cape of Good Hope in Africa, Cape Finistere in Spain, &c.

A Shore or Coast, is that land which borders upon the sea.

