 The extent of the arches from one side to
the other is thirty-two braccia, that of the street in the middle is sixteen braccia, and that
of the shops on either side eight braccia. For this work, which cost sixty thousand florins
of gold, not only did Taddeo then deserve infinite praise, but even to-day he is more than
ever commended for it, for the reason that, besides many other floods, it was not moved in
the year 1557, on September 13, by that which threw down the Ponte a S. Trinita and two arches
of that of the Carraia, and shattered in great part the Rubaconte, together with much other
destruction that is very well known. And truly there is no man of judgment who can fail to
be amazed, not to say marvel, considering that the said Ponte Vecchio in so great an emergency
could sustain unmoved the onset of the waters and of the beams and the wreckage made above,
and that with so great firmness.

At the same time Taddeo directed the founding of the Ponte a S. Trinita, which was finished
less happily in the year 1346, at the cost of twenty thousand florins of gold; I say less happily,
because, not having been made like the Ponte Vecchio, it was entirely ruined by the said flood
of the year 1557. In like manner, under the direction of Taddeo there was made at the said
time the wall of the Costa a S. Gregorio, with piles driven in below, including two piers of
the bridge in order to gain additional ground for the city on the side of the Piazza de' Mozzi,
and to make use of it, as they did, to make the mills that are there.

Taddeo received a commission for some works in fresco in Arezzo, which he carried to the greatest
perfection in company with his disciple Giovanni da Milano. Of these we still see one in the
Company of the Holy Spirit, a scene on the wall over the high-altar, containing the Passion
of Christ, with many horses, and the Thieves on the Cross, a work held very beautiful by reason
of the thought that he showed in placing Him on the Cross. Therein are some figures with vivid
expressions which show the rage of the Jews, some pulling Him by the legs with a rope, others
offering the sponge, and others in various attitudes, such as the Longinus who is piercing
His side, and the three soldiers who are gambling for His raiment, in the faces of whom there
is seen hope and fear as they throw the dice. The first of these, in armour, is standing in
an uncomfortable attitude awaiting his turn, and shows himself so eager to throw that he appears
not to be feeling the discomfort; the other, raising his eyebrows, with his mouth and with
his eyes wide open, is watching the dice, in suspicion, as it were, of fraud, and shows clearly
to anyone who studies him the desire and the wish that he has to win. The third, who is throwing
the dice, having spread the garment on the ground, appears to be announcing with a grin his
intention of casting them. In like manner, throughout the walls of the church are seen some
stories of S. John the Evangelist, and throughout the city other works made by Taddeo, which
are recognized as being by his hand by anyone who has judgment in art. In the Vescovado, also,
behind the high-altar, there are still seen some stories of S. John the Baptist, which are
wrought with such marvellous manner and design that they cause him to be held in admiration.
In the Chapel of S. Sebastiano in S. Agostino, beside the sacristy, he made the stories of
that martyr, and a Disputation of Christ with the Doctors, so well wrought and finished that
it is a miracle to see the beauty in the changing colours of various sorts and the grace in
the pigments of these works, which are finished to perfection.

In the Church of the Sasso della Vernia in the Casentino he painted the chapel wherein S. Francis
received the Stigmata, assisted in the minor details by Jacopo di Casentino, who became his
disciple by reason of this visit. This work finished, he returned to Florence together with
Giovanni, the Milanese, and there, both within the city and without, they made very many panels
and pictures of importance; and in process of time he gained so much, turning all into capital,
that he laid the foundation of the wealth and the nobility of his family, being ever held a
prudent and far-sighted man.

He also painted the Chapter-house in S. Maria Novella, being commissioned by the Prior of the
place, who suggested the subject to him. It is true, indeed, that by reason of the work being
large and of there being unveiled, at that time when the bridges were being made, the Chapter-house
of S. Spirito, to the very great fame of Simone Memmi, who had painted it, there came to the
said Prior a desire to call Simone to the half of this work; wherefore, having discussed the
whole matter with Taddeo, he found him well contented therewith, for the reason that he had
a surpassing love for Simone, because he had been his fellow-disciple under Giotto and ever
his loving friend and companion. Oh! minds truly noble! seeing that without emulation, ambition,
or envy, ye loved one another like brothers, each rejoicing as much in the honour and profit
of his friend as in his own! The work was divided, therefore, and three walls were given to
Simone, as I said in his Life, and Taddeo had the left-hand wall and the whole vaulting, which
was divided by him into four sections or quarters in accordance with the form of the vaulting
itself. In the first he made the Resurrection of Christ, wherein it appears that he wished
to attempt to make the splendour of the Glorified Body give forth light, as we perceive in
a city and in some mountainous crags; but he did not follow this up in the figures and in the
rest, doubting, perchance, that he was not able to carry it out by reason of the difficulty
that he recognized therein. In the second section he made Jesus Christ delivering S. Peter
from shipwreck, wherein the Apostles who are manning the boat are certainly very beautiful;
and among other things, one who is fishing with a line on the shore of the sea (a subject already
used by Giotto in the mosaics of the Navicella in S. Pietro) is depicted with very great and
vivid feeling. In the third he painted the Ascension of Christ, and in the fourth the coming
of the Holy Spirit, where there are seen many beautiful attitudes in the figures of the Jews
who are seeking to gain entrance through the door. On the wall below are the Seven Sciences,
with their names and with those figures below them that are appropriate to each. Grammar, in
the guise of a woman, with a door, teaching a child, has the writer Donato seated below her.
After Grammar follows Rhetoric, and at her feet is a figure that has two hands on books, while
it draws a third hand from below its mantle and holds it to its mouth. Logic has the serpent
in her hand below a veil, and at her feet Zeno of Elea, who is reading. Arithmetic is holding
the tables of the abacus, and below her is sitting Abraham, its inventor. Music has the musical
instruments, and below her is sitting Tubal-Cain, who is beating with two hammers on an anvil
and is standing with his ears intent on that sound. Geometry has the square and the compasses,
and below, Euclid. Astrology has the celestial globe in her hands, and below her feet, Atlas.

In the same S. Maria Novella, over the tramezzo[17] of the church, he also made a S. Jerome
robed as a Cardinal, having such a devotion for that Saint that he chose him as the protector
of his house; and below this, after the death of Taddeo, his son caused a tomb to be made for
their descendants, covered with a slab of marble bearing the arms of the Gaddi. For these descendants,
by reason of the excellence of Taddeo and of their merits, Cardinal Jerome has obtained from
God most honourable offices in the Church--Clerkships of the Chamber, Bishoprics, Cardinalates,
Provostships, and Knighthoods, all most honourable; and all these descendants of Taddeo, of
whatsoever degree, have ever esteemed and favoured the beautiful intellects inclined to the
matters of sculpture and painting, and have given them assistance with every effort.

Finally, having come to the age of fifty and being smitten with a most violent fever, Taddeo
passed from this life in the year 1350, leaving his son Agnolo and Giovanni to apply themselves
to painting, recommending them to Jacopo di Casentino for ways of life and to Giovanni da Milano
for instruction in the art. After the death of Taddeo this Giovanni, besides many other works,
made a panel which was placed on the altar of S. Gherardo da Villamagna in S. Croce, fourteen
years after he had been left without his master, and likewise the panel of the high-altar of
Ognissanti, where the Frati Umiliati had their seat, which was held very beautiful, and the
tribune of the high-altar at Assisi, wherein he made a Crucifix, with Our Lady and S. Chiara,
and stories of Our Lady on the walls and sides. Afterwards he betook himself to Milan, where
he wrought many works in distemper and in fresco, and there finally he died.

Taddeo, then, adhered constantly to the manner of Giotto, but did not better it much save in
the colouring, which he made fresher and more vivacious than that of Giotto, the latter having
applied himself so ardently to improving the other departments and difficulties of this art,
that although he gave attention to this, he could not, however, attain to the privilege of
doing it, whereas Taddeo, having seen that which Giotto had made easy and having learnt it,
had time to add something and to improve the colouring.

Taddeo was buried by Agnolo and Giovanni, his sons, in the first cloister of S. Croce, in that
tomb which he had made for Gaddo his father, and he was much honoured with verses by the men
of culture of that time, as a man who had been greatly deserving for his ways of life and for
having brought to completion with beautiful design, besides his pictures, many buildings of
great convenience to his city, and besides what has been mentioned, for having carried out
with solicitude and diligence the construction of the Campanile of S. Maria del Fiore, from
the design left by Giotto his master; which campanile was built in such a manner that stones
could not be put together with more diligence, nor could a more beautiful tower be made, with
regard either to ornament, or cost, or design. It is enough for the present to say that Domenico
Ghirlandajo, who repainted it, availed himself greatly of the invention put into it by Orcagna,
who also painted in fresco in the same church the Chapel of the Strozzi, which is near to the
door of the sacristy and of the belfry, in company with Bernardo, his brother. In this chapel,
to which one ascends by a staircase of stone, he painted on one wall the glory of Paradise,
with all the Saints and with various costumes and head-dresses of those times. On the other
wall he made Hell, with the abysses, centres, and other things described by Dante, of whom
Andrea was an ardent student. In the Church of the Servites in the same city he painted in
fresco, also with Bernardo, the Chapel of the family of Cresci; with a Coronation of Our Lady
on a very large panel in S. Pietro Maggiore, and a panel in S. Romeo, close to the side-door.
In like manner, he and his brother Bernardo painted the outer façade of S. Apollinare, with
so great diligence that the colours in that exposed place have been preserved marvellously
vivid and beautiful up to our own day.

Moved by the fame of these works of Orcagna, which were much praised, the men who at that time
were governing Pisa had him summoned to work on a portion of one wall in the Campo Santo of
that city, even as Giotto and Buffalmacco had done before. Wherefore, putting his hand to this,
Andrea painted a Universal Judgment, with some fanciful inventions of his own, on the wall
facing towards the Duomo, beside the Passion of Christ made by Buffalmacco; and making the
first scene on the corner, he represented therein all the degrees of lords temporal wrapped
in the pleasures of this world, placing them seated in a flowery meadow and under the shade
of many orange-trees, which make a most delicious grove and have some Cupids in their branches
above; and these Cupids, flying round and over many young women (all portraits from the life,
as it seems clear, of noble ladies and dames of those times, who, by reason of the long lapse
of time, are not recognized), are making a show of shooting at the hearts of these young women,
who have beside them young men and nobles who are standing listening to music and song and
watching the amorous dances of youths and maidens, who are sweetly taking joy in their loves.
Among these nobles Orcagna portrayed Castruccio, Lord of Lucca, as a youth of most beautiful
aspect, with a blue cap wound round his head and with a hawk on his wrist, and near him other
nobles of that age, of whom we know not who they are. In short, in that first part, in so far
as the space permitted and his art demanded, he painted all the delights of the world with
exceeding great grace. In the other part of the same scene he represented on a high mountain
the life of those who, drawn by repentance for their sins and by the desire to be saved, have
fled from the world to that mountain, which is all full of saintly hermits who are serving
the Lord, busy in diverse pursuits with most vivacious expressions. Some, reading and praying,
are shown all intent on contemplation, and others, labouring in order to gain their livelihood,
are exercising themselves in various forms of action. There is seen here among others a hermit
who is milking a goat, who could not be more active or more lifelike in appearance than he
is. Below there is S. Macarius showing to three Kings, who are riding with their ladies and
their retinue and going to the chase, human misery in the form of three Kings who are lying
dead but not wholly corrupted in a tomb, which is being contemplated with attention by the
living Kings in diverse and beautiful attitudes full of wonder, and it appears as if they are
reflecting with pity for their own selves that they have in a short time to become such. In
one of these Kings on horseback Andrea portrayed Uguccione della Faggiuola of Arezzo, in a
figure which is holding its nose with one hand in order not to feel the stench of the dead
and corrupted Kings. In the middle of this scene is Death, who, flying through the air and
draped in black, is showing that she has cut off with her scythe the lives of many, who are
lying on the ground, of all sorts and conditions, poor and rich, halt and whole, young and
old, male and female, and in short a good number of every age and sex. And because he knew
that the people of Pisa took pleasure in the invention of Buffalmacco, who gave speech to the
figures of Bruno in S. Paolo a Ripa d'Arno, making some letters issue from their mouths, Orcagna
filled this whole work of his with such writings, whereof the greater part, being eaten away
by time, cannot be understood. Round these dead bodies are some devils who are tearing their
souls from their mouths, and are carrying them to certain pits full of fire, which are on the
summit of a very high mountain. Over against these are angels who are likewise taking the souls
from the mouths of others of these dead people, who have belonged to the good, and are flying
with them to Paradise. Next, below this, in the border of this scene, are nine angels who are
holding legends both Italian and Latin in some suitable scrolls, put into that place below
because above they were like to spoil the scene, and not to include them in the work seemed
wrong to their author, who considered them very beautiful; and it may be that they were to
the taste of that age. The greater part is omitted by us, in order not to weary others with
such things, which are not pertinent and little pleasing, not to mention that the greater part
of these inscriptions being effaced, the remainder is little less than fragmentary. After these
works, in making the Judgment, Orcagna set Jesus Christ on high above the clouds in the midst
of His twelve Apostles, judging the quick and the dead; showing on one side, with beautiful
art and very vividly, the sorrowful expressions of the damned who are being dragged weeping
by furious demons to Hell, and, on the other, the joy and the jubilation of the good, whom
a body of angels guided by the Archangel Michael are leading as the elect, all rejoicing, to
the right, where are the blessed. And it is truly a pity that for lack of writers, in so great
a multitude of men of the robe, chevaliers, and other lords, that are clearly depicted and
portrayed there from the life, there should be not one, or only very few, of whom we know the
names or who they were; although it is said that a Pope who is seen there is Innocent IV, friend[18]
of Manfredi.

After this work, and after making some sculptures in marble for the Madonna that is on the
abutment of the Ponte Vecchio, with great honour for himself, he left his brother Bernardo
to execute by himself a Hell in the Campo Santo, which is described by Dante, and which was
afterwards spoilt in the year 1530 and restored by Sollazzino, a painter of our own times;
and he returned to Florence, where, in the middle of the Church of S. Croce, on a very great
wall on the right, he painted in fresco the same subjects that he painted in the Campo Santo
of Pisa, in three similar pictures, excepting, however, the scene where S. Macarius is showing
to three Kings the misery of man, and the life of the hermits who are serving God on that mountain.
Making, then, all the rest of that work, he laboured therein with better design and more diligence
than he had done in Pisa, holding, nevertheless, to almost the same plan in the invention,
the manner, the scrolls, and the rest, without changing anything save the portraits from life,
for those in this work were partly of his dearest friends, whom he placed in Paradise, and
partly of men little his friends, who were put by him in Hell. Among the good is seen portrayed
from life in profile, with the triple crown on his head, Pope Clement VI, who changed the Jubilee
in his reign from every hundred to every fifty years, and was a friend of the Florentines,
and had some of Orcagna's pictures, which were very dear to him. Among the same is Maestro
Dino del Garbo, a most excellent physician of that time, dressed as was then the wont of doctors,
with a red bonnet lined with miniver on his head, and held by the hand by an angel; with many
other portraits that are not recognized. Among the damned he portrayed Guardi, serjeant of
the Commune of Florence, being dragged along by the Devil with a hook, and he is known by three
red lilies that he has on his white bonnet, such as were then wont to be worn by the serjeants
and other similar officials; and this he did because Guardi once made distraint on his property.
He also portrayed there the notary and the judge who had been opposed to him in that action.
Afterwards he devoted himself with all his energy to the study of architecture, thinking that
at some time or another he would have to make use of it. Nor did his thought deceive him, seeing
that in the year 1355, the Commune of Florence having bought some citizens' houses near their
Palace (in order to have more space and to make a larger square, and also in order to make
a place where the citizens could take shelter in rainy or wintry days, and carry on under cover
such business as was transacted on the Ringhiera when bad weather did not hinder), they caused
many designs to be made for the building of a magnificent and very large Loggia for this purpose
near the Palace, and at the same time for the Mint where the money is struck. Among these designs,
made by the best masters in the city, that of Orcagna being universally approved and accepted
as greater, more beautiful, and more magnificent than all the others, by decree of the Signori
and of the Commune there was begun under his direction the great Loggia of the square, on the
foundations made in the time of the Duke of Athens, and it was carried on with squared stone
very well put together, with much diligence. And what was something new in those times, the
arches of the vaulting were made no longer quarter-acute, as it had been the custom up to that
time, but they were turned in half-circles in a new and laudable method, which gave much grace
and beauty to this great fabric, which was brought to completion in a short time under the
direction of Andrea. And if there had been taken thought to put it beside S. Romolo and to
turn the arches with the back to the north, which they did not do, perchance, in order to have
it conveniently near to the gate of the Palace, it would have been as useful a building for
the whole city as it is beautiful in workmanship; whereas, by reason of the great wind, in
winter no one can stand there. In this Loggia, between the arches on the front wall, in some
ornamental work by his own hand, Orcagna made seven marble figures in half-relief representing
the seven Theological and Cardinal Virtues, as accompaniment to the whole work, so beautiful
that they made him known for no less able as sculptor than as painter and architect; not to
mention that he was in all his actions as pleasant, courteous, and lovable a man as was ever
any man of his condition.

This work completed, he made some pictures, also on panel, which were sent to the Pope in Avignon
and are still in the Cathedral Church of that city. A little while afterwards the men of the
Company of Orsanmichele, having collected large sums of money from offerings and donations
given to their Madonna by reason of the mortality of 1348, resolved to make round her a chapel,
or rather shrine, not only very ornate and rich with marbles carved in every way and with other
stones of price, but also with mosaic and ornaments of bronze, as much as could possibly be
desired, in a manner that both in workmanship and in material it might surpass every other
work of so great a size wrought up to that day. Wherefore, the charge of the whole being given
to Orcagna as the most excellent of that age, he made so many designs that finally one of them
pleased the authorities, as being better than all the others. The work, therefore, being allotted
to him, they put complete reliance in his judgment and counsel; wherefore, giving the making
of all the rest to diverse master-carvers brought from several districts, he applied himself
with his brother to executing all the figures of the work, and, the whole being finished, he
had them built in and put together very thoughtfully without mortar, with clamps of copper
fixed with lead, to the end that the shining and polished marbles might not become discoloured;
and in this he succeeded so well, with profit and honour from those who came after him, that
to one who studies that work it appears, by reason of such union and methods of joining discovered
by Orcagna, that the whole chapel has been shaped out of one single piece of marble. And although
it is in a German manner, for that style it has so great grace and proportion that it holds
the first place among the works of those times, above all because its composition of figures
great and small, and of angels and prophets in half-relief round the Madonna, is very well
executed. Marvellous, also, is the casting of the bands of bronze, diligently polished, which,
encircling the whole work, enclose and bind it together in a manner that it is therefore as
stout and strong as it is beautiful in all other respects. But how much he laboured in order
to show the subtlety of his intellect in that gross age is seen in a large scene in half-relief
on the back part of the said shrine, wherein, with figures of one braccio and a half each,
he made the twelve Apostles gazing on high at the Madonna, while she, in an oval space, surrounded
by angels, is ascending to Heaven. In one of these Apostles he portrayed himself in marble,
old, as he was, with the beard shaven, with the cap wound round the head, and with the face
flat and round, as it is seen above in his portrait, drawn from that one.

It is known that the building of this Loggia and of the marble shrine, with all the master-work,
cost ninety-six thousand florins of gold, which were very well spent, for the reason that it
is, both in the architecture and in the sculptures and other ornaments, as beautiful as any
other work whatsoever of those times, and is such that, by reason of the parts made therein
by him, the name of Andrea Orcagna has been and will be ever living and great.

He used to write in his pictures: FECE ANDREA DI CIONE, SCULTORE; and in his sculptures: FECE
ANDREA DI CIONE, PITTORE; wishing that his painting should be known by his sculpture, and his
sculpture by his painting. There are throughout all Florence many panels made by him, which
are partly known by the name, such as a panel in S. Romeo, and partly by the manner, such as
one that is in the Chapter-house of the Monastery of the Angeli. Some of them that he left
unfinished were completed by Bernardo, his brother, who survived him, but not for many years.
And because, as it has been said, Andrea delighted in making verses and various forms of poetry,
when already old he wrote some sonnets to Burchiello, then a youth; and finally, being sixty
years of age, he finished the course of his life in 1389, and was borne with honour from his
dwelling, which was in the Via Vecchia de' Corazzai, to his tomb.

There were many men able in sculpture and in architecture at the same time as Orcagna, of whom
the names are not known, but their works are to be seen, and these are worthy of nothing but
praise and commendation. Among their works is not only the Monastery of the Certosa of Florence,
made at the expense of the noble family of the Acciaiuoli, and in particular of Messer Niccola,
Grand Seneschal of the King of Naples, but also the tomb of the same man, whereon he is portrayed
in stone, and that of his father and one of his sisters, which has a covering of marble, whereon
both were portrayed very well from nature in the year 1366. There, too, wrought by the hand
of the same men, is the tomb of Messer Lorenzo, son of the said Niccola, who, dying at Naples,
was brought to Florence and laid to rest there with the most honourable pomp of funeral obsequies.
In like manner, in the tomb of Cardinal Santa Croce of the same family, which is in a choir
then built anew in front of the high-altar, there is his portrait on a slab of marble, very
well wrought in the year 1390.

After the death of Andrea, his brother Jacopo, occupied himself in sculpture, as it has been
said, and in architecture, was employed in the year 1328 on the foundation and building of
the Tower and Gate of S. Piero Gattolini, and it is said that he made the four marzocchi[20]
of stone which were placed on the four corners of the Palazzo Principale of Florence, all overlaid
with gold. This work was much censured, by reason of there being laid on those places, without
necessity, a greater weight than peradventure was expedient; and many would have been pleased
to have the marzocchi made rather of plates of copper, hollow within, and then, after being
gilded in the fire, set up in the same place, because they would have been much less heavy
and more durable. It is said, too, that the same man made the horse, gilded and in full relief,
that is in S. Maria del Fiore, over the door that leads to the Company of S. Zanobi, which
horse is believed to be there in memory of Piero Farnese, Captain of the Florentines; however,
knowing nothing more about this, I could not vouch for it. About the same time Mariotto, nephew
of Andrea, made in fresco the Paradise of S. Michele Bisdomini, in the Via de' Servi in Florence,
and the panel with an Annunciation that is on the altar; and for Monna Cecilia de' Boscoli
he made another panel with many figures, placed near the door of the same church.

But among all the disciples of Orcagna none was more excellent than Francesco Traini, who made
a panel with a ground of gold for a nobleman of the house of Coscia, who is buried at Pisa
in the Chapel of S. Domenico, in the Church of S. Caterina; which panel contained a S. Dominic
standing two braccia and a half high, with six scenes of his life on either side of him, animated
and vivacious and well coloured. And in the same church, in the Chapel of S. Tommaso d'Aquino,
he made a panel in distemper with fanciful invention, which is much praised, placing therein
the said S. Thomas seated, portrayed from the life: I say from the life, because the friars
of that place had an image of him brought from the Abbey of Fossa Nuova, where he died in the
year 1323. Below, round S. Thomas, who is placed seated in the air with some books in his hand,
which are illuminating the Christian people with their rays and lustre, there are kneeling
a great number of doctors and clergy of every sort, Bishops, Cardinals, and Popes, among whom
is the portrait of Pope Urban VI. Under the feet of S. Thomas are standing Sabellius, Arius,
Averroes, and other heretics and philosophers, with their books all torn; and the said figure
of S. Thomas is placed between Plato, who is showing him the Timæus, and Aristotle, who is
showing him the Ethics. Above, a Jesus Christ, in like manner in the air between the four Evangelists,
is blessing S. Thomas, and appears to be in the act of sending down upon him the Holy Spirit,
and filling him with it and with His grace. This work, when finished, acquired very great fame
and praise for Francesco Traini, for in making it he surpassed his master Andrea by a great
measure in colouring, in harmony, and in invention. This Andrea was very diligent in his drawings,
as it may be seen in our book.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 18: This is probably a printer's error for "nemico," as that Pope was anything but
the friend of Manfredi.]

[Footnote 19: See note on p. 57.]

[Footnote 20: Lions of stone, emblems of the city of Florence.]

TOMMASO, CALLED GIOTTINO

LIFE OF TOMMASO, CALLED GIOTTINO,

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

When those arts that proceed from design come into competition and their craftsmen work in
rivalry, without doubt the good intellects, exercising themselves with much study, discover
new things every day in order to satisfy the various tastes of men; and some, speaking for
the present of painting, executing works obscure and unusual and demonstrating in them the
difficulty of making them, make known by the shadows the brightness of their genius. Others,
fashioning the sweet and delicate, thinking these to be likely to be more pleasing to the eyes
of all who behold them by reason of their having more relief, easily attract to themselves
the minds of the greater part of men. In this attempt he succeeded so well that he gained thereby,
besides the manner, which was much more beautiful than that of his master, the surname of Giottino,
which never left him; nay, by reason both of the manner and of the name it was the opinion
of many, who, however, were in very great error, that he was the son of Giotto; but in truth
it is not so, it being certain, or to speak more exactly, believed (it being impossible for
such things to be affirmed by any man) that he was the son of Stefano, painter of Florence.

He was, then, so diligent in painting and so greatly devoted to it, that, although many of
his works are not to be found, those nevertheless that have been found are good and in a beautiful
manner, for the reason that the draperies, the hair, the beards, and all the rest of his work
were made and harmonized with so great softness and diligence, that it is seen that without
doubt he added harmony to this art and had it much more perfect than his master Giotto and
his father Stefano. In his youth Giottino painted a chapel near the side-door of S. Stefano
al Ponte Vecchio in Florence, wherein, although it is to-day much spoilt by damp, the little
that has remained shows the dexterity and the genius of the craftsman. Next, he made the two
Saints, Cosimo and Damiano, for the Frati Ermini in the Canto alla Macine, but little is seen
of them to-day, for they too have been ruined by time. And he wrought in fresco a chapel in
the old S. Spirito in that city, which was afterwards ruined in the burning of that church;
and in fresco, over the principal door of the church, the story of the Sending of the Holy
Spirit; and on the square before the said church, on the way to the Canto alla Cuculia, on
the corner of the convent, he painted that shrine that is still seen there, with Our Lady and
other Saints round her, wherein both the heads and the other parts lean strongly towards the
modern manner, for the reason that he sought to vary and to blend the flesh-colours, and to
harmonize all the figures with grace and judgment by means of a variety of colours and draperies.
In like manner he wrought the stories of Constantine with much diligence in the Chapel of S.
Silvestro in S. Croce, showing very beautiful ideas in the gestures of the figures; and then,
behind an ornament of marble made for the tomb of Messer Bertino de' Bardi, a man who at that
time had held honourable military rank, he made this Messer Bertino in armour, after the life,
issuing from a sepulchre on his knees, being summoned with the sound of the trumpets of the
Judgment by two angels, who are in the air accompanying a beautifully-wrought Christ in the
clouds. On the right hand of the entrance of the door of S. Pancrazio the same man made a Christ
who is bearing His Cross, and some Saints near Him, that have exactly the manner of Giotto.
In S. Gallo (which convent was without the Gate called by the same name, and was destroyed
in the siege) in a cloister, there was a Pietà painted in fresco, whereof there is a copy in
the aforesaid S. Pancrazio, on a pillar beside the principal chapel. In S. Maria Novella, in
the Chapel of S. Lorenzo de' Giuochi, as one enters by the door on the left, on the front wall,
he wrought in fresco a S. Cosimo and a S. Damiano, and, in Ognissanti, a S. Christopher and
a S. George, which were spoilt by the malice of time, and then restored by other painters by
reason of the ignorance of a Provost little conversant with such matters. In the said church
there has remained whole the arch that is over the door of the sacristy, wherein there is in
fresco a Madonna with the Child in her arms by the hand of Tommaso, which is a good work, by
reason of his having wrought it with diligence.

By means of these works Giottino had acquired so good a name, imitating his master both in
design and in invention, as it has been told, that there was said to be in him the spirit of
Giotto himself, both because of the vividness of his colouring and of his mastery in draughtsmanship;
and in the year 1343, on July 2, when the Duke of Athens was driven out by the people and when
he had renounced the sovereignty and restored their liberty to the Florentines, Giottino was
forced by the twelve Reformers of the State, and in particular by the prayers of Messer Agnolo
Acciaiuoli, then a very great citizen, who had great influence with him, to paint in contempt,
on the tower of the Palace of the Podestà, the said Duke and his followers, who were Messer
Ceritieri Visdomini, Messer Maladiasse, his Conservator, and Messer Ranieri da San Gimignano,
all with the cap of Justice ignominiously on their heads. Round the head of the Duke were many
beasts of prey and other sorts, signifying his nature and his character; and one of those his
counsellors had in his hand the Palace of the Priors of the city, and was handing it to him,
like a disloyal traitor to his country. And all had below them the arms and emblems of their
families, and some writings which can hardly be read to-day because they have been eaten away
by time. In this work, both by reason of the draughtsmanship and of the great diligence wherewith
it was executed, the manner of the craftsman gave universal pleasure to all. Afterwards, at
the Campora, a seat of the Black Friars without the Porta a S. Piero Gattolini, he made a S.
Cosimo and a S. Damiano, which were spoilt in the whitewashing of the church; and on the bridge
of Romiti in Valdarno he painted in fresco the shrine that is built over the middle, with his
own hand and in a beautiful manner.

It is found recorded by many who wrote thereon that Tommaso applied himself to sculpture and
wrought a figure in marble on the Campanile of S. Maria del Fiore in Florence, four braccia
high and facing the place where the Orphans now dwell. In S. Giovanni Laterano in Rome, likewise,
he brought to fine completion a scene wherein he represented the Pope in several capacities,
which is now seen to have been eaten away and corroded by time; and in the house of the Orsini
he painted a hall full of famous men; with a very beautiful S. Louis on a pillar in the Araceli,
on the right hand beside the altar.

In the lower church of S. Francesco at Assisi, in an arch over the pulpit (there being no other
space that was not painted) he wrought the Coronation of Our Lady, with many angels round her,
so gracious, so beautiful in the expressions of the faces, and so sweet and delicate in manner,
that they show, with the usual harmony of colour which was something peculiar to this painter,
that he had proved himself the peer of all who had lived up to that time; and round this arch
he made some stories of S. Nicholas. In like manner, in the Monastery of S. Chiara in the same
city, in the middle of the church, he painted a scene in fresco, wherein is S. Chiara supported
in the air by two angels who appear real; she is restoring to life a child that was dead, while
round her are standing many women all full of wonder, with great beauty in the faces and in
the very gracious head-dresses and costumes of those times that they are wearing. In the same
city of Assisi, over the gate of the city that leads to the Duomo--namely, in an arch on the
inner side--he made a Madonna with the Child in her arms, with so great diligence that she
appears alive, and a S. Francis and another Saint, both very beautiful; both of which works,
although the story of S. Chiara remained unfinished by reason of Tommaso having fallen sick
and returned to Florence, are perfect and most worthy of all praise.

It is said that Tommaso was melancholic in temperament and very solitary, but with respect
to art devoted and very studious, as it is clearly seen from a panel in the Church of S. Romeo
in Florence, wrought by him in distemper with so great diligence and love that there has never
been seen a better work on wood by his hand. In this panel, which is placed in the tramezzo[21]
of the church, on the right hand, is a Dead Christ with the Maries and Nicodemus, accompanied
by other figures, who are bewailing His death with bitterness and with very sweet and affectionate
movements, wringing their hands with diverse gestures, and beating themselves in a manner that
in the air of the faces there is shown very clearly their sharp sorrow at the so great cost
of our sins. And it is something marvellous to consider, not that he penetrated with his genius
to such a height of imagination, but that he could express it so well with the brush. Wherefore
this work is consummately worthy of praise, not so much by reason of the subject and of the
invention, as because in it the craftsman has shown, in some heads that are weeping, that although
the lineaments of those that are weeping are distorted in the brows, in the eyes, in the nose,
and in the mouth, this, however, neither spoils nor alters a certain beauty which is wont to
suffer much in weeping when the painters do not know well how to avail themselves of the good
methods of art. But it is no great thing that Giottino should have executed this panel with
so much consideration, since in his labours he ever aimed rather at fame and glory than at
any other reward, being free from the greed of gain, that makes our present masters less diligent
and good. And even as he did not seek to have great riches, so he did not trouble himself much
about the comforts of life--nay, living poorly, he sought to satisfy others rather than himself;
wherefore, taking little care of himself and enduring fatigue, he died of consumption at the
age of thirty-two, and was given burial by his relatives at the Martello Gate without S. Maria
Novella, beside the tomb of Bontura. In the Duomo of Pisa, also, he wrought some panels which
have since been removed in order to make room for the modern. The last work that he made was
in a chapel of the Vescovado of Arezzo, for the Countess Giovanna, wife of Tarlato da Pietramala--namely,
a very beautiful Annunciation, with S. James and S. Philip; which work, by reason of the back
of the wall being turned to the north, was little less than completely spoilt by damp, when
Maestro Agnolo di Lorenzo of Arezzo restored the Annunciation, and shortly afterwards Giorgio
Vasari, still a youth, restored the S. James and S. Philip, to his own great profit, having
learnt much, at that time when he had not the advantage of other masters, by studying Giovanni's
method of painting and the shadows and colours of that work, spoilt as it was.

Of the works of the other disciples of Giottino there is no mention made, seeing that they
were but ordinary and little like those of the master and of Giovanni Tossicani, their fellow-disciple.
Tommaso drew very well, as it may be seen in our book, in certain drawings wrought by his hand
with much diligence.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 21: See note on p. 57.]

GIOVANNI DAL PONTE

LIFE OF GIOVANNI DAL PONTE,

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

Although there is no truth and not much confidence to be placed in the ancient proverb that
the prodigal's purse is never empty, and although, on the contrary, it is very true that he
who does not live a well-ordered life in his own degree lives at the last in want and dies
miserably, it is seen, nevertheless, that fortune sometimes aids rather those who squander
without restraint than those who are in all things careful and self-restrained; and when the
favour of fortune ceases, there often comes death, to make up for her defection and for the
bad management of men, supervening at the very moment when such men would begin with infinite
dismay to recognize how miserable a thing it is to have squandered in youth and to want in
old age, living and labouring in poverty, as would have happened to Giovanni da Santo Stefano
a Ponte of Florence, if, after having consumed his patrimony and much gain which had been brought
to his hands rather by fortune than by his merits, with some inheritances that came to him
from an unexpected source, he had not finished at one and the same time the course of his life
and all his means.

This man, then, who was a disciple of Buonamico Buffalmacco, and who imitated him more in attending
to the pleasures of life than in seeking to become an able painter, was born in the year 1307,
and after being in early youth a disciple of Buffalmacco, he made his first works in the Chapel
of S. Lorenzo, in the Pieve of Empoli, painting there in fresco many scenes of the life of
that Saint, with so great diligence that he was summoned to Arezzo in the year 1344, a better
development being expected after so fine a beginning; and there he painted the Assumption of
Our Lady in a chapel in S. Francesco. And a little time afterwards, being in some credit in
that city for lack of other painters, he painted the Chapel of S. Onofrio in the Pieve, with
that of S. Antonio, which to-day is spoilt by damp. He also made some other pictures that were
in S. Giustina and in S. Matteo, but these were thrown to the ground by Duke Cosimo, together
with the said churches, in the making of fortifications for that city; and exactly in that
place, at the foot of the abutment of an ancient bridge beside the said S. Giustina, where
the stream entered the city, there were then found a head of Appius Cæcus and one of his son,
both in marble and very beautiful, with an ancient epitaph, likewise very beautiful, which
are all now in the guardaroba[22] of the said Lord Duke.

Giovanni, having returned to Florence at the time when there was finished the closing of the
middle arch of the Ponte a S. Trinita, painted many figures both within and without a chapel
built over one pier and dedicated to S. Michelagnolo, and in particular all the front wall;
which chapel, together with the bridge, was carried away by the flood of the year 1557. It
is by reason of these works that some maintain, besides what has been said about him at the
beginning, that he was ever afterwards called Giovanni dal Ponte. In Pisa, also, in the year
1355, he made some scenes in fresco behind the altar of the principal chapel of S. Paolo a
Ripa d'Arno, which are now all spoilt by damp and by time. Giovanni also painted the Chapel
of the Scali in S. Trinita in Florence, with another that is beside it, and one of the stories
of S. Paul by the side of the principal chapel, where is the tomb of Maestro Paolo, the astrologer.
In S. Stefano al Ponte Vecchio he painted a panel, with other pictures in distemper and in
fresco both within and without Florence, which brought him considerable credit.

He gave contentment to his friends, but more in his pleasures than in his works, and he was
the friend of men of learning, and in particular of all those who pursued the studies of his
own profession in order to become excellent therein; and although he had not sought to have
in himself that which he desired in others, yet he never ceased to encourage others to work
valiantly. Finally, having lived fifty-nine years, Giovanni was seized by pleurisy and in a
few days departed this life, wherein, had he survived a little longer, he would have suffered
many discomforts, there being left in his house scarce as much as sufficed to give him decent
burial in S. Stefano al Ponte Vecchio. His works date about 1365.

In our book of drawings by diverse ancients and moderns there is a drawing in water-colour
by the hand of Giovanni, wherein is a S. George on horseback who is slaying the Dragon, and
a skeleton, which bear witness to the method and manner that he had in drawing.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 22: Guardaroba, the room or rooms where everything of value was stored--clothes,
linen, art treasures, furniture, etc.]

AGNOLO GADDI

LIFE OF AGNOLO GADDI,

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

How honourable and profitable it is to be excellent in a noble art is manifestly seen in the
talent and management of Taddeo Gaddi, who, having acquired very good means as well as fame
with his industry and labours, left the affairs of his family so well arranged, when he passed
to the other life, that Agnolo and Giovanni, his sons, were easily able to give a beginning
to the very great riches and to the exaltation of the house of Gaddi, to-day very noble in
Florence and in great repute throughout all Christendom. And in truth it has been very reasonable,
seeing that Gaddo, Taddeo, Agnolo, and Giovanni adorned many honoured churches with their talent
and their art, that their successors have been since adorned by the Holy Roman Church and by
the Supreme Pontiffs of the same with the greatest ecclesiastical dignities.

Taddeo, then, of whom we have already written the Life, left his sons Agnolo and Giovanni in
company with many of his disciples, hoping that Agnolo, in particular, would become very excellent
in painting; but he, who in his youth showed promise of surpassing his father by a great measure,
did not succeed further in justifying the opinion that had already been conceived of him, for
the reason that, being born and bred in easy circumstances, which are often an impediment to
study, he was given more to traffic and to trading than to the art of painting; which should
not appear a thing new or strange, seeing that avarice very often bars the way to many intellects
which would ascend to the greatest height of excellence, if the desire of gain did not impede
their path in their earliest and best years. Working as a youth in S. Jacopo tra' Fossi in
Florence, Agnolo wrought a little scene, with figures little more than a braccio high, of Christ
raising Lazarus on the fourth day after death, wherein, imagining the corruption of that body,
which had been dead three days, with much thought he made the grave-clothes which held him
bound discoloured by the decay of the flesh, and round the eyes certain livid and yellowish
marks in the flesh, that seems half living and half dead; not without stupefaction in the Apostles
and in other figures, who, with attitudes varied and beautiful, and with their draperies to
their noses in order not to feel the stench of that corrupt body, are no less afraid and awestruck
at such a marvellous miracle than Mary and Martha are joyful and content to see life returning
to the dead body of their brother. This work was judged so excellent that many deemed the talent
of Agnolo to be destined to surpass all the disciples of Taddeo, and even Taddeo himself; but
the event proved otherwise, because, even as in youth the will conquers every difficulty in
order to acquire fame, so a certain negligence that the years bring with them often causes
a man, instead of advancing, to go backwards, as did Agnolo. Having given so great a proof
of his talent, he was commissioned by the family of Soderini, who had great hopes of him, to
paint the principal chapel of the Carmine, and he painted therein all the life of Our Lady,
so much less well than he had done the resurrection of Lazarus, that he gave every man to know
that he had little wish to attend with every effort to the art of painting; for the reason
that in all that great work there is nothing else of the good save one scene, wherein, round
Our Lady, in a room, are many maidens who are wearing diverse costumes and head-dresses, according
to the diversity of the use of those times, and are engaged in diverse exercises: this one
is spinning, that one is sewing, that other is winding thread, one is weaving, and others working
in other ways, all passing well conceived and executed by Agnolo.

For the noble family of the Alberti, likewise, he painted in fresco the principal chapel of
the Church of S. Croce, making therein all that came to pass in the discovery of the Cross,
and he executed that work with much mastery of handling but not with much design, for only
the colouring is beautiful and good enough. Next, in painting in fresco some stories of S.
Louis in the Chapel of the Bardi in the same church, he acquitted himself much better. And
because he used to work by caprice, now with more zeal and now with less, working in S. Spirito,
also in Florence, within the door that leads from the square into the convent, he made in fresco,
over another door, a Madonna with the Child in her arms, and S. Augustine and S. Nicholas,
so well that the said figures appear as if made only yesterday.

And because in a certain manner there had come to Agnolo, by way of inheritance, the secret
of working in mosaic, and he had at home the instruments and all the materials that his grandfather
Gaddo had used in this, he would make something in mosaic when it pleased him, merely to pass
time and by reason of that convenience of material, rather than for aught else. Now, seeing
that time had eaten away many of those marbles that cover the eight faces of the roof of S.
Giovanni, and that the damp penetrating within had therefore spoilt much of the mosaic which
Andrea Tafi had wrought there at a former time, the Consuls of the Guild of Merchants determined,
to the end that the rest might not be spoilt, to rebuild the greater part of that covering
with marble, and in like manner to have the mosaic restored. Wherefore, the direction and commission
for the whole being given to Agnolo, he, in the year 1346, had it recovered with new marbles
and the pieces laid over each other at the joinings, with unexampled diligence, to the breadth
of two fingers, cutting each slab to the half of its thickness; then, joining them together
with cement made of mastic and wax melted together, he fitted them with so great diligence
that from that time onwards neither the roof nor the vaulting has received any damage from
the rains. Agnolo, having afterwards restored the mosaic, brought it about by means of his
counsel and of a design very well conceived that there was rebuilt, round the said church,
all the upper cornice of marble below the roof, in that form wherein it now remains; which
cornice was much smaller than it is and very commonplace. Under direction of the same man there
was also made the vaulting of the Great Hall of the Palace of the Podestà, which before was
directly under the roof, to the end that, besides the adornment, fire might not again be able
to do it damage, as it had done a long time before. After this, by the counsel of Agnolo, there
were made round the said Palace the battlements that are there to-day, which before were in
no wise there.

The while that these works were executing, he did not desert his painting entirely, and painted
in distemper, in the panel that he made for the high-altar of S. Pancrazio, Our Lady, S. John
the Baptist, and the Evangelist, and beside them the Saints Nereus, Archileus, and Pancratius,
brothers, with other Saints. But the best of this work--nay, all that is seen therein of the
good--is the predella alone, which is all full of little figures, divided into eight stories
of the Madonna and of S. Reparata. Next, in 1348, he painted the panel of the high-altar of
S. Maria Maggiore, also in Florence, for Barone Cappelli, making therein a passing good dance
of angels round a Coronation of Our Lady. A little afterwards, in the Pieve of the district
of Prato, rebuilt under direction of Giovanni Pisano in the year 1312, as it has been said
above, Agnolo painted in fresco, in the chapel wherein was deposited the Girdle of Our Lady,
many scenes of her life; and in other churches of that district, which was full of monasteries
and convents held in great honour, he made other works in plenty. In Florence, next, he painted
the arch over the door of S. Romeo; and in Orto S. Michele he wrought in distemper a Disputation
of the Doctors with Christ in the Temple. And at the same time, many houses having been pulled
down in order to enlarge the Piazza de' Signori, and in particular the Church of S. Romolo,
this was rebuilt with the design of Agnolo. There are many panels by his hand throughout the
churches in the said city, and many of his works may also be recognized in the domain, which
were wrought by him with much profit to himself, although he worked more in order to do as
his forefathers had done than for any love of it, having his mind directed on commerce, which
brought him better profit; as it is seen when his sons, not wishing any longer to be painters,
gave themselves over completely to commerce, holding a house open for this purpose in Venice
together with their father, who, from a certain time onward, did not work save for his own
pleasure, and, in a certain manner, in order to pass time. Having thus acquired great wealth
by means of trading and by means of his art, Agnolo died in the sixty-third year of his life,
overcome by a malignant fever which in a few days made an end of him.

His disciples were Maestro Antonio da Ferrara, who made many beautiful works in S. Francesco
at Urbino, and at Città di Castello; and Stefano da Verona, who painted in fresco most perfectly,
as it is seen in many places at Verona, his native city, and also in many of his works at Mantua.
This man, among other things, was excellent in giving very beautiful expressions to the faces
of children, of women, and of old men, as it may be seen in his works, which were all imitated
and copied by that Piero da Perugia, illuminator, who illuminated all the books that are in
the library of Pope Pius in the Duomo at Siena, and was a practised colourist in fresco. A
disciple of Agnolo, also, was Michele da Milano, as was Giovanni Gaddi, his brother, who made,
in the cloister of S. Spirito where are the little arches of Gaddo and of Taddeo, the Disputation
of Christ in the Temple with the Doctors, the Purification of the Virgin, the Temptation of
Christ in the Wilderness, and the Baptism of John; and finally, having created very great expectation,
he died. A pupil of the same Agnolo in painting was Cennino di Drea Cennini of Colle di Valdelsa,
who, having very great affection for the art, wrote a book describing the methods of working
in fresco, in distemper, in size, and in gum, and, besides, how illuminating is done, and all
the methods of applying gold; which book is in the hands of Giuliano, goldsmith of Siena, an
excellent master and a friend of these arts. And in the beginning of this his book he treated
of the nature of colours, both the minerals and the earth-colours, according as he learnt from
Agnolo his master, wishing, for the reason perchance that he did not succeed in learning to
paint perfectly, at least to know the nature of the colours, the distempers, the sizes, and
the application of gesso, and what colours we must guard against as harmful in making the mixtures,
and in short many other considerations whereof there is no need to discourse, there being to-day
a perfect knowledge of all those matters which he held as great and very rare secrets in those
times. But I will not forbear to say that he makes no mention (and perchance they may not have
been in use) of some earth-colours, such as dark red earths, cinabrese, and certain vitreous
greens. Since then there have been also discovered umber, which is an earth-colour, giallo
santo,[23] the smalts both for fresco and for oils, and some vitreous greens and yellows, wherein
the painters of that age were lacking. He treated finally of mosaics, and of grinding colours
in oils in order to make grounds of red, blue, green, and in other manners; and of the mordants
for the application of gold, but not then for figures. Besides the works that he wrought in
Florence with his master, there is a Madonna with certain saints by his hand under the loggia
of the hospital of Bonifazio Lupi, coloured in such a manner that it has been very well preserved
up to our own day. These are the very words of Cennino, to whom it appeared that even as those
who translate any work from Greek into Latin confer very great benefit on those who do not
understand Greek, so, too, did Giotto in transforming the art of painting from a manner not
understood or known by anyone, save perchance as very rude, to a beautiful, facile, and very
pleasing manner, understood and known as good by all who have judgment and the least grain
of reason.

All these disciples of Agnolo did him very great honour, and he was buried by his sons, to
whom it is said that he left the sum of fifty thousand florins or more, in S. Maria Novella,
in the tomb that he himself had made for himself and for his descendants, in the year of our
salvation 1387. The portrait of Agnolo, made by himself, is seen in the Chapel of the Alberti,
in S. Croce, beside a door in the scene wherein, the Emperor Heraclius is bearing the Cross;
it is painted in profile, with a little beard, and with a rose-coloured cap on his head according
to the use of those times. He was not excellent in draughtsmanship, in so far as is shown by
some drawings by his hand that are in our book.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 23: A yellow-lake made from the unripe berries of the spin cervino, a sort of brier.]

INDEX OF NAMES OF THE CRAFTSMEN MENTIONED IN VOLUME I

 Aglaophon, xxxix

 Agnolo (of Siena), Life, 97-105. 39

 Agnolo di Lorenzo, 208

 Agnolo Gaddi, Life, 217-223. 185, 186

 Agobbio, Oderigi d', 79

 Agostino (of Siena), Life, 97-105. 39

 Aholiab, xxxviii

 Alberti, Leon Batista, xli, 179

 Alesso Baldovinetti, 4, 48

 Ambrogio Lorenzetti, Life, 155-157

 Andrea di Cione Orcagna, Life, 189-199

 Andrea Pisano, Life, 123-131. 189

 Andrea Tafi, Life, 47-51. 55, 56, 58, 135, 136, 145, 219

 Angelico, Fra (Fra Giovanni da Fiesole), 162

 Antonio (called Il Carota), 125

 Antonio d'Andrea Tafi, 51

 Antonio da Ferrara, 221

 Antonio da San Gallo, 32

 Antonio Pollaiuolo, xxxiv

 Apelles, xxviii, xxxix

 Apollodorus, xxxix

 Apollonio, 47, 49

 Ardices, xxxix

 Aretino, Marchionne, 17, 18

 Aretino, Niccolò, 130

 Aretino, Spinello, 67

 Aristides, xli

 Arnolfo di Lapo (Arnolfo Lapo, Arnolfo Lapi), Life, 20-26. 8, 13, 14,
   20-26, 29, 30, 33, 39, 65, 113, 126, 170, 174, 180

 Baldovinetti, Alesso, 4, 48

 Bartolommeo Bologhini, 120

 Benedetto da Maiano, 94

 Bernardo di Cione Orcagna, 189, 190, 193-195, 197

 Bernardo Nello di Giovanni Falconi, 197

 Bezaleel, xxxviii

 Bologhini, Bartolommeo, 120

 Bolognese, Franco, 79

 Bonanno, 15, 16

 Bramante da Urbino, 32

 Brunelleschi, Filippo (Filippo di Ser Brunellesco), lii, 22, 23, 26, 48,
   130

 Bruno di Giovanni, 135, 145, 147, 148, 191

 Buffalmacco, Buonamico, Life, 135-151. 50, 51, 135-151, 170, 190, 191,
   211

 Buonarroti, Michelagnolo, xxvi, xxxiv, 87

 Buono, 14, 15

 Buschetto, liv, lvi

 Calandrino, 135

 Campi, Fra Ristoro da, 59

 Capanna, Puccio, 85, 89-91

 Carota (Antonio, called Il Carota), 125

 Casentino, Jacopo di, 183, 185

 Castelfranco, Giorgione da, xxxii

 Cavallini, Pietro, Life, 161-164. 185, 186

 Gaddi, Gaddo, Life, 55-58. 50, 55-58, 177, 186, 217, 219, 221

 Gaddi, Giovanni, 185, 186, 217, 221

 Gaddi, Taddeo, Life, 177-186. 57, 58, 81, 88, 89, 129, 177-186, 217,
   218, 221, 222

 Ghiberti, Lorenzo (Lorenzo di Cione Ghiberti), 87, 112, 127, 130

 Ghirlandajo, Domenico, 112, 126, 189

 Ghirlandajo, Ridolfo, 125

 Giorgio Vasari, see Vasari

 Giorgione da Castelfranco, xxxii

 Giottino (Tommaso, or Maso), Life, 203-208. 112

 Giotto, Life, 71-94. 92

 Leonardo da Vinci, xxxiv

 Leonardo di Ser Giovanni, 104

 Leon Batista Alberti, xli, 179

 Lino, 43

 Lippo, 48, 208

 Lippo Memmi, 172-174

 Lorenzetti, Ambrogio, Life, 155-157

 Lorenzetti, Pietro (Laurati), Life, 117-120. 38, 118

 Mariotto, 198

 Martini, Simone (Memmi or Sanese), Life, 167-174. 92

 Pietro Laurati (called Lorenzetti), Life, 117-120. 92

 Pietro Paolo, 105

 Pisano, Andrea, Life, 123-131. 112

 Tommaso di Marco, 197

 Tommaso Pisano, 130

 Tossicani, Giovanni, 208

 Traini, Francesco, 198, 199

 Turrita, Fra Jacopo da, 49, 50, 56

 Ugolino Sanese (Ugolino da Siena), Life, 113

 Urbino, Bramante da, 32

 Urbino, Raffaello da (Raffaello Sanzio), 86

 Vasari, Giorgio--
   as art-collector, xvii, xviii, lix, 10, 58, 79, 92, 94, 111, 120, 126,
     138, 157, 173, 174, 199, 208, 213, 223
   as author, xiii-xix, xxi, xxiii, xxiv, xxxi, xxxiii-xxxvii, xlii, xliii,
     xlvii, xlix, l, lv-lix, 7, 9, 10, 13-16, 23-25, 29, 44, 47-49, 51,
     57-59, 66, 75, 79, 80, 86, 87, 89, 91, 92, 94, 97, 99, 103, 105, 109,
     112, 113, 124, 126, 127, 140, 141, 146, 150, 163, 164, 170, 181, 183,
     191, 192, 198, 217, 222
   as painter, xlii, 67, 86, 119, 120, 147, 208
   as architect, 25, 31, 38, 39, 119, 120

 Verona, Stefano da, 221

 Vicino, 50, 57, 58

 Vincenzio Danti, 36

 Vinci, Leonardo da, xxxiv

 Zeuxis, xxxix

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF CHAS. T. JACOBI OF THE CHISWICK PRESS, LONDON. THE COLOURED
REPRODUCTIONS ENGRAVED AND PRINTED BY HENRY STONE AND SON, LTD. BANBURY