Throughout the week the fever in her brain caused her to experience all the effects of the
things she thought might happen. By day and night she saw her shame laid bare and made public;
she saw her secret, her cowardice, her wrong-doing, all that she carried about with her concealed
and sewn in her heart--she saw it all uncovered, noised abroad, disclosed--disclosed to mademoiselle!
Her debts on Jupillon's account, augmented by her debts for drink and for food for Gautruche,
by all that she purchased now on credit, her debt to the concierge and the shopkeepers would
soon become known and ruin her! A cold shiver ran down her back at the thought: she could feel
mademoiselle turning her away! Throughout the week she constantly imagined herself standing
before the commissioner of police. Seven long days she brooded over that word and that idea:
the Law! the Law as it appears to the imagination of the lower classes; something terrible,
indefinable, inevitable, which is everywhere, and lurks in everyone's shadow; an omnipotent
source of calamity which appears vaguely in the judge's black gown, between the police sergeant
and the executioner, with the hands of the gendarme and the arms of the guillotine! She, who
was subject to all the instinctive terrors of the common people, and who often repeated that
she would much rather die than appear before the court--she imagined herself seated in the
dock, between two gendarmes, in a court-room, surrounded by all the unfamiliar paraphernalia
of the Law, her ignorance of which made them objects of terror to her. Throughout the week
her ears heard footsteps on the stairs coming to arrest her!

The shock was too violent for nerves as weak as hers. The mental upheaval of that week of agony
possessed her with an idea that hitherto had only hovered about her--the idea of suicide. She
began to listen, with her head in her hands, to the voice that spoke to her of deliverance.
She opened her ears to the sweet music of death that we hear in the background of life like
the fall of mighty waters in the distance, dying away in space. The temptations that speak
to the discouraged heart of the things that put an end to life so quickly and so easily, of
the means of quelling suffering with the hand, pursued and solicited her. Her glance rested
wistfully upon all the things about her that could cure the disease called life. She accustomed
her fingers and her lips to them. She touched them, handled them, drew them near to her. She
sought to test her courage upon them and to obtain a foretaste of death. She would remain for
hours at her kitchen window with her eyes fixed on the pavements in the courtyard down at the
foot of the five flights--pavements that she knew and could have distinguished from others!
As the daylight faded she would lean farther out bending almost double over the ill-secured
window-bar, hoping always that it would give way and drag her down with it--praying that she
might die without having to make the desperate, voluntary leap into space to which she no longer
felt equal.

"Why, you'll fall out!" said mademoiselle one day, grasping her skirt impulsively in her alarm.
"What are you looking at down there in the courtyard?"

"Oh! nothing--the pavements."

"In Heaven's name, are you crazy? How you frightened me!"

"Oh! people don't fall that way," said Germinie in a strange tone. "I tell you, mademoiselle,
in order to fall one must have a mighty longing to do it!"

LI

Germinie had not been able to induce Gautruche, who was haunted by a former mistress, to give
her the key to his room. When he had not returned she was obliged to await his coming outside,
in the cold, dark street.

At first she would walk back and forth in front of the house. She would take twenty steps in
one direction and twenty in the other. Then, as if to prolong her period of waiting, she would
take a longer turn, and, going farther and farther every time, would end by extending her walk
to both ends of the boulevard. Frequently she walked thus for hours, shamefaced and mud-stained,
in the fog and darkness, amid the iniquitous and horrible surroundings of an avenue near the
barriers, where darkness reigned. She followed the line of red-wine shops, the naked arbors,
the cabaret trellises supported by dead trees such as we see in bear-pits, low, flat hovels
with curtainless windows cut at random in the walls, cap factories where shirts are sold, and
wicked-looking hotels where a night's lodging may be had. She passed by closed, hermetically-sealed
shops, black with bankruptcy, by fragments of condemned walls, by dark passageways with iron
gratings, by walled-up windows, by doors that seemed to give admission to those abodes of murder,
the plan of which is handed to the jury at the assizes. As she went on, there were gloomy little
gardens, crooked buildings, architecture in its most degraded form, tall, mouldy portes-cochères,
hedge-rows, within which could be vaguely seen the uncanny whiteness of stones in the darkness,
corners of unfinished buildings from which arose the stench of nitrification, walls disfigured
by disgusting placards and fragments of torn advertisements by which they were spotted with
loathsome publications as by leprosy. From time to time, at a sharp turn in the street, she
would come upon lanes that seemed to plunge into dark holes a few steps from their beginning,
and from which a blast of damp air came forth as from a cellar; dark no-thoroughfares stood
out against the sky with the rigidity of a great wall; streets stretched vaguely away in the
distance, with the feeble gleam of a lantern twinkling here and there at long intervals upon
the ghostly plaster fronts of the houses.

Germinie would walk on and on. She would cover all the territory where low debauchery fills
its crop on Mondays and finds its loves, between a hospital, a slaughter-house, and a cemetery;
Lariboisière, the Abattoir and Montmartre.

The people who passed that way--the workman returning from Paris whistling; the workingwoman,
her day's work ended, hurrying on with her hands under her armpits to keep herself warm; the
street-walker in her black cap--would stare at her as they passed. Strange men acted as if
they recognized her; the light made her ashamed. She would turn and run toward the other end
of the boulevard and follow the dark, deserted footway along the city wall; but she was soon
driven away by horrible shadows of men and by brutally familiar hands.

She tried to go away; she insulted herself inwardly; she called herself a cowardly wretch;
she swore to herself that each turn should be the last, that she would go as far as a certain
tree, and that was all; if he had not returned, she would go away and put an end to the whole
thing. But she did not go; she walked on and on; she waited, more consumed than ever, the longer
he delayed, with the mad desire to see him.

At last, as the hours flew by and the boulevard became empty, Germinie, exhausted, overdone
with weariness, would approach the houses. She would loiter from shop to shop, she would go
mechanically where gas was still burning, and stand stupidly in the bright glare from the shop
windows. She welcomed the dazzling light in her eyes, she tried to allay her impatience by
benumbing it. The objects to be seen through the perspiring windows of the wine-shops--the
cooking utensils, the bowls of punch flanked by two empty bottles with sprigs of laurel protruding
from their necks, the show-cases in which the liquors combined their varied colors in a single
beam, a cup filled with plated spoons--these things would hold her attention for a long while.
She would read the old announcements of lottery drawings placarded on the walls of a saloon,
the advertisements of gloria--coffee with brandy--the inscriptions in yellow letters: New wine,
pure blood, 70 centimes. For a whole quarter of an hour she would stand staring into a back
room containing a man in a blouse sitting on a stool by a table, a stove-pipe, a slate, and
two black tea-boards against the wall. Her fixed, vacant stare would rest, through the reddish
mist, upon the dark forms of shoemakers leaning over their benches. It fell and lingered heedlessly
upon a counter that was being washed, upon hands that were counting the receipts of the day,
upon a tunnel or jug that was being scoured with sandstone. She had ceased to think. She would
simply stand there, nailed to the spot and growing weaker and weaker, feeling her courage vanish
from the mere weariness of standing on her feet, seeing things only through a sort of film
as in a swoon, hearing the noise made by the muddy cabs rolling over the wet pavements only
as a buzzing in her ears, ready to fall and compelled again and again to lean against the wall
for support.

In her then condition of prostration and illness, with that semi-hallucination of vertigo that
made her so timid of crossing the Seine and impelled her to cling to the bridge railings, it
happened that, on certain evenings, when it rained, these fits of weakness that she had upon
the outer boulevard assumed the terrors of a nightmare. When the light from the lanterns, trembling
in misty vapor, cast its varying, flickering reflection on the damp ground; when the pavements,
the sidewalks, the earth, seemed to melt away and disappear under the rain, and there was no
appearance of solidity anywhere in the aqueous darkness, the wretched creature, almost mad
with fatigue, would fancy that she could see a flood rising in the gutter. A mirage of terror
would show her suddenly the water all about her, and creeping constantly nearer to her. She
would close her eyes, not daring to move, fearing to feel her feet slip from under her; she
would begin to weep, and would weep on until someone passed by and offered to escort her to
the Hotel of the Little Blue Hand.

LII

She would then ascend the stairs; that was her last place of refuge. She would fly from the
rain and snow and cold, from fear, despair, and fatigue. She would go up and sit on the top
step against Gautruche's closed doors; she would draw her shawl and skirts closely about her
in order to leave room for those who went and came up that long steep ladder, and would draw
back as far as possible into the corner in order that her shame might fill but little space
on the narrow landing.

From the open doors the odor of unventilated closets, of families heaped together in a single
room, the exhalations of unhealthy trades, the dense, greasy fumes of cooking done in chafing-dishes
on the floor, the stench of rags and the faint damp smell of clothes drying in the house, came
forth and filled the hall. The broken-paned window behind Germinie wafted to her nostrils the
fetid stench of a leaden pipe in which the whole house emptied its refuse and its filth. Her
stomach rose in revolt every moment at a puff of infection; she was obliged to take from her
pocket a phial of melissa water that she always carried, and swallow a mouthful of it to avoid
being ill.

But the staircase had its passers, too: honest workmen's wives went up with a bushel of charcoal,
or a pint of wine for supper. Their feet would rub against her as they passed, and as they
went farther up, Germinie would feel their scornful glances resting upon her and falling upon
her with more crushing force at every floor. The children--little girls in fanchons who flitted
up the dark stairway and brightened it as if with flowers, little girls in whom she saw, as
she so often saw in dreams, her own little one, living and grown to girlhood--she saw them
stop and look at her with wide open eyes that seemed to recoil from her; then the little creatures
would turn and run breathlessly up-stairs, and, when they were well out of reach, would lean
over the rail until they almost fell, and hurl impure jests at her, the insults of the children
of the common people. Insulting words, poured out upon her by those rosebud mouths, wounded
Germinie more deeply than all else. She would half rise for an instant; then, overwhelmed by
shame, resigning herself to her fate, she would fall back into her corner, and, pulling her
shawl over her head in order to bury herself therein out of sight, she would sit like a dead
woman, crushed, inert, insensible, cowering over her own shadow, like a bundle tossed on the
floor which everyone might tread upon--having no control of her faculties, dead to everything
except the footsteps that she was listening for--and that did not come.

At last, after long hours, hours that she could not count, she would fancy that she heard a
stumbling walk in the street; then a vinous voice would mount the stairs, stammering "Canaille!
canaille of a saloon-keeper!--you sold me the kind of wine that goes to my head!"

It was he.

And almost every day the same scene was enacted.

"Ah! there y'are, my Germinie," he would say as his eyes fell upon her. "It's like this--I'll
tell you all about it. I'm a little bit under water." And, as he put the key in the lock: "I'll
tell you all about it. It isn't my fault."

He would enter the room, kick aside a turtle-dove with mangy wings that limped forward to greet
him, and close the door. "It wasn't me, d'ye see. It was Paillon, you know Paillon? that little
round fellow, fat as a mad dog. Well, it was him, 'pon my honor. He insisted on paying for
a sixteen-sous bottle for me. He offered to treat me, and I proffered him thanks. Thereupon
we naturally consoled[5] our coffee; when you're consoled, you console! and as one thing led
to another, we fell upon each other! There was a very devil of a carnage! The proof of it is
that that gallows-bird of a saloon-keeper threw us out-o'-doors like lobster shells!"

Germinie, during the explanation, would have lighted the candle, stuck in a yellow copper candlestick.
By its flickering light the dirty paper on the walls could be seen, covered with caricatures
from Charivari, torn from the paper and pasted on the wall.

"Well, you're a love!" Gautruche would exclaim, as he saw her place a cold fowl and two bottles
of wine on the table. "For I must tell you all I've had in my stomach to-day--a plate of wretched
soup--that's all. Ah! it must have taken a stout master-at-arms to put that fellow's eyes out!"

And he would begin to eat. Germinie would sit with her elbows on the table, watching him and
drinking, and her glance would grow dark.

                 *       *       *       *       *

"Pshaw! all the négresses are dead,"[6] Gautruche would say at last, as he drained the bottles
one by one. "Put the children to bed!"

                 *       *       *       *       *

Thereupon terrible, fierce, abhorrent outbursts of passion would ensue between those two strange
creatures, savage ardor followed by savage satiety, frantic storms of lust, caresses that were
impregnated with the fierce brutality of wine, kisses that seemed to seek the blood beneath
the skin, like the tongue of a wild beast, and at the end, utter exhaustion that swallowed
them up and left their bodies like corpses.

Germinie plunged into these debauches with--what shall I say?--delirium, madness, desperation,
a sort of supreme frenzy. Her ungovernable passions turned against themselves, and, going beyond
their natural appetites, forced themselves to suffer. Satiety exhausted them without extinguishing
them; and, overpassing the widest limits of excess, they excited themselves to self-torture.
In the poor creature's paroxysms of excitement, her brain, her nerves, the imagination of her
maddened body, no longer sought pleasure in pleasure, but something sharper, keener, and more
violent: pain in pleasure. And the words "to die" constantly escaped from her compressed lips,
as if she were invoking death in an undertone and seeking to embrace it in the agonies of love.

Sometimes, in the night, she would suddenly sit up on the edge of the bed, rest her bare feet
on the cold floor, and remain there, wild-eyed, listening to the things that breathe in a sleeping-chamber.
And little by little the obscurity of the place and hour seemed to envelop her. She seemed
to herself to fall and writhe helplessly in the blind unconsciousness of the night. Her will
became as naught. All sorts of black things, that seemed to have wings and voices, beat against
her temples. The ghastly temptations that afford madness a vague glimpse of crime caused a
red light, the flash of murder, to pass before her eyes, close at hand; and hands placed against
her back pushed her toward the table where the knives lay. She would close her eyes and move
one foot; then fear would lay hold of her and she would cling to the bedclothes; and at last
she would turn around, fall back upon the bed, and go to sleep beside the man she had been
tempted to murder; why? she had no idea; for nothing--for the sake of killing!

And so, until daybreak, in that wretched furnished lodging, the fierce struggle of those fatal
passions would continue, while the poor maimed, limping dove, the infirm bird of Venus, nesting
in one of Gautruche's old shoes, would utter now and then, awakened by the noise, a frightened coo.

LIII

In those days Gautruche became a little disgusted with drinking. He felt the first pangs of
the disease of the liver that had long been lurking in his heated, alcoholized blood, under
his brick-red cheek bones. The horrible pains that gnawed at his side, and twisted the cords
of his stomach for a whole week, caused him to reflect. There came to his mind, together with
divers resolutions inspired by prudence, certain almost sentimental ideas of the future. He
said to himself that he must put a little more water into his life, if he wanted to live to
old age. While he lay writhing in bed and tying himself into knots, with his knees up to his
chin to lessen the pain, he looked about at his den, the four walls within which he passed
his nights, to which he brought his drunken body home in the evening, and from which he fled
into the daylight in the morning; and he thought about making a real home for himself. He dreamed
of a room, where he could keep a wife, a wife who would make him a good stew, look after him
if he were ill, straighten out his affairs, keep his linen in order, prevent him from beginning
a new score at the wine-shop; a wife, in short, who would combine all the useful qualities
of a housekeeper, and who, in addition, would not be a stupid fool, but would understand him
and laugh with him. Such a wife was all found: Germinie was the very one. She probably had
a little hoard, a few sous laid by during the time she had been in her old mistress's service;
and with what he earned they could "grub along" in comfort. He had no doubt of her consent;
he was sure beforehand that she would accept his proposition. More than that, her scruples,
if she had any, would not hold out against the prospect of marriage which he proposed to exhibit
to her at the end of their liaison.

One Monday she had come to his room as usual.

"Say, Germinie," he began, "what would you say to this, eh? A good room--not like this box--a
real room, with a closet--at Montmartre, and two windows, no less! Rue de l'Empereur--with
a view an Englishman would give five thousand francs to carry away with him. Something first-class,
bright, and cheerful, you know, a place where you could stay all day without hating yourself.
Because, I tell you I'm beginning to have enough of moving about here and there just to change
fleas. And that isn't all, either: I'm tired of being cooped up in furnished lodgings, I'm
tired of being all alone. Friends don't make society. They fall on you like flies in your glass
when you're to pay, and then, there you are! In the first place, I don't propose to drink any
more, honor bright! no more for me, you'll see! You understand I don't intend to use myself
up in this life, not if I know myself. Not by any means! Attention! We mustn't let drink get
the better of us. It seemed to me those days as if I'd been swallowing corkscrews. And I've
no desire to knock at the monument just yet. Well, to go from the thread to the needle, this
is what I thought: I'll make the proposition to Germinie. I'll treat myself to a little furniture.
You've got what you have in your room. You know I'm not much of a shirker, I haven't a lazy
bone in my body where work's concerned. And then we might look to not always be working for
others: we might take a lodging-house for country thieves. If you had a little something put
aside, that would help. We would join forces in genteel fashion, and have ourselves straightened
out some day before the mayor. That's not such a bad scheme, is it, old girl, eh? And you'll
leave your old lady this time, won't you, for your dear old Gautruche?"

Germinie, who had listened to him with her head thrust forward and her chin resting on the
palm of her hand, threw herself back with a burst of strident laughter.

"Ha! ha! ha! You thought--and you have the face to tell me so!--you thought I'd leave her!
Mademoiselle? Did you really think so? You're a fool, you know! Why, you might have thousands
and hundred thousands, you might be stuffed with gold, do you hear? all stuffed with it. You're
joking, aren't you? Mademoiselle? Why, don't you know? haven't I ever told you? I would like
to see her die and these hands not be there to close her eyes! I'd like to see it! Come now,
really, did you think so?"

"Damnation! I imagined, from the way you acted with me, I thought you cared more for me than
that--that you loved me, in fact!" exclaimed the painter, disconcerted by the terrible, stinging
irony of Germinie's words.

"Ah! you thought that, too--that I loved you!" And, as if she were suddenly uprooting from
the depths of her heart the remorse and suffering of her passions, she continued: "Well, yes!
I do love you--I love you as you love me! just as much! and that's all! I love you as one loves
something that is close at hand--that one makes use of because it is there! I am used to you
as one gets used to an old dress and wears it again and again. That's how I love you! How do
you suppose I should care for you? I'd like you to tell me what difference it can make to me
whether it's you or another? For, after all, what have you been to me more than any other man
would be? In the first place, you took me. Well? Is that enough to make me love you? What have
you done, then, to attach me to you, will you be kind enough to tell me? Have you ever sacrificed
a glass of wine to me? Have you even so much as taken pity on me when I was tramping about
in the mud and snow at the risk of my life? Oh! yes! And what did people say to me and spit
out in my face so that my blood boiled from one end of my body to the other! You never troubled
your head about all the insults I've swallowed waiting for you! Look you! I've been wanting
to tell you all this for a long time--it's been choking me. Tell me," she continued, with a
ghastly smile, "do you flatter yourself you've driven me wild with your physical beauty, with
your hair, which you've lost, with that head of yours? Hardly! I took you--I'd have taken anyone,
it didn't matter who! It was one of the times when I had to have someone! At those times I
don't know anything or see anything. I'm not myself at all. I took you because it was a hot day!"

She paused an instant.

"Go on," said Gautruche, "iron me on all the seams. Don't mind me as long as your hand's in."

"So?" continued Germinie, "how enchanted you imagined I was going to be to take up with you!
You said to yourself: 'The good-natured fool! she'll be glad of the chance! And all I shall
have to do will be to promise to marry her. She'll throw up her place. She'll leave her mistress
in the lurch.' The idea! Mademoiselle! Mademoiselle, who has no one but me! Ah! you don't know
anything about such things. You wouldn't understand if I should tell you. Mademoiselle, who
is everything to me! Why, since my mother died, I've had nobody but her, never been treated
kindly by anybody but her! Who beside her ever said to me when I was unhappy: 'Are you unhappy?'
And, when I was sick: 'Don't you feel well?' No one! There's been no one but her to take care
of me, to care what became of me. God! and you talk of loving on account of what there is between
us! Ah! mademoiselle has loved me! Yes, loved me! And I'm dying of it, do you know? of having
become such a miserable creature as I am, a----" She said the word. "And of deceiving her,
of stealing her affection, of allowing her still to love me as her daughter! Ah! if she should
ever learn anything--but, no fear of that, it won't be long. There's one woman who would make
a pretty leap out of a fifth-story window, as true as God is my master! But fancy--you are
not my heart, you are not my life, you are only my pleasure. But I did have a man. Ah! I don't
know whether I loved him! but you could have torn me to pieces for him without a word from
me. In short, he was the man that made me what I am. Well, d'ye see, when my passion for him
was at its hottest, when I breathed only as he wished me to, when I was mad over him and would
have let him walk on my stomach if he'd wanted to--even then, if mademoiselle had been sick,
if she had motioned to me with her little finger, I'd have gone back to her. Yes, I would have
left him for her! I tell you I would have left him!"

"In that case--if that's the way things stand, my dear--if you're so fond of your old lady
as that, I have only one piece of advice to give you: you'd better not leave your good lady,
d'ye see!"

"That's my dismissal, is it?" said Germinie, rising.

"Faith! it's very like it."

"Well! adieu. That suits me!"

She went straight to the door, and left the room without a word.

LIV

After this rupture Germinie fell where she was sure to fall, below shame, below nature itself.
Lower and lower the unhappy, passionate creature fell, until she wallowed in the gutter. She
took up the lovers whose passions are exhausted in one night, those whom she passed or met
on the street, those whom chance throws in the way of a wandering woman. She had no need to
give herself time for the growth of desire: her caprice was fierce and sudden, kindled instantly.
Pouncing greedily upon the first comer, she hardly looked at him and could not have recognized
him. Beauty, youth, the physical qualities of a lover, in which the passion of the most degraded
woman seeks to realize a base ideal, as it were--none of those things tempted her now or touched
her. In all men her eyes saw nothing but man: the individual mattered naught to her. The last
indication of decency and of human feeling in debauchery,--preference, selection,--and even
that which represents all that prostitutes retain of conscience and personality,--disgust,
even disgust,--she had lost!

And she wandered about the streets at night, with the furtive, stealthy gait of wild beasts
prowling in the shadow in quest of food. As if unsexed, she made the advances, she solicited
brutes, she took advantage of drunkenness, and men yielded to her. She walked along, peering
on every side, approaching every shadowy corner where impurity might lurk under cover of the
darkness and solitude, where hands were waiting to swoop down upon a shawl. Belated pedestrians
saw her by the light of the street lanterns, an ill-omened, shuddering phantom, gliding along,
almost crawling, bent double, slinking by in the shadow, with that appearance of illness and
insanity and of utter aberration which sets the thoughtful man's heart and the physician's
mind at work on the brink of deep abysses of melancholy.

LV

One evening when she was prowling about Rue du Rocher, as she passed a wine-shop at the corner
of Rue de Labarde, she noticed the back of a man who was drinking at the bar: it was Jupillon.

She stopped short, turned toward the street with her back against the door of the wine-shop,
and waited. The light in the shop was behind her, her shoulders against the bars, and there
she stood motionless, her skirt gathered up in one hand in front, and her other hand falling
listlessly at her side. She resembled a statue of darkness seated on a milestone. In her attitude
there was an air of stern determination and the necessary patience to wait there forever. The
passers-by, the carriages, the street--she saw them all indistinctly and as if they were far
away. The tow-horse, waiting to assist in drawing the omnibuses up the hill,--a white horse,
he was,--stood in front of her, worn out and motionless, sleeping on his feet, with his head
and forefeet in the bright light from the door: she did not see him. There was a dense fog.
It was one of those vile, detestable Parisian nights when it seems as if the water that falls
had become mud before falling. The gutter rose and flowed about her feet. She remained thus
half an hour without moving, with her back to the light and her face in the shadow, a threatening,
desperate, forbidding creature, like a statue of Fatality erected by Darkness at a wine-shop door!

At last Jupillon came out. She stood before him with folded arms.

"My money?" she said. Her face was that of a woman who has ceased to possess a conscience,
for whom there is no God, no police, no assizes, no scaffold--nothing!

Jupillon felt that his customary blague was arrested in his throat.

"Your money?" he repeated; "your money ain't lost. But I must have time. Just now, you see,
work ain't very plenty. That shop business of mine came to grief a long while ago, you know.
But in three months' time, I promise. Are you pretty well?"

"Canaille! Ah! I've got you now! Ah! you'd sneak away, would you? But it was you, my curse!
it was you who made me what I am, brigand! robber! sneak! It was you."

Germinie hurled these words in his face, pushing against him, forcing him back, pressing her
body against his. She seemed to be rubbing against the blows that she invited and provoked,
and as she leaned toward him thus, she cried: "Come, strike me! What, then, must I say to you
to make you strike me?"

She had ceased to think. She did not know what she wanted; she simply felt that she needed
to be struck. There had come upon her an instinctive, irrational desire to be maltreated, bruised,
made to suffer in her flesh, to experience a violent shock, a sharp pain that would put a stop
to what was going on in her brain. She could think of nothing but blows to bring matters to
a crisis. After the blows, she saw, with the lucidity of an hallucination, all sorts of things
come to pass,--the guard arriving, the gendarmes from the post, the commissioner! the commissioner
to whom she could tell everything, her story, her misfortunes, how the man before her had abused
her and what he had cost her! Her heart collapsed in anticipation at the thought of emptying
itself, with shrieks and tears, of everything with which it was bursting.

"Come, strike me!" she repeated, still advancing upon Jupillon, who tried to slink away, and,
as he retreated, tossed caressing words to her as you do to a dog that does not recognize you
and seems inclined to bite. A crowd was beginning to collect about them.

"Come, old harridan, don't bother monsieur!" exclaimed a police officer, grasping Germinie
by the arm and swinging her around roughly. Under that brutal insult from the hand of the law,
Germinie's knees wavered: she thought she should faint. Then she was afraid, and fled in the
middle of the street.

LVI

Passion is subject to the most insensate reactions, the most inexplicable revivals. The accursed
love that Germinie believed to have been killed by all the wounds and blows Jupillon had inflicted
upon it came to life once more. She was dismayed to find it in her heart when she returned
home. The mere sight of the man, his proximity for those few moments, the sound of his voice,
the act of breathing the air that he breathed, were enough to turn her heart back to him and
relegate her to the past.

Notwithstanding all that had happened, she had never been able to tear Jupillon's image altogether
from her heart: its roots were still imbedded there. He was her first love. She belonged to
him against her own will by all the weaknesses of memory, by all the cowardice of habit. Between
them there were all the bonds of torture that hold a woman fast forever,--sacrifice, suffering,
degradation. He owned her, body and soul, because he had outraged her conscience, trampled
upon her illusions, made her life a martyrdom. She belonged to him, belonged to him forever,
as to the author of all her sorrows.

And that shock, that scene which should have caused her to think with horror of ever meeting
him again, rekindled in her the frenzied desire to meet him again. Her passion seized her again
in its full force. The thought of Jupillon filled her mind so completely that it purified her.
She abruptly called a halt in the vagabondage of her passions: she determined to belong thenceforth
to no one, as that was the only method by which she could still belong to him.

She began to spy upon him, to make a study of his usual hours for going out, the streets he
passed through, the places that he visited. She followed him to Batignolles, to his new quarters,
walked behind him, content to put her foot where he had put his, to be guided by his steps,
to see him now and then, to notice a gesture that he made, to snatch one of his glances. That
was all: she dared not speak to him; she kept at some distance behind, like a lost dog, happy
not to be driven away with kicks.

For weeks and weeks she made herself thus the man's shadow, a humble, timid shadow that shrank
back and moved away a few steps when it thought it was in danger of being seen; then drew nearer
again with faltering steps, and, at an impatient movement from the man, stopped once more,
as if asking pardon.

Sometimes she waited at the door of a house which he entered, caught him up again when he came
out and escorted him home, always at a distance, without speaking to him, with the air of a
beggar begging for crumbs and thankful for what she was allowed to pick up. Then she would
listen at the shutters of the ground-floor apartment in which he lived, to ascertain if he
was alone, if there was anybody there.

When he had a woman on his arm, although she suffered keenly, she was the more persistent in
following him. She went where they went to the end. She entered the public gardens and ballrooms
behind them. She walked within sound of their laughter and their words, tore her heart to tatters
looking at them and listening to them, and stood at their backs with every jealous instinct
of her nature bleeding.

LVII

It was November. For three or four days Germinie had not fallen in with Jupillon. She went
to hover about his lodgings, watching for him. When she reached the street on which he lived,
she saw a broad beam of light struggling out through the closed shutters. She approached and
heard bursts of laughter, the clinking of glasses, women's voices, then a song and one voice,
that of the woman whom she hated with all the hatred of her heart, whom she would have liked
to see lying dead before her, and whose death she had so often sought to discover in the coffee-grounds,--the
cousin!

She glued her ear to the shutter, breathing in what they said, absorbed in the torture of listening
to them, pasturing her famished heart upon suffering. It was a cold, rainy winter's night.
She did not feel the cold or rain. All her senses were engaged in listening. The voice she
detested seemed at times to grow faint and die away beneath kisses, and the notes it sang died
in her throat as if stifled by lips placed upon the song. The hours passed. Germinie was still
at her post. She did not think of going away. She waited, with no knowledge of what she was
waiting for. It seemed to her that she must remain there always, until the end. The rain fell
faster. The water from a broken gutter overhead beat down upon her shoulders. Great drops glided
down her neck. An icy shiver ran up and down her back. The water dripped from her dress to
the ground. She did not notice it. She was conscious of no pain in any of her limbs except
the pain that flowed from her heart.

Well on toward morning there was a movement in the house, and footsteps approached the door.
Germinie ran and hid in a recess in the wall some steps away, and from there saw a woman come
out, escorted by a young man. As she watched them walk away, she felt something soft and warm
on her hands that frightened her at first; it was a dog licking her, a great dog that she had
held in her lap many an evening, when he was a puppy, in the crémière's back shop.

"Come here, Molosse!" Jupillon shouted impatiently twice or thrice in the darkness.

The dog barked, ran back, returned and gamboled about her, and at last entered the house. The
door closed. The voices and singing lured Germinie back to her former position against the
shutter, and there she remained, drenched by the rain, allowing herself to be drenched, as
she listened and listened, till morning, till daybreak, till the hour when the masons on their
way to work, with their dinner loaf under their arms, began to laugh at her as they passed.

LVIII

Two or three days after that night in the rain, Germinie's features were distorted with pain,
her skin was like marble and her eyes blazing. She said nothing, made no complaints, but went
about her work as usual.

"Here! girl, look at me a moment," said mademoiselle, and she led her abruptly to the window.
"What does all this mean? this look of a dead woman risen from the grave? Come, tell me honestly,
are you sick? My God! how hot your hands are!"

She grasped her wrist, and in a moment threw it down.

"What a silly slut! you're in a burning fever! And you keep it to yourself!"

"Why no, mademoiselle," Germinie stammered. "I think it's nothing but a bad cold. I went to
sleep the other evening with my kitchen window open."

"Oh! you're a good one!" retorted mademoiselle; "you might be dying and you'd never as much
as say: 'Ouf!' Wait."

She put on her spectacles, and hastily moving her arm-chair to a small table by the fireplace,
she wrote a few lines in her bold hand.

"Here," said she, folding the note, "you will do me the favor to give this to your friend Adèle
and have her send the concierge with it. And now to bed you go!"

But Germinie refused to go to bed. It was not worth while. She would not tire herself. She
would sit down all day. Besides, the worst of her sickness was over; she was getting better
already. And then it always killed her to stay in bed.

The doctor, summoned by mademoiselle's note, came in the evening. He examined Germinie, and
ordered the application of croton oil. The trouble in the chest was of such a nature that he
could say nothing about it until he had observed the effect of his remedies.

He returned a few days later, sent Germinie to bed and sounded her chest for a long while.

"It's a most extraordinary thing," he said to mademoiselle, when he went downstairs; "she has
had pleurisy upon her and hasn't kept her bed for a moment! Is she made of iron, in Heaven's
name? Oh! the energy of some women! How old is she?"

"Forty-one."

"Forty-one! Oh! it's not possible. Are you sure? She looks fully fifty."

"Ah! as to that, she looks as old as you please. What can you expect? Never in good health,--always
sick, disappointment, sorrow,--and a disposition that can't help tormenting itself."

"Forty-one years old! it's amazing!" the physician repeated.

After a moment's reflection, he continued:

"So far as you know, is there any hereditary lung trouble in her family? Has she had any relatives
who have died young?"

"She lost a sister by pleurisy; but she was older. She was forty-eight, I think."

The doctor had become very grave. "However, the lung is getting freer," he said, in an encouraging
tone. "But it is absolutely necessary that she should have rest. And send her to me once a
week. Let her come and see me. And let her take a pleasant day for it,--a bright, sunny day."

LIX

Mademoiselle talked and prayed and implored and scolded to no purpose: she could not induce
Germinie to lay aside her work for a few days. Germinie would not even listen to the suggestion
that she should have an assistant to do the heavier work. She declared that it was useless,
impossible; that she could never endure the thought of another woman approaching her, waiting
upon her, attending to her wants; that it would give her a fever simply to think of such a
thing as she lay in bed; that she was not dead yet; and she begged that she might be allowed
to go on as usual, so long as she could put one foot before the other. She said it in such
an affectionate tone, her eyes were so beseeching, her feeble voice was so humble and so passionate
in making the request, that mademoiselle had not the courage to force her to accept an assistant.
She simply called her a "blockhead," who believed, like all country-people, that a few days
in bed means death.

Keeping on her feet, with an apparent improvement due to the physician's energetic treatment,
Germinie continued to make mademoiselle's bed, accepting her assistance to turn the mattresses.
She also continued to prepare her food, and that was an especially distasteful task to her.

When she was preparing mademoiselle's breakfast and dinner, she felt as if she should die in
her kitchen, one of the wretched little kitchens common in great cities, which are the cause
of so much pulmonary trouble in women. The embers that she kindled, and from which a thread
of suffocating smoke slowly arose, began to stir her stomach to revolt; soon the charcoal that
she bought from the charcoal dealer next door, strong Paris charcoal, full of half-charred
wood, enveloped her in its stifling odor. The dirty, smoking funnel, the low chimney-piece
poured back into her lungs the corroding heat of the waist-high oven. She suffocated, she felt
the fiery heat of all her blood surge upward to her face and cause red blotches to appear on
her forehead. Her head whirled. In the half-asphyxiated condition of laundresses who pass back
and forth through the vapor of their charcoal stoves, she would rush to the window and draw
a few breaths of the icy outside air.

She had other motives for suffering on her feet, for keeping constantly about her work despite
her increasing weakness, than the repugnance of country-people to take to their beds, or her
fierce, jealous determination that no one but herself should attend to mademoiselle's needs:
she had a constant terror of denunciation, which might accompany the installation of a new
servant. It was absolutely necessary that she should be there, to keep watch on mademoiselle
and prevent anyone from coming near her. It was necessary, too, that she should show herself,
that the quarter should see her, and that she should not appear to her creditors with the aspect
of a dead woman. She must make a pretence of being strong, she must assume a cheerful, lively
demeanor, she must impart confidence to the whole street with the doctor's studied words, with
a hopeful air, and with the promise not to die. She must appear at her best in order to reassure
her debtors and to prevent apprehensions on the subject of money from ascending the stairs
and applying to mademoiselle.

She acted up to her part in this horrible, but necessary, comedy. She was absolutely heroic
in the way she made her whole body lie,--in drawing up her enfeebled form to its full height
as she passed the shops, whose proprietors' eyes were upon her; in quickening her trailing
footsteps; in rubbing her cheeks with a rough towel before going out in order to bring back
the color of blood to them; in covering the pallor of her disease and her death-mask with rouge.

Despite the terrible cough that racked her sleepless nights, despite her stomach's loathing
for food, she passed the whole winter conquering and overcoming her own weakness and struggling
with the ups and downs of her disease.

At every visit that he made, the doctor told mademoiselle that he was unable to find that any
of her maid's vital organs were seriously diseased. The lungs were a little ulcerated near
the top; but people recovered from that. "But her body seems worn out, thoroughly worn out,"
he said again and again, in a sad tone, with an almost embarrassed manner that impressed mademoiselle.
And he always had something to say, at the end of his visit, about a change of air--about the
country.

LX

When August arrived, the doctor had nothing but that to advise or prescribe--the country. Notwithstanding
the repugnance of elderly people to move, to change their abode and the habits and regular
hours of their life; despite her domestic nature and the sort of pang that she felt at being
torn from her hearthstone, mademoiselle decided to take Germinie into the country. She wrote
to the chick's daughter, who lived, with a brood of children, on a small estate in a village
of Brie, and who had been, for many years, begging her to pay her a long visit. She requested
her hospitality for a month or six weeks for herself and her sick maid.

They set out. Germinie was delighted. On their arrival she felt decidedly better. For some
days her disease seemed to be diverted by the change. But the weather that summer was very
uncertain, with much rain, sudden changes, and high winds. Germinie had a chill, and mademoiselle
soon heard again, overhead, just above the room in which she slept, the frightful cough that
had been so painful and hard to bear at Paris. There were hurried paroxysms of coughing that
seemed almost to strangle her; spasms that would break off for a moment, then begin again;
and the pauses caused the ear and the heart to experience a nervous, anxious anticipation of
what was certain to come next, and always did come,--racking and tearing, dying away again,
but still vibrating in the ear, even when it had ceased: never silent, never willing to have done.

And yet Germinie rose from those horrible nights with an energy and activity that amazed mademoiselle
and at times reassured her. She was out of bed as early as anybody in the house. One morning,
at five o'clock, she went with the man-servant in a char-à-banc to a mill-pond three leagues
away, for fish; at another time she dragged herself to the saint's day ball, with the maids
from the house, and did not return until they did, at daybreak. She worked all the time; assisted
the servants. She was always sitting on the edge of a chair, in a corner of the kitchen, doing
something with her fingers. Mademoiselle was obliged to force her to go out, to drive her into
the garden to sit. Then Germinie would sit on the green bench, with her umbrella over her head,
and the sun in her skirts and on her feet. Hardly moving, she would forget herself utterly
as she inhaled the light and air and warmth, passionately and with a sort of feverish joy.
Her distended lips would part to admit the fresh, clear air. Her eyes burned, but did not move;
and in the light shadow of the silk umbrella her gaunt, wasted, haggard face stared vacantly
into space like an amorous death's head.

Weary as she was at night, no persuasion could induce her to retire before her mistress. She
insisted upon being at hand to undress her. Seated by her side, she would rise from time to
time to wait upon her as best she could, assist her to take off a petticoat, then sit down
again, collect her strength for a moment, rise again, and insist upon doing something for her.
Mademoiselle had to force her to sit down and order her to keep quiet. And all the time that
the evening toilet lasted she had always upon her lips the same tiresome chatter about the
servants of the house.

"Why, mademoiselle, you haven't an idea of the eyes they make at each other when they think
no one sees them--the cook and the man--I mean. They keep quiet when I am by; but the other
day I surprised them in the bakery. They were kissing, fancy! Luckily madame here don't suspect
it."

"Ah! there you are again with your tale-bearing! Why, good God!" mademoiselle would exclaim,
"what difference does it make to you whether they coo or don't coo? They're kind to you, aren't
they? That's all that's necessary."

"Oh! very kind, mademoiselle; as far as that's concerned I haven't a word to say. Marie got
up in the night last night to give me some water--and as for him, when there's any dessert
left, it's always for me. Oh! he's very polite to me--in fact, Marie don't like it very well
that he thinks so much about me. You understand, mademoiselle----"

"Come, come! go to bed with all your nonsense!" said her mistress sharply, sad, and annoyed
as well, to find such a keen interest in others' love-affairs in one so ill.

LXI

When they returned from the country, the doctor, after examining Germinie, said to Mademoiselle:
"It has been very rapid, very rapid. The left lung is entirely gone. The right has begun to
be affected at the top, and I fear that there is more or less difficulty all through it. She's
a dead woman. She may live six weeks, two months at most."

"Great Heaven!" said Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, "everyone I have ever loved will go before
me! Tell me, must I wait until everybody has gone?"

"Have you thought of placing her in some institution?" said the doctor, after a moment's silence.
"You can't keep her here. It's too great a burden, too great a grief for you to have her with
you," he added, at a gesture from mademoiselle.

"No, monsieur, no, I haven't thought of it. Oh! yes, I am likely to send her away. Why you
must have seen, monsieur: that girl isn't a maid, she isn't a servant in my eyes; she's like
the family I never had! What would you have me say to her: 'Be off with you now!' Ah! I never
suffered so much before on account of not being rich and having a wretched four-sou apartment
like this. I, mention such a thing to her! why, it's impossible! And where could she go? To
the Maison Dubois? Oh! yes, to the Dubois! She went there once to see the maid I had before,
who died there. You might as well kill her! The hospital, then? No, not there; I don't choose
to have her die in that place!"

"Good God, mademoiselle, she'll be a hundred times better off there than here. I would get
her admitted at Lariboisière, during the term of service of a doctor who is a friend of mine.
I would recommend her to an intern, who is under great obligations to me. She would have a
very excellent Sister to nurse her in the hall to which I would have her sent. If necessary,
she could have a private room. But I am sure she would prefer to be in a common room. It's
the essential thing to do, you see, mademoiselle. She can't stay in that chamber up there.
You know what these horrible servants' quarters are. Indeed, it's my opinion that the health
authorities ought to compel the landlords to show common humanity in that direction; it's an
outrage! The cold weather is coming; there's no fireplace; with the window and the roof it
will be like an ice-house. You see she still keeps about. She has a marvelous stock of courage,
prodigious nervous vitality. But, in spite of everything, the bed will claim her in a few days,--she
won't get up again. Come, listen to reason, mademoiselle. Let me speak to her, will you?"

"No, not yet. I must get used to the idea. And then, when I see her around me I imagine she
isn't going to die so quickly as all that. There's time enough. Later, we'll see about it,--yes,
later."

"Excuse me, mademoiselle, if I venture to say to you that you are quite capable of making yourself
sick nursing her."

"I? Oh! as for me!" And Mademoiselle de Varandeuil made a gesture indicating that her life
was of no consequence.

LXII

Amid Mademoiselle de Varandeuil's desperate anxiety concerning her maid's health, she became
conscious of a strange feeling, a sort of fear in the presence of the new, unfamiliar, mysterious
creature that sickness had made of Germinie. Mademoiselle had a sense of discomfort beside
that hollow, ghostly face, which was almost unrecognizable in its implacable rigidity, and
which seemed to return to itself, to recover consciousness, only furtively, by fits and starts,
in the effort to produce a pallid smile. The old woman had seen many people die; her memories
of many painful years recalled the expressions of many dear, doomed faces, of many faces that
were sad and desolate and grief-stricken in death; but no face of all those she remembered
had ever assumed, as the end drew near, that distressing expression of a face retiring within
itself and closing the doors.

Enveloped in her suffering, Germinie maintained her savage, rigid, self-contained, impenetrable
demeanor. She was as immovable as bronze. Mademoiselle, as she looked at her, asked herself
what it could be that she brooded over thus without moving; whether it was her life rising
in revolt, the dread of death, or a secret remorse for something in her past. Nothing external
seemed to affect the sick woman. She was no longer conscious of things about her. Her body
became indifferent to everything, did not ask to be relieved, seemed not to desire to be cured.
She complained of nothing, found no pleasure or diversion in anything. Even her longing for
affection had left her. She no longer made any motion to bestow or invite a caress, and every
day something human left her body, which seemed to be turning to stone. Often she would bury
herself in profound silence that made one expect a heart-rending shriek or word; but after
glancing about the room, she would say nothing and begin again to stare fixedly, vacantly,
at the same spot in space.

When mademoiselle returned from the friend's house with whom she dined, she would find Germinie
in the dark, sunk in an easy-chair with her legs stretched out upon a chair, her head hanging
forward on her breast, and so profoundly absorbed that sometimes she did not hear the door
open. As she walked forward into the room it seemed to Mademoiselle de Varandeuil as if she
were breaking in upon a ghastly tête-à-tête between Disease and the Shadow of Death, wherein
Germinie was already seeking, in the terror of the Invisible, the blindness of the grave and
the darkness of death.

LXIII

Throughout the month of October, Germinie obstinately refused to take to her bed. Each day,
however, she was weaker and more helpless than the day before. She was hardly able to ascend
the flight of stairs that led to her sixth floor, dragging herself along by the railing. One
day she fell on the stairs: the other servants picked her up and carried her to her chamber.
But that did not stop her; the next day she went downstairs again, with the fitful gleam of
strength that invalids commonly have in the morning. She prepared mademoiselle's breakfast,
made a pretence of working, and kept moving about the apartment, clinging to the chairs and
dragging herself along. Mademoiselle took pity on her; she forced her to lie down on her own
bed. Germinie lay there half an hour, an hour, wide awake, not speaking, but with her eyes
open, fixed, and staring into vacancy like the eyes of a person in severe pain.

One morning she did not come down. Mademoiselle climbed to the sixth floor, turned into a narrow
corridor in which the air was heavy with the odors from servants' water-closets and at last
reached Germinie's door, No. 21. Germinie apologized for having compelled her to come up. It
was impossible for her to put her feet out of the bed. She had terrible pains in her bowels
and they were badly swollen. She begged mademoiselle to sit down a moment and, to make room
for her, removed the candlestick that stood on the chair at the head of her bed.

Mademoiselle sat down and remained a few moments, looking about the wretched room,--one of
those where the doctor has to lay his hat on the bed, and where there is barely room to die!
It was a small attic room, without a chimney, with a scuttle window in the sloping roof, which
admitted the heat of summer and the cold of winter. Old trunks, clothes bags, a foot-bath,
and the little iron bedstead on which Germinie's niece had slept, were heaped up in a corner
under the sloping roof. The bed, one chair, a little disabled washstand with a broken pitcher,
comprised the whole of the furniture. Above the bed, in an imitation violet-wood frame, hung
a daguerreotype of a man.

The doctor came during the day. "Aha! peritonitis," he said, when mademoiselle described Germinie's
condition.

He went up to see the sick woman. "I am afraid," he said, when he came down, "that there's
an abscess in the intestine communicating with an abscess in the bladder. It's a serious case,
very serious. You must tell her not to move about much in her bed, to turn over with great
care. She might die suddenly in horrible agony. I suggested to her to go to Lariboisière,--she
agreed at once. She seemed to have no repugnance at all. But I don't know how she will bear
the journey. However, she has such an unlimited stock of energy; I have never seen anything
like it. To-morrow morning you shall have the order of admission."

When mademoiselle went up to Germinie's room again, she found her smiling in her bed, gay as
a lark at the idea of going away.

"It's a matter of six weeks at most, mademoiselle," said she.

LXIV

At two o'clock the next day the doctor brought the order for her admission to Lariboisière.
The invalid was ready to start. Mademoiselle suggested that they should send to the hospital
for a litter. "Oh! no," said Germinie, hastily, "I should think I was dead." She was thinking
of her debts; she must show herself to her creditors on the street, alive, and on her feet
to the last!

She got out of bed. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil assisted her to put on her petticoat and her
dress. As soon as she left her bed, all signs of life disappeared from her face, the flush
from her complexion: it seemed as if earth suddenly took the place of blood under her skin.
She went down the steep servants' stairway, clinging to the baluster, and reached her mistress's
apartments. She sat down in an arm-chair near the window in the dining-room. She insisted upon
putting on her stockings without assistance, and as she pulled them on with her poor trembling
hands, the fingers striking against one another, she afforded a glimpse of her legs, which
were so thin as to make one shudder. The housekeeper, meanwhile, was putting together in a
bundle a little linen, a glass, a cup, and a pewter plate, which she wished to carry with her.
When that was done, Germinie looked about her for a moment; she cast one last glance around
the room, a glance that seemed to long to take everything away with her. Then, as her eyes
rested on the door through which the housekeeper had just gone out, she said to mademoiselle:
"At all events I leave a good woman with you."

She rose. The door closed noisily behind her, as if to say adieu, and, supported by Mademoiselle
de Varandeuil, who almost carried her, she went down the five flights of the main stairway.
At every landing she paused to take breath. In the vestibule she found the concierge, who had
brought her a chair. She fell into it. The vulgar fellow laughingly promised her that she would
be well in six weeks. She moved her head slightly as she said yes, a muffled yes.

She was in the cab, beside her mistress. It was an uncomfortable cab and jolted over the pavements.
She sat forward on the seat to avoid the concussion of the jolting, and clung to the door with
her hand. She watched the houses pass, but did not speak. When they reached the hospital gate,
she refused to be carried. "Can you walk as far as that?" said the concierge, pointing to the
reception-room some sixty feet distant. She made an affirmative sign and walked: it was a dead
woman walking, because she was determined to walk!

At last she reached the great hall, cold and stiff and clean and bare and horrible, with a
circle of wooden benches around the waiting litter. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil led her to a
straw chair near a glazed door. A clerk opened the door, asked Mademoiselle de Varandeuil Germinie's
name and age, and wrote for a quarter of an hour, covering ten or more sheets of paper with
a religious emblem at the top. That done, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil kissed her and turned
to go; she saw an attendant take her under the arms, then she saw no more, but turned and fled,
and, throwing herself upon the cushions of the cab, she burst into sobs and gave vent to all
the tears with which her heart had been suffocated for an hour past. The driver on his box
was amazed to hear such violent weeping.

LXV

On the visiting day, Thursday, mademoiselle started at half-past twelve to go and see Germinie.
It was her purpose to be at her bedside at the moment the doors were thrown open, at one o'clock
precisely. As she rode through the streets she had passed through four days before, she remembered
the ghastly ride of Monday. It seemed to her as if she were incommoding a sick person in the
cab, of which she was the only occupant, and she sat close in the corner in order to make room
for the memory of Germinie. In what condition should she find her? Should she find her at all?
Suppose her bed should be empty?

The cab passed through a narrow street filled with orange carts, and with women sitting on
the sidewalk offering biscuit for sale in baskets. There was something unspeakably wretched
and dismal in this open-air display of fruit and cakes,--the delicacies of the dying, the viaticum
of invalids, craved by feverish mouths, longed for by the death-agony,--which workingmen's
hands, black with toil, purchase as they pass, to carry to the hospital and offer death a tempting
morsel. Children carried them with sober faces, almost reverentially, and without touching
them, as if they understood.

The cab stopped before the gate of the courtyard. It was five minutes to one. There was a long
line of women crowding about the gate, women with their working clothes on, sorrowful, depressed
and silent. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil took her place in the line, went forward with the others
and was admitted: they searched her. She inquired for Salle Sainte-Joséphine, and was directed
to the second wing on the second floor. She found the hall and the bed, No. 14, which was,
as she had been told, one of the last at the right. Indeed, she was guided thither, as it were,
from the farther end of the hall, by Germinie's smile--the smile of a sick person in a hospital
at an unexpected visit, which says, so gently, as soon as you enter the room: "Here I am."

She leaned over the bed. Germinie tried to push her away with a gesture of humility and the
shamefacedness of a servant.

Mademoiselle de Varandeuil kissed her.

"Ah!" said Germinie, "the time dragged terribly yesterday. I imagined it was Thursday and I
longed so for you."

"My poor girl! How are you?"

"Oh! I'm getting on finely now--the swelling in my bowels has all gone. I have only three weeks
to stay here, mademoiselle, you'll see. They talk about a month or six weeks, but I know better.
And I'm very comfortable here, I don't mind it at all. I sleep all night now. My! but I was
thirsty, when you brought me here Monday! They wouldn't give me wine and water."

"What have you there to drink?"

"Oh! what I had at home--lime-water. Would you mind pouring me out some, mademoiselle? their
pewter things are so heavy!"

She raised herself with one arm by the aid of the little stick that hung over the middle of
the bed, and putting out the other thin, trembling arm, left bare by the sleeve falling back
from it, she took the glass mademoiselle held out to her, and drank.

"There," said she when she had done, and she placed both her arms outside the bed, on the coverlid.

"What a pity that I have to put you out in this way, my poor demoiselle!" she continued. "Things
must be in a horribly dirty state at home!"

"Don't worry about that."

There was a moment's silence. A faint smile came to Germinie's lips. "I am sailing under false
colors," she said, lowering her voice; "I have confessed so as to get well."

Then she moved her head on the pillow in order to bring her mouth nearer to Mademoiselle de
Varandeuil's ear:

"There are tales to tell here. I have a funny neighbor yonder." She indicated with a glance
and a movement of her shoulder the patient to whom her back was turned. "There's a man who
comes here to see her. He talked to her an hour yesterday. I heard them say they'd had a child.
She has left her husband. He was like a madman, the man was, when he was talking to her."

As she spoke, Germinie's face lighted up as if she were still full of the scene of the day
before, still stirred up and feverish with jealousy, so near death as she was, because she
had heard love spoken of beside her!

Suddenly her expression changed. A woman came toward her bed. She seemed embarrassed when she
saw Mademoiselle de Varandeuil. After a few moments, she kissed Germinie, and hurriedly withdrew
as another woman came up. The new-comer did the same, kissed Germinie and at once took her
leave. After the women a man came; then another woman. One and all, after a moment's conversation,
leaned over Germinie to kiss her, and with every kiss Mademoiselle de Varandeuil could hear
an indistinct murmur as of words exchanged; a whispered question from those who kissed, a hasty
reply from her who was kissed.

"Well!" she said to Germinie, "I hope you are well taken care of!"

"Oh! yes," Germinie answered in a peculiar tone, "they take excellent care of me!"

She had lost the animation that she displayed at the beginning of the visit. The little blood
that had mounted to her cheeks remained there in one spot only. Her face seemed closed; it
was cold and deaf, like a wall. Her drawn-in lips were sealed, as it were. Her features were
concealed beneath the veil of infinite dumb agony. There was nothing caressing or eloquent
in her staring eyes, absorbed as they were and filled with one fixed thought. You would have
said that all exterior signs of her ideas were drawn within her by an irresistible power of
concentration, by a last supreme effort of her will, and that her whole being was clinging
in desperation to a sorrow that drew everything to itself.

The visitors she had just received were the grocer, the fish-woman, the butter woman and the
laundress--all her debts, incarnate! The kisses were the kisses of her creditors, who came
to keep on the scent of their claims and to extort money from her death-agony!

LXVI

Mademoiselle had just risen on Saturday morning. She was making a little package of four jars
of Bar preserves, which she intended to carry to Germinie the next day, when she heard low
voices, a colloquy between the housekeeper and the concierge in the reception room. Almost
immediately the door opened and the concierge came in.

"Sad news, mademoiselle," he said.

And he handed her a letter he had in his hand; it bore the stamp of the Lariboisière hospital:
Germinie was dead; she died at seven o'clock that morning.

Mademoiselle took the letter; she saw only the letters that said: "Dead! dead!" And they repeated
the word: "Dead! dead!" to no purpose, for she could not believe it. As is always the case
with a person of whose death one learns abruptly, Germinie appeared to her instinct with life,
and her body, which was no more, seemed to stand before her with the awe-inspiring presence
of a ghost. Dead! She should never see her more! So there was no longer a Germinie on earth!
Dead! She was dead! And the person she should hear henceforth moving about in the kitchen would
not be she; somebody else would open the door for her, somebody else would potter about her
room in the morning! "Germinie!" she cried at last, in the tone with which she was accustomed
to call her; then, collecting her thoughts: "Machine! creature! What's your name?" she cried,
savagely, to the bewildered housekeeper. "My dress--I must go there."

She was so taken by surprise by this sudden fatal termination of the disease, that she could
not accustom her mind to the thought. She could hardly realize that sudden, secret, vague death,
of which her only knowledge was derived from a scrap of paper. Was Germinie really dead? Mademoiselle
asked herself the question with the doubt of persons who have lost a dear one far away, and,
not having seen her die, do not admit that she is dead. Was she not still alive the last time
she saw her? How could it have happened? How could she so suddenly have become a thing good
for nothing except to be put under ground? Mademoiselle dared not think about it, and yet she
kept on thinking. The mystery of the death-agony, of which she knew nothing, attracted and
terrified her. The anxious interest of her affection turned to her maid's last hours, and she
tried gropingly to take away the veil and repel the feeling of horror. Then she was seized
with an irresistible longing to know everything, to witness, with the help of what might be
told her, what she had not seen. She felt that she must know if Germinie had spoken before
she died,--if she had expressed any desire, spoken of any last wishes, uttered one of those
sentences which are the final outcry of life.

When she reached Lariboisière, she passed the concierge,--a stout man reeking with life as
one reeks with wine,--passed through the corridors where pallid convalescents were gliding
hither and thither, and rang at a door, veiled with white curtains, at the extreme end of the
hospital. The door was opened: she found herself in a parlor, lighted by two windows, where
a plaster cast of the Virgin stood upon an altar, between two views of Vesuvius, which seemed
to shiver against the bare wall. Behind her, through an open door, came the voices of Sisters
and little girls chattering together, a clamor of youthful voices and fresh laughter, the natural
gayety of a cheery room where the sun frolics with children at play.

Mademoiselle asked to speak with the mother of Salle Sainte-Joséphine. A short, half-deformed
Sister, with a kind, homely face, a face alight with the grace of God, came in answer to her
request. Germinie had died in her arms. "She hardly suffered at all," the Sister told mademoiselle;
"she was sure that she was better; she felt relieved; she was full of hope. About seven this
morning, just as her bed was being made, she suddenly began vomiting blood, and passed away
without knowing that she was dying." The Sister added that she had said nothing, asked for
nothing, expressed no wish.

Mademoiselle rose, delivered from the horrible thoughts she had had. Germinie had been spared
all the tortures of the death-agony that she had dreamed of. Mademoiselle was grateful for
that death by the hand of God which gathers in the soul at a single stroke.

As she was going away an attendant came to her and said: "Will you be kind enough to identify
the body?"

The body! The words gave mademoiselle a terrible shock. Without awaiting her reply, the attendant
led the way to a high yellow door, over which was written: Amphitheatre. He knocked; a man
in shirt sleeves, with a pipe in his mouth, opened the door and bade them wait a moment.

Mademoiselle waited. Her thoughts terrified her. Her imagination was on the other side of that
awful door. She tried to anticipate what she was about to see. And her mind was so filled with
confused images, with fanciful alarms, that she shuddered at the thought of entering the room,
of recognizing that disfigured face among a number of others, if, indeed, she could recognize
it! And yet she could not tear herself away; she said to herself that she should never see
her again!

The man with the pipe opened the door: mademoiselle saw nothing but a coffin, the lid of which
extended only to the neck, leaving Germinie's face uncovered, with the eyes open, and the hair
erect upon her head.

LXVII

Prostrated by the excitement and by this last spectacle, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil took to
her bed on returning home, after she had given the concierge the money for the purchase of
a burial lot, and for the burial. And when she was in bed the things she had seen arose before
her. The horrible dead body was still beside her, the ghastly face framed by the coffin. That
never-to-be-forgotten face was engraved upon her mind; beneath her closed eyelids she saw it
and was afraid of it. Germinie was there, with the distorted features of one who has been murdered,
with sunken orbits and eyes that seemed to have withdrawn into their holes! She was there with
her mouth still distorted by the vomiting that accompanied her last breath! She was there with
her hair, her terrible hair, brushed back and standing erect upon her head!

Her hair!--that haunted mademoiselle more persistently than all the rest. The old maid thought,
involuntarily, of things that had come to her ears when she was a child, of superstitions of
the common people stored away in the background of her memory; she asked herself if she had
not been told that dead people whose hair is like that carry a crime with them to the grave.
And at times it was such hair as that that she saw upon that head, the hair of crime, standing
on end with terror and stiffened with horror before the justice of Heaven, like the hair of
the condemned man before the scaffold in La Grève!

On Sunday mademoiselle was too ill to leave her bed. On Monday she tried to rise and dress,
in order to attend the funeral; but she was attacked with faintness, and was obliged to return
to her bed.

LXVIII

"Well! is it all over?" said mademoiselle from her bed, as the concierge entered her room about
eleven o'clock, on his return from the cemetery, with the black coat and the sanctimonious
manner suited to the occasion.

"Mon Dieu, yes, mademoiselle. Thank God! the poor girl is out of pain."

"Stay! I have no head to-day. Put the receipts and the rest of the money on my table. We will
settle our accounts some other day."

The concierge stood before her without moving or evincing any purpose to go, shifting from
one hand to the other a blue velvet cap made from the dress of one of his daughters. After
a moment's reflection, he decided to speak.

"This burying is an expensive business, mademoiselle. In the first place, there's----"

"Who asked you to give the figures?" Mademoiselle de Varandeuil interrupted, with the haughty
air of superb charity.

The concierge continued: "And as I was saying, a lot in the cemetery, which you told me to
get, ain't given away. It's no use for you to have a kind heart, mademoiselle, you ain't any
too rich,--everyone knows that,--and I says to myself: 'Mademoiselle's going to have no small
amount to pay out, and I know mademoiselle, she'll pay.' So it'll do no harm to economize on
that, eh? It'll be just so much saved. The other'll be just as safe under ground. And then,
what will give her the most pleasure up yonder? Why, to know that she isn't making things hard
for anybody, the excellent girl."

"Pay? What?" said mademoiselle, out of patience with the concierge's circumlocution.

"Oh! that's of no account," he replied; "she was very fond of you, all the same. And then,
when she was very sick, it wasn't the time. Oh! Mon Dieu, you needn't put yourself out--there's
no hurry about it--it's money she owed a long while. See, this is it."

He took a stamped paper from the inside pocket of his coat.

"I didn't want her to make a note,--she insisted."

Mademoiselle de Varandeuil seized the stamped paper and saw at the foot:

     "I acknowledge the receipt of the above amount.

                                 "GERMINIE LACERTEUX."

It was a promise to pay three hundred francs in monthly installments, which were to be endorsed
on the back.

"There's nothing there, you see," said the concierge, turning the paper over.

Mademoiselle de Varandeuil took off her spectacles. "I will pay," she said.

The concierge bowed. She glanced at him; he did not move.

"That is all, I hope?" she said, sharply.

The concierge had his eyes fixed on a leaf in the carpet. "That's all--unless----"

Mademoiselle de Varandeuil had the same feeling of terror as at the moment she passed through
the door on whose other side she was to see her maid's dead body.

"But how does she owe all this?" she cried. "I paid her good wages, I almost clothed her. Where
did her money go, eh?"

"Ah! there you are, mademoiselle. I should rather not have told you,--but as well to-day as
to-morrow. And then, too, it's better that you should be warned; when you know beforehand you
can arrange matters. There's an account with the poultry woman. The poor girl owed a little
everywhere; she didn't keep things in very good shape these last few years. The laundress left
her book the last time she came. It amounts to quite a little,--I don't know just how much.
It seems there's a note at the grocer's--an old note--it goes back years. He'll bring you his
book."

"How much at the grocer's?"

"Something like two hundred and fifty."

All these disclosures, falling upon Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, one after another, extorted
exclamations of stupefied surprise from her. Resting her elbow on her pillow, she said nothing
as the veil was torn away, bit by bit, from this life, as its shameful features were brought
to light one by one.

"Yes, about two hundred and fifty. There's a good deal of wine, he tells me."

"I have always had wine in the cellar."

"The crémière," continued the concierge, without heeding her remark, "that's no great matter,--some
seventy-five francs. It's for absinthe and brandy."

"She drank!" cried Mademoiselle de Varandeuil, everything made clear to her by those words.

The concierge did not seem to hear.

"You see, mademoiselle, knowing the Jupillons was the death of her,--the young man especially.
It wasn't for herself that she did what she did. And the disappointment, you see. She took
to drink. She hoped to marry him, I ought to say. She fitted up a room for him. When they get
to buying furniture the money goes fast. She ruined herself,--think of it! It was no use for
me to tell her not to throw herself away by drinking as she did. You don't suppose I was going
to tell you, when she came in at six o'clock in the morning! It was the same with her child.
Oh!" the concierge added, in reply to mademoiselle's gesture, "it was a lucky thing the little
one died. Never mind, you can say she led a gay life--and a hard one. That's why I say the
common ditch. If I was you--she's cost you enough, mademoiselle, all the time she's been living
on you. And you can leave her where she is--with everybody else."

"Ah! that's how it is! that's what she was! She stole for men! she ran in debt! Ah! she did
well to die, the hussy! And I must pay! A child!--think of that: the slut! Yes, indeed, she
can rot where she will! You have done well, Monsieur Henri. Steal! She stole from me! In the
ditch, parbleu! that's quite good enough for her! To think that I let her keep all my keys--I
never kept any account. My God! That's what comes of confidence. Well! here we are--I'll pay--not
on her account, but on my own. And I gave her my best pair of sheets to be buried in! Ah! if
I'd known I'd have given you the kitchen dish-clout, mademoiselle how I am duped!"

And mademoiselle continued in this strain for some moments until the words choked one another
in her throat and strangled her.

LXIX

As a result of this scene, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil kept her bed a week, ill and raging,
filled with indignation that shook her whole body, overflowed through her mouth, and tore from
her now and again some coarse insult which she would hurl with a shriek of rage at her maid's
vile memory. Night and day she was possessed by the same fever of malediction, and even in
her dreams her attenuated limbs were convulsed with wrath.

Was it possible! Germinie! her Germinie! She could think of nothing else. Debts!--a child!--all
sorts of shame! The degraded creature! She abhorred her, she detested her. If she had lived
she would have denounced her to the police. She would have liked to believe in hell so that
she might be consigned to the torments that await the dead. Her maid was such a creature as
that! A girl who had been in her service twenty years! whom she had loaded down with benefits!
Drunkenness! she had sunk so low as that! The horror that succeeds a bad dream came to mademoiselle,
and all the waves of loathing that flowed from her heart said: "Out upon the dead woman whose
life the grave vomited forth and whose filth it cast out!"

How she had deceived her! How the wretch had pretended to love her! And to make her appear
more ungrateful and more despicable Mademoiselle de Varandeuil recalled her manifestations
of affection, her attentions, her jealousies, which seemed a part of her adoration. She saw
her bending over her when she was ill. She thought of her caresses. It was all a lie! Her devotion
was a lie! The delight with which she kissed her, the love upon her lips, were lies! Mademoiselle
told herself over and over again, she persuaded herself that it was so; and yet, little by
little, from these reminiscences, from these evocations of the past whose bitterness she sought
to make more bitter, from the far-off sweetness of days gone by, there arose within her a first
sensation of pity.

She drove away the thoughts that tended to allay her wrath; but reflection brought them back.
Thereupon there came to her mind some things to which she had paid no heed during Germinie's
lifetime, trifles of which the grave makes us take thought and upon which death sheds light.
She had a vague remembrance of certain strange performances on the part of her maid, of feverish
effusions and frantic embraces, of her throwing herself on her knees as if she were about to
make a confession, of movements of the lips as if a secret were trembling on their verge. She
saw, with the eyes we have for those who are no more, Germinie's wistful glances, her gestures
and attitudes, the despairing expression of her face. And now she realized that there were
deep wounds beneath, heart-rending pain, the torment of her anguish and her repentance, the
tears of blood of her remorse, all sorts of suffering forced out of sight throughout her life,
and in her whole being a Passion of shame that dared not ask forgiveness except with silence!

Then she would scold herself for the thought and call herself an old fool. Her instinct of
rigid uprightness, the stern conscience and harsh judgment of a stainless life, the things
which cause a virtuous woman to condemn a harlot and should have caused a saint like Mademoiselle
de Varandeuil to be without pity for her servant--everything within her rebelled against a
pardon. The voice of justice, stifling her kindness of heart, cried: "Never! never!" And she
would expel Germinie's infamous phantom with a pitiless gesture.

There were times, indeed, when, in order to make her condemnation and execration of her memory
more irrevocable, she would heap charges upon her and slander her. She would add to the dead
woman's horrible list of sins. She would reproach Germinie for more than was justly chargeable
to her. She would attribute crimes to her dark thoughts, murderous desires to her impatient
dreams. She would strive to think, she would force herself to think, that she had desired her
mistress's death and had been awaiting it.

But at that very moment, amid the blackest of her thoughts and suppositions, a vision arose
and stood in a bright light before her. A figure approached, that seemed to come to meet her
glance, a figure against which she could not defend herself, and which passed through the hands
with which she sought to force it back. Mademoiselle de Varandeuil saw her dead maid once more.
She saw once more the face of which she had caught a glimpse in the amphitheatre, the crucified
face, the tortured face to which the blood and agony of a heart had mounted together. She saw
it once more with the faculty which the second sight of memory separates from its surroundings.
And that face, as it became clearer to her, caused her less terror. It appeared to her, divesting
itself, as it were, of its fear-inspiring, horrifying qualities. Suffering alone remained,
but it was the suffering of expiation, almost of prayer, the suffering of a dead face that
would like to weep. And as its expression grew ever milder, mademoiselle came at last to see
in it a glance of supplication, of supplication that, at last, compelled her pity. Insensibly
there glided into her reflections indulgent thoughts, suggestions of apology that surprised
herself. She asked herself if the poor girl was as guilty as others, if she had deliberately
chosen the path of evil, if life, circumstances, the misfortune of her body and her destiny,
had not made her the creature she had been, a creature of love and sorrow. Suddenly she stopped:
she was on the point of forgiving her!

One morning she leaped out of bed.

"Here! you--you other!" she cried to her housekeeper, "the devil take your name! I can't remember
it. Give me my clothes, quick! I have to go out."

"The idea, mademoiselle--just look at the roofs, they're all white."

"Well, it snows, that's all."

Ten minutes later, Mademoiselle de Varandeuil said to the driver of the cab she had sent for:

"Montmartre Cemetery!"

LXX

In the distance an enclosure wall extended, perfectly straight, as far as the eye could see.
The thread of snow that marked the outline of its coping gave it a dirty, rusty color. In a
corner at the left three leafless trees reared their bare black branches against the sky. They
rustled sadly, with the sound of pieces of dead wood stirred by the south wind. Above these
trees, behind the wall and close against it, arose the two arms from which hung one of the
last oil-lamps in Paris. A few snow-covered roofs were scattered here and there; beyond, the
hill of Montmartre rose sharply, its white shroud broken by oases of brown earth and sandy
patches. Low gray walls followed the slope, surmounted by gaunt, stunted trees whose branches
had a bluish tint in the mist, as far as two black windmills. The sky was of a leaden hue,
with occasional cold, bluish streaks as if ink had been applied with a brush! over Montmartre
there was a light streak, of a yellow color, like the Seine water after heavy rains. Above
that wintry beam the wings of an invisible windmill turned and turned,--slow-moving wings,
unvarying in their movement, which seemed to be turning for eternity.

In front of the wall, against which was planted a thicket of dead cypresses, turned red by
the frost, was a vast tract of land upon which were two rows of crowded, jostling overturned
crosses, like two great funeral processions. The crosses touched and pushed one another and
trod on one another's heels. They bent and fell and collapsed in the ranks. In the middle there
was a sort of congestion which had caused them to bulge out on both sides; you could see them
lying--covered by the snow and raising it into mounds with the thick wood of which they were
made--upon the paths, somewhat trampled in the centre, that skirted the two long files. The
broken ranks undulated with the fluctuation of a multitude, the disorder and wavering course
of a long march. The black crosses with their arms outstretched assumed the appearance of ghosts
and persons in distress. The two disorderly columns made one think of a human panic, a desperate,
frightened army. It was as if one were looking on at a terrible rout.

All the crosses were laden with wreaths, wreaths of immortelles, wreaths of white paper with
silver thread, black wreaths with gold thread; but you could see them beneath the snow, worn
out, withered, ghastly things, souvenirs, as it were, which the other dead would not accept
and which had been picked up in order to make a little toilet for the crosses with gleanings
from the graves.

All the crosses had a name written in white; but there were other names that were not even
written on a piece of wood,--a broken branch of a tree, stuck in the ground, with an envelope
tied around it--such tombstones as that were to be seen there!

On the left, where they were digging a trench for a third row of crosses, the workman's shovel
threw black dirt into the air, which fell upon the white earth around. Profound silence, the
deaf silence of the snow, enveloped everything, and but two sounds could be heard; the dull
sound made by the clods of earth and the heavy sound of regular footsteps; an old priest who
was waiting there, his head enveloped in a black cowl, dressed in a black gown and stole, and
with a dirty, yellow surplice, was trying to keep himself warm by stamping his great galoches
on the pavement of the high road, in front of the crosses.

Such was the common ditch in those days. That tract of land, those crosses and that priest
said this: "Here sleeps the Death of the common people; this is the poor man's end!"

                 *       *       *       *       *

O Paris! thou art the heart of the world, thou art the great city of humanity, the great city
of charity and brotherly love! Thou hast kindly intentions, old-fashioned habits of compassion,
theatres that give alms. The poor man is thy citizen as well as the rich man. Thy churches
speak of Jesus Christ; thy laws speak of equality; thy newspapers speak of progress; all thy
governments speak of the common people; and this is where thou castest those who die in thy
service, those who kill themselves ministering to thy luxury, those who perish in the noisome
odors of thy factories, those who have sweated their lives away working for thee, giving thee
thy prosperity, thy pleasures, thy splendors, those who have furnished thy animation and thy
noise, those who have lengthened with the links of their lives the chain of thy duration as
a capital, those who have been the crowd in thy streets and the common people of thy grandeur.
Each of thy cemeteries has a like shameful corner, hidden in the angle of a wall, where thou
makest haste to bury them, and where thou castest dirt upon them in such stingy clods, that
one can see the ends of their coffins protruding! One would say that thy charity stops with
their last breath, that thy only free gift is the bed whereon they suffer, and that, when the
hospital can do no more for them, thou, who art so vast and so superb, hast no place for them!
Thou dost heap them up, crowd them together and mingle them in death, as thou didst mingle
them in the death-agony beneath the sheets of thy hospitals a hundred years since! As late
as yesterday thou hadst only that priest on sentry duty, to throw a drop of paltry holy water
on every comer: not the briefest prayer! Even that symbol of decency was lacking: God could
not be disturbed for so small a matter! And what the priest blesses is always the same thing:
a trench in which the pine boxes strike against one another, where the dead enjoy no privacy!
Corruption there is common to all; no one has his own, but each one has that of all the rest:
the worms are owned promiscuously! In the devouring soil a Montfaucon hastens to make way for
the Catacombs. For the dead here have no more time than room to rot in: the earth is taken
from them before it has finished with them! before their bones have assumed the color and the
ancient appearance, so to speak, of stone, before the passing years have effaced the last trace
of humanity and the memory of a body! The excavation is renewed when the earth is still themselves,
when they are the damp soil in which the mattock is buried. The earth is loaned to them, you
say? But it does not even confine the odor of death! In summer, the wind that passes over this
scarcely-covered human charnel-house wafts the unholy miasma to the city of the living. In
the scorching days of August the keepers deny admission to the place: there are flies that
bear upon them the poison of the carrion, pestilential flies whose sting is deadly!

                  *       *       *       *       *

Mademoiselle arrived at this spot after passing the wall that separates the lots sold in perpetuity
from those sold temporarily only. Following the directions given her by a keeper, she walked
along between the further line of crosses and the newly-opened trench. And there she made her
way over buried wreaths, over the snowy pall, to a hole where the trench began. It was covered
over with old rotten planks and a sheet of oxidized zinc on which a workman had thrown his
blue blouse. The earth sloped away behind them to the bottom of the trench, where could be
seen the sinister outlines of three wooden coffins: there were one large one and two smaller
ones just behind. The crosses of the past week, of the day before, of two days before, extended
in a line down the slope; they glided along, plunged suddenly downward, and seemed to be taking
long strides as if they were in danger of being carried over a precipice.

Mademoiselle began to ascend the path by these crosses, spelling out the dates and searching
for the names with her wretched eyes. She reached the crosses of the 8th of November: that
was the day before her maid's death, and Germinie should be close by. There were five crosses
of the 9th of November, five crosses huddled close together: Germinie was not in the crush.
Mademoiselle de Varandeuil went a little farther on, to the crosses of the 10th, then to those
of the 11th, then to those of the 12th. She returned to the 8th, and looked carefully around
in all directions: there was nothing, absolutely nothing,--Germinie had been buried without
a cross! Not even a bit of wood had been placed in the ground by which to identify her grave!

At last the old lady dropped on her knees in the snow, between two crosses, one of which bore
the date of the 9th and the other of the 10th of November. All that remained of Germinie should
be almost in that spot. That ill-defined space was her ill-defined grave. To pray over her
body it was necessary to pray at random between two dates,--as if the poor girl's destiny had
decreed that there should be no more room on earth for her body than for her heart!

NOTES

[1] Canon is the French word for cannon; it is also used in vulgar parlance to mean a glass
of wine drunk at the bar.

[2] Battre les murailles--to beat the walls--has a slang meaning: to be so drunk that you can't
see, or can't lie down without holding on.

[3] Literally, red bowels--common slang for hard drinkers.

[4] Cuir is an expression used to denote the error in speaking, which consists--in French--in
pronouncing a t for an s, and vice versa at the end of words which are joined in pronunciation
to the next word: e.g., il étai-z-à la campagne for il était à la campagne.

[5] In the slang vocabulary, to console one's coffee means to add brandy to it.

[6] A négresse is a bottle of red wine, and, as applied to that article, morte (dead) means empty.

List of Illustrations

GERMINIE LACERTEUX

                                                          PAGE

GERMINIE AND JUPILLON VISIT THEIR CHILD              Fronts.

JUPILLON AND GERMINIE AT THE FORTIFICATIONS                116

GERMINIE BRINGS MONEY FOR A SUBSTITUTE                     204

GERMINIE TEMPTED TO MURDER                                 308

GERMINIE AT LARIBOISIÈRE                                   356