Let us pause here for a moment to report progress. We have seen, on the one hand, that unless
mind and matter have been eternally coexistent, mind must have preceded matter, and that it
is idle, therefore, to expect, by any researches into matter, to discover how mind (or life)
originated. We have seen that from a materialism which represents mind as in any sense a property
or product of matter there is no possible outlet to an idealism which represents matter as
owing its being to mind. To see this is simply to see that the builder of a house cannot possibly
have been born in the house he has himself built. On the other hand, we have seen that the
idealism which represents being or existence as consisting of perception is utterly incompatible
with materialism of any sort or kind, unless, indeed, with a materialistic nihilism wherein
would be no room for a solitary molecule, still less for any molecular structure, and least
of all for that motion of molecular structures into which consistent materialists are logically
bound to attempt to resolve all natural phenomena. We have, in short, seen that materialism
and idealism, in the senses in which those terms are commonly used, are utterly incapable of
amalgamation, or indeed of even being harmoniously approximated, without being first deprived
of all the characteristic traits which at present entitle them to their distinguishing appellations.

To which of the two belongs the larger share of blame for this implacable hostility is easily
determined. Materialism, in dealing with mental phenomena, begins by setting chronology at
defiance; but between idealism and the phenomena of matter there is no such aboriginal incongruity.
From principles common to every form of idealism a theory is deducible which, while frankly
acknowledging the reality of matter, may, with perfect consistency, maintain that reality to
be mental--although mental in the sense of being, not a perception by, but a metamorphosis
of, mind. Of such a theory the outlines seem to me to have been sketched, and the foundations
partly laid, by Descartes, and it cannot be otherwise than interesting to inquire in what manner
and how far so consummate an artificer advanced in the work, and where and wherefore he suddenly
stopped short in it.

When Descartes, after convincing himself of the hollow pretentiousness of most human knowledge,
proceeded to dig away the accumulated drift and sand of ages in quest of any clay or rock there
might be below, the first indubitable verity he came to was thought, about whose reality there
could, as already explained, be no possibility of doubt, inasmuch as any doubt concerning it,
being itself thought, would be but an additional proof of it. On the bit of firm ground thus
thoroughly tested, he proceeded to place a formula not less carefully verified, his famous
'Cogito, ergo sum'--'I think, therefore I am.' By many of his followers, however, this second
verification of his is deemed to be by no means so satisfactory as it was by himself, Professor
Huxley more especially taking vehement, though, as I make bold to add, somewhat gratuitous,
exception to every single word of the most celebrated of Cartesian formulæ. No doubt the premiss
of the formula assumes the conclusion, but it likewise includes as well as assumes it. No doubt,
since 'I think' is but another way of saying 'I am thinking,' to say that 'I think' is to assume
that 'I am;' nay, the same thing is equally assumed by the mere introduction of the pronoun
'I.' But Descartes was fully warranted in taking for granted the truth of his conclusion. For
by previously showing incontestably that thought and consciousness are real existences, he
had completely proved the premiss wherein his conclusion is included. What though, as Professor
Huxley suggests, 'thought' may possibly 'be self-existent,' 'or a given thought the result
of its antecedent thought, or of some external power'? Be thought what else it may, it must
needs be, also, either an affection or an operation; if not performed, it must be felt; there
must needs be, therefore, something by which it is either performed or felt, and that something
cannot possibly be other than a thinking and conscious thing. As surely as thought is, so surely
must there be a thinker. This is, in substance, affirmed even by many who deny it in terms,
and Hume, in particular, when saying, as he somewhere does, that 'all we are conscious of is
a series of perceptions,' denies and affirms it at one and the same time. For how can there
be perception without a percipient? or how consciousness without a conscious entity? or how
can that entity be conscious of feeling without being simultaneously conscious that it is itself
which feels, without knowing, consequently, that it has a self, or without being warranted,
if it possess the gift of speech, in declaring, in words even more emphatic than those of Descartes,
'I myself am'? And how, if these questions do not admit of reply, can Professor Huxley be warranted
in declaring self and non-self to be mere 'hypotheses by which we account for the facts of
consciousness,' and adding that of their existence we 'neither have, nor by any possibility
can have' the same 'unquestionable and immediate certainty as we have of the states of consciousness
which we consider to be their effects'? Surely the existence of self is one of the most direct
and immediate subjects of consciousness; yet it does not depend for evidence on consciousness
alone, but is as unanswerably demonstrable as that two straight lines cannot enclose space
or that parallel lines cannot meet, or as any other mathematical negation. No ratiocinative
deduction can be more incontestable than that, since I have thoughts, there must be an I to
have them.

Whoever thus assures himself of the existence of self obtains simultaneously equal assurance
of the existence of non-self; for feeling that his conscious self is not boundless, but is
confined within limits, he cannot doubt that beyond those limits there must be space, and,
receiving continual sensations from without, he perceives that there are, in external space,
potentialities of imparting sensations. Thus, I repeat, Descartes in laying down the first
principles of his philosophy created an intellectual basis for the external universe. Unfortunately,
however, instead of proceeding to place its proper superstructure on the foundation thus laid,
he wilfully stepped aside from what he had just pronounced the only firm ground in existence,
and undertook to raise a rival edifice on part of the formless void beyond. Deeply struck by
the grand discoveries of his illustrious contemporaries, Galileo and Harvey, and thence discovering
for himself that the phenomena of remotest worlds and also the involuntary phenomena of our
own bodily frames take place in accordance with forces of uniform operation, he leaped suddenly
to the conclusion that those forces are purely mechanical. The circulation of the blood, he
says, 'is as much the necessary result of the structure of the parts one can see in the heart,
and of the heat which one may feel there, and of the nature of the blood which may be experimentally
ascertained, as is the motion of a clock the result of the force, situation, and figure of
its wheels and of its weight.' Nor, in his view, does the heart, by virtue of its structure
and composition, merely cause the blood to circulate. 'It also generates animal spirits,' which,
'ascending like a very subtle fluid, or very pure and vivid flame, into the brain as into a
reservoir, pass thence into the nerves, where, according as they more or less enter, or tend
to enter, they have the power of altering the figures of the muscles into which the nerves
are inserted, and of so causing all the organs and limbs to move.' He puts the case thus: Even
as the ordinary movements of a water-clock or of a mill are kept up by the ordinary flow of
the water, and even as 'in the grottoes and fountains of royal gardens, the force wherewith
the water issues from its reservoirs suffices to move various machines, and even to make them
play instruments or pronounce words according to the different disposition of the pipes which
lead the water'--even so do pulsation, respiration, digestion, nutrition, and growth, and 'other
such actions as are natural and usual in the body,' result naturally from the usual course
of the animal spirits. True, Descartes lodges within his human mechanism a chose pensante or
rational soul, whose principal seat is in the brain, and who is treated as corresponding to
a hydraulic engineer stationed in the centre of waterworks for the purpose of increasing, slackening,
or otherwise altering their movements. But this rational soul is a very needless appendage
to either the Cartesian or the Huxleian system, wherein, if its post be not a literal sinecure,
there is, at any rate, little or nothing for it to do which might not quite as well be done
without it. The hydraulic engineer, sitting in his central office, has to wind up the whole
machinery from time to time, and to turn now this tap, now that, when he wishes to set this
or that particular machine in motion. But, as no one need be told, our chose pensante has nothing
to do with the winding up of our digestive, circulatory, or respiratory apparatus; and so far
from internally arranging those other internal organs from the mere arrangement of whose parts,
according to Descartes, the reception, conversion, and retention of sensations, and the movements,
whether internal or external, thereupon consequent, naturally proceed, or from regulating the
molecular mechanism, whence, according to Professor Huxley, results the automatic nervous activity
which, in his opinion, governs the movements of the limbs not less absolutely than those of
the intestines, it, nine times out of ten, neither knows nor suspects that any such organs
or mechanism exist. If the functions above attributed to the human frame could be shown really
to belong to it, pure, not to say crass, materialism, would require no further proof. Those
particular functions undoubtedly take place without the cognisance of that particular sensitive
soul which we call ourself, so that if no other sensitive soul take cognisance of them, they
must needs be, not simply automatic performances, but performances of an automaton of such
marvellous powers as to be quite equal to the performance likewise of whatever human operations
are vulgarly classed as mental. Assume, however illogically, that motion is a function of matter,
and from that premiss, whether true or false, the conclusion that thought likewise is a function
of matter may be quite logically deduced. 'That thought is as much a function of matter as
motion is' must needs be conceded to Professor Huxley, who, therefore, if he could show that
motion is really such a function, would be fully justified in adding, that 'the distinction
between spirit and matter vanishes,' that 'we lose spirit in matter.'

Undeniably, then, of the Cartesian philosophy one moiety is, as Professor Huxley says, materialistic;
but from the self-contradictions inseparable from every species of materialism the Cartesian
variety is, of course, no more exempt than any other, and it has besides one self-contradiction
peculiar to itself. A clock's pendulum vibrates, and its hands move, not simply by reason of
the situation and figure of its weight and wheels, but also because some intelligent person,
by winding up the clock, has communicated an impulsive force to the weight and wheels. Waterworks
perform all sorts of antics, not solely because the pipes are skilfully constructed and arranged
with a view to such end, but because also an intelligent engineer has turned running water
into the pipes. But the only intelligent agent to whom Descartes allows access to his corporeal
machinery is one who not only has no notion how to apply a moving force except to some few
portions of the machinery, but with regard to the other portions has most likely no suspicion
that they even exist. But how in the absence of some other intelligence, of some other 'vegetative
or sensitive soul or principle of motion or of life,' is it possible for the inert and inanimate
heart to generate animal spirits?--how is it possible for death thus to give birth to life?--or,
if the generative faculty be supposed to be the necessary result of a particular molecular
structure, how is it that when the animal spirits become from any cause extinct, they are not
immediately regenerated by the same molecular structure? or rather, how is it possible for
animal spirits to become extinct as long as the molecular structure of which they are necessary
concomitants remains unaltered? In these questions the old insuperable difficulties reappear
in new forms, but on these we need not dwell. Apart from anti-materialistic arguments of general
applicability, there is a mode of refutation specially adapted to the Cartesian form of materialism,
which, besides flatly contradicting itself, contradicts not less flatly a twin system of unimpeachable
veracity. Truth cannot be opposed to truth:--a doctrine cannot be true, even though propounded
by Descartes and Huxley, if it conflict irreconcileably with doctrines which Descartes and
Huxley have unanswerably demonstrated. Now one-half of Cartesian philosophy shows conclusively
that amidst the countless infinity of human notions, the one single and solitary certainty
of independent and self-evident authority is the existence of thought, and nothing else whatever,
therefore, can be entitled to be regarded as absolutely certain which cannot be shown to rest
mediately or immediately upon this. One thing which can, by strictest logical process, be shown
so to rest, is the existence of a thinking self; and another is the existence of a non-self
or external universe; but of this external universe we know scarcely anything beyond the bare
fact that it exists. We know that outside the thinking self there are potentialities capable
of somehow or other communicating sensations to the thinking self; but of the nature of these
potentialities our senses teach us absolutely nothing, and the few particulars that reason
is able to discover, are, with one single though very momentous exception, to which we are
rapidly approaching, purely negative. We do know to a certain extent what qualities of objects
are not. We know that they are not and cannot be in the least like the sensations which we
call by the same names. We know that what we call the whiteness and coldness of snow or the
hardness and weight of marble, can no more resemble the feelings we receive from looking at
or handling snow or marble than the mental exaltation produced within us on hearing one of
Bach's fugues is like the organ on which, or the organist by whom, it is played. We know that
of the pictures which our senses form for us not one can possibly be a correct likeness. We
know that what we fancy we see in matter we do not see; that what we seem to feel we do not
feel; that the apparent structure and composition of matter cannot therefore possibly be real.
To this conviction we are irresistibly drawn by a chain of idealistic reasoning of which Descartes
forged the first link, and every link of which will stand the severest strain. But if this
be the teaching of an idealism occupying as its base the only morsel of solid ground to be
found in the mental universe, what scrap of footing is there left for an antagonistic materialism
purporting to rest on what we can see and feel of a structure and composition which, as we
have just satisfied ourselves, we cannot see or feel at all?

As plainly then as one half of Descartes' philosophy is materialistic, so plainly, that half,
instead of a necessary outgrowth and exact correlative of the other or idealistic moiety is,
on the contrary, the latter's diametrical and implacable opponent. As plainly, therefore, as
the one is true, must the other be false, and Cartesian idealism, in so far as its character
has been exhibited above, has, I submit, been demonstrated to be true. The greater the pity
that it was not brought to maturity by its author. In enumerating its first principles, Descartes,
as I must once again observe, was forming a logical basis whereon a comprehensive and consistent
conception of an external universe might forthwith have been securely deposited, had he not
unluckily, instead of himself proceeding to build on his own foundations, with congruous materials,
left them free for others to build upon with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, or stubble,
as chance might determine. May I, without presumption, hazard a conjecture as to the sort of
fabric that might have arisen, if he had steadily prosecuted his original design?

At the stage which we are supposing him to have reached, very little remained to complete the
work. Around man, around every individual man, or other conscious intelligence, as its centre,
is ranged infinitely extended space, filled with, or, as it were, composed of various kinds
of matter, every kind and every separate portion of which is endowed with special qualities
capable of communicating corresponding sensations to the central intelligence. So far all that
can be predicated of any material object or portion of matter is that it is a collection of
qualities; but from hence we may advance boldly to the further negative discovery that it is
nothing else; that there is not and cannot be, in addition to those qualities, any substance
in or to which the qualities inhere, or are in any way attached.

The absence from matter of any such substance is evidenced by the absurdity involved in the
idea of its presence. Suppose the substance to exist: the qualities inherent in it must needs
be as completely distinct from itself as pins are from a pincushion; the extension and solidity
of an extended, solid substance can no more be identical with the substance than the nominative
is identical with the genitive case. The substance, therefore, although deprived of all its
qualities will still retain its essence unimpaired, will still be equally a substance, just
as a pincushion continues equally a pincushion after its last pin has been abstracted. Conceive,
then, all the qualities of matter to be abstracted, and consider what remains--a substance
without qualities of any sort. But a substance neither solid, nor fluid, nor yet gaseous; neither
coloured nor colourless; neither singular nor plural; without form and void, without even extension--what
is it? not something, but nothing; a nonentity or non-existence. The qualities of matter in
being removed from the substance have therefore left nothing behind, and, consequently, although
carrying with them nothing but themselves, have yet carried with them all the constituents
of matter, which is thus seen to be composed exclusively of qualities without a single particle
of foreign admixture. And since, moreover, the qualities of matter are clearly not themselves
substances, that is to say do not themselves stand under or uphold anything, it follows that
their compound, matter, must likewise be purely unsubstantial.

The edifice begun by Descartes has now been raised high and strong enough to have its layer
of negations crowned with an affirmation of pre-eminent importance. The qualities of matter,
being known only by their effects, are evidently causes: and, being causes, must necessarily
be either themselves forces, or, at the least, manifestations of force; and inasmuch as force
involves exertion, it cannot be inert; and inasmuch as deadness must be incapable of exertion,
all force must be alive; and life without substance cannot be conceived otherwise than as some
species of spirit or mind. Such therefore must be matter. Matter can be nothing else than pure
spirit of some kind.

And may we not with good reason congratulate ourselves on this result of our investigations?
Instead of the vision we were threatened with, of mind losing itself in matter, our eyes are
gladdened with that of the converse operation, of the transmutation of matter into mind. And
on no account is this metamorphosis to be mistaken for annihilation of matter, whose stolid
grossness has vanished, not in order to give place to empty nominalism or to a thin mist of
mere mental perceptions existing only in virtue of being perceived, but in order to reappear
gloriously etherealised into living energy. By the change that has taken place, corruption
has put on incorruption; the natural body has become a quickening spirit; death is swallowed
up in victory. Matter reappears converted, not into a perception of percipient mind, but into
percipient mind itself; yet although thus presumably percipient of its own existence, it not
the less has an existence perfectly independent of perception, either by itself or by any other
intelligence.

Under what head the mind, or combination of living forces, thus constituting all matter, ought
to be classed, is a question, which the imperfection of human faculties may as well be content
to leave unanswered, though to its being supposed to emanate directly from the mind of Omnipresent
Deity, one insuperable objection may be mentioned, which should be kept steadily in view. There
are few of us who will not shrink with horror from a notion, according to which man, whenever
doing as he pleases with any material object, applying it, as likely as not, to some base or
criminal purpose, is disposing at his pleasure of a portion of the Divine essence: few who
will not greatly prefer to believe that the vital principle which manifests itself in the form
of a dunghill or of a poisoned dagger, may be, for the time, as completely individualised and
separate from all other life or mind, as every human being perceives his own conscious mind
or self to be. At all events, we have now reached a point beyond which it would be rash to
rush hastily on. For a while we may be well content to rest where we are. That matter is nothing
else but a peculiar manifestation, or avatar, of some species of mind, whatever that species
be, is a proposition as demonstrably true as its converse is demonstrably false. Unless it
be possible for death to give birth to life, it is impossible for living mind to be the offspring
of inanimate matter; but so surely as mind is mind, and that living force alone can act either
on mind or aught else, so surely must all matter that imparts sensation to mind, be itself
a species of living force and consequently a species of mind.

An unexpected conclusion this, and widely different, I confess, from that to which I was myself
looking forward at the outset of the discussion; yet, at the same time, one of which there
is the best possible proof in the impossibility of conceiving its contrary. It is besides a
conclusion to which not only ought Descartes in consistency to have come, but at which both
Locke and Berkeley, though advancing from opposite points of the compass, did very nearly arrive;
nay, which the latter did almost touch, and must apparently have grasped, had not his hands
been already full of other things. It is, moreover, one from which I do not apprehend that
Professor Huxley himself will seriously dissent. Indeed, I almost hope that he may object chiefly
to its having been moved by me as an amendment on his original motion, and that he may be disposed
to claim it for himself as a portion of genuine Huxleyism. If so, I shall readily recognise
the claim so far as to admit that things very similar to many of those said by me above had
already been said by Professor Huxley; though, in justice to myself, I must add that their
complete opposites had likewise been said by him. But the office which I here proposed to myself
was mainly that of an eclectic, who, going over a field which another husbandman has tilled,
separates the wheat from the tares, and binds up the former into shapely and easily portable
sheaves; and no more satisfactory assurance can be given of my having been usefully employed
in such subordinate capacity than that Professor Huxley, who, amongst all his numerous admirers,
has not one sincerer than myself, should welcome me as a coadjutor, instead of repelling me
as an antagonist.

FOOTNOTES:

[32] Archimède, pour tirer le globe terrestre de sa place et le transporter en un autre lieu,
ne demandait rien qu'un point qui fût ferme et immobile: ainsi j'aurai droit de concevoir de
hautes espérances si je suis assez heureux pour trouver seulement une chose qui soit certaine
et indubitable.--Descartes, Méditation Deuxième.

[33] Lay Sermons, xiv. 'On Descartes' Discourse;' also an article by Professor Huxley, on 'Berkeley
and the Metaphysics of Sensation,' in 'Macmillan's Magazine' for June, 1871.

[34] Article on 'Berkeley and the Metaphysics of Sensation,' in 'Macmillan's Magazine' for
1871, pp. 152 et seq.

[35] The quotations, of which those in the text are abridgments, will be found in 'Lay Sermons,'
xiv. pp. 364-7.

CHAPTER V.

RECENT PHASES OF SCIENTIFIC ATHEISM.

     'Wonder is the basis of worship.

I.

By the train of thought pursued in the last chapter, we were led to the conclusion, not, indeed,
that matter has no existence, but that its nature or constitution is altogether different from
what is commonly supposed. The difference thus discovered does not, however, imply any corresponding
difference with respect to the properties--sensible properties, as they are commonly called--whereby
matter affects the senses. Equally, whether matter be, in all and each of its various species,
inanimate, inert, passive substance, or a combination of self-acting forces--equally whether
it be the author or merely the subject of whatever activity it manifests, that activity is
equally manifested in certain sequences which are as unvarying as if they were prescribed by
inexorable and irresistible laws, and which, indeed, by a convenient, though exceedingly treacherous
metaphor, are usually styled laws--laws of Nature when spoken of collectively, laws of attraction,
repulsion, gravitation, motion, heat, light, and the like, when separately referred to. Whithersoever
we turn our eyes, however closely we pry, into whatever depths of infinity we peer, we observe
the most perfect harmony between structure and law, law moulding structure and structure utilising
law. Afar off we descry systems upon systems, solar and sidereal, like sand upon the sea-shore
for multitude, and every individual orb thereof rotating or revolving in strictest accordance
with inflexible mathematical principles, and evidently owing to the previous influence of those
same principles its characteristic configuration. Near at hand we discern organic forms innumerable,
each with its own special arrangement of component parts admirably apt for the performance
in ordinary circumstances of special functions, admirably, as circumstances change, accommodating
itself by corresponding changes for continuing the same or undertaking other and equally appropriate
functions, nor merely performing them all in despite of the restraints imposed by law, but
availing itself of those very restraints as means and aids for their performance. Where so
much aptness is, adaptation surely must have been: where arrangement is so plainly conducive
to ends, the ends must surely have been foreseen, and the arrangement effected by design and
according to preconceived plan. And there cannot have been design without a designer or designers:
the plan cannot but have had its author or authors: nor could the plan have been executed without
an artificer or artificers. Author or authors, too, artificer or artificers, be the same singular
or plural, must have possessed, individually or collectively, not less of wisdom, power, and
goodness than are displayed by the finished work. Now of each of these attributes, the amount
to which the aspect of the universe bears witness, albeit not infinite, inasmuch as the universe
is not without imperfections, is yet indefinite; as plainly without measure as the universe
is without bounds. Wherefore, not only must the universe have had an author or authors, an
artificer or artificers, but his or their wisdom, power, and goodness, must, whether infinite
or not, have been at least illimitable.

Such is the argument from design, and such, to my thinking, the only absolute certainties legitimately
deducible from it; and although these, in comparison with the numerous probabilities ordinarily
associated with them, may appear somewhat meagre, yet are they intrinsically of exceeding moment.
They constitute the only basis on which any rational religion, any that appeals to the intellect
as well as to the feelings, can rest securely. Whoever accepts them, by whatever other name
he prefer to call himself, is essentially a theist. He only who denies or ignores them can
justly be stigmatised as an atheist. Yet, although an inquiry into their soundness is thus
plainly second in interest to none, it is not that in which I propose to engage at present,
unless indirectly. My immediate concern is not with the strength of theism, but with the weakness
of atheism, and the hollowness of the latter's dialectical pretensions. What in every form
of piety is most provocative of philosophic scorn, is its forwardness of faith, its eagerness
of acquiescence; but to this sort of reproach I expect to be able to show that none are more
obnoxious than those very philosophers by whom it is most freely cast. That nothing is more
unphilosophical than uncompromising irreligion, nothing more credulous than its credulity,
no other beliefs more monstrous than those by which it strives to fill up the void created
by its own unbelief: this is my present thesis, and this I propound, not unaware what formidable
antagonists I am thereby challenging, but not without something of the same confidence, and
something withal of the same ground for it, as David had when, in equal strait, exclaiming,
'The Lord is on my side; I will not fear; what can man do unto me?'

Let us at the outset consider what denial of plan in the structure of the universe implies,
and note, among other things signified, the following. The exact conformity on matter's part
to Nature's laws, everywhere observable, and even more striking perhaps in minute details than
in grandiose generalities, is purely accidental. The laws were not enacted in order to be obeyed;
matter's various shapes were not given to or assumed by it in order that its obedience might
serve any particular purpose. All appearances of ingenious contrivance in the collocation of
elementary particles, or in the co-operation of elementary forces, are mere appearances. It
was not designed that under the influence of the laws of motion, chaos should resolve itself
into systems, and time divide itself into years and seasons and days and nights. It is quite
unintentionally that the countless varieties of mechanism appertaining to different vegetable
and animal fabrics have been rendered fit for performing those special processes which, by
reason in each case of some special arrangement of parts, they actually do perform with such
marvellous precision. It is a total mistake to suppose that the eye was meant for seeing, or
the ear for hearing, or the heart for initiating and regulating the circulation of the blood,
or nervous ramifications for receiving and disseminating sensible impressions. These various
organs have been discovered to be useful, and are used accordingly; but they were not intended
to be so used, or contrived with any such view, or, indeed, contrived at all. The forces, whatever
they be, and whether identical with or totally distinct from itself, whereby matter, on one
supposition, acts, and, on the other, is acted upon, and by whose operation the universe and
all its contents have been fashioned and are sustained, are in either case perfectly heedless
and reckless forces, operating always without the slightest reference to result.

Language like this was much in vogue among the French encyclopædists of the last century. By
opposing it, even Voltaire incurred the reputation of bigotry, and Hume probably had to listen
to a good deal of it on that memorable occasion when, dining with Baron D'Holbach, and intimating
to his host his disbelief in the existence of atheists, he was informed by way of reply that
he was actually at table with seventeen members of the sect.[36] That in England, too, it was
a good deal talked at about the same and a somewhat later period, may be inferred from the
fact that against its teaching one of Paley's most celebrated treatises was expressly directed.
Doctrine which was once so fashionable, and which even now cannot be said to be obsolete, was
not, of course, without some show of reason to support it, and somewhat in this wise the chief
arguments in its behalf were usually marshalled:--In order to account for actual result, there
is no need to imagine previous purpose. All things that exist, all events that occur, must
bear to each other some relations in situation and time, which relations are not less likely
to be orderly than disorderly, or, rather, indeed, are more likely to be the former than the
latter. For necessarily the rarer rises above the denser; the stronger compels the weaker;
that which is pushed hardest runs fastest. And even though, among organic forms, orderly and
disorderly had been, by the purely fortuitous concurrence of atoms, originally produced in
equal numbers, the former would be sure in the course of ages to become the more numerous,
and that in proportion to the orderliness of their composition, and to their consequent suitableness
for the reception and maintenance of organic life, by which they in turn would be maintained
and multiplied, while less aptly organised forms, succumbing in the struggle for existence,
perished and vanished away. Thus everything arranges itself--everything, however, being here
another name for Nature, which alone does or can exist, which is all and does all; yet, though
doing all things in general, does whatever it does quite unintelligently, and without the least
desire of doing any one thing in particular more than another.

Though speaking of this as a show of reasoning, I would by no means be understood to consider
it as merely a show. On the contrary, I must admit that it contains a modicum of reality sufficient,
in my opinion, to secure the position taken up from being utterly overthrown by any direct
attack not followed up by reference to a certain palpable absurdity which we shall presently
perceive to be inseparably connected with the position. To so much of real reasoning as we
have before us, let then all due respect be shown. No doubt all existences must necessarily
dispose themselves or be disposed somehow. No doubt all occurrences must succeed each other
somehow. No doubt, either, that if the disposing or otherwise originating forces operated quite
regardlessly of plan, no one disposition or succession would be a whit less possible than any
other--the most symmetric or evenly graduated than the most disjointed or confused. Now although,
since exertion is utterly inconceivable without volition, and since volition is equally inconceivable
without consciousness, it must be impossible for any forces ever to exert themselves altogether
unintentionally, it is yet perfectly possible for their exertion to have no ulterior intention
beyond that of gratifying an unprospective will. This is all that one fidgetting about, as
the phrase is, intends, when he has no special motive for fidgetting in any particular direction
more than in any other, and similarly it may by possibility be the mere fidgettiness of Nature
that gives rise to all natural phenomena. Nature, indeed, cannot, any more than any other force
or combination of forces, be utterly destitute of intelligence, but its intelligence may not
inconceivably be of no higher sort than that which the sensitive plant exhibits or mimics.
Nature cannot exert itself quite unconsciously, nor consequently quite unintentionally, but
its exertions, though not unintended, may possibly not be intended for any result. It must
be admitted, then, that, so far, no reason has appeared why the force or forces by which the
universe was originally moulded, may not, as contended, have been perfectly heedless and reckless;
may not, without the least premeditation or the slightest view to any ulterior object, have
produced certain phenomena in those particular sequences to which the name of natural laws
has been given; and may not, with the same total absence of purpose, have adopted certain other
courses of action which, very fortunately, though quite undesignedly, have resulted in the
production of endless varieties of mechanism, most of them of marvellously intricate and complex
structure, and all and each of them of structure marvellously suitable for performing, in co-operation
with Nature's laws, functions of an utility as varied as their structure. And what any forces
have been equal to do once, those same forces, if remaining unimpaired, must be equal to repeat
times without number. Although, if you found your opponent at dice invariably throwing double-sixes,
you might feel confident that his dice were loaded, your confidence, unless otherwise corroborated,
would not amount to entire certainty. With unloaded dice there would be nothing strange in
double-six being thrown once; but, if once, why not twice running? and if twice, why not three,
four, or a million times running, provided that the thrower's strength held out so long? No
one of the separate throws, from the first to the millionth, would be attended with more difficulty
than any other. Whoever made the first might with no greater effort make any one, and therefore
every one, of the rest. In the fact of his having commenced the series there would be proof
of the possibility of his completing it. In like manner, if it be not inconceivable that Nature's
forces may once, by a single unpremeditated exertion, have bestowed on the universe its actual
constitution, it is not inconceivable that by continual repetition of similarly unpremeditated
exertions, they may have ever since maintained that constitution. In this supposition there
is nothing patently absurd. It is perfectly legitimate to suppose that any event or combination
of events, not demonstrably impossible, may have occurred in the absence of complete certainty
that they have not occurred. It may not be illegitimate, therefore, to suppose that all phenomena
of the description termed physical, and all repeated sequences of such phenomena, may have
occurred, not causally, but casually--that it may have been a fortuitous concourse of atoms
which originally established the existing economy of the universe, and an uninterrupted succession
of similar fortuitous concourses that has ever since maintained that economy. That supposition,
I repeat, involves no absolute absurdity. What however is, if not absurd, at any rate egregiously
unscientific and most unphilosophically credulous, is to treat the supposition as a certainty,
notwithstanding that the chances against its representing real facts are as infinity to infinitesimality;
for not less is the preponderance of improbability that the laws of nature were not intentionally
prescribed, and that the wondrously complex and wondrously useful harmony that has been established
between organic structure and natural law was not designedly established. In considering this
point, it will be convenient to take law first.

