The educational advantages given these people were in no sense despised. Although the Negroes
of the Northwest did not always keep pace with their neighbors in things industrial they did
not permit the white people to outstrip them much in education. The freedmen so earnestly seized
their opportunity to acquire knowledge and accomplished so much in a short period that their
educational progress served to disabuse the minds of indifferent whites of the idea that the
blacks were not capable of high mental development.[1] The educational work of these centers,
too, tended not only to produce men capable of ministering to the needs of their environment,
but to serve as a training center for those who would later be leaders of their people. Lewis
Woodson owed it to friends in Pittsburgh that he became an influential teacher. Jeremiah H.
Brown, T. Morris Chester, James T. Bradford, M.R. Delany, and Bishop Benjamin T. Tanner obtained
much of their elementary education in the early colored schools of that city.[2] J.C. Corbin,
a prominent educator before and after the Civil War, acquired sufficient knowledge at Chillicothe,
Ohio, to qualify in 1848 as an assistant in Rev. Henry Adams's school in Louisville.[3] John
M. Langston was for a while one of Corbin's fellow-students at Chillicothe before the former
entered Oberlin. This better opportunity was due to the high character of the colonists, to
the mutual aid resulting from the proximity of the communities, and to the coöperation of the
Canadians. The previous experience of most of these adventurers as sojourners in the free States
developed in them such noble traits that they did not have to be induced to ameliorate their
condition. They had already come under educative influences which prepared them for a larger
task in Canada. Fifteen thousand of sixty thousand Negroes in Canada in 1860 were free born.[1]
Many of those, who had always been free, fled to Canada[2] when the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850
made it possible for even a dark-complexioned Caucasian to be reduced to a state of bondage.
Fortunately, too, these people settled in the same section. The colored settlements at Dawn,
Colchester, Elgin, Dresden, Windsor, Sandwich, Queens, Bush, Wilberforce, Hamilton, St. Catherines,
Chatham, Riley, Anderton, Maiden, Gonfield, were all in Southern Ontario. In the course of
time the growth of these groups produced a population sufficiently dense to facilitate coöperation
in matters pertaining to social betterment. The uplift of the refugees was made less difficult
also by the self-denying white persons who were their first teachers and missionaries. While
the hardships incident to this pioneer effort all but baffled the ardent apostle to the lowly,
he found among the Canadian whites so much more sympathy than among the northerners that his
work was more agreeable and more successful than it would have been in the free States. Ignoring
the request that the refugees be turned from Canada as undesirables, the white people of that
country protected and assisted them.[3] Canadians later underwent some change in their attitude
toward their newcomers, but these British-Americans never exhibited such militant opposition
to the Negroes as sometimes developed in the Northern States.[4]

[Footnote 1: Siebert, The Underground Railroad, p. 222.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., pp. 247-250.]

[Footnote 3: Siebert, The Underground Railroad, pp. 201 and 233.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., 233.]

The educational privileges which the refugees hoped to enjoy in Canada, however, were not easily
exercised. Under the Canadian law they could send their children to the common schools, or
use their proportionate share of the school funds in providing other educational facilities.[1]
But conditions there did not at first redound to the education of the colored children.[2]
Some were too destitute to avail themselves of these opportunities; others, unaccustomed to
this equality of fortune, were timid about having their children mingle with those of the whites,
and not a few clad their youths so poorly that they became too unhealthy to attend regularly[3].
Besides, race prejudice was not long in making itself the most disturbing factor. In 1852 Benjamin
Drew found the minds of the people of Sandwich much exercised over the question of admitting
Negroes into the public schools. The same feeling was then almost as strong in Chatham, Hamilton,
and London[4]. Consequently, "partly owing to this prejudice, and partly to their own preference,
the colored people, acting under the provision of the law that allowed them to have separate
schools, set up their own schools in Sandwich and in many other parts of Ontario"[5]. There
were separate schools at Colchester, Amherstburg, Sandwich, Dawn, and Buxton[6]. It was doubtless
because of the rude behavior of white pupils toward the children of the blacks that their private
schools flourished at London, Windsor, and other places[7]. The Negroes, themselves, however,
did not object to the coeducation of the races. Where there were a few white children in colored
settlements they were admitted to schools maintained especially for pupils of African descent.[8]
In Toronto no distinction in educational privileges was made, but in later years there flourished
an evening school for adults of color.[9]

[Footnote 1: Howe, The Refugees from Slavery, p. 77.]

[Footnote 2: Drew said: "The prejudice against the African race is here [Canada] strongly marked.
It had not been customary to levy school taxes on the colored people. Some three or four years
since a trustee assessed a school tax on some of the wealthy citizens of that class. They sent
their children at once into the public school. As these sat down the white children near them
deserted the benches: and in a day or two the white children were wholly withdrawn, leaving
the schoolhouse to the teacher and his colored pupils. The matter was at last 'compromised':
a notice 'Select School' was put on the schoolhouse: the white children were selected in and
the black were selected out." See Drew's. A North-side View of Slavery, etc., p. 341.]

[Footnote 3: Mitchell, The Underground Railroad, pp. 140, 164, and 165.]

[Footnote 4: Drew, A North-side View of Slavery, pp. 118, 147, 235, and 342.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., p. 341.]

[Footnote 6: Siebert, The Underground Railroad, p. 229.]

[Footnote 7: Ibid., p. 229.]

[Footnote 8: First Annual Report of the Anti-slavery Society of Canada, 1852, Appendix, p. 22.]

[Footnote 9: Ibid., p. 15.]

The most helpful schools, however, were not those maintained by the state. Travelers in Canada
found the colored mission schools with a larger attendance and doing better work than those
maintained at public expense.[1] The rise of the mission schools was due to the effort to "furnish
the conditions under which whatever appreciation of education there was native in a community
of Negroes, or whatever taste for it could be awakened there," might be "free to assert itself
unhindered by real or imagined opposition."[2] There were no such schools in 1830, but by 1838
philanthropists had established the first mission among the Canadian refugees.[3] The English
Colonial Church and School Society organized schools at London, Amherstburg, and Colchester.
Certain religious organizations of the United States sent ten or more teachers to these settlements.[4]
In 1839 these workers were conducting four schools while Rev. Hiram Wilson, their inspector,
probably had several other institutions under his supervision.[5] In 1844 Levi Coffin found
a large school at Isaac Rice's mission at Fort Maiden or Amherstburg.[6] Rice had toiled among
these people six years, receiving very little financial aid, and suffering unusual hardships.[7]
Mr. E. Child, a graduate of Oneida Institute, was later added to the corps of mission teachers.[8]
In 1852 Mrs. Laura S. Haviland was secured to teach the school of the colony of "Refugees'
Home," where the colored people had built a structure "for school and meeting purposes."[9]
On Sundays the schoolhouses and churches were crowded by eager seekers, many of whom lived
miles away. Among these earnest students a traveler saw an aged couple more than eighty years
old.[10] These elementary schools broke the way for a higher institution at Dawn, known as
the Manual Labor Institute. He had labored here among the colored people, mostly fugitives,
for six years. He was a devoted, self-denying worker, had received very little pecuniary help,
and had suffered many privations. He was well situated in Ohio as pastor of a Presbyterian
Church, and had fine prospects before him, but believed that the Lord called him to this field
of missionary labor among the fugitive slaves, who came here by hundreds and by thousands,
poor, destitute, ignorant, suffering from all the evil influences of slavery. We entered into
deep sympathy with him and his labors, realizing the great need there was here for just such
an institution as he had established. He had sheltered at his missionary home many hundred
of fugitives till other homes for them could be found. This was the great landing point, the
principal terminus of the Underground Railroad of the West." See Coffin's Reminiscences, p. 251.]

[Footnote 7: Ibid., pp. 249-251.]

[Footnote 8: Siebert, The Underground Railroad, p. 202.]

[Footnote 9: Haviland, A Woman's Work, pp. 192, 196, 201.]

[Footnote 10: Haviland, A Woman's Work, pp. 192, 193.]

With these immigrants, however, this was not a mere passive participation in the work of their
amelioration. From the very beginning the colored people partly supported their schools. Without
the coöperation of the refugees the large private schools at London, Chatham, and Windsor could
not have succeeded. The school at Chatham was conducted by Alfred Whipper,[1] a colored man,
that at Windsor by Mary E. Bibb, the wife of Henry Bibb,[2] the founder of the Refugees' Home
Settlement, and that at Sandwich by Mary Ann Shadd, of Delaware.[3] Moreover, the majority
of these colonists showed increasing interest in this work of social uplift.[4] Foregoing their
economic opportunities many of the refugees congregated in towns of educational facilities.
A large number of them left their first abodes to settle near Dresden and Dawn because of the
advantages offered by the Manual Labor Institute. Besides, the Negroes organized "True Bands"
which effected among other things the improvement of schools and the increase of their attendance[5].

[Footnote 1: Drew, A North-side View of Slavery, p. 236.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 322.]

[Footnote 3: Delany, The Condition of the Colored People, etc., 131.]

[Footnote 4: Howe, The Refugees from Slavery, pp. 70, 71, 108, and 110.]

[Footnote 5: According to Drew a True Band was composed of colored persons of both sexes, associated
for their own improvement. "Its objects," says he, "are manifold: mainly these:--the members
are to take a general interest in each other's welfare; to pursue such plans and objects as
may be for their mutual advantage; to improve all schools, and to induce their race to send
their children into the schools; to break down all prejudice; to bring all churches as far
as possible into one body, and not let minor differences divide them; to prevent litigation
by referring all disputes among themselves to a committee; to stop the begging system entirely
(that is, going to the United States and thereby representing that the fugitives are starving
and suffering, raising large sums of money, of which the fugitives never receive the benefit,--misrepresenting
the character of the fugitives for industry and underrating the advance of the country, which
supplies abundant work for all at fair wages); to raise such funds among themselves as may
be necessary for the poor, the sick, and the destitute fugitive newly arrived; and prepare
themselves ultimately to bear their due weight of political power." See Drew, A North-side
View of Slavery, p. 236.]

The good results of these schools were apparent. In the same degree that the denial to slaves
of mental development tended to brutalize them the teaching of science and religion elevated
the fugitives in Canada. In fact, the Negroes of these settlements soon had ideals differing
widely from those of their brethren less favorably circumstanced. They believed in the establishment
of homes, respected the sanctity of marriage, and exhibited in their daily life a moral sense
of the highest order. Travelers found the majority of them neat, orderly, and intelligent[1].
Availing themselves of their opportunities, they quickly qualified as workers among their fellows.
An observer reported in 1855 that a few were engaged in shop keeping or were employed as clerks,
while a still smaller number devoted themselves to teaching and preaching.[2] Before 1860 the
culture of these settlements was attracting the colored graduates of northern institutions
which had begun to give men of African blood an opportunity to study in their professional schools.

[Footnote 1: According to the report of the Freedmen's Inquiry Commission published by S.G.
Howe, an unusually large proportion of the colored population believed in education. He says:
"Those from the free States had very little schooling in youth; those from the slave States,
none at all. Considering these things it is rather remarkable that so many can now read and
write. Moreover, they show their esteem for instruction by their desire to obtain it for their
children. They all wish to have their children go to school, and they send them all the time
that they can be spared.

"Canada West has adopted a good system of public instruction, which is well administered. The
common schools, though inferior to those of several of the States of the United States, are
good. Colored children are admitted to them in most places; and where a separate school is
open for them, it is as well provided by the government with teachers and apparatus as the
other schools are. Notwithstanding the growing prejudice against blacks, the authorities evidently
mean to deal justly by them in regard to instruction; and even those who advocate separate
schools, promise that they shall be equal to white schools.

"The colored children in the mixed schools do not differ in their general appearance and behavior
from their white comrades. They are usually clean and decently clad. They look quite as the
whites; and are perhaps a little more mirthful and roguish. The association is manifestly beneficial
to the colored children." See Howe, The Refugees, etc., p. 77.]

[Footnote 2: Siebert, The Underground Railroad, p. 226.]

CHAPTER XI

HIGHER EDUCATION

The development of the schools and churches established for these transplanted freedmen made
more necessary than ever a higher education to develop in them the power to work out their
own salvation. It was again the day of thorough training for the Negroes. Their opportunities
for better instruction were offered mainly by the colonizationists and abolitionists.[1] Although
these workers had radically different views as to the manner of elevating the colored people,
they contributed much to their mental development. The more liberal colonizationists endeavored
to furnish free persons of color the facilities for higher education with the hope that their
enlightenment would make them so discontented with this country that they would emigrate to
Liberia. Most southern colonizationists accepted this plan but felt that those permanently
attached to this country should be kept in ignorance; for if they were enlightened, they would
either be freed or exterminated. During the period of reaction, when the elevation of the race
was discouraged in the North and prohibited in most parts of the South, the colonizationists
continued to secure to Negroes, desiring to expatriate themselves, opportunities for education
which never would have been given those expecting to remain in the United States.[2]

[Footnote 1: The views of the abolitionists at that time were well expressed by Garrison in
his address to the people of color in the convention assembled in Philadelphia in 1830. He
encouraged them to get as much education as possible for themselves and their offspring, to
toil long and hard for it as for a pearl of great price. "An ignorant people," said he, "can
never occupy any other than a degraded place in society; they can never be truly free until
they are intelligent. It is an old maxim that knowledge is power; and not only is it power
but rank, wealth, dignity, and protection. That capital brings highest return to a city, state,
or nation (as the case may be) which is invested in schools, academies, and colleges. If I
had children, rather than that they should grow up in ignorance, I would feed upon bread and
water: I would sell my teeth, or extract the blood from my veins." See Minutes of the Proceedings
of the Convention for the Improvement of the Free People of Color, 1830, pages 10, 11.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, pp. 213-214; and The African Repository,
under the captions of "Education in Liberia," and "African Education Societies," passim.]

The policy of promoters of African colonization, however, did not immediately become unprogressive.
Their plan of education differed from previous efforts in that the objects of their philanthropy
were to be given every opportunity for mental growth. The colonizationists had learned from
experience in educating Negroes that it was necessary to begin with the youth.[1] These workers
observed, too, that the exigencies of the time demanded more advanced and better endowed institutions
to prepare colored men to instruct others in science and religion, and to fit them for "civil
offices in Liberia and Hayti."[2] To execute this scheme the leaders of the colonization movement
endeavored to educate Negroes in "mechanic arts, agriculture, science, and Biblical literature."[3]
Exceptionally bright youths were to be given special training as catechists, teachers, preachers,
and physicians.[4] A southern planter offered a plantation for the establishment of a suitable
institution of learning,[5] a few masters sent their slaves to eastern schools to be educated,
and men organized "education societies" in various parts to carry out this work at shorter
range. In 1817 colonizationists opened at Pasippany, New Jersey, a school to give a four-year
course to "African youth" who showed "talent, discretion, and piety" and were able to read
and write.[6] Twelve years later another effort was made to establish a school of this kind
at Newark in that State,[7] while other promoters of that faith were endeavoring to establish
a similar institution at Hartford, Connecticut,[8] all hoping to make use of the Kosciuszko
fund.[9]

[Footnote 1: African Repository, vol. i., p. 277.]

[Footnote 2: African Repository, vol. ii., p. 223.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., vol. xxviii., pp. 271, 347; Child, An Appeal, p. 144.]

[Footnote 4: African Repository, vol. i., p. 277.]

[Footnote 5: Report of the Proceedings at the Organization of the African Education Society, p. 9.]

[Footnote 6: African Repository, vol. i., p. 276, and Griffin, A Plea for Africa, p. 65.]

[Footnote 7: African Repository, vol. iv., pp. 186, 193, and 375; and vol. vi., pp. 47, 48,
49, and Report of the Proceedings of the African Education Society, p. 7.]

[Footnote 8: Ibid., pp. 7 and 8 and African Repository, vol. iv., p. 375.]

[Footnote 9: What would become of this plan depended upon the changing fortunes of the men
concerned. Kosciuszko died in 1817; and as Thomas Jefferson refused to take out letters testamentary
under this will, Benjamin Lincoln Lear, a trustee of the African Education Society, who intended
to apply for the whole fund, was appointed administrator of it. The fund amounted to about
$16,000. Later Kosciuszko Armstrong demanded of the administrator $3704 bequeathed to him by
T. Kosciuszko in a will alleged to have been executed in Paris in 1806. The bill was dismissed
by the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, and the decision of the lower Court was confirmed
by the United States Supreme Court in 1827 on the grounds that the said will had not been admitted
to probate anywhere. To make things still darker just about the time the trustees of the African
Education Society were planning to purchase a farm and select teachers and mechanics to instruct
the youth, the heirs of General Kosciuszko filed a bill against Mr. Lear in the Supreme Court
of the United States on the ground of the invalidity of the will executed by Kosciuszko in
1798. The death of Mr. Lear in 1832 and that of William Wirt, the Attorney-General of the United
States, soon thereafter, caused a delay in having the case decided. The author does not know
exactly what use was finally made of this fund. See African Repository, vol. it., pp. 163,
233; also 7 Peters, 130, and 8 Peters, 52.]

The schemes failed, however, on account of the unyielding opposition of the free Negroes and
abolitionists. They could see no philanthropy in educating persons to prepare for doom in a
deadly climate. The convention of the free people of color assembled in Philadelphia in 1830,
denounced the colonization movement as an evil, and urged their fellows not to support it.
Pointing out the impracticability of such schemes, the convention encouraged the race to take
steps toward its elevation in this country.[1] Should the colored people be properly educated,
the prejudice against them would not continue such as to necessitate their expatriation. The
delegates hoped to establish a Manual Labor College at New Haven that Negroes might there acquire
that "classical knowledge which promotes genius and causes man to soar up to those high intellectual
enjoyments and acquirements which place him in a situation to shed upon a country and people
that scientific grandeur which is imperishable by time, and drowns in oblivion's cup their
moral degradation."[2]

[Footnote 1: Williams, History of the Negro Race, p. 67.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 68; and Minutes of the Proceedings of the Third Convention for the Improvement
of the Free People of Color, pp. 9, 10, and 11.]

Influential abolitionists were also attacking this policy of the colonizationists. William
Jay, however, delivered against them such diatribes and so wisely exposed their follies that
the advocates of colonization learned to consider him as the arch enemy of their cause.[1]
Jay advocated the education of the Negroes for living where they were. He could not see how
a Christian could prohibit or condition the education of any individual. To do such a thing
was tantamount to preventing him from having a direct revelation of God. How these "educators"
could argue that on account of the hopelessness of the endeavors to civilize the blacks they
should be removed to a foreign country, and at the same time undertake to provide for them
there the same facilities for higher education that white men enjoyed, seemed to Jay to be
facetiously inconsistent.[2] If the Africans could be elevated in their native land and not
in America, it was due to the Caucasians' sinful condition, for which the colored people should
not be required to suffer the penalty of expatriation.[3] The desirable thing to do was to
influence churches and schools to admit students of color on terms of equality with all other
races.

[Footnote 1: Reese, Letters to Honorable William Jay.]

[Footnote 2: Jay, Inquiry, p. 26; and Letters, p. 21.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 22.]

Encountering this opposition, the institutions projected by the colonization society existed
in name only. Exactly how and why the organization failed to make good with its educational
policy is well brought out by the wailing cry of one of its promoters. He asserted that "every
endeavor to divert the attention of the community or even a portion of the means which the
present so imperatively calls for, from the colonization society to measures calculated to
bind the colored population to this country and seeking to raise them to a level with the whites,
whether by founding colleges or in any other way, tends directly in the proportion that it
succeeds, to counteract and thwart the whole plan of colonization."[1] The colonizationists,
therefore, desisted from their attempt to provide higher education for any considerable number
of the belated race. Seeing that they could not count on the support of the free persons of
color, they feared that those thus educated would be induced by the abolitionists to remain
in the United States. This would put the colonizationists in the position of increasing the
intelligent element of the colored population, which was then regarded as a menace to slavery.
Consequently these timorous "educators" did practically nothing during the reactionary period
to carry out their plan of establishing colleges. Not much was said about what they were doing,
but now and then appeared notices of Negroes who had been privately prepared in the South or
publicly in the North for professional work in Liberia. Dr. William Taylor and Dr. Fleet were
thus educated in medicine in the District of Columbia.[1] In the same way John V. DeGrasse,
of New York, and Thomas J. White,[2] of Brooklyn, were allowed to complete the Medical Course
at Bowdoin in 1849. Garrison Draper, who had acquired his literary education at Dartmouth,
studied law in Baltimore under friends of the colonization cause, and with a view to going
to Liberia passed the examination of the Maryland Bar in 1857.[3] In 1858 the Berkshire Medical
School graduated two colored doctors, who were gratuitously educated by the American Colonization
Society. The graduating class thinned out, however, and one of the professors resigned because
of their attendance.[4]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, and African Repository, vol. x., p. 10.]

[Footnote 2: Niles Register, vol. lxxv., p. 384.]

[Footnote 3: African Repository, vol. xxxiv., pp. 26 and 27.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 30.]

Not all colonizationists, however, had submitted to this policy of mere individual preparation
of those emigrating to Liberia. Certain of their organizations still believed that it was only
through educating the free people of color sufficiently to see their humiliation that a large
number of them could be induced to leave this country. As long as they were unable to enjoy
the finer things of life, they could not be expected to appreciate the value and use of liberty.
It was argued that instead of remaining in this country to wage war on its institutions, the
highly enlightened Negroes would be glad to go to a foreign land.[1] By this argument some
colonizationists were induced to do more for the general education of the free blacks than
they had considered it wise to do during the time of the bold attempts at servile insurrection.[2]
In fact, many of the colored schools of the free States were supported by ardent colonizationists.

[Footnote 1: Boone, The History of Education in Indiana, p. 237; and African Repository, vol.
xxx., p. 195.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 195.]

The later plan of most colonizationists, however, was to educate the emigrating Negroes after
they settled in Liberia. Handsome sums were given for the establishment of schools and colleges
in which professorships were endowed for men educated at the expense of churches and colonization
societies.[1] The first institution of consequence in this field was the Alexander High School.
To this school many of the prominent men of Liberia owed the beginning of their liberal education.
The English High School at Monrovia, the Baptist Boarding School at Bexley, and the Protestant
Episcopal High School at Cape Palmas also offered courses in higher branches.[2] Still better
opportunities were given by the College of West Africa and Liberia College. The former was
founded in 1839 as the head of a system of schools established by the Methodist Episcopal Church
in every county of the Republic.[3] Liberia College was at the request of its founders, the
directors of the American Colonization Society, incorporated by the legislature of the country
in 1851. As it took some time to secure adequate funds, the main building was not completed,
and students were not admitted before 1862.

[Footnote 1: African Repository, under the caption of "Education in Liberia" in various volumes;
and Alexander, A History of Col., pp. 348, 391.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 348.]

[Footnote 3: Monroe, Cyclopaedia of Education, vol. iv., p. 6.]

Though the majority of the colored students scoffed at the idea of preparing for work in Liberia
their education for service in the United States was not encouraged. No Negro had graduated
from a college before 1828, when John B. Russworm, a classmate of Hon. John P. Hale, received
his degree from Bowdoin.[1] During the thirties and forties, colored persons, however well
prepared, were generally debarred from colleges despite the protests of prominent men. We have
no record that as many as fifteen Negroes were admitted to higher institutions in this country
before 1840. It was only after much debate that Union College agreed to accept a colored student
on condition that he should swear that he had no Negro blood in his veins.[2]

[Footnote 1: Dyer, Speech in Congress on the Progress of the Negro, 1914.]

[Footnote 2: Clarke, The Condition of the Free People of Color, 1859, p. 3, and the Sixth Annual
Report of the American Antislavery Society, p. 11.]

Having had such a little to encourage them to expect a general admission into northern institutions,
free blacks and abolitionists concluded that separate colleges for colored people were necessary.
The institution demanded for them was thought to have an advantage over the aristocratic college
in that labor would be combined with study, making the stay at school pleasant and enabling
the poorest youth to secure an education.[1] It was the kind of higher institution which had
already been established in several States to meet the needs of the illiterate whites. Such
higher training for the Negroes was considered necessary, also, because their intermediate
schools were after the reaction in a languishing state. The children of color were able to
advance but little on account of having nothing to stimulate them. The desired college was,
therefore, boomed as an institution to give the common schools vigor, "to kindle the flame
of emulation," "to open to beginners discerning the mysteries of arithmetic other mysteries
beyond," and above all to serve them as Yale or Harvard did as the capstone of the educational
system of the other race.[2]

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the Third Convention of Free People of Color held in Philadelphia
in 1836, pp. 7 and 8; Ibid., Fourth Annual Convention, p. 26; Proceedings of the New England
Antislavery Society, 1836, p. 40.]

[Footnote 2: Minutes and Proceedings of the Third Annual Convention of the Free People of Color,
1836; Garrison's Address.]

In the course of time these workers succeeded in various communities. The movement for the
higher education of the Negroes of the District of Columbia centered largely around the academy
established by Miss Myrtilla Miner, a worthy young woman of New York. After various discouragements
in seeking a special preparation for life's work, she finally concluded that she should devote
her time to the moral and intellectual improvement of Negroes.[1] She entered upon her career
in Washington in 1851 assisted by Miss Anna Inman, a native of New York, and a member of the
Society of Friends. After teaching the girls French one year Miss Inman returned to her home
in Southfield, Rhode Island.[2] Finding it difficult to get a permanent location, Miss Miner
had to move from place to place among colored people who were generally persecuted and threatened
with conflagration for having a white woman working among them. Driven to the extremity of
building a schoolhouse for her purpose, she purchased a lot with money raised largely by Quakers
of New York, Philadelphia, and New England, and by Harriet Beecher Stowe.[3] Miss Miner had
also the support of Mrs. Means, an aunt of the wife of President Franklin Pierce, and of United
States Senator W.H. Seward.[4] Effective opposition, however, was not long in developing. Articles
appeared in the newspapers protesting against this policy of affording Negroes "a degree of
instruction so far above their social and political condition which must continue in this and
every other slaveholding community."[5] Girls were insulted, teachers were abused along the
streets, and for lack of police surveillance the house was set afire in 1860. It was sighted,
however, in time to be saved.[6]

[Footnote 1: O'Connor, Myrtilla Miner, pp. 11, 12.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 207.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., 1871, p. 208.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., pp. 208, 209, and 210.]

[Footnote 5: The National Intelligencer.]

[Footnote 6: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 209.]

Undisturbed by these efforts to destroy the institution, Miss Miner persisted in carrying out
her plan for the higher education of colored girls of the District of Columbia. She worked
during the winter, and traveled during the summer to solicit friends and contributions to keep
the institution on that higher plane where she planned it should be. She had the building well
equipped with all kinds of apparatus, utilized the ample ground for the teaching of horticulture,
collected a large library, and secured a number of paintings and engravings with which she
enlightened her pupils on the finer arts. In addition to the conventional teaching of seminaries
of that day, Miss Miner provided lectures on scientific and literary subjects by the leading
men of that time, and trained her students to teach.[1] She hoped some day to make the seminary
a first-class teachers' college. During the Civil War, however, it was difficult for her to
find funds, and health having failed her in 1858 she died in 1866 without realizing this dream.[2]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 210.]

[Footnote 2: Those who assisted her were Helen Moore, Margaret Clapp, Anna H. Searing, Amanda
Weaver, Anna Jones, Matilda Jones, and Lydia Mann, the sister of Horace Mann, who helped Miss
Miner considerably in 1856 at the time of her failing health. Emily Holland was her firm supporter
when the institution was passing through the crisis, and stood by her until she breathed her
last. See Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 210.]

Earlier in the nineteenth century the philanthropists of Pennsylvania had planned to establish
for Negroes several higher institutions. Chief among these was the Institute for Colored Youth.
The founding of an institution of this kind had been made possible by Richard Humphreys, a
Quaker, who, on his death in 1832, devised to a Board of Trustees the sum of $10,000 to be
used for the education of the descendants of the African race.[1] As the instruction of Negroes
was then unpopular, no steps were taken to carry out this plan until 1839. The Quakers then
appointed a Board and undertook to execute this provision of Humphreys's will. In conformity
with the directions of the donor, the Board of Trustees endeavored to give the colored youth
the opportunity to obtain a good education and acquire useful knowledge of trades and commercial
occupations. Humphreys desired that "they might be enabled to obtain a comfortable livelihood
by their own industry, and fulfill the duties of domestic and social life with reputation and
fidelity as good citizens and pious men."[2] Accordingly they purchased a tract of land in
Philadelphia County and taught a number of boys the principles of farming, shoemaking, and
other useful occupations.

[Footnote 1: Wickersham, History of Education in Pa., p. 249.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 379.]

Another stage in the development of this institution was reached in 1842, the year of its incorporation.
It then received several small contributions and the handsome sum of $18,000 from another Quaker,
Jonathan Zane. As it seemed by 1846 that the attempt to combine the literary with the industrial
work had not been successful, it was decided to dispose of the industrial equipment and devote
the funds of the institution to the maintenance of an evening school. An effort at the establishment
of a day school was made in 1850, but it was not effected before 1852. A building was then
erected in Lombard Street and the school known thereafter as the Institute for Colored Youth
was opened with Charles L. Reason of New York in charge. Under him the institution was at once
a success in preparing advanced pupils of both sexes for the higher vocations of teaching and
preaching. The attendance soon necessitated increased accommodations for which Joseph Dawson
and other Quakers liberally provided in later years.[1]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the United States Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 380.]

This favorable tendency in Pennsylvania led to the establishment of Avery College at Alleghany
City. The necessary fund was bequeathed by Rev. Charles Avery, a rich man of that section,
who left an estate of about $300,000 to be applied to the education and Christianization of
the African race.[1] Some of this fund was devoted to missionary work in Africa, large donations
were made to colored institutions of learning, and another portion was appropriated to the
establishment of Avery College. This institution was incorporated in 1849. Soon thereafter
it advertised for students, expressing willingness to make every provision without regard to
religious proclivities. The school had a three-story brick building, up-to-date apparatus for
teaching various branches of natural science, a library of all kinds of literature, and an
endowment of $25,000 to provide for its maintenance. Rev. Philotas Dean, the only white teacher
connected with this institution, was its first principal. He served until 1856 when he was
succeeded by his assistant, M.H. Freeman, who in 1863 was succeeded by George B. Vashon. Miss
Emma J. Woodson was an assistant in the institution from 1856 to 1867. After the din of the
Civil War had ceased the institution took on new life, electing a new corps of teachers, who
placed the work on a higher plane. Among these were Rev. H.H. Garnett, president, B.K. Sampson,
Harriet C. Johnson, and Clara G. Toop.[2]

[Footnote 1: African Repository, vol. xxxiv., p. 156.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 381.]

It was due also to the successful forces at work in Pennsylvania that the Ashmun Institute,
now Lincoln University, was established in that State. The need of higher education having
come to the attention of the Presbytery of New Castle, that body decided to establish within
its limits an institution for the "scientific, classical, and theological education of the
colored youth of the male sex." In 1853 the Synod approved the plans of the founders and provided
that the institution should be under the supervision and control of the Presbytery or Synod
within whose bounds it might be located. A committee to solicit funds, find a site, and secure
a charter for the school was appointed. They selected for the location Hensonville, Chester
County, Pennsylvania.[1] The legislature incorporated the institution in 1854 with John M.
Dickey, Alfred Hamilton, Robert P. DuBois, James Latta, John B. Spottswood, James Crowell,
Samuel J. Dickey, Alfred Hamilton, John M. Kelton, and William Wilson as trustees. Sufficient
buildings and equipment having been provided by 1856, the doors of this institution were opened
to young colored men seeking preparation for work in this country and Liberia.[2]

[Footnote 1: Baird, A Collection, etc., p. 819.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the United States Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 382.]

An equally successful plan of workers in the West resulted in the founding of the first higher
institution to be controlled by Negroes. Having for some years believed that the colored people
needed a college for the preparation of teachers and preachers, the Cincinnati Conference of
the Methodist Episcopal Church in session in 1855 appointed Rev. John F. Wright as general
agent to execute this design. Addressing themselves immediately to this task Rev. Mr. Wright
and his associates solicited from philanthropic persons by 1856 the amount of $13,000. The
agents then made the purchase payment on the beautiful site of Tawawa Springs, long known as
the healthy summer resort near Xenia, Ohio.[1] That same year the institution was incorporated
as Wilberforce University. From 1856 to 1862 the school had a fair student body, consisting
of the mulatto children of southern slaveholders.[2] When these were kept away, however, by
the operations of the Civil War, the institution declined so rapidly that it had to be closed
for a season. Thereafter the trustees appealed again to the African Methodist Episcopal Church
which in 1856 had declined the invitation to coöperate with the founders. The colored Methodists
had adhered to their decision to operate Union Seminary, a manual labor school, which they
had started near Columbus, Ohio.[3] The proposition was accepted, however, in 1862. For the
amount of the debt of $10,000 which the institution had incurred while passing through the
crisis, Rev. Daniel A. Payne and his associates secured the transfer of the property to the
African Methodist Episcopal Church. These new directors hoped to develop a first-class university,
offering courses in law, medicine, literature, and theology. The debt being speedily removed
the school showed evidences of new vigor, but was checked in its progress by an incendiary,
who burned the main building while the teachers and pupils were attending an emancipation celebration
at Xenia, April 14, 1865. With the amount of insurance received and donations from friends,
the trustees were able to construct a more commodious building which still marks the site of
these early labors.[4]

[Footnote 1: The Non-Slaveholder, vol. ii., p. 113.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, pp. 372-373.]

[Footnote 3: History of Greene County, Ohio, chapter on Wilberforce; and Special Report of
the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 373.]

[Footnote 4: The Non-Slaveholder, vol. ii., p. 113.]

A brighter day for the higher education of the colored people at home, however, had begun to
dawn during the forties. The abolitionists were then aggressively demanding consideration for
the Negroes. Men "condescended" to reason together about slavery and the treatment of the colored
people. The northern people ceased to think that they had nothing to do with these problems.
When these questions were openly discussed in the schools of the North, students and teachers
gradually became converted to the doctrine of equality in education. This revolution was instituted
by President C.B. Storrs, of Western Reserve College, then at Hudson, Ohio. His doctrine in
regard to the training of the mind "was that men are able to be made only by putting youth
under the responsibilities of men." He, therefore, encouraged the free discussion of all important
subjects, among which was the appeal of the Negroes for enlightenment. This policy gave rise
to a spirit of inquiry which permeated the whole school. The victory, however, was not easy.
After a long struggle the mind of the college was carried by irresistible argument in favor
of fair play for colored youth. This institution had two colored students as early as 1834.[1]

[Footnote 1: First Annual Report of the American Anti-Slavery Society, p. 42.]

Northern institutions of learning were then reaching the third stage in their participation
in the solution of the Negro problem. At first they had to be converted even to allow a free
discussion of the question; next the students on being convinced that slavery was a sin, sought
to elevate the blacks thus degraded; and finally these workers, who had been accustomed to
instructing the neighboring colored people, reached the conclusion that they should be admitted
to their schools on equal footing with the whites. This institution was peculiar in that the
idea of establishing it originated with a southerner, a merchant of New Orleans. It was founded
largely by funds of southern Presbyterians, was located in Cincinnati about a mile from slave
territory, and was attended by students from that section.[1] When the right of free discussion
swept the country many of the proslavery students were converted to abolition. To southerners
it seemed that the seminary had resolved itself into a society for the elevation of the free
blacks. Students established Sabbath-schools, organized Bible classes, and provided lectures
for Negroes ambitious to do advanced work. Measures were taken to establish an academy for
colored girls, and a teacher was engaged. But these noble efforts put forth so near the border
States soon provoked firm opposition from the proslavery element. Some of the students had
gone so far in the manifestation of their zeal that the institution was embarrassed by the
charge of promoting the social equality of the races.[2] Rather than remain in Cincinnati under
restrictions, the reform element of the institution moved to the more congenial Western Reserve
where a nucleus of youth and their instructors had assumed the name of Oberlin College. This
school did so much for the education of Negroes before the Civil War that it was often spoken
of as an institution for the education of the people of color.

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 43.]

[Footnote 2: First Annual Report of the American Anti-Slavery Society, p. 43.]

Interest in the higher education of the neglected race, however, was not confined to a particular
commonwealth. Institutions of other States were directing their attention to this task. Among
others were a school in New York City founded by a clergyman to offer Negroes an opportunity
to study the classics,[1] New York Central College at McGrawville, Oneida Institute conducted
by Beriah Green at Whitesboro, Thetford Academy of Vermont, and Union Literary Institute in
the center of the communities of freedmen transplanted to Indiana. Many other of our best institutions
were opening their doors to students of African descent. By 1852 colored students had attended
the Institute at Easton, Pennsylvania; the Normal School of Albany, New York; Bowdoin College,
Brunswick, Maine; Rutland College, Vermont; Jefferson College, Pennsylvania; Athens College,
Athens, Ohio; Franklin College, New Athens, Ohio; and Hanover College near Madison, Indiana.
Negroes had taken courses at the Medical School of the University of New York; the Castleton
Medical School in Vermont; the Berkshire Medical School, Pittsfield, Massachusetts; the Rush
Medical School in Chicago; the Eclectic Medical School of Philadelphia; the Homeopathic College
of Cleveland; and the Medical School of Harvard University. Colored preachers had been educated
in the Theological Seminary at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania; the Dartmouth Theological School;
and the Theological Seminary of Charleston, South Carolina.[2]

[Footnote 1: Simmons, Men of Mark, p. 530.]

[Footnote 2: These facts are taken from M.R. Delany's The Condition, Elevation, Emigration,
and Destiny of the Colored People of the United States Practically Considered, published in
1852; the Reports of the Antislavery and Colonization Societies, and The African Repository.]

Prominent among those who brought about this change in the attitude toward the education of
the free blacks was Gerrit Smith, one of the greatest philanthropists of his time. He secured
privileges for Negroes in higher institutions by extending aid to such as would open their
doors to persons of color. In this way he became a patron of Oneida Institute, giving it from
$3,000 to $4,000 in cash and 3,000 acres of land in Vermont. Because of the hospitality of
Oberlin to colored students he gave the institution large sums of money and 20,000 acres of
land in Virginia valued at $50,000. New York Central College which opened its doors alike to
both races obtained from him several donations.[1] This gentleman proceeded on the presumption
that it is the duty of the white people to elevate the colored and that the education of large
numbers of them is indispensable to the uplift of the degraded classes.[2] He wanted them to
have the opportunity for obtaining either a common or classical education; and hoped that they
would go out from our institutions well educated for any work to which they might be called
in this country or abroad.[3] He himself established a colored school at Peterboro, New York.
As this institution offered both industrial and literary courses we shall have occasion to
mention it again. Both a cause and result of the increasing interest in the higher education
of Negroes was that these unfortunates had made good with what little training they had. Many
had by their creative power shown what they could do in business,[4] some had convinced the
world of the inventive genius of the man of color,[5] others had begun to rank as successful
lawyers,[6] not a few had become distinguished physicians,[7] and scores of intelligent Negro
preachers were ministering to the spiritual needs of their people.[8] S.R. Ward, a scholar
of some note, was for a few years the pastor of a white church at Courtlandville, New York.
Robert Morris had been honored by the appointment as Magistrate by the Governor of Massachusetts,
and in New Hampshire another man of African blood had been elected to the legislature.[9]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 367.]

[Footnote 2: African Repository, vol. x., p. 312.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 312.]

[Footnote 4: Among these were John B. Smith, Coffin Pitts, Robert Douglas, John P. Bell, Augustus
Washington, Alexander S. Thomas, Henry Boyd, P.H. Ray, and L.T. Wilcox.]

[Footnote 5: A North Carolina Negro had discovered a cure for snakebite; Henry Blair, a slave
of Maryland, had invented a corn-planter; and Roberts of Philadelphia had made a machine for
lifting railway cars from the tracks.]

[Footnote 6: The most noted of these lawyers were Robert Morris, Malcolm B. Allen, G.B. Vashon,
and E.G. Walker.]

[Footnote 7: The leading Negroes of this class were T. Joiner White, Peter Ray, John DeGrasse,
David P. Jones, J. Gould Bias, James Ulett, Martin Delany, and John R. Peck. James McCrummill,
Joseph Wilson, Thos. Kennard, and Wm. Nickless were noted colored dentists of Philadelphia.]

[Footnote 8: The prominent colored preachers of that day were Titus Basfield, B.F. Templeton,
W.T. Catto, Benjamin Coker, John B. Vashon, Robert Purvis, David Ruggles, Philip A. Bell, Charles
L. Reason, William Wells Brown, Samuel L. Ward, James McCune Smith, Highland Garnett, Daniel
A. Payne, James C. Pennington, M. Haines, and John F. Cook.]

[Footnote 9: Baldwin, Observations, etc., p. 44.]

Thanks to the open doors of liberal schools, the race could boast of a number of efficient
educators.[1] There were Martin H. Freeman, John Newton Templeton, Mary E. Miles, Lucy Stratton,
Lewis Woodson, John F. Cook, Mary Ann Shadd, W.H. Allen, and B.W. Arnett. Professor C.L. Reason,
a veteran teacher of New York City, was then so well educated that in 1844 he was called to
the professorship of Belles-Lettres and the French Language in New York Central College. Many
intelligent Negroes who followed other occupations had teaching for their avocation. In fact
almost every colored person who could read and write was a missionary teacher among his people.

[Footnote 1: James B. Russworm, an alumnus of Bowdoin, was the first Negro to receive a degree
from a college in this country.]

In music, literature, and journalism the Negroes were also doing well. Eliza Greenfield, William
Jackson, John G. Anderson, and William Appo made their way in the musical world. Lemuel Haynes,
a successful preacher to a white congregation, took up theology about 1815. Paul Cuffee wrote
an interesting account of Sierra Leone. Rev. Daniel Coker published a book on slavery in 1810.
Seven years later came the publication of the Law and Doctrine of the African Methodist Episcopal
Church and the Standard Hymnal written by Richard Allen. In 1836 Rev. George Hogarth published
an addition to this volume and in 1841 brought forward the first magazine of the sect. Edward
W. Moore, a colored teacher of white children in Tennessee, wrote an arithmetic. C.L. Remond
of Massachusetts was then a successful lecturer and controversialist. James M. Whitefield,
George Horton, and Frances E.W. Harper were publishing poems. H.H. Garnett and J.C. Pennington,
known to fame as preachers, attained success also as pamphleteers. R.B. Lewis, M.R. Delany,
William Nell, and Catto embellished Negro history; William Wells Brown wrote his Three Years
in Europe; and Frederick Douglass, the orator, gave the world his creditable autobiography.
More effective still were the journalistic efforts of the Negro intellect pleading its own
cause. [1] Colored newspapers varying from the type of weeklies like The North Star to that
of the modern magazine like The Anglo-African were published in most large towns and cities
of the North.

[Footnote 1: In 1827 John B. Russworm and Samuel B. Cornish began the publication of The Freedom's
Journal, appearing afterward as Rights to All. Ten years later P.A. Bell was publishing The
Weekly Advocate. From 1837 to 1842 Bell and Cornish edited The Colored Man's Journal, while
Samuel Ruggles sent from his press The Mirror of Liberty. In 1847, one year after the appearance
of Thomas Van Rensselaer's Ram's Horn, Frederick Douglass started The North Star at Rochester,
while G. Allen and Highland Garnett were appealing to the country through The National Watchman
of Troy, New York. That same year Martin R. Delany brought out The Pittsburg Mystery, and others
The Elevator at Albany, New York. At Syracuse appeared The Impartial Citizen established by
Samuel R. Ward in 1848, three years after which L.H. Putnam came before the public in New York
City with The Colored Man's Journal. Then came The Philadelphia Freeman, The Philadelphia Citizen,
The New York Phalanx, The Baltimore Elevator, and The Cincinnati Central Star. Of a higher
order was he Anglo-African, a magazine published in New York in 1859 by Thomas Hamilton, who
was succeeded in editorship by Robert Hamilton and Highland Garnett. In 1852 there were in
existence The Colored American, The Struggler, The Watchman, The Ram's Horn, The Demosthenian
Shield, The National Reformer, The Pittsburg Mystery, The Palladium of Liberty, The Disfranchised
American, The Colored Citizen, The National Watchman, The Excelsior, The Christian Herald,
The Farmer, The Impartial Citizen, The Northern Star of Albany, and The North Star of Rochester.]

CHAPTER XII

VOCATIONAL TRAINING

Having before them striking examples of highly educated colored men who could find no employment
in the United States, the free Negroes began to realize that their preparation was not going
hand in hand with their opportunities. Industrial education was then emphasized as the proper
method of equipping the race for usefulness. The advocacy of such training, however, was in
no sense new. The early anti-slavery men regarded it as the prerequisite to emancipation, and
the abolitionists urged it as the only safe means of elevating the freedmen. But when the blacks,
converted to this doctrine, began to enter the higher pursuits of labor during the forties
and fifties, there started a struggle which has been prolonged even into our day. Most northern
white men had ceased to oppose the enlightenment of the free people of color but still objected
to granting them economic equality. The same investigators that discovered increased facilities
of conventional education for Negroes in 1834 reported also that there existed among the white
mechanics a formidable prejudice against colored artisans.[1]

[Footnote 1: Minutes of the Fourth Annual Convention for the Improvement of the Free People
of Color, p. 26.]

In opposing the encroachment of Negroes on their field of labor the northerners took their
cue from the white mechanics in the South. At first laborers of both races worked together
in the same room and at the same machine.[1] But in the nineteenth century, when more white
men in the South were condescending to do skilled labor and trying to develop manufactures,
they found themselves handicapped by competition with the slave mechanics. Before 1860 most
southern mechanics, machinists, local manufacturers, contractors, and railroad men with the
exception of conductors were Negroes.[2] Against this custom of making colored men such an
economic factor the white mechanics frequently protested.[3] The riots against Negroes occurring
in Cincinnati, Philadelphia, New York, and Washington during the thirties and forties owed
their origin mainly to an ill feeling between the white and colored skilled laborers.[4] The
white artisans prevailed upon the legislatures of Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Georgia to enact
measures hostile to their rivals.[5] In 1845 the State of Georgia made it a misdemeanor for
a colored mechanic to make a contract for the repair or the erection of buildings.[6] The people
of Georgia, however, were not unanimously in favor of keeping the Negro artisan down. Once
pitted against the capitalists during the Administration of Andrew Jackson the working classes
learned to think that their interests differed materially from those of the rich, whose privileges
had multiplied at the expense of the poor. Efforts toward effecting organizations to secure
to labor adequate protection began to be successful during Van Buren's Administration. At this
time some reformers were boldly demanding the recognition of Negroes by all helpful groups.
One of the tests of the strength of these protagonists was whether or not they could induce
the mechanics of the North to take colored workmen to supply the skilled laborers required
by the then rapid economic development of our free States. Would the whites permit the blacks
to continue as their competitors after labor had been elevated above drudgery? To do this meant
the continuation of the custom of taking youths of African blood as apprentices. This the white
mechanics of the North generally refused to do.[1]

[Footnote 1: Minutes of the Third Annual Convention of the Free People of Color, p. 18.]

The friends of the colored race, however, were not easily discouraged by that "vulgar race
prejudice which reigns in the breasts of working classes."[1] Arthur Tappan, Gerrit Smith,
and William Lloyd Garrison made the appeal in behalf of the untrained laborers.[2] Although
they knew the difficulties encountered by Negroes seeking to learn trades, and could daily
observe how unwilling master mechanics were to receive colored boys as apprentices, the abolitionists
persisted in saying that by perseverance these youths could succeed in procuring profitable
situations.[3] Garrison believed that their failure to find employment at trades was not due
so much to racial differences as to their lack of training. Speaking to the free people of
color in their convention in Philadelphia in 1831, he could give them no better advice than
that "wherever you can, put your children to trades. A good trade is better than a fortune,
because when once obtained it cannot be taken away." Discussing the matter further, he said:
"Now, there can be no reason why your sons should fail to make as ingenious and industrious
mechanics, as any white apprentices; and when they once get trades, they will be able to accumulate
money; money begets influence, and influence respectability. They reached the conclusion that
in making their headway against capital they had a better chance without Negroes than with
them. White mechanics of the North not only refused to accept colored boys as apprentices,
but would not even work for employers who persisted in hiring Negroes. Generally refused by
the master mechanics of Cincinnati, a colored cabinet-maker finally found an Englishman who
was willing to hire him, but the employees of the shop objected, refusing to allow the newcomer
even to work in a room by himself.[1] A Negro who could preach in a white church of the North
would have had difficulty in securing the contract to build a new edifice for that congregation.
A colored man could then more easily get his son into a lawyer's office to learn law than he
could "into a blacksmith shop to blow the bellows and wield the sledge hammer."[2]

[Footnote 1: The Liberator, June 13, 1835.]

[Footnote 2: Douglass, Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, p. 248.]

Left then in a quandary as to what they should do, northern Negroes hoped to use the then popular
"manual labor schools" to furnish the facilities for both practical and classical education.
These schools as operated for the whites, however, were not primarily trade schools. Those
which admitted persons of African descent paid more attention to actual industrial training
for the reason that colored students could not then hope to acquire such knowledge as apprentices.
This tendency was well shown by the action of the free Negroes through their delegates in the
convention assembled in Philadelphia in 1830. Conversant with the policy of so reshaping the
educational system of the country as to carry knowledge even to the hovels, these leaders were
easily won to the scheme of reconstructing their schools "on the manual labor system." In this
they saw the redemption of the free Negroes of the North. These gentlemen were afraid that
the colored people were not paying sufficient attention to the development of the power to
use their hands skillfully.[1] One of the first acts of the convention was to inquire as to
how fast colored men were becoming attached to mechanical pursuits,[2] and whether or not there
was any prospect that a manual labor school for the instruction of the youth would shortly
be established. The report of the committee, to which the question was referred, was so encouraging
that the convention itself decided to establish an institution of the kind at New Haven, Connecticut.
They appealed to their fellows for help, called the attention of philanthropists to this need
of the race, and commissioned William Lloyd Garrison to solicit funds in Great Britain.[3]
Garrison found hearty supporters among the friends of freedom in that country. Some, who had
been induced to contribute to the Colonization Society, found it more advisable to aid the
new movement. Charles Stewart of Liverpool wrote Garrison that he could count on his British
co-workers to raise $1000 for this purpose.[4] At the same time Americans were equally active.
Indignation meetings were held, protests against this project were filed, and the free people
of color were notified that the institution was not desired in Connecticut.[1] It was said
that these memorialists feared that a colored college so near to Yale might cause friction
between the two student bodies, and that the school might attract an unusually large number
of undesirable Negroes. At their meeting the citizens of New Haven resolved "That the founding
of colleges for educating colored people is an unwarrantable and dangerous undertaking to the
internal concerns of other states and ought to be discouraged, and that the mayor, aldermen,
common council, and freemen will resist the movement by every lawful means."[2] In view of
such drastic action the promoters had to abandon their plan. No such protests were made by
the citizens of New Haven, however, when the colonizationists were planning to establish there
a mission school to prepare Negroes to leave the country.

[Footnote 1: Monroe, Cyclopaedia of Education, vol. iv., p. 406.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., vol. iv., p. 406; and The Liberator, July 9, 1831.]

The movement, however, was not then stopped by this outburst of race prejudice in New Haven.
Directing attention to another community, the New England Antislavery Society took up this
scheme and collected funds to establish a manual labor school. When the officials had on hand
about $1000 it was discovered that they could accomplish their aim by subsidizing the Noyes
Academy of Canaan, New Hampshire, and making such changes as were necessary to subserve the
purposes intended.[1] The plan was not to convert this into a colored school. The promoters
hoped to maintain there a model academy for the co-education of the races "on the manual labor
system." The treasurer of the Antislavery Society was to turn over certain moneys to this academy
to provide for the needs of the colored students, who then numbered fourteen of the fifty-two
enrolled. But although it had been reported that the people of the town were in accord with
the principal's acceptance of this proposition, there were soon evidences to the contrary.
Fearing imaginary evils, these modern Canaanites destroyed the academy, dragging the building
to a swamp with a hundred yoke of oxen.[2] The better element of the town registered against
this outrage only a slight protest. H.H. Garnett and Alexander Crummell were among the colored
students who sought education at this academy.

[Footnote 1: The Liberator, July 4, 1835.]

[Footnote 2: Minutes and Proceedings of the Third Annual Convention for the Improvement of
the Free People of Color, p. 34; and Monroe, Cyclopaedia of Education, vol. iv., p. 406.]

This work was more successful in the State of New York. There, too, the cause was championed
by the abolitionists.[1] After the emancipation of all Negroes in that commonwealth by 1827
the New York Antislavery Society devoted more time to the elevation of the free people of color.
The rapid rise of the laboring classes in this swiftly growing city made it evident to their
benefactors that they had to be speedily equipped for competition with white mechanics or be
doomed to follow menial employments. The only one of that section to offer Negroes anything
like the opportunity for industrial training, however, was Gerrit Smith.[2] He was fortunate
in having sufficient wealth to carry out the plan. In 1834 he established in Madison County,
New York, an institution known as the Peterboro Manual Labor School. The working at trades
was provided not altogether to teach the mechanic arts, but to enable the students to support
themselves while attending school. As a compensation for instruction, books, room, fuel, light,
and board furnished by the founder, the student was expected to labor four hours daily at some
agricultural or mechanical employment "important to his education."[3] The faculty estimated
the four hours of labor as worth on an average of about 12-1/2 cents for each student. These
endeavors culminated in the above-mentioned benefaction of Richard Humphreys, by the will of
whom $10,000 was devised to establish a school for the purpose of instructing "descendants
of the African race in school learning in the various branches of the mechanical arts and trades
and agriculture."[1] In 1839 members of the Society of Friends organized an association to
establish a school such as Humphreys had planned. Their endeavors, so far as training in the
mechanic arts was concerned, proved to be a failure. In 1846, therefore, the management decided
to discontinue this literary, agricultural, and manual labor experiment. The trustees then
sold the farm and stock, apprenticed the male students to mechanical occupations, and opened
an evening school. Thinking mainly of classical education thereafter, the trustees of the fund
finally established the Institute for Colored Youth of which we have spoken elsewhere.

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 379.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., 1871, p. 379.]

Some of the philanthropists who promoted the practical education of the colored people were
found in the Negro settlements of the Northwest. Their first successful attempt in that section
was the establishment of the Emlen Institute in Mercer County, Ohio. The founding of this institution
was due manly to the efforts of Augustus Wattles who was instrumental in getting a number of
emigrating freedmen to leave Cincinnati and settle in this county about 1835.[1] Wattles traveled
in almost every colored neighborhood of the State and laid before them the benefits of permanent
homes and the education for their children. On his first journey he organized, with the assistance
of abolitionists, twenty-five schools for colored children. Interested thereafter in providing
a head for this system he purchased for himself ninety acres of land in Mercer County to establish
a manual labor institution. He sustained a school on it at his own expense, till the 11th of
November, 1842. Wattles then visited Philadelphia where he became acquainted with the trustees
of the late Samuel Emlen, a Friend of New Jersey. He had left by his will $20,000 "for the
support and education in school learning and mechanic arts and agriculture of boys of African
and Indian descent whose parents would give such youths to the Institute."[2] The means of
the two philanthropists were united. The trustees purchased a farm and appointed Wattles as
superintendent of the establishment, calling it Emlen Institute. Located in a section where
the Negroes had sufficient interest in education to support a number of elementary schools,
this institution once had considerable influence.[3] It was removed to Bucks County, Pennsylvania,
in 1858 and then to Warminster in the same county in 1873.

[Footnote 1: Howe, Ohio Historical Collections, p. 355.]

[Footnote 2: Howe, Ohio Historical Collections, p. 356.]

[Footnote 3: Wickersham, History of Education in Pa., p. 254.]

Another school of this type was founded in the Northwest. This was the Union Literary Institute
of Spartanburg, Indiana. The institution owes its origin to a group of bold, antislavery men
who "in the heat of the abolition excitement"[1] stood firm for the Negro. They soon had opposition
from the proslavery leaders who impeded the progress of the institution. But thanks to the
indefatigable Ebenezer Tucker, its first principal, the "Nigger School" weathered the storm.
The Institute, however, was founded to educate both races. Its charter required that no distinction
should be made on account of race, color, rank, or religion. Accordingly, although the student
body was from the beginning of the school partly white, the board of trustees represented denominations
of both races. Accessible statistics do not show that colored persons ever constituted more
than one-third of the students.[2] It was one of the most durable of the manual labor schools,
having continued after the Civil War, carrying out to some extent the original designs of its
founders. As the plan to continue it as a private institution proved later to be impracticable
the establishment was changed into a public school.[3]

[Footnote 1: Boone, The History of Education in Indiana, p. 77.]

[Footnote 2: According to the Report of the United States Commissioner of Education in 1893
the colored students then constituted about one-third of those then registered at this institution.
See p. 1944 of this report.]

[Footnote 3: Records of the United States Bureau of Education.]

Scarcely less popular was the British and American Manual Labor Institute of the colored settlements
in Upper Canada. This school was projected by Rev. Hiram Wilson and Josiah Henson as early
as 1838, but its organization was not undertaken until 1842. The refugees were then called
together to decide upon the expenditure of $1500 collected in England by James C. Fuller, a
Quaker. They decided to establish at Dawn "a manual labor school, where children could be taught
those elements of knowledge which are usually the occupations of a grammar school, and where
boys could be taught in addition the practice of some mechanic art, and the girls could be
instructed in those domestic arts which are the proper occupation and ornament of their sex."[1]
A tract of three hundred acres of land was purchased, a few buildings were constructed, and
pupils were soon admitted. The managers endeavored to make the school, "self-supporting by
the employment of the students for certain portions of the time on the land."[2] The advantage
of schooling of this kind attracted to Dresden and Dawn sufficient refugees to make these prosperous
settlements. Rev. Hiram Wilson, the first principal of the institution, began with fourteen
"boarding scholars" when there were no more than fifty colored persons in all the vicinity.
In 1852 when the population of this community had increased to five hundred there were sixty
students attending the school. Indian and white children were also admitted. Among the students
there were also adults varying later in number from fifty-six to one hundred and sixteen.[3]
This institution became very influential among the Negroes of Canada. Travelers mentioned the
Institute in accounting for the prosperity and good morals of the refugees.[4] Unfortunately,
however, after the year 1855 when the school reached its zenith, it began to decline on account
of bad feeling probably resulting from a divided management.

[Footnote 1: Henson, Life of Josiah Henson, pp. 73, 74.]

[Footnote 2: Henson, Life of Josiah Henson, p. 115.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 117.]

[Footnote 4: Drew, A North-Side View of Slavery, p. 309; and Coffin, Reminiscences, pp. 249, 250.]

Studying these facts concerning the manual labor system of education, the student of education
sees that it was not generally successful. This may be accounted for in various ways. One might
say that colored people were not desired in the higher pursuits of labor and that their preparation
for such vocations never received the support of the rank and file of the Negroes of the North.
They saw then, as they often do now, the seeming impracticability of preparing themselves for
occupations which they apparently had no chance to follow. Moreover, bright freedmen were not
at first attracted to mechanical occupations. Ambitious Negroes who triumphed over slavery
and made their way to the North for educational advantages hoped to enter the higher walks
of life. Only a few of the race had the foresight of the advocates of industrial training.
The majority of the enlightened class desired that they be no longer considered as "persons
occupying a menial position, but as capable of the highest development of man."[1] Furthermore,
bitterly as some white men hated slavery, and deeply as they seemingly sympathized with the
oppressed, they were loath to support a policy which they believed was fatal to their economic
interests.[2]

[Footnote 1: Minutes and Proceedings of the Third Annual Convention, etc., p. 25.]

[Footnote 2: The Fifth Report of the American Antislavery Society, p. 115; Douglass, The Life
and Times of, p. 248.]

The chief reason for the failure of the new educational policy was that the managers of the
manual labor schools made the mistakes often committed by promoters of industrial education
of our day. At first they proceeded on the presumption that one could obtain a classical education
while learning a trade and at the same time earn sufficient to support himself at school. Some
of the managers of industrial schools have not yet learned that students cannot produce articles
for market. The best we can expect from an industrial school to-day is a good apprentice.

Another handicap was that at that time conditions were seldom sufficiently favorable to enable
the employer to derive profit enough from students' work to compensate for the maintenance
of the youth at a manual labor school. Besides, such a school could not be far-reaching in
its results because it could not be so conducted as to accommodate a large number of students.
With a slight change in its aims the manual labor schools might have been more successful in
the large urban communities, but the aim of their advocates was to establish them in the country
where sufficient land for agricultural training could be had, and where students would not
be corrupted by the vices of the city.

It was equally unfortunate that the teachers who were chosen to carry out this educational
policy lacked the preparation adequate to their task. They had any amount of spirit, but an
evident lack of understanding as to the meaning of this new education. They failed to unite
the qualifications for both the industrial and academic instruction. It was the fault that
we find to-day in our industrial schools. Those who were responsible for the literary training
knew little of and cared still less for the work in mechanic arts, and those who were employed
to teach trades seldom had sufficient education to impart what they knew. The students, too,
in their efforts to pursue these uncorrelated courses seldom succeeded in making much advance
in either. We have no evidence that many Negroes were equipped for higher service in the manual
labor schools. Statistics of 1850 and 1860 show that there was an increase in the number of
colored mechanics, especially in Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Columbus, the Western Reserve, and
Canada.[1] But this was probably due to the decreasing prejudice of the local white mechanics
toward the Negro artisans fleeing from the South rather than to formal industrial training.[2]

[Footnote 1: Clarke, Present Condition of the Free People of Color of the United States, 1859,
pp. 9, 10, 11, 13, and 29.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., pp. 9, 10, and 23.]

Schools of this kind tended gradually to abandon the idea of combining labor and learning,
leaving such provisions mainly as catalogue fictions. Many of the western colleges were founded
as manual labor schools, but the remains of these beginnings are few and insignificant. Oberlin,
which was once operated on this basis, still retains the seal of "Learning and Labor," with
a college building in the foreground and a field of grain in the distance. A number of our
institutions have recitations now in the forenoon that students may devote the afternoon to
labor. In some schools Monday instead of Saturday is the open day of the week because this
was wash-day for the manual labor colleges. Even after the Civil War some schools had their
long vacation in the winter instead of the summer because the latter was the time for manual
labor. The people of our day know little about this unsuccessful system.

It is evident, therefore, that the leaders who had up to that time dictated the policy of the
social betterment of the colored people had failed to find the key to the situation. This task
fell to the lot of Frederick Douglass, who, wiser in his generation than most of his contemporaries,
advocated actual vocational training as the greatest leverage for the elevation of the colored
people. Douglass was given an opportunity to bring his ideas before the public on the occasion
of a visit to Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe. She was then preparing to go to England in response
to an invitation from her admirers, who were anxious to see this famous author of Uncle Tom's
Cabin and to give her a testimonial. Thinking that she would receive large sums of money in
England she desired to get Mr. Douglass's views as to how it could be most profitably spent
for the advancement of the free people of color. She was especially interested in those who
had become free by their own exertions. Mrs. Stowe informed her guest that several had suggested
the establishment of an educational institution pure and simple, but that she had not been
able to concur with them, thinking that it would be better to open an industrial school. Douglass
was opposed both to the establishment of such a college as was suggested, and to that of an
ordinary industrial school where pupils should merely "earn the means of obtaining an education
in books." He desired what we now call the vocational school, "a series of workshops where
colored men could learn some of the handicrafts, learn to work in iron, wood, and leather,
while incidentally acquiring a plain English education."[1]

[Footnote 1: Douglass, The Life and Times of, p. 248.]

Under Douglass's leadership the movement had a new goal. The learning of trades was no longer
to be subsidiary to conventional education. Just the reverse was true. Moreover, it was not
to be entrusted to individuals operating on a small scale; it was to be a public effort of
larger scope. The aim was to make the education of Negroes so articulate with their needs as
to improve their economic condition. Seeing that despite the successful endeavors of many freedmen
to acquire higher education that the race was still kept in penury, Douglass believed that
by reconstructing their educational policy the friends of the race could teach the colored
people to help themselves. Pecuniary embarrassment, he thought, was the cause of all evil to
the blacks, "for poverty kept them ignorant and their lack of enlightenment kept them degraded."
The deliverance from these evils, he contended, could be effected not by such a fancied or
artificial elevation as the mere diffusion of information by institutions beyond the immediate
needs of the poor. The awful plight of the Negroes, as he saw it, resulted directly from not
having the opportunity to learn trades, and from "narrowing their limits to earn a livelihood."
Douglass deplored the fact that even menial employments were rapidly passing away from the
colored people. Under the caption of "Learn Trades or Starve," he tried to drive home the truth
that if the free people of color did not soon heed his advice, foreigners then immigrating
in large numbers would elbow them from all lucrative positions. He knew, however, that it was
foolish to think that persons accustomed to the rougher and harder modes of living could in
a single leap from their low condition reach that of professional men. The attainment of such
positions, he thought, was contingent upon laying a foundation in things material by passing
"through the intermediate gradations of agriculture and the mechanic arts."[1] He was sure
that the higher institutions then open to the colored people would be adequate to the task
of providing for them all the professional men they then needed, and that the facilities for
higher education so far as the schools and colleges in the free States were concerned would
increase quite in proportion to the future needs of the race.

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 249.]

Douglass deplored the fact that education and emigration had gone together. As soon as a colored
man of genius like Russworm, Garnett, Ward, or Crummell appeared, the so-called friends of
the race reached the conclusion that he could better serve his race elsewhere. Seeing themselves
pitted against odds, such bright men had had to seek more congenial countries. The training
of Negroes merely to aid the colonization scheme would have little bearing on the situation
at home unless its promoters could transplant the majority of the free people of color. The
aim then should be not to transplant the race but to adopt a policy such as he had proposed
to elevate it in the United States.[1]

[Footnote 1: Douglass, The Life and Times, p. 250.]

Vocational education, Douglass thought, would disprove the so-called mental inferiority of
the Negroes. He believed that the blacks should show by action that they were equal to the
whites rather than depend on the defense of friends who based their arguments not on facts
but on certain admitted principles. Believing in the mechanical genius of the Negroes he hoped
that in the establishment of this institution they would have an opportunity for development.
In it he saw a benefit not only to the free colored people of the North, but also to the slaves.
The strongest argument used by the slaveholder in defense of his precious institution was the
low condition of the free people of color of the North. Remove this excuse by elevating them
and you will hasten the liberation of the slaves. The best refutation of the proslavery argument
is the "presentation of an industrious, enterprising, thrifty, and intelligent free black population."[1]
An element of this kind, he believed, would rise under the fostering care of vocational teachers.

[Footnote 1: Douglass, The Life and Times of, p. 251.]

With Douglass this proposition did not descend to the plane of mere suggestion. Audiences which
he addressed from time to time were informed as to the necessity of providing for the colored
people facilities of practical education.[1] The columns of his paper rendered the cause noble
service. He entered upon the advocacy of it with all the zeal of an educational reformer, endeavoring
to show how this policy would please all concerned. Anxious fathers whose minds had been exercised
by the inquiry as to what to do with their sons would welcome the opportunity to have them
taught trades. It would be in line with the "eminently practical philanthropy of the Negroes'
trans-Atlantic friends." America would scarcely object to it as an attempt to agitate the mind
on slavery or to destroy the Union. "It could not be tortured into a cause for hard words by
the American people," but the noble and good of all classes would see in the effort "an excellent
motive, a benevolent object, temperately, wisely, and practically manifested."[2] The leading
free people of color heeded this message. Appealing to them through their delegates assembled
in Rochester in 1853, Douglass secured a warm endorsement of his plan in eloquent speeches
and resolutions passed by the convention.

[Footnote 1: African Repository, vol. xxix., p. 136.]

[Footnote 2: Douglass, Life and Times of, p. 252.]

This great enterprise, like all others, was soon to encounter opposition. Mrs. Stowe was attacked
as soliciting money abroad for her own private use. So bitter were these proslavery diatribes
that Henry Ward Beecher and Frederick Douglass had some difficulty in convincing the world
that her maligners had no grounds for this vicious accusation. Furthermore, on taking up the
matter with Mrs. Stowe after her return to the United States, Douglass was disappointed to
learn that she had abandoned her plan to found a vocational institution. He was never able
to see any force in the reasons for the change of policy; but believed that Mrs. Stowe acted
conscientiously, although her action was decidedly embarrassing to him both at home and abroad.[1]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 252.]

CHAPTER XIII

EDUCATION AT PUBLIC EXPENSE

The persistent struggle of the colored people to have their children educated at public expense
shows how resolved they were to be enlightened. In the beginning Negroes had no aspiration
to secure such assistance. Because the free public schools were first regarded as a system
to educate the poor, the friends of the free blacks turned them away from these institutions
lest men might reproach them with becoming a public charge. Moreover, philanthropists deemed
it wise to provide separate schools for Negroes to bring them into contact with sympathetic
persons, who knew their peculiar needs. In the course of time, however, when the stigma of
charity was removed as a result of the development of the free schools at public expense, Negroes
concluded that it was not dishonorable to share the benefits of institutions which they were
taxed to support.[1] Unable then to cope with systems thus maintained for the education of
the white youth, the directors of colored schools requested that something be appropriated
for the education of Negroes. Complying with these petitions boards of education provided for
colored schools which were to be partly or wholly supported at public expense. But it was not
long before the abolitionists saw that they had made a mistake in carrying out this policy.
The amount appropriated to the support of the special schools was generally inadequate to supply
them with the necessary equipment and competent teachers, and in most communities the white
people had begun to regard the co-education of the races as undesirable. Confronted then with
this caste prejudice, one of the hardest struggles of the Negroes and their sympathizers was
that for democratic education.

[Footnote 1: The Negroes of Baltimore were just prior to the Civil War paying $500 in taxes
annually to support public schools which their children could not attend.]

The friends of the colored people in Pennsylvania were among the first to direct the attention
of the State to the duty of enlightening the blacks as well as the whites. In 1802, 1804, and
1809, respectively, the State passed, in the interest of the poor, acts which although interpreted
to exclude Negroes from the benefits therein provided, were construed, nevertheless, by friends
of the race as authorizing their education at public expense. Convinced of the truth of this
contention, officials in different parts of the State began to yield in the next decade. At
Columbia, Pennsylvania, the names of such colored children as were entitled to the benefits
of the law for the education of the poor were taken in 1818 to enable them to attend the free
public schools. Following the same policy, the Abolition Society of Philadelphia, seeing that
the city had established public schools for white children in 1818, applied two years later
for the share of the fund to which the children of African descent were entitled by law. The
request was granted. The Comptroller opened in Lombard Street in 1822 a school for children
of color, maintained at the expense of the State. Another provision was that wherever such
schools should "be established and kept open four months in the year" the directors and comptrollers
should not be compelled to admit colored pupils to any other schools of that district. The
law was interpreted to mean that wherever such accommodations were not provided the children
of Negroes could attend the other schools. Such was the case in the rural districts where a
few colored children often found it pleasant and profitable to attend school with their white
friends.[3] The children of Robert B. Purvis, however, were turned away from the public schools
of Philadelphia on the ground that special educational facilities for them had been provided.[4]
It was not until 1881 that Pennsylvania finally swept away all the distinctions of caste from
her public school system.

[Footnote 1: Purdon's Digest of the Laws of Pa., p. 291, sections 1-23.]

[Footnote 2: Stroud and Brightly, Purdon's Digest, p. 1064, section 23.]

[Footnote 3: Wickersham, History of Education in Pa., p. 253.]

[Footnote 4: Wigham, The Antislavery Cause in America, p. 103.]

As the colored population of New Jersey was never large, there was not sufficient concentration
of such persons in that State to give rise to the problems which at times confronted the benevolent
people of Pennsylvania. Great as had been the reaction, the Negroes of New Jersey never entirely
lost the privilege of attending school with white students. The New Jersey Constitution of
1844 provided that the funds for the support of the public schools should be applied for the
equal benefit of all the people of that State.[1] Considered then entitled to the benefits
of this fund, colored pupils were early admitted into the public schools without any social
distinction.[2] This does not mean that there were no colored schools in that commonwealth.
Negroes in a few settlements like that of Springtown had their own schools.[3] Separate schools
were declared illegal by an act of the General Assembly in 1881.

[Footnote 1: Thorpe, Federal and State Constitutions, vol. v., p. 2604.]

[Footnote 2: Southern Workman, vol. xxxvii., p. 390.]

[Footnote 3: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 400.]

Certain communities of New York provided separate schools for colored pupils rather than admit
them to those open to white children. On recommendation of the superintendent of schools in
1823 the State adopted the policy of organizing schools exclusively for colored people.[1]
In places where they already existed, the State could aid the establishment as did the New
York Common Council in 1824, when it appropriated a portion of its fund to the support of the
African Free Schools.[2] In 1841 the New York legislature authorized any district, with the
approbation of the school commissioners, to establish a separate school for the colored children
in their locality. The superintendent's report for 1847 shows that schools for Negroes had
been established in fifteen counties in the State, reporting an enrollment of 5000 pupils.
For the maintenance of these schools the sum of $17,000 had been annually expended. Colored
pupils were enumerated by the trustees in their annual reports, drew public money for the district
in which they resided, and were equally entitled with white children to the benefit of the
school fund. In the rural districts colored children were generally admitted to the common
schools. Wherever race prejudice, however, was sufficiently violent to exclude them from the
village school, the trustees were empowered to use the Negroes' share of the public money to
provide for their education elsewhere. At the same time indigent Negroes were to be exempted
from the payment of the "rate bill" which fell as a charge upon the other citizens of the district.[3]

[Footnote 1: Randall, Hist. of Common School System of New York, p. 24.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 48.]

[Footnote 3: Randall, Hist. of Common School System of New York, p. 248.]

Some trouble had arisen from making special appropriations for incorporated villages. Such
appropriations, the superintendent had observed, excited prejudice and parsimony; for the trustees
of some villages had learned to expend only the special appropriations for the education of
the colored pupils, and to use the public money in establishing and maintaining schools for
the white children. But as the increasing population of color necessitated additional facilities,
the Manumission Society obtained from the fund of the Public School Society partial support
of its system. The next step was to unite the African Free Schools with those of the Public
School Society to reduce the number of organizations participating in the support of Negro
education. Despite the argument of some that the two systems should be kept separate, the property
and schools of the Manumission Society were transferred to the New York Public School Society
in 1834.[2] Thereafter the schools did not do as well as they had done before. The administrative
part of the work almost ceased, the schools lost in efficiency, and the former attendance of
1400 startlingly dropped. An investigation made in 1835 showed that many Negroes, intimidated
by frequent race riots incident to the reactionary movement, had left the city, while others
kept their children at home for safety. It seemed, too, that they looked upon the new system
as an innovation, did not like the action of the Public School Society in reducing their schools
of advanced grade to that of the primary, and bore it grievously that so many of the old teachers
in whom they had confidence, had been dropped. To bring order out of chaos the investigating
committee advised the assimilation of the separate schools to the white. Thereupon the society
undertook to remake the colored schools, organizing them into a system which offered instruction
in primary, intermediate, and grammar departments. The task of reconstruction, however, was
not completed until 1853, when the property of the colored schools was transferred to the Board
of Education of New York.[2]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 366.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 366.]

The second transfer marked an epoch in the development of Negro education in New York. The
Board of Education proceeded immediately to perfect the system begun at the time of the first
change. The new directors reclassified the lower grades, opened other grammar schools, and
established a normal school according to the recommendation of the investigating committee
of 1835. Supervision being more rigid thereafter, the schools made some progress, but failed
to accomplish what was expected of them. They were carelessly intrusted for supervision to
the care of ward officers, some of whom partly neglected this duty, while others gave the work
no attention whatever. It was unfortunate, too, that some of these schools were situated in
parts of the city where the people were not interested in the uplift of the despised race,
and in a few cases in wards which were almost proslavery. Better results followed after the
colored schools were brought under the direct supervision of the Board of Education.

Before the close of the Civil War the sentiment of the people of the State of New York had
changed sufficiently to permit colored children to attend the regular public schools in several
communities. This, however, was not general. It was, therefore, provided in the revised code
of that State in 1864 that the board of education of any city or incorporated village might
establish separate schools for children and youth of African descent provided such schools
be supported in the same manner as those maintained for white children. The last vestige of
caste in the public schools of New York was not exterminated until 1900, in the administration
of Theodore Roosevelt as Governor of New York. The legislature then passed an act providing
that no one should be denied admittance to any public school on account of race, color, or
previous condition of servitude.[1]

[Footnote 1: Laws of New York, 1900, ch. 492.]

In Rhode Island, where the black population was proportionately larger than in some other New
England States, special schools for persons of color continued. These efforts met with success
at Newport. In the year 1828 a separate school for colored children was established at Providence
and placed in charge of a teacher receiving a salary of $400 per annum.[1] A decade later another
such school was opened on Pond Street in the same city. About this time the school law of Rhode
Island was modified so as to make it a little more favorable to the people of color. The State
temporarily adopted a rule by which the school fund was thereafter not distributed, as formerly,
according to the number of inhabitants below the age of sixteen. It was to be apportioned,
thereafter, according to the number of white persons under the age of ten years, "together
with five-fourteenths of the said [colored] population between the ages of ten and twenty-four
years." This law remained in force between the years 1832 and 1845. Under the new system these
schools seemingly made progress. In 1841 they were no longer giving the mere essentials of
reading and writing, but combined the instruction of both the grammar and the primary grades.[2]

[Footnote 1: Stockwell, Hist. of Education in R.I., p. 169.]

[Footnote 2: Stockwell, Hist. of Education in R.I., p. 51.]

Thereafter Rhode Island had to pass through the intense antislavery struggle which had for
its ultimate aim both the freedom of the Negro and the democratization of the public schools.
Petitions were sent to the legislature, and appeals were made to representatives asking for
a repeal of those laws which permitted the segregation of the colored children in the public
schools. But intense as this agitation became, and urgently as it was put before the public,
it failed to gain sufficient momentum to break down the barriers prior to 1866 when the legislature
of Rhode Island passed an act abolishing separate schools for Negroes.[1]

[Footnote 1: Public Laws of the State of Rhode Island, 1865-66, p. 49.]

Prior to the reactionary movement the schools of Connecticut were, like most others in New
England at that time, open alike to black and white. It seems, too, that colored children were
well received and instructed as thoroughly as their white friends. But in 1830, whether on
account of the increasing race prejudice or the desire to do for themselves, the colored people
of Hartford presented to the School Society of that city a petition that a separate school
for persons of color be established with a part of the public school fund which might be apportioned
to them according to their number. Finding this request reasonable, the School Society decided
to take the necessary steps to comply with it. As such an agreement would have no standing
at law the matter was recommended to the legislature of the State, which authorized the establishment
in that commonwealth of several separate schools for persons of color.[1] This arrangement,
however, soon proved unsatisfactory. Because of the small number of Negroes in Connecticut
towns, they found their pro rata inadequate to the maintenance of separate schools. No buildings
were provided for them, such schools as they had were not properly supervised, the teachers
were poorly paid, and with the exception of a little help from a few philanthropists, the white
citizens failed to aid the cause. In 1846, therefore, the pastor of the colored Congregational
Church sent to the School Society of Hartford a memorial calling attention to the fact that
for lack of means the colored schools had been unable to secure suitable quarters and competent
teachers. Consequently the education of their children had been exceedingly irregular, deficient,
and onerous. The School Society had done nothing for these institutions but to turn over to
them every year their small share of the public fund. These gentlemen then decided to raise
by taxation an amount adequate to the support of two better equipped schools and proceeded
at once to provide for its collection and expenditure.[2]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 334.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 334.]

The results gave general satisfaction for a while. But as it was a time when much was being
done to develop the public schools of New England, the colored people of Hartford could not
remain contented. They saw the white pupils housed in comfortable buildings and attending properly
graded classes, while their own children continued to be crowded into small insanitary rooms
and taught as unclassified students. The Negroes, therefore, petitioned for a more suitable
building and a better organization of their schools. As this request came at the time when
the abolitionists were working hard to exterminate caste from the schools of New England, the
School Committee called a meeting of the memorialists to decide whether they desired to send
their children to the white or separate schools.[1] They decided in favor of the latter, provided
that the colored people should have a building adequate to their needs and instruction of the
best kind.[2] Complying with this decision the School Society erected the much-needed building
in 1852. To provide for the maintenance of the separate schools the property of the citizens
was taxed at such a rate as to secure to the colored pupils of the city benefits similar to
those enjoyed by the white pupils.[3]

[Footnote 1: Minority Report, etc., p. 21.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 22.]

[Footnote 3: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 334.]

Ardent antislavery men believed that this segregation in the schools was undemocratic. They
asserted that the colored people would never have made such a request had the teachers of the
public schools taken the proper interest in them. The Negroes, too, had long since been convinced
that the white people would not maintain separate schools with the same equipment which they
gave their own. This arrangement, however, continued until 1868. The legislature then passed
an act declaring that the schools of the State should be open to all persons alike between
the ages of four and sixteen, and that no person should be denied instruction in any public
school in his school district on account of race or color.[1]

[Footnote 1: Public Acts of the General Assembly of Conn., 1868, p. 296.]

In the State of Massachusetts the contest was most ardent. Boston opened its first primary
school for colored children in 1820. In other towns like Salem and Nantucket, New Bedford and
Lowell, where the colored population was also considerable, the same policy was carried out.[1]
Some years later, however, both the Negroes and their friends saw the error of their early
advocacy of the establishment of special schools to escape the stigma of receiving charity.
After the change in the attitude toward the public free schools and the further development
of caste in American education, there arose in Massachusetts a struggle between leaders determined
to restrict the Negroes' privileges to the use of poorly equipped separate schools and those
contending for equality in education.

[Footnote 1: Minority Report, etc., p. 35.]

Basing their action on the equality of men before the law, the advocates of democratic education
held meetings from which went frequent and urgent petitions to school committees until Negroes
were accepted in the public schools in all towns in Massachusetts except Boston.[1] Children
of African blood were successfully admitted to the New Bedford schools on equality with the
white youth in 1838.[2] In 1846 the school committee of that town reported that the colored
pupils were regular in their attendance, and as successful in their work as the whites. There
were then ninety in all in that system; four in the high school, forty in grammar schools,
and the remainder in the primary department, all being scattered in such a way as to have one
to four in twenty-one to twenty-eight schools. At Lowell the children of a colored family were
not only among the best in the schools but the greatest favorites in the system.[3]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 20, and Niles Register, vol. lxvi., p. 320.]

[Footnote 2: Minority Report, etc., p. 23.]

[Footnote 3: Minority Report, etc., p. 25.]

The consolidation of the colored school of Salem with the others of that city led to no disturbance.
Speaking of the democracy of these schools in 1846 Mr. Richard Fletcher said: "The principle
of perfect equality is the vital principle of the system. Here all classes of the community
mingle together. The rich and the poor meet on terms of equality and are prepared by the same
instruction to discharge the duties of life. It is the principle of equality cherished in the
free schools on which our government and free institutions rest. Destroy this principle in
the schools and the people would soon cease to be free." At Nantucket, however, some trouble
was experienced because of the admission of pupils of color in 1843. Certain patrons criticized
the action adversely and withdrew fourteen of their children from the South Grammar School.
The system, however, prospered thereafter rather than declined.[1] Many had no trouble in making
the change.[2]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 6.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 23.]

These victories having been won in other towns of the State by 1846, it soon became evident
that Boston would have to yield. Not only were abolitionists pointing to the ease with which
this gain had been made in other towns, but were directing attention to the fact that in these
smaller communities Negroes were both learning the fundamentals and advancing through the lower
grades into the high school. Boston, which had a larger black population than all other towns
in Massachusetts combined, had never seen a colored pupil prepared for a secondary institution
in one of its public schools. It was, therefore, evident to fair-minded persons that in cities
of separate systems Negroes would derive practically no benefit from the school tax which they
paid.

This agitation for the abolition of caste in the public schools assumed its most violent form
in Boston during the forties. The abolitionists then organized a more strenuous opposition
to the caste system. Why Sarah Redmond and the other children of a family paying tax to support
the schools of Boston should be turned away from a public school simply because they were persons
of color was a problem too difficult for a fair-minded man.[1] The war of words came, however,
when in response to a petition of Edmund Jackson, H.J. Bowditch, and other citizens for the
admission of colored people to the public schools in 1844, the majority of the school committee
refused the request. Following the opinion of Chandler, their solicitor, they based their action
of making distinction in the public schools on the natural distinction of the races, which
"no legislature, no social customs, can efface," and which "renders a promiscuous intermingling
in the public schools disadvantageous both to them and to the whites."[2] Questioned as to
any positive law providing for such discrimination, Chandler gave his opinion that the School
Committee of Boston, under the authority perhaps of the City Council, had a legal right to
establish and maintain special primary schools for the blacks. He believed, too, that in the
exercise of their lawful discretionary power they could exclude white pupils from certain schools
and colored pupils from certain other schools when, in their judgment, the best interests of
all would thereby be promoted.[3]

[Footnote 1: Wigham, The Antislavery Cause in America, p. 103.]

[Footnote 2: Minority Report, etc., p. 31.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 30.]

Encouraged by the fact that colored children were indiscriminately admitted to the schools
of Salem, Nantucket, New Bedford, and Lowell, in fact, of every city in Massachusetts but Boston,
the friends of the colored people fearlessly attacked the false legal theories of Solicitor
Chandler. The minority of the School Committee argued that schools are the common property
of all, and that each and all are legally entitled without "let or hindrance" to the equal
benefits of all advantages they might confer.[1] Any action, therefore, which tended to restrict
to any individual or class the advantages and benefits designed for all, was an illegal use
of authority, and an arbitrary act used for pernicious purposes.[2] Their republican system,
the minority believed, conferred civil equality and legal rights upon every citizen, knew neither
privileged nor degraded classes, made no distinctions, and created no differences between rich
and poor, learned and ignorant, or white and black, but extended to all alike its protection
and benefits.[3] The minority considered it a merit of the school system that it produced the
fusion of all classes, promoted the feeling of brotherhood, and the habits of equality. The
power of the School Committee, therefore, was limited and constrained by the general spirit
of the civil policy and by the letter and spirit of the laws which regulated the system.[4]
It was further maintained that to debar the colored youth from these advantages, even if they
were assured the same external results, would be a sore injustice and would serve as the surest
means of perpetuating a prejudice which should be deprecated and discountenanced by all intelligent
and Christian men.[5]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 3.]

[Footnote 2: Minority Report, etc. pp. 4 and 5.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., pp. 3 et. seq.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 4.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., p. 5.]

To the sophistry of Chandler, Wendell Phillips also made a logical reply. He asserted that
as members of a legal body, the School Committee should have eyes only for such distinctions
among their fellow-citizens as the law recognized and pointed out. Phillips believed that they
had precedents for the difference of age and sex, for regulation of health, etc., but that
when they opened their eyes to the varied complexion, to difference of race, to diversity of
creed, to distinctions of caste, they would seek in vain through the laws and institutions
of Massachusetts for any recognition of their prejudice. He deplored the fact that they had
attempted to foist into the legal arrangements of the land a principle utterly repugnant to
the State constitution, and that what the sovereignty of the constitution dared not attempt
a school committee accomplished. To Phillips it seemed crassly inconsistent to say that races
permitted to intermarry should be debarred by Mr. Chandler's "sapient committee" from educational
contact.[1]

[Footnote 1: Minority Report, etc., p. 27.]

This agitation continued until 1855 when the opposition had grown too strong to be longer resisted.
The legislature of Massachusetts then enacted a law providing that in determining the qualifications
of a scholar to be admitted to any public school no distinction should be made on account of
the race, color, or religious opinion of the applicant. It was further provided that a child
excluded from school for any of these reasons might bring suit for damages against the offending
town.[1]

[Footnote 1: Acts and Resolves of the General Court of Mass., 1855, ch. 256.]

In other towns of New England, where the black population was considerable, separate schools
were established. There was one even in Portland, Maine.[1] Efforts in this direction were
made in Vermont and New Hampshire, but because of the scarcity of the colored people these
States did not have to resort to such segregation. The Constitution of Vermont was interpreted
as extending to Negroes the benefits of the Bill of Rights, making all men free and equal.
Persons of color, therefore, were regarded as men entitled to all the privileges of freemen,
among which was that of education at the expense of the State.[2] The framers of the Constitution
of New Hampshire were equally liberal in securing this right to the dark race.[3] But when
the principal of an academy at Canaan admitted some Negroes to his private institution, a mob,
as we have observed above, broke up the institution by moving the building to a swamp, while
the officials of the town offered no resistance. Such a spirit as this accounts for the rise
of separate schools in places where the free blacks had the right to attend any institution
of learning supported by the State.

[Footnote 1: Adams, Anti-slavery, etc., p. 142.]

[Footnote 2: Thorpe, Federal and State Constitutions, vol. vi., p. 3762.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., vol. iv., p. 2471.]

The problem of educating the Negroes at public expense was perplexing also to the minds of
the people of the West. The question became more and more important in Ohio as the black population
in that commonwealth increased. The law of 1825 provided that moneys raised from taxation of
half a mill on the dollar should be appropriated to the support of common schools in the respective
counties and that these schools should be "open to the youth of every class and grade without
distinction."[1] Some interpreted this law to include Negroes. To overcome the objection to
the partiality shown by school officials the State passed another law in 1829. It excluded
colored people from the benefits of the new system, and returned them the amount accruing from
the school tax on their property.[2] Thereafter benevolent societies and private associations
maintained colored schools in Cincinnati, Columbus, Cleveland, and the southern counties of
Ohio.[3] But no help came from the cities and the State before 1849 when the legislature passed
a law authorizing the establishment of schools for children of color at public expense.[4]

[Footnote 1: Laws of Ohio, vol. xxiii., pp. 37 et seq.]

[Footnote 2: Hickok, The Negro in Ohio, p. 85.]

[Footnote 3: Simmons, Men of Mark, p. 374.]

[Footnote 4: Laws of Ohio, vol. liii., pp. 117-118.]

The Negroes of Cincinnati soon discovered that they had not won a great victory. They proceeded
at once to elect trustees, organized a system, and employed teachers, relying on the money
allotted them by the law on the basis of a per capita division of the school fund received
by the Board of Education of Cincinnati. So great was the prejudice that the school officials
refused to turn over the required funds on the grounds that the colored trustees were not electors,
and therefore could not be office holders qualified to receive and disburse public funds.[1]
Under the leadership of John I. Gaines the trustees called indignation meetings, and raised
sufficient money to employ Flamen Ball, an attorney, to secure a writ of mandamus. There were
not many of them in certain settlements and the per capita division of the fund did not secure
to them sufficient means to support schools. Even if the funds had been adequate to pay teachers,
they had no schoolhouses. Lawyers of that day contended that the Act of 1849 had nothing to
do with the construction of buildings. After a short period of accomplishing practically nothing
material, the law was amended so as to transfer the control of such colored schools to the
managers of the white system.[1] This was taken as a reflection on the standing of the blacks
of the city and tended to make them refuse to coöperate with the white board. On account of
the failure of this body to act effectively prior to 1856, the people of color were again given
power to elect their own trustees.[2]

[Footnote 1: Laws of the State of Ohio, vol. liii., p. 118.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 118.]

During the contest for the control of the colored schools certain Negroes of Cincinnati were
endeavoring to make good their claim that their children had a right to attend any school maintained
by the city. Acting upon this contention a colored patron sent his son to a public school,
which on account of his presence became the center of unusual excitement.[1] Miss Isabella
Newhall, the teacher to whom he went, immediately complained to the Board of Education, requesting
that he be expelled on account of his race. After "due deliberation" the Board of Education
decided by a vote of fifteen to ten that he would have to withdraw from that school. Thereupon
two members of that body, residing in the district of the timorous teacher, resigned.[2]

[Footnote 1: New York Tribune, Feb. 19, 1855.]

[Footnote 2: New York Tribune, Feb. 19, 1855; and Carlier, L'Esclavage, etc., p. 339.]

Thereafter some progress in the development of separate schools in Cincinnati was noted. By
1855 the Board of Education of that city had established four public schools for the instruction
of Negro youths. The colored pupils were showing their appreciation by regular attendance,
manly deportment, and rapid progress in the acquisition of knowledge. Speaking of these Negroes
in 1855, John P. Foote said that they shared with the white citizens that respect for education,
and the diffusion of knowledge, which has ever been one of their "characteristics," and that
they had, therefore, been more generally intelligent than free persons of color not only in
other States but in all other parts of the world.[1] It was in appreciation of the worth of
this class of progressive Negroes that in 1858 Nicholas Longworth built a comfortable school-house
for them in Cincinnati, leasing it with the privilege of purchasing it in fourteen years.[2]
They met these requirements within the stipulated time, and in 1859 secured through other agencies
the construction of another building in the western portion of the city.[3]

[Footnote 1: Foote, The Schools of Cincinnati, p. 92.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 372.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 372.]

The agitation for the admission of colored children to the public schools was not confined
to Cincinnati alone, but came up throughout the section north of the Ohio River.[1] Where the
black population was large enough to form a social center of its own, Negroes and their friends
could more easily provide for the education of colored children. In settlements, however, in
which just a few of them were found, some liberal-minded man usually asked the question why
persons taxed to support a system of free schools should not share its benefits. To strengthen
their position these benevolent men referred to the rapid progress of the belated people, many
of whom within less than a generation from their emergence from slavery had become intelligent,
virtuous, and respectable persons, and in not a few cases had accumulated considerable wealth.[2]
Those who insisted that children of African blood should be debarred from the regular public
schools had for their defense the so-called inequality of the races. Some went so far as to
concede the claims made for the progressive blacks, and even to praise those of their respective
communities.[3] But great as their progress had been, the advocates of the restriction of their
educational privileges considered it wrong to claim for them equality with the Caucasian race.
They believed that society would suffer from an intermingling of the children of the two races.

[Footnote 1: Hickok, The Negro in Ohio, ch. iii.; and Boone, History of Education in Indiana,
p. 237.]

[Footnote 2: Foote, The Schools of Cincinnati, p. 93.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 92.]

In Indiana the problem of educating Negroes was more difficult. R.G. Boone says that, "nominally
for the first few years of the educational experience of the State, black and white children
had equal privileges in the few schools that existed."[1] But this could not continue long.
Abolitionists were moving the country, and freedmen soon found enemies as well as friends in
the Ohio valley. Indiana, which was in 1824 so very "solicitous for a system of education which
would guard against caste distinction," provided in 1837 that the white inhabitants alone of
each congressional township should constitute the local school corporation.[2] In 1841 a petition
was sent to the legislature requesting that a reasonable share of the school fund be appropriated
to the education of Negroes, but the committee to which it was referred reported that legislation
on that subject was inexpedient.[3] With the exception of prohibiting the immigration of such
persons into that State not much account of them was taken until 1853. Then the legislature
amended the law authorizing the establishment of schools in townships so as to provide that
in all enumerations the children of color should not be taken, that the property of the blacks
and mulattoes should not be taxed for school purposes, and that their children should not derive
any benefit from the common schools of that State.[4] This provision had really been incorporated
into the former law, but was omitted by oversight on the part of the engrossing clerk.[5]

[Footnote 1: Boone, History of Ed. in Indiana, p. 237.]

[Footnote 2: Laws of a General Nature of the State of Indiana, 1837, p. 15.]

[Footnote 3: Boone, History of Education in Indiana, p. 237.]

[Footnote 4: Laws of a General Nature of the State of Indiana, 1855, p. 161.]

[Footnote 5: Boone, History of Education in Indiana, p. 237.]

A resolution of the House instructing the educational committee to report a bill for the establishment
of schools for the education of the colored children of the State was overwhelmingly defeated
in 1853. Explaining their position the opponents said that it was held "to be better for the
weaker party that no privilege be extended to them," as the tendency to such "might be to induce
the vain belief that the prejudice of the dominant race could ever be so mollified as to break
down the rugged barriers that must forever exist between their social relations." The friends
of the blacks believed that by elevating them the sense of their degradation would be keener,
and so the greater would be their anxiety to seek another country, where with the spirit of
men they "might breathe fresh air of social as well as political liberty."[1] This argument,
however, availed little. Before the Civil War the Negroes of Indiana received help in acquiring
knowledge from no source but private and mission schools.

[Footnote 1: Boone, History of Education in Indiana, p. 237.]

In Illinois the situation was better than in Indiana, but far from encouraging. The constitution
of 1847 restricted the benefits of the school law to white children, stipulating the word white
throughout the act so as to make clear the intention of the legislators.[1] It seemed to some
that, in excluding the colored children from the public schools, the law contemplated the establishment
of separate schools in that it provided that the amount of school taxes collected from Negroes
should be returned. Exactly what should be done with such money, however, was not stated in
the act. But even if that were the object in view, the provision was of little help to the
people of color for the reason that the clause providing for the return of school taxes was
seldom executed. In the few cases in which it was carried out the fund thus raised was not
adequate to the support of a special school, and generally there were not sufficient colored
children in a community to justify such an outlay. In districts having control of their local
affairs, however, the children of Negroes were often given a chance to attend school.

[Footnote 1: The Constitution of Illinois, in the Journal of the Constitution of the State
of Illinois, 1847, p. 344.]

As this scant consideration given Negroes of Illinois left one-half of the six thousand of
their children out of the pale of education, earnest appeals were made that the restrictive
word white be stricken from the school law. The friends of the colored people sought to show
how inconsistent this system was with the spirit of the constitution of the State, which, interpreted
as they saw it, guaranteed all persons equality.[1] They held meetings from which came renewed
petitions to their representatives, entreating them to repeal or amend the old school law.
It was not so much a question as to whether or not there should be separate schools as it was
whether or not the people of color should be educated. The dispersed condition of their children
made it impossible for the State to provide for them in special schools the same educational
facilities as those furnished the youth of Caucasian blood. Chicago tried the experiment in
1864, but failing to get the desired result, incorporated the colored children into the white
schools the following year.[2] The State Legislature had sufficient moral courage to do away
with these caste distinctions in 1874.[3]

[Footnote 1: Thorpe, Federal and State Constitutions, Const. of Illinois.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 343.]

[Footnote 3: Starr and Curtis, Annotated Statutes of Illinois, ch. 105, p. 2261.]

In other States of the West and the North where few colored people were found, the solution
of the problem was easier. After 1848 Negroes were legal voters in the school meetings of Michigan.
Colored children were enumerated with others to determine the basis for the apportionment of
the school funds, and were allowed to attend the public schools. Wisconsin granted Negroes
equal school privileges.[1] After the adoption of a free constitution in 1857, Iowa "determined
no man's rights by the color of his skin." Wherever the word white had served to restrict the
privileges of persons of color it was stricken out to make it possible for them not only to
bear arms and to vote but to attend public schools.[2]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 400.]

[Footnote 2: Journal of the Constitutional Convention of the State of Iowa, 1857, p. 3 of the
Constitution.]

APPENDIX

DOCUMENTS

The following resolutions on the subject treated in this part (the instruction of Negroes)
are from the works of Dr. Cotton Mather.--Bishop William Meade.

1st. I would always remember, that my servants are in some sense my children, and by taking
care that they want nothing which may be good for them, I would make them as my children; and
so far as the methods of instituting piety into the mind which I use with my children, may
be properly and prudently used with my servants, they shall be partakers in them--Nor will
I leave them ignorant of anything, wherein I may instruct them to be useful to their generation.

2d. I will see that my servants be furnished with bibles and be able and careful to read the
lively oracles. I will put bibles and other good and proper books into their hands; will allow
them time to read and assure myself that they do not misspend this time--If I can discern any
wicked books in their hands, I will take away those pestilential instruments of wickedness.

3d. I will have my servants present at the religious exercises of my family; and will drop,
either in the exhortations, in the prayers or daily sacrifices of the family such pages as
may have a tendency to quicken a sense of religion in them.

4th. The article of catechising, as far as the age or state of the servants will permit it
to be done with decency, shall extend to them also,--And they shall be concerned in the conferences
in which I may be engaged with my family, in the repetition of the public sermons. If any of
them when they come to me shall not have learned the catechism, I will take care that they
do it, and will give them a reward when they have accomplished it.

5th. I will be very inquisitive and solicitous about the company chosen by my servants; and
with all possible earnestness will rescue them from the snares of evil company, and forbid
their being the companions of fools.

6th. Such of my servants as may be capable of the task, I will employ to teach lessons of piety
to my children, and will recompense them for so doing. But I would, by a particular artifice,
contrive them to be such lessons, as may be for their own edification too.

7th. I will sometimes call my servants alone; talk to them about the state of their souls;
tell them to close with their only servant, charge them to do well and "lay hold on eternal
life," and show them very particularly how they may render all they do for me a service to
the glorious Lord; how they may do all from a principle of obedience to him, and become entitled
to the "reward of the heavenly inheritance."

To those resolutions did I add the following pages as an appendix:

Age is nearly sufficient, with some masters to obliterate every letter and action in the history
of a meritorious life, and old services are generally buried under the ruins of an old carcase.
It is a barbarous inhumanity in men towards their servants, to account their small failings
as crimes, without allowing their past services to have been virtues; gracious God, keep thy
servants from such base ingratitude!

But then O servants, if you would obtain "the reward of inheritance," each of you should set
yourself to enquire "how shall I approve myself such a servant, that the Lord may bless the
house of my master, the more for my being in it?" Certainly there are many ways by which servants
may become blessings. Let your studies with your continual prayers for the welfare of the family
to which you belong: and the example of your sober carriage render you such. If you will but
remember four words and attempt all that is comprised in them, Obedience, Honesty, Industry,
and Piety, you will be the blessings and Josephs of the families in which you live. Let these
four words be distinctly and frequently recollected; and cheerfully perform all your business
from this consideration--that it is obedience to heaven, and from thence will leave a recompense.
It was the observation even of a pagan, "That a master may receive a benefit from a servant";
and "what is done with the affection of a friend, ceases to be the act of a mere servant."
Even the maid-servants of a house may render a great service to it, by instructing the infants
and instilling into their minds the lessons of goodness.--In the Appendix of Rev. Thomas Bacon's
Sermons Addressed to Masters and Servants.

EDIT DU ROI

Concernant les Esclaves Négres des Colonies, qui seront amenés, ou envoyés en France. Donné
à Paris au mois d'Octobre 1716.

I. Nous avons connu la nécessité qu'il y a d'y soutenir l'exécution de l'édit du mars 1685,
qui en maintenant la discipline de l'Eglise Catholique, Apostolique et Romaine, pourvoit à
ce qui concerne l'état et la qualité des Esclaves Nègres, qu'on entretient dans lesdites colonies
pour la culture des terres; et comme nous avons été informés que plusieurs habitans de nos
Isles de l'Amérique désirent envoyer en France quelques-uns de leur Esclaves pour les confirmer
dans les Instructions et dans les Exercices de notre Religion, et pour leur faire apprendre
en même tems quelque Art et Métier dont les colonies recevroient beaucoup d'utilité par le
retour de ces Esclaves; mais que les habitans craignaient que les Esclaves ne pretendent être
libres en arrivant en France, ce qui pourroit causer auxdits habitans une perte considérable,
et les détourner d'un objet aussi pieux et aussi utile.

       *       *       *       *       *

II. A Paris chez les Libraires Associés, 1745.

PASTORAL LETTER OF BISHOP GIBSON OF LONDON

To the Masters and Mistresses of Families in the English Plantations abroad; exhorting them
to encourage and promote the instruction of their Negroes in the Christian Faith. (About 1727.)

The care of the Plantations abroad being committed to the Bishop of London as to Religious
Affairs; I have thought it my duty to make particular Inquiries into the State of Religion
in those Parts, and to learn among other Things, what numbers of slaves are employed within
the several Governments, and what Means are used for their Instruction in the Christian Faith:
I find the Numbers are prodigiously great; and am not a little troubled to observe how small
a Progress has been made in a Christian country, towards the delivering those poor Creatures
from the Pagan Darkness and Superstition in which they were bred, and the making them Partakers
in the Light of the Gospel, and the Blessings and Benefits belonging to it. And what is yet
more to be lamented, I find there has not only been very little Progress made in the work but
that all Attempts toward it have been by too many industriously discouraged and hindered; partly
by magnifying the Difficulties of the Work beyond what they really are; and partly by mistaken
Suggestions of the Change which Baptism would make in the Condition of the Negroes, to the
Loss and Disadvantage of their Masters.

As to the Difficulties; it may be pleaded, That the Negroes are grown Persons when they come
over, and that having been accustomed to the Pagan Rites and Idolatries of their own Country,
they are prejudiced against all other Religions, and more particularly against the Christian,
as forbidding all that Licentiousness which is usually practiced among the Heathens.... But
a farther Difficulty is that they are utter Strangers to our Language, and we to theirs; and
the Gift of Tongues being now ceased, there is no Means left of instructing them in the Doctrines
of the Christian Religion. And this, I own is a real Difficulty, as long as it continues, and
as far as it reaches. But, if I am rightly informed, many of the Negroes, who are grown Persons
when they come over, do of themselves obtain so much of our Language, as enables them to understand,
and to be understood, in Things which concern the ordinary Business of Life, and they who can
go so far of their own Accord, might doubtless be carried much farther, if proper Methods and
Endeavors were used to bring them to a competent Knowledge of our Language, with a pious view
to instructing them in the Doctrines of our Religion. At least, some of them, who are more
capable and more serious than the rest, might be easily instructed both in our Language and
Religion, and then be made use of to convey Instruction to the rest in their own Language.
And this, one would hope, may be done with great Ease, wherever there is a hearty and sincere
Zeal of the Work.

ANOTHER PASTORAL LETTER OF BISHOP GIBSON OF LONDON

To the Missionaries in the English Plantations (about 1727).

DEAR BROTHER,

Having understood by many Letters from the Plantations, and by the Accounts of Persons who
have come from thence, that very little progress hath hitherto been made in the conversion
of the Negroes to the Christian Faith; I have thought it proper for me to lay before Masters
and Mistresses the Obligations they are under, and to promote and encourage that pious and
necessary Work....

As to those Ministers who have Negroes of their own; I cannot but esteem it their indispensable
Duty to use their best Endeavors to instruct them in the Christian Religion, in order to their
being baptised; both because such Negroes are their proper and immediate Care, and because
it is in vain to hope that other Masters and Mistresses will exert themselves in this Work,
if they see it wholly neglected, or but coldly pursued, in the Families of the Clergy ...

I would also hope that the Schoolmasters in the several Parishes, part of whose Business it
is to instruct Youth in the Principles of Christianity, might contribute somewhat towards the
carrying on of this Work; by being ready to bestow upon it some of their Leisure Time, and
especially on the Lord's Day, when both they and the Negroes are most at liberty and the Clergy
are taken up with the public Duties of their Function.--Dalcho's An Historical Account of the
Protestant Episcopal Account of the Protestant Episcopal Church in South Carolina, pages 112-114.

AN EXTRACT FROM A SERMON PREACHED BY BISHOP SECKER OF LONDON IN 1741

"The next Object of the Society's Concern, were the poor Negroes. These unhappy Wretches learn
in their Native Country, the grossest Idolatry, and the most savage Dispositions: and then
are sold to the best Purchaser: sometimes by their Enemies, who would else put them to Death;
sometimes by the nearest Friends, who are either unable or unwilling to maintain them. Their
Condition in our Colonies, though it cannot well be worse than it would have been at Home,
is yet nearly as hard as possible: their Servitude most laborious, their Punishments most severe.
And thus many thousands of them spend their whole Days, one Generation after another, undergoing
with reluctant Minds continual Toil in this World, and comforted with no Hopes of Reward in
a better. For it is not to be expected that Masters, too commonly negligent of Christianity
themselves, will take much Pains to teach it their slaves; whom even the better Part of them
are in a great Measure habituated to consider, as they do their Cattle, merely with a view
to the Profit arising from them. Not a few, therefore, have openly opposed their Instruction,
from an Imagination now indeed proved and acknowledged to be groundless, that Baptism would
entitle them to Freedom. Others by obliging them to work on Sundays to provide themselves Necessaries,
leave them neither Time to learn Religion, nor any Prospect of being able to subsist, if once
the Duty of resting on that Day become Part of their Belief. And some, it may be feared, have
been averse to their becoming Christians because after that, no Pretence will remain for not
treating them like Men. When these Obstacles are added to the fondness they have for their
old Heathenish Rites, and the strong Prejudices they must have against Teachers from among
those, whom they serve so unwillingly; it cannot be wondered, if the Progress made in their
Conversion prove slow. After some Experience of this kind, Catechists were appointed in two
Places, by Way of Trial for Their Instruction alone: whose Success, where it was least, hath
been considerable; and so great in the Plantation belonging to the Society that out of two
hundred and thirty, at least seventy are now Believers in Christ. And there is lately an Improvement
to this Scheme begun to be executed, by qualifying and employing young Negroes, prudently chosen,
to teach their Countrymen: from which in the Opinion of the best Judges, we may reasonably
promise ourselves, that this miserable People, the Generality of whom have hitherto sat in
Darkness, will see great Light."--Seeker's A Sermon Preached before the Incorporated Society
for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, 1741.

EXTRACTS FROM THE SERMONS OF REV. THOMAS BACON ADDRESSED TO MASTERS AND SERVANTS ABOUT 1750

"Next to our children and brethren by blood, our servants, and especially our slaves, are certainly
in the nearest relation to us. They are an immediate and necessary part of our households,
by whose labors and assistance we are enabled to enjoy the gifts of Providence in ease and
plenty; and surely we owe them a return of what is just and equal for the drudgery and hardships
they go through in our service....

"It is objected, They are such stubborn creatures, there is no dealing with them.

"Answer. Supposing this to be true of most of them (which I believe will scarcely be insisted
on:) may it not fairly be asked, whence doth this stubbornness proceed?--Is it from nature?--That
cannot be:--for I think it is generally acknowledged that new Negroes, or those born in and
imported from the coast of Guinea, prove the best and most tractable servants. Is it then from
education?--for one or the other it must proceed from.--But pray who had the care of bringing
up those that were born here?--Was it not ourselves?--And might not an early care, of instilling
good principles into them when young, have prevented much of that stubbornness and untractableness
you complain of in country-born negroes?--These, you cry out, are wickeder than the others:--and,
pray, where did they learn that wickedness?--Was it not among ourselves?--for those who come
immediately from their own country, you say, have more simplicity and honesty. A sad reproach
to a Christian people indeed! that such poor ignorant heathens shall bring better morals and
dispositions from home with them, that they can learn or actually do contract amongst us!

       *       *       *       *       *

"It is objected,--they are so ignorant and unteachable, they cannot be brought to any knowledge
in these matters.

"Answer. This objection seems to have little or no truth in it, with respect to the bulk of
them.--Their ignorance, indeed, about matters of religion, is not to be disputed;--they are
sunk in it to a sad and lamentable degree, which has been shown to be chiefly owing to the
negligence of their owners.--But that they are so stupid and unteachable, as that they cannot
be brought to any competent knowledge in these matters, is false, and contrary to fact and
experience. In regard to their work, they learn it, and grow dexterous enough in a short time.
Many of them have learned trades and manufactures, which they perform well, and with sufficient
ingenuity:--whence it is plain they are not unteachable; do not want natural parts and capacities.--Most
masters and mistresses will complain of their art and cunning in contriving to deceive them.--Is
it reasonable to deny then they can learn what is good, when it is owned at the same time they
can be so artful in what is bad?--Their ignorance, therefore, if born in the country, must
absolutely be the fault of their owners:--and such as are brought here from Africa may, surely,
be taught something of advantage to their own future state, as well as to work for their masters'
present gain.--The difference plainly consists in this;--that a good deal of pains is taken
to shew them how to labour, and they are punished if they neglect it.--This sort of instruction
their owners take care to give them every day, and look well to it that it be duly followed.--But
no such pains are taken in the other case.--They are generally left to themselves, whether
they will serve God, or worship Devils--whether they become christians, or remain heathens
as long as they live: as if either their souls were not worth the saving, or as if we were
under no obligation of giving them any instruction:--which is the true reason why so many of
them who are grown up, and lived many years among us, are as entirely ignorant of the principles
of religion, as if they had never come into a christian country:--at least, as to any good
or practical purposes.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have dwelt the longer upon this head, because it is of the utmost importance, and seems
to be but little considered among us.--For there is too much reason to fear, that the many
vices and immoralities so common among white people;--the lewdness, drunkenness, quarrelling,
abusiveness, swearing, lying, pride, backbiting, overreaching, idleness, and sabbath-breaking,
everywhere to be seen among us, are a great encouragement to our Negroes to do the like, and
help strongly to confirm them in the habits of wickedness and impiety.

"We ought not only to avoid giving them bad examples, and abstain from all appearance of evil,
but also strive to set a daily good example before their eyes, that seeing us lead the way
in our own person, they may more readily be persuaded to follow us in the wholesome paths of
religion and virtue.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We ought to make this reading and studying the holy scriptures, and the reading and explaining
them to our children and slaves, and the catechizing or instructing them in the principles
of the Christian religion, a stated duty.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We ought in a particular manner to take care of the children, and instil early principles
of piety and religion into their minds.

"If the grown up slaves, from confirmed habits of vice, are hard to be reclaimed, the children
surely are in our power, and may be trained up in the way they should go, with rational hopes
that when they are old, they will not depart from it.--We ought, therefore, to take charge
of their education principally upon ourselves, and not leave them entirely to the care of their
wicked parents.--If the present generation be bad, we may hope by this means that the succeeding
ones will be much better. One child well instructed, will take care when grown up to instruct
his children; and they again will teach their posterity good things.--And I am fully of opinion,
that the common notion of wickedness running in the blood, is not so general in fact as to
be admitted for an axiom. And that the vices we see descending from parents to their children
are chiefly owing to the malignant influence of bad example and conversation.--And though some
persons may be, and undoubtedly are, born with stronger passions and appetites, or with a greater
propensity to some particular gratifications or pursuits than others, yet we do not want convincing
instances how effectually they may be restrained, or at least corrected and turned to proper
and laudable ends, by the force of an early care, and a suitable education.

"To you of the female sex, (whom I have had occasion more than once to take notice of with
honor in this congregation) I would address a few words on this head.--You, who by your stations
are more confined at home, and have the care of the younger sort more particularly under your
management, may do a great deal of good in this way.--I know not when I have been more affected,
or my heart touched with stronger and more pleasing emotions, than at the sight and conversation
of a little negro boy, not above seven years old, who read to me in the new testament, and
perfectly repeated his catechism throughout, and all from the instruction of his careful, pious
mistress, now I hope with God, enjoying the blessed fruits of her labours while on earth.--This
example I would recommend to your serious imitation, and to enforce it shall only remark, that
a shining part of the character of Solomon's excellent daughter is, that she looketh well to
the ways of her household."--Rev. Thomas Bacon's Sermons Addressed to Masters and Servants,
pp. 4, 48, 49, 51, 64, 65, 69, 70, 73, 74.

PORTIONS OF BENJAMIN FAWCETT's ADDRESS TO THE CHRISTIAN NEGROES IN VIRGINIA ABOUT 1755

"Rejoice and be exceeding glad, that you are delivered either from the Frauds of Mohamet, or
Pagan Darkness, and Worship of Daemons; and are not now taught to place your Dependence upon
those other dead Men, whom the Papists impiously worship, to the Neglect and Dishonor of Jesus
Christ, the one only Mediator between God and Men. Christ, tho' he was dead, is alive again,
and liveth forever-more. It is Christ, who is able also to save them to the uttermost, that
come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. Bless God, with
all your Heart, that the Holy Scriptures are put into your Hands, which are able to make you
wise unto Salvation, thro' Faith which is in Christ Jesus. Read and study the Bible for yourselves;
and consider how Papists do all they can to hide it from their Followers, for Fear such divine
Light should discover the gross Darkness of their false Doctrines and Worship. Be particularly
thankful to the Ministers of Christ around you, who are faithfully labouring to teach you the
Truth as it is in Jesus....

"Contrary to these evident Truths and precious Comforts of the Word of God, you may perhaps
be tempted very unjustly to renounce your Fidelity and Obedience to your Old Masters, in Hope
of finding new ones, with whom you may live more happily. At one time or other it will probably
be suggested to you, that the French will make better Masters than the English. But I beseech
you to consider, that your Happiness as Men and Christians exceedingly depends upon your doing
all in your Power to support the British Government, and that kind of Christianity which is
called the Protestant Religion; and likewise in opposing, with all your Might, the Power of
the French, the Delusions of Popish Priests, and all the Rage and Malice of such Indians, as
are in the French Interest. If the Power of France was to prevail in the Country where you
now live, you have Nothing to expect but the most terrible Increase of your Sufferings. Your
Slavery would then, not merely extend to Body, but also to the Soul; not merely run thro' your
Days of Labour, but even thro' your Lord's Days. Your Bibles would then become like a sealed
Book, and your Consciences would be fettered with worse than Iron-Chains. Therefore be patient,
be submissive and obedient, be faithful and true, even when some of your Masters are most unkind.
This is the only way for you to have Consciences void of Offense towards God and Man. This
will really be taking the most effectual Measures, to secure for yourselves a Share in the
invaluable Blessings and Privileges of the glorious Gospel of the Blessed God, which you have
already received thro' the Channel of the British Government, and which no other Government
upon the Face of the Earth is so calculated to support and preserve.

"The Lord Jesus Christ is now saying to you, as he did to Peter, when thou art converted strengthen
thy Brethren....

"Therefore let me entreat you to look upon your Country-men around you, and pity them, not
so much for their being Fellow-Captives with you in a strange Land; as for this, that they
are not yet, like you, delivered from the Power of Darkness....

"Invite them to learn to read, and direct them where they may apply for Assistance, especially
to those faithful Ministers, who have been your Instructors and Fathers in Christ...."--Fawcett's
Address to the Negroes in Virginia, etc., pp. 8, 17, 18, 24, 25.

EXTRACT FROM THE APPENDIX OF BENJAMIN FAWCETT'S "ADDRESS TO THE CHRISTIAN NEGROES IN VIRGINIA"

"The first Account, I ever met with, of any considerable Number of Negroes embracing the Gospel,
is in a letter written by Mr. Davies, Minister at Hanover in Virginia, to Mr. Bellamy of Bethlehem
in New England, dated June 28, 1751. It appears that the Letter was designed for Publication;
and I suppose, was accordingly printed at Boston in New England. It is to be seen in vol. ii.,
pages 330-338, of the Historical Collections relating to remarkable Periods of the Success
of the Gospel, and eminent Instruments employed in promoting it; Compiled by Mr. John Gillies,
one of the Ministers of Glasgow: Printed by Foulis in 1754. Mr. Davies fills the greatest part
of his Letter, with an Account of the declining State of Religion in Virginia, and the remarkable
Means used by Providence to revive it, for a few Years before his Settlement there, which was
in 1747; not in the character of a Missionary, but that of a dissenting Minister, invited by
a particular People, and fixed with them. Such, he observes, was the scattered State of his
Congregation, that he soon found it necessary to license seven Meeting-Houses, the nearest
of which are twelve or fifteen Miles distant from each other, and the extremes about Forty;
yet some of his People live twenty, thirty, and a few forty Miles from the nearest Meeting-House.
He computes his Communicants at about three Hundred. He then says, 'There is also a Number
of Negroes. Some times I see a Hundred and more among my Hearers. I have baptized about Forty
of them within the last three Years, upon such a Profession of Faith as I then judged credible.
Some of them, I fear, have apostatized; but others, I trust, will persevere to the End. I have
had as satisfying Evidences of the sincere Piety of several of them, as ever I had from any
Person in my Life; and their artless Simplicity, their passionate Aspirations after Christ,
their incessant Endeavors to know and do the Will of God, have charmed me. But, alas! while
my Charge is so extensive, I cannot take sufficient Pains with them for their Instruction,
which often oppresses my Heart....'"

At the Close of the above Letter, in the Historical Collections (vol. ii., page 338), there
is added the following Marginal Note.--"May 22, 1754. Mr. G. Tennent and Mr. Davies being at
Edinburgh, as Agents for the Trustees of the College of New Jersey, Mr. Davies informs,--that
when he left Virginia in August last, there was a hopeful Appearance of a greater Spread of
a religious Concern amongst the Negroes;--And a few weeks before he left Home, he baptized
in one Day fifteen Negroes, after they had been catechized for some Months, and given credible
Evidences of their sincerely embracing the Gospel."

After these Gentlemen had finished the Business of their late Mission in this part of the World,
Mr. Davies gave the following Particulars to his Correspondent in London, in a letter which
he wrote in the Spring of the previous Year, six Weeks after his safe return to his Family
and Friends.--"The Inhabitants of Virginia are computed to be about 300,000 Men, the one-half
of which Number are supposed to be Negroes. The Number of those who attend my Ministry at particular
Times is uncertain, but generally about three Hundred who give a stated Attendance. And never
have I been so much struck with the Appearance of an Assembly, as when I have glanced my Eye
to that Part of the Meeting-House, where they usually sit; adorned, for so it had appeared
to me, with so many black Countenances, eagerly attentive to every Word they hear, and frequently
bathed in Tears. A considerable Number of them, about a Hundred, have been baptized, after
the proper Time for Instruction, and having given credible Evidences, not only of their Acquaintance
with the important Doctrines of the Christian Religion, but also a deep Sense of them upon
their Minds, attested by a Life of the strictest Piety and Holiness. As they are not sufficiently
polished to dissemble with a good Grace, they express the sentiments of their Souls so much
in the Language of simple Nature, and with such genuine Indications of Sincerity, that it is
impossible to suspect their Professions, especially when attended with a truly Christian Life
and exemplary Conduct.--My worthy Friend, Mr. Tod, Minister of the next Congregation, has near
the same Number under his Instructions, who, he tells me, discover the same serious Turn of
Mind. In short, Sir, there are Multitudes of them in different Places, who are willing, and
eagerly desirous to be instructed, and embrace every Opportunity of acquainting themselves
with the Doctrines of the Gospel; and tho' they have generally very little Help to learn to
read, yet, to my agreeable Surprise, many of them, by the Dint of Application in their Leisure-Hours,
have made such a Progress, that they can intelligibly read a plain Author, and especially their
Bibles; and Pity it is that many of them should be without them. Before I had the Pleasure
of being admitted a Member of your Society [Mr. Davies here means the Society for promoting
religious Knowledge among the Poor, which was first begun in London in August, 1750] the Negroes
were wont frequently to come to me, with such moving Accounts of their Necessities in this
Respect, that I could not help supplying them with Books to the utmost of my small Ability;
and when I distributed those among them, which my Friends with you sent over, I had Reason
to think that I never did an Action in all my Life, that met with so much Gratitude from the
Receivers. I have already distributed all the Books I brought over, which were proper for them.
Yet still, on Saturday Evenings, the only Time they can spare [they are allowed some short
Time, viz., Saturday afternoon, and Sunday, says Dr. Douglass in his Summary. But, alas! my
Stock is exhausted, and I must send them away grieved and disappointed.--Permit me, Sir, to
be an Advocate with you, and, by your Means, with your generous Friends in their Behalf. The
Books I principally want for them are, Watts' Psalms and Hymns, and Bibles. The two first they
cannot be supplied with any other Way than by a Collection, as they are not among the Books
which your Society give away. I am the rather importunate for a good Number of these, and I
cannot but observe, that the Negroes, above all the Human Species that I ever knew, have an
Ear for Musick, and a kind of extatic Delight in Psalmody; and there are no Books they learn
so soon, or take so much Pleasure in as those used in that heavenly Part of divine Worship.
Some Gentlemen in London were pleased to make me a private Present of these Books for their
Use, and from the Reception they met with, and their Eagerness for more, I can easily foresee,
how acceptable and useful a larger Number would be among them. Indeed, Nothing would be a greater
Inducement to their Industry to learn to read, than the Hope of such a Present; which they
would consider, both as a Help, and a Reward for their Diligence"....--Fawcett's Address to
the Christian Negroes in Virginia, etc., pp. 33. 34. 35. 36, 37. 38.

EXTRACT FROM JONATHAN BOUCHER'S "A VIEW OF THE CAUSES AND CONSEQUENCES OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION"(1763)

"If ever these colonies, now filled with slaves, be improved to their utmost capacity, an essential
part of the improvement must be the abolition of slavery. Such a change would be hardly more
to the advantage of the slaves than it would be to their owners....

"I do you no more than justice in bearing witness, that in no part of the world were slaves
better treated than, in general, they are in the colonies.... In one essential point, I fear,
we are all deficient; they are nowhere sufficiently instructed. I am far from recommending
it to you, at once to set them free; because to do so would be an heavy loss to you, and probably
no gain to them; but I do entreat you to make them some amends for the drudgery of their bodies
by cultivating their minds. By such means only can we hope to fulfil the ends, which we may
be permitted to believe, Providence had in view in suffering them to be brought among us. You
may unfetter them from the chains of ignorance; you may emancipate them from the bondage of
sin, the worst slavery to which they can be subjected; and by thus setting at liberty those
that are bruised, though they still continue to be your slaves, they shall be delivered from
the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the Children of God."--Jonathan Boucher's
A View of the Causes and Consequences, etc., pp. 41, 42, 43.

BOUCHER ON AMERICAN EDUCATION IN 1773

"You pay far too little regard to parental education....

"What is still less credible is that at least two-thirds of the little education we receive
is derived from instructors who are either indented servants or transported felons. Not a ship
arrives either with redemptioners or convicts, in which schoolmasters are not as regularly
advertised for sale as weavers, tailors, or any other trade; with little other difference,
that I can hear of, excepting perhaps that the former do not usually fetch so good a price
as the latter....

"I own, however, that I dislike slavery and among other reasons because as it is here conducted
it has pernicious effects on the social state, by being unfavorable to education. It certainly
is no necessary circumstance, essential to the condition of a slave, that he be uneducated;
yet this is the general and almost universal lot of the slaves. Such extreme, deliberate, and
systematic inattention to all mental improvement, in so large portion of our species, gives
far too much countenance and encouragement to those abject persons who are contented to be
rude and ignorant."--Jonathan Boucher's A View of the Causes and Consequences of the American
Revolution, pp. 183, 188, 189.

A PORTION OF AN ESSAY OF BISHOP PORTEUS TOWARD A PLAN FOR THE MORE EFFECTUAL CIVILIZATION AND
CONVERSION OF THE NEGRO SLAVES ON THE TRENT ESTATE IN BARBADOES BELONGING TO THE SOCIETY FOR
THE PROPAGATION OF THE GOSPEL IN FOREIGN PARTS. (WRITTEN IN 1784)

"We are expressly commanded to preach the gospel to every creature; and therefore every human
creature must necessarily be capable of receiving it. It may be true, perhaps, that the generality
of the Negro slaves are extremely dull of apprehension, and slow of understanding; but it may
be doubted whether they are more so than some of the lowest classes of our own people; at least
they are certainly not inferior in capacity to the Greenlanders, many of whom have made very
sincere Christians. Several travellers of good credit speak in very favorable terms, both of
the understandings and dispositions of the native Africans on the coast of Guinea; and it is
a well-known fact, that many even of the Negro slaves in our islands, although laboring under
disadvantages and discouragements, that might well depress and stupefy even the best understandings,
yet give sufficient proofs of the great quickness of parts and facility in learning. They have,
in particular, a natural turn to the mechanical arts, in which several of them show much ingenuity,
and arrive at no small degree of perfection. Some have discovered marks of genius for music,
poetry, and other liberal accomplishments; and there are not wanting instances among them of
a strength of understanding, and a generosity, dignity, and heroism of mind, which would have
done honour to the most cultivated European. It is not, therefore, to any natural or unconquerable
disability in the subject we had to work upon, that the little success of our efforts is to
be ascribed. This would indeed be an insuperable obstacle, and must put an effectual stop to
all future attempts of the same nature; but as this is far from being the case, we must look
for other causes of our disappointment; which may perhaps appear to be, though of a serious,
yet less formidable nature, and such as it is in the power of human industry and perseverance,
with the blessing of Providence, to remove. The principal of them, it is conceived, are these
which here follow:

1. "Although several of our ministers and catechists in the college of Barbadoes have been
men of great worth and piety, and good intentions, yet in general they do not appear (if we
may judge from their letters to the Board) to have possessed that peculiar sort of talents
and qualifications, that facility and address in conveying religious truths, that unconquerable
activity, patience, and perseverance, which the instruction of dull and uncultivated minds
requires, and which we sometimes see so eminently and successfully displayed in the missionaries
of other churches.

"And indeed the task of instructing and converting near three hundred Negro slaves, and of
educating their children in the principles of morality and religion, is too laborious for any
one person to execute well; especially when the stipend is too small to animate his industry,
and excite his zeal.

2. "There seems also to have been a want of other modes of instruction, and of other books
and tracts for that purpose, besides those made use of hitherto by our catechists. And there
is reason moreover to believe, that the time allotted to the instruction of the Negroes has
not been sufficient.

3. "Another impediment to the progress of our slaves in Christian knowledge has been their
too frequent intercourse with the Negroes of the neighboring plantations, and the accession
of fresh slaves to our own, either hired from other estates, or imported from Africa. These
are so many constant temptations in their way to revert to their former heathenish principles
and savage manners, to which they have always a strong natural propensity; and when this propensity
is continually inflamed by the solicitations of their unconverted brethren, or the arrival
of new companions from the coast of Guinea, it frequently becomes very difficult to be resisted,
and counteracts, in a great degree, all the influence and exhortations of their religious teachers.

4. "Although this society has been always most honourably distinguished by the gentleness with
which the negroes belonging to its trust estates have been generally treated, yet even these
(by the confession of our missionaries) are in too abject, and depressed, and uncivilized a
state to be proper subjects for the reception of the divine truths of revelation. They stand
in need of some further marks of the society's regard and tenderness for them, to conciliate
their affections, to invigorate their minds, to encourage their hopes, and to rouse them out
of that state of languor and indolence and insensibility, which renders them indifferent and
careless both about this world and the next.

5. "A still further obstacle to the effectual conversion of the Negroes has been the almost
unrestrained licentiousness of their manner, the habits of vice and dissoluteness in which
they are permitted to live, and the sad examples they too frequently see in their managers
and overseers. It can never be expected that people given up to such practices as these, can
be much disposed to receive a pure and undefiled religion: or that, if after their conversion
they are allowed, as they generally are, to retain their former habits, their christianity
can be anything more than a mere name.

"These probably the society will, on inquiry, find to have been the principal causes of the
little success they have hitherto had in their pious endeavors to render their own slaves real
christians. And it is with a view principally to the removal of these obstacles that the following
regulations are, with all due deference to better judgments, submitted to their consideration.

"The first and most essential step towards a real and effectual conversion of our Negroes would
be the appointment of a missionary (in addition to the present catechist) properly qualified
for that important and difficult undertaking. He should be a clergyman sought out for in this
country, of approved ability, piety, humanity, industry, and a fervent, yet prudent zeal for
the interests of religion, and the salvation of those committed to his care; and should have
a stipend not less than 200 f. sterling a year if he has an apartment and is maintained in
the College, or 300 f. a year if he is not.

"This clergyman might be called (for a reason to be hereafter assigned) 'The Guardian of the
Negroes'; and his province should be to superintend the moral and spiritual concern of the
slaves, to take upon himself the religious instruction of the adult Negroes, and to take particular
care that all the Negro children are taught to read by the catechist and the two assistant
women (now employed by the society) and also that they are diligently instructed by the catechist
in the principles of the Christian religion, till they are fifteen years of age, when they
shall be instructed by himself with the adult Negroes.

"This instruction of the Negro children from their earliest years is one of the most important
and essential parts of the whole plan; for it is to the education of the young Negroes that
we are principally to look for the success of our spiritual labours. These may be easily taught
to understand and to speak the English language with fluency; these may be brought up from
their earliest youth in habits of virtue, and restrained from all licentious indulgences: these
may have the principles and the precepts of religion impressed so early upon their tender minds
as to sink deep, and to take firm root, and bring forth the fruits of a truly Christian life.
To this great object, therefore, must our chief attention be directed; and as almost everything
must depend on the ability, the integrity, the assiduity, the perseverance of the person to
whom we commit so important a charge, it is impossible for us to be too careful and too circumspect
in our choice of a CATECHIST. He must consider it his province, not merely to teach the Negroes
the use of letters, but the elements of Christianity; not only to improve their understandings,
but to form their hearts. For this purpose they must be put into his hands the moment they
are capable of articulating their words, and their instruction must be pursued with unrelenting
diligence. So long as they continue too young to work, they may be kept constantly in the school;
as they grow fit to labour, their attendance on the CATECHIST must gradually lessen, till at
length they take their full share of work with the grown Negroes.

"A school of this nature was formerly established by the society of Charlestown in South Carolina,
about the year 1745, under the direction of Mr. Garden, the Bishop of London's commissary in
that province. This school flourished greatly, and seemed to answer their utmost wishes. There
were at one time sixty scholars in it, and twenty young Negroes were annually sent out from
it well instructed in the English language, and the Christian faith. Mr. Garden, in his letters
to the society, speaks in the highest terms of the progress made by his scholars, and says,
that the Negroes themselves were highly pleased with their own acquirements. But it is supposed
that on a parochial establishment being made in Charlestown by government, this excellent institution
was dropt; for after the year 1751, no further mention is made of it in the minutes of the
society. From what little we know of it, however, we may justly conceive the most pleasing
hopes from a similar foundation at Barbadoes."--The Works of Bishop Porteus, vi., pp., 171-179.

EXTRACT FROM "THE ACTS OF DR. BRAY'S VISITATION HELD AT ANNAPOLIS IN MARYLAND, MAY 23, 24,
25, ANNO 1700"

Words of Dr. Bray

"I think, my REVEREND BRETHREN, that we are now gone through such measures as may be necessary
to be considered for the more universal as well as successful Catechising, and Instruction
of Youth. And I heartily thank you for your so ready Concurrence in every thing that I have
offered to you: And which, I hope, will appear no less in the Execution, than it has been to
the Proposals.

"And that proper Books may not be wanting for the several Classes of Catechumens, there is
care taken for the several sorts, which may be all had in this Town. And it may be necessary
to acquaint you, that for the poor Children and Servants, they shall be given Gratis."--Hawks's
Ecclesiastical History of the United States, vol. ii., pp. 503-504.

EXTRACTS FROM THE MINUTES OF THE MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS....

FROM THE MINUTES OF THE YEARLY MEETING OF THE FRIENDS OF PENNSYLVANIA AND NEW JERSEY, 1774

"And having grounds to conclude that there are some brethren who have these poor captives under
their care, and are desirous to be wisely directed in the restoring them to liberty: Friends
who may be appointed by quarterly and monthly meetings on the service now proposed, are earnestly
desired to give their weighty and solid attention for the assistance of such who are thus honestly
and religiously concerned for their own relief, and the essential benefit of the negro. And
in such families where there are young ones, or others of suitable age, that they excite the
masters, or those who have them, to give them sufficient instruction and learning, in order
to qualify them for the enjoyment of liberty intended, and that they may be instructed by themselves,
or placed out to such masters and mistresses who will be careful of their religious education,
to serve for such time, and no longer, as is prescribed by law and custom, for white people."--A
Brief Statement of the Rise and Progress of the Testimony of the Religious Society of Friends
against Slavery and the Slave Trade. Published by direction of the Yearly Meeting, held in
Philadelphia, in the Fourth Month, 1843, p. 38.

FROM THE MINUTES OF THE QUARTERLY MEETING OF THE FRIENDS OF CHESTER

"The consideration of the temporal and spiritual welfare of the Africans, and the necessary
instruction of their offspring now being resumed, and after some time spent thereon, it is
closely recommended to our several monthly meetings to pay due attention to the advice of the
Yearly Meeting on this subject, and proceed as strength may be afforded, in looking after them
in their several habitations by a religious visit; giving them such counsel as their situation
may require."--Ibid., p. 39.

FROM THE MINUTES OF THE HADDONFIELD QUARTERLY MEETING

"In Haddonfield Quarterly Meeting, a committee was kept steadily under appointment for several
years to assist in manumissions, and in the education of the negro children. Religious meetings
were frequently held for the people of color; and Haddonfield Monthly Meeting raised on one
occasion 131 pounds, for the education of negro children.

"In Salem Monthly Meeting, frequent meetings of worship for the people of color were held by
direction of the monthly meeting; funds were raised for the education of their children, and
committees appointed in the different meetings to provide books, place the children at school,
to visit the schools, and inspect their conduct and improvement.

"Meetings for Divine worship were regularly held for people of color, at least once in three
months, under the direction of the monthly meetings of Friends in Philadelphia; and schools
were also established at which their children were gratuitously instructed in useful learning.
One of these, originally instituted by Anthony Benezet, is now in operation in the city of
Philadelphia, and has been continued under the care of one of the monthly meetings of Friends
of that city, and supported by funds derived from voluntary contributions of the members, and
from legacies and bequests, yielding an income of about $1000 per annum. The average number
of pupils is about sixty-eight of both sexes."--Ibid., pp. 40-41.

FROM THE MINUTES OF THE RHODE ISLAND QUARTERLY MEETING OF THE FRIENDS, 1769

A committee reported "that having met, and entered into a solemn consideration of the subject,
they were of the mind that a useful alteration might be made in the query referred to; yet
apprehending some further Christian endeavors in labouring with such who continue in possession
of slaves should be first promoted, by which means the eyes of Friends may be more clearly
opened to behold the iniquity of the practice of detaining our fellow creatures in bondage,
and a disposition to set such free who are arrived to mature age; and when the labour is performed
and report made to the meeting, the meeting may be better capable of determining what further
step to take in this affair, which hath given so much concern to faithful Friends, and that
in the meantime it should be enforced upon Friends that have them in possession, to treat them
with tenderness; impress God's fear on their minds; promote their attending places of religious
worship; and give such as are young, so much learning, that they may be capable of reading.

"Are Friends clear of importing, buying, or any ways disposing of negroes or slaves; and do
they use those well who are under their care, and not in circumstances, through nonage or incapacity,
to be set at liberty? And do they give those that are young such an education as becomes Christians;
and are the others encouraged in a religious and virtuous life? Are all set at liberty that
are of age, capacity, and ability suitable for freedom?"--Ibid., pp. 45,46.

FROM THE MINUTES OF THE YEARLY MEETING OF THE FRIENDS OF VIRGINIA IN 1757 AND 1773

"Are Friends clear of importing or buying negroes to trade on; and do they use those well which
they are possessed of by inheritance or otherwise, endeavoring to train them in the principles
of the Christian religion?"

The meeting of 1773 recommended to Friends, "seriously to consider the circumstances of these
poor people, and the obligation we are under to discharge our religious duties to them, which
being disinterestedly pursued, will lead the professor to Truth, to advise and assist them
on all occasions, particularly in promoting their instruction in the principles of the Christian
religion, and the pious education of their children; also to advise them in their worldly concerns,
as occasions offer; and it advised that Friends of judgment and experience may be nominated
for this necessary service, it being the solid sense of this meeting, that we, of the present
generation, are under strong obligations to express our love and concern for the offspring
of those people, who, by their labours, have greatly contributed toward the cultivation of
these colonies, under the afflictive disadvantage of enduring a hard bondage; and many amongst
us are enjoying the benefit of their toil."--Ibid., pp. 51, 52, and 54.

EXTRACT FROM THE MINUTES OF THE METHODIST CONFERENCE, 1785

"Q. What directions shall we give for the promotion of the spiritual welfare of the colored people?

"A. We conjure all our ministers and preachers, by the love of God and the salvation of souls,
and do require them, by all the authority that is invested in us, to leave nothing undone for
the spiritual benefit and salvation of them, within their respective circuits or districts;
and for this purpose to embrace every opportunity of inquiring into the state of their souls,
and to unite in society those who appear to have a real desire of fleeing from the wrath to
come, to meet such a class, and to exercise the whole Methodist Discipline among them."

"Q. What can be done in order to instruct poor children, white and black to read?

"A. Let us labor, as the heart of one man, to establish Sunday schools, in or near the place
of public worship. Let persons be appointed by the bishop, elders, deacons, or preachers, to
teach gratis all that will attend or have the capacity to learn, from six o'clock in the morning
till ten, and from two o'clock in the afternoon till six, where it does not interfere with
public worship. The council shall compile a proper school book to teach them learning and piety."--Rev.
Charles Elliott's History of the Great Secession front the Methodist Episcopal Church, etc., p. 35.

A PORTION OF AN ACT OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN 1800.

The Assembly recommended:

"2. The instruction of Negroes, the poor and those who are destitute of the means of grace
in various parts of this extensive country; whoever contemplates the situation of this numerous
class of persons in the United States, their gross ignorance of the plainest principles of
religion, their immorality and profaneness, their vices and dissoluteness of manners, must
be filled with anxiety for their present welfare, and above all for their future and eternal
happiness.

"3. The purchasing and disposing of Bibles and also of books and short essays on the great
principles of religion and morality, calculated to impress the minds of those to whom they
are given with a sense of their duty both to God and man, and consequently of such a nature
as to arrest the attention, interest the curiosity and touch the feelings of those to whom
they are given."--Act and Proceedings of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in
the U.S.A. in the Year 1800, Philadelphia.

AN ACT OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN 1801

"The Assembly resumed the consideration of the communication from the Trustees of the General
Assembly and having gone through the same, thereupon resolved,

"5. That there be made a purchase of so many cheap and pious books as a due regard to the other
objects of the Assembly's funds will admit, with a view of distributing them not only among
the frontiers of these States, but also among the poorer classes of people, and the blacks,
or wherever it is thought useful; which books shall be given away, or lent, at the discretion
of the distributor; and that there be received from Mr. Robert Aitken, toward the discharge
of his debt, books to such amount as shall appear proper to the Trustees of the Assembly, who
are hereby requested to take proper measures for the distribution of same."--Act and Proceedings
of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A.

PLAN FOR IMPROVING THE CONDITION OF THE FREE BLACKS

The business relative to free blacks shall be transacted by a committee of twenty-four persons,
annually elected by ballot at a meeting of this Society, in the month called April, and in
order to perform the different services with expedition, regularity and energy this committee
shall resolve itself into the following sub-committees, viz.:

I. A Committee of Inspection, who shall superintend the morals, general conduct, and ordinary
situation of the free negroes, and afford them advice and instruction, protection from wrongs,
and other friendly offices.

II. A Committee of Guardians, who shall place out children and young people with suitable persons,
that they may (during a moderate time of apprenticeship or servitude) learn some trade or other
business of subsistence. The committee may effect this partly by a persuasive influence on
parents and the persons concerned, and partly by coöperating with the laws, which are or may
be enacted for this and similar purposes. In forming contracts of these occasions, the committee
shall secure to the Society as far as may be practicable the right of guardianship over the
person so bound.

III. A Committee of Education, who shall superintend the school instruction of the children
and youth of the free blacks. They may either influence them to attend regularly the schools
already established in this city, or form others with this view; they shall, in either case,
provide, that the pupils may receive such learning as is necessary for their future situation
in life, and especially a deep impression of the most important and generally acknowledged
moral and religious principles. They shall also procure and preserve a regular record of the
marriages, births, and manumissions of all free blacks.

IV. The Committee of Employ, who shall endeavor to procure constant employment for those free
negroes who are able to work; as the want of this would occasion poverty, idleness, and many
vicious habits. This committee will by sedulous inquiry be enabled to find common labor for
a great number; they will also provide that such as indicate proper talents may learn various
trades, which may be done by prevailing upon them to bind themselves for such a term of years
as shall compensate their masters for the expense and trouble of instruction and maintenance.
The committee may attempt the institution of some simple and useful manufactures which will
require but little skill, and also may assist, in commencing business, such as appear to be
qualified for it.

Whenever the Committee of Inspection shall find persons of any particular description requiring
attention, they shall immediately direct them to the committee of whose care they are the proper
objects.

In matters of a mixed nature, the committee shall confer, and, if necessary, act in concert.
Affairs of great importance shall be referred to the whole committee.

The expense incurred by the prosecution of this plan, shall be defrayed by a fund, to be formed
by donations or subscriptions for these particular purposes, and to be kept separate from the
other funds of the Society.

The Committee shall make a report on their proceedings, and of the state of their stock, to
the Society, at their quarterly meetings, in the months called April and October.--Smyth's
Writings of Benjamin Franklin, vol. x, p. 127.

EXTRACT FROM THE "ADDRESS OF THE AMERICAN CONVENTION OF DELEGATES FROM THE ABOLITION SOCIETIES,
1795"

"We cannot forbear expressing to you our earnest desire, that you will continue, without ceasing,
to endeavor, by every method in your power which can promise any success, to procure, either
an absolute repeal of all the laws in your state, which countenance slavery, or such an amelioration
of them as will gradually produce an entire abolition. Yet, even should that great end be happily
attained, it cannot put a period to the necessity of further labor. The education of the emancipated,
the noblest and most arduous task which we have to perform, will require all our wisdom and
virtue, and the constant exercise of the greatest skill and discretion. When we have broken
his chains, and restored the African to the enjoyment of his rights, the great work of justice
and benevolence is not accomplished--The new born citizen must receive that instruction, and
those powerful impressions of moral and religious truths, which will render him capable and
desirous of fulfilling the various duties he owes to himself and to his country. By educating
some in the higher branches of science, and all the useful parts of learning, and in the precepts
of religion and morality, we shall not only do away with the reproach and calumny so unjustly
lavished upon us, but confound the enemies of truth, by evincing that the unhappy sons of Africa,
in spite of the degrading influence of slavery, are in no wise inferior to the more fortunate
inhabitants of Europe and America.

"As a means of effectuating, in some degree, a design so virtuous and laudable, we recommend
to you to appoint a committee, annually, or for any other more convenient period, to execute
such plans, for the improvement of the condition and moral character of the free blacks in
your state, as you may think best adapted to your particular situation."--Minutes of the Proceedings
of the Second Convention of Delegates, 1795.

A PORTION OF THE "ADDRESS OF THE AMERICAN CONVENTION OF DELEGATES TO THE FREE AFRICANS AND
OTHER FREE PEOPLE OF COLOR, 1796"

"In the first place, We earnestly recommend to you, a regular attention to the duty of public
worship; by which means you will evince gratitude to your CREATOR, and, at the same time, promote
knowledge, union, friendship, and proper conduct among yourselves.

"Secondly, we advise such of you, as have not been taught reading, writing, and the first principles
of arithmetic, to acquire them as early as possible. Carefully attend to the instruction of
your children in the same simple and useful branches of education. Cause them, likewise, early
and frequently to read the holy Scriptures. They contain, among other great discoveries, the
precious record of the original equality of mankind, and of the obligations of universal justice
and benevolence, which are derived from the relation of the human race to each other in a COMMON
FATHER.

"Thirdly, Teach your children useful trades, or to labor with their hands in cultivating the
earth. These employments are favorable to health and virtue. In the choice of masters, who
are to instruct them in the above branches of business, prefer those who will work with them;
by this means they will acquire habits of industry, and be better preserved from vice, than
if they worked alone, or under the eye of persons less interested in their welfare. In forming
contracts for yourselves or children, with masters, it may be useful to consult such persons
as are capable of giving you the best advice, who are known to be your friends, in order to
prevent advantages being taken of your ignorance of the laws and customs of your country."--Minutes
of the Proceedings of the Third Convention of Delegates, 1796. American Convention of Abolition
Societies, Minutes, 1795-1804

A PORTION OF THE ADDRESS TO THE FREE PEOPLE OF COLOR BY THE AMERICAN CONVENTION FOR PROMOTING
THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, 1819

"The great work of emancipation is not to be accomplished in a day;--it must be the result
of time, of long and continued exertions: it is for you to show by an orderly and worthy deportment
that you are deserving of the rank which you have attained. And I make the said Thomas Jefferson
my executor of this.

(Signed) T. KOSCIUSZKO. May 5, 1798.

THIS INTERESTING DIALOGUE WAS WRITTEN BY AN AMERICAN ABOUT 1800

The following dialogue took place between Mr. Jackson the master of a family, and the slave
of one of his neighbors who lived adjoining the town, on this occasion. Mr. Jackson was walking
through the common and came to a field of this person's farm. He there saw the slave leaning
against the fence with a book in his hand, which he seemed to be very intent upon; after a
little time he closed the book, and clasping it in both his hands, looked upwards as if engaged
in mental prayer; after this, he put the book in his bosom, and walked along the fence near
where Mr. Jackson was standing. Surprised at seeing a person of his color engaged with a book,
and still more by the animation and delight that he observed in his countenance; he determines
to enquire about it, and calls to him as he passes.

Mr. J. So I see you have been reading, my lad?

Slave. Yes, sir.

Mr. J. Well, I have a great curiosity to see what you were reading so earnestly; will you show
me the book?

Slave. To be sure, sir. (And he presented it to him very respectfully.)

Mr. J. The Bible!--Pray when did you get this book? And who taught you to read it?

Slave. I thank God, sir, for the book. I do not know the good gentleman who gave it to me,
but I am sure God sent it to me. I was learning to read in town at nights, and one morning
a gentleman met me in the road as I had my spelling book open in my hand: he asked me if I
could read, I told him a little, and he gave me this book and told me to make haste and learn
to read it, and to ask God to help me, and that it would make me as happy as any body in the world.

Mr. J. Well did you do so?

Slave. I thought about it for some time, and I wondered that any body should give me a book
or care about me; and I wondered what that could be which could make a poor slave like me so
happy; and so I thought more and more of it, and I said I would try and do as the gentleman
bid me, and blessed be God! he told me nothing but the truth.

Mr. J. Who is your master?

Slave. Mr. Wilkins, sir, who lives in that house.

Mr. J. I know him; he is a very good man; but what does he say to your leaving his work to
read your book in the field?

Slave. I was not leaving his work, sir. This book does not teach me to neglect my master's
work. I could not be happy if I did that.--I have done my breakfast, sir, and am waiting till
the horses are done eating.

Mr. J. Well, what does that book teach you?

Slave. Oh, sir! every thing that I want to know--all I am to do, this book tells me, and so
plain. It shew me first that I was a wretched, ruined sinner, and what would become of me if
I died in that state, and then when I was day and night in dread of God's calling me to account
for my wickedness, and did not know which way to look for my deliverance, reading over and
over again those dreadful words, "depart from me ye cursed into everlasting fire," then it
revealed to me how Jesus Christ had consented to come and suffer punishment for us in our stead,
and bought pardon for us by his blood, and how by believing on him and serving him, I might
become a child of God, so that I need be no more terrified by the thoughts of God's anger but
sure of his forgiveness and love....

(Here Mr. J. pursued his walk; but soon reflecting on what he had heard, he resolved to walk
by Mr. Wilkins's house and enquire into this affair from him. This he did, and finding him
the following conversation took place between them.)

Mr. J. Sir, I have been talking with a man of yours in that field, who was engaged, while his
horses were eating, in reading a book; which I asked him to shew me and found it was the Bible;
thereupon I asked him some questions and his answers, and the account he gave of himself, have
surprised me greatly.

Mr. W. I presume it was Will--and though I do not know what he may have told you, yet I will
undertake to say that he has told you nothing but the truth. I am always safe in believing
him, and do not believe he would tell me an untruth for any thing that could be offered him....

Mr. J. Well, sir, you have seen I trust in your family, good fruits from the beginning.

Mr. W. Yes indeed, sir, and that man was most instrumental in reconciling and encouraging all
my people in the change. From that time I have regarded him as more a friend and assistant,
than a slave. He has taught the younger ones to read, and by his kindness and example, has
been a great benefit to all. I have told them that I would do what I could to instruct and
improve them; and that if I found any so vicious, that they would not receive it and strive
to amend, I would not keep them; that I hoped to have a religious, praying family, and that
none would be obstinately bent on their own ruin. And from time to time, I endeavored to convince
them that I was aiming at their own good. I cannot tell you all the happiness of the change,
that God has been pleased to make among us, all by these means. And I have been benefited both
temporally and spiritually by it; for my work is better done, and my people are more faithful,
contented, and obedient than before; and I have the comfort of thinking that when my Lord and
master shall call me to account for those committed to my charge, I shall not be ashamed to
present them.--Bishop William Meade's "Tracts and Dialogues," etc., in the Appendix of Thomas
Bacon's Sermons Addressed to Masters and Servants.

A TRUE ACCOUNT OF A PIOUS NEGRO

(Written about 1800)

Some years ago an English gentleman had occasion to be in North America, where, among other
adventures, the following circumstances occurred to him which are related in his own words.

"Every day's observation convinces me that the children of God, viz. those who believe in him,
and on such terms are accepted by him through Jesus Christ, are made so by his own especial
grace and power inclining them to what is good, and, assisting them when they endeavor to be
and continue so.

"In one of my excursions, while I was in the province of New York, I was walking by myself
over a considerable plantation, amused with its husbandry, and comparing it with that of my
own country, till I came within a little distance of a middle aged negro, who was tilling the
ground. I felt a strong inclination to converse with him. After asking him some little questions
about his work, which he answered very sensibly, I wished him to tell me, whether his state
of slavery was not disagreeable to him, and whether he would not gladly exchange it for his
liberty?"

"Massah," said he, looking seriously upon me, "I have wife and children; my massah takes care
of them, and I have no care to provide anything; I have a good massah, who teach me to read;
and I read good book, that makes me happy." "I am glad," replied I, "to hear you say so; and
pray what is the good book you read?" "The Bible, massah, God's own good book." "Do you understand,
friend, as well as read this book? for many can read the words well, who cannot get hold of
the true and good sense." "O massah," says he, "I read the book much before I understand; but
at last I found things in the book which made me very uneasy." "Aye," said I, "and what things
were they?" "Why massah, I found that I was a sinner, massah, a very great sinner, I feared
that God would destroy me, because I was wicked, and done nothing as I should do. God was holy,
and I was very vile and naughty; so I could have nothing from him but fire and brimstone in
hell, if I continued in this state." In short, he fully convinced me that he was thoroughly
sensible of his errors, and he told me what scriptures came to his mind, which he had read,
that both probed him to the bottom of his sinful heart, and were made the means of light and
comfort to his soul. I then inquired of him, what ministry or means he made use of and found
that his master was a Quaker, a plain sort of man who had taught his slaves to read, and had
thus afforded him some means of obtaining religious knowledge, though he had not ever conversed
with this negro upon the state of his soul. I asked him likewise, how he got comfort under
all his trials? "O massah," said he, "it was God gave me comfort by his word. He bade me come
unto him, and he would give me rest, for I was very weary and heavy laden."

LETTER TO ABBÉ GRÉGOIRE, OF PARIS, 1809

I have received the favor of your letter of August 19th, and with it the volume you were so
kind as to send me on the Literature of Negroes. On this subject they are gaining daily in
the opinions of nations, and hopeful advances are making towards their re-establishment on
an equal footing with the other colors of the human family.

PORTION OF JEFFERSON'S LETTER TO M.A. JULIEN, JULY 23, 1818

Referring to Kosciuszko, Jefferson said:

"On his departure from the United States in 1798 he left in my hands an instrument appropriating
after his death all the property he had in our public funds, the price of his military services
here, to the education and emancipation of as many of the children of bondage in this country
as this should be adequate to. I am now too old to undertake a business de si longue haleine;
but I am taking measures to place it in such hands as will ensure a faithful discharge of the
philanthropic intentions of the donor. I learn with pleasure your continued efforts for the
instruction of the future generations of men, and, believing it the only means of effectuating
their rights, I wish them all possible success, and to yourself the eternal gratitude of those
who will feel their benefits, and beg leave to add the assurance of my high esteem and respect."--Writings
of Thomas Jefferson, Memorial Edition. 1904, vol. xv., pp. 173-174.

FROM MADISON'S LETTER TO MISS FRANCES WRIGHT, SEPTEMBER 1, 1825

"Supposing these conditions to be duly provided for, particularly the removal of the emancipated
blacks, the remaining questions relate to the aptitude and adequacy of the process by which
the slaves are at the same time to earn funds, entire or supplemental, required for their emancipation
and removal; and to be sufficiently educated for a life of freedom and of social order....

"With respect to the proper course of education, no serious difficulties present themselves.

"Considering the probable composition of the labourers, and the known fact that, where the
labour is compulsory, the greater the number of labourers brought together (unless, indeed,
where co-operation of many hands is rendered essential by a particular kind of work or of machinery)
the less are the proportional profits, it may be doubted whether the surplus from that source
merely, beyond the support of the establishment, would sufficiently accumulate in five, or
even more years, for the objects in view. And candor obliges me to say that I am not satisfied
either that the prospect of emancipation at a future day will sufficiently overcome the natural
and habitual repugnance to labour, or that there is such an advantage of united over individual
labour as is taken for granted.

"In cases where portions of time have been allotted to slaves, as among the Spaniards, with
a view to their working out their freedom, it is believed that but few have availed themselves
of the opportunity by a voluntary industry; and such a result could be less relied on in a
case where each individual would feel that the fruits of his exertions would be shared by others,
whether equally or unequally making them, and that the exertions of others would equally avail
him, notwithstanding a deficiency in his own. Skilful arrangements might palliate this tendency,
but it would be difficult to counteract it effectually.

"The examples of the Moravians, the Harmonites, and the Shakers, in which the united labours
of many for a common object have been successful, have, no doubt, an imposing character. But
it must be recollected that in all these establishments there is a religious impulse in the
members, and a religious authority in the head, for which there will be no substitutes of equivalent
efficacy in the emancipating establishment. The code of rules by which Mr. Rapp manages his
conscientious and devoted flock, and enriches a common treasury, must be little applicable
to the dissimilar assemblage in question. His experience may afford valuable aid in its general
organization, and in the distribution of details of the work to be performed. But an efficient
administration must, as is judiciously proposed, be in hands practically acquainted with the
propensities and habits of the members of the new community."

FROM FREDERICK DOUGLASS'S PAPER, 1853: "LEARN TRADES OR STARVE"

These are the obvious alternatives sternly presented to the free colored people of the United
States. It is idle, yea even ruinous, to disguise the matter for a single hour longer; every
day begins and ends with the impressive lesson that free negroes must learn trades, or die.

The old avocations, by which colored men obtained a livelihood, are rapidly, unceasingly and
inevitably passing into other hands; every hour sees the black man elbowed out of employment
by some newly arrived emigrant, whose hunger and whose color are thought to give him a better
title to the place; and so we believe it will continue to be until the last prop is levelled
beneath us.

As a black man, we say if we cannot stand up, let us fall down. We desire to be a man among
men while we do live; and when we cannot, we wish to die. It is evident, painfully evident
to every reflecting mind, that the means of living, for colored men, are becoming more and
more precarious and limited. Employments and callings formerly monopolized by us, are so no longer.

White men are becoming house-servants, cooks and stewards on vessels--at hotels.--They are
becoming porters, stevedores, wood-sawers, hod-carriers, brick-makers, white-washers and barbers,
so that the blacks can scarcely find the means of subsistence--a few years ago, a white barber
would have been a curiosity--now their poles stand on every street. Formerly blacks were almost
the exclusive coachmen in wealthy families: this is so no longer; white men are now employed,
and for aught we see, they fill their servile station with an obsequiousness as profound as
that of the blacks. The readiness and ease with which they adapt themselves to these conditions
ought not to be lost sight of by the colored people. The meaning is very important, and we
should learn it. We are taught our insecurity by it. Without the means of living, life is a
curse, and leaves us at the mercy of the oppressor to become his debased slaves. Now, colored
men, what do you mean to do, for you must do something? The American Colonization Society tells
you to go to Liberia. Mr. Bibb tells you to go to Canada. Others tell you to go to school.
We tell you to go to work; and to work you must go or die. Men are not valued in this country,
or in any country, for what they are; they are valued for what they can do. It is in vain that
we talk of being men, if we do not the work of men. We must become valuable to society in other
departments of industry than those servile ones from which we are rapidly being excluded. We
must show that we can do as well as be; and to this end we must learn trades. When we can build
as well as live in houses; when we can make as well as wear shoes; when we can produce as well
as consume wheat, corn and rye--then we shall become valuable to society. Society is a hard-hearted
affair.--With it the helpless may expect no higher dignity than that of paupers. The individual
must lay society under obligation to him, or society will honor him only as a stranger and
sojourner. How shall this be done? In this manner; use every means, strain every nerve to master
some important mechanical art. At present, the facilities for doing so are few--institutions
of learning are more readily opened to you than the work-shop; but the Lord helps them who
will help themselves, and we have no doubt that new facilities will be presented as we press
forward.

If the alternative were presented to us of learning a trade or of getting an education, we
would learn the trade, for the reason, that with the trade we could get the education while
with the education we could not get the trade. What we, as a people, most need, is the means
for our own elevation.--An educated colored man, in the United States, unless he has within
him the heart of a hero, and is willing to engage in a lifelong battle for his rights, as a
man, finds few inducements to remain in this country. He is isolated in the land of his birth--debarred
by his color from congenial association with whites; he is equally cast out by the ignorance
of the blacks. The remedy for this must comprehend the elevation of the masses; and this can
only be done by putting the mechanic arts within the reach of colored men.

We have now stated pretty strongly the case of our colored countrymen; perhaps some will say,
too strongly, but we know whereof we affirm.

In view of this state of things, we appeal to the abolitionists. What Boss anti-slavery mechanic
will take a black boy into his wheelwright's shop, his blacksmith's shop, his joiner's shop,
his cabinet shop? Here is something practical; where are the whites and where are the blacks
that will respond to it? Where are the antislavery milliners and seamstresses that will take
colored girls and teach them trades, by which they can obtain an honorable living? The fact
that we have made good cooks, good waiters, good barbers, and white-washers, induces the belief
that we may excel in higher branches of industry. One thing is certain; we must find new methods
of obtaining a livelihood, for the old ones are failing us very fast.

We, therefore, call upon the intelligent and thinking ones amongst us, to urge upon the colored
people within their reach, in all seriousness, the duty and the necessity of giving their children
useful and lucrative trades, by which they may commence the battle of life with weapons, commensurate
with the exigencies of conflict.--African Repository, vol. xxix., pp. 136, 137.

EDUCATION OF COLORED PEOPLE

(Written by a highly respectable gentleman of the South in 1854)

Several years ago I saw in the Repository, copied from the Colonization Herald, a proposal
to establish a college for the education of young colored men in this country. Since that time
I have neither seen nor heard anything more of it, and I should be glad to hear whether the
proposed plan was ever carried into execution.

Four years ago I conversed with one of the officers of the Colonization Society on the subject
of educating in this country colored persons intending to emigrate to Liberia, and expressed
my firm conviction of the paramount importance of high moral and mental training as a fit preparation
for such emigrants.

To my great regret the gentleman stated that under existing circumstances the project, all
important as he confessed it to be, was almost impracticable; so strong being the influence
of the enemies of colonization that they would dissuade any colored persons so educated from
leaving the United States.

I know that he was thoroughly acquainted with the subject in all its bearings, and therefore
felt that he must have good reasons for what he said; still I hoped the case was not so bad
as he thought, and, at any rate, I looked forward with strong hope to the time when the colored
race would, as a body, open their eyes to the miserable, unnatural position they occupy in
America; when they would see who were their true friends, those who offered them real and complete
freedom, social and political, in a land where there is no white race to keep them in subjection,
where they govern themselves by their own laws; or those pretended friends who would keep the
African where he can never be aught but a serf and bondsman of a despised caste, and who, by
every act of their pretended philanthropy, make the colored man's condition worse.

Most happily, since that time, the colored race has been aroused to a degree never before known,
and the conviction has become general among them that they must go to Liberia if they would
be free and happy.

Under these circumstances the better the education of the colored man the more keenly will
he feel his present situation and the more clearly he will see the necessity of emigration.

Assuming such to be the feelings of the colored race, I think the immense importance of a collegiate
institution for the education of their young must be felt and acknowledged by every friend
of the race. Some time since the legislature of Liberia passed an act to incorporate a college
in Liberia, but I fear the project has failed, as I have heard nothing more of it since. Supposing
however the funds raised for such an institution, where are the professors to come from? They
must be educated in this country; and how can that be done without establishing an institution
specially for young colored men?

There is not a college in the United States where a young man of color could gain admission,
or where, supposing him admitted, he could escape insult and indignity. Into our Theological
Seminaries a few are admitted, and are, perhaps, treated well; but what difficulty they find
in obtaining a proper preparatory education. The cause of religion then, no less than that
of secular education, calls for such a measure.

I think a strong and earnest appeal ought to be made to every friend of colonization throughout
the United States to support the scheme with heart, hand and purse. Surely there are enough
friends of the cause to subscribe at least a moderate sum for such a noble object; and in a
cause like this, wealthy colored persons ought to, and doubtless will, subscribe according
to their means. In addition to the general appeal through the Repository, let each individual
friend of colonization use all his influence with his personal friends and acquaintances, especially
with such as are wealthy. I know from my own experience how much can be done by personal application,
even in cases where success appears nearly hopeless.--I will pledge myself to use my humble
endeavors to the utmost with my personal acquaintances. A large sum would not be absolutely
necessary to found the college; and it would certainly be better to commence in the humblest
way than to give up the scheme altogether.

Buildings for instance might be purchased in many places for a very moderate sum that would
answer every purpose, or they might be built in the cheapest manner; in short, everything might
be commenced on the most economical scale and afterwards enlarged as funds increased.

Those who are themselves engaged in teaching, such as the faculties of colleges, etc., would,
of course, be most competent to prepare a plan for the proposed institution, and the ablest
of them should be consulted; meantime almost anyone interested in the cause may offer some
useful hint. In that spirit, I would myself offer a few brief suggestions, in case this appeal
should be favorably received.

Probably few men of my time of life have studied the character and condition of the African
race more attentively than I have, with what success I cannot presume to say, but the opinion
of any one devoting so much of his time to the subject ought to be of some value.

My opinion of their capacity has been much raised during my attempts at instructing them, but
at the same time, I am convinced that they require a totally different mode of training from
whites, and that any attempt to educate the two races together must prove a failure. I now
close these desultory remarks with the hope that some one more competent than myself will take
up the cause and urge it until some definite plan is formed.--African Repository, vol. xxx.,
pp. 194, 195, 196.

FROM A MEMORIAL TO THE LEGISLATURE OF NORTH CAROLINA, CIRCULATED AMONG THE CITIZENS OF THAT
STATE IN 1855, TO SECURE THE MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN LAWS REGULATING SLAVES AND FREE PERSONS
OF COLOR.

ELEVATION OF THE COLORED RACE

The Memorial is thus introduced:

"Your memorialists are well aware of the delicate nature of the subject to which the attention
of the Legislature is called, and of the necessity of proceeding with deliberation and caution.
They propose some radical changes in the law of slavery, demanded by our common christianity,
by public morality, and by the common weal of the whole South. At the same time they have no
wish or purpose inconsistent with the best interests of the slaveholder, and suggest no reform
which may impair the efficiency of slave labor. On the contrary, they believe that the much
desired modifications of our slave code will redound to the welfare of all classes, and to
the honor and character of the State throughout the civilized world."

The attention of the Legislature was then asked to the following propositions: "1. That it
behooves us as christian people to establish the institution of matrimony among our slaves,
with all its legal obligations and guarantees as to its duration between the parties. 2. That
under no circumstances should masters be permitted to disregard these natural and sacred ties
of relationship among their slaves, or between slaves belonging to different masters. 3. That
the parental relation to be acknowledged by law; and that the separation of parents from their
young children, say of twelve years and under, be strictly forbidden, under heavy pains and
penalties. 4. That the laws which prohibit the instruction of slaves and free colored persons,
by teaching them to read the Bible and other good books, be repealed."--African Repository,
vol. xxxi., pp. 117, 118.

A LAWYER FOR LIBERIA

On the sailing of almost every expedition we have had occasion to chronicle the departure of
missionaries, teachers, or a physician, but not until the present time, that of a lawyer. The
souls and bodies of the emigrants have been well cared for; now, it is no doubt supposed, they
require assistance in guarding their money, civil rights, etc. Most professional emissaries
have been educated at public expense, either by Missionary or the Colonization Societies, but
the first lawyer goes out independent of any associated aid. Mr. Garrison Draper, a colored
man of high respectability, and long a resident of Old Town, early determined on educating
his only son for Africa. He kept him at some good public school in Pennsylvania till fitted
for college, then sent him to Dartmouth where he remained four years and graduated, maintaining
always a very respectable standing, socially, and in his class. After much consultation with
friends, he determined upon the study of law. Mr. Charles Gilman, a retired member of the Baltimore
Bar, very kindly consented to give young Draper professional instruction, and for two years
he remained under his tuition. Not having any opportunities for acquiring a knowledge of the
routine of professional practice, the rules, habits, and courtesy of the Bar, in Baltimore,
Mr. Draper spent some few months in the office of a distinguished lawyer in Boston. On returning
to the city to embark for Liberia, he underwent an examination by Judge Lee of the Superior
Court, and obtained from him a certificate of his fitness to practice the profession of law,
a copy of which we append hereto.

We consider the settlement of Mr. Draper in the Republic as an event of no little importance.
It seemed necessary that there should be one regularly educated lawyer in a community of several
thousand people, in a Republic of freemen. True, there are many very intelligent, well informed
men now in the practice of law in Liberia, but they have not been educated to the profession,
and we believe, no one makes that his exclusive business. We doubt not that they will welcome
Mr. Draper as one of their fraternity. To our Liberia friends we commend him as a well-educated,
intelligent man, of good habits and principles; one in whom they may place the fullest confidence,
and we bespeak for him, at their hands, kind considerations and patronage.

STATE OF MARYLAND,

CITY OF BALTIMORE,

October 29, 1857.

Upon the application of Charles Gilman, Esq., of the Baltimore Bar, I have examined Edward
G. Draper, a young man of color, who has been reading law under the direction of Mr. Gilman,
with the view of pursuing its practice in Liberia, Africa. And I have found him most intelligent
and well informed in his answers to the questions propounded by me, and qualified in all respects
to be admitted to the Bar in Maryland, if he was a free white citizen of this State. Mr. Gilman,
in whom I have the highest confidence, has also testified to his good moral character.

This certificate is therefore furnished to him by me, with a view to promote his establishment
and success in Liberia at the Bar there.

Z. COLLINS LEE,

Judge of Superior Court, Balt., Md.

African Repository, vol. xxxiv., pp. 26 and 27.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

There is no helpful bibliography on the early education of the American Negro. A few books
treating the recent problems of education in this country give facts about the enlightenment
of the colored people before their general emancipation, but the investigator has to depend
on promiscuous sources for adequate information of this kind. This treatise, however, is too
brief to inculcate an appreciation of the extensive efforts to enlighten the ante-bellum Negro.

Considered as a local problem this question has received more attention. A few writers have
undertaken to sketch the movement to educate the colored people of certain communities before
the Civil War. Their objective point, however, has been rather to treat of later periods. The
books mentioned below give some information with respect to the period treated in this monograph.

BOOKS ON EDUCATION

Andrews, C.C. The history of the New York African Free Schools from their Establishment in
1787 to the Present Time. (New York, 1830.) Embraces a period of more than forty years, also
a brief account of the successful labors of the New York Manumission Society, with an appendix
containing specimens of original composition, both in prose and verse, by several of the pupils;
pieces spoken at public examinations; an interesting dialogue between Doctor Samuel L. Mitchell,
of New York, and a little boy of ten years old, and lines illustrative of the Lancastrian system
of instruction. Andrews was a white man who was for a long time the head of this colored school
system.

Boese, Thomas. Public Education in the City of New York, Its History, Condition, and Statistics,
an Official Report of the Board of Education. (New York, 1869.) While serving as clerk of the
Board of Education Boese had an opportunity to learn much about the New York African Free Schools.

Boone, R.G. A History of Education in Indiana. (New York, 1892.) Contains a brief account of
the work of the Abolitionists in behalf of the education of the Negroes of that commonwealth.

BUTLER, N.M. Education in the United States. A series of monographs. (New York, 1910.)

FOOTE, J.P. The Schools of Cincinnati and Its Vicinity. (Cincinnati, 1855.) A few pages of
this book are devoted to the establishment and the development of colored schools in that city.

GOODWIN, M.B. "History of Schools for the Colored Population in the District of Columbia."
(Published in the Report of the United States Commissioner of Education in 1871.) This is the
most thorough research hitherto made in this field. The same system has been briefly treated
by W.S. Montgomery in his Historical Sketch of Education for the Colored Race in the District
of Columbia, 1807-1907. (Washington, D.C., 1907.) A less detailed account of the same is found
in James Storum's "The Colored Public Schools of Washington,--Their Origin, Growth, and Present
Condition." (A.M.E. Church Review, vol. v., p. 279.)

JONES, C.C. The Religious Instruction of the Negroes in the United States. (Savannah, 1842.)
In trying to depict the spiritual condition of the colored people the writer tells also what
he thought about their intellectual status.

MERIWETHER, C. History of Higher Education in South Carolina, with a Sketch of the Free School
System. (Washington, 1889.) The author accounts for the early education of the colored people
in that commonwealth but gives no details.

MILLER, KELLY. "The Education of the Negro." Constitutes Chapter XVI. of the Report of the
United States Commissioner of Education for the year 1901. Contains a brief sketch of the early
education of the Negro race in this country.

ORR, GUSTAVUS. The Need of Education in the South. (Atlanta, 1880.) An address delivered before
the Department of Superintendence of the National Educational Association in 1879. Mr. Orr
referred to the first efforts to educate the Negroes of the South.

PLUMER, W.S. Thoughts on the Religious Instruction of Negroes. Reference is made here to the
early work of the Moravians among the colored people.

RANDALL, SAMUEL SIDWELL. The Common School System of the State of New York. (New York, 1851.)
Comprises the several laws relating to common schools, together with full expositions, instructions,
and forms, to which is prefixed an historical sketch of the system. Prepared in pursuance of
an act of the legislature, under the direction of the Honorable Christopher Morgan, Superintendent
of Common Schools.

STOCKWELL, THOMAS B. A History of Public Education in Rhode Island from 1636 to 1876. (Providence,
1876.) Compiled by authority of the Board of Education of Providence. Takes into account the
various measures enacted to educate the Negroes of that commonwealth.

WICKERSHAM, J.P. A History of Education in Pennsylvania, Private and Public, Elementary and
Higher, from the Time the Swedes Settled on the Delaware to the Present Day. (Lancaster, Pa.,
1886.) Considerable space is given to the education of the Negroes.

WRIGHT, R.R., SR. A Brief Historical Sketch of Negro Education in Georgia. (Savannah, 1894.)
The movement during the early period in that State is here disposed of in a few pages.

A Brief Sketch of the Schools for the Black People and their Descendants, Established by the
Society of Friends, etc. (Philadelphia, 1824.)

BOOKS OF TRAVEL BY FOREIGNERS

ABDY, E.S. Journal of a Residence and Tour in the United States from April, 1833, to October,
1834. Three volumes. (London, 1835.) Abdy was a fellow of Jesus College, Cambridge.

ALLIOT, PAUL. Réflexions historiques et politigues sur la Louisiane. (Cleveland, 1911.) Good
for economic conditions. Valuable for information concerning New Orleans about the beginning
of the nineteenth century.

ARFWEDSON, C.D. The United States and Canada in 1833 and 1834. Two volumes. (London, 1834.)
Somewhat helpful.

BREMER, FREDERIKA. The Homes of the New World; Impressions of America. Translated by M. Howitt.
Two volumes. (London, 1853.) The teaching of Negroes in the South is mentioned in several places.

BRISSOT DE WARVILLE, J.P. New Travels in the United States of America: including the Commerce
of America with Europe, particularly with Great Britain and France. Two volumes. (London, 1794.)
Gives general impressions, few details.

BUCKINGHAM, J.S. America, Historical, Statistical, and Descriptive. Two volumes. (New York, 1841.)

---- Eastern and Western States of America. Three volumes. (London and Paris, 1842.) Contains
useful information.

BULLOCK, W. Sketch of a Journey through the Western States of North America from New Orleans
by the Mississippi, Ohio, City of Cincinnati, and Falls of Niagara to New York. (London, 1827.)
The author makes mention of the condition of the Negroes.

COKE, THOMAS. Extracts from the Journals of the Rev. Dr. Coke's Three Visits to America. (London,
1790.) Contains general information.

---- A Journal of the Reverend Doctor Coke's Fourth Tour on the Continent of America. (London,
1792.) Brings out the interest of this churchman in the elevation of the Negroes.

CUMING, F. Sketches of a Tour to the Western Country through the States of Kentucky and Ohio;
a Voyage down the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers and a Trip through the Mississippi Territory
and Part of West Florida, Commenced at Philadelphia in the Winter of 1807 and Concluded in
1809. (Pittsburg, 1810.) Gives a few facts.

FAUX, W. Venerable Days in America. (London, 1823.) A "journal of a tour in the United States
principally undertaken to ascertain by positive evidence, the condition and probable prospects
of British emigrants, including accounts of Mr. Kirkbeck's settlement in Illinois and intended
to show men and things as they are in America." The Negroes are casually mentioned.

HUMBOLDT, FRIEDRICH HEINRICH ALEXANDER, FREIHERR VON. The Travels and Researches of Friedrich
Heinrich Alexander von Humboldt. (London, 1833.) The author gives a "condensed narrative of
his journeys in the equinoctial regions in America and in Asiatic Russia." The work contains
also analyses of his important investigations. He throws a little light on the condition of
the mixed breeds of the Western Hemisphere.

KEMBLE, FRANCES ANNE. Journal of a Residence on a Plantation in 1838-1839. (New York, 1863.)
This diary is quoted extensively as one of the best sources for Southern conditions before
the Civil War.

LAMBERT, JOHN. Travels through Canada and the United States, in the Years 1806, 1807, and 1808.
Two volumes. (London, 1813.) To this journal are added notices and anecdotes of some of the
leading characters in the United States. This traveler saw the Negroes.

PONS, FRANÇOIS RAYMOND DE. Travels in Parts of South America, during the Years 1801, 1802,
1803, and 1804. (London, 1806.) Contains a description of Caracas; an account of the laws,
commerce, and natural productions of that country; and a view of the customs and manners of
the Spaniards and native Indians. Negroes are mentioned.

PRIEST, WILLIAM. Travels in the United States Commencing in the Year 1793 and ending in the
Year 1797. (London, 1802.) Priest made two voyages across the Atlantic to appear at the theaters
of Baltimore, Boston, and Philadelphia. He had something to say about the condition of the Negroes.

ROCHEFOUCAULD-LIANCOURT, DUC DE. Travels through the United States of America, the Country
of the Iroquois, and Upper Canada in the Years 1795, 1796, and 1797. (London, 1799.) The author
discusses the attitude of the people toward the uplift of the Negroes.

SCHOEPF, JOHANN DAVID. Reise durch der Mittlern und Sudlichen Vereinigten Nordamerikanischen
Staaten nach Ost-Florida und den Bahama Inseln unternommen in den Jahren 1783 und 1784. (Cincinnati,
1812.) A translation of this work was published by Alfred J. Morrison at Philadelphia in 1911.
Gives general impressions.

SMYTH, J.F.D. A Tour in the United States. (London, 1848.) This writer incidentally mentions
the people of color.

SUTCLIFF, ROBERT. Travels in Some Parts of North America in the Years 1804, 1805, and 1806.
(Philadelphia, 1812.) While traveling in slave territory Sutcliff studied the mental condition
of the colored people.

BOOKS OF TRAVEL BY AMERICANS

BROWN, DAVID. The Planter, or Thirteen Years in the South. (Philadelphia, 1853.) Here we get
a Northern white man's view of the heathenism of the Negroes.

BURKE, EMILY. Reminiscences of Georgia. (Oberlin, Ohio, 1850.) Presents the views of a woman
who was interested in the uplift of the Negro race.

EVANS, ESTWICK. A Pedestrious Tour of Four Thousand Miles through the Western States and Territories
during the Winter and Spring of 1818. (Concord, N.H., 1819.) Among the many topics treated
is the author's contention that the Negro is capable of the highest mental development.

OLMSTED, FREDERICK LAW. A Journey in the Seaboard Slave States, with Remarks on their Economy.
(New York, 1859.)

---- A Journey in the Back Country. (London, i860.)

---- Journeys and Explorations in the Cotton Kingdom. (London, 1861.) Olmsted was a New York
farmer. He recorded a few important facts about the education of the Negroes immediately before
the Civil War.

PARSONS, E.G. Inside View of Slavery, or a Tour among the Planters. (Boston, 1855.) The introduction
was written by Harriet Beecher Stowe. It was published to aid the antislavery cause, but in
describing the condition of Negroes the author gave some educational statistics.

REDPATH, JAMES. The Roving Editor, or Talks with Slaves in Southern States. (New York 1859.)
The slaves are here said to be telling their own story.

SMEDES, MRS. SUSAN (DABNEY). Memorials of a Southern Planter. (Baltimore, 1887.) The benevolence
of those masters who had their slaves taught in spite of public opinion and the law, is well
brought out in this volume.

TOWER, REVEREND PHILO. Slavery Unmasked. (Rochester, 1856.) Valuable chiefly for the author's
arraignment of the so-called religious instruction of the Negroes after the reactionary period.

WOOLMAN, JOHN. Journal of John Woolman, with an Introduction by John G. Whittier. (Boston,
1873.) Woolman traveled so extensively in the colonies that he probably knew more about the
mental state of the Negroes than any other Quaker of his time.

LETTERS

JEFFERSON, THOMAS. Letters of Thomas Jefferson to Abbé Grégoire, M.A. Julien, and Benjamin
Banneker. In Jefferson's Works, Memorial Edition, xii. and xv. He comments on Negroes' talents.

MADISON, JAMES. Letter to Prances Wright. In Madison's Works, vol. iii., p. 396. The training
of Negroes is discussed.

MAY, SAMUEL JOSEPH. The Right of the Colored People to Education. (Brooklyn, 1883.) A collection
of public letters addressed to Andrew T. Judson, remonstrating on the unjust procedure relative
to Miss Prudence Crandall.

MCDONOGH, JOHN. "A Letter of John McDonogh on African Colonization addressed to the Editor
of The New Orleans Commercial Bulletin," McDonogh was interested in the betterment of the colored
people and did much to promote their mental development.

SHARPE, H. ED. The Abolition of Negro Apprenticeship. A letter to Lord Brougham. (London, 1838.)

A Southern Spy, or Curiosities of Negro Slavery in the South. Letters from a Southern to a
Northern Gentleman. The comment of a passer-by.

A Letter to an American Planter from his Friend in London in 1781. The writer discussed the
instruction of Negroes.

BIOGRAPHIES

BIRNEY, CATHERINE H. The Grimké Sisters; Sara and Angelina Grimké, the First American Women
Advocates of Abolition and Woman's Rights. (Boston, 1885.) Mentions the part these workers
played in the secret education of Negroes in the South.

BIRNEY, WILLIAM. James G. Birney and His Times. (New York, 1890.) A sketch of an advocate of
Negro education.

BOWEN, CLARENCE W. Arthur and Lewis Tappan. A paper read at the fiftieth anniversary of the
New York Anti-Slavery Society, at the Broadway Tabernacle, New York City, October 2, 1883.
An honorable mention of two promoters of the colored manual labor schools.

CHILD, LYDIA MARIA. Isaac T. Hopper: A True Life. (Boston and Cleveland, 1853.)

CONWAY, MONCURE DANIEL. Benjamin Banneker, the Negro Astronomer. (London, 1864.)

(COOPER, JAMES F.) Notions of the Americans Picked up by a Traveling Bachelor. (Philadelphia,
1828.) General.

DREW, BENJAMIN. A North-side View of Slavery. The Refugee: or the Narratives of Fugitive Slaves
in Canada. Related by themselves, with an Account of the History and Condition of the Colored
Population of Upper Canada. (New York and Boston, 1856.)

GARRISON, FRANCIS AND WENDELL P. William Lloyd Garrison, 1805-1879. The Story of his Life told
by his Children. Four volumes. (Boston and New York, 1894.) Includes a brief account of what
he did for the education of the colored people.

HALLOWELL, A.D. James and Lucretia Mott; Life and Letters. (Boston, 1884.) These were ardent
abolitionists who advocated the education of the colored people.

JOHNSON, OLIVER. William Lloyd Garrison and his Times. (Boston, 1880. New edition, revised
and enlarged, Boston, 1881.)

LOSSING, BENSON J. Life of George Washington, a Biography, Military and Political. Three volumes.
(New York, 1860.) Gives the will of George Washington, who provided that at the stipulated
time his slaves should be freed and that their children should be taught to read.

MATHER, COTTON. The Life and Death of the Reverend John Elliot who was the First Preacher of
the Gospel to the Indians in America. The third edition carefully corrected. (London, 1694.)
Sets forth the attitude of John Elliot toward the teaching of slaves.

MOTT, A. Biographical Sketches and Interesting Anecdotes of Persons of Color; with a Selection
of Pieces of Poetry. (New York, 1826.) Some of these sketches show how ambitious Negroes learned
to read and write in spite of opposition.

SIMMONS, W.J. Men of Mark: Eminent, Progressive, and Rising, with an Introductory Sketch of
the Author by Reverend Henry M. Turner. (Cleveland, Ohio, 1891.) Accounts for the adverse circumstances
under which many ante-bellum Negroes acquired knowledge.

SNOWDEN, T.B. The Autobiography of John B. Snowden. (Huntington, W. Va., 1900.)

WIGHTMAN, WILLIAM MAY. Life of William Capers, one of the Bishops of the Methodist Episcopal
Church South; including an Autobiography. (Nashville, Tenn., 1858.) Shows what Capers did for
the religious instruction of the colored people.

AUTOBIOGRAPHIES

ASBURY, BISHOP FRANCIS. The Journal of the Reverend Francis Asbury, Bishop of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, from August 7, 1781, to December 7, 1815. Three volumes. (New York, 1821.)

COFFIN, LEVI. Reminiscences of Levi Coffin, reputed President of the Under Ground Railroad.
(Second edition, Cincinnati, 1880.) Mentions the teaching of slaves.

DOUGLASS, FREDERICK. Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, as an American Slave. Written
by himself. (Boston, 1845.) Gives several cases of secret Negro schools.

---- The Life and Times of Frederick Douglass from 1817 to 1882. Written by himself. Illustrated.
With an Introduction by the Right Honorable John Bright, M.P. Edited by John Loeb, F.R.G.S.,
of the Christian Age, Editor of Uncle Tom's Story of his Life. (London, 1882.) Contains Douglass's
appeal in behalf of vocational training.

FLINT, TIMOTHY. Recollections of the last Ten Years. A series of letters to the Reverend James
Flint of Salem, Massachusetts, by T. Flint, Principal of the Seminary of Rapide, Louisiana.
(Boston, 1826.) Mentions the teaching of Negroes.

GENERAL HISTORIES

BANCROFT, GEORGE. History of the United States. Ten volumes. (Boston, 1857-1864.)

HART, A.B., Editor. American History told by Contemporaries. Four volumes. (New York, 1898.)

---- The American Nation; A history, etc. Twenty-seven volumes. (New York, 1904-1908.) The
volumes which have a bearing on the subject treated in this monograph are Bourne's Spain in
America, Edward Channing's Jeffersonian System, F.J. Turner's Rise of the New West, and Hart's
Slavery and Abolition.

HERRERA Y TORDESILLAS, ANTONIO DE. Historia General de los hechos de los Castellanos en las
islas i tierra firme del mar oceano. Escrito por Antonio herrera coronista mayor de Sr. M.
de las Indias y si coronista de Castilla. En Quatro decadas desde el año de 1492 hasta el de
1554. Decada primera del rey Nuro Señor. (En Madrid en la Imprenta real de Nicolas Rodriguez
Franco, año 1726-1727.)

MCMASTER, JOHN B. History of the United States. Six volumes. (New York, 1900.)

RHODES, J.F. History of the United States from the Compromise of 1850 to the Final Restoration
of Home Rule in the South. (New York and London, Macmillan & Company, 1892-1906.)

VON HOLST, HERMAN. The Constitutional and Political History of the United States of America.
(Seven volumes. Chicago, 1877.)

STATE HISTORIES

ASHE, S.A. History of North Carolina. (Greensboro, 1908.)

BANCROFT, HUBERT HOWE. History of Arizona and New Mexico, 1530-1888. (San Francisco, 1890.)

BEARSE, AUSTIN. Reminiscences of Fugitive Slave Days in Boston. (Boston, 1880.)

BETTLE, EDWARD. "Notices of Negro Slavery as Connected with Pennsylvania." Read before the
Historical Society of

Pennsylvania, 8th Mo., 7th, 1826. Memoirs of Historical Society of Pennsylvania.

BRACKETT, JEFFREY R. The Negro in Maryland. Johns Hopkins University Studies. (Baltimore, 1889.)

COLLINS, LEWIS. Historical Sketches of Kentucky. (Maysville, Ky., and Cincinnati, Ohio, 1847.)

JONES, CHARLES COLCOCK, JR. History of Georgia. (Boston, 1883.)

MCCRADY, EDWARD. The History of South Carolina under the Royal Government, 1719-1776, by Edward
McCrady, a Member of the Bar of South Carolina and President of the Historical Society of South
Carolina, Author of A History of South Carolina under the Proprietary Government. (New York
and London, 1899.)

STEINER, B.C. History of Slavery in Connecticut. (Johns Hopkins University Studies, 1893.)

STUVÉ, BERNARD, and Alexander Davidson. A Complete History of Illinois from 1673 to 1783. (Springfield,
1874.)

TREMAIN, MARY M.A. Slavery in the District of Columbia. (University of Nebraska Seminary Papers,
April, 1892.)

History of Brown County, Ohio. (Chicago, 1883.)

"Slavery in Illinois, 1818-1824." (Massachusetts Historical Society Collections, volume x.)

CHURCH HISTORIES

BANGS, NATHAN. A History of the Methodist Episcopal Church. Four volumes. (New York, 1845.)

BENEDICT, DAVID. A General History of the Baptist Denomination in America and in Other Parts
of the World. (Boston, 1813.)

---- Fifty Years among the Baptists. (New York, 1860.)

DALCHO, FREDERICK. An Historical Account of the Protestant Episcopal Church in South Carolina,
from the First Settlement of the Province to the War of the Revolution; with notices of the
present State of the Church in each Parish: and some Accounts of the early Civil History of
Carolina never before published. To which are added: the Laws relating to Religious Worship,
the Journal and Rules of the Convention of South Carolina; the Constitution and Canons of the
Protestant Episcopal Church and the Course of Ecclesiastical Studies. (Charleston, 1820.)

DAVIDSON, REV. ROBERT. History of the Presbyterian Church in the State of Kentucky; with a
Preliminary Sketch of the Churches in the Valley of Virginia. (New York, Pittsburgh, and Lexington,
Kentucky, 1847.)

HAMILTON, JOHN T. A History of the Church Known as the Moravian Church, or the Unitas Fratrum,
or the Unity of Brethren during the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries. (Bethlehem, Pa., 1900.)

HAWKS, FRANCIS L. Ecclesiastical History of the United States. (New York, 1836.)

JAMES, CHARLES P. Documentary History of the Struggle for Religious Liberty in Virginia. (Lynchburg,
Va., 1900.)

MATLACK, LUCIUS. The History of American Slavery and Methodism from 1780 to 1849: and History
of the Wesleyan Methodist Connection of America. In Two Parts with an Appendix. (New York, 1849.)

MCTYEIRE, HOLLAND N. A History of Methodism; comprising a View of the Rise of the Revival of
Spiritual Religion in the First Half of the Eighteenth Century, and the Principal Agents by
whom it was promoted in Europe and America, with some Account of the Doctrine and Polity of
Episcopal Methodism in the United States and the Means and Manner of its Extension down to
1884. (Nashville, Tenn., 1884.) McTyeire was one of the bishops of the Methodist Episcopal
Church South.

REICHEL, L.T. The Early History of the Church of the United Brethren (Unitas Fratrum) commonly
Called Moravians in North America, from 1734 to 1748. (Nazareth, Pa., 1888.)

RUSH, CHRISTOPHER. A Short Account of the African Methodist Episcopal Church in America. Written
by the aid of George Collins. Also a view of the Church Order or Government from Scripture
and from some of the best Authors relative to Episcopacy. (New York, 1843.)

SEMPLE, R.B. History of the Rise and Progress of the Baptists in Virginia. (Richmond, 1810.)

SERMONS, ORATIONS, ADDRESSES

BACON, THOMAS. Sermons Addressed to Masters and Servants. Published in 1743. Republished with
other tracts by Rev. William Meade. (Winchester, Va., 1805.)

BOUCHER, JONATHAN. "American Education." This address is found in the author's volume entitled
A View of the Causes and Consequences of the American Revolution; in thirteen discourses, preached
in North America between the years 1763 and 1775: with an historical preface. (London, 1797.)

BUCHANAN, GEORGE. An Oration upon the Moral and Political Evil of Slavery. Baltimore, July
4, 1791. (Baltimore, 1793.)

CATTO, WILLIAM T. A Semicentenary Discourse Delivered in the First African Presbyterian Church,
Philadelphia, on the 4th Sabbath of May, 1857: with a History of the Church from its first
organization; including a brief Notice of Reverend John Gloucester, its First Pastor. Also
an appendix containing sketches of all the Colored Churches in Philadelphia. (Philadelphia,
1857.) The author was then pastor of this church.

DANA, JAMES. The African Slave Trade. A Discourse delivered in the City of New Haven, September
9, 1790, before the Connecticut Society for the Promotion of Freedom. (New Haven, 1790.) Dr.
Dana was at that time the pastor of the First Congregational Church of New Haven.

FAWCETT, BENJAMIN. A Compassionate Address to the Christian Negroes in Virginia, and other
British Colonies in North America. With an appendix containing some account of the rise and
progress of Christianity among that poor people. (The second edition, Salop, printed by F.
Edwards and F. Cotton.)

GARRISON, WILLIAM LLOYD. An Address Delivered before the Free People of Color in Philadelphia,
New York, and other Cities during the Month of June, 1831. (Boston, 1831.)

GRIFFIN, EDWARD DORR. A Plea for Africa. A Sermon preached October 26, 1817, in the First Presbyterian
Church in the City of New York before the Synod of New York and New Jersey at the Request of
the Board of Directors of the African School established by the Synod. (New York, 1817.) The
aim was to arouse interest in this school.

JONES, CHARLES COLCOCK. The Religious Instruction of Negroes. A Sermon delivered before the
Association of the Planters in Liberty and McIntosh Counties, Georgia. (Princeton, N.J., 1832.)
Jones was then engaged in the work which he was discussing.

MAYO, A.D. "Address on Negro Education." (Springfield Republican, July 9, 1897; and the New
England Magazine, October, 1898.)

RUSH, BENJAMIN. An Address to the Inhabitants of the British Settlements in America upon Slave
Keeping. The second edition with observations on a pamphlet entitled Slavery not Forbidden
by the Scripture or a Defense of the West Indian Planters by a Pennsylvanian. (Philadelphia,
1773.) The Negroes' need of education is pointed out.

SECKER, THOMAS, Archbishop of Canterbury. (London 1741.) In this discourse Secker set forth
his plan of teaching the Negroes to elevate themselves.

SIDNEY, JOSEPH. An Oration Commemorative of the Abolition of the Slave Trade in the United
States Delivered before the Wilberforce Philanthropic Association in the City of New York on
January 2, 1809. (New York, 1809.) The speaker did not forget the duty of all men to uplift
those unfortunates who had already been degraded.

SMITH, THOMAS P. An Address before the Colored Citizens of Boston in Opposition to the Abolition
of Colored Schools, 1849. (Boston, 1850.)

WARBURTON, WILLIAM, Bishop of Gloucester. (London, 1766.) The speaker urged his hearers to
enlighten the Indians and Negroes.

REPORTS ON THE EDUCATION OF THE COLORED PEOPLE

Report of the Proceedings at the Formation of the African Education Society; instituted at
Washington, December 28, 1829. With an Address to the Public by the Board of Managers. (Washington,
1830.)

Report of the Minority of the Committee of the Primary School Board on the Caste Schools of
the City of Boston. With some remarks on the City Solicitor's Opinion, by Wendell Phillips.
(Boston, 1846.)

Report of a Special Committee of the Grammar School Board of Boston, Massachusetts. Abolition
of the Smith Colored School. (Boston, 1849.)

Report of the Primary School Committee, Boston, Massachusetts. Abolition of the Colored Schools.
(Boston, 1846.)

Report of the Minority of the Committee upon the Petition of J.T. Hilton and other Colored
Citizens of Boston, Praying for the Abolition of the Smith Colored School. (Boston, 1849.)

Opinion of Honorable Richard Fletcher as to whether Colored Children can be Lawfully Excluded
from Free Public Schools. (Boston, 1846.)

Special Report of the Commissioner of Education on the Improvement of the Public Schools in
the District of Columbia, containing M.B. Goodwin's "History of Schools for the Colored Population
in the District of Columbia." (Washington, 1871.)

Thirty-Seventh Annual Report of the New York Public School Society, 1842. (New York, 1842.)

STATISTICS

CLARKE, J.F. Present Condition of the Free Colored People of the United States. (New York and
Boston, the American Antislavery Society, 1859.) Published also in the March number of the
Christian Examiner.

Condition of the Free People of Color in Ohio. With interesting anecdotes. (Boston, 1839.)

Institute for Colored Youth. (Philadelphia, 1860-1865.) Contains a list of the officers and
students.

Report of the Condition of the Colored People of Cincinnati, 1835. (Cincinnati, 1835.)

Report of a Committee of the Pennsylvania Society of Abolition on Present Condition of the
Colored People, etc., 1838. (Philadelphia, 1838.)

Statistical Inquiry into the Condition of the People of Color of the City and Districts of
Philadelphia. (Philadelphia, 1849.) Statistics of the Colored People of Philadelphia in 1859,
compiled by Benj. C. Bacon. (Philadelphia, 1859.)

Statistical Abstract of the United States, 1898. Prepared by the Bureau of Statistics. (Washington,
D.C., 1899.)

Statistical View of the Population of the United States, A, 1790-1830. (Published by the Department
of State in 1835.)

The Present State and Condition of the Free People of Color of the city of Philadelphia and
adjoining districts as exhibited by the Report of a Committee of the Pennsylvania Society for
Promoting the Abolition of Slavery. Read First Month (January), 5th, 1838. (Philadelphia, 1838.)

Trades of the Colored People. (Philadelphia, 1838.)

United States Censuses of 1790, 1800, 1810, 1820, 1830, 1840, 1850, and 1860.

VARLE, CHARLES. A Complete View of Baltimore; with a Statistical Sketch of all the Commercial,
Mercantile, Manufacturing, Literary, Scientific Institutions and Establishments in the same
Vicinity ... derived from personal Observation and Research. Shows the action taken by various
Friends to educate the Negroes.

A Collection of the Acts, Deliverances, and Testimonies of the Supreme Judicatory of the Presbyterian
Church, from its Origin in America to the Present Time. By Samuel J. Baird. (Philadelphia, 1856.)

Acts and Proceedings of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States
of America in the Year 1800. (Philadelphia, 1800.) The question of instructing the Negroes
came up in this meeting. (London, 1893.) A good source for the accounts of the efforts of this
organization among Negroes.

"Minutes of the Methodist Conference, 1785." Found in Rev. Charles Elliott's History of the
Great Secession from the Methodist Episcopal Church, etc. This conference discussed the education
of the colored people.

REPORTS OF THE AMERICAN CONVENTION, 1794-1831

American Convention of Abolition Societies. Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates
from the Abolition Societies established in different Parts of the United States, assembled
at Philadelphia on the first Day of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, and
continued by Adjournments, until the seventh Day of the same Month, inclusive. (Philadelphia,
1798.)

American Convention of Abolition Societies. (Philadelphia, 1803.)

--Minutes of the Proceedings of the Ninth American Convention for promoting the Abolition of
Slavery and improving the Condition of the African Race; assembled at Philadelphia on the ninth
Day of January, one thousand eight hundred and four, and continued by Adjournments until the
thirteenth Day of the same Month, inclusive. Adopted on the eleventh Day of December, 1818,
to take effect on the fifth Day of October, 1819. Convened at Philadelphia, on the seventh
Day of October, 1823. (Philadelphia, 1823.)

--To the Clergy and Pastors throughout the United States. (Dated Philadelphia, September 18, 1826.)

--Minutes of the Adjourned Session of the Twentieth Biennial American Convention for promoting
the Abolition of Slavery. Held at Baltimore, November 28. (Philadelphia, 1828.)

REPORTS OF ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES

The Annual Report of the American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Societies, presented at New York,
May 6, 1847, with the Addresses and Resolutions. (New York, 1847.)

The Annual Report of the American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Societies, with the Addresses and
Resolutions. (New York, 1851.)

The First Annual Report of the American Anti-Slavery Society, with the Speeches Delivered at
the Anniversary Meeting held in Chatham Street Chapel in the City of New York, on the sixth
Day of May by Adjournment on the eighth, in the Rev. Dr. Lansing's Church, and the Minutes
of the Society for Business. (New York, 1834.)

The Second Annual Report of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in the City of New York,
on the twelfth of May, 1835, and the Minutes and Proceedings of the Society for Business. (New
York, 1839.)

The Annual Report of the American Anti-Slavery Society by the Executive Committee for the year
ending May 1, 1859. (New York, 1860.)

The Third Annual Report of the Managers of the New England Anti-Slavery Society presented June
2, 1835. (Boston, 1835.)

Annual Reports of the Massachusetts (or New England) Anti-Slavery Society, 1831-end.

Reports of the National Anti-Slavery Convention, 1833-end.

REPORTS OF COLONIZATION SOCIETIES

Reports of the American Colonization Society, 1818-1832.

Report of the New York Colonization Society, October 1, 1823. (New York, 1823.)

The Seventh Annual Report of the Colonization Society of the City of New York. (New York, 1839.)

Proceedings of the New York State Colonization Society, 1831. (Albany, 1831.)

The Eighteenth Annual Report of the Colonization Society of the State of New York. (New York,
1850.)

REPORTS OF CONVENTIONS OF FREE NEGROES

Minutes and Proceedings of the First Annual Convention of the People of Color. Held by Adjournment
in the City of Philadelphia, from the sixth to the eleventh of June, inclusive, 1831. (New
York, 1833.) These proceedings were published also in the New York Commercial Advertiser, April
27, 1833. (New York, 1834.)

Proceedings of the Convention of the Colored Freedmen of Ohio at Cincinnati, January 14, 1852.
(Cincinnati, Ohio, 1852.)

MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS AND PAMPHLETS

ADAMS, ALICE DANA. The Neglected Period of Anti-Slavery in America. Radcliffe College Monographs
No. 14. (Boston and London, 1908.) Contains some valuable facts about the education of the
Negroes during the first three decades of the nineteenth century.

ADAMS, JOHN. The Works of John Adams, Second President of the United States; with a Life of
the Author, Notes, and Illustrations by his Grandson, Charles Francis Adams. Ten volumes. Volume
x., shows the attitude of James Otis toward the Negroes.

ADAMS, NEHEMIAH. A South-Side View of Slavery; or Three Months at the South in 1854. (Boston,
1854.) The position of the South on the education of the colored people is well set forth.

AGRICOLA (pseudonym). An Impartial View of the Real State of the Black Population in the United
States. (Philadelphia, 1824.)

ALBERT, O.V. The House of Bondage; or Charlotte Brooks and other Slaves Original and Life-like
as they appeared in their Plantation and City Slave Life; together with pen Pictures of the
peculiar Institution, with Sights and Insights into their new Relations as Freedmen, Freemen,
and Citizens, with an Introduction by Reverend Bishop Willard Mallalieu. (New York and Cincinnati,
1890.)

ALEXANDER, A. A History of Colonization on the Western Continent of Africa. (Philadelphia,
1846.) Treats of education in "An Account of the Endeavors used by the Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, to instruct Negroes in the City of New York, together with
two of Bishop Gibson's Letters on that subject, being an Extract from Dr. Humphrey's Historical
Account of the Incorporated Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts from
its Foundation in the Year 1728." (Greensborough, 1830.)

An Address to the Presbyterians of Kentucky proposing a Plan for the Instruction and Emancipation
of their Slaves by a Committee of the Synod of Kentucky. (Newburyport, 1836.)

ANDERSON, MATTHEW.Presbylerianism--Its Relation to the Negro. (Philadelphia, 1897.)

ANDREWS, E.E. Slavery and the Domestic Slave Trade in the United States. In a series of letters
addressed to the Executive Committee of the American Union for the Relief and Improvement of
the Colored Race. (Boston, 1836.)

BALDWIN, EBENEZER. Observations on the Physical and Moral Qualities of our Colored Population
with Remarks on the Subject of Emancipation and Colonization. (New Haven, 1834.)

BASSETT, J.S. Slavery and Servitude in the Colony of North Carolina. (Johns Hopkins University
Studies in Historical and Political Science. Series XVII., Nos. 7-8. Baltimore, 1898.)

BAXTER, RICHARD. Practical Works. Twenty-three volumes. (London, 1830.)

BENEZET, ANTHONY. A Caution to Great Britain and Her Colonies in a Short Representation of
the calamitous state of the enslaved Negro in the British Dominions. (Philadelphia, 1784.)

---- The Case of our Fellow-Creatures, the Oppressed Africans, respectfully recommended to
the serious Consideration of the Legislature of Great Britain, by the People called Quakers.
(London, 1783.)

---- Observations on the enslaving, importing, and purchasing of Negroes; with some advice
thereon, extracted from the Epistle of the Yearly-Meeting of the People called Quakers, held
at London in the Year 1748. (Germantown, 1760.)

---- The Potent Enemies of America laid open: being some Account of the baneful Effects attending
the Use of distilled spirituous Liquors, and the Slavery of the Negroes. (Philadelphia.)

---- A Short Account of that Part of Africa, inhabited by the Negroes. With respect to the
Fertility of the Country; the good Disposition of many of the Natives, and the Manner by which
the Slave Trade is carried on. (Philadelphia, 1792.)

---- Short Observations on Slavery, Introductory to Some Extracts from the Writings of the
Abbé Raynal, on the Important Subject.

---- Some Historical Account of Guinea, its Situation, Produce, and the General Disposition
of its Inhabitants. With an Inquiry into the Rise and Progress of the Slave Trade, its Nature
and Lamentable Effects. (London, 1788.)

BIRNEY, JAMES G. The American Churches, the Bulwarks of American Slavery, by an American. (Newburyport,
1842.)

BIRNEY, WILLIAM. James G. Birney and his Times. The Genesis of the Republican Party, with Some
Account of the Abolition Movements in the South before 1828. (New York, 1890.)

BOURNE, WILLIAM O. History of the Public School Society of the City of New York, with Portraits
of the Presidents of the Society. (New York, 1870.)

BRACKETT, JEFFERY R.The Negro in Maryland. A Study of the Institution of Slavery. (Baltimore,
Johns Hopkins University, 1889).

BRANAGAN, THOMAS. A Preliminary Essay on the Oppression of the Exiled Sons of Africa, Consisting
of Animadversions on the Impolicy and Barbarity of the Deleterious Commerce and Subsequent
Slavery of the Human Species. (Philadelphia: Printed for the Author by John W. Scott, 1804.)

BRANAGAN, T. Serious Remonstrances Addressed to the Citizens of the Northern States and their
Representatives, being an Appeal to their Natural Feelings and Common Sense; Consisting of
Speculations and Animadversions, on the Recent Revival of the Slave Trade in the American Republic.
(Philadelphia, 1805.)

BROWN, W.W. My Southern Home. (Boston, 1882.)

CHILD, LYDIA MARIA. An Appeal in Favor of that Class of Americans Called Africans. (Boston:
Allen & Ticknor, 1833, and New York: J.S. Taylor, 1836.)

CHANNING, WILLIAM E. Slavery. (Boston: J. Munroe & Co., 1835.)

---- Remarks on the Slavery Question. (Boston: J. Munroe & Co., 1839.)

COBB, T.R.R. An Historical Sketch of Slavery. (Philadelphia: T. & J.W. Johnson, 1858.)

---- An Inquiry into the Law of Negro Slavery in the United States of America. To which is
Prefixed an Historical Sketch of Slavery by Thomas R.R. Cobb of Georgia. (Philadelphia and
Savannah, 1858.)

COFFIN, JOSHUA. An Account of Some of the Principal Slave Insurrections and Others which have
Occurred or been attempted in the United States and Elsewhere during the Last Two Centuries.
With Various Remarks. Collected from Various Sources. (New York, 1860.)

CONWAY, MONCURE DANIEL. Testimonies Concerning Slavery. (London: Chapman & Hall, 1865.) The
author was a native of Virginia.

CULP, D.W. Twentieth Century Negro Literature, or a Cyclopedia of Thought, Vital Topics Relating
to the American Negro by One Hundred of America's Greatest Negroes. (Toronto, Naperville, Ill.,
and Atlanta, Ga., 1902.)

DE BOW, J.D.B. Industrial Resources of the Southern and Western States. (New Orleans, 1852-1853.)

DELANY, M.R. The Condition of the Colored People in United States. (Boston, 1852.)

DRESSER, AMOS. The Narrative of Amos Dresser with Stone's Letters from Natchez--an Obituary
Notice of the Writer and Two Letters from Tallahassee Relating to the Treatment of Slaves.
(New York, 1836.)

DREWERY, WILLIAM SIDNEY. Slave Insurrections in Virginia, 1830-1865. (Washington, 1900.)

DUBOIS, W.E.B. The Philadelphia Negro. (Philadelphia, 1896.)

---- The Suppression of the African Slave Trade to the United States of America, 1638-1870.
Harvard Historical Studies, Vol. i. (New York, London, and Bombay, 1896.)

---- Atlanta University Publications, The Negro Common School. (Atlanta, 1901.)

---- The College-Bred Negro. (Atlanta, 1900.)

---- The Negro Church. (Atlanta, 1903.)

---- and Dill, A.G. The College-Bred Negro American. (Atlanta, 1910.)

---- The Common School and the Negro American. (Atlanta, 1911.)

---- The Negro American Artisan. (Atlanta, 1912.)

ELLIOTT, REV. CHARLES. History of the Great Secession from the Methodist Episcopal Church, etc.

Exposition of the Object and Plan of the American Union for the Relief and Improvement of the
Colored Race. (Boston, 1835.)

FEE, JOHN G. Anti-Slavery Manual. (Maysville, 1848.)

FISH, C.R. Guide to the Materials for American History in Roman and Other Italian Archives.
(Washington, D.C., Carnegie Institution, 1911.)

FRANKLIN, BENJAMIN. The Writings of Benjamin Franklin Collected and Edited with a Life and
Introduction by Albert Henry Smyth. (New York, 1905-1907.)

FROST, W.G. "Appalachian America." In vol. i. of The Americana (New York, 1912.)

GARNETT, H.H. The Past and Present Condition and the Destiny of the Colored Race. (Troy, 1848.)

GOODLOE, D.R. The Southern Platform. (Boston, 1858.)

GRÉGOIRE, BISHOP. De la Littêrature des Nègres. (Paris, 1808.) Translated and published by
D.B. Warden at Brooklyn, in 1810.

HARRISON, SAMUEL ALEXANDER. Wenlock Christison, and the Early Friends in Talbot County, Maryland.
A Paper read before the Maryland Historical Society, March 9, 1874. (Baltimore, 1878.)

HENSON, JOSIAH. The Life of Josiah Henson. (Boston, 1849.)

HICKOK, CHARLES THOMAS. The Negro in Ohio, 1802-1870. (Cleveland, 1896.)

HODGKIN, THOMAS A. Inquiry into the Merits of the American Colonization Society and Reply to
the Charges Brought against it, with an Account of the British African Colonization Society.
(London, 1833.)

HOLLAND, EDWIN C. Refutation of Calumnies Circulated against the Southern and Western States.
(Charleston, 1822.)

HOWE, SAMUEL G. The Refugees from Slavery in Canada West. Report to the Freedmen's Inquiry
Committee. (Boston, 1864.)

INGLE, EDWARD. The Negro in the District of Columbia. (Johns Hopkins Studies in Historical
and Political Sciences, vol. xi., Baltimore, 1893.)

JAY, JOHN. The Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay, First Chief Justice of the United
States and President of the Continental Congress, Member of the Commission to Negotiate the
Treaty of Independence, Envoy to Great Britain, Governor of New York, etc., 1782-1793. (New
York and London, 1891.) Edited by Henry P. Johnson, Professor of History in the College of
the City of New York.

JAY, WILLIAM. An Inquiry into the Character and Tendencies of the American Colonization and
American Anti-Slavery Societies. Second edition. (New York, 1835.)

JEFFERSON, THOMAS. The Writings of Thomas Jefferson. Memorial Edition. Autobiography, Notes
on Virginia, Parliamentary Manual, Official Papers, Messages and Addresses, and Other Writings
Official and Private, etc. (Washington, 1903.)

Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political Science. H.B. Adams, Editor. (Baltimore,
Johns Hopkins Press.)

JONES, C.C. A Catechism of Scripture, Doctrine, and Practice. (Philadelphia, 1852.)

KIRK, EDWARD E. Educated Labor, etc. (New York, 1868.)

LANGSTON, JOHN M. From the Virginia Plantation to the National Capital; or, The First and Only
Negro Representative in Congress from the Old Dominion. (Hartford, 1894.)

L'Esclavage dans les États Confédérés par un missionaire. Deuxième édition. (Paris, 1865.)

LOCKE, M.S. Anti-Slavery in America, from the Introduction of African Slaves to the Prohibition
of the Slave Trade, 1619-1808. Radcliffe College Monographs, No. 11. (Boston, 1901.)

LONG, J.D. Pictures of Slavery in Church and State, Including Personal Reminiscences, Biographical
Sketches, Anecdotes, etc., with Appendix Containing the Views of John Wesley and Richard Watson
on Slavery. (Philadelphia, 1857.)

LOWERY, WOODBURY. The Spanish Settlements within the Present Limits of the United States. Florida,
1562-1574. (New York and London, 1905.)

MADISON, JAMES. Letters and Other Writings of James Madison Published by Order of Congress.
Four volumes. (Philadelphia, 1865.)

MALLARY, R.O. Maybank: Some Memoirs of a Southern Christian Household; Family Life of C.C. Jones.

MAY, S.J. Some Recollections of our Anti-Slavery Conflict.

MCLEOD, ALEXANDER. Negro Slavery Unjustifiable. A Discourse by the Late Alexander McLeod, 1802,
with an Appendix. (New York, 1863.)

MEADE, BISHOP WILLIAM. Old Churches, Ministers, and Families, of Virginia. (Philadelphia, 1897.)

MONROE, JAMES. The Writings of James Monroe, Including a Collection of his Public and Private
Papers and Correspondence now for the First Time Printed, Edited by S.M. Hamilton. (Boston, 1900.)

MOORE, GEORGE H. Notes on the History of Slavery in Massachusetts by George H. Moore, Librarian
of the New York Historical Society and Corresponding Member of the Massachusetts Historical
Society. (New York, 1866.)

MORGAN, THOMAS J. The Negro in America. (Philadelphia, 1898.)

NEEDLES, EDWARD. Ten Years' Progress, or a Comparison of the State and Condition of the Colored
People in the City and County of Philadelphia from 1837 to 1847. (Philadelphia, 1849.)

OTHELLO (PSEUDONYM). "Essays on Negro Slavery." Published in The American Museum in 1788. Othello
was a free Negro.

OVINGTON, M.W. Half-a-Man. (New York, 1911.) Treats of the Negro in the State of New York.
A few pages are devoted to the education of the colored people.

PARRISH, JOHN. Remarks on the Slavery of the Black People; Addressed to the Citizens of the
United States, Particularly to those who are in Legislative or Executive Stations in the General
or State Governments; and also to Such Individuals as Hold them in Bondage. (Philadelphia, 1806.)

PLUMER, W.S. Thoughts on the Religious Instruction of the Negroes of this Country. (Savannah,
1848.)

Plymouth Colony, New. Records of the Colony of New Plymouth in New England. Printed by Order
of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Edited by Nathaniel B. Shurtleff,
Member of the Massachusetts Historical Society, and Fellow of the Antiquarians of London. (Boston,
1855.)

PORTEUS, BISHOP BEILBY. The Works of the Rev. Beilby Porteus, D.D., Late Bishop of London,
with his Life by the Rev. Robert Hodgson, A.M., F.R.S., Rector of St. George's, Hanover Square,
and One of the Chaplains in ordinary to His Majesty. A new edition in six volumes. (London, 1816.)

POWER, REV. JOHN H. Review of the Lectures of William A. Smith, D.D., on the Philosophy and
Practice of Slavery as Exhibited in the Institution of Domestic Slavery in the United States,
with the Duties of Masters to Slaves in a Series of Letters addressed to the Author. (Cincinnati,
1859.)

Quaker Pamphlet.

RICE, DAVID. Slavery Inconsistent with Justice and Good Policy: Proved by a Speech Delivered
in the Convention Held at Danville, Kentucky. (Philadelphia, 1792, and London, 1793.)

SCOBER, J. Negro Apprenticeship in the Colonies. (London, 1837.)

SECKER, THOMAS. The Works of the Right Reverend Thomas Seeker, Archbishop of Canterbury with
a Review of his Life and Character by B. Porteus. (New edition in six volumes, London, 1811.)

SIEBERT, WILBUR H. The Underground Railroad from Slavery to Freedom, by W.H. Siebert, Associate
Professor of History in the Ohio State University, with an Introduction by A.B. Hart. (Nashville,
Tenn., 1856.) Doctor Smith was the President and Professor of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy
of Randolph-Macon College.

Slavery and the Internal Slave Trade in the United States of America, being Inquiries to Questions
Transmitted by the Committee of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society for the Abolition
of Slavery and the Slave Trade throughout the World. Presented to the General Anti-Slavery
Convention Held in London, June, 1840, by the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery
Society. (London, 1841.)

The Enormity of the Slave Trade and the Duty of Seeking the Moral and Spiritual Elevation of
the Colored Race. (New York.) This work includes speeches of Wilberforce and other documents.

The Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents, Travels, and Explorations of the Jesuit Missionaries
in New France, 1610-1791. The Original French, Latin, and Italian Texts with English Translations
and Notes; Illustrated by Portraits, Maps, and Facsimiles. Edited by Reuben Gold Thwaites,
Secretary of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin. (Cleveland, 1896.)

The South Vindicated from the Treason and Fanaticism of the Northern Abolitionists. (Philadelphia,
1836.)

THOMPSON, GEORGE. Speech at the Meeting for the Extinction of Negro Apprenticeship. (London, 1838.)

---- The Free Church Alliance with Manstealers. Send Back the Money. Great Anti-Slavery Meeting
in the City Hall, Glasgow, Containing the Speeches Delivered by Messrs. Wright, Douglass, and
Buffum, from America, and by George Thompson of London, with a Summary Account of a Series
of Meetings Held in Edinburgh by the Abovenamed Gentlemen. (Glasgow, 1846.)

TORREY, JESSE, JR. A Portraiture of Domestic Slavery in the United States, with Reflections
on the Practicability of Restoring the Moral Rights of the Slave, without Impairing the Legal
Privileges of the Possessor, and a Project of a Colonial Asylum for Free Persons of Color,
Including Memoirs of Facts on the Interior Traffic in Slaves, and on Kidnapping, Illustrated
with Engravings by Jesse Torrey, Jr., Physician, Author of a Series of Essays on Morals and
the Diffusion of Knowledge. (Philadelphia, 1817.)

---- American Infernal Slave Trade; with Reflections on the Project for forming a Colony of
Blacks in Africa. (London, 1822.)

TOWER, PHILO. Slavery Unmasked: Being a Truthful Narrative of Three Years' Residence and Journeying
in Eleven Southern States; to which is Added "The Invasion of Kansas," Including the Last Chapter
of her Wrongs. (Rochester, 1856.)

TURNER, E.R. The Negro in Pennsylvania. (Washington, 1911.)

Tyrannical Libertymen: a Discourse upon Negro Slavery in the United States; Composed at----
in New Hampshire; on the Late Federal Thanksgiving Day. (Hanover, N.H., 1795.)

VAN EVRIE, JOHN H. Negroes and Negro Slavery, by J.H. Van Evrie, M.D. Introductory Chapter:
Causes of Popular Delusion on the Subject. (Washington, 1853.)

---- White Supremacy and Negro Subordination; or, Negroes a Subordinate Race, and So-called
Slavery its Normal Condition. With an Appendix Showing the Past and Present Condition of the
Countries South of us. (New York, 1868.)

WALKER, DAVID. Walker's Appeal in Four Articles, together with a Preamble, to the Colored Citizens
of the World, but in Particular and very Expressly to those of the United States of America.
Written in Boston, State of Massachusetts, September 28, 1820. Second edition. (Boston, 1830.)
Walker was a Negro who hoped to arouse his race to self-assertion.

WASHINGTON, B.T. The Story of the Negro. Two volumes (New York, 1909.)

WASHINGTON, GEORGE. The Writings of George Washington, being his Correspondence, Addresses,
Messages, and other Papers, Official and Private, Selected and Published from the Original
Manuscripts with the Life of the Author, Notes and Illustrations, by Jared Sparks. (Boston, 1835.)

WEEKS, STEPHEN B. Southern Quakers and Slavery. A Study in Institutional History. (Baltimore,
The Johns Hopkins Press, 1896.)

---- The Anti-Slavery Sentiment in the South; with Unpublished Letters from John Stuart Mill
and Mrs. Stowe. (Southern History Association Publications. Volume ii., No. 2, Washington,
D. C, April, 1898.)

WESLEY, JOHN. Thoughts upon Slavery. In the Potent Enemies of America Laid Open.... London,
printed: Reprinted in Philadelphia with Notes, and Sold by Joseph Cruikshank. 1774.

WIGHAM, ELIZA. The Anti-Slavery Cause in America and its Martyrs. (New York, 1883.)

WOOLMAN, JOHN. The Works of John Woolman. In two parts. Part I: a Journal of the Life, Gospel-Labors,
and Christian Experiences of that Faithful Minister of Christ, John Woolman, Late of Mount
Holly, in the Province of New Jersey. (London, 1775.)

---- Same. Part Second. Containing his Last Epistle and other Writings. (London, 1775.)

---- Some Considerations on the Keeping of Negroes. Recommended to the Professors of Christianity
of every Denomination. (Philadelphia, 1754.)

---- Considerations on Keeping Negroes; Recommended to the Professors of Christianity of every
Denomination. Part Second. (Philadelphia, 1762.)

WRIGHT, R.R., JR. The Negro in Pennsylvania. (Philadelphia, 1912.)

MAGAZINES

The Abolitionist, or Record of the New England Anti-Slavery Society. Edited by a committee.
Appeared in January, 1833.

The African Methodist Episcopal Church Review. Valuable for the following articles:

"The Colored Public Schools of Washington," by James Storum, vol. v., p. 279.

"The Negro as an Inventor," by R.R. Wright, vol. ii., p. 397. "Negro Poets," vol. iv., p. 236.

"The Negro in Journalism," vols. vi., 309, and xx., 137.

The African Repository. Published by the American Colonization Society from 1826 to 1832. A
very good source for the development of Negro education both in this country and Liberia. Some
of its most valuable articles are: "Learn Trades or Starve," by Frederick Douglass, vol. xxix.,
pp. 136 and 137. Taken from Frederick Douglass's Paper.

"Education of the Colored People," by a highly respectable gentleman of the South, vol. xxx.,
pp. 194,195, and 196.

"Elevation of the Colored Race," a memorial circulated in North Carolina, vol. xxxi., pp. 117
and 118.

"A Lawyer for Liberia," a sketch of Garrison Draper, vol. xxxiv., pp. 26 and 27.

Numerous articles on the religious instruction of the Negroes occur throughout the foregoing
volumes. Information about the actual literary training of the colored people is given as news
items.

The American Museum, or Repository of Ancient and Modern Fugitive Pieces, etc., Prose and Poetical.
Vols. i.-iv. (First and second editions, Philadelphia, 1788. Third edition, Philadelphia, 1790.)
Contains some interesting essays on the intellectual status of the Negroes, etc., contributed
by "Othello," a free Negro.

The Colonizationist and Journal of Freedom. The author has been able to find only the volume
which contains the numbers for the year 1834.

The Crisis. A record of the darker races published by the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People.

The Maryland Journal of Colonization. Published as the official organ of the Maryland Colonization
Society. Among its important articles are: "The Capacities of the Negro Race," vol. iii., p.
367; and "The Educational Facilities of Liberia," vol. vii., p. 223.

The Non-Slaveholder. Two volumes of this publication are now found in the Library of Congress.

The School Journal.

The Southern Workman. Volume xxxvii. contains Dr. R.R. Wright's valuable dissertation on "Negro
Rural Communities in Indiana."

NEWSPAPERS

  District of Columbia.
    The Daily National Intelligencer.

  Louisiana
    The New Orleans Commercial Bulletin.

  Maryland.
    The Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser.
    The Maryland Gazette.
    Dunlop's Maryland Gazette or The Baltimore Advertiser.

  Massachusetts.
    The Liberator.

  New York.
    The New York Daily Advertiser.
    The New York Tribune.

  North Carolina.
    The State Gazette of North Carolina.
    The Newbern Gazette.

  Pennsylvania.
    The Philadelphia Gazette.

  South Carolina.
    The City Gazette and Commercial Daily Advertiser.
    The State Gazette of South Carolina.
    The Charleston Courier.
    The South Carolina Weekly Advertiser.
    The Carolina Gazette.
    The Columbian Herald.

  Virginia.
    The Richmond Enquirer.
    The Norfolk and Portsmouth Herald.
    The Virginia Herald. (Fredericksburg.)
    The Norfolk and Portsmouth Chronicle. (Paris, 1745.)

GOODELL, WILLIAM. The American Slave Code in Theory and Practice: Its Distinctive Features
Shown by its Statutes, Judicial Decisions, and Illustrative Facts. (New York, 1853.)

PETERS, RICHARD. Condensed Reports of Cases Argued and Adjudged in the Supreme Court of the
United States. Six volumes. (Philadelphia, 1830-1834.)

THORPE, F.N. Federal and State Constitution, Colonial Charters, and Other Organic Laws of the
States, Territories, and Colonies now or heretofore Forming the United States of America. Compiled
and Edited under an Act of Congress, June 30, 1906. (Washington, 1909.)

STATE

  Alabama.
  Acts of the General Assembly Passed by the State of Alabama.
  CLAY, C.C. Digest of the Laws of the State of Alabama to
  1843. (Tuscaloosa, 1843.)

  Connecticut.
  Public Acts Passed by the General Assembly of Connecticut.

  Delaware.
  Laws of the State of Delaware Passed by the General Assembly.

  District of Columbia.
  BURCH, SAMUEL. A Digest of the Laws of the Corporation of
  the City of Washington, with an Appendix of the Laws of the
  United States Relating to the District of Columbia. (Washington,
  1823.)

  Florida.
  Acts of the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida.
  Acts and Resolutions of the General Assembly of the State of
  Florida.

  Georgia.
  Laws of the State of Georgia.
  COBB, HOWELL. A Digest of the Statutes of Georgia in General
  Use to 1846. (New York, 1846.)
  DAWSON, WILLIAM. A Compilation of the Laws of the State
  of Georgia to 1831. (Milledgeville, 1831.)
  PRINCE, O.H. A Digest of the Laws of the State of Georgia to
  1837. (Athens, 1837.)

  Illinois.
  Laws of the State of Illinois Passed by the General Assembly.
  STARR, M., and RUSSELL H. CURTIS. Annotated Statutes of
  Illinois in Force, January 1, 1885.

  Indiana.
  Laws of a General Nature Passed by the State of Indiana.

  Kentucky.
  Acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.

  Louisiana.
  Acts Passed by the Legislature of the State of Louisiana.
  BULLARD, HENRY A., and THOMAS CURRY. A New Digest of
  the Statute Laws of the State of Louisiana to 1842. (New
  Orleans, 1842.)

  Maryland.
  Laws Made and Passed by the General Assembly of the State of
  Maryland.

  Massachusetts.
  Acts and Resolves Passed by the General Court of Massachusetts.
  QUINCY, JOSIAH, JR. Reports of Cases, Superior Court of
  Judicature of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, 1761-1772.
  (Boston, 1865.)

  Mississippi.
  Laws of the State of Mississippi Passed at the Regular Sessions
  of the Legislature.
  POINDEXTER, GEORGE. Revised Code of the Laws of Mississippi.
  (Natchez, 1824.)
  HUTCHINSON, A. Code of Mississippi. (Jackson, 1848.)

  Missouri.
  Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri.

  New Jersey.
  Acts of the General Assembly of the State of New Jersey.

  New York.
  Laws of the State of New York.

  Ohio.
  Acts of a General Nature Passed by the General Assembly of
  the State of Ohio.
  Acts of a Local Nature Passed by the General Assembly of the
  State of Ohio.

  Pennsylvania.
  Laws of the General Assembly of the State of Pennsylvania.
  BRIGHTLY, FRANK F. A Digest of the Laws of Pennsylvania.
  STROUD, G.M. Purdon's Digest of the Laws of Pennsylvania
  from 1700 to 1851. (Philadelphia, 1852.)

  Rhode Island.
  Acts and Resolves Passed by the General Assembly of the State
  of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.

  South Carolina.
  Acts and Resolutions of the General Assembly of the State of
  South Carolina.
  BREVARD, JOSEPH. An Alphabetical Digest of the Public
  Statute Laws of South Carolina from 1692 to 1813. Three
  volumes. (Charleston, 1814.)

  Tennessee.
  Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee.

  Virginia.
  Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia.
  HENING, W.W. Statutes at Large: A Collection of all the Laws
  of Virginia from the First Session of the Legislature in the
  Year 1816. (Richmond, 1819 to 1823.) Published pursuant
  to an act of the General Assembly of Virginia,
  passed on the 5th of February, 1808. The work was extended
  by S. Shepherd who published three additional
  volumes in 1836. Chief source of historical material for
  the history of Virginia.
  TATE, Joseph. A Digest of the Laws of Virginia. (Richmond,
  1841.)

INDEX

  Abdy, E.S., learned that slaves were taught
  Abolitionists, interested in the enlightenment of Negroes
  Account of a pious Negro
  Actual education after the revolutionary period
  Adams, Rev. Henry, teacher at Louisville
  Adams, John, report of James Otis's argument on the Writs of
  Assistance; views on slavery
  Address of the American Convention of Abolition Societies
  African Benevolent Society of Rhode Island, school of
  African Episcopalians of Philadelphia, school of
  African Free School of Baltimore
  African Free Schools of New York
  African Methodist Episcopal Church, established Union Seminary;
  purchased Wilberforce
  Agricultural Convention of Georgia recommended that slaves be taught to
    read
  Alabama, law of 1832; provision for teaching Negroes at Mobile;
  Presbyterians of, interested
  Albany Normal School, colored student admitted
  Alexandria, Virginia Quakers of, instructed Negroes; Benjamin Davis, a
  teacher of
  Allen, Richard, organized A.M.E. Church; author
  Allen, W.H., teacher of Negroes
  Ambush, James E., teacher in the District of Columbia
  American Colonization Society, The, efforts of, to educate Negroes
  American Convention of Abolition Societies, The, interested in the
  education of Negroes; recommended industrial education; addresses of
  American Union, The, organized; names of its promoters (see note 1 on
  page 142)
  Amherstburg, Canada, opened a colored school; established a mission
  school
  Anderson, John G., musician
  Andrew, one of the first two colored teachers in Carolina
  Andrews, C.C. principal of New York African Free Schools
  Andrews, E.A., student of the needs of the Negroes
  Anti-slavery agitation, effect of, on education in cities
  Appalachian Mountains, settled by people favorable to Negroes
  Appo, William, musician
  Arnett, B.W., teacher in Pennsylvania
  Ashmun Institute, founded; names of the trustees
  Athens College, admitted colored students
  Attainments of Negroes at the close of the eighteenth century
  Auchmutty, Reverend, connected with the school established by Elias
    Neau
  Augusta, Dr. A.T., learned to read in Virginia
  Avery College, established
  Avery, Rev. Charles, donor of $300,000 for the education
    and Christianization of the African race

  Bacon, Rev. Thomas, sermons on the instruction of Negroes
  Baldwin County, Alabama, provision for teaching Negroes
  Baltimore, several colored churches; colored schools of; an adult
    school of 180 pupils; Sunday-schools; day and night school; Bible
    Society; African Free School; donation of Wells; donation of
    Crane; school tax paid by Negroes, note on page----
  Banks, Henry, learned to read in Virginia
  Banneker, Benjamin, studied in Maryland; made a clock; took up
  astronomy;
    encouraged by Ellicott; corresponded with Thomas Jefferson
  Baptist preacher, taught Negroes in South Carolina
  Baptists, aided the education of Negroes; established school at
    Bexley, Liberia; changed attitude toward the uplift of Negroes
  Barclay, David, gave money to build school-house
  Barclay, Reverend, instructed Negroes in New York
  Barr, John W., taught M.W. Taylor in Kentucky
  Baxter, Richard, instructed masters to enlighten their slaves
  Beard, Simeon, had a school in Charleston
  Becraft, Maria, established a school in the District of Columbia
  Bell family, progress of
  Bell, George, built first colored school-house in District of Columbia
  Bell School established
  Benezet, Anthony, advocated the education of Negroes; taught Negroes;
    believed in western colonization; opinion on Negro intellect;
    bequeathed wealth to educate Negroes; school-house built
    with the fund;(see note giving sketch of his career)
  Berea College, founded
  Berkshire Medical School had trouble admitting Negroes; graduated
  colored physicians
  Berry's portraiture of the Negroes' condition after the reaction
  Bibb, Mary E., taught at Windsor, Canada
  Billings, Maria, taught in the District of Columbia
  Birney, James G., criticized the church; helped Negroes on free soil
  Bishop, Josiah, preached to white congregation in Portsmouth, Virginia
  Bishop of London, declared that the conversion of slaves did not work
    manumission
  "Black Friday," Portsmouth, Ohio, Negroes driven out
  Blackstone, studied to justify the struggle for the rights of man; his
    idea of the body politic forgotten
  Bleecker, John, interested in the New York African Free Schools
  Boone, R.G., sketch of education in Indiana
  Boston, Massachusetts, colored school opened; opened its first primary
    school; school in African Church; several colored churches; struggle
  for democratic education; (see also Massachusetts)
  Boucher, Jonathan, interested in the uplift of Negroes; an advocate of
  education; (see note on, 56); extract from address of
  Boulder, J.F., student in a mixed school in Delaware
  Bowditch, H.J., asked that Negroes be admitted to Boston public schools
  Bowdoin College, admitted a Negro
  Bradford, James T., studied at Pittsburgh
  Branagan advocated colonization of the Negroes in the West
  Bray, Dr. Thomas, a promoter of the education of Negroes; "Associates
    of Dr. Bray,"; plan of, for the instruction of Negroes
  Brearcroft, Dr., alluded to the plan for the enlightenment of Negroes
  Breckenridge, John, contributed to the education of the colored people
    of Baltimore
  Bremer, Fredrika, found colored schools in the South; observed the
    teaching of slaves
  British American Manual Labor Institute, established at Dawn, Canada
  Brown, a graduate of Harvard College, taught colored children in Boston
  Brown County, Ohio, colored schools of, established
  Brown, Jeremiah H., studied at Pittsburgh
  Brown, J.M., attended school in Delaware
  Brown, William Wells, author; leader and educator
  Browning family, progress of
  Bruce, B.K., learned to read,
  Bryan, Andrew, preacher in Georgia
  Buchanan, George, on mental capacity of Negroes
  Buffalo, colored Methodist and Baptist churches of, lost
    members
  Burke, E.P., found enlightened Negroes in the South
    mentioned case of a very intelligent Negro
  Burlington, New Jersey, Quakers of, interested in the uplift
    of the colored people
  Butler, Bishop, urged the instruction of Negroes
  Buxton, Canada, separate schools established in

  Caesar, a Negro poet of North Carolina
  Calvert, Mr., an Englishman who taught Negroes in the
    District of Columbia
  Camden Insurrection, effect of
  Cameron, Paul C., sketch of John Chavis
  Canaan, New Hampshire, academy broken up
  Canada, education of Negroes in; names of settlements with schools;
    difficulties of races; separate schools; mission schools; results
    obtained; (see Drew's note on condition of)
  Capers, Bishop William, opinion on reconstructing the policy of Negro
    education; plan of, to instruct Negroes; work of, among the colored
    people; catechism of
  Cardozo, F.L., entered school in Charleston
  Carey, Lott, educated himself
  Cass County, Michigan, school facilities in the colored settlement of
  Castleton Medical School, admitted Negroes
  Catholics, interested in the education of Negroes
  Catto, Rev. William T., author and preacher
  Cephas, Uncle, learned from white children
  Chandler, solicitor, of Boston, opinion on the segregation of
    colored pupils
  Channing, William, criticized the church for its lack of interest
    in the uplift of the Negroes
  Charleston, colored members of church of; Minor Society of;
    colored schools of, attended by Bishop Daniel A. Payne;
    insurrection of; theological seminary of, admitted a Negro
  Charlton, Reverend, friend of Negroes in New York
  Chatham, Canada, colored schools of
  Chavis, John, educated at Princeton; a teacher of white youths
    in North Carolina
  Chester, T. Morris, student at Pittsburgh
  Chicago, separate schools of; disestablished
  Child, M.E., teacher in Canada
  Churches, aided education through Sabbath-schools
  Christians not to be held as slaves
  Cincinnati, colored schools of; Negroes of; sought public support
    for their schools; a teacher of, excluded a colored boy from a
    public school; law of
  City, the influences of, on the education of Negroes; attitude of
    anti-slavery societies of, toward the education of the Negroes
  Clapp, Margaret, aided Myrtilla Miner in the District of Columbia; (see
    note 2)
  Clarkson Hall Schools of Philadelphia
  Clarkson, Matthew, a supporter of the New York African Free Schools
  Cleveland, C.F., Argument of, in favor of Connecticut law against
    colored schools
  Cleveland, colored schools of
  Code Noir, referred to; (see note, 23)
  Co-education of the races
  Coffin, Levi, taught Negroes in North Carolina; promoted the migration
    of Negroes to free soil; traveled in Canada
  Coffin, Vestal, assistant of his father in North Carolina
  Cogswell, James, aided the New York African Free Schools
  Coker, Daniel, a teacher in Baltimore
  Colbura, Zerah, a calculator who tested Thomas Fuller
  Colchester, Canada, mission school at
  Cole, Edward, made settlement of Negroes in Illinois
  Colgan, Reverend; connected with Neau's school in New York
  College of West Africa established
  Colleges, Negroes not admitted; manual labor idea of; change in
    attitude of
  Colonization scheme, influence of, on education
  Colonizationists, interest of, in the education of Negroes
  Colored mechanics, prejudice against; slight increase in
  Columbia, Pennsylvania, Quakers of, interested in the uplift of Negroes
  Columbian Institute established in the District of Columbia
  Columbus, Ohio, colored schools of
  Condition of Negroes, in the eighteenth century; at the close of the
    reaction
  Connecticut, defeated the proposed Manual Labor College at New Haven;
    spoken of as place for a colored school of the American Colonization
  Society; allowed separate schools at Hartford; inadequately supported
    colored schools; struggle against separate schools of;
    disestablishment of separate schools of
  Convention of free people of color, effort to establish a college
  Convent of Oblate Sisters of Providence, educated colored girls in
    academy of
  Cook, John F., teacher in the District of Columbia; forced by the Snow
    Riot to go to Pennsylvania
  Corbin, J.C. student at Chillicothe, Ohio
  Cornish, Alexander, teacher in the District of Columbia
  Costin, Louisa Parke, teacher in the District of Columbia
  Cox, Ann, teacher in New York African Free Schools
  Coxe, Eliza J., teacher in the New York African Free Schools
  Coxe, General, of Fluvanna County, Virginia, taught his slaves to read
    the Bible
  Coxe, R.S.