C.G. (sighing). Only too true. Sir. Why--(in a gush of confidence)--look at my own case. Being
obliged to leave the country, and give up my carriage, I put my horse into this sale, at a
very low reserve of twenty pounds. (Entre nous, it's worth at least double that.) Between the
Auctioneer, and a couple of rascally horse-dealers--who I found out, by pure accident, wanted
my animal particularly for a match pair--the sale of my horse is what they call "bunnicked
up." Then they come to me, and offer me money. I spot their game, and am so indignant that
I'll have nothing to do with them, at any price. Wouldn't sell dear old Bogey, whom my wife
and children are so fond of, to such brutal blackguards, on any consideration. No, Sir, the
horse has done me good service--a sounder nag never walked on four hoofs; and I'd rather sell
it to a good, kind master, for twenty pounds, aye, or even eighteen, than let these rascals
have it, though they have run up as high as thirty q----, ahem! guineas.

I.P. Have they indeed, now? And what have you done with the horse?

C.G. Put it into livery close by, Sir. And, unless I can find a good master for it, by Jove,
I'll take it back again, and give it away to a friend. Perhaps, Sir, you'd like to have a look
at the animal. The stables are only in the next street, and--as a friend, and with no eye to
business--I should be pleased to show poor Bogey to anyone so sympathetic as yourself.

    [I.P., after some further chat of a friendly nature, agrees
    to go and "run his eye over him."

    SCENE II.--Greengrocer's yard at side of a seedy house in a
    shabby street, slimy and straw-bestrewn. Yard is paved with
    lumpy, irregular cobbles, and some sooty and shaky-looking
    sheds stand at the bottom thereof. Enter together, Clerical
    Gent and Inexperienced Person.

C.G. (smiling apologetically). Not exactly palatial premises for an animal used to my stables
at Wickham-in-the-Wold! But I know these people, Sir; they are kind as Christians, and as honest
as the day. Hoy! TOM! TOM!! TOM!!! Are you there, TOM? [From the shed emerges a very small
boy with very short hair, and a very long livery, several sizes too large for him, the tail
of the brass-buttoned coat and the bottoms of the baggy trousers alike sweeping the cobbles
as he shambles forward]. (C.G. genially.) Ah, there you are, TOM, my lad. Bring out dear old
Bogey, and show it to my friend here. [Boy leads out a rusty roan Rosinante, high in bone,
and low in flesh, with prominent hocks, and splay hoofs, which stumble gingerly over the cobbles.]
(Patting the horse affectionately.) Ah, poor old Bogey, he doesn't like these lumpy stones,
does he? Not used to them, Sir. My stable-yard at Wickham-in-the-Wold, is as smoothly paved
as--as the Alhambra, Sir. I always consider my animals, Sir. A merciful man is merciful to
his beast, as the good book says. But isn't he a Beauty?

I.P. Well--ahem!--ye-es; he looks a kind, gentle, steady sort of a creature. But--ahem!--what's
the matter with his knees?

C.G. Oh, nothing, Sir, nothing at all. Only a habit he has got along of kind treatment. Like
us when we "stand at ease," you know, a bit baggy, that's all. You should see him after a twenty
miles spin along our Wickham roads, when my wife and I are doing a round of visits among the
neighbouring gentry. Ah, Bogey, Bogey, old boy--kissing his nose--I don't know what Mrs. G.
and the girls will say when they hear I've parted with you--if I do, if I do.

    Enter two horsey-looking Men as though in search of
    something.

First Horsey Man. Ah, here you are. Well, look 'ere, are you going to take Thirty Pounds for
that horse o' yourn? Yes or No!

C.G. (turning upon them with dignity). No, Sir; most emphatically No! I've told you before
I will not sell him to you at any price. Have the goodness to leave us--at once, I'm engaged
with my friend here.

    [Horsey Men turn away despondently. Enter hurriedly, a
    shabby-looking Groom.

Groom. Oh, look here, Mister--er--er--wot's yer name? His Lordship wants to know whether you'll
take his offer of Thirty-five Pounds--or Guineas--for that roan. He wouldn't offer as much,
only it happens jest to match--

C.G. (with great decisiveness). Inform his Lordship, with my compliments, that I regret to
be entirely unable to entertain his proposition.

Groom. Oh, very well. But I wish you'd jest step out and tell his Lordship so yerself. He's
jest round the corner at the 'otel entrance, a flicking of his boots, as irritated as a blue-bottle
caught in a cowcumber frame.

C.G. Oh, certainly, with pleasure. (To I.P.) If you'll excuse me, Sir, just one moment, I'll
step out and speak to his Lordship.

    [Exit, followed by Groom.

Horsey Person (making a rush at I.P. as soon as C.G. has disappeared, speaking in a breathless
hurry). Now lookye here, guv'nor--sharp's the word! He'll be back in arf a jiff. You buy that
'oss! He won't sell it to us, bust 'im; but you've got 'im in a string, you 'ave. He'll sell
it to you for eighteen quid--p'raps sixteen. Buy it, Sir, buy it! We'll be outside, by the
pub at the corner, my pal and me, and--(producing notes)--we'll take it off you agen for thirty
pounds, and glad o' the charnce. We want it pertikler, we do, and you can 'elp us, and put
ten quid in your own pocket too as easy as be blowed. Ah! here he is! Mum's the word! Round
the corner by the pub! [Exeunt hurriedly.

Clerical Gent (blandly). Ah! that's settled. His Lordship was angry, but I was firm. Take Bogey
back to the stable, TOM--unless, of course--(looking significantly at Inexperienced Person).

Inexperienced Person (hesitating). Well, I'm not sure but what the animal would suit me, and--ahem!--if
you care to trust it to me--

Clerical Gent (joyously). Trust it to you, Sir? Why, with pleasure, with every confidence.
Dear old Bogey! He'll be happy with such a master--ah, and do him service too. I tell you,
Sir, that horse, to a quiet, considerate sort o' gent like yourself, who wants to work his
animal, not to wear it out, is worth forty pound, every penny of it--and cheap at the price!

I.P. Thanks! And--ah--what is the figure?

C.G. Why--ah--eighteen--no, dash it!--sixteen to you, and say no more about it.

    [Inexperienced Person closes with the offer, hands notes
    to Clerical Gent (who, under pressure of business, hurries
    off), takes Bogey from the grinning groom-lad, leads
    him--with difficulty--out into the street, searches vainly for
    the two horsey Men, who, like "his Lordship," have utterly
    and finally disappeared, and finds himself left alone in a
    bye-thoroughfare with a "horse," which he cannot get along
    anyhow, and which he is presently glad to part with to a
    knacker for thirty shillings.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WRITE AND WRONG.

As so many private letters are sold at public sales nowadays, it has become necessary to consider
the purport of every epistle regarded, so to speak, from a post-mortem point of view. If a
public man expresses a confidential opinion in the fulness of his heart to an intimate friend,
or proposes an act of charity to a cherished relative, he may rest assured that, sooner or
later, both communications will be published to an unsympathetic and autograph-hunting world.
Under these circumstances it may be well to answer the simplest communications in the most
guarded manner possible. For instance, a reply to a tender of hospitality might run as follows:--

    Private and Confidential. Not negotiable.

Mr. DASH BLANK has much pleasure in accepting Mr. BLANK DASH's invitation to dinner on the
8th inst.

N.B.--This letter is the property of the Writer. Not for publication. All rights reserved.

Or, if the writer feels that his letter, if it gets into the hands of the executors, will be
sold, he must adopt another plan. It will be then his object to so mix up abuse of the possible
vendors with ordinary matter, that they (the possible vendors) may shrink, after the death
of the recipient, from making their own condemnation public. The following may serve as a model
for a communication of this character. The words printed in italics in the body of the letter
are the antidotal abuse introduced to prevent a posthumous sale by possible executors.

Private and Confidential. Not to be published. Signature a forgery.

    DEAR OLD MAN,--I nearly completed my book. Your nephew,
    TOM LESLEIGH, is an ass. My wife is slowly recovering from
    influenza. Your Aunt, JANE JENKINS, wears a wig. TOMMY,
    you will be glad to learn, has come out first of twenty in
    his new class at school. Your Uncle, BENJAMIN GRAHAM, is a
    twaddling old bore. I am thinking of spending the Midsummer
    holidays with the boys and their mother at Broadstairs. Your
    Cousin, JACK JUGGERLY, is a sweep that doesn't belong to a
    single respectable Club. Trusting that you will burn this
    letter, to prevent its sale after we are gone,

    I remain, yours affectionately,

    BOBBY.

N.B.--The foregoing letter is the property of the Author, and, as it is only intended for private
circulation, must not be printed. Solicitors address,--Ely Place.

But perhaps the best plan will be, not to write at all. The telegraph, at the end of the century,
costs but a halfpenny a word, and we seem to be within measurable distance of the universal
adoption of the telephone. Under these circumstances, it is easy to take heed of the warning
contained in that classical puzzle of our childhood, Litera scripta manet.

       *       *       *       *       *

A QUESTION OF TASTE.

Mr. Punch. Well, Madam, what can I do for you?

Female (of Uncertain Age, gushingly). A very great favour, my dear Sir; it is a matter of sanitation.

Mr. P. (coldly). I am at your service, Madam, but I would remind you that I have no time to
listen to frivolous complaints.

Fem. I would ask you--do you think that a building open to the public should be crowded with
double as many persons as it can conveniently hold?

Mr. P. Depends upon circumstances, Madam. It might possibly be excusable in a Church, assuming
that the means of egress were sufficient. Of what building do you wish to complain?

Fem. Of the Old Bailey--you know, the Central Criminal Court.

Mr. P. Have you to object to the accommodation afforded you in the Dock?

Fem. I was not in the Dock!

Mr. P. (dryly). That is the only place (when not in the Witness-Box) suitable for women at
the Old Bailey. I cannot imagine that they would go to that unhappy spot of their own free will.

Fem. (astonished). Not to see a Murder trial? Then you are evidently unaccustomed to ladies'
society.

Mr. P. (severely). I do not meet ladies at the Old Bailey.

Fem. (bridling up). Indeed! But that is nothing to do with the matter of the overcrowding.
Fancy, with our boasted civilisation--I was half stifled!

Mr. P. It is a pity, with our boasted civilisation, that you were not stifled--quite! (Severely.)
You can go!

    [The Female retires, with an expression worthy of her proper
    place--the Chamber of Horrors!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

NONOGENARIAN NONSENSE.

(COMPILED À LA MODE.)

I have so often been urged by my friends to write my autobiography, that at length I have taken
up my pen to comply with their wishes. My memory, although I may occasionally become slightly
mixed, is still excellent, and having been born in the first year of the present century I
consequently can remember both the Plague and Fire of London. The latter is memorable to me
as having been the cause of my introduction to Sir CHRISTOPHER WREN, an architect of some note,
and an intimate friend of Sir JOSHUA REYNOLDS, and the late Mr. TURNER, R.A. Sir CHRISTOPHER
had but one failing--he was never sober. To the day of his death he was under the impression
that St. Paul's was St. Peter's!

One of my earliest recollections is the great physician HARVEY, who, indeed, knew me from my
birth. Although an exceedingly able man, he was a confirmed glutton. He would at the most ceremonious
of dinner-parties push his way through the guests (treating ladies and gentlemen with the like
discourtesy) and plumping himself down in front of the turtle soup, would help himself to the
entire contents of the tureen, plus the green fat! During the last years of his life he abandoned
medicine to give his attention to cookery, and (so I have been told) ultimately invented a
fish sauce!

I knew HOWARD, the so-called philanthropist, very well. He was particularly fond of dress,
although extremely economical in his washing bill. It was his delight to visit the various
prisons and obtain a hideous pleasure in watching the tortures of the poor wretches therein
incarcerated. He was fined and imprisoned for ill-treating a cat, if my memory does not play
me false. I have been told that he once stole a pockethandkerchief, but at this distance of
time cannot remember where I heard the story.

It is one of my proudest recollections that, in early youth, I had the honour of being presented
to her late most gracious Majesty, Queen ANNE, of glorious memory. The drawing-room was held
at Buckingham Palace, which in those days was situated on the site now occupied by Marlborough
House. I accompanied my mother, who wore, I remember, yellow brocade, and a wreath of red roses,
without feathers. Round the throne were grouped--the Duke of MARLBOROUGH (who kept in the background
because he had just been defeated at Fontenoy), Lord PALMERSTON, nick-named "Cupid" by Mistress
NELL GWYNNE (a well-known Court beauty), Mr. GARRICK, and Signor GRIMALDI, two Actors of repute,
and Cardinal WISEMAN, the Papal Nuncio. Her Majesty was most gracious to me, and introduced
me to one of her predecessors, Queen ELIZABETH, a reputed daughter of King HENRY THE EIGHTH.
Both Ladies laughed heartily at my curls, which in those days were more plentiful than they
are now. I was rather alarmed at their lurching forward as I passed them, but was reassured
when the Earl of ROCHESTER (the Lord Chamberlain) whispered in my ear that the Royal relatives
had been lunching. As I left the presence, I noticed that both their Majesties were fast asleep.

I have just mentioned Lord ROCHESTER, whose acquaintance I had the honour to possess. He was
extremely austere, and very much disliked by the fair sex. On one occasion it was my privilege
to clean his shoes. He had but one failing--he habitually cheated at cards. I will now tell
a few stories of the like character about Bishop WILBERFORCE, THACKERAY, Mrs. FRY, PEABODY,
WALTER SCOTT, and Father MATTHEW.

    [No you don't, my venerable twaddler!--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LARGE CIGAR.

  You lie on the oaken mantle-shelf,
    A cigar of high degree,
  An old cigar, a large cigar,
    A cigar that was given to me.
  The house-flies bite you day by day--
    Bite you, and kick, and sigh--
  And I do not know what the insects say,
    But they creep away and die.

  My friends they take you gently up,
    And lay you gently down;
  They never saw a weed so big,
    Or quite so deadly brown.
  They, as a rule, smoke anything
    They pick up free of charge;
  But they leave you to rest while the bulbuls sing
    Through the night, my own, my large!

  The dust lies thick on your bloated form,
    And the year draws to its close,
  And the baccy-jar's been emptied--by
    My laundress, I suppose.
  Smokeless and hopeless, with reeling brain,
    I turn to the oaken shelf,
  And take you down, while my hot tears rain,
    And smoke you, you brute, myself. GRAND YOUNG GARDNER places Amendment on the paper, which
secures for him opportunity of making a speech. Having availed
himself of this, did not move his Amendment; opening thus made for
STUART-RENDEL, who had another Amendment on the paper. Would he move
it? Only excitement of Debate settled round this point. Under good
old Tory Government new things in Parliamentary procedure constantly
achieved. Supposing half-a-dozen Members got together, drew up a
number of Amendments, then ballot for precedence, they might arrange
Debate without interposition of SPEAKER. First man gets off his
speech, omits to move Amendment: second would come on, and so on, on
to the end of list. But STUART-RENDEL moved Amendment, and on this
Debate turned.

Not very lively affair, regarded as reflex of passionate protestation of angry little Wales.
OSBORNE AP MORGAN made capital speech, but few remained to listen. Welshmen at outset meant
to carry Debate over to next day; couldn't be done; and by half-past eleven, STUART-RENDEL's
Amendment negatived by rattling majority.

Fact is, gallant little Wales was swamped by irruptive Ireland. To-day, first meeting of actual
Home Rule Parliament held, and everybody watching its course. This historic meeting gathered
in Committee-room No. 15; question purely one of Home Rule; decided, after some deliberation,
that, in order to have proceedings in due dramatic form, there should be incorporated with
the meeting an eviction scene. After prolonged Debate, concluded that, to do the thing thoroughly,
they should select PARNELL as subject of eviction.

"No use," TIM HEALY said, "in half-doing the thing. The eyes of the Universe are fixed upon
us. Let us give them a show for their money."

PARNELL, at first, demurred; took exception on the ground that, as he had no fixed place of
residence, he was not convenient subject for eviction; objection over-ruled; then PARNELL insisted
that, if he yielded on this point, he must preside over proceedings. TIM and the rest urged
that it was not usual, when a man's conduct is under consideration upon a grave charge, that
he should take the Chair. Drawing upon the resources of personal observation, Dr. TANNER remarked
that he did not remember any case in which the holder of a tenure, suffering process of eviction,
bossed the concern, acting simultaneously, as it were, as the subject of the eviction process,
and the resident Magistrate.

Whilst conversation going on, PARNELL had unobserved taken the Chair, and now ruled Dr. TANNER
out of order.

House sat at Twelve o'Clock; at One the Speaker (Mr. PARNELL), interrupting SEXTON in passage
of passionate eloquence, said he thought this would be convenient opportunity for going out
to his chop. So he went off; Debate interrupted for an hour; resumed at One, and continued,
with brief intervals for refreshment, up till close upon midnight. Proceedings conducted with
closed doors, but along the corridor, from time to time, rolled echoes which seemed to indicate
that the first meeting of the Home-Rule Parliament was not lacking inanimation.

"I think they are a little 'eated, Sir," said the policeman on duty outside. "Man and boy I've
been in charge of this beat for twenty years; usually a quiet spot; this sudden row rather
trying for one getting up in years. Do you think, Sir, that, seeing it's an eviction, the Police
can under the Act claim Compensation for Disturbance?"

Promised to put question on subject to JOKIM.

Long dispute on point of order raised by NOLAN. TIM HEALY referring to difficulty of dislodging
PARNELL, alluded to him as "Sitting Bull." Clamour from Parnellite section anxious for preservation
of decency of debate. Speaker said, question most important. Irish Parliament in its infancy;
above all things essential they should well consider precedents. Must reserve decision as to
whether the phrase was Parliamentary; would suggest, therefore, that House should adjourn five
weeks. On this point Debate proceeded up to midnight.

Business done.--In British Parliament Tithes Bill read a Second Time; in Irish (which sat four
hours longer), None.

Tuesday.--Cork Parliament still sitting upstairs in Committee Room No. 15, debating question
of adjournment. We hear them occasionally through open doors and down long corridor. Once a
tremendous yell shook building.

"What's that?" I asked DICK POWER, who happened to be taking glass of sherry-wine at Bar in Lobby.

"That," said RICHARD, "is the Irish wolves crying for the blood of PARNELL," and DICK, tossing
down his sherry-wine, as if he had a personal quarrel with it, hurried back to the shambles.

Quite a changed man! No longer the débonnaire DICK, whose light heart and high spirits made
him a favourite everywhere. Politics have suddenly become a serious thing, and DICK POWER is
saddened with them.

"I take bitters with my sherry-wine now," DICK mentioned just now in sort of apologetic way
at having been discovered, as it were, feasting in the house of mourning. "At the present sad
juncture, to drink sherry-wine with all its untamed richness might, I feel, smack of callousness.
Therefore I tell the man to dash it with bitters, which, whilst it has a penitential sound,
adds a not untoothsome flavour in anticipation of dinner."

Even with this small comfort ten years added to his age; grey hairs gleam among his hyacinthine
locks; his back is bent; his shoes are clogged with lead. A sad sight; makes one wish the pitiful
business was over, and RICHARD himself again.

All the best of the Irish Members, whether Cavaliers or Cromwellians, are depressed in same
way. Came upon SWIFT MacNEILL in retired recess in Library this afternoon; standing up with
right hand in trouser-pocket, and left hand extended (his favourite oratorical attitude in
happier times) smiling in really violent fashion.

"What are you playing at?" I asked him, noticing with curiosity that whilst his mouth was,
so to speak, wreathed in smiles, a tear dewed the fringe of his closed eyelids.

"Ah, TOBY, is that you?" he said, "I didn't see you coming. The fact is I came over here by
myself to have me last smile."

"Well, you're making the most of it," I said, wishing to encourage him.

"I generally do, and as this is me last, I'm not stinting measurement. They're sad times we've
fallen on. Just when it seemed victory was within our grasp it is snatched away, and we are,
as one may say, flung on the dunghill amid the wreck of our country's hopes and aspirations.
This is not a time to make merry. Me country's ruined, and SWIFT MacNEILL smiles no more."

With that he shut up his jaws with a snap, and strode off. I'm sorry he should take the matter
to heart so seriously. We shall miss that smile.

Business done.--Irish Land Bill in British Parliament. Cork Parliament still sitting.

Thursday.--Cork Parliament still sitting; PARNELL predominant; issues getting a little mixed;
understood that Session summoned to decide whether, in view of certain proceedings before Mr.
Justice BUTT, PARNELL should be permitted to retain Leadership. Everything been discussed but
that. Things got so muddled up, that O'KEEFE, walking about, bowed with anxious thought, not
quite certain whether it is TIM HEALY, SEXTON, or JUSTIN McCARTHY, who was involved in recent
Divorce suit. Certainly, it couldn't have been PARNELL, who to-day suggests that the opportunity
is fitting for putting Mr. G. in a tight place.

