“ ‘First, I am a man. I am going somewhere. I am to-night a day nearer the grave than last
night. I have read all that they can tell me. There is not one solitary ray of light upon the
darkness. They shall not take away the only guide and leave me stone blind.

“ ‘Secondly, I had a mother. I saw her go down into the dark valley where I am going, and she
leaned upon an unseen arm as calmly as a child goes to sleep upon the breast of a mother. I
know that was not a dream.

“ ‘Thirdly, I have three motherless daughters. They have no protector but myself. I would rather
kill them than leave them in this sinful world if you could blot out from it all the teachings
of the Gospel.’ ”

COL. INGERSOLL IS A PHILOSOPHER?

Col. Ingersoll tells us that “intellectual liberty, as a matter of necessity, forever destroys
the idea that belief is either PRAISE OR BLAMEWORTHY, and is wholly inconsistent with every
creed in Christendom.” Again, he says, “No man can control his belief.” Notwithstanding all
this, his whole occupation consists in traveling over the country and blaming men, women and
children for their belief. He is consistent? He is a Scientist, you know? He does nothing that
is absurd? He is a philosopher, sitting on the bones of Moses and making grimaces at the faith
of Moses, when neither Moses nor his friends could control their belief? He works hard for
no purpose if men can’t control their belief, and does men injustice, IF HE BLAMES THEM FOR
THEIR FAITH?

        A child without a sire;
    Whose mortal life and transitory fire
    Light to the grave his chance-created form,
    As ocean wrecks illuminate the storm.

And then—

    To-night, and silence sinks forevermore!

Think of Ingersoll at his brother’s grave!

LIFE OF ELDER E. GOODWIN.

This interesting volume will be ready for delivery in a few days, as it is now in the hands
of the binder. It is a neat volume of 314 pages, on good paper, and substantially bound in
cloth. Price, $1.50.

Some two months ago we issued a prospectus for this book, proposing to make a work of 300 pages,
and putting the price at $1.25, and these papers have been in the hands of agents for some
time, and quite a large number of persons have subscribed for the book at that price. Of course
all who have subscribed to date shall have the book in good faith at $1.25, as understood,
but we are compelled to raise the price to all new subscribers from this date to $1.50, on
account of the advance in all book stock and the increased size of the book.

All our old agents, and all persons desiring an agency for this work, will please correspond
with us at this place—Bedford, Lawrence County, Indiana.

April 2, 1879. J. M. MATHES.

Elder Mathes, also, keeps on hand a full supply of all the publications of the Christian church.
Address all orders for any good book in the market to Elder James M. Mathes, Bedford, Lawrence
County, Indiana. Send money by postal money order, bank draft, or registered letter.

J. M. MATHES.