"I have told you how we found the hollow and how much we enjoyed ourselves there; now I will
tell you what became of it."

"What became of it! Why! did it catch afire and burn up?"

"No."

"Did it blow away in a strong north wind?"

"No."

"Did it get filled up with dust and dry leaves, or did you forget the way there, and never
find it again? What did become of it?"

"Well, let me tell you. It was one of those beautiful spring days--when we feel that we cannot
possibly stay at home, and our feet will run away with us, in spite of ourselves--that the
old spirit and desire for rambling came over us once more, and away we started for the woods.
'Which way will you go?' said Alfred as we stopped at a place where two roads led in different
directions. 'Acorn Hollow,' was the answer of all; and accordingly we went that way. But oh,
wonder of wonders! How we stood by the once loved spot, and stared at each other, and rubbed
our eyes, and looked again and again. Where were the beautiful trees that grew so closely side
by side, intermingling their foliage, and locking their arms together like loving brothers
and sisters? Where was the 'brave old oak,' that had stood there with his broad green arms
outstretched, and shook his myriad leaves whenever we came, as if he loved us children, and
welcomed us to a resting-place in his shadow. And where was the soft green carpet of moss and
tender grass that was spread out so beautifully at the bottom of the hollow? It was all changed,
as if the breath of an evil spirit had blown upon it. 'Isn't it too bad!' we all exclaimed;
and after we had given expression to our feelings by these few words, we proceeded to a closer
examination. All the trees along the hill-side had been cut down, and little piles of wood
were put up, to carry away. The May flowers were all dried up in the sun, and the ground pine
and bear's grass were as sere and yellow as the autumn leaves. Down in the bottom of the hollow,
the turf had been cut up and carried off, and there lay the bones of an old horse bleaching
in the sun. There was only a little stump left of the acorn tree, with a few withered branches.
'Isn't it a sin, and a shame!' said Alfred, indignantly. 'I never want to come here again,'
murmured Charlie; and I sat down on the stump and cried. If all the world had been looking
at me I couldn't have helped it.

"Then I thought how strangely everything was changing around me. Nothing appeared the same
to me, save the sun and stars and the broad blue sea. Father and mother, brothers and sisters,
and the great world itself, were all changing. I too was changed. Time and study, with daily
trial, were making me an altogether different being from what I had been, and I knew that the
finger of the Almighty was writing lessons upon my heart, which I could never forget; no, not
through all eternity. I wept; and then a truth--a great and a good one--rose in my heart, like
the morning star, for I knew, at that moment, that all these changes were but the lessons which
the angel teachers are giving us, to fit us for higher duties in the world to come. The memory
of that beautiful spot is as fresh and fair in my heart as ever, and the lesson which I learned
there has had a blessed influence upon my life; for now, when I feel sad and disheartened,
I strive to keep my eye fixed on the great point to which we all tend, forgetting the little
sorrows that lie between. And I hear the calm sweet voice of him who died on Calvary, saying,
'fear not; I am thy friend and brother. I too have dwelt in the flesh and know its conflicts
and trials; trust in me, for I am the same, yesterday, to-day, and forever.'

