But, though luxurious, the Norman nobles were not generally speaking an intemperate race. While
indulging themselves in the pleasures of the table, they aimed at delicacy, but avoided excess,
and were apt to attribute gluttony and drunkenness to the vanquished Saxons, as vices peculiar
to their inferior station. Prince John, indeed, and those who courted his pleasure by imitating
his foibles, were apt to indulge to excess in the pleasures of the trencher and the goblet;
and indeed it is well known that his death was occasioned by a surfeit upon peaches and new
ale. His conduct, however, was an exception to the general manners of his countrymen.

With sly gravity, interrupted only by private signs to each other, the Norman knights and nobles
beheld the ruder demeanour of Athelstane and Cedric at a banquet, to the form and fashion of
which they were unaccustomed. And while their manners were thus the subject of sarcastic observation,
the untaught Saxons unwittingly transgressed several of the arbitrary rules established for
the regulation of society. Now, it is well known, that a man may with more impunity be guilty
of an actual breach either of real good breeding or of good morals, than appear ignorant of
the most minute point of fashionable etiquette. Thus Cedric, who dried his hands with a towel,
instead of suffering the moisture to exhale by waving them gracefully in the air, incurred
more ridicule than his companion Athelstane, when he swallowed to his own single share the
whole of a large pasty composed of the most exquisite foreign delicacies, and termed at that
time a "Karum-Pie". When, however, it was discovered, by a serious cross-examination, that
the Thane of Coningsburgh (or Franklin, as the Normans termed him) had no idea what he had
been devouring, and that he had taken the contents of the Karum-pie for larks and pigeons,
whereas they were in fact beccaficoes and nightingales, his ignorance brought him in for an
ample share of the ridicule which would have been more justly bestowed on his gluttony.

The long feast had at length its end; and, while the goblet circulated freely, men talked of
the feats of the preceding tournament,--of the unknown victor in the archery games, of the
Black Knight, whose self-denial had induced him to withdraw from the honours he had won,--and
of the gallant Ivanhoe, who had so dearly bought the honours of the day. The topics were treated
with military frankness, and the jest and laugh went round the hall. The brow of Prince John
alone was overclouded during these discussions; some overpowering care seemed agitating his
mind, and it was only when he received occasional hints from his attendants, that he seemed
to take interest in what was passing around him. On such occasions he would start up, quaff
a cup of wine as if to raise his spirits, and then mingle in the conversation by some observation
made abruptly or at random.

"We drink this beaker," said he, "to the health of Wilfred of Ivanhoe, champion of this Passage
of Arms, and grieve that his wound renders him absent from our board--Let all fill to the pledge,
and especially Cedric of Rotherwood, the worthy father of a son so promising."

"No, my lord," replied Cedric, standing up, and placing on the table his untasted cup, "I yield
not the name of son to the disobedient youth, who at once despises my commands, and relinquishes
the manners and customs of his fathers."

"'Tis impossible," cried Prince John, with well-feigned astonishment, "that so gallant a knight
should be an unworthy or disobedient son!"

"Yet, my lord," answered Cedric, "so it is with this Wilfred. He left my homely dwelling to
mingle with the gay nobility of your brother's court, where he learned to do those tricks of
horsemanship which you prize so highly. He left it contrary to my wish and command; and in
the days of Alfred that would have been termed disobedience--ay, and a crime severely punishable."

"Alas!" replied Prince John, with a deep sigh of affected sympathy, "since your son was a follower
of my unhappy brother, it need not be enquired where or from whom he learned the lesson of
filial disobedience."

Thus spake Prince John, wilfully forgetting, that of all the sons of Henry the Second, though
no one was free from the charge, he himself had been most distinguished for rebellion and ingratitude
to his father.

"I think," said he, after a moment's pause, "that my brother proposed to confer upon his favourite
the rich manor of Ivanhoe."

"He did endow him with it," answered Cedric; "nor is it my least quarrel with my son, that
he stooped to hold, as a feudal vassal, the very domains which his fathers possessed in free
and independent right."

"We shall then have your willing sanction, good Cedric," said Prince John, "to confer this
fief upon a person whose dignity will not be diminished by holding land of the British crown.--Sir
Reginald Front-de-Boeuf," he said, turning towards that Baron, "I trust you will so keep the
goodly Barony of Ivanhoe, that Sir Wilfred shall not incur his father's farther displeasure
by again entering upon that fief."

"By St Anthony!" answered the black-brow'd giant, "I will consent that your highness shall
hold me a Saxon, if either Cedric or Wilfred, or the best that ever bore English blood, shall
wrench from me the gift with which your highness has graced me."

"Whoever shall call thee Saxon, Sir Baron," replied Cedric, offended at a mode of expression
by which the Normans frequently expressed their habitual contempt of the English, "will do
thee an honour as great as it is undeserved."

Front-de-Boeuf would have replied, but Prince John's petulance and levity got the start.

"Assuredly," said be, "my lords, the noble Cedric speaks truth; and his race may claim precedence
over us as much in the length of their pedigrees as in the longitude of their cloaks."

"They go before us indeed in the field--as deer before dogs," said Malvoisin.

"And with good right may they go before us--forget not," said the Prior Aymer, "the superior
decency and decorum of their manners."

"Their singular abstemiousness and temperance," said De Bracy, forgetting the plan which promised
him a Saxon bride.

"Together with the courage and conduct," said Brian de Bois-Guilbert, "by which they distinguished
themselves at Hastings and elsewhere."

While, with smooth and smiling cheek, the courtiers, each in turn, followed their Prince's
example, and aimed a shaft of ridicule at Cedric, the face of the Saxon became inflamed with
passion, and he glanced his eyes fiercely from one to another, as if the quick succession of
so many injuries had prevented his replying to them in turn; or, like a baited bull, who, surrounded
by his tormentors, is at a loss to choose from among them the immediate object of his revenge.
At length he spoke, in a voice half choked with passion; and, addressing himself to Prince
John as the head and front of the offence which he had received, "Whatever," he said, "have
been the follies and vices of our race, a Saxon would have been held 'nidering'," [21] (the
most emphatic term for abject worthlessness,) "who should in his own hall, and while his own
wine-cup passed, have treated, or suffered to be treated, an unoffending guest as your highness
has this day beheld me used; and whatever was the misfortune of our fathers on the field of
Hastings, those may at least be silent," here he looked at Front-de-Boeuf and the Templar,
"who have within these few hours once and again lost saddle and stirrup before the lance of
a Saxon."

