Miss Kirkbright had not read this straight through without a pause. Two or three times she
had let her hands drop to her lap with the letter in them, and sat thinking. When she came
to what Sylvie said about her "laughing to know how she had been saving," Miss Euphrasia stopped,
not to laugh, but to wipe tears from her eyes.

"The poor, dear, brave little soul!" she said to herself. "And that blessed Mrs. Jeffords,--to
let her think she is earning her board with ironing sheets, perhaps, and washing dishes! Km!"

That last unspellable sound was a half choke and half chuckle, that Miss Euphrasia surprised
herself in making out of the sudden, mixed impulse to sob, and laugh, and to catch somebody
in her arms and kiss that wasn't there.

"If I were an angel, I suppose I could wait," she went on saying to herself after that. "But
even for them, it must be hard work some times. And so,--how the great Reasons Why flash upon
one out of one's own little experience!--of that wonderful, blessed Day, when all shall be
made right, the angels in heaven know not, neither the Son, but the Father only! The Lord cannot
even trust the pure human that is in Himself to dwell, separately, upon that End which is to
be, but may not be yet!"

I do not suppose anything whatever could come into Miss Euphrasia's life, or touch her with
its circumstance, that she did not straightway read in it the wider truth beyond the letter.
She was a Swedenborgian, not after Swedenborg, but by the living gift itself. Her insight was
no separate thing, taken up and used now and then, of a purpose. It was as different from that
as eyes are from spectacles. She could not help her little sermons. They preached themselves
to her and in her, continually. So, if we go along with her, we must take her with her interpretations.
Some friend said of her once, that she was a life with marginal notes; and the notes were the
larger part of it.

But Miss Euphrasia found a postscript, presently, to Sylvie's letter, written hurriedly on
the other side of the last leaf; as if she had made haste, before she should lose courage and
change her mind about saying it:--

"Do you think it would be possible to find any sort of place in Boston where I could do something
to help pay, this winter,--and will you try for me? I could sew, or do little things about
a house, or read or write for somebody. I could help in a nursery, or teach, some hours in
a day,--hours when mother likes to be quiet; and she would not know."

This was essential. "Mother must not know."

The finding of this postscript drove out of Miss Euphrasia's mind another thought that had
suddenly come into it as she turned the letter over in her fingers. It was some minutes before
she went back to it; minutes in which she was quite absorbed with simple suggestions and peradventures
in Sylvie's behalf.

But--"Brickfield Farms? Sandon? Josephus Browne." When had she heard those names before? What
hopeless piece of property was it she had heard her brother-in-law speak of long ago,--somewhere
down East,--where there were old kilns and clay-pits? Something that had come into or passed
through his hands for a debt?

"There is a great tangling of links here. What are they shaken into my fingers for, I wonder?
What is there here to be tied, or to be unraveled?"

For she believed firmly, always, that things did not happen in a jumble, however jumbled they
might seem. Though she could scarcely keep two thoughts together of the many crowded ones that
had come to her, one upon another, this strange morning, she was sure the Lord knew all about
it, and that He had not sent them upon her in any real confusion. She knew that there was no
precipitance--no inconsequence--with Him.

"They are threads picked out for some work that He will do," she said, as she tucked her brother's
letter into a low, broad basket beside the white and rose and violet wools with which she was
at odd minutes crocheting a dainty footspread for an invalid friend, and put the other in her
pocket.

"Now I will tie my bonnet on, and go, as I had meant, to see Desire. That, also, is a piece
of this same morning."

Miss Kirkbright, likewise, watched and learned a story that told and repeated itself as it
went along, of a House that was building bit by bit, and of life that lay about it. Only hers
was the house the Lord builds; and the stories of it, and all the sentences of the story, were
the things He daily puts together.

CHAPTER XIII.

RACHEL FROKE'S TROUBLE.

Desire was out. She had gone down to Neighbor Street, to see Luclarion Grapp.

Luclarion had a Home there now; a place where girls and women came and went, and always found
a rest and a welcome, to stay a night, or a week, or as long as they needed, provided only,
that they entered into the work and spirit of the house while they did stay.

Luclarion still sold her good, cheap white loaves and brown, her muffins and her crumpets;
and she had what she called her "big baking room," where a dozen women could work at the troughs
and the kneaders and the ovens; and in this bakery they learned an honest trade that would
stand them in stead for self-support, whether to furnish a commodity for sale, or in homes
where daily bread must be put together as well as prayed for.

"You can do something now that all the world wants done; that's as good as a gold mine, and
ever so much better," said Luclarion Grapp.

Then she had a laundry. From letting her lodgers wash and iron for themselves, to put their
scanty wardrobes into the best condition and repair, she went on to showing them nice work
and taking it in for them to do; until now there were some dozen families who sent her weakly
washing, three to five dollars' worth each; and for ten months in the year a hundred and eighty
dollars were her average receipts.

Down at "The Neighbors,"--as from the name of the street and the spirit and growth of the thing
it had come to be called,--they had "Evenings;" when friends of the place came in and made
it pleasant; brought books and pictures, flowers and fruit, and made a little treat of it for
mind and heart and body. It was some plan for one of these that had taken Desire and Hazel
to Miss Grapp's to-day.

Miss Euphrasia's first feeling was disappointment. It seemed as if her morning were going a
wee wrong after all. But her second thought--that it was surely all in the day's work, and
had happened so by no mistake--took her in, with a cheery and really expectant face, to Rachel
Froke's gray parlor, to "sit her down a five minutes, and rest." She confidently looked for
her business then to be declared to her, since the business she thought she had come upon was
set aside.

"I have had a great mind to come to thee," were the first words Rachel said, as her visitor
seated herself in the low chair, twin to her own, which she kept for friends. Rachel Froke
liked her own; but she never felt any special comfort comfortably her own, until she could
hold it thus duplicated.

