On the morning of the barbecue Nimbus and his household were astir betimes. Upon him devolved
the chief burden of the entertainment which was to be spread before his neighbors. There was
an abundance of willing hands, but few who could do much toward providing the requisite material.
His premises had undergone little change beyond the wide, cool, latticed walk which now led
from his house to the kitchen, and thence to "Uncle 'Liab's" house, over which Virginia-creepers
and honeysuckle were already clambering in the furious haste which that quick-growing clime
inspires in vegetation. A porch had also been added to his own house, up the posts and along
the eaves of which the wisteria was clambering, while its pendulous, lilac flower-stems hung
thick below. A few fruit-trees were planted here and there, and the oaks, which he had topped
and shortened back when he cut away the forest for his house-lot, had put out new and dense
heads of dark-green foliage that gave to the humble home a look of dignity and repose hardly
to be matched by more ornate and costly structures.  Upon the north side the corn grew rank
and thick up to the very walls of the mud-daubed gable, softening  its rudeness and giving
a charm even to the bare logs of which it was formed. Lugena had grown full and matronly, had
added two to her brood of lusty children, and showed what even a brief period of happiness
and prosperity would do for her race as she bustled about in neat apparel with a look of supreme
content on her countenance.

Long before the first comers from the country around had made their appearance, the preparations
were completed,  the morning meal cleared away, the table set in the latticed passage for the
dinner of the most honored guests, the children made tidy, and Nimbus, magnificently  attired
in clean shirt, white pants and vest, a black alpaca coat and a new Panama hat, was ready to
welcome the expected arrivals.

Eliab, too, made tidy by the loving care of his friends, was early mounted in his hand-carriage,
and propelling himself here and there to meet the first comers. The barbecue was roasting under
the charge of an experienced cook; the tables were arranged, and the speakers' stand at the
back of the school-house in the grove was in the hands of the decorators. All was mirth and
happiness.  The freedmen were about to offer oblations to liberty--a sacrifice of the first-fruits
of freedom.

CHAPTER XXIV.

A BLACK DEMOCRITUS.

"I say, Bre'er Nimbus!" cried a voice from the midst of a group of those first arriving, "how
yer do dis mornin'? Hope yer's well, Squar', you an' all de family."

The speaker was a slender, loose-jointed young man, somewhat shabbily attired, with a shapeless
narrow-brimmed  felt hat in his hand, who was bowing and scraping with a mock solemnity to
the dignitary of Red Wing, while his eyes sparkled with fun and his comrades roared at his
comic gestures.

"Is dat you, Berry?" said Nimbus, turning, with a smile. "How yer do, Berry? Glad ter see ye
well," nodding familiarly to the others and extending his hand.

"Thank ye, sah. You do me proud," said the jester, sidling towards him and bowing to the crowd
with serio-comic gravity. "Ladies an' gemmen, yer jes takes notice, ef yer please, dat I ain't
stuck up--not a mite, I ain't, ef I is pore. I'se not ashamed ter shake hands wid Mr. Squar'
Nimbus--Desmit--War'. I stan's by him whatever his name, an' no matter how many he's got, ef
it's more'n he's got fingers an' toes." He bowed low with a solemn wave of his grimy hat, as
he shook the proffered hand, amid the laughter of his audience, with whom he seemed to be a
prime favorite.

"Glad ter know it, Berry," said Nimbus, shaking the other's hand warmly, while his face glowed
with evident pleasure. "How's all gittin' on wid ye, ennyhow?"

"Gittin' on, Bre'er Nimbus?" replied Berry, striking  an attitude. "Gittin' on, did yer say?
Lor' bress yer soul, yer nebber seed de beat--nebber. Ef yer ebber pegs out h'yer at Red Wing,
Bre'er Nimbus, all yer's got ter du is jes ter come up on de Kentry Line whar folks libs. Jes
you look o' dar, will yer?" he continued, extending a slender arm ending in a skinny hand,
the widely parted fingers of which seemed like talons, while the upturned palm was worn smooth
and was of a yellowish,  pallid white about the fingers' ends. "Jes see de 'fec's ob high libbin'
on a nigger. Dar's muscle fer ye. All you needs, Bre'er Nimbus, is jest a few weeks ob good
feed! Come up dar now an' wuk a farm on sheers, an' let Marse Sykes 'llowance ye, an' yer'll
come out like me an' git some good clothes, too! Greatest place ter start up a run-down nigger
yer ever seed.  Jes' look at me, now. When I went dar I didn't hev a rag ter my back--nary
a rag, an' now jes see how I'se covered wid 'em!"

There was a laugh from the crowd in which Berry joined heartily, rolling his eyes and contorting
his limbs so as to show in the completest manner the striking contrast  between his lank, stringy,
meanly-clad frame and the full, round, well-clothed form of Nimbus.

When the laughter had subsided he struck in again, with the art of an accomplished tease, and
sidling still closer to the magnate of Red Wing, he said, with a queer assumption of familiarity:

"An' how is yer good lady, Missus Lugena, an' all de babies, Squar'? They tell me you're gittin'
on right smart an' think of settin' up yer kerridge putty soon.  Jes' ez soon ez yer git it
ready, Sally an' me's a-comin' over ter christen it. We's cousins, yer know, Squar', leastways,
Sally an' Lugena's allus said ter be kin on the father's side--the white side ob de family,
yer know.  Yer wouldn't go back on yer relations, would yer, Nimbus? We ain't proud, not a
bit proud, Bre'er Nimbus, an' yer ain't a gwine ter forgit us, is yer?  Yah, yah, yah!"

There was a tinge of earnestness in this good-natured banter, but it was instantly dissipated
by Nimbus's reply:

"Not a bit of it, cousin Berry. Lugena charged me dis berry mornin', jes ez soon ez I seed
you an' Sally, ter invite ye ter help eat her big dinner to-day. Whar' is Sally?"

"Dar now," said Berry, "dat's jes what I done tole Sally, now. She's got a notion, kase you's
rich yer's got stuck up, you an' Lugena. But I tole her, sez I, 'Nimbus ain't dat ar sort of
a chile, Nimbus hain't.  He's been a heap luckier nor de rest of us, but he ain't got de big-head,
nary bit.' Dat's what I say, an' durn me ef I don't b'lieve it too, I does. We's been hevin'
purty hard times, Sally an' me hez. Nebber did hev much luck, yer know--'cept for chillen.
Yah, yah!  An' jes' dar we's hed a trifle more'n we 'zackly keered about. Might hev spared
a few an' got along jest ez well, 'cordin' ter my notion. Den de ole woman's been kinder peaked
this summer, an' some two or free ob de babies hez been right poorly, an' Sal--wal, she got
a leettle fretted, kase yer know we both wuks purty hard an' don't seem ter git ahead a morsel.
So she got her back up, an' sez she ter me dis mornin': 'Berry,' sez she, 'I ain't a gwine
ter go near cousin Nimbus', I ain't, kase I hain't got no fine clo'es, ner no chicken-fixing
ter take ter de barbecue nuther.' So she's done stop up ter Bob Mosely's wid de baby, an' I
t'ought I'd jes come down an' spy out de lan' an' see which on us wuz right.  Dat's de fac'
truf, Bre'er Nimbus, an' no lyin". Yah, yah!"

"Sho, sho, Berry," replied Nimbus, reproachfully; "what makes Sally sech a big fool? She oughter
be ashamed ter treat her ole fren's dat ar way."

"Now yer talkin', Bre'er Nimbus, dat you is! But la sakes! Bre'er Nimbus, dat ar gal hain't
got no pride.  Why yer wouldn't b'lieve hit, but she ain't even 'shamed of Berry--fac'! Yah,
yah! What yer tinks ob dat now?"

"Why, co'se she ain't," said Nimbus. "Don't see how she could be. Yer always jes dat peart
an' jolly dat nobody couldn't git put out wid yer."

"Tink so, Bre'er Nimbus? Wal, now, I'shures ye dat yer couldn't be wuss mistaken ef yer'd tried.
On'y jes' dis mornin' Marse Sykes got put out wid me jes de wus kind."

"How's dat, Berry?"

"Wal, yer see, I'se been a wukkin' fer him ebber sence de s'rrender jes de same ez afore, only
dat he pays me an' I owes him. He pays me in sto' orders, an' it 'pears like I owes him mo'
an' mo' ebbery time we settles up. Didn't use ter be so when we lied de Bureau, kase den Marse
Sykes' 'count didn't use ter be so big; but dese las' two year sence de Bureau done gone, bress
God, I gits nex' ter nuffin' ez we goes 'long, an' hez less 'n nuffin' atterwards."

"What wages d'ye git?" asked Nimbus.

"Marse Sykes, he sez I gits eight dollahs a month, myself, an' Sally she gits fo'; an' den
we hez tree pounds o' meat apiece an' a peck o' meal, each on us, ebbery week.  We could git
along right peart on dat--we an' de chillens,  six on 'em--wid jes' a drop o' coffee now an'
agin, yer know; but yer see, Sally, she's a leetle onsartin an' can't allus wuk, an' it 'pears
like it takes all ob my wuk ter pay fer her rations when she don't wuk. I dunno how 'tis, but
dat's de way Marse Sykes figgers it out,"

"Yer mus' buy a heap ob fine clo'es," said one of the bystanders.

"'Wall, ef I does, I leaves 'em ter home fer fear ob wearin' 'em out, don't I?" said Berry,
glancing at his dilapidated costume. "Dat's what's de matter. I'se bad 'nough off, but yer
jest orter see dem chillen!  Dey war's brak ebbery day jes' like a minister, yer knows--not
sto' clo'es dough, oh, no! home-made all de time! Mostly bar'-skins, yer know! Yah, yah!"

"An' yer don't drink, nuther," said one whose words and appearance clearly showed that he regarded
it as a matter of surprise that any one should not.

"'Ceptin' only de Christmas an' when some feller treats," responded Berry.

"P'raps he makes it outen de holidays," said a third.

"Dar's whar my boss sloshes it on ter me. Clar ef I don't hev more holidays than dar is wuk-days,
'cordin 'ter his 'count."

"Holidays!" said Berry; "dat's what's de matter.  Hain't hed but jes tree holidays 'cep' de
Chris'mas weeks, in all dat time. So, I 'llowed I'd take one an' come ter dis yer meetin'.
Wal, 'long de fust ob de week, I make bold ter tell him so, an' ebber sence dat 'pears like
he's gwine ter hu't hisself, he's been so mad. I'se done tried not ter notice it, kase I'se
dat solemn-like myself, yer knows, I couldn't 'ford ter take on no mo' ob dat kind; but every
day or two he's been a lettin' slip somethin' 'bout niggas gaddin' roun', yer know."

"That was mean," said Nimbus, "kase ef yer is allus laughin' an' hollerin' roun', I'm boun'
ter say dar ain't no stiddier han' in de county at enny sort ob wuk."

"Jes' so. Much obleeged ter ye, Squar', fer dat.  Same ter yeself 'tu. Howsomever, he didn't
make no sech remark, not ez I heerd on, an' dis mornin' bright an' airly, he comed roun' an'
axes me didn't I want ter take de carry-all and go ter Lewyburg; an' when I 'llowed dat I didn't
keer tu, not jes to-day, yer know, he axed me, was I comin' h'yer ter dis yer meetin', an'
when I 'llowed I was, he jes' got up an' rar'd. Yah, yah! how he did make de turf fly, all
by hissef, kase I wur a whistlin' 'Ole Jim Crow' an' some other nice psalm-tunes,  jes' ter
keep myself from larfin' in his face! Till finally he sez, sez he, 'Berry Lawson, ef yer goes
ter dat er Radikil meetin', yer needn't never come back ter my plantation no mo'. Yer can't
stay h'yer no longer--' jes so. Den I made bold ter ax him how our little 'count stood, kase
we's been livin' mighty close fer a while, in hopes ter git a mite ahead so's ter sen' de two
oldes' chillen ter school h'yer, 'gin winter. An' den sez he, 'Count be damned!'--jes so; 'don't
yer know hit's in de papers dat ef yer don't 'bey me an' wuk obedient  ter my wishes, yer don't
git nary cent, nohow at all?' I tole him I didn't know dat ar, and didn't reckon he did. Den
he out wid de paper an' read it ober ter me, an' shure 'nough, dar 'tis, dough I'll swar I
nebber heerd nothin' on't afo'. Nebber hed no sech ting in de papers when de Bureau man drawed
'em up, dat's shuah."

"How de debble yer come ter sign sech a paper, Berry?" said Nimbus.

"Dod burned ef I know, Cousin Nimbus. Jes kase I don' know no better, I s'pose. How I gwine
ter know what's in dat paper, hey? Does you read all de papers yer signs, Squar' Nimbus? Not
much, I reckons; but den you keeps de minister right h'yer ter han' tu read 'em for ye. Can't
all ob us afford dat, Bre'er Nimbus."

"Yah, yah, dat's so!" "Good for you, Berry!" from the crowd.

"Wal, yer orter hev a guardian--all on us ought, for dat matter," said Nimbus; "but I don't
s'pose dere's ary man in de country dat would sign sech a paper ef he know'd it, an' nobody
but Granville Sykes that would hev thought of sech a dodge."

"It's jes so in mine," said one of the bystanders.  "And in mine;" "an' mine," added one and
another.

"And has any one else offered to turn men off for comin' here?" asked Nimbus.

To his surprise, he learned that two thirds the men in the crowd had been thus threatened.

"Jes let 'em try it!" he exclaimed, angrily. "Dey dassent do it, nohow. They'll find out dat
a man can't be imposed on allus, ef he is pore an' black. Dat dey will! I'se only jes a pore
man, but I hain't enny sech mean cuss ez to stan' roun' an' see my race an' kin put on in dat
ar way, I hain't."

"All right, Cousin Nimbus, ef Marse Sykes turns me outen house an' home, I knows right whar
I comes ter, now."

"Co'se yer do," said Nimbus, proudly. "Yer jes comes ter me an' I takes keer on ye. I needs
anudder han' in de crap, ennyhow."

"Now, Cousin Nimbus, yer ain't in airnest, is yer?  Yer don't mean dat, pop-suah, does yer
now?" asked Berry anxiously.    "Dat I does, Cousin Berry! dat I does!" was the hearty response.

"Whoop, hurrah!" cried Berry, throwing up his hat, turning a hand-spring, and catching the
hat as it came down. "Whar's dat Sally Ann? H'yeah, you fellers, clar away dar an' let me come
at her. H'yer I goes now, I jes tole her dis yer bressed mornin' dat it tuk a fool fer luck.
Hi-yah!" he cried, executing a sommersault, and diving through the crowd he ran away.  As he
started off, he saw his wife walking along the road toward Nimbus' house by the side of Eliab
Hill in his rolling-chair. Berry dashed back into the circle where Nimbus was engaged in earnest
conversation with the crowd in relation to the threats which had been made to them by their
employers.

"H'yer, Cousin Nimbus," he cried, "I done fergot ter thank ye, I was dat dar' flustered by
good luck, yer know. I'se a t'ousan' times obleeged ter ye, Bre'er Nimbus, jes' a t'ousan'
times, an' h'yer's Sally Ann, right outside on de road h'yer, she'll be powerful glad ter hear
on't. I'd jes ez lief wuk fer you as a white man, Bre'er Nimbus. I ain't proud, I ain't! Yah!
yah!"

He dragged Nimbus through the crowd to intercept his wife, crying out as soon as they came near:

"H'yer, you Sally Ann, what yer tinks now? H'yer's Bre'er Nimbus sez dat ef dat ole cuss, Marse
Sykes, should happen ter turn us off, he's jest a gwine ter take us in bag an' baggage, traps,
chillen and calamities, an' gib us de bes' de house affo'ds, an' wuk in de crap besides.  What
yer say now, you Sally Ann, ain't yer 'shamed fer what yer sed 'bout Bre'er Nimbus only dis
yere mornin'?"

"Dat I be, Cousin Nimbus," said Sally, turning a comely but careworn face toward Nimbus, and
extending her hand with a smile. "Bre'er 'Liab was jest a-tellin' me what a fool I was ter
ever feel so toward jes de bes' man in de kentry, ez he sez."

"An' I be damned ef he ain't right, too," chimed in Berry.

"Sho, you Berry. Ain't yer'shamed now--usin' cuss-words afore de minister!" said Sally.

"Beg yer parding, Bre'er Hill," said Berry, taking off his hat, and bowing with mock solemnity
to that worthy.  "Hit's been sech a long time sence Sunday come ter our house dat I nigh 'bout
forgot my 'ligion."

"An' yer manners too," said Sally briskly, turning from her conversation with Nimbus.

"Jes so, Bre'er Hill, but yer see I was dat ar flustered  by my ole woman takin' on so 'bout
dat ar sneakin' cuss ob a Marse Sykes a turnin' on us off, dat I hardly knowed which from todder,
an' when Cousin Nimbus 'greed ter take me up jes de minnit he dropped me down, hit kinder tuk
me off my whoopendickilar, yer know."

CHAPTER XXV.

A DOUBLE-HEADED ARGUMENT.

The attempt to prevent the attendance of voters at the meeting, showing as it did a preconcerted
purpose and design on the part of the employers to use their power as such, to overcome their
political opponents, was the cause of great indignation at the meeting, and gave occasion for
some flights of oratory which would have fallen upon dull ears but for the potent truth on
which they were based. Even the cool and cautious Eliab Hill could not restrain himself from
an allusion to the sufferings of his people when he was raised upon the platform, still sitting
in his rolling-chair, and with clasped hands and reverent face asked God's blessing upon the
meeting about to be held.

Especially angry was our friend Nimbus about this attempt  to deprive his race of the reasonable
privileges of a citizen. Perhaps the fact that he was himself a proprietor  and employer rendered
him still more jealous of the rights of his less fortunate neighbors. The very immunity which
he had from any such danger no doubt emboldened him to express his indignation more strongly,
and after the regular speeches had been made he mounted the platform and made a vigorous harangue
upon the necessity of maintaining the rights which had been conferred upon them by the chances
of war.

"We's got ter take keer ob ourselves," said he. "De guv'ment hez been doin' a heap for us.
It's gin us ourselves, our wives, our chillen, an' a chance ter du fer ourselves an' fer dem;
an' now we's got ter du it. Ef we don't stan' togedder an' keep de white folks from a-takin'
away what we's got, we nebber gits no mo'. In fac', we jes goes back'ards instead o' forrards
till yer can't tell de difference twixt a free nigger an' a rale ole time slave. Dat's my 'pinion,
an' I say now's de time ter begin--jes when dey begins. Ef a man turns off ary single one fer
comin' ter dis meetin' evr'y han' dat is ter wuk for him oughter leave him to once an' nary
colored  man ought ter do a stroke ob wuk fer him till he takes 'em back."

Loud cheers greeted this announcement, but one old white-headed man arose and begged leave
to ask him a question, which being granted, he said:

"Now, feller citizens, I'se been a listenin' ter all dat's been said here to-day, an' I'm jest
ez good a 'Publikin ez enny ub de speakers. Yer all knows dat.  But I can't fer de life ob
me see how we's gwine ter carry out sech advice. Ef we leave one man, how's we gwine ter git
wuk wid anodder? An' ef we does, ain't it jest a shiftin' ub han's? Does it make ary difference--at
least enough ter speak on--whether a white man hez his wuk done by one nigger er another?"

"But," said Nimbus, hotly, "we oughtn't ter none on us wuk fer him."

"Then," said the old man, "what's we ter do fer a libbin'? Here's half er two thirds ob dis
crowd likely ter be turned off afore to-morrer night. Now what's yer gwine ter do 'bout it?
We's got ter lib an' so's our wives an' chillens? How's we gwine ter s'port dem  widout home
or wuk?"

"Let them git wuk wid somebody else, that's all," said Nimbus.

"Yes, Bre'er Nimbus, but who's a-gwine ter s'port 'em while we's waitin' fer de white folks
ter back down, I wants ter know?"

"I will," said Nimbus, proudly.

"I hain't no manner ob doubt," said the other, "dat Bre'er Nimbus'll do de berry bes' dat he
can in sech a case, but he must 'member dat he's only one and we's a great many. He's been
mighty fortinit an' I'se mighty glad ter know it; but jes s'pose ebbery man in de county dat
hires a han' should turn him off kase he comes ter dis meetin' an' goes ter 'lection, what
could Bre'er Nimbus  du towards a feedin' on us? Ob co'se, dey's got ter hev wuk in de crop,
but you mus' member dat when de 'lection comes off de crap's all laid by, an' der ain't no
mo' pressin' need fer wuk fer months ter come. Now, how's we gwine ter lib during dat time?
Whar's we gwine ter lib? De white folks kin stan' it--dey's got all dey wants--but we can't.
Now, what's we gwine ter do? Jest ez long ez de guv'ment stood by us an' seed dat we hed a
fa'r show, we could stan' by de guv'ment. I'se jest ez good a 'Publikin ez ennybody h'yer,
yer all knows dat; but I hain't a gwine ter buck agin impossibles, I ain't. I'se got a sick
wife an' five chillen. I ain't a gwine ter bring 'em nex' do' ter starvation 'less I sees some
use in it. Now, I don't see no use in dis h'yer notion, not a bit. Ef de white folks hez made
up der minds--an' hit seems ter me dey hez--dat cullu'd folks shan't vote 'less dey votes wid
dem, we mout jest ez well gib up fust as las'!"

"Nebber! nebber, by God!" cried Nimbus, striding across the platform, his hands clenched and
the veins showing full and round on neck and brow. The cry was echoed by nearly all present.
Shouts, and cheers, and groans, and hisses rose up in an indistinguishable roar.

"Put him out! Down wid him!" with other and fiercer cries, greeted the old man's ears.

Those around him began to jostle and crowd upon him. Already violent hands were upon him, when
Eliab Hill dashed up the inclined plane which had been made for his convenience, and, whirling
himself to the side of Nimbus, said, as he pointed with flaming face and imperious gesture
to the hustling and boisterous crowd about the old man,

"Stop that!"

In an instant Nimbus was in the midst of the swaying crowd, his strong arms dashing right and
left until he stood beside the now terrified remonstrant.

"Dar, dar, boys, no mo' ob dat," he cried, as he pushed the howling mass this way and that.
"Jes you listen ter Bre'er 'Liab. Don't yer see he's a talkin' to yer?" he said, pointing to
the platform where Eliab sat with upraised hand, demanding silence.

When silence was at last obtained he spoke with more earnestness and power than was his wont,
pleading for moderation and thoughtfulness for each other, and a careful consideration of their
surroundings.

"There is too much truth," he said, "in all that has been said here to-day. Brother Nimbus
is right in saying that we must guard our rights and privileges most carefully,  if we would
not lose them. The other brother is right, too, in saying that but few of us can exercise those
privileges if the white men stand together and refuse  employment to those who persist in voting
against them.  It is a terrible question, fellow-citizens, and one that it is hard to deal
with. Every man should do his duty and vote, and act as a citizen whenever called upon to do
so, for the sake of his race in the future. We should not be weakly and easily driven from
what has been gained for us. We may have to suffer--perhaps to fight and die; but our lives
are nothing to the inheritance we may leave our children.

"At the same time we should not grow impatient with our brethren who cannot walk with us in
this way. I believe that we shall win from this contest the supreme seal of our race's freedom.
It may not come in our time, but it will be set on the foreheads of our children.  At all events,
we must work together, aid each other, comfort each other, stand by each other. God has taught
us patience by generations of suffering and waiting,  and by the light which came afterwards.
We should not doubt Him now. Let us face our danger like men; overcome it if we may, and if
not, bow to the force of the storm and gather strength, rooting ourselves deep and wide while
it blows, in order that we may rise erect and free when it shall have passed.

"But above all things there must be no disagreement.  The colored people must stand or fall
together. Those who have been as fortunate as our Brother Nimbus may breast the tempest, and
we must all struggle on and up to stand beside them. It will not do to weakly yield or rashly
fight. Remember that our people are on trial, and more than mortal wisdom is required of us
by those who have stood our friends. Let us show them that we are men, not only in courage
to do and dare, but also to wait and suffer. Let the young and strong, and those who have few
children, who have their own homes or a few months' provision, let them bid defiance to those
who would oppress us; but let us not require those to join us who are not able or willing to
take the worst that may come. Remember that while others have given us freedom, we must work
and struggle and wait for liberty--that liberty which gives as well as receives, self-supporting,
self-protecting, holding the present and looking to the future with confidence. We must be
as free of the employer as we are of the master--free of the white people as they are of us.
It will be a long, hard struggle, longer and harder than we have known perhaps; but as God
lives, we shall triumph if we do but persevere with wisdom and patience, and trust in Him who
brought us up out of the Egypt of bondage and set before our eyes the Canaan of liberty."

The effect of this address was the very opposite of what Eliab had intended. His impassioned
references to their imperilled liberty, together with his evident  apprehension of even greater
danger than was then  apparent, accorded so poorly with his halting counsel for  moderation
that it had the effect to arouse the minds of his hearers to resist such aggression even at
every risk.  So decided was this feeling that the man whom Nimbus had just rescued from the
rudeness of those about him and who had been forgotten during the remarks of the minister,
now broke forth and swinging his hat about his head, shouted:

"Three cheers for 'Liab Hill! an' I tells yer what, brudderin', dat ef dis yer is ter be a
fight fer takin' keer ob de freedom we's got, I'se in fer it as fur ez ennybody.  We must save
the crap that's been made, ef we don't pitch ary other one in our day at all. Them's my notions,
an' I'll stan' by 'em--er die by 'em ef wust comes ter wust."

Then there was a storm of applause, some ringing  resolutions were adopted, and the meeting
adjourned to discuss the barbecue and talk patriotism with each other.

There was much clamor and boasting. The candidates, in accordance with a time-honored custom
in that region, had come prepared to treat, and knowing that no liquor could be bought at Red
Wing, had brought a liberal  supply, which was freely distributed among the voters.

On account of the large majority of colored voters in this country, no attempt had previously
been made to influence them in this manner, so that they were greatly excited by this threat
of coercion. Of course, they talked very loud, and many boasts were made, as to what they would
do if the white people persisted in the course indicated. There was not one, however, who in
his drunkest moment threatened aught against their white neighbors unless they were unjustly
debarred the rights which the law conferred upon them. They wanted "a white man's chance."
That was all.

There was no such resolution passed, but it was generally  noised abroad that the meeting had
resolved that any planter who discharged a hand for attending that meeting would have the privilege
of cutting and curing his tobacco without help. As this was the chief crop of the region, and
one admitting of no delay in its harvesting and curing, it was thought that this would prove
a sufficient guaranty of fair treatment. However, a committee  was appointed to look after
this matter, and the day which had seemed to dawn so inauspiciously left the colored voters
of that region more united and  determined than they had ever been before.

CHAPTER XXVI.

TAKEN AT HIS WORD

It was past midnight of the day succeeding the meeting,  when Nimbus was awakened by a call
at his front gate. Opening the door he called out:

"Who's dar?"

"Nobody but jes we uns, Bre'er Nimbus," replied the unmistakable voice of Berry. "H'yer we
is, bag an' baggage, traps an' calamities, jest ez I tole yer. Call off yer dogs, ef yer please,
an' come an' 'scort us in as yer promised. H'yer we is--Sally an' me an' Bob an' Mariar an'
Bill an' Jim an' Sally junior--an' fo' God I can't get fru de roll-call alone. Sally, you jest
interduce Cousin Nimbus ter de rest ob dis family, will yer?"

Sure enough, on coming to the gate, Nimbus found Berry and Sally there with their numerous
progeny, several bundles of clothing and a few household wares.

"Why, what does dis mean, Berry?" he asked.

"Mean? Yah, yah!" said the mercurial Berry.  "Wal now, ain't dat cool? H'yer he axes me ter
come ter his house jest ez soon ez ever Marse Granville routs us offen his plantation, an'
ez soon's ever we comes he wants ter know what it means! How's dat fer cousinin', eh? Now don't
yer cry, Sally Ann. Jes yer wait till I tell Cousin Nimbus de circumstanshuels an' see ef he
don't ax us inside de gate."

"Oh, Cousin Nimbus," said Sally, weeping piteously, "don't yer go ter fault us now--don't please.
Hit warn't our fault at all; leastways we didn't mean it so.  I did tell Berry he'd better
stay an' du what Marse Sykes wanted him ter, 'stead of comin' tu der meetin', an' my mind misgive
me all day kase he didn't. But I didn't look for no sech bad luck as we've hed."

"Come in, come in, gal," said Nimbus, soothingly, as he opened the gate, "an' we'll talk it
all ober in de mornin'."

"Oh, der ain't nuffin' mo' to be told, Squar'," said Berry, "on'y when we done got home we
foun' dis yer truck outdoors in the road, an' dechillen at a neighbor's cryin' like de mischief.
De house was locked up an' nailed up besides. I went down ter Marse Sykes' an' seed him, atter
a gret while, but he jes sed he didn't know nothin' 'bout it, only he wanted the house fer
somebody ez 'ud wuk when he tole 'em tu, instead ub gaddin' roun' ter p'litcal meetins; an'
ez my little traps happened ter be in de way he'd jes sot'em inter de big-road, so dey'd be
handy when I come ter load 'em on ter take away. So we jes take de lightest on 'em an' de chillen
an' corned on ter take up quarters wid you cordin' ter de 'rangement we made yesterday."

"Dat's all right; jes right," said Nimbus; "but I don't understand it quite. Do yer mean ter
say dat Marse Sykes turn you uns offen his plantation while you'se all away, jes kase yer come
ter de meetin' yesterday?"

"Nuffin' else in de libbin yairth. Jes put us out an' lock de do' an' nailed up de winders,
an' lef de tings in de big-road."

"But didn't yer leave the house locked when you came here?"

"Nary bit. Nebber lock de do' at all. Got no lock, ner key, ner nuffin' ter steal ub enny account
ef enny body should want ter break in. So what I lock de do' fer? Jes lef de chillen wid one
ob de neighbors, drawed do' tu, an' comes on. Dat's all."

"An' he goes in an' takes de tings out? We'll hab de law ob him; dat we will, Berry. De law'll
fotch him, pop sure. Dey can't treat a free man dat 'ere way no mo', specially sence de constooshunel
'mendments.  Dat dey can't."

So Berry became an inmate of Castle Nimbus, and the next day that worthy proprietor went over
to Louisburg to lay the matter before Captain Pardee, who was now a practising lawyer in that
city. He returned at night and found Berry outside the gate with a banjo which he accounted
among the most precious of his belongings, entertaining a numerous auditory with choice selections
from an extensive repertory.

Berry was a consummate mimic as well as an excellent  singer, and his fellows were never tired
either of his drolleries or his songs. Few escaped his mimicry, and nothing was too sacred
for his wit. When Nimbus first came in sight, he was convulsing his hearers by imitating a
well-known colored minister of the county, giving out a hymn in the most pompous manner.

"De congregashun will now rise an' sing, ef yer please, the free hundred an' ferty-ferd hime."
Thereupon he began to sing:

   "Sinner-mans will yer go
     To de high lans' o' Hebben,
   Whar de sto'ms nebber blow
     An' de mild summer's gibben?
          Will yer go? will yer go?
          Will yer go, sinner-mans?
   Oh, say. sinner-mans, will yer go?"

Then, seeing Nimbus approach, he changed at once to a political song.

   "De brack man's gittin' awful rich
     The people seems ter fear,
   Alt'ough he 'pears to git in debt
     A little ebbery year.
   Ob co'se he gits de biggest kind
     Ob wages ebbery day,
   But when he comes to settle up
     Dey dwindles all away.

       "Den jes fork up de little tax
         Dat's laid upon de poll.
       It's jes de tax de state exac's
         Fer habben ob a soul!"

   "Yer got no lan', yer got no cash,
     Yer only got some debts;
   Yer couldn't take de bankrupt law
     'Cos ye hain't got no 'assets.'
   De chillen dey mus' hev dere bread;
     De mudder's gettin' ole,
   So darkey, you mus' skirmish roun'
     An' pay up on yer poll."

       "Den jes fork up de little tax, etc.

   "Yer know's yer's wuked dis many a year.
     To buy de land for 'Marster,'
   An' now yer orter pay de tax
     So't he kin hold it faster.
   He wuks one acre 'n ebbery ten,
     De odders idle stan';
   So pay de tax upon yo're poll
      An' take it off his lan'.

       "Den jes fork up de little tax, etc.

   "Oh! dat's de song dat some folks sing!
       Say, how d'y'e like de soun'?
   Dey say de pore man orter pay
      For walkin' on de groun"!
   When cullud men was slaves, yer know',
      'Twas drefful hard to tax 'em;
   But jes de minnit dat dey's free,
      God save us! how dey wax 'em!

       "Den jes fork up de little tax, etc."

"What you know 'bout poll-tax, Berry?" asked Nimbus, good-naturedly, when the song was ended.
"Yer hain't turned politician, hez yer?"

"What I know 'bout poll-tax, Squar' Nimbus? Dat what yer ax? Gad! I knows all 'bout 'em, dat
I do, from who tied de dog loose. Who'se a better right, I'd like ter know? I'se paid it, an'
ole Marse Sykes hes paid it for me; an' den I'se hed ter pay him de tax an' half a dollah for
'tendin' ter de biznis for me. An' den, one time I'se been 'dicted for not payin' it, an' Marse
Sykes tuk it up, an' I hed ter wuk out de tax an' de costs besides. Den I'se hed ter wuk de
road ebbery yeah some eight er ten days, an' den wuk nigh 'bout ez many more fer my grub while
I wuz at it. Oh, I knows 'bout poll-tax, I does! Dar can't nobody tell a nigger wid five er
six chillen an' a sick wife, dat's a wukkin'  by de yeah an' a gettin' his pay in ole clo'es
an' orders--dar can't nobody teach him nothin' 'bout poll-tax, honey!"   There was a laugh
at this which showed that his  listeners agreed fully with the views he had expressed.

The efforts to so arrange taxation as to impose as large a burden as possible upon the colored
man, immediately  after his emancipation, were very numerous and not unfrequently extremely
subtle. The Black Codes, which were adopted by the legislatures first convened under what has
gone into history as the "Johnsonian" plan of reconstruction, were models of ingenious subterfuge.
Among those which survived this period was the absurd notion of a somewhat onerous poll-tax.
That a man who had been deprived of every benefit of government and of all means of self-support
or acquisition, should at once be made the subject of taxation, and that a failure to list
and pay such tax should be made an indictable offense, savored somewhat of the ludicrous. It
seemed like taxing the privilege of poverty.

Indeed, the poor men of the South, including the recent  slaves, were in effect compelled to
pay a double poll-tax. The roads of that section are supported solely by the labor of those
living along their course. The land is not taxed, as in other parts of the country, for the
support of those highways the passability of which gives it value; but the poor man who travels
over it only on foot must give as much of his labor as may be  requisite to maintain it. This
generally amounts to a period ranging from six to ten days of work per annum. In addition to
this, he is required to pay a poll-tax,  generally about two dollars a year, which is equivalent
to at least one fourth of a month's pay. During both these periods he must board himself.

So it may safely be estimated that the average taxes paid by a colored man equals one half
or two thirds of a month's wages, even when he has not a cent of property, and only maintains
his family by a constant miracle of effort which would be impossible but for the harsh training
which slavery gave and which is one of the beneficent results of that institution. If he refuses
to work the road, or to pay or list the poll-tax, he may be indicted, fined, and his labor
sold to the highest bidder, precisely as in the old slave-times, to discharge the fine and
pay the tax and costs of prosecution. There is a grim humor about all this which did not fail
to strike the colored man and induce him to remark its absurdity, even when he did not formulate
its actual character.

A thousand things tend to enhance this absurdity and seeming oppression which the imagination
of the thoughtful reader will readily supply. One is the self evident advantage which this
state of things gives to the landowners. By it they are enabled to hold large tracts of land,
only a small portion of which is cultivated or used in any manner. By refusing to sell on reasonable
terms and in small parcels, they compel the freedmen to accept the alternative of enormous
rents and oppressive terms, since starvation is the only other that remains to them.

The men who framed these laws were experts in legislation and adepts in political economy.
It would perhaps be well for countries which are to-day wrestling with the question: "What
shall we do with our poor?" to consider what was the answer the South made to this same inquiry.
There were four millions of people who owned no property. They were not worth a dollar apiece.
Of lands, tenements and hereditaments they had none.  Life, muscle, time, and the clothes that
conceal nakedness were their only estate. But they were rich in "days' works." They had been
raised to work and liked it. They were accustomed to lose all their earnings, and could be
relied on to endure being robbed of a part, and hardly know that they were the subject of a
new experiment in governmental ways and means. So, the dominant class simply taxed the possibilities
of the freedman's future, and lest he should by any means fail to recognize the soundness of
this demand for tribute and neglect to regard it as a righteous exemplification of the Word,
which declares that "from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath," they
frugally provided:

1. That the ignorant or inept citizen neglecting to list his poll for taxation should be liable
to indictment and fine for such refusal or neglect.

2. That if unable to pay such tax and fine and the costs of prosecution, he should be imprisoned
and his labor sold to the highest bidder until this claim of the State upon his poverty should
be fully redeemed.

3. That the employer should be liable to pay the personal taxes of his employees, and might
recoup himself from any wages due to said hirelings or to become due.

4. To add a further safeguard, in many instances they made the exercise of the elective franchise
dependent upon the payment of such tax.

Should the effete monarchies of the Old World ever deign to glance at our civil polity, they
will learn that taxation is the only sure and certain cure for pauperism, and we may soon look
for their political economists to render thanks to the "friends" of the former slave for this
discovery of a specific for the most ancient of governmental ills!

The song that has been given shows one of the views which a race having little knowledge of
political economy took of this somewhat peculiar but perhaps necessary measure of governmental
finance.

The group broke up soon after Nimbus arrived, and Berry, following him upon the porch said,
as he laid his banjo in the window:

"Wal, an' what did de Cap'n say 'bout my case 'gin Marse Granville Sykes?"

"He said you could indict him, an' hev him fined by de court ef he turned yer off on 'count
ob yer perlitical principles."

"Bully fer de Cap'n!" said Berry, "dat's what I'll do, straight away. Yah, yah! won't dat er
be fun, jes makin' ole Mahs'r trot up ter de lick-log fer meanness ter a nigger? Whoop! h'yer
she goes!" and spreading his hands he made "a cart-wheel" and rolled on his outstretched hands
and feet half way to the gate, and then turned a handspring back again, to show his approval
of the advice given by the attorney.

"An' he says," continued Nimbus, who had looked seriously on at his kinsman's antics, "dat
yer can sue him an' git yer wages fer de whole year, ef yer kin show dat he put yer off widout
good reason."

"Der ain't no mite ob trouble 'bout dat ar, nary mite," said Berry, confidently. "You knows
what sort uv a wuk-hand I is in de crap, Bre'er Nimbus?"

"Yes, I knows dat," was the reply; "but de cap'n sez dat it mout take two or tree year ter
git dese cases fru de court, an' dar must, of co'se, be a heap ob cost an' trouble 'bout 'em."

"An' he's right tu', Bre'er Nimbus," said Berry seriously.

"Dat's so, Berry," answered Nimbus, "an' on account ob dat, an' der fac' dat yer hain't got
no money an' can't afford ter resk de wages dat yer family needs ter lib on, an' 'cause 'twould
make smart ob feelin' an' yer don't stan' well fer a fa'r show afore de court an' jury, kase
of yer color, he sez yer'd better jes thank de Lo'd fer gittin' off ez well ez yer hev, an'
try ter look out fer breakers in de futur. He sez ez how it's all wrong an' hard an' mean an'
all dat, but he sez, tu, dat yer ain't in no sort ob fix ter make a fight on't wid Marse Sykes.
Now, what you think, Berry?"

The person addressed twirled his narrow-brimmed felt hat upon his finger for a time and then
said, looking suddenly up at the other:

"Uncle Nimbus, Berry's right smart ob a fool, but damn me ef I don't b'lieve de Cap'n's in
de right on't.  What you say, now?"

Nimbus had seated himself and was looking toward the darkening west with a gloomy brow. After
a moment's silence he said:

"I'se mighty feared yer both right, Bre'er Berry.  But it certain ar' a mighty easy way ter
git wuk fer nothin', jes ter wait till de crap's laid by an' den run a man off kase he happens
ter go ter a political meetin'!  'Pears like tain't much more freedom dan we hed in ole slave-times."

"Did it ebber'ccur ter you. Uncle Nimbus," said Berry, very thoughtfully, "dat dis yer ting
freedom waz a durn curus affair fer we cullud people, ennyhow?"

"Did it ever? Wal, now, I should tink it hed, an' hit 'ccurs ter me now dat it's growin' quarer
an' quarer ebbery day. Though I'se had less on't ter bear an' puzzle over than a-most enny
on ye, dat I hez, I don't know whar it'll wuk out. 'Liab sez de Lord's a doin' His own wuk
in His own way, which I 'specs is true; but hit's a big job, an' He's got a quare way ob gittin'
at it, an' seems ter be a-takin' His own time fer it, tu. Dat's my notion."

It was no doubt childish for these two simple-minded colored men to take this gloomy view of
their surroundings and their future. They should have realized that the fact that their privileges
were insecure and their rights indefensible was their own misfortune, perhaps even their fault.
They should have remembered that the susceptibilities of that race among whom their lot had
been cast by the compulsion of a strange providence, were such as to be greatly irritated by
anything like a manly and independent exercise of rights by those who had been so long accounted
merely a superior sort of cattle. They should not have been at all surprised to find their
race helpless and hopeless before the trained and organized power of the whites, controlled
by the instinct of generations and animated by the sting of defeat.

All this should have been clear and plain to them, and they should have looked with philosophic
calmness on the abstract rights which the Nation had conferred and solemnly guaranteed to them,
instead of troubling themselves about the concrete wrongs they fancied they endured. Why should
Berry Lawson care enough about attending a political meeting to risk provoking his employer's
displeasure by so doing; or why, after being discharged, should he feel angry at the man who
had merely enforced the words of his own contract? He was a free man; he signed the contract,
and the courts were open to him as they were to others, if he was wronged. What reason was
there for complaint or apprehension, on his part?

Yet many a wiser head than that of Berry Lawson, or even that of his more fortunate kinsman,
the many-named Nimbus, has been sorely puzzled to understand how ignorance and poverty and
inexperience should maintain the right, preserve and protect themselves against opposing wisdom,
wealth and malicious skill, according to the spirit and tenor of the Reconstruction Acts. But
it is a problem which ought to trouble no one, since it has been enacted and provided by the
Nation that all such persons shall have all the rights and privileges of citizens. That should
suffice.

However, the master-key to the feeling which these colored men noted and probed in their quiet
evening talk was proclaimed aloud by the county newspaper which, commenting on the meeting
at Red Wing and the dismissal of a large number of colored people who attended it in opposition
to the wish of their employers, said:

"Our people are willing that the colored man should have all his rights of person and of property;
we desire to promote his material welfare; but when he urges his claim to political right,
he offers a flagrant insult to the white race.  We have no sympathy to waste on negro-politicians
or those who sympathize with and encourage them." [Footnote: Taken from the Patriot-Democrat,
Clinton, La., Oct 1876.]

The people of Horsford county had borne a great deal from negro-domination. New men had come
into office by means of colored votes, and the old set to whom office had become a sort of
perquisite were deprived thereby of this inherited right. The very presence of Nimbus and a
few more who like him were prosperous, though in a less degree, had been a constant menace
to the peace of a community which looked with peculiar jealousy upon the colored man in his
new estate. This might have been endured with no evil results had their prosperity been attended
with that humility which should characterize a race so lately lifted from servitude to liberty.
It was the "impudent" assertion of their "rights" that so aggravated and enraged the people
among whom they dwelt. It was not so much the fact of their having valuable possessions, and
being entitled to pay for their labor, that was deemed such an outrage on the part of the colored
race, but that they should openly and offensively use those possessions to assert those rights
and continually hold language which only "white men" had a right to use. This was more than
a community, educated as the Southerners had been, could be expected peaceably to endure.

As a farmer, a champion tobacco-grower and curer, as the most prosperous man of his race in
that section, Horsford was not without a certain pride in Nimbus; but when he asserted the
right of his people to attend a political meeting without let or hindrance, losing only from
their wages as hirelings the price of the time thus absent, he was at once marked down as a
"dangerous" man. And when it was noised abroad that he had proposed that all the colored men
of the county should band together to protect themselves against this evil, as he chose to
regard it, he was at once branded not only as "dangerous" but as a "desperate" and "pestiferous"
nigger, instead of being considered merely "sassy," as theretofore.

So this meeting and its results had the effect to make Nimbus far more active in political
matters than he had ever been before, since he honestly believed that their rights could only
be conserved by their political co-operation.  To secure this he travelled about the country
all the time he could spare from his crop, visiting the different plantations and urging his
political friends to stand firm and not be coaxed or driven away from the performance of their
political duty. By this means he became very "obnoxious" to the "best people" of Horsford,
and precipitated a catastrophe that might easily have been avoided had he been willing to enjoy
his own good fortune, instead of clamoring about the collective rights of his race.

CHAPTER XXVII.

MOTES IN THE SUNSHINE.

Mollie Ainslie's third year of teacher's life was drawing near its close. She had promised
her brother to remain at the South during that time in order that she might escape the perils
of their native climate. She was of vigorous constitution but of slight build, and he dreaded
lest the inherited scourge should take an  ineradicable hold upon her system. She had passed
her school-girl life with safety; but he rightly judged that a few years in the genial climate
where she then was would do very much toward enabling her to resist the approaches of disease.

The work in which she had been engaged had demanded  all her energies and commanded all her
devotion.  Commencing with the simplest of rudimentary training she had carried some of her
pupils along until a fair English education had been achieved. One of these pupils had already
taken the place vacated a few months before by Lucy Ellison, since which time Mollie had occupied
alone the north rooms of the old hostelry--a colored family who occupied the other portion
serving as protectors, and bringing her meals to her own apartments. A friend had spent a portion
of this time with her, a schoolmate whose failing health attested the  wisdom of the condition
her dying brother had imposed in regard to herself. As the warm weather approached this friend
had returned to her New England home, and Mollie Ainslie found herself counting the days when
she might also take her flight.

Her work had not grown uninteresting, nor had she lost any of her zeal for the unfortunate
race she had striven to uplift; but her heart was sick of the terrible isolation that her position
forced upon her. She had never once thought of making companions, in the ordinary sense, of
those for whom she labored. They had been so entirely foreign to her early life that, while
she labored unremittingly  for their advancement and entertained for many of them the most
affectionate regard, there was never any inclination to that friendly intimacy which would
have been sure to arise if her pupils had been of the same race as herself. She recognized
their right most fully to careful and polite consideration; she had striven to cultivate among
them gentility of deportment; but she had longed with a hungry yearning for friendly white
faces, and the warm hands and hearts of friendly  associates.

Her chief recreation in this impalpable loneliness--this Chillon of the heart in which she
had been bound so long--was in daily rides upon her horse, Midnight. Even in her New England
home she had been passionately fond of a horse, and while at school had been carefully trained
in horsemanship, being a prime favorite with the old French riding-master who had charge of
that branch of education in the seminary of her native town.  Midnight, coming to her from
the dying hand of her only brother, had been to her a sacred trust and a pet of priceless value.
All her pride and care had centered upon him, and never had horse received more devoted attention.
As a result, horse and rider had become very deeply attached to each other. Each knew and appreciated
the other's good qualities and varying moods.  For many months the petted animal had shown
none of that savageness with which his owner had before been compelled occasionally to struggle.
He had grown sleek and round, but had lost his viciousness, so far as she was concerned, and
obeyed her lightest word and gesture with a readiness that had made him a subject of comment
in the country around, where the "Yankee school-marm" and her black horse had become somewhat
noted.

There was one road that had always been a favorite with the horse from the very first. Whenever
he struck that he pressed steadily forward, turning neither to the right or left until he came
to a rocky ford five miles below, which his rider had never permitted him to cross, but from
which he was always turned back with difficulty--at first with a troublesome display of temper,
and at the last, with evident reluctance.

It was in one of her most lonely moods, soon after the incidents we have just narrated, that
Mollie Ainslie set out on one of her customary rides. In addition to the depression which was
incident to her own situation, she was also not a little disturbed by the untoward occurrences
affecting those for whom she had labored so long. She had never speculated much in regard to
the future of the freedmen, because she had considered it as assured.  Growing to womanhood
in the glare of patriotic warfare, she had the utmost faith in her country's honor and power.
To her undiscriminating mind the mere fact that this honor and power were pledged to the protection
and elevation of the negro had been an all-sufficient guarantee  of the accomplishment of that
pledge. In fact, to her mind, it had taken on the reality and certainty of a fact already accomplished.
She had looked forward to their prosperity as an event not to be doubted. In her view Nimbus
and Eliab Hill were but feeble types of what the race would "in a few brief years" accomplish
for itself.  She believed that the prejudice that prevailed against the autonomy of the colored
people would be suppressed, or prevented from harmful action by the national power, until the
development of the blacks should have shown them to be of such value in the community that
the old-time antipathy would find itself without food to exist upon longer.

She had looked always upon the rosy side, because to her the country for which her brother
and his fellows had fought and died was the fairest and brightest thing upon earth. There might
be spots upon the sun's face, but none were possible upon her country's escutcheon. So she
had dreamed and had fondly pictured herself as doing both a patriot's and a Christian's duty
in the work in which she had been engaged. She felt less of anger and apprehension with regard
to the bitter and scornful whites than of pity and contempt for them, because they could not
appreciate the beauty and grandeur of the Nation of which they were an unwilling part, and
of the future that lay just before. She regarded all there had been of violence and hate as
the mere puerile spitefulness  of a subjugated people. She had never analyzed their condition
or dreamed that they would ever be recognized as a power which might prove dangerous either
to the freedman's rights or to the Nation itself.

The recent events had opened her eyes. She found that, unknown to herself, knowledge had forced
itself upon her mind. As by a flash the fact stood revealed to her consciousness that the colored
man stood alone. The Nation had withdrawn its arm. The flag still waved over him, but it was
only as a symbol of sovereignty  renounced--of power discarded. Naked privileges had been conferred,
but the right to enforce their recognition had been abandoned. The weakness and poverty of
the recent slave was pitted alone and unaided against the wealth and power and knowledge of
the master. It was a revelation of her own thought to herself, and she was stunned and crushed
by it.

She was no statesman, and did not comprehend anything  of those grand policies whose requirements
over-balance all considerations of individual right--in  comparison with which races and nations
are but sands upon the shore of Time. She little realized how grand a necessity lay at the
back of that movement which seemed to her so heartless and inexcusable. She knew, of course,
vaguely and weakly, that the Fathers made a Constitution on which our government was based.
She did not quite understand its nature, which was very strange, since she had often heard
it expounded, and as a matter of duty had read with care several of those books which tell
us all about it.

She had heard it called by various names in her far New England home by men whom she loved
and venerated,  and whose wisdom and patriotism she could not doubt. They had called it "a
matchless inspiration" and "a mass of compromises;" "the charter of liberty" and "a league
with Hell;" "the tocsin of liberty" and "the manacle of the slave." She felt quite sure that
nobler-minded, braver-hearted men than those who used these words had never lived, yet she
could not understand  the thing of which they spoke so positively and so passionately. She
did not question the wisdom or the patriotism of the Fathers who had propounded this enigma.
She thought they did the best they knew, and knew the best that was at that time to be known.

She had never quite believed them to be inspired, and she was sure they had no models to work
after. Greece and Rome were not republics in the sense of our day, and in their expanded growth
did not profess to be, at any time; Switzerland and San Marino were too limited in extent to
afford any valuable examples; Venice while professedly a republic had been as unique and inimitable
as her own island home. Then there were a few experiments  here and there, tentative movements
barren of results,  and that was all that the civilized world had to offer of practical knowledge
of democracy at that time.  Beyond this were the speculations of philosophers and the dreams
of poets. Or perhaps the terms should be reversed, for the dreams were oft-times more real
and  consistent than the lucubrations. From these she did not doubt that our ancient sages
took all the wisdom they could gather and commingled it with the riper knowledge of their own
harsh experience.

But yet she could not worship the outcome. She knew that Franklin was a great man and had studied
electricity very profoundly, for his day; but there are ten thousand unnoted operators to-day
who know more of its properties, power and management than he ever dreamed of. She did not
know but it might be so with regard to free government. The silly creature did not know that
while the world moves in all things else, it stands still or goes backward  in governmental
affairs. She never once thought that while in science and religion humanity is making stupendous
strides, in government as in art, it turns ever to the model of the antique and approves the
wisdom only of the ancient.

So it was that she understood nothing of the sacredness  of right which attaches to that impalpable
and  indestructible thing, a State of the American Union--that immortal product of mortal wisdom,
that creature which is greater than its creator, that part which is more than the whole, that
servant which is lord and master also. If she had been given to metaphysical researches, she
would have found much pleasure in tracing the queer involutions of that network of wisdom that
our forefathers devised,  which their sons have labored to explain, and of which the sword
had already cut some of the more difficult knots. Not being a statesman or a philosopher, she
could only wonder and grow sad in contemplating the future that she saw impending over those
for whom she had labored so long.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

IN THE PATH OF THE STORM.

While Mollie Ainslie thought of these things with foreboding, her steed had turned down his
favorite road, and was pressing onward with that persistency which characterizes an intelligent
horse having a definite aim in view. The clouds were gathering behind her, but she did not
notice them. The horse pressed on and on.  Closer and closer came the storm. The road grew
dark amid the clustering oaks which overhung its course. The thunder rolled in the distance
and puffs of wind tossed the heavy-leafed branches as though the trees begged for mercy from
the relentless blast. A blinding flash, a fierce, sharp peal, near at hand, awoke her from
her reverie. The horse broke into a quick gallop, and glancing  back she saw a wall of black
cloud, flame-lighted and reverberant, and felt the cold breath of the summer storm come sweeping
down upon her as she sped away.

She saw that it would be useless to turn back. Long before she could reach any shelter in that
direction she would be drenched. She knew she was approaching  the river, but remembering that
she had noticed some fine-looking houses just on the other side, she decided that she would
let the horse have his own way, and apply at one of these for shelter. She was sure that no
one would deny her that in the face of such a tornado as was raging behind her. The horse flew
along as if a winged thing. The spirit of the storm seemed to have entered into him, or else
the thunder's voice awakened memories of the field of battle, and for once his rider found
herself powerless to restrain his speed or direct his course. He laid back his ears, and with
a short, sharp neigh dashed onward with a wild tremor of joy at the mad race with wind and
storm. The swaying tree-tops waved them on with wild gesticulations.  The lightning and the
thunder added wings to the flying steed.

Just before reaching the river bank they had to pass through a stretch of tall pines, whose
dark heads were swaying to and fro until they almost met above the narrow road, making it so
dark below that the black horse grew dim in the shadow, while the gaunt trunks creaked and
groaned and the leaves hissed and sobbed as the wind swept through them. The resinous fragrance
mingled with the clayey breath of the pursuing storm.  The ghost-like trunks stood out against
the lightning flashes like bars before the path of flame. She no longer tried to control her
horse. Between the flashes, his iron feet filled the rocky road with sparks of fire.  He reached
the ford and dashed knee-deep into the dark, swift stream, casting a cool spray around him
before he checked his speed. Then he halted for an instant, tossed his head as if to give the
breeze a chance to creep beneath his flowing mane, cast a quick glance back at his rider, and
throwing out his muzzle uttered a long, loud neigh that seemed like a joyful hail, and pressed
on with quick, careful steps, picking his way along the ledge of out-cropping granite which
constituted the ford, as if traversing a well-remembered causeway.

The water grew deeper and darker; the rider reached down and gathered up her dark habit and
drew her feet up close beneath her. The current grew swifter. The water climbed the horse's
polished limbs. It touched his flanks and foamed and dashed about his rugged breast. Still
he picked his way among the rocks with eager haste, neighing again and again, the joy-ringing
neighs of the home-coming steed. The surging water rose about his massive shoulders and the
rider drew herself still closer up on the saddle, clinging to bow and mane and giving him the
rein, confident in his prowess and intelligence, wondering at his eagerness, yet anxious for
his footing in the dashing current. The wind lifted the spray and dashed it about her. The
black cloud above was fringed with forked lightning and resonant with swift-succeeding peals
of thunder. The big drops began to fall hissing into the gurgling waters. Now and then they
splashed on her hands and face and shot through her close-fitting habit like icy bolts. The
brim of the low felt hat she wore and its dark plume were blown about her face. Casting a hurried
glance backward, she saw the grayish-white storm-sheet come rushing over the sloping expanse
of surging pines, and heard its dull heavy roar over the rattle of the aerial artillery which
echoed and re-echoed above her.

And now the wind shifted, first to one point and then to another. Now it swept down the narrow
valley through which the stream ran; now it dashed the water in her face, and anon it seemed
about to toss her from her seat and hurl her over her horse's head. She knew that the fierce
storm would strike her before she could reach any place of shelter. The wild excitement of
a struggle with the elements flamed up in her face and lighted her eyes with joy. She might
have been a viking's daughter as her fair hair blew over her flushed face, while she patted
her good steed and laughed aloud for very glee at the thought of conflict with the wild masterful
storm and the cool gurgling rapid which her horse breasted so gallantly.

There was a touch of fun, too, in the laugh, and in the arch gleaming of her eyes, as she thought
of the odd figure which she made, perched thus upon the saddle in mid-river, blown and tossed
by the wind, and fleeing from the storm. Her rides were the interludes of her isolated life,
and this storm was a part of the fun. She enjoyed it as the vigorous pleasure-seeker always
enjoys the simulation of danger.

The water shoaled rapidly as they neared the farther shore. The black horse mounted swiftly
to the bank, still pressing on with unabated eagerness. She leaned over and caught up the stirrup,
thrust her foot into it, regained her seat and seized the reins, as with a shake and a neigh
he struck into a long easy gallop.

"Go!" she said, as she shook the reins. The horse flew swiftly along while she swayed lightly
from side to side as he rose and fell with great sinewy strides. She felt him bound and quiver
beneath her, but his steps were as though the black, corded limbs were springs of steel.  Her
pride in the noble animal she rode overcame her fear of the storm, which followed swifter than
they fled.  She looked eagerly for a by-path leading to some farm-house, but the swift-settling
darkness of the summer night hid them from her eager glance, if any there were. Half a mile
from the ford, and the storm over-took them--a wall of wind-driven rain, which dashed and roared
about them, drenching the rider to the skin in an instant. In a moment the red-clay road became
the bed of a murky torrent. The horse's hoofs, which an instant before echoed on the hard-beaten
track, splashed now in the soft mud and threw the turbid drops over her dripping habit and
into her storm-washed face.  A quarter of a mile more, and the cold streams poured down her
back and chilled her slight frame to the marrow.  Her hands were numb and could scarce cling
to the dripping reins. Tears came into her eyes despite herself. Still the wild cloud-burst
hurled its swift torrents of icy rain upon them. She could scarcely see her horse's head, through
the gray, chilly storm-sheet.

"Whoa! whoa, Midnight!" she cried, in tremulous tones through her chattering teeth and white,
trembling lips. All her gay exultant courage had been drenched and chilled out of her. She
tried to check his stride with a loose convulsive clutch at the reins as she peered about with
blinded eyes for a place of shelter. The horse shook his head with angry impatience, neighed
again, clasped the bit in his strong teeth, stretched his neck still further and covered the
slippery ground with still swifter strides. A hundred yards more and he turned into a narrow
lane at the right, between two swaying oaks, so quickly as almost to unseat his praticed rider,
and with neigh after neigh dashed down to a great, rambling, old farm-house just visible under
the trees at the foot of the lane, two hundred yards away.  The way was rough and the descent
sharp, but the horse did not slacken his speed. She knew it was useless to attempt to check
him, and only clung to the saddle pale with fear as he neared the high gate which closed its
course. As he rose with a grand lift to take the leap she closed her eyes in terror. Easy and
swift as a bird's flight was the leap with which the strong-limbed horse cleared the high palings
and lighted on the soft springy turf within; another bound or two and she heard a sharp, strong
voice which rang above the storm with a tone of command that betrayed no doubt of obedience:

"Whoa, Satan! Stand, sir!"

The fierce horse stopped instantly. Mollie Ainslie was thrown heavily forward, clasped by a
strong arm and borne upon the piazza. When she opened her eyes she saw the torrents pouring
from the eaves, the rain beating itself into spray upon the ground without, the black horse
steaming and quivering at the steps of the porch, and Hesden Le Moyne gazing anxiously down
into her face. The water dripped from her garments and ran across the porch. She shook as if
in an ague-fit. She could not answer the earnest inquiries that fell from his lips. She felt
him chafing her chill, numbed hands, and then the world was dark, and she knew no more of the
kindly care which was bestowed upon her.

CHAPTER XXIX.

LIKE AND UNLIKE.

When she awoke to consciousness she was lying on a bed in an apartment which was a strange
compound of sitting- and sleeping-room. The bed stood in a capacious  alcove which seemed to
have been built on as an afterthought. The three sides were windows, in the outer of which
were tastefully arranged numerous flowering plants, some of which had clambered up to the ceiling
and hung in graceful festoons above the bed.  The window-shades were so arranged as to be worked
by cords, which hung within easy reach of one lying there. The night had not fully come, but
a lamp was burning at the side of the bed yet beyond its head-board, so that its rays lit up
the windows and the green trailing vines, but did not fall upon the bed. In an invalid's chair
drawn near the bedside, a lady well past the middle age but with a face of singular sweetness
and refinement was watching and directing the efforts which were being made for the resuscitation
of the fainting girl by two servant women, who were busily engaged in chafing her hands and
making warm applications to her chilled limbs.

As she opened her eyes they took in all these things, but she could not at once remember what
had happened or where she was, This sweet vision of a home interior was so different from the
low, heavy-beamed rooms and little diamond-paned windows of the Ordinary, even after all her
attempts to make it cosy, that she seemed to have awakened in fairy land. She wondered dully
why she had never trained ivies and Madeira vines over those dark beams, and blushed at the
thought that so simple a device had never occurred to her. She lay motionless until she had
recalled  the incidents of the day. She had recognized Mr. Le Moyne at once, and she knew by
instinct that the graceful lady who sat beside her was she who had written her the only word
of sympathy or appreciation she had ever received from one of her own sex in the South. She
was anxious for a better view and turned toward her.

"Ah, here are you, my dear!" said a soft, low voice, as the light fell upon her opened eyes.
"Move me up a little, Maggie," to one of the servants." We are glad to see you coming around
again. Don't move, dear," she continued, as she laid her thin soft hand upon the plump one
of the reclining girl." You are among friends. The storm and the ride were too much for you,
and you fainted for a little while. That is all. There is no trouble now. You weren't hurt,
were you?" she asked anxiously.

"No," said the other, wonderingly.

"We are glad of that," was the reply. "You are exhausted, of course, but if you do not get
cold you will soon be all right. Maggie," she continued, to the servant, "tell Mr. Hesden to
bring in that hot toddy now.  He had better put the juice of a lemon it it, too. Miss Ainslie
may not be accustomed to taking it. I am Mrs.  Le Moyne, I forgot to say," she added, turning
to her unintended guest, "and Hesden, that is my son, tells me that you are Miss Ainslie, the
brave young teacher at Red Wing whom I have long wished to see. I am really glad that chance,
or Hesden's old war horse Satan, brought you here, or I am afraid I should never have had that
pleasure. This is Hesden," she continued, nodding toward him as he entered with a small silver
waiter on which was a steaming pitcher and a delicate glass. "He has been my nurse so long
that he thinks no one can prepare a draught for a sick person so well as he, and I assure you
that I quite agree with his notion.  You have met before, I believe. Just take a good dose
of this toddy and you will be better directly. You got a terrible drenching, and I was afraid
you would have a congestive chill when they brought you in here as white as a sheet with your
teeth chattering  like castanets."

Hesden Le Moyne filled the glass with the steaming decoction and held the salver toward her.
She took it and tried to drink.

"Hand me the waiter, Hesden," said his mother, reprovingly,  "and raise her head. Don't you
see that Miss Ainslie cannot drink lying there. I never saw you so stupid, my son. I shall
have to grow worse again soon to keep you from getting out of practice entirely."

Thus reproached, Hesden Le Moyne put his arm hesitatingly beneath the pillow, raised the flushed
face upon it and supported the young lady while she quaffed the hot drink. Then he laid her
easily down, smoothed the pillow with a soft instinctive movement, poured out a glass of the
toddy which he offered to his mother, and then, handing the waiter to the servant, leaned over
his mother with a caressing movement and said:

"You must look out, little mother. Too much excitement  will not do for you. You must not let
Miss Ainslie's unexpected call disturb you."

"No indeed, Hesden," she said, as she looked up at him gratefully, "I feel really glad of any
accident that could bring her under our roof, now that I am satisfied that she is to experience
no harm from her stormy ride.  She will be all right presently, and we will have supper served
here as usual. You may tell Laura that she need be in no haste."

Having thus dismissed her son she turned to her guest and said:

"I have been an invalid so long that our household is all ordered with regard to that fact.
I am seldom able to be taken out to dinner, and we have got into the habit of having a late
supper here, just Hesden, his little boy, and I, and to-night we will have the table set by
the bedside and you will join us."

The sudden faint was over; the toddy had sent the blood tingling through the young girl's veins.
The role of the invalid was an unaccustomed one for her to play, and the thought of supping
in bed was peculiarly distasteful  to her self-helping Northern training. It was not long before
she began to manifest impatience.

"Are you in pain, dear?" asked the good lady, noticing with the keen eye of the habitual invalid
her restive movements.

"No, indeed," was the reply. "I am not at all sick.  It was only a little faint. Really, Mrs.
Le Moyne, I would rather get up than lie here."

"Oh, lie still," said the elder lady, cheerfully. "The room hardly looks natural unless the
bed is occupied.  Besides," she added with a light laugh, "you will afford me an excellent
opportunity to study effects. You seem to me very like what I must have been when I was first
compelled to abandon active life. You are very nearly the same size and of much the same complexion
and cast of features. You will pardon an old lady for saying it, I am sure. Lest you should
not, I shall be compelled to add that I was considered something of a beauty when I was young.
Now, you shall give me an idea of how I have looked in all the long years that couch has been
my home. I assure you I shall watch you very critically, for it has been my pride to make my
invalid life as pleasant  to myself and as little disagreeable to others as I could. Knowing
that I could never be anything else, I devised every plan I could to make myself contented
and to become at least endurable to my family."

"Everyone knows how well you have succeeded, Mrs, Le Moyne," said the young girl. "It must
indeed have been a sad and burdened life, and it seems to me that you have contrived to make
your sick room a perfect paradise."   "Yes, yes," said the other, sadly, "it is beautiful.
Those who loved me have been very indulgent and very considerate, too. Not only every idea
of my own has been carried into effect, but they have planned for me, too. That alcove was
an idea of my husband's. I think that the sunlight pouring in at those windows has done more
to prolong my life than anything else. I did not think, when thirty years ago I took to my
bed, that I should have survived him so long--so long--almost eight years. He was considerably
older than I, but I never looked to outlive him, never.

"That lamp-stand and little book-rack," she continued, with the garrulity of the invalid when
discoursing of his own affairs, "were Hesden's notions, as were many other things in the room.
The flowers I had brought in, one by one, to satisfy my hunger for the world without. In the
winter I have many more. Hesden makes the room a perfect conservatory, then. They have come
to be very dear to me, as you may well suppose. That ivy now, over the foot of the bed, I have
watched it from a little slip not a finger high. It is twenty-seven years old."

So she would have run on, no one knows to what length, had not the servant entered to set the
table for supper. Under her mistress' directions she was about to place it beside the bed,
when the young girl sprang into a sitting posture and with flaming cheeks cried out:

"Please, Mrs. Le Moyne, I had rather not lie here. I am quite well--just as well as ever, and
I wish you would let me get up."

"But how can you, dear?" was the reply. "Your clothes are drying in the kitchen. They were
completely drenched."

"Sure enough," answered Miss Ainslie. "I had forgotten that."   She laid herself down resignedly
as the invalid said:

"If Hesden's presence would annoy you, he shall not come. I only thought it might be pleasanter
for you not to be confined to the conversation of a crippled old woman. Besides, it is his
habit, and I hardly know what he would do if he had to eat his supper elsewhere."

"Oh, certainly, I would not wish to disturb your usual arrangement," answered Mollie, "but--"
she began, and then stoppd with some signs of confusion.

"But what, my dear?" asked the elder lady, briskly.  "Do you mean that you are not accustomed
as I am to invalidism, and hardly like the notion of supping in bed as an introduction to strangers?
Well, I dare say it would be annoying, and if you think you are quite well enough to sit up,
I reckon something better may be arranged."

"I assure you, Mrs. Le Moyne," said the other, "that I am quite well, but pray do not let me
make you any trouble."

"Oh, no trouble at all, dear; only you will have to wear one of my gowns now many years old.
I thought they were very pretty then, I assure you. I should be very glad to see them worn
again. There are few who could wear them at all; but I think they would both fit and suit you.
You are like enough to me to be my daughter. Here, you Maggie!"

She called the servant, and gave some directions which resulted in her bringing in several
dresses of an ancient pattern but exquisite texture, and laying them upon the bed.

"You will have to appear in full dress, my dear, for I have no other gowns that would be at
all becoming," said Mrs. Le Moyne.

"How very beautiful!" said the girl sitting up in the bed, gazing at the dainty silks and examining
their quaint patterns. "But really, Mrs. Le Moyne--"

"Now, please oblige me by making no more objections," interrupted that lady. "Indeed," she
added, shaking her finger threateningly at her guest, "I will not listen to any more. The fit
has seized me now to have you sit opposite me at the table. It will be like facing.  my own
youth; for now that I look at you more closely, you seem wonderfully like me. Don't you think
so, Maggie?"

"'Deed I do," said the servant, "an' dat's jes what Laura was a sayin' ter me when we done
fotch de young lady in here in a faint. She sez ter me, sez she, 'Maggie, ebber you see anybody
look so much like de Mistis made young again?'"

"Hush, Maggie," said her mistress, gaily; "don't you see how the young lady is blushing, while
it is the poor, faded woman here in the chair who ought to blush at such a compliment?"

And indeed the bright flushed face with its crown of soft golden hair escaped from its customary
bondage, tossing in sunny tendrils about the delicate brow and rippling in waves of light over
her shoulders, was a picture  which any woman past the middle life might well blush and sigh
to recognize as the counterpart of her youth. The two women looked at each other and both laughed
at the admiration each saw in the other's glance.

"Well," said Mollie, as she sank smilingly on her pillow, "I see I must submit. You will have
your own way."

She raised her arm above' her head and toyed with a leaf of the ivy which hung in graceful
festoons about the head-board. As she did so the loose-sleeved wrapper which had been flung
about her when her own drenched clothing was removed, fell down almost to her shoulder and
revealed to the beauty-worshipping watcher by the bedside an arm of faultless outline, slender,
pink-tinged, plump and soft. When she had toyed lazily for a moment with the ivy, she dropped
her arm listlessly down upon the bed. It fell upon one of the dresses which lay beside her.

"Ah, thank you!" exclaimed Mrs. Le Moyne.

"You have relieved me greatly. I was trying to decide which one I wanted you to wear, when
your arm dropped across that pale, straw-colored silk, with the vine border around the corsage
and the clambering roses running down the front. That is the one you must wear. I never wore
it but once, and the occasion is one I shall always like to recall."

There was a gleeful time in the invalid's room while the fair girl was being habited in the
garments of a by-gone generation, and when Hesden Le Moyne and his boy Hildreth were admitted
to the hearty evening meal, two women who seemed like counterparts sat opposite each other
at the sparkling board--the one habited in black silk with short waist, a low, square bodice
with a mass of tender lawn showing about the fair slender neck, puffed at the shoulders with
straight, close sleeves reaching to the wrists, around which peeped some rows of soft white
lace; the white hair combed in puffs beside the brow, clustering above its pinky softness and
falling in a silvery cataract upon the neck. The style of the other's dress was the same, save
that the shoulders were uncovered, and except for the narrow puff which seemed but a continuation
on either side, of the daintily-edged bodice, the arm hung pink and fair over the amber satin,
uncovered and unadorned save at the wrist, where a narrow circlet of gold clung light and close
about it. Her hair was dressed in the same manner as the elder lady's, and differed only in
its golden sheen. The customary lamp had been banished, and colored wax-candles, brought from
some forgotten receptacle, burned in the quaint old candelabra with which the mantels of the
house had long been decorated.

The one-armed veteran of thirty gazed in wonder at this unaccustomed brightness. If he needed
to gaze long and earnestly at the fair creature who sat over against his mother, to determine
the resemblances which had been noted between the permanent and the temporary invalid, who
shall blame him for so doing?

Little Hildreth in his six-year-old wonderment was less judicial, or at least required less
time and inquiry to decide, for he cried out even before an introduction could be given,

"Oh, papa, see, I've got a new, young grandma."

It was a gay party at that country supper-table, and four happier people could hardly have
gone afterward into the parlor where the invalid allowed herself to be wheeled by her son in
special honor of their unintended guest.

Miss Ainslie was soon seated at the piano which Hesden had kept in tune more for the pleasure
of occasional guests than his own. It was three years since she had touched one, but the little
organ, which some Northern benefactor had given to the church and school at Red Wing, had served
to prevent her fingers from losing all their skill, and in a few minutes their wonted cunning
returned. She had been carefully trained and had by nature rare musical gifts. The circumstances
of the day had given a wonderful exhilaration to her mind and thought. She seemed to have taken
a leaf out of Paradise and bound it among the dingy pages of her dull and monotonous life.
Every thing about her was so quaint and rare, the clothes she wore so rich and fantastic, that
she could not control her fancy. Every musical fantasy that had ever crept into her brain seemed
to be trooping along its galleries in a mad gallop as her fair fingers flew over the time-stained
keys. The little boy stood clinging to her skirt in silent wonder, his fair, sensitive  face
working, and his eyes distended, with delighted amazement.

The evening came to an end at last, and when the servant went with her in her quaint attire,
lighting her up the winding stairway from the broad hall to the great airy room above, with
its yawning fireplace cheery with the dying embers of a fire built hours ago to drive out the
dampness, and its two high-posted beds standing there in lofty dignity, the little Yankee school
marm could hardly realize what madcap freaks she had perpetrated since she bounded over the
gate at the foot of the lane leading from the highway down to Mulberry Hill, the ancestral
home of the Richards family.

As she sat smiling and blushing over the memory of what she had done and said in those delicious
hours, a servant tapped at the door and announced that Master Hildreth, whom she bore in her
arms and whose chubby fists were stuck into his eyes, was crying most disconsolately lest he
should lose his "new grandma" while he slept. She had brought him, therefore, to inquire whether
he might occupy one of the beds in the young lady's room. Mollie had not seen for so many years
a child that she could fondle and caress, that it was with unbounded delight that she took
the little fellow from his nurse's arms, laid him on the bed and coaxed his eyes to slumber.

CHAPTER XXX.

AN UNBIDDEN GUEST.

When the morning dawned the boy awoke with hot cheeks and bloodshot eyes, moaning and restless,
and would only be quiet when pillowed in the arms of his new-found friend. A physician who
was called pronounced his ailment to be scarlet-fever. He soon became delirious, and his fretful
moans for his "new grandma" were so piteous that Miss Ainslie could not make up her mind to
leave him. She stayed by his bed-side  all day, saying nothing of returning to Red Wing, until
late in the afternoon a messenger came from there to inquire after her, having traced her by
inquiry among several who had seen her during the storm, as well as by the report that had
gone out from the servants of her presence at Mulberry Hill.

When Hesden Le Moyne came to inform her of the messenger's arrival, he found her sitting by
his son's bedside, fanning his fevered brow, as she had done the entire day. He gazed at them
both in silence a moment before making known his errand. Then he took the fan from her hand
and informed her of the messenger's arrival. His voice sounded strangely, and as she looked
up at him she saw his face working with emotion.  She cast down her eyes quickly. She could
not tell why.  All at once she felt that this quiet, maimed veteran of a lost cause was not
to her as other men. Perhaps her heart was made soft by the strange occurrences of the few
hours she had passed beneath his mother's roof.  However that may be, she was suddenly conscious
of a feeling she had never known before. Her cheeks burned as she listened to his low, quiet
tones. The tears seemed determined to force themselves beneath her downcast lids, but her heart
bounded with a strange undefined joy.

She rose to go and see the messenger. The sick boy moaned and murmured her name. She stole
a glance at the father, and saw his eyes filled with a look of mingled tenderness and pain.
She walked to the door.  As she opened it the restless sufferer called for her again. She went
out and closed it quickly after her. At the head of the stairs she paused, and pressed her
hand to her heart while she breathed quick and her face burned. She raised her other hand and
pushed back a stray lock or two as if to cool her forehead. She stood a moment irresolute;
glanced back at the door of the room she had left, with a half frightened look; placed a foot
on the first stair, and paused again. Then she turned suddenly back with a scared resolute
look in her gray eyes, opened the door and glided swiftly to the bedside. Hesden Le Moyne's
face was buried in the pillow.  She stood over him a moment, her bosom heaving with short,
quick sighs. She reached out her hand as if she would touch him, but drew it quickly back.
Then she spoke, quietly but with great effort, looking only at the little sufferer.

"Mr. Le Moyne?" He raised his head quickly and a flush of joy swept over his face. She did
not see it, at least she was not looking at him, but she knew it.  "Would you like me to--to
stay--until--until this is over?"

He started, and the look of joy deepened in his face.  He raised his hand but let it fall again
upon the pillow, as he answered humbly and tenderly,

"If you please, Miss Ainslie."   She put her hand upon the bed, in order to seem more at ease,
as she replied, with a face which she knew was all aflame,

"Very well. I will remain for--the present."

He bent his head and kissed her hand. She drew it quickly away and added in a tone of explanation:

"It would hardly be right to go back among so many children after such exposure." So quick
is love to find excuse. She called it duty, nor ever thought of giving it a tenderer name.

He made no answer. So easy is it for the fond heart to be jealous of a new-found treasure.

She waited a moment, and then went out and wrote a note to Eliab Hill. Then she went into the
room of the invalid mother. How sweet she looked, reclining on the bed in the pretty alcove,
doing penance for her unwonted pleasure of the night before! The excited girl longed to throw
her arms about her neck and weep.  It seemed to her that she had never seen any one so lovely
and loveable. She went to the bedside and took the slender hand extended toward her,

"So," said Mrs. Le Moyne, "I hear they have sent for you to go back to Red Wing. I am sorry,
for you have given us great pleasure; but I am afraid you will have only sad memories of Mulberry
Hill. It is too bad!  Poor Hildreth had taken such a liking to you, too. I am sure I don't
blame him, for I am as much in love with you as an invalid can be with any one but herself.
Hesden will have a hard time alone in this great house with two sick people on his hands."

"I shall not go back to Red Wing to-day."

"Indeed?"

"No, I do not think it would be right to endanger so many by exposure to the disease."   "Oh,"
carelessly; "but I am afraid yon may take it yourself."

"I hope not. I am very well and strong. Besides, Hildreth calls for me as soon as I leave him
for a moment."

"Poor little fellow! It is pitiable to know that I can do nothing for him."

"I will do what I can, Mrs. Le Moyne."

"But you must not expose yourself in caring for a strange child, my dear. It will not do to
be too unselfish."

"I cannot leave him, Mrs. Le Moyne."

She left the room quickly and returned to her place at the sufferer's bedside. Hesden Le Moyne
rose as she approached. She took the fan from his hand and sat down in the chair he had occupied.
He stood silent a moment, looking down upon her as she fanned the uneasy sleeper, and then
quietly left the room.

"What a dear, tender-hearted thing she is!" said Mrs. Le Moyne to herself after she had gone.
"So lady-like  and refined too. How can such a girl think of associating  with niggers and
teaching a nigger school? Such a pity she is not one of our people. She would be just adorable
then. Don't you think so, Hesden?" she said aloud as her son entered. Having been informed
of the subject of her cogitations, Mr. Hesden Le Moyne replied, somewhat absently and irrelevantly,
as she thought, yet very warmly,

"Miss Ainslie is a very remarkable woman."

He passed into the hall, and his mother, looking after him, said,

"Poor fellow! he has a heap of trouble." And then it struck her that her son's language was
not only peculiar  but amusing. "A remarkable woman!" She laughed to herself as she thought
of it. A little, brown-haired, bright-eyed, fair-skinned chit, pretty and plucky, and accomplished
no doubt, but not at all "remarkable." She had no style nor pride. Yankee women never had.
And no family of course, or she would not teach a colored school. "Remarkable!" It was about
the only thing Miss Ainslie was not and could not be. It was very kind of her to stay and nurse
Hildreth, though she only did that out of consideration for the colored brats under her charge
at Red Wing. Nevertheless she was glad and gratified that she did so. She was a very capable
girl, no doubt of that, and she would feel much safer about Hildreth because of her care. It
was just in her line. She was like all Yankee women--just a better class of housemaids. This
one was very accomplished.  She had played the piano exquisitely and had acted the lady to
perfection in last night's masquerade. But Hesden must be crazy to call her remarkable. She
chuckled lightly as she determined to rally him upon it, when she saw him next. When that time
came, the good lady had quite forgotten her resolve.

CHAPTER XXXI.

A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

It was a time of struggle at Mulberry Hill. Love and death fought for the life of little Hildreth
Le Moyne.  The father and the "new grandma" watched over him most assiduously; the servants
were untiring in their exertions; the physician's skill was not lacking, but yet none could
foresee the result. The invalid below sent frequent inquiries. First one and then the other
stole away to ask her some question or bring her tidings in regard to the lad in whose life
was bound up the hope of two old families.

One morning, while the child was still very sick, when Miss Ainslie awoke after the brief sleep
which had been all the rest she had allowed herself from her self-imposed task, her head seemed
strangely light. There was a roaring in her ears as if a cataract were playing about them.
Her limbs ached, and every movement seemed unusually difficult--almost painful. She walked
across the room and looked dully into the mirror on her dressing-case, resting her hands on
the top of the high old-fashioned  furniture as she did so. She was only able to note that
her eyes looked heavy and her face flushed and swollen, when a sharp pain shot through her
frame, her sight grew dim, the room spun round and round. She could only crawl back and clamber
with difficulty upon the high-posted bed, where the servant found her fevered  and unconscious
when she came an hour later to awaken her for breakfast. The struggle that had been waged around
the bed of the young child was now renewed  by that of his self-constituted nurse. Weeks passed
away before it was over, and ere that time the music of little feet had ceased about the ancient
mansion, and the stroke to pride and love had rendered the invalid grand-mother still more
an invalid.

The child had been her hope and pride as its mother had been her favorite. By a strange contrariety
the sunny-faced little mother had set herself to accomplish her son's union with the tall,
dark, and haughty cousin, who had expired in giving birth to little Hildreth. There was nothing
of spontaneity and no display of conjugal affection on the part of the young husband or his
wife; but during the absence of her son, the invalid was well cared for and entertained by
the wife, whom she came to love with an intensity second only to that she lavished on her son.
In the offspring of these two her heart had been wrapped up from the hour of his birth. She
had dreamed out for him a life full of great actualities, and had even reproached Hesden for
his apathy in regard to public affairs during the stirring scenes enacting around them, urging
him to take part in them for his son's sake.

She was a woman of great ambition. At first this had centered in her son, and she had even
rejoiced when he went into the army, though he was earnestly opposed to the war, in the hope
that it might bring him rank and fame. When these did not come, and he returned to her a simple
private, with a bitterer hate for war and a sturdier dislike for the causes which had culminated
in the struggle than he had when it began, she had despaired of her dream ever being realized
through him, but had fondly believed that the son of the daughter-in-law she had so admired
and loved would unite his father's sterling qualities with his mother's pride and love of praise,
and so fulfill her desire that the family name should be made famous by some one descended
from herself. This hope was destroyed by the death of the fair, bright child whom she loved
so intensely, and she felt a double grief in consequence. In her sorrow, she had entirely secluded
herself, seeing no one but her nurse and, once or twice, her son. The sick girl in the room
above was somehow unpleasantly connected with her grief, and received no real sympathy in her
illness.  There was even something of jealousy in the mind of the confirmed invalid, when she
remembered the remarkable manner in which the child had been attracted toward the new-comer,
as well as the fact that she had nursed him so faithfully that his last words were a moan for
his "new grandma," while his real grandmother lay useless and forgotten in her dim-shadowed
room below.

Besides, it was with a feeling of envy that she recognized the fact that, for the first time
in his life, her son was more absorbed in another's welfare than in her own.  The chronic ailment
of the mother had no doubt become so much a thing of habit in his life that it failed to impress
him as it should, while the illness of the young girl, having, as he believed, been incurred
by her voluntary attendance upon his son inspired him with a feeling of responsibility that
would not otherwise have existed.  Something had occurred, too, which had aroused a feeling
upon his part which is often very close akin to a tenderer one. As soon as he had learned of
her illness, he had endeavored to induce some of his female relatives to come and attend her,
but they had all flatly refused.  They would come and care for the child, they said; they would
even send the "Yankee school-marm" flowers, and make delicacies to tempt her appetite, but
they would not demean themselves by waiting upon a sick "nigger teacher." They did not fear
the contagion; indeed they would have come to take care of little Hildreth but that they did
not care to meet his Yankee nurse. They even blamed Hesden for allowing her to come beneath
his roof, and intimated that she had brought contagion with her.

He was angry at their injustice and prejudice. He had known of its existence, but it never
before seemed so hateful. Somehow he could not rid himself of two thoughts: one was of the
fairy creature whose song and laughter and bird-like grace and gaiety, as she masqueraded in
the quaint dress of olden time, had made the dull old mansion bright as a dream of Paradise
for a single night. It had seemed to him, then, that nothing so bright and pure had ever flitted
through the somber apartments of the gray old mansion. He remembered the delight of his boy--that
boy whom he loved more than he had ever loved any one, unless it were his invalid mother--and
he could not forget the same slight form, with serious shadowed face and earnest eyes moving
softly about the sick-room of the child, her eyes full of sorrowful anxiety as if the life
she sought to save were part of her own being. He wondered that any one could think of her
as a stranger. It was true she had come from the North and was engaged in a despised avocation,
but even that she had glorified and exalted by her purity and courage until his fastidious
lady mother herself had been compelled to utter words of praise. So his heart grew sore and
his face flushed hot with wrath when his cousins sneered at this lily which had been blighted
by the fevered breath of his son.

They tauntingly advised him to send to Red Wing and get some of her "nigger" pupils to attend
upon her.  Much to their surprise he did so, and two quiet, gentle, deft-handed watchers came,
who by day and by night sat by her bedside, gladly endeavoring to repay the debt they owed
to the faithful teacher. But this did not seem to relieve Mr. Le Moyne of anxiety. He came
often and watched the flushed face, heard the labored breathing, and listened with pained heart
to the unmeaning murmurs which fell from her lips--the echoes of that desert dreamland through
which fever drags its unconscious victims. He heard his own name and that of the fast-failing
sufferer in the adjoining room linked in sorrowful  phrase by the stammering tongue. Even in
the midst of his sorrow it brought him a thrill of joy. And when his fear became fact, and
he mourned the young life no love could save, his visits to the sick-room of her who had been
his co-watcher by his child's bedside became more frequent. He would not be denied the privilege
until the crisis came, and reason resumed her sway.  Then he came no more, but every day sent
some token of remembrance.

Mrs. Le Moyne had noted this solicitude, and with the jealousy of the confirmed invalid grudged
the sick girl the slightest of the thoughtful attentions that she alone had been accustomed
to receive. She did not dream that her son, Hesden Le Moyne, cared anything for the little
Yankee chit except upon broadly humanitarian grounds, or perhaps from gratitude for her kindly
attention to his son; but even this fretted her. As time went on, she came more and more to
dislike her and to wish that she had never come beneath their roof. So the days flew by, grew
into weeks, and Mollie Ainslie was still at Mulberry Hill, while important events weve happening
at Red Wing.

CHAPTER XXXII.

A VOICE FROM THE DARKNESS.

It was two weeks after Miss Ainslie's involuntary flight from Red Wing that Nimbus, when he
arose one morning, found a large pine board hung across his gateway. It was perhaps six feet
long and some eighteen or twenty inches wide in the widest part, smoothly planed upon one side
and shaped like a coffin lid. A hole had been bored in either end, near the upper corner, and
through each of these a stout cord had been passed and tied into a loop, which, being slipped
over a paling, one on each side the gate, left the board swinging before it so as effectually
to bar its opening unless the board were first removed.

The attention of Nimbus was first directed to it by a neighbor-woman who, stopping in front
of the gate, called out to him in great excitement, as he sat with Berry Lawson on his porch
waiting for his breakfast:

"Oh, Bre'er Nimbus, what in de libbin' yairth is dis h'yer on your gate? La sakes, but de Kluckers
is after you now, shore 'nough!"

"Why, what's de matter wid yer, Cynthy?" said Nimbus, cheerfully. "Yer hain't seen no ghosteses
nor nuffin', bez ye?"

"Ghosteses, did yer say?" answered the excited woman. "Jes yer come an' look, an' ef yer don't
say hit wuss ner ghosteses, yer may count Cynthy a fool.  Dat's all."

Berry started down to the gate, Nimbus following him, carelessly.

"Why, hello, Bre'er Nimbus! Yer shore hez got a signboard cross de passway. Jes look a' dat
now! What yer 'spect it mout be, cousin?" said Berry, stopping short and pointing to the board
hung on the fence.

"'Clar, I dunno," said Nimbus, as he strode forward and leaned over the fence to get a sight
of the other side of the board. "'Spec' it must be some of dem Ku Kluck's work, ez Cynthy says."

After examining it a moment, he directed Berry to lift up the other end, and together they
carried it to the house of Eliab Hill, where its grotesque characters were interpreted, so
far as he was able to translate them, as well as the purport of a warning letter fastened on
the board by means of a large pocket-knife thrust through it, and left sticking in the soft wood.

Upon the head of the coffin-shaped board was roughly drawn, in black paint, a skull and cross-bones
and,  underneath them, the words "Eliab Hill and Nimbus Desmit," and below these still, the
mystic cabala, "K.K.K," a formulary at which, just at that time, a great part of the nation
was laughing as a capital illustration of American humor. It was accounted simply a piece of
grotesquerie intended to frighten the ignorant and superstitious  negro.

The old claim of the South, that the colored man could be controlled and induced to labor only
by the lash or its equivalent, had many believers still, even among the most earnest opponents
of slavery, and not a few of these even laughed good-naturedly at the grotesque pictures  in
illustrated journals of shadowy beings in horrible masks and terrified negroes cowering in
the darkness with eyes distended, hair rising in kinky tufts upon their heads, and teeth showing
white from ear to ear, evidently clattering like castanets. It was wonderfully funny to far-away
readers, and it made uproarious mirth in the aristocratic homes of the South. From the banks
of the Rio Grande to the waters of the Potomac, the lordly Southron laughed over his glass,
laughed on the train, laughed in the street, and laughed under his black cowl of weirdly decorated
muslin--not so much at the victims of the terrible Klan, as at the silly North which was shaking
its sides at the mask he wore. It was an era of fun.  Everybody laughed. The street gamins
imitated the Kluck, which gave name to the Klan. It was one of the funniest things the world
had ever known.

The Yankee--Brother Jonathan--had long been noted as a droll. A grin was as much a part of
his stock apparel as tow breeches or a palm-leaf hat. The negro, too, had from time immemorial
been portrayed upon the stage and in fiction as an irrepressible and inimitably farcical fellow.
But the "Southern gentleman" was a man of different kidney from either of these. A sardonic
dignity hedged him about with peculiar sacredness.  He was chivalrous and baronial in his instincts,
surroundings, and characteristics. He was nervous, excitable, and bloodthirsty. He would "pluck
up drowned honor by the locks" and make a target of everyone who laughed. He hunted, fought,
gambled, made much of his ancestors, hated niggers, despised Yankees, and swore and swaggered
on all occasions. That was the way he was pictured in the ancient days. He laughed--sometimes--not
often, and then somewhat sarcastically--but he did not make himself ridiculous. His amour propre
was most intense. He appreciated fun, but did not care that it should be at his expense. He
was grave, irritable and splenetic; but never comical. A braggart, a rough-rider, an aristocrat;
but never a masquerader.  That was the old-time idea.

Yet so had the war and the lapse of half a decade changed this people that in one State forty
thousand men, in another thirty, in others more and in others less, banded together with solemn
oaths and bloody ceremonies, just to go up and down the earth in the bright moonlight, and
play upon the superstitious fears of the poor ignorant and undeveloped people around them.
They became a race of jesters, moonlight masqueraders,  personators of the dead. They instituted
clubs and paraded by hundreds, the trained cavalry of a ghostly army organized  into companies,
battalions, divisions, departments, having at their head the "Grand Wizard of the Empire."
It was all in sport--a great jest, or at the worst designed only to induce the colored man
to work somewhat more industriously from apprehension of ghostly displeasure. It was a funny
thing--the gravest, most saturnine, and self-conscious people on the globe making themselves
ridiculous, ghostly masqueraders by the hundred thousand! The world which had lately wept with
sympathy for the misfortunes of the "Lost Cause," was suddenly convulsed with merriment at
the midnight antics of its chivalric defenders. The most vaunted race of warriors seized the
cap and bells and stole also the plaudits showered upon the fool. Grave statesmen, reverend
divines, legislators, judges, lawyers, generals, merchants, planters, all who could muster
a good horse, as it would seem, joined the jolly cavalcade and rollicked through the moonlight
nights, merely to make fun for their conquerors by playing on the superstitious fear of the
sable allies of the Northmen.  Never before was such good-natured complaisance, such untiring
effort to please. So the North laughed, the South chuckled, and the world wondered.

But the little knot of colored men and women who stood around Eliab Hill while he drew out
the knife which was thrust through the paper into the coffin-shaped board laid across the front
of his "go-cart," and with trembling lips read the message it contained--these silly creatures
did not laugh. They did not even smile, and a joke which Berry attempted, fell flat as a jest
made at a funeral.

There is something very aggravating about the tendency of this race to laugh at the wrong time,
and to persist in being disconsolate when every one can see that they ought to dance. Generation
after generation of these perverse creatures in the good old days of slavery would insist on
going in search of the North Pole under the most discouraging circumstances. On foot and alone,
without money or script or food or clothing; without guide or chart or compass; without arms
or friends; in the teeth of the law and of nature, they gave themselves to the night, the frost,
and all the dangers that beset their path, only to seek what they did not want!

We know there was never a happier, more contented, light-hearted, and exuberant people on the
earth than the Africo-American slave! He had all that man could reasonably desire--and more
too! Well-fed, well-clothed, luxuriously housed, protected from disease with watchful care,
sharing the delights of an unrivalled climate, relieved of all anxiety as to the future of
his off-spring, without fear of want, defiant of poverty, undisturbed by the bickerings of
society or heartburnings of politics, regardless of rank or station, wealth, kindred, or descent,
it must be admitted that, from an earthly point of view, his estate was as near Elysian as
the mind can conceive. Besides all this, he had the Gospel preached unto him--for nothing;
and the law kindly secured  him against being misled by false doctrines, by providing  that
the Bread of Life should never be broken to him unless some reputable Caucasian were present
to vouch for its quality and assume all responsibility as to its genuineness!

That a race thus carefully nourished, protected, and guarded from error as well as evil should
be happy, was just as natural as that the sun should shine. That they were happy only lunatics
could doubt. All their masters said so. They even raved when it was denied. The ministers of
the Gospel--those grave and reverend men who ministered unto them in holy things, who led their
careless souls, blindfolded and trustful, along the straight and narrow way--all declared before
high Heaven that they were happy, almost too happy, for their spiritual good. Politicians,
and parties, and newspapers; those who lived among them and those who went and learned all
about them from the most intelligent and high-toned of their Caucasian fellow-beings--nigh
about everybody, in fact--declared, affirmed, and swore that they were at the very utmost verge
of human happiness! Yet even under these circumstances the perverse creatures would run away.
Indeed, to run away seemed to be a characteristic of the race like their black skin and kinkling
hair!  It would have seemed, to an uninformed on-looker, that they actually desired to escape
from the paternal institution which had thrown around their lives all these blissful and beatifying
circumstances. But we know it was not so. It was only the inherent perversity of the race!

Again, when the war was ended and they were thrown upon the cold charity of an unfriendly world,
naked, poor, nameless, and homeless, without the sheltering and protecting care of that master
who had ever before been to them the incarnation of a kindly Providence --at that moment when,
by all the rules which govern Caucasian human nature, their eyes should have been red with
regretful tears, and their hearts overburdened with sorrow, these addled-pated children of
Africa, moved and instigated by the perverse devil of inherent contrariness, were grinning
from ear to ear with exasperating exultation, or bowed in still more exasperating devotion,
were rendering thanks to God for the calamity that had befallen them!

So, too, when the best people of the whole South masqueraded for their special benefit, they
stupidly or stubbornly failed and refused to reward their "best friends" for the entertainment
provided for them, at infinite pains and regardless of expense, even with the poor meed of
approving cachinnation. They ought to have been amused; they no doubt were amused; indeed,
it is morally impossible that they should not have been amused--but they would not laugh! Well
may the Caucasian of the South say of the ebony brother whom he has so long befriended and
striven to amuse: "I have piped unto you, and you have not danced!"

So Eliab read, to a circle whose cheeks were gray with pallor, and whose eyes glanced quickly
at each other with affright, these words

"ELIAB HILL AND NIMBUS DESMIT: You've been warned twice, and it hain't done no good. This is
your last chance. If you don't git up and git out of here inside of ten days, the buzzards
will have a bait that's been right scarce since the war. The white folks is going to rule Horsford,
and sassy niggers must look out.  We're not going to have any such San Domingo hole as Red
Wing in it, neither. Now just sell off and pack up and git clear off and out of the country
before we come again, which will be just as soon as the moon gits in the left quarter, and
has three stars in her lower horn. If you're here then you'll both need coffins, and that boy
Berry Lawson that you coaxed away from his employer will hang with you.

"Remember! Remember! REMEMBER!

"By order of the Grand Cyclops of the Den and his two Night Hawks, and in the presence of all
the Ghouls, on the fifth night of the sixth Dark Moon!

"K.K.K."

Hardly had he finished reading this when a letter was brought to him which had been found on
the porch of the old Ordinary. It was addressed to "MISS MOLLIE AINSLIE, Nigger Teacher at
Red Wing," but as it was indorsed "K.K.K." Eliab felt no compunctions in opening it in her
absence. It read:

"MISS AINSLIE: We hain't got no spite against you and don't mean you no harm; but the white
folks owns this country, and is going to rule it, and we can't stand no such nigger-equality
schools as you are running at Red Wing. It's got to stop, and you'd better pick up and go back
North where you come from, and that quick, if you want to keep out of trouble. Remember!

"By order of the Grand Cyclops of the Den and his Ghouls, K.K.K."

"P.S. We don't mean to hurt you. We don't make no war on women and children as the Yankees
did, but we mean what we say--git out! And don't come back here any more neither!"

The rumor of the mysterious Klan and its terrible doings had been in the air for many months.
From other States, and even from adjoining counties, had come to their ears the wail of its
victims. But so preponderating was the colored population of Horsford, and so dependent upon
their labor was its prosperity, that they had entertained little fear of its coming among them.
Two or three times before, Nimbus and Eliab had received warnings and had even taken some precautions
in regard to defense; but they did not consider the matter of sufficient moment to require
them to make it public.  Indeed, they were inclined to think that as there had been no acts
of violence in the county, these warnings were merely the acts of mischievous youngsters who
desired to frighten them into a display of fear. This seemed to be a more serious demonstration,
but they were not yet prepared to give full credence to the threat conveyed in so fantastic
a manner.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

A DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.

"Wal, dey manage to fotch Berry inter it widout sending him a letter all to hissef, alter all,"
said that worthy, when Eliab, with pale lips, but a firm voice, had finished reading the paper.
"Ben done 'spectin' dat, all de time sence I come h'yer, Cousin Nimbus. I'se been a-hearin'
'bout dese Klu Kluckers dis smart while now, ober yer in Pocatel and Hanson counties, an' I
'spected Marse Sykes'd be a-puttin' 'em on ter me jest ez soon as dey got ober here. He hed
no idear, yer know, but what I'd hev ter go back an' wuk fer jes what I could git; an sence
I hain't he's mad about it, dat's all.  What yer gwine ter do 'bout it, Nimbus?"

"I'se gwine ter stay right h'yer an' fight it out, I is," said Nimbus, doggedly. 'I'se fout
fer de right ter live in peace on my own lan' once, an' I kin fight for it agin.  Ef de Ku
Kluckers wants ter try an' whip Nimbus, jes let 'em come on," he said, bringing down his clenched
right hand upon the board which was upheld by his left, with such force that it was split from
end to end.

"Hi! you take keer dar, Cousin Nimbus," said Berry, hopping out of the way of the falling board
with an antic gesture. "Fust you know, yer hurt yer han' actin' dat er way. What YOU gwine
ter do 'bout dis yer matter, Uncle 'Liab?" he continued, turning to the preacher.

The man addressed was still gazing on the threatening letter. His left hand wandered over his
dark beard, but his face was full of an unwavering light as he replied:

"The Lord called me to my work; He has opened  many a door before me and taken me through many
trials. He has written, 'I will be with thee alway, even unto the end.' Bless His holy Name!
Hitherto, when evil has come I have waited on Him. I may not do a man's part like you, my brother,"
he continued,  laying his hand on Nimbus' knotted arm and gazing admiringly upon his giant
frame," but I can stand and wait, right here, for the Lord's will to be done; and here I will
stay--here with my people. Thank the Lord, if I am unable to fight I am also unable to fly.
He knew what a poor, weak creature I was, and He has taken care of that. I shall stay, let
others do as they may. What are you going to do, Brother Berry? You are in the same danger
with Nimbus and me."

"Wal, Bre'er 'Liab," replied Berry," I hab jes 'bout made up MY min' ter run fer it. Yer see,
I'se jes a bit differently sarcumstanced from what either o' you 'uns is. Dar's Nimbus now,
he's been in de wah an' knows all 'bout de fightin' business; an' you's a preacher an' knows
all der is ob de prayin' trade. But I never was wuth nothin' ob any account at either. It's
de feet ez hez allers stood by me," he added, executing a double-shuffle on the plank walk
where he stood; "an' I 'llows ter stan' by dem, an' light outen here, afore dem ar Kluckers
comes roun' fer an answer ter dat ar letter. Dat's my notion, Bre'er 'Liab."

"Yer don't mean yer gwine ter run away on de 'count ob dese yer Ku Kluckers, does yer, Berry?"
said Nimbus,  angrily.

"Dat's jes 'zackly what I do mean, Cousin Nimbus--no mistake 'bout dat," answered Berry, bowing
towards Nimbus with a great show of mock politeness.  "What else did yer tink Berry mean, hey?
Didn't my words 'spress demselves cl'ar? Yer know, cousin, dat  I'se not one ob de fightin'
kine. Nebber hed but one fight in my life, an' den dar wuz jes de wuss whipped nigger you ebber
seed. Yer see dem sinners, eh?" rolling up his sleeve and showing a round, close-corded arm.
"Oh, I'se some when I gits started, I is. All whip-cord an' chain-lightnin', whoop! I'll bet
a harf dollar now, an borrer de money from Bre'er Nimbus h'yer ter pay it, dat I kin turn more
han'-springs an' offener an' longer nor ary man in dis crowd. Oh, I'se some an' more too, I
is, an' don't yer fergit it.  'Bout dat fight?" he continued to a questioner, "oh, yes, dat
was one ob de mos' 'markable fights dar's ever been in Ho'sford county. Yer see 'twuz all along
uv Ben Slade an' me. Lor' bress yer, how we did fight!  'Pears ter me dat it must hev been
nigh 'bout harf a day we wuz at it."

"But you didn't lick Ben, did you, Berry?" asked one of the bystanders in surprise.

"Lick him? Yer jes' orter see de corn I wollered down 'long wid dat nigga'! Dar must hev been
close on ter harf an acre on't."

"But he's a heap bigger'n you, Berry, ez stout ez a bull an' one ob de bes' fighters ebber
on de hill at Louisburg.  Yer jest romancin' now, Berry," said Nimbus, incredulously.

"Oh, but yer don't understan' it, cousin," said Berry. "Yer see I played fer de under holt--an'
got it, dat I did. Lor'! how dat ar Ben did thrash de groun' wid me! Ole Mahs'r lost a heap
ob corn on 'count dat ar fight! But I hung on ter him, an' nebber would hev let him go till
now, ef--ef somebody hedn't pulled me out from under him!"

There was a roar of laughter at this, in which Berry joined heartily, and as it began to die
out he continued:   "Dat's de only fight I ebber hed, an' I don't want no mo'. I'se a peaceable
man, an' don't want ter hurt nobody.  Ef de Kluckers wants ter come whar I is, an' gibs me
sech a perlite notice ez dat ter quit, I'se gwine ter git out widout axin' no imper'ent questions
'bout who was dar fust. An' I'se gwine ter keep gittin' tu--jest' ez fur an' ez fast ez dey
axes me ter move on, ez long ez de road's cut out an' I don't come ter no jumpin'-off place.
Ef dey don't approve of Berry Lawson  a stayin' roun' h'yer, he's jes' a gwine West ter grow
up wid der kentry."

"I'd sooner be dead than be sech a limber-jinted coward!" said Nimbus. "I'm sorry I ebber tuk
ye in atter Marse Sykes hed put yer out in de big road, dat I am." There was a murmur of approval,
and he added: "An' ef yer hed enny place ter go ter, yer shouldn't stay in my house nary 'nother
minit."

"Now, Cousin Nimbus," said Berry, soberly, "dar hain't nary bit ob use ob enny sech talk ter
me. Berry arns his libbin' ef he does hab his joke now an' agin."

"Oh, no doubt o' dat," said Nimbus. "Ther ain't no better han' in enny crop dan Berry Lawson.
I've said dat often an' over."

"Den yer jes take back dem hard words yer spoke 'bout Berry, won't yer now, Cousin Nimbus?"
said Berry, sidling up to him and looking very much as if he intended to give the lie to his
own account of his fighting proclivities.

"No, I won't," said Nimbus, positively. "I do say dat any man ez runs away kase de Ku Kluck
tries ter scar him off is a damn coward, 'n I don't care who he calls his name neither."

"Wal, now, Cousin Nimbus," said Berry, his eyes flashing and his whole appearance falsifying
his previous poltroonery, "dar's two sides ter dat ar question. I hain't nebber been a sojer
like you, cousin, an' it's a fac' dat I don't keer ter be; but I du say ez how I'd be ez willin'
ter stan' up an' fight fer de rights we's got ez enny man dat ebber's trod de sile ennywhere's
'bout Red Wing, ef I thought ez how 'twould do de least bit ob good. But I tell yer, gemmen,
hit won't do enny good, not de least bit, an' I knows it. I'se seen de Ku Kluckers, gemmen,
an' I knows who some on 'em is, an' I knows dat when sech men takes hold ob sech a matter wid
only pore niggers on de udder side, dar ain't no chance fer de niggers. I'se seen 'em, an'
I knows."

"When?" "Whar?" "Tell us 'bout it, Berry!" came up from all sides in the crowd which had collected
until now almost all the inhabitants of Red Wing and its vicinity  were there.

"Oh, 'tain't nuffin'," said he, nonchalantly. "What Berry says, ain't no 'count, nohow."

"Yes, tell us 'bout it," said Nimbus, in a conciliatory  tone.

"Wal, ef you wants ter hear, I'll tell it," said Berry, condescendingly. "Yer mind some tree
er fo' weeks ago I went ter Bre'er Rufe's, ober in Hanson county, on a Friday night, an' didn't
git back till a Monday mornin'?"

"Sartin," said Nimbus, gravely.

"Wal, 'twas along o' dis yer business dat I went thar. I know'd yer'd got one er two warnin's
sence I'd come yere wid yer, an' I 'llowed it were on account ob me, kase dem ar Sykeses is
monstrous bad folks when dey gits mad, an' ole Marse Granville, he war powerful mad at me findin'
a home here wid my own relations. So, I tole Sally Ann all 'bout it, an' I sez to her, 'Sally,'
sez I, 'I don't want ter make Nimbus no sort o' trouble, I don't, kase he's stood up ter us
like a man. Now, ef dey should take a notion ter trouble Bre'er Nimbus, hit mout do him a heap
of harm, kase he's got so much truck 'round him here ter lose.' So we made it up dat I was
ter go ter Bre'er Rufe Paterson's, ober in Hanson county an' see ef we couldn't find a place
ter lib dar, so's not ter be baitin' de hawks on ter you, Cousin Nimbus."

"Now you, Berry," said Nimbus, extending his hand heartily, "what for yer no tell me dis afore?"

"Jes kase 'twas no use," answered Berry. "Wall, yer know, I left h'yer 'bout two hours ob de
sun, an' I pushes on right peart, kase it's a smart step ober ter Rufe's, ennyhow, an' I wanted
ter see him an' git back ter help Nimbus in de crap ob a Monday. Sally hed fixed me up a bite
o' bread an' a piece o' meat, an' I 'llowed I'd jes stop in some piney ole-field when I got
tired, eat my snack, go ter sleep, an' start fresh afo' daylight in de mornin' for de rest
ob de way. I'd been a wukkin' right peart in de new-ground dat day, an' when I got ter dat
pine thicket jes past de spring by de Brook's place, 'twixt de Haw Ribber an' Stony Fork, 'long
'bout nine o'clock I reckon, I wuz dat done out dat I jes takes a drink at de spring, eats
a bite o' bread an' meat, hunts a close place under de pines, an' goes ter sleep right away.

"Yer knows dar's a smart open place dar, whar dey used ter hev de ole muster-ground. 'Twas
de time ob de full moon, an' when I woke up a-hearin' somethin', an' kind o' peeped out under
de pine bushes, I t'ought at fust dat it was de ghostesses ob de ole chaps dat hed come back
ter muster dar, sure 'nough. Dey warn't more'n ten steps away from me, an' de boss man, he
sot wid his back to me in dat rock place what dey calls de Lubber's Cheer. De hosses was tied
all round ter de bushes, an' one ob 'em warn't more'n tree steps from me, nohow.  I heard 'em
talk jest ez plain ez you can hear me, an' I know'd right smart ob de voices, tu; but, la sakes!
yer couldn't make out which from t'odder wid dem tings dey hed on, all ober der heads, an'
way down to der feet."

"What did they say?" asked Eliab Hill.

"Wal, Bre'er 'Liab, dey sed a heap, but de upshot on't all was dat de white folks hed jes made
up dar min's ter run dis kentry, spite ob ebbery ting. Dey sed dat dey wuz all fixed up in
ebbery county from ole Virginny  clean ter Texas, an' dey wuz gwine ter teach de niggers dere
place agin, ef dey hed ter kill a few in each county an' hang 'em up fer scarecrows--jes dat
'ere way. Dey wa'n't no spring chickens, nuther. Dar wur Sheriff Gleason. He sed he'd corned
over ter let 'em know how they was gittin' on in Ho'sford. He sed dat ebbery white man in de
county 'cept about ten or twelve was inter it, an' dey wuz a gwine ter clean out nigger  rule
h'yer, shore. He sed de fust big thing they got on hand wuz ter break up dis buzzard-roost
h'yer at Red Wing, an' he 'llowed dat wouldn't be no hard wuk kase dey'd got some pretty tough
tings on Nimbus an" 'Liab both.

"Dey wuz all good men, I seed de hosses, when dey mounted ter go 'way. I tell ye dey wuz good
'uns! No pore-white trash dar; no lame hosses ner blind mules ner wukked down crap-critters,
Jes sleek gentlemen's hosses, all on 'em.

"Wal, dey went off atter an hour er two, an' I lay dar jes in a puffick lather o' sweat. I
was dat dar skeered, I couldn't sleep no mo' dat ar night, an' I darsn't walk on afore day
kase I wuz afeared o' meetin' some on 'em. So I lay, an' t'ought dis ting all ober, an' I tell
ye, fellers, 'tain't no use. 'Spose all de white men in Ho'sford is agin us, what's we gwine
ter do?  We can't lib. Lots o' niggers can't lib a week widout wuk from some white man. 'Sides
dat, dey's got de bosses an' de guns, an' de 'sperience; an' what we got?  Jes nuffin'. Der
ain't no mo' use o' fightin' dan ob tryin' ter butt down 'simmons off a foot-an'-a-half tree
wid yer head. It don't make no sort o' matter 'bout our rights. Co'se we'se got a right ter
vote, an' hold meetin's,  an' be like white folks; but we can't do it ef dey's a mind ter stop
us. An' dey is--dat berry ting!

"Nimbus sez he's gwine ter fight, an' 'Liab sez he's gwine ter pray. Dat's all right, but it
won't do nobody else enny good nor them nuther. Dat's my notion.  What good did fightin' er
prayin' either used ter do in ole slave times? Nary bit. An' dey's got us jest about ez close
ez dey hed us den, only de halter-chain's a leetle mite longer, dat's all. All dey's got ter
do is jes ter shorten up on de rope an' it brings us in, all de same ez ever. Dat's my notion.
So I'se gwine ter move on ebbery time dey axes me tu; kase why, I can't help it.  Berry'll
git enough ter eat most ennywhar, an' dat's 'bout all he 'spects in dis worl'. It's a leetle
better dan de ole slave times, an' ef it keeps on a-growin' better 'n better,  gineration atter
gineration, p'raps some of Berry's kinfolks'll git ter hev a white man's chance some time."

Berry's experience was listened to with profound interest,  but his conclusions were not received
with favor.  There seemed to be a general conviction that the colored race was to be put on
trial, and that it must show its manhood by defending itself and maintaining its rights against
all odds. His idea of running away was voted a cowardly and unworthy one, and the plan advocated
by Nimbus and Eliab, to stay and fight it out or take whatever  consequences might result,
was accepted as the true one to be adopted by men having such responsibility  as rested upon
them, as the first generation of free-men  in the American history of their race.

So, Nimbus and his friends made ready to fight by holding a meeting in the church, agreeing
upon signals, taking account of their arms, and making provision to get ammunition. Berry prepared
for his exodus by going again to his brother Rufus' house and engaging to work on a neighboring
plantation, and some two weeks afterward he borrowed Nimbus' mule and carry-all and removed
his family also. As a sort of safeguard on this last journey, he borrowed from Eliab Hill a
repeating Spencer carbine, which a Federal soldier had left at the cabin of that worthy, soon
after the downfall of the Confederacy. He was probably one of those men who determined to return
home as soon as they were convinced that the fighting was over. Sherman's army, where desertion
had been unknown during the war, lost thousands of men in this manner between the scene of
Johnston's surrender and the Grand Review at Washington, which ended the spectacular events
of the war.  Eliab had preserved this carbine very carefully, not regarding  it as his own,
but ready to surrender it to the owner or to any proper authority when demanded. It was useless
without the proper ammunition, and as this seemed to be a peculiar emergency, he allowed Berry
to take it on condition that he should stop at Boyleston and get a supply of cartridges. Eliab
had never fired a gun in his life, but he believed in defending his rights, and thought it
well to be ready to resist unlawful violence should it be offered.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

THE MAJESTY OF THE LAW.

A few days after the events narrated in the last two chapters, the sheriff presented himself
at Red Wing.  There was a keen, shrewd look in the cold, gray eyes under the overhanging brows,
as he tied his horse to the rack near the church, and taking his saddle-bags on his arm, crossed
the road toward the residence of Nimbus and Eliab Hill.

Red Wing had always been a remarkably peaceful and quiet settlement. Acting under the advice
of Miss Ainslie and Eliab, Nimbus had parted with none of his possessions except upon terms
which prevented the sale of spirituous liquors there. This was not on account of any "fanatical"
prejudice in favor of temperance, since the Squire of Red Wing was himself not exactly averse
to an occasional dram; but he readily perceived that if such sale could be prohibited in the
little village the chances for peace and order would be greatly improved.  He recognized the
fact that those characters that were most likely to assemble around a bar-room were not the
most likely to be valuable residents of the settlement. Besides the condition in his own deeds,
therefore, he had secured through the members of the Legislature from his county the passage
of an act forever prohibiting the sale of spirituous liquors within one mile of the school-house
at Red Wing. Just without this limit several little shanties had been erected where chivalric
white men doled out liquor to the hard-working  colored men of Red Wing. It was an easy and
an honorable business and they did not feel degraded by contact with the freedmen across the
bar. The superior race did not feel itself debased by selling bad whisky at an extravagant
price to the poor, thirsty Africans who went by the "shebangs" to and from their daily toil.
But Nimbus and the law would not allow the nearer approach of such influences.

By these means, with the active co-operation of the teachers, Red Wing had been kept so peaceful,
that the officers of the law rarely had occasion to appear within its limits, save to collect
the fiscal dues from its citizens.

It was with not a little surprise, therefore, that Nimbus  saw the stalwart sheriff coming
towards him where he was at work upon the hillside back of his house, "worming" and "topping"
a field of tobacco which gave promise of a magnificent yield.

"Mornin', Nimbus," said the officer, as he drew near, and turning partially around glanced
critically over the field and furtively at the little group of buildings below.  "A fine stand
of terbacker you've got--mighty even, good growth. Don't think I've seen quite as good-looking
a crap this year. There's old man George Price up about Rouseville, he's got a mighty fine
crap--always does have, you know. I saw it yesterday and didn't think anything could be better,
but your's does beat it, that's sure. It's evener and brighter, and a trifle heavier growth,
too. I told him that if anybody in the county could equal it you were the man; but I had no
idea you could beat it. This is powerful good land for terbacker, certain."

"'Tain't so much the land," said Nimbus, standing up to his arm-pits in the rank-leaved crop
above which his bare black arms glistened in the hot summer sun, "as 'tis the keer on't. Powerful
few folks is willin' ter give the keer it takes ter grow an' cure a fine crop o'  terbacker.
Ther ain't a minit from the time yer plant the seed-bed till ye sell the leaf, that ye kin
take yer finger offen it widout resk ob losin' all yer wuk."

"That's so," responded the sheriff, "but the land has a heap to do with it, after all."

"Ob co'se," said Nimbus, as he broke a sucker into short pieces between his thumb and finger,
"yer's got ter hab de sile; but ther's a heap mo' jes ez good terbacker  lan' ez dis, ef people
only hed the patience ter wuk it ez I do mine."

"Wal, now, there's not so much like this," said the sheriff, sharply, "and you don't think
so, neither. You wouldn't take a big price for your two hundred acres here now." He watched
the other's countenance sharply  as he spoke, but the training of slavery made the face of
the black Ajax simply Sphinx-like in its inscrutability.

"Wal, I don't know," said Nimbus, slowly, "I mout and then again I moutn't, yer know. Ther'd
be a good many pints ter think over besides the quality of the sile afore I'd want ter say
'yes' er 'no' to an offer ob dat kind."

"That's what I thought," said the sheriff. "You are nicely fixed here, and I don't blame you.
I had some little business with you, and I'm glad I come to-day and caught ye in your terbacker.
It's powerful fine."

"Business wid me?" asked Nimbus in surprise.  "What is it?"

"Oh, I don't know," said the officer, lightly, as he put on his spectacles, opened his saddle-bags
and took out some papers. "Some of these lawyers have got after you, I suppose, thinking you're
getting along too peart. Let me see," he continued, shuffling over the papers in his hand.
"Here's a summons in a civil  action--the old man, Granville Sykes, against Nimbus Desmit and
Eliab Hill. Where is 'Liab? I must see him, too. Here's your copy," he continued, handing Nimbus
the paper and marking the date of service on the original in pencil with the careless promptitude
of the well-trained official.

Nimbus looked at the paper which was handed him in undisguised astonishment.

"What is dis ting, anyhow, Marse Sheriff?" he asked.

"That? Why, that is a summons. Can't you read it? Here, let me take it."

He read over the legal formulary requiring Nimbus to be and appear at the court house in Louisburg
on the sixth Monday after the second Monday in August, to answer the demand of the plaintiff
against him, and concluding with the threat that in default of such appearance judgment  would
be entered up against him.

"You see, you've got to come and answer old man Granville's complaint, and after that you will
have a trial.  You'll have to get a lawyer, and I expect there'll be smart of fuss about it
before it's over. But you can afford it; a man as well fixed as you, that makes such terbacker
as this, can afford to pay a lawyer right smart. I've no doubt the old man will get tired of
it before you do; but, after all, law is the most uncertain thing in the world."

"What does it mean? Has he sued me?" asked Nimbus.

"Sued you? I should rather think he had--for a thousand dollars damages too. That is you and
'Liab, between you."

"But what for? I don't owe him anythin' an' never did."

"Oh, that's nothing. He says you've damaged him.  I've forgot what it's about. Let me see.
Oh, yes, I  remember now. He says you and 'Liab enticed away his servant--what's his name?
that limber-jinted, whistlin' feller you've had working for you for a spell."

"What, Berry?"

"That's it, Berry--Berry Lawson, That's the very chap. Well, old Granville says you coaxed
him to leave his employ, and he's after you under the statute."

"But it's a lie--every word on't! I nebber axed Berry ter leave him, an' hed no notion he was
a gwine ter do it till Marse Sykes throwed him out in de big road."

"Wal, wal, I don't know nothing about that, I'm sure. He says you did, you say you didn't.
I s'pose it'll take a court and jury to decide betwixt ye. It's none of my concern. Oh, yes,"
he continued, "I like to have forgot it, but here's a capias for you, too--you and 'Liab again.
It seems there's a bill of indictment against you. I presume it's the same matter. I must have
a bond on this for your appearance, so you'd better  come on down to 'Liab's house with me.
I'll take you for him, and him for you, as sureties. I don't  suppose 'Liab'll be apt to run
away, eh, and you're worth enough for both."

"What's this all about?" asked Nimbus.

"Well, I suppose the old man Sykes got ye indicted under the statute making it a misdemeanor,
punishable with fine and imprisonment, to coax, hire, or seduce away one's niggers after he's
hired 'em. Just the same question as the other, only this is an indictment and that's a civil
action--an action under the code, as they call it, since you Radicals tinkered over the law.
One is for the damage to old man Sykes, and the other because it's a crime to coax off or harbor
any one's hirelings."

"Is dat de law, Mister Sheriff?"

"Oh, yes, that's the law, fast enough. No trouble about that. Didn't know it, did you? Thought
you could go and take a man's "hands" right out from under his nose, and not get into trouble
about it, didn't ye?"

"I t'ought dat when a man was free anudder could hire him widout axin' leave of his marster.
Dat's what I t'ought freedom meant."

"Oh, not exactly; there's lots of freedom lyin' round loose, but it don't allow a man to hire
another man's hands, nor give them aid and comfort by harboring and feeding them when they
break their contracts and run away. I reckon the old man's got you, Nimbus. If one hook don't
catch, the other will. You've been harborin'  the cuss, if you didn't entice him away, and
that's just the same."

"Ef you mean by harborin' that I tuk my wife's kinsman  in when ole Marse Sykes turned his
family out in de big road like a damned ole rascal--"

"Hold on, Nimbus!" said the sheriff, with a dangerous  light in his cold gray eyes; "you'd
better not talk like that about a white gentleman."

"Whose ter hender my talkin', I'd like ter know?  Hain't I jes' de same right ter talk ez you
er Marse Sykes, an' wouldn't you call me a damn rascal ef I'd done ez he did? Ain't I ez free
ez he is?"

"You ain't white!" hissed the sheriff.

"No, an' it seems I ain't free, nuther!" was the hot reply." H'yer t'other night some damn
scoundrels--I'specs they wuz white, too, an' yer may tell 'em from me dat I called 'em jes
what I did--come an' hung a board 'fore my gate threatening ter kill me an' 'Liab kase we's
'too sassy,' so they sed. Now, 'Liab Hill ner me nebber disturb nobody, an' nebber do nothin'
only jes stan' up for our own rights, respectful and  peaceable-like; but we hain't ter be
run down in no sech way, I'se a free man, an' ef I think a man's a gran' rascal I'se gwine
ter say so, whether he's black er white; an' ef enny on 'em comes ter Ku Klux me I'll put a
bullet t'rough dem! I will, by God! Ef I breaks the law I'll take the consequences like a man,
but I'll be damned ef ennybody shall Ku Kluck me without somebody's goin' 'long with me, when
I drops outen dis world! Dat much I'se sot on!"

The sheriff did not answer, only to say, "Careful, careful! There's them that would give you
a high limb if they heard you talk like that."

They went together to the house. The required bonds were given, and the sheriff started off
with a chuckle. He had hardly passed out of sight when he checked his horse, returned, and
calling Nimbus to the gate, said to him in a low tone:

"See here, Nimbus, if you should ever get in the notion  of selling this place, remember and
let me have the first chance."

"All right, Marse Gleason."

"And see here, these little papers I've served to-day--you needn't have any trouble about them
in that case.  You understand," with a wink.

"Dunno ez I does, Marse Sheriff," stolidly.

"Oh, well, if you sell to me, I'll take care of them, that's all."

"An' ef I don't?"

"Oh, well, in that case, you must look out for yourself."

He wheeled his horse and rode off with a mocking laugh.

Nimbus returned to the porch of Eliab's house where the preacher sat thoughtfully scanning
the summons and capias.

"What you tink ob dis ting, 'Liab?"

"It is part of a plan to break you up, Nimbus," was the reply.

"Dar ain't no sort ob doubt 'bout that, 'Liab," answered  Nimbus, doggedly, "an' dat ole Sheriff
Gleason's jes' at de bottom ob it, I do b'lieve. But I ain't ter be druv off wid law-suits
ner Ku Kluckers. I'se jest a gwine ter git a lawyer an' fight it out, dat I am."

CHAPTER XXXV.

A PARTICULAR TENANCY LAPSES.

The second day after the visit of the sheriff, Nimbus was sitting on his porch after his day's
work when there was a call at his gate.

"Who's dar?" he cried, starting up and gazing through an opening in the honeysuckle which clambered
up to the eaves and shut in the porch with a wall of fragrant green. Seeing one of his white
neighbors, he went out to the gate, and after the usual salutations was greeted with these words:

"I hear you's gwine to sell out an' leave, Nimbus?"

"How'd ye hear dat?"

"Wal, Sheriff Gleason's a' been tellin' of it 'round, and ther ain't no other talk 'round the
country only that."

"What 'ud I sell out an' leave for? Ain't I well 'nough off whar I is?"

"The sheriff says you an' 'Liab Hill has been gittin' into some trouble with the law, and that
the Ku Klux has got after you too, so that if you don't leave you're likely to go to States
prison or have a whippin' or hangin' bee at your house afore you know it."

"Jes let 'em come," said Nimbus, angrily--"Ku Kluckers or sheriffs, it don't make no difference
which.  I reckon it's all 'bout one an' de same ennyhow. It's a damn shame too. Dar, when de
'lection come las' time we put Marse Gleason in agin, kase we hadn't nary white man in de county
dat was fitten for it an' could give de bond; an' of co'se dere couldn't no cullu'd man give
it. An' jes kase we let him hev it an' he's feared we mout change our minds now, here he is
a runnin' 'roun' ter Ku Klux meetin's an' a tryin' ter stir up de bery ole debble, jes ter
keep us cullu'd people from hevin' our rights. He can't do it wid me, dat's shore. I hain't
done nuffin' an' I won't run. Ef I'd a-done ennythin'  I'd run, kase I don't b'lieve more'n
ennybody else in a, man's stayin' ter let de law git a holt on him; but when I hain't done
nary ting, ther ain't nobody ez kin drive me outen my tracks."

"But the Ku Klux mout lift ye outen 'em," said the other with a weak attempt at wit.

"Jes let 'em try it once!" said Nimbus, excitedly.  "I'se purty well prepared for 'em now,
an' atter tomorrer  I'll be jes ready for 'em. I'se gwine ter Louisburg  to-morrer, an' I 'llow
that atter I come back they won't keer ter meddle wid Nimbus. Tell yer what, Mister  Dossey,
I bought dis place from ole Marse Desmit, an' paid for it, ebbery cent; an' I swar I ain't
a gwine ter let no man drive me offen it--nary foot. An' ef de Ku Klux comes, I's jest a gwine
ter kill de las' one I gits a chance at. Now, you min' what I say, Mister Dossey, kase I means
ebbery word on't."

The white man cowered before the other's energy.  He was of that class who were once denominated
"poor whites." The war taught him that he was as good a man to stop bullets as one that was
gentler bred, and during that straggle which the non-slaveholders fought at the beck and in
the interest of the slaveholding  aristocracy, he had learned more of manhood than he had ever
known before. In the old days his father had been an overseer on a plantation adjoining Knapp-of-Reeds,
and as a boy he had that acquaintance with Nimbus which every white boy had with the neighboring
colored lads--they hunted and fished together and were as near cronies as their color would
allow. Since the war he had bought a place and by steady work had accumulated some money. His
plantation was on the river and abutted on the eastern side with the property of Nimbus. After
a moment's silence he said:

"That reminds me of what I heard to-day. Your old Marse Potem is dead."

"Yer don't say, now!"

"Yes--died yesterday and will be buried to-morrow."

"La, sakes! An' how's he lef ole Missus an' de gals, I wonder?"

"Mighty pore I'm afraid. They say he's been mighty bad off lately, an' what he's got won't
more'n half pay his debts. I reckon the widder an' chillen'll hev ter 'homestead it' the rest
of their lives."

"Yer don't tink so? Wal, I do declar', hit's too bad. Ez rich ez he was, an' now ter come down
ter be ez pore ez Nimbus--p'raps poorer!"

"It's mighty hard, that's sure. It was all along of the wah that left everybody pore in this
country, just as it made all the Yankees rich with bonds and sech-like."

"Sho'! what's de use ob bein' a fool? 'Twan't de wah dat made Marse Desmit pore. 'Twuz dat
ar damn fool business ob slavery afo' de wah dat wound him up.  Ef he'd never been a 'speculator'
an' hadn't tried to grow rich a raisin' men an' wimmen for market he'd a been richer'n ever
he was, when he died."

"Oh, you're mistaken 'bout that, Nimbus. The wah ruined us all."

"Ha! ha! ha!" roared Nimbus, derisively. "What de wah ebber take from you, Mister Dossey, only
jes yer oberseer's whip? An' dat wur de berry best ting ebber happen ter ye, kase it sot yer
to wuk an' put yer in de way ob makin' money for yerself. It was hard on sech ez ole Mahs'r,
dat's a fac, even ef 'twas mostly his own fault; but it was worth a million ter sech ez you.
You 'uns gained mo' by de outcome ob de wah, right away, dan we cullu'd folks'll ebber git,
I'm afeared."

"Yer may be right," said Dawsey, laughing, and with a touch of pride in his tone. "I've done
pretty well since the wah. An' that brings me back to what I come over for. I thought I'd ax,
if ye should git in a notion of selling, what yer'd take fer yer place here?"

"I hain't no idea uv selling, Mister Dossey, an' hain't no notion uv hevin' any 'nuther. You
an' ebberybody  else mout jest ez well larn, fust ez las', dat I shan't never sell only jes
ter make money. Ef I put a price on Red Wing it'll be a big one; kase it ain't done growing
yet, an' I might jest ez well stay h'yr an' grow ez ter go West an' grow up wid de kentry,
ez dat fool Berry Lawson's allers tellin' about."

"Wal, that's all right, only ef you ever want ter sell, reasonable-like, yer know who to come
to for your money. Good-night!"

The man was gathering up his reins when Nimbus said:

"When did yer say ole Mahsr's funeral was gwine ter be?"

"To-morrow afternoon at four o'clock, I heerd."

"Thank ye. I'se 'bout made up my mind ter go ter Louisburg to-morrer, stay ter dat funeral,
an' come back nex' day. Seems ter me ole Mahs'r'd be kind o' glad ter see Nimbus at his funeral,
fer all I wan't no gret fav'rite o' his'n. He wa'nt sich a bad marster, an' atter I bought
Red Wing he use ter come ober ebbery now an' agin, an' gib me a heap ob advice 'bout fixin'
on it up.  I allus listened at him, tu, kase ef ennybody ever knowed nex' do' ter ebberyting,
dat ar man wuz ole Marse Potem. I'se sorry he's dead, I is; an' I'se mighty sorry for ole Missus
an' de gals. An' I'se a gwine ter go ter dat er funeral an' see him laid away, ef it do take
anudder day outen de crap; dat I is, shore.

"An' that 'minds me," said the white man, "that I heard at the same time, that Walter Greer,
who used to own the plantation afore yer Marse Desmit bought it, died sometime lately, 'way
out in Texas. It's quare, ain't it, that they should both go nigh about the same time. Good-night."

The "poor-white" neighbor rode away, little dreaming  that the colored man had estimated him
aright, and accounted him only an emissary of his foes, nor did he comprehend the importance
of the information he had given.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE BEACON-LIGHT OF LOVE.

Mollie Ainslie had been absent from Red Wing more than a month. It was nearly midnight. The
gibbous moon hung over the western tree-tops. There was not a sound to be heard in the little
hamlet, but strangely  draped figures might have been seen moving about in the open glades
of the piney woods which skirted Red Wing upon the west.

One after another they stole across the open space between  the church and the pine grove,
in its rear, until a half-dozen had collected in its shadow. One mounted on another's shoulders
and tried one of the windows. It yielded to his touch and he raised it without difficulty.
He entered and another after him. Then two or three strange-looking packages were handed up
to them from the outside. There was a whispered discussion, and then the parties within were
heard moving cautiously about and a strong benzoic odor came from the upraised window. Now
and then a sharp metallic clang was heard from within. At length the two that had entered returned
to the window. There was a whispered  consultation with those upon the outside. One of these
crept carefully to the corner and gave a long low whistle.  It was answered after a moment's
interval, first from one direction and then from another, until every part of the little hamlet
resounded with short quick answers. Then the man at the corner of the church crept back and
whispered,

"All right!"

One of the parties inside came out upon the window-sill and dropped lightly to the ground.
The other mounted upon the window-sill, and turned round upon his knees; there was a gleam
of light within the building, a flicker and a hiss, and then with a mighty roar the flame swept
through it as if following the trail of some combustible. Here and there it surged, down the
aisles and over the desks, white and clear, showing in sharpest  silhouette every curve and
angle of building and furniture.

The group at the window stood gazing within for a moment, the light playing on their faces
and making them seem ghastly and pale by the reflection; then they crept hastily back into
the shadow of the wood--all but one, who, clad in the horribly grotesque habit of the Ku Klux
Klan, stood at the detached bell-tower, and when the flames burst forth from the windows solemnly
tolled the bell until driven from his post by the heat.

One had hardly time to think, before the massive structure of dried pitch-pine which northern
charity had erected in the foolish hope of benefiting the freedmen, where the young teachers
had labored with such devotion, and where so many of the despised race had laid the foundation
of a knowledge that they vainly hoped might lift them up into the perfect light of freedom,
was a solid spire of sheeted flame.

By its ghastly glare, in various parts of the village were to be seen groups and single armed
sentries, clad in black gowns which fell to their very feet, spire-pointed caps, grotesquely
marked and reaching far above the head, while from the base a flowing masque depended over
the face and fell down upon the shoulders,  hiding all the outlines of the figure.

The little village was taken completely by surprise. It had been agreed that the ringing of
the church bell should be the signal for assembling at the church with such arms as they had
to resist the Ku Klux. It had not been thought that the danger would be imminent until about
the expiration of the time named in the  notice; so that the watch which had been determined
upon had not been strictly kept, and on this night had been especially lax on one of the roads
leading into the little hamlet.

At the first stroke of the bell all the villagers were awake, and from half-opened doors and
windows they took in the scene which the light of the moon and the glare of the crackling fire
revealed. Then dusky-skinned forms stole hastily away into the shadows of the houses and fences,
and through the rank-growing corn of the little truck-patches, to the woods and fields in the
rear. There were some who since the warning  had not slept at home at all, but had occupied
little leafy shelters in the bush and half-hid burrows on the hillside. On the eyes of all
these gleamed the blaze of the burning church, and each one felt, as he had never realized
before, the strength of that mysterious band which was just putting forth its power to overturn
and nullify a system of laws that sought to clothe an inferior and servile race with the rights
and privileges theretofore  exercised solely by the dominant one.

Among those who looked upon this scene was Eliab Hill. Sitting upon his bench he gazed through
the low window of his little cottage, the flame lighting up his pale face and his eyes distended
with terror. His clasped hands rested on the window-sill and his upturned eyes evidently sought
for strength from heaven to enable him manfully to perform the part he had declared his  determination
to enact. What he saw was this:

A company of masked men seemed to spring out of the ground around the house of Nimbus, and,
at a whistle from one of their number, began swiftly to close in upon it. There was a quick
rush and the door was burst open. There were screams and blows, angry words, and protestations
within. After a moment a light shot up and died quickly out again--one of the party had struck
a match. Eliab heard the men cursing Lugena, and ordering her to make up a light on the hearth.
Then there were more blows, and the light shone upon the window. There were rough inquiries
for the owner, and Eliab thanked God that his faithful friend was far away from the danger
and devastation of that night. He wondered, dully, what would be his thought when he should
return on the morrow, and mark the destruction wrought in his absence, and tried to paint his rage.

While he thought of these things the neighboring house was ransacked from top to bottom. He
heard the men cursing because their search was fruitless. They brought out the wife, Lugena,
and two of her children, and coaxed and threatened them without avail. A few blows were struck,
but the wife and children stoutly maintained that the husband and father was absent, attending
his old master's funeral, at Louisburg. The yellow light of the blazing church shone on the
house, and made fantastic shadows all around. The lurid glare lighted up their faces and pictured
their terror. They were almost without  clothing. Eliab noticed that the hand that clasped
Lugena's black arm below the band of the chemise was white and delicate.

The wife and children were crying and moaning in terror and pain. Oaths and blows were intermingled
with questions in disguised voices, and gasping broken answers.  Blood was running down the
face of the wife.  The younger children were screaming in the house. Children and women were
shrieking in every direction as they fled to the shelter of the surrounding woods. The flame
roared and crackled as it licked the resin from the pine logs of the church and leaped aloft.
It shone upon the glittering needles of the surrounding pines, lighted up the ripening tobacco
on the hillside, sparkled in the dewy leaves of the honeysuckle which clambered over the freedman's
house and hid the staring moon with its columns of black smoke.

The search for Nimbus proving unavailing--they scarcely seemed to expect to find him--they
began to  inquire of the terror-stricken woman the whereabouts of his friend.

"Where is 'Liab Hill?" asked the man who held her arm.

"What have you done with that snivelling hop-toad minister?" queried another.

"Speak, damn you! and see that you tell the truth," said a third, as he struck her over the
bare shoulders with a stick.

"Oh! don't! don't!" shrieked the poor woman as she writhed in agony. "I'll tell! I will, gentlemens--I
will--I will! Oh, my God! don't! don't!" she cried, as she leaped wildly about, tearing the
one garment away in her efforts to avoid the blows which fell thick and fast on every part
of her person, now fully exposed in the bright light.

"Speak, then!" said the man who held the goad.  "Out with it! Tell where you've hid him!"

"He ain't--here, gentlemen! He--he--don't--stay here no mo'."

Again the blows came thick and fast. She fell upon the ground and rolled in the dust to avoid
them. Her round black limbs glistened in the yellow light as she writhed from side to side.

"Here I am--here!" came a wild, shrill shriek from Eliab's cabin.

Casting a glance towards it, one of the men saw a blanched and pallid face pressed against
the window and lighted by the blazing church--the face of him who was wont to minister there
to the people who did not know their own "best friends!"

"There he is!"--"Bring the damn rascal out!"--"He's the one we want, anyhow!"

These and numerous other shouts of similar character,  beat upon the ears of the terrified
watcher, as the crowd of masked marauders rushed towards the little cabin which had been his
home ever since Red Wing had passed into the possession of its present owner. It was the first
building erected under the new proprietorship, and was substantially built of pine logs. The
one low window and the door in front were the only openings cut through the solidly-framed
logs. The door was fastened with a heavy wooden bar which reached across the entire shutter
and was held in place by strong iron staples driven into the heavy door-posts. Above, it was
strongly ceiled, but under the eaves were large openings made by the thick poles which had
been used for rafters. If the owner had been capable of defense he could hardly have had a
castle better adapted for a desperate and successful  struggle than this.

Eliab Hill knew this, and for a moment his face flushed as he saw the crowd rush towards him,
with the vain wish that he might fight for his life and for his race.  He had fully made up
his mind to die at his post.  He was not a brave man in one sense of the word. A cripple never
is. Compelled to acknowledge the physical  superiority of others, year after year, he comes
at length to regard his own inferiority as a matter of course, and never thinks of any movement
which partakes of the aggressive. Eliab Hill had procured the strong bar and heavy staples
for his door when first warned by the Klan, but he had never concocted any scheme of defense.
He thought vaguely, as he saw them coming towards him in the bright moonlight and in the brighter
glow of the burning sanctuary, that with a good repeating arm he might not only sell his life
dearly, but even repel the attack. It would be a proud thing if he might do so. He was sorry
he had not thought of it before. He remembered the Spencer carbine which he had given a few
days before to Berry Lawson to clean and repair, and to obtain cartridges of the proper calibre,
in order that it might be used by some one in the defense of Red Wing. Berry had not yet returned.
He had never thought of using it himself, until that moment when he saw his enemies advancing
upon him with wild cries, and heard the roar of the flaming church. He was not a hero. On the
contrary, he believed himself a coward.

He was brave enough in suffering, but his courage was like that of a woman. He was able and
willing to endure  the most terrible evils, but he did not think of doing brave things or achieving
great acts. His courage was not aggressive. He could be killed, but did not think of killing.
Not that he was averse to taking life in self-defense, but he had been so long the creature
of another's will in the matter of locomotion that it did not occur to him to do otherwise
than say: "Do with me as thou wilt. I am bound hand and foot. I cannot fight, but I can die."

He shrank from acute pain with that peculiar terror which the confirmed invalid always exhibits,
perhaps because he realizes its horror more than those who are usually exempt from its pangs.

As he pressed his face close to the flame-lighted pane, and watched the group of grotesquely
disguised men rushing toward his door, his eyes were full of wild  terror and his face twitched,
while his lips trembled and grew pale under the dark mustache. There was a rush against the
door, but it did not yield. Another and another; but the heavy bar and strong staples held
it fast. Then his name was called, but he did not answer.  Drawing his head quickly from the
window, he closed the heavy wooden shutter, which fitted closely into the frame on the inside,
and fastened it with a bar like that upon the door. Hardly had he done so when a blow shattered
the window. Something was thrust in and passed around the opening, trying here and there to
force open the shutter, but in vain. Then it was pressed against the bottom, just where the
shutter rested on the window-sill. There was an instant's silence save that Eliab Hill heard
a click which he thought was caused by the cocking of a revolver, and threw himself quickly
down upon his bench. There was a sharp explosion, a jarring crash as the ball tore through
the woodwork, and hurtling across the room buried itself in the opposite wall. Then there were
several shots fired at the door. One man found a little hole in the chinking, between two of
the logs, and putting his revolver through, fired again and again, sending spits of hot flame
and sharp spiteful reverberations through the darkness of the cabin.

Eliab Hill watched all this with fixed, staring eyes and teeth set, but did not move or speak.
He scrambled off the bench, and crawled, in his queer tri-pedal fashion, to the cot, crept
into it, and with hands clasped, sat bolt upright on the pillow. He set his back against the
wall, and, facing the door, waited for the end. He wished that some of the bullets that were
fired might pierce his heart.  He even prayed that his doom might come sharp and swift--that
he might be saved from torture--might be spared the lash. He only feared lest his manhood should
fail him in the presence of impending suffering.

There came a rush against the door with some heavy timber. He guessed that it was the log from
the hitching rack in front of Nimbus' house. But the strong bar did not yield. They called
out his name again, and assured him that if he did not undo the door they would fire the house.
A strange look of relief, even of joy, passed over his face as he heard this declaration. He
clasped his hands across his breast as he sat upon the bed, and his lips moved in prayer. He
was not afraid to die, but he was afraid that he might not be strong enough to endure all the
pain that might be caused by torture, without betraying his suffering or debasing his manhood.
He felt very weak and was glad to know that fire and smoke would hide his groans and tears.

While he waited for the hissing of the flame the blows of an axe resounded on the door. It
was wielded by stalwart hands, and ere long the glare from without shone through the double
planking.

"Hello, 'Liab--'Liab Hill!" cried a voice at the opening which seemed to the quiet listener
within strangely like that of Sheriff Gleason. "Damn me, boys, if I don't believe you've killed
the nigger, shooting in there. Hadn't we better just set the cabin afire and let it burn?"

"Put in your hand and see if you can't lift the bar," said another. "I'd like to know whether
the scoundrel is dead or alive. Besides that, I don't fancy this burning houses. I don't object
to hanging a sassy nigger, or anything of that kind, but burning a house is a different matter.
That's almost too mean for a white man to do. It's kind of a nigger business, to my notion."

"For instance!" said another, with a laugh, pointing to the blazing church.

"Oh, damn it!" said the former, "that's another thing. A damn nigger school-house ain't of
no more account than a brush-pile, anyhow."

A hand was thrust through' the opening and the bar lifted from one socket and drawn out of
the other. Then the door flew open and a half dozen men rushed into the room. The foremost
fell over the rolling chair which had been left near the door, and the others in turn fell
over him.

"What the hell!" cried one. "Here, bring the light here. What is this thing anyhow?"

The light was brought, and the voice continued: "Damned if it ain't the critter's go-cart.
Here kick the damn thing out--smash it up! Such things ain't made for niggers to ride on, anyhow.
He won't need it any more--not after we have got through with him."

"That he won't!" said another, as the invalid's chair which had first given Eliab Hill power
to move himself about was kicked out of the door and broken into pieces with blows of the axe.

Eliab Hill felt as if a part of his life was already destroyed. He groaned for the fate of
this inseparable companion of all his independent existence. It had grown dearer to him than
he knew. It hurt him, even then, to hear the coarse, grim jests which were uttered as its finely-wrought
frame cracked beneath the blows of the axe, and its luxurious belongings were rent and torn
by the hands that would soon rend and tear its owner. He had come to look upon the insensate
machine with a passionate regard. While it seemed like tearing away his limbs to take it from
him, yet there was a feeling of separate animate existence about it which one never feels towards
his own members. He had petted and polished and cared for this strong, pretty, and easily worked
combination of levers and springs and wheels that had served him so faithfully, until it seemed
to his fancy like an old and valued friend.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

THE "BEST FRIENDS" REVEAL THEMSELVES.

"Bring alight!" shouted the leader. One of the men rushed into the house of Nimbus, and snatched
a flaming brand from the hearth. As he ran with it out of the front door, he did not see a
giant form which leaped from the waving corn and sprang into the back door. The black foot
was bare and made no sound as it fell upon the threshold. He did not see the black, furious
face or the right arm, bared above the elbow, which snatched a saber from the top of a cupboard.
He did not see the glaring, murderous eyes that peered through the vine-leaves as he rushed,
with his flaming brand aloft, out of the house to the hut of Eliab. As he readied the door
the light fell upon the preacher, who sat upon the bed.  The fear of death had passed away--even
the fear of suffering was gone. His lips moved in prayer, the forgiving words mingling with
the curses of his assailants: "O God, my help and my shield!" ("Here he is, God damn him.")
"Forgive them, Father--" ("I've got him.") "They know not---a--h!"

A long, shrill shriek--the voice of a man overborne by mortal agony--sounded above the clamor
of curses, and above the roar of the blazing church. There was a fall upon the cabin floor--the
grating sound of a body swiftly drawn along its surface--and one of the masked marauders rushed
out dragging by the foot the preacher of the Gospel of Peace. The withered leg was straightened.
The weakened sinews were torn asunder, and as his captor dragged him out into the light and
flung the burden away, the limb dropped, lax and nerveless, to the ground.  Then there were
blows and kicks and curses from the crowd, which rushed upon him. In the midst, one held aloft
a blazing brand. Groans and fragments of prayer came up through the din. [Footnote: Those who
are interested in such matters may find some curiously exact parallels of the characters and
incidents of this chapter testified to under oath in the "Report of the Committee on Ku-Klux
Outrages in the Southern States." The facts are of no special interest, however, except as
illustrations of the underlying spirit and cause of this strange epidemic of violence.]

All at once there was a roar as of a desert lion bursting from its lair. They looked and saw
a huge black form leap from the porch of the other house and bound toward them. He was on them
in a minute. There was the swish of a saber swung by a practiced hand, and the high-peaked
mask of the leader bent over the hissing blade, and was stripped away, leaving a pale, affrighted
face glaring stupidly at the ebon angel of wrath in the luried fire-light. A fearful oath came
through the white, strong teeth, which showed hard-set below the moustache.  Again the saber
whistled round the head of the avenger. There was a shriek of mortal agony, and one of the
masqueraders fell. The others shrunk back. One fired a shot. The man with the torch stood for
the moment as though transfixed, with the glaring light still held aloft. Then, with his revolver,
he aimed a close, sure shot at the dusky giant whom he watched.

Suddenly he saw a woman's naked figure, that seemed to rise from the ground. There was a gleam
of steel, and then down through mask and flesh and bone crashed the axe which had fallen by
the door step, and the blood spurted upon Lugena's unclothed form and into the face of the
prostrate Eliab, as the holder of the torch fell beside him. Then the others gave way, and
the two black forms pursued. There were some wild shots fired back, as they fled toward the
wood beyond the road.

Then from its depths came a flash and a roar. A ball went shrieking by them and flew away into
the darkness beyond. Another, and another and another! It was not the sharp, short crack of
the revolver, but the fierce angry challenge of the rifle. They had heard it before upon the
battle-field, and terror lent them wings as they fled. The hurtling missiles flew here and
there, wherever a masked form could be seen, and pursued their fleeing shadows into the wood,
glancing from tree to tree, cutting through spine and branch and splintering bole, until the
last echo of their footsteps had died away.

Then all was still, except the roar of the burning church and the solemn soughing of the pines,
as the rising west wind rustled their branches.

Nimbus and his wife stood listening in the shade of a low oak, between the scene of conflict
and the highway.  No sound of the flying enemy could be heard.

"Nimbus! Oh, Nimbus!" the words came in a strained, low whisper from the unclad figure at his side.

"Wal, 'Gena?"

"Is you hurt, honey?"

"Nary bit. How should I be? They run away ez quick ez I come. Did they 'buse you, 'Gena?"

"None of enny 'count," she answered, cautiously, for fear of raising his anger to a point beyond
control--"only jest a tryin' ter make me tell whar you was--you an' 'Liab."

"Whar's yer clo'es, honey?"

"In de house, dar, only what I tore, getting away from 'em."   "An' de chillen?"

"Dey's run out an' hid somewheres. Dey scattered like young pa'tridges."

"Dey's been hunted like 'em too, eh?"

He lays his hand in caution upon the bare shoulder next him, and they both crouch closer in
the shadow and listen. All is quiet, except groans and stertorous breathing near the cabin.

"It's one of them damned villains. Let me settle him!" said Nimbus.

"Don't, don't!" cried Lugena, as she threw her arms about his neck. "Please don't, honey!"

"P'raps it's Bre'er 'Liab! Let me go!" he said, hastily.

Cautiously they started back through the strip of yellow light which lay between them and the
cabin of Eliab.  They could not believe that their persecutors were indeed gone. Nimbus's hand
still clutched the saber, and Lugena had picked up the axe which she had dropped.

The groaning came indeed from Eliab. He had partially recovered from the unconsciousness which
had come over him while undergoing torture, and with returning animation had come the sense
of acute suffering from the injuries he had received.

"Bre'er 'Liab!" whispered Nimbus, bending over him.

"Is that you, Nimbus?" asked the stricken man in surprise. "How do you come to be here?"

"Jes tuk it inter my head ter come home atter de funeril, an' done got here jest in time ter
take a han' in what was gwine on."

"Is the church all burned down, Nimbus?"

"De ruf hez all fell in. De sides 'll burn a long while yet. Dey'se logs, yer know."

"Did 'Gena get away, Nimbus?"

"Here I is, Bre'er 'Liab."

"Is anybody hurt?"

"Not ez we knows on, 'cept two dat's lyin' on de groun' right h'yer by ye," said Nimbus.

"Dead?" asked 'Liab, with a shudder. He tried to raise himself up but sank back with a groan.

"Oh, Bre'er 'Liab! Bre'er 'Liab!" cried Nimbus, his distress overcoming his fear, "is you hurt
bad?  My God!" he continued, as he raised his friend's head and saw that he had lapsed again
into insensibility, "my God! 'Gena, he's dead!"

He withdrew the hand he had placed under the shoulders of the prostrate man. It was covered
with blood.

"Sh--sh! You hear dat, Nimbus?" asked Lugena, in a choked whisper, as she started up and peered
toward the road. "Oh, Nimbus, run! run! Do, honey, do!  Dar dey comes! Dey'll kill you, shore!"

She caught her husband by the arm, and endeavored to drag him into the shadow of the cabin.

"I can't leave Bre'er 'Liab," said Nimbus, doggedly.

"Yer can't help him. Yer'll jes stay an' be killed ye'self! Dar now, listen at dat!" cried
the trembling woman.

The sound to which she referred was that of hurried footfalls in the road beyond their house.
Nimbus heard it, and stooping over his insensible friend, raised him in his arms and dashed
around the cabin into the rank-growing corn beyond. His wife followed for a few steps, still
carrying the axe. Then she turned and peered through the corn-rows, determined to cover her
husband's retreat should danger threaten him from that direction.  After waiting awhile and
hearing nothing more, she concluded to go to the house, get some clothing, and endeavor  to
rally her scattered brood.

Stealing softly up to the back door--the fire had died out upon the hearth--she entered cautiously,
and after glancing through the shaded porch began to dress. She had donned her clothing and
taken up her shoes preparatory  to going back to the shelter of the cornfield, when she thought
she heard a stealthy footstep on the porch. Her heart stood still with terror. She listened
breathlessly. It came again. There was no doubt of it now--a slow, stealthy step! A board creaked,
and then all was still.  Again! Thank God it was a bare foot! Her heart took hope. She stole
to the open door and peeped out. There, in the half shadow of the flame-lit porch, she saw
Berry Lawson stealing toward her. She almost screamed for joy. Stepping into the doorway she
whispered,

"Berry!"

"Is dat you, 'Gena?" whispered that worthy, tiptoeing  hastily forward and stepping into the
shadow within the room. "How'd yer manage ter live t'rough dis yer night, 'Gena? An' whar's
Nimbus an' de chillen?"

These questions being hastily answered, Lugena began to inquire in regard to his presence there.

"Whar I come from? Jes got back from Bre'er Rufe's house. Druv at night jes ter save de mornin'
ter walk back in. Lef' Sally an' de chillen dar all right.  When I come putty nigh ter Red
Wing I sees de light o' de fire, an' presently I sez to myself, sez I, 'Berry, dat ain't no
common fire, now. Ain't many houses in the kentry roun' make sech a fire ez dat. Dat mus' be
de church, Berry.' Den I members 'bout de Ku Kluckers, an' I sez ter myself agin, sez I, 'Berry,
dem rascals hez come ter Red Wing an' is raisin' de debble dar now, jes dere own way.' Den
I runs de mule and de carryall inter de woods, 'bout a mile down de road, an' I takes out Bre'er
'Liab's gun, dat I'd borrered fer company,  yer know, an' hed got some cattridges fer, ober
at Lewyburg, an' I comes on ter take a han' in--ef dar wa'n't no danger, yer know, honey.

"When I gits ober in de woods, dar, I heah de wust sort ob hullabaloo ober h'yer 'bout whar
Bre'er 'Liab's house was--hollerin' an' screamin' an' cussin' an' fightin'. I couldn't make
it all out, but I'llowed dat Nimbus wuz a-habbin' a hell ob a time, an' ef I wuz gwine ter
do anyting, dat wuz about de right time fer me ter put in. So I rested dis yer ole gal," patting
the carbine in his hand, "agin a tree an' jes slung a bullet squar ober dere heads. Ye see,
I dassent shoot too low, fer fear ob hurtin' some of my fren's. 'D'ye heah dat shot, 'Gena?
Lord! how de ole gal did holler. 'Pears like I nebber hear a cannon sound so big.  De Ku Kluckers
'peared ter hear it too, fer dey comed squar outen h'yer inter de big road. Den I opened up
an' let her bark at 'em ez long ez I could see a shadder ter pull trigger on. Wonder ef I hurt
enny on 'em.  D'yer know, 'Gena, wuz enny on 'em killed?"

"Dar's two on 'em a layin' out dar by 'Liab's house," said the woman.

"Yer don't say so!" said Berry with a start. "La, sakes! what's dat?" he continued, breathlessly,
as a strange sound was heard in the direction indicated.  They stole out upon the porch, and
as they peered through the clustering wine-leaves a ghastly spectacle presented itself to their
eyes.

One of the prostrate forms had risen and was groping around on its hands and knees, uttering
a strange moaning sound. Presently it staggered to its feet, and after some vain efforts seized
the mask, the long flowing cape attached to which fell down upon the shoulders, and tore it
away. The pale, distorted face with a bloody channel down the middle was turned inquiringly
this way and that. The man put his hand to his forehead as if to collect his thoughts. Then
he tried to utter a cry; the jaw moved, but only unintelligible sounds were heard.

Lugena heard the click of the gun-lock, and turning, laid her hand on Berry, as she said,

"Don't shoot! 'Tain't no use!"

"Yer right, it ain't," said Berry with chattering teeth.  "Who ebber seed a man walkin' 'roun'
wid his head split wide open afo'?"

The figure staggered on, looked a moment at the house, turned toward the burning church, and
then, seeming to recall what had happened, at once assumed a stealthy demeanor, and, still
staggering as it went, crept off toward the gate, out of which it passed and went unsteadily
off down the road.

"Dar ain't no sort of use o' his dodgin' 'round," said Berry, as the footsteps died away. "De
berry debble'd gib him de road, enny time."

As he spoke, a whistle sounded down the road.  Berry and Lugena instantly sought shelter in
the corn.  Crouching low between the rows, they saw four men come cautiously into the yard,
examine the prostrate man that remained, and bear him off between them, using for a stretcher
the pieces of the coffin-shaped board which had been hung upon the gate two weeks before.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

"THE ROSE ABOVE THE MOULD."

The convalescence of Mollie Ainslie was very rapid, and a few days after the crisis of her
disease her attendants were able to return to their homes at Red Wing.  Great was the rejoicing
there over the recovery of their favorite teacher. The school had been greatly crippled by
her absence and showed, even in that brief period, how much was due to her ability and skill.
Everybody was clamorous for her immediate return--everybody except Eliab Hill, who after an
almost sleepless night sent a letter begging her not to return for a considerable time.

It was a strangely earnest letter for one of its apparent import. The writer dwelt at considerable
length upon the insidious and treacherous character of the disease from which she was recovering.
He grew eloquent as he detailed  all that the people of Red Wing owed to her exertions  in
their behalf, and told how, year after year, without any vacation, she had labored for them.
He showed that this must have been a strain upon her vital energies, and pointed out the danger
of relapse should she resume her duties before she had fully recovered.  He begged her, therefore,
to remain at Mulberry Hill at least a month longer; and, to support his request, informed her
that with the advice and consent of the Superintendent  he had dismissed the school until that
time. He took especial pains, too, to prevent the report of the threatened difficulty from
coming to her ears. This was the more easily accomplished from the fact that those who had
apprehended trouble were afraid of being deemed cowardly if they acknowledged their belief.
So, while the greater number of the men in the little hamlet were accustomed to sleep in the
neighboring thickets, in order to be out of harm's way should the Ku Klux come to make good
their decree, very little was said, even among themselves, about the threatened attack.

In utter unconsciousness, therefore, of the fate that brooded over those in whom she took so
deep an interest,  Mollie abandoned herself to the restful delights of convalescence. She soon
found herself able to visit the room of the confirmed invalid below, and though she seemed
to detect a sort of coolness in her manner  she did not dream of associating the change with
herself. She attributed it entirely to the sore affliction  which had fallen upon the household
since her arrival,  and which, she charitably reasoned, her own recovery  must revive in their
minds in full force. So she pardoned  the fair, frail invalid who, reclining languidly upon
the couch, asked as to her health and congratulated  her in cool, set phrases upon her recovery.

Such was not the case, however, with her host. There were tears in his eyes when he met her
on the landing for the first time after she left her sick-bed. She knew they were for the little
Hildreth whom she had nursed and whom her presence recalled. And yet there was a gleam in his
eyes which was not altogether of sorrow.  She, too, mourned for the sweet child whom she had
learned to love, and her eyes responded to the tender challenge with copious tears. Yet her
own feelings were not entirely sad. She did not know why. She did not stop to analyze or reason.
She only gave him her hand--how thin and white it was compared with the first time he had seen
her and had noted its soft plumpness!

Their lips quivered so that they could not speak. He held her hand and assisted the servant
in leading her into the parlor. She was still so weak that they had to lay her on the sofa.
Hesden Le Moyne bent over her for a little while, and then hurried away. He had not said a
word, and both had wept; yet, as she closed her eyes after he had gone she was vaguely conscious
that she had never been so happy before in her life. So the days wore on, quietly and swiftly,
full of a tender sorrow tempered with an undefined joy. Day by day she grew stronger and brighter,
needing less of assistance but receiving even more of attention from the stricken father of
her late charge.

"You have not asked about Satan," said Mr. Le Moyne suddenly one day.

"Why should I?" she replied, with an arch look.  "If that personage will be equally forgetful
of me I am sure I shall be very glad."

"Oh, I mean your horse--Midnight, as you call him," laughed Hesden.

"So I supposed," she replied. "I have a dim notion  that you applied that eipthet to him on
the night of my arrival. Your mother, too, said something about 'Satan,' that night, which
I remember puzzled me very greatly at the moment, but I was too much flustered to ask about
it just then. Thinking of it afterward, I concluded that she intended to refer to my black-skinned
pet. But why do you give him that name?"

"Because that was the first name he ever knew," answered Hesden, with an amused smile.

"The first name he ever knew? I don't understand you," she replied. "My brother captured him
at Appomattox,  or near there, and named him Midnight, and Midnight he has been ever since."

"Very true," said Hesden, "but he was Satan before that, and very well earned this name, in
his young days."   "In his young days?" she asked, turning towards him in surprise. "Did you
know him then?"

"Very well, indeed," he replied, smiling at her eagerness.  "He was raised on this plantation
and never knew any other master than me until that day at Rouse's Bridge."

"Why, that is the very place my brother captured him. I remember the name now that you mention
it!" she exclaimed.

"Is it anything surprising," said he, "that the day I lost him should be the day he captured him?"

"No--not exactly--but then"--she paused in confusion  as she glanced at the empty sleeve which
was pinned across his breast.

"Yes," said he, noticing her look, "I lost that there," pointing to the empty sleeve as he
spoke; "and though it was a sore loss to a young man who prided himself somewhat on his physical
activity, I believe I mourned the horse more than I did the arm."

"But my brother--" she began with a frightened look into his face.

"Well, he must have been in my immediate vicinity, for Satan was the best-trained horse in
the squadron.  Even after I was dismounted, he would not have failed to keep his place in the
ranks when the retreat was sounded, unless an unusually good horseman were on his back."

"My brother said he had as hard a struggle with him then as he had with his rider before,"
she said, looking shyly up.

"Indeed! I am obliged to him," he responded with a smile. "The commendation of an enemy is
always pleasant to a soldier."

"Oh, he said you were terribly bloodthirsty and rode at him as if nothing would satisfy you
but his life," she said, with great eagerness.

"Very likely," he answered, lightly. "I have some reputation for directness of purpose, and
that was a moment  of desperation. We did not know whether we should come back or not, and
did not care. We knew that the end was very near, and few of us wished to outlive it. Not that
we cared so much--many of us at least--for the cause we fought for; but we dreaded the humiliation
of surrender and the stigma of defeat.  We felt the disgrace to our people with a keenness
that no one can appreciate who has not been in like circumstances. I was opposed to the war
myself, but I would rather have died than have lived to see the surrender."

"It must have been hard," she said, softly.

"Hard!" he exclaimed. "I should think it was!  But then," he added, his brow suddenly clearing,
"next to the fact of surrender I dreaded the loss of my horse. I even contemplated shooting
him to prevent his falling into the hands of the enemy."

"My brother thought you were rather anxious to throw away your own life," she said, musingly.

"No," he answered, "just indifferent. I wonder if I saw him at all."

"Oh, you must, for you-" she began eagerly, but stopped in confusion.

"Well, what did I do? Nothing very bad, I hope?" he asked.

"Well, you left an ugly scar on a very smooth forehead,  if you call that bad, sir," she said,
archly.

"Indeed! Of course I do," was the reply, but his tone indicated that he was thinking less of
the atrocity which she had laid to his charge than of the events of that last day of battle.
"Let me see," said he, musingly.  "I had a sharp turn with a fellow on a gray horse.  He was
a slender, fair-haired man"--looking down at the figure on the sofa behind which he stood as
if to note if there were any resemblance. "He was tall, as tall as I am, I should say, and
I thought--I was of the impression--that he was of higher rank than a captain. He was somewhat
in advance of his line and right in my path. I remember thinking, as I crossed swords with
him that if--if we were both killed, the odds would be in favor of our side. He must have been
a colonel at least, or I was mistaken in his shoulder-straps."

"My brother was a colonel of volunteers," she said, quietly. "He was only a captain, however,
after his transfer to the regular army."

"Indeed!" said he with new interest. "What was he like?"

For answer Mollie put her hand to her throat, and opening a gold locket which she wore, held
up the case so far as the chain would allow while Hesden bent over to look at it. His face
was very near her own, and she noted the eagerness with which he scanned the picture.

"Yes, that is the man!" he said at length, with something  like a sigh. "I hope I did not injure
him seriously."

"Only his beauty," she replied, pleasantly.

"Of which, judging from what I see," he said saucily, letting his eyes wander from the miniature
to her face, "he could afford to lose a good deal and yet not suffer by comparison with others."

It was a bold, blunt compliment, yet it was uttered with evident sincerity; but she had turned
the locket so that she could see the likeness and did not catch the double meaning of his words.
So she only answered calmly and earnestly,   "He was a good brother."

A shadow passed over his face as he noticed her inattention  to his compliment, but he added
heartily,

"And a gallant one. I am glad that my horse fell into his hands."

She looked at him and said,

"You were very fond of your horse?"

"Yes, indeed!" he answered. "He was a great pet before we went into the service, and my constant
companion  for nearly three years of that struggle. But come out on the porch, and let me show
you some of the tricks I taught him, and you will not only understand how I prized him, but
will appreciate his sagacity more than you do now."

He assisted her to a rocking-chair upon the porch, and, bidding a servant to bring out the
horse, said:

"You must remember that I have but one arm and have not seen him, until lately, at least, for
five years.

"Poor old fellow!" he added, as he went down the steps of the porch, and told the servant to
turn him loose. He called him up with a snap of his thumb and finger  as he entered the yard
and patted his head which was stretched out to receive the caress. "Poor fellow! he is not
so young as he was then, though he has had good care.  The gray hairs are beginning to show
on his muzzle, and I can detect, though no one else might notice them, the wrinkles coming
about his eyes. Let me see, you are only nine years old, though,--nine past. But it's the war
that tells--tells on horses just as well as men. You ought to be credited with about five years
for what you went through then, old fellow. And a man--Do you know, Miss Mollie," he said,
breaking suddenly off--"that a man who was in that war, even if he did not get a shot, discounted
his life about ten years? It was the wear and tear of the struggle. We are different from other
nations. We have no professional soldiers--at least none to speak of.  To such, war is merely
a business and peace an interlude. There is no mental strain in their case. But in our war
we were all volunteers. Every man, on both sides, went into the army with the fate of a nation
resting on his shoulders, and because he felt the burden of responsibility.  It was that which
killed--killed and weakened--more than shot and shell and frost and heat together. And then--what
came afterward?"

He turned towards her as he spoke, his hand still resting  on the neck of the horse which was
rubbing against him and playfully nipping at him with his teeth, in manifestation of his delight.

Her face had settled into firm, hard lines.

Hesden Le Moyne gazed at her a moment in confused wonder. Then he turned to the horse and made
him perform various tricks at his bidding. He made him back away from him as far as he chose
by the motion of his hand, and then, by reversing the gesture, brought him bounding back again.
The horse lifted either foot at his instance, lay down, rolled over, stood upon his hind feet,
and finally knelt upon the edge of the porch in obeisance to his mistress, who sat looking,
although in a preoccupied manner, at all that was done. Hesden Le Moyne was surprised and somewhat
disappointed at her lack of enthusiasm over what he thought would give her so much pleasure.
She thanked him absently when it was over, and retired to her own room.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

WHAT THE MIST HID.

The darkness was already giving way to the gray light of a misty morning following the attack
on Red Wing.  The mocking birds, one after another, were responding to each other's calls,
at first sleepily and unwillingly, as though the imprisoned melody compelled expression, and
then, thoroughly aroused and perched upon the highest dew-laden branches swaying and tossing
beneath them, they poured forth their rival orisons. Other sounds of rising day were coming
through the mist that still hung over the land, shutting out the brightness which was marching
from the eastward. The crowing of cocks, the neighing of horses, and the lowing of cattle resounded
from hill to hill across the wide bottom-lands and up and down the river upon either hand.
Nature was waking from slumber--not to the full, boisterous wakefulness which greets the broad
day, but the half-consciousness with which the sluggard turns himself for the light, sweet
sleep of the summer morning.

There was a tap at the open window that stood at the head of Hesden Le Moyne's bed. His room
was across the hall from his mother's, and upon the same floor. It had been his room from childhood.
The window opened upon the wide, low porch which ran along three sides of  the great rambling
house. Hesden heard the tap, but it only served to send his half-awakened fancy on a fantastic
trip through dreamland. Again came the low, inquiring  tap, this time upon the headboard of
the old mahogany bedstead. He thought it was one of the servants coming for orders about the
day's labors. He wondered, vaguely and dully, what could be wanted. Perhaps they would go away
if he did not move. Again it came, cautious  and low, but firm and imperative, made by the
nail of one finger struck sharply and regularly against the polished headboard. It was a summons
and a command for silence at once. Hesden raised himself quickly and looked toward the window.
The outline of a human figure showed dimly against the gray darkness beyond.

"Who's there?"--in a low, quiet voice, as though caution had been distinctly enjoined.

"Marse Hesden!"--a low whisper, full of suppressed excitement.

"You, Nimbus?" said Le Moyne, as he stepped quickly out of bed and approached the window. 
"What's the matter?"

"Marse Hesden," whispered the colored man, laying a hand trembling with excitement on his shoulder
as he came near, "is yer a friend ter 'Liab Hill?"

"Of course I am; you know that"--in an impatient undertone.

"Sh--sh! Marse Hesden, don't make no noise, please," whispered Nimbus. "I don't mean ter ax
ef yer's jes got nothin' agin' him, but is yer that kind ob a friend ez 'll stan' by him in
trouble?"

"What do you mean, Nimbus?" asked Hesden in surprise.

"Will yer come wid me, Marse Hesden--slip on yer clo'es an' come wid me, jist a minnit?"  
Hesden did not think of denying this request. It was evident that something of grave importance
had occurred.  Hardly a moment had elapsed before he stepped cautiously out upon the porch
and followed Nimbus.  The latter led the way quickly toward a spring which burst out of the
hillside fifty yards away from the house, at the foot of a giant oak. Lying in the shadow of
this tree and reclining against its base, lay Eliab Hill, his pallid face showing through the
darkness like the face of the dead.

A few words served to tell Hesden Le Moyne what the reader already knows.

"I brought him here, Marse Hesden, kase ther ain't no place else dat he'd be safe whar he could
be tuk keer on. Dem ar Kluckers is bound ter kill him ef dey kin.  He's got ter be hid an'
tuk keer on till he's well--ef he ever gits well at all."

"Why, you don't think he's hurt--not seriously, do you?"

"Hurt, man!" said Nimbus, impatiently. "Dar ain't much difference atwixt him an' a dead man, now.

"Good God! Nimbus, you don't mean that. He seems to sleep well," said Hesden, bending over
the prostrate form.

"Sleep! Marse Hesden, I'se kerried him tree miles sence he's been a-sleepin' like dat; an'
de blood's been a runnin' down on my hans an' a-breakin' my holt ebbery now an' den, tu!"

"Why, Nimbus, what is this you tell me? Was any one else hurt?"

"Wal, dar's a couple o' white men a-layin' mighty quiet dar, afo' 'Liab's house."

Hesden shuddered. The time he had dreaded had come! The smouldering passion of the South had
burst  forth at last! For years--ever since the war-prejudice  and passion, the sense of insult
and oppression had been growing thicker and blacker all over the South.  Thunders had rolled
over the land. Lightnings had fringed its edges. The country had heard, but had not heeded.
The nation had looked on with smiling face, and declared the sunshine undimmed. It had taken
no note of exasperation and prejudice. It had unconsciously trampled under foot the passionate
pride of a conquered people. It had scorned and despised a sentiment more deeply inwrought
than that of caste in the Hindoo breast.

The South believed, honestly believed, in its innate superiority over all other races and peoples.
It did not doubt, has never doubted, that, man for man, it was braver, stronger, better than
the North. Its men were "gentlemen"--grander, nobler beings than the North ever knew. Their
women were "ladies"--gentle, refined,  ethereal beings, passion and devotion wrapped in forms
of ethereal mould, and surrounded by an impalpable effulgence which distinguished them from
all others of the sex throughout the world. Whatever was of the South was superlative. To be
Southern-born was to be prima facie better than other men. So the self-love of every man was
enlisted in this sentiment. To praise the South was to praise himself; to boast of its valor
was to advertise his own intrepidity; to extol its women was to enhance the glory of his own
achievements in the lists of love; to vaunt its chivalry was to avouch his own honor; to laud
its greatness was to extol himself. He measured himself with his Northern compeer, and decided
without hesitation in his own favor.

The South, he felt, was unquestionably greater than the North in all those things which were
most excellent, and was only overtopped by it in those things which were the mere result of
numbers. Outnumbered on the field of battle, the South had been degraded and insulted by a
sordid and low-minded conqueror, in the very hour of victory. Outnumbered at the ballot-box,
it had still dictated the policy of the Nation. The Southern white man naturally compared himself
with his Northern brother.  For comparison between himself and the African--the recent slave,
the scarcely human anthropoid--he found no ground. Only contrast was possible there. To have
these made co-equal rulers with him, seated beside him on the throne of popular sovereignty,
merely, as he honestly thought, for the gratification of an unmanly spite against a fallen
foe, aroused every feeling of exasperation and revenge which a people always restive of restraint
could feel.

It was not from hatred to the negro, but to destroy his political power and restore again their
own insulted and debased supremacy that such things were done as have been related. It was
to show the conqueror that the bonds in which the sleeping Samson had been bound were green
withes which he scornfully snapped asunder in his first waking moment. Pride the most overweening,
and a prejudice of caste the most intense and ineradicable, stimulated by the chagrin of defeat
and inflamed by the sense of injustice and oppression--both these lay at the bottom of the
acts by which the rule of the majorities established by reconstructionary legislation were
overthrown. It was these things that so blinded the eyes of a whole people that they called
this bloody masquerading, this midnight warfare upon the weak, this era of unutterable horror,
"redeeming the South!"

There was no good man, no honest man, no Christian man of the South who for an instant claimed
that it was right to kill, maim, beat, wound and ill-treat the black man, either in his old
or his new estate. He did not regard these acts as done to another man, a compeer, but only
as acts of cruelty to an inferior so infinitely removed from himself as to forbid any comparison
of rights or feelings. It was not right to do evil to a "nigger;" but it was infinitely less
wrong than to do it unto one of their own color. These men did not consider such acts as right
in themselves, but only as right in view of their comparative importance and necessity, and
the unspeakable inferiority of their victims.

For generations the South had regarded the uprising of the black, the assertion of his manhood
and autonomy, as the ultima thule of possible evil. San Domingo and hell were twin horrors
in their minds, with the odds, however, in favor of San Domingo. To prevent negro domination
anything was justifiable. It was a choice of evils, where on one side was placed an evil which
they had been taught to believe, and did believe, infinitely outweighed and overmatched all
other evils in enormity.  Anything, said these men in their hearts; anything, they said to
each other; anything, they cried aloud to the world, was better, is better, must be better,
than negro rule, than African domination.

Now, by negro rule they meant the exercise of authority by a majority of citizens of African
descent, or a majority of which they constituted any considerable factor.  The white man who
acted with the negro in any relation of political co-ordination was deemed even worse than
the African himself. If he became a leader, he was anathematized for self-seeking. If he only
co-operated with his ballot, he was denounced as a coward. In any event he was certain to be
deemed a betrayer of his race, a renegade and an outcast. Hesden Le Moyne was a Southern white
man. All that has just been written was essential truth to him. It was a part of his nature.
He was as proud as the proudest of his fellows. The sting of defeat still rankled in his heart.
The sense of infinite distance between his race and that unfortunate race whom he pitied so
sincerely, to whose future he looked forward with so much apprehension, was as distinct and
palpable to him as to any one of his compeers. The thousandth part of a drop of the blood of
the despised race degraded, in his mind, the unfortunate possessor.

He had inherited a dread of the ultimate results of slavery. He wished--it had been accounted
sensible in his family to wish--that slavery had never existed. Having existed, they never
thought of favoring its extinction. They thought it corrupting and demoralizing to the white
race. They felt that it was separating them, year by year, farther and farther from that independent
self-relying manhood, which had built up American institutions and American prosperity. They
feared the fruit of this demoralization. For the sake of the white man, they wished that the
black had never been enslaved. As to the blacks--they did not question the righteousness of
their enslavement. They did not care whether it were right or wrong. They simply did not consider
them at all. When the war left them free, they simply said, "Poor fellows!" as they would of
a dog without a master. When the blacks were entrusted with the ballot, they said again, "Poor
fellows!" regarding them as the blameless instrument by which a bigoted and revengeful North
sought to degrade and humiliate a foe overwhelmed only by the accident of numbers; the colored
race being to these Northern people like the cat with whose paw the monkey dragged his chestnuts
from the fire. Hesden had only wondered what the effect of these things would be upon "the
South;" meaning by "the South" that regnant class to which his family belonged--a part of which,
by a queer synecdoche, stood for the whole.

His love for his old battle-steed, and his curious interest in its new possessor, had led him
to consider the experiment at Red Wing with some care. His pride and interest in Eliab as a
former slave of his family had still further fixed his attention and awakened his thought.
And, finally, his acquaintance with Mollie Ainslie had led him unconsciously to sympathize
with the object of her constant care and devotion.

So, while he stood there beside the stricken man, whose breath came stertorous and slow, he
was in that condition of mind of all others most perilous to the Southern man--he had begun
to doubt: to doubt the infallibility of his hereditary notions; to doubt the super-excellence
of Southern manhood, and the infinite superiority of Southern womanhood; to doubt the incapacity
of the negro for self-maintenance and civilization; to doubt, in short, all those dogmas which
constitute the differential characteristics of "the Southern man." He had gone so far--a terrible
distance to one of his origin--as to admit the possibility of error. He had begun to question--God
forgive him, if it seemed like sacrilege--he had begun to question whether the South might
not have been wrong--might not still be wrong--wrong in the principle and practice of slavery,
wrong in the theory and fact of secession and rebellion, wrong in the hypothesis of hate on
the part of the conquerors, wrong in the assumption of exceptional and unapproachable excellence.

The future was as misty as the gray morning.

CHAPTER XL

DAWNING.

Hesden Le Moyne stood with Nimbus under the great low-branching oak, in the chill morning,
and listened to the labored breathing of the man for the sake of whose humanity his father
had braved public opinion in the old slave-era, which already seemed centuries away in the
dim past. The training of his life, the conditions of his growth, bore fruit in that moment.
He pitied the outraged victim, he was shocked at the barbarity of his fellows; but there was
no sense of injustice, no feeling of sacred rights trampled on and ignored in the person of
the sufferer. He remembered when he had played with Eliab beside his mother's hearth; when
he had varied the monotony of study by teaching the crippled slave-boy the tasks he himself
was required to perform.  The tenderness of old associations sprang up in his mind and he felt
himself affronted in the person of the protege of his family. He disliked cruelty; he hated
cowardice; and he felt that Eliab Hill had been the victim of a cruel and cowardly assault.
He remembered how faithfully this man's mother had nursed his own.  Above all, the sentiment
of comradeship awoke. This man who had been his playfellow had been brutally treated because
of his weakness. He would not see him bullied.  He would stand by him to the death.

"The cowards!" he hissed through his teeth. "Bring him in, Nimbus, quick! They needn't expect
me to countenance such brutality as this!"

"Marse Hesden," said the black Samson who had stood, silently watching the white playmate of
his  boyhood, while the latter recovered himself from the sort of stupor into which the revelation
he had heard had thrown him, "God bress yer fer dem words! I 'llowed yer'd stan' by 'Liab.
Dat's why I fotched him h'yer."

"Of course I would, and by you too, Nimbus."

"No, Marse Hesden, dat wouldn't do no sort o' good.  Nimbus hez jes got ter cut an' run fer
it. I 'specs them ar dat's a lyin' dar in front ob 'Liab's do' ain't like ter do no mo' troublin';
an' yer knows, Marse Hesden, 'twouldn't nebber be safe fer a cullu'd man dat's done dat ar
ter try an' lib h'yerabouts no mo'!"

"But you did it in defense of life. You had a right to do it, Nimbus."

"Dar ain't no doubt o' dat, Marse Hesden, but I'se larned dat de right ter du a ting an' de
doin' on't is two mighty diff'rent tings, when it's a cullu'd man ez does it.  I hed a right
ter buy a plantation an' raise terbacker; an' 'Liab hed a right ter teach an' preach; an' we
both hed a right ter vote for ennybody we had a mind ter choose. An' so we did; an' dat's all
we done, tu.  An' now h'yer's what's come on't, Marse Hesden."

Nimbus pointed to the bruised creature before them as he spoke, and his tones sounded like
an arraignment.

"I am afraid you are right, Nimbus," said the white man, with a sense of self-abasement he
had never thought to feel before one of the inferior race. "But bring him in, we must not waste
time here."

"Dat's a fac'," said Nimbus, with a glance at the East. "'Tain't more'n 'bout a hour till sun-up,
an' I mustn't be seen hereabouts atter dat. Dey'll be a lookin' atter me, an' 'twon't be safe
fer Nimbus ter be no whar 'cept in de mos' lonesome places. But whar's ye gwine ter put 'Liab,
Marse Hesden?"

"In the house--anywhere, only be quick about it.  Don't let him die here!" said Hesden, bending
over the prostrate man and passing a hand over his forehead with a shudder.

"But whar'bouts in de house yer gwine ter put him, Marse Hesden?"

"Anywhere, man--in my room, if nowhere else.  Come, take hold here!" was Hesden's impatient
rejoinder as he put his one hand under Eliab's head and strove to raise him up.

"Dat won't do, Marse Hesden," said Nimbus, solemnly. 'Liab had a heap better go back ter de
woods an' chance it wid Nimbus, dan be in your room."

"Why so?"

"Why? Kase yer knows dat de men what done disting  ain't a-gwine ter let him lib ef dey once
knows whar he's ter be found. He's de one dey wuz atter, jest ez much ez Nimbus, an' p'raps
a leetle more, dough yer knows ther ain't a mite o' harm in him, an' nebber was, But dat don't
matter. Deytinks dat he keeps de cullu'd folks togedder, an' makes' em stan' up for dere rights,
an' dat's why dey went fer him. 'Sides dat, ef he didn't hurt none on 'em dey know he seed
an' heerd 'em, an' so'll be afeared ter let up on him on dat account."

"I'd like to see the men that would take him out of my house!" said Le Moyne, indignantly.

"Dar'd jes be two men killed instead ob one, ef yer should," said the other, dryly.

"Perhaps you're right," said Le Moyne, thoughtfully.  "The men who did this will do anything.
But where shall we put him? He can't lie here."

"Marse Hesden, does yer mind de loft ober de ole dinin'-room, whar we all used ter play ob
a Sunday?"

"Of course, I've got my tobacco bulked down there now," was the answer.    "Dat's de place,
Marse Hesden!"

"But there's no way to get in there except by a ladder," said Hesden.

"So much de better. You gits de ladder, an' I brings 'Liab."

In a few minutes Eliab was lying on some blankets, hastily thrown over a bulk of leaf tobacco,
in the loft over the old dining-room at Mulberry Hill, and Hesden Le Moyne was busy bathing
his face, examining his wounds, and endeavoring to restore him to consciousness.

Nimbus waited only to hear his report that the wounds, though numerous and severe, were not
such as would be likely to prove fatal. There were several cuts and bruises about the head;
a shot had struck the arm, which had caused the loss of blood; and the weakened tendons of
the cramped and unused legs had been torn asunder.  These were all the injuries Le Moyne could
find. Nimbus dropped upon his knees, and threw his arms about the neck of his friend at this
report, and burst into tears.

"God bress yer, 'Liab! God bress yer!" he sobbed.

"Nimbus can't do no mo' fer ye, an' don't 'llow he'll nebber see ye no mo'--no mo' in dis world!
Good-by, 'Liab, good-by! Yer don't know Nimbus's gwine away, does yer? God bress yer, p'raps
it's better so--better so!"

He kissed again and again the pale forehead, from which the dark hair had been brushed back
by repeated bathings. Then rising and turning away his head, he extended his hand to Le Moyne
and said:

"Good-bye, Marse Hesden! God bress yer! Take good keer o' 'Liab, Mahs'r, an'--an'--ef he gits
round agin, don't let him try ter stay h'yrabouts--don't, please! 'Tain't no use! See ef yer
can't git him ter go ter de Norf, er somewhar. Oh, my God!" he  exclaimed, suddenly, as the
memory of his care of the stricken friend came suddenly upon him, "my God!  what'll he ebber
do widout Nimbus ter keer fer him?"

His voice was drowned in sobs and his grip on the hand of the white man was like the clasp
of a vice.

"Don't go, Nimbus, don't!" pleaded Hesden.

"I must, Marse Hesden," said he, repressing his sobs. "l'se got ter see what's come o' 'Gena
an' de rest, an' it's best fer both. Good-by! God bress yer!  Ef he comes tu, ax him sometimes
ter pray for Nimbus.  But'tain't no use--no use--fer he'll do it without axin'.  Good-by!"

He opened the wooden shutter, ran down the ladder, and disappeared, as the misty morning gave
way to the full and perfect day.

CHAPTER XLI.

Q. E. D.

As Mollie Ainslie grew stronger day by day, her kind host had done all in his power to aid
her convalescence by offering pleasing attentions and cheerful surroundings.  As soon as she
was able to ride, she had been lifted carefully into the saddle, and under his watchful supervision
had made, each day, longer and longer rides, until, for some days preceding the events of the
last few chapters, her strength had so fully returned that they had ridden several miles. The
flush of health had returned to her cheeks, and the sleep that followed her exercise was restful
and refreshing.

Already she talked of returning to Red Wing, and, but for the thoughtfulness of Eliab Hill
in dismissing the school for a month during her illness, would have been present at the terrible
scenes enacted there. She only lingered because she was not quite recovered, and because there
was a charm about the old plantation, which she had never found elsewhere. A new light  had
come into her life. She loved Hesden Le Moyne, and Hesden Le Moyne loved the Yankee school-marm.
No word of love had been spoken. No caress had been offered. A pall hung over the household,
in the gloom of which the lips might not utter words of endearment. But the eyes spoke; and
they greeted each other with kisses of liquid light when their glances met.  Flushed cheeks
and tones spoke more than words. She waited for his coming anxiously. He was restive and uneasy
when away. The peace which each one brought to the other's heart was the sure witness of well-grounded
love. She had never asked herself where was the beginning or what would be the end. She had
never said to herself, "I love him;" but his presence brought peace, and in her innocence she
rested there as in an undisturbed haven.

As for him--he saw and trembled. He could not shut his eyes to her love or his own. He did
not wish to do so. And yet, brave man as he was, he trembled at the thought. Hesden Le Moyne
was proud. He knew that Mollie Ainslie was as proud as himself. He had the prejudices of his
people and class, and he knew also that she had the convictions of that part of the country
where she had been reared. He knew that she would never share his prejudices; he had no idea
that he would ever share her convictions. He wished that she had never taught a "nigger school"--not
for his own sake, he said to himself, with a flush of shame, but for hers. How could she face
sneers? How could he endure insults upon his love? How could he ask her to come where sneers
and insults awaited her?    Love had set himself a hard task. He had set before him this problem:
"New England Puritanism and Southern Prejudice; how shall they be reconciled?" For the solution
of this question, there were given on one side a maiden who would have plucked out her heart
and trampled it under her feet, rather than surrender one tenet in her creed of righteousness;
and on the other side a man who had fought for a cause he did not approve rather than be taunted
with having espoused one of the fundamental principles of her belief. To laugh at locksmiths
was an easy thing compared with the reading of this riddle!

On the morning when Eliab was brought to Mulberry Hill, Mrs. Le Moyne and Mollie breakfasted
together alone in the room of the former. Both were troubled at the absence of the master of
the house.

"I cannot see why he does not come," said Mrs. Le Moyne. "He is the soul of punctuality, and
is never absent from a meal when about home. He sent in word by Laura early this morning that
he would not be at breakfast, and that we should not wait for him, but gave no sort of reason.
I don't understand it."

"I hope he is not sick. You don't think he has the fever, do you?" said Mollie, with evident
anxiety.

The elder woman glanced keenly at her as she replied in a careless tone:

"Oh, no indeed. You have no occasion for anxiety.  I told Laura to take him a cup of coffee
and a roll in his room, but she says he is not there. I suppose something about the plantation
requires his attention. It is very kind of you, I am sure; but I have no doubt he is quite well."

There was something in the tone as well as the words which cut the young girl to the heart.
She could not tell what it was. She did not dream that it was aimed at herself. She only knew
that it sounded harsh and cold, and unkind. Her heart was very tender. Sickness and love had
thrown her off her guard against sneers and hardness. It did not once occur to her that the
keen-sighted invalid, whose life was bound up in her son's life, had looked into the heart
which had never yet syllabled the love which filled it, and hated what she saw.  She did not
deem it possible that there should be aught but kindly feeling for her in the household she
had all but died to serve. Moreover, she had loved the delicate invalid ever since she had
received a letter from her hand. She had always been accustomed to that unconscious equality
of common right and mutual courtesy that prevails so widely at the North, and had never thought
of construing the letter as one of patronizing approval.  She had counted it a friendly commendation,
not only of herself, but of her work. This woman she had long pictured to herself as one that
rose above the prejudice by which she was surrounded. She who, in the old times, had bravely
taught Eliab Hill to read in defiance of the law, would surely approve of a work like hers.

So thought the silly girl, not knowing that the gentle invalid had taught Eliab Hill the little
that he knew before emancipation more to show her defiance of meddling objectors, than for
the good of the boy. In fact, she had had no idea of benefiting him, other than by furnishing
him a means of amusement in the enforced solitude of his affliction. Mollie did not consider
that Hester Le Moyne was a Southern woman, and as such, while she might admire courage and
accomplishments in a woman of Northern birth, always did so with a mental reservation in favor
of her own class. When, however, one came from the North to teach the negroes, in order that
they might overpower and rule the whites, which she devoutly believed to be the sole purpose
of the colored educational movement, no matter under what specious guise of charity it might
be done, she could not go even so far as that.

Yet, if such a one came to her, overwhelmed by stress of weather, she would give her shelter;
if she were ill she would minister unto her; for these were Christian duties.  If she were
fair and bright, and brave, she would delight to entertain her; for that was a part of the
hospitality of which the South boasted. There was something enjoyable, too, in parading the
riches of a well-stocked wardrobe and the lavish splendors of an old Southern home to one who,
she believed, had never seen such magnificence before; for the belief that poverty and poor
fare are the common lot of the country folks at the North is one of the fallacies commonly
held by all classes at the South. As slavery, which was the universal criterion of wealth and
culture at the South, did not prevail at all at the North, they unconsciously and naturally
came to associate self-help with degradation, and likened the Northern farmer to the poor white
"cropper." Where social rank was measured by the length of the serving train, it was not strange
that the Northern self-helper should be despised and his complacent assumption of equal gentility
scorned.

So Mrs. Le Moyne had admired the courage of Mollie Ainslie before she saw her; she had been
charmed with her beauty and artless grace on the first night of her stay at Mulberry Hill,
and had felt obliged to her for her care of the little Hildreth; but she had not once thought
of considering her the peer of the Richardses and the Le Moynes, or as standing upon the same
social plane as herself. She was, no doubt, good and honest and brave, very well educated and
accomplished, but by no means a lady in her sense of the word. Mrs. Le Moyne's feeling toward
the Northern school-teacher was very like that which the English gentry express when they use
the word "person." There is no discredit in the term. The individual referred to may be the
incarnation of every grace and virtue, only he is of a lower degree in the social scale. He
is of another grade.

Entertaining such feelings toward Mollie, it was no wonder that Mrs. Le Moyne was not pleased
to see the anxious interest that young lady freely exhibited in the health of her son.

On the other hand, the young New England girl never suspected the existence of such sentiments.
Conscious of intellectual and moral equality with her hostess, she did not imagine that there
could be anything of patronage, or anything less than friendly sympathy and approval, in the
welcome she had received at Mulberry Hill. This house had seemed to her like a new home.  The
exile which she had undergone at Red Wing had unfitted her for the close analysis of such pleasing
associations.  Therefore, the undertone in Mrs. Le Moyne's remarks came upon her like a blow
from an unseen hand. She felt hurt and humbled, but she could not exactly tell why. Her heart
grew suddenly heavy. Her eyes filled with tears. She dallied a little while with coffee and
toast, declined the dainties pressed upon her with scrupulous courtesy, and presently, excusing
her lack of appetite, fled away to her room and wept.

"I must be nervous this morning," she said to herself smilingly, as she dried her eyes and
prepared for her customary morning ride. On going down stairs she found a servant in waiting
with her horse ready saddled, who said: "Mornin', Miss Mollie. Marse Hesden said ez how I was
ter tell yer dat he was dat busy dis mornin' dat he couldn't go ter ride wid yer to-day, nohow.
I wuz ter gib yer his compliments, all de same, an' say he hopes yer'll hev a pleasant ride,
an' he wants ter see yer when yer gits back. He's powerful sorry he can't go."

"Tell Mr. Le Moyne it is not a matter of any consequence at all, Charley," she answered pleasantly.

"Yer couldn't never make Marse Hesden b'lieve dat ar, no way in de world," said Charles, with
deft flattery, as he lifted her into the saddle. Then, glancing quickly around, he said in
a low, earnest voice: "Hez ye heerd from Red Wing lately, Miss Mollie?"

"Not for a day or two. Why?" she asked, glancing quickly down at him.

"Oh, nuffin', only I wuz afeared dar'd been somethin' bad a gwine on dar, right lately."

"What do you mean, Charles?" she asked, bending down and speaking anxiously.

"Don't say nuffin' 'bout it, Miss Mollie--dey don't know nuffin' 'bout it in h'yer," nodding
toward the house, "but de Ku Kluckers was dar las' night."

"You don't mean it, Charles?"

"Dat's what I hear," he answered doggedly.

"Anybody hurt?" she asked anxiously.

"I don't know dat, Miss Mollie. Dat's all I hear--jes dat dey'd been dar."

CHAPTER XLII.

THROUGH A CLOUD-RIFT.

It was with a heavy heart that Mollie Ainslie passed out of the gate and rode along the lane
toward the highway.  The autumn sun shone bright, and the trees were just beginning to put
on the gay trappings in which they are wont to welcome wintry death. Yet, somehow, everything
seemed suddenly to have grown dark and dull. Her poor weak brain was overwhelmed and dazed
by the incongruity of the life she was leaving with that to which she was going back--for she
had no hesitation in deciding as to the course she ought to pursue.

She did not need to question as to what had been done or suffered. If there was any trouble,
actual or impending, affecting those she had served, her place was with them. They would look
to her for guidance and counsel.  She would not fail them. She did not once think of danger,
nor did she dream that by doing as she proposed she was severing herself entirely from the
pleasant life at the fine old country seat which had been so eventful.

She did, indeed, think of Hesden. She always thought of him of late. Everything, whether of
joy or of sorrow, seemed somehow connected with him. She thought of him--not as going away
from him, or as putting him out of her life, but as deserving his approval by her act. "He
will miss me when he finds that I do not return.  Perhaps he will be alarmed," she said to
herself, as she cantered easily toward the ford. "But then, if he hears what has happened,
he will know where I have gone and will approve my going. Perhaps he will be afraid for me,
and then he will--" Her heart seemed to stop beating! All its bright current flew into her
face.  The boundless beatitude of love burst on her all at once. She had obeyed its dictates
and tasted its bliss for days and weeks, quite unconscious of the rapture which filled her
soul. Now, it came like a great wave of light that overspread the earth and covered with a
halo all that was in it.    How bright upon the instant was everything! The sunshine was a
beating, pulsing ether animated with love! The trees, the fields, the yellow-breasted lark,
pouring forth his autumn lay, the swallows, glancing in the golden sunshine and weaving in
and out on billowy wing the endless dance with which they hie them southward ere the winter
comes--everything she saw or heard was eloquent with look and tones of love! The grand old
horse that carried her so easily, how strange and how delightful was this double ownership,
which yet was only one! Hers? Hesden's? Hesden's because hers, for--ah, glowing cheek! ah,
bounding heart! how sweet the dear confession, breathed--nay told unspokenly--to autumn sky
and air, to field and wood and bird and beast, to nature's boundless heart--she was but Hesden's!
The altar and the idol of his love! Oh, how its incense thrilled her soul and intoxicated every
sense! There was no doubt, no fear, no breath of shame! He would come and ask, and she--would
give?  No! no! no! She could not give, but she would tell, with word and look and swift embrace,
how she had given--ah! given all--and knew it not! Oh, fairer than the opened heaven is earth
illumined with love!

As she dreamed, her horse's swift feet consumed the way. She reached the river--a silver billow
between emerald banks, to-day! Almost unheedingly she crossed the ford, just smiling, rapt
in her vision, as memory brought back the darkness of her former crossing! Then she swept on,
through the dark, over-arching pines, their odor mingling with the incense of love which filled
her heart. She had forgotten Red Wing and all that pertained to it. The new song her lips had
been taught to sing had made thin and weak every melody of the past, Shall care cumber the
heart of the bride? She knew vaguely that she was going to Red Wing. She recognized the road,
but it seemed glorified since she travelled it before. Once, she thought she heard her name
called. The tone was full of beseeching. She smiled, for she thought that love had cheated
her, and syllabled the cry of that heart which would not be still until she came again. She
did not see the dark, pleading face which gazed after her as her horse bore her swiftly beyond
his ken.

On and on, easily, softly! She knows she is approaching her journey's end, but the glamour
of love enthralls her senses yet. The last valley is passed. She ascends the last hill. Before
her is Red Wing, bright and peaceful as Paradise before the spoiler came. She has forgotten
the story which the hostler told. The sight of the little village but heightens her rapture.
She almost greets it with a shout, as she gives her horse the rein and dashes down the little
street. How her face glows! The wind toys with stray tresses of her hair! How dull and amazed
the people seem whom she greets so gayly! Still on! Around the angle of the wood she turns--and
comes upon the smouldering church!

Ah, how the visions melt! What a cry of agony goes up from her white lips! How pale her cheeks
grow as she drops the rein from her nerveless fingers! The observant horse needs no words to
check his swift career.  The scene of desolation stops him in an instant. He stretches out
his head and looks with staring eyes upon the ruin. He snuffs with distended nostrils the smoke
that rises from the burning.

The villagers gather around. She answers every inquiry with low moans. Gently they lead her
horse under the shadow of the great oak before the old Ordinary.  Very tenderly she is lifted
down and borne to the  large-armed rocker on the porch, which the weeping, trembling old "mammy"
has loaded with pillows to receive her.

All day long she heard the timid tread of dusky feet and listened to the tale of woe and fear.
Old and young, those whom she had counselled, and those whom she had taught, alike sought her
presence and advice. Lugena came, and showed her scarred form; brought her beaten children,
and told her tale of sorrow. The past was black enough, but the shadow of a greater fear hung
over the little hamlet. They feared for themselves and also for her. They begged her to go
back to Mr. Le Moyne's. She smiled and shook her head with a soft light in her eyes. She would
not go back until the king came and entreated her. But she knew that would be very soon. So
she roused herself to comfort and advise, and when the sun went down, she was once more the
little Mollie Ainslie of the Bankshire hills, only fairer and ruddier and sweeter than ever
before, as she sat upon the porch and watched with dewy, love-lit eyes the road which led to
Mulberry Hill.

The shadows came. The night fell; the stars came out; the moon arose--he came not. Stealthy
footsteps came and went. Faithful hearts whispered words of warning with trembling lips. She
did not fear. Her heart was sick. She had not once dreamed that Hesden would fail to seek her
out, or that he would allow her to pass one hour of darkness in this scene of horror. She almost
began to wish the night might be a counterpart of that which had gone before. She took out
her brother's heavy revolver, loaded every chamber, laid it on the table beside her chair,
and sat, sleepless but dry-eyed, until the morning.

The days went by. Hesden did not come, and sent no word. He was but five miles away; he knew
how she loved him; yet the grave was not more voiceless!  She hoped--a little--even after that
first night. She pictured possibilities which she hoped might be true.  Then the tones of the
mother's voice came back to her--the unexplained absence--the unfulfilled engagement--and doubt
was changed to certainty! She did not weep or moan or pine. The Yankee girl had no base metal
in her make. She folded up her vision of love and laid it away, embalmed in the fragrance of
her own purity, in the inmost recess of her heart of hearts. The rack could not have wrung
from her a whisper of her one day in Paradise. She was simply Mollie Ainslie, the teacher of
the colored school at Red Wing, once more; quiet, cool, and practical, giving herself day by
day, with increased devotion, to the people whom she had served so faithfully before her brief
translation.

CHAPTER XLIII.

A GLAD GOOD-BY.

A few days after her departure from Mulberry Hill, Mollie Ainslie wrote to Mrs. Le Moyne:

"MY DEAR MADAM: You have no doubt heard of the terrible events which have occurred at Red Wing.
I had an intimation of trouble just as I set out on my ride, but had no idea of the horror
which awaited me upon my arrival here, made all the more fearful by contrast with your pleasant
home.

"I cannot at such a time leave the people with whom I have labored so long, especially as their
only other trusted adviser, the preacher, Eliab Hill, is missing.  With the utmost exertion
we have been able to learn nothing of him or of Nimbus since the night of the fire.  There
is no doubt that they are dead. Of course, there is great excitement, and I have had a very
anxious time. I am glad to say, however, that my health continues to improve. I left some articles
scattered about in the room I occupied, which I would be pleased if you would have a servant
collect and give to the bearer.

"With the best wishes for the happiness of yourself and Mr. Hesden, and with pleasant memories
of your delightful home, I remain,

"Yours very truly,

"MOLLIE AINSLIE."

To this she received the following reply:

"Miss MOLLIE AINSLIE: I very much regret the unfortunate events which occasioned your hasty
departure from Mulberry Hill. It is greatly to be hoped that all occasion for such violence
will soon pass away. It is a great calamity that the colored people cannot be made to see that
their old masters and mistresses are their best friends, and induced to follow their advice
and leadership, instead of going after strangers and ignorant persons of their own color, or
low-down white men, who only wish to use them for their own advantage. I am very sorry for
Eliab and the others, but I must say I think they have brought it all on themselves. I am told
they have been mighty impudent and obstreperous, until really the people in the neighborhood
did not feel safe, expecting every day that their houses or barns would be burned down, or
their wives or daughters insulted, or perhaps worse, by the lazy, saucy crowd they had gathered
about them.    "Eliab was a good boy, but I never did like that fellow Nimbus. He was that
stubborn and headstrong, even in his young days, that I can believe anything of him. Then he
was in the Yankee army during the war, you know, and I have no doubt that he is a desperate
character. I learn he has been indicted once or twice, and the general belief is that he set
the church on fire, and, with a crowd of his understrappers, fixed up to represent Ku Klux,
attacked his own house, abused his wife and took Eliab off and killed him, in order to make
the North believe that the people of Horsford are only a set of savages, and so get the Government
to send soldiers here to carry the election, in order that a filthy negro and a low-down, dirty,
no-account poor-white man may misrepresent this grand old county in the Legislature again.

"I declare, Miss Ainslie, I don't see how you endure such things. You seemed while here very
much of a lady, for one in your sphere of life, and I cannot understand how you can reconcile
it with your conscience to encourage and live with such a terrible gang.

"My son has been very busy since you left. He did not find time to inquire for you yesterday,
and seemed annoyed that you had not apprised him of your intention to leave. I suppose he is
afraid that his old horse might be injured if there should be more trouble at Red Wing.

"Yours truly,

"HESTER RICHARDS LE MOYNE."

"P.S.--I understand that they are going to hunt the fellow Nimbus with dogs to-morrow. I hope
they will catch him and hang him to the nearest tree. I have no doubt he killed poor Eliab,
and did all the rest of the bad things laid to his charge. He is a desperate negro, and I don't
see how you can stand up for him. I hope you will let the people of the North know the truth
of this affair, and make them understand that Southern gentlemen are not such savages and brutes
as they are represented."

The letter was full of arrows designed to pierce her breast; but Mollie Ainslie did not feel
one of them.  After what she had suffered, no ungenerous flings from such a source could cause
her any pain. On the contrary, it was an object of interest to her, in that it disclosed how
deep down in the heart of the highest and best, as well as the lowest and meanest, was that
prejudice which had originally instigated such acts as had been perpetrated at Red Wing. The
credulous animosity displayed by this woman to whom she had looked for sympathy and encouragement
in what she deemed a holy work, revealed to her for the first time how deep and impassable
was the channel which time had cut between the people of the North and those of the South.

She did not lose her respect or regard for Mrs. Le Moyne. She did not even see that any word
which had been written was intended to stab her, as a woman. She only saw that the prejudice-blinded
eyes had led a good, kind heart to endorse and excuse cruelty and outrage.  The letter saddened
but did not enrage her. She saw and pitied the pride of the sick lady whom she had learned
to love in fancy too well to regard with anger on account of what was but the natural result
of her life and training.

CHAPTER XLIV.

PUTTING THIS AND THAT TOGETHER.

After Mollie had read the letter of Mrs. Le Moyne, it struck her as a curious thing that she
should write to her of the hunt which was to be made after Nimbus, and the great excitement
which there was in regard to him.  Knowing that Mrs. Le Moyne and Hesden were both kindly disposed
toward Eliab, and the latter, as she believed, toward Nimbus also, it occurred to her that
this might be intended as a warning, given on the hypothesis that those parties were in hiding
and not dead.

At the same time, also, it flashed upon her mind that Lugena had not seemed so utterly cast
down as might naturally be expected of a widow so suddenly and sadly bereaved. She knew something
of the secretive powers of the colored race. She knew that in the old slave times one of the
men now living in the little village had remained a hidden runaway for months, within five
miles of his master's house, only his wife knowing his hiding-place.  She knew how thousands
of these people had been faithful to our soldiers escaping from Confederate prisons during
the war, and she felt that a secret affecting their own liberty, or the liberty of one acting
or suffering in their behalf, might be given into the keeping of the whole race without danger
of revelation. She remembered that amid all the clamorous grief of others, while Lugena had
mourned and wept over the burning of the church and the scenes of blood and horror, she had
exhibited little of that poignant and overwhelming grief or unappeasable anger which she would
have expected, under the circumstances, from one of her  temperament. She concluded, therefore,
that the woman might have some knowledge in regard to the fate of her husband, Eliab, and Berry,
which she had not deemed it prudent to reveal. With this thought in mind, she sent for Lugena
and asked if she had heard that they were going to hunt for her husband with dogs.

"Yes, Miss Mollie, I'se heerd on't," was the reply, "but nebber you mind. Ef Nimbus is alive,
dey'll nebber git him in no sech way ez dat, an' dey knows it.  'Sides dat, it's tree days
ago, an' Nimbus ain't no sech fool ez ter stay round dat long, jes ter be cotched now.  I'se
glad ter hear it, dough, kase it shows ter me dat dey hain't killed him, but wants ter skeer
him off, an' git him outen de kentry. De sheriff--not de high-sheriff, but one ob his understrappers--wuz
up ter our house to-day, a-purtendin' ter hunt atter Nimbus. I didn't put no reliance in dat,
but somehow I can't make out cla'r how dey could hev got away with him an' Berry an' 'Liab,
all on 'em, atter de fight h'yer, an' not left no trace nor sign on' em nowhar.

"Now, I tell yer what's my notion, Miss Mollie," she added, approaching closer, and speaking
in a whisper; "I'se done a heap o' tinkin' on dis yer matter, an' dis is de way I'se done figgered
it out. I don't keer ter let on 'bout it, an' mebbe you kin see furder inter it nor I kin,
but I'se jes made up my min' dat Nimbus is all right somewhars. I don't know whar, but it's
somewhar not fur from 'Liab--dat yer may be shore on, honey. Now, yer see, Miss Mollie, dar's
two or tree tings makes me tink so. In de fus' place, yer know, I see dat feller, Berry, atter
all dis ting wuz ober, an' talked wid him an' told him dat Nimbus lef all right, an' dat he
tuk 'Liab wid him, an' dat Bre'er 'Liab wuz mighty bad hurt. Wal, atter I told him dat, an'
he'd helped me hunt up de chillens dat wuz scattered in de co'n, an' 'bout one place an' anudder,
Berry he 'llows dat he'll go an' try ter fin' Nimbus an' 'Liab. So he goes off fru de co'n
wid dat ar won'ful gun dat jes keeps on a-shootin' widout ary load.

"Atter a while I heahs him ober in de woods a-whistlin' an' a-carryin' on like a mockin'-bird,
ez you'se heerd de quar critter du many a time." Mollie nodded affirmatively, and Lugena went
on: "I couldn't help but laugh den, dough I wuz nigh about skeered ter death, ter tink what
a mighty cute trick it wuz. I knowed he wuz a callin' Nimbus an' dat Nimbus 'ud know it, tu,
jest ez soon ez he heerd it; but yer know ennybody dat hadn't heerd it over an offen, wouldn't
nebber tink dat it warn't a mocker waked up by de light, or jes mockin' a cat-bird an' rain-crow,
an' de like, in his dreams, ez dey say dey does when de moon shines, yer know."

Mollie smiled at the quaint conceit, so well justified by the fact she had herself often observed.
Lugena continued:

"I tell yer, Miss Mollie, dat ar Berry's a right cute nigga, fer all dey say 'bout him. He
ain't stiddy, like Nimbus, yer know, ner pious like 'Liab--dat is not ter hurt, yer know--but
he sartin hab got a heap ob sense, fer all dat."

"It was certainly a very shrewd thing, but I don't see what it has to do with the fate of Nimbus,"
said Mollie.  "I don't wish to seem to discourage you, but I am quite certain, myself, that
we shall never see Nimbus or Eliab again."

"Oh, yer can't discourage me, Miss Mollie," answered the colored woman bravely. "I jes knows,
er ez good ez knows, dat Nimbus is all right yit awhile. Now I tells yer, honey, what dis yer's
got ter du wid it. Yer see, it must ha' been nigh about a half-hour atter Nimbus left afore
Berry went off; jes dat er way I tole yer "bout."

"Well?" said Mollie, inquiringly.

"Wal," continued Lugena, "don't yer see? Dar hain't been nary word heard from neither one o'
dem boys sence."

"Well?" said Mollie, knitting her brows in perplexity.

"Don't yer see, Miss Mollie," said the woman impatiently, "dat dey couldn't hab got 'em bofe
togedder, 'cept Berry had found Nimbus fust?"

"Well?"

"Wal! Don't yer see dar would hev been a--a--terrible fight afore dem two niggas would hev
gin up Bre'er 'Liab, let alone derselves? Yer must 'member dat dey had dat ar gun. Sakes-a-massy!
Miss Mollie, yer orter hev hearn it dat night. 'Peared ter me yer could hab heard it clar'
roun' de yairth, ef it is round, ez yer say 'tis. Now, somebody--some cullu'd body--would have
been shore ter heah dat gun ef dar'd been a fight."

"I had not thought of that, Lugena," said Mollie.

"Co'se yer hadn't, honey; an' dere's sunthin' else yer didn't link ob, nuther, kase yer didn't
know it," said Lugena. "Yer min' dat boy Berry, he'd done borrered our mule, jest afo' dat,
ter take Sally an' de chillen an' what few duds dey hez down inter Hanson County, whar his
brudder Rufe libs, an' whar dey's gwine ter libbin' tu. Dar didn't nobody 'spect him ter git
back till de nex' day, any more'n Nimbus; an' it war jes kinder accidental-like dat either
on 'em got h'yer dat night. Now, Miss Mollie, what yer s'pose hez come ob dat ar mule an' carryall?
Dat's de question."

"I'm sure I don't know, 'Gena, said Mollie thoughtfully.    "Ner I don't know, nuther," was
the response; "but it's jes my notion dat whar dey is, right dar yer'll fin' Nimbus an' Berry,
an' not fur off from dem yer'll find Bre'er 'Liab."

"You may be right," said her listener, musingly.

"I'se pretty shore on't, honey. Yer see when dat ar under-sheriff come ter day an' had look
all 'round fer Nimbus, he sed, finally, sez he, 'I'se got a'tachment'--dat's what he call it,
Miss Mollie--a'tachment 'gin de property, or sunthin' o' dat kine. I didn't know nary ting
'bout it, but I spunked up an' tole him ebbery ting in de house dar was mine. He argyfied 'bout
it a right smart while, an' finally sed dar wan't nuffin' dar ob no 'count, ennyhow. Den he
inquired 'bout de mule an' de carryall, an' atter dat he went out an' levelled on de crap."

"Did what?" asked Mollie.

"Levelled on de crap, Miss, dat's what he said, least-a-ways.  Den he called fer de key ob
de 'backer-barn, an' I tole him 'twan't nowheres 'bout de house--good reason too, kase Nimbus
allus do carry dat key in his breeches pocket, 'long wid his money an' terbacker. So he takes
de axe an' goes up ter de barn, an' I goes 'long wid him ter see what he's gwine ter du.  Den
he breaks de staple an' opens de do'. Now, Miss Mollie, 'twan't but a week er two ago, of a
Sunday atternoon, Nimbus an' I wuz in dar lookin' roun', an' dar wuz a right smart bulk o'
fine terbacker dar--some two er tree-hundred poun's on't. Now when de sheriff went in, dar
wa'n't more'n four or five ban's ob 'backer scattered 'long 'twixt whar de pile had been an'
de do'.  Yah! yah! I couldn't help laughin' right out, though I wuz dat mad dat I couldn't
hardly see, kase I knowed ter once how 'twas. D'yer see now, Miss Mollie?"   "I confess I do
not," answered the teacher.

"No? Wal, whar yer 'spose dat 'backer gone ter, hey?"

"I'm sure I don't know. Where do you think?"

"What I tink become ob dat 'backer? Wal, Miss Mollie, I tink Nimbus an' Berry put dat 'backer
in dat carryall, an' den put Bre'er 'Liab in on dat 'backer, an' jes druv off somewhar--'Gena
don't know whar, but dat 'backer 'll take 'em a long way wid dat ar mule an' carryall. It's
all right, Miss Mollie, it's all right wid Nimbus. 'Gena ain't feared. She knows her ole man
too well fer dat!

"Yer know he runned away once afo' in de ole slave times. He didn't say nary word ter me 'bout
gwine ober ter de Yanks, an' de folks all tole me dat I nebber'd see him no mo'. But I knowed
Nimbus, an' shore 'nough, atter 'bout two year, back he come! An' dat's de way it'll be dis
time--atter de trouble's ober, he'll come back. But dat ain't what worries me now, Miss Mollie,"
continued Lugena. "Co'se I'd like ter know jes whar Nimbus is, but I know he's all right. I'se
a heap fearder 'bout Bre'er 'Liab, fer I 'llow it's jes which an' t'other ef we ever sees him
again. But what troubles me now, Miss Mollie, is 'bout myseff."

"About yourself?" asked Mollie, in surprise.

"'Bout me an' my chillens, Miss Mollie," was the reply.

"Why, how is that, 'Gena?"

"Wal yer see, dar's dat ar 'tachment matter. I don't understan' it, nohow."

"Nor I either," said Mollie.

"P'raps yer could make out sunthin' 'bout it from dese yer," said the colored woman, drawing
a mass of crumpled papers from her pocket.

Mollie smoothed them out upon the table beside her, and began her examination by reading the
endorsements.  The first was entitled, "Peyton Winburn v. Nimbus Desmit, et al. Action for
the recovery of real estate. Summons."  The next was endorsed, "Copy of Complaint," and another,
"Affidavit and Order of Attachment against Non-Resident or Absconding Debtor."

"What's dat, Miss Mollie?" asked Lugena, eagerly, as the last title was read. "Dat's what dat
ar sheriff man said my Nimbus was--a non--non--what, Miss Mollie? I tole him 'twan't no sech
ting; but la sakes!  I didn't know nothing in de worl' 'bout it. I jes 'llowed dat 'twas sunthin'
mighty mean, an' I knowed dat I couldn't be very fur wrong nohow, ef I jes contraried ebbery
word what he said. What does it mean, Miss Mollie?"

"It just means," said Mollie, "that Nimbus owes somebody--this Mr. Winburn, I judge, and--"

"It's a lie! A clar, straight-out lie!" interrupted Lugena. "Nimbus don't owe nobody nary cent--not
nary cent, Miss Mollie! Tole me dat hisself jest a little time ago."

"Yes, but this man claims he owes him--swears so, in fact; and that he has run away or hidden
to keep from paying it," said Mollie. "He swears he is a non-resident--don't live here, you
know; lives out of the State somewhere."

"An' Peyton Winburn swars ter dat?" asked the woman, eagerly.

"Yes, certainly."

"Didn't I tell yer dat Nimbus was safe, Miss Mollie?" she cried, springing from her chair.
"Don't yer see how dey cotch derselves? Ef der's ennybody on de green yairth dat knows all
'bout dis Ku Kluckin' it's Peyton Winburn, and dat ar Sheriff Gleason. Now, don't yer know
dat ef he was dead dey wouldn't be a suin' on him an' a swearin' he'd run away?"

"I'm sure I don't know, but it would seem so," responded  Mollie.

"Seem so! it's boun' ter be so, honey," said the colored  woman, positively.

"I don't know, I'm sure," said Mollie. "It's a matter I don't understand. I think I had better
take these papers over to Captain Pardee, and see what ought to be done about them. I am afraid
there is an attempt to rob you of all your husband has acquired, while he is away."

"Dat's what I'se afeared on," said the other. "An' it wuz what Nimbus 'spected from de fust
ob dis h'yer Ku Kluck matter. Dear me, what ebber will I do, I dunno--I dunno!" The poor woman
threw her apron over her head and began to weep.

"Don't be discouraged, 'Gena," said Mollie, soothingly.  "I'll stand by you and get Mr. Pardee
to look after the matter for you."

"T'ank ye, Miss Mollie, t'ank ye. But I'se afeared it won't do no good. Dey's boun' ter break
us up, an' dey'll do it, sooner or later! It's all of a piece--a Ku Kluckin' by night, and
a-suin' by day. 'Tain't no use, t'ain't no use! Dey'll hab dere will fust er last, one way
er anudder, shore!"

Without uncovering her head, the sobbing woman turned and walked out of the room, across the
porch and down the path to the gate.

"Not if I can help it!" said the little Yankee woman, as she smoothed down her hair, shut her
mouth close, and turned to make a more thorough perusal of the papers Lugena had left with
her. Hardly had she finished when she was astonished by Lugena's rushing into the room and
exclaiming, as she threw herself on her knees:

"Oh, Miss Mollie, I done forgot--I was dat ar flustered 'bout de 'tachment an' de like, dat
I done forgot what I want ter tell yer most ob all. Yer know, Miss Mollie, dem men dat got
hurt dat ar night--de Ku Kluckers, two on 'em, one I 'llow, killed out-an'-out, an' de todder
dat bad cut--oh, my God!" she cried with a shudder, "I nebber see de likes--no nebber, Miss
Mollie.  All down his face--from his forehead ter his chin, an' dat too--yes, an' his breast-bone,
too--looked like dat wuz all split open an' a-bleedin'! Oh, it war horrible, horrible, Miss
Mollie!"

The woman buried her face in the teacher's lap as if she would shut out the fearful spectacle.

"There, there," said Mollie, soothingly, as she placed a hand upon her head. "You must not
think of it.  You must try and forget the horrors of that night."

"Don't yer know, Miss Mollie, dat dem Ku Kluckers ain't a-gwine ter let de one ez done dat
lib roun' h'yer, ner ennywhar else dat dey can come at 'em, world widout end?"

"Well, I thought you were sure that Nimbus was safe?"

"Nimbus?" said the woman in surprise, uncovering her face and looking up. "Nimbus? 'Twan't
him, Miss Mollie, 'twan't him. I 'llows it mout hev been him dat hurt de one dat 'peared ter
hev been killed straight out; but it was me dat cut de odder one, Miss Mollie."

"You?" cried Mollie, in surprise, instinctively drawing  back. "You?"

"Yes'm," said Lugena, humbly, recognizing the  repulse. "Me--wid de axe! I hope yer don't fault
me fer it, Miss Mollie."

"Blame you? no indeed, 'Gena!" was the reply.  "Only it startled me to hear you say so. You
did entirely right to defend yourself and Nimbus. You should not let that trouble you for a
moment."

"No, Miss Mollie, but don't yer know dat de Ku Kluckers ain't a-gwine ter fergit it?"

"Heavens!" said the Yankee girl, springing up from her chair in uncontrollable excitement.
"You don't think they would hurt you--a woman?"

"Dat didn't save me from bein' stripped an' beat, did it?"

"Too true, too true!" moaned the teacher, as she walked back and forth wringing her hands.
"Poor child! What can you do?--what can you do?"

"Dat's what I want ter know, Miss Mollie," said the woman. "I dassent sleep ter home at night,
an' don't feel safe ary hour in de day. Dem folks won't fergit, an' 'Gena won't nebber be safe
ennywhar dat dey kin come, night ner day. What will I do, Miss Mollie, what will I do? Yer
knows Nimbus 'll 'llow fer 'Gena ter take keer ob herself an' de chillen an' de plantation,
till he comes back, er sends fer me, an' I dassent stay, not 'nudder day, Miss Mollie! What'll
I do? What'll I do?"

There was silence in the little room for a few moments, as the young teacher walked back and
forth across the floor, and the colored woman sat and gazed in stupid hopelessness up into
her face. Presently she stopped, and, looking down upon Lugena, said with impetuous fervor:

"You shall not stay, Lugena! You shall not stay!  Can you stand it a few nights more?"

"Oh, yes, I kin stan' it, 'cause I'se got ter. I'se been sleepin' in de woods ebber sence,
an' kin keep on at it; but I knows whar it'll end, an' so der you, Miss Mollie."

"No, it shall not, 'Gena. You are right. It is not safe for you to stay. Just hide yourself
a few nights more, till I can look after things for you here, and I will take you away to the
North, where there are no Ku Klux!"

"Yer don't mean it, Miss Mollie!"

"Indeed I do."

"An' de chillen?"

"They shall go too."

"God bress yer, Miss Mollie! God bress yer!"

With moans and sobs, the torrent of her tears burst forth, as the poor woman fell prone upon
the floor, and catching the hem of the teacher's robe, kissed it again and again, in a transport
of joy.

CHAPTER XLV.

ANOTHER OX GORED.

There was a caller who begged to see Mr. Le Moyne for a few minutes. Descending to the sitting-room,
Hesden found there Mr. Jordan Jackson, who was the white candidate for the Legislature upon
the same ticket with a colored man who had left the county in fright immediately after the
raid upon Red Wing. Hesden was somewhat surprised at this call, for although he had known Mr.
Jackson from boyhood, yet there had never been more than a passing acquaintance between them.
It is true, Mr Jackson was a neighbor, living only two or three miles from Mulberry Hill; but
he belonged to such an entirely different class of society that their knowledge of each other
had never ripened into anything like familiarity.

Mr. Jackson was what used to be termed a poor man.  He and his father before him, as Hesden
knew, had lived on a little, poor plantation, surrounded by wealthy neighbors.  They owned
no slaves, and lived, scantily on the products of the farm worked by themselves. The present
occupant was about Hesden's own age. There being no free schools in that county, and his father
having been unable, perhaps not even desiring, to educate him otherwise, he had grown up almost
entirely illiterate.  He had learned to sign his name, and only by strenuous exertions, after
his arrival at manhood, had become able, with difficulty, to spell out words from the printed
page and to write an ordinary letter in strangely-tangled hieroglyphics, in a spelling which
would do credit to a phonetic reformer. He had entered the army, probably because he could
not do otherwise, and being of stalwart build, and having great endurance and native courage,
before the struggle was over had risen, despite his disadvantages of birth and education, to
a lieutenancy.

This experience had been of advantage to him in more ways than one. Chief among these had been
the opening of his eyes to the fact that he himself, although a poor man, and the scion of
a poor family, was, in all the manly requisites that go to make up a soldier, always the equal,
and very often the superior, of his aristocratic neighbors. Little by little, the self-respect
which had been ground out of him and his family by generations of that condition of inferiority
which the common-liver, the self-helper of the South, was forced to endure under the old slave
regime, began to grow up in his heart. He  began to feel himself a man, and prized the rank-marks
on his collar as the certificate and endorsement of his manhood.  As this feeling developed,
he began to consider the relations between himself, his family, and others like them, and the
rich neighbors by whom they were surrounded and looked down upon. And more and more, as he
did so, the feeling grew upon him that he and his class had been wronged, cheated--"put upon,"
he phrased it--in all the past. They had been the "chinking" between the "mud" of slavery and
the "house-logs" of aristocracy in the social structure of the South--a little better than
the mud because of the same grain and nature as the logs; but useless and nameless except as
in relation to both. He felt the bitter truth of that stinging aphorism which was current among
the privates of the Confederate army, which characterized the war of Rebellion as "the poor
man's war and the rich man's fight."

So, when the war was over, Lieutenant Jordan Jackson did not return easily and contentedly
to the niche in the social life of his native region to which he had been born and bred. He
found the habit of leadership and command very pleasant, and he determined that he would rise
in the scale of Horsford society as he had risen in the army, simply because he was brave and
strong. He knew that to do this he must acquire wealth, and looking about, he saw opportunities
open before him which others had not noticed. Almost before the smoke of battle had cleared
away, Jordan Jackson had opened trade with the invaders, and had made himself a prime favorite
in the Federal camps. He coined money in those days of transition. Fortunately, he had been
too poor to be in debt when the war broke out. He was independently poor, because beyond the
range of credit.

He had lost nothing, for he had nothing but the few poor acres of his homestead to lose.

So he started fair, and before the period of reconstruction began he had by thrifty management
accumulated quite a competency. He had bought several plantations whose aristocratic owners
could no longer keep their grip upon half-worked lands, had opened a little store, and monopolized
a considerable trade. Looking at affairs as they stood at that time, Jordan Jackson said to
himself that the opportunity for him and his class had come.  He had a profound respect for
the power and authority of the Government of the United States, because it had put down the
Rebellion. He had been two or three times at the North, and was astounded at its collective
greatness. He said that the colored man and the poor-whites of the South ought to put themselves
on the side of this great, busy North, which had opened the way of liberty and progress before
them, and establish free schools and free thought and free labor in the fair, crippled, South-land.
He thought he saw a great and fair future looming up before his country. He freely gave expression
to these ideas, and, as he traded very largely with the colored people, soon came to be regarded
by them as a leader, and by "the good people of Horsford" as a low-down white nigger, for whom
no epithet was too vile.

Nevertheless, he grew in wealth, for he attended to his business himself, early and late. He
answered raillery with raillery, curses with cursing, and abuse with defiance.  He was elected
to conventions and Legislatures, where he did many foolish, some bad, and a few wise things
in the way of legislation. He knew what he wanted--it was light, liberty, education, and a
"fair hack" for all men. How to get it he did not know.

He had been warned a thousand times that he must abandon this way of life. The natural rulers
of the county felt that if they could neutralize his influence and that which went out from
Red Wing, they could prevent the exercise of ballatorial power by a considerable portion of
the majority, and by that means "redeem" the county.

They did not wish to hurt Jordan Jackson. He was a good enough man. His father had been an
honest man, and an old citizen. Nobody knew a word against his wife or her family, except that
they had been poor.  The people who had given their hearts to the Confederate cause, remembered
too, at first, his gallant service; but that had all been wiped out from their minds by his
subsequent "treachery." Even after the attack on Red Wing, he had been warned by his friends
to desist.

One morning, he had found on the door of his store a paper containing the following words,
written inside a little sketch of a coffin:

He had answered this by a defiant, ill-spelled notice, pasted just beside it, in which he announced
himself as always ready to meet any crowd of "cowards and villains who were ashamed of their
own faces, at any time, night or day." His card was English prose of a most vigorous type,
interspersed with so much of illiterate profanity as to satisfy any good citizen that the best
people of Horsford were quite right in regarding him as a most desperate and dangerous man--one
of those whose influence upon the colored people was to array them against the whites, and
unless promptly put down, bring about a war of races--which the white people were determined
never to have in Horsford, if they had to kill every Radical in the county in order to live
in peace with their former slaves, whom they had always nourished with paternal affection and
still regarded with a most tender care.

This man met Hesden as the latter came out upon the porch, and with a flushed face and a peculiar
twitching about his mouth, asked if he could see him in private for a moment.

Hesden led the way to his own room. Jackson then, having first shut the door, cautiously said:

"You know me, Mr. Le Moyne?"

"Certainly, Jackson."

"An' you knew my father before me?"

"Of course. I knew old man Billy Jackson very well in my young days."

"Did you ever know anything mean or disreputable about him?"

"No, certainly not; he was a very correct man, so far as I ever heard."

"Poor but honest?"--with a sneer.

"Well, yes; a poor man, but a very correct man."

"Well, did you ever know anything disreputable about me?" keenly.

"Well--why--Mr. Jackson--you--" stammered Hesden, much confused.

"Out with it!" angrily. "I'm a Radical?"

"Yes--and--you know, your political course has rendered  you very unpopular."

"Of course! A man has no right to his own political opinions."

"Well, but you know, Mr. Jackson, yours have been so peculiar and so obnoxious to our best
people. Besides,  you have expressed them so boldly and defiantly.  I do not think our people
have any ill-feeling against you, personally; but you cannot wonder that so great a change
as we have had should excite many of them very greatly. You should not be so violent, Mr. Jackson."

"Violent--Hell! You'd better go and preach peace to Eliab Hill. Poor fellow! I don't reckon
the man lives who ever heard him say a harsh thing to any one. He was always that mild I used
to wonder the Lord didn't take him long ago. Nigger as he was, and cripple as he was, I'd ruther
had his religion than that of all the mean, hypocritical, murdering aristocrats in Horsford."

"But, Mr. Jackson, you should not speak in that way of our best citizens."

"Oh, the devil! I know--but that is no matter, Mr. Le Moyne. I didn't come to argue with you.
Did you ever hear anything agin' me outside of my politics?"

"I don't know that I ever did."

"If you were in a tight place, would you have confidence  in Jordan Jackson as a friend?"

"You know I have reason to remember that," said Hesden, with feeling. "You helped me when I
could not help myself. It's not every man that would care about his horse carrying double when
he was running away from the Yanks."

"Ah! you remember that, then?" with a touch of pride in his voice.

"Yes, indeed! Jackson," said Hesden, warmly.

"Well, would you do me a good turn to pay for that?"

"Certainly--anything that--" hesitating.

"Oh, damn it, man, don't strain yourself! I didn't ask any questions when I helped you!"

"Mr. Jackson," said Hesden, with dignity, "I merely wished to say that I do not care at this
time to embroil myself in politics. You know I have an old mother who is very feeble. I have
long regretted that affairs are in the condition that they are in, and have wondered if something
could not be done. Theoretically, you are right and those who are with you. Practically, the
matter  is very embarrassing. But I do not hesitate to say, Mr. Jackson, that those who commit
such outrages as that perpetrated at Red Wing disgrace the name of gentleman,  the county,
and State, the age we live in, and the religion we profess. That I will say."

"And that's quite enough, Mr. Le Moyne. All I wanted was to ask you to act as my trustee."

"Your trustee in what?"

"There is a deed I have just executed conveying everything I have to you, and I want you to
sell it off and dispose of it the best you can, and send me the money."

"Send it to you?"

"Yes, I'm going away."

"Going away? Why? You are not in debt?"

"I don't owe a hundred dollars."

"Then why are you doing this? I don't understand."

"Mr. Le Moyne," said Jackson, coming close to him and speaking in a low intense tone, "I was
whipped last night!"

"Whipped!"

"Yes."

"By whom?"

"By my own neighbors, in the sight of my wife and daughter!"

"By the Ku Klux?"

"That's what they call themselves."

"My God, it cannot be!"

"Cannot?" The man's face twitched nervously, as, dropping his hat, he threw off his light coat
and, opening  his shirt-collar and turning away his head, showed his shoulder covered with
wales, still raw and bleeding.

"My God!" cried Hesden, as he put up his hand and started back in horror. "And you a white man?"

"Yes, Mr. Le Moyne," said Jackson, turning his face, burning with shame and indignation, toward
his high-bred neighbor, "and the only reason this was done--the only thing agin me--is that
I was honestly in favor of giving to the colored man the rights which the law of the land says
he shall have, like other men.  When the war was over, Mr. Le Moyne, I didn't 'give up,' as
all you rich folks talked about doing, and try to put up with what was to come afterward. I
hadn't lost nothing by the war, but, on the contrary, had gained what I had no chance to git
in any other way. So I jest looked things square in the face and made up my mind that it was
a good thing for me, and all such as me, that the damned old Confederacy was dead. And the
more I thought on't the more I couldn't help seein' and believin'  that it was right and fair
to free the niggers and let them have a fair show and a white man's chance--votin' and all.
That's what I call a fair hack, and I swear, Mr. Le Moyne, I don't know how it may seem to
you, but to my mind any man that ain't willing to let any other man have that, is a damn coward!
I'm as white as anybody, and hain't no more reason to stand up for niggers than any of the
rest of the white people--no, nor half as much as most of 'em, for, as fur as I know, I hain't
got no relations among 'em. But I do say that if the white folks of the South can't stand up
to a fair fight with the niggers at the polls, without cuttin', and murderin', and burnin',
and shootin', and whippin', and Ku Kluxin', and cheatin', and swindlin', they are a damned
no-'count people, and don't deserve no sort of show in the world--no more than a mean, sneakin',
venomous moccasin-snake--there!"

"But you don't think--" Hesden began.

"Think? Damn it, I know!" broke in Jackson.  "They said if I would quit standin' up for the
niggers,  they'd let me off, even after they'd got me stripped and hung up. I wouldn't do it!
I didn't believe then they'd cut me up this way; but they did! An' now I'm goin'. I'd stay
an' fight, but 'tain't no use; an' I couldn't look a man in the eye who I thought tuk a hand
in that whippin' without killin' him. I've got to go, Le Moyne," he said with clenched fists,
"or I shall commit murder before the sun goes down."

"Where are you going?"

"God knows! Somewhere where the world's free and the earth's fresh, and where it's no crime
to have been born poor or to uphold and maintain the laws of the land."

"I'm sorry, Jackson, but I don't blame you. You can't live here in peace, and you are wise
to go," said Hesden, extending his hand.

"Will you be my trustee?"

"Yes."

"God bless you!"

The angry, crushed, and outraged man broke into tears as he shook the hand he held.

There was an hour or two of close consultation, and then Hesden Le Moyne looked thoughtfully
after this earnest and well-meaning man, who was compelled to flee from the land for which
he had fought, simply because  he had adopted the policy and principles which the conquering
power had thrust into the fundamental law, and endeavored to carry them out in good faith.
Like the fugitive from slavery in the olden time, he had started toward the North Pole on the
quest for liberty.

CHAPTER XLVI.

BACKWARD AND FORWARD.

The task which Hesden Le Moyne undertook when he assumed the care and protection of Eliab Hill,
was no trivial one, as he well understood.

He realized as fully as did Nimbus the necessity of absolute concealment, for he was well aware
that the blaze of excitement which would sweep over Horsford, when the events that had occurred
at Red Wing should become known, would spare no one who should harbor or conceal  any of the
recognized leaders of the colored men.  He knew that not only that organization which had just
shown its existence in the county, but the vast majority of all the white inhabitants as well,
would look upon this affair as indubitable evidence of the irrepressible conflict of races,
in which they all believed most devoutly.

He had looked forward to this time with great apprehension. Although he had scrupulously refrained
from active participation in political life, it was not from any lack of interest in the political
situation of the country.  He had not only the ordinary instinct of the educated Southern man
for political thought--an instinct which makes every man in that section first of all things
a partisan, and constitutes politics the first and most important business of life--but besides
this general interest in public affairs he had also an inherited bias of hostility  to the
right of secession, as well as to its policy. His father had been what was termed a "Douglas
Democrat," and the son had absorbed his views. With that belief in a father's infallibility
which is so general in that part of the country, Hesden, despite his own part in the war and
the chagrin which defeat had brought, had looked only for evil results to come out of the present
struggle, which he believed to have been uselessly precipitated.

It was in this state of mind that he had watched the new phase of the "irrepressible conflict"
which supervened  upon the downfall of the Rebellion In so doing, he had arrived at the following
conclusions:

1. That it was a most fortunate and providential thing that the Confederacy had failed. He
had begun to realize the wisdom of Washington when he referred  to the dogma of "State rights"
as "that bantling--I like to have said that monster."

2. That the emancipation of the slaves would ultimately prove advantageous to the white man,

3. That it was the part of honorable men fairly and honestly to carry out and give effect to
all the conditions, expressed and implied, on which power, representation, and autonomy were
restored to the recently rebellious States. This he believed to be a personal duty, and a failure
so to do he regarded as a disgrace to every man in any way contributing to it, especially if
he had been a soldier and had shared the defeat of which these conditions were a consequence.

4. He did not regard either the war or the legislation known as reconstructionary as having
in any manner  affected the natural relation of the races. In the old times he had never felt
or believed that the slave was inherently endowed with the same rights as the master; and he
did not see how the results of war could enhance his natural rights.  He did not believe that
the colored man had an inherent  right to freedom or to self-government.  Whatever right of
that kind he might now have was simply by the free grace of the conqueror. He had a right to
the fruit of his own labor, to the care, protection, and service of his own children, to the
society and comfort of his wife, to the protection of his own person, to marriage, the ballot,
possessory  capacity, and all those things which distinguish  the citizen from the chattel--not
because of his manhood, nor because of inherent co-equality  of right with the white man; but
simply because the national legislation gave it to him as a condition precedent of statal rehabilitation.

These may seem to the Northern reader very narrow views; and so they are, as compared with
those that underlay  the spirit of resistance to rebellion, and the fever heat for human rights,
which was the animating principle in the hearts of the people when they endorsed and approved
those amendments which were the basis of reconstructionary legislation. It should be remembered,
however, that even these views were infinitely in advance of the ideas generally entertained
by his white fellow-citizens  of the South. Nearly all of them regarded these matters in a
very different light; and most naturally, too, as any one may understand who will lemember
what had gone before, and will keep in mind that defeat does not mean a new birth, and that
warfare leaves men unchanged by its results, whatever may be its effects on nations  and societies.

They regretted the downfall of the Confederacy as the triumph of a lower and baser civilization--the
ascendency of a false idea and an act of unrighteous and unjustifiable subversion. To their
minds it was a forcible denial of their rights, and, to a large portion of them, a dishonorable
violation of that contract or treaty upon which the Federal Union was based, and by which the
right for which they fought had, according to their construction, been assured. As viewed by
them, the result of the war had not changed these facts, nor justified the infraction of the
rights of the South.

In the popular phrase of that day, they "accepted the situation"--which to their minds, simply
meant that they would not fight any more for independent existence.  The North understood it
to mean that they would accept cheerfully and in good faith any terms and conditions which
might be imposed upon them as a condition of rehabilitation.

The masses of the Southern whites regarded the emancipation  of the negro simply as an arbitrary
exercise of power, intended as a punishment for the act of attempted secession--which act,
while many believed it to have been impolitic, few believed to be in conflict with the true
theory of our government. They considered the freeing of the slave merely a piece of wanton
spite, inspired, in great measure, by sheer envy of Southern superiority, in part by angry
hate because of the troubles, perils, and losses of the war, and, in a very small degree, by
honest though absurd fanaticism. They did not believe that it was done for the sake of the
slave, to secure his liberty or to establish his rights; but they believed most devoutly that
it was done solely and purposely to injure the master, to punish the rebel, and to still further
cripple and impoverish the South. It was, to them, an unwarrantable measure of unrighteous
retribution inspired by the lowest and basest motives.

But if, to the mass of Southern white men, emancipation was a measure born of malicious spite
in the breast of the North, what should they say of that which followed--the enfranchisement
of the black? It was a gratuitous insult--a causeless infamy! It was intended to humiliate,
without even the mean motive of advantage to be derived.  They did not for a moment believe--they
do not believe to-day--that the negro was enfranchised for his own sake, or because the North
believed that he was entitled to self-government, or was fit for self-government; but simply
and solely because it was hoped thereby to degrade, overawe, and render powerless the white
element of the Southern populations. They thought it a fraud in itself, by which the North
pretended to give back to the South her place in the nation; but instead, gave her only a debased
and degraded co-ordination with a race despised beyond the power of words to express.

This anger seemed--and still seems to the Northern mind--useless, absurd, and ridiculous. It
appears to us as groundless and almost as laughable as the frantic and impotent rage of the
Chinaman who has lost his sacred queue by the hand of the Christian spoiler. To the Northern
mind the cause is entirely incommensurate with the anger displayed. One is inclined to ask,
with a laugh, "Well, what of it?" Perhaps there is not a single Northern resident of the South
who has not more than once offended some personal friend by smiling in his face while he raged,
with white lips and glaring eyes, about this culminating ignominy. Yet it was sadly real to
them. In comparison with this, all other evils seemed light and trivial, and whatever tended
to prevent it, was deemed fair and just. For this reason, the Southerners felt themselves not
only justified, but imperatively called upon, in every way and manner, to resist and annul
all legislation having this end in view. Regarding it as inherently fraudulent, malicious,
and violent, they felt no compunctions in defeating its operation by counter-fraud and violence.

It was thus that the elements of reconstruction affected the hearts and heads of most of the
Southern whites. To admit that they were honest in holding such views as they did is only to
give them the benefit of a presumption which, when applied to the acts and motives of whole
peoples, becomes irrefutable. A mob may be wrong-headed, but it is always right-hearted. What
it does may be infamous, but underlying its acts is always the sting of a great evil or the
hope of a great good.

Thus it was, too, that to the subtler mind and less selfish heart of Hesden Le Moyne, every
attempt to nullify the effect or evade the operation of the Reconstruction laws was tinged
with the idea of personal dishonor.  To his understanding, the terms of surrender were, not
merely that he would not again fight for a separate governmental existence, but, also, that
he would submit to such changes in the national polity as the conquering majority might deem
necessary and desirable as conditions precedent to restored power; and would honestly and fairly,
as an honorable man and a brave soldier, carry out those laws either to successful fruition
or to fair and legitimate repeal.

He was not animated by any thought of advantage to himself or to his class to arise from such
ideas. Unlike Jordan Jackson, and men of his type, there was nothing which his class could
gain thereby, except a share in the ultimate glory and success of an enlarged and solidified
nation. The self-abnegation which he had learned from three years of duty as a private soldier
and almost  a lifetime of patient attendance upon a loved but exacting invalid, inclined to
him to study the movements  of society and the world, without especial reference  to himself,
or the narrow circle of his family or class. To his mind, honor--that honor which he accounted
the dearest birthright his native South had given--required that from and after the day of
his surrender he should seek and desire, not the gratification of revenge  nor the display
of prejudice, but the success and glory of the great republic. He felt that the American Nation
had become greater and more glorious by the very act of overcoming rebellion. He recognized
that the initial right or wrong of that struggle, whatever  it might have been, should be subordinated
in all minds to the result--an individual Nation. It was a greater and a grander thing to be
an American than to have been a Confederate! It was more honorable and knightly to be true
in letter and in spirit to every law of his reunited land than to make the woes of the past
an excuse for the wrongs of the present. He felt all the more scrupulous in regard to this,
because those measures were not altogether such as he would have adopted, nor such as he could
yet believe would prove immediately successful. He thought that every Southern man should see
to it especially that, if any element of reconstruction failed, it should not be on account
of any lack of honest, sincere and hearty co-operation on his part.

It was for this reason that he had taken such interest in the experiment that was going on
at Red Wing in  educating the colored people. He did not at first believe at all in the capacity
of the negro for culture, progress, self-support, or self-government; but he believed that
the experiment, having been determined on by the nation, should be fairly and honestly carried
out and its success or failure completely demonstrated. He admitted frankly that, if they had
such capacity, they undoubtedly had the right to use it; because he believed the right inherent
and inalienable with any race or people having the capacity.  He considered that it was only
the lack of co-ordinate capacity that made the Africans unfit to exercise co-ordinate  power
with individuals of the white race.

He thought they should be encouraged by every means to develop what was in them, and readily
admitted that, should the experiment succeed and all distinction of civil right and political
power be successfully abolished, the strength and glory of the nation would be wonderfully
enhanced. His partiality for the two chief promoters of the experiment at Red Wing had greatly
increased his interest in the result, which had by no means been diminished by his acquaintance
with Mollie Ainslie.

It was not, however, until he bent over his unconscious  charge in the stillness of the morning,
made an examination of the wounds of his old playmate by the flickering light of the lamp,
and undertook the process of resuscitation and cure, that he began to realize how his ancient
prejudice was giving way before the light of what he could not but regard as truth. The application
of some simple remedies soon restored Eliab to consciousness, but he found that the other injuries
were so serious as to demand immediate surgical attendance, and would require considerable
time for their cure.

His first idea had been to keep Eliab's presence at his house entirely concealed; but as soon
as he realized the extent of his injuries, he saw that this would be impossible, and concluded
that the safer way would be to entrust the secret to those servants who were employed "about
the lot," which includes, upon a Southern plantation, all who are not regularly engaged in
the crop. He felt the more willing to do this because of the attachment felt for the sweet-tempered
but deformed minister at Red Wing by all of his race in the county.  He carefully impressed
upon the two women and Charles, the stable-boy, the necessity of the utmost caution in regard
to the matter, and arranged with them to care for his patient by turns, so as never to leave
him alone. He sent to the post at Boyleston for a surgeon, whose coming chanced not to be noticed
by the neighbors, as he arrived just after dark and went away before daylight to return to
his duty. A comfortable cot was arranged for the wounded man, and, to make the care of him
less onerous, as well as to avoid the remark which continual use of the ladder would be sure
to excite, Charles was directed to cut a doorway through the other gable of the old house into
one of the rooms in a newer part. Charles was one of those men found on almost every plantation,
who can "turn a hand to almost anything." In a short time he had arranged a door from the chamber
above "Marse Hesden's room," and the task of nursing the stricken man back to life and such
health as he might thereafter have, was carried on by the faithful band of watchers in the
dim light of the old attic and amid the spicy odor of the "bulks" of tobacco, which was stored
there awaiting a favorable market.

Hesden was so occupied with fhis care that it was not until the next day that he became aware
of Mollie's  absence. As she had gone without preparation or farewell, he rightly judged that
it was her intention to return.  At first, he thought he would go at once to Red Wing and assure
himself of her safety, but a moment's consideration showed him not only that this was probably
unnecessary, but also that to do so would attract attention, and perhaps reveal the hiding-place
of Eliab.  Besides, he felt confident that she would not be molested, and thought it quite
as well that she should not be at Mulberry Hill for a few days, until the excitement had somewhat
worn away.

On the next day, Eliab inquired so pitifully for both Miss Mollie and Nimbus, that Hesden,
although he knew it was a half-delirious anxiety, had sent Charles on an errand to a plantation
in that vicinity, with directions to learn all he could of affairs there, if possible without
communicating directly with Miss Ainslie.

This he did, and reported everything quiet--Nimbus and Berry not heard from; Eliab supposed
to have been killed; the colored people greatly alarmed; and "Miss Mollie a-comfortin' an encouragin'
on 'em night an' day."

Together with this anxiety came the trust confided to Hesden by Jordan Jackson, and the new,
and at first somewhat arduous, duties imposed thereby. In the discharge of these he was brought
into communication with a great many of the best people of the county, and did not hesitate
to express his opinion freely as to the outrage at Red Wing. He was several times warned to
be prudent, but he answered all warnings so firmly, and yet with so much feeling, that he was
undisturbed. He stood so high, and had led so pure a life, that he could even be allowed to
entertain obnoxious sentiments without personal danger, so long as he did not attempt to reduce
them to practice or attempt to secure for colored people the rights to which he thought them
entitled. However, a great deal of remark was occasioned by the fact of his having become trustee
for the fugitive Radical, and he was freely charged with having disgraced and degraded himself
and his family by taking the part of a "renegade, Radical white nigger," like Jackson. This
duty took him from home during the day in a direction away from Red Wing, and a part of each
night he sat by the bedside of Eliab. So that more than a week had passed, during which he
had found opportunity to take but three meals with his mother, and had not yet been able to
visit Red Wing.

CHAPTER XLVII.

BREASTING THE TORRENT.

To make up for the sudden loss of society occasioned by the simultaneous departure of Mollie
and the unusual engrossment of Hesden in business matters of pressing moment, as he had informed
her, Mrs. Le Moyne had sent for one of the sisters of her son's deceased wife, Miss Hetty Lomax,
to come and visit her. It was to this young lady that Hesden had appealed when the young teacher
was suddenly stricken down in his house, and who had so rudely refused. Learning that the object
of her antipathy was no longer there, Miss Hetty came and made herself very entertaining to
the invalid by detailing to her all the horrors, real and imagined, of the past few days. Day
by day she was in the invalid's room, and it was from her that Mrs. Le Moyne had learned all
that was contained in her letter to Mollie concerning the public feeling and excitement. A
week had elapsed, when Miss Hetty one day appeared with a most interesting budget of news,
the recital of which seemed greatly to excite Mrs. Le Moyne. At first she listened with incredulity
and resentment; then conviction seemed to force itself upon her mind, and anger succeeded to
astonishment. Calling her serving woman, she asked impetuously:

"Maggie, is your Master Hesden about the house?"

"Really now mistis," said the girl in some confusion, "I can't edsackly tell. He war, de las'
time I seed him; but then he mout hev gone out sence dat, yer know."

"Where was he then?"

"He war in his room, ma'am, wid a strange gemmen."

"Yes," added the mistress, in a significant tone, "he seems to have a great deal of strange
company lately."

The girl glanced at her quickly as she arranged the bed-clothing, and the young lady who sat
in the easy chair chuckled knowingly.

So the woman answered artfully, but with seeming innocence:

"La, mistis, it certain am quare how you finds out t'ings. 'Pears like a mouse can't stir 'bout
de house, but you hears it quicker nor de cat."

It was deft flattery, and the pleased mistress swallowed the bait with a smile.

"I always try to know what is going on in my own house," she responded, complacently.

"Should t'ink yer did," said the colored woman, gazing at her in admiring wonder. "I don't
'llow dar's ennybody come inter dis yer house in one while, dat yer didn't know all 'bout 'em
widout settin' eyes on 'em. I wouldn't be at all s'prised, dat I wouldn't," said she to the
young lady, "ter find dat she knows whose h'yer now, an' whose been h'yer ebbery day sence
Marse Hesden's been so busy. La! she's a woman--she's got a headpiece,  she hab!"

"Yes," said the invalid; "I know that that odious scallawag, Jordan Jackson, has been here
and has been shut up with my son, consulting and planning the Lord knows what, here in this
very house of mine. Pretty business for a Le Moyne and a Richards to be in! You all thought
you'd keep it from me; but you couldn't."

"La, sakes!" said the girl, with a look of relief, "yer mustn't say me. I didn't never try
ter keep it. I know'd yer'd find it out."

"When do you say you saw him?"

"I jes disremembers now what time it war. Some time dis mornin' though. It mout hev been some
two--free hours ago."

"Who was the gentleman with him--I hope he was a gentleman?"

"Oh la, ma'am, dat he war--right smart ob one, I should jedge, though I nebber seen his face
afo' in my born days."

"And don't know his name?"

"Not de fust letter ob it, mistis."

Maggie might well say that, since none of the letters of the alphabet were known to her; but
when she conveyed the idea that she did not know the name of the visitor, it was certainly
a stretch of the truth; but then she did not know as "Marse Hesden" would care about his mother
knowing the name of his visitor, and she had no idea of betraying anything which concerned
him against his wish. So in order to be perfectly safe, she deemed it best to deceive her mistress.

"Tell your Master Hesden I wish to see him immediately, Maggie," said Mrs. Le Moyne, imperiously.

"Yes'm," said the girl, as she left the room to perform her errand.

There was a broad grin upon her face as she crossed the passage and knocked at the door of
Hesden's room, thinking how she had flattered her mistress into a revelation of her own ignorance.
She was demure enough, however, when Hesden himself opened the door and inquired what she wished.

"Please, sah, de mistis tole me ter ax yer ter come inter her room, right away."

"Anything the matter, Maggie?"

"Nuffin', only jes she wants ter talk wid yer 'bout sunthin', I reckon."

"Who is with her?"

"Miss Hetty."

"Yes"--musingly.

"An' de mistis 'pears powerfully put out 'bout sunthin' or udder," volunteered the girl.

"Yes," repeated Hesden, absently. "Well. Maggie, say to my mother that I am very closely engaged,
and I hope she will please excuse me for a few hours."

The girl returned and delivered her message.

"What!" exclaimed the sick woman, in amazement.  "He must have turned Radical sure enough,
to send me such an answer as that! Maggie," she continued, with severe dignity, "you must be
mistaken. Return and tell my son that I am sure you are mistaken."

"Oh, dar ain't no mistake 'bout it, mistis. Dem's de berry words Marse Hesden said, shore."

"Do as I bade you, Maggie," said the mistress, quietly.

"Oh, certain, mistis, certain--only dar ain't no mistake," said the woman, as she returned
with the message she was charged to deliver.

"Did you ever see such a change?" asked Mrs. Le Moyne of her companion as soon as the door
was closed upon the servant. "There never was a time before when Hesden did not come the instant
I called, no matter upon what he might be engaged."

"Yes," said the other, laughingly, "I used to tell Julia that it would make me awfully jealous
to have a husband jump up and leave me to go and pet his mother before the honeymoon was over."

"Poor Julia!" sighed the invalid. "Hesden never appreciated her--never. He didn't feel her
loss as I did."

"I should think not," replied the sister-in-law, sharply. "But he might at least have had regard
enough for her memory not to have flirted so outrageously with that Yankee school-marm."

"What do you mean, Hetty!" said Mrs. Le Moyne, severely. "Please remember that it is my son
of whom you are speaking."

"Oh, yes," said Miss Hetty, sharply, "we have been speaking of him all along, and--"

The door from the hall was opened quickly, and Hesden looking in, said pleasantly,

"I hope you are not suffering, mother?"

"Not more than usual, Hesden," said Mrs. Le Moyne, "but I wish to see you very particularly,
my son."

"I am very busy, mother, on a most important matter; but you know I will always make everything
give way for you."

So saying, he stepped into the room and stood awaiting his mother's pleasure, after bowing
somewhat formally to the younger lady.

"What are these reports I hear about you, Hesden?" asked his mother, with some show of anger.

"I beg your pardon, little mother," said Hesden smiling; "but was it to make this inquiry you
called me from my business?"

"Yes, indeed," was the reply; "I should like to know what there could be of more importance
to you than such slanderous reports as Cousin Hetty tells me are being circulated about you."

"I have no doubt they are interesting if Cousin Hetty brings them," said Hesden; "but you will
please excuse me now, as I have matters of more importance to attend to."

He bowed, and would have passed out, but the good lady cried out almost with a shriek,

"But Hesden! Hesden! Hetty says that--that--that they say--you--are a--a Radical!"

She started from her pillows, and leaned forward with one white hand uplifted, as she waited
his reply.

He turned back instantly, stepped quickly to the bedside, and put his one arm caressingly about
her as he said earnestly, "I am afraid, mother, if one speaks of things which have occurred
in Horsford during the past few days as a man of honor ought, he must expect to be called bad
names."

"But Hesden--you are not--do tell me, my son," said his mother, in a tone of entreaty, "that
you are not one of those horrid Radicals!"

"There, there; do not excite yourself, mother. I will explain everything to you this evening,"
said he, soothingly.

"But you are not a Radical?" she cried, catching his hand.

"I am a man of honor, always," he replied, proudly.

"Then you cannot be a Radical," she said, with a happy smile.

"But he is--he is!" exclaimed the younger lady, starting forward with flushed cheeks and pointing
a trembling finger at his face, as if she had detected a guilty culprit. "He is!" she repeated.
"Deny it if you dare, Hesden Le Moyne!"

"Indeed, Miss Hetty," said Hesden, turning upon her with dignified severity. "May I inquire
who constituted you either my judge or my accuser."

"Oh fie! Hesden," said his mother. "Isn't Hetty one of the family?"

"And has every Richards and Le Moyne on the planet a right to challenge my opinions?" asked Hesden.

"Certainly!" said his mother, with much energy, while her pale face flushed, and her upraised
hand trembled--"certainly they have, my son, if they think you are about to disgrace those
names. But do deny it! Do tell me you are not a Radical!" she pleaded.

"But suppose I were?" he asked, thoughtfully.

"I would disown you! I would disinherit you!" shrieked the excited woman, shrinking away from
his arm as if there were contagion in the touch. "Remember, sir," she continued threateningly,
"that Mulberry Hill is still mine, and it shall never go to a Radical--never!"

"There, there, mother; do not excite yourself unnecessarily," said Hesden. "It is quite possible
that both these matters are beyond either your control or mine."

"Why, what do you mean?"

"I simply mean that circumstances over which we have no control have formed my opinions, and
others over which we have as little control may affect the ownership of this plantation."

"Why--what in the world! Hesden, are you mad?  You know that it is mine by the will of my father!
Who or what could interfere with my right?"

"I sincerely hope that no one may," answered Hesden; "but I shall be able to tell you more
about these matters after dinner, when I promise that you shall know all, without any reservation."

There had been a calm, almost sorrowful, demeanor about Hesden during this conversation, which
had held the excited women unconsciously in check. They were so astonished at the coolness
of his manner and the matter-of-fact sincerity of his tones that they were quite unable to
express the indignation and abhorrence they both felt that his language merited. Now, however,
as he moved toward the door, the younger lady was no longer able to restrain herself,

"I knew it was so!" she said. "That miserable nigger-teacher wasn't here for nothing! The mean,
low hussy! I should think he would have been ashamed to bring her here anyhow--under his mother's
very nose!"

Hesden had almost reached the door of the room when these words fell upon his ear. He turned
and strode across the room until he stood face to face with his mother once more. There was
no lack of excitement about him now. His face was pale as death, his eyes blazed, and his voice
trembled.

"Mother," said he, "I have often told you that I would never bring to you a wife whom you did
not approve.  I hope never to do so; but I wish to say one thing: Miss Ainslie is a pure and
lovely woman. None of us have ever known her superior. She is worthy of any man's devotion.
I would not have said this but for what has been spoken here. But now I say, that if I ever
hear that anyone having a single drop of our blood in her veins has spoken ill of her--ay,
or if her name is linked with mine in any slighting manner, even by the breath of public rumor--I
will make her my wife if she will accept my hand, whatever your wishes. And further, if any
one speaks slightingly of her, I will resent it as if she were my wife, so help me God!"

He turned upon his heel, and strode out of the room.

He had not once looked or spoken to the lady whose words had given the offense. The mother
and cousin were overwhelmed with astonishment at the intensity of the usually quiet and complaisant
Hesden. Miss Hetty soon made excuses for returning to her home, and Mrs.  Le Moyne waited in
dull wonder for the revelation which the evening was to bring. It seemed to her as if the world
had lost its bearings and everything must be afloat, now that Hesden had been so transformed
as to speak thus harshly to the mother for whom his devotion had become proverbial all the
country around.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

THE PRICE OF HONOR.

When Hesden came to his mother's room that night, his countenance wore an unusually sad and
thoughtful expression. His mother had not yet recovered from the shock of the morning's interview.
The more she thought of it, the less she could understand either his language or his manner.
That he would once think of allying himself in political thought with those who were trying
to degrade and humiliate their people by putting them upon a level with the negro, she did
not for a moment believe, despite what he had said. Neither did she  imagine, even then, that
he had any feeling for Mollie Ainslie other than mere gratitude for the service she had rendered,
but supposed that his outburst was owing merely to anger at the slighting language used toward
her by Cousin Hetty. Yet she felt a dim premonition of something dreadful about to happen,
and was ill at ease during the evening meal. When it was over, the table cleared, and the servant
had retired, Hesden sat quiet for a long time, and then said, slowly and tenderly:

"Mother, I am very sorry that all these sad things should come up at this time--so soon after
our loss. I know your heart, as well as mine, is sore, and I wish you to be sure that I have
not, and cannot have, one unkind  thought of you. Do not cry," he added, as he saw the tears
pouring down her face, which was turned to him with a look of helpless woe upon it--"do not
cry, little mother, for we shall both of us have need of all our strength."

"Oh, Hesden," she moaned, "if you only would not--"

"Please do not interrupt me," he said, checking her with a motion of his hand; "I have a long
story to tell, and after that we will speak of what now troubles you. But first, I wish to
ask you some questions. Did you ever hear of such a person as Edna Richards?"

"Edna Richards--Edna Richards?" said Mrs. Le Moyne, wiping away her tears and speaking between
her sobs. "It seems as if I had, but--I--I can't remember, my son. I am so weak and nervous."

"Calm yourself, little mother; perhaps it will come to your mind if I ask you some other questions.
Our grandfather, James Richards, came here from Pennsylvania,  did he not?"

"Certainly, from about Lancaster. He always promised to take me to see our relatives there,
but he never did. You know, son, I was his youngest child, and he was well past fifty when
I was born. So he was an old man when I was grown up, and could not travel very much. He took
me to the North twice, but each time, before we got around to our Pennsylvania friends, he
was so tired out that he had to come straight home."

"Did you ever know anything about his family there?"

"Not much--nothing except what he told me in his last days. He used to talk about them a great
deal then, but there was something that seemed to grieve and trouble him so much that I always
did all I could to draw his mind away from the subject. Especially was this the case after
the boys, your uncles, died. They led rough lives, and it hurt him terribly."

"Do you know whether he ever corresponded with any of our relatives at the North?"

"I think not. I am sure he did not after I was grown.  He often spoke of it, but I am afraid
there was some family trouble or disagreement which kept him from doing so. I remember in his
last years he used frequently to speak of a cousin to whom he seemed to have been very much
attached. He had the same name as father, who used to call him 'Red Jim.'"

"Was he then alive?"

"I suppose so--at least when father last heard from him. I think he lived in Massachusetts.
Let me see, what was the name of the town. I don't remember," after a pause.

"Was it Marblehead?" asked the son, with some eagerness.

"That's it, dear--Marblehead. How funny that you should strike upon the very name?"

"You think he never wrote?"

"Oh, I am sure not. He mourned about it, every now and then, to the very last."

"Was my grandfather a bachelor when he came here?"

"Of course, and quite an old bachelor, too. I think he was about thirty when he married your
grandmother in 1794."

"She was a Lomax--Margaret Lomax, I believe?'

"Yes; that's how we come to be akin to all the Lomax connection."

"Just so. You are sure he had never married before?"

"Sure? Why, yes, certainly. How could he? Why, Hesden, what do you mean? Why do you ask all
these questions? You do not--you cannot--Oh, Hesden!" she exclaimed, leaning forward and trembling
with apprehension.

"Be calm, mother. I am not asking these questions without good cause," he answered, very gravely.

After a moment, when she had recovered herself a little, he continued, holding toward her a
slip of paper, as he asked:

"Did you ever see that signature before?"

His mother took the paper, and, having wiped her glasses, adjusted them carefully and glanced
at the paper.  As she did so a cry burst from her lips, and she said,

"Oh, Hesden, Hesden, where did you get it? Oh, dear! oh, dear!"

"Why, mother, what is it?" cried Hesden in alarm, springing up and going quickly to her side.

"That--that horrid thing, Hesden! Where did you get it? Do you know it was that which made
that terrible quarrel between your grandfather and Uncle John, when he struck him that--that
last night, before John's body was found in the river. He was drowned crossing the ford, you
know. I don't know what it was all about; but there was a terrible quarrel, and John wrote
that on a sheet of paper and held it before your grandfather's face and said something to him--I
don't know what. I was only a little girl then, but, ah me! I remember it as if it was but
yesterday. And then father struck him with his cane. John fell as if he were dead. I was looking
in at the window, not thinking any harm, and saw it all. I thought he had killed John, and
ran away, determined not to tell. I never breathed a lisp of it before, son, and nobody ever
knew of that quarrel, only your grandfather and me. I know it troubled him greatly after John
died. Oh, I can see that awful paper, as John held it up to the light, as plain as this one
in my hand now."

The slip of paper which she held contained only the following apparently unintelligible scrawl:

"And you never saw it but once?" asked Hesden, thoughtfully.

"Never but once before to-night, dear."

"It was not Uncle John's usual signature, then?"

"No, indeed. Is it a signature? She glanced curiously at the paper while Hesden pointed out
the letters,

"That is what I take it to be, at least," he said.  "Sure enough," said Mrs. Le Moyne, "and
that might stand for John Richards or James Richards. It might be Uncle John or your grandfather,
either, child."   "True, but grandfather always wrote his name plainly, J. RICHARDS. I have
seen a thousand of his signatures, I reckon. Besides, Uncle John was not alive in 1790."

"Of course not. But what has that to do with the matter? What does it all mean anyhow? There
must be some horrid secret about it, I am sure."

"I do not know what it means, mother, but I am determined to find out. That is what I have
been at all day, and I will not stop until I know all about it."

"But how did you come to find it? What makes you think there is anything to be known about it?"

"This is the way it occurred, mother. The other day it became necessary to cut a door from
the chamber over my room into the attic of the old kitchen, where I have been storing the tobacco.
You know the part containing the dining-room was the original house, and was at first built
of hewed logs. It was, in fact, two houses, with a double chimney in the middle. Afterward,
the two parts were made into one, the rude stairs torn away, and the whole thing ceiled within
and covered with thick pine siding without. In cutting through this, Charles found between
two of the old logs and next to the chinking put in on each side to keep the wall flush and
smooth, a pocketbook, carefully tied up in a piece of coarse linen, and containing a yellow,
dingy paper, which, although creased and soiled, was still clearly legible. The writing was
of that heavy round character which marked the legal hand of the old time, and the ink, though
its color had somewhat changed by time, seemed to show by contrast with the dull hue of the
page even more clearly than it could have done when first written. The paper proved to be a
will, drawn up in legal form and signed with the peculiar scrawl of which you hold a tracing.
It purported to have been made and published in December, 1789, at Lancaster, in the State
of Pennsylvania, and to have been witnessed by James Adiger and Johan Welliker of that town."

"How very strange!" exclaimed Mrs. Le Moyne.  "I suppose it must have been the will of your
grandfather's father."

"That was what first occurred to me," answered Hesden, "but on closer inspection it proved
to be the will of James Richards, as stated in the caption, of Marblehead, in the State of
Massachusetts, giving and bequeathing all of his estate, both real and personal, after some
slight bequests, to his beloved wife Edna, except--"

"Stop, my son," said Mrs. Le Moyne, quickly, "I remember now. Edna was the name of the wife
of father's cousin James--"Red Jim," he called him. It was about writing to her he was always
talking toward the last. So I suppose he must have been dead."

"I had come to much the same conclusion," said Hesden, "though I never heard that grandfather
had a cousin James until to-night. I should never have thought any more of the document, however,
except as an old relic, if it had not gone on to bequeath particularly 'my estate in Carolina
to my beloved daughter, Alice E., when she shall arrive at the age of eighteen years,' and
to provide for the succession in case of her death prior to that time."

"That is strange," said Mrs. Le Moyne. "I never knew that we had any relatives in the State
upon that side."

"That is what I thought," said the son. "I wondered where the estate was which had belonged
to this James Richards, who was not our ancestor, and, looking further, I found it described
with considerable particlarity. It was called Stillwater, and was said to be located on the
waters of the Hyco, in Williams County."

"But the Hyco is not in Williams County," said his listener.

"No, mother, but it was then," he replied. "You know that county has been many times subdivided."

"Yes, I had forgotten that," she said. "But what then?"

"It went on," contined Hesden, "to say that he held this land by virtue of a grant from the
State which was recorded in Registry of Deeds in Williams County, in Book A, page 391."

"It is an easy matter to find where it was, then, I suppose,"  said the mother.

"I have already done that," he replied, "and that is the strange and unpleasant part of what
I had to tell you."

"I do hope," she said, smiling, "that you have not made us out cousins of any low-down family."

"As to that I cannot tell, mother; but I am afraid I have found something discreditable in
our own family history."

"Oh, I hope not, Hesden," she said, plaintively.  "It is so unpleasant to look back upon one's
ancestors and not feel that they were strictly honorable. Don't tell me, please. I had rather
not hear it."

"I wish you might not," said he; "but the fact which you referred to to-day--that you are,
under the will of my grandfather, the owner of Mulberry Hill, makes it necessary that you should."

"Please, Hesden, don't mention that. I was angry then. Please forget it. What can that have
to do with this horrid matter?"

"It has this to do with it, mother," he replied. "The boundaries of that grant, as shown by
the record, are identical with the record of the grant under which our grandfather claimed
the estate of which this is a part, and which is one of the first entered upon the records
of Horsford County."

"What do you say, Hesden? I don't understand you," said his mother, anxiously.

"Simply that the land bequeathed in this will of J.  Richards, is the same as that afterward
claimed and held by my grandfather, James Richards, and in part now belonging to you."

"It cannot be, Hesden, it cannot be! There must be some mistake!" she exclaimed, impatiently.

"I wish there were," he answered, "but I fear there is not. The will names as executor, 'my
beloved cousin James Richards, of the borough of Lancaster, in the State of Pennsylvania.'
I presume this to have been my grandfather. I have had the records of both counties searched
and find no record of any administration upon this will."

"You do not think a Richards could have been so dishonorable as to rob his cousin's orphans?"

"Alas! mother, I only know that we have always claimed title under that very grant. The grant
itself is among your papers in my desk, and is dated in 1789. I have always understood that
grandfather married soon after coming here."

"Oh, yes, dear," was the reply, "I have heard mother tell of it a hundred times."

"And that was in 1794?"

"Yes, yes; but he might have been here before, child."

"That is true, and I hope it may all turn out to have been only a strange mistake."

"But if it does not, Hesden?" said his mother, after a moment's thought. "What do you mean to do?"

"I mean first to go to the bottom of this matter and discover the truth."

"And then--if--if there was--anything wrong?"

"Then the wrong must be righted."

"But that--why, Hesden, it might turn us out of doors! It might make us beggars!"

"We should at least be honest ones."

"But Hesden, think of me--think--" she began.

"So I will, little mother, of you and for you till the last hour of your life or of mine. But
mother, I would rather you should leave all and suffer all, and that we should both die of
starvation, than that we should live bounteously on the fruit of another's wrong." He bent
over her and kissed her tenderly again and again. "Never fear, mother," he said, "we may lose
all else by the acts of others, but we can only lose honor by our own. I would give my life
for you or to save your honor."

She looked proudly upon him, and reached up her thin white hand to caress his face, as she
said with overflowing eyes:

"You are right, my son! If others of our name have done wrong, there is all the more need that
we should do right and atone for it."

CHAPTER XLIX.

HIGHLY RESOLVED.

Mollie Ainslie had made all her preparations to leave Red Wing. She had investigated the grounds
of the suit brought by Winburn against Nimbus and others.  Indeed, she found herself named
among the "others," as well as all those who had purchased from Nimbus or were living on the
tract by virtue of license from him.  Captain Pardee had soon informed her that the title of
Nimbus was, in fact, only a life-estate, which had fallen in by the death of the life tenant,
while Winburn claimed to have bought up the interests of the reversioners. He intimated that
it was possible that Winburn had done this while acting as the agent of Colonel Desmit, but
this was probably not susceptible of proof, on account of the death of Desmit. He only stated
it as a conjecture at best.

At the same time, he informed her that the small tract about the old ordinary, which had come
to Nimbus by purchase, and which was all that she occupied, was not included in the life-estate,
but was held in fee by Walter Greer. She had therefore instructed him to defend for her upon
Nimbus's title, more for the sake of asserting his right than on account of the value of the
premises.  The suit was for possession and damages for detention and injury of the property,
and an attachment had been taken out against Nimbus's property, on the claim for damages, as
a non-resident debtor. As there seemed to be no good ground for defense on the part of those
who had purchased under Nimbus, the attorney advised that resistance to the suit would be useless.
Thus they lost at once the labor of their whole life of freedom, and were compelled to begin
again where slavery had left them. This, taken in connection with the burning of the church,
the breaking up of the school, and the absence of Eliab and Nimbus, had made the once happy
and busy little village most desolate and forlorn.

The days which Mollie Ainslie had passed in the old hostel since she left Mulberry Hill had
been days of sorrow.  Tears and moans and tales of anxious fear had been in her ears continually.
All over the county, the process of "redemption" was being carried on. The very air was full
of horrors. Men with bleeding backs, women with scarred and mutilated forms, came to her to
seek advice and consolation. Night after night, devoted men, who did not dare to sleep in their
own homes, kept watch around her, in order that her slumbers might be undisturbed. It seemed
as if all law had been forgotten, and only a secret Klan had power in the land. She did not
dare, brave as she was, to ride alone outside of the little village. She did not really think
she would be harmed, yet she trembled when the night came, and every crackling twig sent her
heart into her mouth in fear lest the chivalric masqueraders should come to fulfil their vague
threats against herself. But her heart bled for the people she had served, and whom she saw
bowed down under the burden of a terrible, haunting fear.

If she failed to make due allowance for that savageness of nature which generations of slavery
are sure to beget in the master, let us not blame her. She was only a woman, and saw only what
was before her. She did not see how the past injected itself into the present, and gave it
tone and color. She reasoned only from what met her sight. It is not strange that she felt
bitterly toward those who had committed such seemingly vandal acts. No wonder she spoke bitterly,
wrote hard things to her Northern friends, and denied the civilization and Christianity of
those who could harry, oppress, and destroy the poor, the ignorant, and the weak. It is not
surprising that she sneered at the "Southern Gentleman," or that she wrote him down in very
black characters in the book and volume of her memory. She was not a philosopher nor a politician,
and she had never speculated on the question as to how near of kin virtue and vice may be.
She had never considered how narrow a space it is that very often divides the hero from the
criminal, the patriot from the assassin, the gentleman from the ruffian, the Christian saint
from the red-handed savage.  Her heart was hot with wrath and her tongue was tipped with bitterness.

For the first time she blushed at the thought of her native land. That the great, free, unmatched
Republic should permit these things, should shut its eyes and turn its back upon its helpless
allies in their hour of peril, was a most astounding and benumbing fact to her mind.  What
she had loved with all that tenacity of devotion which every Northern heart has for the flag
and the country, was covered with ignominy by these late events.  She blushed with shame as
she thought of the weak, vacillating nation which had given the promise of freedom to the ears
of four millions of weak but trustful allies, and broken it to their hearts. She knew that
the country had appealed to them in its hour of mortal agony, and they had answered with their
blood. She knew that again it had appealed to them for aid to write the golden words of Freedom
in its Constitution, words before unwritten, in order that they might not be continued in slavery,
and they had heard and answered by their votes; and then, while the world still echoed with
boastings of these achievements, it had taken away the protecting hand and said to those whose
hearts were full of hate, "Stay not thine hand."

She thought, too, that the men who did these things--the midnight masqueraders--were rebels
still in their hearts. She called them so in hers at least--enemies of the country, striving
dishonorably to subvert its laws.  She did not keep in mind that to every Southern man and
woman, save those whom the national act brought forth to civil life, the Nation is a thing
remote and secondary.  To them the State is first, and always so far first as to make the country
a dim, distant cloud, to be watched with suspicion or aversion as a something hostile to their
State or section. The Northern mind thinks of the Nation first. The love of country centers
there. His pride in his native State is as a part of the whole.  As a Northerner, he has no
feeling at all. He never speaks of his section except awkwardly, and when reference to it is
made absolutely necessary by circumstances.  He may be from the East or the West or the Middle,
from Maine or Minnesota, but he is first of all things an American. Mollie thought that the
result of the war--defeat and destruction--ought to have made the white people of the South
just such Americans. In fact it never occurred to her simple heart but that they had always
been such. In truth, she did not conceive that they could have been otherwise. She had never
dreamed that there were any Americans with whom it was not the first and ever-present thought
that they were Americans.

She might have known, if she had thought so far, that in that mystically-bounded region known
as "the South," the people were first of all "Southerners;" next "Georgians," or "Virginians,"
or whatever it might be; and last and lowest in the scale of political being, "Americans."
She might have known this had she but noted how the word "Southern" leaps into prominence as
soon as the old "Mason and Dixon's line" is crossed.  There are "Southern" hotels and "Southern"
railroads, "Southern" steamboats, "Southern" stage-coaches, "Southern" express companies, "Southern"
books, "Southern" newspapers, "Southern" patent-medicines, "Southern" churches, "Southern"
manners, "Southern" gentlemen, "Southern" ladies, "Southern"  restaurants, "Southern" bar-rooms,
"Southern" whisky, "Southern" gambling-hells, "Southern" principles, "Southern" everything!
Big or little, good or bad, everything that courts popularity, patronage or applause, makes
haste to brand itself as distinctively and especially "Southern."

Then she might have remembered that in all the North--the great, busy, bustling, over-confident,
giantly Great-heart  of the continent--there is not to be found a single "Northern" hotel,
steamer, railway, stage-coach, bar-room, restaurant, school, university, school-book, or any
other "Northern" institution. The word "Northern" is no master-key to patronage or approval.
There is no "Northern" clannishness, and no distinctive "Northern" sentiment that prides itself
on being such. The "Northern" man may be "Eastern" or "Western." He may be "Knickerbocker,"
"Pennamite," "Buckeye," or "Hoosier;" but above all things, and first of all things in his
allegiance and his citizenship, he is an American. The "Southern" man is proud of the Nation
chiefly because it contains his section and State; the "Northern" man is proud of his section
and State chiefly because it is a part of the Nation.

But Mollie Ainslie did not stop to think of these differences, or of the bias which habit gives
to the noblest mind; and so her heart was full of wrath and much bitterness. She had forgiven
coldness, neglect, and aspersion of herself, but she could not forgive brutality and violence
toward the weak and helpless. She saw the futility of hope of aid from the Nation that had
deserted its allies. She felt, on the other hand, the folly of expecting any change in a people
steeped in intolerance and gloating in the triumph of lawless violence over obnoxious law.
She thought she saw that there was but little hope for that people for whom she had toiled
so faithfully to grow to the full stature of the free man in the region where they had been
slaves. She was short-sighted and impatient, but she was earnest and intense. She had done
much thinking in the sorrowful days just past, and had made up her mind that whatsoever others
might do, she, Mollie Ainslie, would do her duty.

The path seemed plain to her. She had been, as it seemed to her, mysteriously led, step by
step, along the way of life, always with blindfolded eyes and feet that sought not to go in
the way they were constrained to take. Her father and mother dead, her brother's illness brought
her to the South; there his wish detained her; a seeming chance brought her to Red Wing; duties
and cares had multiplied with her capacity; the cup of love, after one sweet draught, had been
dashed from her lips; desolation and destruction had come upon the scene of her labors, impoverishment
and woe upon those with whom she had been associated, and a hopeless fate upon all the race
to which they belonged in the land wherein they were born.

She did not propose to change these things. She did not aspire to set on foot any great movement
or do any great deed, but she felt that she was able to succor a few of the oppressed race.
Those who most needed help and best deserved it, among the denizens of Red Wing, she determined
to aid in going to a region where thought at least was free. It seemed to her altogether providential
that at this time she had still, altogether untouched, the few thousands which Oscar had given
her of his army earnings, and also the little homestead on the Massachusetts hills, toward
which a little town had been rapidly growing during the years of unwonted prosperity succeeding
the war, until now its value was greatly increased from what it was but a few years before.
She found she was quite an heiress when she came to take an inventory of her estate, and made
up her mind that she would use this estate to carry out her new idea. She did not yet know
the how or the where, but she had got it into her simple brain that somewhere and somehow this
money might be invested so as to afford a harbor of refuge for these poor colored people, and
still not leave herself unprovided for. She had not arranged the method, but she had fully
determined on the undertaking.

This was the thought of Mollie Ainslie as she sat in her room at the old ordinary, one afternoon,
nearly two weeks after her departure from the Le Moyne mansion.  She had quite given up all
thought of seeing Hesden again. She did not rave or moan over her disappointment. It had been
a sharp and bitter experience when she waked out of the one sweet dream of her life. She saw
that it was but a dream, foolish and wild; but she had no idea of dying of a broken heart.
Indeed, she did not know that her heart was broken. She had loved a man whom she had fancied
as brave and gentle as she could desire her other self to be. She had neither proffered her
love to him nor concealed it. She was not ashamed that she loved nor ashamed that he should
know it, as she believed he did. She thought he must have known it, even though she did not
herself realize it at the time. If he had been that ideal man whom she loved, he would have
come before, claimed her love, and declared his own. That man could never have let her go alone
into desolation and danger without following at once to inquire after her. It was not that
she needed his protection, but she had desired--nay, expected as a certainty--that he would
come and proffer it. The ideal of her love would have done so. If Hesden Le Moyne had come
then, she would have given her life into his keeping forever after, without the reservation
of a thought. That he did not come only showed that he was not her ideal, not the one she had
loved, but only the dim likeness of that one. It was so much the worse for Mr. Hesden Le Moyne,
but none the worse for Mollie Ainslie. She still loved her ideal, but knew now that it was
only an ideal.

Thus she mused, although less explicitly, as the autumn afternoon drew to its close. She watched
the sun sinking to his rest, and reflected that she would see him set but once more over the
pines that skirted Red Wing. There was but little more to be done--a few things to pack up,
a few sad farewells to be said, and then she would turn her face towards the new life she had
set her heart upon.

There was a step upon the path. She heard her own name spoken and heard the reply of the colored
woman, who was sitting on the porch. Her heart stopped beating as the footsteps approached
her door. She thought her face flushed burning red, but in reality it was of a hard, pallid
gray as she looked up and saw Hesden Le Moyne standing in the doorway.

CHAPTER L.

FACE ANSWERETH TO FACE.

"How do you do, Miss Mollie?"

She caught her breath as she heard his ringing, tone and noted his expectant air. Oh, if he
had only come before!  If he had not left her to face alone--he knew not what peril! But he
had done so, and she could not forget it. So she went forward, and, extending her hand, took
his without a throb as she said, demurely,

"I am very well, Mr. Le Moyne. How are you, and how have you left all at home?"

She led the way back to the table and pointed to a chair opposite her own as she spoke.

Hesden Le Moyne had grown to love Mollie Ainslie almost as unconsciously as she had given her
heart to him. The loss of his son had been a sore affliction.  While he had known no passionate
love for his cousin-wife, he yet had had the utmost respect for her, and had never dreamed
that there were in his heart deeper depths of love still unexplored. After her death, his mother
and his child seemed easily and naturally to fill his heart. He had admired Mollie Ainslie
from the first. His attention had been first particularly directed to her accomplishments and
attractions by the casual conversation with Pardee in reference to her, and by the fact that
the horse she rode was his old favorite.  He had watched her at first critically, then admiringly,
and finally with an unconscious yearning which he did not define.

The incident of the storm and the bright picture she made in his somewhat somber home had opened
his eyes as to his real feelings. At the same time had come the knowledge that there was a
wide gulf between them, but he would have bridged it long before now had it not been for his
affliction, which, while it drew him nearer to the object of his devotion than he had ever
been before, also raised an imperative barrier against words of love.  Then the time of trial
came. He found himself likely to be stripped of all hope of wealth, and he had been goaded
into declaring to others his love for Mollie, although he had never whispered a word of it to her.

Since that time, however, despite his somewhat dismal prospects, he had allowed his fancy greater
play. He had permitted himself to dream that some time and somehow he might be permitted to
call Mollie Ainslie his wife. She seemed so near to him! There was such a calm in her presence!

