PAGE

    I. ABOUT BEING BANISHED                                         3

   II. ABOUT CROSSING THE WATER                                    20

  III. ABOUT NEW YORK                                              50

   IV. ABOUT SHOPPING AND MEN                                      83

    V. ABOUT WEST POINT AND PROPOSALS                             101

   VI. ABOUT THE PARK AND LOVE STORIES                            118

  VII. ABOUT SKY-SCRAPERS AND BEAUTIFUL LADIES                    133

 VIII. ABOUT NEWPORT AND GORGEOUSNESS                             141

   IX. ABOUT BATHING, A DRESS, AND AN EARL                        156

    X. ABOUT A VIOLET TEA AND A MILLIONAIRE                       170

   XI. ABOUT A GREAT AFFAIR                                       180

  XII. ABOUT A WEDDING AND A DISASTER                             200

 XIII. ABOUT RUNNING AWAY                                         211

  XIV. ABOUT THE TWENTIETH CENTURY LIMITED AND CHICAGO            223

   XV. ABOUT SEEING CHICAGO                                       227

  XVI. ABOUT THE VALLEY FARM                                      238

 XVII. ABOUT COWS AND NATIONAL CHARACTERISTICS                    253

XVIII. ABOUT SOME COUNTRY FOLK, AND WALKER'S EMPORIUM             272

  XIX. ABOUT GETTING ENGAGED                                      289

   XX. ABOUT JIM AND THE DUKE                                     297

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"I found myself chatting away with those cadets as if I had grown up with them"           
Frontispiece

                                                               FACING
                                                                PAGE

"He turned around quickly, glanced up and caught my eyes, as I was looking down, quite distressed"
34

"When I turned to speak to him he was gone ... and I was immediately surrounded by other men
asking me for dances"                                                           196

"I swept past him with my nose in the air, trying to look like mother"                    
206

"Mr. Trowbridge took me to the beehives to get some honey and show me what a queen bee is like"
258

"Jim smiled and kept his seat without the least apparent effort"                          
302

LADY BETTY ACROSS THE WATER

I

ABOUT BEING BANISHED

I don't know yet whether I'm pleased or not, but I do know that I'm excited--more excited than
I've ever been in my life, except perhaps when Miss Mackinstry, my last governess, had hysterics
in the schoolroom and fainted among the tea things.

I suppose I shan't be able to decide about the state of my feelings until I've had more of
them on the same subject, or until I've written down in this book of mine everything exactly
as it's happened. I like doing that; it makes things seem so clear when you try to review them
afterwards.

The excitement began at breakfast by Mother having a letter that she liked. I knew she liked
it by the way her eyes lighted up, as if they had been lamps and the letter a match. All the
other letters, mostly with horrid, tradesmanny-looking envelopes, which had been making her
quite glowery, she pushed aside.

Mother won't have a crown on her envelopes; she thinks it's vulgar; besides, putting it only
on the paper saves expense. This envelope had a great sprawly gold crest, but she didn't seem
to disapprove of it. She read on and on, then suddenly glanced up as if she would have said
something quickly, to Victoria; she didn't say it, though, for she remembered me. I am never
taken into family conclaves, because I'm not out yet. I don't see what difference that makes,
especially as I'm not to be allowed to come out till after Vic's married, because she was presented
four years ago, and isn't even engaged yet; so for all I can tell I may have to stay in till
I'm a hundred, or leak out slowly when nobody is noticing, as Vic says girls do in the middle
classes. This time I didn't mind, however, for I couldn't see how the letter concerned me;
and as I was dying for a sight of Berengaria's puppies, which were born last night, I was glad
when Mother told me not to fidget after I'd finished breakfast, but to run down to the kennels
if I liked.

Soon I forgot all about the letter, for the puppies were the dearest ducks on earth (can puppies
be ducks, I wonder?), and besides, it was such a delicious June morning that I could have danced
with joy because I was alive.

I often feel like that; but there's nobody to tell, except the trees and the dogs, and my poor
pony, who is almost too old and second-childish now to understand. She was my brother Stanforth's
pony first of all, and Stanforth is twenty-eight; then she was Vic's, and Vic is--but Mother
doesn't like Vic's age to be mentioned any more, though she is years younger than Stan.

I took a walk in the park and afterwards went through the rose-garden, to see how the roses
were getting on. There were a lot of petals for my pot-pourri, and gathering them up kept me
for some time. Then, as the jar stands in Vic's and my den (she calls it her den, but it has
to be part mine, as I have no other), I was going in by one of the long windows, when I heard
Mother's voice. "The question is," she was saying, "what's to be done with Betty?"

I turned round and ran away on my tiptoes across the lawn, for I didn't want to be an eavesdropper,
and it would be nearly as bad to have Mother know I had heard even those few words; she would
be so annoyed, and Mother chills me all the way through to my bones when she's annoyed. It
is wonderful how she does it, for she never scolds; but the thermometer simply drops to freezing-point,
and you feel like a poor little shivering crocus that has come up too soon, by mistake, to
find the world covered with snow, and no hope of squeezing back into its own cosy warm bulb again.

I stopped out of doors till luncheon, and played croquet against myself, wishing that Stan
would run down; for although Stan rather fancies himself as a Gorgeous Person since poor father's
death gave him the title, he is quite nice to me, when it occurs to him. I'm always glad when
he comes to the Towers, but he hardly ever does in the Season; and then in August and September
he's always in Scotland. So is Vic, for the matter of that, and she hates being in the country
in May and June, though Surrey is so close to town that luckily she doesn't miss much; but
this year we seem to have been horribly poor, for some reason. Vic says it's Stan's fault.
He is extravagant, I suppose. However, as everything is really his, I don't see that we ought
to complain; only, it can't be pleasant for him to feel that Mother is worrying lest he should
marry and make her a frumpy dowager, before we two girls are off her hands.

At luncheon, Mother mentioned to me that she had wired to ask Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox and her
cousin, Miss Sally Woodburn, down for dinner and to stay the night. "You will be pleased, Betty,
as you like Miss Woodburn so much," she said.

"I like her, but I don't like Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox and I don't know how to pronounce her," said I.

"For goodness sake, don't call her Mrs. Ess Kay to her face again," cut in Vic.

"I didn't mean to; it slipped out," I defended myself. "Besides, it was you who nicknamed her
that."

"Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox is a very charming person, and a thorough woman of the world," Mother
asserted, in that way she has of saying the word which you had better leave for the last if
you know what is good for you.

I did leave it for the last so far as answering was concerned, but inside, where, thank goodness,
even her eyes can't see, I was wondering hard when Mother had formed that flattering opinion.
A fortnight ago I heard her announce that Americans "got upon her nerves," and she hoped she
would not soon be called upon to meet any more. As she had made this remark directly after
bidding Mrs. Ess Kay good-bye, I naturally supposed that lady to be the immediate cause for
it. But now, it seemed, this was not the case.

"You would be very ungrateful if you disliked her," Mother went on, "as she took such a tremendous
fancy to you."

"Dear me, I didn't know that!" I exclaimed, opening my eyes wide. "I thought it was Vic she----"

"You are her favourite, as you are with Miss Woodburn, also," said Mother, who gets the effect
of being so tremendously dignified partly, I believe, from never clipping her words as the
rest of us do. "I am asking them down again especially on your account, and I want you to be
particularly nice to them."

"It's easy enough to be nice to Sally Woodburn, but----"

I caught a look from Vic and broke off my sentence, hurrying to change it into another. "As
they're sailing for the States so soon, I shan't have time to spread myself much."

"Don't be slangy, Betty; it doesn't suit you," said Mother. "You pick up too many things from
Stanforth."

"Trust him not to drop anything worth having," interpolated Vic, which was pert; but Mother
never reproves her.

"Perhaps Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox and Miss Woodburn won't come," I said, for the sake of getting
on safer ground.

"Not come? Of course they will come. It is short notice, but if they have other engagements
they will break them," returned Mother; and though it would be as impossible for her to be
vulgar or snobbish, as it would for a tall white arum lily to be either of those things, still
I couldn't help feeling that her unconscious thought was: "The invitation to a couple of unknown,
touring Americans, from the Duchess of Stanforth, is equivalent to my receiving a Royal Command."

She was probably right,--anyhow, so far as Mrs. Ess Kay is concerned: as for Sally Woodburn,
I don't think she has a drop of snobbish blood in her veins. She's Southern--not South American,
as I was stupid enough to think at first; but from some Southern State or other; Kentucky,
I believe it is. She's short and plump, and olive and smooth as ivory satin, with soft, lazy
brown eyes, a voice like rich cream, a smile which says: "Please like me"; and pretty, crinkly
dark hair that is beginning to glitter with silver network here and there, though she isn't
exactly old, even for a woman--perhaps about thirty.

I knew that Miss Woodburn rather fancied me, and I was quite pleased to take her up to her
room, when she and her elder cousin arrived, about an hour before dinner. I stopped for a few
minutes, and then left her with her maid, while I went to help Vic, and get myself ready. We've
only one maid between the three of us, nowadays; which means (unless there's some reason why
Vic should be made particularly smart), that Mother gets more than a third of Thompson's services.
That's as it should be, of course, and we don't grudge it; but Vic's rather helpless, and I
always have to hurry, to see her through.

This evening, though, I found Thompson in Vic's room, next to mine; and just as I scientifically
dislocated my arms to unhook my frock, which does up behind, Mother came in. "Betty," she said,
quite playfully for her, "I have a very pleasant surprise for you. You would never be able
to guess, so I will tell you. I have consented to let you go and visit Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox
and Miss Woodburn in America. Aren't you delighted?"

I felt as if the wall of the house were tumbling down, and I would presently be crumpled up
underneath.

"My goodness gracious, Mother!" I managed to stammer, forgetting how I've always stood in awe
of her, since I could toddle. "How--how perfectly extraordinary! Why am I going? And is it
all decided, whether I like or not?"

"Of course you will like. To travel with pleasant companions and see a great, new country under
such charming auspices, is an immense privilege, a very unusual privilege for a young girl,"
Mother replied promptly. "As for the 'why,' you are going because you have been cordially invited;
because I think the experience will be for your advantage, present and future; because also
it will be good for a growing girl like you to have the bracing effect of a sea voyage."

"Mother, I haven't a thing the matter with me, and I haven't grown the eighth of an inch this
whole last year; you can see by my frocks," I protested, more on principle than because it
would be any use to protest, or because I was sure that I wanted Mother to change her mind.
Naturally the protest had no effect, but Mother's mood mercifully remained placid, and she
didn't give me a single freezing look.

"Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox is a woman of good family and position in her own country," she went
calmly on. "I have satisfied myself on those points beyond doubt, or I should not dream of
allowing you to be her guest. She has a cottage at Newport, and will take you there, as summer,
it seems, is not the Season in New York. You may stay with her through July and August,--even
for September, if you are amusing yourself. Later, Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox will send you home
with friends of hers, who can be trusted to take good care of you. She knows several people,
she tells me, who are crossing in the autumn, to winter abroad; and they would bring you to
me. Of course, I should have to be nice to them, by way of showing my appreciation of any trouble
you had given; but a dinner, and a Saturday to Monday at most, would be quite enough."

So it was all arranged, even to the details of my home-coming, and the price to be paid for
returning me, like a parcel, to my owner! Suddenly I remembered the words I had overheard at
the window of the den. "The question is, what is to be done with Betty?"

Mother had evidently been so anxious to have the question answered, that she had at once taken
measures to settle it. But why should anything be done with me? Nothing ever had been, so far,
except when I was sent last autumn to stop with my aunt; and she was so much annoyed because
my cousin Loveland came home unexpectedly, that after that I could do nothing to please her,
and was packed back to Battlemead Towers in disgrace, I never could understand for what crime.

"How did Mrs. Ess--I mean, Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox happen to ask for a visit from me?" I ventured
to wriggle out, like a worm who isn't sure whether it had better turn or not. I was certain
that for some reason of her own, Mother had suggested the idea, if only hypnotically; but she
seemed almost too frank as she answered, and it was frightening not even to be snubbed.

"I told you to-day that she had taken a fancy to you, my dear. Of course, she could not hope
to secure Victoria, even if she preferred her, for Victoria has important engagements which
will carry her through the season, and afterwards to Cowes and up to Scotland for the shooting
at Dorloch Castle. But you are still almost a child; and children do not have engagements.
Nevertheless, you are Lady Betty Bulkeley, the Duke of Stanforth's sister, and as such, though
in yourself you are an unimportant little person, it's not impossible that as a member of your
family, these Americans may think you worth cultivating. One hears that they worship titles."

"I'm sure they can't worship them as much as some people in our own country, who haven't got
them, do," I cried, defending Americans for Miss Woodburn's sake. "Vic says----"

"Never mind what Victoria says," returned Mother. "The less you think on these subjects, the
better, my dear Betty. I merely hinted at a possible and partial incentive to these people's
friendship for you, so that you need not feel it incumbent to be oppressively grateful, you
know. I should wish you to keep your dignity among foreigners, even though you would, of course,
look upon Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox as, in a way, your guardian. Now I must call Thompson, and have
her put me into my dinner dress, as there is no more time to waste. When Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox
speaks of your visit, you will know what to say."

I mumbled something vaguely dutiful, and began to dress as quickly as I could; but the more
I thought of it, the more I felt that I hadn't been fairly treated, to be disposed of in such
an offhand way. After all, I am eighteen; and a person of eighteen isn't a child.

I'm not sure I wasn't pouting when Vic came in, ready for dinner, asking if she should fasten
up my frock. I had nearly finished it, for practice has made me almost as clever as a conjurer
about manipulating my hands behind my back, but when Vic flew at me and began giving useless
little touches, I guessed that she wanted to whisper something in my ear without Mother seeing,
if she should happen to prance in at the wrong moment--as she often does.

"Look here, Betty, are you going to be a good little girl, and do what you're bid, without
making a fuss?" she asked, in a quick, low voice.

"I'm not certain yet," said I. "I'm thinking it over. I don't see why I should be sent off
across the water with strangers, at a moment's notice, and I----"

"'Tisn't a moment's notice. It's five days. They're not sailing till Wednesday, and as they've
a suite engaged,--the best on the ship, Mrs. Ess Kay says,--your going won't put them out a
bit, and they'll love having you. As for the whys and wherefores, Mother's been telling you,
hasn't she?"

"She talked about my health and valuable experiences, and a lot of things in the air, but I
feel there's something behind it, and I hate mysteries----"

"If I can convince you it's for the good of the family in general, if not yours in particular,
will you be a nice, white, woolly lamb, and go with your kind little American friends?" Vic
broke in, with her head on my shoulder and an arm slipped round my waist.

"Mrs. Ess Kay's neither little nor kind," said I, "but, of course, I'll do anything to help,
if only I'm treated like a rational, grown-up human being."

"And so you shall be. I told Mother it would be much better to be frank with you, if you are
a Baby. It's too late to explain things now, but if you'll be sweet to Mrs. Ess Kay, and agree
with everything everybody says about your trip, when we come up to bed and Mother's door's
shut, I'll make a clean breast and show you exactly how matters stand."

With this, we separated, for we could hear Mrs. Ess Kay's voice in the corridor, talking to
Sally Woodburn on the way downstairs. Her voice is never difficult to hear; rather the other
way; and Miss Woodburn's soft little drawl following it, reminded me of a spoonful of Devonshire
cream after a bunch of currants.

Mother was with them both in the oak drawing-room when Vic and I got down, and I found myself
staring at Mrs. Ess Kay with a new kind of criticism in my mind; indeed, it hadn't occurred
to me before to criticise at all. I'd only felt that I didn't want to come any closer to her.
Now I was to come much closer, it seemed, and I looked at the glittering lady, wondering how
it would feel to be so close--wondering what she herself was.

Outside, she's more like the biggest and most splendid dressmaker's model ever made for a Paris
show-window than anything else I can think of; at least, she is like that from under her chin
down to the tips of her toes. I say under her chin, for that feature, as well as all the others
above it, are miles removed from a pretty, wax lady in a show-window.

I never supposed till I met Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox, that a live woman could have a figure exactly
like the fashion-plates, swelling like a tidal wave above an hourglass of a waist, and retreating
far, far into the dim perspective below it, then suddenly bulging out behind like a round,
magnificent knoll, after a deep curve inward under the shoulders. But Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox's
figure does all these things even when she stands still, and a great many more when she walks,
which act she accomplishes in a grand, sweepy kind of a way, with her head a little thrown
back, as if she wants everybody to know that she is tremendously important in the scheme, not
only of the world, but of the universe.

Yet in spite of all, in the end it's her face which impresses you even more than her figure--which
is a real triumph, as the figure is so elaborate and successful. On top of her head is a quite
little coil of hair that lifts itself, and spirals up, like a giant snail-shell. A dagger keeps
it in place, and looks as if the point plunged into Mrs. Ess Kay's brain, though I suppose
it doesn't. Over the forehead is a noble roll which has the effect of a breaker just about
to fall into surf, but never falling. It's a black breaker, and the straight, thick eyebrows
an inch below it are black too; so are the short eyelashes, also thick and straight, like a
stiff fringe, but the eyes are grey--grey as glass, though not transparent. Sometimes they
seem almost white, with just a tiny bead of black for the pupil. I never saw anything so hard
(except the glass marbles I used to play with): and they look at most people as if something
behind them were doing a mental sum in arithmetic, for the Something's own advantage. They
don't look at Mother in that way; no eyes in the world would dare; but I'm talking about ordinary
people, who are not tall white arum lilies, with the air of having grown in kings' gardens.

Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox's nose is well-shaped and rather large; so is her mouth, with a "thin
red line" of lips; but somehow it's the chin--the feature you simply take for granted and hardly
remember on most faces--which dominates the rest. It comes rounding out under her lips, making
them seem to recede, though they don't really; and it's square, with an effect of the skin
being laid on over some perfectly hard material, like marble, or the same ivory her teeth are
made of. Besides all this,--as if it weren't enough--she's a widow; one of those women who
look as if they had been born widows; anyway, I'm certain that Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox can never
have been a child.

Sally Woodburn's chin is rather full, too. I wonder if, in spite of her lazy ways, and slow,
soft speech, she is very decided, like her cousin, who is so much older and bigger, and apparently
able to make the gentle little Southern relative do as she wills?

Mrs. Ess Kay, terribly glittering this evening in a gown contrasting strongly with our simple
things, was almost too nice to me, saying several times over how glad she was that I was going
to visit her. At dinner, she painted word-pictures of the "good times" she would give me, and
though I've never been able to care for her, and don't a bit more now, I began to be rather
excited by her talk, for she made things seem so interesting and new. Besides, it appears that
Sally Woodburn will be at Newport most of the summer, so I shall have her to fall back upon.

As for me, I was good as gold, and Vic threw me approving glances, for which I was grateful,
for I like being in Vic's good graces. She doesn't often bother with me much, but when she
does, she is so sweet it makes up for everything--and she knows that well.

I could hardly wait to hear her "explanations," and so I was glad Mrs. Ess Kay and Miss Woodburn
were hypnotised by Mother into thinking they wanted to go early to bed. Mother is very clever
about such things.

She didn't come again to talk to me in my room; I suppose she thought it best to let the new
ideas simmer. Anyhow, she sent Thompson away, and shut the door between Vic's room and hers
sooner than usual. Presently Vic slipped quietly in to me, in the new blue dressing-gown which
was to have been mine, only when she saw it finished, she wanted it, and had four inches taken
up above the hem.

"Well, how are you feeling about things now?" she asked, sitting down in front of the mirror,
with her hairbrush in her hand.

"I'll tell you after you've told me why I ought to feel one way more than another," I said
with prudent reserve.

"Then, like a good child, brush my hair. I wouldn't let Thompson do anything, because I knew
you'd be dying to have me, and I can talk so beautifully while my hair is being done. It makes
me wish I were a pussy cat, so that I could purr."

"I hate having mine touched by anyone," said I.

"Well, perhaps I should hate it too, if mine were curly and about six inches thick, and came
down to my knees; I should be afraid of being pulled to pieces. There! That's heavenly. Well,
now I can begin. You know, Baby, this isn't a quite new idea about your going to America. Mrs.
Ess Kay did say something on the subject when she was staying here before."

"Oh, yes, when she was going away she said how much she would like to have either of us visit
her. Is that all?"

"It's something, isn't it? Enough to make a handle of, when a handle's needed."

"But why is a handle needed?"

"I'm going to tell you the whole truth and nothing but the truth. Mother had a letter from
Sir Gilbert Mantell this morning."

"Oh, that big, splashy crest was his, then. It looked like him, now I come to think of it.
Nobody but a brand-new knight, with piles and piles of money, would need one more than half
the size."

"Don't sneer at his money, my good child. We want it badly enough in this family."

"Not his."

"Yes, we do. And I see a reasonable prospect of our getting it, if you'll go to the States
with Mrs. Ess Kay."

"What can that have to do with it? I don't know one bit what you mean."

"That's because you're such a great baby. If you must have every t crossed and every i dotted,
Sir Gilbert has apparently conceived a patronising toleration for your Victoria, which is likely,
if properly fostered and encouraged, to develop into something more satisfactory."

"Patronising, indeed! That dull elephant!"

"Elephants are not, as a rule, dull. And forty thousand a year in any form can afford to patronise
a daughter of a hundred dukes without a penny, whereas I'm merely the granddaughter of three.
In fact, my dear, I'm humbly anxious that Sir Gilbert should propose; and as he's been rather
nice, and as he's written almost asking for an invitation to come down with Stan, from next
Saturday to Monday, although he carefully states he's been invited for the same time, by Princess
Paul of Plon, things look hopeful. The only trouble is--you."

"Me!"

"Yes, you. The one time he ever saw you, was when you had that frightful cold, and looked hideous,
with your poor dear nose twice its size, and your eyes half theirs. But--well, Betty, you're
a beauty, and I'm not, though I do flatter myself I'm not bad looking. I'm 'penny plain,' and
you're 'tuppence coloured'; and the Mantell man can afford tuppence for a wife. You are so
frightfully, luridly pretty that it's almost improper, and if he comes down and sees you, he'll
probably think you better worth his money than I am."

"What nonsense! And if he were such an idiot, of course I should refuse him."

"You would. That's one of mother's difficulties. Even you must see that would do no good from
the family point of view."

"I could keep out of the creature's way."

"You couldn't, without Stan making some blundering remark, or some contretemps happening; it
would be sure to. It's much safer to have you absolutely out of the way; and it was when we
were talking it over this morning, that Mother hit upon the plan of sending you to the States.
You know how prompt she is, once she's made up her mind? Mother is really a wonderful woman.
Twenty minutes later she sent a telegram to Mrs. Ess Kay, asking her to come down, and certain,
under Providence, that she would; for an intimate sort of invitation like this, when we're
alone (especially after the Great Disappointment), would be too flattering to a woman of that
type not to be snapped at, no matter if a dozen engagements had to be trampled in the dust."

"What Great Disappointment are you talking about?"

"Infant in Arms! Why, Stan and Miss Woodburn."

"I--didn't know--nobody told me----"

"Fancy needing to be told! As if that weren't the only reason why Mother smiled on Mrs. Ess
Kay in the beginning. It was because she thought Miss Woodburn might do for Stanforth, who
must marry money, and is too poor, horribly poor, to be much of a catch with most English heiresses,
who aren't as keen on titles as they used to be, unless there's some solid foundation for them
to stand on, and not wobble. Everyone says Miss Woodburn's a great heiress, and though she's
a few years older than Stan, she's a lady, a charming creature, and not bad looking. Mother
thought all that out, the day they were introduced to her at the Northminster's concert, so
she invited them here. But Stan and the Woodburn wouldn't look at each other. It was useless
even for Mother's genius to attempt the impossible, so she resigned herself to the inevitable,
and gave the thing up. She meant to drop the Americans gently--which she could easily do as
they were going home soon--when this new idea popped up. It's really important for me, dear.
I do want you to see that. It will be so much better all around if you are out of the way,
anyhow until I'm safely engaged, and the wedding-day fixed. Then, you know, if you haven't
meanwhile picked up an American millionaire on the other side--don't look so horrified!--Mother
will be able to devote herself to you, heart and soul, as she has to me. Next spring you can
be presented----"

"Don't bribe," I said, feeling as if I wanted to cry. "If you want to get rid of me, I'll go
without that. But I should have thought I might be sent again to Aunt Sophy's."

"Not again till our magnificent cousin's safely married. She wouldn't have you there. Remember
how she sent you home, last time. Poor Loveland! He too, must think about collecting honest
gold (somebody else's), to brighten up his coronet. We're a poverty-stricken lot, my child,
and it's for me, with your help, to retrieve the fallen fortunes of this branch of the family."

"That's settled then," said I, as drily as I could with wet tears in the background. "And now,
let's go to bed, please. I'm sleepy."

I wasn't; but my eyes were hot, and there was a lump in my throat. I was homesick--dreadfully
homesick, for something--I don't know what, but it seemed to be something I've never had yet
and probably never can have. That is why I wanted to be alone, and write everything down exactly
as it has happened.

II

ABOUT CROSSING THE WATER

Only ten days have passed, but I feel as if they were a hundred, I have lived so much. I've
heard people near me in deck-chairs saying that it's been a "dull voyage," but whatever else
it has been for me, it hasn't been dull.

In the first place, I've never been on the sea before, except crossing the Channel, which doesn't
count, of course. And now that I've been thrown with so many people--all sorts of people--I
realise how few I have known in my life, so far. If I had about twice as many fingers and toes
as I have, I believe I might tick off every human being I've ever met as actual acquaintances,
outside my own relations.

I've lived always at dear, beautiful old Battlemead (it seems doubly beautiful as I think of
it now, from far away); and till last year most of my time was spent in the schoolroom, or
walking, or pottering about in a pony carriage with one of the governesses I used to drive
to distraction. When we had house parties I was kept out of the way, as Mother said it spoiled
young girls to be taken notice of, and I should have my fun later. When the others went up
to town for the Season, as they often did, I was left behind, and though Battlemead is within
five-and-twenty miles of London, I suppose I haven't been there more than two dozen times in
my life. When I did go, it was generally for a concert, or a matinée, and, of course, I enjoyed
it immensely; but I don't know that it taught me much about life. And the one time I was taken
abroad we had nothing to do with anyone we met at hotels. Being on this big ship seemed at
first exactly like being at a play when I had been brought in late, and found it difficult
to know which were the leading actors, which the villains and villainesses, and what the plot
was about.

Now, though, I've been through so many experiences, I feel as if I were in the play myself,
not watching it from outside.

Everything was very nice, though very strange, to begin with.

Dear old Stan came out of his shell and actually travelled all the way to Southampton to see
me off, which was good of him, especially as Vic explained that he and Sally Woodburn had been
thrown at each other's heads, in vain.

He'd brought me a great box of sweets, a bunch of roses, and several magazines; and just as
we were starting he slipped something small but fat into my hand.

"That's to help you keep your end up, Kid, in case you're imposed on," said he. "You are only
a kid, you know; but all the same, don't let them treat you like one, and if you get the hump
over there, just you cable me. I'll see you through, and have you back again with your own
sort, Mater or no Mater, hanged if I don't."

Stan never made me such a long speech before, and after we sailed and I got time to look at
the fat thing he'd put in my hand, I found it was a lot of goldpieces bundled up in two ten-pound
notes. The gold made twelve sovereigns more, so Stan had given me altogether more than thirty
pounds. All that money, with the twenty pounds Mother had told me to use only "when strictly
necessary," made me feel a regular millionaire. I've never had a sixth part as much before,
in my life.

Stan's kindness was just like a cup of something warm and comforting when you're tired and
cold, so that I began to brighten up and feel happy.

I liked our suite, with two staterooms, a bath, and a dear little white-and-blue drawing-room,
about as big as the old dolls' house I inherited from Vic. I was thankful to find I was to
chum with Miss Woodburn, not Mrs. Ess Kay, for I never could have stood that. It was fun finding
places to hang up our things when they were unpacked, and Mrs. Ess Kay's French maid, Louise,
helped me get settled, paying me so many compliments on my hair, and my eyes and my complexion,
that I grew quite confused; but perhaps that's a habit in which American ladies encourage their
maids.

"But the marvel that is Miladi's hair! It is of the colour of gold, and with a natural curl.
It will be so great a joy if I may dress it. And her complexion! It is beyond that of any English
demoiselle I have seen, yet all the world knows they are the best on earth. With such eyes,
no doubt Miladi can wear any colour; and she has the figure for which the make of corsets is
of no import."

If it had been in English, I should have wanted to order her out of the room; but things like
that don't sound so objectionable in French.

Miss Woodburn's, and especially Mrs. Ess Kay's clothes looked so exquisite that I was mortified
to have Louise unpack mine, though I have brought my smartest things, and Vic had two or three
pretty blouses of hers altered in a great hurry, for me. Besides, Mother said my outfit was
quite good enough for a young girl in England, and that I was not to let myself feel dissatisfied
if in another country they chose to overdress.

Anyhow, I will say for Mrs. Ess Kay that she didn't appear to be ashamed of me at first. On
the contrary, she had a way of seeming to show me off, almost as if she thought I did her credit.

When we had unpacked, we three went to luncheon, and took the first seats which were vacant.
But presently Mrs. Ess Kay sent for the chief steward or someone important. "I am Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox,"
said she, in a haughty voice, "and I have as my guest Lady Betty Bulkeley, daughter of the
Duchess of Stanforth. You must give me three of the best seats at the Captain's table."

I couldn't help hearing, and my ears did tingle, but Miss Woodburn only smiled and looked down,
with a funny twinkle under her eyelashes, which curl up so much that it always seems as if
she were just going to laugh.

I thought, if I were the steward, I would give us the worst seats on the ship, to teach us
not to be proud; but he didn't do anything of the sort; he was as meek as a lamb, so I'm sure
he can't have any sense of humour. He said Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox might count on him, and she
and her party should have places on the Captain's right hand.

Mrs. Ess Kay was as bad with the deck steward. She found that he hadn't put our chairs (which
she had brought on board herself) in the right place, and she had him called up and made a
great fuss. The cards of a Reverend Somebody, his wife and daughters, were on chairs in the
position which she had made up her mind to have, exactly amidship and on the shady side.

"I must have my chairs changed and put here," she said. And then--oh, horror!--I'm certain
I caught her repeating the formula she'd used at luncheon. "I am Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox, and
I have as my guest, etc, etc." To be sure, she had walked off to a little distance with the
deck-steward, where our chairs were, and I might have been mistaken; but two or three people
who were standing near looked suddenly very hard at me, and I know I turned scarlet with annoyance,
to be labelled in that way, as if I were a parcel marked "glass" and to be handled with care.

Afterwards, when I came to read the passenger-list, I found that there was nobody else on board
with any sort of title, not even an Honourable Anybody; otherwise, of course, Mrs. Ess Kay's
little manoeuvre (which I'm afraid must have been meant for snobbishness) wouldn't have excited
the slightest notice.

"Now," said Mrs. Ess Kay, when we were settled in our places, "I know a good many people on
the ship, but most of them are Nobodies, and I do not intend to be troubled with them, nor
do I think that the Duchess would care to have me let Betty mix herself up with anybody and
everybody. I shall do a great deal of weeding and select her acquaintances carefully."

"Betty," indeed! I'd never told her that she might call me Betty; and I hate having persons
I don't care for take hold of my name, without using a handle to touch it. It makes me feel
as I did when I was a child, and Mother commanded me to let myself be kissed by unkissable
and extraneous grown-ups.

Thank goodness, Vic and I have come into the world with something of poor Father's sense of
humour. My share often serves me as well as balm on a wound, or as a nice, dry, crackly little
biscuit which you're enchanted to find when you're hungry, and thought you had nothing to eat;
and I got a good deal of quiet comfort out of it during Mrs. Ess Kay's "weeding" process, which
otherwise would have done nothing but make me squirm.

When we had been on deck for a short time, a number of people came up to speak to Mrs. Ess
Kay, and some to Miss Woodburn. The water was as smooth as the floor of a ballroom when it's
been well waxed for a dance, and there was no excuse for the most sensitive person to be ill;
consequently the deck was something like a kaleidoscope, with all its moving groups of men
and women, girls and children. Most of the best-looking and best-dressed ones were Americans,
and a great many seemed to know each other. Some of them laughed a good deal, and talked in
high voices, putting emphasis on prepositions, which Miss Mackinstry and the others would never
let me do in writing compositions. Somehow, though, when these people spoke it sounded very
nice and cordial, more so than it does when English people greet each other, though the voices
weren't so sweet--except a few that drawled in a pretty, Southern way, like Sally Woodburn's.

I could tell which were the poor things that Mrs. Ess Kay wanted to weed out of her acquaintance-garden
for next season, by the way she acted when they came to say "How do you do?" to her. She screwed
up her eyes till they looked hard and sharp enough to go through you like a thin knife--(or
more like a long, slender hatpin jabbing your head), and having waited an instant before returning
their greeting, slowly answered; "Very well, thank you. Yes, I am going home rather early.
I'm due at Newport as soon as possible"; then fingered her open book (which she hadn't peeped
into before) and made a little, just noticeable gesture with her lorgnette.

Then the poor people were too much crushed to stop and try to talk to Miss Woodburn, though
she always looked at them sweetly, as if she would make up for her cousin being a dragon if
she could.

By and by, somebody else would sail up, perhaps not half as nice to look at as the one who
had gone. But lo, Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox would be suddenly transformed. She would smile, and
hold out her hand. To their "How do you do?" she would respond "How do you do?" and though
I don't think she's really much interested in anyone but herself, she would ask where they
had been, what they had been doing, and how it happened they were going back so soon. The next
thing, she would say to me: "Betty, dear, I should like you and Mrs. or Mr. So-and-So to know
each other, as I hope you'll meet again, while you're staying with me. Lady Betty Bulkeley,
etc., etc. I wonder if you have ever met her brother, the Duke of Stanforth, and her cousin,
the Marquis of Loveland, over in London?"

Loveland would have had a fit if he could have heard her, for, of course, at home only the
lower middle classes and such people hurl a Marquis's title at his head in that fashion; but
I suppose foreigners, unless they've been in England a long time, don't know the difference.

When I got a chance, I asked Sally Woodburn how Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox made her distinctions
in snubbing some people and preening herself to others.

"My deah," said Sally (I'm to call her "Sally" now; it's been understood between us for some
time), "my deah, you're a poor, innocent child, and I reckon you've been brought up in darkness,
without even so much as hearing of the Four Hundred."

"What are the Four Hundred? Are they a kind of Light Brigade, like the Six Hundred?" I asked.
"Or is it a sort of governing body like--like the Council of Three?"

She laughed so much at this, with her charming, velvety laugh, that I grew quite nervous, for
it's embarrassing to have said something funny when you've meant to be rather intelligent.
But soon she took pity on me. "You perfect love," she said; "that's really too sweet. It deserves
to be put into Life, or something. And yet you're not so far wrong, when one comes to think
of it. The Four Hundred is a kind of governing body; only I believe it's really reduced to
Two Hundred now. They govern New York; and Newport; and Lennox; and Bar Harbour; and several
other places which are considered very nice and important."

"Oh! Are they Republicans or Democrats?" I enquired, sure that I really was being intelligent
at last, for I'd heard Stan say that, in America, the Republican party was rather like our
Conservatives, and the Democrats like the Liberals; and I'd remembered because I believe I
should be very much interested in politics if only I understood more about them. But Sally
seemed to think that question funny, too.

"They can be either, my poor lamb," she exclaimed; "and they can be almost anything else they
like, if only they're just awfully, dreadfully rich, and can manage to scrape up a family crest.
It used to be the crest that counted, with the man who invented the Four Hundred; but since
his day, that idea has got buried under heaps and heaps of gold, and pearls and diamonds; especially
pearls. In those places I was telling you about, you don't exist unless you're in the Four
Hundred, which is now being sifted down to Two Hundred, and will probably be Seventy-five in
a year or two. You may have the bluest blood in America in your veins; you may be simply smeared
with ancestors, but if you haven't managed to push forward in a clever, indescribable way,
neither they nor you will ever be noticed, and your grey hairs will go down to the grave in
the Wrong Set. Now do you understand why my cousin Katherine makes narrow eyes for some people,
and broad smiles for others?"

"Ye-es, I suppose I do," I answered. "Only--we are quite different at home. I haven't been
about at all yet, but I know; because some things are in the air. How did Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox
ever have the poor Wrong Setters for acquaintances, though?"

"Because (she'd kill me if she heard this) she has only lately got into the Right Set herself,
and after trouble enough to give an ordinary woman nervous prostration. That kind of thing
does give it to a lot of women--especially if they fail. But Cousin Katherine very seldom fails.
She almost always carries things through. If you knew anything about America in general, and
New York in particular, you'd be able to realise what a hard time she's had, when I tell you
that till her husband died she lived west of Chicago. To get into the Four Hundred if you've
lived west of Chicago, (unless you're Californian, which is getting to be fashionable), is
just like having to climb over one of those great, high walls of yours in England, bristling
with nails or broken glass."

"My goodness!" I exclaimed. "How funny! Fancy if people who live in Surrey should glare at
people who live in Devonshire."

"That's different. You see, Chicago is new."

"But so is all America, isn't it?" I asked, stupidly. "What difference can a hundred or so
years make?"

"We haven't begun to think in centuries yet, on our side of the water, my deah." (She has the
most delicious way of saying "my deah," and all her "r's" are soft like that; only it's too
much trouble to write them for nobody but myself to see.) "Anyhow, it is so, between New York
and Chicago people--that is, the people who count in Society with a big S: and it was a great
triumph for my cousin to become the Three-Hundred-and-Ninety-Ninth in the Four Hundred. She
did it by buying a Russian Prince."

"Buying a----"

"Yes, love, he was going to the highest bidder, and she bought him. That is, she entertained
him so gorgeously and did so many nice things for him, that he posed as her property; and as
everyone was dying to meet him, it made her. She'd been working killingly hard before that,
for a whole year after taking her house on Fifth Avenue and building her cottage at Newport,
but it was buying the Prince which did the trick. On the strength of that episode and its consequences,
she went to Europe with very nice introductions, and as you know, deah, she has made some valuable
as well as pleasant friends. To live up to them and her reputation, she will have to be busy
for a while dropping a lot of old acquaintances."

"How horrid!" I couldn't help exclaiming, though Mrs. Ess Kay was going to be my hostess.

"Yes, it seems rather miserable to me, because I'm a weak, lazy, Southern thing, who would
be right down sick, if I had to hurt any human being's feelings. Yet perhaps it looks fair
to her. She's so ambitious, and she's worked so hard, she has deserved to succeed. As for poor
me, she just regularly mesmerises me all through. She mesmerised me into coming up from Kentucky
and visiting her this spring; then she mesmerised me into going with her to Europe. But I'm
not sorry I went, for I've had a right good time."

"I'm so glad you went," said I, "because if you hadn't I shouldn't have met you. I'm sure I
should love Kentucky if all the people there are like you. But these things you've been saying
seem so odd. Do you mean to tell me that the people who lead Society in New York want to keep
their set limited to a certain number, and refuse to know others, even if they're extraordinarily
clever and interesting?

"They don't like them to be too clever, because they call such people 'queer'--that is, unless
they happen to be 'lions' of some sort from England or other places abroad. Then, so long as
they're not American, they welcome them with open arms."

"I'm glad Society isn't like that in England," I said. "There the real people--the people who
have the right to make social laws, you know--are delighted with anyone who can amuse them.
Of course, deep down in our hearts, we may be proud if we have old names, which have been famous
for hundreds of years in one way or another; but we are so used, after all those centuries,
to being sure of ourselves, that we just take our position for granted, and don't think much
more about it. If people who haven't got quite the same position are gentlefolk, and amusing,
or clever, or beautiful, or anything like that which really matters, why, we're only too pleased
with them."

"That's all the difference in the world! You've been 'sure of yourselves for centuries.' You've
said the last word, my deah. 'Out of the mouths of babes'--but Cousin Katherine's finished
gushing to that silly old Mrs. Van der Windt. We mustn't dare discuss these things from our
point of view any more. I reckon she would faint."

There are a good many young men on board, and some of them seemed to be quite devoted to Mrs.
Ess Kay the first day out; but she was cold to them all, I couldn't think why, as some of them
seemed very nice, and she had always appeared rather to like being with men. I asked Sally
about it, but she laughed, and said I might perhaps solve the mystery for myself when we were
at Newport, if I remembered it then.

I never heard of such breakfasts and luncheons as they have on this ship, and the first menu
I saw surprised me so much, that I couldn't believe they really had and could produce all those
things if anybody was inconsiderate enough to ask for them. I hardly supposed there were so
many things to eat in the world. But the captain heard me exclaiming to Sally, so he smiled,
and told me to test the menu by ordering a bit of everything on it; he'd guarantee that nothing
would be missed out. This was at breakfast the second day; and when he saw that I ate several
dear little round things, shaped like cream-coloured doyleys, which are called pancakes (though
they aren't a bit like ours) with some perfectly divine stuff named maple syrup, he said my
taking such a fancy to American products was a sign that I should marry an American. What nonsense!
As if I would dream of marrying, especially a foreigner. But for all that, pancakes and maple
syrup are delicious. I've had them every day since for breakfast, after finishing a great orange
four times the natural size, which isn't really an orange, because it's a grape fruit. You
have it on your plate cut in two halves, with ice in each, and you scoop the inside out of
a lot of tiny pockets, with a teaspoon. You think when you first see it, that you can't eat
more than half; but instead, you eat every bit, and sometimes if the morning is hot, you even
wish you could have more; though of course you wouldn't be so greedy as to ask.

It was on the second day out, too, that all my troubles began--and in a queer way which nobody
could have guessed would lead to anything disagreeable.

In the afternoon I was reading in my deck-chair, drawn close to Mrs. Ess Kay's side, when that
Mrs. Van der Windt whom Sally called a silly old thing, toddled up and spoke to us. "Do come
and watch them dancing in the steerage," she said. "It's such fun."

Mrs. Ess Kay likes sitting still on shipboard better than anything else, but it seems that
Mrs. Van der Windt is so important that if all the Four Hundred Sally told me about were pruned
away, except about twenty-five, she would be among the number left; so probably that is the
reason why Mrs. Ess Kay takes long walks up and down the deck with her, though it makes her
giddy to walk, and Mrs. Van der Windt is not in the least entertaining.

She got up now, like a lamb about to be led to the slaughter, except that she smiled bravely,
which the lamb would not be able to bring itself to do. "Come, Betty," she said to me, "it
will amuse you."

"Yes, do come, Lady Betty," repeated Mrs. Van der Windt; whereupon I obeyed, little knowing
what I was laying up for myself.

Our deck is amidships. Aft, on a level with ours, is the second-class deck; and for'rard, down
below, like looking into a pit, is the steerage. We walked to the rail, over which quite a
number of men were leaning, to see what was going on, and several moved aside to give us room.
I didn't like to take their places away, especially as they were laughing and enjoying themselves,
and I could hear the sound of dance music coming up from below (such odd-sounding music!),
but Mrs. Ess Kay murmured to me that I mustn't refuse. "American men are never so happy," she
said, "as when they're giving up something for a woman. They're used to it."

And evidently she, as an American woman, was used to taking it. She and Mrs. Van der Windt
slipped into the vacant spaces with a bare "thank you," and I had to follow their example.
We peered down over the rail; and there was a sight which would have been comical, if it hadn't
been pathetic.

On rather a rough-looking deck, about twelve feet or more below us, a dense crowd was collected
round two small squares, which they purposely left open. Besides those little squares, every
inch was occupied. There wouldn't have been any more room for even a baby to sit down than
there was in the Black Hole of Calcutta. In the crowd were old men, young men and boys, all
poorly dressed; and old women, young women and girls, big and little. They wore crude, vivid
colours, and more than half of them had bright handkerchiefs tied over their heads. They scarcely
took any notice of the first-class passengers staring down superciliously or pityingly at their
poor amusements; they were far too much absorbed in the dancing which was going on busily--I
can't say gaily--in the two hollow squares. In one of these an elderly, pinched little man
who looked almost half-witted, was monotonously scraping a battered fiddle, for two solemn
couples to dance round and round, always on the same axis. But the other "dancing salon" was
more lively. There a man dressed like a buffoon, with a tall hat, a lobster claw for a nose,
a uniform with big red flannel epaulettes and pasteboard buttons covered with gold paper, was
pretending to conduct the band. And what a band it was!

It consisted of four sailors, rather sheep-faced and self-conscious. One musical instrument
was a wooden box rigged up with strings and a long handle; another was formed from a couple
of huge soup-spoons tied together, on which the player beat rhythmically with a smaller spoon;
the third was a poker, dangling from a string, banged heartily with an enormous nail as it
swung to and fro; the fourth was a queer, home-made drum, which looked as if it had been made
out of a wooden bandbox.

Somehow they contrived to coax out music of a sort, and a few young men and girls were solemnly
gyrating to it in a way to make you giddy even to watch. When a man thought he had had enough,
or wanted to dance with another girl, he dropped his partner with alarming suddenness, bowed
stiffly without smile or word, and left her planté la. It was evidently etiquette not to speak
to your partner. At the end of a dance, the conductor with the lobster-claw nose looked up
to our deck, bowing low with his hand on his heart, and then all the audience leaning over
the rail began fumbling in their pockets if they were men, or opening their purses or gold
bags if they were women. Down poured a shower of small silver and copper, little boys scrambling
to pick it up, and hand it to the conductor, who would, Mrs. Van der Windt said, divide the
money among the members of his quaint band.

I had a few shillings with me, and I'd been so much amused that I felt like being generous.
Luckily, Mother couldn't see me, and scold! I took half a dozen coins--shillings and sixpences--and
wrapping them hurriedly up in half the cover torn off a magazine I was reading, I aimed the
little parcel to fall at the comic conductor's feet.

Generally I can throw fairly straight, for Stan took some pains with that part of my education
when I was a small girl; but just at that instant someone standing next me moved, knocked me
on the elbow, and spoilt my aim.

Instead of falling in front of Mr. Lobster-Claw, the parcel hit the ear of a very tall young
man among the crowd below, who had been standing with his back to me. He turned quickly, not
knowing what had happened, glanced up and caught my eyes, as I was looking down quite distressed.

I had noticed his figure in the crush, because he towered nearly a head over everyone else,
and I had a dim impression that he had good shoulders; but seeing his face gave me a great
surprise.

It was as different from all the rest of the steerage faces as day is from night, and somehow
it gave me quite a shock that such a man should be among those others, as if something must
be wrong with the world, or it could not happen. I had even a guilty sort of thrill, as if
I had no right to be well-dressed and prosperous, staring at him and his companions as though
they were a show which we others paid to see--daring to amuse ourselves with the hard, strange
conditions of their lives.

I've heard Mother say that good blood is sure to prove itself; that a gentleman can't look
like a common man, even in rags. Stan disputes that theory with her, when he isn't too lazy,
and wants to bet he could so disguise himself that she would take him for a green grocer or
a fishmonger, who have the air of being commoner than other men, I think--at least in our village
at Battlemead--because they wear fat tufts of curls frothing out over their foreheads from
under their caps, which are always plaid and made of cloth.

Anyway, if Mother is right, this man in the steerage must have the bluest of blood in his veins,
for I never saw one with clearer, nobler features. And yet, he doesn't give the impression
of a broken-down gentleman who has gone the pace and paid for it by stumbling into the depths.
I thought, as he looked up straight into my face that first time, (and I think still) that
no face could be finer or more manly than his. Brown--deep brown it is, like bronze, and clean-shaved
(not rough and scrubby), with dark grey eyes (I knew at once they were grey because the light
struck into them) rimmed with black lashes, so long you couldn't help noticing them; black
eyebrows and hair short and sleek like Stan's, or any other well-groomed man one knows. Besides,
commonness shows in people's mouths more than anywhere else; it's hard to define, but it's
there; and this man's mouth is the best part of his face--unless it's the chin; or perhaps
the nose, I'm not quite sure which, though I've thought a good deal about them all, because
of the mystery of finding such a man in such an unsuitable place. It would be just the same
if you saw a tall palm suddenly shooting up in the kitchen-garden, and couldn't find out how
it had been planted there.

I'm afraid I must have shown how surprised I was, and admiring, too, maybe (how can one keep
from admiring what is fine and noble, whether it's a strange person's face, or the profile
of a mountain against a sky at sunset?) for the handsome steerage passenger looked at me a
long, long instant as if he were as much astonished as I was; and yet with such a nice look,
that instead of being annoyed, I couldn't help being pleased.

In the meantime the little packet of money had fallen on the deck; but though it had struck
him from behind, he seemed to realise exactly what had happened, and stooping down, he picked
it up. Then he raised his hand high, so that I could see he had the crumpled ball of paper
in it; and edging his way determinedly but not at all roughly, through the crowd, he opened
the parcel and gave the money to the conductor.

"What a splendid-looking man!" I said in a low voice to Mrs. Ess Kay. "Isn't it extraordinary
that he should be in the steerage?"

"Come away, my dear child," she answered. "I can't have you standing here to be stared at by
low creatures like that. The fellow's not in the least splendid-looking. He's only a big, hulking
animal. Don't take to making up romances about the steerage passengers, my love. They're not
worth bothering your little head about, because if they weren't born for that sort of thing,
they wouldn't be there, I assure you."

I didn't say anything more, though I was vexed with her, both for being so stupidly conventional,
and for speaking to me in such a loud tone that she attracted people's attention.

We went back to our deck-chairs, and there was nothing to remind me of the little episode except
the torn cover of my magazine, on which, I now remembered, Sally Woodburn had scrawled my name
over and over again in pencil, just in idleness, while she and I had been talking that morning.
If Mrs. Ess Kay had known, no doubt she would have been furious that a piece of paper with
my name on it should have gone down into the steerage. But I didn't mind, for I remembered
that the young man had opened the parcel, given the money to the conductor, and kept the cover,
which probably he had soon after thrown overboard, or twisted up to light a pipe.

Nothing more happened that day; but there are two nice American girls on board, about my own
age or a little older (they seem years older, for they are so charming and self-possessed)
and Mrs. Ess Kay encourages me to like them, as they are in Mrs. Van der Windt's party. I grew
quite well acquainted with them the third day out, and they asked me to go and watch the people
in the steerage, who had a little trick dog which was lots of fun. I went, and saw the bronze
young man again. He was standing with his arms folded across his blue-flannel-shirted chest,
leaning against one of the supports of a kind of bridge, looking up towards the first-class
deck. Our eyes met as they had before, and I was so absurd that I felt myself blushing. I could
have boxed my own ears; and though the trained dog really was a pet, I didn't stay long.

It is strange how certain kinds of eyes haunt one. You, see them in the air, as if they were
really looking at you--especially when you are just dropping off to sleep. I think grey ones
do this more than others. Perhaps it is because they are more piercing.

But it was on the fourth day that the climax came,--the climax which has ended by upsetting
me so much, and has made everything so uncomfortable.

The weather was glorious--all blue and gold after a sulky, leaden day--and there was dancing
down on the steerage deck again. Though it was so fine, the water was not smooth like a floor
as it had been at first, but broken into indigo waves ruffled irregularly with silver lace
and edged with shimmering pearl fringe.

The same performance was going on, down there on the crowded deck, that I'd seen the first
day, and Sally Woodburn and I, who had been walking--counting the times we went round, to make
two miles--stopped to glance at the show.

"There's that good-looking man Cousin Katherine classifies as a hulking animal," said Sally.
"I must really consult the dictionary for a definition of the word 'hulking.' I don't know
whether it's a verb or adjective, do you?"

"No, I don't," said I. "But whichever it is, I'm sure he doesn't or isn't. He's a gentleman,
and something strange has happened or he wouldn't be there. I do think it's a shame. It must
be horrible."

"Don't you think Cousin Katherine knows more about such persons than you?" asked Sally, and
there was such a funny quaver in her voice that I turned to see what it meant. She was laughing,
but whether at me or at Mrs. Ess Kay, or at the man with the Lobster-Claw nose, I couldn't
tell; and before I could answer her question by asking another, something happened which put
the whole conversation out of my mind.

The ship curtseyed to a wave of more importance than any that had gone before, then righted
herself quickly. We slid a little, everybody who could catching hold of the rail or of some
friend's arm, laughing; but down on the steerage deck there rose a cry which wasn't laughter.

"Child overboard!" someone screamed. And I realised with a horrid feeling like suffocation,
that a tiny boy down below, who had climbed up on the rail to watch the dancing, was missing.

It was a woman who had screamed, and everything followed so quickly that my mind was confused,
as if a whirlwind had rushed through it and blown all the impressions on top of one another,
in a heap. There was a babel of voices on the steerage deck, more cries, and shouts, and screams,
and people surged in a solid wave toward the rail to look over. But out of that wave sprang
one figure separating itself from the other atoms; and then I heard myself give a cry, too,
for the man who had been in my thoughts had thrown off his coat and vaulted over the rail into
the sea.

"Jove! he'll be caught by the propeller!" I heard somebody near me say.

I turned sick. The thought of his life being crushed out while we all looked on, helpless,
was awful. The sea was terrible enough in itself--the great, wide, merciless, blue water, which
sparkled so coldly, and laughed in its power--but to be crunched up by the jaws of a monster--I
shut my eyes, and couldn't open them until I heard men saying the strong wind to starboard
might save him. I believe I must have been unconsciously praying, and my hands were clasped
so tightly together that afterwards my fingers ached.

People on our deck made a rush towards the stern, on the port side, for the ship had been steaming
so fast that already we were forging away from the child who had fallen and the man who had
jumped after him. Sally and I were carried along with the rush. She seized me by the hand,
but we didn't speak a word. If dear friends, instead of two strangers in a far remote sphere
of life, had been in deadly danger, I don't think the sickness at my heart could have been
worse. I would have given years if at that moment I could have had the magical power to stop
the ship instantly, with one wave of my hand.

But it was being stopped, by another power than mine. I felt the deck shiver under my feet,
like a thoroughbred horse, pulled on to his haunches. The accident had been seen from the bridge;
an order to stop the ship had been telegraphed down to the engine-room, and obeyed. Still,
when Sally Woodburn and I had been carried by the crowd far enough towards the stern to look
out over the blue wilderness of water we were leaving behind, the ship's heart hadn't ceased
its throb, throb, to which we had all grown so accustomed in the last few days.

"He's got the child!" exclaimed Sally. "See, he's hauling the little creature on to his back
with one hand, and swimming with the other. Glorious fellow!"

Yes, there were the two heads bobbing like black corks in the tossing waves, close together.
I pictured so vividly what my sensations would be, if I were down there, a mere speck in that
vast expanse of blue, that I almost tasted salt water in my mouth, and felt the choking tingle
of it in my lungs.

Then, suddenly the ship's heart ceased to beat; and the unaccustomed stillness was as startling
as an unexpected noise. A boat shot down from the davits, with several sailors on board; a
few seconds later they were rowing away towards those two bobbing black corks, and I loved
them as they bent to their oars.

I can't remember breathing once, or even winking, until I saw the child being lifted into the
boat, and the man climbing in after. What a shout went up from the ship! Sally clapped her
pretty, dimpled hands, but I only let my breath go at last, in a great sigh.

There was such a crush that I couldn't see them when they came on board, but there was more
shouting and hurrahing, and men slapped each other on the shoulder and laughed.

Throb, throb went the machinery again, and there was no sign that anything out of the monotonous
round had happened, except in the excited way that people talked. Several men we knew paid
a visit to the steerage, and came back with stories which flew about from group to group in
the first-class cabin, and no doubt the second too.

It seemed that the little boy who had fallen into the sea was the only son of his mother, a
widow. They were Swedes, and the woman, who is on her way to the States to try and find a place
as a servant, was quite prostrated with the agonising suspense she had suffered. As for the
little boy himself, he was not seriously the worse for his experience. The doctor was with
him, and said that he would be as well as ever in a few hours. A subscription for the mother
and child had already been started among the first-class passengers, and would probably be
made up to quite a good sum.

"But what is going to be done for the one who saved the little boy's life?" I asked the man
who was telling me the news, a Mr. Doremus, who is a cousin of Mrs. Van der Windt's, very full
of fun, and good natured.

"A nice little pedestal, labelled 'Our Hero,' will be built out of the ladies' admiration,
and given to him to pose on," said Mr. Doremus. "However, I must say for the gentleman,--though
I've only seen him dripping wet, and shaking himself like a big dog,--he didn't give me the
impression of being the sort of chap to say 'thank you' for the perch."

"Of course he isn't!" said I. "But I do think it's a shame if he's left out when subscriptions
are going round. Of course he must be poor, or he wouldn't be travelling in the steerage. Something
ought to be done to show him that the passengers admire his bravery--not anything fulsome,
but something nice."

"I guess you don't know the American disposition yet, as well as you will after you've wrestled
with it on its native heath for a few months," remarked Mr. Doremus in his quaint way. "That
chap down in the steerage is an American, whatever else he may be, or I'll eat my best hat;
and I wouldn't for five cents be in the deputation to present him with the something 'not fulsome
but nice' on a little silver salver. I should expect him to give me the frosty mitt."

This expression struck me as being so funny that I burst out laughing, though I had to stop
and think for a second before I could quite see what Mr. Doremus really meant; but I wouldn't
forget my point in a laugh.

"Perhaps it wouldn't do to offer money," I went on. "Suppose we got up a subscription to buy
him a second-class passage for the rest of the way. That would show appreciation, wouldn't it?"

"It would," replied Mr. Doremus, gravely, "and if you'll start the subscription, Lady Betty,
it'll go like wildfire."

"Very well, then, I will," said I. "Though I'd rather someone else did it."

"It wouldn't be so popular from any other quarter. I'll help you. We'll go floating around
together and pass the plate; and if you like, I'll do the talking."

I agreed to this, and if I'd thought about it at all, I should have supposed that Mrs. Ess
Kay would be as pleased as Punch with such an arrangement, because Mr. Doremus, as a relative
of Mrs. Van der Windt's, is the only man on board to whom she makes herself agreeable. It appears
that he has started several fashions in New York, the most important being to drive in some
park they have there, without a hat. But probably if the truth were known, he lost it, like
the fox that tried to make his friends chop off their tails.

Mrs. Ess Kay had gone to her stateroom soon after lunch, as the motion of the ship had given
her a headache, and I didn't happen to be near Sally Woodburn; so I said "yes" to Mr. Doremus
on the impulse of the moment, without stopping to think whether I ought to ask permission first.

We had great fun going about, for Mr. Doremus was so witty and said such amusing things to
the people he begged of, that I could hardly speak for laughing, and everyone else laughed
too. I wished that he wouldn't put me forward always, and say it was my idea, and I had started
the subscription; but he argued that I must sacrifice myself for the success of the Charity,
just as I would at home, if I had to work off damaged pincushions or day before yesterday's
violets at a bazaar. Of course, not being out, I've never sold anything at bazaars, but Victoria
is continually doing it in the Season, and she makes quite a virtue of forcing perfect strangers
to "stand and deliver," as she calls it. This seemed much the same sort of thing to me, and
so I felt nice and virtuous, too, as Vic does when she comes home with a new frock torn and
stepped on, and lies in bed late next day, with Thompson to brush her hair, and me to read to her.

People were very kind, and though they laughed a great deal, they gave so much that before
we'd been half the rounds, Mr. Doremus said we had more than enough for our friend. He wanted
to know if I would like to "hit the nail on the head" and settle matters at once, by arranging
with the purser for a second-class cabin to be put at the hero's disposal. I wanted him to
do that part alone, but he pretended to be shy, and said he had grown to depend so entirely
on my co-operation, that he felt unequal to undertaking any responsibility without it. He told
the same story to the purser that he had told others, about my being the one to start the subscription,
and he wanted me to sign a kind of letter which he wrote, to the effect that the passengers
had chosen this way of testifying their appreciation of a gallant deed, and so on; but I wouldn't,
and he stopped teasing at last, when he saw that I was going to be vexed.

After the business was what Mr. Doremus called "fixed up," he took me back to my chair on deck.
Sally wasn't in her place, and as I was wondering what had become of her, the dressing-for-dinner
bugle went wailing over the ship like a hungry Banshee. I said to myself that Sally must have
gone early because her frock was to be particularly elaborate. I felt conscious of having heaps
of interesting things to tell, and I understood exactly what Victoria means when she says she's
in one of her "pretty and popular moods."

I danced into our stateroom, where only a drawn curtain covers the open doorway. No one was
there, and the cabin was so quiet that it seemed to greet me with a warning "S-sh!"

Down fell my spirits with a dull thud, though I didn't know why. My joyousness changed to what
storybook writers describe as a "foreboding of disaster"; but when I have it, it's generally
connected with a lecture from Mother, so I know it only as a sneaky, "I haven't eaten the cream"
sort of feeling.

Just as I had begun to take off my frock, Louise appeared at the door which leads into the
little drawing-room. She said that if I pleased, Madame would be glad to see me in her cabin.
I hurried across to the other state-room opposite ours, and there found Mrs. Ess Kay, in a
gorgeously embroidered pink satin Japanese thing, which she calls a kimona. She was sitting
in a chair in front of the makeshift dressing-table, putting on her rings, and clasping bracelets
on her wrists with vicious snaps. Sally, who hadn't begun to dress, was standing up, looking
almost cross; that is, with different features from hers, she might have succeeded in looking
cross.

"Sit down, Betty, please; I want to talk to you," said Mrs. Ess Kay.

Somehow, it always makes me feel stiff when she "Betty's" me, as my old nurse says it does
with your ears if you eat broad beans.

"If I do, I shall be late for dinner," said I, just as if a minute ago I hadn't been dying
to pour out my news.

"Never mind dinner, my dear girl," replied Mrs. Ess Kay, with an air which I do believe she
tried to copy from Mother. "What I have to say is more important than dinner. I hope what I
have been hearing isn't true."

"That depends upon what it was," I retorted, disguising my pertness with a smile.

"Don't think I've been tattling," said Sally. "Whatever my faults may be, I haven't a Rubber Neck."

I didn't know in the least what she meant; but afterwards she explained that if your neck is
always pivoting round, to pry into other people's affairs, it is a Rubber Neck, and I shall
remember the expression to tell Stan when I go home. He will like to add it to his collection
of strange beasts.

Mrs. Ess Kay partly turned her back upon Sally. "The dear Duchess" (she always speaks of Mother
in that way,) "the dear Duchess has entrusted you to my charge, Betty, and I don't know what
I shall do if you take advantage of me by playing naughty tricks whenever I am incapacitated
from chaperoning you for half an hour."

One would have thought I was a trained dog! I simply stared with saucer eyes, and she went
on. "Mrs. Collingwood came in to enquire for my headache, and she told me that you have been
running about begging for money to give to a common man in the steerage. I sent instantly for
Sally, but she either knows, or pretends to know nothing."

I rushed into explanations, sure that when Mrs. Ess Kay understood, I should be pronounced
"not guilty." But to my surprise, her chin grew squarer and squarer, and her eyes harder and
lighter, till they looked almost white.

"I don't want to be harsh," she said at last, in the tone people use when they're walking on
the ragged edge of their patience, "but for the Duchess's sake, I must be firm. It was very
wrong of Tommy Doremus to let you make yourself so conspicuous. This may lead to your being
dreadfully misunderstood and putting yourself and all of us in a false position. The man may
be a butcher for all you know."

"His complexion isn't pink and white enough for a butcher's," said I. "Besides, I thought that
in America one man was as good as another."

"You were never more mistaken in your life, my dear girl; and the sooner you correct such an
impression the better, or you may get into serious trouble from which I can't save you. If
the steerage man isn't a butcher, he's probably a professional swimmer, and the whole thing
was a scheme, to advertise himself. In fact, I am pretty certain from what Mrs. Collingwood
said, it was that. And I want you to promise me solemnly that you will not go around helping
to advertise the creature any more. If you say you admire such a person, people will think
you're like the Matinée Girls, who wait at stage doors and run after actors."

I was so angry, that I "talked back"; and it finally ended in our relations being somewhat
strained at dinner, which ruined my appetite, until a peculiarly soothing iced pudding came on.

Afterwards, Mrs. Ess Kay was cool to Mr. Doremus, and would have been cold, I think, if he
weren't Mrs. Van der Windt's cousin. He lounged up to our place on deck to give me the news
that the Third Class Hero (as he calls the bronze young man) refused to be Second Class. He
had asked permission to give the cabin offered him to the child whose life he had saved, and
the mother.

"It's for you to say yes or no, Lady Betty," announced Mr. Doremus, "because it's your show;
you set the top spinning."

"She is to have nothing more to do with the affair," Mrs. Ess Kay answered for me quickly.
"She is very sorry she commenced it, and has lost the small interest she felt in the beginning.
I do hope that tramp, or beggar, or whatever he is, hasn't gotten it in his conceited head
that Lady Betty Bulkeley has bothered herself about his insignificant affairs, or he'll be
thrusting himself upon her notice in some way which will be very disagreeable for Me, as her
guardian."

"Well, he has sent a message of thanks to everyone concerned," said Mr. Tommy Doremus. "I don't
know whether he put Lady Betty at the top of the list or not, and if that's the way you feel
about our nice little stunt, I expect it's just as well not to enquire further."

All the rest of the trip has been spoiled for me, by the hateful way in which the excitement
of that day ended, and it does seem too bad, for everything might have been so nice.

Whether people really do make ill-natured jokes or not, I don't know; but anyhow, Mrs. Ess
Kay keeps hinting that they do, which is almost as disagreeable for me. She says that they
have nicknamed the bronze man "Lady Betty's Hero"; and this has made me so self-conscious that
I can't bear to go near the part of the deck where you look over into the steerage, for fear
some silly creatures may think I'm trying to see him. I feel as if I had been a conspicuous
idiot, and I'm so uncomfortable with Mrs. Ess Kay now, that I expect to be wretched in her
house. I can't talk it over even with Sally, because, after all, she's Mrs. Ess Kay's cousin.
I wish I had a nose two inches long, and green hair, and then perhaps Mother and Vic would
have let me stop at home.

Still, I can't help taking an interest in ship life, and now that it's the morning of the last
day on board, I look back on it all as if it ought to have been even more fun than it was.

I enjoyed hearing about the Marconigrams when they came; it seemed like living in a tale by
Stan's favourite, Jules Verne, to have messages come flying to us in mid-ocean, like invisible
carrier pigeons. I enjoyed having Mr. Doremus tell me about his luck in the big pools, when
the men bet on the day's run; and I'm afraid I rather revelled in seeing a row on deck one
evening, when one man accused another of being a cheat and a professional gambler, and almost
cried about some money he'd lost. If I had been the first man, I wouldn't have trusted the
other in the beginning, because he had fat lips, greasy black curls, and wicked eyes so close
together you felt they might run into one, if he winked too hard on a hot day. But if I had
been so stupid as to trust him, I would have been ashamed to make a fuss afterwards. I think
people ought to be sporting.

I liked the "Captain's dinner," too, in honour of the last night on board, with the flags and
paper-flower decorations, the band playing military music, the dishes on the menu named after
famous generals, and the stewards filing in, in a long procession, when the salon had been
darkened, each carrying a bright-coloured, illuminated ice, and cake with tiny English, and
American, and German flags stuck into the top.

Yes, I liked everything, except--but now it is nearly over. America is just round the corner
of the world.

III

ABOUT NEW YORK

After you have seen nothing but water for days, it's odd how excited you are on seeing a little
land. Just a little, little land, and not at all interesting to look at; a strip of grey sand,
or a patch of green grass; and you have been only a few days away from such things, yet somehow
you want to jump up and down and shout for joy.

More than half the first-class passengers on our ship were Americans, coming home, and I suppose
they had gone away because they wanted to go. If they had liked, they could have stopped in
their own country as well as not; and I heard some of them saying during the voyage that if
they could, they would spend nine months out of the year in Paris; but they made as much fuss
over the first lump of sand we saw as if we were discovering the North Pole. Some of them had
taken this trip a dozen times or maybe more, but anyone would have thought it was as new to
them as to me.

It seemed as if I were sailing, in a dream, to a dream land, and everything would be a dream,
till I found myself waking up at home. If anyone had pinched me, I hardly believe I should
have felt it, as I stood by the rail, while we steamed towards New York. We passed a big fort,
and some neat little houses, which looked like officers' quarters. There were Long Island and
Coney Island, which Mr. Doremus said I must be "personally conducted" to see, some day when
I felt young and frivolous; and by and by I heard people exclaiming "There's Liberty--there
she is! Bless the dear old girl!"

While I was wondering whether they were talking of a lady, or a ship, I caught sight of a majestic
giantess, obligingly holding a torch up to light the world. Then I knew it was the Statue which
I had read about.

"What do you think of her?" asked Mr. Doremus.

"She's a grande dame," I said. "Now I know why your girls hold themselves so well. They're
trying to live up to the Ideal American Woman. But she isn't as big as I thought she would
be. Nothing ever is as big as you think it's going to be, especially when Americans have told
you about it; for one has been brought up to believe that their big things are bigger than
anybody else's in the whole world."

"So they are," said Mr. Doremus, "only where all the things are big, you don't notice them,
for the high grass. And over there's some of the grass."

He pointed, and I saw a great number of enormous objects, shaped like chimneys, and apparently
about a mile high, scattered aimlessly along the horizon, which was a brilliant, limpid blue.

"What are they?" I asked. "Great, strange, factories of some sort?"

"No. Houses where pretty women live, and offices where men make the money for them to live on."

"You must be joking. Women would be afraid to perch up there in the sky. Besides, it would
take too long to go up and down."

"Nothing takes long in America. And it comes natural to our women to perch up high. Statues
aren't the only things we buy pedestals for, this side of the porpoise-tank. You just wait
and see."

"I don't need to wait to see that American men are nice to women," said I; "perhaps no nicer
than Englishmen, really, only you seem to take a great deal more trouble. Fancy all the men
at Mrs. Van der Windt's table drawing lots every night for the right to sit by her and the
two Miss Eastmans; I don't believe it would have occurred to Englishmen. The ones who really
wanted to sit there, would have tried to get to their places first, that's all. I do think
it was pretty of you."

"Wasn't it? especially supposing none of us particularly wanted--but never mind. Talking of
pretty things, here are the docks."

They were big enough to satisfy even my expectations, and I wished that I'd insisted on being
taken by someone long ago, to visit the London docks, so that I might know whether ours were
better or worse. One never thinks of going to see things at home; but I began to suspect that
I might some day be stabbed with jealous pangs and need to be stuffed with a lot of facts about
England--though until I knew Americans I've been in the habit of thinking facts the least interesting
things in the world. They seemed like chairs to sit on or floors to walk on without noticing
what you were doing; but I suppose it might be awkward without chairs and floors.

Soon we were near enough to New York to see the tremendous chimney things clearly, and they
sharpened the impression that I was sailing straight into a dream. There could be no such things
in the real world; they wouldn't be possible. But the dream felt very interesting and intense
all of a sudden, and I didn't want to wake up from it just then, in spite of Mrs. Ess Kay.

The tall shapes were bright and vivid now, as giant hollyhocks growing in irregular rows. Still,
they did not look one bit like houses, or offices where people could work without going stark,
staring mad. I got a queer idea in my head that the houses themselves must be buried deep underground,
like bulbs, with only their towers sticking up.

The next thing that happened in the dream, was slowing majestically into our own dock, and
that was wonderful. The whole place was alive with faces, mostly pretty girls' faces, under
fascinating hats, gay as flowers in a flower-show; parterre above parterre of brilliant blossoms;
and they had all been grown in honour of us.

There was a wild waving of handkerchiefs on the ship, and a frantic fluttering of white among
the flowers, as if a flock of butterflies had been frightened up into the air. Still we were
a long time getting in, and I grew quite impatient; but finally Louise, who had attended to
my packing, took charge of my handbag, my sunshade and coat, with her mistress's and Miss Woodburn's
things. The moment had come to bid the ship good-bye.

"Now," said Mrs. Ess Kay, slipping her arm into mine, "I wonder, dear child, if you would mind
being left alone to deal with the custom-house people? You'd stand under your own letter 'B,'
of course."

"Oh, Katherine, do you think even Letter B, which sounds so like a warning to young men, a
proper chaperon for a Duchess's daughter?" exclaimed Sally Woodburn.

I laughed, but Mrs. Ess Kay didn't. She evidently considers things connected with the American
Custom House no fit subject for frivolity. She went on, without answering; "I'm under 'K,'
and Sally 'W.' We'll both have all we can attend to wrestling with our own Fiends, and Louise
will be just as busy. But you're a British subject, on a short visit to this country, and they
won't be as diabolical to you, dear. I did all the swearing necessary for you in the saloon,
with my own, when the tiresome man came on board, and there's really nothing left for you to
bother with on the dock, except to open your boxes and say you have nothing to declare."

I was glad that since profanity had been called for in the saloon, owing to the tiresomeness
of a man, it had been Mrs. Ess Kay who was obliged to give vent to it, not I; but I felt rather
defrauded that I couldn't have heard, and I wondered if she had gone so far as to mention "damn."
All I said out loud, however, was that I was sure I could manage very well in the docks, and
Mrs. Ess Kay appeared much relieved. "That's perfectly sweet of you, Betty," she said, launching
a daggery glance at poor, inoffensive Sally, for some reason which I couldn't understand. "I
hope you won't think I'm horrid not to have asked you to label your baggage 'K,' so it could
go with mine. It's better not, for everyone concerned; I'll explain afterwards why; and Louise
shall take you to 'B.'"

Louise did take me to "B," which they had thoughtfully printed very large and black on a wooden
wall of the dock, in a row with all the other letters of the alphabet. A good many people from
the ship were collecting beneath theirs, as if they were animals getting ready to join the
procession for the ark, under the heading of Cat or Elephant, as the case might be; and they
all seemed worried and apprehensive, as you do at the dentist's, even when you try to distract
your mind by looking at the pictures in Punch.

Louise put my bag on the wooden floor, and folded my coat on it. "Miladi will do well to sit
down," said she. "It may be that the baggage do not come immédiatement." With this she bustled
away to the Louise rabbit warren, wherever it was, leaving me to the tender mercies of fellow
"B's," who began to swarm round me and buzz distractedly.

I subsided on the bag, which was very like sitting on the floor; but it was stifling down there
among people's feet; besides, mine soon got "pins and needles"; so presently I popped up like
a Jack out of his Box, and almost knocked off a man's nose with the crown of my hat.

I said "I beg your pardon!" though what the nose was doing so near the top of my head I couldn't
conceive, until its owner (fumbling with one hand for his handkerchief to staunch a drop of
blood, and snatching off his straw hat with the other, already full of notebooks and things)
blurted out abruptly: "Are you Lady Bulkeley?"

I was surprised!

"No," said I. "I'm Lady Betty Bulkeley."

"That's all right," said the nose man, as if he forgave me for being myself. "I didn't know
but you'd want to be called Lady Bulkeley by strangers."

"It isn't my name," I said, more puzzled than ever. I would have tried to be dignified, as
he was a perky-looking young man in an alpaca coat; but when you have just made a person's
nose bleed with your hat, it would seem unfeeling to be too frigid,--though I believe an application
of ice is supposed to be beneficial.

"Shall I call you Lady Betty then?" asked the man, patting his nose with his handkerchief,
which luckily for my nerves had already a pattern of pink dots on it.

"I don't see why you should call me anything," said I.

With that, he produced a card, with a whole string of words printed on it, and poked it under
my eyes. "I was just going to introduce myself," he said. "I represent The New York Flashlight,
and I've been sent by my paper to get something from you, if you'll oblige me."

"Something from me?" I repeated, bewildered. "Is it anything to do with the Customs? I've nothing
to declare."

"Just tell me, please, something about your family. Your brother's the Duke of Stanforth, isn't
he?" (He pronounced it "Dook.")

"Yes, but----"

"Thanks. Young and unmarried, isn't he?"

"Yes. But----"

"Ever been on this side?"

"No. But----"

"He'll come some day, won't he? Most unmarried Dukes do."

"I don't know, I'm sure. Really, I think----"

"Excuse me. You're going to stay with Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox, I believe. Will you make a lengthy
visit?"

"I don't----"

"You must have met one or two of our smartest young men on board. What do you think of them
as compared with Englishmen?"

Long before this I had made up my mind that he couldn't have anything to do with the Customs,
or if he did, that it was no wonder Mrs. Ess Kay had been driven to swearing in the saloon.
I was glad now that his nose was bleeding, and I turned my back upon him, because it was the
most emphatic gesture I could think of. But as I faced round the other way, wondering if my
luggage would ever come, another man pushed through the "B's" who had got their boxes, and
almost bounded into a foot of unoccupied space in front of me.

"Lady Bulkeley?" he shot at me, like history repeating itself; only he pronounced me as if
my name were founded on my size and weight.

This time I didn't answer. I simply stood at bay, and stared, trying to look as much like Mother
as possible. But the new man didn't seem to mind this in the least, so apparently my effort
was not a success.

"I'm The Evening Bat," he remarked hurriedly, with an air of valuing his time at so much a second.

I was sorry he was a bat, for I've always been fond of bats, they are such soft, grey, velvet
things; and I should have liked to tell him that he was much more like a chicken hawk, only
that would have been vulgar; and, besides, I didn't intend to pose as chicken to his hawk.
By way of not letting myself be gobbled up, I remained silent; but I couldn't help starting
when a voice behind me exclaimed: "Ah, there, my chappie. You're welcome to the milk. I've
skimmed off the cream. Ta, ta."

It was the Flashlight flashing at the Evening Bat.

The creature was not blinded, however. He seemed difficult to disconcert. The only response
he made was to grin, and push his hat a little farther back on his head. An inch more, and
it must have slid down over his collar--which was so low in the neck in front that it gave
me the creeps.

"There's plenty of milk and roses, too, I guess," said he, staring in such a way that I blushed,
and was vexed with myself for blushing. I peered anxiously about, hoping to see a face I knew,
even ever so slightly, which might be summoned to the rescue. But all the "B's" were passionately
minding their own business, and while I was wishing that Mr. Doremus began with a "B" instead
of a "D," I caught the eyes of a man looking straight at me. The very nicest eyes, and with
an expression in them that filled me with joy!

They said: "Do let me come and get rid of that fellow for you," and mine said: "Yes--yes--yes.
Please come at once."

So the Eyes came, without waiting for more; and it was the Hero of the steerage who brought
them. That was the reason I'd telegraphed "yes, yes"; for I thought: "He saved a little boy,
why shouldn't I trust him, without an introduction, to save me?"

"Look here," said the bronze man to the Evening Bat, "I've got just five minutes to spare.
You can have them if you like."

The Evening Bat looked at him, crossly at first; then his sharp little face seemed turning
into a point of admiration. "By Jehosaphat!" he ejaculated. "Home-made goods will get the preference
over British this time, duty or no duty."

I couldn't think what either of them meant, though at first I was afraid my man intended the
other to understand that the five minutes would be devoted to knocking him down, or something
else violent, as a punishment for impertinence to a defenceless foreigner. But my mind was
almost instantly relieved, for the two men walked off together quite amicably, and stood talking
at a distance.

A moment later, one of my boxes went by, looking very fat and friendly, on the shoulders of
a porter, who apparently had no head. I rushed out, and seized it--not the head, but the box;
so there was something encouraging; but I had two pieces of luggage to wait for still.

Most of the other "B's" were more fortunate about getting their things; nevertheless, they
seemed far from easy in their minds, and though they protested almost tearfully that they'd
nothing whatever to declare, stern persons in uniform stirred up their boxes as I used to do
with the nursery pudding, when all the plums had sunk to the bottom.

I was very tired and very hot, hotter than I'd supposed people could be, except in a Turkish
bath; and I was beginning to be hungry too, for I'd lunched principally off the Statue of Liberty
and Sky-scrapers, which were more filling than lasting, as a meal.

I fanned myself with my handkerchief as well as I could, and felt sure I was slowly getting
appendicitis; because whenever Americans feel uncomfortable in any way, it seems almost certain
to turn eventually into that, probably on account of the climate. Would my other boxes never
come? I thought. Most of the "B's" were going home. They had homes, lucky people, and if they
liked, they could presently have tea.

    "World without tea,
    Ah me!"

When I was small, and my nurse talked on Sundays about heaven and hell, making the one sound
incredibly dull, the other incredibly painful, I used to think that I'd rather go to neither,
but just be stuffed, like Mother's Blenheim, Beau Brummel, whose soul I fancied had leave to
stop in his body so long as moth and rust did not corrupt. He seemed rather out of things,
though, poor dear, standing forever in the same position in a glass case, with one paw up begging
for something which nobody gave, while the years dragged on; and I'd begun to feel as if I
were falling into his state, when I was roused from a stupid dream by the man of the steerage
suddenly looming over me.

"I beg your pardon," said he, taking off his hat, and speaking in a nice American voice, as
nice for a man as Sally Woodburn's is for a woman. "Please don't suppose I mean to be rude
or intrusive, but I wanted to tell you that I think you won't be annoyed again; and--just one
thing more. May I thank you for your goodness on shipboard? It brightened what would otherwise
have been a grim experience."

Blind Mrs. Ess Kay to pronounce this man not a gentleman, just because some strange circumstances
had forced him to travel in the steerage! I did wish that, without his knowing it, I could
have slipped into his pocket my thirty pounds!

"Oh, I did nothing," I answered. "It was the other people who did everything--the little that
was done. It's I who have to thank you, for taking that person away. He and the other, who
came just before, were so rude."

"They didn't mean to be rude," he said. "They wanted you to tell them something which they
could put into their papers, and they live by doing that kind of thing. I did the best I could
with them, but I wish I could have saved you from being annoyed in the beginning. I hesitated
at first, for fear you might misunderstand, and think me as bad as they were; but I wish I
hadn't now."

"After what I saw you do, at sea, I couldn't possibly have misunderstood," I said.

"Thank you for saying that," he returned, "though for what I did then, I don't deserve any
praise. It was done on the impulse; and I'm used to salt water. As a child, I lived close to
it for a time, in California, and swimming came almost as natural as walking. But I'm not here
to talk about myself. It was only to tell you how grateful I was, and am, and shall continue
to be, for your kindness on the ship. I couldn't go without speaking of this; and there's something
now I'd like to ask. You won't be offended?"

"If it's something you want to tell me, I know it isn't the sort of thing which could offend,"
I said; but I didn't say it as calmly as it looks when written. I stammered a little, and got
the words tangled up; and I felt my face growing hotter than ever.

"I thank you again. It's only this. If, while you're over on this side the water, there's ever
any way in which a man--a man who'd be as respectful as your footman, and loyal as your friend--could
possibly serve you--I wish you would let me be that man. I know it seems now as if such a thing
couldn't happen; but nothing's quite impossible in this queer world, and--and anyhow I shall
always be ready. You could trust me----"

"I know that!" I couldn't resist breaking in.

"I'm--employed for the present at a club in New York. If you'd send word to Jim Brett, at the
Manhattan Club, there's nothing under the sun that Jim Brett wouldn't do for you, from finding
a lost dog, to taking a message across the world."

"First I must catch my dog before I can lose him," I answered, laughing. "But if I do, or--or
there's anything else, I shan't forget."

"That's a true promise, then; and I have to thank you for the third time. Now, I'm not going
to trouble you any longer. Good-bye."

Without stopping to think who he was, or who I was, I held out my hand, and his good-looking
brown face grew red. He took the hand, pressed it hard, once; dropped it abruptly; turned on
his heel and walked away, without looking back.

I was so interested in going over the conversation in my mind, that I forgot to feel like Beau
Brummel with one paw up in his glass case; and though I daresay ten minutes had passed, it
hardly seemed two, when a wonderful little black image in the shape of a boy came sidling up
to me, all rolling white eyes, and red grin, like a nice Newfoundland puppy. He had some newspapers
tucked under his arm, but in his hand was a small basket of peaches almost too beautiful to
be real. But then, weren't they--and wasn't he--part of my dream?

He grinned so much more that I was afraid his round black face would break into two separate
halves, and looking at me with his woolly head on one side, he thrust out the basket.

"Fur you, missy," said he, with a funny little accent, for all the world like Sally Woodburn's.

"They can't be for me. There must be a mistake," said I, wishing there wasn't, for the peaches
did look delicious; and there were two rosebuds lying on top of the basket; one pink, the other
white. "I don't know anyone who could have sent them."

"The gent knows you, you bet, missy," replied the image. "He guv me a quarter and axed if I
know'd my alphabet 'nuf to find letter 'B,' an' tote dese yere to the prettiest young lady
I'd ever seed. Most wite ladies, dey looks all jes' alike, to me, but you's different, missy;
an' I reckon de tings must be fur you."

I had a horrible vision of this compliment proceeding from The Flashlight or The Evening Bat.
"What was the gentleman like?" I asked.

"Like mos' any gent, missy, 'cept that he was powerful tall, an' I reckon if he keeps right
on like he's doin' now, he'll get mos' as brown as me some day."

Then I knew that I was safe in taking the present; so I did, and gave the comical black image
two or three little round white metal things I'd got from the purser when I changed some English
money. I didn't know how much they were, and they looked ridiculously small, but he seemed pleased.

When he had run off, I turned my attention to the peaches. They were so big that there was
room only for four in the basket, and they seemed dreadfully pathetic considering from whom
they had come.

That poor fellow must be almost penniless or he wouldn't have been in the steerage; yet he
had bought peaches for me, and given a "quarter"--whatever that was--to his quaint black doll
of a messenger. I could have cried; nevertheless, I ate two of the peaches, and reluctantly
presented the other two, which I couldn't possibly eat, to a gloomy "B" child, sitting on a
shawl-strap.

As if for a reward of virtue, just as I had disposed of my leavings, and stuck the roses into
my belt, the last of the luggage arrived. There were two Custom House men near to choose from,
and as I've heard, in choosing between two evils it's better to choose the less, I smiled beseechingly
at the smaller man who had just crammed a pile of lace blouses into the box of a lady with
nervous prostration.

Whether he was sated with cruelty, or whether he was naturally of an angelic disposition, I
shall probably never know now; but the fact remains that, instead of turning out the Fiend
I'd been led to expect, he was one of the most considerate men I've ever met. He wouldn't even
let me unlock my own boxes, but took the keys and opened them for me himself. (Didn't an executioner
braid the hair of some queen whose head he was going to chop off? I must look the incident
up, when I have time.) Anyway, I thought of it when the Custom House man was being so polite;
but the analogy didn't go any farther, for my head never came off at all, and two of the boxes
remained unopened.

"You're English, aren't you?" he asked, and when I said yes, and that I was only on a short
visit, he treated my belongings as if they were sacred. If he disturbed anything, he laid it
back nicely, keeping up a running conversation as he went on. I told him that Englishwomen
might bring home all the pretty clothes they liked from other countries, and that I considered
it most ungallant in such a chivalrous nation as America to deny ladies a few Paris dresses.

"Do you happen to know, miss, what's the income-tax in your country?" he asked, tenderly putting
back some yellow hairpins which had fallen out of a box of mine.

"Dear me, no," I exclaimed. "But I think it's sometimes more than a shilling in the pound;
I've heard my brother say so; and as for the death duties, it's more than your life's worth
to die."

"A-ah!" said the nice man. "We haven't got any income-tax on this side, and folks can die in
peace, whenever they please. I guess that kind of evens things up, don't it?"

I didn't know what to answer, so I thanked him for his kindness, and we parted the best of friends.

Mrs. Ess Kay appeared so quickly afterwards, that it almost seemed as if she must have been
lying in wait. She was looking pale and shattered, and Louise, following close behind, was
positively haggard. Only Sally had weathered the storm without being outwardly the worse for
wear; but even she didn't look as good-natured as usual.

"How have you got along, you poor, deserted darling?" affectionately enquired Mrs. Ess Kay,
undismayed by a fixed gaze from Sally, which apparently signified reproach.

"It wasn't very bad, and I've quite enjoyed myself," I replied, forgetting some tedious moments
in the light of others not tedious, and hoping that the roses in my belt might pass unnoticed.

Fortunately they did, otherwise I should have been in a difficulty; for I should have hated
to vulgarise the little episode by putting it into story form for Mrs. Ess Kay; and presumably
roses have not been taught to grow wild on the New York docks, although they say Americans
are so very luxurious in their tastes one would hardly be surprised at anything.

A beautiful electric carriage, bigger than a brougham, was waiting for us, and we left Louise,
with a butler or some other man servant out of livery, to wrestle with the luggage, and bring
it in cabs (which they called "hacks"), up to Mrs. Ess Kay's house in New York, where I knew
she meant to stop for a few days before going on to Newport.

The minute we drove away from the Docks I began to notice dozens of things which made me tremendously
conscious that I was in a foreign country. One would think, as so many of these people were
English, or anyway, British, before they were Americans, that their buildings and everything
else would be enough like to remind one of home. But each street we turned into showed me that
this isn't at all true in New York. There are bits like Paris--at least you think so, on a
superficial glance--but nothing in the faintest degree like London.

Something in the air too, made me feel excited, as it does in Paris. Sparks of electricity
snapped in my veins, and I had a presentiment of interesting things that must surely happen.

I've always been very sensitive to smells, which can make me joyful or miserable, just as music
does. Vic says I oughtn't to tell people this, as it signifies I'm still in close touch with
brute creation. But I don't much mind if I am, for so many animals are nicer than we are; dogs
and horses, for instance; and then one has to acknowledge, whether one likes or not, that a
monkey is a kind of poor relation. Each place I've ever visited has its own smell for me, and
even houses and people. I would know the smell of Battlemead towers, if I were taken there
by winding ways, with my eyes blindfolded. It's the smell of old oak, and potpourri, and books
and chintz, and autumn leaves and pine trees, mixed together. Mother smells like a tea rose,
and Vic like a wax doll. London has a rich, heavy scent, which makes you feel as if you had
a great deal of money and wanted to spend it, but not in a hurry. The smell of Paris makes
you want to laugh, and clap your hands and go to the theatre. The smell of Rome makes you feel
as if you wished to be very beautiful, and move to the slow accompaniment of a magnificent
church organ, with the Vox Humana stop drawn out. But New York--the smell of New York! How
shall I describe the sensation it gave me, as Mrs. Ess Kay's electric carriage smoothly spun
me up town? The heavy feeling of homesickness which I had had on the ship for the last few
days was gone; and instead I felt a wild sense of exhilaration, as if I'd come dashing home
after a glorious run with the hounds, and plunged into a cold bath with two bottles of Eau
de Cologne poured into the water.

It was amazingly hot, but the breeze gave a hint of the sea, and every shop and house we passed
seemed to keep spices stored away, for the breeze to blow over.

Even the old-fashioned houses, no higher than those in London, were as different from ours
as possible; and it was extraordinary to see people--nicely dressed women, and pretty girls--perched
on the front steps under awnings, without so much as a pocket-handkerchief lawn between them
and the street. Persons of that class at home would be far too shy to lounge about and be stared
at, not only by the neighbours, but by twenty strangers a minute; yet here they sat on rugs,
and read, or did embroidery, or swung back and forth in chairs that rocked like cradles, paying
no more attention to the passers than if they had been flies.

By and by we came out of the quiet streets walled in with monotonous rows of red brick or brown
stone houses, into a scene of terror. It was a street, too; but what a street! I thought that
I'd grown accustomed to motoring through traffic, for once Stan took me in his Panhard, all
the way from Battlemead to Pall Mall, where he stood me a very jolly luncheon at the Carlton
Hotel, but that experience was nothing to this. I felt a little jumpy with Stan when we shot
between omnibuses in a space which looked twice too narrow, and once when I thought a frightfully
tall horse was going to bite off my hat; but I soon got used to it.

If I were driven every day of my life for a year, through this terrible street in New York,
though, I should be no more used to it on the last day than on the first. The only change in
me at the end of that time would be in my hair, which would have turned snow white, and be
standing up permanently all over my head like Strümpel-Peter's, only worse.

London roars--a monotonous, cannon-balls-in-the-cellar roar, with just a light tinkle of hansom
cabs sprinkled over the top of the solid sound; but that great straight street into which we
suddenly flashed had no solid sound. It shrieked in short, sharp yells, made up of a dozen
distinct noises, each one louder and more insistent than the other.

There were trams and tram bells, and motors and carriages, and over all an appalling thunder
of trains rushing to and fro above our heads, on lines roofing the entire street, built upon
iron stilts. Every minute they swooped by, running north and south, and I trembled lest they
should leap their tracks and crush us into powder.

"It's only the Elevated, deah," said Sally, pitying my agitation, "and it's never fallen down
yet, so I don't believe it will to-day. You shall take a ride with me if Cousin Katherine will
let you, which she probably won't. You can't think what fun it is shooting past the windows
of the houses; just like glancing into an exciting story book you know you'll never have a
chance to finish. You do get a peep into tragedies and comedies, sometimes."

"My goodness!" I exclaimed. "I'm thankful I don't have to live in one of those houses. It must
be impossible ever to take a bath, or to get engaged, properly."

Fortunately for my peace of mind, we didn't stop very long in that fierce street, but cut across
again, and came out in Fifth Avenue, of which one seems to be born knowing a little more than
of other streets in America. Just as almost everyone in English novels lives in Park Lane,
so all the New Yorkers you read of live in Fifth Avenue; and I should have been disappointed
if Mrs. Ess Kay hadn't, because in that case I should eventually have to go home without studying
home life in the States from the right standpoint.

At first, I didn't see where the grand houses I'd heard of, kept themselves, for everywhere
were smart shops, and public buildings, and--so close now that we could put down our sunshades--mountainous
"sky-scrapers." The shops were beautiful, though Mrs. Ess Kay apologised for them by saying
that it was out of season, and I'd never seen so much brilliance of colour or variety in a
street. I tried to search for the cause of this effect, but I couldn't define it. Perhaps it
was partly the clearness of the atmosphere, but there was a great deal more than that. Everything
you passed seemed to be pink, or pale green or gold, or ivory white, or ultramarine blue; yet
when you really thought it out detail by detail, it wasn't. And though I'd considered the sky-scrapers
awful, from a distance, spinning along at their feet I couldn't deny them a fantastic kind
of attractiveness.

At our rate of speed, I hadn't to wait many minutes for the grand Fifth Avenue houses; and
oh, poor London--poor, dear London! I wanted to fly back and tear down Buckingham Palace.

Mrs. Ess Kay had always talked about her "New York home," which made it sound rather small
and modest, so I was surprised when we stopped before a huge, square pile, built of rich-looking,
rough brown stones, so nearly the colour of a Christmas plum pudding that it made me hungrier
than ever to look at it. The house is trimmed with three wide bands of carving, made of the
same kind of stone; and there are carved bronze railings and lamps on the porch; and the front
door is carved, too, like the door of a cathedral.

We were let into a vestibule, all coloured mosaic and things; and that opened into a big, square,
glassed-over garden, with a great marble fountain playing in the middle. I never saw such a
wonderful place in my life, but until I got used to it, I couldn't help feeling that it was
more like a splendid foreign hotel, than a mere house. The garden isn't a real garden, when
you come to examine it, for it's paved with rare stones of different colours, like the jewels
in Aladdin's Cave; but all round the fountain beautiful flowers are growing, and pink and white
water lilies float in the marble basin. There are orange trees in pots, and a forest of tall
palms, all of which are reflected and repeated over and over again in the mirrors of which
the walls are made; and on the little tables standing about here and there among groups of
inlaid chairs are bowls overflowing with roses. The roof is a skylight, over which creepers
have been trained, so that the light which filters through is a lovely green. No doors are
visible at first glance, but when you are initiated, all you have to do is to walk up to the
mirror-wall, find a gold button, press it, and a door opens into a room as marvellous as the
fountain court, round which, it seems, all the rest of the house is built.

"We'll have something to drink here," said Mrs. Ess Kay, "before we take off our things." So
we all sat down, among the palms and orange blossoms, and a delicious sense of peace after
storm stole over us with the coolness and the green dusk, and the perfume of flowers.

I supposed that "something to drink" at this time of day meant tea; but almost immediately
a footman came through the glass wall, carrying a tray with nothing on it except tall tumblers.
There were straws sticking out of the tumblers, and as the man moved, I could hear a faint
tinkle of ice.

For a minute, I was bitterly disappointed, because the thought of tea had supported me for
hours. But when I tasted the stuff in my glass I wasn't disappointed any longer. It had two
or three strawberries, some bits of pineapple, and a white grape bobbing about on top, and
it was full of chopped ice. I don't know what it was, for nobody mentioned it's name, and I
was ashamed to ask, lest it might seem too ignorant; but it was good, and tasted as if it might
have a little wine in it, mixed with fizzy water and other things. When I had drunk mine, I
felt a different girl; quite merry, and so friendly towards Mrs. Ess Kay. I had never thought
her such a nice woman. I laughed at almost everything that she and Sally said, and I said some
rather funny things myself. Still, I'm not sure that as a regular thing, I wouldn't rather
have tea.

We sat resting for some time, though I wasn't tired at all now. I could have run a mile, but
suddenly I felt a little sleepy, and I was glad when Mrs. Ess Kay proposed to go to our rooms.
Leaving the fountain court, we came into a hall, hung with tapestry; and from it a wide stairway
led us up to a gallery, lighted from the top, which runs all round the house, with the doors
of the bedrooms opening off from it.

Mine is so gorgeous that I haven't known one thoroughly comfy moment in it, since I came, except
at night when I'm asleep.

One would think, as Battlemead is ranked among the finest old Tudor places in England, and
people come on Thursdays and give shillings to see it (a very good thing for us, though it's
extremely inconvenient, as it pays for all the gardens and all the servants' wages) that it
would be grander than quite a new house, in a country like America. But Battlemead, in its
palmiest days, must have been shabby beside Mrs. Ess Kay's "home" in New York.

Our grandest bedroom,--the one where Queen Elizabeth slept--is quite a dull old hole compared
to Mrs. Ess Kay's splendid room. Mine, at home, has all the furniture covered with faded chintz,
and the curtains are made of plain white dimity. But I love the deep window seats where I can
curl up among cushions, with a cataract of roses veiling the picture of the terrace with its
ivy-covered stone balustrade, the sun-dial, the two white peacocks, and far away, the park
with a blue mist among the trees. And I haven't learned yet to love my beautiful room at Mrs.
Ess Kay's, though I admire it immensely--admire to the verge of awe.

It's pink and white and silver. The carpet is pink, and feels like moss, as you step. The wall
is covered with pink and silver brocade, except where there are panels with Watteau-like pictures.
The curtains are foamy lace, with the pink and silver brocade falling over them. The furniture
looks as if it were made of ivory; there's a mirror in three parts, reaching from the floor
half way to the ceiling, so that you see yourself in front, and two profiles, like astral bodies,
things which I've always wanted to cultivate, as they would be so nice for trying on dresses,
or making calls on dull people. On the dressing-table is another mirror, an oval one, framed
with pink roses, each of which has an electric light hidden in its heart; and the bedspread
is of pink and silver brocade to match the hangings, with a large, hard roll like an ossified
bolster, at the top.

I believe it's that bed more than anything else, which makes me feel that it's always Sunday
in my room at Mrs. Ess Kay's. I'm used to old-fashioned, ruffly pillows and a plain white coverlet
smelling of lavender, on which I can flop down whenever I like, to read a novel or to have
a nice little "weep." But there's no flopping on this gorgeous pink and silver expanse, and
it's small consolation to know that no queen of England ever had one as handsome.

Mrs. Ess Kay and Sally escorted me to my room, when I came to it first. After I'd admired everything
enough to satisfy them, I was taken to see the bathroom adjoining, and then a kind of wardrobe
room opening out of that. I was almost prostrated by the magnificence of both, which pleased
Mrs. Ess Kay very much; and in the grand wardrobe room, smelling deliciously, though faintly,
of cedar, my poor boxes--already arrived--looked mean and insignificant. Mrs. Ess Kay's and
Sally's huge "Innovations" would have been much more appropriate than my dress-baskets, which
had been squashed into lop-sided deformity under heavier things, in the hold.

Louise was on the scene armed with my keys and Mrs. Ess Kay wouldn't hear of letting me do
anything myself. "Now, I'll explain why I had to desert you on the dock," she said. "Or perhaps
I needn't explain. If you watch Louise unpacking for a few minutes, you'll see for yourself.
And I do hope, sweet child, that you'll excuse my taking a liberty."

This made me curious. Louise opened one of my boxes which had been labelled "Not Wanted," and
I could hardly believe my eyes when she lifted out an exquisite poppy-coloured chiffon, embroidered
with sprays of golden holly and berries made of some gleaming red jewel.

"Why, there's been some extraordinary mistake!" I exclaimed. "That can't be my box. I've no
such dress."

"I know, love, but I have," said Mrs. Ess Kay, "and thanks to you, I've got it, and several
others, through without paying duty. I thought you wouldn't mind, you're such a dear pet, and
it's been such an accommodation. Not that I care about the money, but I do love to get the
best of those Fiends at the Custom House, and I have, for once. You see, it was like this.
When Louise went to the baggage room to get out some things for you, I had them put in my trunks,
afterwards, and some of my dresses changed into yours, as your frocks had all been worn and
mine hadn't. I told Louise to put my things down at the bottom, some in each of your trunks,
and I was pretty sure the man wouldn't touch them, as you're a British subject. I trusted to
luck that you'd be too 'cute to say anything and give me away, if you saw the dresses while
your trunks were being examined, but I just hoped he wouldn't dig down to them. I dared not
tell you what was going on, as Sally said I ought to, because if I had you might have refused,
or else spoiled everything by being self-conscious. If you'd been with me, the Fiends might
have caught on to our little game, they're so suspicious; but where you were, they never suspected
any connection between us. You're just a Dear."

I had been a Dear in spite of myself, but there was no use in making a fuss now the Dearness
was all over, whatever I might have done if I'd known beforehand that I was to be a cat's-paw.
Perhaps, if I hadn't been given the iced stuff with the strawberries, I might have been crosser;
but fortified by that, I lived up to my reputation as a Dear, during the half hour of the unpacking.

When my frocks all hung in a row like Bluebeard's wives, in the cedar wardrobe, and I was left
alone with them at last, my first thought was to plunge my imprisoned roses in water; my second,
to do the same with myself.

The hope of tea (which hadn't been fulfilled) and a bath had kept me alive through those two
hot hours on the dock; and now I could choose between several kinds of bath, each one more
luxurious than any I had ever known. At home there's either the big bath, in the bathroom,
or there's a tub in your bedroom, so it doesn't take you long to make up your mind which you
will have. But here there were so many things I could do, that I grew quite confused among them.

There was the big bath, so big that two of our big ones at Battlemead could have gone into
it; and instead of climbing ignominiously in, in the ordinary way, you walked down several
glittering white marble steps. It was very alluring, but as the marble tank was so vast, I
feared I might have to spend all the rest of the afternoon in getting it full of water. It
seemed impertinent to make a convenience of such a splendid, early Roman sort of receptacle
for a mere five minutes' splash; a bath of such magnificence ought, I felt, to be what Americans
call a "function"; a ceremony for which you would prepare with perfumed ointments and ambergris,
and protract for half a day, at least, not to be wasteful. Then there was the vapour bath,
which you took in a kind of box, with a hole for your head to stick out; a porcelain sitz bath;
and a mysterious shower bath into which you secretively retired behind canvas curtains, shaped
like a sentry box.

I dared not try the vapour, for fear I should be steamed, like a potato; the sitz seemed as
inadequate as a thwarted ambition; and to turn on the shower without knowing how much it could
do, or how soon it could be stopped, appeared a desperate adventure. After all, I thought,
it was less worrying with us. Here, whichever thing you chose, you would probably wish you
had had the other, whereas at home you did what you could, and were perfectly satisfied.

I decided that I would toss up a coin; heads, the big marble tank; tails, the shower. It came
tails, and I had a dreadful qualm, but noblesse oblige; one must be sporting. So I was; only
the hot water wouldn't come, and apparently there was ice in the cold, which wouldn't stop
coming, and it was very violent. I screamed once, and Mrs. Ess Kay and Sally and Louise ran
to the door, which was embarrassing; but fortunately, I'd locked it, and they told me how to
stop the iced water. When it was all over, I felt like a marble statue for hours.

Dinner was at half past seven, which seemed odd in such a grand palace of a house, because,
of course, at home, for some extraordinary reason unless you are in the middle classes, you
never have an appetite before eight, at the very earliest. If you're in France, or other countries
on the Continent, you can be hungry sooner, and evidently it is the same in America. Perhaps,
if I were scientific, I should be able to classify these differences as natural phenomena.

I had dressed myself early, and was ready a little after seven, because I thought it would
be nice to sit in the fountain court; but just as I was going down Louise knocked at the door.

"I have come to help Miladi, and to bring her these flowers," said she. "They are with mille
compliments from Monsieur the Lieutenant Parker, the brother of Madame."

"But I have never met him," I said, gazing with wonder upon a group (bunch is too mean a word)
of mammoth pink roses, with thickly leaved stems, longer than walking sticks. There were at
least a dozen of these splendid creatures, loosely held together by trails of pink satin ribbon,
wide enough for a sash. I had never dreamed of such roses. I almost expected them to speak.

"Miladi and the Lieutenant will meet at dinner," explained Louise. "It is an American custom
that the Messieurs send always flowers to the ladies. Madame, and Mademoiselle Woodburn have
received bouquets also, but these roses for Miladi are the most beautiful. Is it Miladi's wish
that I untie the ribbon, and take out one or two for her to carry?"

I was on the point of saying "yes," because the flowers were so lovely, and because it would
please Mrs. Ess Kay; but on second thoughts, I said "no," thanking Louise, and asking her to
put the creatures' feet in water. Perhaps it would be as well, I reminded myself, to see this
brother of Mrs. Ess Kay's (of whose existence I'd never heard) before I went about armed with
his roses. I had already tucked the white bud, which had come to me on the dock like a dove
with an olive branch, into the low neck of my frilly white muslin frock, and I gave it no rivals.

"Has Madame gone down?" I asked; for it occurred to me that it would be awkward to find myself
alone for nearly half an hour with a strange man.

"I think Madame will be in the hall," said Louise, and satisfied, I descended in a stately
way suited to the house, into the fountain court. Nobody was there, however, except a young
man in evening dress, who jumped up from a chair, and set down a small glass out of which he
had been drinking.

"Allow me to introduce myself," said he. "I know you must be Lady Betty Bulkeley. My name is
Potter Parker."

I couldn't help wondering whether his friends called him "Pot," for short, and the thought
made me smile more than I would have smiled at a stranger if it hadn't popped into my head.
This seemed to encourage him, which I regretted; because you can see at once by his face that
he isn't the kind who needs encouragement. It is something like Mrs. Ess Kay's face, only younger,
with her square chin, and bold blue eyes as pale as hers. The likeness is all the stronger
because Mr. Parker wears no moustache or beard, and his dark hair, which falls in two straight,
thick blocks over his forehead, is parted in the middle. You would know, if you saw him riding
a white bear at the North Pole, that he was an American young man. Why, or how, I'm not experienced
enough in Americans to tell, but I'm beginning to think that all American men, and all American
women, have a dim sort of family likeness to each other. With the girls, it's their chins and
the way they do their hair; but with the men it's more mysterious. They look less lazy and
more feverish than our men, yet at the same time more humorous; and their clothes seem always
to be new.

Mrs. Ess Kay's nose turns down, and her brother's turns up, which is the principal difference
in their features, and his makes him look very impudent, though rather clever and amusing.

"My sister wrote me about your dimples, Lady Betty," said he, when I smiled; and I screwed
my mouth into prunes and prisms as quickly as I could.

"I should have thought such things were hardly worth writing about," said I.

"My impression is that they're worth about a million dollars an eighth of an inch," he replied,
"and I bet they'd fetch that in a bear market."

I began to wish that Mrs. Ess Kay or Sally would come, for I'm not used to having persons who
have just introduced themselves make remarks on my dimples or other features.

"Don't be mad with me," he went on, "or I shall think I've estimated them too low. On mature
consideration, as we soldier chaps say at a court-martial, I should be inclined to set them
higher. If you'll just show them again----"

"I think, if you don't mind," said I, "that I'd rather speak of the weather."

"I'm afraid you're not used to Americans," said he.

"I've met several, crossing, but none of them talked to me about--such things," I replied,
rather primly.

"If they had, I should have challenged them," he retorted. "While you're staying with my sister,
I consider myself a sort of guardian of yours, and part of my duty will be to keep off men--other
men--with a stick, you see."

"No, I don't see," said I. "Not that there will be the least necessity for you to do anything
of the sort."

"Oh, won't there? Well, you just wait till you get to Newport, and you'll find out differently.
I've applied for leave on purpose to help Kath protect you, and I expect to put on a suit of
chain armour under my clothes. But first, you're coming to visit me, at West Point."

"I don't think I am," I said.

"Oh, but you are. It's a promise of Kath's. And shan't I be proud to show you around? You shall
see Flirtation Walk the first thing. It's what the ladies admire the most, at the Point. Perhaps
you've heard of it?"

"No," said I. "And I never heard of West Point. Is it a suburb of New York?"

"Not much. It's our American Sandhurst. But you English people don't know anything about this
side. I guess, now, you think that Florida is in South America?"

"I haven't thought about it yet," I replied.

"That's right. I don't ask anything better than to teach you the geography of the United States.
We'll begin with Flirtation Walk. But see here, Lady Betty, that rose you've got on isn't a
good sample of what we can grow over here. Didn't that maid of my sister's take you something
a little better from me?"

"Something much bigger and grander," I said, feeling loyal to my poor white bud. "I was meaning
to thank you."

"Don't do that; the things aren't worth it. I only wanted to know whether that French female
had played me false or not. But here comes my sister. I wish she'd taken longer to do up her
back hair. Now, I'll give you your wish, and talk about the weather. Mighty hot day, isn't
it? Won't you have a cocktail? I'd just finished mine when you came down."

"Of course Betty will have a cocktail; we all do before dinner," said Mrs. Ess Kay, sailing
towards us in a trailing white film of lace.

But Betty didn't have one, though at this moment several little glasses appeared on a tray.
I was sure that Mother would not approve of cocktails for me, as it sounds so fast for a young
girl who isn't yet out. When I excused myself, Mrs. Ess Kay laughed, and said, "Then what about
that sherry cobbler?"

While I was trying to think what she meant, Sally came into the hall, and immediately after
I was surprised by a kind of musical moaning which began suddenly and kept on for a long time.

"That's the Japanese gong," said Mrs. Ess Kay, when I looked round to see where the sound came
from. "It's for dinner. Potter, give Betty your arm."

I was glad she didn't use that nickname I'd been thinking of, for if she had, I should certainly
have laughed.

We began dinner by eating pinky-yellow melons cut in half and filled with chopped ice. I thought
at first that it must be a mistake, and they ought to have come in at dessert, but everybody
else ate theirs without appearing disconcerted, so I did mine, and it was good. So were all
the other things that followed in a long procession, though they were very strange and some
of them I shouldn't have known how to eat if Mr. Parker, whose place was next to mine, hadn't
told me.

We had bouillon partly frozen, instead of soup; and then came the most extraordinary little
fried animals which quite startled me, they were so like exaggerated brown spiders, done in
egg and breadcrumbs. "Soft shell crabs, dear child," said Mrs. Ess Kay, "and you eat every
bit, down to the tippiest end of his claw."

I should never have managed the green corn, which grows like lots of pearls set close together
in rows on a fat stick, if Mr. Parker hadn't scraped all the pearls off for me, with a fork,
and put butter and salt on them. I liked him a little better after that, for he did the thing
with great skill. When I had got so far, nothing could surprise me, and I didn't turn a hair
when I found that I was expected to eat pears cut up with salad oil. But they were alligator
pears, and when you tasted them, it appeared that they had nothing whatever to do with the
fruit kingdom. Best of all, I liked the watermelon which came at the end, cut in little balls,
looking like strawberry water ice, and soaked in champagne. I hope that all the things to eat
in America won't be so nice, or I may grow stout before I go back; and Vic says it is better
for a girl to hang herself.

It was very trying, too, to find that I was keeping every course waiting. I've never been accused
of greediness at home, though I've often been made to feel guilty of most other sins in the
calendar, but I did feel queer when I began to realise that everybody else had finished what
was on their plates, when I'd just about discovered what the thing was. It made me so uncomfortable
to see them all leaning back waiting for me, after their plates had been whisked away, that
I took to bolting the rest of my food, and by the time we'd got rid of nine courses in about
half an hour I felt qualified to write the autobiography of an anaconda.

As for the iced water, I had intended to refuse it at any cost, because Vic and Mother both
solemnly warned me that it made all the difference between a complexion and mere skin. But
the minute I landed, I began thinking hard about iced water, and I soon discovered that when
you are in America a comparatively small consideration like a complexion would never keep you
from drinking it. In fact, nothing would. You feel as if you must drink iced water, pints of
iced water, in rapid succession, if not only your complexion, but your whole face were to be
swept away in the deluge. Once you have got the taste nothing can quench it but iced water,
more iced water, and still more iced water!

After dinner, while we were having heavenly Turkish coffee in the fountain court, who should
come but Mr. Doremus. It seemed to me a funny time to call, but apparently the others didn't
think it out of the way. He wanted us to go to some theatre on a roof, and I should have loved
it, especially when Mrs. Ess Kay said you didn't get smudges on your nose as you would if you
sat on a roof in London--a thing which I never heard of anybody except cats doing. But she
was tired, and I suppose it would have been ladylike for me to be, only I was much too excited.
So Mr. Doremus stayed, and he and Mr. Parker talked more slang in an hour than I think I ever
heard in my whole life, though I have always considered Stan talented in that way.

But Stan's slang, and Vic's, are quite different from American slang. In America, you build
up your whole conversation out of it, and it's wonderful. I longed for a notebook while those
two men were talking, to put everything down, and I felt, if people were often going to be
as funny as that, I should need to go home soon to rest my features. I'm not sure whether Americans
really think funnier things than English people do, but their funny ideas are startlingly unlike
ours. Somehow they seem younger and more bubbling. When I go home, I shall probably have collected
so much slang in my pores that I shall talk about putting on my "glad rags" when I'm going
to dress for dinner; my life will be my "natural"; I shall call Stan's motor car the Blue Assassin
or the Homicide Wagon; I shall say my best frocks are "mighty conducive"; I shall get bored
by poor Mr. Duckworth, our newest curate, and tell him he's "the limit"; I may even take to
abbreviating my affirmatives and negatives by saying "Yep" and "Nope" when I'm in a hurry;
but if I do fall into these ways, I tremble to think what may be the effect on Mother.

IV

ABOUT SHOPPING AND MEN

"Why, Betty, you never told me you were interviewed on the dock." These were the first words
Mrs. Ess Kay said to me as I walked in to breakfast, a little late because of a wrestle I had
had with a different and even more exciting kind of bath.

"I wasn't," said I, on the defensive; though I couldn't be perfectly sure what connection,
if any, interviewing had with the Customs. "You told me not to declare anything, and I didn't."

Mr. Parker, looking as if he had been melted, poured into his clothes, and then cooled off
with iced water, burst out laughing.

"You're a daisy, Lady Betty," said he.

"Is it invidious to be a daisy?" I asked.

"I guess I must look in the dictionary for 'invidious'; but a daisy's a flower that has budded
in the green fields of England, where there aren't any newspaper reporters or other strange bugs."

"Potter!" exclaimed Mrs. Ess Kay, "don't tease her; and when you've been in the green fields
of England you'll say insects, not--er--what you did say, if you don't want ladies to faint
all around you on the floor." Then she turned to me. "He means you're very innocent, because
you don't know what it is to be interviewed. But you must have been it, all the same, for see
here, in this dreadful Flashlight." And she handed me a newspaper, with one page folded over,
and huge headings dotted about at the tops of paragraphs, like the lines of big print that
oculists keep to make you try your eyesight. In the middle column I saw my name, but I couldn't
believe it was really there, in an American paper. I began to think I wasn't awake yet, and
that this must be part of the dream I was dreaming all yesterday.

"BONNY--BETTY--BULKELEY," I read out aloud. "A Duke's Daughter on the Dock. Call Her by Her
Front Name, Please. What Lady Betty Thinks of Our Boys."

There was more, but when I had got so far, I simply gasped.

"How dare they?"

"There isn't much they don't dare, except to go back without a 'story'," said Mr. Parker, laughing.
But I didn't laugh. I was too angry.

"If my brother were here, he'd kill them," I said.

"Then he hasn't got a sense of humour," replied Mr. Parker; "I don't see how a Duke could have,
and be a Duke nowadays; but I guess I wouldn't mind swopping my sense of humour for a dukedom,
all the same. See here, Lady Betty, you'll get to like our newspapers before you've been over
here a month. They sort of grow on you. They're as interesting as novels, and almost as true
to life."

"This isn't true to my life, anyway," I said, not knowing whether I wanted most to laugh or
cry. "Oh, Sally, Sally Woodburn, will anybody believe I said such things as these?"

"Give the Flashlight to me and let me look," she said. And when she'd taken the paper, she
began to read the stuff that came under the big headings, out aloud, in her pretty, soft voice.

"Yesterday was a blazer, but though it was hot enough on the docks to roast a coon, when the
Big Willie steamed in, that beautiful young visitor to our shores, Lady Betty Bulkeley, managed
to look like the Duke's daughter and Duke's sister she is, and so far as a mere man could tell,
without the help of patent hair curlers, or other artificial aids to personal pulchritude.

"A daughter of the gods, divinely tall and most divinely fair, she sat on a throne of ducal
luggage, looking queenly in an elegant white shirt waist, built mostly of holes and eminently
suited to her style of beauty as well as the weather. She also had on a picture hat, which
was superfluous as she would have been a picture without it, and below the waist she was tailor
made."

"I think it's most insulting!" I broke in. "And I was made at home, all the way down."

But Sally went on: "I soon found [writes the representative of The Flashlight] that the sister
of the Duke of Stanforth, one of Britain's eligibles, preferred to be addressed by her Front
name of Lady Betty. 'I feel more at home,' said she, with a sweet voice, but a pronounced English
accent, 'when I am called Lady Betty. And I want to feel at home in America, because I expect
to be some time with my friend, Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox, who will show me society over on this
side. I have heard so much about Newport, don't you know? I fancy it will be too utterly deevy.'"

"What's deevy?" I demanded with scorn.

"Oh, that's supposed to be what smart Englishwomen say for divine."

"I never heard it," I sneered, "much less said it. I'm sure Mother would consider it quite
profane."

"Well, do be quiet, child, and listen to what The Flashlight says you said." "'What opinion
have you formed of our society women and clubmen, on board the Willie?' was the next question.

"'I think your ladies are better dressed than ours, and the gentlemen are just lovely. They
don't sit around and wait while we girls amuse them, they hustle to give us a good time, and
they know how to do it. I shouldn't wonder if I should hate to go home and associate with lords
after being a summer girl in Newport. I don't see now why American girls go out of their own
country to marry.'

"'I suppose we shall be seeing your brother, the Duke, over here before long?'

"'His Grace may come to fetch me back,' replied her ladyship. 'He has never been to America,
but it is one of the desires of his life to come, and your American beauties had better look
out, for he is a gay young bachelor, and I shouldn't be surprised if he took a fancy to carry
home a Duchess. Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox will entertain him also, and maybe he will paint some
of America red.'"

"That's all about you, I see," Sally finished up. "The rest is about Cousin Katherine and me.
It says we've come back with a touch of the Piccadilly accent; and it criticises my nose, and
the way Cousin Katherine puts on her hat. It describes this house all wrong, and says the Newport
cottage 'knocks spots' out of Mrs. Van der Windt's cottage. It also mentions Cousin Potter,
and calls him 'one of our Army Dudes.' But we don't mind, and you mustn't. Everybody reads
The Flashlight, for the sake of the shocks, but nobody believes its flashes."

"Still, you must have said something to the man," remarked Mrs. Ess Kay.

"I only said 'No, but--' or 'Yes, but--,'" I insisted. "Truly and truly nothing else. And oh,
there was a Bat, too, who tried to talk to me."

"Great Scott! the Evening Bat," chortled Mr. Parker. "Look out for something rich to-night."

"Can't he be stopped?" I asked.

"Might as well try to stop Niagara--with a tin can; the less you said, the more the Bat will
say. But it doesn't matter. Nobody'll care. Reporters are paid by the yard for imagination;
information's gone out, though I do hear you use it still on your side."

I was just going to defend information (British) at the expense of imagination (American),
when I remembered that the "Army Dude"--which sounds rather like something you might buy at
the Stores--had sent me up an enormous bouquet of violets as big as a breakfast plate, and
that I'd forgotten to thank him. I did so at once, but it seemed that I had blundered.

"Violets?" he echoed. "Must have been some other fellow. I sent you gardenias."

"Oh, then the cards got mixed," I said. "I thought the gardenias were from Mr. Doremus. How
kind of you both. I was so surprised to receive such lovely flowers."

"Our American buds are surprised when they don't get them. They would think it a cold day when
they didn't have a slight morning haul of flowers--must be out of season ones, or they're no
use--new novels, or candy. What do men over on your side of the water do to convince you girls
that they think you're as beautiful as you really are?"

I thought for a minute, and then I said that perhaps we weren't as hard to convince as American
girls. I don't know whether this was a proper answer or not, but, anyway, Mr. Parker laughed,
and then began to plan what we should do for the day.

"Say, let's run her over to Coney Island," he said.

"Oh, my dear boy!" exclaimed Mrs. Ess Kay. "Not for anything. The Duchess would have a fi--I
mean, she would be horrified."

But when I heard that Coney Island was like a kind of glorified Margate (which I've never been
to, but only heard about) with switchbacks and all sorts of shows, I said that Mother would
consider it a chapter in the liberal education of a respectable British tourist; and it was
decided that we should dine there. Mrs. Ess Kay had to do a lot of things before she could
go on to Newport, so we were to shop all the morning, lunch at Sherry's, rest in the afternoon,
and spend the evening at Coney Island. Next day we were to go to West Point, where Mr. Parker
is stationed and stay there all night for a cadet ball.

Just as we had got this programme settled, and were making up our minds to go out early, "while
it was cool" (we should all have been lying about with wet handkerchiefs on our foreheads at
home, and there would have been special prayers in church, if it had ever been what New Yorkers
seem to think cool) the butler came in leading by a leash a perfect angel of a dog, a little
French bull, with skin satiny as a ripe chestnut, and eyes like rosettes of brown velvet, with
diamonds shining through them. He had on a spikey silver collar, fringed on each edge with
white horsehair, and he came trotting into the room with a high action of his paws, dainty
and proud, like a horse that knows he's on show; and his tiny head was cocked on one side as
if he were asking us to please admire him and be his friends.

I supposed that the little fellow belonged to Mrs. Ess Kay, and that he was being brought in
to bid his mistress good morning, but she said quite sharply, "What dog is that?"

"He's a parcel, ma'am," said the butler, "addressed to Lady Betty Bulkeley. He was left at
the door by a messenger boy, and the label's on his collar."

In another instant that little live, warm bundle of brindled satin sewed on to steel wires
was in my lap, and it did seem as if he knew that he was mine. The queerest thing was that
he had no note with him. On the label--just a luggage label tied on his collar--was my name,
in a strange, but very interesting looking hand, and these words besides: "The Dog is now found.
His name is Vivace."

"Who has sent it to you, Betty?" asked Mrs. Ess Kay; and I could see by her eyes that she was
very curious.

I had just answered, "I don't know from Adam," when some words of my own jumped into my head.
I could hear myself saying, "I must first find the dog," and then I knew that the giver of
Vivace wasn't Adam. But luckily I hadn't thought before I spoke, so it was no harm to let it
rest at that; and I just sat and played with my new toy while Mrs. Ess Kay and her brother
jabbered about him excitedly.

"It must be Tom Doremus," said she. "He's the only man I let you know well enough on board
to take such a liberty."

I thought of another man she hadn't wanted to let me know; but I rubbed my chin on Vivace's
ear, which felt like a wall-flower, and kept quiet.

"Cheek of Doremus," remarked Mr. Parker. "He's a Josher from wayback. How does he know Lady
Betty likes dogs? I should send the little brute off to the Dogs' Home."

"If Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox makes me do that, I shall have to go with him--and stop with him,
too," said I. And I almost hated Mr. Parker for a minute in spite of the walking-stick roses
and the snowstorm of gardenias upstairs.

"Of course, you shall keep the dog, if you want to," said Mrs. Ess Kay, "unless we find out
that he's been sent by someone undesirable, and then of course the Duchess would expect me
to see that you gave him back."

"I feel somehow that we shall never find out," I said, and I hugged Vivace so hard, without
meaning to, that he gave a tiny grunt. But he didn't mind a bit, and licked my hand with a
tongue that was like a sweet little sample of pink plush.

I was suddenly so happy with my surprise-present that I forgave America for having imaginative
reporters, and wasn't homesick for the pony or for Berengaria and her puppies, or anything.

Vivace went out with us in the electric carriage, and even Mrs. Ess Kay had to admire him as
he sat straight up in my lap, like a bronze statue of a dog. "He's a thoroughbred, anyhow,"
she remarked. "He can't have cost a penny less than five hundred dollars, so whoever the anonymous
giver is, he must be a rich man."

I'm rather hazy about dollars, still, but when I heard that, I felt myself go red. I knew well
enough that the giver--who wasn't Adam--was very far from being a rich man, and I couldn't
bear to think that he had perhaps squandered some hard-earned savings on buying such an extravagant
present for me. But the more I thought of it--which I did all the way down to the shops--the
more I thought it impossible that a man who had been obliged to cross the Atlantic in the steerage
would even have a hundred pounds in the world. Somebody had perhaps given him the dog from
a good kennel, when it was a wee puppy, I said to myself; but this, though it eased my mind
in one way, made the gift seem all the more pathetic;--that that poor, handsome Jim Brett should
part with something he must have loved (for who could have Vivace and not love him?) to please
me. I should have liked to write a note to the Manhattan Club, where he had told me he was
employed, to thank him. But he had sent the present anonymously, and I felt somehow as if he
hadn't meant or wished me to acknowledge it.

While I was wondering what I should do, the brougham stopped before a shop even larger than
Harrod's or the Army and Navy Stores. There were lovely things in the windows, things that
looked like American women, and not like English or even French ones, though I couldn't define
the difference if I were ordered to with a revolver at my head.

The petticoats and stockings and belts and lace things and parasols, and especially blouses,
were so perfectly thrilling that my heart began to beat quite fast at sight of them. I felt
as if I must have some immediately; and when Mrs. Ess Kay said that this was "quite a cheap
store," I said to myself that I would do something more interesting than watch her shopping.

She had to buy handkerchiefs to begin with, for most of hers had disappeared in the wash at
foreign hotels; and Sally wanted veiling. Those were not interesting to me, because they are
necessary; and necessaries, like your daily bread and such things, are so dull. I said that
I would just wander about a little, as they thought they would be some time, and we made an
appointment to meet in half an hour at what they called the notion counter. I hadn't an idea
what it was, and didn't like to ask, because I had asked so many questions already; but I knew
that I could get someone to take me there when the half hour was up.

When you want everything you see, but aren't sure which things you want enough to buy and how
many you can afford, it's less confusing to prowl alone. Besides, there was an exciting feeling
of independence in strolling about unchaperoned in a shop as big as a village, in a strange
foreign city.

I really did need a sunshade to go with a blue dress of mine, because my only light one (if
I don't count rather a common white thing) is pink. I saw some beauties, and I wanted to ask
the price; but the attendants,--who were girls, with lovely figures and their hair done in
exactly the same flop over their foreheads,--were so interested in talking about a young man
they all knew, that it seemed cruel to interrupt them, especially as I mightn't buy the sunshade
in the end. However, I did venture to speak, in quite a humble voice, by and by, but the girl
couldn't understand a word until I'd repeated everything twice. "A sunshade? Oh, you mean one
of these parasawls," she said then. "Excuse me, it's your English accent I didn't quite catch
at first. That one's ten dollars and forty-nine cents, and this is eight dollars, eighty-nine."

While we were busy doing the dollars into pounds and shillings, we got quite friendly, for
she was a very obliging girl, and didn't bear me any grudge for interrupting, though her friends
were going on with their conversation and telling such exciting things about the young man
that she must have been dying to listen.

However, my girl hardly paid any attention to them at all, except just to get mixed up in her
answers to me once or twice. She said it was very difficult to understand English people on
account of their not opening their mouths much when they spoke, and their accent being so strong.
I found this odd, because we always feel as if, the English language having been started by
us, it is Americans who have an accent; but it seems that a great many people in the States
dislike the way we talk, very much, and consider it extremely affected.

After all the trouble she had taken, I felt dreadfully not to buy anything of her, but the
sunshades were too expensive, though she said they were marked down. I took a Japanese fan
instead, which pops out at you like a Jack-in-the-box, from a fat red stick; and even that
was a dollar and twenty-five cents when I thought it would be sixpence. On the way to meet
Mrs. Ess Kay and Sally at the notion counter, I enquired the price of a good many other superlatively
beautiful things, but they were all superlatively high, as well; and by the time a very dashing
young man, who said he was a "floor-walker," had steered me to the notions, I felt as if I
were the only cheap thing in the whole shop. To be sure, there were some embroidered collars
and American flag-headed hat-pins, and flowered muslin wrappers which I could have had without
ruining myself, if I had wanted them. But I didn't; and what I should like to know is, what
does a girl do, if she's poor and has to live in New York? Mrs. Ess Kay had said the shop was
a cheap shop, so there must be others where even the flowered wrappers and collars and hatpins
are more. And besides, a girl couldn't go through life dressed entirely in such things. However,
judging from the girls I have seen so far, they are all very rich, except the lower classes;
and of course, it's much simpler to do without things if you can just be poor and give up to
it comfortably, without thinking of appearances, like us.

As soon as I saw the Notion Counter, I knew why they had named it that; only it would be still
more expressive if it were called the Imagination counter. It was lovely, and looked like thousands
of little Christmas presents spread out for everyone.

There were a great many pretty people buying things at it, and in most of the other departments
where I went with Mrs. Ess Kay and Sally; but when I admired them, and the sweet blouses they
wore, and the way they carried their shoulders and hips, Mrs. Ess Kay sniffed, and said there
was nobody in New York, now,--nobody at all who was worth looking at, and wouldn't be till
October, except those who were just in the city for a day or two of shopping, like us. When
I suggested that these charming beings in white muslins and summer silks might be here in that
way, she did not think it at all probable.

"How can you tell?" I asked. "They look just as nice as we do."

Indeed, I thought some of them looked nicer, but I've been much too well brought up to make
such remarks as that.

"I can tell, because I don't know their Faces," said Mrs. Ess Kay, decidedly, in a tone that
gave a capital letter to her last word, and yet intimated that the poor, unknown (by her) Things
couldn't possibly be worth a glance.

Now, Mother and Aunt Sophy are rather like that. It's almost terrible when they say "Who Is
she?" But I shouldn't have expected it to be the same in America, if Sally hadn't warned me.
I suppose it's quite easy to remember just Four Hundred faces, as you're sure there will never
be any more, even if they have children, because they're being cut down instead of going up
in number.

When we had been for about an hour and a half in the big shop, we'd finished all we had to
do there, and must motor to another farther up, before meeting Mr. Parker, who was to give
us lunch at a place called Sherry's, at one o'clock. On the way, Sally suddenly exclaimed,
"Oh, Cousin Katherine, we must initiate this dear child into the mysteries of ice cream soda
water; and I'm just yearning for some myself, anyhow."

"Huyler's," said Mrs. Ess Kay to her mecanicien, a very young man with eyes that looked positively
ill with intelligence, and a way of snapping out "all right" when she spoke to him that would
make Stan sit up with surprise if his chauffeur did it.

Sally said that the nicest oasis in the desert of London was an American place where you can
get ice cream soda water; but I had never had any, and in the burning heat of the New York
morning--which flung itself into the shop like a great wave in spite of fierce electric fans--I
could have purred in pure delight over the piled up, ice-cold froth in that tall glass. It
tasted like frozen velvet flavoured with strawberries, and I should have loved to be an ostrich
or an anaconda so that the sensation might have lasted longer.

There were no men in the shop, only women, and so pretty that you wondered if there were a
notice posted up over the door forbidding plain ladies to enter. Two or three had yellow hair,
yellower than mine, and Mrs. Ess Kay said they were actresses who always came back to New York
in summer to wait for Things to turn up, just as chickens come home to roost; and that they
were supposed to be Resting.

I had always thought that a banana made you feel more as if you had eaten a large, elaborate
dinner than any other one thing possibly could; but I found that an ice cream soda is even
more so; and it was lucky for us that we had another hour's shopping to do (Mrs. Ess Kay made
it an hour and a half because Potter is only her brother) before luncheon.

The next shop was even more wonderful than the first, and would have been a great deal more
solemn and dignified, and even conventional, if the same kind of wooden balls hadn't gone tearing
round like mad squirrels in wire cages over the counters, with people's money shut up inside
them. There were very young youths sitting in tall pulpit things, who caught the balls on the
fly in a sporting way, and did something to them, but I never could see what, and afterwards
sent them back, with the greenback bills inside turned miraculously into silver and pretty
miniature pennies.

When we got to Sherry's Potter was waiting for us, and looking cross. I think persons with
turned up noses show crossness more easily than the other kind, and Potter had the expression
in his eyes that Vic has when her shoes are tight and Mother is in a trying mood at the same
time. I shouldn't be surprised if he has a horrid temper, although he thinks of so many funny
things. And though he is so nice to me, he can't help saying things sometimes which show that
he has a prejudice against England. That seems extraordinary, and shows one how conceited we
English really are; for one is quite accustomed to the idea that there may be people who don't
care for Americans, but it is odd that Americans may not like us. I suppose it's on a par with
the sentiments in our National Anthem, which when one comes to analyse them, don't exactly
suggest a sense of give and take--or, for that matter, a sense of humour.

"Confound their politics, frustrate their knavish tricks," but naturally bless everything in
which We are concerned, as We are certain to be above reproach. I'm afraid that's quite of
a piece with the calm confidence we have in our own superiority, although I daresay I should
never have realised it if it weren't for Mr. Potter Parker and his perky nose.

It began to be less perky when we were all settled at a table in a perfectly charming restaurant,
the most restful place to eat in that I ever saw. I can't imagine even a fiend being ill-tempered
in it for long; and it was deliciously cool, as if we had come into a shadowy green wood after
the blazing, brassy glare of the streets.

The big room really was rather like a wood, so the simile isn't far-fetched;--an open space
in a wood, ringed round with tall trees bending their branches low over a still pool. The soothing
brown of the wainscoted walls gave the tree-trunk effect; the great hanging baskets of ferns
and moss that swung from the ceiling were the tree-branches; and the many round, snow-white
tables, with green velvet chairs grouped closely round them on the polished floor were the
water-lilies with green pads floating on the surface of the pond.

Nearly everything we had for lunch was in a more or less advanced state of frozenness, from
the bouillon, ever so far along to the ices in the shape of different-coloured fruits, toward
the end. Nevertheless, all of us, except Potter, drank iced water instead of wine whenever
we stopped eating for an instant, or couldn't think of anything particular to say; and the
more we had the more we seemed to want. There was a kind of iced-water curse upon us.

It has never occurred to Vic or me to lie down in the afternoon, though she tries to sleep
a little sometimes if she's going to a ball. But when we got home, Mrs. Ess Kay and Sally took
it quite as a matter of course that we would lie down before going to Coney Island to dine
and see fireworks and other things. They were surprised when I didn't want to, but Mrs. Ess
Kay said in that case Potter would entertain me while they rested. I told her it wasn't necessary,
but Potter wanted me to bet my sweet life that it was just the one Proposition on earth for
him, so he and Vivace and I sat in the fountain court while Mrs. Ess Kay and Sally went upstairs.

Potter was suddenly a changed man, as soon as he and I were alone together, becoming exactly
what he had been yesterday when I first ran downstairs, and he introduced himself.

He didn't chaff me about my country, and make fun of our government, or hint that American
men were the only men living who knew how to treat women, as he seemed to delight in doing
when his sister and cousin were with us. He began by offering to teach me some of his best
slang; but as the lesson went on, it turned out to be rather more like a lesson in flirtation.

I would have been even more startled than I was, if I hadn't already had a little experience
on board ship, with Mr. Doremus. At home I've often thought it must be very pleasant to be
out, and able to flirt; but I never had a chance, because, as Vic said, it was her turn first,
and the only young man, not a relation, that I ever talked with alone was the curate, who would
as soon have tried to flirt with a Bishopess as with one of Mother's daughters.

But I like Mr. Doremus' kind of flirtation almost better than Mr. Parker's. Mr. Doremus makes
you feel as if you were a beautiful young heroine in a play, and you are almost sorry there
is no audience to applaud the witty things he says, and the smart answers he inspires you to
think of, just as if he were giving you a clue.

Potter is different, and instead of an audience you want a kind of perpetual chaperon, not
a Briareus creature with lots of hands to applaud.

It is silly, I know, to blush and simper; but I couldn't think of anything else to do, Potter
was so alarming; and I wouldn't allow him to tell my fortune by my hand, for it was much too
hot. Even if it hadn't been I shouldn't have wanted my hand held, for I do hate being touched
by anyone I'm not fond of. When I told him that, he said it was very simple; what I had to
do was to get fond of him, and then it would be all right.

"I shan't have time," I said. "There'll be too much for me to think about; and then I shall
be going home."

"How long does it take an English girl to get fond of a man?" said he.

I told him I didn't know anything about that, as I wasn't out; but I supposed it depended on
the kind of girl.

"I guess it depends more on the man, in your climate, doesn't it?" asked Potter. "But over
here it's sometimes a question of hours, for both sides. Why, a chum of mine went out to San
Francisco on business which was going to keep him just one day. He met a girl at dinner, fell
in love with her while she was eating her soup, and told her so before dessert came along.
She vacillated over the ice cream, but said yes with the peaches and pears. Next day they got
married and he brought her back East for a wedding trip."

"What did they do about the Banns?"

"Oh, Americans have done away with Banns since the Revolution, I guess. When we fellows fall
in love we're in a hurry."

"Marry in haste, repent at leisure," I quoted primly.

"We don't repent. We just get a divorce. It saves worry. Incompatibility of the affections,
or fatty degeneration of the temper, or something like that. But I don't need to talk of such
things to you. Nobody who got a prize-package like Lady Betty Bulkeley would part with it while
he had a button left on his coat."

"I don't see what buttons would have to do with it," I said, but as I had always been sent
out of the room at home directly anyone began even to mention divorce, I thought I had better
go upstairs and dress for dinner at Coney Island. Mr. Parker begged me not, but I would; and
Vivace barked as if he were under the impression that he was a watch dog; so thanks to him
I got away without trouble.

V

ABOUT WEST POINT AND PROPOSALS

I could hardly have supposed that there were as many people in the whole world put together,
as at Coney Island; and most of them were in pairs, like the animals on their way to the ark.
They all seemed to be engaged to each other, and delighted with each other's society, or else
married and dreadfully tired of it. Or else they had dyspepsia. Or else they had brought too
many of their children; for they had droves of very small ones, who bellowed louder than any
English children I ever saw, and tyrannised over their parents in the most unbridled way.

But Coney Island was fun, and I felt more than ever that I was dreaming; a long, long dream
of sands, and huge hotels, and queer little booths.

For dinner we ate nothing but fish, of so many different kinds and some of them so strange,
that I almost feared the dream might turn into a nightmare afterwards. I found the clams rather
like olives; you hate the first, but when you have had three you feel you would like three
dozen; and they are not at all easy to forget.

We went down Under the Sea, and were introduced to horrific monsters, sailed up and down on
switchbacks, which made Mrs. Ess Kay ill, but she nobly refused to desert me in such surroundings--a
state of mind which made her chin look incredibly square. Eventually, after many adventures
by the way, we arrived at the Moon, and not only got into the middle of it, but made acquaintance
with the inhabitants, none of whom appeared to be over two feet high, or to have anything to
speak of between their chins and their toes. After that experience, minstrel shows and concerts,
and persons who told your fortunes with snakes, or ate glass, were rather an anticlimax; still,
I enjoyed them all so much that I was incapable of extreme annoyance when we discovered that
The Evening Bat had an "impressionist sketch" of me which made me look like an elderly murderess.

We got back to New York almost indecently late, but in the meaner parts through which we had
to pass on the way to our gorgeousness the streets swarmed with poor creatures, pallid with
heat, evidently preparing to camp out of doors till morning. It was a strange and interesting
sight, but made me feel guilty when I recalled it afterwards in my great cool bedroom, with
my five different kinds of baths.

Next morning I was waked early to find more presents of flowers in huge stacks, and to get
ready for West Point. I was a little tired from yesterday, and the dry heat gave me rather
the sensation of being a scientist's field mouse in a vacuum, so that I should have dreaded
even a short journey if we hadn't been making it by water.

It was even better than if we had been ordinary tourists on one of the big Hudson River boats
I had heard about, for we were to travel luxuriously in a little steam yacht of Potter's, which
he calls "The Poached Egg" because it can't be beaten. It is not a vulgar yacht, as one might
have thought from the name, but a dainty thing that ought to have been "The Butterfly," "Ye
White Ladye," or something of that sort. When I said so, Mr. Parker insisted that he would
at once re-christen her "Lady Betty," which would have a prettier meaning than anything else;
and then I was sorry I'd spoken.

I had expected to be disappointed in the river, because nearly everybody I met on board ship
tried to impress upon me that we had nothing half so good in England; while as for the Rhine,
it wasn't a patch on the Hudson. I even wanted to be disappointed, out of patriotism or spite,
which are much the same thing sometimes; but I couldn't. I found the Hudson too grand for petty
jealousy. It seemed to me like a great, noble poem, rolling on and on in splendid cadences;
and I have heard some music of Wagner's that it reminded me of, somehow.

The hills or mountains--I'm not sure which to call them--even the Palisades which have been
so dinned into my ears--were not high enough to satisfy me at a first glance; but soon I saw
that it was their grouping and their perfect proportion in relation to each other which made
them so exquisite. As we steamed on, along the green and golden flood, between banks that appeared
to fall back in admiration, I began to love the Hudson so much that I could have shrieked with
rage at the great staring advertisements on hoardings. What can the scenery have done to Americans,
that they should do their best to spoil it? No wonder most of them come over to see ours, which
we have the sense to let alone, even if it crumbles.

Sally and Mr. Parker laughed at my fury, but I didn't see how they could take it so calmly.
"It isn't my scenery, so I don't trouble myself," said Potter, when I asked why he didn't get
up a secret night expedition to burn or chop down all the hoardings. But I'm sure English people
aren't careless like that. Each person thinks the good of the whole country is his business;
at least one would suppose so by the way everybody who comes to Battlemead talks politics and
affairs of public interest, morning, noon and night. It seems, though, in America only policemen
and people who live in Washington care about politics really, except to get benefits for themselves;
and it isn't good form to be too much interested in such things.

Victoria would like this rule, for she has confessed to me that political questions bore her,
and she would much rather be talked to about love or motoring, or even bridge; but she always
reads the newspapers hard for fifteen minutes while Thompson does her hair, if she's going
out to a big lunch or dinner, so that she will be up in everything and able to talk brilliantly
to members of Parliament, or stuffy old things in the House of Lords.

I calmed down somewhat after I'd recovered from the first shock of seeing several islands entirely
devoted to insisting that Uneeda Biscuit, or a Cigar, or some other extraneous thing which
you're sure you don't need in the least, and wouldn't buy even if you did when it had been
forced on you like that. There was so much to admire that it seemed a shame to fret. Besides,
it was soothing to sit on the yacht's deck under a pale green awning, drinking what I call
a lemon squash, and Potter and Sally obstinately believe to be lemonade. While Mrs. Ess Kay
angrily read nasty paragraphs about herself, and hilariously about her friends, in a regular
highwayman of a paper, Smart Sayings, Sally Woodburn told me charming legends of the Hudson;
dear old Dutch things, most of them, which had been made into plays and poems; and I was sorry
when we came to West Point at last.

But I wasn't sorry for long. The minute we got on shore at a quaint little landing shoved incongruously
in among beautiful wooded hills, the most exquisite scents of ferns and trees, and sweet, moist
earth came hurrying down to welcome us. Eton is not more beautiful than West Point; and as
we drove up the hill under an arbour of trees, I saw that the buildings cleverly contrived
to look old and grey and picturesque, like ours. The elms in a big green square past the top
of the hill had a venerable air, too, so they must have been precocious about growing, for
it doesn't stand to reason that West Point can be as ancient as Oxford or Eton. But anyway,
the elms were there, making an effect that England couldn't improve on, and there were some
grey stone barracks, and a long line of officers' quarters built of wood and brick. I was glad
that we were to stop with Potter, instead of going to an hotel, for I did want to see thoroughly
what garrison life is like. Potter has only half a house, though I suppose he's rich enough
to buy up all West Point if it were for sale; but he had got a chum of his, who lives in the
other half, to clear out of his part and give it to us for the day and night.

Vic has been to Aldershot, and even to Malta and Gib. But I never have, and I never saw any
officers' quarters at home, so I don't know how they compare with American ones. Potter's and
his friend's are exactly like a doll's house turned into a museum. The rooms are tiny, and
most of the furniture is made to fold up; but Stan would be green with envy if he could see
their Persian rugs, and their silver things, and their dozens of Meerschaums, and their curiosities
from all over the world.

I asked Potter what he would do when he was ordered away.

"That depends on where I'm ordered," said he. "If I don't like the place, I'll resign, and
be a mere cit. It would be easy to get back again into the Army if there were any fun going."

"What kind of fun?" I wanted to know.

"A war with somebody, of course," said he. Men have the most extraordinary ideas of fun. But
they seem to be alike about that in England and America. They are never so happy as when they
are killing something or in danger of being killed themselves. I can't imagine how it would
feel to be like that; but I know if they were different we should hate them. And Potter looked
so nice in his soldier clothes (which he got into while we were making ourselves pretty for
lunch) that I couldn't help thinking it would be a pity for him to leave the army.

His friend was invited to lunch with us, to make up for sacrificing his house. He is nicer
than Potter, or even Mr. Doremus; but not half so handsome or brave looking, or with such a
charming voice as poor Jim Brett--who is not, I suppose, a gentleman except by nature; otherwise
he couldn't have been in the steerage.

I thought it was silly to have wire nettings in all the doors and windows, just to keep away
a few innocent midges, until we sat out after lunch. There is a pleasant balcony with an upstairs
and a downstairs, which Potter and Captain Collingwood call the "piazza," and it would have
been delightful sitting there while the men smoked, if appalling little animals with a ridiculous
number of thin, stick-out legs hadn't come buzzing round us. They were saucy-looking things,
got up in loud suits of black and grey stripes, not in the least like our quiet, respectable
midges at home; and they weren't even honourable enough to wait until sunset before attacking
you. They pricked horribly, like pins your maid has stuck in the wrong places; and they had
a horrid penchant for your ankles. I was sorry I had on clocked stockings! And I apologised
heartily to Potter for poking fun at his wire nettings.

Though it was so hot, the air was delicious. It smelt of new-mown grass and lilies, with a
sharp little spicy tang of the thick Virginia creepers, which made a shadowy green room of
the "piazza." Birds were simply roaring with joy in the trees that overhung the house, and
Potter and I almost quarrelled because he would insist that some huge creatures hopping about
on the grass were robins. They would have made three of ours, and were much more like quails
that had spilt strawberry juice on their breasts.

By and by Captain Collingwood asked if "Lady Betty didn't want to go and see things."

"She's booked to me for Flirtation Walk," said Potter, before I could answer. "Three's a crowd
there, old chap." On which I regret to state Captain Collingwood suggested that Potter should
teach his own grandmother something about nourishing herself with an egg diet.

"Anyhow, I suppose you don't object to a rearguard for inspection of camp, and other features
of public interest," he went on; and after some hesitation Potter decided that this would be
admissible.

Mrs. Ess Kay and Sally both wanted to lie down (it's strange the fondness American women have
for putting themselves in a horizontal position in the daytime!) so Mrs. Ess Kay said that
she would commission her brother as chaperon; I needn't be anxious, she assured me, it was
quite comme il faut. As if I would have worried about a thing like that!

I was delighted to go, because the most interesting groups had been passing the house, and
it was difficult to see all you wanted to through the veil of creepers, without continually
craning your neck. Tall, brown-faced boys, got up much like glorified Buttons, were sauntering
about, holding sunshades over the heads of girls so young that they would have been in short
frocks with their hair down their backs, in England. The girls were in white muslin or pale
colours, with charming, floppy Leghorn hats trimmed with flowers; and they looked like the
daintiest, prettiest of French dolls. But I was a great deal more interested in the youths,
who were the cadets--first classmen, Potter said, and would be second lieutenants next year.

I never could take much interest in Eton boys, the few I have seen, for they look such children
that one would be positively ashamed to bother with them; but the West Point cadets (though
one couldn't exactly take them seriously like regularly grown-up men, perhaps), fascinated
me from the very first glance through Potter's Virginia creeper. They looked as if they thought
a lot of themselves, and the girls they were with had the air of encouraging them to think
it. I wondered what kind of things they said to girls and secretly longed to find out.

It seems that in summer the cadets leave their barracks and go into camp, which is a time of
year that the girls who visit West Point and those whose fathers are stationed there, like
very much. We had a glimpse of the tents from the long street of the officers' quarters; and
after we had visited a few technical things in which I was too polite to show that I was hardly
interested, we strolled over to where we could see the little white pyramids gleaming under
the Stars and Stripes.

I had been afraid that all the cadets would have gone away to Flirtation Walk, with girls,
but to my joy there were plenty left in camp. On chairs under the trees near by two or three
ladies were sitting with some white-butterfly girls; and a crowd of cadets were talking to them.

"There's a great pal of mine, Mrs. Laurence," said Captain Collingwood. "She would love to
know you, Lady Betty. Do you mind if I introduce you to each other?"

"See here, that means we shall be hitched up with all that lot of cadets," Potter objected,
quite crossly. "What's the good of wasting time?"

I hurried to say that I shouldn't consider it a waste of time, that I should be delighted to
meet Mrs. Laurence, and also a few sample cadets, if any could be provided for the consumption
of an enquiring British tourist.

Captain Collingwood thought that one or two might be found who would not object to the sacrifice;
and five minutes later I was having more fun than I had ever had before in my life.

Mrs. Laurence was sweet, and so tactful. She scarcely talked to me at all, except to ask me
how I liked America, and a few of the things people are obliged to get off their minds when
they meet a foreigner; and then she introduced five cadets.

I was terrified for a minute, because until I left home my whole (youthful) male experience
consisted of one brother, three cousins, and two curates, dealt with separately and with long
sleepy intervals between. I began to wonder how I could possibly manage five tall youths at
once, and to rack my brains for the right kind of conversation; but before I should have had
time to say "knife" to a curate, I found myself chatting away with those cadets as if I had
grown up with them. I never once stopped to think what I should say next, and neither did they.

Some girls were introduced to me, too, but luckily they didn't seem to expect me to talk to
them much, so I didn't. More and more cadets kept coming over from camp, and joining our group,
and being introduced in agreeable droves, until I gave up even trying to remember their names.

There was one, though, in the first batch of five, whose name was easy to get hold of and keep
in mind, because it was Smith. Besides, he was the best looking of all, which made classifying
him a real pleasure.

The girls who spoke to Mr. Smith called him "Captain," perhaps jokingly, and I asked how he
could be a captain and yet a cadet, unless it meant cricket. Then he explained that the cadets
had all the different grades of officers, from Adjutant and Captain down to Sergeant, and wanted
to know if there were any other questions I would care to ask. I said that there were, lots,
but I wasn't sure if I might.

"I give you a permit," said he, in a military way.

So I began with the buttons. "I should like to know why you have so many--all those rows on
your jackets; and it's only the middle row you seem to use for anything."

"We use the others to give away to girls, to remember us by," answered my cadet. "It's forbidden,
but that's a detail. Or rather it's why the girls like to have them."

I stared. "None of yours are missing."

"Most of 'em are pinned on at present. It's that way with all of us. Our Plebs sew 'em on for
us at night, and use the door for a thimble."

"Oh, what are Plebs, if you please? Are you allowed valets?"

"I guess they call 'em fags in your country. There are a lot of them lying around. Shall I
have some caught and dragged here? They might squirm a bit, as they aren't used to ladies'
society, but----"

I hastily protested against such a cruel exhibition, and went on with my questions. I asked
what they did in winter, and how long they had to be cadets, and whether they were in a hurry
to be officers.

"Not as long as the girls can put up with us as we are," said my cadet. "Some of them even
pretend they like us better."

"I can quite understand that!" I exclaimed. And then they all laughed, and some of them applauded.

"The really important question is," said Captain or Mr. Smith, "whether you are going to be
an officers' or a cadets' lady."

I hadn't an idea what he meant, but I remembered Vic's saying that in the lower middle classes
they sometimes call a man's wife his "lady." Perhaps, I thought, the expression had been brought
over to the nicest people in America, in the Mayflower, which they all talk so much about;
for certainly some of the people in her must have been cooks or in the steerage; there are
too many descendants for the first class passengers alone. After considering for a minute I
said in rather an embarrassed way that I wasn't "quite sure yet whether I would be either."

"You must be one or the other, you know, or you'll be like the bat in the fable who was neither
bird nor beast, and so was out of all the fun on both sides. I may be prejudiced, but I advise
you to be a cadets' lady. And you'd better decide now on account of to-night."

"To-night?" I repeated, puzzled.

"Yes, on account of making out your card. Say, Lady Betty, if you are going in with us, can
I make out your card?"

Then arose a clamour. It appeared that they all wanted to make out the card--whatever it was.
I asked if I couldn't have one from each, but it appeared that you couldn't do that. My cadet
had spoken first, so he said that he would do it; but the others could give me bell-buttons
and chevrons, and decorate fans for me instead.

"Do you like hops, Lady Betty?" enquired a perfect pet of a cadet, who looked like a cherub
in uniform.

"Hops?" I wondered why he should ask me such an irrelevant question, but I answered as intelligently
as I could. "I don't know much about them. I think they're graceful, but I don't like the smell."

He looked petrified. "The smell?"

"Yes. It makes one sleepy."

"I guess we won't give you much chance to be sleepy to-night," said he, "at our hop."

Then I understood. But what a funny thing to call a ball; a "hop!"

They explained, too, when they saw how stupid I was, that you were an "officers' lady" if you
danced with them, and walked with them, and flirted with them, and didn't bother with cadets;
or vice versa. Then I decided at once that I would be a cadets' lady, though I was sorry I
had only one night to be it in. They were sorry, too, and showed their sorrow in so many nice
ways that I enjoyed myself immensely, and quite saw how nice it must feel to be out, if you
are a success. They wanted to draw lots for which cadet should take me to Flirtation Walk,
but I said I had to go with Mr. Parker.

He must have been listening from a distance, (though he ought to have been talking with a pretty
girl who had no hat,) for he came up to me at once, and announced that it was time to go now.
He rather put on airs of having a right to tell me what I must do, and I didn't like it much,
especially before those dear cadets, but it would have been childish to make a fuss. Besides,
I was his guest.

I went, like a disagreeable lamb sulking on its way to the slaughter; but, thank goodness,
I was engaged already for nearly all the dances, and most of them had to be split in two; there
were so many cadets for them. (I think, by the by, I shall try to get Stan to take me to Sandhurst
some day, to see if it is at all like West Point, and whether they have hops.)

Potter made fun of the cadets, and called them "white meat," and "little things that got in
the way"; but when I asked a straight question he had to confess that he had been one himself
only six years ago. "I was twenty-two when I graduated," he said. "One of the youngest men
in my class." Which was the same as telling me that he is twenty-eight now. Ten years older
than I am! It makes him seem quite old.

Somehow, although he is so nice to me in most ways, he stirs me up to feel antagonistic, as
though I wanted to contradict him, and not like things that he likes; and I believe it is the
same with him about me, for I make his eyes look angry very often. I felt he was disappointed
because I admired the cadets so much, and had promised so many dances, and I was in a mood
to tease him. But I fancy he isn't the kind who would take teasing well; and the scenery he
was showing me was so beautiful that presently I resolved to be good.

We saw Kosciusko's monument, and I would insist upon his telling me things about Kosciusko
himself, though Potter didn't seem to think him important; and then we began winding our way
along a most exquisite path overhanging the river, always shadowed by trees. Sometimes it was
cut through a green arbour, with a light like liquid emeralds; sometimes it ran high on the
rocks; sometimes it dipped down close to the water; but invariably there was just enough room
for two, and no more, to walk side by side.

We met several couples--cadets and girls; young officers and girls;--sauntering or sitting
down close together in out of the way places. But by and by we seemed to have passed beyond
the inhabited zone. Then Potter asked me if I were not tired from so much walking, and if I
wouldn't like to rest. I said no, and he promptly pretended to be done up, which I thought
very silly; but of course I had to sit down by him on a rock with a green, moss-velvet cushion.

"This is what I've been longing for all day," said he.

I hadn't; and I was thinking about the cadets. But I agreed that it was beautiful.

"Yes, it is," he answered, looking at me. "I never saw anything so pretty. Say, Lady Betty,
you're an awful flirt."

I did open my eyes at that. "A flirt!" I exclaimed. "I never had a chance to try being it."

"I guess you don't need to try. There's some things girls like you are born knowing. I've been
miserable all the afternoon. Couldn't you see my agony?"

"I didn't notice," said I.

"Ah, that's the trouble. You weren't thinking of me. Of course, I oughtn't to have cared for
those little boys," (some of them were inches taller than he) "but I couldn't help it. I kept
saying inside, 'This is a foretaste of what I've got to suffer when she's staying with Katherine
at The Moorings.' I don't know when I've been so unpopular with myself. I don't see how I'm
going to get along unless you'll be nice to me; right now."

"I am nice to you," I said. "As nice as I know how to be."

"I could teach you to be a lot nicer. Say, Lady Betty, let me, won't you?"

His eyes, though they are such a pale blue, had that silly, melting look in them that my cousin
Loveland's have when he talks to me. "Let you do what?" I asked, almost snappishly, for a person
sitting in such a lovely place.

"Teach you to like me. I fell all over myself in love with you the first minute I saw you."

"Day before yesterday!" I exclaimed. "What nonsense. You're poking fun at me. I don't believe
in love at first sight--at least, I don't think I do. Anyhow, nobody could fall in love with
me in that way."

"Couldn't they, though? That's all you know about it, then. All Americans will fall in love
with you like that, and it's just what I want to guard against. I want you to be engaged to
me before you go to Newport. Then I shall feel kind of safe."

"Dear me, are you really proposing, and it isn't in joke?" I asked. "I do wish you wouldn't."

"Would I propose to Lady Betty Bulkeley in joke?" he reproached me.

"The idea of proposing to any girl when you've only seen her three times!"

"What did I tell you about my friend in San Francisco? I was working slowly up to this, even then."

"Slowly!"

"Yes, very slowly. I think I've shown a great deal of patience. American girls--the beauties,
I mean--are quite hurt if a fellow doesn't propose somewhere along in the first day or two.
They think he can't appreciate their real worth, and that he deserves what he gets if some
other chap walks away with them. Now, I'm not going to sit still on my perch and see anything
else walking off with you."

I couldn't help laughing. "I'll call for help if I think there's any danger," said I; "but
I can't promise more than that. I didn't come over to America to pick up a husband."

He looked at me rather queerly when I said that, almost as if he thought I had come for that
express purpose, and was trying to conceal it. But, of course, he couldn't be so horrid as
to suppose such a thing really, and I must have imagined the strange expression. If he only
knew, I came away so that another girl might be sure to get a husband, and I'm not allowed
to go back until he has been got.

"They're just growing around on blackberry bushes and in strawberry patches for you to pick
and choose," said Potter, "and that's what worries me. I'm a wildly jealous fellow. I've got
two month's leave so as to be with you at Newport, and I tell you I shall see a bright, beautiful
crimson, if too many dudes come fooling around the shanty. Say, won't you just play we're engaged,
anyhow, and see how you like it?"

But now I was really cross, and wouldn't hear a word more of such nonsense, so I jumped up,
and he had to scramble up, too.

"If you've really proposed--which I doubt--" said I, "you must please understand that you've
been formally refused. But I forgive you because I believe you must have been chaffing, and
because it's my first proposal; so at all events I can't die without having had at least one.
Now, do be sensible and take me back, or I shall have to find my way alone,--or else ask a
strange cadet to pilot me."

That threat found a vulnerable spot; and he was not half bad on the way home--perhaps no worse
than the name of the Walk allowed.

I was a good deal excited about the ball, as it was my very first. Sally Woodburn had looked
at my things, and told me what to bring. Not that it was a hard choice, for I have only four
frocks with me, in which I could go to a dance. The one Sally wanted me to wear at West Point
is a little white thing, of embroidered India muslin. Thompson made it after one of Vic's,
and it is a rag compared to Sally's and Mrs. Ess Kay's gorgeous things. But when Sally had
done my hair in a new way, (they had left Louise behind, as there was no room for her), and
fastened round my throat a lovely string of pearls she brought on purpose, I looked quite nice.

The "hop" was in a great big room which the cadets use for something or other, I forget what;
and it was decorated with quantities of American flags. There were lots of girls--the youngest
things! hardly any of them could have been out--but there were even more men; counting officers
and cadets, at least two for each girl.

The card which my particular cadet had talked about making for me, was a programme, with all
the dances and the men's names, and illuminations which he had put on himself. It was beautiful,
and I told him that I would always keep it. I danced every dance, with two partners for each,
and there was a cotillion afterwards with favours to remind the girls who got them, of West
Point; little flags, and buttons, and bits of gold lace; but I was very lucky, for some of
the friends I had made in camp had smuggled me special things, and I shall have quite a collection
of sergeant's stripes and corporal's chevrons, belt buckles and beautiful bright bell-buttons
with initials scratched on them.

I don't believe Vic had half so much fun at her first ball as I had at mine, although hers
is so many seasons ago now that I can't remember what she said about it. I was only a little
girl then, and she wasn't in the habit of telling me things, as she is now.

Although I didn't get to bed till after two, I was up early next morning, because I had promised
my best cadets that I would be at morning parade, or whatever they call it, to say good-bye.
Sally went with me, and it was quite an affecting parting. I shall never forget those dear
boys if I live to be a hundred, though I can't remember any of their names, as after all I
lost the card I meant to keep always.

VI

ABOUT THE PARK AND LOVE STORIES

All the preparations that Mrs. Ess Kay had to make for Newport kept us two more days in New
York; and it was terribly hot, but I was not sorry to stay, because we did so many amusing things.

Mr. Doremus was detained too--by his tailor, he said--so we saw a good deal of him, as Mrs.
Van der Windt had left for her Newport cottage. We did go to a roof garden entertainment, after
all, and it was most fascinating, but quite without the feeling that you might fall off, which
I had expected to have. I saw the moon coming up, and gilding thousands of roofs, and I couldn't
help wondering which was the roof of that club where poor, handsome Jim Brett was employed;
though of course it was impossible to speak of him to anyone except Vivace.

We lunched one day at an enormous and very fashionable red brick hotel called the Waldorf-Astoria,
and went into a Turkish Room, and had delicious things to eat in a beautiful restaurant, which
had not at all an out-of-season air, though Mrs. Ess Kay said that most of the well-groomed
looking people whom I suspected of being leaders of the Four Hundred were only "trippers."
I do wonder, by the way, why one always has an innate sense of contempt for trippers, and longs
to be sniffy and show one's own superiority? We must all be trippers somewhere and sometimes,
or we would never see anything of the world; indeed I suppose I am by way of being a tripper
now. But one never seems to regard one's self in such a light, or imagine that anybody else
could be so undiscerning.

I hadn't known that a hotel could be as big as the Waldorf-Astoria, though Mrs. Ess Kay says
there are several just about as large in New York, and she has heard there are one or two in
Chicago, but she thanks Heaven she doesn't know anything personally about that. When she made
this remark I remembered what Sally had told me in confidence about Mrs. Ess Kay's life before
she began to qualify for the Four Hundred. But of course I did not make any allusion to the
subject, for fear it was a skeleton in her closet. And Sally says that well-regulated Chicago
people think New York a one-horse place compared to their town, which is really wonderful and
most interesting, as I shall find out if I see it. I wish I could, but I suppose I shan't,
as I came over to visit Mrs. Ess Kay, not to do sight-seeing.

The second day after we came back from West Point, as I went downstairs the first thing in
the morning, I heard Mrs. Ess Kay at the telephone, which is in a little room, along a corridor
off the fountain court.

She was having a long conversation with someone, laughing and chatting just as if she were
talking to a visitor; and presently my name came in. "Yes, Lady Betty Bu----, no, not pronounced
that way, my child. As if it were spelt B-U-C-K-, yes, that's right. Such a pretty girl, a
perfect dear. I expect the men will be wild about her at Newport. Potter raves over her. Ha,
ha, ha! Do you think so? Well, perhaps. I've known stranger things to happen. No, it's not
her father, but her brother, who's the Duke; awfully good-looking. I wish he could have come
too. But you see Sally wouldn't--you know what Sally is. No, she's never got over that old
affair. Southern women are so romantic. Yes, I'll bring dear little Betty with me if it won't
tire you. She----"

Then I began to think I ought to let her know I was there, for one hates to eavesdrop. So I
yelled at the top of my lungs that I was in the hall, waiting to go to breakfast, and couldn't
help hearing every word she said. However, she didn't mind a bit, and called to me to come
into the telephone room.

"I'm talking to a friend of mine who has just been moved back to her own apartment after getting
over appendicitis," she explained. "Poor thing, she's such an indefatigable society woman,
and she does so hate being stuck in the city at this season. I've just been promising to run
in and see her this afternoon, and I'd like to take you if you'll go. She'd love to see you.
I'll introduce you now by 'phone."

With that, she began to chat into the thing again, in a chummy sort of way which seemed quite
uncanny, as I have always looked upon a telephone as an official kind of machine which you
prepared for with fasting and prayer, and only had recourse to when strictly necessary for
important business. "Here's Lady Betty," said Mrs. Ess Kay. "I'm going to introduce you. Now,
Betty, take hold of the----"

"Oh, I can't. I don't know how. I never did," I objected, feeling as if she were going to force
me into taking gas against my will.

She would have me try, so I did, as it's very difficult to oppose Mrs. Ess Kay even in the
smallest thing. But I couldn't hear a word, only a horrid buzzing, so she had to let me off,
and just tell me that the lady we were to call on was Mrs. Harvey Richmount Taylour.

"If you're going to stay long in America, you'll have to get used to the 'phone," said she.
"We do half our shopping, and some of our calling, and make about all our appointments that
way. If we didn't, there'd be more cases of nervous prostration than there are, and goodness
knows there are enough now, even since Blue Rays have come in. Many love affairs are carried
on practically entirely by 'phone, and I've heard that in case of necessity, marriage ceremonies
can be performed by it."

"How about divorces?" I asked. And I was quite serious, but Mrs. Ess Kay didn't seem to think
the question worth an answer. So she switched off her friend, and rang up two or three tradespeople
of whom she ordered scent, and chocolates, and some new books, and told a manicure to call.
Then we went in to breakfast.

It appears that the manicure person is a great catch, and you are very lucky to get him without
making an appointment long beforehand. He does things to your feet, too, though I dared not
ask what; and Mrs. Ess Kay intended to stop in for him all the morning.

While she was talking about this, Sally was glancing over letters, and there was one in which
she seemed particularly interested. She looked up from it suddenly, when Mrs. Ess Kay said
she was not going out, and exclaimed, "Oh, then I may have Betty. How nice, I do so want to
show her the Park."

"I'll go with you," Potter broke in quickly, but Sally shook her head.

"No, I want her to myself, thank you--just for this once."

Potter looked cross, but said no more, and it was arranged that Sally and I should start in
about an hour. Mrs. Ess Kay thought we ought to get off at once, as it would be cooler; but
for some reason Sally did not like that idea. Meanwhile, she ran out herself on an errand,
but did not offer to take me.

Even people who have absolutely nothing to do except to amuse themselves appear to like waking
up and having breakfast much earlier than we do. This morning, as usual, we had finished breakfast
by half past nine, and by a quarter past ten Sally had come back to fetch Vivace and me for
our walk.

I hadn't yet been shown Central Park. Mrs. Ess Kay said it was horrid out of season; but Sally
didn't agree with her; and I thought it lovely, more like the Bois de Boulogne than our Park,
and yet with an extraordinary individuality of its own. There were only a few people of our
sort, riding or driving, but lots of children were playing about, and it was wonderful that
the trees and grass and flowers could have kept so fresh through such tremendous heat. I'm
sure if we had weather like that in England the whole vegetable kingdom would go on strike.

Whether it was the beauty of the Park, or whether it was something in herself, I don't know,
but Sally Woodburn was in a sentimental mood. She is generally full of fun, in her soft, quiet
little way; but this morning she was all poetry and romance. She quoted Tennyson, and several
modern American poets, whose names I was ashamed to say I didn't even know, as their verses
seemed charming; and when she had found a certain narrow, shady path which she had been looking
for, suddenly she said, "Let's talk about love. What do you think about love, Betty?"

"I don't know anything about it yet, except from books," said I. "Mother doesn't like my reading
modern novels much, and we haven't many in the library, for Vic reads French ones and hides
them. But there are other books besides novels that tell about love--some heavenly ones."

"I should think there were," said Sally. "But I didn't ask you what you knew; I asked what
you thought. Have you ever thought about what it would be like to be in love?"

"Yes," I had to admit, shamefacedly, for as she is not a man, luckily it wasn't necessary to
tell a fib. "Have you?"

"I know, once for all," said Sally, in a changed voice. "That is why I wanted to talk about
it to you, before you really begin life over here. Perhaps--it depends on your opinions of
love--I'll tell you my little story. I don't tell it to people. But maybe I will to you, this
morning. We shall see."

"Is it a sad story, dear?" I asked.

"Yes. It's sad."

"Perhaps it may end well yet, though," I tried to comfort her.

Sally shook her head. "It can't, in this world. And the saddest part of all is that it was
my own fault. But I didn't understand the relative value of things when I lost the one thing
in the world that can make real happiness for a woman. I should like you to understand them
while you still have time."

"And I should love to hear your story, if it won't make you too sad thinking of it," I said.

"Oh, I am always thinking of it. It's never really out of my mind for a minute. It's there,
you know, like an undertone; just as when you live near the sea, there's always the sound of
the waves underlying every other sound, though you mayn't be listening for it."

"Then tell me," I said.

"Not yet. I haven't asked you the questions yet, which will show me when you answer them, whether
you need to hear the story or not. Could you imagine yourself marrying without first being
in love?"

"No-o," I said thoughtfully. "Not when it really came to it. But Vic says that's all nonsense;
that no woman, no matter how much she thinks herself in love, ever stops in love with her husband.
The thing is to marry a man who will let you do as you like; and of course he must be rich."

Sally sighed. "Well, dear, she's your sister, and I'm just nothing to you at all, but I'd like
to tell you to forget about her advice, and not care whether a man is rich or poor, or even
well born, if only he's made himself a gentleman, body and heart and soul, and is strong and
clever enough to take care of you."

The minute she said that, the image of Jim Brett rose up before my eyes. I think, though he
is poor, and perhaps of humble birth, that the girl he marries will be happy--and well taken
care of.

"You'll hear a lot of talk about money at Newport," she went on, "too much. Among some of the
people you'll be with, money's of more importance than anything else. Two or three rich young
men are certain to ask you to marry them--very nice fellows they may be, and they will show
you heaps of attention--all those that Cousin Katherine will let come near you--and as you're
so young and inexperienced, you may lose your head a little bit. But do remember that losing
your head and being flattered and amused, isn't falling in love. A man must be able to make
you love him for himself, and that self must be worth loving; for nothing else is any good
in the end. And now I'll tell you my story--just in a few words--because it will give you something
to think about.

"I'm thirty-two now. When I was nineteen--a year older than you--I cared for a man, and he
for me. We cared for each other--terribly. But he was poor; and not only that, he came from
people whom mine looked down upon. We loved each other so much, though, that I would have married
him in spite of all; but my relations thought it would ruin my life, and they advised, and
persuaded, and implored and insisted, until I was weak enough to give the man up. They took
me to Europe, and because I had some money an Italian prince we met in Rome wanted to marry
me. They almost argued me into consenting, and though they didn't quite, the news went home
to Kentucky that I was engaged. The man I really loved--loved dearly all the time, though I
was trying to forget him--believed it. Why shouldn't he, since I'd given him up for the reasons
I had? He was Catholic, and he went into a monastery we have in Kentucky, and became a monk.
No one ever wrote to me about it. All my friends thought the less I heard of him the better.
And two years later, when I went back home--not engaged, and thinking in my heart that there
was, and always would be, only one man for me in the world--it was to learn that that man had
taken the final vows which would separate him from earthly love for ever.

"Oh, Betty, you don't know what I suffered. I'd been saying to myself that when I saw him again--as
I meant to--I would know by his eyes at the first glance whether he still cared as much as
ever, and if he did, I would ask him to marry me. But I never saw him again, except with the
eyes of my heart; and I always see him so. Not an hour passes that I don't see him so."

"You poor darling!" I exclaimed. And there was a note in her voice that made my eyelids sting.
"How little I guessed. And you seem so cheerful and even merry."

"One isn't in the world to be a wet blanket," said Sally. "Besides, one isn't actively miserable
every minute, for years, because one has thrown away one's chance of real happiness. One gets
along contentedly enough, except in the bad hours, when, instead of being a mild grey, the
world is ink-black. But I haven't told you this to get sympathy, dear. It hasn't been quite
easy telling, for I don't talk much about the deep-down things in myself. I've told you in
the hope that you'll remember me, and my wasted years, if your chance comes to be happy--even
if it should be a chance which you think, in a worldly way, wouldn't be prudent, or what your
people would like. People have no right to try and order our lives, no matter how near they
may be to us. It's we who have to live our lives, not they."

For a minute we were both silent; and then Sally said quietly, as if she were glad to speak,
"Here comes someone we've seen before. Do you recognise him? And shall you bow?"

Vivace gave such a leap that his leash, which I'd been holding carelessly, was jerked out of
my hand. It was my brown man who was coming--Jim Brett.

My face did feel red! Vivace was making such a fuss over him, that Sally could hardly help
guessing whose the dog had been before he was mine. But I made the best of it. "Of course I
recognise him, and of course I shall bow," said I. "He was very kind to me on the dock, when
I was at letter B."

Sally didn't make any remark about Vivace's capers, though by this time he was wagging all
over with joy at his master's feet, and jumping up to his knees. I was grateful to her.

In another moment we three had met, in the shady path, far away from everybody else, and Vivace
began running back and forth between his master and me, as if he wanted to make us good friends,
and not hurt either of our feelings.

"How do you do?" said I, holding out my hand. "What a coincidence, meeting you here. And my
dear little dog that somebody sent me, does seem to take an extraordinary fancy to you, doesn't
he?"

Mr. Jim Brett laughed, and kept his hat off, which made him look very nice with the dappling
green and gold light waving over his thick, short black hair, and his forehead, which is whiter
than the rest of his face.

He had on better clothes than he had worn on shipboard, but they were blue serge, with the
air of having been bought ready made at a cheap shop. In spite of them, however, he looked
very handsome, and every inch of him a gentleman. I don't think many men, even in Stan's set,
could wear those badly-cut things and look as he did in them, though he does have to travel
in the steerage.

I asked Sally if I might introduce Mr. Brett to her, and she said yes, and smiled up so sweetly
that I was delighted, because, for all her talk about Nature's noblemen, I felt I didn't know
her well enough to be quite sure how she would take it. But she talked to him charmingly, and
complimented him upon his bravery on shipboard. "Every one of us admired you for it," she said,
"and I'm very glad to meet you this morning."

Mr. Brett thanked her, and of course said how pleased he was, too. "I am taking a holiday,"
he added, looking at me. I was glad to hear that, because, seeing him out at this time, the
thought had occurred to me that he might have lost his employment at the club. But I only answered
that it was a lovely day for a holiday, and that I didn't believe he could find a better place
to spend part of it than in Central Park.

"Have you fed the squirrels yet?" he asked.

"Oh, no, can one do that?" I exclaimed. "I should love it."

"May I go and get some peanuts?" he said to Sally.

"Do," she said, in her pleasant, friendly way, which was just as nice for him as it had been
for Stan, or nicer. "We will go on to the wistaria arbour and wait for you. There are always
lots of squirrels there."

Vivace broke away from me again and followed him, but still Sally seemed to take no notice.
"That's certainly a very handsome fellow," she said, "and we can be sure that he's worthy to
be trusted, because the wrong sort of men don't jump overboard at sea to save the lives of
children they don't know. That is why I feel perfectly safe in being nice to him, and letting
you be nice. I reckon he is a Southern man."

"How can you tell?" I asked.

"Oh, a little by that good-looking brown face of his, perhaps, but more by his way of speaking.
You English people lump us all together, for our 'American accent,' but we can tell whether
a person is from Massachusetts, or New York, or Illinois, or Kentucky, and so on, just as you
know Devonshire from Lancashire."

The wistaria arbour, which we soon reached, was like a fairy bower hung with thousands of amethyst
lamps, burning perfume instead of oil; and the moment we sat down a troop of the fairy residents,
cleverly disguised as grey squirrels, with adorable little faces, began excitedly to talk us
over. With heads on one side, they criticised our features, our dresses, our hats, and finally
approved of them so far as to decide that we were creatures they might know. They stole nearer,
by twos, by fours, then raced away again, grey and soft as undyed ostrich feathers, blown by
the sweet-smelling breeze, when they saw my brown man coming back with Vivace.

I was afraid that Vivace would make a dash and frighten them, but he evidently knows how to
treat squirrels as equals, not as edibles, for he behaved himself like the little brindled
gentleman that he is. Gravely he looked on as Mr. Brett produced six small, brown paper bags,
crammed full of the most extraordinary objects. They looked something like wood carvings of
unripe bean pods, but it appeared that they were peanuts. They smelt good, rather like freshly-roasted
coffee, and when you shelled them out of their woody pods, they were large, fat beads, covered
with a thin brown skin. I couldn't help feeling as if I had known Mr. Brett for a long time,
as he sat by us on the bench under the wistaria, helping Sally and me feed the squirrels, and
shelling peanuts for us to eat, too. I do believe there must be something special about peanuts,
which gives you a homey sort of feeling, if you share them with people. They form a sort of
bond of good fellowship, and I can't fancy ever being prim with a man, after you had eaten
peanuts with him.

Mr. Brett didn't tell us much about himself, but from the few things he did tell, I gathered
the impression that he has led an open-air, adventurous sort of life. He showed that he knows
a great deal about horses, and I rather hope he has been a cowboy, like "The Virginian," in
a delightful book I have found in Mrs. Ess Kay's library; indeed, I imagine the hero of that
story must have looked like Jim Brett. It is a splendid type.

Sally and he talked about books; he spoke about some college in the West where he had been,
and I was glad that he was a University man; though why I should care I don't know. Anyway,
Stan would be at sea, and floundering, in the subjects which my brown man of the steerage and
Sally Woodburn discussed while the squirrels frisked about their shoulders. But then, Stan
doesn't care to talk for too long about anything except hunting, or shooting, or polo, or motoring;--not
even bridge, at which Vic says he loses a great deal of money.

We stopped in the wistaria arbour for more than an hour, as I knew by my bracelet watch, when
Sally said suddenly we must go--though I hadn't dreamed till then that we had been half as
long. I shook hands with Mr. Brett for good-bye, and so did Sally; but nobody spoke about our
meeting again, as perhaps we should if he were in Mrs. Ess Kay's set. It seemed very sad, and
irrevocable, somehow, and I had a heavy sort of feeling that life can be full of hard things.

His eyes looked wistful, and I said what I couldn't have said to a man of my own rank. "I've
kept those roses you sent me by that dear, funny little black boy, all this time in water,
and they are fresh still, though a lot of others I have had since are faded," I told him; and
in that mood I didn't care whether Sally heard or not.

The brown man's face flushed up, and the wistful look in his eyes brightened into something
which I felt was gratitude for my rather silly speech. "I think those roses will hate to die,"
he said.

"Perhaps I shall press them in a book," I answered, "to remind me of my first hours in America."

Then we parted, and there was a fuss with Vivace, who had to be taken up in my arms, or he
would have choked himself with his collar, in his desperate struggles to get free. He whimpered
even then for a few minutes, but soon he was comforted, and visibly made an effort to content
himself with the fact that he was my dog.

I set him down on the ground, and Sally and I walked on together without speaking. But at last
she said, "Penny for your thoughts, deah?"

"I was wondering about--class distinctions in America?" I answered. "I think--oh, I do think
it's very silly of you to have any at all. I always supposed, till I knew you and Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox,
that one person was considered just as good as another in America. And it ought to be like
that, in a new country, where you haven't an aristocracy."

"We have two aristocracies," said she. "We go one better than you, for you have only one. We
have our Old Families (maybe they wouldn't seem very old to you) and we have Wealth. They both
think as much of themselves as your aristocracy does--and mighty little of each other."

