1865

No. 115

HISTORY

OF THE

159TH REGIMENT, N.Y.S.V.

During the latter part of October, 1862, negotiations were made by which the 167th Regiment,
Colonel HOMER A. NELSON, in Camp at Hudson, was consolidated with the 159th Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel
EDWARD L. MOLINEUX, in camp at Brooklyn. The consolidated Regiment was designated the 159th,
Colonel NELSON retaining command. The Regiment left "Camp-Kelly," Hudson, on the 30th day of
October, proceeded on board the steamer Connecticut, arrived in New York next morning, and
marched to Park Barracks. Remained there until November 1st, when we were mustered, into the
United States service by Lieutenant R.B. Smith, U.S.A. Left Park Barracks and marched to Castle
Garden; from there proceeded by steamboat to Staten Island, and went into Camp at New Dorp.
Next day pitched our tents and had things very comfortable.

Colonel Nelson having been elected to Congress from his District, Lieutenant Colonel E.L. Molineux
was appointed Colonel, and took command of the Regiment, which he virtually had from the first.

November 24th the Regiment broke Camp and was placed on board U.S. steam transport Northern
Light, pier No. 3, North River, and remained at the wharf until December 2d, when we hauled
into the stream. Early on the morning of the 4th weighed anchor, and the 159th Regiment put
to sea. On the 13th we reached Ship Island, in the Gulf of Mexico, having enjoyed a tolerable
good passage for the season of the year, being more fortunate than other ships of the expedition,
some of them having suffered considerable from rough weather off Cape Hatteras.

December 14th reached New Orleans, and anchored in the stream over night.--The following day
pursued our course up the river to Baton Rouge, and arrived there on the 17th. The enemy, learning
of our approach in force, concluded to evacuate, while our monitors gave them a parting salute,
and the same day the Stars and Stripes were hoisted to the breeze from the Capitol, amid the
shouts and cheers of the gratified soldiers.

Now the work began of making thorough soldiers of men, the greater portion of whom never used
fire arms before, at least not in the manner required by the service. Squad, Company, Battalion,
and Brigade drill, with any quantity of discipline considered essential to fit men for the
campaigning and hardships visible in the distance, were gone through with.

Perhaps few in the volunteer service, none of whom could boast of very much practical experience,
were better adapted than Colonel Molineux for this severe task; very quick, energetic, ambitious
to do his own duty and to keep every man in his command busy, was the true secret of his success
as a disciplinarian.

For nearly three months the men were kept steadily under instruction, and became quite proficient
in the use of the musket, and all the essential discipline to make an effective army.

On the 13th of March, 1863, broke camp, and the army moved up to the rear of Port Hudson. Colonel
Molineux having command of a provisional Brigade with Nims' Massachusetts Battery, went up
the Clinton Road, while the main army proceeded down the Port Hudson Road about eighteen miles,
skirmishing the Rebels the whole way, driving their pickets and scouts as they advanced.

At this time Port Hudson was strongly manned, there being from 23,000 to 25,000 men in that
natural stronghold. Manoeuvred about this quarter until the 20th, when we again joined the
main body of the army on the Port Hudson Road, returning to Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

This movement was made to attract the attention of the enemy, and enable Admiral Farragut's
boats to proceed up the river past the fort that here impeded his passage. This was a bold
but brilliantly successful move, that only an "iron Farragut" could have accomplished. This
blind enabled General Banks to more successfully pursue his future designs, as the enemy had
been led to suppose by the formidable movements around Port Hudson that a general attack was
to be made at once to reduce the place. Subsequent events exhibited the picture in a different
light.

From the 20th to the 28th of March we were kept in readiness to move at a moment's notice.
Finally, the suspense was removed and we proceeded on board the transport ship Laurel Hill,
to Donaldsonville, La., where we landed in a drizzling rain, about 10 o'clock, P.M., with mother
earth for a couch and the broad, moist sky for a canopy. Active campaigning was now fairly
inaugurated.

On the 31st of March the troops moved for Thibodeaux, La. The 159th was detailed in charge
of supplies and Regimental property, and proceeded by boat up the Bayou Lafourche, arriving
at Thibodeaux April 1st. On the 3d we moved to the Railroad Station at Terra Bone, taking the
cars for Bayou Bueff, where we arrived on the 4th. Remained here until the 9th. Arrived at
Brasher City, La., on the 11th, in company with the 13th Connecticut, 26th Maine, and a detachment
of Cavalry. Boarded river steamer Laurel Hill, and proceeded up Berwick Bay, into Grand Lake,
accompanied by Grover's Division, numbering about 8,000 men. Had with us three small gun-boats,
moving cautiously. Reached the Bend without disaster, the gun-boats shelling the woods and
covering the landing of the troops, which took place on the morning of the 13th. Skirmishing
lines were thrown out immediately. The Lake is three or four miles wide at this place, and
is called Shell Bend. Having all ashore and everything in good order, the enemy in sight, we
retired for the rest we needed, little realizing the hard fight before us. Lay in skirmish
line all night. A few of our men were wounded.

At early dawn of the 14th of April, the lines advanced without breakfast, marching about a
mile and a half. The enemy was strongly posted in a wood at a bend in the Bayou. Covered by
the gun-boats, the 25th and 13th Connecticut and 26th Maine, commanded by Colonel Birge, were
skirmishing briskly in front. Colonel Molineux was ordered to take his Regiment, the 159th,
and advance and charge the woods.

We advanced in good style over a plowed cane-field in line, passing over the 26th Maine, who
were lying down. Passed the skirmish line of the 25th Connecticut, who were under cover of
the cane on our right. Several of our men fell in the advance. Reached within pistol shot of
the fence and wood where the enemy was concealed. Scarcely one could be seen while they poured
a most effective fire on us, but we steadily advanced 'till ordered to lay down. At this time
the men were nearly exhausted, marching at double quick over rough ground with heavy knapsacks;
it took a little time to catch fresh wind and unburthen ourselves of our heavy load. We could
not have stopped at a more uncomfortable place, for the enemy gave it to us hot and sweet,
while we did not have a chance to see them. They came out of the wood through the cane to the
rear of our right flank, and right on top of us. We no doubt would have layed there 'till every
man of us was shot had not the order come to fall back to the left. Several of our men were
taken prisoners, the enemy rushing upon us while rising up from our position, and poured a
most deadly fire into us with fearful effect. The 91st N.Y.S. Volunteers coming down to our
aid, the rebels skedaddled, but not without some loss and a number taken prisoners.

Col. Molineux was severely wounded in the mouth, Lieut-Col. Draper and Adjutant Lathrop were
killed; the Colonel, Lieut-Colonel and Adjutant were nobly doing their duty in the advance,
leading their men. No officers could have done better or been more brave. They were picked
out by the enemy's sharpshooters posted in the trees near by.

The victory was ours, though the Regiment paid dearly for this, their maiden fight. Second
Lieutenant Lockwood, of Company G, was killed while nobly leading his Company. Lieutenants
Plunket and Price were mortally wounded. Lieutenant Manley, of Company A, was killed, and Lieutenant
Tieman and Captain Petit were slightly wounded. Our total killed, wounded and missing amounted
to 112, viz: 6 officers, 23 men killed; 2 officers, 69 men wounded, and 12 men prisoners. Major
Burt, who was on General Grover's staff, now assumed command of the Regiment.

The 91st N.Y.S. Volunteers were to have advanced with us on the right, but misunderstanding
the order, they failed to advance, causing us to be flanked and receive a heavy enfilading
fire by which we suffered so much.

Our Division was to fall on the rear of the enemy, when they were driven from their entrenched
position, at Bislin, south of Franklin. The strong resistance at Irish Bend was to make good
their escape, which they effected at the loss of a large number of prisoners.

April 15th, marched up Teche 18-½ miles, the main column, under General Banks, in advance.
Arrived at New Iberia, where Mills and Ashton, of Company K, who were taken prisoners at Irish
Bend, joined the Regiment, the enemy having paroled them.

Arrived at Vermillion Bayou, and finding the bridges burned, had to reconstruct them. The Regiment
was now detailed to collect cattle through the prairie and drive them to Berwick City. We collected
about three thousand head.

A detachment of the Regiment left us to gather up cotton and other property laying about loose.
Arrived safely at Berwick City, and returned in charge of a wagon train which we left at Opolosus,
and reported to the Division Commander at Barrie's Landing, on the Teche, eight miles from
Opolosus.

May 5th broke camp and marched to Little Washington, La., and from there to Wells' Plantation,
where we went into camp. Left Welles' Farm and marched to Simsport, a distance of eighty miles,
where we arrived on the 18th, and crossed the Mississippi, landing at Boyou Sara, on the night
of the 21st.

The 24th day of May brought us close to the enemy's outer works in front of Port Hudson, after
marching the distance of eight hundred miles from the 28th day of March to the 24th day of May.

Our position now placed us under a heavy fire and shelling from the fort. The enemy well knowing
the Road we were obliged to advance on, poured an accurate fire upon our line. But few casualties
occurred, although some narrow and hair-breadth escapes happened.

On the 25th of May, skirmishing all day. Result, four of our men killed. At noon our men were
relieved from picket, and the Regiment ordered to the right of our Division. A general movement
was made along the lines, and our Regiment was selected to attack a portion of the enemy's
works, and storm it. The 25th Connecticut Volunteers was consolidated with us, commanded by
Major Burt. It was necessary to make a circuitous route three miles through the woods to the
right, to reach the position to be attacked, exposed the whole way to a continued and terrific
fire of shot and shell; but our boys unflinchingly pressed on through ravines, over felled
trees, and all sorts of intricacies natural and artificial. The final assault was to be made
upon an almost perpendicular slope. "Forward!" was the word, and persistently we advanced,
reaching just under and near the parapet, but the fire was like hail; the Color Bearer was
shot dead and the color staff shot from his hands, but it was again secured and brought off.
We lay in this position for some hours unable to advance or retreat; it seemed almost impossible
for one to escape under such a fire. A number of our men remained in this position until after
dark, when the firing ceased. Shortly after midnight, the enemy supposing we still lay close
to their works, sallied out and poured a heavy volley into the position from which we had been
very prudently removed but a short time previous. We captured one Captain and eight sharpshooters
in ambush outside the works; this was but little, yet it furnished some satisfaction for our
loss. This was in advance of any previous attack, several of which were made during the day.
Our loss on this eventful day was 21 men killed and 38 wounded. From this time until June 14th
we were almost continually in the rifle pits.

June 14th was selected for a general assault. The advance stormers, led by the gallant Colonel
PAINE, of the 4th Wisconsin Volunteers, who had been acting Brigadier General for some time
previous, pressed on under the most severe fire. A number succeeded in penetrating the enemy's
works, but owing to the obstructions we were obliged to pass over, the advance could not be
supported with the necessary rapidity for the success of the scheme. Colonel Paine being severely
wounded early in the action, materially injured the success of the enterprise. The wounded
Colonel lay in such a position that he could not be removed until after dark; several attempts
were made but the parties were either killed or wounded in their noble efforts. It was in this
engagement that the gallant Colonel COWLES, of the 128th, lost his life while leading his men
to the assault.

Shortly after midnight we left the pits where we had been for several days, to join the column
of attack coming up at daylight, having to defile through the woods several miles. General
Grover's Division supported the advance. The 159th advanced under a severe fire through a ravine
and over obstructed ground to a commanding position, a knoll overlooking the enemy's works;
here we lay in position until between three and four o'clock, P.M., the enemy firing a continuous
volley over our heads. No thanks to them that our craniums escaped. It was contemplated to
make a second assault, and we were ordered to the left, some distance over clear and exposed
ground to join the forces in waiting for this purpose. We remained here until after dark, and
the firing having ceased, further attempts were deferred, and we moved back to the position
we gained in the morning, and were set to work fortifying, but were soon relieved by colored
entrenchers, and returned to our quarters in the woods, which we reached in the small hours
of the morning, greatly fatigued. Our loss on this occasion was not severe; 12 men wounded.

To reduce the place was the work assigned, and it must be accomplished. General Banks issued
an order on the 15th of June, congratulating the troops for their behavior and close investment
of the stronghold, and calling for 1,000 Volunteers from the forces to form a storming column
or "a forlorn hope." Soon more than the required number were on hand, and formed into two Battalions,
to be commanded by General Birge. It did not become necessary to make this assault. General
Gardner hearing of the fall of Vicksburg, capitulated on the 8th of July.

Every thing being satisfactorily arranged, our forces, preceded by the storming party, entered
the fortification and filed past 6,000 brave but discomfited "Gray Backs;" freedom's emblem,
the Stars and Stripes, was soon hoisted, saluted by a discharge from the guns which had so
recently belched forth death against our lines.

On the 11th of July we proceeded down the river to Donaldsonville on board the steamer Iberville.
The enemy a few nights prior to the surrender, made a desperate attack on a small garrison
in the fort at this place, but were repulsed with severe loss. The garrison numbered not more
than four hundred; more than three hundred of the enemy were seriously wounded. The enemy was
posted just behind the town; batteries were placed along the levee at numerous places; several
boats had been destroyed, and the transportation of supplies was getting quite precarious,
but the surrender of Port Hudson put a stop to their amusement. We landed at night, slept on
our arms, and woke up in the morning close to the enemy's pickets.

On the 14th a Brigade commanded by Colonel Morgan, of the 90th N.Y. Volunteers, advanced upon
the Bayou about four miles, driving the enemy before him. The 159th was on his right flank
doing picket duty, and the Company I belonged to was on the outside post in command of Captain
William H. Sliter. Colonel Morgan came up to us and ordered us to go with him. The Captain
told him he would not leave his post, a most important one, that the whole Brigade depended upon.

On the fifteenth the enemy made a stand under cover of a thick wood, protected by heavy artillery.
Finding our forces not very formidable, the enemy advanced in force on our left flank, taking
a number of prisoners. Reinforcements at this time came up, and the enemy fell back west of
the Atchafalya River.

July 16th the 159th was detailed to guard wagon trains on the west side of the Mississippi.
Arrived at Carrolton, where we were allowed to rest, remaining until the last of August, when
we were sent to Thibodeaux, La., via Algiers.

September 1st, reached Thibodeaux. General Birge was in command of the District of Lafourche.
Our Regiment, with the 13th Connecticut, was detailed to do provost and picket duty, while
the other troops were distributed over the District.

Colonel Molineux was appointed on General Franklin's Staff on the 24th of September. We remained
at this position until March 18th, 1864. Quiet prevailed during our advent here, only a few
night alarms occuring, causing the long roll to beat and the men to turn out, but they amounted
to nothing serious.

January 1st, 1864, Lieutenant-Colonel Burt took command of the Regiment at Thibodeaux, Colonel
Molineux was relieved from duty on General Franklin's Staff, and assigned to command the Lafourche
District, in place of General Birge, relieved on furlough.

On the 7th, Lieutenant-Colonel Burt resigned his Commission, on Surgeon's certificate, and
was honorably discharged, and the command devolved on the senior officer, Captain Hart. His
reign, however, was short. Major Gaul, who was on detached service at Albany, N.Y., was appointed
Lieutenant-Colonel, vice Burt, and Captain Waltermire made Major. This arrangement was highly
satisfactory to the whole Regiment.

February 25th, Lieutenant-Colonel Gaul reported for duty and took command of the Regiment.

A new Company of 64 enlisted men arrived from Hudson, N.Y., under command of Captain James
S. Reynolds, First Lieutenant E. Spencer Elmer, and Second Lieutenant Peter R. Van Deusen.
Old Company G was broken up, the men distributed through the Regiment, and the new Company
installed in their place.

On the 19th of March we broke camp for the spring campaign, having been here nearly seven months.
On the 21st took cars for New Orleans. Arrived at Algiers on the 24th. Embarked on board the
James Battel and arrived at Alexandria, La., via. Red River, on the 27th of March.

Marched to west side of the river to Pineville while the dam was being built to enable the
gunboats to pass down the river. Colonel Molineux was relieved from command of a recruiting
party which he had been in charge of, called the "Louisiana Scouts," but the Regiment nick-named
them the "Jay-hawkers." The gunboats having safely passed the dam, the army commenced moving
back on the Mississippi.

May 11th, the 159th with some artillery and cavalry, were placed in charge of Alexandria and
defences, under Colonel Molineux, and remained there while General Banks moved on Shreveport.

The engagements of Grandecore, Sabine Cross Road and Cane river, occurred while we were here.
General Banks not being able to keep up his supplies, as the gunboats could not pass up in
consequence of the rapid falling of the river, was obliged to fall back.

On the 16th, while passing through Marksville, the enemy made considerable show of resistance.
The union forces deployed in line, making a grand and imposing appearance, extending for several
miles over an almost level plain. The artillery on both sides belched forth for some hours.
The casualties were light, and the enemy driven back. This is called the "Battle of Mansura."

On the 19th, reached Simsport; this was our second advent here.

The enemy continually harrassed us from the time we left Alexandria, from across the rivers
and Bayous, and on our flanks and rear, but accomplished but little damage.

Crossed the river on the steamer Cumberland, and reached Morganzi, La., on the 22d. This terminated
the "Red River Expedition" of 1864.

June 19th, General Grover's Division proceeded up the river as far as Fort Adams, and scoured
the banks on either side for guerillas, who were numerous, firing into all boats passing on
the river. Captured a few prisoners and returned. July 2d, Lieutenant-Colonel Gaul resigned,
on account of disease contracted in the campaign, and Major Waltermire was promoted to Lieutenant-Colonel.

July 3d, took steamer Lancaster, and arrived at Algiers, opposite New Orleans, at 6 P.M., July 4th.

July 17th, went on board the U.S. Transport Cahawba. At 12 o'clock that night moved down the
river and arrived at the Rip Raps and Fortress Monroe, on the 24th. Received water, and on
the 25th proceeded up the James river, arriving at Bermuda Hundreds at 5 P.M. Move up to the
entrenched position, and were kept continually moving about while there.

August 1st, went on board the steamer Winona, and arrive at Washington, D.C., the next day.
Put baggage on cars for Harpers Ferry, but orders countermanded before we got off. Marched
through Washington to Tenallytown. Remained there until the 14th, when we started to join General
Sheridan in the Shenandoah Valley, through Snicker's Gap. Crossed Chain Bridge and encamped
at Owl Run, Va., that night. Arrived at Leesburgh on the 17th; passed through Hamilton, and
within four miles of Snicker's Gap. Here a dispatch notified us that the enemy was hurrying
to cut us off at the gap. This notice was timely, and saved us a serious disaster. Immediately
moved on, forded the Shenandoah river, marched nearly all night, and reached Sheridan's forces
on the morning of the 18th, having marched about forty miles the previous day and night.

Fighting had been going on in that vicinity for some time before we arrived. Were ordered to
throw up temporary breast-works, which was quickly accomplished.

Early in the morning of the 21st, heavy artillery firing was heard on our right. The 6th and
8th Corps were engaged in a heavy battle that day, and late in the afternoon our Division was
moved to the right of the 6th Corps and in front of Charlestown. In this engagement the loss
was heavy on both sides.

General Sheridan then drew his forces back to the rear of the defences of Harper's Ferry, at
Halltown, the 19th Corps covering the movement. Our Regiment was put on picket duty behind
Bolliver Heights, and a constant picket firing was kept up on both sides.

On the 24th, our Regiment, with the 22d Iowa and 11th Indiana, under command of Colonel McCauly,
advanced on the skirmish line to reconnoiter the enemy. Drove them back some distance, advancing
in good style under a heavy fire, and maintained our position until ordered to retire. We were
under a heavy artillery fire for about two hours, and our Regiment lost one officer and twelve men.

Two officers and sixty picked men were selected to join others to advance for the purpose of
bringing on an engagement, but news came that the enemy had retired. The cavalry followed them,
and occupied Charlestown.

A grand advance was ordered, and on the 3d of September we started off with four days' rations
in our haversacks.

Advanced to near Berryville, where heavy artillery firing was heard in front, soon followed
by musketry, gradually growing more rapid. The enemy had gained a slight advantage on the left
of the 8th Corps. The 19th Corps moved quickly to their support, when the enemy fell back,
but firing continued until after dark.

On the morning of the 5th, three lines of rude breastworks were thrown up in double quick time--hand,
feet, bayonets, tin cups, old shoes, every thing was brought into requisition to accomplish
the work, which was completed during a heavy rain.

On the 6th, the enemy fell back to the Opequan Creek.

On the 7th our Regiment proceeded to the Opequan, reconnoitered the enemy, and returned the
same day after accomplishing our objects.

On the 11th captured the 8th South Carolina Regiment, with all its officers.

September 17th, General Grant made a short visit to "Little Phil," which was set down as indicating
hard work ahead, in which supposition we were not disappointed.

At 1 o'clock, A.M., on the 19th, a general movement of the whole army began. Skirmishing towards
Opequan Creek became more and more brisk, till it assumed all the proportions of a fierce battle,
lasting the whole of the day. Alternately the opposing forces were repulsed in turn, either
side contesting for the superiority with the most dogged persistency. Only the ability and
determination of the gallant "Little Phil." could have secured success. We had 5 men killed,
4 officers and 36 men wounded, and 1 officer and 20 men taken prisoners.

The enemy was closely followed up to Fisher's Hill, behind Strausburg, a well fortified and
naturally strong position.--Gaining the point we desired on the 22d, it was determined to force
the enemy up the valley, and occupy this stronghold.

The 6th Corps was thrown around to the left and rear of the enemy by the base of the mountain;
this movement took almost all day. The 8th Corps was on the left, and the 19th in the centre.
When the 6th Corps reached sufficiently near, a grand movement was made, our boys forcing the
centre. This action took the enemy by surprise and they retreated up the valley in tall style.
About a thousand were not able to carry out their intentions, and it devolved on us to pilot
them to the rear.

The chase was kept up all night, and we reached Woodstock the next morning. We suffered no
loss on this occasion. It was indeed a cheap victory. We captured a number of horses and wagons,
artillery, and any quantity of small arms, which our Regiment was detailed to take charge of
and convey to Winchester, with the prisoners.

We left Woodstock at five P.M., and delivered the property and prisoners at Winchester, and
on the 25th started for the front again, in charge of a supply train.

On the 27th, at three P.M., arrived at the front at Harrisonburg, having marched over one hundred
miles in less than four days.

On the 30th, the 6th and 19th Corps advanced to Mount Crawford, the enemy showing some disposition
to interrupt the Cavalry. Nothing serious being discovered, we fell back to Harrisonburg. Remained
here until October 6th, when we moved back to New Market, and on the 9th arrived at Woodstock.
Marched 'till 9 A.M., arriving a short distance south of Fisher's Hill. The enemy finding us
falling back, closely followed after. We were thrown into line on either side of the road,
ready for what might occur. A little skirmishing with the rear guard was the only demonstration,
and at four P.M. we were back in front of Fisher's Hill, our old position. On the 9th, General
Rosier, with his artillery and cavalry, hovered about our rear, being closely watched by our
cavalry. He came a little too near, however, and our cavalry dashed at him and captured seven
or eight guns and a number of prisoners.

On the 11th of October, marched back to the north side of Cedar Creek, which we commenced fortifying.
The enemy brought heavy Batteries and shelled the 8th Corps camp on the left. The trains were
sent to the rear, and the troops placed in line ready for action, but the enemy appeared to
be reconnoitering, and fell back to Fisher's Hill.

All remained quiet until the morning of the 19th of October. Early had received large reinforcements
from Richmond, and now made a last desperate effort to redeem his lost laurels in the valley.
It was a well executed and daring move, and for a time promised success. He moved his men during
the night around our left flank by the base of the Blue Ridge, in single file, many not even
carrying their canteens, fearful that the least noise would be made. In this manner they succeeded
in reaching Middletown, a mile and a half in the rear of our breastworks; before daylight a
feint was made on our right to attract our attention in that quarter; a short time after a
volley or two of musketry was heard on our left, the enemy dashing on the 8th Corps in desperate
fury, completely surprising them. So sudden was the attack that many were captured before they
had time to leave their tents or seize their muskets. On pressed the successful mass, shouting
and yelling in the wildest manner.

The 8th Corps, badly demoralized, poured back on the rear of the 19th Corps, closely pursued
by the enemy. Our Division was going out to reconnoiter, and were in line, but from their position
could do but little, the enemy being in our rear, so that not a shot could be fired without
danger to our own men. The 1st Division, 19th Corps, was sent to support the 8th Corps early
in the morning, and suffered severely, meeting the first onslaught of the enemy. Our Division
(the 2d) took position in front of the breastworks, but being of no service there, we filed
to the right and fell back to the rear where we could be re-formed and occupy a position in
front of the enemy.

The enemy steadily pressed us back four or five miles. Matters began to look blue, when the
dashing "Little Phil" came up as fast as his noble black steed could carry him, leaving his
attendants far in the rear. The noise of the battle had reached him at Winchester early in
the morning. The appearance of Sheridan immediately instilled new vigor, energy and determination
into the men. He passed along the whole line amid the most marked enthusiasm, telling the men
they would quarter in their old camp again that night.

The broken lines were speedily re-formed, the General passing along hat in hand, encouraging
the men. This was sufficient, and from this dates the last advent of Early in the valley.

It was now our turn. The enemy charged us, and for the first time were repulsed. We pressed
on determined to win. The success of the morning turned to a most irretrievable and disastrous
defeat to the enemy. They were completely routed, suffering a terrible slaughter. Twenty-four
guns captured in the morning were retaken, besides a large number of prisoners, and most of
the enemy's artillery, numbering over fifty pieces. Our Regiment took 16 officers and 34 men
as prisoners, in this engagement. We lost Captain Richmond, one of the best officers in the
Regiment, and a brave, noble fellow. He was shot in the afternoon, when success began to turn
on our side. None braver paid the penalty of death for his country. We had 2 privates killed,
10 wounded, and 5 taken prisoners.

The cavalry pressed the beaten foe until horse flesh could do no more, taking a large number
of prisoners and all sorts of war implements and materials. Thus was this long day spent in
fighting and running, advancing and retreating, now one side victorious, then the other, when
finally success crowned our efforts.

Major Hart, of our Regiment, on General Grover's Staff, was wounded and taken by the Rebels.
He was not attended to in time, and lost so much blood as to cause his death.

On the 20th, the forces moved about three miles up the valley, overlooking Strausburg, the
cavalry continuing the pursuit to Harrisonburg, capturing more artillery and wagons. On the
21st moved back to our old position on Cedar Creek.

From this time until the 1st of January, 1865, the men were engaged in erecting breastworks,
preparing Winter quarters, frequently moving and occasionally skirmishing with the enemy along
the lines.

The 24th of November was observed in camp as Thanksgiving Day, and all duties were stopped
that could be dispensed with. Thanks to our kind friends at home, we were provided with a bountiful
feast of turkeys, chickens, pies and other luxuries, and if they could have witnessed the satisfaction
of the men on that occasion, it would have been ample reward for their generosity.

January 6th, 1865, moved to Harper's Ferry. Arrived in Baltimore next morning and quartered
in Barracks on Carrol Hill. On the 11th Colonel Waltermire took command of the Regiment, and
we embarked on board the steamer Sua-Noda, for Savannah. General Grover and Staff, the 128th
N.Y.S. Volunteers and the 24th Iowa were on the same vessel.

On the 18th cast anchor in Warsaw Sound, eight miles from Savannah; and on the 20th the Regiment
went up to the city on river boats, and were quartered in the Central Railroad Depot.

On the 26th were moved out to the fortifications, on the West side of the town.

February 1st, fresh bread was issued with our rations, which was a luxury to the boys so long
kept on "hard tack." February 19th, fired a rousing salute on hearing of the occupation of
Charleston by the Union forces. On the 22d, celebrated Washington's Birth-day in a becoming manner.

March 9th, were ordered on board the Tug boat U.S. Grant, which conveyed us to Hilton Head,
where we went into Barracks.

On the 15th, were taken on board U.S. Transport New York, a splendid new ship, and arrived
at Charleston, S.C., at one A.M., on the 16th. On the 17th took on board the 52d Pennsylvania,
a detachment of the 54th New York, and the 28th Iowa, in all about 1,600 men. Weighed anchor
on the 18th at ten and a half o'clock A.M., and moved down the harbor. This gave us an excellent
opportunity to see the dilapidated city and its approaches, fortifications and defences; the
latter of which were exceedingly formidable, and might be considered impregnable from the water
side.

March 19th, anchored off Fort Fisher, at nine o'clock A.M., when we received orders to report
at Morehead City, N.C. Reached that port on the 20th, landed on the 21st, and awaited orders.

April 5th, intelligence reached us of the evacuation of Richmond and Petersburg, which caused
great rejoicing throughout the camp. This was followed by the more encouraging news of Lee's
surrender on the 9th. While these great victories were being celebrated, the sad intelligence
of the assassination of President Lincoln reached camp, and cast a deep sadness over those
who had been jubilant but the hour before.

May 3d, ordered to report back to General Grover, at Savannah. Break camp, and embarked on
board steamer Star of the South. On the 7th, after an eventful trip, disembarked at Savannah,
and found the City remarkably improved in appearance since we left it.

May 11th, ordered to proceed to Augusta. Took up our line of march in a heavy rain storm, and
made twelve miles that day through the woods. Next day we accomplished over twenty miles. On
the 14th an Orderly from General Molineux' Headquarters reached us, to hurry up our march.
The 159th, 128th and 131st N.Y.S. Volunteers in advance of all, to make Wainsborough and take
the cars. Reached Augusta on the 17th, pretty well used up from fatigue.

June 7th, a general review of all the troops by General Molineux, on which occasion he issued
a congratulatory order to the soldiers, complimenting them for their excellent discipline,
and the services they had rendered.

Here the Regiment virtually closed its campaign, nothing further of note occurring up to the
present writing, beyond the usual routine of camp life in the city.

List of Field, Staff and Line Officers of the 159th Regiment at date of muster into the United
States Service, November 1st., 1862:

  HOMER A. NELSON, Colonel, discharged.

  EDWARD L. MOLINEUX, Lieutenant-Colonel, promoted to Colonel,
    breveted Brigadier General, discharged.

  GILBERT DRAPER, Major, promoted to Lieutenant-Colonel, killed at
    Irish Bend.

  ROBERT LATHROP, Adjutant, killed at Irish Bend.

  CHARLES A. ROBERTSON, Surgeon, discharged.

  WILLIAM Y. PROVOST, First Assistant Surgeon, promoted to Surgeon,
    discharged.

  CALEB C. BRIGGS, Second Assistant Surgeon, promoted to Surgeon.

  MARK D. WILBER, Quarter-Master, discharged.

  EDWARD L. GAUL, Capt. Co. A., promoted to Major and
    Lieutenant-Colonel, discharged.

  EDWARD ATWOOD, First Lieut., discharged.
  WESLEY BRADLEY, Second Lieut., died of fever.

  A.J. DAYTON, Capt. Co. B, discharged.
  HARRY TIEMANN, First Lieut., discharged.
  ALFRED GREENLEAF, Second Lieut., discharged.

  ARIEL M. GAMWELL, Capt. Co. C, discharged.
  CRAWFORD WILLIAMS, First Lieut., discharged.
  EDWARD HUBBEL, Second Lieut., discharged.

  JACOB HATTRY, Capt. Co. D, discharged.
  LAWRENCE LORETTE, First Lieut., discharged.
  JOHN MANLY, Second Lieut., promoted to First Lieut., killed at
    Irish Bend.

  WILLIAM WALTERMIRE, Capt. Co. E, promoted to Major,
    Lieutenant-Colonel and Colonel.
  NATHAN S. POST, First Lieut., discharged.
  ROBERT TRAVER, Second Lieut., discharged.

  ROBERT MCD. HART, Capt. Co. F., promoted to Major, killed.
  WILLIAM BURTIS, First Lieut., discharged.
  GEORGE W. HUSSEY, Second Lieut., promoted to Capt.

  WILLIAM SLITER, Capt. Co. G. discharged.
  CHARLES LEWIS, First Lieut., promoted to Colonel of the 176th
    Regiment.
  BYRON LOCKWOOD, Second Lieut., killed at Irish Bend.

  WELLES O. PETIT, Capt. Co. H, promoted to Major.
  CHARLES C. BAKER, First Lieut., promoted to Captain.
  GEORGE R. HERBERT, Second Lieut., detached.

  EDWARD WARDLE, Capt. Co. I, discharged.
  JOHN W. SHIELDS, First Lieut., discharged.
  JACOB FINGAR, Second Lieut., discharged.

  JOE B. RAMSDEN, Capt. Co. K, discharged.
  WILLIAM PLUNKET, First Lieut., killed at Irish Bend.
  DUNCAN RICHMOND, Second Lieut., promoted to Captain, killed.

Promoted from the Ranks.

  William F. Tiemann               to Captain
  John H. Charlot                     Quarter-Master
  Edward Tynan                        First Lieutenant
  Barzilla Ransom                       "       "
  Henry M. Howard                       "       "
  Christopher Branch                    "       "
  Alfred Bruce                          "       "
  Lambert Dingman                     First Lieutenant.
  Andrew Rifenburgh                     "      "
  Edward Duffy                          "      "
  E. Parmley Brown                      "      "
  John Day                              "      "
  John A. Tiemann                       "      "
  M.A. Dunham                           "      "
  William Spanburgh                   Second Lieutenant
  Charles P. Price                      "      "
  Herman Smith                          "      "

List of Battles and Skirmishes in which the Regiment was engaged.

  IRISH BEND, La., April 14th 1863, killed, 6 officers, 23 enlisted
  men; wounded 4 officers, 69 enlisted men; prisoners, 12. Total
  loss--112.

  BEFORE PORT HUDSON, La., May 26th, 1863, killed, 4 enlisted men.

  PORT HUDSON, La., first assault, May 27th, 1863, killed, 21
  enlisted men; wounded, 38. Total loss--59.

  PORT HUDSON, second assault, June 14th, 1863, wounded, 12 enlisted
  men.

  MANSURA, La., May 16th, 1864. No casualties.

  HALLTOWN, Va., August 24th, 1864, killed, 1 enlisted man; wounded, 1
  officer, 10 enlisted men; prisoners, 1 enlisted man. Total loss--13.

  BERRYVILLE, September 3d, 1864, killed, 1 enlisted man; wounded, 2
  enlisted men. Total loss--3.

  OPEQUAN, Va., September 19th, 1864, killed, 5 enlisted men; wounded,
  4 officers, 56 enlisted men; prisoners, 1 officer, 20 enlisted men.
  Total loss--86.

  FISHER'S HILL, Va., September 22d, 1864. No casualties.

  CEDAR CREEK, Va., October 19th, 1864, killed, 2 officers, 2 enlisted
  men; wounded, 1 officer, 10 enlisted men; prisoners, 5. Total
  loss--20.

General Officers under whom the Regiment served during the war.

  Generals Banks, Grover, Auger, Reynolds, Emory, Birge, Sherman,
  Schofield, Terry, Gilmore, Thomas, Sheridan, Steedman, Wright,
  Canby, Birney, Molineux, and King.

List of Cities and Towns the Regiment has visited in the line of military service.

  LOUISIANA--Baton Rouge, Donaldsonville, Carrollton, New Orleans,
  Algiers, Terra Bone, Thiladuex, Brashar City, Bayou Bueff, Berwick
  City, Franklin, New Iberie, Vermillionville, Washington, Bears
  Landing, Opolosus, Chaneyville, Simsport, Bayou Sara, Port Hudson,
  Clinton, Alexandria, Pineville, Patersonville, Mansura,
  Williamsport, Morganza, Point Coupee, Teunice Bend, and Jefferson.

  VIRGINIA--Bermuda Hundred, Leesburgh, Snickerville, Castle Burough,
  Berryville, Charlestown, Halltown, Harper's Ferry, Winchester,
  Kernstown, Newtown, Middletown, Strasburgh, Edenborough, Newmarket,
  Mount Jackson, Harrisonburgh, Mount Crawford, Centerville,
  Stephenson Station, and Burseville.

  GEORGIA--Savannah, Alexandria, Waynesborough, Allen, Green, Bashaw,
  and Augusta.

  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA--Washington, Georgetown, and Tenallaytown.

  NORTH CAROLINA--Willmington, and Morehead City.

  SOUTH CAROLINA--Hilton Head, and Charleston.

  MISSISSIPPI--Fort Adams.

  MARYLAND--Baltimore.

River Transportation during the War.

  NAME OF BOAT          FROM               TO

                        1863.
  St. Mary           Baton Rouge        Donaldsonville.
  Empire Parish      Donaldsonville     Thibadaux.
  Laurel Hill        Brasher City       Irish Bend.
  Empire Parish      Symsport           Bayou Sara.
  Laurel Hill        Port Hudson        Donaldsonville.
  Gen. Banks         Carrollton         Algiers.

                        1864.
  James Bartlet      Algiers            Alexandria.
  Ohio Belle         Morganza           Fort Adams.
  Lancaster No. 3    Morganza           New Orleans.
  Wynonah            Bermuda Hundred    Washington.

                        1865.
  Clifton            Warsaw River       Savannah.
  U.S. Grant         Savannah           Hilton Head.
  H.M. Wells         U.S.T. New York    Morehead City.

Sea Voyages of the Regiment during the War.

  NAME OF BOAT           FROM              TO

                          1862.
  Northern Light       New York         Baton Rouge.

                          1864.
  Cohola               New Orleans      Bermuda Hund.

                          1865.
  Suwo-Noda            Baltimore        Savannah.
  New York             Hilton Head      Morehead City.
  Star of the South    Morehead City    Savannah.

List of Field, Staff and Line Officers now in command of the Regiment.

Colonel--WILLIAM WALTERMIRE. Major--WELLS O. PETIT. Acting Adjutant--GEORGE B. STALEY. Surgeon--CALEB
C. BRIGGS. Acting Quarter-Master--E. SPENCER ELMER.

Company A.--Capt. WILLIAM F. TIEMANN.
     "    B.--First Lieut. JOHN DAY.
     "    C.--First Lieut. BARZILLA RANSOM.
     "    D.--First Lieut. E. PARMLEY BROWN.
     "    E.--First Lieut. ANDREW RIFENBURGH.
     "    F.--Capt. GEORGE W. HUSSEY.
     "    G.--Capt. JAMES S. REYNOLDS.
     "    H.-- ---- --------
     "    I.--First Lieut. EDWARD TYNAN.
     "    K.--First Lieut. E. SPENCER ELMER.

       *       *       *       *       *

    +-----------------------------------------------------------+
    | Typographical errors corrected in text:                   |
    |                                                           |
    | Page 18: 'back to to the position' replaced with          |
    |          'back to the position'                           |
    | Page 21: Carrolton replaced with Carrollton               |
    | Page 40: Charletson replaced with Charleston              |
    |                                                           |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------+

       *       *       *       *       *

