Another thing to be remembered is that Mr. Nehls wrote his statement at a time when one-reel
pictures were the rule; and what would have been considered enormously expensive for a single-reel
story is not thought so much of when it is to be included in a production of five reels or
over. A good rule, followed by many successful writers, is to plan your story--estimating as
well as you can according to what unusual effects or settings, are called for--so that a five-reel
subject, say, will not call for more than five times the outlay demanded by a single-reel picture.
It is not an easy thing to do, we will admit; but you can do your best to figure the expense
in this way. Many manufacturers are willing to pay out as much for a thoroughly good five-reel
picture as some others would pay for a six-or seven-reel feature; if they do so in the case
of your story so much the better for you, in the light of the additional credit you will receive
for having turned out an especially fine piece of work. The point is: Don't be too ready to
add to the expense merely because it is a multiple-reel story. The test should be: Is the expensive
scene or effect absolutely essential to a proper unfolding of your plot? If it is, include
it; if not, leave it out or find as good a substitute effect as you can. In any event, omit
expensive scenes for minor parts of your plot.

2. Considering the Expense of Settings

Do not write a scene into your scenario that will necessitate too much work for scenic artists,
carpenters, and property men. A truly big theme is, of course, entitled to careful, and even
elaborate, staging; but it is usually only necessary to set forth the big theme and describe
the setting in a general way; the producer will do the rest. Do not be extravagant in your
requirements. This should be one of your first considerations when you start to write a scene:
could it be played as well in some other setting that would not require so much "staging?"
Perhaps, in the setting that you thought of first, it might be necessary to use several extra
people, thereby adding to the cost of production. No doubt it would be very pretty and effective
to have Ralph make up his quarrel with Dorothy as she sits down close to the camera in the
crowded ball-room; but, if the play did not already contain a ball-room scene, could not the
reconciliation be shown just as well in the library or on the street near her home or in a
drawing-room scene where only a few guests are assembled, the guests all being regular members
of the stock company?

Some pictures calling for special properties and extra people fully justify the additional
expenditure; others do not. He is a wise writer who knows his own script well enough to be
able to judge.

3. How Some "Too Expensive" Scenes Were Taken

In a great many cases, pictures containing aëroplanes, burning oil wells, railroad wrecks,
houses that are completely gutted by fire, and other exceptionally spectacular features, are
the result of the merest chance. For example, a few years ago the Thanhouser studio at New
Rochelle, N.Y., caught fire and burned to the ground. The fire was a spectacular one, as the
chemical contents of the building burned like powder, and there were several explosions. The
fire occurred at 1.30 o'clock in the afternoon, and many of the players were at lunch at their
hotels when the alarm was turned in. But the players, the cameraman, and the director quickly
got together, and even before the fire was well out they had produced a thrilling fire picture,
"When the Studio Burned," in which was shown the rescue of the "Thanhouser Kid" by Miss Marguerite
Snow, then leading woman of the company. Thus advantage was taken of an unfortunate happening
to add to the fame of the Thanhouser company.

Again, it may happen that several scenes of a big fire are taken while it is in progress, and
the film laid aside until a suitable photoplay is either written by a staff-writer or sent
in by an outside author. Then the picture is completed, the fire scenes previously taken being
inserted between other scenes showing the action of the plot.

One of the most thrilling and realistic fire pictures ever produced was "The Incendiary Foreman,"
released by Pathé Frères early in 1908. It had a well-developed plot that kept the dramatic
interest keyed up every moment, but the features of the film were the many thrillingly realistic
fire scenes, in which the Parisian fire department battled with the flames while several enormous
buildings were being destroyed. One of the earlier scenes depicted the yard of the Pathé factory,
and showed a quarrel between the foreman and one of the workmen. The ensuing action led one
to believe that this was the factory that was consumed by the flames, but one or two of the
later scenes made it plain to those who could read French and who watched the picture closely
that the actual fire scenes had been taken during the destruction of an immense oil refinery.
Yet the combination of the rehearsed scenes and the views of the real and disastrous conflagration
made a picture that drew record-breaking houses to every theatre where it was exhibited.

Again, whether or not the producing concern releases a weekly or semi-weekly current-events
reel, every company at times makes use of portions of such pictures, either made by themselves
or procured from other firms. In the same way, educational pictures of every kind are made
use of--certain parts of them, that is--to provide fitting and convincing atmosphere for original
stories. When the Whartons put out their very fine patriotic serial, "The Eagle's Eye," written
and produced with the intention of exposing the plots formed in the United States by agents
of the Imperial German Government, the first episode was called "The Hidden Death," and showed
on the screen exactly how, in all probability, the sinking of the Lusitania was brought about
by Count von Bernstorff and his various agents. The actual advertisement placed in New York
City newspapers by the German Embassy at Washington, warning all travelers that they sailed
on steamers belonging to Great Britain at their own risk, as a state of war existed between
that country and Germany, was shown on the screen, as were several photographs of newspaper
first pages with news of the crime after it had been perpetrated. Also, the Lusitania was shown
sailing down the North River toward the Upper Bay, starting on her last voyage. This picture,
of course, was at least three years old at the time the film was shown in the theatres, and
may have been much more than that, since many pictures of this and other great ocean liners
have been made in years past, and at times when no one could possibly have guessed their ultimate
fate.

Practically every photoplay of the Great War that has been released up to the present time
has been made up in part of scenes taken on one of the fighting fronts, at the American, British
or other training camps, or during street parades and military reviews, these pictures having
first been made for news weeklies, official war pictures, or for patriotic propaganda purposes.
Fitted in as a part of a war story, they greatly enhance the effect of those scenes which are
entirely the creation of the author's brain.

On one occasion, a certain Edison director was putting on a feature which showed--as originally
written--the sinking in mid-ocean of a great liner. While rehearsing the scene on deck which
showed the passengers taking to the life-boats, he made repeated experiments with certain lightning
effects, none of which quite satisfied him. He also had some trouble with one of the made-to-order
life-boats. Finally, rather disgusted with the way things were going, he decided to cut out
the lowering-of-the-boats scene and to have a fire at sea instead of a mere foundering. In
a very few minutes, with the aid of "smoke-pots" and "blow-torches" a thrilling burning-ship
scene was made, with the people scrambling toward the life-boats. Later, several long-distance
views of the burning of a real ocean vessel, made by the company several years before, were
introduced with most convincing effect, while the action of the story was in no way interfered
with on account of the change. The scene described, of course, was made in the studio, with
a specially built deck scene. Had there been other scenes aboard ship needed in the story's
working out, the director would undoubtedly have secured permission to take all the scenes
needed aboard one of the ocean liners always to be found in the port of New York.

So it is that hundreds of pictures released every year contain thrilling, unusual, and beautiful
effects which the author has never dreamed of writing into his scenario, but which have been
supplied by a careful director with a memory for what the company has made in the past. And
the thing to be remembered, of course, is that while it is very easy for a director to use
something which is already made and in the company's possession--or readily procurable from
another company--it is not so easy, at times, to make the big scene or effect that the novice
introduces into his story.

Leaving aside the staff-writers, in almost every company[24] there are one or two photoplaywrights;
in many cases the leading man is also the director of the company, writing and producing a
great many of the plays they turn out. Where this is so, that company is in a position to take
advantage of any unforeseen happening or accident. Being in the vicinity of a railroad wreck,
they hurry to the place and take the scenes they need. Then, probably many miles away, and
on an entirely different railroad line, with the permission of the company and possibly at
a slight extra expense, they take the other railroad scenes--perhaps a week after taking those
at the scene of the wreck.

[Footnote 24: "Company," as here used, refers to the group of players working under a certain
director, several such groups making up the stock company maintained by the film manufacturing
concern.]

Thus the unthinking amateur writer, seeing the result of the producer's efforts on the screen,
takes it for granted that the company has gone to the expense of buying up several old coaches
and an engine or two and producing an actual wreck merely for the sake of supplying some thrilling
situations in a railroad drama. True, head-on collisions have been planned and pictured, box-cars
have been thrown over embankments, automobiles have been burned, aëroplanes have been wrecked,
and houses have been destroyed, to furnish thrilling episodes in the pictures produced by various
companies, but unless the story itself fully justified the additional expense and trouble,
it is safe to say that the company, having the opportunity to purchase some old engines and
coaches cheap, took advantage of this to write and produce a picture in which their destruction
could be featured--that is, the photoplay was the result of the special scene, and the scene
was not made specially for that particular plot.

To repeat, in introducing scenes that call for additional expenditure on the part of the manufacturer,
the question to ask yourself is, will the resulting effect really justify the added cost of
production?

As a striking example of how unusual and--from the standpoint of what may be artificially arranged--seemingly
impossible scenes may be used in photoplays, consider the following--and then avoid the introduction
of such scenes unless you know absolutely just how your effect may be obtained.

