Auditor. Yes, I can answer for the moderate guarantee--about £20--in the bank.

Stage Manager. And the good stock company was imported early this morning from Ireland. All
very good Shakspearian actors with a taste of a brogue to give their remarks pungency.

Manager. That's all right. And what is the play?

First Member of the Committee of Taste. "Demons," by the Master.

Second Ditto. No, let us have something newer. Why not an adaptation (by myself) of that charming
work by SODALA--I call it Blood and Thunder?

Manager (producing halfpenny). By the rules of the Company we toss for it. (Throws up coin.)
Heads!--Blood and Thunder wins. We will do Blood and Thunder. Well, now as to casting it. Anything
for IRVING in it?

Second Mem. Oh, yes--if he would play it. A Policeman who dies by cutting his throat in Scene
1. Not the sort of part he usually selects, but capital.

First Mem. It is not for Mr. IRVING to pick and choose, it is the cause of Art we serve.

Second Mem. Well, yes. We might telephone and learn his views on the subject.

    [Subordinate takes instructions.

Manager. All right! Ah, here we have the piece! Rather long, but the parts seem mild enough.
Who's to do this soldier--a sort of heavy dragoon, with a cold, who dies in the First Scene
of the Second Act?

Second Mem. Oh, anybody! KENDAL or FARREN; or if they can't, then HARE or LIONEL BROUGH.

Manager. But do you think they will like it? You see they each have their line, and--

First Mem. In the cause of Art they will be prepared to do anything. At least, they ought to be.

Manager. Well, we will telephone to them too. (Subordinate takes further instructions.) And
now, how about the Ladies?

Second Mem. Oh, there are a lot of school-girls, and a woman who dies by degrees of general
paralysis. The girls, of course will be all right with--say, Miss EMERY, Miss LINDEN, Miss
ALMA MURRAY, and Mrs. KENDAL. But we want two people to play the woman. First Act, Miss ELLEN
TERRY; second and third, Miss GENEVIEVE WARD. To be properly played, both should be in it.

Manager. But how will that do? I do not think that Miss TERRY will care to--

First Mem. Nonsense! She is a most charming person, and will do anything in the cause of Art.

Subordinate (returning from telephone). Beg pardon, Gentlemen, but Messrs. KENDAL, FARREN,
BROUGH and HARE say they are very sorry, but they are not at home; and Mr. IRVING presents
his compliments, and would be delighted to do what we wish, but he fears he will be otherwise
engaged. However, he says you have his sympathy, and his heart goes out to you. [Exit.

Manager. Well, what shall we do?

Second Mem. Oh, there's VEZIN, and TERRIS, and PAULTON, and a heap more!

Subordinate (returning). Just heard from the Ladies, Gentlemen, and they send their kindest
regards, but they are out too!

Acting Manager (entering). Well, how about the performance?

Members of the Council (together). Oh, it's nearly arranged!

Acting Man. Well, if I might suggest, as a person of considerable experience, it doesn't matter
a jot whether you get a company together or not.

Members (as before). Why?

Acting Man. Because you won't get an audience!

    [Scene closes in upon farther consultation.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THEOSOPHIC TOOLS.

(BY AN OPPONENT OF OCCULTISM.)

  The Theosophic Boom, its wordy strife
    And futile fuss are fading out in "fizzle."
  They talk a deal about their "planes of life,"
    'Tis plain to me the fitter term were "chisel."

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR SONGS RE-SUNG:

OR, MISS BOWDLER AT THE MUSIC HALLS.

"A nod is as good as a wink to a blind horse," says the old saw, and a wink is no doubt as
good as a smile to a purblind ass. But the wink is indeed one of the worst uses to which the
human eye can he put. It signifies usually the vulgarisation of humour, and the degradation
of mirth. It is the favourite eye-language of the cynical cad, the coarse jester, the crapulous
clown, and--above all--the chuckling cheat.

It must be admitted, that the Muse of the Music Hall--in her Momus mood--has a strong leaning
towards the glorification of cynical 'cuteness of the Autolycus sort. It is a weakness which
she seems to share with party scribes and Colonial politicians. Autolycus's complacent self-gratulation,
"How bless'd are we that are not simple men!" would appeal to the heart of the Music-hall votary.

So the Music-hall Muse "winks" knowingly, and knavishly, at her audience, and her audience
"laugh heartily," in Jovian guffaws, at her winks. What wonder then that she should lyrically
apostrophise "The Wink" in laudatory numbers?

  "Say, boys, now is it quite the thing?"

she cries in sham deprecation, but all the while she "winks the other eye" in a way her hearers
quite understand. "Cabby knows his fare," and the Music-hall Muse knows her clients. What,
we wonder, would be her reception did she really carry out her ironically pretended protest
and sing to the chuckling cads who applaud her, the following version of her favourite lay?

NO. II.--THE WINK OF ROGUERY'S EYE.

AIR--"WINK THE OTHER EYE."

  Say, boys, whatever do men mean
  When they wink the other eye?
  Why, when "sharps" say the world is "green,"
  Do they wink the other eye?
  The Radicals and Tories both tell stories, not a few,
  About Measures falsely promised, and reforms long overdue;
  And when the simple Mob believes that every word is true.
  Then they--wink the other eye!

    Chorus.--Say, boys, now is it quite the thing!
        Say, should we let them have their fling?
        Ah, when they get us "on a string"
        Then they wink the other eye!

  Say, boys are Leaders to be loved,
  When they wink the other eye?
  By artful speech the Mob is moved,
  Till it winks the other eye;
  The optic Wink's the language of the sly and sordid soul,
  The mute freemasonry of Fraud, sign-post to Roguery's goal.
  When Circe sees her votaries swine ready in sludge to roll
  Then she winks the other eye!

    Chorus.--Say, boys, is it so fine a thing,
        Low Cunning, which Cheat's laureates sing,
        The Comus of the Mart and Ring,
        Who--winks the other eye?

  Say, boys, is Cunning's promise good,
  When she winks the other eye?
  Noodledom seeks her neighbourhood,
  And winks its other eye.
  For no one winks so freely as a fool who thinks he's sly;
  The dupe of deeper knavery smirks in shallow mimicry
  Of the smirking JERRY DIDDLER who is sucking him so dry,
  And who winks the other eye.

    Chorus.--Say, boys, now is the Wink a thing
        Worthy of worship; will you fling
        Your caps in air for the Knave-King
        Who--winks the other eye?

  The Politician plucks his geese,
  Then he winks the other eye.
  Brazen Fraud steals Trade's Golden Fleece,
  Then he winks the other eye.
  Autolycus pipes ballads; public pockets are his aim;
  Rabagas raves of "liberty"; advancement is his game;
  And when their dupes aren't looking all these rogues do just the same,
  They--wink the other eye!

    Chorus.--Say, boys, pæans will you sing
        To winking harpies all a-wing
        To prey on fools; who steal, and sting,
        And--wink the other eye?

  Wisdom may smile, but Cunning can't,
  She winks the other eye.
  Humour shall chortle, Mockery shan't,
  She winks the other eye.
  The stars above us twinkle and the dews beneath us blink,
  All the eyes of Nature sparkle, and from merriment do not shrink,
  The Language of the Eye of Cynic Knavery is--the Wink!
  Roguery "winks the other eye!"

    Chorus.--Say, boys, is it quite the thing?
        "Ducdàme"[1] to fools the Diddlers sing;
        Trust me 'tis Rascals in a Ring
        Who wink the other eye!

[Footnote 1:

  Amiens. What's that "ducdàme"?

  Jaques. 'Tis a Greek invocation to call fools into a circle.

"As You Like It," Act II., Sc. 5.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EVOLUTION OF TOMMY'S PRIVATE-SCHOOL REPORT.

1. A rough draught, written by the under-master, who certainly has had rather a trying week
with TOMMY.

"I am unable to speak highly of either his intelligence or his industry; but occasionally he
works well, and has undoubtedly made some progress this term. His conduct is not always good."

2. Second rough draught; TOMMY in the meantime has missed a repetition and accidentally knocked
down the black-board.

"Exceptionally stupid and idle. Cannot be said to have made any progress whatever this term,
although he has had every effort made with him. His conduct is abominable, noisy and unruly
in the extreme."

3. Fair copy to be submitted to the principal; of course, TOMMY had not intended to be overheard
when he spoke of the under-master as "Old Pig-face," but this is the result.

"A more idle and utterly worthless boy it has never been my misfortune to teach. Seems to have
gone steadily backward all the term. Is most objectionable in his manners, and has no sense
of honour."

4. Fair copy, as amended by the principal; how was TOMMY to know that stone would break the
conservatory window, and drive the principal to alter the report to this?

"Would be better suited in a reformatory than in a school of this standing. Utterly depraved,
vicious and idle, with marked criminal instincts. In intellect verges on the imbecile. Unless
there is a marked improvement next term, I cannot keep him."

5. Principal's final copy; it was fortunate that TOMMY happened to remark that he had four
cousins who were, perhaps, coming next term. One can't lose four pupils, even if it makes it
necessary to write like this.

"A singularly bright and high-spirited boy; a little given to mischief, as all boys are, but
quite amenable to discipline. My assistant speaks most highly of his progress this term, and
of his general intelligence. He seems well suited by our system. His conduct is, on the whole,
admirable. He is truthful and conscientious."

       *       *       *       *       *

COUPLET BY A CYNIC.

  "Poetry does not sell!" cry plaintive pleaders.
  Alas! most modern Poetry does--its readers!