Dinner came to us not long after, and we ate it on deck, in a grim silence, each privately
racking his brain for some solution of the mysteries. I was, indeed, so swallowed up in these
considerations that the wreck, the lagoon, the islets, and the strident sea-fowl, the strong
sun then beating on my head, and even the gloomy countenance of the captain at my elbow, all
vanished from the field of consciousness. My mind was a blackboard on which I scrawled and
blotted out hypotheses, comparing each with the pictorial records in my memory--ciphering with
pictures. In the course of this tense mental exercise I recalled and studied the faces of one
memorial masterpiece, the scene of the saloon; and here I found myself, on a sudden, looking
in the eyes of the Kanaka.

"There's one thing I can put beyond doubt, at all events," I cried, relinquishing my dinner
and getting briskly afoot. "There was that Kanaka I saw in the bar with Captain Trent, the
fellow the newspapers and ship's articles made out to be a Chinaman. I mean to rout his quarters
out and settle that."

"All right," said Nares. "I'll lazy off a bit longer, Mr. Dodd; I feel pretty rocky and mean."

We had thoroughly cleared out the three after-compartments of the ship; all the stuff from
the main cabin and the mate's and captain's quarters lay piled about the wheel; but in the
forward state-room with the two bunks, where Nares had said the mate and cook most likely berthed,
we had as yet done nothing. Thither I went. It was very bare; a few photographs were tacked
on the bulkhead, one of them indecent; a single chest stood open, and, like all we had yet
found, it had been partly rifled. An armful of two-shilling novels proved to me beyond a doubt
it was a European's; no Chinaman would have possessed any, and the most literate Kanaka conceivable
in a ship's galley was not likely to have gone beyond one. It was plain, then, that the cook
had not berthed aft, and I must look elsewhere.

The men had stamped down the nests and driven the birds from the galley, so that I could now
enter without contest. One door had been already blocked with rice; the place was in part darkness,
full of a foul stale smell, and a cloud of nasty flies; it had been left, besides, in some
disorder, or else the birds, during their time of tenancy, had knocked the things about; and
the floor, like the deck before we washed it, was spread with pasty filth. Against the wall,
in the far corner, I found a handsome chest of camphor-wood bound with brass, such as Chinamen
and sailors love, and indeed all of mankind that plies in the Pacific. From its outside view
I could thus make no deduction; and, strange to say, the interior was concealed. All the other
chests, as I have said already, we had found gaping open, and their contents scattered abroad;
the same remark we found to apply afterwards in the quarters of the seamen; only this camphor-wood
chest, a singular exception, was both closed and locked.

I took an axe to it, readily forced the paltry Chinese fastening, and, like a Custom House
officer, plunged my hands among the contents. For some while I groped among linen and cotton.
Then my teeth were set on edge with silk, of which I drew forth several strips covered with
mysterious characters. And these settled the business, for I recognised them as a kind of bed-hanging,
popular with the commoner class of the Chinese. Nor were further evidences wanting, such as
night-clothes of an extraordinary design, a three-stringed Chinese fiddle, a silk handkerchief
full of roots and herbs, and a neat apparatus for smoking opium, with a liberal provision of
the drug. Plainly, then, the cook had been a Chinaman; and, if so, who was Jos. Amalu? Or had
Jos. stolen the chest before he proceeded to ship under a false name and domicile? It was possible,
as anything was possible in such a welter; but, regarded as a solution, it only led and left
me deeper in the bog. For why should this chest have been deserted and neglected, when the
others were rummaged or removed? and where had Jos. come by that second chest, with which (according
to the clerk at the What Cheer) he had started for Honolulu?

"And how have you fared?" inquired the captain, whom I found luxuriously reclining in our mound
of litter. And the accent on the pronoun, the heightened colour of the speaker's face, and
the contained excitement in his tones, advertised me at once that I had not been alone to make
discoveries.

"I have found a Chinaman's chest in the galley," said I, "and John (if there was any John)
was not so much as at the pains to take his opium."

Nares seemed to take it mighty quietly. "That so?" said he. "Now, cast your eyes on that and
own you're beaten!" and with a formidable clap of his open hand, he flattened out before me,
on the deck, a pair of newspapers.

I gazed upon them dully, being in no mood for fresh discoveries.

"Look at them, Mr. Dodd," cried the captain sharply. "Can't you look at them?" And he ran a
dirty thumb along the title. "'Sydney Morning Herald, November 26th,' can't you make that out?"
he cried, with rising energy. "And don't you know, sir, that not thirteen days after this paper
appeared in New South Wales, this ship we're standing in heaved her blessed anchors out of
China? How did the Sydney Morning Herald get to Hong Kong in thirteen days? Trent made no land,
he spoke no ship, till he got here. Then he either got it here or in Hong Kong. I give you
your choice, my son!" he cried and fell back among the clothes like a man weary of life.

"Where did you find them?" I asked. "In that black bag?"

"Guess so," he said. "You needn't fool with it. There's nothing else but a lead-pencil and
a kind of worked-out knife."

I looked in the bag, however, and was well rewarded.

"Every man to his trade, captain," said I. "You're a sailor, and you've given me plenty of
points; but I am an artist, and allow me to inform you this is quite as strange as all the
rest. The knife is a palette-knife; the pencil a Winsor and Newton, and a B B B at that. A
palette-knife and a B B B on a tramp brig! It's against the laws of Nature."

"It would sicken a dog, wouldn't it?" said Nares.

"Yes," I continued; "it's been used by an artist, too: see how it's sharpened--not for writing--no
man could write with that. An artist, and straight from Sydney? How can he come in?"

"O, that's natural enough," sneered Nares. "They cabled him to come up and illustrate this
dime novel."

We fell a while silent.

"Captain," I said at last, "there is something deuced underhand about this brig. You tell me
you've been to sea a good part of your life. You must have seen shady things done on ships,
and heard of more. Well, what is this? is it insurance? is it piracy? what is it about? what
can it be for?"

"Mr. Dodd," returned Nares, "you're right about me having been to sea the bigger part of my
life. And you're right again when you think I know a good many ways in which a dishonest captain
mayn't be on the square, nor do exactly the right thing by his owners, and altogether be just
a little too smart by ninety-nine and three-quarters. There's a good many ways, but not so
many as you'd think; and not one that has any mortal thing to do with Trent. Trent and his
whole racket has got to do with nothing--that's the bed-rock fact; there's no sense to it,
and no use in it, and no story to it--it's a beastly dream. And don't you run away with that
notion that landsmen take about ships. A society actress don't go around more publicly than
what a ship does, nor is more interviewed, nor more humbugged, nor more run after by all sorts
of little fussinesses in brass buttons. And more than an actress, a ship has a deal to lose;
she's capital, and the actress only character--if she's that. The ports of the world are thick
with people ready to kick a captain into the penitentiary if he's not as bright as a dollar
and as honest as the morning star; and what with Lloyd keeping watch and watch in every corner
of the three oceans, and the insurance leeches, and the consuls, and the Customs bugs, and
the medicos, you can only get the idea by thinking of a landsman watched by a hundred and fifty
detectives, or a stranger in a village Down East."

"Well, but at sea?" I said.

"You make me tired," retorted the captain. "What's the use--at sea? Everything's got to come
to bearings at some port, hasn't it? You can't stop at sea for ever, can you?--No; the Flying
Scud is rubbish; if it meant anything, it would have to mean something so almighty intricate
that James G. Blaine hasn't got the brains to engineer it; and I vote for more axeing, pioneering,
and opening up the resources of this phenomenal brig, and less general fuss," he added, arising.
"The dime-museum symptoms will drop in of themselves, I guess, to keep us cheery."

But it appeared we were at the end of discoveries for the day; and we left the brig about sundown,
without being further puzzled or further enlightened. The best of the cabin spoils--books,
instruments, papers, silks, and curiosities--we carried along with us in a blanket, however,
to divert the evening hours; and when supper was over, and the table cleared, and Johnson set
down to a dreary game of cribbage between his right hand and his left, the captain and I turned
out our blanket on the floor, and sat side by side to examine and appraise the spoils.

The books were the first to engage our notice. These were rather numerous (as Nares contemptuously
put it) "for a lime-juicer." Scorn of the British mercantile marine glows in the breast of
every Yankee merchant captain; as the scorn is not reciprocated, I can only suppose it justified
in fact; and certainly the Old Country mariner appears of a less studious disposition. The
more credit to the officers of the Flying Scud, who had quite a library, both literary and
professional. There were Findlay's five directories of the world--all broken-backed, as is
usual with Findlay, and all marked and scribbled over with corrections and additions--several
books of navigations, a signal-code, and an Admiralty book of a sort of orange hue, called
"Islands of the Eastern Pacific Ocean," vol. iii., which appeared from its imprint to be the
latest authority, and showed marks of frequent consultation in the passages about the French
Frigate Shoals, the Harman, Cure, Pearl, and Hermes Reefs, Lisiansky Island, Ocean Island,
and the place where we then lay--Brooks or Midway. A volume of Macaulay's "Essays" and a shilling
Shakespeare led the van of the belles lettres; the rest were novels. Several Miss Braddon's--of
course, "Aurora Floyd," which has penetrated to every island of the Pacific, a good many cheap
detective books, "Rob Roy," Auerbach's "Auf der Höhe," in the German, and a prize temperance
story, pillaged (to judge by the stamp) from an Anglo-Indian circulating library.

"The Admiralty man gives a fine picture of our island," remarked Nares, who had turned up Midway
Island. "He draws the dreariness rather mild, but you can make out he knows the place."

"Captain," I cried, "you've struck another point in this mad business. See here," I went on
eagerly, drawing from my pocket a crumpled fragment of the Daily Occidental which I had inherited
from Jim: "Misled by Hoyt's 'Pacific Directory'? Where's Hoyt?"

"Let's look into that," said Nares. "I got that book on purpose for this cruise." Therewith
he fetched it from the shelf in his berth, turned to Midway Island, and read the account aloud.
It stated with precision that the Pacific Mail Company were about to form a depot there, in
preference to Honolulu, and that they had already a station on the island.

"I wonder who gives these directory men their information," Nares reflected. "Nobody can blame
Trent after that. I never got in company with squarer lying; it reminds a man of a presidential
campaign."

"All very well," said I; "that's your Hoyt, and a fine, tall copy. But what I want to know
is, where is Trent's Hoyt?"

"Took it with him," chuckled Nares; "he had left everything else, bills and money and all the
rest: he was bound to take something, or it would have aroused attention on the Tempest. 'Happy
thought,' says he, 'let's take Hoyt.'"

"And has it not occurred to you," I went on, "that all the Hoyts in creation couldn't have
misled Trent, since he had in his hand that red Admiralty book, an official publication, later
in date, and particularly full on Midway Island?"

"That's a fact!" cried Nares; "and I bet the first Hoyt he ever saw was out of the mercantile
library of San Francisco. Looks as if he had brought her here on purpose, don't it? But then
that's inconsistent with the steam-crusher of the sale. That's the trouble with this brig racket;
any one can make half a dozen theories for sixty or seventy per cent. of it; but when they're
made, there's always a fathom or two of slack hanging out of the other end."

I believe our attention fell next on the papers, of which we had altogether a considerable
bulk. I had hoped to find among these matter for a full-length character of Captain Trent;
but here I was doomed, on the whole, to disappointment. We could make out he was an orderly
man, for all his bills were docketed and preserved. That he was convivial, and inclined to
be frugal even in conviviality, several documents proclaimed. Such letters as we found were,
with one exception, arid notes from tradesmen. The exception, signed Hannah Trent, was a somewhat
fervid appeal for a loan. "You know what misfortunes I have had to bear," wrote Hannah, "and
how much I am disappointed in George. The landlady appeared a true friend when I first came
here, and I thought her a perfect lady. But she has come out since then in her true colours;
and if you will not be softened by this last appeal, I can't think what is to become of your
affectionate----" and then the signature. This document was without place or date, and a voice
told me that it had gone likewise without answer. On the whole, there were few letters anywhere
in the ship; but we found one before we were finished, in a seaman's chest, of which I must
transcribe some sentences. It was dated from some place on the Clyde. "My dearist son," it
ran, "this is to tell you your dearist father passed away, Jan twelft, in the peace of the
Lord. He had your photo and dear David's lade upon his bed, made me sit by him. Let's be a'
thegither, he said, and gave you all his blessing. O my dear laddie, why were nae you and Davie
here? He would have had a happier passage. He spok of both of ye all night most beautiful,
and how ye used to stravaig on the Saturday afternoons, and of auld Kelvinside. Sooth the tune
to me, he said, though it was the Sabbath, and I had to sooth him 'Kelvin Grove,' and he looked
at his fiddle, the dear man. I cannae bear the sight of it, he'll never play it mair. O my
lamb, come home to me, I'm all by my lane now." The rest was in a religious vein, and quite
conventional. I have never seen any one more put out than Nares, when I handed him this letter.
He had read but a few words, before he cast it down; it was perhaps a minute ere he picked
it up again, and the performance was repeated the third time before he reached the end.

"It's touching, isn't it?" said I.

For all answer, Nares exploded in a brutal oath; and it was some half an hour later that he
vouchsafed an explanation. "I'll tell you what broke me up about that letter," said he. "My
old man played the fiddle, played it all out of tune: one of the things he played was 'Martyrdom,'
I remember--it was all martyrdom to me. He was a pig of a father, and I was a pig of a son;
but it sort of came over me I would like to hear that fiddle squeak again. Natural," he added;
"I guess we're all beasts."

"All sons are, I guess," said I. "I have the same trouble on my conscience: we can shake hands
on that," Which (oddly enough, perhaps) we did.

Amongst the papers we found a considerable sprinkling of photographs; for the most part either
of very debonair-looking young ladies or old women of the lodging-house persuasion. But one
among them was the means of our crowning discovery.

"They're not pretty, are they, Mr. Dodd?" said Nares, as he passed it over.

"Who?" I asked, mechanically taking the card (it was a quarter-plate) in hand, and smothering
a yawn; for the hour was late, the day had been laborious, and I was wearying for bed.

"Trent and Company," said he. "That's a historic picture of the gang."

I held it to the light, my curiosity at a low ebb: I had seen Captain Trent once, and had no
delight in viewing him again. It was a photograph of the deck of the brig, taken from forward:
all in apple-pie order; the hands gathered in the waist, the officers on the poop. At the foot
of the card was written, "Brig Flying Scud, Rangoon," and a date; and above or below each individual
figure the name had been carefully noted.

As I continued to gaze, a shock went through me; the dimness of sleep and fatigue lifted from
my eyes, as fog lifts in the Channel; and I beheld with startled clearness the photographic
presentment of a crowd of strangers. "J. Trent, Master" at the top of the card directed me
to a smallish, wizened man, with bushy eyebrows and full white beard, dressed in a frock-coat
and white trousers; a flower stuck in his button-hole, his bearded chin set forward, his mouth
clenched with habitual determination. There was not much of the sailor in his looks, but plenty
of the martinet; a dry, precise man, who might pass for a preacher in some rigid sect; and,
whatever he was, not the Captain Trent of San Francisco. The men, too, were all new to me:
the cook, an unmistakable Chinaman, in his characteristic dress, standing apart on the poop
steps. But perhaps I turned on the whole with the greatest curiosity to the figure labelled
"E. Goddedaal, 1st off." He whom I had never seen, he might be the identical; he might be the
clue and spring of all this mystery; and I scanned his features with the eye of a detective.
He was of great stature, seemingly blonde as a Viking, his hair clustering round his head in
frowsy curls, and two enormous whiskers, like the tusks of some strange animal, jutting from
his cheeks. With these virile appendages and the defiant attitude in which he stood, the expression
of his face only imperfectly harmonised. It was wild, heroic, and womanish-looking; and I felt
I was prepared to hear he was a sentimentalist, and to see him weep.

For some while I digested my discovery in private, reflecting how best, and how with most of
drama, I might share it with the captain. Then my sketch-book came in my head, and I fished
it out from where it lay, with other miscellaneous possessions, at the foot of my bunk, and
turned to my sketch of Captain Trent and the survivors of the British brig Flying Scud in the
San Francisco bar-room.

"Nares," said I, "I've told you how I first saw Captain Trent in that saloon in 'Frisco? how
he came with his men, one of them a Kanaka with a canary-bird in a cage? and how I saw him
afterwards at the auction, frightened to death, and as much surprised at how the figures skipped
up as anybody there. Well," said I, "there's the man I saw"--and I laid the sketch before him--"there's
Trent of 'Frisco and there are his three hands. Find one of them in the photograph, and I'll
be obliged."

Nares compared the two in silence. "Well," he said at last, "I call this rather a relief: seems
to clear the horizon. We might have guessed at something of the kind from the double ration
of chests that figured."

"Does it explain anything?" I asked.

"It would explain everything," Nares replied, "but for the steam-crusher. It'll all tally as
neat as a patent puzzle, if you leave out the way these people bid the wreck up. And there
we come to a stone wall. But whatever it is, Mr. Dodd, it's on the crook."

"And looks like piracy," I added.

"Looks like blind hookey!" cried the captain. "No, don't you deceive yourself; neither your
head nor mine is big enough to put a name on this business."

CHAPTER XV

THE CARGO OF THE FLYING SCUD

In my early days I was a man, the most wedded to his idols of my generation. I was a dweller
under roofs; the gull of that which we call civilisation; a superstitious votary of the plastic
arts; a cit, and a prop of restaurants. I had a comrade in those days, somewhat of an outsider,
though he moved in the company of artists, and a man famous in our small world for gallantry,
knee-breeches, and dry and pregnant sayings. He, looking on the long meals and waxing bellies
of the French, whom I confess I somewhat imitated, branded me as "a cultivator of restaurant
fat." And I believe he had his finger on the dangerous spot; I believe, if things had gone
smooth with me, I should be now swollen like a prize-ox in body, and fallen in mind to a thing
perhaps as low as many types of bourgeois--the implicit or exclusive artist. That was a home
word of Pinkerton's, deserving to be writ in letters of gold on the portico of every school
of art: "What I can't see is why you should want to do nothing else." The dull man is made,
not by the nature, but by the degree of his immersion in a single business. And all the more
if that be sedentary, uneventful, and ingloriously safe. More than one half of him will then
remain unexercised and undeveloped; the rest will be distended and deformed by over-nutrition,
over-cerebration, and the heat of rooms. And I have often marvelled at the impudence of gentlemen
who describe and pass judgment on the life of man, in almost perfect ignorance of all its necessary
elements and natural careers. Those who dwell in clubs and studios may paint excellent pictures
or write enchanting novels. There is one thing that they should not do: they should pass no
judgment on man's destiny, for it is a thing with which they are unacquainted. Their own life
is an excrescence of the moment, doomed, in the vicissitude of history, to pass and disappear.
The eternal life of man, spent under sun and rain and in rude physical effort, lies upon one
side, scarce changed since the beginning.

