PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 158.

June 30th, 1920.

CHARIVARIA.

Fewer births are recorded in Ireland during the past seven months. No surprise can be felt,
for we cannot imagine anybody being born in Ireland on purpose just now.

* * *

A London firm are now manufacturing what they call the smallest motor-car on the market. How
great a boon this will be to the general public will be gathered from the report that one of
these cars has been knocked down by a pedestrian.

* * *

According to a Sunday paper MUSTAPHA KEMAL wants as soldiers only those who will die for their
belief in his cause. Previous experience is not essential.

* * *

Citizens of Ealing have protested against Sunday concerts unless Sunday bathing is also permitted.
The pre-war custom of merely sponging the ears after attending a recital was never wholly satisfactory.

* * *

According to an inscription on the score card of the North Berwick Club, "golf is a science
in which you may exhaust yourself but never your subject." Several clubs, however, claim to
possess colonels who can say practically all that is worth saying about the game without stopping
to get their second wind.

* * *

Girls have broadened out a lot, declared a speaker at the annual conference of the Head-mistresses'
Association. The home-made jumper, it appears, has been coming in for a good deal of unmerited
blame.

* * *

A middle-aged man was charged at the Thames Police Court the other day with having an altercation
with a lamp-post. It appears that the man called the lamp-post "Pussyfoot," and the latter
promptly knocked him down.

* * *

Special courts, it is stated, are to be set up for the trial of Irish criminals. The need,
we gather, is for some machinery by which the trial can be conducted in the absence of the
prisoner.

* * *

"I have put in a good three months in the garden," Mr. SMILLIE told a reporter, on his return
to London, "and have coaxed some nice red roses out." Coaxing the nice red miners out is comparatively
easy work.

* * *

On a question of equipment Ashford Fire Brigade has resigned. It is not known yet whether local
fires will go out in sympathy with the Brigade.

* * *

Letchworth, the first Garden City, has voted itself dry by a majority of sixty-five. There
seems to be a lack of hospitality in this attempt to discourage American visitors.

* * *

The latest news from Turkey, Russia and Ireland sets us wondering what the War made the world
safe for.

* * *

Ants, we are informed, will not come near the hands of a person if well rubbed with a raw onion.
The last time we attempted to rub an ant with a raw onion he broke away and made a dash for
the hills.

* * *

The Chicago Tribune points out that two attempts have been made on the life of the EX-KAISER.
It is hoped that he will realise that it would be a breach of etiquette to get assassinated
before the Allies have decided what is to be done with him.

* * *

We understand that one of the New Poor who recently found a burglar in his house searching
for money immediately offered the intruder ten per cent. if he proved successful.

* * *

Referring to the report in these columns last week that two bricklayers were seen to remove
their coats at Finsbury Park, we now hear that it was simply done to oblige a photographer
who was understood to have been sent down by Dr. ADDISON.

* * *

Among the articles left in trains on a South Coast railway is a sandwich. Unless claimed within
three days we understand that it will be broken up and sold to defray expenses.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPORTANT NOTICE.

Mr. Punch begs leave to draw the attention of the Intelligent Public to the fact that on Monday
next, July 5th, he proposes to publish a Special Summer Number. All his previous Summer Numbers
have appeared in the form of an ordinary weekly issue, with additional holiday and other matter.
This is a Special Summer Number, altogether distinct from the weekly issue. It will contain
thirty-six pages, almost entirely made up of drawings, and including several pages of illustrations
in three colours. Mr. Punch has great pleasure in inviting his friends to encourage him in
this new venture.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR ENTERPRISING CONTEMPORARIES.

    "NEWS BY WIRE AND AIR.

    To-day is the longest day."--"Daily Mail," June 21st.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EXPANSION OF SCOTLAND.

    "The most interesting features of the vital statistics of Scotland....
    The girth-rate was higher than those of all first quarters since 1891.
    --Daily Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR MERRY MUNICIPALITIES.

    "---- TOWN COUNCIL.

    MINUTES FOR MONDAY'S MEETING.

    MORE INCREASES OF WAGS."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

THREATENED UNREST AT THE ZOO.

    "Mr. Churchill has made up his mind, but if he gets his way every
    tadpole and tapir will take it as a precedent."--Daily News.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In a driving competition Ray drove 723 yards, one inch."--South
    African Paper.

Another inch, and we should have refused to believe it.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WILSON WOULD TAKE MANDATE OVER AMERICA.

    WASHINGTON, May 25.--President Wilson Monday asked authority from
    Congress for the United States to accept a mandate over Armenia.--
    Canadian Paper.

But there is no reason to believe that the headline is inaccurate.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOLIDAY ANTICIPATIONS.

    [Now that holiday-planning is in season we have pleasure in announcing
    a few proposed schemes for the recreation of some of the mighty brains
    that shape our destinies and guide our groping intelligences. But it
    must be clearly understood that in these inconstant times we cannot
    vouch for their authenticity or guarantee fulfilment.]

MR. ASQUITH'S recent success in spotting the winner of the Derby is believed to have inspired
Mr. LLOYD GEORGE with an idea of combining his present policy of always going one, if not two
or three, better than the Old Man with a public demonstration of the extent to which the crude
Puritanism of his youth has been mellowed by sympathies more in keeping with his later political
alliances. He is credited with the intention of putting to appropriate use his peculiar gifts
of non-committal prophecy and persuasive casuistry, and at the same time making sure of a profitable
holiday in the open air by "doing" the Sussex Fortnight, beginning with the Goodwood meeting,
in the capacity of Downy Dave, a race-course tipster.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is reason to believe that, if the Recess should afford Sir WILLIAM SUTHERLAND an opportunity
to indulge his craving for the Simple Life, he will proceed to Italy to join the coterie of
ascetics known as the Assisi Set. His conspicuous ability in telling the tale to the London
Pressmen encourages expectations that he will be no less successful as a preacher to the birds,
after the manner of St. FRANCIS, the founder of the cult.

       *       *       *       *       *

In financial circles it is expected that Mr. CHAMBERLAIN will spend the vacation incognito
in the neighbourhood of Blackpool, partly for the sake of the invigorating air, but mainly,
in view of the abnormal prosperity of Lancashire, for the purpose of considering on the spot
the possibilities of a levy on capital as a local experiment.

       *       *       *       *       *

A rumour is current in Whitehall, and gains colour from the activity in certain seaports, that,
in consequence of Earl CURZON'S having been informed that the number of Channel-swimmers is
likely to be unusually large this summer, his lordship has decided to take command of a fleet
of Foreign Office launches, which will patrol the coast to make sure that none of these persons
is unprovided with a passport.

       *       *       *       *       *

At Unity House a suspicion is entertained that Sir ERIC GEDDES contemplates utilising the holidays
for the double purpose of working off superfluous steam and familiarizing himself with the
true attitude of the railwaymen by working as a stoker on one of the great main lines. Should
this scheme be carried into effect arrangements are in readiness to compel him to become a
member of the N.U.R.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is hoped that Mr. AUGUSTUS JOHN will be able to accompany Lord BEAVERBROOK to Canada this
summer, so that his lordship may gratify his lifelong ambition to be painted by Mr. JOHN, with
the primeval backwoods for a setting, in the character of a coureur-des-bois, of the type immortalized
by Sir GILBERT PARKER in Pierre.

       *       *       *       *       *

As far as can be ascertained, Mr. BERNARD SHAW intends to devote the holidays to verifying
the report of his namesake, Mr. TOM SHAW (with whom he has been stupidly confused), on the
Bolshevik régime. He will probably enter Russia secretly, accompanied by a mixed party of vegetarian
Fabians disguised as Muscovites, so that in the event of being denounced as Boorjoos they may
hope to pass for returning Dukhobors, or, in case of detection, for an amateur theatrical company
touring with Labour's Love's Lost.

       *       *       *       *       *

We understand that Lords LONSDALE and BIRKENHEAD are making arrangements for a joint trip to
Cuba, in order to investigate personally the condition and prospects of the Havana leaf industry.
It will not be surprising if this visit bears fruit in the shape of the eighteen-inch super-cigar
which sporting men have been for so long demanding.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE EATING OF ASPARAGUS.

There were twenty-three ways of eating asparagus known to the ancients. Of these the best known
method was to suspend it on pulleys about three feet from the ground and "approach the green"
on one's back along the floor; but it was discontinued about the middle of the fourth century,
and no new method worthy of serious consideration was subsequently evolved, till the August
or September of 1875, when a Mr. Gunter-Brown wrote a letter to the A.A.R. (The Asparagus Absorbers'
Review and Gross Feeders' Gazette), saying that he had patented a scheme more cleanly and less
unsightly than the practice of tilting the head backward at an angle of forty-five degrees
and lowering the asparagus into the expectant face, which is shown by statistics to have been
the mode usually adopted at that time.

Mr. Gunter-Brown's apparatus, necessary to the method he advocated, consisted of a silver or
plated tube, into which each branch of asparagus, except the last inch, was placed, and so
drawn into the mouth by suction, the eater grasping the last uneatable inch, together with
the butt end of the tube, in the palm of his hand. Asparagus branches being of variable girth,
a rubber washer inserted in the end of the tube furthest from the eater's mouth helped to cause
a vacuum.

The inventor claimed that the edible portion of the delicacy became detached if the intake
of the eater was strong enough, but he overlooked the fact that the necessary force caused
the asparagus to pass through the epiglottis into the oesophagus before the eater had time
to enjoy the taste (as was proved by experiment) and so all sense of pleasure was lost.

More prospective marriages have been marred through the abuse of asparagus at table than through
mixed bathing at Tunbridge Wells. For instance, though the matter was hushed up at the time,
it is an open secret among their friends that Miss Gladys Devereux broke off her engagement
to young Percy Gore-Mont on account of his gaucherie when assimilating this weed at a dinner-party.
It seems that he simply threw himself at the stuff, and that one of the servants had to comb
the melted butter out of his hair before he could appear in the drawing-room.

The case of the Timminses, too, presents very sad features, though the marriage was not in
this case abandoned, the high contracting parties not having once encountered a dish of asparagus
simultaneously during the engagement. Yet it is more than rumoured that when, at the end of
the close season, asparagus may be hunted, there is considerable friction in the Timminses'
household, because Mrs. Timmins plays with a straight fork, while Timmins affects the crouching
style.

Happily, however, a light at last appears to be shining through the darkness. Under the auspices
of the Vegetable Growers Association (Luxury Trades section) an asparagus eating contest has
been arranged to take place in the Floral Hall early in July. As the entrants to date include
a contortionist and at least three well-known war-profiteers it is confidently expected that
some startling methods will be exhibited which may revolutionise asparagus-eating in this country.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "DUNOON.--Sitting room and two bedrooms to let for month of Dunoon."--
    Scotch Paper.

We welcome the introduction of "rhyming slang" to brighten up the advertisement columns.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A NOTE ON CHESTERFIELDS.

In the Soviet Republic of Russia, I am told, no one can lay claim to the title of worker unless
his hands are hardened and roughened by toil, and LENIN and TROTSKY have to take their turns
at the rack, like the commonest executioner. In England we are not nearly so particular about
the manual test, and, besides feeling quite kindly disposed towards professional footballers,
tea-tasters and the men who stand on Cornish cliffs and shout when they see the pilchard shoals
come in, we still give a certain amount of credit to mere brain-work as well.

There is, however, a poisonous idea prevalent, especially amongst the women of this country,
that a fellow is not working with his brain unless he is walking rapidly up and down the room
with wrinkles on his forehead, or sitting on a hard chair at a table with a file of papers
in front of him. But there is no rule of this sort about the birth of great and beautiful ideas
in the human brain. It is all a matter of individual taste and habit. I know a man, a poet,
who thinks best on the Underground Railway, and that is the reason why he said the other day,
"Give me to gaze once more on the blue hills," to the girl in the booking-office, when what
he really wanted was a ticket (of a light heliotrope colour) to St. James's Park. Lord BYRON,
on the other hand, composed a sorrowful ditty on the decadence of the Isles of Greece whilst
shaving; but the invention of the safety-razor and the energetic action of M. VENIZELOS will
most likely render it unnecessary for anyone to repeat such a performance. As for the people
who have a sudden bright idea whilst they are dressing for dinner, they may be dismissed at
once, for they nearly always go to bed by mistake and, when they wake up again extremely hungry,
they have forgotten what it was.

Most experts are really agreed that a recumbent or semi-recumbent position is the best for
creative thought, and another friend of mine, also a maker of verses, has patented the very
ingenious device of a pair of stirrups just under the mantelshelf, so that, when he sits back
in his armchair, he can manage his Pegasus without having his feet continually slipping off
the marble surface into the fender.

Much may be said too for a seat in a first-class railway carriage, when you have the compartment
all to yourself and the train is going at sixty miles an hour or more. But England is hardly
spacious enough for a really sustained inspiration; and the result of being turned out suddenly
at Thurso, N.B., or Penzance is that some opening flower of the human intellect fails to achieve
its perfect bloom, and as likely as not your golf clubs are left in the rack.

There is also, of course, an influential school which believes strongly in the early morning
tea hour, and people who ought to know tell me that Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL plans new uniforms
for the Guards as well as the campaign in Mesopotamia with pink pyjamas on, and that the PRIME
MINISTER can never be persuaded to get up for breakfast until he has hit on a few of those
striking repartees which are subsequently translated by his posse of interpreters into Russian,
Italian, Bohemian and Erse.

For my part, however, I swear by a Chesterfield sofa, a large one, on which you can lie at
full length, as I am lying now; the most comfortable thing there is on earth, I think, except
perhaps a truss of hay, when one has been riding for about six consecutive hours in an army
saddle. But there are disadvantages even about a Chesterfield sofa. It is, to begin with, in
the drawing-room and in the drawing-room one is not so entirely immune from the trivial incidents
of everyday life as I like to be when I am having brain-waves. Doors are opened and this creates
a draught, and it is not the slightest use attempting a real work of imagination when people
will come in and ask if I am lying on The Literary Supplement of The Times (as if it were likely),
or the anti-aircraft gun that the children were playing with after lunch. For this reason I
have had to invent an even better thing than the ordinary Chesterfield sofa, and since it will
be, when made, the noblest piece of scientific upholstery in the world I will ask the printer
to write the next sentence in italics, please.

It is a Chesterfield sofa enclosed on all four sides. Thank you.

The marvels of this receptacle for human thought will dawn upon the reader by slow degrees.
Try to imagine yourself ensconced there, having climbed up by the short flight of steps which
will be attached to it, enisled and remote amidst the surging traffic that sweeps through a
drawing-room. Instead of making a rapid bolt to escape from callers and probably meeting them
full tilt in the hall, you simply stay on, thinking. You have nothing to fear from them, unless
they are so inquisitive and ill-mannered as to come and peep over the edge. With plenty of
tobacco, a writing tablet and a fountain-pen, you can stare at the anaglypta ceiling and dream
noble thoughts and put them down when you like without interruption. On sunny days the apparatus
can be wheeled on to the balcony, where the sapphire sky will be exchanged for the anaglypta
ceiling; and for winter use a metal base will be supplied, under which you can place either
an oil-stove or an electric radiator.

I should like to see this four-sided Chesterfield in offices also. The master-strokes of commercial
and administrative skill would be much more masterly with most people if they did not have
to proceed from a hard office chair. You can easily dictate to a typist from the interior of
a Chesterfield, and, though I know that business men and Government officials are often subjected
to deputations, during which they have to look their persecutors in the face, this difficulty
could be overcome by means of a sliding panel, through which the face of the recumbent administrator
could be poked when necessary, wearing the proper expression of shrewdness, terror, conciliation
or rage. I should like Sir ERIC GEDDES to have one of my four-sided Chesterfields.

With his usual sagacity the reader will probably remark here that the four-sided Chesterfield
can be procured ready-made at any moment by turning the usual article round and pushing it
up against the wall. This point has not escaped notice, my friend. But you can hardly imagine
the objections that will be urged by the female members of your household against adopting
such a course in the drawing-room. They will assert, amongst other things, that Mrs. Ponsonby-Smith
is on the point of arriving and that she will think you've done it on purpose.

I shall have the upholsterer in to-morrow.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DEDICATIONS.

MR. COMPTON MACKENZIE has found it necessary to state publicly in a dedication that his books
have not been written by his sister.

The following extracts are taken from possible future dedications by various authors:--

Mr. H.G. WELLS to the Bishop of LONDON.

As I have seen it stated in various journals that you are the author of my book, The Soul of
a Bishop, I hereby take the opportunity of informing your Lordship most definitely and emphatically
that you are not. That book and also The Passionate Friends were written without any assistance
from the episcopal bench. To avoid future misunderstanding I may say that all my books are
written by myself. If at any time it is suggested that any publication of your Lordship has
been written by me, I shall be glad if you will immediately issue a contradiction.

Mr. BERNARD SHAW to the Editor of "The Morning Post."

You have not written my books. You have not written my plays. Any statement to the contrary
is an infamous falsehood. No one else, dead or alive, could ever have written anything which
I have written. When I have become an imbecile, which is not likely to happen yet, as I am
a vegetarian and do not read your rag, it will be time enough for other people to lay claim
to my work. Nor have I ever assisted you in conducting that which you call a paper, nor have
I ever written an editorial for its columns. Please let this matter have your futile attention.

Miss DAISY ASHFORD to Lord HALDANE.

If I did not believe your Lordship to be really innosent I should be very vexed with you. But
let me explain. I have heard it said in reliable quarters that you are the auther of The Young
Visiters. Oh, my Lord! my Lord! I thought everybody knew by now that no one helped me even
to spell a word. I have read your Lordship's books with pleasure and of course realise their
promise. But it is all very diferent stuff from The Young Visiters. Please in the future disclaim
all credit for giving me my idears, and in return I can assure you that your skemes for the
better education of the people shall have my enthoosiastic suport.

Mr. ARNOLD BENNETT to The Man in the Street.

The last thing that I wish is that you should he misunderstood; all my life I have laboured
to explain you to yourself. That my explanation has pleased you is shown by the fact that you
buy my books. But you have commenced to give yourself airs, my man, and it is time you were
put in your place. My books are so much to your taste that you have been led to believe yourself
the author. Now please understand my books are written for you and not by you. You merely exist--thanks
to me--and pay. I have been told that I once wrote a book called The Old Wives' Tale. If so,
that was in earlier days, and you have long since forgiven me. And do you not owe me something
for The Pretty Lady? Have I not shown you that your love is both sacred and profane? As I have
enough to contend with from those who care for literature I hope any further word from me on
this subject will be unnecessary.

Mrs. FLORENCE BARCLAY to Lord FISHER.

The phenomenal success of our recent volumes has, I understand, led a certain section of our
public to believe that you are the author of several of my books. In particular it has been
stated that The Rosary was written by your Lordship. As you know, I have a great respect for
the aristocracy, and I do not suggest that you have deliberately put yourself forward as the
author of my books. You will, however, understand me when I say that only your Lordship could
express all that I feel about the matter. The mixing up of our identities is probably explained
by the fact that we are both stylists and seekers for the mot juste. Will you please assist
me in making it clear that we work independently? As I am staying in a country parsonage and
it is our custom to read one another's letters over the breakfast-table, I shall be glad if
any reply you may wish to make should be sent to the Editor of The Times.

Sir ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE to Sir OLIVER LODGE.

Our common concern with the life beyond has become so well known that our interests in this
present life are in danger of becoming involved. In a volume of Sherlock Holmes stories recently
purchased abroad I find you described as the author, and another book assures me that I have
written extensively on the Atomic Theory. You will, I am sure, see the harm which I am likely
to suffer through such mistakes. Nor does the confusion end here. I find that my novel, The
Hound of the Baskervilles, is now stated to be by Sir CONAN LODGE, and another book of mine,
The Lost World, to be by Sir OLIVER DOYLE. Also I have seen myself described as "The Principal
of Birmingham University," and yourself as the well-known detective of Baker Street. May I
solicit your aid in helping me to suppress any further confusion of our respective genii? My
best wishes to you and the good work.

       *       *       *       *       *

LABOUR-SAVING.

    ["Electric bore, one man, portable."--Trade Journal.]

  Though not a scientific bean
  I am occasionally seen
  Scanning a technic magazine.

  I love to learn of any wheeze
  Wherewith to win by quick degrees
  A rich sufficiency of ease.

  And so it thrilled me to the core
  To read the phrase, "Electric bore,"
  And think of happy days in store.

  In former times I'd often start
  Abroad with eagerness of heart
  To patronise dramatic art;

  Only at curtain's fall to come
  Homeward again, dejected, glum,
  And overwhelmed by tedium.

  With ennui  verging on distress
  I'd witnessed from the circle (dress)
  Some transatlantic HUGE SUCCESS;

  Or else some play of Irish life,
  Ending with father, son and wife
  Impaled upon a single knife;

  Or haply I had chanced to choose
  Some even surer source of blues,
  One of the things they call revues.

  But now those times are passed away;
  Electric bores have come to stay;
  I mean to purchase one to-day.

  I don't know how it works, but an
  Authority declares it can
  Be guided by a single man.

  I have in mind a little niche
  Beside my study window which
  Will just accommodate the switch.

  Henceforth abroad no more I'll roam,
  But turn it on at evening's gloam
  And yawn my time away at home.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR GO-AHEAD MUNICIPALITIES.

    "Visitors to ---- this summer need not fear want of recreation, for the
    Urban Council on Wednesday granted an application by Mr. ---- for leave
    to place an additional donkey on the beach."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. Taylor, who had relieved Mr. Higgins, here had the misfortune to
    see Seymour badly hit over the right eye on attempting to hook one of
    his rising deliveries."--Daily Paper.

SEYMOUR, we understand, sympathised warmly with Mr. TAYLOR over this piece of bad luck.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A DOG'S LIFE.

The life of a public man is a dog's life. I don't know why a dog's life should be the type
and summit of unpleasantness in lives; for myself I should have thought it was rather a good
life; no clothes to buy and no shortage of smells; but there it is. The reason is perhaps that
a dog spends most of his day just finding a really good smell and being diverted from it by
something else, a loud whistle in front or a motor-bicycle or another smell. He rushes off
then after the whistler or the motor-bicycle or the new smell, missing all kinds of good smells
on the way and never getting the cream of the old one. And that is like the day of the public man.

He sits up in bed in the morning, having his breakfast and thinking over the smells he is going
to have during the day. There is an enormous choice. The whole of the bed is covered with papers;
there are tables on either side of the bed covered with papers, letters and memoranda, and
agenda and minutes and constituents' grievances, and charitable appeals and ordinary begs.
When he moves his foot there is a great crackling, and the surface papers float off into the
air and are wafted about the room. Each paper represents a different smell. He is going to
make a speech to the Bottle-Washers' Union at 11 A.M. and he is reading the notes of his speech;
but before that he has got to introduce a deputation of Fish-Friers to the HOME SECRETARY at
ten and he is trying to find out what the Fish-Friers are after. But the telephone-bell keeps
on ringing and the papers keep on floating away, and the papers about the Fish-Friers keep
mixing themselves up with the papers about the Bottle-Washers, and the valet keeps coming in
to say that the bath is prepared or the hosier has come, so that it is all very difficult.

All his family ring him up, and all the people who were at the meeting last night and were
not quite satisfied with the terms of the Resolution, and all the people who are interested
in Fish-Frying and Bottle-Washing, and all the people who want him to make a speech at Cardiff
next year, and several newspapers who would like to interview him about the Sewers and Drains
Bill, and a man whose uncle has not yet been demobilised, and a lady whose first-born son would
like to be President of the Board of Trade as soon as it can be arranged. Meanwhile people
begin to drift into the room. The Private Secretary drifts in with a despatch-case, full of
new smells and some old ones; and the valet drifts in to say that the bath is still prepared,
and a haircutter and a man from the shirt-makers, and the Secretary of the Fish-Friers, who
has looked in for a quiet talk about the situation.

