As our author proceeds towards the claret district--for the book is in the form of a tour--he
chats away very agreeably about everything he sees on the road. We shall not meddle, however,
with this part of the volume, otherwise than to notice a peculiarity we have ourselves been
frequently struck with--the countryness of small towns in France. There is no aristocracy to
be met with there, no higher classes to set the fashion, no professional functionaries to look
up to. 'You hardly see an individual who does not appear to have been born and bred upon the
spot, and to have no ideas and no desires beyond it. Left entirely to themselves, the people
have vegetated in these dull streets from generation to generation, and, though clustered together
in a quasi town--perhaps with octroi and mairie, a withered tree of liberty, and billiard-tables
by the half-dozen--the population is as essentially rural as though scattered in lone farms,
unvisited, except on rent-day, by either landlord or agent.'

After reaching Bordeaux, the tourist proceeded to the village of Margaux, in the true claret
country--a general idea of which he gives by describing it as a debatable ground, stretching
between the sterile Landes and the fat, black loam of the banks of the Garonne. The soil is
sand, gravel, and shingle, scorched by the sun, and would be incapable of yielding as much
nourishment to a patch of oats as is found on 'the bare hillside of some cold, bleak, Highland
croft.' On this unpromising ground, grow those grapes which produce the finest wine in the
world. As for the vines themselves, they have about as much of the picturesque as our drills
of potatoes at home. 'Fancy open and unfenced expanses of stunted-looking, scrubby bushes,
seldom rising two feet above the surface, planted in rows upon the summit of deep furrow-ridges,
and fastened with great care to low, fence-like lines of espaliers, which run in unbroken ranks
from one end of the huge fields to the other. These espaliers or lathes are cuttings of the
walnut-trees around; and the tendrils of the vine are attached to the horizontally running
stakes with withes, or thongs of bark. It is curious to observe the vigilant pains and attention
with which every twig has been supported without being strained, and how things are arranged
so as to give every cluster as fair a chance as possible of a goodly allowance of sun.' There
are some exceptions to this; but the low regular dwarfs are the great wine-givers. 'Walk and
gaze, until you come to the most shabby, stunted, weazened, scrubby, dwarfish, expanse of snobbish
bushes, ignominiously bound neck and crop to the espaliers like a man on the rack--these utterly
poor, starved, and meagre-looking growths, allowing as they do the gravelly soil to shew in
bald patches of gray shingle through the straggling branches--these contemptible-looking shrubs,
like paralysed and withered raspberries, it is which produce the most priceless, and the most
inimitably flavoured wines.' The grapes are such mean and pitiful grapes as you would look
at with contempt in Covent-Garden Market; and the very value of the soil contributes to its
appearance of destitution--a rudely-carved stake marking the division of properties where a
hedge or ditch would take up too much of the precious ground. The vineyards extend to the roadside,
without any protection; and yet every living creature, whether man or animal, eats grapes habitually,
morning, noon, and night, and to an excess that is perfectly wonderful.

When the fruit is ripe, the fact is announced to the community 'by authority;' and until the
proclamation appears, no man must gather his grapes if they should be dropping from the bushes.
The signal, however, is at length given, and the work begins. 'The scene is at once full of
beauty, and of tender and even sacred associations. The songs of the vintagers, frequently
chorussed from one part of the field to the other, ring blithely into the bright summer air,
pealing out above the rough jokes and hearty peals of laughter shouted hither and thither.
All the green jungle is alive with the moving figures of men and women, stooping among the
vines, or bearing pails and basketfuls of grapes out to the grass-grown cross-roads, along
which the labouring oxen drag the rough vintage-carts, groaning and cracking as they stagger
along beneath their weight of purple tubs, heaped high with the tumbling masses of luscious
fruit. The congregation of every age and both sexes, and the careless variety of costume, add
additional features of picturesqueness to the scene. The white-haired old man labours with
shaking hands to fill the basket which his black-eyed imp of a grandchild carries rejoicingly
away. Quaint, broad-brimmed straw and felt hats; handkerchiefs twisted like turbans over straggling
elf-locks; swarthy skins tanned to an olive-brown; black flashing eyes; and hands and feet
stained in the abounding juices of the precious fruit--all these southern peculiarities of
costume and appearance supply the vintage with its pleasant characteristics. The clatter of
tongues is incessant. A fire of jokes and jeers, of saucy questions and more saucy retorts--of
what, in fact, in the humble and unpoetic, but expressive vernacular, is called "chaff"--is
kept up with a vigour which seldom flags, except now and then, when the but-end of a song,
or the twanging close of a chorus, strikes the general fancy, and procures for the morceau
a lusty encore. Meantime, the master wine-grower moves observingly from rank to rank. No neglected
bunch of fruit escapes his watchful eye; no careless vintager shakes the precious berries rudely
upon the soil, but he is promptly reminded of his slovenly work. Sometimes the tubs attract
the careful superintendent: he turns up the clusters, to ascertain that no leaves nor useless
length of tendril are entombed in the juicy masses, and anon directs his steps to the pressing-trough,
anxious to find that the lusty treaders are persevering manfully in their long-continued dance.'

