II.

CONTENTS.

   Chapter                                                      Page

     XIII. On Grammar and Classical Literature                   5
      XIV. On Geography and Chronology                          31
       XV. On Arithmetic                                        37
      XVI. Geometry                                             54
     XVII. On Mechanics                                         57
    XVIII. Chemistry                                            85
      XIX. On Public and Private Education                      92
       XX. On Female Accomplishments, &c.                      109
      XXI. Memory and Invention                                138
     XXII. Taste and Imagination                               178
    XXIII. Wit and Judgment                                    214
     XXIV. Prudence and Economy                                248
      XXV. Summary                                             267

           APPENDIX.

           Notes, containing Conversations and Anecdotes of
           Children                                             283

PRACTICAL EDUCATION.

CHAPTER XIII.

ON GRAMMAR, AND CLASSICAL LITERATURE.

As long as gentlemen feel a deficiency in their own education, when they have not a competent
knowledge of the learned languages, so long must a parent be anxious, that his son should not
be exposed to the mortification of appearing inferiour to others of his own rank. It is in
vain to urge, that language is only the key to science; that the names of things are not the
things themselves; that many of the words in our own language convey scarcely any, or at best
but imperfect, ideas; that the true genius, pronunciation, melody, and idiom of Greek, are
unknown to the best scholars, and that it cannot reasonably be doubted, that if Homer or Xenophon
were to hear their works read by a professor of Greek, they would mistake them for the sounds
of an unknown language. All this is true; but it is not the ambition of a gentleman to read
Greek like an ancient Grecian, but to understand it as well as the generality of his contemporaries;
to know whence the terms of most sciences are derived, and to be able, in some degree, to trace
the progress of mankind in knowledge and refinement, by examining the extent and combination
of their different vocabularies.

In some professions, Greek is necessary; in all, a certain proficiency of Latin is indispensable;
how, therefore, to acquire this proficiency in the one, and a sufficient knowledge of the other,
with the least labour, the least waste of time, and the least danger to the understanding,
is the material question. Some school-masters would add, that we must expedite the business
as much as possible: of this we may be permitted to doubt. Festina lente is one of the most
judicious maxims in education, and those who have sufficient strength of mind to adhere to
it, will find themselves at the goal, when their competitors, after all their bustle, are panting
for breath, or lashing their restive steeds. We see some untutored children start forward in
learning with rapidity: they seem to acquire knowledge at the very time it is wanted, as if
by intuition; whilst others, with whom infinite pains have been taken, continue in dull ignorance;
or, having accumulated a mass of learning, are utterly at a loss how to display, or how to
use their treasures. What is the reason of this phenomenon? and to which class of children
would a parent wish his son to belong? In a certain number of years, after having spent eight
hours a day in "durance vile," by the influence of bodily fear, or by the infliction of bodily
punishment, a regiment of boys may be drilled by an indefatigable usher into what are called
scholars; but, perhaps, in the whole regiment not one shall ever distinguish himself, or ever
emerge from the ranks. Can it be necessary to spend so many years, so many of the best years
of life, in toil and misery? We shall calculate the waste of time which arises from the study
of ill written, absurd grammar, and exercise-books; from the habits of idleness contracted
by school-boys, and from the custom of allowing holydays to young students; and we shall compare
the result of this calculation with the time really necessary for the attainment of the same
quantity of classical knowledge by rational methods. We do not enter into this comparison with
any invidious intention, but simply to quiet the apprehensions of parents; to show them the
possibility of their children's attaining a certain portion of learning within a given number
of years, without the sacrifice of health, happiness, or the general powers of the understanding.

At all events, may we not begin by imploring the assistance of some able and friendly hand
to reform the present generation of grammars and school-books? For instance, is it indispensably
necessary that a boy of seven years old should learn by rote, that "relative sentences are
independent, i. e. no word in a relative sentence is governed either of verb, or adjective,
that stands in another sentence, or depends upon any appurtenances of the relative; and that
the English word 'That' is always a relative when it may be turned into which in good sense,
which must be tried by reading over the English sentence warily, and judging how the sentence
will bear it, but when it cannot be altered, salvo sensu, it is a conjunction?" Cannot we,
for pity's sake, to assist the learner's memory, and to improve his intellect, substitute some
sentences a little more connected, and perhaps a little more useful, than the following?

"I have been a soldier--You have babbled--Has the crow ever looked white?--Ye have exercised--Flowers
have withered--We were in a passion--Ye lay down--Peas were parched--The lions did roar a while
ago."

In a book of Latin exercises,[1] the preface to which informs us, that "it is intended to contain
such precepts of morality and religion, as ought most industriously to be inculcated into the
heads of all learners, contrived so as that children may, as it were, insensibly suck in such
principles as will be of use to them afterwards in the manly conduct and ordering of their
lives," we might expect somewhat more of pure morality and sense, with rather more elegance
of style, than appear in the following sentences:

"I struck my sister with a stick, and was forced to flee into the woods; but when I had tarried
there awhile, I returned to my parents, and submitted myself to their mercy, and they forgave
me my offence."

"When my dear mother, unknown to my father, shall send me money, I will pay my creditors their
debts, and provide a supper for all my friends in my chamber, without my brother's consent,
and will make presents to all my relations."

So the measure of maternal tenderness is the sum of money, which the dear mother, unknown to
her husband, shall send to her son; the measure of the son's generosity is the supper he is
to give to all his friends in his chamber, exclusive of his poor brother, of whose offence
we are ignorant. His munificence is to be displayed in making presents to all his relations,
but in the mean time he might possibly forget to pay his debts, for "justice is a slow-paced
virtue, and cannot keep pace with generosity."

A reasonable notion of punishment, and a disinterested love of truth, is well introduced by
the following picture. "My master's countenance was greatly changed when he found his beloved
son guilty of a lie. Sometimes he was pale with anger; sometimes he was red with rage; and
in the mean time, he, poor boy, was trembling, (for what?) for fear of punishment." Could the
ideas of punishment and vengeance be more effectually joined, than in this portrait of the
master red with rage? After truth has been thus happily recommended, comes honesty. "Many were
fellow-soldiers with valiant Jason when he stole the golden fleece: many were companions with
him, but he bore away the glory of the enterprise."

Valour, theft, and glory, are here happily combined. It will avail us nothing to observe, that
the golden fleece has an allegorical meaning, unless we can explain satisfactorily the nature
of an allegorical theft; though to our classical taste this valiant Jason may appear a glorious
hero, yet to the simple judgment of children, he will appear a robber. It is fastidious, however,
to object to Jason in the exercise-book, when we consider what children are to hear, and to
hear with admiration, as they advance in their study of poetry and mythology.

Lessons of worldly wisdom, are not forgotten in our manual, which professes to teach "the manly
conduct and ordering of life" to the rising generation. "Those men," we are told, "who have
the most money, obtain the greatest honour amongst men." But then again, "a poor man is as
happy without riches, if he can enjoy contentedness of mind, as the richest earl that coveteth
greater honour." It may be useful to put young men upon their guard against hypocrites and
knaves; but is it necessary to tell school-boys, that "it concerneth me, and all men, to look
to ourselves, for the world is so full of knaves and hypocrites, that he is hard to be found
who may be trusted?" That "they who behave themselves the most warily of all men, and live
more watchfully than others, may happen to do something, which (if it be divulged) may very
much damnify their reputation?" A knowledge of the world may be early requisite; but is it
not going too far, to assure young people, that "the nations of the world are at this time
come to that pass of wickedness, that the earth is like hell, and many men have degenerated
into devils?"

A greater variety of ridiculous passages from this tenth edition of Garretson's Exercise-book,
might be selected for the reader's entertainment; but the following specimens will be sufficient
to satisfy him, that by this original writer, natural history is as well taught as morality:

Man. "Man is a creature of an upright body; he walketh upright when he is on a journey; and
when night approaches, he lieth flat, and sleepeth."

Horses. "A journey an hundred and fifty miles long, tireth an horse that hath not had a moderate
feed of corn."

Air, Earth, Fire, and Water. "The air is nearer the earth than the fire; but the water is placed
nearest to the earth, because these two elements compose but one body."

It is an easy task, it will be observed, to ridicule absurdity. It is easy to pull down what
has been ill built; but if we leave the ruins for others to stumble over, we do little good
to society. Parents may reasonably say, if you take away from our children the books they have,
give them better. They are not yet to be had, but if a demand for them be once excited, they
will soon appear. Parents are now convinced, that the first books which children read, make
a lasting impression upon them; but they do not seem to consider spelling-books, and grammars,
and exercise-books, as books, but only as tools for different purposes: these tools are often
very mischievous; if we could improve them, we should get our work much better done. The barbarous
translations, which are put as models for imitation into the hands of school-boys, teach them
bad habits of speaking and writing, which are sometimes incurable. For instance, in the fourteenth
edition of Clarke's Cornelius Nepos, which the preface informs us was written by a man full
of indignation for the common practices of grammar-schools, by a man who laments that youth
should spend their time "in tossing over the leaves of a dictionary, and hammering out such
a language as the Latin," we might expect some better translation than the following, to form
the young student's style:

"No body ever heard any other entertainment for the ears at his (Atticus's) meals than a reader,
which we truly think very pleasant. Nor was there ever a supper at his house without some reading,
that their guests might be entertained in their minds as well as their stomachs; for he invited
those whose manners were not different from his own."

"He (Atticus) likewise had a touch at poetry, that he might not be unacquainted with this pleasure,
we suppose. For he has related in verses the lives of those who excelled the Roman people in
honour, and the greatness of their exploits. So that he has described under each of their images,
their actions and offices in no more than four or five verses, which is scarcely to be believed
that such great things could be so briefly delivered."

