The first of the royal French women to whom modern woman owes a great and clearly defined debt
was Anne of Brittany, wife of Louis XII. and the personification of all that is good and virtuous.
To her belongs the honor of having taken the first step toward the social emancipation of French
women; she was the first to give to woman an important place at court. This precedent she established
by requesting her state officials and the foreign ambassadors to bring their wives and daughters
when they paid their respects to her. To the ladies themselves, she sent a "royal command,"
bidding them leave their gloomy feudal abodes and repair to the court of their sovereign.

Anne may be said to belong to the transition period—that period in which the condition of slavery
and obscurity which fettered the women of the Middle Ages gave place to almost untrammelled
liberty. The queen held a separate court in great state, at Blois and Des Tournelles, and here
elegance, even magnificence, of dress was required of her ladies. At first, this unprecedented
demand caused discontent among men, who at that time far surpassed women in elaborateness of
costume and had, consequently, been accustomed to the use of their surplus wealth for their
own purposes. Under Anne's influence, court life underwent a complete transformation; her receptions,
which were characterized by royal splendor, became the centre of attraction.

Anne of Brittany, the last queen of France of the Middle Ages and the first of the modern period,
was a model of virtuous conduct, conjugal fidelity, and charity. Having complete control over
her own immense wealth, she used it largely for beneficent purposes; to her encouragement much
of the progress of art and literature in France was due. Hers was an example that many of the
later queens endeavored to follow, but it cannot be said that they ever exerted a like influence
or exhibited an equal power of initiation and self-assertion.

The first royal woman to become a power in politics in the period that we are considering was
Louise of Savoy, mother of Francis I., a type of the voluptuous and licentious female of the
sixteenth century. Her pernicious activity first manifested itself when, having conceived a
violent passion for Charles of Bourbon, she set her heart upon marrying him, and commenced
intrigues and plots which were all the more dangerous because of her almost absolute control
over her son, the King.

At this time there were three distinct sets or social castes at the court of France: the pious
and virtuous band about the good Queen Claude; the lettered and elegant belles in the coterie
of Marguerite d'Angoulême, sister of Francis I.; and the wanton and libertine young maids who
formed a galaxy of youth and beauty about Louise of Savoy, and were by her used to fascinate
her son and thus distract him from affairs of state.

Louise used all means to bring before the king beautiful women through whom she planned to
preserve her influence over him. One of these frail beauties, Françoise de Foix, completely
won the heart of the monarch; her ascendency over him continued for a long period, in spite
of the machinations of Louise, who, when Francis escaped her control, sought to bring disrepute
and discredit upon the fair mistress.

The mother, however, remained the powerful factor in politics. With an abnormal desire to hoard
money, an unbridled temper, and a violent and domineering disposition, she became the most
powerful and dangerous, as well as the most feared, woman of all France. During her regency
the state coffers were pillaged, and plundering was carried on on all sides. One of her acts
at this time was to cause the recall of Charles of Bourbon, then Governor of Milan; this measure
was taken as much for the purpose of obtaining revenge for his scornful rejection of her offer
of marriage as for the hope of eventually bringing him to her side.

Upon the return of Charles, she immediately began plotting against him, including in her hatred
Françoise de Foix, the king's mistress, at whom Bourbon frequently cast looks of pity which
the furiously jealous Louise interpreted as glances of love. As a matter of fact, Bourbon,
being strictly virtuous, was out of reach of temptation by the beauties of the court, and there
were no grounds for jealousy.

This love of Louise for Charles of Bourbon is said to have owed most of its ardor to her hope
of coming into possession of his immense estates. She schemed to have his title to them disputed,
hoping that, by a decree of Parliament, they might be taken from him; the idea in this procedure
was that Bourbon, deprived of his possessions, must come to her terms, and she would thus satisfy—at
one and the same time—her passion and her cupidity.

Under her influence the character of the court changed entirely; retaining only a semblance
of its former decency, it became utterly corrupt. It possessed external elegance and distingué
manners, but below this veneer lay intrigue, debauchery, and gross immorality. In order to
meet the vast expenditures of the king and the queen-mother, the taxes were enormously increased;
the people, weighed down by the unjust assessment and by want, began to clamor and protest.
Undismayed by famine, poverty, and epidemic, Louise continued her depredations on the public
treasury, encouraging the king in his squanderings; and both mother and son, in order to procure
money, begged, borrowed, plundered.

Louise was always surrounded by a bevy of young ladies, selected beauties of the court, whose
natural charms were greatly enhanced by the lavishness of their attire. Always ready to further
the plans of their mistress, they hesitated not to sacrifice reputation or honor to gratify
her smallest whim. Her power was so generally recognized that foreign ambassadors, in the absence
of the king, called her "that other king." When war against France broke out between Spain
and England, Louise succeeded in gaining the office of constable for the Duc d'Alençon; by
this means, she intended to displace Charles of Bourbon (whom she was still persecuting because
he continued cold to her advances), and to humiliate him in the presence of his army; the latter
design, however, was thwarted, as he did not complain.

To the caprice of Louise of Savoy were due the disasters and defeats of the French army during
the period of her power; by frequently displacing someone whose actions did not coincide with
her plans, and elevating some favorite who had avowed his willingness to serve her, she kept
military affairs in a state of confusion.

Many wanton acts are attributed to her: she appropriated forty thousand crowns allowed to Governor
Lautrec of Milan for the payment of his soldiers, and caused the execution of Samblancay, superintendent
of finances, who had been so unfortunate as to incur her displeasure. It was Charles of Bourbon,
who, with Marshal Lautrec, investigated the episode of the forty thousand crowns and exposed
the treachery and perfidy of the mother of his king.

Finding that Bourbon intended to persist in his resistance to her advances, Louise decided
upon drastic measures of retaliation. With the assistance of her chancellor (and tool), Duprat,
she succeeded in having withheld the salaries which were due to Bourbon because of the offices
held by him. As he took no notice of these deprivations, she next proceeded to divest him of
his estates by laying claim to them for herself; she then proposed to Bourbon that, by accepting
her hand in marriage, he might settle the matter happily. The object of her numerous schemes
not only rejected this offer with contempt, but added insult to injury by remarking: "I will
never marry a woman devoid of modesty." At this rebuff, Louise was incensed beyond measure,
and when Queen Claude suggested Bourbon's marriage to her sister, Mme. Renée de France (a union
to which Charles would have consented gladly), the queen-mother managed to induce Francis I.
to refuse his consent.

After the death of Anne of Beaujeu, mother-in-law of Charles of Bourbon, her estates were seized
by the king and transferred to Louise while the claim was under consideration by Parliament.
When the judges, after an examination of the records of the Bourbon estate, remonstrated with
Chancellor Duprat against the illegal transfer, he had them put into prison. This rigorous
act, which was by order of Louise, weakened the courage of the court; when the time arrived
for a final decision, the judges declared themselves incompetent to decide, and in order to
rid themselves of responsibility referred the matter to the king's council. This great lawsuit,
which was continued for a long time, eventually forced Charles of Bourbon to flee from France.
Having sworn allegiance to Charles V. of Spain and Henry VIII. of England against Francis I.,
he was made lieutenant-general of the imperial armies.

When Francis, captured at the battle of Pavia, was taken to Spain, Louise, as regent, displayed
unusual diplomatic skill by leaguing the Pope and the Italian states with Francis against the
Spanish king. When, after nearly a year's captivity, her son returned, she welcomed him with
a bevy of beauties; among them was a new mistress, designed to destroy the influence of the
woman who had so often thwarted the plans of Louise—the beautiful Françoise de Foix whom the
king had made Countess of Châteaubriant.

This new beauty was Anne de Pisseleu, one of the thirty children of Seigneur d'Heilly, a girl
of eighteen, with an exceptional education. Most cunning was the trap which Louise had set
for the king. Anne was surrounded by a circle of youthful courtiers, who hung upon her words,
laughed at her caprices, courted her smiles; and when she rather confounded them with the extent
of the learning which—with a sort of gay triumph—she was rather fond of showing, they pronounced
her "the most charming of learned ladies and the most learned of the charming."

The plot worked; Francis was fascinated, falling an easy prey to the wiles of the wanton Anne.
The former mistress, Françoise de Foix, was discarded, and Louise, purely out of revenge and
spite, demanded the return of the costly jewels given by the king and appropriated them herself.

The duty assigned to the new mistress was that of keeping Francis busy with fêtes and other
amusements. While he was thus kept under the spell of his enchantress, he lost all thought
of his subjects and the welfare of his country and the affairs of the kingdom fell into the
hands of Louise and her chancellor, Duprat. The girl-mistress, Anne, was married by Louise
to the Duc d'Etampes whose consent was gained through the promise of the return of his family
possessions which, upon his father's departure with Charles of Bourbon, had been confiscated.

The reign of Louise of Savoy was now about over; she had accomplished everything she had planned.
She had caused Charles of Bourbon, one of the greatest men of the sixteenth century, to turn
against his king; and that king owed to her—his mother—his defeat at Pavia, his captivity in
Spain, and his moral fall. Spain, Italy, and France were victims of the infamous plotting and
disastrous intrigues of this one woman whose death, in 1531, was a blessing to the country
which she had dishonored.

