THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1915

AND THE

YEARBOOK OF THE AMERICAN SHORT STORY

EDITED BY EDWARD J. O'BRIEN

BOSTON SMALL, MAYNARD & COMPANY PUBLISHERS

Copyright, 1915, 1916, by The Boston Transcript.

Copyright, 1915, by Charles Scribner's Sons, Harper and Brothers, The Century Company, The
Masses Publishing Company, P.F. Collier & Son, Incorporated, Margaret C. Anderson, Mitchell
Kennerley, The Ridgway Company, Illustrated Sunday Magazine, John T. Frederick, Every Week
Corporation, Boston Daily Advertiser, The Bellman Company, The Outlook Company, and The Curtis
Publishing Company.

Copyright, 1916, by Maxwell Struthers Burt, Donn Byrne, Will Levington Comfort, William Addison
Dwiggins, James Francis Dwyer, Ben Hecht, Arthur Johnson, Virgil Jordan, Harris Merton Lyon,
Walter J. Muilenburg, Newbold Noyes, Seumas O'Brien, Katharine Metcalf Roof, Benjamin Rosenblatt,
Elsie Singmaster Lewars, Wilbur Daniel Steele, Mary Synon, and Fannie Hurst.

Copyright, 1916, by Small, Maynard and Company, Incorporated. To Mr. Hannigan my special gratitude is due. My
    ability to find certain back numbers of periodicals which the
    publishers were unable to supply is due to his personal helpfulness
    and unsparing pains. In fact, his assistance at certain times almost
    amounted to collaboration. By the Editor

THE WATER-HOLE. By Maxwell Struthers Burt (From Scribner's Magazine)

THE WAKE. By Donn Byrne (From Harper's Magazine)

CHAUTONVILLE. By Will Levington Comfort (From The Masses)

LA DERNIÈRE MOBILISATION. By W.A. Dwiggins (From The Fabulist)

THE CITIZEN. By James Francis Dwyer (From Collier's Weekly)

WHOSE DOG--? By Frances Gregg (From The Forum)

LIFE. By Ben Hecht (From The Little Review)

T.B. By Fannie Hurst (From The Saturday Evening Post)

MR. EBERDEEN'S HOUSE. By Arthur Johnson (From The Century)

VENGEANCE IS MINE. By Virgil Jordan (From Everybody's Magazine)

THE WEAVER WHO CLAD THE SUMMER. By Harris Merton Lyon (From The Illustrated Sunday Magazine)

HEART OF YOUTH. By Walter J. Muilenburg (From The Midland)

THE END OF THE PATH. By Newbold Noyes (From Every Week)

THE WHALE AND THE GRASSHOPPER. By Seumas O'Brien (From The Illustrated Sunday Magazine)

IN BERLIN. By Mary Boyle O'Reilly (From The Boston Daily Advertiser)

THE WAITING YEARS. By Katharine Metcalf Roof (From The Century Magazine)

ZELIG. By Benjamin Rosenblatt (From The Bellman)

THE SURVIVORS. By Elsie Singmaster (From The Outlook)

THE YELLOW CAT. By Wilbur Daniel Steele (From Harper's Magazine)

THE BOUNTY-JUMPER. By Mary Synon (From Scribner's Magazine)

THE YEARBOOK OF THE AMERICAN SHORT STORY FOR 1914 AND 1915

THE ROLL OF HONOR FOR 1914

THE ROLL OF HONOR FOR 1915

MAGAZINE AVERAGES FOR 1915

INDEX OF SHORT STORIES FOR 1914 AND 1915

INTRODUCTION

In reaffirming the significant position of the American short story as compared with the English
short story, I am more impressed than ever with the leadership maintained by American artists
in this literary form. Mr. James Stephens has been criticising us for our curiously negative
achievement in novel writing. He has compared the American novelist with the English novelist
and found him wanting. He is compelled to deny literary distinction to the American novel,
and he makes a sweeping indictment of American fiction in consequence. But does he know the
American short story?

If you turn to the English magazines, you will find a certain form of conte of narrow range
developed to a point of high literary merit in such a paper as the Nation or the New Statesman.
But if you look for short stories in the literary periodicals, you will not find them, and
if you turn to the popular English magazines, you will be amazed at the cheap and meretricious
quality of the English short story.

It would be idle to dispute about the origin of the short story, for several literatures may
claim its birth, but the American short story has been developed as an art form to the point
where it may fairly claim a sustained superiority, as different in kind as in quality from
the tale or conte of other literatures.

It would be difficult to trace the reasons for its specially healthy growth in a soil so idly
fertilized as our American reading public, but it is less difficult and far more valuable to
trace its development and changing standards from year to year as the field of its interest
widens and its technique becomes more and more assured and competent.

Accordingly it seems advisable to undertake a study of the American short story from year to
year as it is represented in the American periodicals which care most to develop its art and
its audiences, and to appraise so far as may be the relative achievement of author and magazine
in the successful fulfilment of this aim.

We have listened to much wailing during the past year about the absence of all literary qualities
in our fiction. We have been judged by Englishmen and Irishmen who do not know our work and
by Americans who do know it. We have been appraised at our real worth by Mr. Edward Garnett,
who is probably the only English critic competent through sufficient acquaintance to discuss
us. Mr. Owen Wister and Mr. Henry Sydnor Harrison have discussed us with each other, and bandied
names to and fro rather uncritically. And Mr. Robert Herrick has endeavored to reassure us
kindly and a little wistfully. Mr. Stephens has scolded us, and Mr. Howells and Mr. Alden have
counselled us wisely. And many others have ventured opinions and offered judgment. The general
verdict against American literature is Guilty! Is this wise? Is this just?

Twelve years ago, if the public had been sufficiently interested, such a dispute might have
arisen about American poetry. If it had arisen, the jury would probably have shouted "Guilty!"
with one voice. We had no faith in our poetry, and we were afraid of enthusiasm. It was not
good form. One or two poets refused to despair of the situation. They affirmed their faith
in our spiritual and imaginative substance persistently and in the face of apathy and discouragement.
They made us believe in ourselves, and now American poetry is at the threshold of a new era.
It is more vital than contemporary English poetry.

Has the time not come at last to cease lamenting the pitiful gray shabbiness of American fiction?
We say that we have no faith in it, and we judge it by the books and stories that we casually
read. If we are writers of fiction ourselves, perhaps we judge it by personal and temperamental
methods and preferences, just as certain groups of American poets of widely different sympathies
judge the poetry of their contemporaries to-day. Let us affirm our faith anyhow in our own
spiritual substance. Let us believe in our materials and shape them passionately to a creative
purpose. Let us be enthusiastic about life around us and the work that is being done, and in
much less than twelve years from now a jury of novelists and critics will pronounce a very
different verdict on American fiction from their verdict of to-day.

During the past year I have read over twenty-two hundred short stories in a critical spirit,
and they have made me lastingly hopeful of our literary future. A spirit of change is acting
on our literature. There is a fresh living current in the air. The new American spirit in fiction
is typically voiced by such a man as Mr. Lincoln Colcord in a letter from which I have his
permission to quote.

"There are many signs," he writes, "that literature in America stands at a parting of ways.
The technical-commercial method has been fully exploited, and, I think, found wanting in essential
results, although it is a step toward higher things. The machinery for a great literature stands
ready. The public taste is now being created. Add to this, the period in our national life:
we are coming to our artistic maturity. Add the profound social transition that was upon us
before the war. And add any factor you may choose for what may come after the war; for I think
that momentous events stand on the threshold of the world.

"The main trouble with the fellows who are writing in America to-day is that they write too
much--or rather, publish too much. A writer should be very glad to accept a small income for
many years; he should deliberately keep his fortunes within bounds; and take his time. All
this would have been a truism fifty years ago; the machinery for the other thing didn't exist,
and something in the way of a natural condition kept him in the simple path. But I don't find
fault with the machinery; the wider field and the larger figures are a direct boon to us. They
do, however, impose an added strain upon our sincerity."

I like to believe that the American writer is stiffening himself more and more to meet this
strain. Commercialization has never affected any literature more than it has affected the American
short story in the past. It is affecting our writing more than ever to-day. But here and there
in quiet places, usually far from great cities, artists are laboring quietly for a literary
ideal, and the leaven of their achievement is becoming more and more impressive every day.
It is my faith and hope that this annual volume of mine may do something toward disengaging
the honest good from the meretricious mass of writing with which it is mingled. I find that
editors are beginning to react from the commercialized fiction that prevails to-day. They are
beginning to learn that they are killing the goose which lays the golden eggs. The commercialized
short story writer has less enthusiasm in writing for editors nowadays. The "movies" have captured
him. Why write stories when scenarios are not only much less exhausting, but actually more
remunerative? The literary tradesman is peddling his wares in other and wider markets, and
the artistic craftsman is welcomed by the magazines more and more in his place. As Mr. Colcord
points out, we have come at last to the parting of the ways.

I have undertaken to examine the short stories published in American magazines during 1914
and 1915 and to report upon my findings. I assume that such a living truth is the artist's
essential object. The test of substance is the most vital test, to be sure, and if a story
survives it, it has imaginative life. Stories indicated by this asterisk seem to me not only
distinctive, but so highly distinguished as to necessitate their ultimate preservation between
book covers. It only remains now to point out certain passing characteristics of the year for
the sake of chronological completeness.

I suppose there can be no doubt that "Zelig" is by all odds the most nobly conceived and finely
wrought story of the year. It is a peculiar satisfaction to find again this year, as in 1914,
that the best story is the work of an unknown author. Mr. Rosenblatt's story is in my opinion
even more satisfying as a report of life than Mr. Conrad Richter's "Brothers of No Kin," which
I felt to be the best story published during 1914. The American public is indebted to Professor
Albert Frederick Wilson, of the New York University School of Journalism for the discovery
and encouragement of Mr. Rosenblatt's literary genius. Professor Wilson's service to American
literature in this matter should be adequately acknowledged.

The Bellman, in which "Zelig" appeared, is remarkable for the brilliance and power of its fiction.
My averages this year show clearly that its percentage of distinctive stories is nearly double
that of the American weekly which most nearly approaches it. The quality of the Bellman's poetry
is a matter of national knowledge. It is fully equalled by the Bellman's fiction, which renders
it one of the three or four American periodicals necessary to every student of our spiritual
history.

One new periodical and one new short story writer claim unique attention this year for their
recent achievement and abundant future promise. A year ago a slender little monthly magazine
entitled the Midland was first issued in Iowa City. It attracted very little attention, and
in the course of the year published but ten short stories. It has been my pleasure and wonder
to find in these ten stories the most vital interpretation in fiction of our national life
that many years have been able to show. Since the most brilliant days of the New England men
of letters, no such group of writers has defined its position with such assurance and modesty.

One new short story writer has appeared this year whose five published stories open a new field
to fiction and have a human richness of feeling and imagination rare in our oversophisticated
literature. I refer to the fables of Seumas O'Brien. At first one is struck with their utter
absence of form, and then one realizes that this is a conscious art that wanders truant over
life and imagination. In Seumas O'Brien I believe that America has found a new humorist of
popular sympathies, a rare observer and philosopher whose very absurdities have a persuasive
philosophy of their own.

The two established writers whose sustained excellence this year is most impressive are Katharine
Fullerton Gerould and Wilbur Daniel Steele. Lincoln Colcord's two stories show qualities of
artistic conscience reënforcing an imaginative substance so real that another year or two should
suffice for him to take his place with the leaders of American fiction. I must affirm once
more the genuine literary art of Fannie Hurst. The absolute fidelity of her dialogue to life
and its revealing spirit, not despite, but rather because of the vulgarities she accepts, seem
to me to assure her permanence in her best work.

A rare literary art, not dissimilar in fundamentals, and quite as marvellously documented,
is revealed by Rupert Hughes in his series of stories in the Metropolitan Magazine this year.
In "Michaeleen! Michaelawn!" he has succeeded greatly. It is a story which it will be difficult
for Americans to forget.

What must have begun as a doubtful experiment and been continued only because it was a triumphantly
demonstrated success has been the serial publication for the great average American public
of my selection of the best twenty-one stories published in 1914. The Illustrated Sunday Magazine
has evidently justified its daring, and the bold pioneering of its editor, Mr. Hiram M. Greene,
to judge from the host of letters I have received from readers who have not read the best magazines
in the past because, as many of them state, they feared that they were too "high-brow," but
who have been convinced, by the introduction to the best contemporary fiction afforded them
weekly in the supplement to their Sunday newspaper, that such periodicals as Harper's Magazine
and Scribner's Magazine have many qualities to commend them to the untrained reader. All this
serves to illustrate my point that the commercial short story is not preferred by that imaginary
norm of editors known as "the reading public." If adequate means are employed to allay the
average man's suspicions of literature and to introduce him painlessly to the best that our
writers are creating, my experience shows absolutely that he will respond heartily and make
higher standards possible by his support. We have scarcely begun to build our democracy of letters.

Because an American publisher has been found who shares my faith in the democratic future of
the American short story as something by no means ephemeral, this year-book of American fiction
is assured of annual publication for several years. It is my wish annually to dedicate whatever
there may be of faith and hope in each volume to the writer of short stories whose work during
the year has brought to me the most definite message of idealism. It is accordingly my privilege
this year to associate the present volume with the name of Benjamin Rosenblatt, who has contributed
in "Zelig" a noble addition to American literature.

                                           EDWARD J. O'BRIEN

  SOUTH YARMOUTH, MASSACHUSETTS
    Twelfth Night, 1916

THE BEST SHORT STORIES OF 1915

THE WATER-HOLE[1]

BY MAXWELL STRUTHERS BURT

From Scribner's Magazine

[1] Copyright, 1915, by Charles Scribner's Sons. Copyright, 1916, by
    Maxwell Struthers Burt.

Some men are like the twang of a bow-string. Hardy was like that--short, lithe, sunburned,
vivid. Into the lives of Jarrick, Hill, and myself, old classmates of his, he came and went
in the fashion of one of those queer winds that on a sultry day in summer blow unexpectedly
up a city street out of nowhere. His comings excited us; his goings left us refreshed and a
little vaguely discontented. So many people are gray. Hardy gave one a shock of color, as do
the deserts and the mountains he inhabited. It was not particularly what he said--he didn't
talk much--it was his appearance, his direct, a trifle fierce, gestures, the sense of mysterious
lands that pervaded him. One never knew when he was coming to New York and one never knew how
long he was going to stay; he just appeared, was very busy with mining companies for a while,
sat about clubs in the late afternoon, and then, one day, he was gone.

Sometimes he came twice in a year; oftener, not for two or three years at a stretch. When he
did come we gave him a dinner--that is, Jarrick, Hill, and myself. And it was rather an occasion.
We would procure a table in the gayest restaurant we could find, near, but not too near, the
music--Hill it was who first suggested this as a dramatic bit of incongruity between Hardy
and the frequenters of Broadway--and the most exotic food obtainable, for a good part of his
time Hardy, we knew, lived upon camp fare. Then we would try to make him tell about his experiences.
Usually he wouldn't. Impersonally, he was entertaining about South Africa, about the Caucasus,
about Alaska, Mexico, anywhere you care to think; but concretely he might have been an illustrated
lecture for all he mentioned himself. He was passionately fond of abstract argument. "Y' see,"
he would explain, "I don't get half as much of this sort of thing as I want. Of course, one
does run across remarkable people--now, I met a cow-puncher once who knew Keats by heart--but
as a rule I deal only with material things, mines and prospects and assays and that sort of
thing." Poor chap! I wonder if he thought that we, with our brokering and our writing and our
lawyering, dealt much with ideas! I remember one night when we sat up until three discussing
the philosophy of prohibition over three bottles of port. I wonder how many other men have
done the same thing!

But five years ago--no, it was six--Hardy really told us a real story about himself. Necessarily
the occasion is memorable in our recollections. We had dined at Lamb's, and the place was practically
empty, for it was long after the theatre hour--only a drowsy waiter here and there, and away
over in one corner a young couple who, I suppose, imagined themselves in love. Fancy being
in love at Lamb's! We had been discussing, of all things in the world, bravery and conscience
and cowardice and original sin, and that sort of business, and there was no question about
it that Hardy was enjoying himself hugely. He was leaning upon the table, a coffee-cup between
his relaxed brown hands, listening with an eagerness highly complimentary to the banal remarks
we had to make upon the subject. "This is talk!" he ejaculated once with a laugh.

Hill, against the combined attack of Jarrick and myself, was maintaining the argument. "There
is no such thing as instinctive bravery," he affirmed, for the fifth time at least, "amongst
intelligent men. Every one of us is naturally a coward. Of course we are. The more imagination
we've got the more we can realize how pleasant life is, after all, and how rotten the adjuncts
of sudden death. It's reason that does the trick--reason and tradition. Do you know of any
one who is brave when he is alone--except, that is, when it is a case of self-preservation?
No! Of course not. Did you ever hear of any one choosing to go along a dangerous road or to
ford a dangerous river unless he had to--that is, any one of our class, any man of education
or imagination? It's the greater fear of being thought afraid that makes us brave. Take a lawyer
in a shipwreck--take myself! Don't you suppose he's frightened? Naturally he is, horribly frightened.
It's his reason, his mind, that after a while gets the better of his poor pipe-stem legs and
makes them keep pace with the sea-legs about them."

"It's condition," said Jarrick doggedly--"condition entirely. All has to do with your liver
and digestion. I know; I fox-hunt, and when I was younger--yes, leave my waist alone!--I rode
jumping races. When you're fit there isn't a horse alive that bothers you, or a fence, for
that matter, or a bit of water."

"Ever try standing on a ship's deck, in the dark, knowing you're going to drown in about twenty
minutes?" asked Hill.

Hardy leaned forward to strike a match for his cigarette. "I don't agree with you," he said.

"Well, but--" began Hill.

"Neither of you."

"Oh, of course, you're outside the argument. You lead an adventurous life. You keep in condition
for danger. It isn't fair."

"No." Hardy lit his cigarette and inhaled a puff thoughtfully. "You don't understand. All you
have to say does have some bearing upon things, but, when you get down to brass tacks, it's
instinct--at the last gasp, it's instinct. You can't get away from it. Look at the difference
between a thoroughbred and a cold-blooded horse! There you are! That's true. It's the fashion
now to discount instinct, I know; well--but you can't get away from it. I've thought about
the thing--a lot. Men are brave against their better reason, against their conscience. It's
a mixed-up thing. It's confusing and--and sort of damnable," he concluded lamely.

"Sort of damnable!" ejaculated Hill wonderingly.

"Yes, damnable."

I experienced inspiration. "You've got a concrete instance back of that," I ventured.

Hardy removed his gaze from the ceiling. "Er--" he stammered. "Why, yes--yes. That's true."

"You'd better tell it," suggested Hill; "otherwise your argument is not very conclusive."

Hardy fumbled with the spoon of his empty coffee-cup. It was a curious gesture on the part
of a man whose franknesses were as clean-cut as his silences. "Well--" he began. "I don't know.
Perhaps. I did know a man, though, who saved another man's life when he didn't want to, when
there was every excuse for him not to, when he had it all reasoned out that it was wrong, the
very wrongest possible thing to do; and he saved him because he couldn't help it, saved him
at the risk of his own life, too."

"He did!" murmured Hill incredulously.

"Go on!" I urged. I was aware that we were on the edge of a revelation.

Hardy looked down at the spoon in his hand, then up and into my eyes.

"It's such a queer place to tell it"--he smiled deprecatingly--"here, in this restaurant. It
ought to be about a camp-fire, or something like that. Here it seems out of place, like the
smell of bacon or sweating mules. Do you know Los Pinos? Well, you wouldn't. It was just a
few shacks and a Mexican gambling-house when I saw it. Maybe it isn't there any more, at all.
You know--those places! People build them and then go away, and in a year there isn't a thing,
just desert again and shifting sand and maybe the little original old ranch by the one spring."
He swept the table-cloth with his hand, as if sweeping something into oblivion, and his eyes
sought again the spoon. "It's queer, that business. Men and women go out to lonely places and
build houses, and for a while everything goes on in miniature, just as it does here--daily
bread and hating and laughing--and then something happens, the gold gives out or the fields
won't pay, and in no time nature is back again. It's a big fight. You lose track of it in crowded
places." He raised his head and settled his arms comfortably on the table.

"I wasn't there for any particular purpose. I was on a holiday. I'd been on a big job up in
Colorado and was rather done up, and, as there were some prospects in New Mexico I wanted to
see, I hit south, drifting through Santa Fé and Silver City, until I found myself way down
on the southern edge of Arizona. It was still hot down there--hot as blazes--it was about the
first of September--and the rattlesnakes and the scorpions were still as active as crickets.
I knew a chap that had a cattle outfit near the Mexican border, so I dropped in on him one
day and stayed two weeks. You see, he was lonely. Had a passion for theatres and hadn't seen
a play for five years. My second-hand gossip was rather a godsend. But finally I got tired
of talking about Mary Mannering, and decided to start north again. He bade me good-by on a
little hill near his place. 'See here!' he said suddenly, looking toward the west. 'If you
go a trifle out of your way you'll strike Los Pinos, and I wish you would. It's a little bit
of a dump of the United Copper Company's, no good, I'm thinking, but the fellow in charge is
a friend of mine. He's got his wife there. They're nice people--or used to be. I haven't seen
them for ten years. They say he drinks a little--well, we all do. Maybe you could write me
how she--I mean, how he is getting on?' And he turned red. I saw how the land lay, and as a
favor to him I said I would.

"It was eighty miles away, and I drifted in there one night on top of a tired cow-horse just
at sundown. You know how purple--violet, really--those desert evenings are. There was violet
stretching away as far as I could see, from the faint violet at my stirrups to the deep, almost
black violet of the horizon. Way off to the north I could make out the shadow of some big hills
that had been ahead of me all day. The town, what there was of it, lay in a little gully. Along
its single street there were a few lights shining like small yellow flowers. I asked my way
of a Mexican, and he showed me up to where the Whitneys--that name will do as well as any--lived,
in a decent enough sort of bungalow, it would seem, above the gully. He left me there, and
I went forward and rapped at the door. Light shone from between the cracks of a near-by shutter,
and I could hear voices inside--a man's voice mostly, hoarse and high-pitched. Then a Chinaman
opened the door for me and I had a look inside, into a big living-room beyond. It was civilized
all right enough, pleasantly so to a man stepping out of two days of desert and Mexican adobes.
At a glance I saw the rugs on the polished floor, and the Navajo blankets about, and a big
table in the centre with a shaded lamp and magazines in rows; but the man in riding-clothes
standing before the empty fire-place wasn't civilized at all, at least not at that moment.
I couldn't see the woman, only the top of her head above the back of a big chair, but as I
came in I heard her say, 'Hush!--Jim!--please!' and I noticed that what I could see of her
hair was of that fine true gold you so seldom find. The man stopped in the middle of a sentence
and swayed on his feet, then he looked over at me and came toward me with a sort of bulldog,
inquiring look. He was a big, red-faced, blond chap, about forty, I should say, who might once
have been handsome. He wasn't now, and it didn't add to his beauty that he was quite obviously
fairly drunk. 'Well?' he said, and blocked my way.

"'I'm a friend of Henry Martin's,' I answered. 'I've got a letter for you.' I was beginning
to get pretty angry.

"'Henry Martin?' He laughed unsteadily. 'You'd better give it to my wife over there. She's
his friend. I hardly know him.' I don't know when I'd seen a man I disliked as much at first sight.

"There was a rustle from the other side of the room, and Mrs. Whitney came toward us. I avoided
her unattractive husband and took her hand, and I understood at once whatever civilizing influences
there were about the bungalow we were in. Did you ever do that--ever step out of nowhere, in
a wild sort of country, and meet suddenly a man or a woman who might have come straight from
a pleasant, well-bred room filled with books and flowers and quiet, nice people? It's a sensation
that never loses its freshness. Mrs. Whitney was like that. I wouldn't have called her beautiful;
she was better; you knew she was good and clean-cut and a thoroughbred the minute you saw her.
She was lovely, too; don't misunderstand me, but you had more important things to think about
when you were talking to her. Just at the moment I was wondering how any one who so evidently
had been crying could all at once greet a stranger with so cordial a smile. But she was all
that--all nerve; I don't think I ever met a woman quite like her--so fine, you understand."

Hardy paused. "Have any of you chaps got a cigarette?" he asked; and I noticed that his hand,
usually the steadiest hand imaginable, trembled ever so slightly. "Well," he began again, "there
you are! I had tumbled into about as rotten a little, pitiful a little tragedy as you can imagine,
there in a God-forsaken desert of Arizona, with not a soul about but a Chinaman, a couple of
Scotch stationary engineers, an Irish foreman, two or three young mining men, and a score of
Mexicans. Of course, my first impulse was to get out the next morning, to cut it--it was none
of my business--although I determined to drop a line to Henry Martin; but I didn't go. I had
a talk with Mrs. Whitney that night, after her attractive husband had taken himself off to
bed, and somehow I couldn't leave just then. You know how it is, you drop into a place where
nothing in the world seems likely to happen, and all of a sudden you realize that something
is going to happen, and for the life of you you can't go away. That situation up on top of
the hill couldn't last forever, could it? So I stayed on. I hunted out the big Irish foreman
and shared his cabin. The Whitneys asked me to visit them, but I didn't exactly feel like doing
so. The Irishman was a fine specimen of his race, ten years out from Dublin, and everywhere
else since that time; generous, irascible, given to great fits of gayety and equally unexpected
fits of gloom. He would sit in the evenings, a short pipe in his mouth, and stare up at the
Whitney bungalow on the hill above.

"'That Jim Whitney's a divvle,' he confided to me once. 'Wan of these days I'll hit him over
th' head with a pick and be hung for murther. Now, what in hell d'ye suppose a nice girl like
that sticks by him for? If it weren't for her I'd 'a' reported him long ago. The scut!' And
I remember that he spat gloomily.

"But I got to know the answer to that question sooner than I had expected. You see, I went
up to the Whitneys' often, in the afternoon, or for dinner, or in the evening, and I talked
to Mrs. Whitney a great deal; although sometimes I just sat and smoked and listened to her
play the piano. She played beautifully. It was a treat to a man who hadn't heard music for
two years. There was a little thing of Grieg's--a spring song, or something of the sort--and
you've no idea how quaint and sad and appealing it was, and incongruous, with all its freshness
and murmuring about water-falls and pine-trees, there, in those hot, breathless Arizona nights.
Mrs. Whitney didn't talk much; she wasn't what you'd call a particularly communicative woman,
but bit by bit I pieced together something continuous. It seems that she had run away with
Whitney ten years before--Oh, yes! Henry Martin! That had been a schoolgirl affair. Nothing
serious, you understand. But the Whitney matter had been different. She was greatly in love
with him. And the family had disapproved. Some rich, stuffy Boston people, I gathered. But
she had made up her mind and taken matters in her own hands. That was her way--a clean-cut
sort of person--like a gold-and-white arrow; and now she was going to stick by her choice no
matter what happened; owed it to Whitney. There was the quirk in her brain; we all have a quirk
somewhere, and that was hers. She felt that she had ruined his career; he had been a brilliant
young engineer, but her family had kicked up the devil of a row, and, as they were powerful
enough, and nasty enough, had more or less hounded him out of the East. Of course, personally,
I never thought he showed any of the essentials of brilliancy, but that's neither here nor
there; she did, and she was satisfied that she owed him all she had. I suppose, too, there
was some trace of a Puritan conscience back of it, some inherent feeling about divorce; and
there was pride as well, a desire not to let that disgusting family of hers know into what
ways her idol had fallen. Anyway, she was adamant--oh, yes, I made no bones about it, I up
and asked her one night why she didn't get rid of the hound. So there she was, that white-and-gold
woman, with her love of music, and her love of books, and her love of fine things, and her
gentleness, and that sort of fiery, suppressed Northern blood, shut up on top of an Arizona
dump with a beast that got drunk every night and twice a day on Sunday. It was worse even than
that. One night--we were sitting out on the veranda--her scarf slipped, and I saw a scar on
her arm, near her shoulder." Hardy stopped abruptly and began to roll a little pellet of bread
between his thumb and his forefinger; then his tense expression faded and he sat back in his chair.

"Let me have another cigarette," he said to Jarrick. "No. Wait a minute! I'll order some."

He called a waiter and gave his instructions. "You see," he continued, "when you run across
as few nice women as I do that sort of thing is more than ordinarily disturbing. And then I
suppose it was the setting, and her loneliness, and everything. Anyway, I stayed on, I got
to be a little bit ashamed of myself. I was afraid that Mrs. Whitney would think me prompted
by mere curiosity or a desire to meddle, so after a while I gave out that I was prospecting
that part of Arizona, and in the mornings I would take a horse and ride out into the desert.
I loved it, too; it was so big and spacious and silent and hot. One day I met Whitney on the
edge of town. He was sober, as he always was when he had to be; he was a masterful brute, in
his way. He stopped me and asked if I had found anything, and when I laughed he didn't laugh
back. 'There's gold here,' he said. 'Lots of gold. Did you ever hear the story of the Ten Strike
Mine? Well, it's over there.' He swept with his arm the line of distant hills to the north.
'The crazy Dutchman that found it staggered into Almuda, ten miles down the valley, just before
he died; and his pockets were bulging with samples--pure gold, almost. Yes, by thunder! And
that's the last they ever heard of it. Lots of men have tried--lots of men. Some day I'll go
myself, surer than shooting.' And he let his hands drop to his sides and stared silently toward
the north, a queer, dreamy anger in his eyes. I've seen lots of mining men, lots of prospectors,
in my time, and it didn't take me long to size up that look of his. 'Aha, my friend!' I said
to myself. 'So you've got another vice, have you! It isn't only rum that's got a hold on you!'
And I turned my horse into the town.

"But our conversation seemed to have stirred to the surface something in Whitney's brain that
had been at work there a long time, for after that he would never let me alone about his Ten
Strike Mine and the mountains that hid it. 'Over there!' he would say, and point to the north.
From the porch of his bungalow the sleeping hills were plainly visible above the shimmering
desert. He would chew on the end of a cigar and consider. 'It isn't very far, you know. Two
days--maybe three. All we need's water. No water there--at least, none found. All those fellows
who've prospected are fools. I'm an expert; so are you. I tell you, Hardy, let's do it! A couple
of little old pack-mules! Eh? How about it? Next week? I can get off. God, I'd like money!'
And he would subside into a sullen silence. At first I laughed at him; but I can tell you that
sort of thing gets on your nerves sooner or later and either makes you bolt it or else go.
At the end of two weeks I actually found myself considering the fool thing seriously. Of course,
I didn't want to discover a lost gold-mine, that is, unless I just happened to stumble over
it; I wanted to keep away from such things; they're bad; they get into a man's blood like drugs;
but I've always had a hankering for a new country, and those hills, shining in the heat, were
compelling--very compelling. Besides, I reflected, a trip like that might help to straighten
Whitney up a little. I hadn't much hope, to be sure, but drowning men clutch at straws. It's
curious what sophistry you use to convince yourself, isn't it? And then--something happened
that for two weeks occupied all my mind."

Hardy paused, considered for a moment the glowing end of his cigarette, and finally looked
up gravely; there was a slight hesitation, almost an embarrassment, in his manner. "I don't
exactly know how to put it," he began. "I don't want you chaps to imagine anything wrong; it
was all very nebulous and indefinite, you understand--Mrs. Whitney was a wonderful woman. I
wouldn't mention the matter at all if it wasn't necessary for the point of my story; in fact,
it is the point of my story. But there was a man there--one of the young engineers--and quite
suddenly I discovered that he was in love with Mrs. Whitney, and I think--I never could be
quite sure, but I think she was in love with him. It must have been one of those sudden things,
a storm out of a clear sky, deluging two people before they were aware. I imagine it was brought
to the surface by the chap's illness. He had been out riding on the desert and had got off
to look at something, and a rattlesnake had struck him--a big, dust-dirty thing--on the wrist,
and, very faint, he had galloped back to the Whitneys'. And what do you suppose she had done--Mrs.
Whitney, that is? Flung herself down on him and sucked the wound! Yes, without a moment's hesitation,
her gold hair all about his hand and her white dress in the dirt. Of course, it was a foolish
thing to do, and not in the least the right way to treat a wound, but she had risked her life
to do it; a slight cut on her lip--you understand; a tiny, ragged place. Afterward, she had
cut the wound crosswise, so, and had put on a ligature, and then had got the man into the house
some way and nursed him until he was quite himself again. I dare say he had been in love with
her a long while without knowing it, but that clinched matters. Those things come overpoweringly
and take a man, down in places like that--semitropical and lonely and lawless, with long, empty
days and moonlit nights. Perhaps he told Mrs. Whitney; he never got very far, I am sure. She
was a wonderful woman--but she loved him, I think. You can tell those things, you know; a gesture,
an unavoidable look, a silence.

"Anyway, I saw what had happened and I was sorry, and for a fortnight I hung around, loath
to go, but hating myself all the while for not doing so. And every day Whitney would come at
me with his insane scheme. 'Over there! It isn't very far. Two days--maybe three. How about
it? Eh?' and then that tense sweep of the arm to the north. I don't know what it was, weariness,
disgust, irritation of the whole sorry plan of things, but finally, and to my own astonishment,
I found myself consenting, and within two days Whitney had his crazy pack outfit ready, and
on the morning of the third day we set out. Mrs. Whitney had said nothing when we unfolded
our intentions to her, nor did she say anything when we departed, but stood on the porch of
the bungalow, her hand up to her throat, and watched us out of sight. I wondered what she was
thinking about. The Voodoos--that was the name of the mountains we were heading for--had killed
a good many men in their time."

Hardy took a long and thoughtful sip from the glass in front of him before he began again.
"I've knocked about a good deal in my life," he said; "I've been lost--once in the jungle;
I've starved; I've reached the point where I've imagined horrors, heard voices, you understand,
and seen great, bearded men mouthing at me--a man's pretty far gone when that happens to him--but
that trip across the desert was the worst I've ever taken. By day it was all right, just swaying
in your saddle, half asleep a good part of the time, the smell of warm dust in your nose, the
three pack-mules plodding along behind; but the nights!--I tell you, I've sat about camp-fires
up the Congo and watched big, oily black men eat their food, and I once saw a native village
sacked, but I'd rather be tied for life to a West Coast nigger than to a man like Whitney.
It isn't good for two people to be alone in a place like that and for one to hate the other
as I hated him. God knows why I didn't kill him; I'd have to get up and leave the fire and
go out into the night, and, mind you, I'd be shuddering like a man with the ague under that
warm, soft air. And he never for a minute suspected it. His mind was scarred with drink as
if a worm had bored its slow way in and out of it. I can see him now, cross-legged, beyond
the flames, big, unshaven, heavy-jowled, dirty, what he thought dripping from his mouth like
the bacon drippings he was too lazy to wipe away. I won't tell you what he talked about; you
know, the old thing; but not the way even the most wrong-minded of ordinary men talks; there
was a sodden, triumphant deviltry in him that was appalling. He cursed the country for its
lack of opportunity of a certain kind; he was like a hound held in leash, gloating over what
he would do when he got back to the kennels of civilization again. And all the while, at the
back of my mind, was a picture of that white-and-gold woman of his, way back toward the south,
waiting his return because she owed him her life for the brilliant career she had ruined. It
made you sometimes almost want to laugh--insanely. I used to lie awake at night and pray whatever
there was to kill him, and do it quickly. I would have turned back, but I felt that every day
I could keep him away from Los Pinos was a day gained for Mrs. Whitney. He was a dangerous
maniac, too. The first day he behaved himself fairly well, but the second, after supper, when
we had cleaned up, he began to fumble through the packs, and finally produced a bottle of brandy.

"'Fine camping stuff!' he announced. 'Lots of results for very little weight. Have some?'

"'Are you going to drink that?' I asked.

"'Oh, go to the devil!' he snapped. 'I've been out as much as you have.' I didn't argue with
him further; I hoped if he drank enough the sun would get him. But the third night he upset
the water-kegs, two of them. He had been carrying on some sort of weird celebration by himself,
and finally staggered out into the desert, singing at the top of his lungs, and the first thing
I knew he was down among the kegs, rolling over and over, and kicking right and left. The one
that was open was gone; another he kicked the plug out of, but I managed to save about a quarter
of its contents. The next morning I spoke to him about it. He blinked his red eyes and chuckled.

"'Poor sort of stuff, anyway,' he said.

"'Yes,' I agreed; 'but without it you would blow out like a candle in a dust storm.' After
that we didn't speak to each other except when it was necessary.

"We were in the foot-hills of the Voodoos by now, and the next day we got into the mountains
themselves--great, bare ragged peaks, black and red and dirty yellow, like the cooled-off slake
of a furnace. Every now and then a dry gully came down from nowheres; and the only human thing
one could see was occasionally, on the sides of one of these, a shivering, miserable, half-dead
piñon--nothing but that, and the steel-blue sky overhead, and the desert behind us, shimmering
like a lake of salt. It was hot--good Lord! The horn of your saddle burned your hand. That
night we camped in a canyon, and the next day went still higher up, following the course of
a rutted stream that probably ran water once in a year. Whitney wanted to turn east, and it
was all a toss-up to me; the place looked unlikely enough, anyway, although you never can tell.
I had settled into the monotony of the trip by now and didn't much care how long we stayed
out. One day was like another--hot little swirls of dust, sweat of mules, and great black cliffs;
and the nights came and went like the passing of a sponge over a fevered face. On the sixth
day the tragedy happened. It was toward dusk, and one of the mules, the one that carried the
water, fell over a cliff.

"He wasn't hurt; just lay on his back and smiled crossly; but the kegs and the bags were smashed
to bits. I like mules, but I wanted to kill that one. It was quiet down there in the canyon--quiet
and hot. I looked at Whitney and he looked at me, and I had the sudden, unpleasant realization
that he was a coward, added to his other qualifications. Yes, a coward! I saw it in his blurred
eyes and the quivering of his bloated lips--stark dumb funk. That was bad. I'm afraid I lost
my nerve, too; I make no excuses; fear is infectious. At all events, we tore down out of that
place as if death was after us, the mules clattering and flapping in the rear. After a time
I rode more slowly, but in the morning we were nearly down at the desert again; and there it
lay before us, shimmering like a lake of salt--three days back to water.

"The next two days were rather a blur, as if a man were walking on a red-hot mirror that tipped
up and down and tried to take his legs from under him. There was a water-hole a little to the
east of the way we had come, and toward that I tried to head. One of the mules gave out, and
staggered and groaned, and tried to get up again. I remember hearing him squeal, once; it was
horrible. He lay there, a little black speck on the desert. Whitney and I didn't speak to each
other at all, but I thought of those two kegs of water he had upset. Have you ever been thirsty--mortally
thirsty, until you feel your tongue black in your mouth? It's queer what it does to you. Do
you remember that little place--Zorn's--at college? We used to sit there sometimes on spring
afternoons. It was cool and cavern-like, and through the open door one could see the breeze
in the maple-trees. Well, I thought about that all the time; it grew to be an obsession, a
mirage. I could smell the moss-like smell of bock beer; I even remembered conversations we
had had. You fellows were as real to me as you are real to-night. It's strange, and then, when
you come to, uncanny; you feel the sweat on you turn cold.

"We had ridden on in that way I don't know how long, snatching a couple of feverish hours of
sleep in the night, Whitney groaning and mumbling horribly, when suddenly my horse gave a little
snicker--low, the way they do when you give them grain--and I felt his tired body straighten
up ever so little. 'Maybe,' I thought, and I looked up. But I didn't much care; I just wanted
to crawl into some cool place and forget all about it and die. It was late in the afternoon.
My shadow was lengthening. Too late, really, for much mirage; but I no longer put great stock
in green vegetation and matters of that kind; I had seen too much of it in the last two days
fade away into nothing--nothing but blistering, damned sand. And so I wouldn't believe the
cool reeds and the sparkling water until I had dipped down through a little swale and was actually
fighting my horse back from the brink. I knew enough to do that, mind you, and to fight back
the two mules so that they drank just a little at a time--a little at a time; and all the while
I had to wait, with my tongue like sand in my mouth. Over the edge of my horse's neck I could
see the water just below; it looked as cool as rain. I was always a little proud of that--that
holding back; it made up, in a way, for the funk of two nights earlier. When the mules and
my horse were through I dismounted and, lying flat, bathed my hands, and then, a tiny sip at
a time, began to drink. That was hard. When I stood up the heat seemed to have gone, and the
breeze was moist and sweet with the smell of evening. I think I sang a little and waved my
hands above my head, and, at all events, I remember I lay on my back and rolled a cigarette;
and quite suddenly and without the slightest reason there were tears in my eyes. Then I began
to wonder what had become of Whitney; I hadn't thought of him before. I got to my feet, and
just as I did so I saw him come over the little rise of sand, swaying in his saddle, and trying,
the fool, to make his horse run. He looked like a great scarecrow blown out from some Indian
maize-field into the desert. His clothes were torn and his mask of a face was seamed and black
from dust and sweat; he saw the water and let out one queer, hoarse screech and kicked at his
horse with wabbling legs.

"'Look out!' I cried, and stepped in his way. I had seen this sort of thing before and knew
what to expect; but he rode me down as if I hadn't been there. His horse tried to avoid me,
and the next moment the sack of grain on its back was on the sands, creeping like a great,
monstrous, four-legged thing toward the water. 'Stay where you are,' I said, 'and I'll bring
you some.' But he only crawled the faster. I grabbed his shoulder. 'You fool!' I said. 'You'll
kill yourself!'

"'Damn you!' he blubbered. 'Damn you!' And before I knew it, and with all the strength, I imagine,
left in him, he was on his feet and I was looking down the barrel of his gun. It looked very
round and big and black, too. Beyond it his eyes were regarding me; they were quite mad, there
was no doubt about that, but, just the way a dying man achieves some of his old desire to will,
there was definite purpose in them. 'You get out of my way,' he said, and began very slowly
to circle me. You could hardly hear his words, his lips were so blistered and swollen.

"And now this is the point of what I am telling you." Hardy fumbled again for a match and relit
his cigarette. "There we were, we two, in that desert light, about ten feet from the water,
he with his gun pointing directly at my heart--and his hand wasn't trembling as much as you
would imagine, either--and he was circling me step by step, and I was standing still. I suppose
the whole affair took two minutes, maybe three, but in that time--and my brain was still blurred
to other impressions--I saw the thing as clearly as I see it now, as clearly as I saw that
great, swollen beast of a face. Here was the chance I had longed for, the hope I had lain awake
at night and prayed for; between the man and death I alone stood; and I had every reason, every
instinct of decency and common sense, to make me step aside. The man was a devil; he was killing
the finest woman I had ever met; his presence poisoned the air he walked in; he was an active
agent of evil, there was no doubt of that. I hated him as I had never hated anything else in
my life, and at the moment I was sure that God wanted him to die. I knew then that to save
him would be criminal; I think so still. And I saw other considerations as well; saw them as
clearly as I see you sitting here. I saw the man who loved Mrs. Whitney, and I saw Mrs. Whitney
herself, and in my keeping, I knew, was all her chance for happiness, the one hope that the
future would make up to her for some of the horror of the past. It would have been an easy
thing to do; the most ordinary caution was on my side. Whitney was far larger than I, and,
even in his weakened condition--I was weak myself--stronger, and he had a gun that in a flash
of light could blow me into eternity. And what would happen then? Why, when he got back to
Los Pinos they would hang him; they would be only too glad of the chance; and his wife?--she
would die; I knew it--just go out like a flame from the unbearableness of it all. And there
wasn't one chance in a thousand that he wouldn't kill me if I made a single step toward him.
I had only to let him go and in a few minutes he would be dead--as dead as his poor brute of
a horse would be within the hour. I felt already the cool relief that would be mine when the
black shadow of him was gone. I would ride into town and think no more of it than if I had
watched a tarantula die. You see, I had it all reasoned out as clearly as could be; there was
morality and common sense, the welfare of other people, the man's own good, really, and yet--well,
I didn't do it."

"Didn't?" It was Jarrick who put the question a little breathlessly.

"No. I stepped toward him--so! One step, then another, very slowly, hardly a foot at a time,
and all the while I watched the infernal circle of that gun, expecting it every minute to spit
fire. I didn't want to go; I went against my will. I was scared, too, mortally scared; my legs
were like lead--I had to think every time I lifted a foot--and in a queer, crazy way I seemed
to feel two people, a man and a woman, holding me back, plucking at my sleeves. But I went.
All the time I kept saying, very steady and quiet: 'Don't shoot, Whitney! D'you hear! Don't
shoot or I'll kill you!' Wasn't it silly? Kill him! Why, he had me dead ten times before I
got to him. But I suppose some trace of sanity was knocking at his drink-sodden brain, for
he didn't shoot--just watched me, his red eyes blinking. So! One step at a time--nearer and
nearer--I could feel the sweat on my forehead--and then I jumped. I had him by the legs, and
we went down in a heap. He shot then; they always do! But I had him tied up with the rags of
his own shirt in a trice. Then I brought him water in my hat and let him drink it, drop by
drop. After a while he came to altogether. But he never thanked me; he wasn't that kind of
a brute. I got him into town the morning of the second day and turned him over to his wife.
So you see"--Hardy hesitated and looked at the circle of our faces with an odd, appealing look--"it
is queer, isn't it? All mixed up. One doesn't know." He sank back in his chair and began to
scratch, absent-mindedly, at a holder with a match.

The after-theatre crowd was beginning to come in; the sound of laughter and talk grew steadily
higher; far off an orchestra wailed inarticulately.

"What became of them?" I asked.

Hardy looked up as if startled. "The Whitneys? Oh--she died--Martin wrote me. Down there, within
a year. One would know it would happen. Like a flame, I suppose--suddenly."

"And the man--the fellow who was in love with her?"

Hardy stirred wearily. "I haven't heard," he said. "I suppose he is still alive."

He leaned over to complete the striking of his match, and for an instant his arm touched a
glass; it trembled and hung in the balance, and he shot out a sinewy hand to stop it, and as
he did so the sleeve of his dinner jacket caught. On the brown flesh of his forearm I saw a
queer, ragged white cross--the scar a snake bite leaves when it is cicatrized. I meant to avoid
his eyes, but somehow I caught them instead. They were veiled and hurt.

THE WAKE[2]

BY DONN BYRNE

From Harper's Magazine

[2] Copyright, 1915, by Harper and Brothers. Copyright, 1916, by Donn
    Byrne.

At times the muffled conversation in the kitchen resembled the resonant humming of bees, and
again, when it became animated, it sounded like the distant cackling of geese. Then there would
come a pause; and it would begin again with sibilant whispers, and end in a chorus of dry laughter
that somehow suggested the crackling of burning logs.

Occasionally a figure would open the bedroom door, pass the old man as he sat huddled in his
chair, never throwing a glance at him, and go and kneel by the side of the bed where the body
was. They usually prayed for two or three minutes, then rose and walked on tiptoe to the kitchen,
where they joined the company. Sometimes they came in twos, less often in threes, but they
did precisely the same thing--prayed for precisely the same time, and left the room on tiptoe
with the same creak of shoe and rustle of clothes that sounded so intensely loud throughout
the room. They might have been following instructions laid down in a ritual.

The old man wished to heaven they would stay away. He had been sitting in his chair for hours,
thinking, until his head was in a whirl. He wanted to concentrate his thoughts, but somehow
he felt that the mourners were preventing him.

The five candles at the head of the bed distracted him. He was glad when the figure of one
of the mourners shut off the glare for a few minutes. He was also distracted by the five chairs
standing around the room like sentries on post and the little table by the window with its
crucifix and holy-water font. He wanted to keep thinking of "herself," as he called her, lost
in the immensity of the oaken bed. He had been looking at the pinched face with its faint suspicion
of blue since early that morning. He was very much awed by the nun's hood that concealed the
back of the head, and the stiffly posed arms and the small hands in their white-cotton gloves
moved him to a deep pity.

Somebody touched him on the shoulder. "Michael James."

It was big Dan Murray, a gaunt red farmer, who had been best man at his wedding.

"Michael James."

"What is it?"

"I hear young Kennedy's in the village."

"What of that?"

"I thought it was best for you to know."

Murray waited a moment, then he went out, on tiptoe, as everybody did, his movements resembling
the stilted gestures of a mechanical toy.

Down the drive Michael heard steps coming. Then a struggle and a shrill giggle. Some young
people were coming to the wake, and he knew a boy had tried to kiss a girl in the dark. He
felt a dull surge of resentment.

She was nineteen when he married her; he was sixty-three. Because he had over two hundred acres
of land and many head of milch and grazing cattle and a huge house that rambled like a barrack,
her father had given her to him; and young Kennedy, who had been her father's steward for years,
and had been saving to buy a house for her, was thrown over like a bale of mildewed hay.

Kennedy had made several violent scenes. Michael James remembered the morning of the wedding.
Kennedy waylaid the bridal-party coming out of the church. He was drunk. "Mark me," he had
said, very quietly for a drunken man--"mark me. If anything ever happens to that girl at your
side, Michael James, I'll murder you. I'll murder you in cold blood. Do you understand?"

Michael James could be forgiving that morning. "Run away and sober up, lad," he had said, "and
come up to the house and dance."

Kennedy had gone around the countryside for weeks, drunk every night, making threats against
the old farmer. And then a wily sergeant of the Connaught Rangers had trapped him and taken
him off to Aldershot.

Now he was home on furlough, and something had happened to her, and he was coming up to make
good his threat.

What had happened to her? Michael James didn't understand. He had given her everything he could.
She had taken it all with a demure thanks, but he had never had anything of her but apathy.
She had gone around the house apathetically, growing a little thinner every day, and then a
few days ago she had lain down, and last night she had died, apathetically.

And young Kennedy was coming up for an accounting to-night. "Well," thought Michael James,
"let him come!"

Silence suddenly fell over the company in the kitchen. Then a loud scraping as they stood up,
and a harsher grating as chairs were pushed back. The door of the bedroom opened and the red
flare from the fire and lamps of the kitchen blended into the sickly yellow candle-light of
the bedroom.

The parish priest walked in. His closely cropped white hair, strong, ruddy face, and erect
back gave him more the appearance of a soldier than a clergyman. He looked at the bed a moment,
and then at Michael James.

"Oh, you mustn't take it like that, man," he said. "You mustn't take it like that. You must
bear up." He was the only one who spoke in his natural voice.

He turned to a lumbering farmer's wife who had followed him in, and asked about the hour of
the funeral. She answered in a hoarse whisper, dropping a courtesy.

"You ought to go out and take a walk," he told Michael James. "You oughtn't to stay in here
all the time." And he left the room.

Michael James paid no attention. His mind was wandering to strange fantasies he could not keep
out of his head. Pictures crept in and out of his brain, joined as by some thin filament. He
thought somehow of her soul, and then wondered what a soul was like. And then he thought of
a dove, and then of a bat fluttering through the dark, and then of a bird lost at twilight.
He thought of it as some lonely flying thing with a long journey before it and no place to
rest. He could imagine it uttering the vibrant, plaintive cry of a peewit. And then it struck
him with a great sense of pity that the night was cold.

In the kitchen they were having tea. The rattle of the crockery sounded very distinctly. He
could distinguish the sharp, staccato ring when a cup was laid in a saucer, and the nervous
rattle when cup and saucer were passed from one hand to the other. Spoons struck china with
a faint metallic tinkle. He felt as if all the sounds were made at the back of his neck, and
the crash seemed to burst in his head.

Dan Murray creaked into the room. "Michael James," he whispered, "you ought to take something.
Have a bite to eat. Take a cup of tea. I'll bring it in to you."

"Oh, let me alone, Daniel," he answered. He felt he would like to kick him and curse him while
doing so.

"You must take something." Murray's voice rose from a whisper to a low, argumentative sing-song.
"You know it's not natural. You've got to eat."

"No, thank you, Daniel," he answered. It was as if he were talking to a boy who was good-natured
but tiresome. "I don't feel like eating. Maybe afterward I will."

"Michael James," Murray continued.

"Well, what is it, Daniel?"

"Don't you think I'd better go down and see young Kennedy and tell him how foolish it would
be of him to come up here and start fighting? You know it isn't right. Hadn't I better go down?
He's at home now."

"Let that alone, Daniel, I tell you." The thought of Murray breaking into the matter that was
between himself and the young man filled him with a sense of injured delicacy.

"I know he's going to make trouble."

"Let me handle that, like a good fellow, and leave me by myself, Daniel, if you don't mind."

"Ah well, sure. You know best." And Murray crept out of the room.

As the door opened Michael could hear some one singing in a subdued voice and many feet tapping
like drums in time with the music. They had to pass the night outside, and it was the custom,
but the singing irritated him. He could fancy heads nodding and bodies swaying from side to
side with the rhythm. He recognized the tune, and it began to run through his head, and he
could not put it out of it. The lilt of it captured him, and suddenly he began thinking of
the wonderful brain that musicians must have to compose music. And then his thoughts switched
to a picture he had seen of a man in a garret with a fiddle beneath his chin.

He straightened himself up a little, for sitting crouched forward as he was put a strain on
his back, and he unconsciously sat upright to ease himself. And as he sat up he caught a glimpse
of the cotton gloves on the bed, and it burst in on him that the first time he had seen her
she was walking along the road with young Kennedy one Sunday afternoon, and they were holding
hands. When they saw him they let go suddenly, and grew very red, giggling in a half-hearted
way to hide their embarrassment. And he remembered that he had passed them by without saying
anything, but with a good-humored, sly smile on his face, and a mellow feeling within him,
and a sage reflection to himself that young folks will be young folks, and what harm was there
in courting a little on a Sunday afternoon when the week's work had been done?

And he remembered other days on which he had met her and Kennedy; and then how the conviction
had come into his mind that here was a girl for him to marry; and then how, quietly and equably,
he had gone about getting her and marrying her, as he would go about buying a team of horses
or make arrangements for cutting the hay.

Until the day he married her he felt as a driver feels who has his team under perfect control,
and who knows every bend and curve of the road he is taking. But since that day he had been
thinking about her and worrying and wondering exactly where he stood, until everything in the
day was just the puzzle of her, and he was like a driver with a restive pair of horses who
knows his way no farther than the next bend. And then he knew she was the biggest thing in
his life.

The situation as it appeared to him he had worked out with difficulty, for he was not a thinking
man. What thinking he did dealt with the price of harvest machinery and the best time of the
year for buying and selling. He worked it out this way: here was this girl dead, whom he had
married, and who should have married another man, who was coming to-night to kill him. To-night
sometime the world would stop for him. He felt no longer a personal entity--he was merely part
of a situation. It was as if he were a piece in a chess problem--any moment the player might
move and solve the play by taking a pawn.

Realities had taken on a dim, unearthly quality. Occasionally a sound from the kitchen would
strike him like an unexpected note in a harmony; the whiteness of the bed would flash out like
a piece of color in a subdued painting.

There was a shuffling in the kitchen and the sound of feet going toward the door. The latch
lifted with a rasp. He could hear the hoarse, deep tones of a few boys, and the high-pitched
sing-song intonations of girls. He knew they were going for a few miles' walk along the roads.
He went over and raised the blind on the window. Overhead the moon showed like a spot of bright
saffron. A sort of misty haze seemed to cling around the bushes and trees. The out-houses stood
out white, like buildings in a mysterious city. Somewhere there was the metallic whir of a
grasshopper, and in the distance a loon boomed again and again.

The little company passed down the yard. There was the sound of a smothered titter, then a
playful resounding slap, and a gurgling laugh from one of the boys.

As he stood by the window he heard some one open the door and stand on the threshold.

"Are you coming, Alice?" some one asked.

Michael James listened for the answer. He was taking in eagerly all outside things. He wanted
something to pass the time of waiting, as a traveler in a railway station reads trivial notices
carefully while waiting for a train that may take him to the ends of the earth.

"Alice, are you coming?" was asked again.

There was no answer.

"Well, you needn't if you don't want to," he heard in an irritated tone, and the speaker tramped
down toward the road in a dudgeon. He recognized the figure of Flanagan, the football-player,
who was always having little spats with the girl he was going to marry. He discovered with
a sort of shock that he was slightly amused at this incident.

From the road there came the shrill scream of one of the girls who had gone out, and then a
chorus of laughter. And against the background of the figure behind him and of young Kennedy
he began wondering at the relationship of man and woman. He had no word for it, for "love"
was a term he thought should be confined to story-books, a word to be suspicious of as sounding
affected, a word to be scoffed at. But of this relationship he had a vague understanding. He
thought of it as a criss-cross of threads binding one person to the other, or as a web which
might be light and easily broken, or which might have the strength of steel cables and which
might work into knots here and there and become a tangle that could crush those caught in it.

It puzzled him how a thing of indefinable grace, of soft words on June nights, of vague stirrings
under moonlight, of embarrassing hand-clasps and fearful glances, might become, as it had become
in the case of himself, Kennedy, and what was behind him, a thing of blind, malevolent force,
a thing of sinister silence, a shadow that crushed.

And then it struck him with a sense of guilt that his mind was wandering from her, and he turned
away from the window. He thought how much more peaceful it would be for a body to lie out in
the moonlight than on a somber oak bedstead in a shadowy room with yellow, guttering candle-light
and five solemn-looking chairs. And he thought again how strange it was that on a night like
this Kennedy should come as an avenger seeking to kill rather than as a lover with high hope
in his breast.

Murray slipped into the room again. There was a frown on his face and his tone was aggressive.

"I tell you, Michael James, we'll have to do something about it." There was a truculent note
in his whisper.

The farmer did not answer.

"Will you let me go down for the police? A few words to the sergeant will keep him quiet."

Michael James felt a pity for Murray. The idea of pitting a sergeant of police against the
tragedy that was coming seemed ludicrous to him. It was like pitting a school-boy against a
hurricane.

"Listen to me, Dan," he replied. "How do you know Kennedy is coming up at all?"

"Flanagan, the football-player, met him and talked to him. He said that Kennedy was clean mad."

"Do they know about it in the kitchen?"

"Not a word." There was a pause.

"Well, listen here, now. Go right back there and don't say a word about it. Wouldn't it be
foolish if you went down to the police and he didn't come at all? And if he does come I can
manage him. And if I can't I'll call you. Does that satisfy you?" And he sent Murray out, grumbling.

As the door closed he felt that the last refuge had been abandoned. He was to wrestle with
destiny alone. He had no doubt that Kennedy would make good his vow, and he felt a sort of
curiosity as to how it would be done. Would it be with hands, or with a gun, or some other
weapon? He hoped it would be the gun. The idea of coming to hand-grips with the boy filled
him with a strange terror.

The thought that within ten minutes or a half-hour or an hour he would be dead did not come
home to him. It was the physical act that frightened him. He felt as if he were terribly alone
and a cold wind were blowing about him and penetrating every pore of his body. There was a
contraction around his breast-bone and a shiver in his shoulders.

His idea of death was that he would pitch headlong, as from a high tower, into a bottomless
dark space.

He went over to the window again and looked out toward the barn. From a chink in one of the
shutters there was a thread of yellow candle-light. He knew there were men there playing cards
to pass the time.

Then terror came on him. The noise in the kitchen was subdued. Most of the mourners had gone
home, and those who were staying the night were drowsy and were dozing over the fire. He felt
he wanted to rush among them and to cry to them to protect him, and to cower behind them and
to close them around him in a solid circle. He felt that eyes were upon him, looking at his
back from the bed, and he was afraid to turn around because he might look into the eyes.

She had always respected him, he remembered, and he did not want to lose her respect now; and
the fear that he would lose it set his shoulders back and steadied the grip of his feet on
the floor.

And then there flashed before him the thought of people who kill, of lines of soldiery rushing
on trenches, of a stealthy, cowering man who slips through a jail door at dawn, and of a figure
he had read of in books--a sinister figure with an ax and a red cloak.

As he looked down the yard he saw a figure turn in the gate and come toward the house. It seemed
to walk slowly and heavily, as if tired. He knew it was Kennedy. He opened the kitchen door
and slipped outside.

The figure coming up the pathway seemed to swim toward him. Then it would blur and disappear
and then appear again vaguely. The beating of his heart was like the regular sound of a ticking
clock. Space narrowed until he felt he could not breathe. He went forward a few paces. The
light from the bedroom window streamed forward in a broad, yellow beam. He stepped into it
as into a river.

"She's dead," he heard himself saying. "She's dead." And then he knew that Kennedy was standing
in front of him.

The flap of the boy's hat threw a heavy shadow over his face, his shoulders were braced, and
his right hand, the farmer could see, was thrust deeply into his coat pocket.

"Aye, she's dead," Michael James repeated. "You knew that, didn't you?" It was all he could
think of saying. "You'll come in and see her, won't you?" He had forgotten what Kennedy had
come for. He was dazed. He didn't know what to say.

Kennedy moved a little. The light from the window struck him full in the face, and Michael
James realized with a shock that it was as grim and thin-lipped as he had pictured it. A prayer
rose in his throat, and then fear seemed to leave him all at once. He raised his head. The
right hand had left the pocket now. And then suddenly he saw that Kennedy was looking into
the room, and he knew he could see, through the little panes of glass, the huge bedstead and
the body on it. And he felt a desire to throw himself between Kennedy and it, as he might jump
between a child and a threatening danger.

He turned away his head, instinctively--why, he could not understand, but he felt that he should
not look at Kennedy's face.

Over in the barn voices rose suddenly. They were disputing over the cards. There was some one
complaining feverishly and some one arguing truculently, and another voice striving to make
peace. They died away in a dull hum, and Michael James heard the boy sobbing.

"You mustn't do that," he said. "You mustn't do that." And he patted him on the shoulders.
He felt as if something unspeakably tense had relaxed and as if life were swinging back into
balance. His voice shook and he continued patting. "You'll come in now, and I'll leave you
alone there." He took him under the arm.

He felt the pity he had for the body on the bed envelop Kennedy, too, and a sense of peace
came over him. It was as though a son of his had been hurt and had come to him for comfort,
and he was going to comfort him. In some vague way he thought of Easter-time.

He stopped at the door for a moment.

"It's all right, laddie," he said. "It's all right," and he lifted the latch.

As they went in he felt somehow as if high walls had crumbled and the three of them had stepped
into the light of day.

CHAUTONVILLE[3]

BY WILL LEVINGTON COMFORT

From The Masses

[3] Copyright, 1915, by The Masses. Copyright, 1916, by Will Levington
    Comfort.

They said that the Russian line was a hundred miles long. I know nothing about that, but I
know that it extended as far as the eye could reach to the east and west, and that this had
been so for many weeks. But time, as it is known in the outer world, had stopped for us. It
was now November, and we had been without mails since late in August. Three days of hideous
cold had come without warning, and before the snows, so that there was a foot of iron frost
in the ground. This had to be bitten through in all our trench-making, and though we were on
the southern slopes of the Carpathians, timber was scarce. At each of our recent meetings with
the Austrian enemy, we had expected to feel the new strike--the different resistance of German
reinforcement.

A queer sense had come to us from the Austrians. I had thought of it many times and others
had spoken the same: that it didn't matter greatly to them. They gave us fierce fighting, but
always when we were exhausted and insane with our dead--they fell away before us. This had
happened so often that we came to expect it, our chief puzzle being just how long they would
hold out in each battle. Especially when our brigade was engaged, and we had entered into an
intensity that was all the human could endure, I would almost stop breathing in the expectancy
of the release of tension before us. When it did not come, I invariably found afterward that
I was out of perspective with the mainline, on account of the fierceness of our immediate struggle.
We were but one snapping loop of the fighting--too localized to affect the main front. The
Austrians gave all in a piece, when they drew back.

Days were the same, a steady suffering. I did not know before what men could stand. We had
weeks of life that formerly I would have considered fatal to adventure with through one night
or day--exposure, fatigue, famine--and over all the passion for home, that slow lasting fire.
I began to understand how the field-mice winter--how the northern birds live through, and what
a storm, on top of a storm, means to all creatures of the north country that are forced to
take what comes, when the earth tilts up into the bleak and icy gray. We forget this as men,
until a war comes.

But all measuring of the world had ceased for our eyes. A man must have emotions for this,
and we thought our emotions dead. I wonder if it can be understood--this being shaken down
to the end, this facing of life and death without a personal relation?... Crawling out of the
blanket in the morning, I have met the cold--such a shock throughout, that it centered like
a long pin driven in the heart. I have seen my friends go, right and left on the field--those
who helped tend the fire the night before--and met their end and my own peril without a quickened
pulse. Of course, I knew something was changed for me, because I had not been this way. I had
even lost the love of courage--that quality of field-work that used to raise my hair, so high
and pure did it seem to my eyes.... But the night came, when I heard a little man mumbling
over the fire to the effect that he hated it all--that the Little Father was making monkeys
of us all--and a thrill shot over me, so that I knew I was alive. Yes, there was something to that.

"Sh-shh--" said I. Two others drew near, as if a bottle had been opened. And Firthus, my closest
friend, gripped my arm, leaving a blue welt where his thumb had pressed.

"It's as bad to say 'sh-sh--' as to say what he said," Firthus whispered.

Yes, even in the coldness, there was a thrill to that. Perhaps we thrill at the first breath
of that which is to come and change us over.

... For three days they had given our part of the line a different and extraordinary resistance,
so that for three nights we camped in the same place. A valley was before us, and the infantry
had tried to cross again and again, always meeting at a certain place in the hollows an enfilading
fire from the forward low hills. We could not get enough men across to charge the emplacements....
We were mid-west of the west wing, it was said; and word came the third day that we were holding
up the whole line; that the east was ready to drive through, in fact, was bending forward;
that the west was marking time on our account--and here we were keeping the whole Russian invasion
from spending the holidays in Budapest.

On that third day I was dispatching from brigade-headquarters to the trenches. The General
and his staff stood in a shepherd's house in the midst of a circle of rocks. Waiting there
I began to understand that they were having difficulty in forcing the men forward in the later
charges. The lines could see their dead of former advances, black and countless upon the valley
snow. This was not good for the trenches.

... Now I realized that they were talking of Chautonville, the singer, the master of our folk-songs.
We had heard of him along the line--how he had come running home to us out of Germany at the
last moment in July--literally pelted forth, changed from an idol into an enemy and losing
a priceless engagement-series on the Continent. He had not been the least bewildered, as the
story went, rather enjoying it all.... They had monopolized him at the central headquarters,
so that we had not heard him sing, but the gossip of it fired the whole line--a baritone voice
like a thick starry dusk, having to do with magnolias and the south, and singing of the Russia
that was to mean the world. Somehow he had made us gossip to that extent. So I was interested
now to hear the name of Chautonville, and that he was coming.

He was to sing us forward again. There was a pang in that, as I craned forward to look at the
valley. It was not for our entertainment, but to make us forget our dead, to make us charge
the valley again over our dead--it being planned that a remnant might make the crossing and
charge the emplacements.... He came--a short barrel of a man and fat. They had kept him well
at the Center. He was valuable in the hospitals, it was said.

The least soldierly kind of a man I had seen in many days, save the Brigadier--so white and
fat was Chautonville, the top of his head small, his legs short and thick, hands fat and white
and tapering, a huge neck and chin with folds of white fat under it--a sort of a perfect bird
dressed for present to the Emperor. Chautonville was big-eyed with all this--large, innocent
brown eyes--innocent to me, but it was the superb health of the creature, his softness, clearness
of skin and eye, that gave the impression to us, so lean and stringy. For his eyes were not
innocent--something in them spoiled that. We were worn to buckskin and ivory, while here was
a parlor kind of health--so clean in his linen, white folds of linen, about his collar and
wrists. His chest was a marvel to look at--here in the field after weeks in the Carpathians.
We were all range and angles, but this was a round barrel of a man, as thick as broad, his
lips plump and soft, while we for weeks had licked a dry faded line, our faces strange with
bone and teeth.

"What is it?" he asked the General.

I thought of a little doctor, called by others after consultation--an extra bit of dexterity
required, this being the high-priced man. There was that indoor look of a barber about him, too.

The General explained that a new charge was to be ordered--that three had failed--that the
men (while not exactly rebellious) faltered before the valley a fourth time this day--that
the failures were costly in men--in short, that the inspiration of Chautonville was required
now to sing them and the reserves across.... The Austrians would quickly give way, if the valley
were passed.... Then the thousands would flood up the slopes and--Budapest and holidays.

"You want me to sing to them for courage--as it were?" Chautonville questioned.

I had marked his voice. I saw now that he needed all the thickness of throat and bust--that
he used it all. I hoped they would not send me away with a message....

"You want me to walk up and down the trenches?"

"Yes, singing."

He puffed his cheeks and blew out a long breath--as if enjoying the effect of the steam in
the icy light.

"Are they under fire?" he asked.

"You see them from here--how silent they are! The enemy does not fire until we reach the valley."

So he made no bones about his fears. Nothing of the charge would be required of him. He could
withdraw after his inspiration.... Hate was growing within me. God, how I came to hate him--not
for his cowardice--that was a novelty, and so freely acknowledged, but because he would sing
the men to their death. This was the tame elephant that they use to subdue the wild ones--this
the decoy--the little white bastard.

"Very well, I will walk up and down the trenches, singing--" He said it a bit cockily.

I was in no way a revolutionist, yet I vowed some time to get him, alone.... I seemed to see
myself in a crowded city street at night--some city full of lights, as far as heaven from now--going
in with the crowd under the lights--to hear him sing. There I could get him.... Not a revolutionist,
at all; no man in the enlisted ranks more trusted than I; attached for dispatch-work at brigade-headquarters;
in all likelihood of appearance so stupid, as to be accepted as a good soldier and nothing
more.... Now I remembered how far I was from the lights of any city and crowded streets--here
in the desperate winter fighting, our world crazed with punishment, and planning for real fighting
in the Spring. The dead of the valley arose before my eyes.... Perhaps within an hour my room
would be ready. Still I should be sorry to pass, and leave Chautonville living on.

They beckoned me to his escort. I followed, hoping to see him die presently. This new hope
was to watch him die--and not do it with my hands. Yes, I trusted that Chautonville would not
come back from the trenches.

The pits stretched out in either direction--bitten into the ground by the most miserable men
the light of day uncovered--bitten through the snow and then through a thick floor of frost
as hard as cement. I heard their voices--men of my own country--voices as from swooning men--lost
to all mercy, ready to die, not as men, but preying, cornered animals--forgotten of God, it
seemed, though that was illusion; forgotten of home which was worse to their hearts, and illusion,
too. For we could not hold the fact of home. It had proved too hard for us. The bond had snapped.
Only death seemed sure.

Chautonville opened his mouth.

It was like sitting by a fire, and falling into a dream.... He sang of our fathers and our
boyhood; the good fathers who taught us all they knew, and whipped us with patience and the
fear of God. He sang of the savory kitchen and the red fire-lit windows (bins full of corn
and boxes high with wood); of the gray winter and the children of our house, the smell of wood-smoke
and the low singing of the tea-kettle on the hearth.

And the officers followed him along the trenches, crying to us, "Prepare to charge!"

He sang of the ice breaking in the rivers--the groan of ice rotting in the lakes under the
softness of the new life--of the frost coming up out of the fallows, leaving them wet-black
and gleaming-rich. He sang of Spring, the spring-plowing, the heaviness of our labor, with
spring lust in our veins, and the crude love in our hearts which we could only articulate in
kisses and passion.

A roar from us at that--for the forgotten world was rushing home--the world of our maidens
and our women.... He sang of the churches--sang of Poland, sang of Finland--of the churches
and the long Sabbaths, the ministry of the gentle, irresistible Christ, of the Mary who mothered
Him and mothered us all.

We were roaring like school-boys now behind him--the officer-men shouting to us to stand in
our places and prepare to charge.

... He was singing of the Spring again--of the warm breath that comes up over the hills and
plains--even to our little fields. On he went singing, and I followed like a dog or a child--hundreds
of others following--the menacing voices just stabbing in through the song of open weather
and the smell of the ground.... My father had sung it to me--the song of the soil, the song
from the soil. And the smell of the stables came home, and the ruminating cattle at evening,
the warm smell of the milking and the red that shot the dusk.... My mother taking the pails
in the purple evening.

And this about us was the soldiery of Russia--the reek of powder, the iron frost, and the dead
that moved for our eyes in the dip of the white valley. And each of us saw our field, our low
earth-thatched barns, and each of us saw our mothers, and every man's father sang.... We cried
to him, when he halted a moment--and our hearts, they were burning in his steps--burning, and
not with hatred.

Now he sang of the Springtime--and, my God--of our maidens! On the road from her house, I had
sung it--coming home in the night from her house--when, in that great happiness which a man
knows but once, I had leaped in the softness of the night, my heart traveling up the moon-ray
in the driven flame of her kiss. (She did not sleep that night, nor I, for the husk of the
world had been torn away.) ... He sang our maidens back to us--to each man, his maiden--their
breasts near, and shaken with weeping. They held out our babes, to lure us home--crying "Come
back!" to us....

And some had not seen the latest babe at her breast; and some of us only longed for that which
we knew--the little hands and the wondering eyes at her skirts--hands that had helped us over
the first rough mysteries of fatherhood.

And now I glimpsed the face of Chautonville in the mass--the open mouth. It was not the face
that I had seen. For he had lied to me, as he had lied to the officers, and this was the face
of an angel, and so happy. Long had he dreamed and long had he waited for this moment--and
happy, he was, as a child on a great white horse. He was not singing us across the red-white
valley. He was singing us home.

Then I heard the firing, and saw the officers trying to reach him, but we were there. We laughed
and called to him, "Sing us the maidens again!"... "For I have a maiden--" a man said.... "Sing
us the good Christ." ... "For I was called to the ministry--" another cried.... "Sing of the
Spring and the mothers at the milking--" for we all had our mothers who do not die.... He was
singing of our homes in the north country--singing as if he would sing the Austrians home--and
the Germans--and would to God that he had!

Then his voice came through to us--not in the great dusky baritone of song, but like a command
of the Father: "Come on, men, we are going home!"

... But I could not go. A pistol stopped me. So I lay on my elbow watching them turn back--a
little circle of hundreds eager to die for him. All who had heard the singing turned homeward.
And the lines came in from the east and from the west and deluged them.... Propped on my elbow,
I saw them go down in the deluge of the obedient--watched until the blood went out and blurred
the picture. But I saw enough in that darkening--that there was fine sanity in their dying.
I wished that I could die with them. It was not slaughter, but martyrdom. It called me through
the darkness--and I knew that some man's song would reach all the armies--all men turning home
together--each with his vision and unafraid.

LA DERNIÈRE MOBILISATION[4]

BY W.A. DWIGGINS

From The Fabulist

[4] Copyright, 1915, by W.A. Dwiggins.

On the left the road comes up the hill out of a pool of mist; on the right it loses itself
in the shadow of a wood. On the farther side of the highway a hedgerow, dusty in the moonlight,
spreads an irregular border of black from the wood to the fog. Behind the hedgerow slender
poplar trees, evenly spaced, rule off the distance with inky lines.

A movement stirs the mist at the bottom of the hill. A monotonous rhythm grows in the silence.
The mist darkens, and from it there emerges a strange shadowy column that reaches slowly up
the hill, moving in silence to the sombre and muffled beating of a drum. As it draws nearer
the shadow becomes two files of marching men bearing between them a long dim burden.

The leaders advance into the moonlight. Each two men are carrying between them a pole, and
from pole to pole have been slung planks making a continuous platform. But that which is heaped
upon the platform is hidden with muddy blankets.

The uniforms of the men--of various sorts, indicating that they are from many commands--are
in shreds and spotted with stains of mould and earth; their heads are bound in cloths so that
their faces are covered. The single drummer at the side of the column carries slung from his
shoulder the shell of a drum. No flag flies from the staff at the column's head, but the staff
is held erect.

Slowly the head of the line advances to the shadow of the wood, touches it and is swallowed.
The leaders, the bare flag-staff, the drummer disappear; but still from the shade is heard
the muffled rhythm of the drum. Still the column comes out of the mist, still it climbs the
hill and passes with its endless articulated burden. At last the rearmost couple disengages
itself from the mist, ascends, and is swallowed by the shadow. There remain only the moonlight
and the dusty hedgerow.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the left the road runs from Belgium; to the right it crosses into France.

       *       *       *       *       *

The dead were leaving their resting places in that lost land.

THE CITIZEN[5]

BY JAMES FRANCIS DWYER

From Collier's Weekly

[5] Copyright, 1915, by P.F. Collier and Son, Incorporated.

"Ay, and beyond Minsk!"

"Ivan, tell me!" she grasped. "Tell me where we are going!"

WHOSE DOG--?[6]

BY FRANCES GREGG

From The Forum

[6] Copyright, 1915, by Mitchell Kennerley.

"Hey--there's ladies here, move on--you!" The tone was authoritative and old John, the village
drunkard, crouched away.

"I warn't doin' nothin'," he clutched feebly at the loose hanging rags that clothed him, "only
wanted to see same's them. Guess this pier's big enough to hold us all."

"Halloo, John, have a drink?" A grinning boy held a can of salt water toward him.

The quick maudlin tears sprang to the old man's eyes. "Little fellers," he muttered, "little
fellers, they oughtn't ter act that way."

"Give him a new necktie, he's gotta go to dinner with the Lodge." A handful of dank sea-weed
writhed around the old man's neck. "That's a turtle, that is," the boy went on, the need for
imparting information justifying his lapse from ragging the drunkard. "There--swimming round--it's
tied to that stake. You orter've seen it at low tide when it was on the beach. It weighs ninety
pounds."

"I seen a turtle onct," the drunkard quavered. "It was bigger'n that. En they tied it to a
stake--en it swam round--en it swam round--." His sodden brain clutched for something more
to say, some marvel with which to hold the interest of the gathered boys. It was good to talk.
If only they would let him talk to them. If only they would let him sit on the store porch
and smoke and gossip. He wouldn't be the town disgrace--

"Well--go on--what'd't do?"

"Hey you!"--the boys were interrupted by the authoritative voice--"I told you to move on, didn't
I--now if I tell you again I'll run you in. D'yer hear? What you boys let that old bum hang
around you for anyway. What's he doin' here?"

"Aw, he's fun. He warn't doin' nothin'. He was just awatchin' it swim. It's tied to that post.
It don't come up no more."

"Watchin' it swim, eh, was he? A'right. Whose dog is it?" The officer turned and sauntered away.

Sudden horror seized the old man. The liquor seemed drained out of his veins: his brain worked
almost quickly. "Whose dog--whose dog? Say!" he darted after the retreating boys. "Say--that
ain't no dog--is it--no dog? Tied up like that to drown--say--"

"Aw--keep off--I told you onct--it's a turtle for the Lodge dinner." The boy shook himself free.

The old man stood a moment, shaken. His pulpy brain worked dimly toward the conception of the
pain that was consuming him. "Whose dog--" that man had asked--and he hadn't meant to help
it--"whose dog!" They could do it--tie up a dog to drown in sight of people--like that--cruel.
He saw the policeman coming toward him again. In a sudden frenzy he clutched his tattered garments
about him and began to run, to run toward the end of the pier.

The boys raced after him. "What yer gonter do?" they shouted. "What yer gonter do?"

The old man turned and looked at them a moment with twitching features. "I'm gonter die," he said.

"Come on, you fellers--come on--the drunk's gonter dive--come on--he's cryin'!"

There was a splash. A surge of green filth and mud spread and dyed the water. A row of expectant
heads leaned over the rail. "Say--he ain't come up." They waited.

The policeman strolled leisurely down in response to their repeated cries. "Who ain't come
up? What, him--the drunk?" The officer leaned lethargically over the rail. "What'm I gonter
do? Why, leave 'm. He ain't got no folks gonter sit up nights waitin' fer 'm. Now you young
ones go along home to your suppers," he indulgently commanded, "and you little fellers, if
you want crabs, be 'round here early. By to-morrow this place will be fairly swarmin' with them."

LIFE[7]

BY BEN HECHT

From The Little Review

[7] Copyright, 1915, by Margaret C. Anderson. Copyright, 1916, by Ben
    Hecht.

The sun was shining in the dirty street.

Old women with shapeless bodies waddled along on their way to market.

Bearded old men who looked like the fathers of Jerusalem walked flatfooted, nodding back and forth.

"The tread of the processional surviving in Halsted Street," thought Moisse, the young dramatist
who was moving with the crowd.

Children sprawled in the refuse-laden alleys. One of them ragged and clotted with dirt stood
half-dressed on the curbing and urinated into the street.

Wagons rumbled, filled with fruits and iron and rags and vegetables.

Human voices babbled above the noises of the traffic. Moisse watched the lively scene.

"Every day it's the same," he thought; "the same smells, the same noise and people swarming
over the pavements. I am the only one in the street whose soul is awake. There's a pretty girl
looking at me. She suspects the condition of my soul. Her fingers are dirty. Why doesn't she
buy different shoes? She thinks I am lost. In five years she will be fat. In ten years she
will waddle with a shawl over her head."

The young dramatist smiled.

"Good God," he thought, "where do they come from? Where are they going? No place to no place.
But always moving, shuffling, waddling, crying out. The sun shines on them. The rain pours
on them. It burns. It freezes. To-day they are bright with color. To-morrow they are gray with
gloom. But they are always the same, always in motion."

The young dramatist stopped on the corner and looking around him spied a figure sitting on
the sidewalk, leaning against the wall of a building.

The figure was an old man.

He had a long white beard.

He had his legs tucked under him and an upturned tattered hat rested in his lap.

His thin face was raised and the sun beat down on it, but his eyes were closed.

"Asleep," mused Moisse.

He moved closer to him.

The man's head was covered with long silky white hair that hung down to his neck and hid his
ears. It was uncombed. His face in the sun looked like the face of an ascetic, thin, finely veined.

He had a long nose and almost colorless lips and the skin on his cheeks was white. It was drawn
tight over his bones, leaving few wrinkles.

An expression of peace rested over him--peace and detachment. Of the noise and babble he heard
nothing. His eyes were closed to the crowded frantic street.

He sat, his head back, his face bathed in the sun, smileless and dreaming.

"A beggar," thought Moisse, "asleep, oblivious. Dead. All day he sits in the sun like a saint,
immobile. Like one of the old Alexandrian ascetics, like a delicately carved image. He is awake
in himself but dead to others. The waves cannot touch him. His thoughts, oh to know his thoughts
and his dreams?"

Suddenly the eyes of the young dramatist widened. He was looking at the beggar's long hair
that hung to his neck.

"It's moving," he whispered half aloud. He came closer and stood over the old man and gazed
intently at the top of his head.

The hair was swaying faintly, each separate fiber moving alone....

It shifted, rose imperceptibly and fell. It quivered and glided....

"Lice," murmured Moisse.

He watched.

Silent and asleep the old man sat with his thin face to the sun and his hair moved.

Vermin swarmed through it, creeping, crawling, tiny and infinitesimal.

Every strand was palpitating, shuddering under their mysterious energy.

At first Moisse could hardly make them out, but his eyes gradually grew accustomed to the sight.
And as he watched he saw the hair swell like waves riding over the water, saw it drop and flutter,
coil and uncoil of its own accord.

Vermin raised it up, pulled it out, streaming up and down tirelessly in vast armies.

They crawled furiously like dust specks blown thick through the white beard.

They streamed and shifted and were never still.

They moved in and out, from no place to no place, but always moving, frantic and frenzied.

An old woman passed and with a shake of her head dropped two pennies into the upturned hat.
Moisse hardly saw her. He saw only the palpitating swarms that were now facing, easily visible,
through the gray white hair.

Some ventured down over the white ascetic face, crawling in every direction, traveling around
the lips and over the closed eyes, emerging suddenly in thick streams from behind the covered
ears and losing themselves under the ever moving beard.

And Moisse, his senses strained, thought he heard a noise--a faint crunching noise.

He listened.

The noise seemed to grow louder. He began to itch but he remained bending over the head. He
could hear them, like a faraway murmur, a purring, uncertain sound.

"They're shouting and groaning, crying out, weeping and laughing," he mused. "It is life ...
life...."

He looked up and down the crowded burning street with its frantic crowd, and smiled.

"Life," he repeated....

He walked away. Before him floated the hair of the beggar moving as if stirred by a slow wind,
and he itched.

"But who was the old man?" he thought.

A young woman, plump and smiling, jostled him. He felt her soft hip pressing against him for
a moment.

A child running barefoot through the street brushed against his legs. He felt its sticky fingers
seize him for an instant and then the child was gone. On he walked.

Three young men confronted him for a second time. He passed between two of them, squeezed by
their shoulders.

A shapeless old woman bumped him with her back as she shuffled past.

Two children dodged in and out screaming and seized his arm to turn on.

The young dramatist stopped and remained standing still, looking about him.

Then he laughed.

"Life," he murmured again; and

"I am the old man," he added, "I ... I...."

T.B.[8]

BY FANNIE HURST

From The Saturday Evening Post

[8] Copyright, 1915, by The Curtis Publishing Company. Copyright, 1916,
    by Fannie Hurst.

The figurative underworld of a great city has no ventilation, housing or lighting problems.
Rooks and crooks who live in the putrid air of crime are not denied the light of day, even
though they loathe it. Cadets, social skunks, whose carnivorous eyes love darkness, walk in
God's sunshine and breathe God's air. Scarlet women turn over in wide beds and draw closer
velvet curtains to shut out the morning. Gamblers curse the dawn.

But what of the literal underworld of the great city? What of the babes who cry in fetid cellars
for the light and are denied it? What of the Subway trackwalker, purblind from gloom; the coalstoker,
whose fiery tomb is the boiler room of a skyscraper; sweatshop workers, a flight below the
sidewalk level, whose faces are the color of dead Chinese; six-dollar-a-week salesgirls in
the arc-lighted subcellars of six-million-dollar corporations?

This is the literal underworld of the great city, and its sunless streets run literal blood--the
blood of the babes who cried in vain; the blood from the lungs of the sweatshop workers whose
faces are the color of dead Chinese; the blood from the cheeks of the six-dollar-a-week salesgirls
in the arc-lighted subcellars. But these are your problems and my problems and the problems
of the men who have found the strength or the fear not to die rich. The babe's mother, who
had never known else, could not know that her cellar was fetid; she only cried out in her anguish
and hated vaguely in her heart.

Sara Juke, in the bargain basement of the Titanic Department Store, did not know that lint
from white goods clogs the lungs, and that the air she breathed was putrefied as from a noxious
swamp. Sometimes a pain, sharp as a hatpin, entered between her shoulder blades. But what of
that? When the heart is young the heart is bold, and Sara could laugh upward with the musical
glee of a bird.

There were no seasons, except the spring and fall openings and semi-annual clearing sales,
in the bargain basement of the Titanic store. On a morning when the white-goods counter was
placing long-sleeve, high-neck nightgowns in its bargain bins, and knit underwear was supplanting
the reduced muslins, Sara Juke drew her little pink knitted jacket closer about her narrow
shoulders and shivered--shivered, but smiled. "Br-r-r! October never used to get under my skin
like this."

Hattie Krakow, roommate and co-worker, shrugged her bony shoulders and laughed; but not with
the upward glee of a bird--downward rather, until it died in a croak in her throat. But then
Hattie Krakow was ten years older than Sara Juke; and ten years in the arc-lighted subcellar
of the Titanic Department Store can do much to muffle the ring in a laugh.

"Gee, you're as funny as your own funeral--you are! You keep up the express pace you're going
and there won't be another October left on your calendar."

"That's right; cheer me up a bit, dearie. What's the latest style in undertaking?"

"You'll know sooner 'n me if--"

"Aw, Hat, cut it! Wasn't I home in bed last night by eleven?"

"I ain't much on higher mathematics."

"Sure I was. I had to shove you over on your side of the bed; that's how hard you was sleeping."

"A girl can't gad round dancing and rough-housing every night and work eight hours on her feet,
and put her lunch money on her back, and not pay up for it. I've seen too many blue-eyed dolls
like you get broken. I--"

"Amen!"

Sara Juke rolled her blue eyes upward, and they were full of points of light, as though stars
were shining in them; and always her lips trembled to laugh.

"There ain't nothing funny, Sara."

"Oh, Hat, with you like a owl!"

"If I was a girl and had a cough like I've seen enough in this basement get; if I was a girl
and my skirtband was getting two inches too big, and I had to lie on my left side to breathe
right, and my nightie was all soaked round the neck when I got up in the morning--I wouldn't
just laugh and laugh. I'd cry a little--I would."

"That's right, Hat; step on the joy bug like it was a spider. Squash it!"

"I wouldn't just laugh and laugh, and put my lunch money on my back instead of eggs and milk
inside of me, and run round all hours to dance halls with every sporty Charley-boy that comes
along."

"You leave him alone! You just cut that! Don't you begin on him!"

"I wouldn't get overheated, and not sleep enough; and--"

"For Pete's sake, Hat! Hire a hall!"

"I should worry! It ain't my grave you're digging."

"Aw, Hat."

"I ain't got your dolly face and your dolly ways with the boys; but I got enough sense to live
along decent."

"You're right pretty, I think, Hat."

"Oh, I could daub up, too, and gad with some of that fast gang if I didn't know it don't lead
nowheres. It ain't no cinch for a girl to keep her health down here, even when she does live
along decent like me, eating regular and sleeping regular, and spending quiet evenings in the
room, washing-out and mending and pressing and all. It ain't no cinch even then, lemme tell
you. Do you think I'd have ever asked a gay bird like you to come over and room with me if
I hadn't seen you begin to fade like a piece of calico, just like my sister Lizzie did?"

"I'm taking that iron-tonic stuff like you want and spoiling my teeth--ain't I, Hat? I know
you been swell to me and all."

"You ain't going to let up until somebody whispers T.B. in your shell-pink ear; and maybe them
two letters will bring you to your senses."

"T.B.?"

"Yes--T.B."

"Who's he?"

"Gee, you're as smart as a fish on a hook! You oughtta bought a velvet dunce cap with your
lunch money instead of that brown poke bonnet. T.B. was what I said--T.B."

"Honest, Hat, I dunno--"

"For heaven's sake! Too Berculosis is the way the exhibits and the newspapers say it. L-u-n-g-s
is another way to spell it. T.B."

"Too Berculosis!" Sara Juke's hand flew to her little breast. "Too Berculosis! Hat, you--you
don't--"

"Sure I don't. I ain't saying it's that--only I wanna scare you up a little. I ain't saying
it's that; but a girl that lets a cold hang on like you do and runs round half the night, and
don't eat right, can make friends with almost anything, from measles to T.B."

Stars came out once more in Sara Juke's eyes, and her lips warmed and curved to their smile.
She moistened with her forefinger a yellow spit curl that lay like a caress on her cheek. "Gee,
you oughtta be writing scare heads for the Evening Gazette!"

Hattie Krakow ran her hand over her smooth salt-and-pepper hair and sold a marked-down flannellette
petticoat.

"I can't throw no scare into you so long as you got him on your mind. Oh, lud! There he starts
now--that quickstep dance again!"

A quick red ran up into Miss Juke's hair and she inclined forward in the attitude of listening
as the lively air continued.

"The silly! Honest, ain't he the silly? He said he was going to play that for me the first
thing this morning. We dance it so swell together and all. Aw, I thought he'd forget. Ain't
he the silly--remembering me?"

The red flowed persistently higher.

"Silly ain't no name for him, with his square, Charley-boy face and polished hair; and--"

"You let him alone, Hattie Krakow! What's it to you if--"

"Nothing--except I always say October is my unlucky month, because it was just a year ago that
they moved him and the sheet music down to the basement. Honest, I'm going to buy me a pair
of earmuffs! I'd hate to tell you how unpopular popular music is with me."

"Huh! You couldn't play on a side comb, much less play on the piano like Charley does. If I
didn't have no more brains than some people--honest, I'd go out and kill a calf for some!"

"You oughtta talk! A girl that ain't got no more brains than to gad round every night and every
Sunday in foul-smelling, low-ceilinged dance halls, and wear paper-soled slippers when she
oughtta be wearing galoshes, and cheesecloth waists that ain't even decent instead of wool
undershirts! You oughtta talk about brains--you and Charley Chubb!"

"Yes, I oughtta talk! If you don't like my doings, Hattie Krakow, there ain't no law says we
gotta room together. I been shifting for myself ever since I was cash-girl down at Tracy's,
and I ain't going to begin being bossed now. If you don't like my keeping steady with Charley
Chubb--if you don't like his sheet-music playing--you gotta lump it! I'm a good girl, I am;
and if you got anything to in-sinuate; if--"

"Sara Juke, ain't you ashamed!"

"I'm a good girl, I am; and there ain't nobody can cast a reflection on--on--"

Tears trembled in her voice and she coughed from the deep recesses of her chest, and turned
her head away, so that her profile was quivering and her throat swelling with sobs.

"I--I'm a good girl, I am."

"Aw, Sara, don't I know it? Ain't that just where the rub comes? Don't I know it? If you wasn't
a good girl would I be caring?"

"I'm a good girl, I am!"

"It's your health, Sara, I'm kicking about. You're getting as pale and skinny as a goop; and
for a month already you've been coughing, and never a single evening home to stick your feet
in hot water and a mustard plaster on your chest."

"Didn't I take the iron tonic and spoil my teeth?"

"My sister Lizzie--that's the way she started, Sara; right down here in this basement. There
never was a prettier little queen down here. Ask any of the old girls. Like you in looks and
all; full of vim too. That's the way she started, Sara. She wouldn't get out in the country
on Sundays or get any air in her lungs walking with me evenings. She was all for dance halls,
too, Sara. She--she--Ain't I told you about her over and over again? Ain't I?"

"Sh-h-h! Don't cry, Hat. Yes, yes; I know. She was a swell little kid; all the old girls say
so. Sh-h-h!"

"The--the night she died I--I died too; I--"

"Sh-h-h, dearie!"

"I ain't crying, only--only I can't help remembering."

"Listen! That's the new hit Charley's playin'--Up to Snuff! Say, ain't that got some little
swing to it? Dum-dum-tum-tee-tum-m-m! Some little quick-step, ain't it? How that boy reads
off by sight! Looka, will you? They got them left-over ribbed undervests we sold last season
for forty-nine cents out on the grab table for seventy-four. Looka the mob fighting for 'em!
Dum-dum-tum-tee-tum-m-m!"

The day's tide came in. Slowly at first, but toward noon surging through aisles and round bins,
upstairs and downstairs--in, round and out. Voices straining to be heard; feet shuffling in
an agglomeration of discords--the indescribable roar of humanity, which is like an army that
approaches but never arrives. And above it all, insistent as a bugle note, reaching the basement's
breadth, from hardware to candy, from human hair to white goods, the tinny voice of the piano--gay,
rollicking.

At five o'clock the patch of daylight above the red-lighted exit door turned taupe, as though
a gray curtain had been flung across it; and the girls, with shooting pains in their limbs,
braced themselves for the last hour. Shoppers, their bags bulging and their shawls awry, fumbled
in bins for a last remnant; hatless, sway-backed women, carrying children, fought for mill
ends. Sara Juke stood first on one foot and then on the other to alternate the strain; her
hands were hot and dry as flannel, but her cheeks were pink--very pink.

At six o'clock Hattie Krakow untied her black alpaca apron, pinned a hat as nondescript as
a bird's nest at an unrakish angle and slid into a warm gray jacket.

"Ready, Sara?"

"Yes, Hat." But her voice came vaguely, as through fog.

"I'm going to fix us some stew to-night with them onions Lettie brought up to the room when
she moved--mutton stew, with a broth for you, Sara."

"Yes, Hat."

Sara's eyes darted out over the emptying aisles; and, even as she pinned on her velveteen poke
bonnet at a too-swagger angle, and fluffed out a few carefully provided curls across her brow,
she kept watch and, with obvious subterfuge, slid into her little unlined silk coat with a
deliberation not her own. "Coming, Sara?"

"Wait, can't you? My--my hat ain't on right."

"Come on; you're dolled up enough."

"My--my gloves--I--I forgot 'em. You--you can go on, Hat." And she must burrow back beneath
the counter.

Miss Krakow let out a snort, as fiery with scorn as though flames were curling on her lips.

"Hanging round to see whether he's coming, ain't you? To think they shot Lincoln and let him
live! Before I'd run after any man living, much less the excuse of a man like him! A shiny-haired,
square-faced little rat like him!"

"I ain't neither, waiting. I guess I got a right to find my gloves. I--I guess I gotta right.
He's as good as you are, and better. I--I guess I gotta right." But the raspberry red of confusion
dyed her face.

"No, you ain't waiting! No, no; you ain't waiting," mimicked Miss Krakow, and her voice was
like autumn leaves that crackle underfoot. "Well, then, if you ain't waiting here he comes
now. I dare you to come on home with me now, like you ought to."

"I--you go on! I gotta tell him something. I guess I'm my own boss. I got to tell him something."

Miss Krakow folded her well-worn hand bag under one arm and fastened her black cotton gloves.

"Pf-f-f! What's the use of wasting breath!"

She slipped into the flux of the aisle, and the tide swallowed her and carried her out into
the bigger tide of the street and the swifter tide of the city--a flower on the current, her
blush withered under the arc-light substitution for sunlight, the petals of her youth thrown
to the muddy corners of the city streets.

Sara Juke breathed inward, and under her cheaply pretentious lace blouse a heart, as rebellious
as the pink in her cheeks and the stars in her eyes, beat a rapid fantasia; and, try as she
would, her lips would quiver into a smile.

"Hello, Charley!"

"Hello yourself, Sweetness!" And, draping himself across the white-goods counter in an attitude
as intricate as the letter S, behold Mr. Charley Chubb! Sleek, soap-scented, slim--a satire
on the satyr and the haberdasher's latest dash. "Hello, Sweetness!"

"How are you, Charley?"

"Here, gimme your little hand. Shake."

She placed her palm in his, quivering.

You of the classes, peering through lorgnettes into the strange world of the masses, spare
that shrug. True, when Charley Chubb's hand closed over Sara Juke's she experienced a flash
of goose flesh; but, you of the classes, what of the Van Ness ball last night? Your gown was
low, so that your neck rose out from it like white ivory. The conservatory, where trained clematis
vines met over your heads, was like a bower of stars; music; his hand, the white glove off,
over yours; the suffocating sweetness of clematis blossoms; a fountain throwing fine spray;
your neck white as ivory, and--what of the Van Ness ball last night?

Only Sara Juke played her poor little game frankly and the cards of her heart lay on the counter.

"Charley!" Her voice lay in a veil.

"Was you getting sore, Sweetness?"

"All day you didn't come over."

"Couldn't, Sweetness. Did you hear me let up on the new hit for a minute?"

"It's swell, though, Charley; all the girls was humming it. You play it like lightning too."

"It must have been written for you, Sweetness. That's what you are, Up to Snuff, eh, Queenie?"
He leaned closer, and above his tall, narrow collar dull red flowed beneath the sallow, and
his long white teeth and slick-brushed hair shone in the arc light. "Eh, Queenie?"

"I gotta go now, Charley. Hattie's waiting home for me." She attempted to pass him and to slip
into the outgoing stream of the store, but with a hesitation that belied her. "I--I gotta go,
Charley."

He laughed, clapped his hat slightly askew on his polished hair and slid his arm into hers.

"Forget it! But I had you going--didn't I, sister? Thought I'd forgot about to-night, didn't
you? and didn't have the nerve to pipe up. Like fun I forgot!"

"I didn't know, Charley; you not coming over all day and all. I thought maybe your friend didn't
give you the tickets like he promised."

"Didn't he? Look! See if he didn't!"

He produced a square of pink cardboard from his waistcoat pocket and she read it, with a sudden
lightness underlying her voice:

         HIBERNIAN MASQUE AND HOP

    Supper                 Wardrobe Free
    Admit Gent and Lady    Fifty Cents

"Oh, gee, Charley! And me such a sight in this old waist and all. I didn't know there was supper
too."

"Sure! Hurry, Sweetness, and we'll catch a Sixth Avenue car. We wanna get in on it while the
tamales are hot."

And she must grasp his arm closer and worm through the sidewalk crush, and straighten her velveteen
poke so that the curls lay pat; and once or twice she coughed, with the hollow resonance of
a chain drawn upward from a deep well.

"Gee, I bet there'll be a jam!"

"Sure! There's some live crowd down there."

They were in the street car, swaying, swinging, clutching; hemmed in by frantic, home-going
New York, nose to nose, eye to eye, tooth to tooth. Round Sara Juke's slim waist lay Charley
Chubb's saving arm, and with each lurch they laughed immoderately, except when she coughed.

"Gee, ain't it the limit? It's a wonder they wouldn't open a window in this car!"

"Nix on that. Whatta you wanna do--freeze a fellow out?"

Her eyes would betray her.

"Any old time I could freeze you, Charley."

"Honest?"

"You're the one that freezes me all the time. You're the one that keeps me guessing and guessing
where I stand with you."

A sudden lurch and he caught her as she swayed.

"Come, Sweetness, this is our corner. Quit your coughing there, hon; this ain't no T.B. hop
we 're going to."

"No what?"

"Come along; hurry! Look at the crowd already."

"This ain't no--what did you say, Charley?"

But they were pushing, shoving, worming into the great lighted entrance of the hall. More lurching,
crowding, jamming. "I'll meet you inside, kiddo, in five minutes. Pick out a red domino; red's
my color."

"A red one? Gee! Looka; mine's got black pompons on it. Five minutes, Charley; five minutes!"

Flags of all nations and all sizes made a galaxy of the Sixth Avenue hall. An orchestra played
beneath an arch of them. Supper, consisting of three-inch-thick sandwiches, tamales, steaming
and smelling in their buckets, bottles of beer and soda water, was spread on a long picnic
table running the entire length of the balcony.

The main floor, big as an armory, airless as a tomb, swarmed with dancers.

After supper a red sateen Pierrette, quivering, teeth flashing beneath a saucy half mask, bowed
to a sateen Pierrot, whose face was as slim as a satyr's and whose smile was as upturned as
the eye slits in his mask.

"Gee, Charley, you look just like a devil in that costume--all red, and your mouth squinted
like that!"

"And you look just like a little red cherry, ready to bust."

And they were off in the whirl of the dance, except that the close-packed dancers hemmed them
in a swaying mob; and once she fell back against his shoulder, faint.

"Ain't there a--a upstairs somewheres, Charley, where they got air? All this jam and no windows
open! Gee ain't it hot? Let's go outside where it's cool--let's."

"There you go again! No wonder you got a cold on you--always wanting air on you! Come, Sweetness;
this ain't hot. Here, lemme show you the dip I get the girls crazy with. One, two, three--dip!
One, two, three--dip! Ugh!"

"Gee, ain't it a jam, though?"

"One, two, three!"

"That's swell, Charley! Quit! You mustn't squeeze me like that till--till you've asked me to
be engaged, Charley. We--we ain't engaged yet, are we, Charley?"

"Aw, what difference does that make? You girls make me sick--always wanting to know that."

"It--it makes a lot of difference, Charley."

"There you go on that Amen talk again. All right, then; I won't squeeze you no more, Stingy!"

Her step was suddenly less elastic and she lagged on his arm.

"I--I never said you, couldn't, Charley. Gee, ain't you a great one to get mad so quick. Touchy!
I only said not till we're engaged."

He skirted the crowd, guiding her skillfully.

"Stingy! Stingy! I know 'em that ain't so stingy as you."

"Charley!"

"What?"

"Aw, I'm ashamed to say it."

"Listen! They're playin' the new one--Up to Snuff! Faster! Don't make me drag you, kiddo. Faster!"

They were suddenly in the center of the maze, as tight-packed as though an army had conspired
to close round them. She coughed and, in her effort at repression coughed again.

"Charley, I--honest, I--I'm going to keel. I--I can't stand it packed in here--like this."

She leaned to him, with the color drained out of her face; and the crowd of black and pink
and red dominos, gnomes gone mad, pressed, batted, surged.

"Look out, Sweetness! Don't give out in here! They'll crush us out. Ain't you got no nerve?
Here; don't give out now! Gee! Watch out, there! The lady's sick. Watch out! Here; now sit
down a minute and get your wind."

He pressed her shoulders downward and she dropped whitely on a little camp chair hidden underneath
the balcony.

"I gotta get out, Charley; I gotta get out and get air. I feel like I'm going to suffocate
in here. It's this old cough takes the breath out of me."

In the foyer she revived a bit and drank gratefully of the water he brought; but the color
remained out of her cheeks and the cough would rack her.

"I guess I oughtta go home, Charley."

"Aw, cut it! You ain't the only girl I've seen give out. Sit here and rest a minute and you'll
be all right. Great Scott! I came here to dance."

She rose to her feet a bit unsteadily, but smiling.

"Fussy! Who said I didn't?"

"That's more like it."

And they were off again to the lilt of the music but, struggle as she would, the coughing and
the dizziness and the heat took hold of her and at the close of the dance she fainted quietly
against his shoulder.

And when she finally caught at consciousness, as it passed and repassed her befuddled mind,
she was on the floor of the cloak room, her head pillowed on the skirt of a pink domino.

"There, there, dearie; your young man's waiting outside to take you home."

"I--I'm all right!"

"Certainly you are. The heat done it. Here; lemme help you out of your domino."

"It was the heat done it."

"There; you're all right now. I gotta get back to my dance. You fainted right up against him,
dearie; and I seen you keel."

"Gee, ain't I the limit!"

"Here; lemme help you on with your coat. Right there he is, waiting."

In the foyer Sara Juke met Charley Chubb shamefacedly.

"I spoilt everything, didn't I?"

"I guess you couldn't help it. All right?"

"Yes, Charley." She met the air gratefully, worming her little hand into the curve of his elbow.
"Gee! I feel fine now."

"Come; here's a car."

"Let's walk up Sixth Avenue, Charley; the air feels fine."

"All right."

"You ain't sore, are you, Charley? It was so jammed dancing, anyway."

"I ain't sore."

"It was the heat done it."

"Yeh."

"Honest, it's grand to be outdoors, ain't it? The stars and--and chilliness and--and--all!"

"Listen to the garden stuff!"

"Silly!"

She squeezed his arm and drew back, shamefaced. His spirits rose.

"You're a right loving little thing when you wanna be."

They laughed in duet; and before the plate-glass window of a furniture emporium they must stop
and regard the monthly-payment display, designed to represent the $49.50 completely furnished
sitting room, parlor and dining room of the home felicitous--a golden-oak room, with an incandescent
fire glowing right merrily in the grate; a lamp redly diffusing the light of home; a plaster-of-Paris
Cupid shooting a dart from the mantelpiece; and, last, two figures of connubial bliss, smiling
and waxen, in rocking chairs, their waxen infant, block-building on the floor, completing the
picture.

"Gee, it looks as snug as a bug in a rug! Looka what it says too: 'You Get the Girl; We'll
Do the Rest!' Some little advertisement, ain't it? I got the girl all right--ain't I, hon?"

"Aw!"

"Look at the papa--slippers and all! And the kid! Look at the kid, Sweetness."

Her confusion nearly choked her and her rapid breath clouded the window glass.

"Yeh, Charley! Looka the little kid! Ain't he cute?"

An Elevated train crashed over their heads, drowning out her words; but her smile, which flickered
like light over her face, persisted and her arm crept back into his. At each shop window they
must pause, but the glow of the first one remained with her.

"Look, Sweetness--Red Swag, the Train King! Performance going on now. Wanna go in?"

"Not to-night. Let's stay outside."

"Anything your little heart de-sires."

They bought hot chestnuts, city harbingers of autumn, from a vender and let fall the hulls
as they walked. They drank strawberry ice-cream soda, pink with foam. Her resuscitation was
complete; his spirits did not wane.

"I gotta like a queen pretty much not to get sore at a busted evening like this. It's a good
thing the ticket didn't cost me nothing."

"Ain't it, though?"

"Look! What's in there--a exhibit?"

They paused before a white-lighted store front and he read laboriously:

             FREE TUBERCULOSIS EXHIBIT

    TO EDUCATE PEOPLE HOW TO PREVENT CONSUMPTION

"Oh!" She dragged at his arm.

"Aw, come on, Sweetness; nothing but a lot of T.B.'s."

"Let's--let's go in. See, it's free. Looka--it's all lit up and all; see, pictures and all."

"Say, ain't I enough of a dead one without dragging me in there? Free! I bet they pinch you
for something before you get out."

"Come on, Charley; I never did see a place like this."

"Aw, they're all over town."

He followed her in surlily enough and then, with a morbid interest, round a room hung with
photographs of victims in various emaciated stages of the white plague.

"Oh! Oh! Ain't it awful? Ain't it awful? Read them symptoms. Almost with nothing it--it begins.
Night sweats and losing weight and coughing, and--oh--"

"Look! Little kids and all! Thin as matches."

"Aw, see, a poor little shaver like that! Look! It says sleeping in that dirty room without
a window gave it to him. Ugh, that old man! 'Self-indulgence and intemperance.' Looka that
girl in the tobacco factory. Oh! Oh! Ain't it awful! Dirty shops and stores, it says; dirty
saloons and dance halls--weak lungs can't stand them."

"Let's get out of here."

"Aw, look! How pretty she is in this first picture; and look at her here--nothing but a stack
of bones on a stretcher. Aw! Aw!"

"Come on!"

"Courage is very important, it says. Consumptives can be helped and many are cured. Courage is--"

"Come on; let's get out of this dump. Say, it's a swell night for a funeral."

She grasped at his coat sleeve, pinching the flesh with it, and he drew away half angrily.

"Come on, I said."

"All right!"

A thin line filed past them, grim-faced, silent. At the far end of the room, statistics in
red inch-high type ran columnwise down the wall's length. She read, with a gasp in her throat:

  1--Ten thousand people died from tuberculosis in the city of New York
     last year.

  2--Two hundred thousand people died from tuberculosis in the United
     States last year.

  3--Records of the Health Department show that there are 31,631
     living cases of tuberculosis in the city of New York.

  4--Every three minutes some one in the United States dies from
     consumption.

"Oh, Charley, ain't it awful!"

At a desk a young man, with skin as pink as though a strong wind had whipped it into color,
distributed pamphlets to the outgoing visitors--a thin streamlet of them; some cautious, some
curious, some afraid.

"Come on; let's hurry out of here, Sweetness. My lung's hurting this minute."

They hurried past the desk; but the young man with the clear pink skin reached over the heads
of an intervening group, waving a long printed booklet toward the pair.

"Circular, missy?"

Sara Juke straightened, with every nerve in her body twanging like a plucked violin string;
and her eyes met the clear eyes of the young clerk.

Like a doll automaton she accepted the booklet from him; like a doll automaton she followed
Charley Chubb out into the street, and her limbs were trembling so she could scarcely stand.

"Gotta hand it to you, Sweetness. Even made a hit on the fellow in the lung shop! He didn't
hand me out no literachure. Some little hit!"

"I gotta go home now, Charley."

"It's only ten."

"I better go, Charley. It ain't Saturday night."

At the stoop of her rooming house they lingered. A honey-colored moon hung like a lantern over
the block-long row of shabby-fronted houses. On her steps and to her fermenting fancy the shadow
of an ash can sprawled like a prostrate human being.

"Charley!"

She clutched his arm.

"Whatcha scared about, Sweetness?"

"Oh, Charley, I--I feel creepy to-night."

"That visit to the Morgue was enough to give anybody the blind staggers."

Her pamphlet was tight in her hand.

"You ain't mad at me, Charley?"

He stroked her arm, and the taste of tears found its way to her mouth.

"I'm feeling so sillylike to-night, Charley."

"You're all in, kiddo."

In the shadow he kissed her.

"Charley, you--you mustn't, unless we're--engaged." But she could not find the strength to
unfold herself from his arms. "You mustn't, Charley!"

"Great little girl you are, Sweetness--one great little girl!"

"Aw, Charley!"

"And, to show you that I like you, I'm going to make up for this to-morrow night. A real little
Saturday-night blow! And don't forget Sunday afternoon--two o'clock for us, down at Crissey's
Hall. Two o'clock."

"Two o'clock."

"Good!"

"Oh, Charley, I--"

"What, Sweetness?"

"Oh, nothing; I--I'm just silly to-night."

Her hand lay on his arm, white in the moonlight and light as a leaf; and he kissed her again,
scorching her lips.

"Good night, Sweetness."

"Good night, Charley."

Then up four flights of stairs, through musty halls and past closed doors, their white china
knobs showing through the darkness, and up to the fourth-floor rear, and then on tiptoe into
a long, narrow room, with the moonlight flowing in.

Clothing lay about in grotesque heaps--a woman's blouse was flung across the back of a chair
and hung limply; a pair of shoes stood beside the bed in the attitude of walking--tired-looking
shoes, run down at the heels and skinned at the toes. And on the far side of the three-quarter
bed the hump of an outstretched figure, face turned from the light, with sparse gray-and-black
hair flowing over the pillow.

Carefully, to save the slightest squeak, Sara Juke undressed, folded her little mound of clothing
across the room's second chair, groping carefully by the stream of moonlight. Severe as a sibyl
in her straight-falling night-dress, her hair spreading over her shoulders, her bare feet pattered
on the cool matting. Then she slid into bed lightly, scarcely raising the covers. From the
mantelpiece the alarm clock ticked with emphasis.

An hour she lay there. Once she coughed, and smothered it in her pillow. Two hours. She slipped
from under the covers and over to the littered dresser. The pamphlet lay on top of her gloves;
she carried it to the window and, with her limbs trembling and sending ripples down her night
robe, read it. Then again, standing there by the window in the moonlight, she quivered so that
her knees bent under her.

After a while she raised the window slowly and without a creak, and a current of cool air rushed
in and over her before she could reach the bedside.

On her pillow Hattie Krakow stirred reluctantly, her weary senses battling with the pleasant
lethargy of sleep; but a sudden nip in the air stung her nose and found out the warm crevices
of the bed. She stirred and half opened her eyes.

"For Gawd's sake, Sara, are you crazy? Put that window down! Tryin' to freeze us out? Opening
a window with her cough and all! Put it down! Put--it--down!"

Sara Juke rose and slammed it shut, slipping back into the cold bed with teeth that clicked.
After a while she slept; but lightly, with her mouth open and her face upturned. And after
a while she woke to full consciousness all at once, and with a cough on her lips. Her gown
at the yoke was wet; and her neck, where she felt it, was damp with cold perspiration.

"Oh--oh--Hattie! Oh--oh!"

She burrowed under her pillow to ease the trembling that seized her. The moon had passed on,
and darkness, which is allied to fear, closed her in--the fear of unthinking youth who knows
not that the grave is full of peace; the fear of abundant life for senile death; the cold agony
that comes in the night watches, when the business of the day is but a dream and Reality visits
the couch.

Deeper burrowed Sara Juke, trembling with chill and night sweat.

Drowsily Hattie Krakow turned on her pillow, but her senses were too weary to follow her mind's
dictate.

"Sara! 'Smatter, Sara? 'Smat-ter?" Hattie's tired hand crept toward her friend; but her volition
would not carry it across and it fell inert across the coverlet. "'Smatter, dearie?"

"N-nothin'."

"'Smat-ter, dear-ie?"

"N-nothin'."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the watches of the night a towel flung across the bedpost becomes a gorilla crouching to
spring; a tree branch tapping at the window an armless hand, beckoning. In the watches of the
night fear is a panther across the chest sucking the breath; but his eyes cannot bear the light
of day, and by dawn he has shrunk to cat size. The ghastly dreams of Orestes perished with
the light; phosphorus is yellowish and waxlike by day.

So Sara Juke found new courage with the day, and in the subbasement of the Titanic store the
morning following her laughter was ready enough. But when the midday hour arrived she slipped
into her jacket, past the importunities of Hattie Krakow, and out into the sun-lashed noonday
swarm of Sixth Avenue.

Down one block--two, three; then a sudden pause before a narrow store front liberally placarded
with invitatory signs to the public, and with a red cross blazoning above the doorway. And
Sara Juke, whose heart was full of fear, faltered, entered.

The same thin file passed round the room, halting, sauntering, like grim visitors in a grim
gallery. At a front desk a sleek young interne, tiptilted in a swivel chair, read a pink sheet
through horn-rimmed glasses.

Toward the rear the young man whose skin was the wind-lashed pink sorted pamphlets and circulars
in tall, even piles on his desk.

Round and round the gallery walked Sara Juke; twice she read over the list of symptoms printed
in inch-high type; her heart lay within her as though icy dead, and her eyes would blur over
with tears. Once, when she passed the rear desk, the young man paused in his stacking and regarded
her with a warming glance of recognition.

"Hello!" he said. "You back?"

"Yes." Her voice was the thin cry of a quail.

"You must like our little picture gallery, eh?"

"Oh! Oh!" She caught at the edge of his desk and tears lay heavy in her eyes.

"Eh?"

"Yes; I--I like it. I wanna buy it for my yacht."

Her ghastly simulacrum of a jest died in her throat; and he said quickly, a big blush suffusing
his face:

"I was only fooling, missy. You ain't got the scare, have you?"

"The scare?"

"Yes; the bug? You ain't afraid you've ate the germ, are you?"

"I--I dunno."

"Pshaw! There's a lot of 'em comes in here more scared than hurt, missy. Never throw a scare
till you've had a examination. For all you know you got hay fever, eh! Hay fever!" And he laughed
as though to salve his words.

"I--got all them things on the red-printed list, I tell you. I--I got 'em all, night sweats
and all. I--I got 'em."

"Sure you got 'em, missy; but that don't need to mean nothin' much."

"I got 'em, I tell you."

"Losin' weight?"

"Feel."

He inserted two fingers in her waistband.

"Huh!"

"You a doctor?"

He performed a great flourish.

"I ain't in the profesh, missy. I'm only chief clerk and bottle washer round here; but--"

"Where is the doctor? That him reading down there? Can I ask him--I--Oh! Ain't I scared!"

He placed his big, cool hand over her wrist and his face had none of its smile.

"I know you are, little missy. I seen it in you last night when you and--and--"

"My--my friend."

"--your friend was in here. There's thousands come in here with the scare on, and most of 'em
with a reason; but I picked you out last night from the gang. Funny thing, but right away I
picked you. 'A pretty little thing like her'--if you'll excuse me for saying it--'a pretty
little thing like her,' I says to myself. 'And I bet she ain't got nobody to steer her!'"

"Honest, did you?"

"Gee, it ain't none of my put-in; but when I seen you last night--funny thing--but when I seen
you, why, you just kinda hit me in the eye; and, with all that gang round me, I says to myself:
'Gee, a pretty little thing like her, scared as a gazelle, and so pretty and all; and no one
to give her the right steer!'"

"Aw, you seen me?"

"Sure! Wasn't it me reached out the pamphlet to you? You had on that there same cutey little
hat and jacket and all."

"Does it cost anything to talk to the doctor down there?"

"Forget it! Go right down and he'll give you a card to the Victoria Clinic. I know them all
over there and they'll look you over right, little missy, and steer you. Aw, don't be scared;
there ain't nothing much wrong with you--maybe a sore spot, that's all. That cough ain't a
double-lunger. You run over to the clinic."

"I gotta go back to the store now."

"After store, then."

"Free?"

"Sure! Old Doc Strauss is on after five too. If I ain't too nervy I'm off after six myself.
I could meet you after and we could talk over what he tells you--if I ain't too nervy?"

"I--"

"Blaney's my name--Eddie Blaney. Ask anybody round here about me. I--I could meet you, little
missy, and--"

"I can't to-night, Mr. Blaney. I gotta go somewheres."

"Aw!"

"I gotta."

"To-morrow? To-morrow's Sunday, little missy. There's a swell lot of country I bet you ain't
never seen, and Old Doc Strauss is going to tell you to get acquainted with it pretty soon."

"Country?"

"Yes. That's what you need, outdoors; that's what you need, little missy. You got a color like
all indoors--pretty, but putty."

"You--you don't think there's nothing much the matter with me, do you, Mr. Blaney?"

"Sure I don't. Why, I got a bunch of Don'ts for you up my sleeve that'll color you up like
drug-store daub."

Tears and laughter trembled in her voice.

"You mean that the outdoor stuff will do it, Mr. Blaney?"

"That's the talk!"

"But you--you ain't the doctor."

"I ain't, but I ain't been deaf and dumb and blind round here for three years. I can pick 'em
every time. You're taking your stitch in time, little missy. You ain't even got a wheeze in
you. Why, I bet you ain't never seen red!"

"No!" she cried, with quick comprehension.

"Sure you ain't!"

More tears and laughter in her voice.

"I'm going to-night, then--at six, Mr. Blaney."

"Good! And to-morrow? There's a lot of swell country and breathing space round here I'd like
to introduce you to. I bet you don't know whether Ingleside Woods is kindling or a breakfast
food--now do you?"

"No."

"Ever had a chigger on you?"

"Huh?"

"Ever sleep outdoors in a bag?"

"Say, whatta you think I am?"

"Ever seen the sun rise, or took the time to look up and see several dozen or a couple of thousand
or so stars glittering all at once?"

"Aw, come off! We ain't doing teamwork in vaudeville."

"Gee, wouldn't I like to take you out and be the first one to make you acquainted with a few
of the things that are happening beyond Sixth Avenue--if I ain't too nervy, little missy?"

"I gotta go somewheres at two o'clock to-morrow afternoon, Mr.--Mr. Blaney; but I can go in
the morning--if it ain't going to look like I'm a freshie."

"In the morning! Swell! But where--who--" She scribbled on a slip of paper and fluttered it
into his hand. "Sara Juke! Some little name. Gee! I know right where you live. I know a lot
of cases that come from round there. I used to live near there myself, round on Henry Street.
I'll call round at nine, little missy. I'm going to introduce you to the country, eh?"

"They won't hurt at the clinic, will they, Mr. Blaney? I'm losing my nerve again."

"Shame on a pretty little thing like you losing her nerve! Gee! I've seen 'em come in here
all pale round the gills and with nothing but the whooping cough. There was a little girl in
here last week who thought she was ready for Arizona on a canvas bed; and it wasn't nothing
but her rubber skirt-band had stretched. Shame on you, little missy! Don't you get scared!
Wait till you see what I'm going to show you out in the country to-morrow--leaves turning red
and all. We're going to have a heart-to-heart talk out there--eh? A regular lung-to-lung talk!"

"Aw, Mr. Blaney! Ain't you killing!"

She hurried down the room, laughing.

       *       *       *       *       *

At Sharkey's on Saturday night the entire basement café and dance hall assumed a hebdomadal
air of expectancy; extra marble-topped tables were crowded about the polished square of dancing
space; the odor of hops and sawdust and cookery hung in visible mists over the bar.

Girls, with white faces and red lips and bare throats, sat alone at tables or tête-à-tête with
men too old or too young, and ate; but drank with keener appetite.

A self-playing piano performed beneath a large painting of an undraped Psyche; a youth with
yellow fingers sang of Love. A woman whose shame was gone acquired a sudden hysteria at her
lone table over her milky-green drink, and a waiter hustled her out none too gently.

In the foyer at seven o'clock Sara Juke met Charley Chubb, and he slid up quite frankly behind
her and kissed her on the lips. At Sharkey's a miss is as good as her kiss!

"You--you quit! You mustn't!"

She sprang back, quivering, her face cold-looking and blue; and he regarded her with his mouth
quirking.

"Huh! Hoity-toity, ain't you? Hoity-toity and white-faced and late, all at once, ain't you?
Say, them airs don't get across with me. Come on! I'm hungry."

"I didn't mean to yell, Charley--only you scared me. I thought maybe it was one of them fresh
guys that hang round here; all of 'em look so dopey and all. I--you know I never was strong
for this place, Charley."

"Beginning to nag, are you?"

"No, no, Charley. No, no!"

They drew up at a small table.

"No fancy keeling act to-night, kiddo. I ain't taking out a hospital ward, you know. Gad, I
like you, though, when you're white-looking like this! Why'd you dodge me at noon to-day and
to-night after closing? New guy? I won't stand for it, you know, you little white-faced Sweetness,
you!"

"I hadda go somewheres, Charley. I came near not coming to-night, neither, Charley."

"What'll you eat?"

"I ain't hungry."

"Thirsty, eh?"

"No."

He regarded her over the rim of the smirchy bill of fare.

"What are you, then, you little white-faced, big-eyed devil?"

"Charley, I--I got something to--to tell you. I--"

"Bring me a lamb stew and a beer, light. What'll you have, little white-face?"

"Some milk and--"

"She means with suds on, waiter."

"No--no; milk, I said--milk over toast. Milk toast--I gotta eat it. Why don't you lemme talk,
Charley? I gotta tell you."

He was suddenly sober.

"What's hurting you? One milk toast, waiter; tell them in the kitchen the lady's teeth hurt
her. What's up, Sweetness?" And he must lean across the table and imprint a fresh kiss on her lips.

"Don't--don't--don't! For Gawd's sake, don't!" She covered her face with her hands; and such
a trembling seized her that they fell pitifully away again and showed her features, each distorted,
"You mustn't, Charley! Mustn't do that again, not--not for three months--you--you mustn't."

He leaned across the table; his voice was like sleet--cold, thin, cutting:

"What's the matter--going to quit?"

"No--no--no!"

"Got another guy you like better?"

"Oh! Oh!"

"A queenie can't quit me first and get away with it, kiddo. I may be a soft-fingered sort of
fellow, but a queenie can't quit me first and get away with it. Ask 'em about me round here;
they know me. If anybody in this little duet is going to do the quitting act first it ain't
going to be you. What's the matter? Out with it!"

"Charley, it ain't that--I swear it ain't that!"

"What's hurting you, then?"

"I gotta tell you. We gotta go easy for a little while. We gotta quit doing the rounds for
a while till--only for a little while. Three months he said would fix me. A grand old doc he was!

"I been to the clinic, Charley. I hadda go. The cough--the cough was cuttin' me in two. It
ain't like me to go keeling like I did. I never said much about it; but, nights and all, the
sweats and the cough and the shooting pains was cutting me in two. We gotta go easy for a while,
Charley; just--"

"You sick, Sara?" His fatty-white face lost a shade of its animation. "Sick?"

"But it ain't, Charley. On his word he promised it ain't! A grand old doc, with whiskers--he
promised me that. I--I am just beginning; but the stitch was in time. It ain't a real case
yet, Charley. I swear, on my mother's curl of hair, it ain't."

"Ain't what? Ain't what?"

"It ain't! Air, he said, right living--early hours and all. I gotta get out of the basement.
He'll get me a job. A grand old man! Windows open; right living. No--no dancing and all, for
a while, Charley. Three months only, Charley; and then--"

"What, I say--"

"It ain't, Charley! I swear it ain't. Just one--the left one--a little sore down at the base--the
bottom. Charley, quit looking at me like that! It ain't a real case--it ain't; it ain't!"

"It ain't what?"

"The--the T.B. Just the left one; down at--"

"You--you--" An oath as hot as a live coal dropped from his lips and he drew back, strangling.
"You--you got it, and you're letting me down easy. You got it, and it's catching as hell! You
got it, you white devil, and--and you're tryin' to lie out of it--you--you--"

"Charley! Charley!"

"You got it, and you been letting me eat it off your lips! You devil, you! You devil, you!
You devil, you!"

"Charley, I--"

"I could kill you! Lemme wash my mouth! You got it; and if you got it I got it! I got it! I
got it! I--I--"

He rushed from the table, strangling, stuttering, staggering; and his face was twisted with fear.

For an hour she sat there, waiting, her hands folded in her lap and her eyes growing larger
in her face. The dish of stew took on a thin coating of grease and the beer died in the glass.
The waiter snickered. After a while she paid for the meal out of her newly opened wage envelope
and walked out into the air.

Once on the street, she moaned audibly into her handkerchief. There is relief in articulation.
Her way lay through dark streets, where figures love to slink in the shadows. One threw a taunt
at her and she ran. At the stoop of her rooming house she faltered, half fainting and breathing
deep from exhaustion, her head thrown back and her eyes gazing upward.

Over the narrow street stars glittered, dozens and myriads of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Literature has little enough to say of the heartaches and the heartburns of the Sara Jukes
and the Hattie Krakows and the Eddie Blaneys. Medical science concedes them a hollow organ
for keeping up the circulation. Yet Mrs. Van Ness' heartbreak over the death of her Chinese
terrier, Wang, claims a first-page column in the morning edition; her heartburn--a complication
of midnight terrapin and the strain of her most recent rôle of corespondent--obtains her a
suite de luxe in a private sanitarium.

Vivisectionists believe the dog is less sensitive to pain than man; so the social vivisectionists,
in problem plays and best sellers, are more concerned with the heartaches and heartburns of
the classes. But analysis would show that the sediment of salt in Sara Juke's and Mrs. Van
Ness' tears is equal.

Indeed, when Sara Juke stepped out of the street car on a golden Sunday morning in October,
her heart beat higher and more full of emotion than Mrs. Van Ness could find at that breakfast
hour, reclining on her fine linen pillows, an electric massage and a four-dollar-an-hour masseuse
forcing her sluggish blood to flow.

Eddie Blaney gently helped Sara to alight, cupping the point of her elbow in his hand; and
they stood huddled for a moment by the roadway while the car whizzed past, leaving them in
the yellow and ocher, saffron and crimson countryside.

"Gee! Gee-whiz!"

"See! I told you. And you not wanting to come when I called for you this morning--you trying
to dodge me and the swellest Indian summer Sunday on the calendar!"

"Looka!"

"Wait! We ain't started yet, if you think this is swell."

"Oh! Let's go over in them woods. Let's." Her lips were apart and pink crept into her cheeks,
effacing the dark rims of pain beneath her eyes. "Let's hurry."

"Sure; that's where we're going--right over in there, where the woods look like they're on
fire; but, gee, this ain't nothing to the country places I know round here. This ain't nothing.
Wait!"

The ardor of the inspired guide was his, and with each exclamation from her the joy of his
task doubled itself.

"If you think this is great, wait--just you wait. Gee, if you like this, what would you have
said to the farm? Wait till we get to the top of the hill."

Fallen leaves, crisp as paper, crackled pleasantly under their feet; and through the haze that
is October's veil glowed a reddish sun, vague as an opal. A footpath crawled like a serpent
through the woods and they followed it, kicking up the leaves before them, pausing, darting,
exclaiming.

"I--Honest, Mr. Blaney, I--"

"Eddie!"

"Eddie, I--I never did feel so--I never was so--so--Aw, I can't say it." Tears sprang to her eyes.

"Sure, you never was. I never was, neither, before--before--"

"Before what?"

"Before I had to."

"Had to?"

"Yeh; both of them. Bleedin' all the time. Didn't see nothing but red for 'leven months."

"You!"

"Yeh; three years ago. Looked like Arizona on a stretcher for me."

"You--so big and strong and all!"

He smiled at her and his teeth flashed.

"Gad, little girl, if you got a right to be scared, whatta you think I had? I seen your card
over at the clinic last night, and you ain't got no right to have that down-and-out look on
you had this morning. If you think you got something to be scared at you looka my old card
at the clinic some day; they keep it for show. You oughtta seen me the day I quit the shipping
room, right over at the Titanic, too, and then see whether you got something to be scared at."

"You--you used to work there?"

"Six years."

"I--I ain't scared no more, Eddie; honest, I ain't!"

"Gee, I should say not! They ain't even sending you up to the farm."

"No, no! They're going to get me a job. A regular outdoor, on-the-level kind of a job. A grand
old doc, with whiskers! I ain't a regular one, Eddie; just the bottom of one lung don't make
a regular one."

"Well, I guess not, poor little missy. Well, I guess not."

"Three months he said, Eddie. Three months of right livin' like this, and air and all, and
I'll be as round as a peach, he said. Said it hisself, without me asking--that's how scared
I was. Round as a peach!"

"You can't beat that gang over there at the clinic, little missy. They took me out of the department
when all the spring water I knew about ran out of a keg. Even when they got me out on the farm--a
grown-up guy like me--for a week I thought the crow in the rooster was a sidewalk faker. You
can't beat that, little missy."

"He's a grand old man, with whiskers, that's going to get me the job. Then in three months I--"

"Three months nothing! That gang won't let you slip back after the three months. They took
a extra shine to me because I did the prize-pupil stunt; but they won't let anybody slip back
if they give 'em half a chance. When they got me sound again, did they ship me back to the
shipping department in the sub-basement? Not muchy! Looka me now, little missy! Clerk in their
biggest display; in three months a raise to ninety dollars. Can you beat it? Ninety dollars
would send all the shipping clerks of the world off in a faint."

"Gee, it--it's swell!"

"And--"

"Look! Look!"

"Persimmons!" A golden mound of them lay at the base of a tree, piled up against the hole,
bursting, brown. "Persimmons! Here; taste one, little missy. They're fine."

"Eat 'em?"

"Sure!"

She bit into one gently; then with appetite.

"M-m-m! Good!"

"Want another?"

"M-m-m--my mouth! Ouch! My m--mouth!"

"Gee, you cute little thing, you! See, my mouth's the same way too. Feels like a knot. Gee,
you cute little thing, you--all puckered up and all."

And he must link her arm in his and crunch-crunch over the brittle leaves and up a hillside
to a plateau of rock overlooking the flaming country; and from the valley below, smoke from
burning mounds of leaves wound in spirals, its pungency drifting to them.

"See that tree there? It's a oak. Look; from a little acorn like this it grew. See, this is
a acorn, and in the start that tree wasn't no bigger than this little thing."

"Quit your kiddin'!" But she smiled and her lips were parted sweetly; and always unformed tears
would gloze her eyes.

"Here, sit here, little lady. Wait till I spread this newspaper out. Gee! Don't I wish you
didn't have to go back to the city by two o'clock, little lady! We could make a great day of
it here, out in the country; lunch at a farm and see the sun set and all. Some day of it we
could make if--"

"I--I don't have to go back, Eddie."

His face expanded into his widest smile.

"Gee, that's great! That's just great!"

Silence.

"What you thinking of, little lady, sitting there so pretty and all?"

"N-nothing."

"Nothing? Aw, surely something!"

A tear formed and zigzagged down her cheek.

"Nothing, honest; only I--I feel right happy."

"That's just how you oughtta feel, little lady."

"In three months, if--aw, ain't I the nut?"

"It'll be a big Christmas, won't it, little missy, for both of us? A big Christmas for both
of us; you as sound and round as a peach again, and me shooting up like a skyrocket on the
pay roll."

A laugh bubbled to her lips before the tear was dry.

"In three months I won't be a T.B., not even a little bit."

"Sh-h-h! On the farm we wasn't allowed to say even that. We wasn't supposed to even know what
them letters mean."

"Don't you know what they mean, Eddie?"

"Sure I do!" He leaned toward her and placed his hand lightly over hers. "T.B.--True Blue--that's
what they mean, little lady."

She could feel the veins in his palm throbbing.

MR. EBERDEEN'S HOUSE[9]

By ARTHUR JOHNSON

From The Century

[9] Copyright, 1915, by The Century Company. Copyright, 1916, by Arthur
    Johnson.

It loomed there, high and large, uncompromised by the gloom of mist about it, unruffled by
the easterly gusts that bent the two rows of larches which stretched in deliberate diagonal
lines from the street to the corners of its grim façade. Hastings could hear the beating of
the sea; it was probably in that chaos of space behind the house. As he stood leaning against
one of the tall gate-posts and surveying the scene, he began to feel, almost in spite of himself,
in sympathy with it.

A motor drew up near where he stood. Instinctively his attention was directed from it to the
green Georgian portal, which at the moment was drawn in to permit somebody to pass out. She
was in glaring contrast to her setting; she was fresh and lovely, young and fashionable-looking.
She paused on the wide stone step, glanced up at the sky, opened her umbrella, and briskly
proceeded down the avenue to the gate. Within a few yards of it she raised her eyes from the
puddled gravel and started back at sight of him.

"Jack!" she cried out. "How did you get here? Why didn't you tell me? I am this minute on my
way to meet you."

"I'm admiring your summer home, Julia--Julia dear," he said to her, a little constrained. "It's
sad and desolate, and everything that I suppose you want it to be. I expected to hate it. I
thought that having spent most of my life away from all this, I should have lost every scrap
of--tolerance for New England. But ever since I set foot in Rockface--"

"When did you, Jack?" she demanded.

"An hour ago. I've been in the strangest mood ever since."

"Come, now, and tell me about it," she suddenly saw the need to say, walking away from him
to dismiss the grinning chauffeur.

Hastings lingered alone in the hall.

"It's much nicer by the fire," Julia called to him impatiently from the next room. And he followed
the sound of her voice; he moved slowly over to a chair, opposite her own, and sat down, forgetting
to talk. "I vow I'm amused," she exclaimed, "at the way you take it. You've made letters full
of fun of me for settling my parents 'on that ugly little Massachusetts point'; you've laid
it all down to my 'Middle-Western love of Puritan relics' and 'Eastern culturine,' and scorned
my 'romantic inexperience'; and here you come, redolent of Europe, to be as much impressed
by our choice as if you were a Montana school-girl!" He smiled back, but it was obvious that
he hadn't heard a word. "What's the matter with you, Jacky?" she asked interestedly; "had a
bad journey?"

He tried to concentrate his faculties on looking genial and at the same time intelligent.

"It was just like me, Julia," he began, the ghost of cheerfulness on his face. "I took the
earliest sort of train, instead of the one I telephoned you I'd take. You see, to have landed
at night, after all the years--think of it! And then to go walking around by myself, seeing
things crop suddenly up that I hadn't thought of since--well--scarcely since I was born. No
wonder I couldn't sleep. This morning, like a stranded idiot, I got out at that little way-station
of yours, and realized for the first time that I didn't have a blessed idea where you lived."

"Rockface is about as enormous as a biscuit. Anybody could have told you."

"That's the strangest part of it," recollected Hastings. "You see, I had a curious hunch about
it; I felt a little forsaken. I was actually surprised and irritated that somebody--I didn't
know who--wasn't waiting to meet me.

"There was something about the place, Julia," he gravely pursued, "made me feel justified in
thinking a hospitable welcome was due me ... Oh I don't mean because you were here! But--well--the
veil of sea-turn that half-hid the buildings across the square made me feel the need of some
kind of greeting--I expected one!--right on the spot! Can you understand? And--instead--the
cold east wind blew round me as if I were an outcast.

"I stole down the first crooked street I came to. I stared at the house-fronts, at the little
square panes of the sagging window-sashes, at the dingy doors, with those short, steep flights
of steps leading down to the side-walks."

Julia sobered to a tentative frown. Jack's eyes were bigger than usual, and he did look, notwithstanding
the feverish flush on his cheeks, rather fagged. How she had been counting the days for him
to come! It didn't seem possible that the visit which he had been promising for so long to
make her should have finally materialized. Wasn't it really an indication,--she pondered while
again happily she sized up the situation,--if he took so much trouble for her, that he did,
after all, care more perhaps than she had sometimes thought? But what an extraordinary meeting
it had been! He had at once launched forth on this extreme discourse. She sat back, and let
her eyes rest on him with amused tolerance, her smile attentively adjusted to suit his mood;
for her moment's anxiety vanished at further sight of his strong, broad shoulders and the handsome
appearance he made in her favorite high-back chair, his firm hands grasping the arms of it.

"You've stayed away from America too long," she said carelessly; "Paris is bad for you."

He leaned forward, his delicately modeled cheekbones emphasized by the firelight, his hair
becomingly awry.

"I knew it would all be as it was," he went inspiredly on. "There was a thick clump of hedge,
cold and dreary in the mist, that awoke pictures of a prison I used to dread the sight of when
I was--I don't know how old. Once I partly thought I must be dreaming; so I put out my hand
and touched the wet, sodden picket of an old fence. I looked suspiciously behind me. But there
was only an old man behind, fully two hundred yards away. Then the idea came to me that it
would be a relief to talk to somebody; I hadn't interchanged a word with any one since I got
off the ship. All kinds of impressions, you see, had been accumulating, and they thronged like
phantoms about me.

"I wanted to hear myself speak--to see if I could. So I turned, and waited for him to come.
The rain was dripping all around; there wasn't another sound anywhere. Now, this is the queerest
thing of all: what do you think I said to him?" Jack leaned forward, his eyes darting intensely
over her face. "I said: 'Can you tell me the way to Mr. Eberdeen's house?'"

"Mr.--Eberdeen's house!" She stood abruptly up. "Who--who told you," she gasped, "that this
was Mr. Eberdeen's house?"

He stood up, too, stepping back from her. "You must have told me," he said, aware of his quivering
lips, "in one of your letters. The name came to me--"

"I never told you," she stated emphatically, "I never told any one--for--for--why did you ask
such a question of that old man?"

His gaze wandered.

"My throat felt parched from disuse. It took a distinct effort to make the words sound articulate.

"'Sure, now,' answered the old man, while I was still puzzling to explain to myself the question
I had asked him, 'but never have I heard it called that--not since my father died from the
cold he caught drivin' the mare up from Portsville. Ther' was a time, in the days when they
talked of it bein' ha'nted, you'd hear folks call it Eberdeen Manor; but not--no, and my father
likely's been dead these forty years now--never, Mr. Eberdeen's house!"

"'Mr. Eberdeen--there was such a person, then?'

"'There'll be a time, me boy, when they'll doubt yerself was a living thing.' He straightened
his bent body reprehensibly; he shook his head. 'Walk back to the next corner,' he muttered,
'and turn to yer left. It'll be down there ber the cliffs, if nobody's stolen it. Somebody'll
sure 'nough be there ter point it out to yer.'

"'I'm a stranger,' I apologized; 'I really didn't know.'

"'Know!' he shouted. 'Who was it owned the land this 'ere street runs over? Who built it? Who
was it paid fer the church on the hill? Who did fer the sick, and gave to the poor, and got
nothin' hisself fer the trouble but grief and loneliness and a broken heart? Wher' did yer
come from?'

"And he surveyed me, as if the mere fact of his seeing me for the first time made him doubt
my intentions. Still I stood there waiting.

"'What was he like? What did he do? Who was he?' I couldn't help flinging out in my wonderment.

"'As good's'll ever come back from wher' yer've been, or 'll pray fer the like of yer, I reckon.
Judge not, I tell yer, that yer be not yerself judged.'

"I tried to smile at the old man.

"'Good-day to yer,' he grumbled, and walked back in the direction from which he had come. I
watched until he was lost in the thickness."

Julia looked at Hastings in astonishment. Just another glimmer of anxiety crossed her mind;
but any foolish worry she might have had for him was merged in her consciousness of something
indeed more staggering.

"Do you think," she brooded, "that it can be true--that--that the house is--was--haunted?"

"I had," Jack unresponsively continued--"I couldn't help it--on the way a queer loathing of
the little village. The gaunt house-fronts obtruded themselves so obstinately, so self-satisfiedly,
like anemic country parsons, with their eyes close together, giving me a mean, soulless stare.
Every object testified to its lack of any temperamental share in the joy of living. The emptiness
of the streets seemed pitiless; their narrowness was oppressive."

"I love every inch of it," said Julia, defiantly.

Hastings was silent. He looked at the dry, colorless walls, covered with circuitous lines of
crackling old paint.

"Was this furniture here, Julia?" he asked.

"Not this," she exclaimed with pride.

"No wonder," he argued half to himself, "that the next generation preferred black walnut, even
with all its grapes and gewgaws! Horrible as it was, it wasn't so orthodox and priggish and
mirthless as what came before."

He strayed out into the hall again; he viewed its stateliness, its expurgated elegance. "Well,
this has got me, Julia--seriously," he said with a surprised realization that she was standing
beside him. "It's--it's immense."

"Oh, that," she cried out, "from you!" And slowly she stepped closer to say something to him;
but she thought better of it. "Don't you think," she just let slip, "I've made it look at least--well--old?"

"As only a Westerner could want to make it look." His sense of humor affectionately covered
any lack of enthusiasm.

"Come, Jacky," she urged at last, "I'll show you all of it before lunch is ready."

The stairs rose straight in the rear of the hall, directly opposite the main entrance, with
its border of finely traceried windows, branching squarely to right and left two thirds of
the way up. By the first door above the side whither Julia conducted her guest she stepped
fondly back and announced:

"This, Jack, is your room. I hope you will like it."

"Yes," he murmured, distractedly gazing about him.

Despite the freshness of everything, despite the new woolen carpets, with their correct geometric
designs, ones Julia had had copied from some battered relics which she had somehow acquired,
despite the new chintzes and the recently refinished furniture so deliberately assembled there
for the first time, despite the spickness and spanness of each suitably collected detail of
the room's decorations, a musty smell in the air caught his breath. The floor swooped reminiscently
down toward the right; the boards of it made a stifled creak as he stepped across them. He
himself was a little unsteady. The window gave on impenetrable fog. Hastings threw up the sash
and peered out into the dampness; he heard the sound of unseen boats groping their ways through
the distance; the water lapped and laved below him.

"Jack!" Julia called.

He turned to her, dazed, smiling in that way he had of trying to conceal his consciousness
of inattention.

"Of course, it seems plain and spare and--rather humble, after Europe. I know that."

As if directed by her words, his eyes swept rapidly over the room.

"It's no use, Julia," he answered; "if you're New England to the core, you can't get free of
it. I'd like every drop of New England blood drained out of me, and something--say Hebrew or--or
Middle-West," he laughed, "substituted in place of it. To you this is 'pretty' and 'cozy' and--and
'cheerful'; to me--well, it's like an orgy of blue laws; it's the personification of witch-lore--like
self-inflicted penance for I don't know what." He glanced at her in excitement, shifting his
hands uneasily in and out of his pockets.

"Yes," she said slowly. "I had thought, nevertheless, that you might like it."

"Like it?" he echoed. "That's the trouble. I wish I weren't so full of the meaning of it all.
Can you fancy how a monk might feel, who'd been away on a vacation, just getting back to his
cell? Like it? I can't help liking it. It's my proper setting; I see that fast enough. But
I've come back to find how inexorable and harsh and catechismical it is, and naturally I resent
being what I am. Oh--" he broke off, suddenly realizing the folly of his harangue, and after
another moment he added: "It's delightful, Julia dear, really. If only all the Westerners could
come to New England and revive it--and all the New-Englanders move West and revive themselves!"

They went on from room to room.

"You Westerners," Hastings reiterated--"oh, I don't just know what the difference is, for you're
New England, too. Only you've got so much else mixed up with it. You've become free-lances;
your more recent, less bigoted adventures have made you forget."

"What?" asked Julia, indignantly.

But he was at a loss, as he looked about him, to explain, however much each new survey of the
scene convinced him. "Here," he muttered, "everything has been steeping so long in the attenuated
resolutions that drove us to come; everything is still conscientiously soaked--saturated--in
the barren memory of it."

"You're not," said Julia, testily, to draw him out. "Precious little of it you've had! Two
years at a school! You're more foreign than you are New England. Remember--your--"

"Yes. I don't forget I've one foreign ancestor to boast of, and bless Heaven for it! How my
great-grandmother ever happened to marry--see this!" Hastings went on, incoherently catching
her arm and waving his other over the exquisite array of her "colonial" chamber. "Now, this,
to you, is--well--it's as 'amusing' as if you'd tried to furnish a room to imitate one in Cinderella's
palace, as 'interesting' as if you'd done it Louis Sixteenth, or--or--its meaning is hardly
more personal to you than the room you furnished in Munich that winter."--She blushed admiringly
at memory of their first meeting.--"The problem appealed to you, and you made it charming.
But to me--"

"You really hate it," said Julia, determined to face the facts.

"I really love it," he retorted sadly, "the way you couldn't help loving a parent, even though
you mightn't believe in him."

"Jack," she characteristically cried out to him again, "there is one thing more that I hardly
dare show you then. You'll think me such a fool. I--"

A servant appeared to announce that luncheon was ready.

"Don't say anything to them against it," she told him on the way down.

That wasn't, however, what made him silent during the meal. He took little part in the conversation
except when Mr. and Mrs. Elliott plied him with questions, which he then found himself answering
with only unsatisfactory vagueness--answers that he could do nothing, not even when Julia flew
tenderly to his rescue, to make any better. Yes, he liked the house, he said gravely. It was
a nice old house. And he thought how murky, despite its new coats of cleaning, was that far
corner up near the ceiling. No, he wasn't sorry, he responded, that he had left the École des
Beaux Arts to devote all his time to painting; it was the one thing he was suited for. Yes,
his foreign great-grandfather had been a portrait-painter. He couldn't remember what his name
was. Tremaine? Henry Tremaine. That was it. Julia was looking hard at him. She was gazing down
at her plate. He knew he had eaten nothing. He could not eat. No, he wasn't at all hungry.
Why was it so chilly? he thought. Doubtless he had picked up a germ. The house, he muttered
to himself, was on his nerves. It was so everlastingly gloomy! Julia had reinhabited it too
authentically. "Eberdeen Manor"--"Mr. Eberdeen's House." What names!

An hour afterward he told Julia he was dead sleepy and that, contrary to all his habits, he
was going up-stairs to take a nap. Dinner was at seven? All right, he would be in better shape
by then. He felt wretchedly, but he didn't say so.

Out in the hall he paused a moment at the foot of the wide lower staircase. The ticking of
a good many clocks came to him from different parts of the house; they seemed to focus their
monotonous activity especially on his hearing. Extraordinary recollections swept him. He remembered
having heard an old nurse, Sarah Teale, describe how her aunt once rushed out the back door
right in the midst of frying doughnuts, and was instantly stricken with paralysis on account
of it. There was a low groaning; a moan floated to him from somewhere above. Bravely he forced
himself to climb the stairs toward it. He turned the knob. The door stuck. He shook it again,
and it yielded.

II

It was nearly dark when he awoke. A late, a very late, an unnaturally late, afternoon dusk
shadowed in streaks across the floor. He could hardly breathe. The windows were close shut.
The striped shades were drawn down to the sills. But he could see the yellowed print of Da
Vinci's "Last Supper"--the one he had bought at Milan--hanging on the panel above the empty
hearth. There was the sand-shaker on his maple desk. That old lithograph of the two kittens
over beside the bureau was crooked. He must remember to straighten it. The wall-paper was getting
dingy.

He stretched himself. A sharp pain was going through his head. But it was late; he must get
up and dress, or he wouldn't be ready in time.

The clothes he had just taken off lay across an arm of the painted chair by his bed. He lifted
the coat, and let it fall from his grasp. He moved over to the wash-stand. The Chinese pitcher
was as light as if filled with air when he turned its nose to the basin. The hat-tub stood
on end between the wash-stand and the closet door. He reached for the battered old red tassel
of the bell-rope and pulled it. It was so late,--it was getting later,--he must hurry, whether
Simpkins came or not. He could manage. And he opened the closet door, sighing at the bothersome
prospect of getting into his togs. He ran his hand over his hair. Where was the mirror? And,
damme! he had no light!

The shoes were a trifle hard to draw on, too small for him; the breeches were badly in need
of pressing; the coat was stiff. He began opening drawers in the bureau, delving through piles
of neatly folded linen and silk. At last he chose a shirt and put it on over his head. He laid
aside the purple satin waistcoat until he should have arranged his stock, which he found tight,
and difficult to make meet in the back. But he finally got it adjusted; he brought the thick,
wide ends around in front, tied them in a huge bow while he walked over to the window and gazed
out. Fine night. The mist had gone, the stars were dimly appearing. He turned back for his
waistcoat and jacket. By mistake he opened the closet door again instead of the one which led
into the hall.

"I knew you would come!" she said, approaching so near to him from out the somber blackness
of the garments which draped the walls that he could see her quite plainly by the light of
the candle in her hand. She wasn't a day over twenty. If she was pale, it was more the pallor
of fright than of ill health, or perhaps only because her skin showed so white, lighted by
the faint glare, in contrast to her deep eyes and to the thick, glossy braids bound round and
round above her forehead. "John, John, won't you speak to me?"

He took a step forward, faltering. At that moment there was a brusque movement beside him,
and he turned to behold there a young man, dressed in knee-breeches, wearing a purple waistcoat
and velvet coat, as like unto himself as his own image.

"Duty bade me come," the stranger answered stiffly, as if it was for his ears that her words
had been intended.

Hastings' gaze flew to meet hers, which he was astonished to find still directed on him instead
of on the speaker. He felt himself melted to pity by her frailness and beauty and charm, so
that he turned almost angrily toward the intruder, who, at that moment, however, began to address
her in tones Hastings could but admire:

"To you!" cried out the young stranger--"you, for whom duty knows no promptings!"

At that, Hastings turned to her again, his heart rent by the plea she uttered.

"But you love me? You love me? Oh, say it to me!" And she was looking not at his counterpart;
she was imploring him, she was stretching her arms out to him, she was veritably making her
plea to him, as if he were the one who had elicited it.

"I will do anything for you--anything!" he would have promised her had not the threat of the
stranger so like unto himself interrupted.

"Don't mock my patience, Lydia," Hastings heard as once more he shifted his eyes to the speaker.

It was maddening how from one to the other of them his sympathies veered. The sepulchral voice
of the man seemed to express Hastings' own thoughts; yet her sweet appeal awoke resentful fury
for what words he dared say to her. If only Hastings might explain, when she stared so reproachfully,
that it was only he who had spoken!

Momentarily at a loss, she put the candle down on a little shelf. She rubbed her hands one
about the other as if her doing so might lessen the affront which she had now somehow to meet.
When at last she spoke, her calm, even tones were like the loveliness of primroses; her eyes
were brimming with simple trustfulness.

"You own me, O my husband," she said, "heart--heart, body, and soul. Do with me what you will."

Why should she be so abject? But when Hastings heard the voice of that other, he was again
awed by it.

"Think not that I haven't avenged myself!" the voice sneeringly proclaimed.

Hastings looked. For the first time he noticed that the stranger's arm was in a sling; there
was a mole on the cheek near the corner of those tightly compressed lips.

She shook like a leaf in a gale. For dread minutes she faced Hastings tremblingly. Coming nearer
to him she murmured:

"Are you badly hurt, my--my husband?"

Hastings glanced down at his own arm, on which her eyes seemed to rest; then he suddenly beheld,
almost as one beholds one's self in a mirror, his counterpart recoil from her reach while he
exclaimed scornfully:

"Don't--don't touch me! Nor pray think that your wiles will ever win from me any forgiveness."

She stopped stock-still.

"Is he dead?" she demanded.

"Ah, then, you do admit, do you, that you love him?" the other flung at her. "Say it to me!
say it to me!" he charged, and he half closed his eyes; "or--by Heaven! I will--"

Hastings felt the justice of this accusation, and turned doubtingly back to the girl for her
answer. She stared at him, waiting.

"What is the use?" she asked in despair. "Would you believe me?"

"If you confess I will believe you," stated the stranger.

It seemed to Hastings that she grew visibly taller; her face underwent a spasm of pain; and
apparently unable longer to remain silent, she cried out to him:

"Can it be that for you a confession is more to be believed than aught which has not to be
confessed?" And Hastings could feel the touch of her hand cold on his wrist.

But the other insisted so convincingly that Hastings looked at him once more with confidence.

"The truth," she said sadly, "is only for those who have faith; you--you prefer the sinner,
whom you may crush into a penitent. Your egotism demands the power to forgive; you have not
the courage to love."

The stranger took a step nearer her, but she was looking at Hastings.

"He is the only one who is worthy to believe me--he, whom you blame me for loving. I do love
him, then, but with a love no codes of yours can understand. For I am innocent, to use the
word by which you forgivingly call the unjustly accused."

Hastings quailed beneath the bitterness of her irony; he saw, too, how the man who so resembled
him fell back against an old calico bag, stuffed with remnants probably, that hung on a hook
right behind where he had been standing; but when he faced her once more, he marveled at the
change in her appearance.

Her brows were raised, contracted gently, resolutely; her eyes were yearningly fixed on Hastings;
her lips were parted tenderly for the generous appeal she had at last found the need to make
to him.

"Forgive me, O my husband!" she begged. "Nothing can come between us, nothing shall. But I
could not love you as I do if I loved not others--if, for the chance love that came my way,
I should give in exchange no thanks. You understand me? You would not have me avoid what I
was made to love? You would not have me disregard the sunlight and the sea and the stars in
the sky? Yes, it is true, my husband, I loved him. He said that my fingers on the spinet made
into harmony all the discords of the day; he said that I wove them away, with the notes of
birds and the sound of running brooks and the sighing of the wind, into patterns, as in the
long winter evenings I could spin flax at my wheel. It made me happy to have him love me. It
filled me with strength. It taught me many new things I could do for you. John, John, say that
you forgive me?"

Though Hastings wanted to take her in his arms, he was impelled to turn away from her and to
view that silent figure still leaning against the calico bag, whose head was lifted haughtily
in deference to her supplication.

"He loved you, too," she continued to Hastings, "because you loved me. He did not mean to kiss
me." She just raised her hands, as if involuntarily, and let them fall at her sides. "You thought
that he was stealing me from you. He couldn't; he can't; and nobody can--now, nor ever. His
kiss was as pure as the perfume of lilies, pressed close to breathe; it but made sweeter your
love and mine, your life and mine."

"Adulteress! With my curses go to him, then, forever!"

The cry brought Hastings round to that other whose presence he had forgotten. But next moment
she was down before him; Hastings felt her arms tight clasped about his knees.

"My husband, listen to me!" she implored. "I--we--there is somebody else to be considered."
Hastings shuddered. "We--you and I--shall be the parents of a child! I have not told you. For
the sake of our child, from you, that child's father, I must ask forgiveness!"

She bowed her head sobbingly against Hastings. He put his hand on her hair and was drawing
her up to him when the stranger rushed forward to tear her fiercely away.

"Lies! lies!" the stranger ranted. "Go to him, I tell you! His child--his mistress shall not
dishonor my house. Go to him, for he isn't dead, and he needs you--you who are not needed here."

"Don't! don't!" she screamed out to Hastings. "I am your wife, the mother of your--!"

Hastings sprang toward her. He saw that her hands were raised straight up in the air. Just
as he was about to reach forth to her, the stranger plunged before him, caught the gray chiffon
from her shoulders, and pressed it madly on her throat. Hastings leaped upon him, pulled him
away, pinned him to the floor, rolled over him.

She had gone. The room was in darkness.

Hastings felt for the door. It yielded. He opened another door, and stepped through it.

His head swam in the midst of the lights outside. He slunk back like one who hesitates to confront
the unknown. The stairs were there before him; he began to descend, his right hand held forth,
his eyes fastened in horror upon it. Then, as he heard the distant hum of voices below, once
more pompous and erect he swung down the last broad treads between the landing and the floor.

A servant who passed uttered a cry and vanished; but that did not deter him. With long strides
he boldly rounded the familiar corner to the dining-room door and entered.

He flourished his right hand wildly in the air. He saw that it was bleeding.

"See, see!" he called to them. "At last he is dead. I have killed him! I have killed him!"

The room seemed to recede in the distance. Something snapped inside his brain. Everything was
different. Mr. and Mrs. Elliott, with shrieks of terror, were moving to the pantry-door far
at the other end. Confusedly he saw Julia try to force herself toward him; saw her half come,
heard his name on her lips. He wanted to smile, he wanted to bend down over her affectionately;
but when he sought to reach her with his bloody hand, she shrank back, turned, and fled with
the others. He shouted to them; but he stumbled, and thought he might fall. He caught hold
of the table. After that all was blackness.

       *       *       *       *       *

He awoke amid the appointments of the chamber which Julia had called his room. A quick flood
of memories, some clear and accurate, others vague and troublesome, inundated his tired consciousness.
Gradually he became aware of a thick, muddy pain rolling in dreadful rhythmic waves through
his head. He looked toward the clock on the mantelpiece to see if it wasn't time to get up.
He met the eyes of Mrs. Elliott. He lifted himself, falling back on the pillow. The pillow
was as cold as ice. She came over to him.

"Dear boy--you feel better?"

"Better? Better?" he echoed. "Why are you here?"

"Your head is cooler. You've been--you--my dear child, you may as well know it--you fainted
last night--yesterday. You were worn out; you caught cold, and had--a chill. You hadn't eaten
anything since--not since--" She fondled the bed-clothes. "You'll be all right now. Your head--struck
something. The doctor said you weren't to talk--"

It hurt him to move his eyes. The sockets ached. He tried hard to realize what she had told
him, repeating snatches of it feverishly over to himself.

"Is it dangerous?" he finally got to the point of asking.

"No; a slight--just a very slight concussion."

"Concussion?" He floundered in the ominous meaning of it until Julia came in. Every time he
spoke they begged him not to. She looked so real to him, so natural, so tangibly alive! When
she put her face down by his he trembled, and burst out crying like a child. He was afraid
she would go away. She sat on the edge of the bed, her hands about one of his. The other hand
lay bandaged on the counterpane.

The next day he was better, but he wasn't allowed to get up; and he was secretly not sorry
not to have to try. The weakness which followed the first shock had made him submissive to
the situation; he began to be used to the fact that he was ill; even the nurse's presence he
philosophically accepted, so resigned was he to the necessity. He asked questions concerning
his pulse and temperature, wanted to know if the bags of ice could be dispensed with soon.
Julia read aloud to him for an hour every morning.

But, having a half-attentive interest in what she read, he would look fixedly at her and try
to piece together his jumbled recollections. Partly from lack of strength, mostly because he
was loath to admit to anybody that his brain wasn't normally clear, he let the questions which
rose to his lips pass unuttered. Once he exclaimed irrelevantly:

"Where, Julia, did that portrait come from?" And when he caught the intensity of her stare,
he looked around the walls, and, smiling bashfully, concealed his embarrassment by saying,
"I'm really listening, but I must have dozed for a second." At times he would gaze wonderingly
at the ceiling, lose himself following the lines of the panels, or counting the little square
panes in the window-sashes. He sometimes slept, but not quite soundly; half his somnolence
was busy with irrational calculations beyond his control.

A musty smell elusively kept fading as soon as he was aware of breathing it; a dim room, in
which the windows were shut close and the shades pulled down, drifted through his quick fancy
into darkness; he would find himself deliriously sorting many strange garments into piles,
counting them, opening drawers to take others out, until the accumulations drove him to despair.
His right hand throbbed under the tight bandage; he kept fingering the bandage and pressing
on the sore spots. Everything about him would seem suddenly definite and real as compared with
the dismal bewilderment of his dreamings. Perhaps the doctor would enter, with professional
cheerfulness. But then, right in the middle of answering some question, Hastings would be blinded
by a great rush of bright light through the opened door.

A day came when all this phantasmagoria ceased to bother him; with returning vigor he had to
make less and less effort to forget it, until at last it altogether went. The joy of new health
swept over him, filling the gaps and low, miasmic areas of his mentality, as the rising tide
fills the empty pools of the shore.

III

It was a month after the day of John Hastings's arrival at Rockface. Unlike that day, the weather
was sunny and mild; big cumulus clouds moved languidly through the sky, as if it were midsummer
instead of late October. Julia was crocheting, and he was watching her. They were sitting in
front of the house on a leaf-strewn grass-plot near the avenue between the lines of larches
that, now calm in the windless forenoon, stretched diagonally from the street to the corners
of the bland old façade.

"But if you knew all along," he, with his habitual freshness of wonder, put to her, "that it
was, that it is, really Mr. Eberdeen's house, why in the name of things didn't you tell me then?"

She became irritatingly absorbed in her work.

"I thought," she at length said, "that you were pretending not to know, and I wanted, in that
case, to discover what other--what else you might be holding back from me."

"Holding back from you? What else?" he echoed. "What else was there?"

"I wasn't sure, you see. Nothing that I knew," she affirmed frankly, laughing away the sudden
rigor of sadness on his face. "There was another reason, though. There was something which
I had been saving for the very last moment to show you. But I was rather ashamed of wanting
to so much, and, after the way you had taken the rest of the house, I hesitated. Just as I
finally was going to, lunch was ready--remember?"

Hastings awkwardly withdrew his right hand, which had been resting palm downward on his knee,
and thrust it into his pocket.

"Julia," he cried out, in characteristic disregard of all context, "suppose Mr. Eberdeen should
turn out to have been--well--a relative, or something? It might account, you know, for my asking
that question, and--and for how everything here"--he looked inclusively round him--"for how
this all impressed me so."

She waited, hopeful of the time having at last come when he might wish to confide in her whatever
it was--if, indeed, he knew--that had happened; but he only ingenuously continued to hold out
to her the possibility of his new idea.

"No," she told him, with a disappointment which she couldn't conceal, "he wasn't. I've looked
up his entire history. He died right here, and he had no children. Your pedigree I know by heart."

Hastings smiled at her thoroughness.

"What," he exclaimed, "if some unrecorded forebear of mine has eluded you? Somebody," he dreamily
improvised, "who knew this house, who was familiar with every turn of the road, every habit
of the mist. It's just such a smug little, old, weather-worn town like Rockface, where any
New Englander is likely to find traces of forgotten ancestors."

The sound of footsteps made them both look toward the gate.

"Who is it? Why is he coming here?" Julia demanded half-indignantly under her breath.

"The same old man I met, but so much older!" whispered Hastings, unexpectedly puzzled whether
to welcome or dread this intrusion.

"I have searched the streets through for him ever since," she remonstrated; "I have asked everybody
I saw, and no one in the whole place could tell me of any old man answering his description."

They watched his slow, difficult approach over the gravel. He came forward without making the
slightest recognition of their presence. Stopping full in front of them, he took off his hat,
applied a straggling red handkerchief uncertainly to his face, and stared up at the house-front.

"They tell me," he muttered, not once looking at either of his interlocutors, "that yer've
been and sold it. So yer couldn't stand it, eh, after all? It's what Al Makepeace said 'u'd
be the case. Looks innocent, though, as herself did, now, don't it?"

"We've sold it," Julia protested, "only because--because we can't stay here. Jack--Mr. Hastings--and
I are going to be married. We are going to live in Europe. My father and mother didn't want--"

"Yer can't make a new dog out of an old dog, ner learn an old dog new tricks," he went on disregardingly;
"and I guess it's the same fur's houses be concerned."

"Who are you, anyway?" Hastings asked, getting up to offer the old man a chair.

"Who am I?" the old man echoed, suddenly attentive. "Dear me, dear me! Whose father was it
as planted--and I had his own word fer it--all these 'ere tam'rack trees, and dug the well
by the south door? And seen the lady of the house herself, mind yer, go out 'tween them stone
posts fer the last time--and darker than pitch it was, too--on her way that night she went
to meet Henry--"

At this point the old man was seized by a fit of coughing. When he recovered from it, he just
stood there, gazing ahead of him, shaken with the palsy of years, so that he failed to heed
the questions they thrice repeated to him.

"No wonder yer couldn't sleep in it, with her curse on the big empty halls! When the crops
themselves died the night afterward, without a sign of a frost comin' down to touch them! It
was the devil's own guilt in her that did it, Al says. Poor man! poor man! And yer tried ter
dress it all up like a corpse, as if yer thought it was dead; but it came to life on yer, did
it?" he mumbled, laughing incomprehensibly to himself. "When yer leavin'? To-morrer? Sooner
the better fer yer, I guess. Good-day." With which imprecation the old man turned, feebly put
on his hat, and dragged himself back down the avenue whence he had come.

They saw the last vestige of him disappear forever.

"He's like a broken spirit brooding over the neighborhood," Hastings said, shivering despite
himself.

Julia began to crochet again, nervously absorbed in what she was doing.

"His scattered, crazy words are like the last gasp of the little village. How he epitomizes
all the cramped, pent-up emotions of the starved inhabitants who have gone--all the passions
that must have so drearily burnt themselves out here, with nothing to note but the shifting
of the winds or the digging of some well! They who were obliged, from sheer ennui, to create
dramas out of their Puritan prejudices. Can't you breathe contagion in the very atmosphere?
Julia, I've had enough of it; I'm glad we're going. If I stayed here a month longer, I should
get to feel as indigenous as that gnarled old apple-tree; the ghosts of the soil would claim me."

She stood up and walked away from him across the gravel avenue, as if doing so might help her
to seize this occasion for what she had decided at last to tell him. She realized that she
must be quick, that in another hour her parents' return might end this one good opportunity
for which she had longed and waited.

"Jack dear," she said, moving back toward him, seeing how her own excitement was reflected
in the way he, too, had arisen and taken a few steps towards her, "to-morrow is our last day,
and there's something that we must talk about before we go."

His head was bowed, his eyes focused tensely up at hers, his arms hanging beside him; the sensitive
smile hovered more and more dimly on his lips; his whole body swayed imperceptibly, like the
beating of a pulse.

"Jack," she got out, going still closer to him, "I want to show you--Mrs. Eberdeen's room."

He would never quite realize the fullness of the shock it gave him; no deliberate attack could
have been so vulnerably aimed, and the completeness of the blow was the greater for being one
which he had been unwittingly preparing all along to receive. The house looked miles away;
far over it three ducks flew southward.

On the landing above the broad part of the staircase they paused a moment. Instead of going
up the left branch, which led to Jack's door, she took him to the right, where, at the head
of the stairs, there was another door directly opposite his. As soon as he saw it he went forward
quickly and turned the knob. It stuck; it was locked; and rather timorously he stepped back
to meet Julia's searching look as she handed him a rusty old key.

The musty smell poured out on them like the damp from an opened vault.

She took his hand. They stepped across the threshold.

He saw the lithograph of the two kittens, age-worn and time-blurred, still crooked on the wall
beside the bureau; there was the sand-shaker on the maple desk; there hung the yellowed print
of the "Last Supper" above the fireplace--all stark and ghostly in that uncannily late afternoon
light, which not even the morning sun could dispel.

He clutched her hand. He looked at the bed, which hadn't been smoothed or touched since he
had lain in it a month ago. He remembered it as uncomprehendingly as one remembers mislaying
a lost object in a forgotten place. He remembered waking. But the rest he had done was lost
in the shadows.

"So this is where it happened--here! How have I ever been in this room before?"

"What happened?" she asked him eagerly, firmly.

"I fainted--before I was sick. But why--why here?" he begged.

She had prepared her answer; she had many times rehearsed it; but the words now served inadequately.

"You hadn't eaten anything," she stated softly. "You hadn't slept. You had a fever, and your
brain was so tired from--from everything that when you started for your room,--the one opposite,
which I had shown to you,--you carelessly turned to the right, and came into this room instead,
which I hadn't had a chance yet to tell you about. Haven't you ever known, since, that you did it?"

He shook his head.

"This was Mrs. Eberdeen's room," she went on. "It has always been just like this,--at least
I think it has,--always, since the house was built. I kept it as a curiosity. I called it Mrs.
Eberdeen's room because the natives said she was wicked and had brought ruin to the house.
I reasoned that this was why nobody had taken these things away or changed them--the wall-paper,
I mean, the bed, the carpet, the pictures. And there's precisely one thing," she impetuously
concluded, as if she couldn't postpone longer telling him, "that I myself have added."

Hastings smiled wanly at her. She guided him round to the wall at the side of the door in front
of which they had been standing; she started to speak again before she saw what it was to which
she had referred; and so her own words prevented her from hearing the smothered sound of his
recognition.

"I found this," she said, trying to speak carelessly and forcing herself steadfastly to regard
it, "in an old shop twelve miles down the Poochuck Road. Isn't it quaint? I got it--because,
Jack, it looked like you, and--and because it exactly fitted this panel!"

But her attempted gaiety sank dismally in the silence which followed. They just stood there.
The minutes thudded by; the mustiness enwrapped them. Outside the window a dead piece of branch
fell crackling to the ground. Gradually he grew to be unaware of her presence, so sharp and
rapid were the currents which successively swept him; and her petty curiosity, all her poor
need for speculation, was lost in the depth of the spell cast over him now. She dared not look
at him, she dared not take her eyes off the object before them.

It was crudely painted. It was the portrait of a young man dressed a hundred or more years
ago. He seemed to be walking forward out of the picture. In many places the pigment was so
nearly gone that the brown fuzz of canvas showed through. The colors clung as delicate as cobwebs
to the stern face and erect stalwart figure.

"Who is it?" Hastings articulated, scarce audibly. But though he had to ask, if only to save
himself from going mad, his words were no more than frail signals of his distress, for he knew
that he alone knew the answer. Electrically, crashingly, it had been borne in upon him at almost
the first instant of his beholding them where it was that he had seen before those tightly
compressed lips, with the mole still visible near the corner; he knew those calm, cruel eyes,
still averted from his own; in a flash he had identified the purple satin waistcoat.

"You, Jack,"--she faced him determinedly--"you looked like him; you were like him, absolutely,
in every detail, when you came into the dining-room!"

"When I came--" he repeated at a loss.

"Yes. It wasn't here, in this room, that you fainted. You went outside, down the stairs. Elizabeth
saw you. You pushed open the dining-room door. Mother, father, I--we all saw you come in, wearing
clothes like these," she pointed.

"Yes, yes, yes. I remember; I did put them on."

"But you didn't, you couldn't have! O Jack, don't you understand me? You weren't really wearing
them!"

All at once he felt something crunch beneath his feet, and he looked down, then back up at
the portrait. The large square of glass which apparently once covered it had been shattered;
there were a few triangles still sticking in the edge of the frame; the rest was in smaller
bits on the floor. Instinctively he brought his right hand to a level with his face, and saw
the scar upon it.

"It's a mystery, Jack dear. Can't you see it is? And it is so much more interesting never to
explain it," she essayed fearfully, feigning a laugh of regained naturalness. "We shall never,
never find out who he was, by whom it was painted, or what made you break it, or why--"

"Ah," he shouted eagerly, defying, as the memories came crowding into his brain, the doubts
which had freshly assailed him. "I told you it might be possible! And he did have, after all--for
that man was the father of her child!"

"Whose child?" Julia gasped.

But love and pity for her whom he could not name kept him from answering. And in the drift
of his silence the vision capriciously failed him. He looked at Julia. He looked back at the
wall. It was nothing but a funny old picture which hung there confronting them. The commonplaceness,
beside it, of Julia's long-drawn expression made him snicker, until, as a result of this accidental
reaction, they were both actually giggling aloud.

He turned away from her. She watched him cross to the bureau. He pulled out each one of the
drawers in turn. He peered blankly into them, where there was only the smell of mold and whirring
dust to greet his pains.

He persistently scanned the room again. What had become of the hat-tub? Why had the Chinese
water-jug gone from the squalid little wash-stand? Baffled and solemn, he went back over to her.

"Haven't you taken some things away?"

"Nothing. Not even so much as a splinter. What are you trying to find?"

Timidly catching her hand he cried:

"Come with me, please." And he drew her to the closet door. But when he opened it, he let go
her hand in his amazement.

A slit of window at the far end let in a ray of sun. There were rows and rows of wooden hooks,
but there seemed nothing on them. Steeling himself boldly to view it, he turned to where there
might have dangled that calico bag stuffed with pieces against which the stranger had leaned.
He went forward and felt over the empty spaces to satisfy himself.

"Yes, Julia," he slowly brought out, "you are right; it was a dream--a mystery." And he nodded
vacantly to her.

"If only, Jack, you could remember it all!"

She stretched out her arms to him. But just as she was coming nearer, he caught sight of something
lying between them on the floor. He darted for it, picked it up, and ran with it out of the
shadow. Then, in terror, he saw that it was a piece of crumpled gray chiffon, and that there
were the stains of blood upon it.

VENGEANCE IS MINE[10]

BY VIRGIL JORDAN

From Everybody's Magazine

[10] Copyright, 1915, by The Ridgway Company. Copyright, 1916, by Virgil
     Jordan.

A psychologist has said that most dreams indicate some deep fear or some deep wish that lies
dormant in the dreamer. One curious thing about this is that the psychologist was a German.
Another is that none of my companions in the dugout at Le Prêtre seemed to find in my experience
anything entirely new to them. I leave you to judge which it was--fear or desire--that came
to light in me in the trenches of Pont-à-Mousson.

Foot by foot we had driven the Germans out of the forest of Le Prêtre; and when the winter
came down on us we had brought up behind the ridge overlooking the Moselle, with the enemy
on the other side, fifteen miles away from Metz.

They managed to keep the river open, but otherwise let us alone. There was nothing to do for
weeks but to sit tight. With cement, moss, burlap, and a few rugs and a boiler and some steam-pipe
we stole at Pont-à-Mousson, we made our dugouts pretty comfortable.

Excepting myself and the rest of the aëroplane corps, our work had been each day to do so and
so much digging, hauling, figuring, firing into the air, mechanically protecting ourselves
from shells that we took as a matter of course, like wind and rain. We did not even know when
we had won a point against the unseen enemy. We did not feel their resistance as one feels
a push. Some one who had charge of those matters figured it out on paper, and we moved forward
or back as their calculations said. Outside our company we knew nothing of the general state
of affairs.

Once in a while, especially about Christmas, one of us would get a bundle of books, papers
and magazines from a friend. Then we talked--talked; we discussed again and again the reasons
for the war, the object of it, what we were going to do to Germany when it was over. Every
evening we tried Germany over again, put her culture, commerce, social system on the rack,
found her guilty and had her hanged, drawn, and quartered.

Christmas Eve, 1914, I had turned in warm and excited and confused with the whirl of ideas
we had been discussing, gathered around our steam-pipe. I had a restless night in the stuffy
dugout. About midnight the German firing commenced in the direction of Metz. Toward morning,
Christmas Day, they stopped, and I fell into a long, dreamy sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Christmas Eve, 1916. Two long, haggard years of the war had dragged by, to a wailing
crescendo of misery, famine, disease, and madness. We had been hurled up and down an invisible
line of death, bending and pressing it back and forth like a horde of ants at a thread.

Every human thought and fact had by now changed in us. As we formerly recognized our friends,
we seemed to know each other now as the citizens of a new state on earth, in which the people
did not live by productive labor, nor in houses, nor in families, but like strange bees in
an unknown place, sexless, unconscious of our activity, destroying instead of building. It
was as if we had been born that way. All memory of another life was sunk deep into the subconscious.
We had become highly specialized things, yet knew not in what or for what. Birth and death
had lost their meaning.

Tens of thousands of us had disappeared. Thousands took their places nonchalantly. As the opening
of the third year approached, there was in the air the wild and brooding sense of the millions
of German and Austrian lives and as many of the Allies that had gone out before their time.

Earth seemed to stir into consciousness of it.

The carnival of Chaos had spread like a wanton dementia. Italy had long since flung aside her
sane reserve and plunged into the carnage for the shreds of Austria she desired--Tyrol, Dalmatia,
Istria, and Albania. Rumania and Greece had joined with Servia and bound the Balkans into a
temporary brotherhood. Together with Russia and Italy at Haskoi they had scattered the crazy
Turkish army like chaff and swarmed on to the Bosphorus. The allied fleet drove a withering
wedge of steel and fire through the Dardanelles. Constantinople fell.

As to a Bacchanal of Blood, the colonies tore out of the map every shred of German colonial
territory there was, and poured into Europe their flood of black, white, and yellow men. Little
Denmark, catching the festive spirit, reached out for Schleswig-Holstein; and the rest, coveting
the Kiel Canal, lent a willing hand to the useful tool. Holland, sore from being the frail
buffer between the struggling combatants, placed her interests in the British hands, and opened
another gate to the heart of Germany.

Russia debouched her million after million upon the East, and though they died dumbly like
flies before the German walls of steel at Thorn and Bromberg, they swept the Germans back over
the Vistula and out of East Prussia down to the line of the Warthe and Oder. Austria, torn
by internal dissension, was ringed in the upper basin of the Danube, where the Tyrol, the Carpathians,
and the Germans protected the few shattered loyal ones.

There was not a German vessel left on the Seven Seas. Her fleet had been put to sleep in the
Frisian marshes, outnumbered by the British on the outside, and cut off from supplies by troops
landed through Denmark and Holland.

On the West they stood behind the Rhine. The drive had been rapid and relentless from all sides.
They left their villages empty except for the dead as they went before the closing ring of
steel. They took everything with them that might be used as fuel, as material for ammunition,
and left their cities razed more completely than the invader could have done it.

Christmas night found us where Ludwigshafen had been. For two months we had stood, unable to
move an inch farther. The thick deluge of fire the Germans rolled upon us at every advance
amazed us. There could not long be a bit of iron or copper or saltpeter or food left inside
the ring.

We had no knowledge of the source of this indomitable resistance. For months not a living soul
had been able to pass across the lines, nor had a single message of any kind or a reply to
any, by any means, come out of Germany. For three to five miles about the lines there was a
devastated ring, bare of everything, swept by fire and death. Beyond that was grim and gruesome
silence. The airmen could see little. Houses were apparently deserted and the people lived
in the woods or in the ground. Every particle of earth that could be spared was used to grow
something to eat. In the large cities buildings and bridges were torn down. Their cut stone
and iron went to the making of fort and cannon.

This Christmas Eve, as we sat in our cement dugout, the silence outside was brooding and heavy.
Snow had fallen for a week and there had been no fighting. In the intervals of our talk there
was only the sound of a famished cat's wailing outside. We talked of the war, and of what we
were going to do with Germany when the end came.

The talk of the world had been done. The nations at home sat like the knitting ring about the
guillotine, waiting for the final scene to be staged. Germany was no more in the world's mind.
They had tried to think about her. Their thought had been brought to folly and confusion. Already
she was forgotten. She had become a piece of territory that shortly their armies would occupy.
Condemnations of her culture, of her aspirations, of her part in the greatest of the world's
wars, had come to nothing, and were abandoned. Pompous plans for her reorganization, superior
homilies to the German people on peace and freedom from their wicked masters, good advice on
the improvement of their culture--all these had been written to a shred. To preserve its dignity
the world wished to forget them. Its dull, avid gaze saw not beyond the moment toward which
it had strained, leaving its mind and simple sincerity of soul behind.

This was the night of the final assault. In a circle of three hundred miles, the word was written,
on land and sea, in seven tongues and among a score of races--"AT MIDNIGHT." We were then to
draw tight the halter upon the throat of Germany. Der Tag had become The Hour--Ours. The mailed
fist was to have its gauntlet stripped from it and a naked hand should pay us tribute.

Steadily we had battered down the stone and steel chain about her. We stood before the Rhine
in dead of winter. At one sweep we were to stretch our arm across it and with the other crush
the mighty militant menace that lay at bay between.

The slopes that were old in story, that had sustained the surge of unnumbered hordes from East
and West and South and North; in whose grapes were the bloods of Roman, Teuton, Slav, Mongol,
and Frank; that had been the source and shelter of a race's song, science, and story--lay in
silent slumber, muffled in midwinter's snows.

That race stood at bay before its fellow's vengeance. By this time all those of alien blood
had dropped away from its single body like engrafted limbs. Its trunk stood bare and barkless
before the blast, we to wring from its bloody, unbowed head, obeisance to our will--a will
that had begun in covetousness of commerce, in rancor of humiliating reminiscence, in rage
of race rivalry, a will that had grown beyond our grasp, beyond our consciousness. We lusted
for the day that should press from Germany's lips, "Your will be done."

Unthinking were we that then would come the days of dull and devious diplomacy, of division
of domain, of dragging indemnity from a people dumb and disheartened by devastation and death.
At all costs to beat the breath from her body! The hour had come when this resistant something
should be ours, ours, the Briton's, the Frenchman's, the Russian's, the Italian's, the Serb's,
the Rumanian's, the Montenegrin's, the Dane's, the Mongol's!

At midnight we moved, in silence. It seemed as if we heard from the Carpathians to the Rhine,
from the sea to the Alps, the anthem of arms, the stir of destruction go up as we moved. We
wrangled for the outpost places, that when the closing of the steel ring was flashed across
the circle we might be first to see the white flag at our point.

I was fortunate--one of the three sent to see how clear the road from Ludwigshafen to Mannheim,
and to cover the river crossing.

I was off and my aëroplane rose quickly. There were no lights beyond the Rhine. Where Mannheim
used to be was darkness. The three miles between us and the river lay motionless in the moonlight.
The Rhine was tight in ice. The batteries at the angle of the Neckar were invisible. In wonder
I came down to three hundred feet and circled, watching our men creep tentatively up to the
sharp-cut bank, hesitate, clamber down, and start across the ice recklessly. They were not
spiked, never dreaming of getting to the ice at all.

The dark figures slipped and slid and fell. It was so still and the moon so bright I could
hear the cracks shoot across the untried sheet and see the men's faces twisted in apprehension.
They were the only moving things. It was clear the Germans had fallen back. They had abandoned
Malstatt by night--but Mannheim--and the Rhine! It was unbelievable. I rose and coasted down
to above the Mannheim parade-ground. There was nothing to be heard but the distant stir of
our line.

I touched. My machine ran along, bumping over hundreds of bodies lightly covered by the new
snow. I got out, stumbled over them at my feet, felt them. They were not long dead. I looked
about me at the dark, silent city of Mannheim. A panic took me. I ran to my machine, tried
to get it off, but failed and sat numb and transfixed, vainly groping in the darkness of my
mind for the thought that would not form, till my comrades came to me with blanched faces and
bit by bit in swift succession pieced for me the words that could not find utterance, having
never been uttered in the world's life before.

The rest--a flowing phantasmagoria that tore me too far out of human experience, even of dream--to
tell again. The thousands crumpled up in full-dress uniform, stained and tattered, beneath
the new snow of the parade-ground, fallen at a moment, at a word, hands here and there stiffened
in salute to the flag slow moving in the graying winter's dawn. Death we had seen,--but here
in the streets and in the houses, in all corners and in all byways, the vivid faces of those
who had sought death freely, each face telling with ghastly eloquence a tale that had never
been told in the life of man, of a race self-destroyed at a moment, at a word, for a vision
which it alone had understood, leaving its epitaph in the words on the poison vials which a
government machine efficient to the last had supplied--"Der Tag ist zu uns"--"The Day is Ours."

Then through the blenching words that flashed along the closed circle of steel in all the tongues
of Europe, the shrinking thought leaped to our dumb, numb mind and throbbed upon them like
the insistent resounding clangor of a titanic brazen shield, as if beaten by a grimacing god:

Germany is yours, O sons of men! What now?

       *       *       *       *       *

I woke at dawn to the boisterous, bold boom of the batteries of Metz. They seemed to speak
in glorious wide-mouthed joy of Til Eulenspiegel and the young Siegfried.

I thanked God for the Germans.

THE WEAVER WHO CLAD THE SUMMER[11]

BY HARRIS MERTON LYON

From The Illustrated Sunday Magazine

[11] Copyright, 1915, by The Illustrated Sunday Magazine. Copyright,
     1916, by Harris Merton Lyon.

I had always felt vaguely that there must be at times an intense pathos which overcame the
master-worker in perishable materials--the actor in his supreme moment; the singer, the musician--I
thought--must feel a bitter regret that his glory cannot live but must die, in articulo gloriæ,
with the sound, the effect he has created. Bernhardt seemed to me to have that in the back
of her mind when she exulted over her appearance in the moving pictures. "I am immortal," she
cried, dramatically--always dramatic, that old lady--"I am a film." So thin a bridge to immortality!

The actor, the singer, the musician; struggling through years and over obstacles to attain
perfection--and then what? A brief triumph in a perishable art; a transient, fugitive gracing
of a day, an hour, a moment ... and then another forgotten mortal artist. I remembered Gautier's
decision, "The coin outlasts Tiberius." Paint, chisel, then, or write if you wish your work
to endure.

No doubt here was wisdom in a little box; and I fell to wondering stupidly what there could
possibly be in being a worker at the other, the evanescent thing. I remembered a certain kind
of moth that dies soon after it is born. Are these people moths?

And then one night a ragtag ghost came and answered me.

I

It was eleven o'clock. Outside it was snowing, and so I remained in Pigalle's, loath to leave,
and killing the time with a book. Pigalle's was one of those basement eating places in New
York's West Thirties, a comfy, tight, cosy sort of a cellar. An Italian table d'hôte, of course,
though not like the usual; it had more character and less popularity. You seldom saw a blond
skin there, the place being unknown to the night-tramping hordes of avid New Yorkers who crowd
into all the "foreign" places and devour all the foreign food they can find. Mostly the habitués
were French and Italian, gentle, noisy people who did, in their way, slight damage to the fine
arts. By nine-thirty, they were done eating and gone; almost all the lights were turned out
and chairs were piled up on the tables, out of the way of the early morning mop. By ten Pigalle
and his wife and several others, mostly sculptors, scene painters and musicians, were gathered
beneath the light at the main table and had begun their nightly game of poker. From then on
it was slim gambling and loud, staccato chatter in French and Italian.

At eleven, then, this night, the cautious door-bell tinkled. Some kind of a world knocking
at mine and wanting to get in, I thought. Some kind of an adventure out there, demanding to
be encountered; some kind of a soul pounding at the walls of my soul. Every time the doorbell
tinkles, whoever has this Show is setting a new scene. Or, no. The wall opens and the genie
slips through, spreads his rug on the ground and begins to make new magic before your very
eyes. Never a doorbell rang yet, I thought, that didn't bring a bit of heaven or hell--or mere
purgatory--with it.

At eleven the doorbell tinkled and the fat little waitress-maid-scrubwoman-second cook, a Lombard
wench by the name, the sweet ineffable name of Philomène, waddled over and opened the door
a tiny space. Pigalle occasionally sold liquor without a license; hence his caution as to visitors.
She let in an odd apparition; with doubts, I thought; certainly with mutterings and rolling
of her black eyes. At any rate she knew him, whether for well or ill.

The man cast his eyes around, saw that the only open table save the poker table was the one
I held, and came and sat down opposite me. With a slightly insolent motion he dragged his chair
around sidewise, turned his shoulder to me and stared across the room at a gaudy lithograph
of the good ship Isabella bound for Naples, eighty-five dollars first class. Philomène, with
a porky look, asked him what he wished.

He announced in French that he desired of all things to "strangle a parrokeet." This was some
absurd slang for saying he wanted an absinthe.

He was a gaunt, tall, round-shouldered, queer old fellow with a gray beard and a matted moustache,
colored with the brown stain of cigarette smoke. As ugly, I thought, as ugly as--oh, Socrates.
And yet with something lovable about him. And his combination of dress was certainly odd enough:
a frayed, cutaway coat with extremely long tails, dripping wet and dangling cylindrically like
sections of melted stovepipe; mussy, baggy old gray trousers; a blue plush waistcoat; a black,
but clean muffler pinned tight up under his chin with a safety pin of the brassiest; and a
broad-brimmed black slouch hat, so broad of brim that he walked forever in its shadow. This
hat he kept on all the time. His hands were long and clean and white--the virile, sensitive
hands of a poet, I thought. The eyes were the fascinating feature of the man. I said to myself
right away, "This man is a mystic." Though they burned brightly in their sockets, they had
a trick of turning abruptly dim; a sort of film or veil, closed over them. "Druid or old Celt,"
I murmured. "Give him a bit of mistletoe and he'd call his gods right down into my demi-tasse
and scare the poker game into fits."

He swallowed his whole glass of absinthe in five gulps--a performance that it would make a
cow shudder to watch--threw back his head, and, with a hoarse burr, called for another. This
time he spoke English; but the burr was decidedly Scotch. Pigalle now looked around at him--gross,
pleasant, Provençal Pigalle--and nodded; then went on placidly shuffling the tiny cards in
his great fat hands.

When the second absinthe came the old man took it slowly; settled himself back on his shoulder-blades
and the tail of his spine, and pulled his hat down level with his eyes, as if he intended to
spend a considerable time with us. He called for a package of French cigarettes--cigarettes
jaunes--and proceeded to color his moustache a riper brown. "Now my adventure has knocked and
come in," I thought. "If he is my adventure, I cannot help him--nor can I keep him off. He
is the primum mobile. It is up to him."

Suddenly my ears were shocked with a sharp argument between two young fellows at the poker
table. No, it was not about the game. One said something; the other shrieked his answer; the
first shouted back; the second in a violent burst that had a finality about it slammed down
his cards and said something curt, with a solemn rolling of his eyes.

To my amazement, the odd old fish across from me boomed out with equal violence: "Ben trovato!"
None of them paid any attention to him.

I may have shown some of my surprise at his action, for he turned suddenly to me, and asked:
"Did you understand what he said?"

I replied that I did not.

"He said, roughly translated: 'Sufficient unto eternity is the glory of the hour.' Yes. And
it is true. Sufficient unto eternity is the glory of the hour, young man. There's many an artist
who must--" he stopped short and began biting his finger ends.

My mind reverted to Bernhardt's film and the question about the moth. "Who must--what?" I prodded.
"Content himself with this catch phrase?"

"Content himself? Damnation, no! Must feel the keener triumph in a piece of work, young man,
just because it is perishable." He thumped the table and breathed hard. I got the full paregoric
reek of his drink. "What is this stork-legged Verlaine going to say?" I thought to myself.
But he contented himself with breathing for a few moments and that odd film dropped over his
eyes. "Just because the thing is ended, and dies out of men's minds almost as soon as it is
ended"--he seemed to be feeling slowly for the words--"if the work was right, was masterly
done, there's a sort of higher joy in knowing that it triumphed--and was suddenly gone--like
a sunset, like a light on the water, like a summer." He asked abruptly: "You think I have 'spiders
on my ceiling'--you think I am crazy?"

"On the contrary. Can you make this clearer to me, this--?"

"My agreement that sufficient unto eternity is the glory of the hour?" He sipped his absinthe.
"With your patience. Let me see. I can give you a favorite example of mine, about a friend
of mine named Andy Gordon--something like a story?" Now in his eyes there was an eager shine.

"Go on."

"You know, my friend, I am Highland Scotch." (He pronounced it Heeland.) "I may be queer. That
all depends. But don't be alarmed at the way I put things. I am not out of my head. Now this
yarn about Andy Gordon. Remember," said he, tapping the table with his long white finger, and
smiling at me in a charming manner, "sufficient unto eternity is the glory of the hour. By
the way, that young fellow over there who said that is a violoncellist. 'Grand ducal 'cello
to the imperial violin,' you know."

I reconsidered him in the wink of an eye. He is not Socrates and he is not Verlaine, I said
to myself. This old lovable scarecrow is the Ancient Mariner, and he is going to hold me with
his glittering eye and I am going to listen like a three years' child. The very fellow: the
"skinny hand," the "long gray beard"--and doubtless, too, the true Ancient Mariner smelled
of tobacco and drink. Certainly he talked poetry. And so did my old man, miraculously, almost
without effort. So I sat back and listened, while he told his story.

II

Andy Gordon was for all his years a weaver in the mills at Glastonbury; just an ordinary human
stick or stone, as you might call it, doing his mechanical work at the machine like a machine--until
one day he drew his pay, before you could say Jack Robinson, and started off walking anywhere.
He did it of a sudden and without seeming cause, but inwardly there was a pressing retraction
upon his soul that told him to get away from the mechanical actualities.

He was feeling himself tired to death that day he drew his money; and, of course, he was still
young. And when a young man really wants very much to die, he always comes out of that valley
(at any rate, so people say) with something new in his heart. Andy walked off anywhere, just
so he got to the hills.

And when he arrived at the hills, it was all very, very sweet. They were just coming light
yellow and the bluebirds were there before him, touring the air just for the fun of it. And
he made right away a queer discovery--he knew for the first time that New Year's is not the
first day of January, at all. It's the first day of spring. Men are right silly, Andy thought,
calling some dead and sodden day in mid-winter by the fancy, saucy name of New. The thing that
is New, of course, is the Green. The New Year is the Green Year.

Well, he had a hunk of bread in his pocket and some onions, and a man can walk a long way upon
the strength of that; so he went along up a road when he felt like it and over a hill when
he felt like that. But most of the time his heart was very sad in his body and his mind took
no pleasure of the bluebirds. For he was thinking that his life wasn't very much. He could
see nothing in working year after year at the mill. And yet that was all he was good for (so
he thought).

On and on and on walked Andy. There were parts of those hills where he walked that probably
nobody, not even the Indian, ever traversed. Anything could happen there--where the woods are
dark with pine or sunny with birch, and where echoes are the only memory (and they never last
long). It was so far away, up in through there; as I've said, anything could happen there and
we would never hear of it. All day long the cold brooks run down, brown from the juices of
the hemlock bark, over browned stones--but of course they never talk and tell anything.

About noon, Andy found himself upon an old disused and overgrown road, that for years had been
traveled only by rabbits and skunks and woodchucks and deer. And in a clearing at one side
he saw an old log cabin which had not been lived in for years and years. There was a bit of
brook at the back and an old wind-break of pine trees.

"Now I will eat a snack here," Andy said to himself, "and afterward, may God have mercy on
my soul, I will lie down and nap under the pine and try to sleep off whatever it is that is
bothering me."

And he did so, lying down beneath the pine--

He closed one eye gently and slowly (like letting a lid down on a box of playthings) and then
he closed the other eye the same way; and then he knew nothing at all until suddenly a Voice
came clap out of the blue sky, calling his name, "Andy Gordon, man! Andy Gordon!" over the
hills and far.

Andy was amazed, of course, and said: "Here I am," with all his might, but without making a
bit of sound (just as we all do in dreams).

"The thing the matter with you," went on the great Voice, without any introduction or anything
of the sort but coming from everywhere and nowhere at once, "is that you need Work. You are
tired to death with work; work-with-a-little-'w' is killing the soul out of you, Andy; work-with-a-little-'w'
always does that to men, if you give it the whole chance. But that can't be helped. You're
bound to have a whole lot of it in your life But--if you don't mix some Big-'W' Work in with
it, then indeed and indeed your life will be disastrous and your days will be dead."

Andy did not know but what he was a-dreaming, though his eyes were now wide open and he could
see a robin hopping on the sod. "What is it you mean by Big-'W' Work?" he asked.

"Of course, that's the Work you love for the Work's sake. It's Work you do because you love
the thing itself you're working for."

"You make that hard to understand," said Andy.

"Well, and it will be hard for people to understand you when you're at that sort of Work. They
know well enough what you're about as long as you turn 'em out yards of flannel down at Glastonbury,
don't they?"

"Oh, yes, indeed," said Andy.

"And it would be the same way if you were a smith and turned 'em out horse shoes, or a bill
clerk and turned 'em out bills. They'd understand that."

"Oh, yes, indeed," said Andy.

"But the trouble with that work-with-a-little-'w' is that you do it only for the pay there
is in it--never for the love of it--that's why it seems to you a shame to waste your whole
life at it, you know."

"Indeed it does, and that's why I'm here away from it all," said Andy.

"All very well for a while," said the Voice. "But you'll have to keep on at it somewhat--say,
half your life at work-with-a-little-'w,' sitting at your machine down yonder at the mill,
turning 'em out the stuff they know to be useful."

At that Andy fell silent and was sad again. Where would he find a beginning at the Big-"W"
Work? he asked himself.

But the Voice seemed to know what was in his mind, and answered him: "I can give you that sort
of Work. But it will take the best there is in you to do that sort of Work; and the Work will
surely die as soon as you've accomplished it. And there will be no money in it for you, at
all, and a great deal of pain, care and weariness. But you will find great love in your Work,
and for your Work; and though it all vanishes at once you will experience so wonderful a joy
that it will seem as if, night and day, God is whispering the secrets of life in your ear."

"What is the Work like?" asked Andy.

"Would you be willing to try it? Remember, it is difficult and wearying and is dead as soon
as it is born."

"Yes, by glory, I would," shouted Andy.

"Then dress this maid until you die!" commanded the Voice.

At the words, my friend, there was music of a million armies of all sorts of birds, whistling
and whirring over the green earth; and the echoes of their tremendous singing shook all the
trillions of tiny new leaves and made the waves of air to dance--how shall I say?--like the
waves of a sea of music running out forever.

And there, on the grass, sure enough, was a little naked baby girl just able to stand.

Very quiet, she was, and she looked up at Andy with eyes of a fairy blue--as if they'd been
colored by that very same fairy that goes about with a brush coloring all the violets we ever
see. (The ones we never see, you know, are never colored.)

"We-e-ell!" cried Andy, puckering up his lips and squinting up his eye-lids. "And who are you?"

"I'm early Summer," she lisped. "And I'm in a dreadful hurry. I'd like some lemon-colored silk--for
a mantle, you know?--And some apple-green tassels for my hair. And please do be quick about
it. I'm due, you see. So I'll be ever so much obliged if you'll only hurry."

Andy whistled ruefully. "Now, that would take some weaving, miss." He hesitated. "I don't think
I'm that skillful."

The little goddess looked hurriedly away over her shoulder as if she were about to depart.

"And then," Andy continued, "I have no loom up here; and no warp; and no filling. Nothing at
all to work with, you see. I--"

But while he was stumbling about with his excuses, he saw the little one actually fading away
before his eyes; and a pain most bitter caught at his heart, as if he were losing all his life.
So he cried out:

"But I'll try miss. Give me a little time, miss. Oh, please, my wee bairn. I have an old handloom
of my grandfather's; and I can go and hurry and fetch all the stuff up here somehow and I'll
work as fast as I can. Indeed, I'll try my best."

Whereat, you see, the babe came back to him, smiling as sweetly as early Summer ever smiled.
"There really isn't such an awful hurry," she said. "We can always have Weather, you know,
and hold these things back a bit."

That was the beginning of it.

Andy was about twenty-eight years old then, and he really had an awful time of it at first
trying to work out by hand the wonderful stuffs and colors. There was the fern-design, spangled
with Sweet William, for instance. It was only to be the edging on a shawl for her, but he spent
three days and two nights on it; and then she asked him to make it over with jack-in-the-pulpit
inset, because she was sure to grow tired very soon of Sweet William; then she changed her
mind about jack-in-the-pulpit and decided on wintergreen berries. This is just a sample of
one teeny bit of what she demanded. And Andy was very awkward; so naturally he began complaining
of his shuttles being too clumsy for such fine work and the cobwebby filling getting tangled
up in his thumbs and after a bit of chewing his nails in despair he swore the thing never could
be done by hand.

No sooner had he got that out, than he heard the Voice roar loud like an emperor's voice and say:

"The Big-'W' Work you love to do must be done by hand. It can't be done any other way. That
is why you were given thumbs, when the other beasts got none."

So Andy found it was no use quarreling with the tools. He looked at his hands, holding them
up before him, and he thought: "Well, the Voice is right. My hands wouldn't be any good without
my thumbs. I have hands and thumbs both and surely they were given me for the reason the Voice
mentions. At any rate, I know no better."

That made Andy set to work all the harder, for the idea of Thumb-and-Craft was new to him;
and that made his craft very interesting to him, so that he became determined to stick to it
until he got the beauty out of it. (All the same, it was a frightfully backward Summer that
year; and nobody--except Andy--thought very well of her.)

He found indeed that he would have to work as fast as his fingers could go. For the little
Summer grew big and bigger in an amazingly short time; and she kept throwing things away as
fast as she put them on just as the Voice had foretold.

Her days, though, went happily along, all full of sweet smells out of cups and umbels of flowers
and from the liquor of the leaves as they steeped in the hot sun; and Andy himself felt quite
happy (when he wasn't terribly interested in his Work, and then he paid attention to nothing
at all save what was between his thumb and forefinger). But while he worked and the Summer
danced or dozed and grew before him, he noticed something he had never noticed until then--As
the Summer grew older, she kept asking him for darker blues. While she was little she had liked
light greens, but week by week as time went on she insisted more and more that he put in plenty
of blue.

"Bluer and bluer," muttered Andy, and a wee shot of pain hit his heart. "Yes, it's bluer and
bluer, all right, I know. And finally some day 'twill all be steel-blue everywhere--in the
snow-drifts and in the skies--and neither the lass nor I will be here then."

Well may you believe that the departing of that first Summer was a sad matter to him. He had
done his best, you see, and a whole new world of trying had been thrown open to him. And really
he was beginning to get the knack of that kind of weaving. And she was a fine big apple-cheeked
woman now, and--

"Well, if I do say it myself," growled Andy, "she looks very handsome in those dresses; and
for the first time in my life I take a Pride in my Work."

But in spite of all that the Voice came, you must know, and told him this little dream-girl
must die, and there would be another, a different little girl next year; and all the weaving
must be gone through with again.

"Shall I be weaving this lass her shroud?" asked Andy of the Voice.

But the Voice did not answer him.

When Andy told all this to her, his first Summer cried for a whole week in amongst the trees
and over the pastures and meadows--

And then one morning, she was no longer there.

Andy sat in the doorway of the cabin and stared across the hills. He saw pine trees, ever green,
and he made up his mind she had not died but had gone into one of them so as to live forever.
And then he fell to thinking how there were so many millions of pine trees, and he guessed
to himself how each of the millions of Summers we have had must have gone into one of those
trees so as never to die but to be always of the Green Folk, ever green. Well, he rocked back
and forth keening soft to himself, when he happened to hear the Voice again and the Voice said:

"You must see by now, Andy, it's just as I told you. You've no money now, have you? You have
spent it all, buying stuff to weave her garments from. And she has worn the garments and has
thrown them away; so there is nothing left. Nothing left except the joy of good work well done,
and the feeling that God has really whispered in your ear. Now you'll have to go back down
to Glastonbury and the work with-the-little-'w.' You'll have to stay there through the winter,
Andy, and save your pay. But when the time comes again, I'll call you."

So Andy put a padlock on the old log cabin where his loom was set up and went back down to
the mill-town. And being as he was a clever man, he was put back on his job right away. And
the gray mists of winter packed down on the gray town and on the little gray people in the
town. And Andy worked at his machine.

The next spring he got the call, just as the Voice had said he would. He drew his pay and,
now that he knew a bit of what was required of him, he laid in a fair supply of what he should
need. Then he was off into the hills. And one day there came the birds riding up on the winds
like cavaliers with feathers dancing about; and when they began their keen bugling it pierced
here and there and everywhere and made the walls of Winter to tumble down the same as Jericho's
did. And sure enough, there a new babe teetered on her toes in the midst of the grass. Naked
as a flower she was, and she smiled up at him.

So he wove for her with the lightest heart you can ever imagine. But, afterward, she went away
in tears, the same as the other had done and as all Summers do; and Andy picked out a new pine
tree and guessed she was keeping it green.

"Shall I be weaving this lass her shroud?" he had asked again. But again the Voice had made
no answer.

So, naturally, the Summers came and came; and Andy wove and Worked and clad them. In time he
became, as you may well believe, the finest hand-weaver (of Summer things, I mean) that was
on earth in his day. He became so good at his hand-work that in winter, at the mill, he was
actually clumsy at his machine! So it was just 'tother way round, as you see, from what it
was when he started. He was so clumsy then with his hands that he thought everything had to
be done by machine you remember. But now he could outdo with his mortal hands anything that
was ever done by machine.

And another queer thing happened to him; he got so he had a totally different idea of what
work was. For his mates down in Glastonbury told him, "You work only during the winter, don't you?"

Whereas, he found himself answering: "Why, no. 'Tis just the other way around. I can work only
during the summer. I can't work at all during the winter. I'm dead all winter long--like all
the Green Things." Then his comrades spoke wildly of him and touched their heads. They had
learned the American idea, you see. Andy was crazy and he was lazy; and he didn't know when
he had a good job; and there was no money in loafing. And all that sort of thing.

Now, I could keep you here all night telling you what all went on with Summer after Summer,
and Summer after Summer, and Summer after Summer; until Andy grew old and wrinkled and ugly
and very sweet in his mind and cleverer and defter and finer in his finger-weaving. But the
main carry of it all is just as I've been telling you--So we have him coming along, year after
year, loving his little lasses and his blues and greens and yellows and the way he could put
'em together and make Beauty.

That was the way he lived. And now this is the way he died.

Always, I think I told you, Andy asked the question: "And shall I be weaving this lass a shroud?"

And never had the Voice answered him.

Well, came one Summer that lived a long, long time and ran and tried to hide in far places
when told she had to die; and to Andy it seemed he loved that Summer so fond and fair, more
than any and all. Andy was sixty-eight then and for full forty years had done his winter stint
and his Big 'W' Work in the hills. But he did not feel tired that year. No; he simply felt
odd-like, as if it might be something unforeseen was going to happen to him and it would not
tell its name to him first. (You know how you feel that way sometimes--as if wings were flying
over your head and you think you see their shadows on the grass; but you look up and see no
wings at all in the sky. Then you say: "Isn't the sky a queer color to-day?" and you feel uneasy.)

So it came about that while that Summer lingered and hid and ran, Andy again asked the old,
old question he had always asked and to which he had never received an answer:

"Shall I be weaving this lass her shroud?"

And, lo and behold, the Voice, very soft and full of kindness, said: "If 'twill please you,
you might as well, Andy. Your Work is done. But--a question first. Have you ever once regretted
the labor and the loss I have put upon you?"

Andy said to himself, "I am about to die." In a loud, clear tone though he answered: "Not once,
O Voice! The joy I felt, the triumph I felt as I handed her a bit of master-work and she flung
it to the idle winds was in itself enough. As I look back at it, there has been no labor and
there has been no loss. I have heard God's whisper in my ears, and that will be sufficient
for me until the end of eternity."

So the Voice said: "You know all there is to know. Weave the shroud."

Andy took steel-blue floss and at right angles he shot it with white; and he made it so thin
and fine that a million miles of it would not weigh a hundred pounds. And he said to himself,
"I will weave a hundred pounds of it; and I'll wrap her in it myself, all softly, around and
around, like as if she was a dead bride of the Green Folk's king, I will."

So Andy set to work, grim as Death himself. He bit his lip hard, and a queer shine came into
his eyes; and he worked day and night, fast and faster, eating nothing and sleeping not at
all--smoking away like a demon on his pipe and weaving miles and miles to his heart's desire.

"It shall be my master-bit," he told himself.

He never even looked out the window, so close was he on the heel of his work. "It shall be
my master-bit," he kept saying to himself. The light got poorer and dimmer and there was a
shorter lasting of it. Less light meant longer work; so it was thirty days and thirty nights
before he got it anywhere near finished. No, it wasn't fully done. How could it be? The Summer
Fellows never finished anything complete, you know.

But 'twas beautiful, just the same, all shimmering cold blue, and white like apple blossoms
that have blanched and are ready to fall. And there was mile upon mile of it. It was wondrously
fine, finer than anything Andy had done until then. It was really his master-bit, as he had
said it would be. And he would have kept on and woven more, but--

He looked of a sudden out his window, one morning, in the gray, and he could not see that Summer
anywhere!

He went to the door and shaded his eyes with his hands and peered over miles and miles of hills;
and far down one gusset of valley he saw her dull-green robes a-trailing. He cried for joy.
(You know--when you have lost a thing that you loved and found it again.)

Famished and weak he was, but he gathered the miles and pounds of that shroud in his arms and
started down the roads and over the hills after her, calling till his heart would break and
his voice went dry:

"Wait for me, lass. I've woven your shroud! Wait for me, lass. I'm coming! I've your beautiful,
downy shroud here--"

And he would stumble along, so weak the sweat broke out on him and he scarce could lift a leg.
But with the shroud over his arm, he went on and on and on as best he could; his long, ragged
gray hair a-flying and a wild glare in his eyes and those eyes fast fixed on the Summer as
she slipped away.

'Twas in this fashion he came to the summit of a foothill and could go no further. The cold
had smitten to his bones, though the sweat still stood on his skin. He dropped down on the
ground and slept a bit--but not sound asleep, and in his sleep he had awful dreams which made
him wake.

He started up, crying weakly: "I have your shroud, lass. Wait for me!"

And then he noticed--It was snowing!

The soft white flakes he saw, dropping upon the earth like light years, my boy, years that
themselves will be dropping and dropping forever and ever by tens of hundreds of thousands
of millions and covering everything, all we do, all we are or were, far and wide with a white
sameness--a big mound here where a Hero Worked, a flatness there where a zero worked--but all
white, and all the same.

Andy put his hand to his forehead as if in a dream, and then--let me see; what did he do?--he
wrung his hands and he cried out:

"Look yonder, look yonder! Oh, now I see why the Voice never answered me when I asked about
the shroud! Now I see. I see my presumption, and I understand the silence--'tis God Himself
who weaves the shroud for every Summer. Look yonder at the snowflakes a-coming down! I can
see God's shuttle weaving in and out amongst them. In and out amongst the years of snowflakes
I can see God's hand, pushing the shuttle and weaving the shroud that will wrap the Summers
and all and all--And I was so bold with my poor little shroud here, my master-bit of weaving--"

And he broke down and began sobbing and threw himself face down upon the ground, wiping away
at his tears with the wonderful weft he had made.

Then the great Voice came out of the wind and the darkening sky, sturdy as a great captain's,
and shouted aloud through the thick of the flakes:

"Pray, but regret not, Andy. You did the Work of your Hand!"

So he died in the snow on the top of that hill, the contented artist of a perished dream, the
master worker in a fabric that immediately dissolved. What he had told the Voice was true;
the triumph he felt as he handed over to the Summer a bit of his best and she threw it away
to the drifting winds like a bit of dying music--the joy he felt then was enough to last him
till eternity ended. He had heard God's whisper in his ear; and he never would have heard it
if he had stayed in the mill. He had done what God wanted him to do, a beautiful thing as beautifully
as he knew how--and he felt at last that the beauty of it was somehow not lost at all.

III

Abruptly the old man left and went out into the snowy night. For there were tears in his eyes.

IV

The poker game was finished. Pigalle sauntered slowly over to my table.

"You know Handy?" he asked, slowly, in his broken English.

"Who's that?"

"The hole man that ees just go out. 'Is name ees Handy Gor-don." He rolled his great expressive
eyes. "'E's cra-zee man. Also wot you call loafer: 'e do not work wen 'e wish not to. But,
mon Dieu, 'ow 'e can play, that man!" He made a suave, swelling gesture with his hands and
arms and heaved up his great bulk gracefully. "'Ow 'e can play! 'Ow 'e can play!"

"He is Andy Gordon!" I exclaimed. "What is he? A weaver?"

"Comment?"

"A weaver? Makes cloth--like this?" I held up the corner of the tablespread.

"Corpo, no!" ejaculated the astonished Pigalle. "Handy ees violinist-a."

HEART OF YOUTH[12]

BY WALTER J. MUILENBURG

From The Midland

[12] Copyright, 1915, by John T. Frederick. Copyright, 1916, by Walter
     J. Muilenburg.

The boy on the cultivator straightened as the horses walked from the soft, spongy ground of
the cornfield to the firmer turf at the side of the road. He spoke sharply to the plodding
team and turned the cultivator around, lowering the blades for another row. Then, when the
horses had fallen into a slow walk, he slouched down, and with bent head watched the hills
of young corn pass beneath him.

He could not have been more than sixteen or seventeen, for his eager eyes looked out from under
soft lashes, and his face showed the smooth, healthy tan of a boy. His brown hands were so
small that he could barely keep a firm grasp on the heavy levers. When he raised the blades,
his fingers became streaked with red and the corners of his mouth drew back and grew hard with
concentrated effort. Occasionally he tugged at the reins knotted about his shoulders, but,
except for his low, abrupt commands to the horses, he was silent. At the end of the row he
raised the shovels, got off the cultivator stiffly, and stretched himself out in the new spring
grass of a little rise by the roadside.

All around him the world was full of soft color and light. Close by, in the sun the corn-field
was a sea of shimmering green, while the more distant fields of grain were dark against the
light ash of plowed land. Above, the sun shone slanting from the blue of an early June sky.
The air, clean and clear, was already pervaded with the drowsy lassitude of noon.

The boy looked listlessly out over the long rows of corn still to be cultivated. Near at hand
the young stalks seemed strong enough to win in their struggle toward the sun, but the distant
corn lay like a filmy shadow of green on the black soil. Behind the cultivator, a flock of
blackbirds fed in the fresh-turned earth. The boy watched them with half-shut eyes. When one
of the birds had fed, it would hop upon a lump of wet, black earth, and being satisfied that
it could eat no more, would skim in rapid, undulating flight to the row of willows in the next
pasture. On a fence-post, a meadow-lark filled the silence with a liquid flow of music. As
it laid back its head in an abandon of joy, the boy noticed how the sun accentuated the vivid
splash of black on its yellow throat.

The meadow-lark flew away. The boy got up and climbed listlessly into the cultivator seat.
The tugs straightened and the horses walked again into the corn. One of the team, however,
a heavy, powerful bay, lagged continually, at times almost stopping.

The cultivator slid sidewise, and the blades tore the corn out by the roots. The boy jerked
the reins, slapping them over the horse's back. "Get along there, Jim!" he called. Jim pulled
evenly for a moment, then lagged again. In sudden violence of anger, the boy pulled cruelly
at the horse's mouth, cursing in low, abrupt sentences. The horse stopped, the blades slipped,
again tearing up a hill of corn. From sheer rage the boy was silent, then he jumped from the
cultivator, and gathering the slack of the reins, hit the horse about the head with all his
might. His face was dry and white, his eyes blazing. As he continued to strike the horse, he
found expression.

"You damn, lazy brute, you! I'll show you who's running this job--you or me!" His words came
sharply, in gasps, between blows. Then he cursed again; cursed the work and the horse. Fine
lines of fatigue showed in his face. At last he stopped. A slight color had come to his cheeks.
For a moment he watched the horse, which stood with muscles moving in quivering ripples of
pain and fear; then he walked soberly back and climbed upon the cultivator seat. The horses
moved on. They walked evenly now, starting at any movement of the boy, who stared steadily
at the swiftly moving ground, two red spots still burning through the tan of his cheeks.

They went once across the field. On the return, the boy stopped impetuously by the road and
jumping down from the seat walked to the horse he had beaten. The horse quivered and shied
toward its mate. The boy stroked its neck.

"Whoa, Jim! Whoa, boy!" he repeated.

He hesitated a moment, then went across the road to the meadow and picked an armful of young
tufts of clover. He fed it to the horses, a handful at a time. They ate eagerly, all trace
of fear gone as they reached out their necks for the young grass. Over the boy's face passed
a conflict of expressions. At one time the cheeks were soft, and a boyish look lay in his eyes.
Then came a strange, dry expression, as of age, which formed tense lines about his mouth; but
as he climbed up to the seat of the cultivator, the softer expression remained.

The horses were beginning to draw at the tugs when the boy heard a horse galloping on the road
behind him. He looked back. One of the neighbor boys, Bill Symonds, was riding furiously down
the hill. The boy turned quickly about in the seat as if he had not seen Bill and tried to
hurry the horses. What did Bill want, anyway? It was like him to blunder along when he wasn't
wanted! His big, greasy face shaded by the long hair falling unkempt over his forehead had
always made the boy dislike Bill. He tightened the reins.

"Hey, Frank, wait a minute!" Bill slid awkwardly from the colt's back.

The boy twisted the reins about the levers and turned in the seat.

"How are you, Bill," he answered without animation.

Bill tied the colt, a bay, to the willows.

"Well, what do you think of my new colt?" He came closer and lounged forward against the fence.
"I broke him in myself--all alone, too! Now, that was a job, Lord! You ought t' seen him buckin'
an' standin' on his hind legs!"

They were silent for a moment. Bill amused himself by flinging clods at the colt, which jumped
wildly each time one struck him, his body quivering, his eyes white and distended.

After a few clods Bill turned to the boy.

"I guess maybe I'll be leavin' soon."

The boy looked up quickly.

"Yep. I'm goin' off to my brother's ranch in Dakota. I'm gettin' tired of the work here--it's
too hard. It's work, work, work all the time with a little while for eatin' and sleepin'. All
summer you c'n work your head off and then in winter you can lay off for a couple of months
and don't know what to do."

The boy looked out over the fields. Even Bill could go away. The heavy, flabby cheeks, from
which the small eyes peered inquisitively, disgusted the boy. Bill picked up another bit of
turf and threw it so that the colt jumped wildly, pulling the young willows almost to the ground.

The boy turned to Bill, his face flushed.

"Say--if you want to stay around here you got to cut out firing stones at that colt. You'll
never get 'im tame that way--you thick-headed fool!"

Bill stood quiet for a moment. The boy saw an expression of incredulous surprise on Bill's
face. Then it became brick-red. He did not wait for Bill to answer but started the horses.

When he looked back, Bill was riding away over the top of the hill, his body swaying with the
rhythm of the gallop. The boy was glad that Bill was angry. He didn't want people around. And
besides, why did Bill have a chance to go away? His eyes grew hot.

The morning passed slowly. When finally the shadow of the cottonwood tree at the corner of
the pasture pointed directly to the north, the boy unhitched, cleaned the cultivator shovels
carefully with a handful of grass and placed them upon the hooks. With the reins about his
back, he trudged up the long slope of the hill, through the warm dust, swinging his water-pail
in cadence with his steps. They reached the top of the hill. The house was only a short distance
from the road. He could see his father carrying a basket of wood to the house. He hoped that
his father would not come and help him unharness the horses. He wanted to be alone; he dreaded
facing their conversation at the dinner-table. His eyes grew hot again. Everything was so old
to him! He always came home just at dinner time, his father always worked about the barn, finishing
work a little before so that he might help unharness the horses. And dinner was always ready
when they came in the house. The boy kicked a clod viciously.

At the water trough he stopped and the thirsty horses drank deeply. His father came out of
the barn, a pitchfork in his hand, and sat down on the edge of the trough, fanning himself
with his hat. The boy noticed that his father seemed more tired than usual. His brown hair
was already mixed with gray and was damp where the hat had rested. His eyes seemed less cheerful
than usual, and his face less red.

When the horses raised their heads from the trough, the boy led them to their stalls. His father
followed him.

"How was cultivatin', Frank?" he asked as he stepped into the barn.

"Oh, it wasn't bad."

"The ground was pretty hard, wasn't it?"

"Not very."

In silence they unharnessed the horses, which buried their heads in the newly-cut hay and blew
the fragrant, spicy dust from their nostrils. As the boy unloosed the collar of his horse,
it slipped and fell upon his foot. His face writhed in a flash of temper and he began cursing
in a low tone, heavily and deliberately. Then he picked up the collar and struck the horse.
Under lowered eyelashes he saw his father stand in the doorway, his face white with repressed
anger. The boy stopped suddenly. He had never seen his father look like that before. He heard
him turn in the doorway.

The horses fed, they walked through the hot, deserted farm-yard to the house. As they entered
the shaded living-room, his mother came from the kitchen, humming a bit of tune. Her eyes lit
up when she saw them. She talked cheerfully as she worked. The boy said nothing. He seemed
to be looking out of the open window into the orchard; instead, through his lowered eyelashes,
he followed his mother's movements about the room as she set the small table for three, still
humming as she worked. The boy saw that she stopped often to cough. This was not unusual, but
once the cough became so strong that it left her face colorless. Uneasily sympathetic, he noted
that after this she did not hum again. Whenever she looked his way, the boy turned his head,
not so soon but that he could see and feel the half-fearful appeal that darkened her eyes.

After the glasses had been filled, the three drew up to the table. The dinner was eaten in
silence. The eyes of the boy constantly returned to his mother's face. Somehow she seemed different
to-day. He wished that she didn't wear that black dress, it made her face look too white and
her eyes too large and bright. He ate rapidly. Why didn't his father and mother talk? They
used to tease him about one of the neighbor girls. But they had not for a long time now. He
wondered why. Why didn't they say something? It was too still.

As soon as he had finished his meal, he drank the water left in his glass and pushed back his
chair. His mother looked quickly at his father. The boy watched them closely and uneasily.
Both seemed to be shrinking from something. His father carefully folded and unfolded his newspaper.
Then he laid it beside his plate and cleared his throat. He turned in his chair.

"Wait a minute, Frank," he spoke with hesitation.

The boy turned, looked at his father a moment, and then sat down.

"I don't think we'll cultivate this afternoon, Frank," his father commenced slowly.

"Why--" The boy started to speak but stopped. He saw the frightened grayness return to his
mother's face. His father, too, seemed restless. He crossed and recrossed his knees nervously.

"Well, Frank," he continued, "it's this way. Your Ma ain't been feelin' well for quite a while
and we rode over to the doctor's this morning to see what was the matter."

His mother had gone back of his chair. He could feel her hand on his shoulders. He turned half-round,
his hands grasping the chair tightly.

"You mustn't be scared, Frank--the doctor said it wasn't so very bad."

He could feel her twining his hair about her fingers.

He turned, faced his mother silently, half afraid, as though some grim barrier stood between
them. He saw fine lines about her gray eyes, and their color seemed heavy and faded. The boy
sat staring at his mother with an intensity that made a color come to her cheeks, but he was
not looking at her any more. Instead, he was wondering fiercely why he had never noticed the
gray in her hair or the lines in her face, or the cough. The cough--surely he might have noticed
that. His body lay limp against the back of the chair.

"The doctor said that Ma was pretty sick," his father was speaking on, his voice devoid of
life or feeling. "But he said that she 'ud be all right if she went some place where the air
was drier."

"What did he say it was?" he asked in a strained voice.

"It's her lungs, he says."

They were silent after this. He was looking out of the window at a far-away straw-stack which
lay a mass of dull gold in the sombre setting of plowed land.

His mother still stood behind his chair. In the heavy silence of the room he could hear her
uneven breathing. He heard his father turn in his chair.

"Well, Mother's got to go west--we might all of us go," he spoke with an attempt at cheerfulness.
"Maybe we can work a small farm out there."

"What will we do with the farm here?" As she spoke the boy felt his mother's hand press more
heavily on his shoulder. He turned from the window and caught his father's eyes looking at
him. He saw his face flush.

"I guess we got to sell it. I can get a fair price. Help is scarce and rent's low since the
dry years. We can't afford to rent it."

Again the boy caught his father's glance resting hopefully on him.

"But we can't sell the old place; we have worked it too long."

The boy was uneasily conscious of the break in his mother's voice. He sat up, his body stiffened.
Did they expect him to stay on the farm? He wouldn't--he could not do that! They had no right
to ask this of him. But he remembered the quick hope in his father's eyes.

He got up from his chair, walked past his mother without looking at her, picked up his hat
and went outside, closing the screen-door noiselessly behind him.

The earth slept warm in the drowsiness of early afternoon. The freshness of the morning had
passed and a languorous mist had fallen. The boy looked out to where earth and sky met in a
haze of indefinable color. What a wonderful earth was beyond! He turned and walked heavily
away. They hadn't any right to expect that!

Half-unconsciously he went toward the grove north of the house where he had played when he
was a little boy. The neighbor boys would collect in the grove on a quiet summer afternoon,
dressed as Indians, and in heavy seriousness would plan a desperate attack on the little white
house with its green trimmings. What happy times they used to have! But he wasn't a boy any
more, he had grown up; still he felt an expectant eagerness as he entered the cool shade of
the trees.

He followed a path, indistinct now in the rank growth of gooseberry bushes, until he reached
his destination. A tree, broken off a couple of feet from the ground, had left a high stump
with some ragged splinters, serving as the back of a natural chair.

The boy sat for a while, leaning back with lowered eyelashes. The dim spaces of the grove brought
old memories. As he brooded there, relaxed, the sunlight coming in broken fragments through
the oak leaves softened his face into almost that of a child.

Suddenly he straightened in desperate rebellion. Why did things have to happen so? He didn't
want to grow older--he would rather be a boy. If he were, his father and mother would not expect
him to stay on the farm. With his reflections came the picture of his mother, her dark eyes
shining unnaturally out of the rigid paleness of her face. Then the black dress with its long
folds--it was horrible. The boy's thoughts blurred into a confusion of sharp emotions.

As he lay back again, with lowered eyelids, he was vaguely conscious of the life about him.
Robins hopped from branch to branch, singing and chirping. A blue-jay, in a cracked crescendo,
was attacking the established order of things among birds. A bee droned idly past. Occasionally
all sounds ceased, and silence, deep and impenetrable, seemed to close in. After a moment,
the confused murmur of the woods began again.

In the underbrush near him, the boy became aware of fluttering noise. At first he could see
nothing; then he saw a snake--a blue racer--writhing along the ground, while above it, making
queer little noises of distress, hovered a brown wood-thrush. He stiffened. His flesh always
crawled at the sight of a snake! Yet, leaning forward, he watched intently. The thrush, its
body a blur of brown feathers, rose and fell in continuous attack. Then he saw the reason.
A few yards from the tree-stump lay a nest, hidden in a clump of gooseberry bushes. Above the
rim showed a circle of hungry gaping beaks. The snake was crawling steadily toward the nest.

It was almost there. The thrush became wild in fear for its young. Again and again its body
flashed in silent deadly attack. The snake, rearing its head from the ground, its jaws wide,
struck back at the fluttering terror above it.

The snake reached the nest. It writhed over the edge. With a quick, sharp note the bird flung
itself upon its enemy. A blur of brown feathers and a glimpse of a twisting, bluish body were
all that the boy could see. A moment, and the snake writhed out from the nest. The thrush lay
on the ground, blood crimsoning the speckled white of its breast. Its wings fluttered slightly,
then the body was still.

The boy leaned back against the trunk and closed his eyes. He released his breath sharply.
His throat contracted so that he almost choked. He had always had a horror of seeing a creature
maimed or killed. He felt it doubly now, and he might have helped the bird,--no one else could.
Yet it was only a bird; such things happened continually--they had to be: but he could not
forget the flutterings of the dying thrush. Then, suddenly, he remembered his mother.

After a long time, he opened his eyes. The trees, the sky,--all the country was asleep; the
absolute tranquillity of space lay lightly in the air and bathed the earth with a drowsy light.
And the boy yielded himself to the silence. His eyes mirrored the mystic, reflective mood of
the afternoon.

In the west, ragged clouds massed together and spread over the sky, their long streamers, black
where they reached the sun, darkening the earth with the gray misty twilight of the storm.
Then a cool breeze sprang up, the clouds receded, and the sun shone out.

The boy became conscious that it was late and jumped down from his seat. He felt strangely
cheerful. The confused emotions which had raged in him all the afternoon had spent themselves,
and he whistled as he walked on between the trees. When he turned into the lane near the house,
he could see, in the west, a few black masses of cloud, vivid against the crimson flame of
the sky--wandering spirits in an infinity of lonely space.

At the windmill he stopped and looked toward the house. The kitchen was lighted; the rest of
the house was dark and shadowy. A thin spiral of smoke twisted up until it became lost in the
gray light. How home-like it all was! The boy walked quickly toward the house, took the milk
pails from the hooks on the porch and went into the barn. The horses did not raise their heads
from the grain as he entered. The sound of their crunching, the sweet smell of the hay, seemed
part of the pervading rest and content about him. His father came up from the gloom of the
barn, carrying a pail of milk. He glanced at the boy.

"I thought I'd do the chores to-night, son. You don't get a vacation very often. You ought
to rest."

"Oh!" The boy felt sudden embarrassment. He had a queer pity for his father. He almost wished
that he could have done the chores himself.

It was dark as they walked slowly to the house. In the dusk of the east, the moon appeared
red on the rim of the horizon. Everything seemed asleep, yet infinite life still vibrated through
its sleep. Out of the oak-grove sounded the hopeless lament of the turtle-dove, voicing the
mystery and sadness of the night. From the farm to the north came the faint cry of someone
calling the cows, "Co-o, boss; co-o, boss!" A moment, the boy felt as though it were the wonder
and music of the horizon that called. Then he smiled at the idea.

His father stopped on the porch. The boy knew what his father was thinking, knew with a wave
of pity and understanding. It seemed to him there, in the darkness, that suddenly he was able
to comprehend the shadows which he had not known before in his boyish dream of life.

He took off his hat. The night wind was cool. How intense the night was! Nature seemed a living
and beautiful power, ever-veiled but always near. For a moment his father rested his hand upon
the boy's shoulder. The boy moved closer to him.

THE END OF THE PATH[13]

BY NEWBOLD NOYES

From Every Week

[13] Copyright, 1915, by Every Week Corporation. Copyright, 1916, by
     Newbold Noyes.

Set far back in the hills that have thrown their wall of misty purple about the laughing blue
of Lake Como, on a sheer cliff three thousand feet above the lake, stands a little weather-stained
church. Beneath it lie the two villages of Cadenabbia and Menaggio; behind and up are rank
on rank of shadowy mountains, sharply outlined against the sky,--the foothills leading back
to the giant Alps.

The last tiny cream-colored house of the villages stands a full two miles this side of the
tortuous path that winds up the face of the chrome-colored cliff. Once a year, in a creeping
procession of black and white, the natives make a pilgrimage to the little church to pray for
rain in the dry season. Otherwise it is rarely visited.

Blagden climbed slowly up the narrow path that stretched like a clean white ribbon from the
little group of pastel-colored houses by the water. There was not a breath of wind, not a rustle
in the gray-green olive trees that shimmered silver in the sunlight. Little lizards, sunning
themselves on warm flat stones, watched him with brilliant eyes, and darted away to safety
as he moved. The shadows of the cypress trees barred the white path like rungs of a ladder.
And Blagden, drinking deep of the beauty of it all, climbed upward.

When he opened the low door of the little chapel the cold of the darkness within was as another
barrier. He stepped inside, his footsteps echoing heavily through the shadows, though he walked
on tiptoe. After the brilliant sunlight outside he could make out but little of the interior
at first. At the far end four candles were burning, and he made his way toward them across
the worn floor.

In a cheap, tarnished frame of gilt, above the four flickering pencils of light, hung a picture
of the Virgin. Blagden stared at it in amazement. It had evidently been painted by a master
hand. Blagden was no artist; but the face told him that. It was drawn with wonderful appreciation
of the woman's sweetness. Perhaps the eyes were what was most wonderful,--pitiful, trusting,
a little sad perhaps.

The life-sized figure, draped in smoke-colored blue, blended softly with the dusky shadows,
and the flickering candlelight lent a witchery to blurred outlines that half deceived him,--at
moments the picture seemed alive. She was smiling a little wistful smile.

And the canvas over the heart of the Virgin was cut in a long, clean stroke--and opened in
a disfiguring gash. Beneath it, on a little stand, lay a slim-bladed, vicious knife, covered
with dust.

Blagden wonderingly stooped to pick it up--and a voice spoke out of the darkness behind him.

"I would not touch it, Signor," it said, and Blagden wheeled guiltily.

A man was standing in the shadow, almost at his elbow.

He was old, the oldest man Blagden had ever seen, and he wore the long brown gown of a monk.
His face was like a withered leaf, lined and yellow, and his hair was silver white.

Only the small, saurian eyes held Blagden with their strange brilliance. The rest of his face
was like a death mask.

"Why not?" said Blagden.

The monk stepped forward into the dim light, crossing himself as he passed the picture. He
looked hesitatingly at the younger man before him, searching his face with his wonderfully
piercing eyes. He seemed to find there what he was searching for, and when he spoke Blagden
wondered at the gentleness of his voice.

"There is a story. Would the Signor care to hear?"

Blagden nodded, and the two moved back in the shadows a short distance to the front line of
little low chairs. Before them, over the dancing light of the four candles, stood the mutilated
picture of Mary, beneath it the dust-covered dagger.

And then the withered monk began speaking, and Blagden listened, looking up at the picture.

"It all happened a great many years ago," said the old man; "but I am old, so I remember.

"Rosa was the girl's name. She lived with her father and mother in a little house above Menaggio.
And every day in the warm sunlight of the open fields she sang as she watched the goats for
the old people, and her voice was like cool water laughing in the shadows of a little brook.

"She was always singing, little Rosa; for she was young, and the sun had never stopped shining
for her. People used to call her beautiful.

"And there was Giovanni. Each morning he would pass her home where the yellow roses with the
pink hearts grew so sweetly, and always she would blow him a kiss from the little window.

"Then Giovanni would toil with all the strength of his youth, and he too would sing while he
toiled; for was it not all for her?

"Often Rosa's goats would stray toward Giovanni's vineyard as dusk came, and they would drive
them home together, always laughing, always singing, hand in hand, as the sun slipped golden
over the top of the hills across the lake. Sometimes they would walk together in the afterglow,
and Giovanni would weave a crown of the little flowers that grew about them, and his princess
would wear it, laughing happily.

"They were like two children, Signor. There were nights spent together on the lake, when he
told her of his dreams, while the gentlest of winds stirred her curls against his brown cheek,
and the moon's wake stretched like a golden pathway from shore to shore.

"They were to be married when the grapes were picked, people used to whisper.

"And then one day a new force came into the girl's life. The Church, Signor!

"No one understands when or why this comes to a young girl, I think. She was torn with the
idea that she should join her church, go into the little nunnery across the lake, and leave
the sunshine.

"She did not want to go, and it was a strange yet a beautiful thing. This young, beautiful
girl who seemed so much a part of the sunshine and the flowers was to close the door of the
Church upon it all!

"You are thinking it was strange, Signor.

"Giovanni was frantic--you can understand.

"He had dreamed so happily of that which was to be, that now to have the cup snatched from
his lips was torture. He took her little sun-kissed hands in his and begged on his knees with
tears streaming down his cheeks. And Rosa wept also--but could not answer as he begged. I think
she loved the boy, Signor. Yet there is something stronger than the love of a boy and a girl.

"She asked for one more night in which to decide. She would come up here to this little church
and pray for Mary to guide her. He kissed her cold lips and came away.

"He was a boy, and he never doubted but that she would choose his strong young arms.

"The girl came here. All night she knelt on the rough stone floor, praying and--weeping; for
she loved him. And the Virgin above the four candles looked down with the great, wistful eyes
you see--and bound the girl's soul faster and faster to her own.

"And when morning came she entered the white walls across the lake without seeing her lover again.

"Giovanni went mad, I think, when they told him. He screamed out his hate for the world and
his God, and rushed up the little white path to where we are sitting now, Signor.

"Once here, he drew the dagger you see beneath the Virgin and stabbed with an oath on his lips.
That is why I did not let you touch it."

Blagden nodded, and the old monk was silent for a moment before he went on.

"Giovanni disappeared for two days. When he came back his face was that of a madman still.
He was met by a white funeral winding up the little path. You understand, Signor,--a virgin's
funeral. Giovanni was hurrying blindly past when they stopped him.

"There was no reproach spoken for what he had done, no bitterness; only a kind of awe--and pity.

"Rosa had died on her knees in the nunnery at the exact time he stabbed yonder picture. And
they told him months afterward that her face was strangely like that of the Virgin when they
found her,--beautiful and pleading and sad. There was no given cause for her death--there are
things we cannot understand. She was praying for strength, the sisters said."

The monk ceased speaking, and for a long moment they sat silent, Blagden and the withered,
white-haired man, staring mutely up at the beautiful face above them. It was Blagden who broke
the silence.

"What do you think happened?" he asked slowly.

"I do not know," said the monk.

There was another pause, then Blagden spoke again.

"Anyway," he said, brushing his hand across his eyes, "she paid in part the debt Giovanni owed
his God."

"Yes?" said the monk softly. "I wonder, Signor! For I am Giovanni."

THE WHALE AND THE GRASSHOPPER[14]

BY SEUMAS O'BRIEN

From The Illustrated Sunday Magazine

[14] Copyright, 1915, by The Illustrated Sunday Magazine. Copyright,
     1916, by Seumas O'Brien.

When Standish McNeill started talking to his friend Felix O'Dowd as they walked at a leisurely
pace towards the town of Castlegregory on a June morning, what he said was: "The world is a
wonderful place when you come to think about it, an' Ireland is a wonderful place an' so is
America, an' though there are lots of places like each other there's no place like Ballysantamalo.
When there's not sunshine there, there's moonshine an' the handsomest women in the world live
there, an' nowhere else except in Ireland or the churchyards could you find such decent people."

"Decency," said Felix, "when you're poor is extravagance, and bad example when you're rich."

"And why?" said Standish.

"Well," said Felix, "because the poor imitate the rich an' the rich give to the poor an' when
the poor give to each other they have nothing of their own."

"That's communism you're talking," said Standish. "an' that always comes from education an'
enlightenment. Sure if the poor weren't dacent they'd be rich an' if the rich were dacent they'd
be poor an' if everyone had a conscience they'd be less millionaires."

"'Tis a poor bird that can't pick for himself."

"But suppose a bird had a broken wing an' couldn't fly to where the pickings were?" said Felix.

"Well, then bring the pickings to him. That would be charity."

"But charity is decency and wisdom is holding your tongue when you don't know what you're talking
about."

"If the people of Ballysantamalo are so decent, how is it that there are so many bachelors
there? Do you think it right to have all the young women worrying their heads off reading trashy
novels an' doin' all sorts of silly things like fixin' their hair in a way that was never intended
by nature an' doin' so for years an' years an' havin' nothin' in the end but the trouble of
it all."

"Well, 'tis hard blamin' the young men because every young lady you meet looks better to you
than the last until you meet the next an' so you go on to another until you're so old that
no one would marry you at all unless you had lots of money, a bad liver, an' a shaky heart."

"An old man without any sense, lots of money, a bad liver, an' a shaky heart can always get
a young lady to marry him," said Felix, "though rheumatics, gout, an' a wooden leg are just
as good in such a case."

"Every bit," said Standish, "but there's nothin' like a weak constitution, a cold climate,
an' a tendency to pneumonia."

"Old men are quare," said Felix.

"They are," said Standish, "an' if they were all only half as wise as they think they are then
they'd be only young fools in the world. I don't wonder a bit at the suffragettes. An' a time
will come when we won't know men from women unless some one tells us so."

"Wisha, 'tis my belief that there will be a great reaction some day, because women will never
be able to stand the strain of doin' what they please without encountering opposition. When
a man falls in love he falls into trouble likewise, an' when a woman isn't in trouble you may
be sure that there's something wrong with her."

"Well," said Standish, "I think we will leave the women where the devil left St. Peter--"

"Where was that?" asked Felix.

"Alone," answered Standish.

"That would be all very fine if they stayed there," said Felix.

"Now," said Standish, "as I was talking of me travels in foreign parts, I want to tell you
about the morning I walked along the beach at Ballysantamalo, an' a warm morning it was too.
So I ses to meself, 'Standish McNeill,' ses I, 'what kind of a fool of a man are you? Why don't
you take a swim for yourself?' So I did take a swim, an' I swam to the rocks where the seals
goes to get their photograph's taken an' while I was havin' a rest for meself I noticed a grasshopper
sittin' a short distance away an' 'pon me word, but he was the most sorrowful lookin' grasshopper
I ever saw before or since. Then all of a sudden a monster whale comes up from the sea and
lies down beside him an' ses: 'Well,' ses he, 'is that you? Who'd ever think of finding you
here. Why, there's nothing strange under the sun but the ways of woman.'

"''Tis me that's here, then,' said the grasshopper. 'Me grandmother died last night an' she
wasn't insured either.'

"'The practice of negligence is the curse of mankind and the root of sorrow,' ses the whale.
'I suppose the poor old soul had her fill of days, an' sure we all must die, an' 'tis cheaper
to be dead than alive at any time. A man never knows that he's dead when he's dead an' he never
knows he's alive until he's married.'

"'You're a great one to expatiate on things you know nothing about, like the barbers and the
cobblers,' said the grasshopper. 'I only want to know if you're coming to the funeral to-morrow?'

"'I'm sorry I can't,' ses the whale. 'Me grandfather is getting married, for the tenth time,
an' as I was in China on the last few occasions I must pay me respects by being present at
to-morrow's festivities,' ses he.

"'I'm sorry you can't come,' ses the grasshopper, 'because you are heartily welcome an' you'd
add prestige to the ceremony besides.'

"'I know that,' ses the whale, 'but America doesn't care much about ceremony.'

"'Who told you that?' ses the grasshopper.

"'Haven't I me eyesight, an' don't I read the newspapers,' ses the whale.

"'You mustn't read the society columns, then,' ses the grasshopper.

"'Wisha, for the love of St. Crispin,' ses the whale 'have they society columns in the American
newspapers?'

"'Indeed they have,' ses the grasshopper, 'and they oftentimes devote a few columns to other
matters when the dressmakers don't be busy.'

"'America is a strange country surely, a wonderful country, not to say a word about the length
and breadth of it. I swam around it twice last week without stoppin,' to try an' reduce me
weight, an' would you believe me that I was tired after the journey, but the change of air
only added to me proportions.'

"'That's too bad,' said the grasshopper.

"'Are you an American?' said the whale.

"'Of course I am,' ses the grasshopper. 'You don't think 'tis the way I'd be born at sea an'
no nationality at all like yourself. I'm proud of me country.'

"'And why, might I ask?'

"'Well don't we produce distinguished Irishmen? Don't we make Americans of the Europeans and
Europeans of the Americans? Think of all the connoisseurs who wouldn't buy a work of art in
their own country when they could go to Europe and pay ten times its value for the pot-boilers
that does be turned out in the studios of Paris and London.'

"'There's nothin' like home industry,' ses the whale, 'in a foreign country, I mean.'

"'After all, who knows anything about a work of art but the artist? and very little he knows
about it, either. A work of art is like a flower, it grows, it happens. That's all. An' unless
you charge the devil's own price for it, people will think you are cheating them.'

"'Wisha, I suppose the best anyone can do is to take all you can get an' if you want to be
a philanthropist, give away what you don't want,' ses the grasshopper.

"'All worth missing I catches,' ses the whale, 'an' all worth catchin' I misses, like the fisherwoman
who missed the fish and caught a crab. How's things in Europe? I didn't see the papers this
morning.'

"'Europe is in a bad way,' ses the grasshopper. 'She was preaching civilization for centuries
so that she might be prepared when war came to annihilate herself.'

"'It looks that way to me,' ses the whale. 'Is there anything else worth while going on in
the world?'

"'There's the Irish question,' ses the grasshopper.

"'Where's that, Ireland is?' ses the whale. 'Isn't that an island to the west of England?'

"'No,' ses the grasshopper, 'but England is an island to the east of Ireland.'

"'Wisha,' ses the whale, 'it gives me indigestion to hear people talking about Ireland. Sure,
I nearly swallowed it up be mistake while I was on a holiday in the Atlantic last year, an'
I'm sorry now that I didn't.'

"'An' I'm sorry that you didn't try,' ses the grasshopper. 'Then you'd know something about
indigestion. The less you have to say about Ireland the less you'll have to be sorry for. Remember
that me father came from Cork.'

"'Can't I say what I like?' ses the whale.

"'You can think what you like,' ses the grasshopper, 'but say what other people like if you
want to be a good politician.'

"'There's nothin' so much abused as politics,' ses the whale.

"'Except politicians,' ses the grasshopper. 'Only for the Irish they'd be no one bothering
about poetry and the drama to-day. Only for fools they'd be no wise people an' only for sprats,
hake, and mackerel there 'ud be no whales an' a good job that would be, too.'

"'What's that you're saying?' ses the whale very sharply.

"'Don't have me to lose me temper with you,' ses the grasshopper.

"'Wisha, bad luck to your impudence an' bad manners, you insignificant little spalpeen. How
dare you insult your superiors?' ses the whale.

"'Who's me superior?' ses the grasshopper. 'You, is it?'

"'Yes, me then,' ses the whale.

"'Another word from you,' ses the whale, 'an' I'll put you where Napoleon put the oysters.'

"'Well,' ses the grasshopper, 'there's no doubt but vanity, ignorance and ambition are three
wonderful things an' you have them all.'

"'Neither you nor Napoleon, nor the Kaiser himself an' his hundred million men could do hurt
or harm to me. You could have every soldier in the German Army, the French Army, an' the Salvation
Army lookin' for me an' I'd put the comether on them all.'

"'I can't stand this any longer,' ses the whale, an' then and there he hits the rock a whack
of his tail an' when I went to look for the grasshopper, there he was sitting on the whale's
nose as happy an' contented as if nothing happened. An' when he jumped back to the rock again
he says: 'A little exercise when 'tis tempered with discretion, never does any harm, but violent
exertion is a very foolish thing if you value your health. But it is only people who have no
sinse but think they have it all who make such errors.'

"'If I could get a hold of you,' ses the whale, 'I'd knock some of the pride out of you.'

"'That would be an ungentlemanly way of displaying your displeasure,' ses the grasshopper.

"'I'd scorn,' ses he, 'to use violent means with you, or do you physical injury of any kind.
All you want is self-control and a little education. You should know that quantity without
quality isn't as good as quality without quantity.'

"'Sure 'tis I'm the fool to be wasting me time listening to the likes of you,' ses the whale.
'If any of me family saw me now, I'd never hear the end of it.'

"'Indeed,' ses the grasshopper, 'no one belonging to me would ever recognize me ever again
if they thought I was trying to make a whale behave himself. There would be some excuse for
one of my attainments feeling proud. But as for you!--'

"'An' what in the name of nonsense can you do except give old guff out of you?'

"'I haven't time to tell you all,' ses the grasshopper. 'But to commence with, I can travel
all over the world an' have the use of trains, steamers, sailing ships and automobiles and
will never be asked to pay a cent, an' I can live on dry land all me life if I choose, while
you can't live under water, or over water, on land or on sea, and while all the king's horses
and all the king's men couldn't catch me if they were trying till the crack of doom, you could
be caught be a few poor, harmless sailors, who wouldn't know a crow from a cormorant, and who'd
sell your carcass to make oil for foolish wives to burn an' write letters to other people's
husbands an' fill the world with trouble.'

An' what about all the whalebone we supplies for ladies' corsets an' paper knives, and what
about all the stories we make for the novelists an' the moving pictures an'--'"

"We're at the Sprig of Holly now," said Felix. "Is it a pint of porter or a bottle you'll have?"

"I'll have a pint, I think," said Standish.

IN BERLIN[15]

BY MARY BOYLE O'REILLY

From The Boston Daily Advertiser

[15] Copyright, 1915, by The Boston Daily Advertiser.

The train crawling out of Berlin was filled with women and children, hardly an able-bodied
man. In one compartment a gray-haired Landsturm soldier sat beside an elderly woman who seemed
weak and ill. Above the click-clack of the car wheels passengers could hear her counting: "One,
two, three," evidently absorbed in her own thoughts. Sometimes she repeated the words at short
intervals. Two girls tittered, thoughtlessly exchanging vapid remarks about such extraordinary
behavior. An elderly man scowled reproval. Silence fell.

"One, two, three," repeated the obviously unconscious woman. Again the girls giggled stupidly.
The gray Landsturm leaned forward.

"Fräulein," he said gravely, "you will perhaps cease laughing when I tell you that this poor
lady is my wife. We have just lost our three sons in battle. Before leaving for the front myself
I must take their mother to an insane asylum."

It became terribly quiet in the carriage.

THE WAITING YEARS[16]

BY KATHARINE METCALF ROOF

From The Century Magazine

[16] Copyright 1915, by The Century Co. Copyright, 1916, by Katharine
     Metcalf Roof.

The shadow on the sun-dial, blue upon its white-marble surface, marked four o'clock, but its
edge was broken by the irregular silhouette of an encroaching rose-bush. The sun-dial in the
midst of the wide, sunny garden, the old red-brick house among the elms--these were the most
sharply defined elements of Mark Faraday's picture of home. Born in Italy, for most of his
young life a sojourner in foreign lands, he yet remembered being utterly happy at "Aunt Lucretia's"
when at seven he had made his first visit to his mother's country. That memory had never faded.
He had recalled and reclaimed each detail of its serene charm at his second visit ten years
later, after his mother's death. And now in America again, he had naturally gravitated toward
the old place.

The young man gave a careless friendliness to his faded little aunt, and spent long hours with
his dreams, creative and subjective, in her garden. For the most part they were dreams of unheard
melodies, for Mark Faraday was a composer. So little of his life had been spent in his own
country that outside the garden he felt less at home in America than in Florence or Vienna.
Yet place mattered little to him. An artist and a creator, his kingdom was within. Of his environment
he demanded only harmony and space.

A bee buzzed into the open heart of a rose, bending it with his weight. A little breeze wafted
its perfume toward him. His eyes wandered over the delicate, riotous color of the sweet-pea
hedge and rested in content upon the mignonette border. A circular path of white gravel surrounded
the grass plot about the dial. From it as a center curved paths wandered outward dividing the
flower-beds. The flowers were planted without much regularity except for the borders of four
o'clock and mignonette. It was this spot that had inspired Mark's song cycle, "The Sun-dial."
A certain quality of youth and freshness as natural as a spring in the woods had won for it
quick recognition. Mark's artistic tendency was not exotic. Although not retrogressive, he
had drunk deep at the springs of Bach, Schubert, and Mozart, and the basis of his work was sound.

Alone in the fragrant silence, he began dreaming sounds. The notes of the bee's drone, one
high, one low, combining in uneven rhythm, had given him a suggestion for an accompaniment.
His mind was far away, working out his pattern of harmony, when another sound, actual, familiar,
broke into his reverie--the preliminary chords of one of the songs of his "Sun-dial" cycle,
"Youth and Crabbéd Age." Then a woman began to sing. It was Stella's voice; he recognized it
at once, pleasant, sufficiently trained. Stella was a fair musician and was fond of trying
over new music, but to-day she was playing in a more musicianly manner than he had believed
her capable of playing. He had expected that his aunt would ask her over for tea. He enjoyed
the girl's companionship. He had not known many of his own countrywomen. Their naturalness
and freedom from the personal attitude of the Continental woman interested him. It was perhaps
this quality in Stella that most appealed to him. He was aware that his Aunt Lucretia hoped
for a romantic conclusion to the friendship. He himself had given the matter an occasional
thought. Yet somehow Stella's definiteness left no room for the imaginative element to become
active. It was difficult for him to visualize her as an established factor in his life, either
as the restful center of a home or the adaptable companion of his nomadic wanderings. The precise
nature of her lack he had not felt the necessity to characterize.

The concluding chords of his song vibrated into silence. With the ceasing of the actual sounds,
his imagined music began to move again along its interrupted course; then a crash of Brahms
broke into his creative weavings, and he frowned, not only for the interruption: Stella should
not attempt Brahms. The hazardous attempt broke off as abruptly as it had begun. There was
something fragmentary, or perhaps more correctly, something unfinished about Stella. She never
had just fulfilled the promise of their first meeting. The bee theme drifted into his mind
again, and had progressed a few measures, when the evolving harmonic pattern was again invaded
by an alien presence, a soft one of dim outline and faded voice, his Aunt Lucretia.

"You are coming in for tea, Mark." She paused, characteristically tentative, wavering, fearful
of intruding, a gentle, kindly, ineffectual presence. "And Stella is here," she added.

"I heard her." Mark rose to his excellent height and stood an instant looking down at the little
old lady shading her eyes from the sunlight. They had been large and dark once; now the filmy
rim of age was visible about the iris. Her white hair lay in neat ringlets upon her brow, which
was wrinkled like a fine parchment. Her skin, bleached to a bloodless whiteness, retained still
some of the soft texture of youth.

"And Allison Clyde," she finished her announcement: "but you won't mind her," she added, recalling
the restiveness of the present generation under boredom.

"Allison Clyde?" he repeated. He remembered the name vaguely as one of some old friend of the
family. "An old lady." He had not reckoned his indifferent label a question, but his aunt took
it up.

"We never think of her as that. She is younger," Lucretia Hall conceded, "than I am. Allison
is universally admired. Mrs. Herrick"--she quoted the oracle of her circle in that last-generation
manner that proclaims the accepted--"says that Allison is a personage."

Miss Lucretia turned toward the house; her nephew followed her.

"Any relation to the historian, bane of my youth?" he asked.

"His daughter," Lucretia gladly expounded; "and her brother, the poet, died young. Allison
herself--very gifted musically." The fragments came back to him as his aunt preceded him with
her small, hesitating steps up the narrow path. The picture of an old lady playing the "Songs
without Words" passed through Mark's mind, and he began to plan flight. "But she was obliged
to give up her music to care for her invalid father."

"I heard Stella playing," Mark commented.

His aunt rejoined after a moment:

"She doesn't seem at all nervous. Young people aren't in these days. At her age, if any one
asked me to play, I was terrified."

Her nephew smiled down at her, hooking her with an affectionate arm.

"What used you to play, Tante? The 'Blue Alsatian Mountains' and the 'Stéphanie Gavotte'?"

Her faded smile held a faint surprise.

"How did you know?"

"I am a clairvoyant, and did you sing, 'Then You'll Remember Me?'"

"No, I never sang; but Mary--your mother--did."

They reached the back porch and passed through the wide hall into the shaded spaciousness of
the drawing-room. In that quiet interior light that rested softly upon the decorous portraits
of his forebears, the mahogany, and the accumulated bric-à-brac of three generations, he became
aware of the incongruous presence of Stella. He realized again her clean-cut, finished daintiness,
the incisiveness of voice and feature. As he released her hand, still aware of its hard, boyish
grip, he heard his aunt's voice, light, wandering, non-arresting, as if continuing some conversational
thread, "And Miss Allison Clyde, Mark--my old friend." He had been vaguely aware of some one
else in the room, but when he met the smile of the older woman who held out her hand to him,
he wondered that he had not realized it more promptly; for Miss Allison Clyde, although far
removed from the youth of years, had about her something immediately and quietly charming--something,
it occurred to him, that suggested autumnal perfumes and the warmth of late sunlight. It was
a face with a certain fine austerity belonging to a generation at once more natural and more
reserved than ours.

"So this is Mary's boy," she said. "You have her eyes." He looked at her and unconsciously
glanced at Stella. The older woman belonged to the quiet old room. Stella, despite the same
inheritance, did not.

Tea was brought in by a maid grown gray in his aunt's service, and Miss Lucretia presided.
Mark's eyes again wandered from Miss Allison Clyde to Stella with involuntary comparison.

No one would have accused Stella of not being a well-bred young woman, yet she sat, Mark noted,
carelessly and not quite gracefully. Miss Allison Clyde was taller than Stella, yet she was
adjusted to her chair with a disciplined grace and dignity far removed from stiffness.

"Stella has promised to sing 'Crabbéd Age' for me again," she announced when tea was finished.

"Shall I sing it now?" Stella rose with her promptness, and, going to the piano, plunged at
once into the opening bars. Although the composer was not an egoist, he shuddered.

"I am making frightful hash of it, I know," Stella confessed, unabashed, as her fingers stumbled.
"I think Miss Allison had better play it." Mark glanced quickly at the older woman.

"Then it was you I heard a moment ago."

"I tried it," she admitted, with a smile. "The title had a melancholy attraction for me. I
had no idea the composer was overhearing, or I should have had stage-fright dreadfully."

"Play something else," Mark suggested. "It would give me so much pleasure. Something not Mark
Faraday."

Miss Allison rose decisively.

"No, I will play 'Crabbed Age,'" she decided, "and youth shall sing it." And then they ran
through it together, the older woman playing it with a musician's sense of its qualities, and
Stella singing it through passably in her firm young voice.

In answer to Mark's sincere, "Play more," as she started to rise from the piano stool, Miss
Allison let her fingers wander through passages of "Meistersinger" in a way that showed a musician's
knowledge of the score.

"How wonderful that you can play like that still!" exclaimed Stella. The gaucherie of that
"still" struck upon Mark's artistic sensibilities, trained in Italian habits of speech. "What
a resource it must be!"

"For crabbed age," Miss Allison finished. Her smile held a faint amusement. Stella, momentarily
silenced, if not abashed, by this explicit voicing of her thought, did not contradict, and
Miss Allison continued, "The technic of a Paderewski would be small compensation for lost youth,
I fear." She said it without sentimentality, but, as she spoke, lightly touched the delicate
theme of the "Golden Apples" that brought eternal youth to the gods, passing into the sublimity
of the Valhalla motive. Looking up, she met Mark's comprehension and smiled, then, bringing
her chord to a resolution, rose from the piano stool. Mark watched her as she paused to turn
over the pages of his "Sun-dial," noting the titles--Sunrise, Morning, High Noon, Afternoon,
Evening, Night. "'Youth and Crabbed Age' is Evening, I see," she commented. "Then what is this?"
She held up a separate sheet loosely set in the book, reading the title, "Too Late for Love
and Loving."

"That was an attempt with words of my own before I resigned in favor of Shakespeare," Mark
explained. "I am not a poet. They are just words for music."

She read them over:

    "Sweet love, too late!
    Life is Time's prisoner,
    Love's hour has fled,
    The flowers are dead,
    Love has passed by.
    Sweet love, too late!
    Death stands at the gate."

She sat down again without comment, and ran it through softly, then again more assuredly, with
appreciation. The warm afternoon light from the open window fell upon her, revealing what the
years had worn, what they had been powerless to touch. Her hair was half gray; but her eyes
were as dark, vivid, and expectant as the eyes of youth--autumn pools shot through with the
sun. The mouth was a generous one, finely molded by the experience of the years. He remembered
that she was a spinster, yet there was about her none of the emptiness, the starved quality,
of the woman with her destiny unfulfilled; nothing of the futility, the incompletion, of the
celibate that causes the imagination to turn with relief to contemplation of the most bovine
mother of a family. It must have been an impervious boor indeed who would venture to jest upon
Miss Allison's single state. It spoke of naught but dignity. Life, it would seem, had not deprived
her.

It was that warm, alive, expectant quality, Mark reflected, that revealed that Allison Clyde
was neither wife nor mother. She had turned, no doubt, to other interests with her unquenchable
vividness, and so could still look out upon the world with young, hopeful eyes.

Yet what, at her age, could the years still bring her? It had been surely a vain waiting; yet,
viewed as a picture, it had, he felt, an autumnal beauty of its own.

That night Miss Allison Clyde wrote a long letter to her lifelong friend, Miss Augusta Penfield:

I met Lucretia's nephew, Mary's boy, to-day. He is you know, a composer already on the road
to fame. You remember that he was born abroad. There is for all his undiluted American ancestry
a foreign touch about him, a something warm and ardent caught under the Italian skies that
even our children seem to take on when born there. He is indeed a beautiful boy, a dreamer,
yet manly. A boy I call him, yet he is twenty-nine. My dear father had four sons and a daughter
at his age. Still he is a boy. It is strange in this generation, Augusta, that though in many
ways they seem so advanced, so beyond us, in others they are further away from life's responsibilities
than we were at their age. There is a suggestion of his Uncle William about Mark, but he is
somehow stronger, more imperative. I was drawn to him at once because of his music. And he
has the charming manner, the almost excessive chivalry, toward our sex that we see so little
of any more, or at least seldom encounter at our age. Lucretia had asked Stella in for tea.
She is a dear child and quite alarmingly composed, but not altogether musical, despite her
excellent musical opportunities. She played one of the boy's songs, a delicious thing, rather
dreadfully. I felt sorry for him. Lucretia insisted upon my playing his "Youth and Crabbed
Age," which every one has been singing, although he seems delightfully unaware of that fact.
He was so courteous about insisting that I should play more, I ran through a bit of "Meistersinger,"--he
seemed so truly a young Walther,--and then discovered another little song that he has not published,
"Too Late for Love and Loving," full of a kind of pathos that it seems impossible youth could
understand. But I suppose that is where genius comes in.

The rest of the letter was made of messages and the mild, small daily occurrences that are
of moment to such as Miss Augusta Penfield.

That night, searching in an old secretary in his room for some missing notes, Mark came upon
a little daguerreotype in a drawer. It was of a young girl, taken apparently in the late sixties
or early seventies. Something in the face, clear-eyed, warm-lipped, trusting, caught and held
his attention. He turned it over to see if the girl's name was on the back, but the only inscription
was a date in his Uncle William's writing, June, 1863. Poor Uncle William, who had been so
full of promise, they said, but who had died from a bullet wound, a sacrifice to his country
two years after the war!

Some girl that his uncle had loved, perhaps. The young man's face, dark-eyed, romantic, familiar
to him through the old picture in uniform always on his mother's dressing-table, rose before
his mind's eye. Perhaps Uncle William had taken the little picture away with him to the war.
The date must have been just about the time that he had enlisted and marched away. He had gone
without telling her perhaps; she could have been little more than a child. Perhaps he had never
told. Or they might have had their brief tragic happiness upon the edge of death, they two
"embracing under death's spread hand."

He stared at the picture. It would have been easy to love a girl with those eyes, that mouth.
A fancy came upon him to put Uncle William's picture beside the girl's, and impulsively he
went back to the darkened drawing-room, groped for the framed picture that stood upon the mantel,
found it, and carried it up to his room. Then side by side he studied the two faces.

His imagination began to reconstruct their story. He wished that he might learn more. He went
back to the old desk. It might have been his uncle's. He opened a drawer; it was empty. A second
and a third; the last contained some valueless miscellany, an old glass knob a faded bit of
worsted fringe, some papers. Poking under them, he actually found a package of letters. He
picked it up, and with a little thrill of realization recognized his uncle's writing. The paper
was old and yellowed with time. It had no address, but was sealed with red wax. Scarcely expecting
fulfillment of his romantic hope, he broke the seal and opened the package. There was no address
on the first envelope. Some business memorandum, no doubt; yet nothing surely that at this
late day he might not in honor examine. He drew out the closely written sheet and turned it
over. After all the years his eyes were surely the first to read it. There was no name in the
inscription. Uncle William's fine writing was very legible.

II

July 15, 1863.

My little love with the smooth hair and the great eyes, you do not know that I have the little
daguerreotype next my heart. I stole it from Lucretia, and packed it among my things. How often
I shall take it out in the long days ahead before the war is over and I can come back to tell
you that I love you. You will wait for me, sweetheart. No other man shall be the one to make
those clear eyes fall, to change them from a child's to a woman's eyes. I can see you as you
stood there beside the sun-dial. "Fight a brave fight, William," you said, "and come back soon."
You were brave and glorious. Your eyes were not even wet, yet you care enough for me to shed
a tear. I know that, little Allison. We have been such good comrades, you and I. I looked back
and saw you waving. But you trust life so fearlessly, child. You are only fifteen. At that
age one cannot imagine death. I am twenty-three and am a man. I knew I must not speak. I knew
it, though my heart was knocking against my sides for love of you. So I shall not send these
letters. I shall send you a line now and then, but not of love. You will hear the news of me
from mother and the girls. I shall write these letters just the same, and keep them, and if
the day comes when those great eyes, those dear and wonderful eyes, give the promise my heart
is waiting for, then I shall hand them to you to read, and you shall know how long and faithfully
I have loved you. I shall not write you of the war and the long marches; those things will
be in my home letters. To you I shall write only of ourselves, not as if I were in the midst
of battle and sudden death, but as if I were at home in Beechwood, where my heart is, at my
window overlooking a corner of your garden. I am there now, sitting at my window as I write.
I have just caught a glimpse of you in your Sunday gown, the white-and-green striped silk,
with the tiny lavender flowers scattered on the white ground. You were picking a spray of lemon
verbena to take to church. I see you in the little green bonnet in the high pew beside your
mother. You have the soul of a lover, my Allison. I know it when I see you smell the fragrant
flowers. Little Allison, how you will love when your day comes! Your mouth, so young, so warm,
so generous, was made to give all; your pure eyes for complete trust. You belong to me, my
Allison, although you do not know it yet. Even as I write this, fear shakes my heart. Have
not all lovers thought the same? So strong is the sense of possession in love, so impossible
it seems to the human heart that we should give all and receive nothing. What if some one should
rudely awaken your clear soul from its young sleep, lay hot human hands upon you, my rose,
my little cool, white flower! I can not bear these thoughts. You are mine, and I shall let
you sleep until the moment comes for love to knock at the door of your heart. There shall be
no rude awakening. I shall speak first so gently, yes, you shall be roused slowly from that
sleep of childhood. Then you will put your hands in mine and say, "William, I love you," just
as you said to me to-day, "Fight a good fight." And I will take those dear hands and draw you
slowly toward me and kiss you on your fine, straight brows, your serene forehead, that is like
that of the angels in the Italian pictures father brought home from Italy. Then I will let
you go. I shall not be too impetuous, lest I frighten you. And then some day you will say again,
"Come home soon William," and it will mean that I am to go home to you.

Yours till death,

WILLIAM.

August, '63.

My love with the dove's eyes:

Why were you so shy when I met you to-day on the gravel path? I asked you where you were going.
You would not stop; you almost ran past, like a little gray moth. I love you in that gray little
gown; your little bare shoulders are pink beside it, like a spring flower beside a stone. Why
were you so shy? You are too young to have a lover. There is no one except the tow-headed Bowman
boy across the street. It could not have been he. Then you went to the piano, and I heard you
singing softly, "My Love is like a Red, Red Rose." What can you know of love, my little one?
I am jealous of life itself that must bring that change to you. I would delay that day. Not
yet would I have the bud open for the hot sun to draw out its fragrance. I would keep you yet
a while in the white, austere innocence of your youth. My little love, my child, the hour is
not yet.

WILLIAM.

September, '64.

Where I sit at my window, sweetheart, I can see the corner of the grape-arbor in your garden.
Do you remember the day we sat there, and I read you my story, and you listened, with your
great dreaming eyes on the slippery leaf shadows, and your mouth stained with the purple grapes?
And when I had finished, you asked me, "Why did Reginald think he had to die, William?" And
I told you, "Because he loved Eleanor so much and she loved another man." "Then why didn't
he love some one else, too? How silly they all were!" you said. You were too young to understand.
I look in the eyes of the little girl in the picture, and she does not understand. The little
girl is a year younger than you, and the green-and-white frock in the picture was torn and
darned last summer. I remember how you looked, bent over your needle, your red lips a little
heavy with unspoken protest as you sewed the long rent. What a child you always were to tear
your frocks and get berry stains on your white aprons and scratch your fingers and arms with
briers! And how I have loved each scratch and stain. My sweet, wild little Allison! Now perhaps
you begin to understand, to wonder and dream a little. You may even have your dreams of lovers.
You wonder yet with no intimation behind your clear eyes of what this thing is that incites
men to courage or drives them to madness and death. Have you wondered yet if some day it will
come to you? Or does it live still in that fair, fragrant world of your imagination as a tale
that is told?

       *       *       *       *       *

To-day you came home from your sewing circle, where you sewed garments for the soldiers, and
when you came away you let me carry your package. The sleeve of your little gray gown had been
darned, and you had outgrown the dress. "It isn't pretty any more, but I mustn't have a new
one," you said. "It is wicked for us to have new things when the soldiers are ragged and cold."
And that look that is like tears came into your eyes. Oh, how I longed to kiss the hand you
held out for your bundle at the gate! Not yet, Allison. You are just sixteen. You are a child
yet. I must wait.

WILLIAM.

December, '64.

My Allison, I signed myself last your William, and I called you mine. It is no bold assumption.
Neither life nor death can make me other than yours, whether you will or not, neither can it
make you any less mine. Isn't it our George William Curtis who said that the land belonged
to his rich neighbor, but the view was his? No matter if I never touch your dear hands save
as a friend, my Allison, you will still be mine, because I have divined the fine mysteries
of your spirit. I am your worshiper and knight, whatever fate befalls us. "We needs must love
the highest when we see it," says the new poet across the water. No truer words were ever spoken.
So in that fine inner sense I am yours and you are mine whether you ever come to love me or
not. To-day I found you chasing a butterfly in the garden. What a child you are still! You
brushed me as you ran past, then, as you turned, ran almost into my arms. Ah, my Allison, you
did not know how it set my heart beating when that loose strand of your hair blew across my
face! Your cheeks were flushed, and you drew back laughing.

"What do you want with the butterfly, Allison?" I asked. "You surely would not hurt it. If
you throw your bonnet over it, you will break its wings."

You looked at me with your great eyes.

"I would not do that, William. I only wanted to see the gold spots on its wings."

"You can do that best without touching it, my dear," I said. "A touch will destroy its gold
dust." You looked at me with your pure eyes and said,--like a little child, yet you are almost
a woman,--"Oh, William, I would not break its wings." And then sharply a thought struck me
like a pang. Can I perhaps see you better with my soul's eyes, Allison, if you are never mine?
Would I break your wings in touching you? Are you something too fine and fair for human experience?
It came like a presentiment then that you would never be mine in the dear common human way.
Can it be so, dear love? No, no; I would have you when the hour comes. Despite the angel in
your eyes, you were made to make fair a home, to know in all its phases a man's love, to hold
your children in your arms,--children with eyes such as you have now,--and teach them such
things as pure beings like you can teach to children.

"Isn't it nice that they are butterflies last, William?" you said. "Suppose they had to grow
brown and ugly and to move slowly, instead of flying, when they are old like people."

"It is like life and death," I told you, although God knows I am no preacher. Perhaps it is
because my body is at the war while my soul is in Beechwood that I must sometimes think these
thoughts of death. Your eyes looked straight into mine then, with something like a reflection
of heaven's light. Then again all at once they were a child's again, and you said: "Grandma's
portrait in the hall is beautiful. She was sixteen then. But she isn't pretty any more."

"No, she isn't pretty any more, Allison, yet once like you she chased butterflies in the garden.
And that portrait was painted the year before she was married."

Why was it then that you turned away your eyes and the soft curve of your cheek grew pink?
Perhaps it is always so with the young girl at the thought of love and marriage; but you are
still a child.

"The butterfly has flown away, Allison, and you never even looked at its golden wings," I reminded
you, and you laughed and shrugged. "There will be another," you said. Yes, there will always
be more butterflies in the garden, and there will always be more lovers in the world for such
as you while your sweet youth lasts, whether I live to woo you or not. That thought saddens
me. Yet should I not feel it enough to have known and loved you? Suppose you had never been
in the world, and I had loved some commonplace pretty girl instead of little Allison, with
eyes like an autumn brook in the sun?

Oh, my dear, the time is long, and I grow weary with my make-believing. I am a thousand miles
away. A cold rain is falling. I could not bear it were it not for your voice in my ears: "Fight
a good fight. Come back home soon, William." As soon, God pity me as I can. My country first,
even if it robs me of life's dearest treasure. Ah, that I had dared before I left to speak
the words in my heart, "Wait for me, sweetheart, wait till I come home; for it will be no true
home unless you make it for me."

But I did not say it. The hour was not yet. Pray God it may come for us both, for never will
another know how to love you as I do, my Allison.

YOUR FAITHFUL WILLIAM.

March, '65.

In battle, on the march, there has been no time for my letters, my sweetheart, and only in
my dreams have I been able to fancy myself at the window overlooking your garden. But now there
is a lull for writing. We feel that the end is drawing near. And so once more I can trust my
dream self back in Beechwood with you.

Last night I took you home from Uncle Alvin's. We walked slowly under the moon. The air was
cool. You wore your little brown hood. You are taller now, little Allison. I lingered at the
gate when I said good night. You lingered, too, and for the first time I knew--I cannot say
how--that your soft childhood was unfolding its wings to depart. Not that I dared even to linger
over your hand, still less to pull off the brown mitten and kiss the little hand curled soft
and warm within; but the eyes that you turned to me had a graver light. Was it the sad news
of the war, the death and tragedy about you? Jolly Dick Burrows, Arthur and Henry, struck down,
blotted out. These are aging times, my sweetheart. Had you the consciousness of me as anything
nearer than your old friend Lucretia's brother? Some day life will bring to you this thing
that tears at my heart. Some day not so far off now. Sometimes I wonder that I dare hope it
will come to me.

WILLIAM.

April 10, '65.

It has come, the news has come; the war is over. A few days, weeks, and I shall be with you.
I have been wounded. They have told you that, have they not? But it is nothing, a scratch.
It troubles me now, but it will soon be over. Last night I sat in the hot Southern twilight
that smelled of jessamine and dreamed myself back with you in New England, where the spring
nights are cold. But I did not dream any more the meetings of fantasy. My mind leaped forward,
and dreamed of my real home-coming. I had greeted them all, my dear mother, the girls, Alice,
and Lucretia. Then they left us alone in the little circle about the sun-dial, only it was
summer, and the bees were heavy with the flower dust, the air was fragrant. And then at last
I saw the consciousness of womanhood in your eyes--those clear eyes that have always looked
so straight at mine, straight into my heart, it seemed, although I knew they were too young
to see. Not once except for that first moment when you said, with lowered lids, "Welcome home,
William," did you look at me. And as we sat on the garden seat, I could see your color rise,
the lace scarf tremble with your quickened breath. And then I took your hand. "I have come
home to you, Allison," I said. "What have you to say to me?" But you would not raise your eyes.
I took both of your hands then. "Look at me, Allison," I said, and something ran through you
like the wind through a rose shaking out its perfume, and I seemed to draw into my very soul
the fragrance of your young emotion; and I said again, "Look at me, Allison." And then, half
like a child commanded, you raised your eyes.... There is a majestic purity about you, Allison!
Even in the young confusion of that moment it pierced me, humbled me in adoring love before
you. "Allison, speak," I said, and I could scarcely get out the words. "Do you love me?" and
you, stammering like a child, said, "I don't know, William. I don't know." "Then at least you
do not love any other man?" I asked you, and you shook your head.

Oh, Allison, if I come home to find that some other man has taught you love, how shall I live
through the burden of my days!

WILLIAM.

July, '65.

My Allison:

Here I sit in verity at my window and write. I shall never speak, after all; for now I know
that I haven't the right. The wound was fatal, it seems, and I have only a short time to live,
so I dare not tell you until after I am gone. It would hurt you too much. Even now I can scarcely
bear to see your pity in your eyes. Suppose that pity were to imagine itself love! When I am
myself, my whole being rejects that thought. It is not such love I dreamed to win from you,
my Allison. Then again there are moments, weak moments, when I would have anything, take you
at any price, only to have you nearer, only to wring those brief hours of warmth and sunshine
from the cold outstretched hand of death. But that is only weakness. Such sad companionship
with oncoming death shall not be for you, my beloved. You shall see me till the last as Lucretia's
brother, not your lover. I cannot trust myself to think of that other man who will live my
dreams. Yet for myself I ask only to live till the end with my eyes filled with the sight of
you; to live in fact and memory over each tone of your voice, each light and shade on that
dear face. You are not a child now. With your dark braids about your star-like face, you are
a woman, ready to waken to the knowledge of love; but, thank God! not yet awakened. So I may
know still the cool, unconscious touch of your hand, your dear daily gift of flowers, watch
your sweet down-bent head as you come to read to me here in our garden, and not heed the words
for the dearness of dreaming over your face, living so intensely each moment of you. Oh, my
sweet, why did you go so soon to-day? I know it was to buy ribbons for a new muslin for Molly
Dearborn's party. You must go to your parties, be happy. That is all I wish. Yet you would
so gladly have given me that hour if you had known. Some one could have matched the ribbon
for you. "Allison does not know," I heard Lucretia say the other day. "We do not want her to
know. It would distress her too much." I shall not let you know, my darling. I write it now,
but I shall blot it out lest it hurt you too much to know afterward how precious each moment
you gave me was, lest it grieve your tender heart to know there was something more you might
have given had you known.

WILLIAM.

Like one coming out of a dream, Mark glanced about the room, noted the hands of the clock marking
the half hour past midnight, then picked up the picture of the girl who was young more than
forty years ago.

With a little sense of shock it came to him that she existed no more. He wondered whether she
also had died in her sweet youth or lived still, an old woman.

If she was alive, had she married some one not Uncle William? Or had she never married? Had
she loved him? Had she known that he loved her? He picked up the picture again. The face seemed
vaguely familiar. It seemed to speak to him. He lost himself in dreams and roused himself with
a laugh.

"I believe I am half in love with you myself, little Allison, in love with your lost youth,
in love with the shadow of a shadow. And that is a subject for a song--"

Allison, a quaint little name it was. Allison what? Who was she? It struck him suddenly,--he
wondered that he had not thought of it before,--it must be, it surely was, Miss Allison Clyde.
He studied the young pictured face more closely, and felt sure he traced a resemblance in it
to the old. To-morrow he would find out.

The pathos of it--too old for love, the theme of his song. Reverently he gathered up the letters,
replaced them in their envelope, and put them away. Suddenly, sharply the consciousness smote
him: the woman to whom those letters were written had never read them.

III

The next afternoon at tea-time he took the daguerreotype to his Aunt Lucretia. She received
it with her slow, uncertain, frail old hands, lifting it to the light.

"Why, that little old picture of Allison!" she said. "I had forgotten we had it. Where did
you find it? It was William's." She stared at it with the pitiful look the eyes of the old
show at reawakening memories. "I always thought your Uncle William was in love with her," she
confided, "although he never told us so."

"Miss Allison Clyde?" Mark questioned, and Miss Lucretia nodded faintly, marveling:

"Why, didn't you know!"

"And was Miss Allison in love with Uncle William?"

Miss Lucretia answered doubtfully:

"I don't know. She was a child. She never said so."

"Did she ever, later on, have a love-affair?"

His aunt shook her head.

"Not that I know of. She was always so taken up with her own household. They were very close
to each other, a very united family."

"It is a wonderful little face," Mark said, looking down at the daguerreotype.

"She was only a child then," Lucretia repeated, "not more than fifteen." Her eyes became reminiscent.
"She was still so young, only seventeen, when he died. When he came home, he knew he had not
long to live. He used to sit out here and watch her as she moved about. He never talked much,
but the look in his eyes was," Aunt Lucretia stated in her quiet way, "very moving."

Mark heard a step, and glanced up to see Miss Allison Clyde herself standing beside them, looking
down at them with a smile.

"To whom am I indebted for this honor? That funny little old ambrotype! Where did you unearth
it, Lucretia?"

"It was Brother William's," Lucretia explained, with her gentle melancholy. "Mark found it
in his room and asked me about it."

Mark looked to see some revelation in Miss Allison Clyde's face, but found none. Her kindly
smile had not faded or changed except to take on a shade of amusement as she picked up the
ambrotype.

"How proud I was of that mantilla!" she said. "I remember it so well. It was green. Do you
recall it, Lucretia?"

Miss Lucretia nodded, her frail hands busy with the tea-cups.

"I do. And the turban with the green plume you wore with it."

Mark glanced from the picture of the child to the face of the woman whose youth was past. Was
it tragedy for her, he wondered, that she had never known in its fullness the meaning of love
and home? Or was she happy burning with her own diffusing light full of the warmth of humanity,
loving, and giving to all the world instead of one lover?

Miss Lucretia interrupted his reverie.

"I suppose you are going over to see Stella this evening, and we old people shall have to amuse
ourselves without you as best we can."

Mark lifted his Lowestoft tea-cup and set it down again before he answered slowly:

"No, I think not. I am going to stay and have some music with Miss Allison."

He wondered why Miss Allison had made Stella seem suddenly hard, new, almost crude, like the
modern furniture in the drawing-room beside the fine old mahogany, with its simple decoration
and tone of time.

It was that evening, which he had decided should be his last, that, when their music was over,
he handed Miss Allison Clyde a sheet of manuscript music.

"Since you liked it," he said.

She took it, a faint color coming in her cheek. It was the manuscript of the fifth song of
his cycle, "Evening," and he had dedicated it to her. Involuntarily she moved to give it back
to him.

"No, not to me. You are too kind. But you must dedicate it to youth."

He nodded, with his smile.

"So I have: to the woman who has youth in her heart." Then he drew out the package of letters.
"And these," he said in a lower voice, "are yours also." He handed them to her silently.

"Mine?" She turned over the package in doubtful wonder.

"I found them in the desk with the daguerreotype. When you open them you will understand."

Turning from the doorway for a last good night, Mark saw Miss Allison, as he always afterward
remembered her, standing by the tall mantel in the candle-light with the unopened package of
Uncle William's letters in her hand.

ZELIG[17]

BY BENJAMIN ROSENBLATT

From The Bellman

[17] Copyright, 1915, by The Bellman Company. Copyright, 1916, by
     Benjamin Rosenblatt.

Old Zelig was eyed askance by his brethren. No one deigned to call him "Reb" Zelig, nor to
prefix to his name the American equivalent--"Mr." "The old one is a barrel with a stave missing,"
knowingly declared his neighbors. "He never spends a cent; and he belongs nowheres." For "to
belong," on New York's East Side, is of no slight importance. It means being a member in one
of the numberless congregations. Every decent Jew must join "A Society for Burying Its Members,"
to be provided at least with a narrow cell at the end of the long road. Zelig was not even
a member of one of these. "Alone, like a stone," his wife often sighed.

In the cloakshop where Zelig worked he stood daily, brandishing his heavy iron on the sizzling
cloth, hardly ever glancing about him. The workmen despised him, for during a strike he returned
to work after two days' absence. He could not be idle, and thought with dread of the Saturday
that would bring him no pay envelope.

His very appearance seemed alien to his brethren. His figure was tall, and of cast-iron mold.
When he stared stupidly at something, he looked like a blind Samson. His gray hair was long,
and it fell in disheveled curls on gigantic shoulders somewhat inclined to stoop. His shabby
clothes hung loosely on him; and, both summer and winter, the same old cap covered his massive
head.

