All that can be positively affirmed is that during the summer of 1617, Jacques Pierre, a Norman
by birth, whose youth had been spent in piratical enterprises in the Levantine seas, from which
he had acquired no inconsiderable celebrity, fled from the service of the Spanish Duke d'Ossuna,
Viceroy of Naples; and, having offered himself at the Arsenal of Venice, was engaged there
in a subordinate office. Not many days after his arrival in the Lagune, Pierre denounced to
the Inquisitors of State a conspiracy projected, as he said, by the Duke d'Ossuna, and favoured
by Don Alfonso della Cueva, Marquis de Bedemar, at that time resident ambassador from Spain.
The original minutes of Pierre's disclosures, written in French, still exist among the correspondence
of M. Leon Bruslart, the contemporary ambassador from the court of France to the Republic;
and they were translated into Italian, with which language Pierre was but imperfectly acquainted,
by his friend Renault, in order that they might be presented to the Inquisitors. In this plot,
Pierre avowed himself to be chief agent; his pretended abandonment of the Duke d'Ossuna forming
one part of the stratagem: and he added that his commission enjoined him to seduce the Dutch
troops employed in the late war, who still remained in Venice and its neighbourhood; to fire
the city; to seize and massacre the nobles; to overthrow the existing government; and ultimately
to transfer the state to the Spanish crown. The sole immediate step taken by the Inquisitors
in consequence of these revelations was the secret execution of Spinosa, a Neapolitan, whom
Pierre described as an emissary of the Duke d'Ossuna; and whom he appears to have regarded
with jealousy as a spy upon his own conduct. For the rest, the magistrates contented themselves,
as it, seems, by awaiting the maturity of the plot with silent vigilance. Ten months elapsed
during which Pierre communicated on the one hand with the Duke d'Ossuna, unsuspicious of his
treachery, and on the other with the Inquisitors; till at the expiration of that term he was
seized by an order of the X, while employed on his duties with the Fleet, and drowned without
the grant of sufficient delay even for previous religious confession. More, perhaps many more,
than three hundred French and Spaniards engaged in various naval and military capacities were
at the same time delivered to the executioner; and Renault, after undergoing numerous interrogatories,
and being placed seven times on the cord, was hanged by one foot on a gibbet on the Piazzetta,
which day after day presented similar exhibitions of horror.

This evidence of Pierre remained at the time concealed in the bosoms of the Inquisitors to
whom it had been delivered; and no official declarations satisfied public curiosity as to the
cause of the sanguinary executions which deformed the Capital. A rumour indeed spread itself
abroad, and, although not traced to any certain authority, was universally credited, that a
great peril had been escaped; that Venice had trembled on the very brink of destruction; and
that the Spaniards had meditated her ruin. Popular fury was accordingly directed against the
Marquis de Bedemar; and so fierce were the menaces of summary vengeance that the ambassador
was forced to protest his innocence before the Collegio, more in the spirit of one deprecating
punishment than defying accusation. He then earnestly solicited protection against the rabble
surrounding his palace; for "God knows," affirmed his pale and affrighted secretary more than
once, "the danger of our residence is great!" The Vice-doge, who during the interregnum between
the death of one chief magistrate and the election of another presided over the Collegio, replied
vaguely, coldly, and formally; and, the application having been renewed without any more favourable
result, Bedemar, justly apprehensive for his safety, seized a pretext for withdrawing, till
a successor to his embassy was appointed. Meantime, considerable doubts were entertained, not
only by the resident foreign ministers,-- especially by that of France, better informed than
his brethren through the possession of Pierre's minutes,--but by the Venetian senators themselves,
also, whether any conspiracy whatever had really existed. Nevertheless, in spite of these misgivings
not obscurely expressed, it was not till the expiration of five months that the X presented
a report to the Senate, detailing the information which they had received and the views upon
which they had acted. That report however is so manifestly contradicted in many very important
instances by Pierre's depositions, that it must be considered as drawn up and garbled solely
with the intention of making a case; and therefore as revealing only so much truth dashed and
brewed with a huge proportion of falsehood, as it suited the interests of the magistrates to
exhibit to public view. All mention of the denouncements of Pierre during the long period of
ten months is carefully suppressed, and yet no fact in history is more distinctly proved than
that he did so communicate. The first intimation of the plot is there said to have been given
but a few days before it was to have been executed, by two Frenchmen, Montcassin and Balthazar
Juven, whom Pierre had endeavoured to seduce. "Look at these Venetians," said the daring conspirator
one day to his apparent proselytes, "they affect to chain the lion; but the lion sometimes
devours his master, especially when that master uses him ill." According to their further evidence,
some troops despatched by the Duke d'Ossuna were to land by night on the Piazzetta and to occupy
all the strong holds of the city; numerous treasonable agents already within the walls were
to master the depots of arms; and fire, rapine, and massacre were to bring the enterprise to
consummation.

The papers abovementioned, together with a few letters from the Doge to the Venetian ambassador
at Milan, and one or two other not very important documents contained in the archives of Venice,
all printed by Comte Dam, are the sole authentic vouchers for this conspiracy now known to
exist; and it must be confessed that they are insufficient for its elucidation. The Abbe St.
Real, who for a long time was esteemed the chief historian of this dark transaction, is an
agreeable and attractive writer; but--since he was unacquainted with the report of the X; since
he does not cite the correspondence of the French ambassador containing Pierre's depositions;
and since he frequently varies from a MS which he does cite, The Interrogatories of the Accused,[12]
a MS indeed, which, even when quoted faithfully, is often contradicted by the few established
facts, and by numerous well-known usages of the Venetian government,--little faith can be attached
to his narrative. It was his opinion, and it has been that which has most generally prevailed,
that the Duke d'Ossuna, the Marquis de Bedemar, and Don Pedro di Toledo, governor of Milan,
mutually concerted a plan for the destruction of Venice; the chief execution of which was entrusted
to Pierre and Renault: and that, on the very eve of its explosion, Jaffier, one of their band,
touched by the magnificence of the Espousals of the Adriatic which he had just witnessed, was
shaken from his stern purpose, and revealed the conspiracy. In order to overthrow the latter
part of this hypothesis, it may be sufficient to state that the first executions took place
on the 14th of May, 1618, and that it was not till the 24th of that month that the Feast of
Ascension, and its gorgeous ceremonies, occurred in the same year.

    [12] A translation of this document is given by Daru: the
    original Italian may be found in the Memorie recondite of
    Vittorio Siri, i. 407.

Comte Daru, on the other hand, first explains a design which it is notorious was entertained
by the Duke d'Ossuna to convert his viceroyalty of Naples into a kingdom, the crown of which,
wrested from Spain, should be placed on his own head. And hence he establishes the impossibility
that d'Ossuna should at the same moment be plotting the overthrow of Venice; that power whose
assistance, or at least whose connivance was one of the weapons most necessary for his success.
On these grounds, Comte Daru contends that the Duke maintained a secret understanding both
with the Signory and the court of France; that, refining on political duplicity, he deceived
Pierre by really instructing him to gain over the Dutch troops quartered in the Lagune; not,
however, as his emissary supposed, to be employed ultimately for the seizure of Venice, but
in truth for that of Naples; that Pierre's courage was not proof against the dangers with which
his apparently most hazardous commission beset him; and that accordingly he betrayed his employer,
and revealed to the Inquisitors a plot which they well knew to be feigned: and, lastly, that
when the ambitious plans of d'Ossuna, partially discovered before their time by the Spanish
government, might have compromised Venice also if they had been fully elucidated; in order
to blot out each syllable of evidence which could bear, even indirectly, upon the transaction,
so far as she was concerned, it was thought expedient to remove every individual who had been
even unwittingly connected with it. So fully was this abominable wickedness perpetrated, that
both the accused and the accusers, the deceivers and the deceived, those either faithless or
faithful to their treason, the tools who either adhered to or who betrayed d'Ossuna, who sought
to destroy or to preserve Venice, were alike enveloped in one common fate, and silenced in
the same sure keeping of the grave. Some few, respecting whose degree of participation a slight
doubt arose, were strangled on the avowed principle that all must be put to death who were
in any way implicated; others were drowned by night, in order that their execution might make
no noise.[13] Moncassin, one of the avowed informers, was pensioned, spirited away to Cyprus,
and there despatched in a drunken quarrel; and if it be asserted that his companion Balthazar
Juven was permitted to survive, it is because he is the only individual concerning whose final
destiny we cannot pronounce with certainty.[14]

    [13] Laurent Brulard, concerning whose fate much discussion
    arose, was strangled par beaucoup de considerations et par une
    suite du parti qu'on avrait pris de mettre a mort tons ceux qui
    etaient impliques dans cette affaire. The brothers Desbouleaux
    were drowned by night in the Canale Orfano, pour ne point
    ebruiter l'affaire; and the instructions sent to the Admiral
    who was to drown Pierre were to fulfil his commission avec le
    moins de bruit possible. Accordingly that ruffian, and
    forty-five of his accomplices, were drowned at once sans
    bruit. Interrogatoire des Accuses, translated by Daru, vol.
    viii. § x.

    [14] It is believed that Balthazar Juven, and a relation of the
    Marechale de Lesdiguieres, who is stated to have escaped
    punishment, are one and the same person.

Of one personage who holds an important station in St. Real's romance, and yet more so in Otway's
coarse and boisterous tragedy, which, by dint of some powerful coups de theatre, still maintains
possession of the English stage, we have hitherto mentioned but the name; and, in fact, even
for that name we are indebted only to the more than suspected summary of the Interrogatories
of the Accused.

