The Constitutional Democrats are in this respect better off. They find their support chiefly
among more or less educated people of various pursuits: lawyers, bankers, brokers, journalists,
teachers, artists, scientists, etc. Their program embraces the interests of all classes and
demands political, judicial, economic, industrial and agrarian legislation of a very radical
and extensive kind. Their horizon of vision includes the sufferings and aspirations of the
often incongruous elements of the vast whole, but their ideology is still based on the long
outworn idealistic capitalism and for this reason alone does not and cannot appeal to not-owning
classes. Their agrarian program is in this respect the most striking example. It is worked
out in great detail and is aimed at a betterment of the condition of peasants without deep
injury to the present landowners. It recognizes the right of the peasant to more land, it provides
for future state ownership of land to prevent it from falling into wrong hands, but does not
condemn the principle of landownership, nor the injustice of present ownership, and for that
reason elaborates a method of compensation for compulsorily alienated land through universal
taxation.

To avoid excessive burden to the impoverished peasant the compensation is to be in the shape
of bonds representing the average value of the land in each particular case, only the interest
on these bonds to be paid yearly from universal taxes--a topsy-turvy mortgage system, as it
were, in which the state becomes the proprietor and mortgagor of the land, while its present
owners are turned into forced mortgagees. Under this system the peasants will get all land
available, but 90 per cent will have to pay for what is owned by a small fraction of even the
remaining 10 per cent of the entire population. The proposed scheme proved to be too radical
for the tsar's government in 1906 and caused the downfall of the first Duma. It provoked at
the time bitter comment in Germany also, where the conservative and national-liberal press
accused the Russian Constitutional Democratic party of putting forward impossible demands and
of attacking the very principle of property ownership. Yet the principle underlying the proposed
reform is unquestionably capitalistic and is the chief cause of the hatred and contempt which
the party enjoys on the part of Social-Democrats.

In the beginning of the sixties the conservative land committee appointed by Alexander II,
composed of hereditary landowners, avowed enemies of any economic liberation of peasants, out
of fear that private ownership of land might enrich the peasants and make them dangerous to
the established order, devised a scheme of communal ownership of land and unconsciously taught
the peasants the principles of socialism. In 1907 Constitutional Democrats opposed the bill
of the Government for the dissolution of land communities and substitution of private for communal
land ownership at the request of individual peasants. The objection raised was on the ground
that peasants suddenly possessed of a chance to get ready money would sell their land to a
few exploiters and being unable to put it to good use would rapidly become paupers. The best
men in the Duma opposed Stolypin's bill, and the law was introduced by stealth and promulgated
during a forced recess of the Duma. Contrary to expectation the law neither led to the results
desired by the Government, nor to those feared by Constitutional Democrats. It remained a dead
letter. Few members of peasant communities applied for separation. The Government tried to
boost its scheme by building at its own expense model, fake peasant homes. The peasants had
already their own idea as to remedies in regard to land shortage and did not want any substitute.

The difficulty of making the peasant respect the principle of private ownership of land is
due to many causes. The most liberal minded landowners were usually those who spent their winters
in various occupations in large cities and used their estates as summer homes and a partial
source of income. The work of supervision was only too often intrusted to utterly unscrupulous
and uneducated managers belonging to the peasant class, while the neighboring peasants were
employed as day laborers in the field and garden. This kind of labor was already available,
because peasants were unable to derive sufficient income from their own land to pay the heavy
taxes and to support their families. Scarcely any landowners understood anything of agriculture
and few paid any attention to it. I know splendid estates which brought in miserable incomes,
not normal even under the antiquated system of four year crop rotation and quite absurd if
measured by standards of modern American farming, yet sufficient to place at the disposal of
the owners a splendid mansion in Moscow or Petrograd and a no less splendid summer home on
their estate. There, during the hot summer days, the owners were enjoying their comfort in
idleness and talking of reforms necessary for the benefit of the peasants, while peasant women
were cutting the wheat for them with sickles, stooping and sweating under the scorching rays
of the sun. The superintendents of those estates enriched themselves at the expense of the
blind or careless and carefree owners under the very eyes of the peasants who hated the superintendents,
pitied or despised the liberal owners, as the case might be, and gloomily compared their own
poverty and labor with the ease and wealth of their employers.

The more thrifty and less liberal owners, who remained the greater part of the year on their
estates, were perhaps more respected but still less liked. Any attempt at careful management
of the estate was invariably considered to be a sign of stinginess or of hardheartedness. The
idea of property is not clearly defined in the mind of the average peasant who considers plants
that are not planted but grow wild to be a gift of God. In disputes involving such cases the
line between rightful possession and theft is difficult to draw, and men who took the controversy
to court were invariably hated. A glaring example of this kind was an otherwise liberal minded
landowner, a well known professor of sociology, who spent three-quarters of a year in lecturing
at a foreign university of which he was a member and who was finally murdered on his own estate.

The home life of even liberal intellectuals was another barrier between them and the masses.
Not only was coarse food considered to be good enough for domestics, but they seldom, if ever,
had a decent corner for themselves in the house and their miserable wages were out of all proportion
with the long hours of service required. Many families had guests almost daily, the company
sitting around a samovar, discussing and conversing until one or two in the morning, while
the sleepy domestics were stealing a nap in the anteroom, ready to appear at the call of the
mistress. The table had to be cleared after the guests and the family retired for the night
and the breakfast had to be prepared, boots polished, stoves heated, rooms cleaned in the early
morning. For the master might rest until ten or eleven, but the children have to be at school
by eight and the servants must be ready to serve them. And though many families kept professional
servants, the country homes depended almost entirely in winter as well as in summer on local help.

Attempts to improve the condition of peasants were numerous and in some respects successful,
but found an obstacle on the one hand in the attitude of the Government and on the other in
the conservatism and suspicion of the peasants themselves. Fire insurance and cooperative enterprises
helped to a certain degree, but an almost complete absence of expert agriculturists in the
ranks of the landowners prevented them from demonstrating on their own estates the value of
applied knowledge as well as from teaching the peasants how to increase the productivity of
the land through intensive farming. Thus it came to pass that the vast majority of landowners,
both conservative and liberal, remained strangers to the people among whom they lived, whose
labor they employed, and for whose welfare many were in earnest concerned. The Constitutional
Democratic party is strong in the cities. In the country it has no followers and in the sweeping
incendiary fires of 1905-06 estates were burned which belonged in several cases to men who
spent their life in fighting for freedom against the tsar's government.

No less unfortunate is the party in its relation to the class of factory workers. That part
of its program which relates to the labor question embraces a number of important reforms meeting
almost all demands of the working class. The barrier between them is the capitalistic principle.
A perusal of the lists of Constitutional Democrats who have subscribed large sums for the Russian
liberty loan will show why workmen speak of them as capitalists even though the party has accepted
the principle of progressive income taxation. There is a feeling of intense hatred toward all
Constitutional Democrats on the part of all workmen.

Nothing is more instructive than the rapid change in the position which the Constitutional
Democratic party occupied in the eyes of the people after the revolution. Before the outbreak
of hostilities all parties were against war. But soon, under the influence of the German methods
of warfare in Belgium, France, and Russia, the feeling changed. Even the Mensheviki among the
Social-Democrats declared themselves in favor of war and the only party remaining firm in condemning
all war was that of the Bolsheviki. The entrance of the Turks into the war was almost considered
a godsend by the Constitutional Democrats, Octoberists, and Conservatives in the Duma because
it cleared the way for a final settlement of the Balkan problem and promised the elimination
of Turkey from Europe. Long after Sazonov was removed, when the consent of England and France
to give Russia free hand in Constantinople and the Straits was read in a telegram before the
Duma, a general outburst of enthusiasm took place, the members demanding to know why Sazonov,
who was justly credited with this achievement, was in retirement and not in charge of the foreign
office which he should have held by right. Miliukov's speeches and writings on the future settlement
of the Balkan problem were jokingly spoken of as his dissertation for the degree of foreign
secretary. At home the party was pursuing a policy of patient endurance, postponing strife
for the future until the crimes of the tsar's government made further silence impossible. At
that time the whole tissue of treason was not yet known, but enough was in evidence to demand
vigorous protest. Not being a revolutionary party the Constitutional Democrats abstained from
any action not strictly within the law and merely condemned the activity of the Government.
They desired amelioration of the fundamental laws, but even that they would have preferred
to accomplish by persuasion rather than by force. In fact they considered socialist demands
unreasonable, socialization of Russia premature, and any violent overthrow unwise and hazardous.
For the latter opinion they found support in the failure of the uprising of the working class
in 1905-06, when the punitive expeditions proved the loyalty of the army to the throne. Consequently
the attitude of the army in the memorable days of the March revolution was a great surprise
to them. At the same time they attributed to themselves the lion share in the overthrow, presumably
on the ground that masses follow leaders and the Constitutional \ Democrats were the only ones
who had a chance for open protest in the Duma and made use of it. This delusion led to a series
of tactical errors and cost them dearly. In all elections they polled a comparatively small
vote. Trying to save Russia for the Allies they failed to meet the Russian Socialists on their
own ground and were forced to explain away differences of opinion much too thoroughgoing to
be explained away. In a country which is in the throes of the most remarkable revolution ever
witnessed, they tried to apply non-revolutionary methods and drew on themselves the suspicion
of the masses of being counter-revolutionists. From the very moment when Miliukov announced
the passing of the supreme power from the Tsar to Grand Duke Michail, when his words were answered
by angry shouts in favor of a democratic republic, the position of the party became precarious.
They had either to revise their own program and to catch up with the rush of the progressive
current, or else to find themselves in the rôle of inundated rocks over which the waters flow.
The announcement that the party would support a demand for a republic was too late to change
the first impression, while the proposition to accept unconditional expropriation of land in
place of the compensation plan was defeated in heated debate at the party convention. Under
normal circumstances the party would have probably been steadily losing support, but the arrest
and imprisonment of the best and highly honored leaders by the Bolsheviki is bound to put fresh
vigor into their efforts and give new life to their cause.

The leaders of the Bolsheviki themselves have fallen into error of a different kind. Being
primarily a party of the wage earning day laborers, the program of the Bolsheviki puts the
interest of the proletariat above everything else. From insufficient observation of peasant
life and the fact that peasants want socialization of land, they jump to the conclusion that
the country is ready for complete socialization. Only the more educated leaders among them
realize that such a conclusion is premature. But to bring about the necessary change in as
near a future as possible, the leaders of the Bolsheviki have fanned hatred of the proletariat
toward the "bourgeois" classes. One must give them credit in this respect. They know the value
of simple language when they put this hatred into words. Listen to the Russian Marseillaise:
"Rise, brothers, all at once against the thieves, the curs--the rich ones! Against the vampire
Tsar! Beat them, kill them--the cursed evil-doers! Glow, dawn of better life!" The simple ideology,
the easy catch phrases in which the language of this ideology is couched, the primeval character
of the passion aroused, contribute to the success which the party enjoys among working people
and homeless paupers. Therein lies the power of the Bolsheviki. But reaction is bound to come
and here again the peasants will play the chief rôle. All accounts of conversations with peasants
tend to show that they have very vague ideas of socialism. In fact the Social-Democrats have
not taken the trouble to acquaint the peasants with the principles of their teaching, leaving
that field almost entirely to the influence of socialist-revolutionists.

Among the intellectuals none have come nearer to the understanding of peasant psychology than
those men and women who from the first espoused the cause of the peasant. Realizing the space
separating educated men from their less fortunate brothers, they gave up their life as intellectuals
and "went among the people." They donned peasant garb and acquired peasant tongue. From this
group of workers for freedom later the Socialist-revolutionary party developed. "All land for
the peasant" is their slogan, while their promise to expropriate all land without any compensation
naturally meets with approval on the part of the land-hungry peasants. Moreover, their program
does not demand immediate complete socialization of Russia, leaving that to a gradual process
of evolution and change of existing conditions. In the ten years preceding the first revolution
thousands of young intellectuals joined the party and fought the tsar's regime. They showed
a degree of self-abnegation found only in people whose heart is kindled with the true spirit
of devotion to a great cause. The revolution of 1905 would never have taken place but for their
organized "terror from below." The high regard held for them by the widest circles has caused
their rise in power during the first two months of the revolution of 1917. But tactical errors
committed by the leaders of the party as well as dissensions within the party itself contributed
to a rather rapid change of sentiment toward them on all sides. In a measure as the Constitutional
Democrats vigorously objected to their policy to put into life as soon as possible the agrarian
reforms promised by them, the Social-Democrats on their part attacked them for their moderation
in other demands. For some reason not yet clear, Kerensky was slighted in the very beginning
of his political career when his nomination to the executive council of the Socialist-revolutionist
party was opposed by a large majority. Just as the Constitutional Democrats made a series of
tactical errors due to the fact that they thought themselves representative of the spirit of
the Russian people, whereas in reality they stood sponsors only for a relatively small minority,
even so the Socialist-revolutionists misjudged the attitude of other parties toward themselves.
They overrated the ability of the masses to distinguish between their attitude toward war in
general and the necessity to continue the present war. They overrated the ability of the soldiers
to distinguish between slavish obedience and military discipline. They tried to play the rôle
of a center. They tried to mediate between Social-Democrats and Constitutional Democrats and
naturally failed in this attempt. Some of their leaders, notably Mr. Tschernov, were accused
by Constitutional Democrats of being pro-German if not actual German agents. Others, including
Kerensky himself and even Mme. Breshkovsky, were accused by the Bolsheviki of having been almost
bribed by the capitalistic interests of America, England, and France. Needless to say that
the accusations had no basis whatever in actual facts and represent simply an ugly outgrowth
of misguided jealousy of the masses to guard their dearly won right to a social revolution
against those whom they consider the worst enemies of socialism, and the desire of unscrupulous
leaders to profit by it. Thus the Socialist-revolutionists were gradually relegated in the
mind of the extremists to the great body of the hated "bourgeois." Only in their rightful element,
among the peasants, they continue to enjoy a great deal of popularity, and the returns to the
Constituent Assembly show that theirs will be the absolute majority even though they lost some
of their popularity.

The progress of the Russian Revolution presents a sad spectacle of an almost complete failure
on the part of the majority of intellectuals to understand the spirit of the times and to guide
the masses through the labyrinth of errors. In days past the Russian intellectuals were the
forefighters for freedom and the Russian people will ever be indebted to them for this. They
prepared the soil for the revolution by spreading ideas of freedom by all means at their disposal.
They weakened the tsar's power and thus contributed to its overthrow by persistent attacks
upon the system of autocratic government. They helped to awaken the spirit of self-consciousness
in the masses. But they did not evolve new principles. They did not open wide avenues for the
development of a new order of social organization. They misunderstood the masses and consequently
were unable to control the forces set loose. And if Russia is going to be saved from utter
ruin amidst the clamor and strife of party leaders and to evolve a new democratic system, it
will be due not to the intellectuals, but to the great spirit of the dark masses of the Russian
peasants.

FORCES BEHIND THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION FORCES BEHIND THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION

By Samuel N. Harper

One was struck by the remarkable unity that characterized the short first period of the Russian
Revolution of last March. One knew, however, that there were two distinct sets of forces behind
the movement, operating through two kinds of organizations. There were first the already existing
and parliamentary institutions which had become revolutionary in spirit and methods of action.
On the other hand there were the institutions produced by the revolution itself, emerging from
the chaos in the midst of which the other, already functioning bodies, were trying to take
a new and directing line. The most prominent of the first type of institution was the Duma,
the legislative parliament of the old regime, and of the second type, the Petrograd Council
of Workmen's and Soldiers' Deputies.

The Duma, however, was only one of several legal institutions that had developed under the
old regime, and represented the first stages of parliamentary, popular government. There were
the local provincial and municipal councils, and also the officially recognized war-industry
committees, which had come to have semi-governmental functions. Finally one could bring under
this category, with a little forcing, the cooperative societies, which had assumed enormous
importance during the two and a half years of war.

In these institutions we had self-government, and participation in public affairs, and also
the idea of cooperation between the various classes and political tendencies--the idea of coalition.
The election law of the Duma provided for the representation of all group interests of the
community, and representation by an actual member of the group, by a bona fide peasant in the
case of the peasantry. The seats in the assembly were distributed specifically to landlords,
manufacturers, the smaller bourgeoisie, workmen, and peasants. The election law of the local
government bodies made similar provision for group representation. On the war-industry committees,
the workmen had elected representatives, sitting with the representatives of the manufacturers
and owners. In the coöperative movement the bourgeois-intellectual element had taken the initiative,
but had always emphasized the direct participation of the workmen and peasants in the actual
management of the societies, as the theory of the movement demanded.

Thus the broader democratic classes of the country, the workmen and peasants, were represented
in the somewhat popular institutions that had developed under the old regime. But the actual
control was in the hands of the less democratic elements--the landlords, the manufacturers,
men of the liberal professions, and of the so-called Intelligentsia class. Most of these men
were of liberal and democratic tendencies, but they were in actual fact, as compared with the
broader masses, of the privileged classes. They had emphasized always the essentially democratic
character of the activity of the institutions in which they were the leaders. They put particular
stress on the fact that the activities of the local provincial councils, for example, were
directed mainly toward the amelioration of conditions of life among the peasantry. But the
fact that the control over these institutions, even in the cooperative movement (so far as
independent control was allowed by the bureaucracy of the old regime), was secured to the less
democratic elements of the community, did contradict the idea of coalition, of the bringing
together of all interests and forces. These institutions had been permitted to exist and develop
only because they were controlled by the more conservative groups. The cooperative societies
represented more truly the idea of coalition. Here in the cooperative movement the leaders
of political liberalism had always noted with relief that one was gradually attaining the end
toward which they knew they must work--the organic union between the so-called Intelligentsia,
and the "people," meaning the broader, democratic classes.

When the anarchy resulting from the incompetence, stupidity and perhaps treason of the old
bureaucracy reached such an acute stage in the first weeks of March that the leaders of the
Russian public saw that some action must be taken by some one, it was the Duma that assumed
the initiative, acting in a revolutionary manner, through an executive committee. The municipal
and provincial councils, organized in unions for war-work, and the war-industry committees,
turned without delay to the revolutionary parliament, in which many of their leading workers
were members. The leaders of the coöperative movement could not act with such rapidity and
precision. They had not been permitted to organize a central committee, to coordinate the work
of the thousands of small and scattered societies. These first leaders of the revolution felt
justified in taking the initiative because they alone were organized. Also they thought they
could speak in the name of all classes, including the most democratic, because the institutions
through which they acted did include representatives of all classes. To emphasize its special
anxiety that the more democratic groups feel their direct participation in the movement of
which it had taken the leadership, the Executive Committee of the Duma not only accepted but
encouraged the development of the revolutionary institutions of the second category, of which
the first to emerge was the Petrograd Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Deputies.

This Council was organized during the very first days of the revolution; it was in fact the
resurrection of a revolutionary body of the 1905 revolution. The Duma invited the Council to
share its own convenient quarters. Perhaps the invitation was an afterthought, for the workmen
and soldiers of Petrograd in revolt had gravitated toward the Duma, had calmly entered and
taken possession of the large corridors of the palace. The Council was a strictly revolutionary,
and a very democratic body, composed of directly elected delegates from the factories and garrison
regiments of Petrograd. It immediately became the organizing center for what came to be called
the "revolutionary democracy," as opposed to the "bourgeoisie."

The Executive Committee of the Duma consulted with the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Deputies
on the composition of the proposed Provisional Government, and on the political program to
be announced. For as we saw, it was the first thought of these leaders to secure unity of action.
They recognized that the Council did in fact represent "revolutionary democracy," at least
of Petrograd. As the workmen and soldiers of Petrograd were completely out of hand, armed and
fighting on the streets, arresting officers, ministers and police, and showing a tendency to
start general and anarchic pillaging, the Duma leaders saw a restraining authority in the Council
of these same workmen and soldiers. They therefore either did not wish, or did not dare, to
object at the time to the famous order No. 1 to the garrison of Petrograd, issued by the Council,
and not by the Executive Committee of the Duma. Many have claimed that this particular order,
which was extended to the front, was responsible for the later demoralization of the whole
Russian army. Others, the leaders of revolutionary democracy, have insisted that this order
prevented the immediate and complete collapse of the whole army.

In preparing the slate for the new government, the Executive Committee of the Duma selected
one of the presiding officers of the Council, Kerensky. When Miliukov, the Duma leader, announced
the composition of the new provisional government to the crowd, composed largely of workmen
and soldiers gathered in the main corridors of the Duma, he emphasized the cooperation between
Duma and Council, the consent of Kerensky to enter the government, and also the fact that most
of the members of the new government had worked in and through institutions, in which peasants
and workmen also had been represented.

Though the word "coalition" was not used during the first weeks of the revolution, one had
constantly in mind the idea of "bringing together all the vital forces of the country." In
this last expression I quote one of the first and most emphasized slogans of the revolution.
But the problem proved most difficult, complicated by the fact that one had to solve at one
and the same time two most stupendous tasks. One had to consolidate the conquests of the revolution,
and also prosecute the war. The prosecution of the war required the acceptance of a strong
authority, vested in the Provisional Government. But naturally the first aim of the revolution
was to extend its ideas to the rest of the country, for the actual overthrow of the old order
had been largely the work of Petrograd. The two tasks were closely associated with one another,
because one could not reorganize the country for the war until the new ideas had taken root.

The first parliamentary leaders wished to use as the basis for carrying out both tasks the
old institutions, the municipal and provincial councils, and the coöperative societies, at
the same time taking steps gradually to democratize them. But the strictly revolutionary leaders
wished to democratize immediately, and put this forward as the first object to be accomplished.
So they demanded and promoted the organizing of revolutionary democracy all over the country,
through councils of workmen, soldiers, and peasants, through army committees, land committees,
professional unions, and so forth. The champions of this immediate democratization policy were
almost exclusively members of the various socialist parties, some of them representing the
most extreme views. The majority of them were not consciously striving to undermine the authority
of the Provisional Government. They recognized and in fact advocated the compromise represented
in the first group of leaders. They trusted most of them, but wished at the same time to organize
revolutionary democracy, for self-protection for the moment, and perhaps for self-assertion
at a later date. But a minority of the socialist leaders did not take this constructive line.
From the very start they professed to distrust the first Provisional Government, for they did
not believe in "coalition"--the co-operation between the various group interests of the community.
Their theory was that of class struggle; they proclaimed this to be their aim, and worked to
give to the revolution this character. Though a minority, they were a very active and energetic
group, and tended to give the tone in the meetings and resolutions of revolutionary democracy,
thus dulling the spirit of cooperation, which characterized the first period of the revolution.

The extremists wished a social revolution, "permanent revolution," class struggle, and they
agitated openly and with energy. The workmen and soldiers of Petrograd had borne the brunt
of the physical side of the revolution. Only workmen and soldiers had been killed fighting
for the revolution during that first week. These particular groups were therefore proclaimed
the "pride and flower of the revolution," and told that they must establish the dictatorship
of the proletariat, thus consolidating the conquests of the revolution, which should not be
allowed to remain a mere bourgeois affair.

The moderate, constructive socialists did not accept this extreme view, but they nevertheless
recognized the need for an effective organization of revolutionary democracy all over the country,
to ensure the adoption of truly democratic policies. So they also set about to strengthen and
extend the councils and committees that had emerged with the revolution, coordinating them
in conferences and formal congresses. Much of the activity along these lines was in fact of
a constructive character. But class and party considerations were always in the foreground
at all these congresses. Also the constructive socialists did not accept the idea of a formal
coalition at the beginning. They did not participate as organizations in the first government.
Kerensky was a socialist, but he entered the first government as a member of the Duma, and
not as the representative of the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Deputies.

The resolution of a conference of the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Deputies, called during
the fourth week of the revolution, summarizes the attitude of revolutionary democracy toward
the problem of the moment. The full text of the resolution, given in a literal translation
to preserve as far as possible the style of the original, is an interesting document:

"Whereas the Provisional Government, that was brought into power by the overthrow of the autocracy,
represents the interests of the liberal and democratic bourgeoisie, but shows a tendency to
follow the right line, in the declaration published by it in agreement with the representatives
of the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Deputies, therefore the all-Russian Conference of
Councils of Workmen's and Soldiers' Deputies, while insisting on the need of constant pressure
being brought to bear on the Provisional Government to arouse it to the most energetic struggle
with the counter-revolutionary forces, and to decisive measures in the direction of an immediate
democratization of the entire Russian life, nevertheless recognizes that political expediency
dictates support of the Provisional Government by the Council of Workmen's and Soldiers' Deputies
so long as the Provisional Government, in agreement with the Council, moves inflexibly toward
the consolidation of the conquests of the revolution and the extension of these conquests."

The expression "so long as," emphasized in the translation of the resolution, has been one
of the most far-reaching of the formulae produced by the revolution. Around this phrase has
centered the struggle of these last months. The extremists decided from the very start that
the condition had not been fulfilled. The more moderate socialists took an attitude of constant
watchfulness, and latent distrust.

