Taken by complete surprise by this rapid and unexpected movement of the assailants, now bursting
upon them with cocked and levelled rifles, the dismayed tories, at first, made no attempts
at escape or resistance; while part of then threw down their half-loaded guns, and stepped
out from their coverts.

"Surrender at discretion, or take the consequence!" sternly cried Woodburn, pausing within
twenty yards of the tory leader.

"We are in your power, sir, I suppose," replied Peters evasively, and in a tone of affected
submission, as, avoiding the burning gaze of the other, he threw a significant glance to the
tory who had reserved his charge at the fruitless fire just made by the rest of his party.

In an instant, the gun of the latter, who still stood behind a tree shielding him, as he supposed,
from the other Rangers, was levelled at Woodburn, whose attention was too intently fixed on
his chief foe to notice the movement. But before the finger of the assassin was permitted to
tighten on the trigger, a bullet from the unerring rifle of the watchful Dunning had pierced
his brain, and his gun, as he fell over backwards, exploded harmlessly into the air. Three
of the tories, however, taking advantage of the momentary confusion occasioned by the noise
and smoke of the guns, made a desperate spring for the surrounding thickets and succeeded in
breaking through the line of their assailants, three of whom instantly gave chase, leaving
Woodburn to cope alone with the rival foe, whom he had vainly sought through the day to confront
in battle. Peters threw a quick, furtive glance around him; and, for an instant, seemed hesitating
whether he should attempt to follow the example of the rest of his band; but another glance
at the watchful and menacing eye of his opponent gleaming at him over the barrel of the deadly
rifle, taught the folly of any such attempt, and, throwing down his weapons, he said,--

"I yield myself a prisoner of war, sir."

"A prisoner of war!" exclaimed Woodburn, repeating the words of the other, in a tone of bitter
scorn. "After signifying your submission, and then instigating an attempt to shoot me, you
hope to be received as a prisoner of war, do you? Villain!" he added, advancing and presenting
the muzzle of his piece within a yard of the other's breast--"villain, your last claim to mercy
is forfeited!"

"You would not slay an unarmed man, and a prisoner, would you?" said Peters, recoiling, and
casting an uneasy glance at his opponent.

"Yes," replied the former, with increasing sternness, "if, like you, in defiance of all the
rules of war as well as honor, he would do the same to me the first moment he had it in his
power. No submission shields the life of an outlaw from any one disposed to take it. But you
shall have one minute for uttering your last request, if you have any such to make."

Being now thoroughly alarmed by the words, as well as the demeanor of his incensed captor,
the once haughty loyalist fell on his knees, and humbly besought the other to spare his life.

"Live, then, wretch!" said Woodburn, at length moved to both pity and contempt by the entreaties
and abject manner of the former--"live then, if you choose it, to be dealt with as a traitor
and a spy, by men who will award you your deserts with more coolness, doubtless, than I should
have done, but with no less certainty."

"O, spare me from that," pleaded the abased supplicant, with redoubled earnestness. "Kill me
on the spot, if you will; but spare me from that fate. Allow me to be delivered up as a prisoner
of war, and I will consent to any thing--yield any thing you wish. I will ensure you, by my
influence at the British camp, any advantage in a future exchange of prisoners you may ask;
and----"

"Peace! miserable craven!" interrupted Woodburn. "I could promise you no exemption, if I would,
from a punishment which our exasperated people will justly say you have brought upon your own
head."

"And I will also," resumed Peters, encouraged by the somewhat softened tone, and slightly hesitating
manner of the other--"I will also relinquish all claims, and forego all interference, in matters
that may have stood in the way of your private interests and wishes."

"I will make no pledges, nor grant, nor receive any terms, at your dictation, sir," said the
former, haughtily.

"I will trust to your magnanimity to a fallen foe," then, rejoined Peters, rightly appreciating,
for once, the character of his conqueror. "Here, take this," he continued, drawing a carefully-preserved
document from his pocket, and extending it towards the other--"take it, and deliver it to the
one whom it most concerns. Tell her it was voluntarily relinquished, and that I will trouble
her no more."

As small as was the measure of credit which Woodburn's judgment told him should be accorded
to the motives prompting this unexpected course in his old enemy, it nevertheless quickly banished
every vindictive feeling from his generous bosom; and after a momentary hesitation, he took
the proffered document, glanced at its contents, and silently deposited it among his other
papers. But soon growing jealous of himself lest he should compromit the policy which his superiors
might deem it just and wise, under the sanction of the stern rules of war, to enforce, he restrained
himself from making any immediate reply. And, the next moment, he was relieved from what apparent
necessity there might be for so doing, by the approach of the first of the returning Rangers.

"Where is your prisoner, Piper?" he asked, turning to the latter, now coming up.

"He would not be taken alive, sir; and the order was to let none escape in that condition,"
replied the broad-chested subaltern with a significant look.

"In order, then, that you go not home empty-handed," rejoined Woodburn, "I will give you charge
of my prisoner, Colonel Peters here, whom you will conduct to Bennington Meeting-House, whither
the prisoners of the day were ordered, and whence you will deliver him to the officer in command
as a prisoner of war--at least for the present; for any doubt that may arise about his final
disposal can be settled hereafter."

"Der well, captain," exclaimed Dunning, whose tall, gaunt form, in the rear of his prisoner,
the infamous David Redding, whom it had been his lot to capture, was now seen emerging from
a thicket near by--"here is one, about whom we shan't be bothered with der doubts, a great
while, if his captor can have his say."

"Aha!--but what is your say about him, sergeant?" said Woodburn, smiling.

"Der well," replied the other, "I say, if the ditter devil don't take him from a traitor's
gallows, then we may just as well have no devil."

"I shall not be the one to gainsay you in that, sergeant," responded Woodburn. "But hark! what
is the uproar yonder?" he added, pointing out into the woods in a direction from whence the
sound of an occasional stiff whack! followed by groans, curses, and calls for protection, were
now heard to issue.

On turning their eyes towards the spot, the company beheld Bart, with his rifle in one hand,
and a long beechen switch in the other, driving in before him the whilom constable, Fitch,
who was chafing, like a chained bear, under the lash which his catechizing captor was administering
every few yards on the way.

"Why are you so rough with him, Bart?" expostulated Woodburn, as they came up.

"Well, captain, I have a reasonable wherefore for it--may be," answered the former, gravely.

"What is it?" asked the other.

"Why," replied the imperturbable Bart, "perhaps I don't remember, and perhaps I do, how a chap
of about my size sat sweating near two cool hours, at the sight of an ugly-looking bunch of
beech rods, that a certain constable had ordered for his back. And as 'twas no fault of his
that the matter wasn't carried out at the time, and, as I always thought there was a mistake
made as to the one whose back ought to take it, I felt rather bound to have the order executed
now, and in a manner to set all to rights between us."

"Well, well, boys," said Woodburn, with a good-humored smile, "you must all be indulged in
your notions, I suppose, at such a glorious hour as this. But you may now be moving on with
your prisoners to the field, and thence by the road to Bennington. Business calls me there
by a nearer route, and at a quicker pace. You shall find good cheer awaiting your arrival."

So saying, he struck off rapidly from the rest, and soon disappeared in the forest.

CHAPTER XV.

  "Sing it where forests wave,--
     From mountain to the sea,
   And o'er each hero's grave,--
     Sing, sing, the land is free."

It was evening; and all that met the eye was joy and animation in the little village of Bennington,
in which, not only the great body of the opposing armies, either as conquerors or prisoners,
but the best portion of the patriotism, wisdom, and beauty of young Vermont, were now congregated.
There her statesmen and sages--many of whom had mingled in the strife of the day--were gathered
to rejoice over a result which their own heads, and hearts, and hands, through the anxious
days and nights of the preceding month, had been unceasingly engaged in securing for their
country and their homes. There, too, the old men and striplings, drawn from all the neighboring
settlements by the ominous sounds which had reached them from the distant battlefield, and
there the maids and matrons, whose solicitude for the near and dear ones, supposed to be engaged
in the conflict, would not permit them to stay behind, were all found mingling with the victors,
and participating in their exultations. Bright lights were streaming from every window, or
dancing in every direction in the streets; while the smiling faces and animated voices, everywhere
seen and heard among the commingling throng, seemed to tell only of a scene of universal joy
and triumph. But as joyous and lively as was the scene, in its predominating features, it was
yet not without its painful contrasts. The broken sob, or the low wail of sorrow, was heard
rising sadly on the night air, in every interval that occurred in the more boisterous but irrepressible
manifestations which characterized the hour. And, even in the same dwellings, these two contrasted
phases in war's exciting but melancholy picture were not unfrequently presented; for, while
in one room might be heard the notes of joy and exultation, in another might be distinguished
the stifled groan of some wounded soldier, or the lamentations of the bereaved over the body
of a slain relative.

Among the most noted of the class last mentioned was the late residence of Esquire Haviland,
situated in the outskirts of the village, and recently occupied as the quarters of the officers
of the Rangers, on the invitation of the patriotic but singular and mysterious man, who, at
its sale by the commissioners of confiscation, had purchased the establishment, among several
others of a valuable description thus sold in this section of the country. To this residence,
the scene of a former portion of our story, we will now once more, and for the last time, repair.

While in one part of the building the officers just named, with other distinguished persons,
were engaged in discussing the incidents of the day, in another and more retired apartment,
on a pillowed couch, lay the wounded Father Herriot, who, having been stricken down in the
last moments of the battle, as before intimated, had been borne hither to complete the willing
sacrifice he had made of his life to the cause of his country. On a small table, within his
reach, lay several documents, which were fresh from the hand of that ready writer, the accomplished
secretary of the Council of Safety, who had just left the apartment. And around his bedside
stood those in whom all his private interests and sympathies had been for some time secretly
concentrated, though to two of them personally unknown till a few hours before, when he had
beer brought in wounded and committed to their care. Those persons were Henry Woodburn, Bart
Burt, Sabrey Haviland, and Vine Howard, who, ignorant of his particular wishes or intentions,
and wondering why the presence of all of them should be desired at the same time, had been
summoned to his bedside to hear his last communication and receive his blessing.

"My prayer is answered," said Herriot, after looking round affectionately a while upon his
expectant auditors, who, at his request, after the room was cleared of other company, had advanced
to his bedside. "My last prayer has been to be permitted to see all of you, in whose personal
welfare I have been led to take a peculiar interest, assembled before me while life and reason
remained, so that I could commune with you; and the prayer has been graciously answered. Still,
when, at the close of our first, and, as we all then supposed, final triumph to-day, Miss Haviland,
with her friend, at my request, was conveyed here to her former home, of which I had become
the purchaser, I then thought to have met you all here this evening under circumstances in
which I could have actively shared with you in the rejoicings that our victory so naturally
calls forth, as well as in the happiness, which, as far as regards you, I believed I could
superadd by my own acts. But He who holds the fate of individuals, as well as that of armies,
in his hands, has seen fit to deny me such participation; and He doeth all things well."

"Your wound is not necessarily a mortal one, Father Herriot and I trust you may yet live to
enjoy the fruits of a victory you have contributed so much by your bravery to win," observed
Woodburn, feelingly.

"That may not be. I feel the destroyer busily at work here, undermining the citadel," responded
the other, placing his hand on that part of his chest where the bullet had entered. "But I
regret not having made the poor sacrifice of my life for so righteous a cause. And though I
shall not live to see the happiness I would be the means of imparting, yet the wish and the
duty of doing what I proposed to that end remains to be fulfilled, and for this purpose I have
requested your presence."

The speaker here paused, as if at a loss how he should open the subject which seemed to rest
on his mind. But at length he resumed:--

"Miss Haviland, what you have done and suffered for the cause, in which you so nobly took your
stand, is known to many. The part you have acted in the events of this day is known to still
more; but have not those events had a bearing on your happiness beyond what would arise from
the bare liberation of your person?"

"They have, sir," replied the maiden, frankly, but with an air of surprise at the unexpected
question.

"And have I been correctly informed, by the person who has just left us, and who has long been
my confidential friend and adviser, that, by the relinquishment of a certain contract, you
are now left free to bestow your hand on one whose character and feelings may be more congenial
with your own?"

"Why am I questioned in so unusual a manner, and by one so much a stranger?" asked the former,
in a half-remonstrating, half-beseeching tone.

"I knew," rejoined the other, "that you, as well as the rest of those present, might, at first,
wonder why and how I should have kept myself apprised, as I confess I have long done, of all
that concerned the individual interests, and even inclinations, as far as could be conjectured,
of each of you. And I know, also, that my ways are not like those of other men. But cannot
you trust to the motives of a dying man, and let him proceed in his own manner?"

"I can--I will, Father Herriot," answered Sabrey, touched by the appeal. "And I will not affect
to misunderstand you. I have been freed from fetters under which I have suffered--perhaps unnecessarily--both
persecution and embarrassment of feeling. And I am thankful," she continued, throwing a grateful
glance to Woodburn--"greatly thankful for that generous forbearance by which this was effected
without bloodshed. Yes, I am free, doubly free; but whoever takes me," she added, slightly
coloring, "must now receive a penniless bride."

"Perhaps not," said Herriot, musingly--"perhaps not. But I did not mean to be understood as
imposing any conditions to the act I was about to perform, after ascertaining your entire deliverance
from the power and supposed claims of one whom I deem a bad man, as well as a foe to his country.
Here, deserving girl," he continued, taking up one of the documents from the table and extending
it towards her, "here is a deed of gift, from me to you, of all this, which was your father's
estate. Take it; it is freely given and worthily bestowed."

Surprise at an act as unexpected as it was munificent, kept all mute for some seconds; when
Sabrey, whose sensibilities were too deeply moved to permit her to speak, threw upon the donor
a look which her grateful emotions made more eloquent than any language she could have summoned
for a reply; and then, turning, she silently extended her hand to Woodburn, with the deed still
laying across the open palm.

"Which?--the hand or the paper?" asked the latter, in a low tone, and with a slightly apprehensive
air.

"Either, or both," replied the maiden, as a blush stole over her conscious cheek.

"The hand, then," exclaimed the delighted lover, grasping the coveted prize, and bearing it
in triumph to his lips.

"It is all right; but no words," said Herriot, making a motion for silence to Woodburn, who
was about to address him--"no words. I have much to say--let me proceed. Bart," he continued,
after a thoughtful pause, as he turned to the young man who had stood mutely noting the proceedings
with a puzzled look--"Bart, do you remember the old Rose Homestead, which was confiscated,
and also purchased by me?"

"Well, yes," replied Bart, looking up with an inquiring, doubtful expression--"yes, for as
many as two several reasons, or more," he added, with one glance to Woodburn, and another,
and more significant one, to Vine, who was standing demurely at his side.

"Would you like it for your own?" asked the former.

"My own!" exclaimed Bart, casting an incredulous but searching look at the other's countenance,
in which, however, he read something that at once changed his demeanor; and, in a softened
and respectful tone, he replied to the question, "Yes, Father Herriot, as soon as the smell
of toryism got fairly out of it, I would like it grandly, that's a fact."

"It is yours, then, as this deed will show," said Herriot, handing to the surprised and hesitating
young man the instrument in question; "it is yours; but have you no one to share it with you?"

"Well, don't know exactly, but may be the chap that helped me fix up my spy disguises, and
gave me so many good hints for ferreting out the tories, won't object much to that, seeing
we have had considerably the start of the captain and his lady here, in the way of finished
bargains," replied Bart, turning, with an expression of droll gravity, to the blooming girl
at his side, who, thereupon, with an arch and blushful smile, placed her hand in his, which
had been extended to receive it.

"Who are you, Father Herriot?" exclaimed the now completely surprised Woodburn; "who are you,
to take such an interest in us, and bestow on us gifts so valuable, with so little hope, as
you can have, of any adequate return?"

"Listen, and you shall be answered," replied Herriot; "for the time has now arrived when you
all should know the relation in which we stand to each other; and I know not but I have already
delayed the disclosure of this fact too long. Perhaps I should have made it, as I had nearly
done, when, at the breaking out of the war, you and Bart visited my hermit cabin in the vicinity
of the Connecticut. But when I found you about to embark in the cause of liberty, for which
I stood ready to make any sacrifice, I concluded to defer it, lest the discovery, which I had
but then just made myself, should turn you from a service that I thought none were at liberty
to withhold. I therefore, after communicating to you enough to lead you, in case of my death,
to all the knowledge I wished you to obtain, encouraged you on your way. And it has all, doubtless,
been for the best; for who knows but your individual exertions were needed to turn the scale
which has been so long trembling at equipoise? But the events of this day," continued the patriot,
kindling at the thought--"the events of this day, which will be memorable through all, time,
have turned that scale in favor of American freedom. I read it with a prophetic eye, which
is made for me too clear for error or misconception. Our avenging armies will henceforth go
on conquering and to conquer, till the last vestige of British usurpation is swept from the land."

Here the speaker paused a while to recover from his exhaustion, and indulge his mental vision,
apparently, with the enrapturing glimpses he was catching of the future destiny of his country.
But soon arousing himself from his reverie, he resumed,--

"Harry Woodburn, you had once a paternal uncle?"

"I have been told so," was the reply.

"Who, by his folly and wickedness, disgraced himself and ruined your father," proceeded the former.

"I had such an uncle," responded Woodburn, with an expression of gathering interest and surprise;
"or, rather, I had an uncle, who, though not a bad man, was, I have understood, at one time,
a very indiscreet one; and, by his indiscretion, lost his own property, and deeply involved
that of my father. But I do not feel to condemn him as much as your words imply you expect
I should."

"Or as he has always condemned himself," rejoined Herriot, with an air of deep self-abasement.
"But I thank God for giving me the means, and the will, for making ample restitution to such
as remain of my injured brother's family, or of my own. Harry, I am that uncle. I am the erring
Charles Woodburn."

"I am surprised, deeply surprised," said the other; "for, attributing the interest you have
taken in me to other causes, I have, till within a few minutes, been totally unprepared for
such a revelation. And now it seems as if it could not be. You could not have much resembled
my father, and you bear another name."

"I did not strikingly resemble my more staid brother, in person or character," responded the
former, meekly; "and my reasons for assuming another name are explained by the circumstances
under which you first saw me, the accused of a revolting crime, of which, as I then declared,
I was never guilty. And this the wicked men, who combined against me, and hunted me out, even
in this new settlement, full well knew. But they knew, also, that I had somewhere at command
the large amount of money that had been left me by a wealthy and heirless gentleman, whom I
had previously rescued from death. Are you now satisfied that I am the man I claim to be, and,
as such, willing to acknowledge me?"

"Fully, now--not only satisfied of the identity, but willing, nay, proud to acknowledge the
relationship," said Woodburn, with warmth and rising emotion. "Nor is this all, my uncle, my
friend! The acts you have just performed will ever--"

"Enough, enough!" interrupted the former; "but let me go on. I have still another and more
humiliating duty to perform. Bart," he continued, turning, with an agitated countenance, to
the young man, "as forsaken and guideless as you have been, many a parent has had a less deserving
offspring. And had you not done more for yourself than he, who should have been your protector
and guide, has done for you, you had been less than nothing among men. But listen; for the
story of your origin, which, thus far, has been as a sealed book to you, must now be disclosed
Your father contracted a private, but legal marriage, with a woman, who, as the world falsely
esteemed it, was below him in station; and, in his pride, he refused to acknowledge her, and,
having squandered the property that should have been applied to her support, absconded from
the country. In after years, however, conscience drove him back, but only to find her dying
of destitution and a broken heart, and to learn from her last words that the offspring of their
connection, a male infant, had been thrown unacknowledged on the charity of the public. Aroused
by a new sense of duty, he diligently sought for the child--followed it from its first lodgment
to its next asylum in the city; from that to another in the country; and then, through various
shifts and wanderings, till the trace was lost far in the interior; when he gave up the search,
and again left the country. In the process of time, he once more returned to New England, in
altered circumstances, and located himself in this settlement, where he soon met with a youth,
whose countenance so strikingly resembled that of his deceased wife, as to put him instantly
on inquiry and research, which, in a few weeks, resulted in supplying the broken chain of evidence,
and in identifying the youth as his lost son. Bart, you were, and still are, that son. I was,
and still am, that father. Do I die, my much injured son, acknowledged and forgiven?"

The young man was too deeply affected by his surprise and emotion to utter a word in reply;
but tears, which all the wrongs and hardships he had endured had failed to wring from him,
now stole out on his sunburnt cheeks, testifying, not only his gratification at the discovery,
but that the slumbering fountain of a naturally generous nature was now effectually stirred
within his bosom. And the speaker, seeming satisfied with the answer which this evidence implied,
soon proceeded:--

"Little more now remains to be imparted. You remember, Harry, that at the visit at my cabin,
to which I have already alluded, I showed you two small casks, labelled 'Printers Type,' concealed
under a stone in the cellar?"

"I do; and the impression they caused of the absurdity of bringing that kind of property into
our new settlement," replied the other.

"They were so marked for greater security," resumed the former; "for they contained silver
coin, and, at that time, nearly all the property I possessed. Of these, one has been recently
appropriated to the purchase of confiscated estates, whenever a lack of money in others was
likely to prevent a sale at a fair value. The other remains in the same spot. And this, and
the rest of my property, except what I have just conveyed, and except, also, bequests of small
farms to Dunning and Piper, for their friendship to you, and faithfulness to the cause, you
will find, by my will here on the table, to be equally divided between you, my son and nephew.
And now," he added, in a faltering tone, and in accents of touching tenderness, "now, my children,
having said all I wished to communicate, I will commend you to our common Parent above. Kneel
and receive my blessing."

Hand in hand, and side by side, with the fair sharers of their gushing sympathies, the young
men now reverently knelt around the dying patriot, and bowed their faces beneath his outspread
hands to receive the proffered blessing, which was then pronounced with much fervor, but with
the last words he was destined ever to utter; for after waiting a while after he had ceased
to speak, the tearful group gently removed his hands from their heads, and arose to be greeted
by a face pale in death.

CONCLUSION.

On a summer afternoon, nearly a year after the occurrence of the events last described, there
was an unusual gathering in the village of Bennington. As early as one o'clock, multitudes
of people were seen pouring in by every road leading into the place from the surrounding country,
and filling up the streets with a promiscuous crowd of all ages, sexes, and conditions. And
as the hour of two approached, the commotion increased to a degree which plainly showed that
some crisis was at hand; and soon the dense throng, gathered in the vicinity of the Green Mountain
Tavern, then the principal place of public resort, broke away into groups and companies, and
began to flock towards a newly-erected gallows, standing, at no great distance, on the neighboring
common. Here arranging themselves, as they came up, in a circle round the ill-omened structure,
they assumed the attitude of spectators awaiting the advent of some promised spectacle.

Presently a clamor rose from the outer part of the crowd, as, with the exclamations, "There
comes the new Overseer of the Tories!" [Footnote: The Overseer of the Tories, an officer peculiar
to the times, and perhaps to the locality, was one to whom was intrusted the general surveillance
and control of that class of persons, to prevent them from communicating with the British,
and see that they did not pass over the limits of the farms, or town lines, within which, under
various penalties, they were doomed to remain, unless called out by such officer for some public
service, such as clearing out the highways, &c., to which they were held subject.] "There comes
Dunning and his gang of beauties!" They pointed to a column of some dozens of variously-clad,
dejected-looking men, headed by a well-armed officer in the continental uniform, just coming
round a corner into view, and advancing towards the spot.

"Der open there to the right and left!" cried the commander of this unique company, as he marched
them up to the crowd. "Make way for Mother Britain's ditter darlings! The coming sight is as
much for their der benefit as your ditter fun. There, halt!" he continued, bringing the submissive
creatures into their allotted place. "Now, the first one of you that attempts to sneak away
hem the sight, takes a der pistol bullet. So face the music without flinching. It will ditter
do you good."

Scarcely had this transpired before the crowd, whose attention, for the moment, was too much
engrossed to notice the approach of the principal procession, now close at hand, was again
thrown into commotion by the sound of a muffled drum, followed by the loud cry of, "Clear the
way for the prisoner and his escort!" in a voice whose well-known tones never fell unheeded
on the ears of a Green Mountain assemblage. With magic quickness, a clear space opened through
the ranks of the receding throng, in the direction of this fresh summons, when the first object
that met the eye was the towering form of Ethan Allen, mounted on a large black horse; he having
recently returned from his captivity, and been appointed, in the quaint language of his commission,
"to conduct, in behalf of the state, the trial and execution of that inimical person, David
Redding" [Footnote: David Redding, the only person ever executed in Vermont for political offences,
was, after changing two or three times from the American to the British cause, and two trials,
hanged July 17, 1777. at 2 o'clock, P. M.] Next to Allen came the prisoner, riding in an ox-cart,
and sitting between two armed men, who were acting as his special guards. Then followed a company
of soldiers, under the command of another of our old acquaintances Bill Piper, who had been
promoted to a captaincy in a volunteer service then recently projected; while the president,
secretary, and members of the Council of Safety, succeeded by a band of private citizens, brought
up the rear of the procession. On reaching its destination, the team was brought to a stand
immediately beneath the gallows, which was a naked cross-tree, set into the ground like a sign-post,
and wholly unprovided with platform, or other of the usual adjuncts of such structures. The
prisoner was then ordered to stand up in the cart, when the noose at the end of the rope, dangling
from the arm above, was securely adjusted round his neck, and every thing made ready for the
awful moment.

Ira Allen, having mounted some object at hand, then addressed the people in an eloquent exhortation
on the duty and policy of a faithful and unwavering adherence to the cause of the country,
which he enforced by giving a rapid sketch of the character and career of the wretched traitor
before them, as contrasted with those who had been true to that cause, and especially those
who had captured him.

"Of the four brave men," he said, in conclusion, "who, at such odds and risk, pursued and took
the prisoner and his party, on that glorious occasion, two are present, and in positions which
amply testify the high estimation that has been placed on their gallant conduct. The others,
the two Woodburns, who remained in the city, are--as I learn from letters I have recently seen
from them or their scarcely less heroic young wives, left to conduct the affairs of their respective
homes--now in New Jersey, acting under the eye of their beloved Washington, whose confidence
in them in their different spheres of action--one as the honored colonel of a regiment and
the other as the most trusty and adroit manager in the secret service--they consider their
sufficient reward, and one that was only wanting to crown that which, on the eve of our memorable
battle here, they received in their wives, and the wealth obtained through the romantic disclosures
of their dying relative, the lamented Father Herriot. And of the party taken alive by those
gallant men, the tory leader, Peters, was exchanged for several of our imprisoned officers,
and at a bargain which secured us advantages not to be obtained by stretching his worthless
neck; and he has retired into Canada, to sink into insignificance, despised and hated by those
whom his misrepresentations respecting the alleged easy conquest of our state so completely
deceived. Fitch, after having ransomed himself by the payment of all he could raise, offered
through his fear of a fate to which, after all, he probably would not have been condemned,
sneaked back to his old haunts in Guilford, where he perished miserably by the hand of one
whom former wrongs, committed in acts of official cruelty and extortion, had made desperate.
And the other, and last of the infamous trio, now stands before us, to make atonement for his
crimes by an ignominious death on the gallows."

When the speaker had concluded, the prisoner, after glancing around him, with that fitful,
furtive, and restless expression, which at all times so strongly marked his countenance, turned
to Ethan Allen, and meekly begged permission to address the multitude.

"Why--yes," hesitatingly replied the rough old hero, who had been sitting upon his horse, moodily
looking at his watch lying in his broad palm, and occasionally exhibiting signs of impatience
at the length of his more wordy young brother's remarks--"yes, it may be right enough, that
you should have your say unless you want to preach some more of your damnable tory doctrines
to the people. But be short, sir. Your hour is nearly up; and I do not intend that the earth
shall be polluted by your living presence one moment beyond the time.