In the domain of letters some startling developments are also threatened on similar lines.
Mr. WELLS, always remarkable for his refusal to commit himself to any finality in the formulation
of his opinions, has, it is said, decided to devote his talents in future exclusively to the
composition of educational works in words of one syllable, and where possible of three letters.
He is also contemplating a revised and simplified edition of his novels, beginning with Mr.
Brit Sees It Thro'. Mr. SHAW'S fresh start will be the greatest surprise of all. He intends
to go to Eton and Oxford, and, as a don, to combat the tide of Socialism at our older Universities.
Mr. BELLOC, it is reported, has re-enlisted in the French Artillery, and Mr. ARNOLD BENNETT
has accepted a commission in the Dutch mercantile marine.

The future of Mr. ASQUITH has given rise to a good deal of speculation in the Press, but we
are in a position to state that he does not intend to re-enter politics or to resume his practice
at the Bar, but has resolved to return to his first love--journalism. Sport is the only department
in which the ornate and orotund style of which Mr. ASQUITH is a master is still in vogue, and
the description of classic events in classical diction will furnish him with a congenial opening
for the exercise of his great literary talent.

The rumour that Mr. BALFOUR, on his retirement from the post of Foreign Secretary, will take
up the arduous duties of caddie-master at St. Andrew's is not yet fully confirmed. Meanwhile
he is known to be considering the alternative offer of the secretaryship to the Handel Society.
In this context it is interesting to hear that, according to a Rotterdam agency, Sir EDWARD
ELGAR has just completed a series of pieces for the mouth-organ, dedicated to Sir LEO CHIOZZA
MONEY, which will, it is hoped, be shortly heard in the luncheon interval at the Coal Commission.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A SPORTING CHANCE.

    DEAR ALEC,--Jolly glad to hear you're coming home. I beat
    you after all, though. I suppose I was looking particularly
    pivotal when I saw the D.O., because he let me through at
    once.

    Will you go back to the Governor's office?

    Yours ever, GARRY NORTON.

    DEAR GARRY,--Haven't the faintest; but before settling down
    I'm going to have a week or two, either sailing or fishing, so
    as to try to shed the army feeling, and I think you'd better
    come with me. I've saved no end of shekels, and I'm going to
    give old Cox a run for his money (the bit that's mine, I mean,
    that he's been keeping for me).

    If you can find a likely craft, mop her up for me, old bean,
    and we'll have a hairy time somewhere on the S.W. coast.

    Yours in haste, ALEC RIDLEY.

    DEAR ALEC,--I wish you'd be less vague. What sort of a boat do
    you want--schooner, yawl, cutter or spoonbill? A half-decker,
    or the full five quires to the ream? Give me definite
    instructions and I'll do my best to carry them out. I'm afraid
    I can't get off, so you'll have to take someone else, or
    incarnadine the seas by yourself.

    Yours as ever, GARRY.

    DEAR GARRY,--Sorry to hear you can't come. Any kind of a boat
    that will go without bouncing too high will do, and if it
    has a rudder, a couple of starboard tacks, bath and butler's
    pantry so much the better. I mean to wash out the memory of
    those nine months at Basra last year with the flies. Yours,
    ALEC.

    DEAR ALEC,--What you want, my lad, is a houseboat, and I doubt
    whether you'll get one during this shortage of residential
    property.

    I should try fishing if I were you. In fact I have taken a bit
    of water for you in Chamshire. I haven't seen it, but am told
    it's very all right and only twenty pounds till the 10th of
    June.

    Yours ever, GARRY NORTON.

    DEAR GARRY,--This is a top-hole place. To have got this water
    for so little you 're absolutely the Senior Wangler.

    You might send me some mayflies, old dear; about half a pint I
    shall want, judging from the infernal number of bushes on the
    river banks here. Mr. MILLS's bombs have put me right off my
    cast and I can't do the old Shimmy shake either somehow. I can
    hear the click of croquet balls in the Vicarage garden as I
    write, so the hooping season has begun.

    There's one other chap staying in the pub. Talks and dresses
    like a War profiteer. Seems to be doing nothing but loafing
    about at present.

    Yours ever, ALEC.

    Postcard.

    Have ordered the mayflies and will send them soon as poss. G.
    N.

    DEAR GARRY,--Thanks for yours. Not so anxious about mayflies
    now, but should be glad if you would send me a pound or two of
    the best chocolates. Having good sport.

    In haste for post,

    Yours, ALEC.

    DEAR ALEC,--I enclose a couple of pounds of extra special
    chocolates, but didn't know they were included in the Angler's
    Pharmacopoeia.

    Glad you are having good sport and justifying my choice of
    water.

    Yours as usual, GARRY.

    DEAR GARRY,--Thanks for chocs. The Vicar called the other day,
    and I have caught several cups of tea on the recoil at the
    Vicarage since. Miss Stevenson, his ewe-lamb, is A1, and
    we have had some splendid sport together. We caught eleven
    beauties yesterday; one was over 19-1/2 inches.

    Post just going out.

    Yours in haste, ALEC.

    P.S.--Another couple of pounds of chocs would be useful.

    DEAR ALEC,---Awfully glad to hear the fishing is so good. I
    shall expect a brace of good long trout for breakfast one of
    these days.

    Yours, GARRY.

    DEAR GARRY,--Who said anything about fish? I sub-let the water
    (at a profit) to the War-profiteer three days after arriving.

    Miss Stevenson, with a brace of bouncing terriers, is outside
    whistling for me, so I must put the lid on.

    Yours, ALEC.

    DEAR ALEC,--What's the idea? You say you let the fishing a
    fortnight ago; but last Wednesday you wrote about catching
    eleven beauties, one over nineteen and a half inches long.
    Some trout--what? But why the terriers? Yours in darkness,

    GARRY NORTON.

    Postcard.

    Rats.

    ALEC.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WHEN GREEK JOINS GREEK."

    "The Red Cross announces that the repatriation of Greeks
    forcibly removed from their homes in Eastern Macedonia has
    been virtually completed despite Bulgarian opposition. The
    reports says the Greek Red Cross rendered invaluable aid
    in looting imprisoned Greeks hidden remotely."--Egyptian
    Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NAVY AT CAMBRIDGE.

  When first I joined the R.N.V.
  And ventured out upon the sea,
  The war-tried Subs. R.N. and Looties
  Who guided me about my duties
  Were wont to wink and chuckle if
  I found the going rather stiff;
  And when, upon the Nor'-East Rough,
  My legs proved scarcely firm enough
  To keep me yare and head-to-wind
  The very nicest of them grinned.

  Now times are changed, and here I am
  Once more beside the brimming Cam,
  Where lo, those selfsame Loots and Subs
  Whirl madly by in punts and tubs,
  Which they propel by strength of will
  And muscle rather more than skill.
  For (if one may be fairly frank)
  They barge across from bank to bank,
  With zig-zag motions, in and out,
  As though torpedoes were about;
  Whilst I with all an expert's ease
  Glide by as gaily as you please,
  Or calmly, 'mid the rout of punts,
  Perform accomplished super-stunts.

  But do not think I jibe or jeer
  However strangely they career.
  In soothing accents, sweet as spice,
  I offer them my best advice,
  Or deftly show them how to plant a
  Propulsive pole in oozy Granta,
  Observing, "If you only knew it
  This is the proper way to do it;"
  Till soon each watching Looty's face
  Grows full of wonder at my grace,
  And daring Subs in frail Rob Roys
  Attempt to imitate my poise.

  O war-tried Loots and Subs. R.N.,
  Thus by the Cam we meet again;
  And, as in wilder sterner days,
  We shared the ocean's dreary ways
  In fellowship of single aim,
  I never doubt we'll do the same
  By sunny Cam in happier times;
  And therefore, if through these my rhymes
  Some gentle banter slyly flits,
  Forgive me, Sirs--and call it quits.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a club journal:--

    "Members will look forward to the River Trip this year as a
    change from a Trip to the River."

This constant craving for variety is one of the most unhealthy symptoms of the times in which
we live.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a report of the debate on the National Shipyards:--

    "'The Mercantile Marine was our weakest front. If the sinking
    increased our unbiblical cord would be cut' (a graphic phrase
    this)."--Provincial Paper.

Graphic, perhaps, but hardly stenographic. As a practised novelist, with a touch so sure that
it can hardly fail to adorn, he has made a tale that is interesting throughout and here and
there aspires to real beauty of feeling; though not all the writer's skill can disguise a certain
want of unity in the natural and supernatural divisions of his theme. The early part of the
book, which tells of the boyhood of Archie and the attempts of his dead brother Martin to "get
through" to him, are admirably done. As always in these studies of happy and guarded childhood,
Mr. BENSON is at his best, sympathetic, tender, altogether winning. There was lung trouble
in Archie's record--Martin indeed had died of it (sometimes I wonder whether any of Mr. BENSON'S
protagonists can ever be wholly robust), and there is a genuine thrill in the scene at the
Swiss sanatorium, where the dead and living boys touch hands over the little cache of childish
treasure buried by the former beneath a pine-tree in the garden. Later, when Archie had recovered
from his disease and grown to suitor's estate, I could not but feel, despite the sardonically
observed figure of Helena, the detestable girl who nearly ruins him, that the whole affair
had become conventional, and by so much lost interest for its creator. Apart, however, from
the bogie chapters of Possession (which I shall not further indicate) the most moving scenes
in this latter part are those between Archie and his father. I have seldom known a horrible
situation handled with more delicate art; it is for this, rather than for its slightly unconvincing
devilments, that I would give the book an honourable place in the ranks of Bensonian romance.

       *       *       *       *       *

I quite agree with Mr. HAROLD BEGBIE, whose Mr. Sterling Sticks it Out (HEADLEY) is a generous
attempt to put into the form of a story the case of the conscientious objector of the finest
type, that, when we are able to think about this matter calmly, we shall have considerable
misgivings at least about details in our treatment of this difficult problem. I also agree
that the officials of the Press Bureau don't come at all well out of the correspondence which
he prints in his preface, and, further, that the Government ought to have had the courage to
alter the law allowing absolute exemption rather than stretch it beyond the breaking point.
But I emphatically dispute his assumption that the matter was a simple one. It was not the
saintly, single-minded and sweet-natured C.O.'s of Christopher Sterling's type that made the
chief difficulty. There were few of this literal interpretation and heroic texture. The real
difficulty was created by men of a very different character and in much greater numbers, sincere
in varying degrees, but deliberately, passionately and unscrupulously obstructive, bent on
baulking the national will and making anything like reasonable treatment of them impossible.
It would require saints, not men, to deal without occasional lapses from strict equity with
such infuriating folk. Mr. BEGBIE'S book is unfair in its emphasis, but it is not fanatical
or subversive, and I can see no decent reason why it should have been banned. I certainly commend
it to the majority-minded as a wholesome corrective.

       *       *       *       *       *

That the reviewer should finish his study of the assembled biographies of twenty-four fallen
heroes of this War with a feeling of disappointment and some annoyance argues a fault in the
biographer or in the reviewer. I invite the reader to be the judge between us, for The New
Elizabethans (LANE) must certainly be read, if only to understand clearly that there is no
fault in the heroes, at any rate. Mr. E.B. OSBORN describes them as "these golden lads ...
who first conquered their easier selves and secondly led the ancestral generations into a joyous
captivity" (whatever that may mean), and maintains, against the father of one of them apparently,
that he is apt in the title he has given to them and to their countless peers. I agree with
the father and think they deserve a new name of their own; such men as the GRENFELL brothers,
HUGH and JOHN CHARLTON and DONALD HANKEY did more than maintain a tradition. There is about
DIXON SCOTT, "the Joyous Critic," something, I think, which will be recognised as marking a
production and a surprise of our own generation--the "ink-slinger" who, when it came to the
point, was found equally reckless and brave in slinging more dangerous matter. Again, I feel
that there is needed a clearer motive than is apparent to warrant "a selection of the lives
of young men who have fallen in the great war." Selections in this instance are more odious
than comparisons; there should be one book for one hero. Thirdly, I disapprove the dedication
to the Americans; and, lastly, I found in the author's prose a certain affectation that is
unworthy of the subject-matter. An instance is the reference to HARRY BUTTERS' "joyous" quotation
of the quatrain:--

  Every day that passes
    Filling out the year
  Leaves the wicked Kaiser
    Harder up for beer.

I like the quatrain, of course; who, knowing the "Incorrigibles," doesn't? But I did not like
that reiterated word "joyous."

       *       *       *       *       *

