A letter from G. Dyer will probably accompany this. I wish I could convey to you any notion
of the whimsical scenes I have been witness to in this fortnight past. 'Twas on Tuesday week
the poor heathen scrambled up to my door about breakfast time. He came thro' a violent rain
with no neckcloth on, and a beard that made him a spectacle to men and angels, and tap'd at
the door. Mary open'd it, and he stood stark still and held a paper in his hand importing that
he had been ill with a fever. He either wouldn't or couldn't speak except by signs. When you
went to comfort him he put his hand upon his heart and shook his head and told us his complaint
lay where no medicines could reach it. I was dispatch'd for Dr. Dale, Mr. Phillips of St. Paul's
Church yard, and Mr. Frend, who is to be his executor. George solemnly delivered into Mr. Frend's
hands and mine an old burnt preface that had been in the fire, with injunctions which we solemnly
vow'd to obey that it should be printed after his death with his last corrections, and that
some account should be given to the world why he had not fulfill'd his engagement with subscribers.
Having done this and borrow'd two guineas of his bookseller (to whom he imparted in confidence
that he should leave a great many loose papers behind him which would only want methodizing
and arranging to prove very lucrative to any bookseller after his death), he laid himself down
on my bed in a mood of complacent resignation. By the aid of meat and drink put into him (for
I all along suspected a vacuum) he was enabled to sit up in the evening, but he had not got
the better of his intolerable fear of dying; he expressed such philosophic indifference in
his speech and such frightened apprehensions in his physiognomy that if he had truly been dying,
and I had known it, I could not have kept my countenance. In particular, when the doctor came
and ordered him to take little white powders (I suppose of chalk or alum, to humour him), he
ey'd him with a suspicion which I could not account for; he has since explain'd that he took
it for granted Dr. Dale knew his situation and had ordered him these powders to hasten his
departure that he might suffer as little pain as possible. Think what an aspect the heathen
put on with these fears upon a dirty face. To recount all his freaks for two or three days
while he thought he was going, and how the fit operated, and sometimes the man got uppermost
and sometimes the author, and he had this excellent person to serve, and he must correct some
proof sheets for Phillips, and he could not bear to leave his subscribers unsatisfy'd, but
he must not think of these things now, he was going to a place where he should satisfy all
his debts--and when he got a little better he began to discourse what a happy thing it would
be if there was a place where all the good men and women in the world might meet, meaning heav'n,
and I really believe for a time he had doubts about his soul, for he was very near, if not
quite, light-headed. The fact was he had not had a good meal for some days and his little dirty
Niece (whom he sent for with a still dirtier Nephew, and hugg'd him, and bid them farewell)
told us that unless he dines out he subsists on tea and gruels. And he corroborated this tale
by ever and anon complaining of sensations of gnawing which he felt about his heart, which
he mistook his stomach to be, and sure enough these gnawings were dissipated after a meal or
two, and he surely thinks that he has been rescued from the jaws of death by Dr. Dale's white
powders. He is got quite well again by nursing, and chirps of odes and lyric poetry the day
long--he is to go out of town on Monday, and with him goes the dirty train of his papers and
books which follow'd him to our house. I shall not be sorry when he takes his nipt carcase
out of my bed, which it has occupied, and vanishes with all his Lyric lumber, but I will endeavour
to bring him in future into a method of dining at least once a day. I have proposed to him
to dine with me (and he has nearly come into it) whenever he does not go out; and pay me. I
will take his money beforehand and he shall eat it out. If I don't it will go all over the
world. Some worthless relations, of which the dirty little devil that looks after him and a
still more dirty nephew are component particles, I have reason to think divide all his gains
with some lazy worthless authors that are his constant satellites. The Literary Fund has voted
him seasonably L20 and if I can help it he shall spend it on his own carcase. I have assisted
him in arranging the remainder of what he calls Poems and he will get rid of 'em I hope in
another. [Here three lines are torn away at the foot of the page, wherein Lamb makes the transition
from George Dyer to another poor author, George Burnett.]

I promised Burnet to write when his parcel went. He wants me to certify that he is more awake
than you think him. I believe he may be by this time, but he is so full of self-opinion that
I fear whether he and Phillips will ever do together. What he is to do for Phillips he whimsically
seems to consider more as a favor done to P. than a job from P. He still persists to call employment
dependence, and prates about the insolence of booksellers and the tax upon geniuses. Poor devil!
he is not launched upon the ocean and is sea-sick with aforethought. I write plainly about
him, and he would stare and frown finely if he read this treacherous epistle, but I really
am anxious about him, and that [? it] nettles me to see him so proud and so helpless. If he
is not serv'd he will never serve himself. I read his long letter to Southey, which I suppose
you have seen. He had better have been furnishing copy for Phillips than luxuriating in tracing
the causes of his imbecillity. I believe he is a little wrong in not ascribing more to the
structure of his own mind. He had his yawns from nature, his pride from education.

I hope to see Southey soon, so I need only send my remembrance to him now. Doubtless I need
not tell him that Burnett is not to be foster'd in self-opinion. His eyes want opening, to
see himself a man of middling stature. I am not oculist enough to do this. The booksellers
may one day remove the film. I am all this time on the most cordial supping terms of amity
with G. Burnett and really love him at times: but I must speak freely of people behind their
backs and not think it back-biting. It is better than Godwin's way of telling a man he is a
fool to his face.

I think if you could do any thing for George in the way of an office (God knows whether you
can in any haste [? case], but you did talk of it) it is my firm belief that it would be his
only chance of settlement; he will never live by his literary exertions, as he calls them--he
is too proud to go the usual way to work and he has no talents to make that way unnecessary.
I know he talks big in his letter to Southey that his mind is undergoing an alteration and
that the die is now casting that shall consign him to honor or dishonour, but these expressions
are the convulsions of a fever, not the sober workings of health. Translated into plain English,
he now and then perceives he must work or starve, and then he thinks he'll work; but when he
goes about it there's a lion in the way. He came dawdling to me for an Encyclopaedia yesterday.
I recommended him to Norris' library and he said if he could not get it there, Phillips was
bound to furnish him with one; it was Phillips' interest to do so, and all that. This was true
with some restrictions--but as to Phillips' interests to oblige G.B.! Lord help his simple
head! P. could by a whistle call together a host of such authors as G. B. like Robin Hood's
merry men in green. P. has regular regiments in pay. Poor writers are his crab-lice and suck
at him for nutriment. His round pudding chops are their idea of plenty when in their idle fancies
they aspire to be rich.

What do you think of a life of G. Dyer? I can scarcely conceive a more amusing novel. He has
been connected with all sects in the world and he will faithfully tell all he knows. Every
body will read it; and if it is not done according to my fancy I promise to put him in a novel
when he dies. Nothing shall escape me. If you think it feasible, whenever you write you may
encourage him. Since he has been so close with me I have perceiv'd the workings of his inordinate
vanity, his gigantic attention to particles and to prevent open vowels in his odes, his solicitude
that the public may not lose any tittle of his poems by his death, and all the while his utter
ignorance that the world don't care a pin about his odes and his criticisms, a fact which every
body knows but himself--he is a rum genius.

     C. L.

[Dr. Dale would probably be Thomas Dale of Devonshire Square, Bishopsgate, who had a large
city practice in those days. He died in 1816.

"An old burnt preface." See note on page 210.

George Burnett we have already met. He was born probably in 1776. He went to Balliol, met Southey
and Coleridge and became a Pantisocratist. Subsequently he became a dissenting minister at
Yarmouth, and then a medical student at Edinburgh; and later he succeeded George Dyer as tutor
in the family of Lord Stanhope. He became one of Phillips' hacks, as Lamb's letter tells us.
His principal work was the Specimens of English Prose Writers, 1807, in three volumes, in which
it has been stated that Lamb had a hand. He died in want in 1811.

The reference to Southey being in Dublin is explained by the fact that, through Rickman, he
had been appointed private secretary to Mr. Corry, Chancellor of the Exchequer for Ireland,
at a salary of L400. He did not long retain the post, as it was vexatious and the duties very
irregular.

Lamb's next letter to Rickman, dated November 24, 1801, contains better news of Dyer and returns
to the subject of John Woodvil. "Dyer regularly dines with me when he does not go a visiting,
and brings his shilling." Also, says Lamb, he talks of marrying. "He has not forgiven me for
betraying to you his purpose of writing his own Life. He says, that if it once spreads, so
many people will expect and wish to have a place in it, that he is sure he shall disoblige
all his friends."

Another, undated, letter to Rickman should probably come here-abouts, saying that Dyer has
been lent a house at Enfield full of books, where he is at work on his Poems.

Here perhaps should come a letter from Lamb to Robert Lloyd, returning to Jeremy Taylor, and
deprecating a selection from his works, which Robert Lloyd had suggested that Lamb should make.
(In 1805 Basil Montagu, afterwards, if not now, a friend of Lamb's, published a volume of Selections
from the Works of Taylor, Etc.) Lamb says that Manning and Coleridge are in town, and he is
making a thorough alteration in the structure of his play (John Woodvil) for publication.

Here perhaps should come a further undated letter to Rickman in which Lamb says that the receipt
of L50 for an old debt has made it possible to print John Woodvil. Dyer, he says, is "the most
unmanageable of God's creatures." Burnett is in a very bad way again. Fenwick's paper The Plough
has become a weekly. Godwin is not yet married. Fell, Godwin's shadow, is writing a comedy:
"An Owl making a Pun would be no bad emblem of the unnatural attempt." In a postscript Lamb
says that he has since read the play and it is not bad: "Who knows, but Owls do make Puns when
they hoot by moonshine." The best news is that Lamb hopes to be a theatrical critic for the
Morning Post.

Here should come a letter to Rickman dated January 9, 1802, the principal news in which is
that George Dyer is consorting with the Earl of Buchan, the "eccentric biographer of Fletcher
of Saltoun," and has brought him to see Lamb. "I wan't at home, but Mary was washing--a pretty
pickle to receive an Earl in! Lord have mercy upon us! a Lord in my garret! My utmost ambition
was some time or other to receive a Secretary. Well, I am to breakfast with this mad Lord on
Sunday." Lamb refers to his article in the Post on Cooke's "Richard III."

Here should come a letter to Rickman dated January 14, 1802, in which Lamb confesses to the
authorship of "Dick Strype" in the Morning Post of January 6 (see Vol. IV.); also of a whimsical
account of the Lord Mayor's State Bed (see Vol. I.); and of some of the Twelfth Night Epigrams
(see Vol. IV.). He includes two epigrams which the editor rejected.

Here should come a note to Rickman dated January 18, 1802, relating to a joint subscription
with Rickman's father for certain newspapers.

Here should come a letter to Rickman dated February 1, 1802, giving the first draft of the
epitaph for Mary Druitt (see Vol. IV.). He also says that George Burnett, who had just been
appointed tutor to the sons of Lord ("Citizen") Stanhope, is perplexed because his pupils have
run away.

Here should come a note to Rickman, dated February 4, 1802, accompanying three copies of John
Woodvil and saying that an annuity is to be bought for George Dyer by certain friends.

Here should come a letter to Rickman, dated February 14, 1802, which contains the news that
Lamb has given up the Post. He feels much relieved in consequence, in spite of the loss of
money. George Dyer's dinner money is now paid from his friends' fund, and Burnett is happy
in doing nothing for Lord Stanhope's salary. Mary Lamb does not want Rickman to know that "Helen,"
in the John Woodvil volume, is of her writing.]

LETTER 94

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

[No date. ? If a man will keep snakes in his house, he must not wonder if people are shy of
coming to see him because of the snakes.

Apropos, I think you wrong about my play. All the omissions are right. And the supplementary
scene, in which Sandford narrates the manner in which his master is affected, is the best in
the book. It stands where a hodge-podge of German puerilities used to stand. I insist upon
it that you like that scene. Love me, love that scene.

I will now transcribe the "Londoner" (No. 1), and wind up all with affection and humble servant
at the end.

THE LONDONER. No. 1.

In compliance with my own particular humour, no less than with thy laudable curiosity, Reader,
I proceed to give thee some account of my history and habits. I was born under the nose of
St. Dunstan's steeple, just where the conflux of the eastern and western inhabitants of this
twofold city meet and justle in friendly opposition at Temple-bar. The same day which gave
me to the world saw London happy in the celebration of her great annual feast. This I cannot
help looking upon as a lively type or omen of the future great goodwill which I was destined
to bear toward the City, resembling in kind that solicitude which every Chief Magistrate is
supposed to feel for whatever concerns her interests and well-being. Indeed, I consider myself
in some sort a speculative Lord Mayor of London: for, though circumstances unhappily preclude
me from the hope of ever arriving at the dignity of a gold chain and spital sermon, yet thus
much will I say of myself, in truth, that Whittington himself with his Cat (just emblem of
vigilance and a furred gown), never went beyond me in affection, which I bear to the citizens.
Shut out from serving them in the most honourable mode, I aspire to do them benefit in another,
scarcely less honourable; and if I cannot, by virtue of office, commit vice and irregularity
to the material Counter, I will, at least, erect a spiritual one, where they shall be laid
fast by the heels. In plain words, I will do my best endeavour to write them down.

To return to myself (from whence my zeal for the Public good is perpetually causing me to digress),
I will let thee, Reader, into certain more of my peculiarities. I was born (as you have heard),
bred, and have passed most of my time, in a crowd. This has begot in me an entire affection
for that way of life, amounting to an almost insurmountable aversion from solitude and rural
scenes. This aversion was never interrupted or suspended, except for a few years in the younger
part of my life, during a period in which I had fixed my affections upon a charming young woman.
Every man, while the passion is upon him, is for a time at least addicted to groves and meadows,
and purling streams. During this short period of my existence, I contracted just enough familiarity
with rural objects to understand tolerably well ever after the Poets, when they declaim in
such passionate terms in favour of a country life.

For my own part, now the fit is long past, I have no hesitation in declaring, that a mob of
happy faces crowding up at the pit door of Drury-Lane Theatre just at the hour of five, give
me ten thousand finer pleasures, than I ever received from all the flocks of silly sheep, that
have whitened the plains of Arcadia or Epsom Downs.

This passion for crowds is no where feasted so full as in London. The man must have a rare
recipe for melancholy, who can be dull in Fleet-street. I am naturally inclined to hypochondria,
but in London it vanishes, like all other ills. Often when I have felt a weariness or distaste
at home, have I rushed out into her crowded Strand, and fed my humour, till tears have wetted
my cheek for inutterable sympathies with the multitudinous moving picture, which she never
fails to present at all hours, like the shifting scenes of a skilful Pantomime.

The very deformities of London, which give distaste to others, from habit do not displease
me. The endless succession of shops, where Fancy (miscalled Folly) is supplied with perpetual
new gauds and toys, excite in me no puritanical aversion. I gladly behold every appetite supplied
with its proper food. The obliging customer, and the obliged tradesmen-- things which live
by bowing, and things which exist but for homage, do not affect me with disgust; from habit
I perceive nothing but urbanity, where other men, more refined, discover meanness. I love the
very smoke of London, because it has been the medium most familiar to my vision. I see grand
principles of honour at work in the dirty ring which encompasses two combatants with fists,
and principles of no less eternal justice in the tumultuous detectors of a pickpocket. The
salutary astonishment with which an execution is surveyed, convinces me more forcibly than
an hundred volumes of abstract polity, that the universal instinct of man, in all ages, has
leaned to order and good government. Nursed amid her noise, her crowds, her beloved smoke--what
have I been doing all my life, if I have not lent out my heart with usury to such scenes?

Reader, in the course of my peregrinations about the great city, it is hard, if I have not
picked up matter, which may serve to amuse thee, as it has done me, a winter evening long.
When next we meet, I purpose opening my budget--Till when, farewell.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What is all this about?" said Mrs. Shandy. "A story of a cock and a bull," said Yorick: and
so it is; but Manning will take good-naturedly what God will send him across the water: only
I hope he won't shut his eyes, and open his mouth, as the children say, for that is the way
to gape, and not to read. Manning, continue your laudable purpose of making me your register.
I will render back all your remarks; and I, not you, shall have received usury by having read
them. In the mean time, may the great Spirit have you in his keeping, and preserve our Englishmen
from the inoculation of frivolity and sin upon French earth.

Allons--or what is it you say, instead of good-bye?

Mary sends her kind remembrance, and covets the remarks equally with me.

            C. LAMB.

[The reference to the "word-banker" and "register" is explained by Manning's first letter to
Lamb from Paris, in which he says: "I ... beg you to keep all my letters. I hope to send you
many--and I may in the course of time, make some observations that I shall wish to recall to
my memory when I return to England."

"Are you and the First Consul thick?"--Napoleon, with whom Manning was destined one day to
be on terms. In 1803, on the declaration of war, when he wished to return to England, Manning's
was the only passport that Napoleon signed; again, in 1817, on returning from China, Manning
was wrecked near St. Helena, and, waiting on the island for a ship, conversed there with the
great exile.

"Rumfordising." A word coined by Lamb from Sir Benjamin Thompson, Count von Rumford, the founder
of the Royal Institution, the deviser of the Rumford stove, and a tireless scientific and philosophical
experimentalist.

"Smellfungus."

"The Post." Lamb had been writing criticisms of plays; but Stuart, as we have seen, wanted
them on the same night as the performance and Lamb found this impossible.

"I have done but one thing"--"The Londoner," referred to later.

"The Professor's Rib"--Godwin's second wife, the widow Clairmont (mother of Jane Clairmont),
whom he had married in December, 1801.

"Fell"--R. Fell, author of a Tour through the Batavian Republic, 1801. Later he compiled a
Life of Charles James Fox, 1808. Lamb knew him, as well as Fenwick, through Godwin.

"Apropos, I think you wrong about my play." John Woodvil had just been published and Lamb had
sent Manning a copy. Manning, in return, had written from Paris early in February: "I showed
your Tragedy to Holcroft, who had taste enough to discover that 'tis full of poetry--but the
plot he condemns in toto. Tell me how it succeeds. I think you were ill advised to retrench
so much. I miss the beautiful Branches you have lopped off and regret them. In some of the
pages the sprinkling of words is so thin as to be quite outre. There you were wrong again."

"The Londoner" was published in the Morning Post, February 1, 1802. I have quoted the article
from that paper, as Lamb's copy for Manning has disappeared. Concerning it Manning wrote, in
his next letter--April 6, 1802--"I like your 'Londoner' very much, there is a deal of happy
fancy in it, but it is not strong enough to be seen by the generality of readers, yet if you
were to write a volume of essays in the same stile you might be sure of its succeeding."]

LETTER 95

CHARLES LAMB TO JOHN RICKMAN

16, Mitre Court Buildings, Inner Temple, April 10, 1802.

Dear Rickman,--The enclosed letter explains itself. It will save me the danger of a corporal
interview with the man-eater who, if very sharp-set, may take a fancy to me, if you will give
me a short note, declaratory of probabilities. These from him who hopes to see you once or
twice more before he goes hence, to be no more seen: for there is no tipple nor tobacco in
the grave, whereunto he hasteneth.

C. LAMB.

How clearly the Goul writes, and like a gentleman!

[A friend of Burnett, named Simonds, is meant. Lamb calls him a "Goul" in another letter, and
elsewhere says he eats strange flesh. See note on page 232.]

LETTER 96

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

[No date. ?End of April, 1802.]

My dear Manning,--Although something of the latest, and after two months' waiting, your letter
was highly gratifying. Some parts want a little explication; for example, "the god-like face
of the First Consul." What god does he most resemble? Mars, Bacchus, or Apollo? or the god
Serapis who, flying (as Egyptian chronicles deliver) from the fury of the dog Anubis (the hieroglyph
of an English mastiff), lighted on Monomotapa (or the land of apes), by some thought to be
Old France, and there set up a tyranny, &c. Our London prints of him represent him gloomy and
sulky, like an angry Jupiter. I hear that he is very small, even less than me, who am "less
than the least of the Apostles," at least than they are painted in the Vatican. I envy you
your access to this great man, much more than your seances and conversaziones, which I have
a shrewd suspicion must be something dull. What you assert concerning the actors of Paris,
that they exceed our comedians, "bad as ours are," is impossible. In one sense it may be true,
that their fine gentlemen, in what is called genteel comedy, may possibly be more brisk and
degage than Mr. Caulfield or Mr. Whitfield; but have any of them the power to move laughter
in excess? or can a Frenchman laugh? Can they batter at your judicious ribs till they shake,
nothing both to be so shaken? This is John Bull's criterion, and it shall be mine. You are
Frenchified. Both your tastes and morals are corrupt and perverted. By-and-by you will come
to assert, that Buonaparte is as great a general as the old Duke of Cumberland, and deny that
one Englishman can beat three Frenchmen. Read "Henry the Fifth" to restore your orthodoxy.
All things continue at a stay-still in London. I cannot repay your new novelties with my stale
reminiscences. Like the prodigal, I have spent my patrimony, and feed upon the superannuated
chaff and dry husks of repentance; yet sometimes I remember with pleasure the hounds and horses,
which I kept in the days of my prodigality. I find nothing new, nor anything that has so much
of the gloss and dazzle of novelty, as may rebound in narrative, and cast a reflective glimmer
across the channel. Something I will say about people that you and I know. Fenwick is still
in debt, and the Professor has not done making love to his new spouse. I think he never looks
into an almanack, or he would have found by the calendar that the honeymoon was extinct a moon
ago. Lloyd has written to me and names you. I think a letter from Maison Magnan (is that a
person or a thing?) would gratify him. G. Dyer is in love with an Ideot who loves a Doctor,
who is incapable of loving anything but himself. A puzzling circle of perverse Providences!
A maze as un-get-out-again-able as the House which Jack built. Southey is Secretary to the
Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer; L400 a year. Stoddart is turned Doctor of Civil Law, and
dwells in Doctors' Commons. I fear his commons are short, as they say. Did I send you an epitaph
I scribbled upon a poor girl who died at nineteen, a good girl and a pretty girl, and a clever
girl, but strangely neglected by all her friends and kin?

"Under this cold marble stone Sleep the sad remains of one Who, when alive, by few or none
Was loved, as loved she might have been, If she prosperous days had seen, Or had thriving been,
I ween. Only this cold funeral stone Tells she was beloved by one, Who on the marble graves
his moan."

Brief, and pretty, and tender, is it not? I send you this, being the only piece of poetry I
have done, since the muses all went with T. M. to Paris. I have neither stuff in my brain,
nor paper in my drawer, to write you a longer letter. Liquor and company and wicked tobacco
a'nights, have quite dispericraniated me, as one may say; but you who spiritualise upon Champagne
may continue to write long letters, and stuff 'em with amusement to the end. Too long they
cannot be, any more than a codicil to a will which leaves me sundry parks and manors not specified
in the deed. But don't be two months before you write again. These from merry old England,
on the day of her valiant patron St. George.

C. LAMB.

[This letter is usually dated 1803, but I feel sure it should be 1802. Southey had given up
his Irish appointment in that year, and Godwin's honeymoon began in December, 1801.

"Even less than me." Mr. W. C. Hazlitt gives in Mary and Charles Lamb a vivid impression of
Lamb's spare figure. A farmer at Widford, Mr. Charles Tween, himself not a big man, told Mr.
Hazlitt that when walking out with Lamb he would place his hands under his arm and lift him
over the stiles as if it were nothing. Napoleon's height was 5 feet 6 or 7 inches.

Thomas Caulfield, a brother of the antiquary and print-seller, James Caulfield, was a comedian
and mimic at Drury Lane; Whitfield was an actor at Drury Lane, who later moved to Covent Garden.

"An epitaph." These lines were written upon a friend of Rickman's, Mary Druitt of Wimborne.
They were printed in the Morning Post for February 7, 1804, signed C. L. See later.]

LETTER 97

(Fragment)

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE

Sept. 8th, 1802.

Dear Coleridge,--I thought of not writing till we had performed some of our commissions; but
we have been hindered from setting about them, which yet shall be done to a tittle. We got
home very pleasantly on Sunday. Mary is a good deal fatigued, and finds the difference of going
to a place, and coming from it. I feel that I shall remember your mountains to the last day
I live. I do not remember any very strong impression while they were present; but, being gone,
their mementos are shelved in my brain. We passed a very pleasant little time with the Clarksons.
The Wordsworths are at Montagu's rooms, near neighbours to us. They dined with us yesterday,
and I was their guide to Bartlemy Fair!

[In the summer of 1802 the Lambs paid a sudden visit to Coleridge at Keswick. Afterwards they
went to Grasmere, although the Wordsworths were away from home; but they saw Thomas Clarkson,
the philanthropist, then living at Ullswater (see the next letter). They had reached London
again on September 5. Procter records that on being asked how he felt when among the lakes
and mountains, Lamb replied that in order to bring down his thoughts from their almost painful
elevation to the sober regions of life, he was obliged to think of the ham and beef shop near
St. Martin's Lane. Lamb says that after such a holiday he finds his office work very strange.
"I feel debased; but I shall soon break in my mountain spirit." The last two words were a recollection
of his own poem "The Grandame"--

    hers was else
A mountain spirit....

This letter, the original of which is I know not where, is here, for dismal copyright reasons,
very imperfectly given. Mr. Macdonald prints it apparently in full, although Mrs. Gilchrist
in her memoir of Mary Lamb supplies another passage, as follows:--"Lloyd has written me a fine
letter of friendship all about himself and Sophia and love and cant which I have not answered.
I have not given up the idea of writing to him but it will be done very plainly and sincerely,
without acrimony."

Lamb also says that Pi-pos (as Coleridge's second child Derwent was called) was the only one,
except a beggar's brat, that he had ever wanted to steal from its parents.

He says also: "I was pleased to recognise your blank-verse poem (the Picture) in the Morn.
Post of Monday. It reads very well, and I feel some dignity in the notion of being able to
understand it better than most Southern readers."

Coleridge's poem "The Picture; or, The Lover's Resolution," was printed in the Morning Post
for September 6. Its scenery was probably pointed out to Lamb by Coleridge at Keswick.

Basil Montagu, the lawyer, an old friend of Wordsworth's. It is his son Edward who figures
in the "Anecdote for Fathers."

Bartholomew Fair, held at Smithfield, continued until 1855, but its glories had been decreasing
for some years.]

LETTER 98

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

24th Sept., 1802, London. Fenwick is a ruined man. He is hiding himself from his creditors,
and has sent his wife and children into the country. Fell, my other drunken companion (that
has been: nam hic caestus artemque repono), is turned editor of a "Naval Chronicle." Godwin
(with a pitiful artificial wife) continues a steady friend, though the same facility does not
remain of visiting him often. That Bitch has detached Marshall from his house, Marshall the
man who went to sleep when the "Ancient Mariner" was reading: the old, steady, unalterable
friend of the Professor. Holcroft is not yet come to town. I expect to see him, and will deliver
your message. How I hate this part of a letter. Things come crowding in to say, and no room
for 'em. Some things are too little to be told, i.e. to have a preference; some are too big
and circumstantial. Thanks for yours, which was most delicious.

[Lamb suggests in Letter 54 that he knew some French. Marshall we met in the letters to Godwin
of December 14,1800, and to Manning, December 16, 1800.

"Holcroft"--Thomas Holcroft (1745-1809), a miscellaneous writer, who is best known by his play
"The Road to Ruin." Lamb says of him in his "Letter to Southey" (see Vol. I. of this edition)
that he was "one of the most candid, most upright, and single-meaning men" that he had ever met.]

LETTER 99

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE October 9, 1802.

CAROLUS AGNUS COLERIDGIO SUO S.

Carissime--Scribis, ut nummos scilicet epistolarios solvam et postremo in Tartara abeam: immo
tu potius Tartaricum (ut aiunt) deprehendisti, qui me vernacula mea lingua pro scriba conductitio
per tot annos satis eleganter usum ad Latine impure et canino fere ore latrandum per tuasmet
epistolas bene compositas et concinnatas percellere studueris. Conabor tamen: Attamen vereor,
ut AEdes istas nostri Christi, inter quas tanta diligentia magistri improba [?improbi] bonis
literulis, quasi per clysterem quendam injectis, infra supraque olim penitus imbutus fui, Barnesii
et Marklandii doctissimorum virorum nominibus adhuc gaudentes, barbarismis meis peregrinis
et aliunde quaesitis valde dehonestavero [sic]. Sed pergere quocunque placet. Adeste igitur,
quotquot estis, conjugationum declinationumve turmae, terribilia spectra, et tu imprimis ades,
Umbra et Imago maxima obsoletas (Diis gratiae) Virgae, qua novissime in mentem recepta, horrescunt
subito natales [nates], et parum deest quo minus braccas meas ultro usque ad crura demittam,
et ipse puer pueriliter ejulem.

Ista tua Carmina Chamouniana satis grandia esse mihi constat; sed hoc mihi nonnihil displicet,
quod in iis illae montium Grisosonum inter se responsiones totidem reboant anglice, God, God,
haud aliter atque temet audivi tuas monies Cumbrianas resonare docentes, Tod, Tod, nempe Doctorem
infelicem: vocem certe haud Deum Sonantem. Pro caeteris plaudo.

Itidem comparationes istas tuas satis callidas et lepidas certe novi: sed quid hoc ad verum?
cum illi Consulari viro et mentem irritabilem istam Julianam: et etiam astutias frigidulas
quasdam Augusto propriores, nequaquam congruenter uno afflatu comparationis causa insedisse
affirmaveris: necnon nescio quid similitudinis etiam cum Tiberio tertio in loco solicite produxetis.
Quid tibi equidem cum uno vel altero Caesare, cum universi Duodecim ad comparationes tuas se
ultro tulerint? Praeterea, vetustati adnutans, comparationes iniquas odi.

Istas Wordsworthianas nuptias (vel potius cujusdam Edmundii tui) te retulisse mirificum gaudeo.
Valeas, Maria, fortunata nimium, et antiquae illae Mariae Virgini (comparatione plusquam Caesareana)
forsitan comparanda, quoniam "beata inter mulieres:" et etiam fortasse Wordsworthium ipsum
tuum maritum Angelo Salutatori aequare fas erit, quoniam e Coelo (ut ille) descendunt et Musae
et ipsi Musicolae: at Wordsworthium Musarum observantissimum semper novi. Necnon te quoque
affinitate hac nova, Dorothea, gratulor: et tu certe alterum donum Dei.

Istum Ludum, quem tu, Coleridgi, Americanum garris, a Ludo (ut Ludi sunt) maxime abhorrentem
praetereo: nempe quid ad Ludum attinet, totius illae gentis Columbianae, a nostra gente, eadem
stirpe orta, ludi singuli causa voluntatem perperam alienare? Quasso ego materiam ludi: tu
Bella ingeris.

Denique valeas, et quid de Latinitate mea putes, dicas; facias ut opossum illum nostrum volantem
vel (ut tu malis) quendam Piscem errabundum, a me salvum et pulcherrimum esse jubeas. Valeant
uxor tua cum Hartleiio nostro. Soror mea salva est et ego: vos et ipsa salvere jubet. Ulterius
progrediri [? progredi] non liquet: homo sum aeratus.

P.S.--Pene mihi exciderat, apud me esse Librorum a Johanno Miltono Latine scriptorum volumina
duo, quae (Deo volente) cum caeteris tuis libris ocyus citius per Maria [?] ad te missura [sic]
curabo; sed me in hoc tali genere rerum nullo modo festinantem novisti: habes confitentem reum.
Hoc solum dici [sic] restat, praedicta volumina pulchra esse et omnia opera Latina J. M. in
se continere. Circa defensionem istam Pro Pop deg.. Ang deg.. acerrimam in praesens ipse praeclaro
gaudio moror.

            Jussa tua Stuartina faciam ut diligenter colam.
                                  Iterum iterumque valeas:
                                  Et facias memor sis nostri.

[I append a translation from the pen of Mr. Stephen Gwynn:--

CHARLES LAMB TO HIS FRIEND COLERIDGE, GREETING.

DEAR FRIEND--You write that I am to pay my debt, to wit in coin of correspondence, and finally
that I am to go to Tartarus: no but it is you have caught a Tartar (as the saying is), since
after all these years employing my own vernacular tongue, and prettily enough for a hired penman,
you have set about to drive me by means of your well composed and neatly turned epistles to
gross and almost doggish barking in the Latin. Still, I will try: And yet I fear that the Hostel
of our Christ,--wherein by the exceeding diligence of a relentless master I was in days gone
by deeply imbued from top to bottom with polite learning, instilled as it were by a clyster--which
still glories in the names of the erudite Barnes and Markland, will be vilely dishonoured by
my outlandish and adscititious barbarisms. But I am determined to proceed, no matter whither.
Be with me therefore all ye troops of conjugations and declensions, dread spectres, and approach
thou chiefest, Shade and Phantom of the disused (thank Heaven) Birch, at whose entry to my
imagination a sudden shiver takes my rump, and a trifle then more would make me begin to let
down my breeches to my calves, and turning boy, howl boyishly.

That your Ode at Chamounix is a fine thing I am clear; but here is a thing offends me somewhat,
that in the ode your answers of the Grison mountains to each other should so often echo in
English God, God--in the very tone that I have heard your own lips teaching your Cumbrian mountains
to resound Tod, Tod, meaning the unlucky doctor--a syllable assuredly of no Godlike sound.
For the rest, I approve.

Moreover, I certainly recognise that your comparisons are acute and witty; but what has this
to do with truth? since you have given to the great Consul at once that irritable mind of Julius,
and also a kind of cold cunning, more proper to Augustus--attributing incongruous characteristics
in one breath for the sake of your comparison: nay, you have even in the third instance laboriously
drawn out some likeness to Tiberius. What had you to do with one Caesar, or a second, when
the whole Twelve offered themselves to your comparison? Moreover, I agree with antiquity, and
think comparisons odious.

Your Wordsworth nuptials (or rather the nuptials of a certain Edmund of yours) fill me with
joy in your report. May you prosper, Mary, fortunate beyond compare, and perchance comparable
to that ancient Virgin Mary (a comparison more than Caesarean) since "blessed art thou among
women:" perhaps also it will be no impiety to compare Wordsworth himself your husband to the
Angel of Salutation, since (like the angel) from heaven descend both Muses and the servants
of the Muses: whose devoutest votary I always know Wordsworth to be. Congratulations to thee,
Dorothea, in this new alliance: you also assuredly are another "gift of God."

As for your Ludus [Lloyd], whom you talk of as an "American," I pass him by as no sportsman
(as sport goes): what kind of sport is it, to alienate utterly the good will of the whole Columbian
people, our own kin, sprung of the same stock, for the sake of one Ludd [Lloyd]? I seek the
material for diversion: you heap on War.

Finally, fare you well, and pray tell me what you think of my Latinity. Kindly wish health
and beauty from me to our flying possum or (as you prefer to call it) roving Fish. Good health
to your wife and my friend Hartley. My sister and I are well. She also sends you greeting.
I do not see how to get on farther: I am a man in debt [or possibly in "fetters"].

P.S.--I had almost forgot, I have by me two volumes of the Latin writings of John Milton, which
(D.V.) I will have sent you sooner or later by Mary: but you know me no way precipitate in
this kind: the accused pleads guilty. This only remains to be said, that the aforesaid volumes
are handsome and contain all the Latin works of J. M. At present I dwell with much delight
on his vigorous defence of the English people.

I will be sure to observe diligently your Stuartial tidings.

Again and again farewell: and pray be mindful of me.

Coleridge's "Hymn before Sun-rise, in the Vale of Chamouni," was printed in the Morning Post
for September 11, 1802.

Canon Ainger suggests that by Tod, the unlucky doctor, Lamb meant Dr. William Dodd (1729-1777),
the compiler of the Beauties of Shakespeare and the forger, who was hanged at Tyburn.

"Your comparisons." Coleridge's "Comparison of the Present State of France with that of Rome
under Julius and Augustus Caesar" was printed in the Morning Post, September 21, September
25, and October 2, 1802. See Essays on His Own Times, 1850, Vol. III., page 478.

Wordsworth's marriage to Mary Hutchinson, on October 4, 1802, had called forth from Coleridge
his ode on "Dejection," printed in the Morning Post for the same day, in which Wordsworth was
addressed as Edmund. In later editions Coleridge suppressed its personal character.

Ludus is Lloyd. Lamb means by "American" what we should mean by pro-American.

"Stuartial." Referring to Daniel Stuart of the Morning Post.]

LETTER 100

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE

Oct. 11th, 1802.

Dear Coleridge,--Your offer about the German poems is exceedingly kind; but I do not think
it a wise speculation, because the time it would take you to put them into prose would be nearly
as great as if you versified them. Indeed, I am sure you could do the one nearly as soon as
the other; so that, instead of a division of labour, it would be only a multiplication. But
I will think of your offer in another light. I dare say I could find many things of a light
nature to suit that paper, which you would not object to pass upon Stuart as your own, and
I should come in for some light profits, and Stuart think the more highly of your assiduity.
"Bishop Hall's Characters" I know nothing about, having never seen them. But I will reconsider
your offer, which is very plausible; for as to the drudgery of going every day to an editor
with my scraps, like a pedlar, for him to pick out, and tumble about my ribbons and posies,
and to wait in his lobby, &c., no money could make up for the degradation. You are in too high
request with him to have anything unpleasant of that sort to submit to.

It was quite a slip of my pen, in my Latin letter, when I told you I had Milton's Latin Works.
I ought to have said his Prose Works, in two volumes, Birch's edition, containing all, both
Latin and English, a fuller and better edition than Lloyd's of Toland. It is completely at
your service, and you must accept it from me; at the same time, I shall be much obliged to
you for your Latin Milton, which you think you have at Howitt's; it will leave me nothing to
wish for but the "History of England," which I shall soon pick up for a trifle. But you must
write me word whether the Miltons are worth paying carriage for. You have a Milton; but it
is pleasanter to eat one's own peas out of one's own garden, than to buy them by the peck at
Covent Garden; and a book reads the better, which is our own, and has been so long known to
us, that we know the topography of its blots and dog's-ears, and can trace the dirt in it to
having read it at tea with buttered muffins, or over a pipe, which I think is the maximum.
But, Coleridge, you must accept these little things, and not think of returning money for them,
for I do not set up for a factor or general agent. As for the fantastic debt of 15L., I'll
think you were dreaming, and not trouble myself seriously to attend to you. My bad Latin you
properly correct; but natales for nates was an inadvertency: I knew better. Progrediri or progredi
I thought indifferent, my authority being Ainsworth. However, as I have got a fit of Latin,
you will now and then indulge me with an epistola. I pay the postage of this, and propose doing
it by turns. In that case I can now and then write to you without remorse; not that you would
mind the money, but you have not always ready cash to answer small demands--the epistolarii nummi.

Your "Epigram on the Sun and Moon in Germany" is admirable. Take 'em all together, they are
as good as Harrington's. I will muster up all the conceits I can, and you shall have a packet
some day. You and I together can answer all demands surely: you, mounted on a terrible charger
(like Homer in the Battle of the Books) at the head of the cavalry: I will lead the light horse.
I have just heard from Stoddart. Allen and he intend taking Keswick in their way home. Allen
wished particularly to have it a secret that he is in Scotland, and wrote to me accordingly
very urgently. As luck was, I had told not above three or four; but Mary had told Mrs. Green
of Christ's Hospital! For the present, farewell: never forgetting love to Pi-pos and his friends.

C. LAMB.

[Coleridge, who seems to have been asked by Stuart of the Morning Post for translations of
German verse, had suggested, I presume, that he should supply Lamb (who knew no German) with
literal prose translations, and that Lamb should versify them, as he had in the case of "Thekla's
Song" in Coleridge's translation of the first part of Wallenstein nearly three years before.
Lamb's suggestion is that he should send to Stuart epigrams and paragraphs in Coleridge's name.
Whether or not he did so, I cannot say.

Bishop Hall's Characters of Vices and Virtues was published in 1608. Coleridge may have suggested
that Lamb should imitate them for the Morning Post. Lamb later came to know Hall's satires,
for he quotes from them in his review of Barron Field's poems in 1820.

Milton's prose works were edited by Thomas Birch, and by John Toland in folio.

"My bad Latin"--in the letter of October 9, 1802. Ainsworth was Robert Ainsworth, compiler
of the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae, 1736, for many years the best Latin dictionary. It appeared
in the Morning Post on October 11, 1802. Coleridge had been sending epigrams and other verse
to the Post for some time. Harrington was Sir John Harington (1561-1612), the author of many
epigrams.

Stoddart and Allen we have met. I do not know anything of Mrs. Green.]

LETTER 101

CHARLES LAMB TO S.T. COLERIDGE

Oct. 23rd, 1802.

Your kind offer I will not a second time refuse. You shall send me a packet and I will do them
into English with great care. Is not there one about W'm. Tell, and would not that in the present
state of discussions be likely to tell? The Epigrams I meant are to be found at the end of
Harrington's Translation of Orlando Furioso: if you could get the book, they would some of
them answer your purpose to modernize. If you can't, I fancy I can. Baxter's Holy Commonwealth
I have luckily met with, and when I have sent it, you shall if you please consider yourself
indebted to me 3s. 6d. the cost of it: especially as I purchased it after your solemn injunctions.
The plain case with regard to my presents (which you seem so to shrink from) is that I have
not at all affected the character of a DONOR, or thought of violating your sacred Law of Give
and Take: but I have been taking and partaking the good things of your House (when I know you
were not over-abounding) and I now give unto you of mine; and by the grace of God I happen
to be myself a little super-abundant at present. I expect I shall be able to send you my final
parcel in about a week: by that time I shall have gone thro' all Milton's Latin Works. There
will come with it the Holy Commonwealth, and the identical North American Bible which you helped
to dogs ear at Xt's.--I call'd at Howell's for your little Milton, and also to fetch away the
White Cross Street Library Books, which I have not forgot: but your books were not in a state
to be got at then, and Mrs. H. is to let me know when she packs up. They will be sent by sea;
and my little praecursor will come to you by the Whitehaven waggon accompanied with pens, penknife
&c.--Mrs. Howell was as usual very civil; and asked with great earnestness, if it were likely
you would come to Town in the winter. She has a friendly eye upon you. I am much interested in him.

Yours ever affectionately, and Pi-Pos's.

C.L.

[Coleridge was just now contributing political essays as well as verse to the Morning Post.
"Once a Jacobin always a Jacobin" appeared on October 21, 1802. These were afterwards reprinted
in Essays on His Own Times. Ad populum is a reminder of Coleridge's first political essays,
the Conciones ad Populum of 1795.

"Goody Two Shoes"--One of Newbery's most famous books for children, sometimes attributed to
Goldsmith, though, I think, wrongly.

Mrs. Barbauld (1743-1825) was the author of Hymns in Prose for Children, and she contributed
to her brother John Aikin's Evenings at Home, both very popular books. Lamb, who afterwards
came to know Mrs. Barbauld, described her and Mrs. Inchbald as the two bald women. Mrs. Sarah
Trimmer (1741-1810) was the author of many books for children; she lives by the Story of the
Robins.

The translation for Stuart either was not made or not accepted; nor did Coleridge carry out
the project of the parallel of Buonaparte with Cromwell. Hallam, however, did so in his Constitutional
History of England, unfavourably to Cromwell.

George Chapman's Odyssey was paraphrased by Lamb in his Adventures of Ulysses, 1808. Lamb either
did not return to the subject with Coleridge, or his "next letter" has been lost.]

LETTER 102

CHARLES LAMB TO S.T. COLERIDGE

Nov. 4th, 1802.

Observe, there comes to you, by the Kendal waggon to-morrow, the illustrious 5th of November,
a box, containing the Miltons, the strange American Bible, with White's brief note, to which
you will attend; Baxter's "Holy Commonwealth," for which you stand indebted to me 3s. 6d.;
an odd volume of Montaigne, being of no use to me, I having the whole; certain books belonging
to Wordsworth, as do also the strange thick-hoofed shoes, which are very much admired at in
London. All these sundries I commend to your most strenuous looking after. I have got your
little Milton which, as it contains Salmasius--and I make a rule of never hearing but one side
of the question (why should I distract myself?)--I shall return to you when I pick up the Latina
opera. The first Defence is the greatest work among them, because it is uniformly great, and
such as is befitting the very mouth of a great nation speaking for itself. But the second Defence,
which is but a succession of splendid episodes slightly tied together, has one passage which
if you have not read, I conjure you to lose no time, but read it; it is his consolations in
his blindness, which had been made a reproach to him. It begins whimsically, with poetical
flourishes about Tiresias and other blind worthies (which still are mainly interesting as displaying
his singular mind, and in what degree poetry entered into his daily soul, not by fits and impulses,
but engrained and innate); but the concluding page, i.e. of this passage (not of the Defensio)
which you will easily find, divested of all brags and flourishes, gives so rational, so true
an enumeration of his comforts, so human, that it cannot be read without the deepest interest.
Take one touch of the religious part:--"Et sane haud ultima Dei cura caeci--(we blind folks,
I understand it not nos for ego;)--sumus; qui nos, quominus quicquam aliud praeter ipsum cernere
valemus, eo clementius atque benignius respicere dignatur. Vae qui illudit nos, vae qui laedit,
execratione publica devovendo; nos ab injuriis hominum non modo incolumes, sed pene sacros
divina lex reddidit, divinus favor: nee tam oculorum hebetudine quam coelestium alarum umbra
has nobis fecisse tenebras videtur, factas illustrare rursus interiore ac longe praestabiliore
lumine haud raro solet. Huc refero, quod et amici officiosius nunc etiam quam solebant, colunt,
observant, adsunt; quod et nonnulli sunt, quibuscum Pyladeas atque Theseas alternare voces
verorum amicorum liceat.

"Vade gubernaculum mei pedis. Da manum ministro amico. Da collo manum tuam, ductor autem viae
ero tibi ego."

All this, and much more, is highly pleasing to know. But you may easily find it;--and I don't
know why I put down so many words about it, but for the pleasure of writing to you and the
want of another topic.

Yours ever, C. LAMB.

To-morrow I expect with anxiety S.T.C.'s letter to Mr. Fox. The following is a translation
of the Latin passage by Robert Fellowes:--

And indeed, in my blindness, I enjoy in no inconsiderable degree the favour of the Deity; who
regards me with more tenderness and compassion in proportion as I am able to behold nothing
but himself. Alas! for him who insults me, who maligns and merits public execration! For the
divine law not only shields me from injury, but almost renders me too sacred to attack; not
indeed so much from the privation of my sight, as from the overshadowing of those heavenly
wings, which seem to have occasioned this obscurity; and which, when occasioned, he is wont
to illuminate with an interior light, more precious and more pure. To this I ascribe the more
tender assiduities of my friends, their soothing attentions, their kind visits, their reverential
observances; among whom there are some with whom I may interchange the Pyladean and Thesean
dialogue of inseparable friends.

Orest. Proceed, and be rudder of my feet, by showing me the most endearing love. [Eurip. in Orest.]

And in another place--

"Lend your hand to your devoted friend, Throw your arm round my neck, and I will conduct you
on the way."

Apropos: if you should go to Florence or to Rome, inquire what works are extant in gold, silver,
bronze, or marble, of Benvenuto Cellini, a Florentine artist, whose Life doubtless, you have
read; or, if not, without controversy you must read: so hark ye, send for it immediately from
Lane's circulating library. It is always put among the romances, very properly; but you have
read it, I suppose. In particular, inquire at Florence for his colossal bronze statue (in the
grand square or somewhere) of Perseus. You may read the story in Tooke's "Pantheon." Nothing
material has transpired in these parts. Coleridge has indited a violent philippic against Mr.
Fox in the "Morning Post," which is a compound of expressions of humility, gentlemen-ushering-in
most arrogant charges. It will do Mr. Fox no real injury among those that know him.

[Manning's letter of September 10 had told Lamb he was on his way to Toulouse.

Cottle's epic was Alfred. The quoted lines were added in the twelfth edition. He had also written
John the Baptist.

"Cellini's Life." Lamb would probably have read the translation by Nugent, 1771. They'll certainly
circumcise you. Shave the upper lip. Go about like an European. There's your friend Holcroft
now, has written a play. You used to be fond of the drama. Nobody went to see it. Notwithstanding
this, with an audacity perfectly original, he faces the town down in a preface, that they did
like it very much. I have heard a waspish punster say, "Sir, why did you not laugh at my jest?"
But for a man boldly to face me out with, "Sir, I maintain it, you did laugh at my jest," is
a little too much. I have seen H. but once. He spoke of you to me in honorable terms. H. seems
to me to be drearily dull. Godwin is dull, but then he has a dash of affectation, which smacks
of the coxcomb, and your coxcombs are always agreeable.

19th Feb., 1803, London.

[Manning's letter producing this reply is endorsed by Lamb, "Received February 19, 1803," so
that he lost no time. Manning wrote: "I am actually thinking of Independent Tartary as I write
this, but you go out and skate--you go out and walk some times? Very true, that's a distraction--but
the moment I set myself down quietly to any-thing, in comes Independent Tartary--for example
I attend chemical lectures but every drug that Mr. Vauquelin presents to me tastes of Cream
of Tartar--in short I am become good for nothing for a time, and as I said before, I should
not have written now, but to assure you of my friendly and affectionate remembrance, but as
you are not in the same unhappy circumstances, I expect you'll write to me and not measure
page for page. This is the first letter I have begun for England for three months except one
I sent to my Father yesterday." Manning returned to London before leaving for China. He did
not sail until 1806.

Prester John, the name given by old writers to the King of Ethiopia in Abyssinia. A corruption
of Belul Gian, precious stone; in Latin first Johanus preciosus, then Presbyter Johannes, and
then Prester John. In Sir John Mandeville's Voiage and Travails, 1356, Prester John is said
to be a lineal descendant of Ogier the Dane.--Hartley would be David Hartley, the metaphysician,
after whom Coleridge's son was named.--The reader must go to Chaucer's "Squire's Tale" for
Cambuscan, King of Sarra, in Tartary; his horse of brass which conveyed him in a day wherever
he would go; and the ring which enabled his daughter Canace to understand the language of birds.

Holcroft's play was "A Tale of Mystery."

Rickman had returned from Ireland some months previously. The merry natural captain was James
Burney (1750-1821), with whom the Lambs soon became very friendly. He was the centre of their
whist-playing circle. Burney, who was brother of Madame D'Arblay, had sailed with Captain Cook.

"The reverse of fishes in Holland." An allusion to Andrew Marvell's whimsical satire against
the Dutch:--

The fish ofttimes the burgher dispossessed And sat not as a meat but as a guest.

"Why not your father?" Manning's father was the Rev. William Manning, rector of Diss, in Norfolk,
who died in 1810.]

LETTER 105

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

March, 1803.

Dear Manning, I send you some verses I have made on the death of a young Quaker you may have
heard me speak of as being in love with for some years while I lived at Pentonville, though
I had never spoken to her in my life. She died about a month since. If you have interest with
the Abbe de Lisle, you may get 'em translated: he has done as much for the Georgics.

HESTER

When maidens such as Hester die, Their place ye may not well supply, Though ye among a thousand
try, With vain endeavour.

A month or more hath she been dead, Yet cannot I by force be led To think upon the wormy bed,
And her together.

A springy motion in her gait, A rising step, did indicate Of pride and joy no common rate,
That flush'd her spirit.

I know not by what name beside I shall it call:--if 'twas not pride, It was a joy to that allied,
She did inherit.

Her parents held the Quaker rule, Which doth the human feeling cool, But she was train'd in
Nature's school, Nature had blest her.

A waking eye, a prying mind, A heart that stirs, is hard to bind, A hawk's keen sight ye cannot
blind, Ye could not Hester.

[This letter is possibly only a fragment. I have supplied "Hester" from the 1818 text.

The young Quaker was Hester Savory, the daughter of Joseph Savory, a goldsmith of the Strand.
She was married July 1, 1802, and died a few months after.

"The Abbe de Lisle." L'Abbe Jacques Delille (1738-1813), known by his Georgiques, 1770, a translation
into French of Virgil's Georgics.]

LETTER 106

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

[Dated at end: March 5, 1803.]

Dear Wordsworth, having a Guinea of your sister's left in hand, after all your commissions,
and as it does not seem likely that you will trouble us, as the phrase is, for some time to
come, I send you a pound note, and with it the best things in the verse way I have lit upon
for many a day. I believe they will be new to you. You know Cotton, who wrote a 2d part to
Walton's Angler. A volume of his miscellaneous poems is scarce. Take what follows from a poem
call'd Winter. I omit 20 verses, in which a storm is described, to hasten to the best:--

21 Louder, and louder, still they[1] come, Nile's Cataracts to these are dumb, The Cyclops
to these Blades are still, Whose anvils shake the burning hill.

22 Were all the stars-enlighten'd skies As full of ears, as sparkling eyes, This rattle in
the crystal hall Would be enough to deaf them all.

23 What monstrous Race is hither tost, Thus to alarm our British Coast, With outcries such
as never yet War, or confusion, could beget?

24 Oh! now I know them, let us home, Our mortal Enemy is come, Winter, and all his blustring
train Have made a voyage o'er the main.

27 With bleak, and with congealing winds, The earth in shining chain he binds; And still as
he doth further pass, Quarries his way with liquid glass.

28 Hark! how the Blusterers of the Bear Their gibbous Cheeks in triumph bear, And with continued
shouts do ring The entry of their palsied king!

29 The squadron, nearest to your eye, Is his forlorn of Infantry, Bowmen of unrelenting minds,
Whose shafts are feather'd with the winds.

30 Now you may see his vanguard rise Above the earthy precipice, Bold Horse, on bleakest mountains
bred, With hail, instead of provend, fed.

31 Their lances are the pointed locks, Torn from the brows of frozen rocks, Their shields are
chrystal as their swords, The steel the rusted rock affords.

32 See, the Main Body now appears! And hark! th' Aeolian Trumpeters. By their hoarse levels
do declare, That the bold General rides there.

33 And look where mantled up in white He sleds it, like the Muscovite. I know him by the port
he bears, And his lifeguard of mountaineers.

34 Their caps are furr'd with hoary frosts, The bravery their cold kingdom boasts; Their spungy
plads are milk-white frieze, Spun from the snowy mountain's fleece.

35 Their partizans are fine carv'd glass, Fring'd with the morning's spangled grass; And pendant
by their brawny thighs Hang cimetars of burnish'd ice.

38 Fly, fly, the foe advances fast, Into our fortress let us haste, Where all the roarers of
the north Can neither storm, nor starve, us forth.

39 There under ground a magazine Of sovran juice is cellar'd in, Liquor that will the siege
maintain, Should Phoebus ne'er return again.

43 Whilst we together jovial sit, Careless, and crown'd with mirth and wit, Where tho' bleak
winds confine us home, Our fancies thro' the world shall roam.

49 Thus shall our healths do others good, While we ourselves do all we wou'd, For freed from
envy, and from care, What would we be, but what we are?

50 'Tis the plump Grape's immortal juice, That does this happiness produce, And will preserve
us free together, Maugre mischance, or wind, & weather.

51 Then let old winter take his course, And roar abroad till he be hoarse, And his lungs crack
with ruthless ire, It shall but serve to blow our fire.

52 Let him our little castle ply With all his loud artillery, Whilst sack and claret man the
fort, His fury shall become our sport.

53 Or let him Scotland take, and there Confine the plotting Presbyter; His zeal may freeze,
whilst we kept warm With love and wine can know no harm.

[Footnote 1: The winds.]

How could Burns miss the series of lines from 42 to 49?

There is also a long poem from the Latin on the inconveniences of old age. I can't set down
the whole, tho' right worthy, having dedicated the remainder of my sheet to something else.
I just excerp here and there, to convince you, if after this you need it, that Cotton was a
first rate. Tis old Callus speaks of himself, once the delight of the Ladies and Gallants of
Rome:--

The beauty of my shape & face are fled, And my revolted form bespeaks me dead, For fair, and
shining age, has now put on A bloodless, funeral complexion. My skin's dry'd up, my nerves
unpliant are, And my poor limbs my nails plow up and tear. My chearful eyes now with a constant
spring Of tears bewail their own sad suffering; And those soft lids, that once secured my eye
Now rude, and bristled grown, do drooping lie, Bolting mine eyes, as in a gloomy cave, Which
there on furies, and grim objects, rave. 'Twould fright the full-blown Gallant to behold The
dying object of a man so old. And can you think, that once a man he was, Of human reason who
no portion has. The letters split, when I consult my book, And every leaf I turn does broader
look. In darkness do I dream I see the light, When light is darkness to my perishd sight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Is it not hard we may not from men's eyes Cloak and conceal Age's indecencies. Unseeming spruceness
th' old man discommends, And in old men, only to live, offends.

       *       *       *       *       *

How can I him a living man believe, Whom light, and air, by whom he panteth, grieve; The gentle
sleeps, which other mortals ease, Scarce in a winter's night my eyelids seize.

       *       *       *       *       *

The boys, and girls, deride me now forlorn, And but to call me, Sir, now think it scorn, They
jeer my countnance, and my feeble pace, And scoff that nodding head, that awful was.

       *       *       *       *       *

A song written by Cowper, which in stile is much above his usual, and emulates in noble plainness
any old balad I have seen. Hayley has just published it &c. with a Life.

3 A Land breeze shook the shrouds, And she was over set; Down went the Royal George, With all
her sails complete.

8 Her timbers yet are sound, And she may float again, Full charg'd with England's thunder,
And plow the distant main.

9 But Kempenfelt is gone, His victories are o'er; And he, and his eight hundred, Shall plow
the wave no more.

In your obscure part of the world, which I take to be Ultima Thule, I thought these verses
out of Books which cannot be accessible would not be unwelcome. Having room, I will put in
an Epitaph I writ for a real occasion, a year or two back.

ON MARY DRUIT WHO DIED AGED 19

Under this cold marble stone Sleep the sad remains of One, Who, when alive, by few or none

2 Was lov'd, as lov'd she might have been, If she prosp'rous days had seen, Or had thriving
been, I ween.

3 Only this cold funeral stone Tells, she was belov'd by One, Who on the marble graves his moan.

I conclude with Love to your Sister and Mrs. W.

Yours affect'y, C. LAMB. Mary sends Love, &c. 5th March, 1803.

On consulting Mary, I find it will be foolish inserting the Note as I intended, being so small,
and as it is possible you may have to trouble us again e'er long; so it shall remain to be
settled hereafter. However, the verses shan't be lost.

N.B.--All orders executed with fidelity and punctuality by C. & M. Lamb.

[On the outside is written:] I beg to open this for a minute to add my remembrances to you
all, and to assure you I shall ever be happy to hear from or see, much more to be useful to
any of my old friends at Grasmere.

            J. STODDART.

A lean paragraph of the Doctor's.

                 C. LAMB.

[Charles Cotton (1630-1687). Wordsworth praises the poem on Winter in his preface to the 1815
edition of his works, and elsewhere sets up a comparison between the character of Cotton and
that of Burns.

Hayley's Life of Cowper appeared first in 1803.

Lamb's epitaph was written at the request of Rickman. See also the letter to Manning of April,
1802. Rickman seems to have supplied Lamb with a prose epitaph and asked for a poetical version.
Canon Ainger prints an earlier version in a letter to Rickman, dated February 1, 1802. Lamb
printed the epitaph in the Morning Post for February 7, 1804, over his initials (see Vol. IV.
of this edition). Mary Druit, or Druitt, lived at Wimborne, and according to John Payne Collier,
in An Old Man's Diary, died of small-pox at the age of nineteen. He says that Lamb's lines
were cut on her tomb, but correspondence in Notes and Queries has proved this to be incorrect.

"The Doctor." Stoddart, having taken his D.C.L. in 1801, was now called Dr. Stoddart.

Soon after this letter Mary Lamb was taken ill again.]

LETTER 107

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE

April 13th, 1803.

My dear Coleridge,--Things have gone on better with me since you left me. I expect to have
my old housekeeper home again in a week or two. She has mended most rapidly. My health too
has been better since you took away that Montero cap. I have left off cayenned eggs and such
bolsters to discomfort. There was death in that cap. I mischievously wished that by some inauspicious
jolt the whole contents might be shaken, and the coach set on fire. For you said they had that
property. How the old Gentleman, who joined you at Grantham, would have clappt his hands to
his knees, and not knowing but it was an immediate visitation of God that burnt him, how pious
it would have made him; him, I mean, that brought the Influenza with him, and only took places
for one--a damn'd old sinner, he must have known what he had got with him! However, I wish
the cap no harm for the sake of the head it fits, and could be content to see it disfigure
my healthy sideboard again. Wine, I am sure, good, mellow, generous Port, can hurt nobody,
unless they take it to excess, which they may easily avoid if they observe the rules of temperance.

When shall we two smoke again? Last night I had been in a sad quandary of spirits, in what
they call the evening; but a pipe and some generous Port, and King Lear (being alone), had
its effects as a remonstrance. I went to bed pot-valiant. By the way, may not the Ogles of
Somersetshire be remotely descended from King Lear?

Love to Sara, and ask her what gown she means that Mary has got of hers. I know of none but
what went with Miss Wordsworth's things to Wordsworth, and was paid for out of their money.
I allude to a part which I may have read imperfectly in a letter of hers to you.

C. L.

[Coleridge had been in London early in April and had stayed with Lamb in the Temple. From the
following letter to his wife, dated April 4, we get light on Lamb's allusion to his "old housekeeper,"
i.e., Mary Lamb, and her rapid mending:--

"I had purposed not to speak of Mary Lamb, but I had better write it than tell it. The Thursday
before last she met at Rickman's a Mr. Babb, an old friend and admirer of her mother. The next
day she smiled in an ominous way; on Sunday she told her brother that she was getting bad,
with great agony. On Tuesday morning she laid hold of me with violent agitation and talked
wildly about George Dyer. I told Charles there was not a moment to lose; and I did not lose
a moment, but went for a hackney-coach and took her to the private mad-house at Hugsden. She
was quite calm, and said it was the best to do so. But she wept bitterly two or three times,
yet all in a calm way. Charles is cut to the heart."

Lamb's first articulate doubts as to smoking are expressed in this letter. One may perhaps
take in this connection the passage on tobacco and alcohol in the "Confessions of a Drunkard"
(see Vol. I.).

"Montero cap"--a recollection of Tristram Shandy.

The Ogles and King Lear (i.e., leer)--merely a pun.]

LETTER 108

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE

[No date. May, 1803.]

Mary sends love from home.

DR. C.,--I do confess that I have not sent your books as I ought to be [have] done; but you
know how the human freewill is tethered, and that we perform promises to ourselves no better
than to our friends. A watch is come for you. Do you want it soon, or shall I wait till some
one travels your way? You, like me, I suppose, reckon the lapse of time from the waste thereof,
as boys let a cock run to waste: too idle to stop it, and rather amused with seeing it dribble.
Your poems have begun printing; Longman sent to me to arrange them, the old and the new together.
It seems you have left it to him. So I classed them, as nearly as I could, according to dates.
First, after the Dedication, (which must march first) and which I have transplanted from before
the Preface (which stood like a dead wall of prose between) to be the first poem--then comes
"The Pixies," and the things most juvenile--then on "To Chatterton," &c.--on, lastly, to the
"Ode on the Departing Year," and "Musings,"--which finish. Longman wanted the Ode first; but
the arrangement I have made is precisely that marked out in the dedication, following the order
of time. I told Longman I was sure that you would omit a good portion of the first edition.
I instanced in several sonnets, &c.--but that was not his plan, and, as you have done nothing
in it, all I could do was to arrange 'em on the supposition that all were to be retained. A
few I positively rejected; such as that of "The Thimble," and that of "Flicker and Flicker's
wife," and that not in the manner of Spenser, which you yourself had stigmatised--and the "Man
of Ross,"--I doubt whether I should this last. It is not too late to save it. The first proof
is only just come. I have been forced to call that Cupid's Elixir "Kisses." It stands in your
first volume as an Effusion, so that, instead of prefixing The Kiss to that of "One Kiss, dear
Maid," &c., I have ventured to entitle it "To Sara." I am aware of the nicety of changing even
so mere a trifle as a title to so short a piece, and subverting old associations; but two called
"Kisses" would have been absolutely ludicrous, and "Effusion" is no name; and these poems come
close together. I promise you not to alter one word in any poem whatever, but to take your
last text, where two are. Can you send any wishes about the book? Longman, I think, should
have settled with you. But it seems you have left it to him. Write as soon as you possibly
can; for, without making myself responsible, I feel myself in some sort accessory to the selection
which I am to proof-correct. But I decidedly said to Biggs that I was sure you would omit more.
Those I have positively rubbed off I can swear to individually, (except the "Man of Ross,"
which is too familiar in Pope,) but no others--you have your cue. For my part, I had rather
all the Juvenilia were kept--memories causa.

Rob Lloyd has written me a masterly letter, containing a character of his father;--see, how
different from Charles he views the old man! Literatim "My father smokes, repeats Homer in
Greek, and Virgil, and is learning, when from business, with all the vigour of a young man
Italian. He is really a wonderful man. He mixes public and private business, the intricacies
of discording life with his religion and devotion. No one more rationally enjoys the romantic
scenes of nature, and the chit-chat and little vagaries of his children; and, though surrounded
with an ocean of affairs, the very neatness of his most obscure cupboard in the house passes
not unnoticed. I never knew any one view with such clearness, nor so well satisfied with things
as they are, and make such allowance for things which must appear perfect Syriac to him." By
the last he means the Lloydisms of the younger branches. His portrait of Charles (exact as
far as he has had opportunities of noting him) is most exquisite. "Charles is become steady
as a church, and as straightforward as a Roman road. It would distract him to mention anything
that was not as plain as sense; he seems to have run the whole scenery of life, AND NOW RESTS
AS THE FORMAL PRECISIAN OF NON-EXISTENCE." Here is genius I think, and 'tis seldom a young
man, a Lloyd, looks at a father (so differing) with such good nature while he is alive. Write--

I am in post-haste, C. LAMB.

Love, &c., to Sara, P., and H.

[The date is usually given as March 20, but is May 20; certainly after Coleridge's visit to
town (see preceding letter).

Poems, by S. T. Coleridge, third edition, was now in preparation by Longman & Rees. Lamb saw
the volume through the press. The 1797 second edition was followed, except that Lloyd's and
Lamb's contributions were omitted, together with the following poems by Coleridge: "To the
Rev. W. J. H.," "Sonnet to Koskiusko," "Written after a Walk" (which Lamb inaccurately called
"Flicker and Flicker's Wife"), "From a Young Lady" ("The Silver Thimble"), "On the Christening
of a Friend's Child," "Introductory Sonnet to Lloyd's 'Poems on the Death of Priscilla Farmer.'"
"The Man of Ross" (whom Pope also celebrates in the Moral Essays, III., lines 250-290) was
retained, and also the "Lines in the Manner of Spenser." The piece rechristened "Kisses" had
been called "The Composition of a Kiss." Biggs was the printer. See also the next letter.

Of Robert Lloyd's father we hear more later.]

LETTER 109

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE 27th May, 1803.

My dear Coleridge,--The date of my last was one day prior to the receipt of your letter, full
of foul omens. I explain, lest you should have thought mine too light a reply to such sad matter.
I seriously hope by this time you have given up all thoughts of journeying to the green islands
of the Blest--voyages in time of war are very precarious--or at least, that you will take them
in your way to the Azores. Pray be careful of this letter till it has done its duty, for it
is to inform you that I have booked off your watch (laid in cotton like an untimely fruit),
and with it Condillac and all other books of yours which were left here. These will set out
on Monday next, the 29th May, by Kendal waggon, from White Horse, Cripplegate. You will make
seasonable inquiries, for a watch mayn't come your way again in a hurry. I have been repeatedly
after Tobin, and now hear that he is in the country, not to return till middle of June. I will
take care and see him with the earliest. But cannot you write pathetically to him, enforcing
a speedy mission of your books for literary purposes? He is too good a retainer to Literature,
to let her interests suffer through his default. And why, in the name of Beelzebub, are your
books to travel from Barnard's Inn to the Temple, and then circuitously to Cripplegate, when
their business is to take a short cut down Holborn-hill, up Snow do., on to Woodstreet, &c.?
The former mode seems a sad superstitious subdivision of labour. Well! the "Man of Ross" is
to stand; Longman begs for it; the printer stands with a wet sheet in one hand and a useless
Pica in the other, in tears, pleading for it; I relent. Besides, it was a Salutation poem,
and has the mark of the beast "Tobacco" upon it. Thus much I have done; I have swept off the
lines about widows and orphans in second edition, which (if you remember) you most awkwardly
and illogically caused to be inserted between two Ifs, to the great breach and disunion of
said Ifs, which now meet again (as in first edition), like two clever lawyers arguing a case.
Another reason for subtracting the pathos was, that the "Man of Ross" is too familiar to need
telling what he did, especially in worse lines than Pope told it; and it now stands simply
as "Reflections at an Inn about a known Character," and sucking an old story into an accommodation
with present feelings. Here is no breaking spears with Pope, but a new, independent, and really
a very pretty poem. In fact, 'tis as I used to admire it in the first volume, and I have even
dared to restore

"If 'neath this roof thy wine-cheer'd moments pass,"

for

"Beneath this roof if thy cheer'd moments pass."

"Cheer'd" is a sad general word; "wine-cheer'd" I'm sure you'd give me, if I had a speaking-trumpet
to sound to you 300 miles. But I am your factotum, and that (save in this instance, which is
a single case, and I can't get at you) shall be next to a fac-nihil--at most, a fac-simile.
I have ordered "Imitation of Spenser" to be restored on Wordsworth's authority; and now, all
that you will miss will be "Flicker and Flicker's Wife," "The Thimble," "Breathe, dear harmonist"
and, I believe, "The Child that was fed with Manna." Another volume will clear off all your
Anthologic Morning-Postian Epistolary Miscellanies; but pray don't put "Christabel" therein;
don't let that sweet maid come forth attended with Lady Holland's mob at her heels. Let there
be a separate volume of Tales, Choice Tales, "Ancient Mariners," &c.

          C. LAMB.

[Coleridge, who was getting more and more nervous about his health, had long been on the point
of starting on some southern travels with Thomas Wedgwood, but Wedgwood had gone alone; his
friend James Webbe Tobin, mentioned later in the letter, lived at Nevis, in the West Indies:
possibly Coleridge had thoughts of returning with him. The Malta experiment, of which we are
to hear later, had not, I think, yet been mooted.

"The Man of Ross."

Lamb changed it by omitting lines 9 to 14, Coleridge agreeing. The poet would not, however,
restore "wine-cheer'd" as in his earliest version, 1794. In the edition of 1828 the six lines
were put back. "Breathe, dear Harmonist" was the poem "To the Rev. W. J. H.," and "The Child
that was fed with Manna" was "On the Christening of a Friend's Child."

"Lady Holland's mob." Elizabeth Vassall Fox, third Lady Holland (1770-1845), was beginning
her reign as a Muse. Lamb by his phrase means occasional and political verse generally. The
reference to "Christabel" helps to controvert Fanny Godwin's remark in a letter to Mrs. Shelley,
on July 20, 1816, that Lamb "says Christabel ought never to have been published; that no one
understood it."

Canon Ainger's transcript adds: "A word of your health will be richly acceptable."]

LETTER 110

MARY LAMB TO DOROTHY WORDSWORTH

[Dated at end: July 9. P.M. July 11, 1803.]

My dear Miss Wordsworth--We rejoice with exceeding great joy to hear the delightful tidings
you were so very kind to remember to send us--I hope your dear sister is perfectly well, and
makes an excellent nurse. Are you not now the happiest family in the world?

I have been in better health and spirits this week past than since my last illness--I continued
so long so very weak & dejected I began to fear I should never be at all comfortable again.
I strive against low spirits all I can, but it is a very hard thing to get the better of.

I am very uneasy about poor Coleridge, his last letters are very melancholy ones. Remember
me affectionately to him and Sara. I hope you often see him.

Southey is in town. He seems as proud of his little girl as I suppose your brother is of his
boy; he says his home is now quite a different place to what it used to be. I was glad to hear
him say this--it used to look rather chearless.

We went last week with Southey and Rickman and his sister to Sadlers Wells, the lowest and
most London-like of all our London amusements--the entertainments were Goody Two Shoes, Jack
the Giant Killer, and Mary of Buttermere! Poor Mary was very happily married at the end of
the piece, to a sailor her former sweetheart. We had a prodigious fine view of her father's
house in the vale of Buttermere--mountains very like large haycocks, and a lake like nothing
at all. If you had been with us, would you have laughed the whole time like Charles and Miss
Rickman or gone to sleep as Southey and Rickman did?

Stoddart is in expectation of going soon to Malta as Judge Advocate; it is likely to be a profitable
situation, fifteen hundred a year or more. If he goes he takes with him his sister, and, as
I hear from her as a very great secret, a wife; you must not mention this because if he stays
in England he may not be rich enough to marry for some years. I do not know why I should trouble
you with a secret which it seems I am unable to keep myself and which is of no importance to
you to hear; if he succeeds in this appointment he will be in a great bustle, for he must set
out to Malta in a month. In the mean time he must go to Scotland to marry and fetch his wife,
and it is a match against her parents' consent, and they as yet know nothing of the Malta expedition;
so that he expects many difficulties, but the young lady and he are determined to conquer them.
He then must go to Salisbury to take leave of his father and mother, who I pity very much,
for they are old people and therefore are not very likely ever to see their children again.

Charles is very well and very good--I mean very sober, but he is very good in every sense of
the word, for he has been very kind and patient with me and I have been a sad trouble to him
lately. He has shut out all his friends because he thought company hurt me, and done every
thing in his power to comfort and amuse me. We are to go out of town soon for a few weeks,
when I hope I shall get quite stout and lively.

You saw Fenwick when you was with us--perhaps you remember his wife and children were with
his brother, a tradesman at Penzance. He (the brother), who was supposed to be in a great way
of business, has become a bankrupt; they are now at Penzance without a home and without money;
and poor Fenwick, who has been Editor of a country newspaper lately, is likely soon to be quite
out of employ; I am distressed for them, for I have a great affection for Mrs. Fenwick.

How pleasant your little house and orchard must be now. I almost wish I had never seen it.
I am always wishing to be with you. I could sit upon that little bench in idleness day long.
When you have a leisure hour, a letter from [you], kind friend, will give me the greatest pleasure.

We have money of yours and I want you to send me some commission to lay it out. Are you not
in want of anything? I believe when we go out of town it will be to Margate--I love the seaside
and expect much benefit from it, but your mountain scenery has spoiled us. We shall find the
flat country of the Isle of Thanet very dull.

Charles joins me in love to your brother and sister and the little John. I hope you are building
more rooms. Charles said I was so long answering your letter Mrs. Wordsworth would have another
little one before you received it. Our love and compliments to our kind Molly, I hope she grows
younger and happier every day. When, and where, shall I ever see you again? Not I fear for
a very long time, you are too happy ever to wish to come to London. When you write tell me
how poor Mrs. Clarkson does.

God bless you and yours.

I am your affectionate friend,

M. LAMB.

July 9th.

[Wordsworth's eldest child, John, was born on June 18, 1803. Southey's little girl was Edith,
born in September of the preceding year. It was Southey who made the charming remark that no
house was complete unless it had in it a child rising six years, and a kitten rising six months.

Coleridge had been ill for some weeks after his visit to London. He was about to visit Scotland
with the Wordsworths.

Mary of Buttermere was Mary Robinson, the Beauty of Buttermere, whom the swindler John Hatfield
had married in October, 1802, under the false name of Hope. Mary was the daughter of the landlord
of the Fish Inn at Buttermere, and was famous in the Lake Country for her charm. Coleridge
sent to the Morning Post in October some letters on the imposture, and Mary's name became a
household word. Hatfield was hanged in September, 1803. Funds were meanwhile raised for Mary,
and she ultimately married a farmer, after being the subject of dramas, ballads and novels.

The play which the Lambs saw was by Charles Dibdin the Younger, produced on April 11, 1803.
Its title was "Edward and Susan; or, The Beauty of Buttermere." A benefit performance for the
real Beauty of Buttermere was promised. Both Grimaldi and Belzoni were among the evening's
entertainers.

Stoddart was the King's and the Admiralty's Advocate at Malta from 1803 to 1807. He married
Isabella Moncrieff in 1803. His sister was Sarah Stoddart, of whom we are about to hear much.

According to the next letter the Lambs went not to Margate, but to the Isle of Wight--to Cowes,
with the Burneys.

Molly was an old cottager at Grasmere whom the Lambs had been friendly with on their northern
visit.

Mrs. Clarkson, the wife of Thomas Clarkson, was Catherine Buck. She survived her husband, who
died in 1846.]

LETTER 111

CHARLES LAMB TO JOHN RICKMAN

Saturday Morning, July 16th, 1803.

Dear Rickman,--I enclose you a wonder, a letter from the shades. A dead body wants to return,
and be inrolled inter vivos. 'Tis a gentle ghost, and in this Galvanic age it may have a chance.

Mary and I are setting out for the Isle of Wight. We make but a short stay, and shall pass
the time betwixt that place and Portsmouth, where Fenwick is. I sadly wanted to explore the
Peak this Summer; but Mary is against steering without card or compass, and we should be at
large in Darbyshire.

We shall be at home this night and to-morrow, if you can come and take a farewell pipe.

I regularly transmitted your Notices to the "Morning Post," but they have not been duly honoured.
The fault lay not in me.--

Yours truly,

C. LAMB.

[I cannot explain the reference to the dead body. Mr. Bertram Dobell considers it to apply
to an article which he believes Lamb to have written, called "An Appeal from the Shades," printed
in the London Magazine, New Series, Vol. V. (see Sidelights on Charles Lamb, 1903, pages 140-152).
I cannot, however, think that Lamb could write in 1803 in the deliberate manner of that essay;
that the "Appeal" is by him; or that the reference in the letter is to an essay at all. I have
no real theory to put forward; but it once occurred to me that the letter from the shades was
from George Burnett, who had quarrelled with Rickman, may reasonably be believed to have threatened
suicide, and had now possibly appealed to his mercy through Lamb. Later, Burnett entered the
militia as a surgeon, and at the beginning of 1804 he left for Poland.

Following this should come a letter from Lamb to Rickman, dated July 27, 1803. It is part of
one from Captain Burney describing the adventures of the Burneys and Lambs at Cowes. Lamb,
says the Captain, on their way to Newport "very ingeniously and unconsciously cast loose the
fastenings of the mast, so that mast, sprit, sails, and all the rest tumbled overboard with
a crash." Lamb on his part is amusing about the Captain and Martin Burney, and says he longs
for Holborn scenery again.]

LETTER 112

MARY LAMB TO SARAH STODDART

[Dated at end: September 21, 1803.]

My dear Sarah, I returned home from my visit yesterday, and was much pleased to find your letter;
for I have been very anxious to hear how you are going on. I could hardly help expecting to
see you when I came in; yet, though I should have rejoiced to have seen your merry face again,
I believe it was better as it was--upon the whole; and, all things considered, it is certainly
better you should go to Malta. The terms you are upon with your Lover does (as you say it will)
appear wondrous strange to me; however, as I cannot enter into your feelings, I certainly can
have nothing to say to it, only that I sincerely wish you happy in your own way, however odd
that way may appear to me to be. I would begin now to advise you to drop all correspondence
with William; but, as I said before, as I cannot enter into your feelings and views of things,
your ways not being my ways, why should I tell you what I would do in your situation? So, child,
take thy own ways, and God prosper thee in them!

One thing my advising spirit must say--use as little Secrecy as possible; and, as much as possible,
make a friend of your sister-in-law--you know I was not struck with her at first sight; but,
upon your account, I have watched and marked her very attentively; and, while she was eating
a bit of cold mutton in our kitchen, we had a serious conversation. From the frankness of her
manner, I am convinced she is a person I could make a friend of; why should not you? We talked
freely about you: she seems to have a just notion of your character, and will be fond of you,
if you will let her. A little frankness, and looking into each other's characters at first,
would have spared all this, and they would have lived, as they died, fond of each other for
the last few years of their life. When we grew up, and harmonised them a little, they sincerely
loved each other. When you leave your Mother, and say, if you never shall see her again, you
shall feel no remorse, and when you make a jewish bargain with your Lover, all this gives me
no offence, because it is your nature, and your temper, and I do not expect or want you to
be otherwise than you are. I love you for the good that is in you, and look for no change.
But, certainly, you ought to struggle with the evil that does most easily beset you--a total
want of politeness in behaviour, I would say modesty of behaviour, but that I should not convey
to you my idea of the word modesty; for I certainly do not mean that you want real modesty;
and what is usually called false, or mock, modesty is [a quality] I certainly do not wish you
to possess; yet I trust you know what I mean well enough.

Secrecy, though you appear all frankness, is certainly a grand failing of yours; it is likewise
your brother's, and, therefore, a family failing--by secrecy, I mean you both want the habit
of telling each other at the moment every thing that happens--where you go,--and what you do,--the
free communication of letters and opinions just as they arrive, as Charles and I do,--and which
is, after all, the only groundwork of friendship. Your brother, I will answer for [it,] will
never tell his wife or his sister all that [is in] his mind--he will receive letters, and not
[mention it]. This is a fault Mrs. Stoddart can never [tell him of;] but she can, and will,
feel it: though, [on] the whole, and in every other respect, she is [very] happy with him.
Begin, for God's sake, at the first, and tell her every thing that passes. At first she may
hear you with indifference; but in time this will gain her affection and confidence; show her
all your letters (no matter if she does not show hers)--it is a pleasant thing for a friend
to put into one's hand a letter just fresh from the post. I would even say, begin with showing
her this, but that it is written freely and loosely, and some apology ought to be made for
it--which I know not how to make, for I must write freely or not at all.

If you do this, she will tell your brother, you will say; and what then, quotha? It will beget
a freer communication amongst you, which is a thing devoutly to be wished--

God bless you, and grant you may preserve your integrity, and remain unmarried and penniless,
and make William a good and a happy wife.

Your affectionate friend,

M. LAMB.

Charles is very unwell, and my head aches. He sends his love: mine, with my best wishes, to
your brother and sister.

I hope I shall get another letter from you.

Wednesday, 21st September, 1803.

[Sarah Stoddart was the sister of Dr. John Stoddart, who had just been appointed the King's
and the Admiralty's Advocate at Malta, whither Miss Stoddart followed him. Her lover of that
moment was a Mr. Turner, and William was an earlier lover still. Her sister-in-law was Mrs.
John Stoddart, nee Isabella Moncrieff, whom her brother had only just married.

"My Mother." This is the only reference to her mother in any of Mary Lamb's letters. The sister
was Sarah Lamb, usually known as Aunt Hetty.]

LETTER 113

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM GODWIN

Nov. 8, 1803.

My dear Sir,--I have been sitting down for three or four days successively to the review, which
I so much wished to do well, and to your satisfaction. But I can produce nothing but absolute
flatness and nonsense. My health and spirits are so bad, and my nerves so irritable, that I
am sure, if I persist, I shall teaze myself into a fever. You do not know how sore and weak
a brain I have, or you would allow for many things in me which you set down for whims. I solemnly
assure you that I never more wished to prove to you the value which I have for you than at
this moment; but although in so seemingly trifling a service I cannot get through with it,
I pray you to impute it to this one sole cause, ill health. I hope I am above subterfuge, and
that you will do me this justice to think so.

You will give me great satisfaction by sealing my pardon and oblivion in a line or two, before
I come to see you, or I shall be ashamed to come.--Your, with great truth,

C. LAMB.

[Lamb's review of Godwin's Life of Chaucer, issued in October, 1803, has not been identified.
Perhaps it was never completed. Writing to Wordsworth, December 28, 1814, he says that his
review of The Excursion is the first he ever did.

Lamb's early Merchant Taylors' verses have been lost, but two epigrams that he wrote many years
later for the sons of Hessey, the publisher, have been preserved (see the letter to Southey,
May 10, 1830).]

LETTER 115

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS POOLE

[Dated at end: Feb. 14, 1804.]

Dear Sir--I am sorry we have not been able to hear of lodgings to suit young F. but we will
not desist in the enquiry. In a day or two something may turn up. Boarding houses are common
enough, but to find a family where he would be safe from impositions within & impositions without
is not so easy.--

I take this opportunity of thanking you for your kind attentions to the Lad I took the liberty
of recommending. His mother was disposed to have taken in young F. but could not possibly make
room.

Your obliged &c

C. LAMB.

Temple, 14 Feb., 1804.

[I do not know to what lads the note refers, but probably young F. was young Fricker, the brother
of Mrs. Coleridge and Mrs. Southey. The note is interesting only as giving another instance
of Lamb's willing helpfulness to others.]

LETTER 116

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE

[P.M. March 10, 1804.]

Dr C. I blunderd open this letter, its weight making me conjecture it held an inclosure; but
finding it poetry (which is no man's ground, but waste and common) I perused it. Do you remember
that you are to come to us to-night?

C. L.

To Mr. Coleridge, Mr. Tobin's, Barnards Inn, Holborn.

[This is written on the back of a paper addressed (to save postage) to Mr. Lamb, India House,
containing a long extract from "Madoc" in Southey's hand.

Coleridge, having been invited by Stoddart to Malta, was now in London on his way thither.
Tobin was probably James Webbe Tobin, brother of John Tobin, the solicitor and dramatist.

Between this letter and the next comes a letter from Lamb to Robert Lloyd, dated at the end
March 13, 1804, in which Lamb congratulates Robert Lloyd on his approaching marriage to Hannah
Hart. The wedding was celebrated on August 2, 1804.]

LETTER 117

MARY LAMB TO SARAH STODDART

[No date. ? March, 1804.]

My dearest Sarah,--I will just write a few hasty lines to say Coleridge is setting off sooner
than we expected; and I every moment expect him to call in one of his great hurrys for this.
Charles intended to write by him, but has not: most likely he will send a letter after him
to Portsmouth: if he does, you will certainly hear from him soon. We rejoiced with exceeding
joy to hear of your safe arrival: I hope your brother will return home in a few years a very
rich man. Seventy pounds in one fortnight is a pretty beginning--

I envy your brother the pleasure of seeing Coleridge drop in unexpectedly upon him; we talk--but
it is but wild and idle talk--of following him: he is to get my brother some little snug place
of a thousand a year, and we are to leave all, and come and live among ye. What a pretty dream.

Coleridge is very ill. I dread the thought of his long voyage--write as soon as he arrives,
whether he does or not, and tell me how he is.

Jamaica bodies... [words illegible].

He has got letters of recommendation to Governor Ball, and God knows who; and he will talk
and talk, and be universally admired. But I wish to write for him a letter of recommendation
to Mrs. Stoddart, and to yourself, to take upon ye, on his first arrival, to be kind affectionate
nurses; and mind, now, that you perform this duty faithfully, and write me a good account of
yourself. Behave to him as you would to me, or to Charles, if we came sick and unhappy to you.

I have no news to send you; Coleridge will tell you how we are going on. Charles has lost the
newspaper; but what we dreaded as an evil has proved a great blessing, for we have both strangely
recovered our health and spirits since this has happened; and I hope, when I write next, I
shall be able to tell you Charles has begun something which will produce a little money; for
it is not well to be very poor--which we certainly are at this present writing.

I sit writing here, and thinking almost you will see it tomorrow; and what a long, long time
it will be ere you receive this--When I saw your letter, I fancy'd you were even just then
in the first bustle of a new reception, every moment seeing new faces, and staring at new objects,
when, at that time, every thing had become familiar to you; and the strangers, your new dancing
partners, had perhaps become gossiping fireside friends. You tell me of your gay, splendid
doings; tell me, likewise, what manner of home-life you lead--Is a quiet evening in a Maltese
drawing room as pleasant as those we have passed in Mitre Court and Bell yard?--Tell me all
about it, every thing pleasant, and every thing unpleasant, that befalls you.

I want you to say a great deal about yourself. Are you happy? and do you not repent going out?
I wish I could see you for one hour only.

Remember me affectionately to your sister and brother; and tell me, when you write, if Mrs.
Stoddart likes Malta, and how the climate agrees with her and with thee.

We heard you were taken prisoners, and for several days believed the tale.

How did the pearls, and the fine court finery, bear the fatigues of the voyage, and how often
have they been worn and admired?

Rickman wants to know if you are going to be married yet--satisfy him in that little particular
when you write.

The Fenwicks send their love, and Mrs. Reynolds her love, and the little old lady her best
respects.

Mrs. Jefferies, who I see now and then, talks of you with tears in her eyes, and, when she
heard you was taken prisoner, Lord! how frightened she was. She has heard, she tells me, that
Mr. Stoddart is to have a pension of two thousand a year, whenever he chuses to return to England.

God bless you, and send you all manner of comforts and happinesses.

   Your most affectionate friend,
     MARY LAMB.

How-do? how-do? No time to write. S.T.C. going off in a great hurry. CH. LAMB.

[Miss Stoddart was now in Malta. Governor Ball was Sir Alexander Ball, to whom Coleridge was
to act as private secretary and of whom he wrote some years later in The Friend.

"Charles has lost the newspaper"--his work on the Morning Post. Lamb's principal period on
this paper had begun after Stuart sold it in September, 1803, and it lasted until February,
1804 (see notes in Vol. II. of this edition).

"We heard you were taken prisoners"--by the French.

"Mrs. Reynolds"--Lamb's old schoolmistress and pensioner. Mrs. Jefferies I do not know.]

LETTER 118

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE

[P.M. April 4, 1804.]

Mary would send her best love, but I write at office.

Thursday [April 5]. The L1 came safe.

My dear C.--I but just received your commission-abounding letter. All shall be done. Make your
European heart easy in Malta, all shall be performed. You say I am to transcribe off part of
your letters and send to X somebody (but the name is lost under the wafer, so you must give
it me)--I suppose Wordsw'th.

I have been out of town since Saturday, the reason I had not your letter before. N.B. N.B.
Knowing I had 2 or 3 Easter holydays, it was my intention to have ask'd you if my accompanying
you to Portsm'th would have been pleasant. But you were not visible, except just at the critical
moment of going off from the Inn, at which time I could not get at you. So Deus aliter disposuit,
and I went down into Hertfordshire.

I write in great bustle indeed--God bless you again. Attend to what I have written mark'd X
above, and don't merge any part of your Orders under seal again.

   C. LAMB.

[Addressed to "S. T. Coleridge, Esq'r., J. C. Mottley's, Esq'r., Portsmouth, Hants."

Coleridge had left London for Portsmouth on March 27; he sailed for Malta on April 9.]

LETTER 119

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS POOLE

[Dated at end: Temple, 4th May, 1804.]

Dear Sir--I have no sort of connexion with the Morning Post at present, nor acquaintance with
its late Editor (the present Editor of the Courier) to ask a favour of him with propriety;
but if it will be of any use, I believe I could get the insertions into the British Press (a
Morning Paper) through a friend.--

   Yours truly
     C. LAMB.

LETTER 120

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS POOLE

[Dated at end: Temple, 5 May, 1804.]

Dear Sir--I can get the insertions into the British Press without any difficulty at all. I
am only sorry that I have no interest in the M. Post, having so much greater circulation. If
your friend chuses it, you will be so good as to return me the Critique, of which I forgot
to take a copy, and I suppose on Monday or Tuesday it will be in. The sooner I have it, the better.

   Yours &c.
     C. LAMB.

I did formerly assist in the Post, but have no longer any engagement.--

[Stuart, having sold the Morning Post, was now developing the Courier. The notes are interesting
only as showing Lamb's attitude to Stuart. Writing to the Gentleman's Magazine in June, 1838,
concerning his association as editor with Coleridge, Stuart said: "But as for good Charles
Lamb, I never could make any-thing of his writings. Coleridge often and repeatedly pressed
me to settle him on a salary, and often and repeatedly did I try; but it would not do. Of politics
he knew nothing; they were out of his line of reading and thought; and his drollery was vapid,
when given in short paragraphs fit for a newspaper: yet he has produced some agreeable books,
possessing a tone of humour and kind feeling, in a quaint style, which it is amusing to read,
and cheering to remember."]

LETTER 121

CHARLES LAMB TO DOROTHY WORDSWORTH

[Dated at end: June 2, 1804.]

Dear Miss Wordsworth, the task of letter-writing in my family falls to me; you are the organ
of correspondence in yours, so I address you rather than your brother. We are all sensibly
obliged to you for the little scraps (Arthur's Bower and his brethren) which you sent up; the
bookseller has got them and paid Mrs. Fenwick for them. So while some are authors for fame,
some for money, you have commenced author for charity. The least we can do, is to see your
commissions fulfilled; accordingly I have booked this 2d June 1804 from the Waggon Inn in Cripplegate
the watch and books which I got from your brother Richard, together with Purchas's Pilgrimage
and Brown's Religio Medici which I desire your brother's acceptance of, with some pens, of
which I observed no great frequency when I tarried at Grasmere. (I suppose you have got Coleridge's
letter)--These things I have put up in a deal box directed to Mr. Wordsworth, Grasmere, near
Ambleside, Kendal, by the Kendal waggon. At the same time I have sent off a parcel by C.'s
desire to Mr. T. Hutchinson to the care of Mr. "T. Monkhouse, or T. Markhouse" (for C.'s writing
is not very plain) Penrith, by the Penrith waggon this day; which I beg you to apprize them
of, lest my direction fail. In your box, you will find a little parcel for Mrs. Coleridge,
which she wants as soon as possible; also for yourselves the Cotton, Magnesia, bark and Oil,
which come to L2. 3. 4. thus.

                             sh.
Thread and needles           17
Magnesia                      8
bark                          9. 8
Oil                           8. 8
                          --------
                           2. 3. 4
packing case                  2. 6
                            ------
                           2. 5.10
deduct a guinea I owe you,
      which C. was to pay, 1. 1. -
      but did not
                            ------
leaves you indebted        1. 4.10

whereby you may see how punctual I am.

I conclude with our kindest remembrances to your brother and Mrs. W.

We hear, the young John is a Giant.

And should you see Charles Lloyd, pray forget to give my love to him.

Yours truly, D'r Miss W. C. LAMB. June 2, 1804.

I send you two little copies of verses by Mary L--b:--

DIALOGUE BETWEEN A MOTHER AND CHILD

Child. (Sings) "O Lady, lay your costly robes aside, No longer may you glory in your pride."

Mother. Wherefore to day art singing in mine ear Sad songs were made so long ago, my dear?
This day I am to be a bride, you know. Why sing sad songs were made so long ago?

Child. "O Mother lay your costly robes aside," For you may never be another's bride: That line
I learnt not in the old sad song.

Mother. I pray thee, pretty one, now hold thy tongue; Play with the bride maids, and be glad,
my boy, For thou shall be a second father's joy.

Child. One father fondled me upon his knee: One father is enough alone for me.

Suggested by a print of 2 females after Leo[nardo da] Vinci, called Prudence & Beauty, which
hangs up in our ro[om].

O! that you could see the print!!

The Lady Blanch, regardless of all her lovers' fears, To the Urseline Convent hastens, and
long the Abbess hears: "O Blanch, my child, repent thee of the courtly life ye lead." Blanch
looked on a rose-bud, and little seem'd to heed; She looked on the rose-bud, she looked round,
and thought On all her heart had whisper'd, and all the Nun had taught. "I am worshipped by
lovers, and brightly shines my fame, All Christendom resoundeth the noble Blanch's name; Nor
shall I quickly wither like the rose-bud from the tree, My Queen-like graces shining when my
beauty's gone from me. But when the sculptur'd marble is raised o'er my head, And the matchless
Blanch lies lifeless among the noble dead, This saintly Lady Abbess has made me justly fear.
It nothing will avail me that I were worshipt here."

I wish they may please you: we in these parts are not a little proud of them.

C. L.

["The little scraps." Professor Knight informed me that the scraps were not written but only
copied by Miss Wordsworth. Arthur's Bower ran thus:--

Arthur's bower has broke his band, He comes riding up the land, The King of Scots with all
his power Cannot build up Arthur's bower.

"Your brother Richard"--Wordsworth's eldest brother.

"Purchas's Pilgrimage." Samuel Purchas (1575?-1626) was the author of Purchas His Pilgrimage,
1613; Purchas His Pilgrim, 1619; and Hakluytus Posthumus, or Purchas his Pilgrimes, 1625. This
last is Purchas's best work, and is probably that which Lamb sent to Grasmere.

Mary Lamb's two poems, her earliest that we know, with the exception of "Helen," were printed
in the Works, 1818.]

LETTER 122

MARY LAMB TO SARAH STODDART

[Late July, 1804.]

My dearest Sarah,--Your letter, which contained the news of Coleridge's arrival, was a most
welcome one; for we had begun to entertain very unpleasant apprehensions for his safety; and
your kind reception of the forlorn wanderer gave me the greatest pleasure, and I thank you
for it in my own and my brother's name. I shall depend upon you for hearing of his welfare;
for he does not write himself; but, as long as we know he is safe, and in such kind friends'
hands, we do not mind. Your letters, my dear Sarah, are to me very, very precious ones. They
are the kindest, best, most natural ones I ever received. The one containing the news of the
arrival of Coleridge perhaps the best I ever saw; and your old friend Charles is of my opinion.
We sent it off to Mrs. Coleridge and the Wordsworths--as well because we thought it our duty
to give them the first notice we had of our dear friend's safety, as that we were proud of
shewing our Sarah's pretty letter.

The letters we received a few days after from you and your brother were far less welcome ones.
I rejoiced to hear your sister is well; but I grieved for the loss of the dear baby; and I
am sorry to find your brother is not so successful as he at first expected to be; and yet I
am almost tempted to wish his ill fortune may send him over [to] us again. He has a friend,
I understand, who is now at the head of the Admiralty; why may he not return, and make a fortune
here?

I cannot condole with you very sincerely upon your little failure in the fortune-making way.
If you regret it, so do I. But I hope to see you a comfortable English wife; and the forsaken,
forgotten William, of English-partridge memory, I have still a hankering after. However, I
thank you for your frank communication, and I beg you will continue it in future; and if I
do not agree with a good grace to your having a Maltese husband, I will wish you happy, provided
you make it a part of your marriage articles that your husband shall allow you to come over
sea and make me one visit; else may neglect and overlookedness be your portion while you stay
there.

I would condole with you when the misfortune has fallen your poor leg; but such is the blessed
distance we are at from each other, that I hope, before you receive this, that you forgot it
ever happened.

Our compliments [to] the high ton at the Maltese court. Your brother is so profuse of them
to me, that being, as you know, so unused to them, they perplex me sadly; in future, I beg
they may be discontinued. They always remind me of the free, and, I believe, very improper,
letter I wrote to you while you were at the Isle of Wight. The more kindly you and your brother
and sister took the impertinent advice contained in it, the more certain I feel that it was
unnecessary, and therefore highly improper. Do not let your brother compliment me into the
memory of it again.

My brother has had a letter from your Mother, which has distressed him sadly--about the postage
of some letters being paid by my brother. Your silly brother, it seems, has informed your Mother
(I did not think your brother could have been so silly) that Charles had grumbled at paying
the said postage. The fact was, just at that time we were very poor, having lost the Morning
Post, and we were beginning to practise a strict economy. My brother, who never makes up his
mind whether he will be a Miser or a Spendthrift, is at all times a strange mixture of both:
of this failing, the even economy of your correct brother's temper makes him an ill judge.
The miserly part of Charles, at that time smarting under his recent loss, then happened to
reign triumphant; and he would not write, or let me write, so often as he wished, because the
postage cost two and four pence. Then came two or three of your poor Mother's letters nearly
together; and the two and four pences he wished, but grudged, to pay for his own, he was forced
to pay for hers. In this dismal distress, he applied to Fenwick to get his friend Motley to
send them free from Portsmouth. This Mr. Fenwick could have done for half a word's speaking;
but this he did not do. Then Charles foolishly and unthinkingly complained to your brother
in a half serious, half joking way; and your brother has wickedly, and with malice afore thought,
told your Mother. O fye upon him! what will your Mother think of us?

I too feel my share of blame in this vexatious business; for I saw the unlucky paragraph in
my brother's letter; and I had a kind of foreboding that it would come to your Mother's ears--although
I had a higher opinion of your brother's good sense than I find he deserved. By entreaties
and prayers, I might have prevailed on my brother to say nothing about it. But I make a point
of conscience never to interfere or cross my brother in the humour he happens to be in. It
always appears to me to be a vexatious kind of Tyranny, that women have no business to exercise
over men, which, merely because they having a better judgement, they have the power to do.
Let men alone, and at last we find they come round to the right way, which we, by a kind of
intuition, perceive at once. But better, far better, that we should let them often do wrong,
than that they should have the torment of a Monitor always at their elbows.

Charles is sadly fretted now, I know, at what to say to your Mother. I have made this long
preamble about it to induce [you,] if possible, to reinstate us in your Mother's good graces.
Say to her it was a jest misunderstood; tell her Charles Lamb is not the shabby fellow she
and her son took him for; but that he is now and then a trifle whimsical or so. I do not ask
your brother to do this, for I am offended with him for the mischief he has made.

I feel that I have too lightly passed over the interesting account you sent me of your late
disappointment. It was not because I did not feel and compl[ete]ly enter into the affair with
you. You surprise and please me with the frank and generous way in which you deal with your
Lovers, taking a refusal from their so prudential hearts with a better grace and more good
humour than other women accept a suitor's service. Continue this open artless conduct, and
I trust you will at last find some man who has sense enough to know you are well worth risking
a peaceable life of poverty for. I shall yet live to see you a poor, but happy, English wife.

Remember me most affectionately to Coleridge; and I thank you again and again for all your
kindness to him. To dear Mrs. Stoddart and your brother, I beg my best love; and to you all
I wish health and happiness, and a soon return to Old England.

I have sent to Mr. Burrel's for your kind present; but unfortunately he is not in town. I am
impatient to see my fine silk handkerchiefs; and I thank you for them, not as a present, for
I do not love presents, but as a [word illegible] remembrance of your old friend. Farewell.

I am, my best Sarah, Your most affectionate friend, MARY LAMB.

Good wishes, and all proper remembrances, from old nurse, Mrs. Jeffries, Mrs. Reynolds, Mrs.
Rickman, &c. &c. &c.

Long live Queen Hoop-oop-oop-oo, and all the old merry phantoms!

LETTER 123

CHARLES LAMB TO SARAH STODDART (Same letter)

My dear Miss Stoddart,--Mary has written so fully to you, that I have nothing to add but that,
in all the kindness she has exprest, and loving desire to see you again, I bear my full part.
You will, perhaps, like to tear this half from the sheet, and give your brother only his strict
due, the remainder. So I will just repay your late kind letter with this short postscript to
hers. Come over here, and let us all be merry again.

C. LAMB.

[Coleridge reached Valetta on May 18, 1804; but no opportunity to send letters home occurred
until June 5. Miss Stoddart seems to have given up all her lovers at home in the hope of finding
one in Malta.

"The blessed distance." Here Mary Lamb throws out an idea afterwards developed by her brother
in the Elia essay on "Distant Correspondents."

Lamb's letter to Stoddart containing the complaint as to postage no longer exists. Mrs. Stoddart,
Sarah's mother, had remained in England, at Salisbury.

Of Mr. Burrel I know nothing: he was probably an agent; nor can I explain Queen Hoop-oop-oop-oo.

Here should come a letter from Lamb to Robert Lloyd, dated September 13, 1804, not available
for this edition, in which Lamb expresses his inability to accept an invitation, having had
a month's holiday at Richmond. After alluding to Priscilla Lloyd's approaching marriage (to
Christopher Wordsworth) he says that these new nuptials do not make him the less satisfied
with his bachelor state.]

LETTER 124

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

[P.M. October 13, 1804.]

(Turn over leaf for more letters.)

Dear Wordsworth--I have not forgot your commissions.

But the truth is, and why should I not confess it? I am not plethorically abounding in Cash
at this present. Merit, God knows, is very little rewarded; but it does not become me to speak
of myself. My motto is "Contented with little, yet wishing for more." Now the books you wish
for would require some pounds, which I am sorry to say I have not by me: so I will say at once,
if you will give me a draft upon your town-banker for any sum you propose to lay out, I will
dispose of [it] to the very best of my skill in choice old books, such as my own soul loveth.
In fact, I have been waiting for the liquidation of a debt to enable myself to set about your
commission handsomely, for it is a scurvy thing to cry Give me the money first, and I am the
first of the family of the Lambs that have done it for many centuries: but the debt remains
as it was, and my old friend that I accommodated has generously forgot it!

The books which you want I calculate at about L8.

Ben Jonson is a Guinea Book. Beaumont & Fletcher in folio, the right folio, not now to be met
with; the octavos are about L3. As to any other old dramatists, I do not know where to find
them except what are in Dodsley's old plays, which are about L3 also: Massinger I never saw
but at one shop, but it is now gone, but one of the editions of Dodsley contains about a fourth
(the best) of his plays. Congreve and the rest of King Charles's moralists are cheap and accessible.
The works on Ireland I will enquire after, but I fear, Spenser's is not to be had apart from
his poems; I never saw it. But you may depend upon my sparing no pains to furnish you as complete
a library of old Poets & Dramatists as will be prudent to buy; for I suppose you do not include
the L20 edition of Hamlet, single play, which Kemble has. Marlow's plays and poems are totally
vanished; only one edition of Dodsley retains one, and the other two, of his plays: but John
Ford is the man after Shakespear. Let me know your will and pleasure soon: for I have observed,
next to the pleasure of buying a bargain for one's self is the pleasure of persuading a friend
to buy it. It tickles one with the image of an imprudency without the penalty usually annex'd.

C. LAMB.

LETTER 125

MARY LAMB TO DOROTHY WORDSWORTH

(Same letter)

[P.M. October 13, 1804.]

My dear Miss Wordsworth--I writ a letter immediately upon the receipt of yours, to thank you
for sending me the welcome tidings of your little niece's birth, and Mrs. Wordsworth's safety,
& waited till I could get a frank to send it in. Not being able to procure one, I will defer
my thanks no longer for fear Mrs. Wordsworth should add another little baby to your family,
before my congratulations on the birth of the little Dorothy arrive.

I hope Mrs. Wordsworth, & the pretty baby, & the young philosopher, are well: they are three
strangers to me whom I have a longing desire to be acquainted with.

My brother desires me not to send such a long gossiping letter as that I had intended for you,
because he wishes to fill a large share of the paper with his acknowledgments to Mr. Wordsworth
for his letters, which he considers as a very uncommon favor, your brother seldom writing letters.
I must beg my brother will tell Mr. Wordsworth how very proud he has made me also by praising
my poor verses. Will you be so kind as to forward the opposite page to Mrs. Coleridge. This
sheet of paper is quite a partnership affair. When the parliament meets you shall have a letter
for your sole use.

My brother and I have been this summer to Richmond; we had a lodging there for a month, we
passed the whole time there in wandering about, & comparing the views from the banks of the
Thames with your mountain scenery, & tried, & wished, to persuade ourselves that it was almost
as beautiful. Charles was quite a Mr. Clarkson in his admiration and his frequent exclamations,
for though we had often been at Richmond for a few hours we had no idea it was so beautiful
a place as we found it on a month's intimate acquaintance.

We rejoice to hear of the good fortune of your brave sailor-brother, I should have liked to
have been with you when the news first arrived.

Your very friendly invitations have made us long to be with you, and we promise ourselves to
spend the first money my brother earns by writing certain books (Charles often plans but never
begins) in a journey to Grasmere.

When your eyes (which I am sorry to find continue unwell) will permit you to make use of your
pen again I shall be very happy to see a letter in your own hand writing.

I beg to be affectionately remembered to your brother & sister & remain ever your affectionate
friend

M. LAMB.

Compliments to old Molly.

LETTER 126

MARY LAMB TO MRS. S. T. COLERIDGE (Same letter)

[P.M. October 13, 1804.]

My dear Mrs. Coleridge--I have had a letter written ready to send to you, which I kept, hoping
to get a frank, and now I find I must write one entirely anew, for that consisted of matter
not now in season, such as condolence on the illness of your children, who I hope are now quite
well, & comfortings on your uncertainty of the safety of Coleridge, with wise reasons for the
delay of the letters from Malta, which must now be changed for pleasant congratulations. Coleridge
has not written to us, but we have had two letters from the Stoddarts since the one I sent
to you, containing good accounts of him, but as I find you have had letters from himself I
need not tell you the particulars.

My brother sent your letters to Mr. Motley according to Coleridge's direction, & I have no
doubt but he forwarded them.

One thing only in my poor letter the time makes no alteration in, which is that I have half
a bed ready for you, & I shall rejoice with exceeding great joy to have you with me. Pray do
not change your mind for I shall be sadly disappointed if you do. Will Hartley be with you?
I hope he will, for you say he goes with you to Liverpool, and I conclude you come from thence
to London.

I have seen your brother lately, and I find he entertains good hopes from Mr. Sake, and his
present employment I hear is likely to continue a considerable time longer, so that I hope
you may consider him as good as provided for. He seems very steady, and is very well spoken
of at his office.

I have lately been often talking of you with Mrs. Hazlitt. William Hazlitt is painting my brother's
picture, which has brought us acquainted with the whole family. I like William Hazlitt and
his sister very much indeed, & I think Mrs. Hazlitt a pretty good-humoured woman. She has a
nice little girl of the Pypos kind, who is so fond of my brother that she stops strangers in
the street to tell them when Mr. Lamb is coming to see her.

I hope Mr. Southey and your sister and the little Edith are well. I beg my love to them.

God bless you, and your three little darlings, & their wandering father, who I hope will soon
return to you in high health & spirits.

I remain ever your affectionate friend

MARY LAMB.

Compliments to Mr. Jackson and darling friend. I hope they are well.

[Charles Lamb adds:--]

C. Lamb particularly desires to be remembered to Southey and all the Southeys, as well as to
Mrs. C. and her little Coleridges. Mrs. C.'s letters have all been sent as Coleridge left word,
to Motley's, Portsmouth.

[The Ben Jonson in Lamb's own library was the 1692 folio; his Beaumont and Fletcher, which
may be seen at the British Museum, was the folio 1647 or 1679.

Spenser's prose work, View of the Present State of Ireland, is that referred to.

"John Ford." Lamb says in the Dramatic Specimens, 1808, "Ford was of the first order of poets."

Dorothy Wordsworth (afterwards the wife of Edward Quillinan) was born August 16, 1804.

"Your brave sailor-brother"--John Wordsworth.

Mrs. Coleridge now had three children--Hartley, Derwent and Sara. We do not know whether or
no she stayed with the Lambs, as suggested. Her brother was George Fricker.

William Hazlitt's sister was Peggy Hazlitt. His sister-in-law, Mrs. Hazlitt, was the wife of
John Hazlitt, the miniature painter.

Hazlitt's portrait of Lamb was the one in the dress of a Venetian senator, reproduced as frontispiece
to Vol. I. of this edition. It now hangs in the National Portrait Gallery.]

LETTER 127

CHARLES LAMB TO ROBERT SOUTHEY 7 Nov., 1804.

Dear Southey,--You were the last person from whom we heard of Dyer, and if you know where to
forward the news I now send to him, I shall be obliged to you to lose no time. D.'s sister-in-law,
who lives in St. Dunstan's Court, wrote to him about three weeks ago, to the Hope Inn, Cambridge,
to inform him that Squire Houlbert, or some such name, of Denmark Hill, has died, and left
her husband a thousand pounds, and two or three hundred to Dyer. Her letter got no answer,
and she does not know where to direct to him; so she came to me, who am equally in the dark.
Her story is, that Dyer's immediately coming to town now, and signing some papers, will save
him a considerable sum of money--how, I don't understand; but it is very right he should hear
of this. She has left me barely time for the post; so I conclude with all Love, &c., to all
at Keswick.

Dyer's brother, who, by his wife's account, has got 1000l. left him, is father of the little
dirty girl, Dyer's niece and factotum.

In haste, Yours truly, C. LAMB.

If you send George this, cut off the last paragraph. D.'s laundress had a letter a few days
since; but George never dates.

LETTER 128

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM WORDSWORTH [P.M. February 18, 1805.]

My dear Wordsworth, the subject of your letter has never been out of our thoughts since the
day we first heard of it, and many have been our impulses towards you, to write to you, or
to write to enquire about you; but it never seemed the time. We felt all your situation, and
how much you would want Coleridge at such a time, and we wanted somehow to make up to you his
absence, for we loved and honoured your Brother, and his death always occurs to my mind with
something like a feeling of reproach, as if we ought to have been nearer acquainted, and as
if there had been some incivility shown him by us, or something short of that respect which
we now feel: but this is always a feeling when people die, and I should not foolishly offer
a piece of refinement, instead of sympathy, if I knew any other way of making you feel how
little like indifferent his loss has been to us. I have been for some time wretchedly ill and
low, and your letter this morning has affected me so with a pain in my inside and a confusion,
that I hardly know what to write or how. I have this morning seen Stewart, the 2'd mate, who
was saved: but he can give me no satisfactory account, having been in quite another part of
the ship when your brother went down. But I shall see Gilpin tomorrow, and will communicate
your thanks, and learn from him all I can. All accounts agree that just before the vessel going
down, your brother seemed like one overwhelmed with the situation, and careless of his own
safety. Perhaps he might have saved himself; but a Captain who in such circumstances does all
he can for his ship and nothing for himself, is the noblest idea. I can hardly express myself,
I am so really ill. But the universal sentiment is, that your brother did all that duty required;
and if he had been more alive to the feelings of those distant ones whom he loved, he would
have been at that time a less admirable object; less to be exulted in by them: for his character
is high with all that I have heard speak of him, and no reproach can fix upon him. Tomorrow
I shall see Gilpin, I hope, if I can get at him, for there is expected a complete investigation
of the causes of the loss of the ship, at the East India House, and all the Officers are to
attend: but I could not put off writing to you a moment. It is most likely I shall have something
to add tomorrow, in a second letter. If I do not write, you may suppose I have not seen G.
but you shall hear from me in a day or two. We have done nothing but think of you, particularly
of Dorothy. Mary is crying by me while I with difficulty write this: but as long as we remember
any thing, we shall remember your Brother's noble person, and his sensible manly modest voice,
and how safe and comfortable we all were together in our apartment, where I am now writing.
When he returned, having been one of the triumphant China fleet, we thought of his pleasant
exultation (which he exprest here one night) in the wish that he might meet a Frenchman in
the seas; and it seem'd to be accomplished, all to his heart's desire. I will conclude from
utter inability to write any more, for I am seriously unwell: and because I mean to gather
something like intelligence to send to you to-morrow: for as yet, I have but heard second hand,
and seen one narrative, which is but a transcript of what was common to all the Papers. God
bless you all, and reckon upon us as entering into all your griefs. [Signature cut away.]

[This is the first of a series of letters bearing upon the loss of the East Indiaman Earl of
Abergavenny, which was wrecked off Portland Bill on February 6, 1805, 200 persons and the captain,
John Wordsworth, being lost. The character of Wordsworth's "Happy Warrior" is said to have
been largely drawn from his brother John. His age was only thirty-three.]

LETTER 129

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM WORDSWORTH [P.M. February 19, 1805.]

My dear Wordsworth, I yesterday wrote you a very unsatisfactory letter. To day I have not much
to add, but it may be some satisfaction to you that I have seen Gilpin, and thanked him in
all your names for the assistance he tried to give: and that he has assured me that your Brother
did try to save himself, and was doing so when Gilpin called to him, but he was then struggling
with the waves and almost dead. G. heard him give orders a very little before the vessel went
down, with all possible calmness, and it does not at all appear that your Brother in any absence
of mind neglected his own safety. But in such circumstances the memory of those who escaped
cannot be supposed to be very accurate; and there appears to be about the Persons that I have
seen a good deal of reservedness and unwillingness to enter into detail, which is natural,
they being Officers of the Ship, and liable to be examined at home about its loss. The examination
is expected to day or to-morrow, and if any thing should come out, that can interest you, I
shall take an early opportunity of sending it to you.

Mary wrote some few days since to Miss Stoddart, containing an account of your Brother's death,
which most likely Coleridge will have heard, before the letter comes: we both wish it may hasten
him back. We do not know any thing of him, whether he is settled in any post (as there was
some talk) or not. We had another sad account to send him, of the death of his schoolfellow
Allen; tho' this, I am sure, will much less affect him. I don't know whether you knew Allen;
he died lately very suddenly in an apoplexy. When you do and can write, particularly inform
us of the healths of you all. God bless you all. Mary will write to Dorothy as soon as she
thinks she will be able to bear it. It has been a sad tidings to us, and has affected us more
than we could have believed. I think it has contributed to make me worse, who have been very
unwell, and have got leave for some few days to stay at home: but I am ashamed to speak of
myself, only in excuse for the unfeeling sort of huddle which I now send. I could not delay
it, having seen Gilpin, and I thought his assurance might be some little ease to you.

We will talk about the Books, when you can better bear it. I have bought none yet. But do not
spare me any office you can put me on, now or when you are at leisure for such things. Adopt
me as one of your family in this affliction; and use me without ceremony as such.

Mary's kindest Love to all.

C.L.

Tuesday [Feb. 19].

[Mary Lamb's letter to Miss Stoddart, here referred to, is no longer preserved. Coleridge a
little later accepted the post of private secretary to the Governor of Malta, Vice-Admiral
Sir Alexander John Ball.

Praesens ut absens, that is, your present makes amends for your absence.

Yours, C. LAMB.

[This letter is, I take it, a joke: that is to say, the brawn was sent to Lamb by Manning,
who seems to have returned to Cambridge for a while, and Lamb affects to believe that Hopkins,
from whom it was bought, was the giver. I think this view is supported by the reference to
Mr. Crisp, at the end,--Mr. Crisp being Manning's late landlord.

The following advertisement occurs in the Cambridge Chronicle for February 8, 1806. It is sent
me by Dr. Wharry:--

"CAMBRIDGE BRAWN.

"R. HOPKINS, Cook of Trinity Hall and Caius College, begs leave to inform the Nobility, Gentry,
&c. that he has now ready for Sale, BRAWN, BRAWN HEADS & CHEEKS.

"All orders will be thankfully received, and forwarded to any part of the kingdom."

Lamb stayed at 3 St. Mary's Passage, now rebuilt and occupied by Messrs. Leach & Son (1911).

The letter contains Lamb's second expression of epicurean rapture: the first in praise of pig.

"Praesens ut absens." Lamb enlarged upon the topic of gifts and giving many years later, in
the Popular Fallacy "That we must not look a Gift Horse in the Mouth," 1826, and in his "Thoughts
on Presents of Game," 1833.]

LETTER 131

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

[P.M. March 5, 1805.]

My dear Wordsworth, if Gilpin's statement has afforded you any satisfaction, I can assure you
that he was most explicit in giving it, and even seemed anxious (interrupting me) to do away
any misconception. His statement is not contradicted by the last and fullest of the two Narratives
which have been published (the former being a mere transcript of the newspapers), which I would
send you if I did not suppose that you would receive more pain from the unfeeling canting way
in which it is drawn up, than satisfaction from its contents; and what relates to your brother
in particular is very short. It states that your brother was seen talking to the First Mate
but a few minutes before the ship sank, with apparent cheerfulness, and it contradicts the
newspaper account about his depression of spirits procrastinating his taking leave of the Court
of Directors; which the drawer up of the Narrative (a man high in the India House) is likely
to be well informed of. It confirms Gilpin's account of his seeing your brother striving to
save himself, and adds that "Webber, a Joiner, was near the Captain, who was standing on the
hencoop when the ship went down, whom he saw washed off by a sea, which also carried him (Webber)
overboard;"--this is all which concerns your brother personally. But I will just transcribe
from it, a Copy of Gilpin's account delivered in to the Court of Directors:--

"Memorandum respecting the Loss of the E. of A."

"At 10 A.M. being about 10 leagues to the westward of Portland, the Commodore made the signal
to bear up--did so accordingly; at this time having maintop gallant mast struck, fore and mizen
d deg.. on deck, and the jib boom in the wind about W.S.W. At 3 P.M. got on board a Pilot,
being about 2 leagues to the westward of Portland; ranged and bitted both cables at about 1/2
past 3, called all hands and got out the jib boom at about 4. About this time the wind shifted
to the N.W. The surf driving us off, and the tide setting us on alternately, sometimes having
41/2 at others 9 fathoms, sand of the sea about 8 feet; continued in this situation till about
1/2 past 7, when she got off. During the time she was on the Shambles, had from 3 to 4 feet
water; kept the water at this height about 15 minutes, during the whole time the pumps constantly
going. Finding she gained on us, it was determined to run her on the nearest shore. About 8
the wind shifted to the eastward: the leak continuing to gain upon the pumps, having 10 or
11 feet water, found it expedient to bale at the forescuttles and hatchway. The ship would
not bear up--kept the helm hard a starboard, she being water-logg'd: but still had a hope she
could be kept up till we got her on Weymouth Sands. Cut the lashings of the boats--could not
get the Long Boat out, without laying the main-top-sail aback, by which our progress would
have been so delayed, that no hope would have been left us of running her aground, and there
being several sloops in sight, one having sent a small skiff on board, took away 2 Ladies and
3 other passengers, and put them on board the sloop, at the same time promising to return and
take away a hundred or more of the people: she finding much difficulty in getting back to the
sloop, did not return. About this time the Third Mate and Purser were sent in the cutter to
get assistance from the other ships. Continued pumping and baling till 11 P.M. when she sunk.
Last cast of the lead 11 fathoms; having fired guns from the time she struck till she went
down, about 2 A.M. boats came and took the people from the wreck about 70 in number. The troops,
in particular the Dragoons, pumped very well.

"(Signed) THOS. GILPIN."

And now, my dear W.--I must apologize for having named my health. But indeed it was because,
what with the ill news, your letter coming upon me in a most wretched state of ill spirits,
I was scarce able to give it an answer, and I felt what it required. But we will say no more
about it. I am getting better. And when I have persisted time enough in a course of regular
living I shall be well. But I am now well enough; and have got to business afresh. Mary thanks
you for your invitation. I have wished myself with you daily since the news. I have wished
that I were Coleridge, to give you any consolation. You have not mourned without one to have
a feeling of it. And we have not undervalued the intimation of your friendship. We shall one
day prove it by intruding on your privacy, when these griefs shall be a little calmed. This
year, I am afraid, it is impossible: but I shall store it up as among the good things to come,
which keep us up when life and spirits are sinking.

If you have not seen, or wish to see, the wretched narrative I have mentioned, I will send
it. But there is nothing more in it affecting you. I have hesitated to send it, because it
is unfeelingly done, and in the hope of sending you something from some of the actual spectators;
but I have been disappointed, and can add nothing yet. Whatever I pick up, I will store for
you. It is perfectly understood at the E. I. House, that no blame whatever belongs to the Captn.
or Officers.

I can add no more but Mary's warmest Love to all. When you can write without trouble, do it,
for you are among the very chief of our interests.

C. LAMB. 4 March.

LETTER 132

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM WORDSWORTH [Dated at end: March 21, 1805.]

Dear Wordsworth, upon the receipt of your last letter before that which I have just received,
I wrote myself to Gilpin putting your questions to him; but have yet had no answer. I at the
same time got a person in the India House to write a much fuller enquiry to a relative of his
who was saved, one Yates a midshipman. Both these officers (and indeed pretty nearly all that
are left) have got appointed to other ships and have joined them. Gilpin is in the Comet, India
man, now lying at Gravesend. Neither Yates nor Gilpin have yet answered, but I am in daily
expectation. I have sent your letter of this morning also to Gilpin. The waiting for these
answers has been my reason for not writing you. I have made very particular enquiries about
Webber, but in vain. He was a common seaman (not the ship's carpenter) and no traces of him
are at the I. House: it is most probable that he has entered in some Privateer, as most of
the crew have done. I will keep the L1 note till you find out something I can do with it. I
now write idly, having nothing to send: but I cannot bear that you should think I have quite
neglected your commission. My letter to G. was such as I thought he could not but answer: but
he may be busy. The letter to Yates I hope I can promise will be answered. One thing, namely
why the other ships sent no assistance, I have learn'd from a person on board one of them:
the firing was never once heard, owing to the very stormy night, and no tidings came to them
till next morning. The sea was quite high enough to have thrown out the most expert swimmer,
and might not your brother have received some blow in the shock, which disabled him? We are
glad to hear poor Dorothy is a little better. None of you are able to bear such a stroke. To
people oppressed with feeling, the loss of a good-humoured happy man that has been friendly
with them, if he were no brother, is bad enough. But you must cultivate his spirits, as a legacy:
and believe that such as he cannot be lost. He was a chearful soul! God bless you. Mary's love
always.

C. LAMB. 21st March, 1805.

LETTER 133

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM WORDSWORTH [P.M. April 5, 1805.]

Dear Wordsworth, I have this moment received this letter from Gilpin in reply to 3 or 4 short
questions I put to him in my letter before yours for him came. He does not notice having rec'd
yours, which I sent immediately. Perhaps he has already answered it to you. You see that his
hand is sprain'd, and your questions being more in number, may delay his answer to you. My
first question was, when it was he called to your brother: the rest you will understand from
the answers. I was beginning to have hard thoughts of G. from his delay, but now I am confirm'd
in my first opinion that he is a rare good-hearted fellow. How is Dorothy? and all of you?

Yours sincerely C. LAMB.

4th question was, was Capt. W. standing near the shrouds or any place of safety at the moment
of sinking?

Comet, Northfleet, March 3131, 1805.

Sir--I did not receive yours of 16th ins't, till this day, or sh'd. have answered it sooner.
To your first Question, I answer after the Ship had sunk. To your second, my answer is, I was
in the Starboard Mizen Rigging--I thought I see the Capt'n hanging by a Rope that was fast
to the Mizen Mast. I came down and haild him as loud as I could, he was about 10 feet distant
from me. I threw a rope which fell close to him, he seem'd quite Motionless and insensible
(it was excessive cold), and was soon after sweep'd away, and I see him no more. It was near
about five minutes after the Ship went down. With respect to the Capt'n and Webber being on
the same Hencoop, I can give no answer, all I can say, I did not see them. Your fourth Question,
I cannot answer, as I did not see Capt. Wordsworth at the moment the Ship was going down, tho
I was then on the Poop less than one minute before I see the Capt'n there. The Statement in
the printed Pamphlet is by no means correct. I have sprained my Wrist, most violently, and
am now in great pain, which will, I hope, be an apology for the shortness of this Letter.

believe me truly yours [*] THOS. GILPIN.

This Letter as been detained till April 5th.

[Footnote: This is merely a kind way of expressing himself, for I have no acquaintance with
him, nor ever saw him but that once I got introduced to him.

I think I did not mention in my last, that I sent yours to T. Evans, Richmond. I hope you have
got an answer.]

LETTER 134

MARY LAMB TO DOROTHY WORDSWORTH [P.M. May 7, 1805.]

My dear Miss Wordsworth--I thank you, my kind friend, for your most comfortable letter. Till
I saw your own handwriting, I could not persuade myself that I should do well to write to you,
though I have often attempted it, but I always left off dissatisfied with what I had written,
and feeling that I was doing an improper thing to intrude upon your sorrow. I wished to tell
you, that you would one day feel the kind of peaceful state of mind, and sweet memory of the
dead which you so happily describe as now almost begun, but I felt that it was improper, and
most grating to the feelings of the afflicted, to say to them that the memory of their affliction
would in time become a constant part not only of their "dream, but of their most wakeful sense
of happiness." That you would see every object with, and through your lost brother, and that
that would at last become a real and everlasting source of comfort to you, I felt, and well
knew from my own experience in sorrow, but till you yourself began to feel this I did not dare
tell you so, but I send you some poor lines which I wrote under this conviction of mind, and
before I heard Coleridge was returning home. I will transcribe them now before I finish my
letter, lest a false shame prevent me then, for I know they are much worse than they ought
to be, written as they were with strong feeling and on such a subject. Every line seems to
me to be borrowed, but I had no better way of expressing my thoughts, and I never have the
power of altering or amending anything I have once laid aside with dissatisfaction.

Why is he wandering on the sea? Coleridge should now with Wordsworth be. By slow degrees he'd
steal away Their woe, and gently bring a ray (So happily he'd time relief) Of comfort from
their very grief. He'd tell them that their brother dead When years have passed o'er their
head, Will be remember'd with such holy, True, and perfect melancholy That ever this lost brother
John Will be their heart's companion. His voice they'll always hear, his face they'll always
see, There's nought in life so sweet as such a memory.

Mr. and Mrs. Clarkson came to see us last week, I find it was at your request they sought us
out; you cannot think how glad we were to see them, so little as we have ever seen of them,
yet they seem to us like very old friends. Poor Mrs. Clarkson looks very ill indeed, she walked
near a mile, and came up our high stairs, which fatigued her very much, but when she had sat
a while her own natural countenance with which she cheared us in your little cottage seemed
to return to her, and then I began to have hopes she would get the better of her complaint.
Charles does not think she is so much altered as I do. I wish he may be the better judge. We
talked of nothing but you. She means to try to get leave of Dr. Beddoes to come and see you--her
heart is with you, and I do not think it would hurt her so much to come to you, as it would
distress you to see her so ill.

She read me a part of your letter wherein you so kindly express your wishes that we would come
and see you this summer. I wish we could, for I am sure it would be a blessed thing for you
and for us to be a few weeks together--I fear it must not be. Mrs. Clarkson is to be in town
again in a fortnight and then they have promised we shall see more of them.

I am very sorry for the poor little Dorothy's illness--I hope soon to hear she is perfectly
recovered. Remember me with affection to your brother, and your good sister. What a providence
it is that your brother and you have this kind friend, and these dear little ones--I rejoice
with her and with you that your brother is employed upon his poem again.

Pray remember us to Old Molly. Mrs. Clarkson says her house is a pattern of neatness to all
her neighbours--such good ways she learnt of "Mistress." How well I remember the shining ornaments
of her kitchen, and her old friendly face, not [the] least ornamental part of it.

Excuse the haste I write in. I am unexpectedly to go out to dinner, else I think I have much
more to say, but I will not put it off till next post, because you so kindly say I must not
write if I feel unwilling-- you do not know what very great joy I have in being again writing
to you. Thank you for sending the letter of Mr. Evans, it was a very kind one. Have you received
one from a Cornet Burgoine? My brother wrote to him and desires he would direct his answer
to your brother.

God bless you and yours my dear friend. I am yours affectionately M. LAMB.

[Dr. Beddoes, who was attending Mrs. Clarkson, would be, I suppose, Thomas Beddoes of Clifton
(1760-1808), the father of Thomas Lovell Beddoes and a friend of Coleridge and Southey.

In a letter from Dorothy Wordsworth to Mrs. Clarkson, dated April 19, 1805 (recently printed
by Mr. Hale White in the Athenaeum), we read:--

I have great pleasure in thinking that you may see Miss Lamb; do not miss it if you can possibly
go without injury to yourself--they are the best good creatures--blessings be with them! they
have sympathised in our sorrow as tenderly as if they had grown up in the same [town?] with
us and known our beloved John from his childhood. Charles has written to us the most consolatory
letters, the result of diligent and painful inquiry of the survivors of the wreck,--for this
we must love him as long as we have breath. I think of him and his sister every day of my life,
and many times in the day with thankfulness and blessings. Talk to dear Miss Lamb about coming
into this country and let us hear what she says of it. I cannot express how much we all wish
to see her and her brother while we are at Grasmere. We look forward to Coleridge's return
with fear and painful hope--but indeed I dare not look to it--I think as little as I can of him.]

LETTER 135

CHARLES LAMB TO DOROTHY WORDSWORTH

[Slightly torn. The conjectures in square brackets are Talfourd's.]

Friday, 14th June, 1805.

My dear Miss Wordsworth, Your long kind letter has not been thrown away (for it has given me
great pleasure to find you are all resuming your old occupations, and are better) but poor
Mary to whom it is addrest cannot yet relish it. She has been attacked by one of her severe
illnesses, and is at present from home. Last Monday week was the day she left me; and I hope
I may calculate upon having her again in a month, or little more. I am rather afraid late hours
have in this case contributed to her indisposition. But when she begins to discover symptoms
of approaching illness, it is not easy to say what is best to do. Being by ourselves is bad,
and going out is bad. I get so irritable and wretched with fear, that I constantly hasten on
the disorder. You cannot conceive the misery of such a foresight. I am sure that for the week
before she left me, I was little better than light-headed. I now am calm, but sadly taken down,
and flat. I dare not think, lest I [should think] wrong; so used am I to look up to her [in
the least] and the biggest perplexity.

Poor Miss Stoddart! she is coming to England under the notion of passing her time between her
mother and Mary, between London and Salisbury. Since she talk'd of coming, word has been sent
to Malta that her Mother is gone out of her mind. This Letter, with mine to Stoddart with an
account of Allen's death, &c., has miscarried (taken by the French) [word missing]. She is
coming home, with no soul to receive [words missing]. She has not a woman-friend in London.

I am sure you will excuse my writing [any more, I] am very poorly. She was then beginning to
show signs of ill boding.

C. LAMB.

[The reference to Miss Stoddart is explained later, in the next letter but one.

Mary Lamb's two poems were included in the Works, 1818. "Lady Blanch" is the poem quoted on
page 300.]

LETTER 136

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

[Dated by Mr. Hazlitt: July 27, 1805.]

Dear Archimedes,--Things have gone on badly with thy ungeometrical friend; but they are on
the turn. My old housekeeper has shown signs of convalescence, and will shortly resume the
power of the keys, so I shan't be cheated of my tea and liquors. Wind in the west, which promotes
tranquillity. Have leisure now to anticipate seeing thee again. Have been taking leave of tobacco
in a rhyming address. Had thought that vein had long since closed up. [A sentence omitted here.]
Find I can rhyme and reason too. Think of studying mathematics, to restrain the fire of my
genius, which G.D. recommends. Have frequent bleedings at the nose, which shows plethoric.
Maybe shall try the sea myself, that great scene of wonders. Got incredibly sober and regular;
shave oftener, and hum a tune, to signify cheerfulness and gallantry.

Suddenly disposed to sleep, having taken a quart of pease with bacon and stout. Will not refuse
Nature, who has done such things for me!

Nurse! don't call me unless Mr. Manning comes.--What! the gentleman in spectacles?--Yes.

Dormit. C. L.

Saturday, Hot Noon.

["Have been taking leave of tobacco." On August 10, 1824, Lamb tells Hood that he designs to
give up smoking.]

LETTER 137

MARY LAMB TO SARAH STODDART [? Sept. 18, 1805.]

My dear Sarah,--I have made many attempts at writing to you, but it has always brought your
troubles and my own so strongly into my mind, that I have been obliged to leave off, and make
Charles write for me. I am resolved now, however few lines I write, this shall go; for I know,
my kind friend, you will like once more to see my own handwriting.

I have been for these few days past in rather better spirits, so that I begin almost to feel
myself once more a living creature, and to hope for happier times; and in that hope I include
the prospect of once more seeing my dear Sarah in peace and comfort in our old garret. How
did I wish for your presence to cheer my drooping heart when I returned home from banishment.

Is your being with, or near, your poor dear Mother necessary to her comfort? does she take
any notice of you? and is there any prospect of her recovery? How I grieve for her and for you....

I went to the Admiralty about your Mother's pension; from thence I was directed to an office
in Lincoln's Inn, where they are paid. They informed me at the office that it could not be
paid to any person except Mr. Wray, without a letter of attorney from your Mother; and as the
stamp for that will cost one pound, it will, perhaps, be better to leave it till Mr. Wray comes
to town, if he does come before Christmas; they tell me it can be received any Thursday between
this and Christmas, If you send up a letter of Attorney, let it be in my name. If you think,
notwithstanding their positive assurance to the contrary, that you can put me in any way of
getting it without, let me know. Are you acquainted with Mr. Pearce, and will my taking another
letter from you to him be of any service? or will a letter from Mr. Wray be of any use?--though
I fear not, for they said at the office they had orders to pay no pension without a letter
of Attorney. The attestation you sent up, they said, was sufficient, and that the same must
be sent every year. Do not let us neglect this business; and make use of me in any way you can.

I have much to thank you and your kind brother for; I kept the dark silk, as you may suppose:
you have made me very fine; the broche is very beautiful. Mrs. Jeffries wept for gratitude
when she saw your present; she desires all manner of thanks and good wishes. Your maid's sister
was gone to live a few miles from town; Charles, however, found her out, and gave her the handkerchief.

I want to know if you have seen William, and if there is any prospect in future there. All
you said in your letter from Portsmouth that related to him was burnt so in the fumigating,
that we could only make out that it was unfavourable, but not the particulars; tell us again
how you go on, and if you have seen him: I conceit affairs will some how be made up between
you at last.

I want to know how your brother goes on. Is he likely to make a very good fortune, and in how
long a time? And how is he, in the way of home comforts?--I mean, is he very happy with Mrs.
Stoddart? This was a question I could not ask while you were there, and perhaps is not a fair
one now; but I want to know how you all went on--and, in short, twenty little foolish questions
that one ought, perhaps, rather to ask when we meet, than to write about. But do make me a
little acquainted with the inside of the good Doctor's house, and what passes therein.

Was Coleridge often with you? or did your brother and Col. argue long arguments, till between
the two great arguers there grew a little coolness?--or perchance the mighty friendship between
Coleridge and your Sovereign Governor, Sir Alexander Ball, might create a kind of jealousy,
for we fancy something of a coldness did exist, from the little mention ever made of C. in
your brother's letters.

Write us, my good girl, a long, gossiping letter, answering all these foolish questions--and
tell me any silly thing you can recollect--any, the least particular, will be interesting to
us, and we will never tell tales out of school: but we used to wonder and wonder, how you all
went on; and when you was coming home we said, "Now we shall hear all from Sarah."

God bless you, my dear friend. I am ever your affectionate

MARY LAMB.

If you have sent Charles any commissions he has not executed, write me word--he says he has
lost or mislaid a letter desiring him to inquire about a wig.

Write two letters--one of business and pensions, and one all about Sarah Stoddart and Malta.
Is Mr. Moncrief doing well there?

Wednesday morning.

We have got a picture of Charles; do you think your brother would like to have it? If you do,
can you put us in a way how to send it?

[Mrs. Stoddart was the widow of a lieutenant in the Royal Navy. Mr. Wray and Mr. Pearce were
presumably gentlemen connected with the Admiralty or in some way concerned with the pension.
"William" is still the early William--not William Hazlitt, whom Sarah was destined to marry.
Mr. Moncrieff was Mrs. John Stoddart's eldest brother, who was a King's Advocate in the Admiralty
Court at Malta. The picture of Charles might be some kind of reproduction of Hazlitt's portrait
of him, painted in the preceding year; but more probably, I think, a few copies of Hancock's
drawing, made in 1798 for Cottle, had been struck off.]

LETTER 138

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM AND DOROTHY WORDSWORTH

[P.M. September 28, 1805.]

My dear Wordsworth (or Dorothy rather, for to you appertains the biggest part of this answer
by right.)--I will not again deserve reproach by so long a silence. I have kept deluding myself
with the idea that Mary would write to you, but she is so lazy, or, I believe the true state
of the case, so diffident, that it must revert to me as usual. Though she writes a pretty good
style, and has some notion of the force of words, she is not always so certain of the true
orthography of them, and that and a poor handwriting (in this age of female calligraphy) often
deter her where no other reason does. We have neither of us been very well for some weeks past.
I am very nervous, and she most so at those times when I am: so that a merry friend, adverting
to the noble consolation we were able to afford each other, denominated us not unaptly Gum
Boil and Tooth Ache: for they use to say that a Gum Boil is a great relief to a Tooth Ache.
We have been two tiny excursions this summer, for three or four days each: to a place near
Harrow, and to Egham, where Cooper's Hill is: and that is the total history of our Rustications
this year. Alas! how poor a sound to Skiddaw, and Helvellyn, and Borrodaile, and the magnificent
sesquipedalia of the year 1802. Poor old Molly! to have lost her pride, that "last infirmity
of Noble Mind," and her Cow--Providence need not have set her wits to such an old Molly. I
am heartily sorry for her. Remember us lovingly to her. And in particular remember us to Mrs.
Clarkson in the most kind manner. I hope by southwards you mean that she will be at or near
London, for she is a great favorite of both of us, and we feel for her health as much as is
possible for any one to do. She is one of the friendliest, comfortablest women we know, and
made our little stay at your cottage one of the pleasantest times we ever past. We were quite
strangers to her. Mr. C. is with you too?--our kindest separate remembrances to him.

As to our special affairs, I am looking about me. I have done nothing since the beginning of
last year, when I lost my newspaper job, and having had a long idleness, I must do something,
or we shall get very poor. Sometimes I think of a farce--but hitherto all schemes have gone
off,--an idle brag or two of an evening vaporing out of a pipe, and going off in the morning;
but now I have bid farewell to my "Sweet Enemy" Tobacco, as you will see in my next page, I
perhaps shall set soberly to work. Hang Work! I wish that all the year were holyday. I am sure
that Indolence indefeazible Indolence is the true state of man, and business the invention
of the Old Teazer who persuaded Adam's Master to give him an apron and set him a houghing.
Pen and Ink, and Clerks, and desks, were the refinements of this old torturer a thousand years
after, under pretence of Commerce allying distant shores, promoting and diffusing knowledge,
good, &c.--

A FAREWELL TO TOBACCO

May the Babylonish curse Strait confound my stammering verse, If I can a passage see In this
word-perplexity, Or a fit expression find, Or a language to my mind, (Still the phrase is wide
an acre) To take leave of thee, Tobacco; Or in any terms relate Half my Love, or half my Hate,
For I hate yet love thee so, That, whichever Thing I shew, The plain truth will seem to be
A constrain'd hyperbole, And the passion to proceed More from a Mistress than a Weed.

Sooty retainer to the vine, Bacchus' black servant, negro fine, Sorcerer that mak'st us doat
upon Thy begrim'd complexion, And, for thy pernicious sake More and greater oaths to break
Than reclaimed Lovers take 'Gainst women: Thou thy siege dost lay Much too in the female way,
While thou suck'st the labouring breath Faster than kisses; or than Death.

Thou in such a cloud dost bind us, That our worst foes cannot find us, And Ill Fortune (that
would thwart us) Shoots at rovers, shooting at us; While each man thro' thy heightening steam,
Does like a smoking Etna seem, And all about us does express (Fancy and Wit in richest dress)
A Sicilian Fruitfulness.

Thou through such a mist does shew us, That our best friends do not know us; And, for those
allowed features, Due to reasonable creatures, Liken'st us to fell Chimeras, Monsters, that,
who see us, fear us, Worse than Cerberus, or Geryon, Or, who first loved a cloud, Ixion.

Bacchus we know, and we allow His tipsy rites. But what art thou? That but by reflex canst
shew What his deity can do, As the false Egyptian spell Aped the true Hebrew miracle-- Some
few vapours thou may'st raise, The weak brain may serve to amaze, But to the reins and nobler
heart Canst nor life nor heat impart.

Brother of Bacchus, later born, The old world was sure forlorn, Wanting thee; that aidest more
The God's victories than before All his panthers, and the brawls Of his piping Bacchanals;
These, as stale, we disallow, Or judge of thee meant: only thou His true Indian Conquest art;
And, for Ivy round his dart, The reformed God now weaves A finer Thyrsus of thy leaves.

Scent to match thy rich perfume Chymic art did ne'er presume Through her quaint alembic strain;
None so sovran to the brain.

Stinking'st of the stinking kind, Filth of the mouth and fog of the mind, Africa that brags
her foyson, Breeds no such prodigious poison, Henbane, nightshade, both together, Hemlock,
aconite--------

Nay rather, Plant divine, of rarest virtue, Blisters on the tongue would hurt you; 'Twas but
in a sort I blamed thee, None e'er prosper'd who defamed thee: Irony all, and feign'd abuse,
Such as perplext Lovers use At a need, when in despair To paint forth their fairest fair, Or
in part but to express That exceeding comeliness Which their fancies does so strike, They borrow
language of Dislike, And instead of Dearest Miss, Honey, Jewel, Sweetheart, Bliss, And, those
forms of old admiring, Call her Cockatrice and Syren, Basilisk and all that's evil, Witch,
Hyena, Mermaid, Devil, Ethiop wench, and Blackamoor, Monkey, Ape, and twenty more, Friendly
Traitress, Loving Foe: Not that she is truly so, But no other way they know A contentment to
express, Borders so upon excess, That they do not rightly wot, Whether it be pain or not.

Or, as men, constrain'd to part With what's nearest to their heart, While their sorrow's at
the height, Lose discrimination quite, And their hasty wrath let fall, To appease their frantic
gall, On the darling thing whatever, Whence they feel it death to sever, Though it be, as they,
perforce, Guiltless of the sad divorce,

For I must (nor let it grieve thee, Friendliest of plants, that I must) leave thee-- For thy
sake, TOBACCO, I Would do anything but die; And but seek to extend my days Long enough to sing
thy praise.

I wish you may think this a handsome farewell to my "Friendly Traitress." Tobacco has been
my evening comfort and my morning curse for these five years: and you know how difficult it
is from refraining to pick one's lips even, when it has become a habit. This Poem is the only
one which I have finished since so long as when I wrote "Hester Savory." I have had it in my
head to do it these two years, but Tobacco stood in its own light when it gave me head aches
that prevented my singing its praises. Now you have got it, you have got all my store, for
I have absolutely not another line. No more has Mary. We have nobody about us that cares for
Poetry, and who will rear grapes when he shall be the sole eater? Perhaps if you encourage
us to shew you what we may write, we may do something now and then before we absolutely forget
the quantity of an English line for want of practice. The "Tobacco," being a little in the
way of Withers (whom Southey so much likes) perhaps you will somehow convey it to him with
my kind remembrances. Then, everybody will have seen it that I wish to see it: I have sent
it to Malta.

I remain Dear W. and D--yours truly, C. LAMB.

28th Sep., 1805.

["Hang Work." This paragraph is the germ of the sonnet entitled "Work" which Lamb wrote fourteen
years later (see the letter to Bernard Barton, Sept. 11, 1822). He seems always to have kept
his thoughts in sight.

The "Farewell to Tobacco" was printed in the Reflector, No. IV., 1811 or 1812, and then in
the Works, 1818 (see Notes to Vol. IV. of this edition). Lamb's farewell was frequently repeated;
but it is a question whether he ever entirely left off smoking. Talfourd says that he did;
but the late Mrs. Coe, who remembered Lamb at Widford about 1827-1830, credited him with the
company of a black clay pipe. It was Lamb who, when Dr. Parr asked him how he managed to emit
so much smoke, replied that he had toiled after it as other men after virtue. And Macready
relates that he remarked in his presence that he wished to draw his last breath through a pipe
and exhale it in a pun. Coleridge writing to Rickman (see The Life and Letters of John Rickman,
1912) says of Lamb and smoking: "Were it possible to win C.L. from the pipe, other things would
follow with comparative ease, for till he gets a pipe I have regularly observed that he is
contented with porter--and that the unconquerable appetite for spirit comes in with the tobacco--the
oil of which, especially in the gluttonous manner in which he volcanizes it, acts as an instant
poison on his stomach or lungs".

"Hestor Savory." See above.]

LETTER 139

MARY LAMB TO SARAH STODDART

[Early November, 1805.]

My dear Sarah,--Certainly you are the best letter-writer (besides writing the best hand) in
the world. I have just been reading over again your two long letters, and I perceive they make
me very envious. I have taken a brand new pen, and put on my spectacles, and am peering with
all my might to see the lines in the paper, which the sight of your even lines had well nigh
tempted me to rule: and I have moreover taken two pinches of snuff extraordinary, to clear
my head, which feels more cloudy than common this fine, chearful morning.

All I can gather from your clear and, I have no doubt, faithful history of Maltese politics
is, that the good Doctor, though a firm friend, an excellent fancier of brooches, a good husband,
an upright Advocate, and, in short, all that they say upon tomb stones (for I do not recollect
that they celebrate any fraternal virtues there) yet is but a moody brother, that your sister
in law is pretty much like what all sisters in law have been since the first happy invention
of the happy marriage state; that friend Coleridge has undergone no alteration by crossing
the Atlantic,--for his friendliness to you, as well as all the oddities you mention, are just
what one ought to look for from him; and that you, my dear Sarah, have proved yourself just
as unfit to flourish in a little, proud Garrison Town as I did shrewdly suspect you were before
you went there.

If I possibly can, I will prevail upon Charles to write to your brother by the conveyance you
mention; but he is so unwell, I almost fear the fortnight will slip away before I can get him
in the right vein. Indeed, it has been sad and heavy times with us lately: when I am pretty
well, his low spirits throws me back again; and when he begins to get a little chearful, then
I do the same kind office for him. I heartily wish for the arrival of Coleridge; a few such
evenings as we have sometimes passed with him would wind us up, and set us a going again.

Do not say any thing, when you write, of our low spirits--it will vex Charles. You would laugh,
or you would cry, perhaps both, to see us sit together, looking at each other with long and
rueful faces, and saying, "how do you do?" and "how do you do?" and then we fall a-crying,
and say we will be better on the morrow. He says we are like toothach and his friend gum bile--which,
though a kind of ease, is but an uneasy kind of ease, a comfort of rather an uncomfortable sort.

I rejoice to hear of your Mother's amendment; when you can leave her with any satisfaction
to yourself--which, as her sister, I think I understand by your letters, is with her, I hope
you may soon be able to do--let me know upon what plan you mean to come to Town. Your brother
proposed your being six months in Town, and six with your Mother; but he did not then know
of your poor Mother's illness. By his desire, I enquired for a respectable family for you,
to board with; and from Capt'n. Burney I heard of one I thought would suit you at that time.
He particularly desires I would not think of your being with us, not thinking, I conjecture,
the home of a single man respectable enough. Your brother gave me most unlimited orders to
domineer over you, to be the inspector of all your actions, and to direct and govern you with
a stern voice and a high hand, to be, in short, a very elder brother over you--does not the
hearing of this, my meek pupil, make you long to come to London? I am making all the proper
enquiries against the time of the newest and most approved modes (being myself mainly ignorant
in these points) of etiquette, and nicely correct maidenly manners.

But to speak seriously. I mean, when we mean [? meet], that we will lay our heads together,
and consult and contrive the best way of making the best girl in the world the fine Lady her
brother wishes to see her; and believe me, Sarah, it is not so difficult a matter as one is
sometimes apt to imagine. I have observed many a demure Lady, who passes muster admirably well,
who, I think, we could easily learn to imitate in a week or two. We will talk of these things
when we meet. In the mean time, I give you free license to be happy and merry at Salisbury
in any way you can. Has the partridge-season opened any communication between you and William--as
I allow you to be imprudent till I see you, I shall expect to hear you have invited him to
taste his own birds. Have you scratched him out of your will yet? Rickman is married, and that
is all the news I have to send you.

Your Wigs were sent by Mr. Varvell about five months ago; therefore, he could have arrived
when you came away.

I seem, upon looking over my letter again, to have written too lightly of your distresses at
Malta; but, however I may have written, believe me, I enter very feelingly into all your troubles.
I love you, and I love your brother; and between you, both of whom I think have been to blame,
I know not what to say--only this I say, try to think as little as possible of past miscarriages;
it was, perhaps, so ordered by Providence, that you might return home to be a comfort to your
poor Mother. And do not, I conjure you, let her unhappy malady afflict you too deeply. I speak
from experience, and from the opportunity I have had of much observation in such cases, that
insane people, in the fancy's they take into their heads, do not feel as one in a sane state
of mind does under the real evil of poverty, the perception of having done wrong, or any such
thing that runs in their heads.

Think as little as you can, and let your whole care be to be certain that she is treated with
tenderness. I lay a stress upon this, because it is a thing of which people in her state are
uncommonly susceptible, and which hardly any one is at all aware of: a hired nurse never, even
though in all other respects they are good kind of people. I do not think your own presence
necessary, unless she takes to you very much, except for the purpose of seeing with your own
eyes that she is very kindly treated.

I do so long to see you! God bless and comfort you! Yours affectionately, M. LAMB.

[Miss Stoddart had now returned to England, to her mother at Salisbury, who had been and was
very ill. Coleridge meanwhile had had coolnesses with Stoddart and had transferred himself
to the roof of the Governor.

Rickman married, on October 30, 1805, Susanna Postlethwaite of Harting, in Sussex.]

LETTER 140

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM HAZLITT

November 10, 1805.

Dear Hazlitt,--I was very glad to hear from you, and that your journey was so picturesque.
We miss you, as we foretold we should. One or two things have happened, which are beneath the
dignity of epistolary communication, but which, seated about our fire at night, (the winter
hands of pork have begun) gesture and emphasis might have talked into some importance. Something
about Rickman's wife, for instance: how tall she is and that she visits prank'd out like a
Queen of the May with green streamers--a good-natured woman though, which is as much as you
can expect from a friend's wife, whom you got acquainted with a bachelor. Some things too about
MONKEY, which can't so well be written--how it set up for a fine Lady, and thought it had got
Lovers, and was obliged to be convinc'd of its age from the parish register, where it was proved
to be only twelve; and an edict issued that it should not give itself airs yet these four years;
and how it got leave to be called Miss, by grace;--these and such like Hows were in my head
to tell you, but who can write? Also how Manning's come to town in spectacles, and studies
physic; is melancholy and seems to have something in his head, which he don't impart. Then,
how I am going to leave off smoking. O la! your Leonardos of Oxford made my mouth water. I
was hurried thro' the gallery, and they escaped me. What do I say? I was a Goth then, and should
not have noticed them. I had not settled my notions of Beauty. I have now for ever!--the small
head, the [here is drawn a long narrow eye] long Eye,--that sort of peering curve, the wicked
Italian mischief! the stick-at-nothing, Herodias'-daughter kind of grace. You understand me.
But you disappoint me, in passing over in absolute silence the Blenheim Leonardo. Didn't you
see it? Excuse a Lover's curiosity. I have seen no pictures of note since, except Mr. Dawe's
gallery. It is curious to see how differently two great men treat the same subject, yet both
excellent in their way: for instance, Milton and Mr. Dawe. Mr. Dawe has chosen to illustrate
the story of Sampson exactly in the point of view in which Milton has been most happy: the
interview between the Jewish Hero, blind and captive, and Dalilah. Milton has imagined his
Locks grown again, strong as horse-hair or porcupine's bristles; doubtless shaggy and black,
as being hairs "which of a nation armed contained the strength." I don't remember, he says
black: but could Milton imagine them to be yellow? Do you? Mr. Dawe with striking originality
of conception has crowned him with a thin yellow wig, in colour precisely like Dyson's, in
curl and quantity resembling Mrs. Professor's, his Limbs rather stout, about such a man as
my Brother or Rickman--but no Atlas nor Hercules, nor yet so bony as Dubois, the Clown of Sadler's
Wells. This was judicious, taking the spirit of the story rather than the fact: for doubtless
God could communicate national salvation to the trust of flax and tow as well as hemp and cordage,
and could draw down a Temple with a golden tress as soon as with all the cables of the British
Navy.--Miss Dawe is about a portrait of sulky Fanny Imlay, alias Godwin: but Miss Dawe is of
opinion that her subject is neither reserved nor sullen, and doubtless she will persuade the
picture to be of the same opinion. However, the features are tolerably like--Too much of Dawes!
Wasn't you sorry for Lord Nelson? I have followed him in fancy ever since I saw him walking
in Pall Mall (I was prejudiced against him before) looking just as a Hero should look; and
I have been very much cut about it indeed. He was the only pretence of a Great Man we had.
Nobody is left of any Name at all. His Secretary died by his side. I imagined him, a Mr. Scott,
to be the man you met at Hume's; but I learn from Mrs. Hume that it is not the same. I met
Mrs. H. one day, and agreed to go on the Sunday to Tea, but the rain prevented us, and the
distance. I have been to apologise, and we are to dine there the first fine Sunday. Strange
perverseness! I never went while you staid here, and now I go to find you! What other news
is there, Mary?--What puns have I made in the last fortnight? You never remember them. You
have no relish for the Comic. "O! tell Hazlitt not to forget to send the American Farmer. I
dare say it isn't so good as he fancies; but a Book's a Book." I have not heard from Wordsworth
or from Malta since. Charles Kemble, it seems, enters into possession to-morrow. We sup at
109 Russell St. this evening. I wish your brother wouldn't drink. It's a blemish in the greatest
characters. You send me a modern quotation poetical. How do you like this in an old play? Vittoria
Corombona, a spunky Italian Lady, a Leonardo one, nick-named the White Devil, being on her
trial for murder, &c.--and questioned about seducing a Duke from his wife and the State, makes
answer:

"Condemn you me for that the Duke did love me? So may you blame some fair and chrystal river,
For that some melancholic distracted man Hath drown'd himself in it."--

Our ticket was a L20. Alas!! are both yours blanks?

P.S.--Godwin has asked after you several times.

N.B.--I shall expect a Line from you, if but a bare Line, whenever you write to Russell St.,
and a Letter often when you do not. I pay no postage; but I will have consideration for you
until parliament time and franks. Luck to Ned Search and the new art of colouring. Monkey sends
her Love, and Mary especially.

Yours truly, C. LAMB.

[Addressed to Hazlitt at Wem. This is the first letter from Lamb to Hazlitt that has been preserved.
The two men first met at Godwin's. Holcroft and Coleridge were disputing which was best--man
as he is, or man as he ought to be. Lamb broke in with, "Give me man as he ought not to be."

Hazlitt at this date was twenty-six, some three years younger than Lamb. He had just abandoned
his project of being a painter and was settling down to literary work.

"Rickman's wife." This passage holds the germ of Lamb's essay on "The Behaviour of Married
Persons," first printed in the Reflector, No. IV., in 1811 or 1812, and afterwards included
with the Elia essays.

"Monkey" was Louisa Martin, a little girl of whom Lamb was fond and whom he knew to the end
of his life.

Manning studied medicine at the Westminster Hospital for six months previous to May, 1806.

"The Oxford Leonardos ... the Blenheim Leonardo." The only Leonardos at Oxford are the drawings
at Christ Church. The Blenheim Leonardo was probably Boltraffio's "Virgin and Child" which
used to be ascribed to Da Vinci, as indeed were many pictures he never painted. Hazlitt subsequently
wrote a work on the Picture Galleries of England, but he mentions none of these works.

"Mr. Dawe's gallery." George Dawe (1781-1829), afterwards R.A., of whom Lamb wrote his essay
"Recollections of a Late Royal Academician," where he alludes again to the picture of Samson
(see Vol. I. of this edition).

"Dyson's." Dyson was a friend of Godwin. Mrs. Professor was Mrs. Godwin.

"Miss Dawe." I know nothing further of George Dawe's sister. Fanny Imlay was the unfortunate
daughter of Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin (by Gilbert Imlay the author). She committed suicide
in 1816.

Nelson was killed on October 21, 1805. Scott was his chaplain, and he was not killed.

Hume was Joseph Hume, an official at Somerset House, whom we shall meet again directly.

The American Farmer was very likely Gilbert Imlay's novel The Emigrants, 1793, or possibly
his Topographical Description of the Western Territory of North America, 1792.

Charles Kemble, brother of John Philip Kemble and father of Fanny Kemble.

John Hazlitt, the miniature painter, lived at 109 Russell Street. Lamb's quotation, afterwards
included in his Dramatic Specimens, 1808, is from Webster's "The White Devil," Act III., Scene I.

The L20 ticket was presumably in the Lottery. Lamb's essay "The Illustrious Defunct" (see Vol.
I.) shows him to have been interested in Lotteries; and in Letter No. 184 Mary Lamb states
that he wrote Lottery puffs.

"Ned Search." Hazlitt was engaged on an abridgment of The Light of Nature Pursued, in seven
volumes, 1768-1778, nominally by Edward Search, but really by Abraham Tucker.

"The new art of colouring" is a reference, I fancy, to Tingry, mentioned again below.]

LETTER 141

MARY LAMB TO SARAH STODDART [November 9 and 14, 1805.]

My dear Sarah,--After a very feverish night, I writ a letter to you; and I have been distressed
about it ever since. In the first place, I have thought I treated too lightly your differences
with your brother--which I freely enter into and feel for, but which I rather wished to defer
saying much about till we meet. But that which gives me most concern is the way in which I
talked about your Mother's illness, and which I have since feared you might construe into my
having a doubt of your showing her proper attention without my impertinent interference. God
knows, nothing of this kind was ever in my thoughts; but I have entered very deeply into your
affliction with regard to your Mother; and while I was wishing, the many poor souls in the
kind of desponding way she is in, whom I have seen, came afresh into my mind; and all the mismanagement
with which I have seen them treated was strong in my mind, and I wrote under a forcible impulse,
which I could not at that time resist, but I have fretted so much about it since, that I think
it is the last time I will ever let my pen run away with me.

Your kind heart will, I know, even if you have been a little displeased, forgive me, when I
assure you my spirits have been so much hurt by my last illness, that at times I hardly know
what I do. I do not mean to alarm you about myself, or to plead an excuse; but I am very much
otherwise than you have always known me. I do not think any one perceives me altered, but I
have lost all self-confidence in my own actions, and one cause of my low spirits is, that I
never feel satisfied with any thing I do--a perception of not being in a sane state perpetually
haunts me. I am ashamed to confess this weakness to you; which, as I am so sensible of, I ought
to strive to conquer. But I tell you, that you may excuse any part of my letter that has given
offence: for your not answering it, when you are such a punctual correspondent, has made me
very uneasy.

Write immediately, my dear Sarah, but do not notice this letter, nor do not mention any thing
I said relative to your poor Mother. Your handwriting will convince me you are friends with
me; and if Charles, who must see my letter, was to know I had first written foolishly, and
then fretted about the event of my folly, he would both ways be angry with me.

I would desire you to direct to me at home, but your hand is so well known to Charles, that
that would not do. Therefore, take no notice of my megrums till we meet, which I most ardently
long to do. An hour spent in your company would be a cordial to my drooping heart.

Pray write directly, and believe me, ever Your affectionate friend, M. LAMB.

Nov. l4.--I have kept this by me till to-day, hoping every day to hear from you. If you found
the seal a clumsy one, it is because I opened the wafer.

Write, I beg, by the return of the post; and as I am very anxious to hear whether you are,
as I fear, dissatisfied with me, you shall, if you please, direct my letter to Nurse. Her direction
is, Mrs. Grant, at Mr. Smith's, Maidenhead, Ram Court, Fleet Street.

I was not able, you know, to notice, when I writ to Malta, your letter concerning an insult
you received from a vile wretch there; and as I mostly show my letters to Charles, I have never
named it since. Did it ever come to your brother's knowledge? Charles and I were very uneasy
at your account of it. I wish I could see you.

Yours ever, M. LAMB.

I do not mean to continue a secret correspondence, but you must oblige me with this one letter.
In future I will always show my letters before they go, which will be a proper check upon my
wayward pen.

LETTER 142

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

[P.M. Nov. 15, 1805.]

Dear Manning,--Certainly you could not have called at all hours from two till ten, for we have
been only out of an evening Monday and Tuesday in this week. But if you think you have, your
thought shall go for the deed. We did pray for you on Wednesday night. Oysters unusually luscious--pearls
of extraordinary magnitude found in them. I have made bracelets of them--given them in clusters
to ladies. Last night we went out in despite, because you were not come at your hour.

This night we shall be at home, so shall we certainly both Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.
Take your choice, mind I don't say of one, but choose which evening you will not, and come
the other four. Doors open at five o'clock. Shells forced about nine. Every gentleman smokes
or not as he pleases. O! I forgot, bring the L10, for fear you should lose it.

C. L.

[Here should come a letter from Mary Lamb to Mrs. Clarkson, dated December 25, 1805, printed
by Mr. Macdonald. It states that Lamb has been latterly in indifferent health, and is unimportant.]

LETTER 143

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM HAZLITT

Thursday, 15th Jan., 1806.

Dear Hazlitt,--Godwin went to Johnson's yesterday about your business. Johnson would not come
down, or give any answer, but has promised to open the manuscript, and to give you an answer
in one month. Godwin will punctually go again (Wednesday is Johnson's open day) yesterday four
weeks next: i.e. in one lunar month from this time. Till when Johnson positively declines giving
any answer. I wish you joy on ending your Search. Mrs. H. was naming something about a Life
of Fawcett, to be by you undertaken: the great Fawcett, as she explain'd to Manning, when he
ask'd, What Fawcett? He innocently thought Fawcett the player. But Fawcett the Divine is known
to many people, albeit unknown to the Chinese Enquirer. I should think, if you liked it, and
Johnson declined it, that Phillips is the man. He is perpetually bringing out Biographies,
Richardson, Wilkes, Foot, Lee Lewis, without number: little trim things in two easy volumes
price 12s. the two, made up of letters to and from, scraps, posthumous trifles, anecdotes,
and about forty pages of hard biography. You might dish up a Fawcetiad in 3 months, and ask
60 or 80 Pounds for it. I should dare say that Phillips would catch at it--I wrote to you the
other day in a great hurry. Did you get it? This is merely a Letter of business at Godwin's
request.

Lord Nelson is quiet at last. His ghost only keeps a slight fluttering in odes and elegies
in newspapers, and impromptus, which could not be got ready before the funeral.

As for news--We have Miss Stoddart in our house, she has been with us a fortnight and will
stay a week or so longer. She is one of the few people who are not in the way when they are
with you. No tidings of Coleridge. Fenwick is coming to town on Monday (if no kind angel intervene)
to surrender himself to prison. He hopes to get the Rules of the Fleet. On the same, or nearly
the same, day, Fell, my other quondam co-friend and drinker, will go to Newgate, and his wife
and 4 children, I suppose, to the Parish. Plenty of reflection and motives of gratitude to
the wise disposer of all things in us, whose prudent conduct has hitherto ensured us a warm
fire and snug roof over our heads. Nullum numen abest si sit Prudentia.

Alas! Prudentia is in the last quarter of her tutelary shining over me. A little time and I--

But may be I may, at last, hit upon some mode of collecting some of the vast superfluities
of this money-voiding town. Much is to be got, and I don't want much. All I ask is time and
leisure; and I am cruelly off for them.

When you have the inclination, I shall be very glad to have a letter from you.--Your brother
and Mrs. H., I am afraid, think hardly of us for not coming oftener to see them, but we are
distracted beyond what they can conceive with visitors and visitings. I never have an hour
for my head to work quietly its own workings; which you know is as necessary to the human system
as sleep.

Sleep, too, I can't get for these damn'd winds of a night: and without sleep and rest what
should ensue? Lunacy. But I trust it won't.

Yours, dear H., mad or sober, C. LAMB.

[Hazlitt's business was finding a publisher for his abridgment of Search (see page 340). Johnson
was Priestley's publisher. A letter to Godwin from Coleridge in June, 1803 (see Kegan Paul's
Life of Godwin, ii., 96), had suggested such an abridgment, Coleridge adding that a friend
of his would make it, and that he would write a preface and see the proofs through the press.
Hence Godwin's share in the matter. Coleridge's part of the transaction was not carried out.

Hazlitt's Life of Joseph Fawcett (?1758-1804), the poet and dissenting preacher of Walthamstow
and Old Jewry, whom he had known intimately, was not written. The Fawcett of whom Manning,
the Chinese Enquirer, was thinking was John Fawcett, famous as Dr. Pangloss and Caleb Quotem.

"The Fleet"--the prison for debtors in Farringdon Street. Closed in 1844. The Rules of the
Fleet were the limits within which prisoners for debt were under certain conditions permitted
to live: the north side of Ludgate Hill, the Old Bailey up to Fleet Lane, Fleet Lane to Fleet
Market, and then back to Ludgate Hill. The Rules cost money: L10 for the first L100 of the
debt and for every additional L100, L4. Later, Fenwick seems to have settled in America.

Here should come an undated letter to Hazlitt, accompanied by Tingry's Painter's and Varnisher's
Guide, 1804. Hazlitt, who was then painting, seems to have wanted prints of trees, probably
for a background. Lamb says that he has been hunting in shop windows for him. He adds: "To
supply poetry and wildness, you may read the American Farmer over again." The postscript runs,
"Johnson shall not be forgot at his month's end."]

LETTER 144

CHARLES LAMB TO JOHN RICKMAN

Jan. 25th, 1806.

Dear Rickman,--You do not happen to have any place at your disposal which would suit a decayed
Literatus? I do not much expect that you have, or that you will go much out of the way to serve
the object, when you hear it is Fenwick. But the case is, by a mistaking of his turn, as they
call it, he is reduced, I am afraid, to extremities, and would be extremely glad of a place
in an office. Now it does sometimes happen, that just as a man wants a place, a place wants
him; and though this is a lottery to which none but G.B. would choose to trust his all, there
is no harm just to call in at Despair's office for a friend, and see if his number is come
up (B.'s further case I enclose by way of episode). Now, if you should happen, or anybody you
know, to want a hand, here is a young man of solid but not brilliant genius, who would turn
his hand to the making out dockets, penning a manifesto, or scoring a tally, not the worse
(I hope) for knowing Latin and Greek, and having in youth conversed with the philosophers.
But from these follies I believe he is thoroughly awakened, and would bind himself by a terrible
oath never to imagine himself an extraordinary genius again.

Yours, &., C. LAMB.

[Mr. Hazlitt's text, which I follow here, makes Lamb appeal for Fenwick; but other editors
say Fell--except Talfourd, who says F. If, as Lamb says in his previous letter, Fell was bound
for Newgate and Fenwick only for the Fleet, probably it was Fenwick. But the matter is not
very important. Fenwick and Fell both came into Lamb's life through Godwin and at this point
they drop out. The enclosure concerning George Burnett is missing.]

LETTER 145

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM WORDSWORTH [Dated at end: February 1st, 1806.]

Dear Wordsworth--I have seen the Books which you ordered, booked at the White Horse Inn, Cripplegate,
by the Kendal waggon this day 1st Feb'y. 1806; you will not fail to see after them in time.
They are directed to you at Grasmere. We have made some alteration in the Editions since your
sister's directions. The handsome quarto Spencer which she authorized Mary to buy for L2. 12.
6, when she brought it home in triumph proved to be only the Fairy Queen: so we got them to
take it again and I have procured instead a Folio, which luckily contains, besides all the
Poems, the view of the State of Ireland, which is difficult to meet with. The Spencer, and
the Chaucer, being noble old books, we did not think Stockdale's modern volumes would look
so well beside them; added to which I don't know whether you are aware that the Print is excessive
small, same as Eleg. Extracts, or smaller, not calculated for eyes in age; and Shakespear is
one of the last books one should like to give up, perhaps the one just before the Dying Service
in a large Prayer book. So we have used our own discretion in purchasing Pope's fine Quarto
in six volumes, which may be read ad ultimam horam vitae. It is bound like Law Books (rather,
half bound) and the Law Robe I have ever thought as comely and gentlemanly a garb as a Book
would wish to wear. The state of the purchase then stands thus,

Urry's Chaucer             L1. 16  -- Pope's Shakespeare          2.  2  -- Spenser       
14  -- Milton                      1.  5  -- Packing Case &c.                3. 6

                            6. --. 6

Which your Brother immediately repaid us. He has the Bills for all (by his desire) except the
Spenser, which we took no bill with (not looking to have our accounts audited): so for that
and the Case he took a separate receipt for 17/6. N.B. there is writing in the Shakespear:
but it is only variae lectiones which some careful gentleman, the former owner, was at the
pains to insert in a very neat hand from 5 Commentators. It is no defacement. The fault of
Pope's edition is, that he has comically and coxcombically marked the Beauties: which is vile,
as if you were to chalk up the cheek and across the nose of a handsome woman in red chalk to
shew where the comeliest parts lay. But I hope the noble type and Library-appearance of the
Books will atone for that. With the Books come certain Books and Pamphlets of G. Dyer, Presents
or rather Decoy-ducks of the Poet to take in his thus-far obliged friends to buy his other
works; as he takes care to inform them in M.S. notes to the Title Pages, "G. Dyer, Author of
other Books printed for Longman &c." The books have lain at your dispatchful brother's a 12
months, to the great staling of most of the subjects. The three Letters and what is else written
at the beginning of the respective Presents will ascertain the division of the Property. If
not, none of the Donees, I dare say, will grudge a community of property in this case. We were
constrained to pack 'em how we could, for room. N.B. I must remain Debtor to Dorothy for 200
pens: but really Miss Stoddart (women are great gulfs of Stationery), who is going home to
Salisbury and has been with us some weeks, has drained us to the very last pen: by the time
S.T.C. passes thro' London I reckon I shall be in full feather. No more news has transpired
of that Wanderer. I suppose he has found his way to some of his German friends.

["Hazlitt's book about Human Action for Coleridge"--An Essay on the Principles of Human Action,
1805.

"A Paraphrase of the King and Queen of Hearts." This was a little book for children by Lamb,
illustrated by Mulready and published by T. Hodgkins (for the Godwins) in 1806. It was discovered
through this passage in this letter and is reprinted in facsimile in Vol. III. of my large edition.

Coleridge had left Malta on September 21, 1805. He went to Naples, and from there to Rome in
January, 1806, where he stayed until May 18.

"A propos of Spencer." This portion of the letter, owing to a mistake of Talfourd's, is usually
tacked on to one dated June, 1806. "Miss Evans." See note to Letter 3.

"Poor Spencer." William Robert Spencer (1769-1834) was the author of jeux d'esprit and poems.
He is now known, if at all, by his ballad of "Bed Gellert." He married the widow of Count Spreti,
and in 1804 published a book of elegies entitled "The Year of Sorrow." Spencer was among the
translators of Buerger's "Leonore," his version being illustrated by Lady Diana Beauclerk (his
great-aunt) in 1796. Lamb used this anecdote as a little article in the Reflector, No. II.,
1811, entitled "On the Ambiguities arising from Proper Names" (see Vol. I. of this edition).
Lamb, however, by always spelling the real poet with a "c," did nothing towards avoiding the
ambiguity! For life, and death is [are] in thy doomful writing: So thy renowne lives ever by
endighting."

Dublin: this xviij of July, 1586; Your devoted friend, during life, EDMUND SPENSER.]

LETTER 146

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM HAZLITT [Dated at end: Feb. 19, 1806.]

Dear H.--Godwin has just been here in his way from Johnson's. Johnson has had a fire in his
house; this happened about five weeks ago; it was in the daytime, so it did not burn the house
down, but did so much damage that the house must come down, to be repaired: his nephew that
we met on Hampstead Hill put it out: well, this fire has put him so back, that he craves one
more month before he gives you an answer.

I will certainly goad Godwin (if necessary) to go again this very day four weeks; but I am
confident he will want no goading.

Three or four most capital auctions of Pictures advertised. In May, Welbore Ellis Agar's, the
first private collection in England, so Holcroft says. In March, Sir George Young's in Stratford-place
(where Cosway lives), and a Mr. Hulse's at Blackheath, both very capital collections, and have
been announc'd for some months. Also the Marquis of Lansdowne's Pictures in March; and though
inferior to mention, lastly, the Tructhsessian gallery. Don't your mouth water to be here?

T'other night Loftus called, whom we have not seen since you went before. We meditate a stroll
next Wednesday, Fast-day. He happened to light upon Mr. Holcroft's Wife, and Daughter, their
first visit at our house.

Your brother called last night. We keep up our intimacy. He is going to begin a large Madona
and child from Mrs. H. and baby, I fear he goes astray after ignes fatui. He is a clever man.
By the bye, I saw a miniature of his as far excelling any in his shew cupboard (that of your
sister not excepted) as that shew cupboard excells the shew things you see in windows--an old
woman--damn her name--but most superlative; he has it to clean--I'll ask him the name--but
the best miniature I ever saw, equal to Cooper and them fellows. But for oil pictures!--what
has he [to] do with Madonas? if the Virgin Mary were alive and visitable, he would not hazard
himself in a Covent-Garden-pit-door crowd to see her. It ain't his style of beauty, is it?--But
he will go on painting things he ought not to paint, and not painting things he ought to paint.

Manning is not gone to China, but talks of going this Spring. God forbid!

Coleridge not heard of.

I, going to leave off smoke. In mean time am so smoky with last night's 10 Pipes, that I must
leave off.

Mary begs her kind remembrances.

Pray write to us--

This is no Letter, but I supposed you grew anxious about Johnson.

N.B.--Have taken a room at 3/- a week, to be in between 5 & 8 at night, to avoid my nocturnal
alias knock-eternal visitors. The first-fruits of my retirement has been a farce which goes
to manager tomorrow. Wish my ticket luck. God bless you, and do write,--Yours, fumosissimus,

C. LAMB.

Wednesday, 19 Feb., 1806.

[Johnson was the publisher whom we have already seen considering Hazlitt's abridgment of the
Light of Nature Revealed.

Lamb was always interested in sales of pictures: the on-view days gave him some of his best
opportunities of seeing good painting. The Truchsessian Picture Gallery was in New Road, opposite
Portland Place. Exhibitions were held annually, the pictures being for sale.

Loftus was Tom Loftus of Wisbech, a cousin of Hazlitt.

Holcroft's wife at that time, his fourth, was Louisa Mercier, who afterwards married Lamb's
friend, James Kenney, the dramatist. The daughter referred to was probably Fanny Holcroft,
who subsequently wrote novels and translations.

Cooper, the miniature painter, was Samuel Cooper (1609-1672), a connection by marriage of Pope's
mother, and the painter of Cromwell and other interesting men.

Lamb's N.B. contains his first mention of his farce "Mr. H." We are not told where the 3s.
room was situated. We think there is some mistake in this account, and that his intended journey
to Rome was in his former jaunt to Naples. If you know that at that time he had any such intention,
will you write instantly? for I do not know whether I ought to write to Mrs. Coleridge or not.

I am going to make a sort of promise to myself and to you, that I will write you kind of journal-like
letters of the daily what-we-do matters, as they occur. This day seems to me a kind of new
era in our time. It is not a birthday, nor a new-year's day, nor a leave-off-smoking day; but
it is about an hour after the time of leaving you, our poor Phoenix, in the Salisbury Stage;
and Charles has just left me for the first time to go to his lodgings; and I am holding a solitary
consultation with myself as to the how I shall employ myself.

Writing plays, novels, poems, and all manner of such-like vapouring and vapourish schemes are
floating in my head, which at the same time aches with the thought of parting from you, and
is perplext at the idea of I-cannot-tell-what-about notion that I have not made you half so
comfortable as I ought to have done, and a melancholy sense of the dull prospect you have before
you on your return home. Then I think I will make my new gown; and now I consider the white
petticoat will be better candle-light worth; and then I look at the fire, and think, if the
irons was but down, I would iron my Gowns--you having put me out of conceit of mangling.

So much for an account of my own confused head; and now for yours. Returning home from the
Inn, we took that to pieces, and ca[n]vassed you, as you know is our usual custom. We agreed
we should miss you sadly, and that you had been, what you yourself discovered, not at all in
our way; and although, if the Post Master should happen to open this, it would appear to him
to be no great compliment, yet you, who enter so warmly into the interior of our affairs, will
understand and value it, as well as what we likewise asserted, that since you have been with
us you have done but one foolish thing, vide Pinckhorn (excuse my bad Latin, if it should chance
to mean exactly contrary to what I intend). We praised you for the very friendly way in which
you regarded all our whimsies, and, to use a phrase of Coleridge's, understood us. We had,
in short, no drawback on our eulogy on your merit, except lamenting the want of respect you
have to yourself--the want of a certain dignity of action, you know what I mean, which--though
it only broke out in the acceptance of the old Justice's book, and was, as it were, smothered
and almost extinct, while you were here--yet is so native a feeling in your mind, that you
will do whatever the present moment prompts you to do, that I wish you would take that one
slight offence seriously to heart, and make it a part of your daily consideration to drive
this unlucky propensity, root and branch, out of your character.--Then, mercy on us, what a
perfect little gentlewoman you will be!!!--

You are not yet arrived at the first stage of your journey; yet have I the sense of your absence
so strong upon me, that I was really thinking what news I had to send you, and what had happened
since you had left us. Truly nothing, except that Martin Burney met us in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields,
and borrowed four-pence, of the repayment of which sum I will send you due notice.

Friday [Feb. 21, 1806].--Last night I told Charles of your matrimonial overtures from Mr. White,
and of the cause of that business being at a stand-still. Your generous conduct in acquainting
Mr. White with the vexatious affair at Malta highly pleased him. He entirely approves of it.
You would be quite comforted to hear what he said on the subject.

He wishes you success, and, when Coleridge comes, will consult with him about what is best
to be done. But I charge you, be most strictly cautious how you proceed yourself. Do not give
Mr. W. any reason to think you indiscreet; let him return of his own accord, and keep the probability
of his doing so full in your mind; so, I mean, as to regulate your whole conduct by that expectation.
Do not allow yourself to see, or in any way renew your acquaintance with, William, nor do not
do any other silly thing of that kind; for, you may depend upon it, he will be a kind of spy
upon you, and, if he observes nothing that he disapproves of, you will certainly hear of him
again in time.

Charles is gone to finish the farce, and I am to hear it read this night. I am so uneasy between
my hopes and fears of how I shall like it, that I do not know what I am doing. I need not tell
you so, for before I send this I shall be able to tell you all about it. If I think it will
amuse you, I will send you a copy. The bed was very cold last night.

Feb. 21 [?22]. I have received your letter, and am happy to hear that your mother has been
so well in your absence, which I wish had been prolonged a little, for you have been wanted
to copy out the Farce, in the writing of which I made many an unlucky blunder.

The said Farce I carried (after many consultations of who was the most proper person to perform
so important an office) to Wroughton, the Manager of Drury Lane. He was very civil to me; said
it did not depend upon himself, but that he would put it into the Proprietors' hands, and that
we should certainly have an answer from them.

I have been unable to finish this sheet before, for Charles has taken a week's holidays [from
his] lodging, to rest himself after his labour, and we have talked to-night of nothing but
the Farce night and day; but yesterday [I carri]ed it to Wroughton; and since it has been out
of the [way, our] minds have been a little easier. I wish you had [been with] us, to have given
your opinion. I have half a mind to sc[ribble] another copy, and send it you. I like it very
much, and cannot help having great hopes of its success.

I would say I was very sorry for the death of Mr. White's father; but not knowing the good
old gentleman, I cannot help being as well satisfied that he is gone--for his son will feel
rather lonely, and so perhaps he may chance to visit again Winterslow. You so well describe
your brother's grave lecturing letter, that you make me ashamed of part of mine. I would fain
rewrite it, leaving out my 'sage advice;' but if I begin another letter, something may fall
out to prevent me from finishing it,--and, therefore, skip over it as well as you can; it shall
be the last I ever send you.

It is well enough, when one is talking to a friend, to hedge in an odd word by way of counsel
now and then; but there is something mighty irksome in its staring upon one in a letter, where
one ought only to see kind words and friendly remembrances.

I have heard a vague report from the Dawes (the pleasant-looking young lady we called upon
was Miss Daw), that Coleridge returned back to Naples: they are to make further enquiries,
and let me know the particulars. We have seen little or nothing of Manning since you went.
Your friend [George] Burnett calls as usual, for Charles to point out something for him. I
miss you sadly, and but for the fidget I have been in about the Farce, I should have missed
you still more. I am sorry you cannot get your money. Continue to tell us all your perplexities,
and do not mind being called Widow Blackacre.

