The admonition to France, on the ground that, after the revolution of 1789, she is committing
a contradictory error by showing sympathy toward a revolution gotten up by priests, is but
a consequence of the first judgment, and we may leave to France and her sense of her own interests
to do what she may think right and profitable. We will simply mention that, for French glory,
and for this error, as the author calls it, two hundred thousand Poles were slain in Egypt,
Italy, San Domingo, Spain, Germany, Holland, and on the plains of Mozajsk, Kraslaw, Boryssow,
Eylau, Friedland, etc. The monument seen from the balcony of the Tuileries has the names upon
it, which we scarcely can suppose to have been inscribed for the sole purpose of filling space.

The friends of Poland believe that they serve the cause of progress by aiding in the reëstablishment
of the Polish nation. We presume there are plenty of men in France who know that during the
last thirty years Rossia has spread her dominion in Asia over twice the area of Germany and
France together, that she is only eighty miles from Peking, and as far from India as Vienna
is from the Black Sea. Moreover, Asiatic people, always dreaming of plunder in Europe, once
armed with European Minié rifles and rifled cannon, may repeat anew the incursions of Attila,
Tamerlane, Battu, etc. The end to be gained and the booty will create the temptation, and offer
superior inducements.

The effort to palliate Rossian cruelty, skilful as it is, by the alleged necessities of war,
by denials, or by asserting it to be mere revenge for similar atrocities committed by Poles,
must be appreciated according to the sources whence it emanates. What the letter writer or
similar twelve-hour visitors saw in Poland, particularly in Kracow, of people sharpening knives
or preparing deadly poisons, need here be merely referred to by saying that in times of general
confusion we have no means to foresee or to control personal revenge, and also that we will
not here cite the reports of Polish papers or accounts of Germans. We will take our data from
the Moscow Invalid, the czar's Universal Journal at Warsaw, and the Journal de Petersbourg.
From these we find it stated that the number of men hanged in three hundred and sixty-five
days of insurrection was eight hundred and fifty, besides many others whose names were not
given because it was simpler and more profitable to ignore their origin, class, and religion.

From Kiow alone Anienkow sent away fourteen thousand men, chiefly of Greek or other non-Roman-Catholic
religion, over whom the Catholic priest had neither control or influence. From Warsaw, every
Saturday during fifty-two weeks, an average of four hundred men, women, and children were deported,
all separated from their natural guides and protectors. From Liefland, north of the Dwina,
were sent off, in one month, thirty-five hundred of the better educated and comfortable class
of people. A Government paper rejoices that Polish and Catholic principles, growing there during
five centuries, were in a fair way of extinction, since, as it itself admits, forty-five thousand
men had been transferred to the governments of Samara, Orenburg, Kazan, and similar localities.
To burn the villages of Ibanie, Szarki, Hrodki, Smoloy, Zabolocie, etc., to destroy the furniture,
horses, cattle, and all other property, to send the inhabitants on foot, only allowing for
the aged and young children a few small wagons, far away into a cold, strange, savage country,
without tools, means, etc.--was all this done merely as a military necessity, and was it excusable,
or, at most, merely blamable?

Now, certain correspondents and lecturers, with other gentlemen, deny the use of the lash or
whip on the backs of women and ladies, because the American people cannot countenance such
barbarism. To say the least of such a denial--it is gratuitous. Austria daily publishes similar
judgments as the result of police court trials. In Rossia, they are not published, because
the administration of lash, whip, and scourge is left to the paternal discretion of every sergeant,
lieutenant, police commissary, and district constable, and is enjoyed by them to their hearts'
content. It is the method employed for ages by Rossia, and considered as an indispensable appendage
to patriarchal czarism and its lieutenants. We cannot wonder at such denials, for their authors
have ordinarily been brought up under a better state of things, and never learned in their
youth the possibility of resort to such practices: the less also can we wonder when we know
that they met only similar denials in the higher Rossian society, and when we consider that
such denials came from a source one is naturally inclined to respect, when the man denying
seems respectable. How can we fancy a lie told by a gentleman in golden uniform, or a lady
in a lace dress? But if the defenders of the civilization of Rossia and of the noble manners
of its aristocracy knew all the cruel judgments of Rossian masters, the lewdness, recklessness,
indecency, and shallowness often concealed beneath their artificial good breeding and apparent
courtesy, they would learn that laces may cover coarse tissues, and gold hide corroded brass.
The gaudy dress and uniform serve but to permit more daring deeds; the more they glitter, the
more impunity they confer. Under every Government, and more especially under a despotism, subaltern
officers may be sure of impunity to abuse, provided it is done under the guise of zeal and
devotion.

During the past year we have heard and read in lectures, newspapers, correspondences, etc.,
many flattering statements of the beauty of the Rossian Government, and the czar's liberality--and
as many accusations and imputations detrimental to the Polish cause. Why the same views were
not held and advocated during the Crimean war we will not ask, but merely hint at. These statements
come from organs whose purpose is readily divined. If we turn to the paper that has opened
its columns to the Paris letter, we find close at hand the advertisement and recommendation
of a programme for our own great country, and the pointing out of a new Garibaldi for the American
Union. Now, neither said platform nor Garibaldi would be consistent with the condemnation,
irony, and ridicule flung upon the champions for one thousand years of the growing progress,
prosperity, and Christianity of Western Europe.

We of this generation are grown fixedly into our ancient habits of thought, and now can make
no change; but our successors, perchance, may possibly be reduced to undersign the manifesto
of Rossian Liberalism, published about a year ago in Moscow, and, in return for false promises
and deceptions, consent to make common cause against Germany and the whole of Western Europe.
What American liberties would gain by such an eventuality, is not for us, nor for to-day, to say.

APHORISMS.--NO. XI.

'A man who has no wants has attained great freedom, and firmness, and even dignity.'--BURKE.

'Mad wants and mean endeavors,' as Carlyle expresses it, 'are among the signal characteristics
and great follies of our nature.'

But how can we attain to the freedom, firmness, and dignity of having no wants? Answer: By
learning what our real necessities are, and limiting our sense of want by such knowledge. Otherwise
there is little hope for us; for, as soon as we admit imaginary and factitious needs, we become
the slaves of mere fancy, the sport of mere human opinion, and devoid of all true dignity.

