  [76] Salimbeni, ann. 1248, p. 131. The Chronica tribulationum
       gives a long and dramatic account of these events: Archiv., t.
       ii., pp. 283 ff. "Tunc enim sapientia et sanctitas fratris
       Bonaventuræ eclipsata paluit et obscurata est et ejus manswetudo
       (sic) ab agitante spiritu in furorum et iram defecit." Ib., p.
       283.

  [77] Bon., 3. 1. At the same chapter were collected the
       constitutions of the Order according to edicts of the preceding
       chapters; new ones were added to them and all were arranged. In
       the first of the twelve rubrics the chapter prescribed that,
       upon the publication of the account, all the old constitutions
       should be destroyed. The text was published in the Firmamentum
       trium ordinum, f^o 7b, and restored lately by Father Ehrle:
       Archiv., t. vi. (1891), in his beautiful work Die ältesten
       Redactionen der General-constitutionen des Franziskanerordens.
       Cf. Speculum Morin, fo. 195b of tract. iii.

  [78] The Legenda Minor of Bonaventura was also approved at
       this time; it is simply an abridgment of the Legenda Major
       arranged for use of the choir on the festival of St. Francis and
       its octave.

  [79] "Item præcipit Generale capitulum per obedientiam quod
       omnes legenæ de B. Francisco olim factæ deleantur et ubi
       inveniri poterant extra ordinem ipsas fratres studeant amovere,
       cum illa legenda quæ facta est per Generalem sit compilata prout
       ipse habuit ab ore illorum qui cum B. Francisco quasi semper
       fuerunt et cuncta certitudinaliter sciverint et probata ibi sint
       posita diligenter." This precious text has been found and
       published by Father Rinaldi in his preface to the text of
       Celano: Seraphici viri Francisci vitæ duæ, p. xi. Wadding
       seems to have known of it, at least indirectly, for he says:
       "Utramque Historiam, longiorem et breviorem, obtulit
       (Bonaventura) triennio post in comitiis Pisanis patribus
       Ordinis, quas reverentur cum gratiarum actione, SUPRESSIS ALIIS
       QUIBUSQUE LEGENDIS, ADMISERUNT." Ad ann., 1260, no. 18. Cf.
       Ehrle, Zeitschrift für kath. Theol., t. vii. (1883), p.
       386.--"Communicaverat sanctus Franciscus plurima sociis suis et
       fratribus antiquis, que oblivioni tradita sunt, tum quia que
       scripta erant in legenda prima, nova edita a fratre. Bonaventura
       deleta et destructa sunt, IPSOJUBENTE tum quia ..." Chronica
       tribul., Archiv., t. ii., p. 256.

  [80] Bon., 188-204.

  [81] Bon., 218.

  [82] Bernardo (Bon., 28), Egidio (Bon., 29), and Silvestro
       (Bon., 30).

  [83] Bon., 49.

  [84] Bon., 112.

  [85] Bon., 111.

  [86] Vide Bon., 115; 99, etc. M. Thode has enumerated the
       stories relating especially to Bonaventura: (Franz von Assisi,
       p. 535).

  [87] Manuscript I, iv., 33, of the library of the University of
       Turin. It is a 4to upon parchment of the close of the fourteenth
       century, 124 ff. It comprises first the biography of St. Francis
       by St. Bonaventura and a legend of St. Clara, afterwards at f^o
       95 the De laudibus. The text will soon be published in the
       Analecta franciscana of the Franciscans of Quaracchi, near
       Florence.

  [88] In reading it we quickly discover that he was specially
       well acquainted with the convents of the Province of Aquitania,
       and noted with care everything that concerned them.

  [89] Wadding, ann. 1230, no. 7. Many passages prove at least
       that he accompanied Bonaventura in his travels: "Hoc enim (the
       special aid of Brother Egidio) in iis quæ ad bonum animæ
       pertinent devotus Generalis et Cardinalis predictus ... nos
       docuit." F^o 96a. Jamdudum ego per Theutoniæ partes et
       Flandriæ cum Ministro transiens Generali. Ibid., f^o 106a.

  [90] Bernard de Besse is the author of many other writings,
       notably an important Calalogus Ministrorum generalium
       published after the Turin manuscript by Father Ehrle
       (Zeitschrift für kath. Theol., t. vii., pp. 338-352), with a
       very remarkable critical introduction (ib., pp. 323-337). Cf.
       Archiv für Litt. u. Kirchg., i., p. 145.--Bartolommeo di Pisa,
       when writing his Conformities, had before him a part of his
       works, f^o 148b, 2; 126a, 1; but he calls the author sometimes
       Bernardus de Blesa, then again Johannes de Blesa. See also
       Mark of Lisbon, t. ii., p. 212, and Hauréau, Notices et
       extraits, t. vi., p. 153.

  [91] "Denique primos Francisci xii. discipulos ... omnes
       sanctos fuisse audirimus preter unum qui Ordinem exiens leprosus
       factus laqueo vel alter Judas interiit, ne Francisco cum Christo
       vel in discipulis similitudo deficeret," f^o 96a.

       *       *       *       *       *

III

DIPLOMATIC DOCUMENTS

In this category we place all the acts having a character of public authenticity, particularly
those which were drawn up by the pontifical cabinet.

This source of information, where each document has its date, is precisely the one which has
been most neglected up to this time.

I. DONATION OF THE VERNA

The Instrumentum donationis Montis Alvernæ, a notarial document preserved in the archives of
Borgo San Sepolcro,[1] not only gives the name of the generous friend of Francis, and many
picturesque details, but it fixes with precision a date all the more important because it occurs
in the most obscure period of the Saint's life. It was on May 8, 1213, that Orlando dei Catani,
Count of Chiusi in Casentino, gave the Verna to Brother Francis.

II. REGISTERS OF CARDINAL UGOLINI

The documents of the pontifical chancellery addressed to Cardinal Ugolini, the future Gregory
IX., and those which emanate from the hand of the latter during his long journeys as apostolic
legate,[2] are of first rate importance.

It would be too long to give even a simple enumeration of them. Those which mark important
facts have been carefully indicated in the course of this work. It will suffice to say that
by bringing together these two series of documents, and interposing the dates of the papal
bulls countersigned by Ugolini, we are able to follow almost day by day this man, who was,
perhaps without even excepting St. Francis, the one whose will most profoundly fashioned the
Franciscan institute. We see also the pre-eminent part which the Order had from the beginning
in the interest of the future pontiff, and we arrive at perfect accuracy as to the dates of
his meetings with St. Francis.

III. BULLS

The pontifical bulls concerning the Franciscans were collected and published in the last century
by the monk Sbaralea.[3] But from these we gain little help for the history of the origins
of the Order.[4]

The following is a compendious list; the details have been given in the course of the work:

No. 1. August 18, 1218.--Bull Literæ tuæ addressed to Ugolini. The pope permits him to accept
donations of landed property in behalf of women fleeing the world (Clarisses) and to declare
that these monasteries are holden by the Apostolic See.

No. 2. June 11, 1219.--Cum delecti filii. This bull, addressed in a general way to all prelates,
is a sort of safe conduct for the Brothers Minor.

No. 3. December 19, 1219.--Sacrosancta romana. Privileges conceded to the Sisters (Clarisses)
of Monticelli, near Florence.

No. 4. May 29, 1220.--Pro dilectis. The pope prays the prelates of France to give a kindly
reception to the Brothers Minor.

No. 5. September 22, 1220.--Cum secundum. Honorius III. prescribes a year of noviciate before
the entry into the Order.

