       *       *       *       *       *

SIR JOHN HAWKINS'S HISTORY OF MUSIC.

The fate of this work was decided like that of many more important things, by a trifle, a word,
a pun. A ballad, chanted by a fille-de-chambre, undermined the colossal power of Alberoni;
a single line of Frederic the Second, reflecting not on the politics but the poetry of a French
minister, plunged France into the seven years' war; and a pun condemned Sir John Hawkins's
sixteen years' labour to long obscurity and oblivion. Some wag wrote the following catch, which
Dr. Callcott set to music:--

"Have you read Sir John Hawkins's History? Some folks think it quite a mystery; Both I have,
and I aver That Burney's History I prefer."

Burn his History was straightway in every one's mouth; and the bookseller, if he did not follow
the advice à pied de la lettre, actually wasted, as the term is, or sold for waste paper, some
hundred copies, and buried the rest of the impression in the profoundest depth of a damp cellar,
as an article never likely to be called for, so that now hardly a copy can be procured undamaged
by damp and mildew. It has been for some time, however, rising,--is rising,--and the more it
is read and known, the more it ought to rise in public estimation and demand.--Harmonicon.

       *       *       *       *       *

ITALIAN, AT THE KING'S THEATRE.

A Liberal and sensible correspondent of the Harmonicon writes thus:

Mrs. Wood is not the first of our countrywomen who has attained the same rank; the names of
Billington, Cecilia Davies (called Inglesina,) and in remoter times, that of Anastasia Robinson,
(afterwards Countess of Peterborough,) will immediately occur to the musical reader; but, with
the exception of the latter, who lived at a time when the Italian opera in England was in its
infancy, Mrs. Wood is, if I mistake not, the first Englishwoman who has achieved that distinction
without a certificate of character from Italy. Even Billington was not thought worthy of our
opera stage until she had delighted the audiences of San Carlo, the Scala, and the Fenice.
Mrs. Wood, on the other hand, is our own, and wholly our own; she has not basked in the suns
of Naples, nor breathed the musical atmosphere of Venice or Milan; yet I, who am an old stager,
like Iago, "nothing if not critical," and have heard every prima donna from Billington down
to this present writing, have seldom uttered any brava with more unction than when listening
to Mrs. Wood's Angelina and Ottavia.

My intent is to hail Mrs. Wood's appearance and success at the opera as an auspicium melioris
ævi, as the dawn of a coming day, when the staple commodity of our Italian opera shall be furnished
by our own island, instead of being imported from a country which, I boldly assert, does not
produce either superior voices, or better educated musicians than our own--nay, so well educated.
Has Italy ever furnished us with such a tenor singer as Braham; the Braham that I am, per mia
disgrazia, qualified, by age, to remember; the Braham of 1801? Has Italy ever sent us a prima
donna, considered as a singer only, like Billington? On the contrary, do we not, in gauging
our progressive musical importations, subject them to immediate comparison with Billington
and Braham? And who, except Catalani and Fodor, Siboni and Donzelli, would bear that comparison?
The French, the Germans, cultivate assiduously native talent, and we import, now a Fodor, and
now a Sontag; we English alone persist in the sapient policy of making the exclusion of the
native artist from the highest point to which his ambition could be directed, the rule; and
his admission, the exception which the grammarians say (though my grammar-master never could
drive it into my head why) proves the rule.

But I shall be told that few of our native artists can speak the Italian language, or sing
Italian music, and more especially recitative. My answer is, let them once know that the mere
circumstance of their being English born does not shut the stage-door of the King's Theatre
against them, all will look up to its boards as the goal of their ambition, and the study of
Italian and recitative will form an important part of every singer's education. Another common
objection is, that we cannot acquire the purity of pronunciation required by the refined audience
of the King's Theatre. I trust it is no heresy to say that I am somewhat sceptical as to the
powers of euphoniacal criticism which that audience possesses. If one in ten, even of the box
company, can really distinguish the true bocca romana from the patois of the Venetian gondolieri
or the Neapolitan lazzaroni, it is, I am persuaded, as much as the truth will justify. In fact
it is not the audience that is so critical: it is the associated band of foreign parasites
who attach themselves to our aristocracy with the tenacity of leeches, as purveyors des menus
plaisirs, and whose interests are vitally concerned in excluding English talent, and negotiating
the concerns of foreign artists, that raise the cry of "pronunciation." It is these gentry
who, in phrase that a Tuscan would spurn at, and in a brogue from which a Roman, ear would
be averted with disgust, assure our fashionable opera goers that we poor Englishers cannot
learn to pronounce Italian.

But, after all, do we, by employing only foreigners--for we are not particular, so they be
foreigners, as to whether they were born and bred beyond, or on this side the Alps,--do we,
by employing only foreigners, secure this essential purity of Italian pronunciation? Will these
super-delicate critics favour a plain man, by informing me which of the great singers I have
heard for the last thirty years I should select as my canon of true Italian pronunciation--Catalani
and Camporese, or Garcia the Spaniard and Begrez the Fleming? There is not more difference
between the English, whether we look to phraseology or pronunciation, of a Londoner, a Gloucestershire
man, or a Northumbrian, than there is between the Italian of a Tuscan, a Venetian and a Neapolitan.
Have the stage lamps of Drury Lane or Covent Garden the virtue of curing the Northumbrian's
burr, or correcting the Gloucestershireman's invincible abhorrence of h's and w's? If not,
can we expect that even the theatres of Rome and Florence will neutralize at once the provincial
accent of a Neapolitan or Venetian? Was it in Morelli, the stable-boy, or Banti, the street
ballad-singer, that the beau ideal of pure Italian pronunciation was to be recognised?

But, to be serious. I will venture to affirm that, on this side the Alps, there is no country
in Europe whose natives have so little to learn, or to unlearn, in acquiring a good Italian
pronunciation, as the English. We have neither the gutturals of the German and the Spaniard,
nor the mute vowels and nasal n's of the French to get rid of; there is scarcely a sound in
the Italian language which we are not in the daily habit of uttering, and nearly our whole
task would be confined to the learning that certain conventional alphabetical symbols, which
represent one sound in English, represent another in Italian. Away, then, with the jargonal
pretence that English singers cannot acquire a good and pure Italian pronunciation; make it
worth their while, open the stage-doors of the King's Theatre to the native artist, and you
will soon find talent more than enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COSMOPOLITE.

       *       *       *       *       *

COINCIDENT POPULAR SUPERSTITIONS.

(Continued from page 284.)

Such is the tale, which is either of itself the fragment of some popular superstition, or has
given rise to many coincident legends. "I am sure," says the kind friend who furnished us with
the narrative, speaking of the Beresford from whom she received it, "that neither he, nor any
of his relations, disbelieves the statements recorded." Possibly not; nor dare we profess to
be utterly sceptical--simply as Christians--to all narratives of this description; but, allowing
the possibility, nay, the necessity in some cases, of supernatural agency, still, a spirit
should have some just and striking reason for its permitted appearance; and we cannot exactly
discover the object of Sir Tristram's mission. Would it be unfair to hazard a conjecture that
the lady, being a Catholic, married in Captain Georges a Protestant (a supposition which the
double performance of the marriage ceremony with him seems to favour), whom, being anxious
to convert to her own faith, she thought to deceive, by the "cunningly devised fable" of a
spirit with a burning hand, into the Papistical tenet of purgatory? and, that by a confusion
of real circumstances with her original fiction, is derived the remarkable family tradition
recorded? Leaving this speculation for the private rumination of our readers, we proceed:

The stories of the young lady suffocated by accidentally enclosing herself in a chest with
a spring lock[7]--of the girl frightened into complete idiotcy by those who placed a skeleton,
or, as some say, a skull only, in her bed[8]--and of ladies, bishops, &c. obtaining their livelihoods
privately by highway robbery[9], with similar narratives, rather romantic than superstitious,
are general property, and to be met with under various modifications throughout England. The
tale of the King of the Cats[10], a German tradition, has its exact counterpart in an Irish
one, related to us as an original Hibernian legend, and published some time since in an excellent
work, which having now disappeared, we may perhaps venture to give, as a novelty, the little
tradition in these pages:

A man passing, late at night, a ruined house, observed that it was lighted, and heard a great
mewing, as of a conclave of cats, within. As he marvelled at the circumstance, a cat jumped
upon one of the broken walls, and said--"Tell Dildrum that Doldrum's dead." The man, little
dreaming of these words being addressed to him, pursued his way home; where, when he arrived,
a good, fire, an excellent supper, and his wife's conversation, seem to have banished for a
time from his recollection what he had seen and heard. At last, he began to laugh so heartily
that he was nearly choked, and his wife pressed him to tell her the cause of his mirth. This
he did; but no sooner had he uttered the words "Tell Dildrum that Doldrum's dead," when his
own favourite grimalkin, who had lent an attentive ear to his narrative, whilst demurely basking
before the fire, started upon his feet, and exclaiming, "O murder! and is Doldrum dead?" dashed
up the chimney, and was never seen more.

    [7] Vide Mirror, vol. ii. p. 157, for the story of "The Rosewood
        Trunk."

    [8] Vide Mirror, vol. v. p. 93, for the story of "Mary M'Cleod."

    [9] Vide Mirror, vol. viii. p. 90, for the story of "The Lady of
        Edenmere"--by the author of this article.

    [10] Vide Mirror, vol. xii. p. 267, for the "Ghost Story"--by
         M.G. Lewis.

A Scottish tradition concerning The Cat o' the Craigs, as given by a correspondent in vol.
iv. of the Mirror, p. 85, and which has a most fatal termination, is evidently but another
version of the same story.

In a little work just published, on "Cambrian Superstitions," by Mr. Howells, several are mentioned
so exactly similar to those prevalent in Ireland, Scotland, and England, as to leave no doubt
of their common origin. The Welsh coast has also its spectre-ships, like America and the seas
of the Cape, ere shipwreck.

The Mirror's able correspondent VYVYAN has, in vol. xii. p. 408, noticed the connexion between
the German Peter Klaus and Emperor Barbarossa, with the oriental Seven Sleepers and the American
Rip Von Winkle. We may add, that there is a similar Welsh superstition respecting the enchanted
slumber of King Arthur, and his expected reappearance upon earth before the last day, to take
part in the holy wars of the times. The Poles and Turks, if we mistake not, have among them
a corresponding legend; and whilst Sir W. Scott has given us that of the purchase of horses
by Thomas the Rhymour, and the magic slumbers of the gigantic men-at-arms appointed to ride
them, in the subterranean mews, H. has rescued very happily from oblivion a coincident English
superstition. The legendary lore of mountainous and mining countries, is, with little variation,
the same; and whether America, Germany, Sweden, Scotland, Wales, or our own peculiar mining
districts in England be the locale of such, still may be discovered, under different names
indeed, and circumstances, the demons of the mines, the guardians of hidden treasures, the
freakish dwarfs and fays, who delight in unexpectedly enriching the poor and virtuous, whilst
they delude most miserably all idle and worthless treasure-seekers, &c. Nay, what, we may inquire,
are the oriental genii of kings, and lamps, &c., but modifications of one and the same superstition?
And what are the said Ginns--who erect splendid palaces in the course of a few brief hours,
and transport them at pleasure from place to place--but the Evil Ones of more modern times
and northern countries, who build, according to popular tradition, bridges, and mills, &c.?--who
cleave mountains, excavate ditches, and fly away with monasteries and hermitages, in an incredibly
short space of time?

However, we have finished; for less than a folio could not do that justice to our subject in
its various bearings which it requires;--nor, indeed, would less than an intimate acquaintance
with all the tongues and traditions of all nations that are, or ever have been, upon the face
of the earth--so intermingled are divine revelations, corrupt mythologies, wild and palpable
fictions, fantastic imaginings, exaggerated allegories, poetical machinery, and the very insanity
of human hopes, fears, and wishes, &c. &c., in the great and never to be analyzed body of popular
superstition!

Can any of the readers of the Mirror throw additional light on the subject of coincident traditions?--Can
any of its contributors show the connexion which subsists between oriental mythology, allegory,
and legendary lore, with that of the Scandinavian nations? This Sir Walter Scott has omitted
to do;--but this might afford, even formed of the materials to be gleaned from various desultory
sources, another volume upon "Demonology and Witchcraft."

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLONEL BATTY'S VIEWS OF EUROPEAN CITIES.--NO. IV.

Edinburgh.

"The Queen of the North" has contributed five majestic views to Colonel Batty's important Series.
Each of them is engraved "in the first style of art," as a prospectus would say, and there
is no falling off in points of interest from the Parts of this work which have already been
laudatorily noticed in the Mirror.

The Vignette of this Part is Edinburgh Castle, from the Grass Market, in which the fine old
fortress is seen towering in all its picturesqueness and romantic beauty. Here and there it
has some of the indistinctness of hoar antiquity: its fadings away are beautifully characteristic.
The houses in the Grass Market are boldly contrasted with the Castle, and the "spirit" inscriptions
on the Stablers are as distinct as the most panting soul could wish them. The Engraver is R.
Brandard.

Edinburgh, from the Calton Hill, is the first view. This is, as observed in the letter-press,
"the most comprehensive view of Edinburgh, and we may add, one of the grandest and most remarkable
scenes in any city of Europe." From this point of view, "both the New and Old Cities, with
their communications, come at once under our observation; the neat and handsome modern edifices
of the New Town on the right hand, contrast with the old grey piles of building on the left.
The bold slopes of the Pentland hills bound the distance on the left, while the more gently
indulated Corstorphine hills close the horizon on the right." This description is correct in
its shades. The murkiness and smoking chimneys of the Old Town are admirably relieved by the
splendid vistas of Princes-street and the New Town. Upwards of twenty public buildings, most
of them of great beauty, may be distinctly counted in this scene. It is engraved in the best
style of Mr. George Cooke, one of the best view engravers of the day.

The Calton Hill forms the second plate, showing those splendid tributes of Scottish patriotism--the
National Monument, Playfair's Monument, and Nelson's Monument. Would that we had some such
site in or near our metropolis, whereon we might offer up our tributes to departed genius.
What an honourable testimony of national gratitude is the monument to Nelson! and how emblematic
of "the Modern Athens" are the fine classic columns of the National Monument. Playfair and
the Observatory Entrance remind us of Scotland's meteor-like pride in modern science; and the
beetling brows of Arthur's Seat and Salisbury Crags over the lower portion of the Old City
in the valley below are well contrasted with these stately embellishments of art. The plate
is well engraved by J.H. Kernot.

The New Royal High School, the third plate, is a superb building, and merits especial notice,
in association with the intellectual character of the city. The Temple of Theseus, at Athens,
has furnished models for its beautiful columns. "The Regent Road, forming the new and noble
entrance to Edinburgh, serves as a terrace in its front." Here again the indistinctness of
the Old Town aids the fine effect of the new buildings. This plate is for the most part brilliantly
executed by E. Goodall.

Edinburgh, from St. Anthony's Chapel, is the fourth plate, and certainly not the least striking
of the whole, although its chief merit is in the distance, which, for distinctness and delicacy,
is admirable. Holyrood and its decaying Chapel, seen from this point, are beautifully made
out, and the picturesque but massy form of the Castle fades away in the extreme distance. The
foreground is bold and bright, but the distant details of the view are the charm of the picture.
The engraver is W.I. Cooke. "The view of Edinburgh from this point will give a correct idea
of the relative situations of the Castle and Calton Hill at opposite extremities of the city."

Edinburgh from the ascent to Anthony's Seat is the fifth plate. Here we scarcely know which
to admire most, the beautiful work and etchy spirit of the mountainous foreground, the minuteness
and delicacy of the distant city, or the actual brightness of the Firth of Forth broken by
the "noble breast-work of Salisbury Crags and the point of the Cat's nick." The Crags, it will
be recollected, are about 550 feet above the level of the Firth of Forth: a few sheep lie scattered
about them, and the part of Arthur's Seat on the left; the straggling pedestrians in the path
to the Cat Nick are of emmet-like proportions. This plate is by W.R. Smith.

By the way, what a delightful Series will be these views of European cities for the walls of
a cheerful breakfast parlour, or to alternate with well-filled cases of books. How pleasant
it will be to sit in one's arm-chair, and look around upon "the principal cities of Europe."
We say "for the walls," since these Prints are too valuable to be hid in folios, or pasted
in albums. Frame-work, we know, is an expensive affair; but Colonel Batty's Views are worthy
of oak and gold; and a good plan is to put them in one broad oak or maple frame, with gold
moulding, dividing the views by bar-work. They will be then both elegant and intellectual furniture.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANGLO-SAXON HISTORY.

It appears that the Family Library, as well as the Cabinet Cyclopædia, is to have its own History
of England; since the 21st "Family" volume is the first of such a History, and comprises the
Anglo-Saxon period, from the pen of that distinguished antiquarian scholar, Francis Palgrave,
Esq. F.R.S. &c. The portion before us, as our readers may imagine, is extremely interesting:
it is well studded or sprinkled with origins and antiquities popularly illustrated, and has
little or none of the dryness of an antiquarian pen. We quote two such passages, and especially
direct the attention of the reader to our third extract, relative to the early influence of
Christianity:--

Stonehenge.

The temples in which the Britons worshipped their Deities, were composed of large, rough stones,
disposed in circles; for they had not sufficient skill to execute any finished edifices. Some
of these circles are yet existing; such is Stonehenge, near Salisbury: the huge masses of rock
may still be seen there, grey with age; and the structure is yet sufficiently perfect to enable
us to understand how the whole pile was anciently arranged. Stonehenge possesses a stern and
savage magnificence. The masses of which it is composed are so large, that the structure seems
to have been raised by more than human power. Hence, Choir-gaur[11] was fabled to have been
built by giants, or otherwise constructed by magic art. All around you in the plain, you will
see mounds of earth or "tumuli," beneath which the Britons buried their dead. Antiquaries have
sometimes opened these mounds, and there they have discovered vases, containing the ashes and
the bones of the primeval Britons, together with their swords and hatchets, and arrow-heads
of flint or of bronze, and beads of glass and amber; for the Britons probably believed, that
the dead yet delighted in those things which had pleased them when they were alive, and that
the disembodied spirit retained the inclinations and affections of mortality.

    [11] The "Giant's Dance"--the British name of Stonehenge.

London in the Seventeenth Century.

London was quite unlike the great metropolis which we now inhabit. Its extent was confined
to what is now termed "the city," then surrounded by a wall, built, as it is supposed, about
the age of Constantine, and of which a few fragments are existing. All around was open country.
Towards the north-east a deep marsh,--the name is yet preserved in Moorfields,--extended to
the foot of the Roman ramparts. On the western side of the city, and at the distance of nearly
two miles, the branches of a small river which fell into the Thames formed an island, so overgrown
with thickets and brushwood, that the Saxons called it "Thorney," or the "Isle of Thorns."
The river surrounding Thorney crept sullenly along the plashy soil; and the spot was so wild
and desolate, that it is described as a fearful and terrible place, which no one could approach
after nightfall without great danger. In this island there had been an ancient Roman temple,
consecrated to Apollo. And Sebert, perhaps on account of the seclusion which Thorney afforded,
resolved to build a church on the site, and he dedicated the fabric to St. Peter the Apostle.
This church is now Westminster Abbey; the busy city of Westminster is old Thorney Island, that
seat of desolation; and the bones of Sebert yet rest in the structure which he founded. Another
great church was built by Sebert, in the city of London, upon the ruins of the heathen temple
of Diana. This church is now St. Paul's Cathedral; and Mellitus being appointed the first Bishop
by Ethelbert and Sebert, the succession has continued to the present day.

Influence of Christianity.

Before a century had elapsed, Christianity was firmly and sincerely believed throughout Anglo-Saxon
Britain; and, in the state of society which then prevailed, the establishment of the true religion
became the means of conferring the greatest temporal advantages upon the community. A large
proportion of the population consisted either of slaves or of churls or of villains, who were
compelled to till the ground for the benefit of their masters. These classes immediately gained
the comfort of rest, one day in seven; and they whose labour had hitherto been unremitted,
without any pause, except when fainting nature sunk under incessant toil, could now expect
the Sabbath of the Lord, as a day of holiness and of repose. So strictly did the temporal laws
protect the observance of the seventh day, the right and privilege of the poor, that the master
who compelled his slave to work on the Sunday, was deprived of the means of abusing his power,--the
slave obtained his freedom.

A tenth part of the produce of the land was set apart for the maintenance of the clergy, and
the support of the destitute. Charity, when resulting from the unaided impulses of humanity,
has no permanence. Bestowed merely to relieve ourselves from the painful sight of misery, the
virtue blesses neither the giver nor the receiver. But proceeding from the love of God, it
is steady and uniform in its operation, not wayward, not lukewarm, not affected by starts and
fancies, and ministering to more than the bodily wants of those who are in need.

Paupers, such as we now see, then rarely existed. Bad as it was, the system of slavery had
given a house and a home to the great mass of the lowest orders. And the laws, which placed
the middling classes under the protection, and at the same time under the control of the more
powerful, prevented all such as really belonged to society, from experiencing any severe privations
in those years when the people were not visited by any particular misfortunes. But mankind
were then subjected to many calamities, which have been moderated in our times. If crops failed,
and the earth did not bring forth her fruit, vessels arrived not from distant parts, laden
with corn. Hunger wasted the land. Sickness and pestilence followed, and thinned the remnant
who had been left. Families were broken up, and the survivors became helpless outcasts; for
the people of each country raised only as much grain as was sufficient for their own use, and
could not supply their neighbours. War often produced still greater miseries. In all these
distresses, the spirit of Christianity constantly urged those who were influenced by this enduring
spring of action, to exert themselves in affording relief;--to clothe the naked and feed the
hungry,--to visit the sick--and bury the corpses of the departed.

The higher or ruling orders saw, in the plain letter of the Bible, the means of amending the
rude and savage laws which had governed their forefathers; and religion also afforded the means
of improving the whole fabric of the state. In addition to their piety, the clergy were the
depositaries of all the learning of the age. All the knowledge which distinguishes civilization
from savage life was entrusted to them. Admitted into the supreme councils of the realm, they
became an order, possessing acknowledged rights which could not be lawfully assailed. And though
they may occasionally have attempted to extend their privileges beyond their proper bounds,
yet, in a monarchy, the existence of any one rank or order invested with franchises which the
king must not assail, is in itself a strong and direct protection to the privileges of all
other ranks of the community. Powerful as the nobles may have been, it is doubtful whether
they could have maintained their ground, had they been deprived of the support which they derived
from the Bishops and Abbots, who stood foremost in the ranks, amongst the peers of the monarchy.
Many a blow which would have cleft the helmet, turned off without harm from the mitre; and
the crozier kept many an enemy at bay, who would have rushed without apprehension upon the spear.

To the successors of the Anglo-Saxon prelates, we mainly owe the preservation of the forms
and spirit of a free government, defended, not by force, but by law; and the altar may be considered
as the corner-stone of the ancient constitution of the realm.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

SERMONS.

Mr. Northcote tells us, that a clergyman, a friend of Mr. Opie's declared to him, that he once
delivered one of Sir J. Reynolds's discourses to the Royal Academy, from the pulpit, as a sermon,
with no other alteration but in such words as made it applicable to morals instead of the fine
arts.

       *       *       *       *       *

SANCTUARY.

What an eccentricity of wickedness was it to appoint any place where a murderer should get
shelter--a church too! but such were, and are (abroad) called sanctuaries. Lancaster Church
was reserved by Henry VIII. as a sanctuary, after the abolition of that dangerous privilege
in the rest of England.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHINESE INGENUITY.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOUIS XI. AND THE VIRGIN MARY.

A fool of Louis XI. to whom he did not attend, as not thinking him capable of making observations,
overheard him making this pleasant proposal to our lady of Cleri, at the great altar, when
nobody else was in the church. "Ah! my dear lady, my little mistress, my best friend, my only
comforter, I beg you to be my advocate, and to importune God to pardon me the death of my brother,
whom I poisoned by the hands of that rascal, the Abbot of St. John. I confess this to you as
to my good patroness and mistress; I know it is hard, but it will be the more glorious for
you if you obtain it, and I know what present I will make you beside." (See Brantome's Life
of Charles III.)

The fool repeated all, word for word, when the king was at dinner, before the whole court.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOYAL BEQUEST.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHETLAND ISLES.

Here, on the shortest--day, the sun rises 17-1/2 min. past 9 o'clock, and sets 42 min. past
2 o'clock. The nights begin to be very short early in May, and from the middle of that month
to the end of July, darkness is absolutely unknown--the sun scarcely quits the horizon, and
his short absence is supplied by a bright twilight. Nothing can surpass the calm serenity of
a fine summer night in the Shetland Isles.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SAFE WAY TO OPEN STALE OYSTERS.

There is an old proverb, viz. "The Mayor of Northampton opens oisters with his dagger." The
meaning of which is, to keep them at a sufficient distance from his nose. For this town being
eighty miles from the sea, fish may well be presumed stale therein. "Yet I have heard (says
Dr. Fuller,) that oisters put up with care, and carried in the cool, were weekly brought fresh
and good to Althrop, the seat of the Lord Spencer, at equal distance; and it is no wonder,
for I myself have eaten, in Warwickshire, above eighty miles from London, oisters sent from
that city, fresh and good, and they must have, been carried some miles before they came there."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Castellan, in his funeral sermon on the death of his patron, Francis I. modestly expressed
his belief that the great prince was in paradise; this gave great offence to the Sorbonne,
who complained of it to the court of France. Their remonstrance was coldly received, and Mendoze,
who had been steward to Francis, told them, "that he knew the disposition of his old master
better than they, that he never could bear to remain long in one place; and that if he had
been in purgatory, he stopped there merely to take a little refreshment, and afterwards went on."

J.G.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is not perhaps generally known that there is a peculiar right in the family of the Campbell's
(Duke of Argyle) that when they marry any of their daughters, their vassals are obliged to
pay their portions, and are taxed for such, according to the number of their cattle.

This right has not, however, been acted on for a century past.

G.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXTRAORDINARY DISAPPEARANCE.

Sir Thomas L--D sometimes, though rarely, lest his veracity should be doubted, mentions in
society the following singular incident:--He once had upon his estate, rearing with great care
and tenderness, a young nyl ghaut, an animal rare in England, and very elegant. One day it
was taken from its stable, in order to be exhibited to some of Sir T.L.'s friends, when, escaping
from its keeper, it leaped over the park palings, and was never beheld or heard of more. Horsemen
were sent in search of it far and wide, and handsome rewards were, offered by advertisement
for its recovery, but it had not, been seen by a single creature in the fields, or on the roads,
or in the villages through which it must have passed; and of wood, and water there was not
a sufficiency for some miles in the vicinity of ---- House, to conceal it, living or dead.

"The Arcana of Art and Science is the fourth volume of a little work of the most useful and
entertaining description. It is brimful of all the new facts that have shown themselves above
ground in the course of the year. Every page is a volume, and many contain the results of whole
years of ingenious labour and experiment. Every description of discovery, invention, experiment,
receipt, observation, or memorandum of a remarkable occurrence in nature or art during the
year, is here recorded, briefly, but clearly.--It, in fact, is the very essence or extract
of the scientific pursuits of the whole world for one year. All this is to be had for five
shillings. We recommend it to be laid in every place where a man may possibly lose five minutes
for want of mental occupation."--Spectator, April 23.