Napoleon's first military exploit was in the civil war of his native island. In the year 1793,
he was despatched from Bastia, in possession of the French party, to surprise his native town
Ajaccio, then occupied by Paoli or his adherents. Bonaparte was acting provisionally, as commanding
a battalion of National Guards. He landed in the Gulf of Ajaccio with about fifty men, to take
possession of a tower called the Torre di Capitello, on the opposite side of the gulf, and
almost facing the city. He succeeded in taking the place; but as there arose a gale of wind
which prevented his communicating with the frigate which had put him ashore, he was besieged
in his new conquest by the opposite faction, and reduced to such distress, that he and his
little garrison were obliged to feed on horse-flesh. After five days he was relieved by the
frigate, and evacuated the tower, having first in vain attempted to blow it up. The Torre di
Capitello still shows marks of the damage it then sustained, and its remains may be looked
on as a curiosity, as the first scene of his combats, before whom

    --"Temple and tower
    Went to the ground.--"

A relation of Napoleon, Masserio by name, effectually defended Ajaccio against the force employed
in the expedition.

The strength of Paoli increasing, and the English preparing to assist him, Corsica became no
longer a safe or convenient residence for the Bonaparte family. Indeed, both Napoleon and his
brother Lucien, who had distinguished themselves as partisans of the French, were subjected
to a decree of banishment from their native island; and Madame Bonaparte, with her three daughters,
and Jerome, who was as yet but a child, set sail under their protection, and settled for a
time, first at Nice, and afterwards at Marseilles, where the family is supposed to have undergone
considerable distress, until the dawning prospects of Napoleon afforded him the means of assisting
them.

Napoleon never again revisited Corsica, nor does he appear to have regarded it with any feelings
of affection. One small fountain at Ajaccio is pointed out as the only ornament which his bounty
bestowed on his birthplace. He might perhaps think it impolitic to do any thing which might
remind the country he ruled that he was not a child of her soil, nay, was in fact very near
having been born an alien, for Corsica was not united to, or made an integral part of France,
until June, 1769, a few weeks only before Napoleon's birth. This stigma was repeatedly cast
upon him by his opponents, some of whom reproached the French with having adopted a master,
from a country from which the ancient Romans were unwilling even to choose a slave; and Napoleon
may have been so far sensible to it, as to avoid showing any predilection to the place of his
birth, which might bring the circumstance strongly under the observation of the great nation,
with which he and his family seemed to be indissolubly united. But, as a traveller already
quoted, and who had the best opportunities to become acquainted with the feelings of the proud
islanders, has expressed it,--"The Corsicans are still highly patriotic, and possess strong
local attachment--in their opinion, contempt for the country of one's birth is never to be
redeemed by any other qualities. Napoleon, therefore, certainly was not popular in Corsica,
nor is his memory cherished there."[7]

    [7] Benson's "Sketches of Corsica," p. 121.

The feelings of the parties were not unnatural on either side. Napoleon, little interested
in the land of his birth, and having such an immense stake in that of his adoption, in which
he had every thing to keep and lose,[8] observed a policy towards Corsica which his position
rendered advisable; and who can blame the high-spirited islanders, who, seeing one of their
countrymen raised to such exalted eminence, and disposed to forget his connexion with them,
returned with slight and indifference the disregard with which he treated them?

    [8] Not literally, however: for it is worth mentioning, that
    when he was in full-blown possession of his power, an
    inheritance fell to the family, situated near Ajaccio, and was
    divided amongst them. The first consul, or emperor, received an
    olive-garden as his share.--Sketches of Corsica.

The siege of Toulon was the first incident of importance which enabled Bonaparte to distinguish
himself in the eyes of the French government and of the world at large. Shortly afterwards
he was appointed chief of battalion in the army of Italy, and on the fall of Robespierre, Bonaparte
superseded in command. At the conflict between the troops of the Convention under Napoleon,
and those of the Sections of Paris under Damican, the latter was defeated with much slaughter,
and Bonaparte was appointed general-in-chief in command of the army of the interior.

BONAPARTE'S FIRST MARRIAGE.

Meantime circumstances, which we will relate according to his own statement, introduced Bonaparte
to an acquaintance, which was destined to have much influence on his future fate. A fine boy,
of ten or twelve years old, presented himself at the levee of the general of the interior,
with a request of a nature unusually interesting. He stated his name to be Eugene Beauharnois,
son of the ci-devant Vicomte de Beauharnois, who, adhering to the revolutionary party, had
been a general in the republican service upon the Rhine, and falling under the causeless suspicion
of the committee of public safety, was delivered to the revolutionary tribunal, and fell by
its sentence just four days before the overthrow of Robespierre. Eugene was come to request
of Bonaparte, as general of the interior, that his father's sword might be restored to him.
The prayer of the young supplicant was as interesting as his manners were engaging, and Napoleon
felt so much interest in him, that he was induced to cultivate the acquaintance of Eugene's
mother, afterwards the empress Josephine.

The lady was a Creolian, the daughter of a planter in St. Domingo. Her name at full length
was Marie Joseph Rose Tascher de la Pagerie. She had suffered her share of revolutionary miseries.
After her husband, General Beauharnois, had been deprived of his command, she was arrested
as a suspected person, and detained in prison till the general liberation, which succeeded
the revolution of the 9th Thermidor. While in confinement, Madame Beauharnois had formed an
intimacy with a companion in distress, Madame Fontenai, now Madame Tallien, from which she
derived great advantages after her friend's marriage. With a remarkably graceful person, amiable
manners, and an inexhaustible fund of good-humour, Madame Beauharnois was formed to be an ornament
to society. Barras, the Thermidorien hero, himself an ex-noble, was fond of society, desirous
of enjoying it on an agreeable scale, and of washing away the dregs which Jacobinism had mingled
with all the dearest interests of life. He loved show, too, and pleasure, and might now indulge
both without the risk of falling under the suspicion of incivism, which, in the Reign of Terror,
would have been incurred by any attempt to intermingle elegance with the enjoyments of social
intercourse. At the apartments which he occupied, as one of the Directory, in the Luxemburg
Palace, he gave its free course to his natural taste, and assembled an agreeable society of
both sexes. Madame Tallien and her friend formed the soul of these assemblies, and it was supposed
that Barras was not insensible to the charms of Madame Beauharnois,--a rumour which was likely
to arise, whether with or without foundation.

When Madame Beauharnois and General Bonaparte became intimate, the latter assures us, and we
see no reason to doubt him, that although the lady was two or three years older than himself,[9]
yet being still in the full bloom of beauty, and extremely agreeable in her manners, he was
induced, solely by her personal charms, to make her an offer of his hand, heart, and fortunes,--little
supposing, of course, to what a pitch the latter were to arise.

    [9] Bonaparte was then in his twenty-sixth year. Josephine gave
    herself in the marriage contract for twenty-eight.

Although he himself is said to have been a fatalist, believing in destiny and in the influence
of his star, he knew nothing, probably, of the prediction of a negro sorceress, who, while
Marie Joseph was but a child, prophesied she should rise to a dignity greater than that of
a queen, yet fall from it before her death.[10] This was one of those vague auguries, delivered
at random by fools or impostors, which the caprice of fortune sometimes matches with a corresponding
and conforming event. But without trusting to the African sibyl's prediction, Bonaparte may
have formed his match under the auspices of ambition as well as love. The marrying Madame Beauharnois
was a mean of uniting his fortune with those of Barras and Tallien, the first of whom governed
France as one of the Directors; and the last, from talents and political connexions, had scarcely
inferior influence. He had already deserved well of them for his conduct on the Day of the
Sections, but he required their countenance to rise still higher; and without derogating from
the bride's merits, we may suppose her influence in their society corresponded with the views
of her lover. It is, however, certain, that he always regarded her with peculiar affection;
that he relied on her fate, which he considered as linked with and strengthening his own; and
reposed, besides, considerable confidence in Josephine's tact and address in political business.
She had at all times the art of mitigating his temper, and turning aside the hasty determinations
of his angry moments, not by directly opposing, but by gradually parrying and disarming them.
It must be added to her great praise, that she was always a willing and often a successful
advocate in the cause of humanity.

    [10] A lady of high rank, who happened to live for some time in
    the same convent at Paris, where Josephine was also a pensioner
    or boarder, heard her mention the prophecy, and told it herself
    to the author, just about the time of the Italian expedition,
    when Bonaparte was beginning to attract notice. Another clause
    is usually added to the prediction--that the party whom it
    concerned should die in an hospital, which was afterwards
    explained as referring to Malmaison. This the author did not
    hear from the same authority. The lady mentioned used to speak
    in the highest terms of the simple manners and great kindness
    of Madame Beauharnois.

They were married 9th of March, 1796; and the dowry of the bride was the chief command of the
Italian armies, a scene which opened a full career to the ambition of the youthful general.
Bonaparte remained with his wife only three days after his marriage, hastened to see his family,
who were still at Marseilles, and, having enjoyed the pleasure of exhibiting himself as a favourite
of fortune in the city which he had lately left in the capacity of an indigent adventurer,
proceeded rapidly to commence the career to which fate called him, by placing himself at the
head of the Italian army.

The renowned Italian campaigns occupy the remainder of the third, and some part of the fourth
volume, to which we now proceed. It will be remembered that the war in Egypt being triumphantly
concluded on the part of Great Britain, the news of the contest reached France some time before
the English received it. Napoleon, on learning the tidings, is reported to have said, "Well,
there remains now no alternative but to make the descent on Britain."

PROPOSED INVASION OF GREAT BRITAIN.

As the words of the first consul appeard to intimate, preparations were resumed on the French
coast for the invasion of Great Britain. Boulogne and every harbour along the coast was crowded
with flat-bottomed boats, and the shores covered with camps of the men designed apparently
to fill them. We need not at present dwell on the preparations for attack, or those which the
English adopted in defence, as we shall have occasion to notice both, when Bonaparte, for the
last time, threatened England with the same measure. It is enough to say, that, on the present
occasion, the menaces of France had their usual effect in awakening the spirit of Britain.

The most extensive arrangements were made for the reception of the invaders should they chance
to land, and in the meanwhile, our natural barrier was not neglected. The naval preparations
were very great, and what gave yet more confidence than the number of vessels and guns, Nelson
was put into command of the sea, from Orfordness to Beachy-head. Under his management, it soon
became the question, not whether the French flotilla was to invade the British shores, but
whether it was to remain in safety in the French harbours. Boulogne was bombarded, and some
of the small craft and gun-boats destroyed--the English admiral generously sparing the town;
and not satisfied with this partial success, Nelson prepared to attack them with the boats
of the squadron. The French resorted to the most unusual and formidable preparations for defence.
Their flotilla was moored close to the shore in the mouth of Boulogne harbour, the vessels
secured to each other by chains, and filled with soldiers. The British attack in some degree
failed, owing to the several divisions of boats missing each other in the dark; some French
vessels were taken, but they could not be brought off; and the French chose to consider this
result as a victory, on their part, of consequence enough to balance the loss at Aboukir;--though
it amounted at best to ascertaining, that although their vessels could not keep the sea, they
might, in some comparative degree of safety, lie under close cover of their own batteries.

The preliminaries of peace, however, were signed, and the treaty was confirmed at Amiens, on
the 27th of March, 1802. Napoleon still prosecuted his ambitious projects, extended his power
in Italy, and caused himself to be appointed consul for life, with the power of naming his
successor.

SCHEME OF INVASION RENEWED.

It must be in the memory of most who recollect the period, that the kingdom of Great Britain
was seldom less provided against invasion than at the commencement of this second war; and
that an embarkation from the ports of Holland, if undertaken instantly after the war had broken
out, might have escaped our blockading squadrons, and have at least shown what a French army
could have done on British ground, at a moment when the alarm was general, and the country
in an unprepared state. But it is probable that Bonaparte himself was as much unprovided as
England for the sudden breach of the treaty of Amiens--an event brought about more by the influence
of passion than of policy; so that its consequences were as unexpected in his calculations
as in those of Great Britain. Besides, he had not diminished to himself the dangers of the
undertaking, by which he must have staked his military renown, his power, which he held chiefly
as the consequence of his reputation, perhaps his life, upon a desperate game, which, though
he had already twice contemplated it, he had not yet found hardihood enough seriously to enter
upon.

He now, however, at length bent himself, with the whole strength of his mind, and the whole
force of his empire, to prepare for this final and decisive undertaking. The gun-boats in the
Bay of Gibraltar, where calms are frequent, had sometimes in the course of the former war been
able to do considerable damage to the English vessels of war, when they could not use their
sails. Such small craft, therefore, were supposed the proper force for covering the intended
descent. They were built in different harbours, and brought together by crawling along the
French shore, and keeping under the protection of the batteries, which were now established
on every cape, almost as if the sea-coast of the channel on the French side had been the lines
of a besieged city, no one point of which could with prudence be left undefended by cannon.
Boulogne was pitched upon as the centre port, from which the expedition was to sail. By incredible
exertions, Bonaparte had rendered its harbour and roads capable of containing two thousand
vessels of various descriptions. The smaller sea-ports of Vimereux, Ambleteuse, and Etaples,
Dieppe, Havre, St. Valeri, Caen, Gravelines, and Dunkirk, were likewise filled with shipping.
Flushing and Ostend were occupied by a separate flotilla. Brest, Toulon, and Rochefort, were
each the station of as strong a naval squadron as France, had still the means to send to sea.

A land army was assembled of the most formidable description, whether we regard the high military
character of the troops, the extent and perfection of their appointments, or their numerical
strength. The coast, from the mouth of the Seine to the Texel, was covered with forces; and
Soult, Ney, Davoust, and Victor, names that were then the pride and the dread of war, were
appointed to command the army of England, (for that menacing title was once more, assumed,)
and execute those manoeuvres, planned and superintended by Bonaparte, the issue of which was
to be the blotting out of Britain from the rank of independent nations.

Far from being alarmed at this formidable demonstration of force, England prepared for her
resistance with an energy becoming her ancient rank in Europe, and far surpassing in its efforts
any extent of military preparation before heard of in her history. To nearly one hundred thousand
troops of the line, were added eighty thousand and upwards of militia, which scarce yielded
to the regulars in point of discipline. The volunteer force, by which every citizen was permitted
and invited to add his efforts to the defence of the country, was far more numerous than during
the last war, was better officered also, and rendered every way more effective. It was computed
to amount to three hundred and fifty thousand men, who, if we regard the shortness of the time
and the nature of the service, had attained considerable practice in the use and management
of their arms. Other classes of men were embodied, and destined to act as pioneers, drivers
of wagons, and in the like services. On a sudden, the land seemed converted to an immense camp,
the whole nation into soldiers, and the good old king himself into a general-in-chief. All
peaceful considerations appeared for a time to be thrown aside; and the voice, calling the
nation to defend their dearest rights, sounded not only in Parliament, and in meetings convoked
to second the measures of defence, but was heard in the places of public amusement, and mingled
even with the voice of devotion--not unbecoming surely, since to defend our country is to defend
our religion.

Beacons were erected in conspicuous points, corresponding with each other, all around and all
through the island; and morning and evening, one might have said, every eye was turned towards
them to watch for the fatal and momentous signal. Partial alarms were given to different places,
from the mistakes to which such arrangements must necessarily be liable; and the ready spirit
which animated every species of troops where such signals called to arms, was of the most satisfactory
description, and afforded the most perfect assurance, that the heart of every man was in the
cause of his country.

Amidst her preparations by land, England did not neglect or relax her precautions on the element
she calls her own. She covered the ocean with five hundred and seventy ships of war of various
descriptions. Divisions of her fleet blocked up every French port in the channel; and the army
destined to invade our shores, might see the British flag flying in every direction on the
horizon, waiting for their issuing from the harbour, as birds of prey may be seen floating
in the air above the animal which they design to pounce upon. Sometimes the British frigates
and sloops of war stood in, and cannonaded or threw shells into Havre, Dieppe, Granville, and
Boulogne itself. Sometimes the seamen and marines landed, cut out vessels, destroyed signal
posts, and dismantled batteries. Such events were trifling, and it was to be regretted that
they cost the lives of gallant men; but although they produced no direct results of consequence,
yet they had their use in encouraging the spirits of our sailors, and damping the confidence
of the enemy, who must at length have looked forward with more doubt than hope to the invasion
of the English coast, when the utmost vigilance could not prevent their experiencing insults
upon their own.

During this period of menaced attack and arranged defence, Bonaparte visited Boulogne, and
seemed active in preparing his soldiers for the grand effort. He reviewed them in an unusual
manner, teaching them to execute several manoeuvres by night; and experiments were also made
upon the best mode of arranging the soldiers in the flat-bottomed boats, and of embarking and
disembarking them with celerity. Omens were resorted to for keeping up the enthusiasm which
the presence of the First Consul naturally inspired. A Roman battle-axe was said to be found
when they removed the earth to pitch Bonaparte's tent or barrack; and medals of William the
Conqueror were produced, as having been dug up upon the same honoured spot. These were pleasant
bodings, yet perhaps did not altogether, in the minds of the soldiers, counterbalance the sense
of insecurity impressed on them by the prospect of being packed together in these miserable
chaloupes, and exposed to the fire of an enemy so superior at sea, that during the chief consul's
review of the fortifications, their frigates stood in shore with composure, and fired at him
and his suite as at a mark. The men who had braved the perils of the Alps and of the Egyptian
deserts, might yet be allowed to feel alarm at a species of danger which seemed so inevitable,
and which they had no adequate means of repelling by force of arms.

A circumstance which seemed to render the expedition in a great measure hopeless, was the ease
with which the English could maintain a constant watch upon their operations within the port
of Boulogne. The least appearance of stir or preparation, to embark troops, or get ready for
sea, was promptly sent by signal to the English coast, and the numerous British cruisers were
instantly on the alert to attend their motions. Nelson had, in fact, during the last war, declared
the sailing of a hostile armament from Boulogne to be a most forlorn undertaking, on account
of cross tides and other disadvantages, together with the certainty of the flotilla being lost
if there were the least wind west-north-west. "As for rowing," he adds, "that is impossible.--It
is perfectly right to be prepared for a mad government," continued this incontestable judge
of maritime possibilities; "but with the active force which has been given me, I may pronounce
it almost impracticable."

Before quitting the subject, we may notice, that Bonaparte seems not to have entertained the
least doubts of success, could he have succeeded in disembarking his army. A single general
action was to decide the fate of England. Five days were to bring Napoleon to London, where
he was to perform the part of William the Third; but with more generosity and disinterestedness.
He was to call a meeting of the inhabitants, restore them what he calls their rights, and destroy
the oligarchical faction. A few months would not, according to his account, have elapsed, ere
the two nations, late such determined enemies, would have been identified by their principles,
their maxims, their interests. The full explanation of this gibberish, (for it can be termed
no better, even proceeding from the lips of Napoleon,) is to be found elsewhere, when he spoke
a language more genuine than that of the Moniteur and the bulletins. "England," he said, "must
have ended, by becoming an appendage to the France of my system. Nature has made it one of
our islands, as well as Oleron and Corsica."

It is impossible not to pursue the train of reflections which Bonaparte continued to pour forth
to the companion of his exile, on the rock of Saint Helena. When England was conquered, and
identified with France in maxims and principles, according to one form of expression, or rendered
an appendage and dependency, according to another phrase, the reader may suppose that Bonaparte
would have considered his mission as accomplished. Alas! it was not much more than commenced.
"I would have departed from thence [from subjugated Britain] to carry the work of European
regeneration [that is, the extention of his own arbitrary authority] from south to north, under
the Republican colours, for I was then Chief Consul, in the same manner which I was more lately
on the point of achieving it under the monarchical forms." When we find such ideas retaining
hold of Napoleon's imagination, and arising to his tongue after his irretrievable fall, it
is impossible to avoid exclaiming, Did ambition ever conceive so wild a dream, and had so wild
a vision ever a termination so disastrous and humiliating!

It may be expected that something should be here said, upon the chances which Britain would
have had of defending herself successfully against the army of invaders. We are willing to
acknowledge that the risk must have been dreadful; and that Bonaparte, with his genius and
his army, must have inflicted severe calamities upon a country which had so long enjoyed the
blessings of peace. But the people were unanimous in their purpose of defence, and their forces
composed of materials to which Bonaparte did more justice when he came to be better acquainted
with them. Of the three British nations, the English have since shown themselves possessed
of the same steady valour which won the fields of Cressy and Agincourt, Blenheim and Minden--the
Irish have not lost the fiery enthusiasm which has distinguished them in all the countries
of Europe--nor have the Scots degenerated from the stubborn courage with which their ancestors
for two thousand years maintained their independence against a superior enemy. Even if London
had been lost, we would not, under so great a calamity, have despaired of the freedom of the
country; for the war would in all probability have assumed that popular and national character
which sooner or later wears out an invading army. Neither does the confidence with which Bonaparte
affirms the conviction of his winning the first battle, appear go certainly well founded. This,
at least, we know, that the resolution of the country was fully bent up to the hazard; and
those who remember the period will bear us witness, that the desire that the French would make
the attempt, was a general feeling through all classes, because they had every reason to hope
that the issue might be such as for ever to silence the threat of invasion.

The next most important occurrence that claims our notice in this volume, and which fully delineates
the nature and character of this wonderful and ambitious individual, is the account of his
declaration as Emperor of France, and his subsequent Coronation.

CORONATION OF NAPOLEON.

Measures were taken, as on former occasions, to preserve appearances, by obtaining, in show
at least, the opinion of the people, on this radical change of their system. Government, however,
were already confident of their approbation, which, indeed, had never been refused to any of
the various constitutions, however inconsistent, that had succeeded each other with such rapidity.
Secure on this point, Bonaparte's accession to the empire was proclaimed with the greatest
pomp, without waiting to inquire whether the people approved of his promotion or otherwise.
The proclamation was coldly received, even by the populace, and excited little enthusiasm.
It seemed, according to some writers, as if the shades of D'Enghien and Pichegru had been present
invisibly, and spread a damp over the ceremony. The Emperor was recognised by the soldiery
with more warmth. He visited the encampments at Boulogne, with the intention, apparently, of
receiving such an acknowledgment from the troops as was paid by the ancient Franks to their
monarchs, when they elevated them on their bucklers. Seated on an iron chair, said to have
belonged to king Dagobert, he took his place between two immense camps, and having before him
the Channel and the hostile coasts of England. The weather, we have been assured, had been
tempestuous, but no sooner had the Emperor assumed his seat, to receive the homage of his shouting
host, than the sky cleared, and the wind dropt, retaining just breath sufficient gently to
wave the banners. Even the elements seemed to acknowledge the imperial dignity, all save the
sea, which rolled as carelessly to the feet of Napoleon as it had formerly done towards those
of Canute the Dane.

The Emperor, accompanied with his Empress, who bore her honours both gracefully and meekly,
visited Aix-la-Chapelle, and the frontiers of Germany. They received the congratulations of
all the powers of Europe, excepting England, Russia, and Sweden, upon their new exaltation;
and the German princes, who had everything to hope and fear from so powerful a neighbour, hastened
to pay their compliments to Napoleon in person, which more distant sovereigns offered by their
ambassadors.

But the most splendid and public recognition of his new rank was yet to be made, by the formal
act of coronation, which, therefore, Napoleon determined should take place with circumstances
of solemnity, which had been beyond the reach of any temporal prince, however powerful, for
many ages. His policy was often marked by a wish to revive, imitate, and connect his own titles
and interest with, some ancient observance of former days; as if the novelty of his claims
could have been rendered more venerable by investing them with antiquated forms, or as men
of low birth, when raised to wealth and rank, are sometimes desirous to conceal the obscurity
of their origin under the blaze of heraldic honours. Pope Leo, he remembered, had placed a
golden crown on the head of Charlemagne, and proclaimed him Emperor of the Romans. Pius VII.
he determined should do the same for a successor to much more than the actual power of Charlemagne.
But though Charlemagne had repaired to Rome to receive inauguration from the hands of the Pontiff
of that day, Napoleon resolved that he who now owned the proud, and in Protestant eyes profane,
title of Vicar of Christ, should travel to France to perform the coronation of the successful
chief, by whom the See of Rome had been more than once humbled, pillaged, and impoverished,
but by whom also her power had been re-erected and restored, not only in Italy, but in France
itself.

