The fact of the emperor's interest in the fair foreigner was revealed by an incident, slight
in itself and only important by the emotions which it called forth. At one of the small intimate
reunions at Compiègne, Mademoiselle de Montijo happened, while dancing, to entangle her feet
in the long folds of her train, and she fell with some violence to the floor. The extreme anxiety
and distress manifested by the emperor acted as a revelation to all present. A stormy opposition
to the projected alliance was at once organized among the familiars of the emperor--the men
who had aided in his elevation, and to whom it was too recent for them to stand in awe of him.
MM. de Morny and de Persigny in particular were violent in their opposition. In fact, the latter
went so far as to tell the emperor at the close of a long and stormy interview on the subject
that it was hardly worth while to have made a coup d'êtat to end it in such a manner. M. de
Morny argued and reasoned with his imperial brother, but neither the violence of Persigny nor
the arguments of De Morny made any impression on the cold and inflexible will of Napoleon III.,
and a few days later the countess made her appearance at one of the court-balls in a dress
looped and wreathed with the imperial emblem-flower, the violet. The emperor, advancing toward
her, presented her with a superb bouquet of the same significant blossoms. The meaning of that
little scene was fully understood by the spectators. The marriage was irrevocably decided upon,
and all that they had to do was to submit to the imperial will and make ready to offer their
homage to the new empress. With the solitary exception of Prince Napoleon, the imperial family
submitted with a good grace to the matrimonial projects of their chief. The Princess Mathilde
in particular, although the marriage would depose her from the place that she then occupied
as the first lady of the court, declared her willingness to bear the train of the new empress
in public if such a duty should be required of her, as it had been of the sisters of the First
Napoleon.

There remained, however, an arrangement to be completed which, though awkward and painful,
was yet positively necessary. No one better than Napoleon III. was aware of the truth of the
old adage which declares that a man must be off with the old love before he is on with the
new. In an hôtel on the Rue du Cirque dwelt a lady who had been the partner of his days of
exile and ill-fortune, who had impoverished herself in his service, and who had devoted herself
to furthering his aims with a persistency worthy of a better cause. This lady, the well-known
Mrs. Howard, was now to be got rid of. A frank and open rupture was not in the style or the
ideas of her royal and sphinx-like lover. A pretended secret mission to England lured her from
Paris. She learned the truth at Boulogne, and hastened back to her home. There she found that
her hôtel had been visited by the police, and that a cabinet wherein she kept the letters of
Louis Napoleon had been broken open and rifled of its contents. Deeply wounded by the treatment
she had received, she withdrew, not without dignity, from all attempt at contesting the position
with her rival. "I go," she wrote to Napoleon, "a second Josephine, bearing with me your star."
To do justice to the emperor, it must be confessed that he treated her in other respects with
royal liberality. The title of countess of Beauregard and a fortune of a million of dollars
were allotted to her. She withdrew to England, where she afterward married. In 1865 a great
longing to behold Paris once more came upon her. Her youth and beauty gone, a worn, disappointed
and unhappy woman (for her marriage had turned out most wretchedly), she returned to Paris
only to die. Her eldest son succeeded to the title of count de Beauregard, and was made consul
at Zanzibar. Since the downfall of the Empire he has lived a sort of Bohemian existence in
Paris, where his striking resemblance to Louis Napoleon has won for him the nickname of "the
ghost" (le revenant).

Meanwhile, the preparations for the marriage were proceeding vigorously. The future empress
and her mother had been installed in apartments at the Élysée. The household of the royal bride
was already formed, including the princess of Essling as chief lady-in-waiting, and the Count
(afterward Duke) Tascher de la Pagerie as head-chamberlain. The nuptial ceremony took place
on the 30th of January. The bride's dress was composed of white velvet, with a veil of point
d'Angleterre, the time being too short to have one of point d'Alençon manufactured. The details
of the ceremony were closely copied from those of the wedding of Napoleon I. and Marie Louise,
and the state-coach was the same that had been used at the coronation of the great emperor.
It was a magnificent vehicle, covered with gilding and ornaments, and so heavy that the eight
fine horses that drew it were less for show than for actual service. The ceremony took place
in the cathedral of Notre Dame, which was illuminated for the occasion with fifteen thousand
wax-lights. The bride was visibly agitated. She was as pale as death, and her voice in making
the responses was scarcely audible. No wonder if in that hour a premonition of evil weighed
upon her soul. The civil register of the imperial family--which, preserved by the devotion
of some of the adherents of the Bonapartes, had been brought forth to be used at the civil
ceremony which had taken place the day before--might well have thrilled her with forebodings.
The last record inscribed on those pages had been the birth of the king of Rome. How had it
fared with that scion of a mighty father? how might it fare with her own possible offspring?

It speedily became evident that the marriage, unpopular as it had been among the counsellors
of the emperor, was still more so among the people at large. No cries of "Long live the empress!"
save from the throats of paid agents of the government, rose to greet the beautiful Eugénie
when she appeared in public. People stared sullenly at her as at a passing pageant, but were
moved neither by her charms nor her gentle and gracious courtesy to any outburst of enthusiasm.
To the masses she was "L'Espagnole," the heiress to the bitter hate inspired by the Austrian,
Marie Antoinette. Epigrams on the marriage, seasoned with the cruel and ferocious wit for which
the Parisians are so famous, circulated on all sides. Some bold hand affixed to the walls of
the Tuileries a series of doggerel verses wherein the empress was first called by the nickname
of "Badinguette," which was universally applied to her after the fall of the Empire. The author
of these lines was discovered and banished to Cayenne, but his verses, set to a popular tune,
were long sung in secret in the taverns and workshops of the suburbs.

To a certain extent, popular opinion respecting the young and lovely Eugénie was correct. She
was indeed emphatically not the wife that Louis Napoleon should have chosen. A woman of intelligence
and force of character might have done much to aid in founding his throne on a more stable
basis. The downfall of the Empire, though probably inevitable, might have been delayed for
at least a generation. But his choice had fallen upon a lady who had but one qualification
for the position in which he had placed her--namely, extreme personal beauty. She was indeed
kind-hearted and amiable, and among the temptations of a court as dissolute as was that of
Louis XV. she preserved her reputation unspotted. But she was narrow-minded and unintellectual,
a bigoted Catholic, and so blinded by national and religious prejudices that many of the most
fatal mistakes of the Empire are directly traceable to her influence. An alliance with a royal
princess would have strengthened the throne of Louis Napoleon: an alliance with a French lady
would have drawn toward him the hearts of the nation. But Eugénie was neither a princess nor
a Frenchwoman, nor yet a woman of vigorous and commanding intellect; and his union with her
was undoubtedly a serious political error.

But for some time all went well. She ruled gracefully over her allotted realm, which was that
of Fashion. The influence of a crowned Parisian beauty over the social doings of the world
can hardly be over-estimated. Eugénie invented toilettes that were copied by all the women
in the civilized world: she invented crinoline, and added a new product to the manufactures
of the earth. No woman better understood the art of dress than she. Certain of her toilettes
have retained their celebrity to this day. Never did the art of costly dress reach so high
a pinnacle. She fringed her ball-dresses with diamonds, and covered them with lace worth two
thousand dollars a yard. Then, like many wise and economical ladies, she undertook to have
her dresses made at home, and installed a dressmaker's establishment in the Tuileries, where
these splendid garments were prepared under her immediate supervision. The workroom was directly
over her private apartments. By means of a trapdoor, whose mechanism was skilfully dissimulated
among the ornaments of the cornice and ceiling, a mannikin, arrayed in the garb that was in
progress, could be lowered for the empress's inspection. This singular branch of the royal
household was under the charge of a functionary whose business it was to purchase silks, velvets
and laces at wholesale prices and to superintend the workwomen. The knowledge of its existence
was soon spread abroad, and did the empress infinite harm. The petty economy of the proceeding
horrified and disgusted the Parisians, who, economical themselves, have ever scorned that virtue
in their sovereigns. Many of the partisans of the court denied the existence of such an establishment,
but during the period that elapsed between the downfall of the Empire and the outbreak of the
Commune the curious throngs that visited the Tuileries might trace amid the mouldings of the
ceiling in the empress's boudoir the outline of the famous trapdoor.

It would have been well had she never turned her attention to any less feminine or more dangerous
pursuits. But in an evil hour for France and for the nation she undertook to dabble in politics.
Left regent during the Austro-Italian campaign, she acquired a taste for reigning, which was
increased by the flatteries of her husband's ministers and the counsels of her confessor. It
was currently said at court that the Mexican expedition "came ready-made from her boudoir."
She hated the United States, as a true daughter of Spain could not fail to detest the coveters
of Cuba and the friends of progress and of enlightenment. Consequently, she did not fail to
further a project whose real aim was to deal the great republic, then struggling in the throes
of civil war, a decisive stab in the back. She approved of the war with China, and condescended
to enrich her private apartments with the spoils of the Summer Palace. But her pet project,
the one that she had most at heart, was the war with Prussia. The now historical phrase, "This
is my war," was uttered by her to General Turr soon after the outbreak of hostilities. And
when, an exile and discrowned, she first sought the presence of Queen Victoria, she sobbed
out with tears of vain remorse, "It was all my fault. Louis did not want to go to war: 'twas
I that forced him to it." Poor lady! bitterly indeed has she atoned for that unwise exercise
of undue influence. The holy crusade of which she dreamed against the enemies of her Church
and of her husband's throne ended in giving her son's inheritance to the winds.

Nor was her domestic life a happy one. She loved her husband; and indeed Napoleon III. seems
to have possessed a rare power of attracting and securing the affections of those about him.
Few that came within the influence of his kindly courtesy, his grave and gentle voice, but
fell captive to the spell thus subtly exercised. He made many and warm personal friends, even
among those who were hostile to his politics and his dynasty. And by three women at least he
was loved with a fervor and a constancy that no trial could shake. One of these was the Princess
Mathilde, his cousin and once his intended wife; another was Mrs. Howard; the third was his
wife. But, like many men who are much loved, Louis Napoleon was incapable of anything like
genuine and constant love for any woman. His passion for his lovely empress was as brief as
it had been violent. He vexed her soul and tortured her heart by countless conjugal infidelities.
She resented this state of affairs with all the vehemence of an outraged wife and a jealous
Spaniard. It is said that she once soundly boxed the ears of the distinguished functionary
who filled in her husband's household the post that the infamous Lebel held during the latter
days of the life of Louis XV. Twice she fled abruptly from the court, unable to bear the presence
of insolent and triumphant rivals, and the ingenuity of the fashionable chroniclers of the
day was taxed to invent plausible pretexts for her sudden journeys to the Scottish or the Italian
lakes. No wonder that the soft eyes grew sadder and the smiles more forced as the years passed
on and brought only weariness, disenchantment and the shadow of the coming end.

Alphonse Daudet has said in Le Nabab that there exists in the life of every human being a golden
moment, a luminous peak, where all of glory or success that destiny reserves is granted; after
which comes the decadence and the descent. This golden moment in the life of the empress Eugénie
was the occasion of the first French international exhibition in 1855. She was then in the
full pride of her womanhood and her loveliness. The greatest lady in Europe, Queen Victoria,
had been her guest, had embraced her as an equal and had given her proofs of real and sincere
friendship. Enveloped in clouds of priceless lace and blazing with diamonds of more than regal
splendor, she had presided, la belle des belles, over the opening of the exhibition in the
Champs Elysées. And, above all, the event so anxiously desired by her husband and by the supporters
of his cause was near at hand. She was soon to become the mother of the heir to the imperial
throne. With every aspiration gratified, every wish accomplished, she did indeed seem in that
year of grace the most enviable of human beings. The later splendors of the exhibition of 1867
were more apparent than real, and the gorgeous assemblage of reigning sovereigns brought with
it for Eugénie a subtle and premeditated insult. The kings and emperors who responded to the
imperial invitation and came to visit the court of Napoleon III., with one exception, that
of the king of the Belgians, left their wives at home. They acted as men do in private life
when they receive invitations to a ball given by a family of doubtful standing with whom they
are unwilling to quarrel.

I have spoken of the birth of the prince imperial. It may perhaps interest the reader to know
how much this auspicious event cost the French nation. Not less than nine hundred thousand
francs (one hundred and eighty thousand dollars), of which twenty thousand dollars were paid
for the young gentleman's first wardrobe. The whole amount expended at the birth of the Comte
de Paris did not exceed this latter sum.

The details of the scenes at the Tuileries after the downfall of the Empire, and those of the
flight of the empress, are well known. It is now generally conceded that after Sédan the fate
of the imperial dynasty was in the hands of Eugénie. Had she withdrawn to Tours or to Bourges,
summoned the Assembly to meet there, and called around her the partisans of the Empire, she
might have saved the heritage of her son. But her essentially feminine and frivolous nature
was not fitted for deeds of high resolve or for heroic determinations. A morbid dread of following
in the footsteps of Marie Antoinette had pursued her in the later years of her prosperity.
She knew that she was unpopular, and visions of the fate of the Austrian queen or of the still
more horrible one of the Princesse de Lamballe must have risen before her as the shouts of
the Parisian mob, exulting in the downfall of her husband, met her ear. In that hour of disaster
and of woe no Frenchman, for all the boasted chivalry of the race, was at hand to aid or protect
the fair lady who had so long queened it at the Tuileries. The Austrian ambassador, the Italian
minister, the Corsican Pietrio planned and managed her escape from the palace. She took refuge
in the house of an American, her dentist, Dr. Thomas W. Evans. He it was who got her out of
Paris and accompanied her to the seacoast, placing his own carriage at her disposal. She crossed
the Channel in the yacht of an English gentleman. Thus guarded by aliens, she passed from the
land of her queenship to that of exile.

To-day, in her abode at Chiselhurst, the widow of Napoleon III. attracts scarcely less of the
world's interest and attention than she did as throned empress and queen of Fashion. Unfortunately,
the supreme tact that once was her distinguishing quality seems to have deserted her in the
days of her decadence. She, the most graceful of women, has not learned the art of growing
old gracefully. She had played the part of a beauty and the leader of fashion for years. Now
that she is past fifty that character is no longer possible to her. But she might have assumed
another--less showy, perhaps, but surely far more touching. With her whitening hairs she might
have worthily worn the triple dignity of her widowhood, her maternity and her misfortune. She
has chosen instead, with a weakness unworthy of the part that she has played on the wide stage
of contemporary history, to clutch vainly after the fleeting shadow of her vanished charms.
A head loaded with false yellow hair, a face covered with paint and powder, a mincing gait
and the airs and graces of an antiquated coquette,--such to-day is she who was once the world's
wonder for her loveliness and grace, a bewigged Mrs. Skewton succeeding to the dazzling vision
that swerved the calculating policy of Napoleon III. and won his callous heart, and that still
smiles upon us from the canvas of Winterhalter.

LUCY H. HOOPER.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

A LOST COLONY.

Why does nobody--antiquarian, historian, or even novelist--open again that forgotten page of
history, the story of the lost colony of Norwegians who disappeared in the fourteenth century
from the shores of Greenland? Doctor Hayes, after he came back, had a good deal to say of them,
but he did not gather all the facts, and his book, I believe, is now out of print.

I know no mystery made of such nightmare stuff as this in history; and mysteries are growing
scarce now-a-days as eggs of the terrible Dinornis: we cannot afford to lose one of them.

The foremost figure in the story is of course Leif hin-hepna ("the happy"). There is much to
be unearthed concerning that famous pioneer in discovery and religion, and we Americans surely
ought to have enough interest in him to do it, as Leif unearthed this continent for us out
of the hold of the sea and Demigorgon ages ago, while the dust of which Columbus was to be
made centuries later was yet blowing loose about the streets of Genoa. Leif, besides discovering
new worlds, turned the souls of all his father's subjects from paganism to such Christianity
as the times afforded. I protest, this vigorous young Greenlander heads the roll of unrecognized
heroes in the world: heathen and Christians have made demigods and saints out of much flimsier
stuff than he.

The colony, too, out of which he came, what a spectral shadow it is beside the live flesh-and-blood
figures of other nations! At the banquet of the boar-eating Scottish thanes there was one empty
chair, and that was filled by a ghost. We hear of the East and West Bygds, settlements with
hundreds of farms, churches, cathedrals, monasteries, set on the narrow rim of green coast
which edges Greenland, lying between the impenetrable wall of ice inland and the Arctic Sea
without. They had their religion, which Leif brought to them; they were busy and prosperous;
they married, traded, fought, loved and died; and with a breath they all vanished from off
the face of the earth. There is no ghost-story like this in literature.

Where will you find, too, such a delightful flavor of ancient mystery as in the old chronicles
which tell of these people? Besides the Sagas there are the voyages of long-ago-forgotten navigators--Arthur
himself, the Venetian brothers Nicolo and Antonio Zeni, King Zichmni, divers Frisian fishermen.
These old records, coffee-colored with age and frail as skeleton leaves, are yet to be found
in certain libraries, and surely would tempt any one with a soul above newspapers. In them
you shall hear how these voyagers, in their poor barkentines of from ten to two hundred tons,
entered into this region of enormous tides, of floating hordes of mountainous icebergs, of
flaming signs in the sky--into all the horrors, in fact, of an Arctic winter and night, darkened
still deeper for them by nameless superstitious terrors. They went down to these deeps in very
much the temper with which a living man now-a-days would adventure into hell. The icy peaks
of the far-off land they knew were glittering silver, and the sea was full of malignant spirits
which guarded it. A mountain-magnet lay hid under the sea, dragging the ships down to it (as
late, indeed, as 1830 skilled Danish navigators declared that they felt the stress from it,
and fled in terror): the unnatural tides were the breathing of angry Demigorgon. There were,
however, other sights and sounds not to be explained in even this reasonable fashion. On a
fair day and a calm sea panic would seize the soul of every man on board, and the ship would
turn and beat homeward, "as one who knows a frightful fiend doth follow him behind."

It is the mystery of the lost colony, however, which ought to be opened by some competent hand.
In 1406, Queen Margaret, it will be remembered, laid an interdict upon trade with them: for
two centuries afterward not even a passing barkentine touched upon the Greenland shore. At
the end of that time, when explorers were sent from the civilized world in search of the long-forgotten
colonists, they had utterly vanished. There, to this day, are their dwellings and churches,
solidly built of stone in an architectural style which Graah fifty years ago described as simple
and elegant: there are even the ruins of the monastery which the Zeni brothers declare was
heated by a magical hot sulphurous spring, the waters of which were conveyed through the building
by pipes. But the people had absolutely disappeared. Not even a bit of pottery, a grave or
a bone was left; which last is a noteworthy circumstance, as portions of the human body are
almost indestructible in that climate. Seventeen expeditions have been sent out by the Danish
and Norwegian governments in search of this lost colony, the last of which was within the present
half century. One of these was headed by Egedi, a poor Norwegian clergyman to whom is owing
the civilization of Greenland, and of whose strange heroic life we know too little.

There are two or three conjectures to account for the disappearance of this colony. One is
that they were all murdered by the Skröellings. But where are their bones? Besides, the colonists
numbered from fifteen to twenty thousand, and were much superior to the natives in size, strength,
intelligence and knowledge of war.

Graah, a Danish navigator who came in search of them in 1828, believes that they were carried
off bodily by the English after the ravages of the "black death" in England, to repair the
waste of human life, citing a treaty of 1433 in which England was charged with abducting Danish
subjects for that end. Another theory is that the Frisian king Zichmni carried them off captive.
Pope Nicholas asserts this outrage as a fact in a bull in 1448. But Zichmni is as uncertain
a personage in history as Demigorgon; and the good popes were not so infallible as to matters
of general news before the establishment of telegraph and postal service as they are now.

Mr. Dalton Dorr, who accompanied Hayes, tells me that among the Esquimaux there is a tradition
that a colony of foreigners once owned the land, and about five centuries ago emigrated in
a body northward, crossing the Mer de Glace--that they found an open sea, and somewhere within
the eternal rampart of snow and ice now dwell securely by its shores. As early as 1500 the
migratory Skröellings told of this colony far to the north-east. These rumors possessed substance
enough to warrant the expeditions from Denmark, which have all been directed to the eastern
coast. Graah heard from his guides of a strange people with high features, hoarse voices and
large stature living beyond the limits passed by Europeans.

Here is a mystery surely worth finding out--a people exiled from their kind for centuries living
at the Pole--something better worth search than even Franklin's bones. To give it reality,
too, we must remember how many Arctic explorers have caught sight, as they thought, of an open
sea near the Pole--a sea with strong, iceless swells, and on whose shores warm rains fell.
Nobody need suggest that these people would probably, after our search, not be worth looking
for. What shall we do with the North-west Passage when we have found it?

R. H. D.

THE DIFFICULTIES OF BEING AGREEABLE.

"A man will please more by never offending than by giving a great deal of delight." In this
remark of Doctor Johnson's lies the art of being agreeable. But nothing is more difficult than
to avoid offending. Most people are offended by trifles. For instance, persons generally take
umbrage at superior brilliance of conversation. "The man who talks for fame will never please."
Even he who talks to unburden his mind will please only some old and solitary friend. Large
experience and great learning, however quietly carried, are very offensive to those who have
them not. Clever things cannot be said unobtrusively enough. A person so brilliant as to make
others feel that his efforts are above theirs will be detested. Moreover, one of the difficulties
of being agreeable is that the apprehension of offending and the small hope of pleasing destroy
all captivation of manner. The confident expectation of pleasing is an infallible means of
pleasing. Characters pleased with themselves please others, for they are joyous and natural
in mien, and are at liberty from thinking of themselves to pay successful attention to others.
Still, the self-conceited and the bragging are never attractive, self being the topic on which
all are fluent and none interesting. They who dwell on self in any way--the self-deniers, the
self-improvers--are hateful to the heart of civilized man. The Chinese, who knew everything
beforehand, are perfect in self-abnegation of manner. "How are your noble and princely son
and your beautiful and angelic daughter?" says Mandarin Number One.--"Dog of a son have I none,
but my cat of a daughter is well," says Mandarin Number Two.

To set up for an invariably agreeable person you must adjust yourself to the peculiarities
of others. You must talk of books to bookworms: you must be musical with musicians, scientific
with savants. Furthermore, you have to make believe all the time that you are enjoying yourself.
The belle is a lady who has an air of enjoying herself with whomsoever she talks. We like those
who seem to delight in our company. You must not overdo it, and thus make yourself suspected
of acting; but do not imagine that you will please without trying. Those who are careless of
pleasing are never popular. Those who do not care how they look invariably look ugly. You will
never please without doing all these things and more.

What a Pecksniffian business it is to go into! Who wants to refrain from smart, spiteful sayings
when he happens to think of them, to abjure laughing at friends and ridiculing enemies, to
renounce the tart rebuff, the keen riposte? Amazing that any succeed! and many do. There are
some gentlemen who are entirely agreeable--"gentlemen all through," like Robert Moore in Shirley.
They have order, neatness, delicacy of movement, reticence, incuriosity: their unaffected English
has almost the charm of a musical composition. They are generally men whose mothers well nagged
them when they were small with perpetual adjurations: "Do not bang the door," "Stop kicking
your feet," "Stop clinking your plate with your fork," and so on.

In some inscrutable way, young girls often attain thorough agreeableness. Look at lazy little
Jane: she has acquired the highest charm of repose. Look at Sally, who used to be such an angular
and hurried little girl: she is all quips and cranks and wreathèd smiles now. And meek, humble-minded
Martha, in former days so diffident, blushing and taciturn, has found out the value of a deferential
demeanor and the knack of being a good listener, and can sing a ballad with a pathos and dramatic
effect that eclipse the highly-embellished performances of other girls.

Ladies who make a profession of pleasing become irresistibly alluring. Actresses have abundant
hair, fine teeth, all physical beauty, because they train themselves to beauty, though not
originally better endowed than most others. Actresses' voices are set habitually, not in complaining,
whining, creaking or vociferating keys, but in chest-tones clear and calm in quality. Actresses
do not grow old, partly in consequence of their constant attention to the toilette, partly
in consequence of the fact that they have hope and ambition, and enough occupation and enough
rest, and do not worry over trifles.

To remain young is one of the difficulties of being agreeable. Whoever does so is obliged to
adopt the Aristotelian maxim of moderation, Placidity of temper is necessary to the clear-pencilled
eyebrow and the magnolia complexion. Frowns, weeping, excitement, despair and laughter wrinkle
the face. Nature keeps women's forms well rounded to extreme old age, and their faces remain
agreeable when they take the trouble to keep them so. The brow, the fair front, need never
be furrowed. Of all we meet in the street, very few have tranquil, undistorted faces: the old
are screwed out of shape, the young are going to be so. A well-preserved beauty is one who
neither puckers her face into wrinkles nor mauls it with her hands: she never buries her knuckles
in her cheeks, nor rests cheek on palm or chin on hand, nor folds her fingers around her forehead
while reading, nor rubs her "argent-lidded eyes." She veils her face from the wind; she does
not work with uncovered neck and arms: therefore they do not become tawny. She avoids immoderate
toil, which makes the hair to fall, the features sharp, the skin clammy and yellow. She avoids
immoderate laziness, as causing obesity and a greasy complexion or pallor, lassitude and loss
of vitality. Such are; the difficulties of being agreeable.

M. D.

OUR SUB-GARDENER.

He who doubts that civilized progress and industry is beneficial to birds, and promotes their
comfort and multiplication, never saw the robin and the purple grakle following the plough
on a summer's morning. The ploughman is not more punctually afield than his unbidden but welcome
feathered attendants. They are ahead of him, perched patiently in the trees that dot fence
or hedgerow. They see the team afar off, and as the gate rattles in opening for its admission
the glad tidings is sent down the line in whistle or chirrup, the most musical of breakfast-bells.
The worm that but for the intrusive ploughshare would blush unseen beneath the soil, and but
for the feathered detective on the lookout for him would regain his subterranean retreat, might
take a less cheery view of the philosophy of the matter; but he too is, taken collectively,
favored by tillage and fattens on high-farming like an English squire. But we are not at present
occupied with his feelings. Somebody must suffer in the battledore game of eat and be eaten,
and we shall let the chain of continuous destruction rest here with the grub that reaps where
he hath not sown. Horse, man and bird are honestly and harmoniously picking up a living at
the expense of a fourth party that also thrives in the long run.

Not many of us get out with the plough at the orthodox hour of sunrise. It is a privilege few,
comparatively, possess, and fewer still enjoy. The doctors recommend it warmly, on the ground
that, though perhaps productive of rheumatism, it is death to dyspepsia. The faculty have,
however, on this point piped to us in vain, and it is not at all in consequence of their advice
that those who luxuriate in early agriculture adopt that system of hygiene, any more than the
birds, who, as we have remarked, are first up and out, and who, at this season, in flat defiance
of all medical rules, adopt a purely animal diet. Later, long after Lent, their food is varied
with fruits and seeds, but never to such an extent as to amount to vegetarianism. This carnivorous
taste ranks high in the "charm of earliest birds" so interesting to the cultivator. He, as
a rule, is not wrapped up in the strawberry or the cherry that in the fulness of time comes
to be levied on, in very moderate percentage, by a few of his musical associates. We do not
forget that the blackbird has a weakness for planted maize, and that the quota of the cornhill
is very truly and safely stated in the doggerel--

  One for de blackbird, one for de crow,
  Two for de cut-worm, and two for to grow.

The cut-worm is here correctly defined as the enemy, while the excise claimed by the birds
is head-money for his extirpation. An adaptation of this instructive couplet to gardening for
the guidance of those of us who do not farm, but garden in a small way, would naturally enlarge
the allowance of the cut-worm. From the more limited demesne the crow and the grakle are generally
excluded. What is their loss is the cut-worm's gain. Nowhere does he run (or burrow) riot more
successfully than in old gardens. Living in darkness, from an apparent consciousness that his
deeds are evil, he seems to be fully advised of all that goes on above ground. One would fancy
that he has a complete system of subterranean telegraphs, like those coming into vogue in Europe.
He learns within a few hours or minutes of every new lot of plants sprouting from the seed
or set out from the hotbed. Upon both he sets systematically to work, following his row with
a precision and thoroughness at once admirable and exasperating. You go out of a May afternoon,
and with the tenderest care establish in their summer homes your very choicest plants. Reverse
"One counted them at break of day, and when the sun set where were they?" and the tale that
greets you the next morning is told. Did the spoiler need them for food, you would be partly
reconciled to his proceedings, or at least would know how to frame some sort of an excuse for
them. But he merely divides the succulent stem close to the surface of the ground, above or
below, and leaves the wreck unutilized even by him. A comfort is that flight is not his forte.
He is generally to be found by the exploring penknife or trowel close by the scene of his crime,
and is thus easily subjected to condign punishment. But his wife, family and friends survive
in different spots of the adjacent underworld, to give evidence of their existence only in
subsequent havoc. The titillative rake or the peremptory hoe does not help you much in their
discovery; for their color is that of the soil, their size as various as that of bits of gravel,
and they are not easily perceptible to a cursory glance from the ordinary height of the eye.
Here is where keener optics than yours, sharpened perhaps by a keener impulse--that of the
stomach--come to the rescue. The catbird, whose imploring mew you listened to from your bed
some time before thinking proper to respond to it, is intently watching operations from the
other end of the border or the square. His lusty youngsters have been trained, after the good
old fashion, to early hours, and they are impatient for breakfast. Their parent sees what you
do not, and astonishes you by suddenly pouncing upon a bit of earth you have just broken and
seizing a stout worm. This stranger, if presentable to the family circle, he is at once off
with, his spouse taking his place in the field. Or the youngsters may still be in futuro. All
the same: whatever turns up is welcome to him. His appetite seems as insatiable as that of
half a dozen nestlings: they, you know, will eat three or four times their own weight in twelve
hours. He is thus immensely useful to you, but your appreciation of that fact is as nothing
to his estimate of your value to him. He accepts you as a being sent for his benefit. You are
a part of his scheme of providence. True, he pities while he rejoices over you. Your blindness
and stupidity in not seeing the fat and luscious tidbits he snaps up from almost beneath your
feet is of course a subject of wonder and disdain. But he learns to make allowances for you,
and comes to view your failings charitably, especially as they enure to his benefit, and so
lean to Virtue's side. Fear of you he has none. Indeed, you inspire in him a certain sense
of protection, for in your presence his habitual vigilance is lulled, and his apprehensive
glances over his right and left shoulders fall to a lower figure per minute. He has learned
there to feel safe from hawk and cat, and knows enough of other birds to be sure that none
of them will "jump" his little claim of fifty feet square whereof you are the moving centre.
His individual audacity gives him the sway of that small empire, and he doubts not that you
will support him in acting up to the motto of the Iron Crown of the Lombards. His cousin the
robin may, and very probably does, hover on the outskirts, but an exact distance measures the
comparative boldness and familiarity of the two species. The catbird is, say, ten yards more
companionable than his red-vested relative in the latter's most genial and trustful mood; and
his faith is of a more robust type and less easily and permanently weakened by rebuffs. The
robin rarely hovers round you, but likes to have the whole premises quietly to himself. His
attachment does not take a personal hue, but is rather to locality. His acquaintanceship with
you is never so intimate as that of the catbird, who soon recognizes your step, your dress
and the peculiar touch and cadence of your hoe, even as a college oarsman will identify the
stroke of a chum or a rival a quarter of a mile off. If the robin does fix your individuality
in his mind, he deigns to make no sign thereof. At most he accepts you as part of the mechanism
of creation. You make no draft upon his bump of reverence. He does not set you on his Olympus.
This mark of the spirit which makes him, on the whole, a more respectable and dignified character
than his less gayly-dressed cousin tends in some sense to commend him the less to you, since
we all like the homage of the "inferior animals," birds or voters. You half dislike the independence
of the robin, who is equally at home in the parterre or the forest, on the gravel-walk or in
the upper air. On the other you have more hold. He is rarely seen higher than twenty feet above
ground, and is strictly an appendage of the shrubbery and the orchard. Even in his unhappy
voice there is a domestic tone, closely imitated as it is from Grimalkin. Imitated, we say,
for we have never been able fully to believe that this mew is the bird's original note. We
shall ever incline to the impression that it is an acquired dialect, picked up in the mere
wantonness born of a conscious and exceptional power of mimicry.

E. C. B.

A NEW AND INDIGNANT ITALIAN POET.

Mrs. Leo Hunter's selection of an "Expiring Frog" as a subject for poetical composition has
lately been surpassed by a new Italian poet. The latter, Signer Giovanni Rizzi, has just published
at Milan a small volume of sonnets, chiefly ironical in character, in which he gives vent to
his disgust at the positive and materialistic tendencies of the present day. The theme of the
three most remarkable among these productions is that useful but not very æsthetic animal, the hog.

Signer Rizzi is the professor of literature at the military school and the high school for
girls in Milan. Not long ago his three sonnets to the hog--or, more literally, the boar (maiale)--appeared
in an Italian journal called Illustrazione Italiana, prefaced by a letter to the editor, in
which the author stated that as apes, toads and caterpillars have now been triumphantly introduced
into literature, he no longer felt any hesitation about bringing forward in the same way his
esteemed friend the boar. These three pieces, together with others of the same form and character,
have now been published as a book under the title of Un Grido. This work begins with an address
to the reader, in which the poet laments the prevailing tendency of public opinion, and protests
against what he considers a determined war on all old and honored beliefs and feelings, and
a substitution therefor of a vague and revolting materialism. Then come five sonnets to Pietro
Aretino, the witty poet and scoffer of the Renaissance era. Aretino is invited to reappear
among men, for the world, says Rizzi, has again become worthy of such a man's presence. Leaving
Dante to Jesuits, and Beatrice to priests, it has made Aretino its favorite model, and has,
consequently, said farewell to everything resembling shame. In the last of these five sonnets
the poet addresses his beloved thus: "And we too, O Love! do we still keep holy honor, home,
faith, prayer, truth and noble sorrow?"

After the five sonnets to Aretino come the three to the boar (Al Maiale) which have already
been mentioned. Here the author enters into a mock glorification of that animal, and declares
himself ready to give up all pretensions to any superiority over it. He proceeds to "swear
eternal friendship" with it, and offers it his hand to solemnize the compact; but, suddenly
remembering that such old-fashioned practices must be very distasteful to his new friend, he
immediately apologizes for having conformed to such a ridiculous old prejudice. He does not
expect his "long-lost brother" to make any effort to elevate himself or to change his swinish
nature in any particular, but thinks we should all bring ourselves down to the boar's mental
and physical level as soon as we can. The closing verses of the third sonnet may be freely
rendered as follows:

  And when, at last, the grave shall close above us,
    No solemn prayer our resting-place should hallow,
  No flowers be strewn by hands of those that love us.

  But if, at times, you'll come where we are lying,
    O worthy friend! upon our graves to wallow,
  That thought should give us joy when we are dying.

The last piece in this little collection is addressed to "The Birds of my Garden" (Agli Uccelletti
del mio Giardino). Though inferior to the others in boldness and originality of conception,
it is much more graceful and attractive, and shows that the writer is by no means deficient
in elegance of style and delicacy of treatment.

Signor Rizzi may, it is probable, be taken as a type of a large class among his countrymen,
to which the iconoclastic tendencies of our time seem strange and horrible. Indeed, it is possible
that he is one of the earliest heralds of a widespread reaction in opinion and feeling throughout
his native land. At any rate, his poems can hardly fail to become popular, and to produce some
effect among a people so susceptible to the influences of witty and sarcastic poetry as are
the Italians even at this day.

W. W. C.

A NEZ PERCÉ FUNERAL.

"Call me, Washington, when they are going to bury him," said the doctor.

George Washington, evidently not quite sure that he understood the doctor, said with an interrogative
glance, "You like--see him--dead man--put in ground?" And, pointing downward and alternately
bending and extending one knee, he made a semblance of delving.

The doctor nodded.

"Good! Me tell you."

"I want to go, Washington," said the lieutenant.

"And I too," said the lieutenant's guest, myself.

George Washington was one of the Nez Percé prisoners surrendered by Joseph to General Miles
after the battle of Bear-Paw Mountain. The dead man was one of the wounded in that action who
died from his wounds, aggravated, no doubt, by fatigue and exposure while the prisoners were
marching to the east in the winter of 1877 under orders from the War Department. George spoke
a few words of English, and was quite an intelligent Indian. He was very clean--for an Indian--and
was comfortably clad.

"How soon?" asked the doctor.

"He--call me--when he ready: me call you."

"Good! Then I shall go to dinner."

"We had better eat our dinner," said the lieutenant: "it is growing late.--Come and have some
dinner, Washington."

Washington seemed not quite sure that he understood correctly. He had a modest distrust of
his English. In the matter of an invitation to dinner doubt is admissible. "You--want me--"
here George Washington tapped himself on the savage breast--"eat--with you?" And here, gracefully
reversing his hand, with the index extended, he touched the lieutenant on the civilized bosom.

"Yes: come in."

We three entered the tent. As it was an ordinary "A" tent, with a sheet-iron stove in it, it
was pretty full with the addition of two good-sized white men and an Indian of no contemptible
proportions. The lieutenant and I sat on the blankets, camp-fashion: Washington sat on my heavy
riding-boots, with the stove perforce between his legs.

"Good wahrrm!" ejaculated George Washington, hugging the stove.

"Hustleburger!" shouted the lieutenant.

"Yes, sir."

"George Washington will take dinner with us. Set the table for three."

"All right, sir, lieutenant!"

"Good man--docther," Washington remarked, nodding several times to emphasize his observation:
"ver'--good man--docther."

We eagerly assented, pleased to see that the Indian appreciated the doctor's kindness to his
people.

Rabelais's quarter of an hour began to hang heavily on us. Washington was equal to the occasion:
taking a survey of the tent, he nodded approvingly and remarked, "Good tepee."

"Not bad this weather."

"Good eyes!" said Washington in a burst of enthusiasm.

These two simple words in their Homeric immensity of expression meant all this: "The fire made
on the ground in our Indian lodges fills them with continual smoke, and consequently we Indians
suffer very much from sore eyes. Now, your little stove, while it warms the tent much better
than a fire, does not smoke, and your eyes are not injured."

Our habitual table, a small box, was not constructed on the extension plan. It would not accommodate
three. So Hustleburger handed directly to each guest a tin cup of macaroni soup. Washington
disposed of the liquid in a very short time, but the elusive nature of the macaroni rather
troubled him. We showed him how to overcome its slippery tendency. Smacking his lips, he said,
with a broad smile, "Good! What you call him?"

"Macaroni."

"Maclony? Good! Maclony--maclony." he continued, repeating the word to fix it in his memory.

Our only vegetable was some canned asparagus. Washington was delighted with it after he had
been initiated into the mystery of its consumption. He did not stop at the white. "What you
call--him?"

"Asparagus."

"Spalagus--spalagus? Goo-oo-d!"

"Did you never eat asparagus before, Washington?"

"Never eat him--nev' see him. Spalagus--spalagus! Goo-oo-d!"

Hustleburger now brought in the dessert, which consisted of canned currant-jelly, served in
the can. Each guest helped himself from the original package, using a "hard tack" for a dessert-plate,
more antiquo. Washington was bidden to help himself. Before doing so, however, he wished to
test the substance placed before him, and, taking a little on the end of his spoon, he carried
it to his lips. Then an expression of intense enjoyment overspread his dusky face; his black
eyes sparkled like diamonds; his full lips were wreathed in a smile. "Ah! goo-oo-oo-d!" he
cried, with a mouthful of o's. "What you call HIM?"

"Jelly."

"Yelly? Ah! yelly goo-oo-ood! Me--like--yelly--much." And he helped himself plentifully.

A smell of burning woollen became unpleasantly noticeable. Washington still had the stove between
his legs: it was red-hot. He never moved, but ate "yelly."

"Washington, you're burning!" cried the lieutenant.

Washington smiled. "Much wah-r-rum!" he remarked in the coolest manner possible.

"Throw open the front, then."

A long, shrill cry now rang through the silence and the darkness. Washington jumped up suddenly,
ran out of the tent, and uttered a cry in response so similar that it might pass for an echo
of the first. Then, returning, he said, "He call. He--ready--put--dead man--down. Come! Me--come
back--eat--yelly."

Fortunately, the Indian camp was not far off. The night was pitch-dark. Led by Washington,
we got through the thick underbrush without much trouble. The grave was dug near the water's
edge, where the Missouri and the Yellowstone, meeting, form an angle. A large fire of dry cottonwood
at the head of the grave fitfully lit up the dismal scene. A bundle of blankets and buffalo-robes
lay by the open grave. Some Indians of both sexes with bowed and blanketed heads stood near
it. Washington was evidently awaited. As soon as he appeared a little hand-bell was rung, and
a number of dark, shrouded figures with covered faces crept forth like shadows from the lodges
throughout the camp and crowded around the grave, a mute and gloomy throng.

The bell was rung again, and the dark crowd became motionless as statues. Then Washington in
a mournful monotone repeated what I supposed to be prayers for the dead. At the end of each
prayer the little bell was rung and responses came out of the depths of the surrounding darkness.
Then the squaws chanted a wild funeral song in tones of surpassing plaintiveness. At its close
the bell tinkled once more, and the figures that surrounded the grave vanished as darkly as
they came. Washington, one or two warriors and ourselves alone remained.

"You like--see--him--dead man?" asked Washington.

The question was addressed to me.

I never want to look on a dead face if I can avoid it; so with thanks I declined. Washington
seemed a little disappointed, as if he considered we showed a somewhat uncourteous want of
interest in the deceased. Noticing this, the lieutenant said he would like to see the dead
man's face, and, preceded by Washington, we moved toward the bundle of blankets and buffalo-robes
that lay by the side of the grave. Washington threw back the buffalo-robes, and a bright gleam
of the cottonwood fire disclosed the upturned face of the dead Nez Percé and lightened up the
long, thick locks of glossy blue-black hair. It was the face of a man about thirty--bold, clear-cut
features and long, aquiline nose: a good face and a strong face it seemed in death.

When we had looked upon the rigid features a few moments, Washington covered the face of his
dead brother. The body, coffined in blankets and skins, was placed in the grave, and the men
began to throw the earth upon it.

"That's--all," said Washington. "Come!"

And he moved away toward our tent.

He seemed to think some apology necessary for the simplicity of the ceremonial. "If," said
he, "Chapman [the interpreter]--he tell--we sleep here to-morrow--we put dead man--in ground--when
sun he ver' litt'; an' Yoseph he come--an' you come--an' I come--all come--white man an' Injun."

"He was a fine-looking young man," I remarked, alluding to the dead Indian.

Washington was pleased by the compliment to his departed brother. He stopped short, and, turning
toward me, said, "Yes, he fine young man--good man--good young man."

"I thought he was rather an oldish man," remarked the lieutenant.

"No, no," replied Washington, touching his head--"all black hairs--no white hairs. Good young man."

And Washington led the way back toward the lieutenant's tent, saying, "Let us go--eat up--yelly."

J. T.

REFORM IN VERSE.

A want of the day is some good fugitive poetry: bad is superabundant. The demand is for short
and telling effusions in plain, direct and intelligible English, speaking to feelings possessed
by everybody, and placing incidents, scenes and creatures, familiar or exceptional, in a poetic
light, bright and warm rather than fierce or dazzling. The millions are waiting to be stirred
and charmed, and will be very thankful to the singer who shall do it for them. Studied obscurity
of thought and language, verbal finicalities and conceits, and mere ingenuities of any kind,
rhythmic, mental or sentimental, will not meet the occasion: that sort of thing is overdone
already. It is the "swollen imposthume" of refinement, an excrescence on culture, a penalty
of which we have suffered enough. The Heliconian streams which are not deep, but only dark,
must run dry if they cannot run clear. Sparkling and pellucid rills, wherein we can all see
our own-selves and trace our own dreams, irradiated with light like the flickering of gems,
and set off with rich foil, are those to attract the popular eye. Genuine humor, pathos, elevation
and delicacy of fancy seek no disguise, but aim at the utmost simplicity of expression. Inversions,
like affectation in every shape, are foreign to them. True songsters, like the birds, warble
to be heard, understood and loved, and not to astonish or puzzle.

We read the other day, duly headed "For the ---- ----," and signed with the contributor's name
and place of residence, Wolfe's well-known lines to his wife, the one good thing preserved
of him, and better, in our humble judgment, than those on the burial of Moore. The wearer of
borrowed plumes was obviously confident that his theft would not be detected, readers of to-day
having been so long unfamiliar with poetry of that character as to be sure to set it down as
original and hail the reviver of it as a new light. Perhaps he may turn out to have been right
in that impression, and figure as the herald, if not an active inaugurator, of a new era of
taste in verse. He cannot remain the only practical asserter of the theory that it is better
to steal good poetry than to write bad. Should his followers, however, shrink from downright
theft, they might consent to shine as adapters. Some who are masters of English undefiled might
help the cause by translating some of the best bits of Browning, Swinburne and Rossetti, to
say nothing of Tennyson, who has gradually constructed a dialect of his own and trained us
to understand it.

By fugitive poetry we mean the work of those usually classed as song-writers and lyrists, leaving
out the big guns, if we have had any of the latter tribe since Milton, who was himself strongest
in short poems. Most modern poets have made their début in the periodical press, and those
who did not have shown a painful tendency to run to epic. The age respectfully declines epics.

We should not despair of the suggested revival. Ours is not the first period that has suffered
under the dealers in concetti. They have had things somewhat their own way before--in the century
which included Spenser and Donne, for instance. Our euphuists may pass away like those of the
Elizabethan era, or, like the best of them, live in spite of faults with which they were gratuitously
trammelled.

E. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

Bits of Travel at Home. By H. H. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

The author's present home we should incline to fix in Colorado, but she includes New England
and California in her travels, and finds something beautiful to describe wherever she goes
within those broad limits. The Yosemite, the Big Trees, the Mormons, the Chinese, the snow-sheds,
drawing-room cars, agates, prairie-and mountain-flowers, New Hampshire life and scenery, and
an infinity of like material, are readably, and not incongruously, presented in her little
book. Population is so sparse and Nature so redundant in the scene of most of her descriptions
as to render them sometimes a little lifeless, and oblige her to depend too solely upon her
powers of landscape painting with the pen. We miss the human element, as we do in the vast,
however luxuriant, pictures of Bierstadt and Moran--artists who preceded her on the same sketching-ground.
Not that she fails to make the most of what Nature places before her. Rather, she makes too
much of it, and lavishes whole pages on truthful, minute and vivid, but bewildering, detail
of mountain, river, rock, plain, plants and sea. She is enraptured, for example, with Lake
Tahoe and with the wild flowers of California and Colorado, and enables us to understand why
she is so; but the raptures are not shared by the reader, partly for the very reason that they
are so elaborately explained. Printer's ink, when used as a pigment or pencil, should be used
sparingly, with a few, sharp, clear, bold touches, and without painful finish or niggling.
What amplification would not weaken instead of heightening the effect of "the copse-wood gray
that waved and wept on Loch Achray"? Breadth, distance and atmosphere are obscured by H. H.'s
carefully itemized foregrounds. But the itemizing is done admirably and con amore by one who
is a botanist, a poet and an observer. The Great Desert is no desert to her: no square foot
of it is barren. Even the sage-brush has a charm, if only from its dim likeness to a miniature
olive tree, both being glaucous and hoary. An oasis of irrigated clover on Humboldt River is
made a theme for an idyl. The vast rocks, when bare even of moss, are at least rich and various
in tint and form, and have plenty of meaning to her.

A traveller between Omaha and San Francisco might well carry this pocket volume as a lorgnette.
It will show him what he might otherwise miss, and make more visible to him what he sees. It
belongs to a high class of railroad literature, and is in style and matter so full of movement
as to suggest the railway to readers by the fireside.

Putnam's Art Handbooks. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

This series of manuals for beginners with pencil and palette will include five small books.
The two before us treat of "Landscape Painting" and "Sketching from Nature." Both are old acquaintances,
reprinted respectively from the thirty-fourth and thirty-eighth London editions. When they
first came under our eye, more years ago than we need state, they bore the imprint of a London
firm of color-dealers, and were loaded down with advertisements and less direct recommendations
of their wares to an extent that rather obscured the valuable and interesting part of the publications.
This rubbish has been swept away in the American edition, so that the tyro can get at what
he needs to know more readily, and use it with more confidence, than when he was puzzled to
distinguish between solid instruction and hollow puffery. The notes added by the American editor
are very scant, and yet so sensible as to enhance one's regret at their paucity and meagreness.
Directions for the use of pigments and vehicles well enough adapted for the English climate
may require modification for ours. Moreover, British artists have not unfrequently, in their
methods, shown themselves too prone to sacrifice durability to immediate effect. The list of
colors has, too, been enriched by some accessions within the past third of a century which
demand mention. Such points should be considered in a new edition of the brochure on landscape
painting. Generally speaking, it is a good guide, and may safely be placed in the hands of
the young colorist.

The sketcher from Nature will find in the other a succinct set of rules clearly stated. He
will not need much else if he has a good hand and eye, and the industry and perseverance to
use them. He has first to render objects and scenes by simple lines; and to assist him in that
the elementary laws of perspective are here laid before him. Some mechanical appliances, such
as a small frame that may be carried in the pocket, divided by equidistant wires, vertical
and horizontal, and serving, when held before the eye, to fix the relative situation of points
in the view, we do not find alluded to. Perhaps they are as well let alone, as corks have been
abandoned in the swimming-school.

When the series is completed the whole may well be bound together. Smaller type, thinner paper
and less margin would make a book readily portable, containing all that is indispensable to
the student, and a good deal besides that the maturer artist will be none the worse for being
reminded of. One who has attained some little facility with the pencil might adopt it as a
sufficient mentor in the field or in the studio, and accept its guidance in a path to be perfected
by his own powers, according to their measure, toward such pleasure, elevation of taste or
fortune as art offers. Studies abound everywhere. The ruins, arched bridges and picturesque
dwellings and other erections of Europe are but slenderly to be regretted by the American beginner.
He has no lack of clouds, rocks, trees, houses, etc., embracing within their contours every
possible line and shade. He may even learn precision of line and tint better than his Transatlantic
brother, who is apt to be tempted into carelessness by the ragged variety and indecision of
the objects offered by his surroundings and nearly unknown here. The broken and wandering touch
suggested by the jagged stones of a crumbling castle is not that which one should begin by
cultivating. Breadth and firmness in form, color and chiaroscuro are attainments to be first
held in view, and never to be lost sight of.

We have often wondered that the technique of art should have so meagre a literature. Its philosophy
and poetry have employed many pens, and been exhaustively analyzed, but this has been mostly
the work of outsiders--of critics devoid even of the qualification laid down by Disraeli of
having failed in the practical exploitation of the field they discuss, but for all that often
powerful critics. Artists have rarely been able to paint their pictures in black and white
and run them through the press. They cannot so display the infinite gradations that grow upon
their canvas, nor trace in words the subtle principles which have presided at the birth of
their works and of every part of them. General rules they can lay down, as poets can the elements
of their own trade; but these rules are at the command of the veriest daub or rhymester; the
manifold development of them to results almost divine remaining, even to those who achieve
it in either walk, evasive and untraceable. The masters of verse and art have mapped out for
us none of their secrets. The deductions we make from their practice are our deductions, not
theirs. Raffaelle, if questioned, could only point to his palette spread with the common colors,
and Homer had not even pen and ink. Our versifiers are provided with admirable paper and gold
pens, and our artists, young and old, with the colors Elliott once told an inquirer he made
his marvellous flesh-tints with--red, blue and yellow.

Adventures of a Consul Abroad. By Luigi Monti. Boston: Lee & Shepard.

This is a didactic or illustrative story, with a moral we find thus laid down on the last page:
"Our government sends men abroad who, after hard labor and long experience, learn a complicated,
delicate and responsible profession; and no sooner have they learned it, and are able to perform
creditably to themselves and the government they represent all its intricate duties, than they
are recalled and replaced by inexperienced men, who have to go through the same ordeal, and
never stay long enough to be of real service to their country."

The gentleman upon whose shadowy shoulders is placed the heavy task of pointing this dictum
is Samuel Sampleton, Esq., teacher of a private seminary on Cape Cod, who gets tired of the
young idea and seeks more profitable and expanded fields of labor. He has not, at the outset,
the slightest preparation for the duties of the position--that of United States consul at Verdecuerno
(a translation of Palermo into "Greenhorn")--or even knowledge of what they are. His utter
lack of information in the premises is indeed quite exceptional, especially in a New England
teacher. We should have expected an average lad of fourteen in any part of the Union to have
suspected that a consul would need some acquaintance with the language of the people among
whom he was stationed, if not some slight notion of the general routine and purposes of the
office. Mr. Sampleton, however, is not lacking in shrewdness and energy, and sets to work manfully,
despite the difficulties of his situation, general and special. After several trying years,
the comical tribulations of which are graphically set forth, he is just beginning to feel himself
at home when he is summarily placed there in another sense by recall. He comes back as poor
as he went, save in experience and the languages, and resumes the ferule with the determination
not again to abandon it for the pen of the public employé.

It is chiefly to the social side of consular life that Mr. Monti introduces us, and most of
the scenes belong to that aspect. The salary, no longer eked out by fees and other perquisites,
is much inferior to the emoluments of other consuls at the same port, and the American representative
is consequently entirely outshone by his colleagues of other nationalities. A considerable
degree of diplomatic style is expected from the corps, and kept up by all but himself. In dinners,
equipages, buttons and gold lace, and display of every kind, not merely France, England and
Russia, but Denmark and Turkey, leave him deep in the shade. They have consular residences,
large offices and reading-rooms, with secretaries, interpreters and the other paraphernalia
of a small embassy, while Jonathan nests, with his wife, on the third or fourth flat of a suburban
rookery, and uses his dining-room for an office. The sea-captains grumble at having to seek
him in such a burrow, and being accorded nothing when they get there beyond the barest official
action. He cannot interchange courtesies with the magnates of the city, and thus places himself
and the interests of his country, so far as that often potent means of influence goes, at a
great disadvantage. A pompous commodore brings an American squadron into port, and is ineffably
disgusted at finding his consul utterly unable to do the honors or in any way assist the cruise.

Our author holds that the compensation of these mercantile and quasi-diplomatic agents ought
to be largely increased, it being now inadequate as measured either by their labor and responsibility
or by the allowances made by other nations, our commercial rivals. Certainly, additional pay
in any reasonable proportion would be but a trifle in comparison with the result should it
promote the rise of our marine from its present unprecedented state of depression. If consuls
will create, or recreate, shipping, and reintroduce the American flag to the numerous foreign
ports to which it is becoming each year more and more a stranger, let us by all means have
them everywhere and at liberal salaries, with quant. suff. of clerks, assistants, flunkeys,
dress-suits for dinner-parties and court-suits for state receptions, and all the other necessaries
of an efficient consulate, the want whereof so vexed the soul of Mr. Sampleton. And then let
us make fixtures of these gentlemen, with good behavior for their tenure of office, and in
the selection of them endeavor to apply abroad the test it seems next to impossible to adhere
to at home--honesty, capacity and fidelity.

Books Received.

The Bible for Learners. By Dr. H. Oort and Dr. I. Hooykaas. Volume II. From David to Josiah,
from Josiah to the supremacy of the Mosaic Law. Authorized Translation. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

A Vision of the Future: A Series of Papers on Canon Farrar's "Eternal Hope." By Various Divines.
(No. 3 of the International Religio-Science Series.) Detroit: Rose-Belford Publishing Co.

The Cincinnati Organ, with a Brief Description of the Cincinnati Music Hall. Edited by George
Ward Nichols. Cincinnati: Robert Clarke & Co.

Protection and Revenue in 1877. By William G. Sumner. (Economic Monographs, No. 8.) New York:
G. P. Putnam's Sons.

Hallock's American Club List and Sportsman Glossary. By Charles Hallock. New York: Forest and
Stream Publishing Co.

Shooting Stars, as observed from the "Sixth Column" of the Times. By W. L. Alden. New York:
G. P. Putnam's Sons.

Christ, His Nature and Work: A Series of Discourses by Eminent Divines. New York: G. P. Putnam's
Sons.

Poganuc People: Their Loves and Lives. By Harriet Beecher Stowe. New York: Fords, Howard &
Hurlbert.

Children of Nature. By the Earl of Desart. Toronto: Rose-Belford Publishing Co.

Francisco: A Poem. By William Watrous. San Francisco: A. L. Bancroft & Co.

Aspirations of the World. By L. Maria Child. Boston: Roberts Brothers.