"When I was a lad," said a facetious gentleman to the recorder of the anecdote, "I was, or
rather fancied myself to be, desperately in love with a very charming young lady. Dining at
her parents' house one day, I was unfortunately helped to the gizzard of a chicken, attached
to one of the wings. Aware, like most 'good boys' that it was extremely ungenteel to leave
anything upon my plate, and being over anxious to act with etiquette and circumspection in
this interesting circle, I, as a 'good boy' wished strictly to conform myself to the rules
of good breeding. But the gizzard of a fowl! Alas! it was impossible! how unfortunate! I abhorred
it! No, I could not either for love or money have swallowed such a thing! So, after blushing,
playing with the annoyance, and casting many a side-long glance to see if I was observed, I
contrived at length to roll it from my plate into my mouchoir, which I had placed on my knees
purposely for its reception; the next minute all was safely lodged in my pocket. Conversing
with the object of my affections, during the evening, in a state of nervous forgetfulness,
I drew forth my handkerchief, and in a superb flourish, out flew the GIZZARD! Good heavens!
my fair one stared, coloured, laughed; I was petrified; away flew my ecstatic dreams; and out
of the house I flung myself without one 'au revoir,' but with a consciousness of the truth
of that delectable ballad which proclaims, that 'Love has EYES!!' I thought no more of love
in that quarter, believe me!" M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADMIRAL RODNEY.

During the heat of the memorable battles with Count de Grasse, of April 9th and 12th, 1782,
the gallant Rodney desired his young aid-de-camp (Mr. Charles Dashwood[9]) to make him a glass
of lemonade, the ingredients for which were at hand. Not having any thing to stir it with but
a knife, already discoloured by the cutting of the lemon, Sir George coolly said, on Mr. Dashwood
presenting it to him, "Child, that may do for a midshipman, but not for an admiral--take it
yourself, and send my servant to me." C.C.

    [9] Afterwards advanced to the rank of post captain, in 1801.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXPRESSIVE WORDS.

I knew very well a French Chevalier, who on coming to England, applied himself with amazing
ardour to the study of our language, and his remarks upon it, if not always very acute were
at least entertaining. One day, reading aloud an English work, he stopped at the word SPLASH;
expressed himself highly delighted with it, as a term, which minutely described the thing meant;
then repeating it many times with marked pleasure, and a strong sibillation, he added, "No!
no! dere is noting at all, noting in my language dat de same would be like splash!" Perhaps
the following sentence from the satire of a notorious wit in Elizabeth's reign, is a fair specimen
of those expressive words which paint, the object of which they speak:--"To which place, Gabriel
came, ruffling it out, hufty-tufty, in his new suit of velvet." The man was vain; the writer
has made him a peacock.          M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

I would no more bring a new work out in summer than I would sell pork in the dog-days.--Bookseller
in Cit. World.