"Well, then, boys, we must assist our dear student; his hands, poor thing, are frost bitten
and do not obey."

The voice of the officer changes; it becomes sweet and smooth. He looks at the student with
pleasure.

"Take off his dear little trousers!" he orders his soldiers. The latter unbutton and tear down
his trousers. The student does not resist. Then he is thrown on the ground.

"Give him beans, boys!"

Two powerfully-built soldiers step forward, holding whips in their hands.

The flogging begins. It lasts a long time, accompanied by loud laughter, jokes and noise. The
student is silent all the time and lies with his face buried in the snow. He is constantly
being asked whether he feels allright, and is kicked with the boots on his head.

"Halt!" cries the officer at last, when the whole body of the student has been covered with
blood. The excited soldiers do not leave off at once, but continue for some time. At last they
stop.

"Please, sir, won't you allow us, too, to have a little game?" smilingly ask a couple of artillery
soldiers, saluting the officer.

"Well, have a go at him," says the officer kindly.

The second shift gets to work, and turning up their sleeves, takes over the bloody whips and
resumes the flogging of the student, who still, as before, is lying in the snow without uttering
a word. Only his body still thrills instinctively as the soldiers get more and more excited
and the blows become more and more frequent.

"Sir, we, too, want some of the lark," impatiently interfered some of the dragoons, and having
received the permission of the officer, substituted themselves for the artillery men and with
new force and zeal began to flog the student, who still lay strictly as before, only his body
scarcely moving.

"Well, here you are, you got your higher education--all the three faculties!" somebody joked
as the flogging at last stopped and the student lay motionless in the snow.

But he was not flogged to death. He was taken to the other side of the river and there shot.

II.--Lieutenant Schmidt, of the Sevastopol Mutiny, after being captured.

(From a letter received by Prof. Miliukov from a lady correspondent who saw Schmidt in the
Fortress and had the tale from his own lips.)

....He only remembers how the officers of the "Rostislavl" posted him naked, with a broken
leg, between two sentries in their mess-room and approached him in turns, shaking their fists
in his face and abusing him in the vilest terms. Schmidt's son, who, for some unaccountable
reason, had been kept in fortress for two months, said to me: "I cannot tell you how they abused
my father, the terms are unpronounceable." Schmidt himself spoke to me sobbingly of the painful
treatment meted out to him by the officers.... For twenty-four hours the two of them, father
and son, were kept stark naked and without food, under a fierce electric light, on the open
deck. They lay together, pressing against each other so as to warm themselves, and everyone
who passed looked at them, and those who wanted, abused them. When Schmidt, being wounded,
asked for a drop of water, the senior officer shouted at him: "Silence, or I'll stop your gullet
with my fist."

PATERNALISTIC GOVERNMENT.

By THEODORE SCHROEDER.

HISTORY serves no purpose to those who cannot, or do not avail themselves of it as a means
of learning helpful lessons, for present use. From a few sources not readily accessible to
the masses, I have copied a partial summary of paternalistic legislation which even the most
devout devotees to mass or ruling class wisdom would now decline to defend.

It is helpful, perhaps, to look back to the persistent fallacious assumption that men can be
made frugal and useful members of society by laws and edicts. This law was repealed in twenty
years. In 181 B. C. a law was passed limiting the number of guests at entertainments. In 161
B. C. it was provided that at certain festivals named the expense of entertainments should
not exceed 100 asses, and on ten other days of each month should not exceed 10 asses. Later
on it was allowed that 200 asses, valued at about $300, be spent upon marriage days.

A statute under Julian extended the privileges of extravagance on certain occasions to the
equivalent of $10, and $50 upon marriage feasts. Under Tiberius, $100 was made the limit of
expense for entertainments. Julius Cæsar proposed another law by which actual magistrates,
or magistrates elect, should not dine abroad except at certain prescribed places.

Sumptuary laws, that is to say, laws which profess to regulate minutely what people shall eat
and drink, what guests they shall entertain, what clothes they shall wear, what armor they
shall possess, what limit shall be put to their property, what expense they shall incur at
their funerals, were considered by the Early and Middle Ages as absolutely necessary for the
proper government of mankind.

Tiberius issued an edict against people kissing each other when they met and against tavern
keepers selling pastry. Lycurgus even prohibited finely decorated ceilings and doors. In England
the statutes of laborers, reciting the pestilence and scarcity of servants, made it compulsory
on every person who had no merchandise, craft or land on which to live, to serve at fixed wages,
otherwise to be committed to gaol till he found sureties. At a latter day, all men between
twelve and sixty not employed were compelled to hire themselves as servants in husbandry; and
unmarried women between twelve and forty were also liable to be hired, otherwise to be imprisoned.
All this, of course, was to compel people of modest wealth to remain among the laboring class
purely for their own good. (?) But they were quite impartial in enforcing benefits, since the
Star Chamber also assumed to fine persons for not accepting knighthood.

Compulsion was also used at the time of the Reformation, to uphold the Protestant faith and
keep people in the right way. Refusing to confess or receive the sacrament was first made subject
to fine or imprisonment, and a second offense was a felony punishable by death, and involved
forfeiture of land and goods. Those who, having no lawful excuse, failed to attend the parish
church, in the time of Elizabeth, were fined twelve pence--at that time a considerable sum.
This penalty was afterwards altered to twenty pounds a month, but those were exempted who did
not obstinately refuse. The penalty on all above sixteen who neglected to go for a month was
abjuration of the realm; and to return to the realm thereafter was felony. And two-thirds of
the rent of the offender's lands might also be seized till he conformed.

An ordinance of Edward III., in 1336, prohibited any man having more than two courses at any
meal. Each mess was to have only two sorts of victuals, and it was prescribed how far one could
mix sauce with his pottage, except on feast days, when three courses, at most, were allowable.

