They were addressed to Miss Fosdick, into whose neighbourhood chance had thrown him at a dinner,
a year or so later than their encounter at the Uplift Club. Hitherto he had successfully, and
intentionally, avoided Miss Fosdick, not from any animosity toward that unconscious instrument
of fate, but from an intense reluctance to pronounce the words which he knew he should have
to speak if they met.

Now, as it turned out, his chief surprise was that she should wait so long to make him speak
them. All through the dinner she had swept him along on a rapid current of talk which showed
no tendency to linger or turn back upon the past. At first he ascribed her reserve to a sense
of delicacy with which he reproached himself for not having previously credited her; then he
saw that she had been carried so far beyond the point at which they had last faced each other,
that it was by the merest hazard of associated ideas that she was now finally borne back to
it. For it appeared that the very next evening, at Mrs. Beecher Bain's, a Hindu Mahatma was
to lecture to the Uplift Club on the Limits of the Subliminal; and it was owing to no less
a person than Howland Wade that this exceptional privilege had been obtained.

"Of course Howland's known all over the world as the interpreter of Pellerinism, and the Aga
Gautch, who had absolutely declined to speak anywhere in public, wrote to Isabella that he
could not refuse anything that Mr. Wade asked. Did you know that Howland's lecture, 'What Pellerinism
Means,' has been translated into twenty-two languages, and gone into a fifth edition in Icelandic?
Why, that reminds me," Miss Fosdick broke off--"I've never heard what became of your queer
friend--what was his name?--whom you and Bob Wade accused me of spiriting away after that very
lecture. And I've never seen you since you rushed into the house the next morning, and dragged
me out of bed to know what I'd done with him!"

With a sharp effort Bernald gathered himself together to have it out. "Well, what did you do
with him?" he retorted.

She laughed her appreciation of his humour. "Just what I told you, of course. I said good-bye
to him on Isabella's door-step."

Bernald looked at her. "It's really true, then, that he didn't go home with you?"

She bantered back: "Have you suspected me, all this time, of hiding his remains in the cellar?"
And with a droop of her fine lids she added: "I wish he had come home with me, for he was rather
interesting, and there were things I think I could have explained to him."

Bernald helped himself to a nectarine, and Miss Fosdick continued on a note of amused curiosity:
"So you've really never had any news of him since that night?"

"No--I've never had any news of him."

"Not the least little message?"

"Not the least little message."

"Or a rumour or report of any kind?"

"Or a rumour or report of any kind."

Miss Fosdick's interest seemed to be revived by the strangeness of the case. "It's rather creepy,
isn't it? What could have happened? You don't suppose he could have been waylaid and murdered?"
she asked with brightening eyes.

Bernald shook his head serenely. "No. I'm sure he's safe--quite safe."

"But if you're sure, you must know something."

"No. I know nothing," he repeated.

She scanned him incredulously. "But what's your theory--for you must have a theory? What in
the world can have become of him?"

Bernald returned her look and hesitated. "Do you happen to remember the last thing he said
to you--the very last, on the door-step, when he left you?"

"The last thing?" She poised her fork above the peach on her plate. "I don't think he said
anything. Oh, yes--when I reminded him that he'd solemnly promised to come back with me and
have a little talk he said he couldn't because he was going home."

"Well, then, I suppose," said Bernald, "he went home."

She glanced at him as if suspecting a trap. "Dear me, how flat! I always inclined to a mysterious
murder. But of course you know more of him than you say."

She began to cut her peach, but paused above a lifted bit to ask, with a renewal of animation
in her expressive eyes: "By the way, had you heard that Howland Wade has been gradually getting
farther and farther away from Pellerinism? It seems he's begun to feel that there's a Positivist
element in it which is narrowing to any one who has gone at all deeply into the Wisdom of the
East. He was intensely interesting about it the other day, and of course I do see what he feels.
... Oh, it's too long to tell you now; but if you could manage to come in to tea some afternoon
soon--any day but Wednesday--I should so like to explain--"

THE EYES

I

WE had been put in the mood for ghosts, that evening, after an excellent dinner at our old
friend Culwin's, by a tale of Fred Murchard's--the narrative of a strange personal visitation.

Seen through the haze of our cigars, and by the drowsy gleam of a coal fire, Culwin's library,
with its oak walls and dark old bindings, made a good setting for such evocations; and ghostly
experiences at first hand being, after Murchard's brilliant opening, the only kind acceptable
to us, we proceeded to take stock of our group and tax each member for a contribution. There
were eight of us, and seven contrived, in a manner more or less adequate, to fulfil the condition
imposed. It surprised us all to find that we could muster such a show of supernatural impressions,
for none of us, excepting Murchard himself and young Phil Frenham--whose story was the slightest
of the lot--had the habit of sending our souls into the invisible. So that, on the whole, we
had every reason to be proud of our seven "exhibits," and none of us would have dreamed of
expecting an eighth from our host.

Our old friend, Mr. Andrew Culwin, who had sat back in his arm-chair, listening and blinking
through the smoke circles with the cheerful tolerance of a wise old idol, was not the kind
of man likely to be favoured with such contacts, though he had imagination enough to enjoy,
without envying, the superior privileges of his guests. By age and by education he belonged
to the stout Positivist tradition, and his habit of thought had been formed in the days of
the epic struggle between physics and metaphysics. But he had been, then and always, essentially
a spectator, a humorous detached observer of the immense muddled variety show of life, slipping
out of his seat now and then for a brief dip into the convivialities at the back of the house,
but never, as far as one knew, showing the least desire to jump on the stage and do a "turn."

Among his contemporaries there lingered a vague tradition of his having, at a remote period,
and in a romantic clime, been wounded in a duel; but this legend no more tallied with what
we younger men knew of his character than my mother's assertion that he had once been "a charming
little man with nice eyes" corresponded to any possible reconstitution of his dry thwarted
physiognomy.

"He never can have looked like anything but a bundle of sticks," Murchard had once said of
him. "Or a phosphorescent log, rather," some one else amended; and we recognized the happiness
of this description of his small squat trunk, with the red blink of the eyes in a face like
mottled bark. He had always been possessed of a leisure which he had nursed and protected,
instead of squandering it in vain activities. His carefully guarded hours had been devoted
to the cultivation of a fine intelligence and a few judiciously chosen habits; and none of
the disturbances common to human experience seemed to have crossed his sky. Nevertheless, his
dispassionate survey of the universe had not raised his opinion of that costly experiment,
and his study of the human race seemed to have resulted in the conclusion that all men were
superfluous, and women necessary only because some one had to do the cooking. On the importance
of this point his convictions were absolute, and gastronomy was the only science which he revered
as dogma. It must be owned that his little dinners were a strong argument in favour of this
view, besides being a reason--though not the main one--for the fidelity of his friends.

Mentally he exercised a hospitality less seductive but no less stimulating. His mind was like
a forum, or some open meeting-place for the exchange of ideas: somewhat cold and draughty,
but light, spacious and orderly--a kind of academic grove from which all the leaves had fallen.
In this privileged area a dozen of us were wont to stretch our muscles and expand our lungs;
and, as if to prolong as much as possible the tradition of what we felt to be a vanishing institution,
one or two neophytes were now and then added to our band.

Young Phil Frenham was the last, and the most interesting, of these recruits, and a good example
of Murchard's somewhat morbid assertion that our old friend "liked 'em juicy." It was indeed
a fact that Culwin, for all his mental dryness, specially tasted the lyric qualities in youth.
As he was far too good an Epicurean to nip the flowers of soul which he gathered for his garden,
his friendship was not a disintegrating influence: on the contrary, it forced the young idea
to robuster bloom. And in Phil Frenham he had a fine subject for experimentation. The boy was
really intelligent, and the soundness of his nature was like the pure paste under a delicate
glaze. Culwin had fished him out of a thick fog of family dulness, and pulled him up to a peak
in Darien; and the adventure hadn't hurt him a bit. Indeed, the skill with which Culwin had
contrived to stimulate his curiosities without robbing them of their young bloom of awe seemed
to me a sufficient answer to Murchard's ogreish metaphor. There was nothing hectic in Frenham's
efflorescence, and his old friend had not laid even a finger-tip on the sacred stupidities.
One wanted no better proof of that than the fact that Frenham still reverenced them in Culwin.

"There's a side of him you fellows don't see. I believe that story about the duel!" he declared;
and it was of the very essence of this belief that it should impel him--just as our little
party was dispersing--to turn back to our host with the absurd demand: "And now you've got
to tell us about your ghost!"

The outer door had closed on Murchard and the others; only Frenham and I remained; and the
vigilant servant who presided over Culwin's destinies, having brought a fresh supply of soda-water,
had been laconically ordered to bed.

Culwin's sociability was a night-blooming flower, and we knew that he expected the nucleus
of his group to tighten around him after midnight. But Frenham's appeal seemed to disconcert
him comically, and he rose from the chair in which he had just reseated himself after his farewells
in the hall.

"My ghost? Do you suppose I'm fool enough to go to the expense of keeping one of my own, when
there are so many charming ones in my friends' closets?--Take another cigar," he said, revolving
toward me with a laugh.

Frenham laughed too, pulling up his slender height before the chimney-piece as he turned to
face his short bristling friend.

"Oh," he said, "you'd never be content to share if you met one you really liked."

Culwin had dropped back into his armchair, his shock head embedded in its habitual hollow,
his little eyes glimmering over a fresh cigar.

"Liked--liked? Good Lord!" he growled.

"Ah, you have, then!" Frenham pounced on him in the same instant, with a sidewise glance of
victory at me; but Culwin cowered gnomelike among his cushions, dissembling himself in a protective
cloud of smoke.

"What's the use of denying it? You've seen everything, so of course you've seen a ghost!" his
young friend persisted, talking intrepidly into the cloud. "Or, if you haven't seen one, it's
only because you've seen two!"

The form of the challenge seemed to strike our host. He shot his head out of the mist with
a queer tortoise-like motion he sometimes had, and blinked approvingly at Frenham.

"Yes," he suddenly flung at us on a shrill jerk of laughter; "it's only because I've seen two!"

The words were so unexpected that they dropped down and down into a fathomless silence, while
we continued to stare at each other over Culwin's head, and Culwin stared at his ghosts. At
length Frenham, without speaking, threw himself into the chair on the other side of the hearth,
and leaned forward with his listening smile ...

II

"OH, of course they're not show ghosts--a collector wouldn't think anything of them ... Don't
let me raise your hopes ... their one merit is their numerical strength: the exceptional fact
of their being two. But, as against this, I'm bound to admit that at any moment I could probably
have exorcised them both by asking my doctor for a prescription, or my oculist for a pair of
spectacles. Only, as I never could make up my mind whether to go to the doctor or the oculist--whether
I was afflicted by an optical or a digestive delusion--I left them to pursue their interesting
double life, though at times they made mine exceedingly comfortable ...

"Yes--uncomfortable; and you know how I hate to be uncomfortable! But it was part of my stupid
pride, when the thing began, not to admit that I could be disturbed by the trifling matter
of seeing two--

"And then I'd no reason, really, to suppose I was ill. As far as I knew I was simply bored--horribly
bored. But it was part of my boredom--I remember--that I was feeling so uncommonly well, and
didn't know how on earth to work off my surplus energy. I had come back from a long journey--down
in South America and Mexico--and had settled down for the winter near New York, with an old
aunt who had known Washington Irving and corresponded with N. P. Willis. She lived, not far
from Irvington, in a damp Gothic villa, overhung by Norway spruces, and looking exactly like
a memorial emblem done in hair. Her personal appearance was in keeping with this image, and
her own hair--of which there was little left--might have been sacrificed to the manufacture
of the emblem.

"I had just reached the end of an agitated year, with considerable arrears to make up in money
and emotion; and theoretically it seemed as though my aunt's mild hospitality would be as beneficial
to my nerves as to my purse. But the deuce of it was that as soon as I felt myself safe and
sheltered my energy began to revive; and how was I to work it off inside of a memorial emblem?
I had, at that time, the agreeable illusion that sustained intellectual effort could engage
a man's whole activity; and I decided to write a great book--I forget about what. My aunt,
impressed by my plan, gave up to me her Gothic library, filled with classics in black cloth
and daguerrotypes of faded celebrities; and I sat down at my desk to make myself a place among
their number. And to facilitate my task she lent me a cousin to copy my manuscript.

"The cousin was a nice girl, and I had an idea that a nice girl was just what I needed to restore
my faith in human nature, and principally in myself. She was neither beautiful nor intelligent--poor
Alice Nowell!--but it interested me to see any woman content to be so uninteresting, and I
wanted to find out the secret of her content. In doing this I handled it rather rashly, and
put it out of joint--oh, just for a moment! There's no fatuity in telling you this, for the
poor girl had never seen any one but cousins ...

"Well, I was sorry for what I'd done, of course, and confoundedly bothered as to how I should
put it straight. She was staying in the house, and one evening, after my aunt had gone to bed,
she came down to the library to fetch a book she'd mislaid, like any artless heroine on the
shelves behind us. She was pink-nosed and flustered, and it suddenly occurred to me that her
hair, though it was fairly thick and pretty, would look exactly like my aunt's when she grew
older. I was glad I had noticed this, for it made it easier for me to do what was right; and
when I had found the book she hadn't lost I told her I was leaving for Europe that week.

"Europe was terribly far off in those days, and Alice knew at once what I meant. She didn't
take it in the least as I'd expected--it would have been easier if she had. She held her book
very tight, and turned away a moment to wind up the lamp on my desk--it had a ground glass
shade with vine leaves, and glass drops around the edge, I remember. Then she came back, held
out her hand, and said: 'Good-bye.' And as she said it she looked straight at me and kissed
me. I had never felt anything as fresh and shy and brave as her kiss. It was worse than any
reproach, and it made me ashamed to deserve a reproach from her. I said to myself: 'I'll marry
her, and when my aunt dies she'll leave us this house, and I'll sit here at the desk and go
on with my book; and Alice will sit over there with her embroidery and look at me as she's
looking now. And life will go on like that for any number of years.' The prospect frightened
me a little, but at the time it didn't frighten me as much as doing anything to hurt her; and
ten minutes later she had my seal ring on my finger, and my promise that when I went abroad
she should go with me.

"You'll wonder why I'm enlarging on this familiar incident. It's because the evening on which
it took place was the very evening on which I first saw the queer sight I've spoken of. Being
at that time an ardent believer in a necessary sequence between cause and effect I naturally
tried to trace some kind of link between what had just happened to me in my aunt's library,
and what was to happen a few hours later on the same night; and so the coincidence between
the two events always remained in my mind.

"I went up to bed with rather a heavy heart, for I was bowed under the weight of the first
good action I had ever consciously committed; and young as I was, I saw the gravity of my situation.
Don't imagine from this that I had hitherto been an instrument of destruction. I had been merely
a harmless young man, who had followed his bent and declined all collaboration with Providence.
Now I had suddenly undertaken to promote the moral order of the world, and I felt a good deal
like the trustful spectator who has given his gold watch to the conjurer, and doesn't know
in what shape he'll get it back when the trick is over ... Still, a glow of self-righteousness
tempered my fears, and I said to myself as I undressed that when I'd got used to being good
it probably wouldn't make me as nervous as it did at the start. And by the time I was in bed,
and had blown out my candle, I felt that I really was getting used to it, and that, as far
as I'd got, it was not unlike sinking down into one of my aunt's very softest wool mattresses.

"I closed my eyes on this image, and when I opened them it must have been a good deal later,
for my room had grown cold, and the night was intensely still. I was waked suddenly by the
feeling we all know--the feeling that there was something near me that hadn't been there when
I fell asleep. I sat up and strained my eyes into the darkness. The room was pitch black, and
at first I saw nothing; but gradually a vague glimmer at the foot of the bed turned into two
eyes staring back at me. I couldn't see the face attached to them--on account of the darkness,
I imagined--but as I looked the eyes grew more and more distinct: they gave out a light of
their own.

"The sensation of being thus gazed at was far from pleasant, and you might suppose that my
first impulse would have been to jump out of bed and hurl myself on the invisible figure attached
to the eyes. But it wasn't--my impulse was simply to lie still ... I can't say whether this
was due to an immediate sense of the uncanny nature of the apparition--to the certainty that
if I did jump out of bed I should hurl myself on nothing--or merely to the benumbing effect
of the eyes themselves. They were the very worst eyes I've ever seen: a man's eyes--but what
a man! My first thought was that he must be frightfully old. The orbits were sunk, and the
thick red-lined lids hung over the eyeballs like blinds of which the cords are broken. One
lid drooped a little lower than the other, with the effect of a crooked leer; and between these
pulpy folds of flesh, with their scant bristle of lashes, the eyes themselves, small glassy
disks with an agate-like rim about the pupils, looked like sea-pebbles in the grip of a starfish.

"But the age of the eyes was not the most unpleasant thing about them. What turned me sick
was their expression of vicious security. I don't know how else to describe the fact that they
seemed to belong to a man who had done a lot of harm in his life, but had always kept just
inside the danger lines. They were not the eyes of a coward, but of some one much too clever
to take risks; and my gorge rose at their look of base astuteness. Yet even that wasn't the
worst; for as we continued to scan each other I saw in them a tinge of faint derision, and
felt myself to be its object.

"At that I was seized by an impulse of rage that jerked me out of bed and pitched me straight
on the unseen figure at its foot. But of course there wasn't any figure there, and my fists
struck at emptiness. Ashamed and cold, I groped about for a match and lit the candles. The
room looked just as usual--as I had known it would; and I crawled back to bed, and blew out
the lights.

"As soon as the room was dark again the eyes reappeared; and I now applied myself to explaining
them on scientific principles. At first I thought the illusion might have been caused by the
glow of the last embers in the chimney; but the fire-place was on the other side of my bed,
and so placed that the fire could not possibly be reflected in my toilet glass, which was the
only mirror in the room. Then it occurred to me that I might have been tricked by the reflection
of the embers in some polished bit of wood or metal; and though I couldn't discover any object
of the sort in my line of vision, I got up again, groped my way to the hearth, and covered
what was left of the fire. But as soon as I was back in bed the eyes were back at its foot.

"They were an hallucination, then: that was plain. But the fact that they were not due to any
external dupery didn't make them a bit pleasanter to see. For if they were a projection of
my inner consciousness, what the deuce was the matter with that organ? I had gone deeply enough
into the mystery of morbid pathological states to picture the conditions under which an exploring
mind might lay itself open to such a midnight admonition; but I couldn't fit it to my present
case. I had never felt more normal, mentally and physically; and the only unusual fact in my
situation--that of having assured the happiness of an amiable girl--did not seem of a kind
to summon unclean spirits about my pillow. But there were the eyes still looking at me ...

"I shut mine, and tried to evoke a vision of Alice Nowell's. They were not remarkable eyes,
but they were as wholesome as fresh water, and if she had had more imagination--or longer lashes--their
expression might have been interesting. As it was, they did not prove very efficacious, and
in a few moments I perceived that they had mysteriously changed into the eyes at the foot of
the bed. It exasperated me more to feel these glaring at me through my shut lids than to see
them, and I opened my eyes again and looked straight into their hateful stare ...

"And so it went on all night. I can't tell you what that night was, nor how long it lasted.
Have you ever lain in bed, hopelessly wide awake, and tried to keep your eyes shut, knowing
that if you opened 'em you'd see something you dreaded and loathed? It sounds easy, but it's
devilish hard. Those eyes hung there and drew me. I had the vertige de l'abime, and their red
lids were the edge of my abyss. ... I had known nervous hours before: hours when I'd felt the
wind of danger in my neck; but never this kind of strain. It wasn't that the eyes were so awful;
they hadn't the majesty of the powers of darkness. But they had--how shall I say?--a physical
effect that was the equivalent of a bad smell: their look left a smear like a snail's. And
I didn't see what business they had with me, anyhow--and I stared and stared, trying to find
out ...

"I don't know what effect they were trying to produce; but the effect they did produce was
that of making me pack my portmanteau and bolt to town early the next morning. I left a note
for my aunt, explaining that I was ill and had gone to see my doctor; and as a matter of fact
I did feel uncommonly ill--the night seemed to have pumped all the blood out of me. But when
I reached town I didn't go to the doctor's. I went to a friend's rooms, and threw myself on
a bed, and slept for ten heavenly hours. When I woke it was the middle of the night, and I
turned cold at the thought of what might be waiting for me. I sat up, shaking, and stared into
the darkness; but there wasn't a break in its blessed surface, and when I saw that the eyes
were not there I dropped back into another long sleep.

"I had left no word for Alice when I fled, because I meant to go back the next morning. But
the next morning I was too exhausted to stir. As the day went on the exhaustion increased,
instead of wearing off like the lassitude left by an ordinary night of insomnia: the effect
of the eyes seemed to be cumulative, and the thought of seeing them again grew intolerable.
For two days I struggled with my dread; but on the third evening I pulled myself together and
decided to go back the next morning. I felt a good deal happier as soon as I'd decided, for
I knew that my abrupt disappearance, and the strangeness of my not writing, must have been
very painful for poor Alice. That night I went to bed with an easy mind, and fell asleep at
once; but in the middle of the night I woke, and there were the eyes ...

"Well, I simply couldn't face them; and instead of going back to my aunt's I bundled a few
things into a trunk and jumped onto the first steamer for England. I was so dead tired when
I got on board that I crawled straight into my berth, and slept most of the way over; and I
can't tell you the bliss it was to wake from those long stretches of dreamless sleep and look
fearlessly into the darkness, knowing that I shouldn't see the eyes ...

"I stayed abroad for a year, and then I stayed for another; and during that time I never had
a glimpse of them. That was enough reason for prolonging my stay if I'd been on a desert island.
Another was, of course, that I had perfectly come to see, on the voyage over, the folly, complete
impossibility, of my marrying Alice Nowell. The fact that I had been so slow in making this
discovery annoyed me, and made me want to avoid explanations. The bliss of escaping at one
stroke from the eyes, and from this other embarrassment, gave my freedom an extraordinary zest;
and the longer I savoured it the better I liked its taste.

"The eyes had burned such a hole in my consciousness that for a long time I went on puzzling
over the nature of the apparition, and wondering nervously if it would ever come back. But
as time passed I lost this dread, and retained only the precision of the image. Then that faded
in its turn.

"The second year found me settled in Rome, where I was planning, I believe, to write another
great book--a definitive work on Etruscan influences in Italian art. At any rate, I'd found
some pretext of the kind for taking a sunny apartment in the Piazza di Spagna and dabbling
about indefinitely in the Forum; and there, one morning, a charming youth came to me. As he
stood there in the warm light, slender and smooth and hyacinthine, he might have stepped from
a ruined altar--one to Antinous, say--but he'd come instead from New York, with a letter (of
all people) from Alice Nowell. The letter--the first I'd had from her since our break--was
simply a line introducing her young cousin, Gilbert Noyes, and appealing to me to befriend
him. It appeared, poor lad, that he 'had talent,' and 'wanted to write'; and, an obdurate family
having insisted that his calligraphy should take the form of double entry, Alice had intervened
to win him six months' respite, during which he was to travel on a meagre pittance, and somehow
prove his ultimate ability to increase it by his pen. The quaint conditions of the test struck
me first: it seemed about as conclusive as a mediaeval 'ordeal.' Then I was touched by her
having sent him to me. I had always wanted to do her some service, to justify myself in my
own eyes rather than hers; and here was a beautiful embodiment of my chance.

"Well, I imagine it's safe to lay down the general principle that predestined geniuses don't,
as a rule, appear before one in the spring sunshine of the Forum looking like one of its banished
gods. At any rate, poor Noyes wasn't a predestined genius. But he was beautiful to see, and
charming as a comrade too. It was only when he began to talk literature that my heart failed
me. I knew all the symptoms so well--the things he had 'in him,' and the things outside him
that impinged! There's the real test, after all. It was always--punctually, inevitably, with
the inexorableness of a mechanical law--it was always the wrong thing that struck him. I grew
to find a certain grim fascination in deciding in advance exactly which wrong thing he'd select;
and I acquired an astonishing skill at the game ...

"The worst of it was that his betise wasn't of the too obvious sort. Ladies who met him at
picnics thought him intellectual; and even at dinners he passed for clever. I, who had him
under the microscope, fancied now and then that he might develop some kind of a slim talent,
something that he could make 'do' and be happy on; and wasn't that, after all, what I was concerned
with? He was so charming--he continued to be so charming--that he called forth all my charity
in support of this argument; and for the first few months I really believed there was a chance
for him ...

"Those months were delightful. Noyes was constantly with me, and the more I saw of him the
better I liked him. His stupidity was a natural grace--it was as beautiful, really, as his
eye-lashes. And he was so gay, so affectionate, and so happy with me, that telling him the
truth would have been about as pleasant as slitting the throat of some artless animal. At first
I used to wonder what had put into that radiant head the detestable delusion that it held a
brain. Then I began to see that it was simply protective mimicry--an instinctive ruse to get
away from family life and an office desk. Not that Gilbert didn't--dear lad!--believe in himself.
There wasn't a trace of hypocrisy in his composition. He was sure that his 'call' was irresistible,
while to me it was the saving grace of his situation that it wasn't, and that a little money,
a little leisure, a little pleasure would have turned him into an inoffensive idler. Unluckily,
however, there was no hope of money, and with the grim alternative of the office desk before
him he couldn't postpone his attempt at literature. The stuff he turned out was deplorable,
and I see now that I knew it from the first. Still, the absurdity of deciding a man's whole
future on a first trial seemed to justify me in withholding my verdict, and perhaps even in
encouraging him a little, on the ground that the human plant generally needs warmth to flower.

"At any rate, I proceeded on that principle, and carried it to the point of getting his term
of probation extended. When I left Rome he went with me, and we idled away a delicious summer
between Capri and Venice. I said to myself: 'If he has anything in him, it will come out now;
and it did. He was never more enchanting and enchanted. There were moments of our pilgrimage
when beauty born of murmuring sound seemed actually to pass into his face--but only to issue
forth in a shallow flood of the palest ink ...

"Well the time came to turn off the tap; and I knew there was no hand but mine to do it. We
were back in Rome, and I had taken him to stay with me, not wanting him to be alone in his
dismal pension when he had to face the necessity of renouncing his ambition. I hadn't, of course,
relied solely on my own judgment in deciding to advise him to drop literature. I had sent his
stuff to various people--editors and critics--and they had always sent it back with the same
chilling lack of comment. Really there was nothing on earth to say about it--

"I confess I never felt more shabbily than I did on the day when I decided to have it out with
Gilbert. It was well enough to tell myself that it was my duty to knock the poor boy's hopes
into splinters--but I'd like to know what act of gratuitous cruelty hasn't been justified on
that plea? I've always shrunk from usurping the functions of Providence, and when I have to
exercise them I decidedly prefer that it shouldn't be on an errand of destruction. Besides,
in the last issue, who was I to decide, even after a year's trial, if poor Gilbert had it in
him or not?

"The more I looked at the part I'd resolved to play, the less I liked it; and I liked it still
less when Gilbert sat opposite me, with his head thrown back in the lamplight, just as Phil's
is now ... I'd been going over his last manuscript, and he knew it, and he knew that his future
hung on my verdict--we'd tacitly agreed to that. The manuscript lay between us, on my table--a
novel, his first novel, if you please!--and he reached over and laid his hand on it, and looked
up at me with all his life in the look.

"I stood up and cleared my throat, trying to keep my eyes away from his face and on the manuscript.

"'The fact is, my dear Gilbert,' I began--

"I saw him turn pale, but he was up and facing me in an instant.

"'Oh, look here, don't take on so, my dear fellow! I'm not so awfully cut up as all that!'
His hands were on my shoulders, and he was laughing down on me from his full height, with a
kind of mortally-stricken gaiety that drove the knife into my side.

"He was too beautifully brave for me to keep up any humbug about my duty. And it came over
me suddenly how I should hurt others in hurting him: myself first, since sending him home meant
losing him; but more particularly poor Alice Nowell, to whom I had so uneasily longed to prove
my good faith and my immense desire to serve her. It really seemed like failing her twice to
fail Gilbert--

