"I found it in a hole at the foot of the olive-tree," she explained. "It must belong to this
house."

The lady took the box and opened it, emptying the contents on her lap. There lay the diamond
lizard, and the roll of French bank-notes.

"You see that Pierre was a dishonest servant, although nothing was found on him," said the
lady to those about her. "He must have hidden this box in the olive grove to return from Nice
later and find it."

Gita listened with her mouth and eyes wide open. The lady looked at her and smiled.

"You are a good girl," she said.

Then she selected one of the bills and gave it to Gita. It was a note of one hundred francs.

"Now I can marry Raphael!" she cried.

Raphael was standing beside grandmother's chestnut-roaster when both saw Gita running toward
them, her cheeks red, and her eyes flashing like stars. She had to tell all about the frog,
not only to them, but to the neighbors. As for grandmother, she could not hear the story often
enough. When she had been a lemon girl no such luck had befallen her.

"Who would have thought of finding a wedding dowry in a frog?" laughed Raphael.

Gita and Raphael are soon to be married in the yellow church on the hill. The olive-pickers
in the grove seek for something beside the dark berries; they hope to find a green frog under
a stone, containing money and a diamond lizard; but this will never again happen.

JAPANESE LIFE.

The Japanese is the cleanest of mankind. Cleanliness is, so to speak, more than godliness with
him. Though he has no soap, he washes all over at least once a day--he worships but once a
week. His candles are made of vegetable wax. He uses a cotton coverlet, well stuffed and padded,
for bed-covering and mattress. A sort of stereoscope case--made of wood--makes his pillow.
He resorts to that, and so do his wife and daughters, that their carefully arranged hair may
not be disarranged during sleep. No head-covering is worn by the Japanese. No nation dresses
the hair so tastefully. Usually it is with the men shaved in sections. They are coming now
to wear it in European fashion. They are adopting all European customs.

On levée day I saw the reception at the Mikado's palace in Yeddo. Every one presented had to
come in European full dress. That dress does not become the Japanese figure. He looks awkward
in it. His legs are too short. The tails of his claw-hammer coat drag on the ground, and the
black dress trousers wrinkle up and get baggy around his feet. His European-fashioned clothes
have been sent out ready-made from America or England, and in no case did I notice anything
approaching to a good fit. Yet he smiled and looked happy, though he could not get his heels
half way down his Wellington boots, and his hat was either too large or too small for his head.
He always smiles and looks pleasant. Nothing can make him grumble, and he has not learned to
swear. He is satisfied to be paid his due, and never asks for more. As a New York cabman he
would be a veritable living curiosity.

WHERE DID POTATOES COME FROM?

Nobody knows precisely where the potato came from originally. It has been found, apparently
indigenous, in many parts of the world. Mr. Darwin, for instance, found it wild in the Chonos
Archipelago. Sir W. J. Hooker says that it is common at Valparaiso, where it grows abundantly
on the sandy hills near the sea. In Peru and other parts of South America it appears to be
at home; and it is a noteworthy fact that Mr. Darwin should have noted it both in the humid
forests of the Chonos Archipelago and among the central Chilian mountains, where sometimes
rain does not fall for six months at a stretch. It was to the colonists whom Sir Walter Raleigh
sent out in Elizabeth's reign that we are indebted for our potatoes.

Herriot, who went out with these colonists, and who wrote an account of his travels, makes
what may, perhaps, be regarded as the earliest mention of this vegetable. Under the heading
of "Roots," he mentions what he calls the "openawk." "These roots," he says, "are round, some
large as a walnut, others much larger. They grow on damp soils, many hanging together as if
fixed on ropes. They are good food, either boiled or roasted."

At the beginning of the seventeenth century this root was planted, as a curious exotic, in
the gardens of the nobility, but it was long ere it came into general use. Many held them to
be poisonous, and it would seem not altogether unreasonably so either. The potato is closely
related to the deadly-nightshade and the mandrake, and from its stems and leaves may be extracted
a very powerful narcotic. In England prejudice against it was for a long time very strong,
especially among the poor.

[Begun in HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE No. 47, September 21.]

"MOONSHINERS."

BY E. H. MILLER.

CHAPTER II.

CONNY FINDS A HOME.

Two days afterward, when the doctor went out for his horse, he found Conny sitting astride
the block, his lap filled with sweet white clover, which he was feeding to Prince with one
hand, while with the other he stroked the beautiful head that was bent down to him. He dropped
to his feet on seeing the doctor, and made a bow, grave and stiff, but not at all bashful.

"I have come to live with you, sir," he said.

"Indeed," laughed the doctor; "and what do you suppose I want of you?"

"I don't know, sir; but my feyther always told me, if he died, I was not to stay on the mountain,
but go to some good man who would teach me to work."

"And how do you know I am a good man?" asked the doctor, looking keenly at the boy. "You have
never seen me but once."

"I have seen you often. I saw you when you mended the rabbit's leg. Jock Riley broke it with
his big cart-whip."

"And where were you, pray?"

"Up in a tree, lying along a limb. And I was in the big tamarack when you climbed up the hill
for the little flower. I often wanted to know why you cared to get it. My feyther thought perhaps
it was good for medicine; but when I told him you only took one, he said then he couldn't tell;
it might be you were crazed."

The doctor laughed heartily. It was by no means the first time his passion for botanizing had
been called a craze.

"Well, Conny," said he, "go into the house and get your breakfast, and when I come back we
will talk this matter over."

He stopped for a word of explanation with his wife, and drove away, leaving Conny on the door-step,
with a substantial slice of bread and meat in his hands, and a bowl of milk beside him, while
little Betty peeped shyly at him through the window.

It gave the doctor a curious sensation to think, as he rode through the solitary woods, of
the little watcher stretched along a mossy limb, or peering out from a treetop, like some strange,
wild creature.

"He must have been set to keep guard by the moon-shiners," he thought. "I wonder if they suspected
I meant them mischief?" And then like a flash came another thought: "They have sent him to
me now as a spy to find out if I have any secret business for the government. I should rather
enjoy giving them a scare, if it were not for my wife and Betty."

The doctor fully made up his mind before he went home to send Conny on his ways, but in the
end he did no such thing. Old Timothy made much pretense of finding whether he belonged to
Dunsmore or Killbourne, and talked bravely of taking him to the poor-house officers; but Timothy
found him a great convenience to his rheumatic old hands and feet, and by the end of the summer
Conny was as much at home as if he had been bought, like Betty's ugly little terrier, or born
in the house, like blessed little Betty herself. It was Conny who gave the last rub to Prince,
and brought him to the door; Conny who, in cold or heat, was ready with such good-natured promptness
for any errand far or near; Conny who could mend and make; who oiled rusty hinges, repaired
broken locks and latches, sharpened the kitchen knives, filed the old saws, and put new handles
to all the cast-away tools on the premises. Best of all, in the doctor's eyes, it was Conny
who knew every nook of mountain and forest, and whose swift feet and skillful fingers sought
out every plant that grew, and brought it to his master's feet.

Only Bridget held to her deep suspicion of something wrong about Conny.

"The cratur's that shmart wid his two hands ye wudn't belave, mum, but I misthrust he's shly:
it's in the blood of 'im.

"You ought not to say such things, Bridget; you have no reason to think Conny is not honest,"
Mrs. Hunter would say.

"It's not to say that he'd sthale, mum, but he's shly. I've coom upon 'im soodent wance or
twicet, an' seen 'im shlip something intil 'is pocket, an' 'im toornin' red in the face an'
confused like. An' says I, 'Conny, is it something fine ye have?' An' the b'y walked away widout
a word jist."

Mrs. Hunter laughed. "He is just like every other boy in the world--storing up all sorts of
odds and ends, as if they were treasures. I remember when Joe would hardly allow me to mend
his pockets for fear I should disturb some of his precious trinkets."

Biddy tossed her head with an air that plainly said her opinion was in no wise changed, as
she answered, discreetly, "Ye may be in the rights of it, mum, but it's not mesilf would be
judgin' the cratur by Master Joe, that was born a gintleman, let alone the bringin' up."

Quite by accident Mrs. Hunter herself discovered the mystery in Conny's bosom, for, sitting
one day by the window at her sewing, she saw the boy come from the wood-house, and after a
quick glance in every direction, dart like a squirrel up one of the great hemlock-trees, where
he sat completely screened by the branches, only now and then when a stronger gust of wind
swayed the top, and gave her a glimpse of him bending intently over something upon his knees.
Mrs. Hunter watched him for some time, and then went quietly under the tree and called, "Conny!"

There was a moment of hesitation, and she fancied she saw him put something into the crotch
of the tree before he came sliding down at her feet, looking decidedly confused.

"What were you doing up there, Conny?" she asked, pleasantly.

"No harm at all, ma'am," said Conny, with his eyes on his bare brown feet.

"I suppose not, but I should like to know what it was that you hid up in the tree."

"It's no harm, ma'am," repeated Conny, very red and very earnest.

"Then you can certainly show it to me: I wish to see it," said Mrs. Hunter, decidedly.

Conny disappeared in the tree, and in an instant came down, more slowly than before, carrying
something carefully in his hand. He gave it to Mrs. Hunter, and stood before her looking as
red and guilty as if he had been found in possession of the doctor's gold watch. It was a miniature
sideboard of fragrant red cedar, nearly complete, with drawers, shelves, and exquisite carvings--a
lovely little model of the handsome sideboard which was the pride of Mrs. Hunter's heart.

"What a beautiful thing!" said Mrs. Hunter, with such delight in her tone that Conny ventured
to look up.

"I was keeping it a secret, ma'am, for little Miss Betty's birthday, to give it her unbeknown."

"It is the very prettiest toy I ever saw," said Mrs. Hunter. "I am sorry I spoiled your secret,
Conny, but you don't mind my knowing, do you?"

Conny brightened wonderfully.

"I doubted you might think it was presuming in me, ma'am, to be making little Miss Betty a
present. Indeed," he added, with a droll little twinkle of his eyes, "it's trouble enough I've
had keeping it. Biddy caught me making a little drawing of the fine chest, and would have it
out of me what I was hiding; and once, when I was just using my two eyes at the window, she
asked me was I planning to steal the silver. And what with little Miss Betty herself, and Timothy
rummaging my bits of things, I was just driven to the tree, ma'am."

"And I pursued you there," laughed Mrs. Hunter, to which Conny only responded with a respectful
bow.

"Well, Conny, you shall have a shop. I'll give you the key to the little south attic. That
was my boy's playroom, and you may keep your tools there, and lock the door, and nobody shall
enter without your leave, not even I."

The evident delight that beamed from Conny's eyes almost brought the tears into Mrs. Hunter's,
and made her resolve that this young genius should have a chance to grow. She even felt that
it would not be honorable in her to reveal his secret to the doctor, but decided that she would
wait a few weeks for Betty's birthday.

But before Betty's birthday another secret came to light. Dr. Hunter had twice noticed a strange,
rough-looking man hanging about the premises. He had made a pretense of looking for work, but
the doctor distrusted him, and ordered him away.

To his great surprise, a few mornings later, he came suddenly upon the same man in the heart
of Hemlock Glen, in earnest conversation with Conny. The man instantly disappeared in the woods,
and the doctor reined up his horse, and bade Conny get into the gig. He obeyed silently, crouching,
as he often did, at the doctor's feet, and dangling his bare legs over the side of the gig.

"Who was that man, Conny?" asked the doctor, when they were nearly home.

"Jock McCleggan, sir."

"Who is he?"

"Just Jock, sir: a man that lives off and on here-abouts."

"Oh," said the doctor, understanding perfectly well that Jock was a moonshiner; "and what business
have you with a rascal like that?"

"He knew my feyther, sir, and he's been saying to me these many days that it was agreed between
'em I was to 'bide with him when my feyther died. It's a lee, sir; my feyther never said it."

"He'd better not show his face to me again," said the doctor. "I'll horsewhip him."

Conny suddenly pulled a crumpled bit of paper from his bosom and showed it to the doctor, saying,

"He brought me that just the morning."

The doctor read:

     "TO MR. JOCK MCCLEGGIN,--i want yu tu tak mi sun Cony tu du as if
     he was yure one. i mene wen i am ded."

  "SANDY MCCONEL."

"Do you think your father wrote it?" asked the doctor, smiling a little.

Conny looked at him with grave displeasure.

"My feyther was a gentleman, sir, not a blitherin' loon like Jock McCleggan, to stumble at
spelling his own name." Then, with a great deal of anxiety, he added,

"Jock says you can be made to give me up; he says it'll be a case of kidnapping."

"Nonsense, Conny: nobody can touch you, or me either; but I advise you to steer clear of Jock
and all his companions."

But after this conversation the doctor thought best to see the authorities of Dunsmore, and
have himself duly appointed as guardian for Conny--a proceeding which gave the boy unbounded
satisfaction.

"I'm yer servant now, little Miss Betty," he said, with a low bow. "Yer servant to keep and
to hold; that was what the magistrate said. 'Deed and you're the first lady that ever had a
McConnell for a servant."

Betty's birthday came and went. The wonderful little toy was presented, and it was hard saying
who was most delighted, Betty or the doctor.

"You are a genius, Conny--an artist, a poet," he exclaimed; and he made a journey to Kilbourne,
bringing back a set of carving tools for Conny, and a furnished doll's house, with which he
bribed the little lady to give her dainty sideboard into safe-keeping until her curious fingers
should have outgrown their passion for pulling things to pieces.

Day by day the attachment of the family for Conny increased.

"He is a gentleman born," said Mrs. Hunter. "I wish I could know more about his history, but
he is as discreet as if he were fifty instead of fifteen."

"I fancy his father was a gentleman with a Scotchman's weakness for whiskey, and that he came
up here to keep out of sight. At any rate, the boy is a genius, and I intend he shall have
a chance in the world."

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

     I am a boy of twelve years. I like YOUNG PEOPLE very much. We live
     in Croatia, on the Styrian frontier, near to Bath Rohitsch. Our
     castle was built about the time America was discovered. It is said
     that a headless huntsman wanders through the corridors at night,
     but I have never met him.

     We see from the windows many high alps of Styria and Carinthia. We
     go very often to the Szotlee to swim.

     I have two canary-birds and two good old dogs.

     My sister, who is fourteen years old, would like very much some
     pressed California flowers. She would send some from here in
     return.

  JAMES KAVANAGH,
  Post Rohitsch, Styria, Austria.

       *       *       *       *       *

  NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA.

     Reading in YOUNG PEOPLE about the fight between the Constitution
     and the Guerrière, I thought I would tell you about a relic I
     have. It is a cross made of the wood of the Constitution, which
     was presented to my father by Miss Bainbridge, a daughter of
     Commodore Bainbridge, the commander of the Constitution after
     Captain Hull retired.

     I have been a constant reader of the delightful little paper ever
     since Christmas. I am ten years old, but I have never made but two
     trips away from my Southern home.

  MABEL S.

       *       *       *       *       *

  OWANECO, ILLINOIS.

     I am nine years old. I live one mile from town. We milk six cows,
     and I help do the milking.

     I have a nice pet lamb. Her name is Fannie. A kind old man gave
     her to me when she was a little tiny thing. She was a year old
     last spring. I sold her fleece in the spring for forty-five cents
     a pound. It weighed five pounds. Papa let me keep all the money,
     and I am going to buy another sheep with it.

     I helped papa all through haying. He has a new hay derrick, and I
     rode a horse and worked the derrick. The horse is twenty-five
     years old, and his name is General.

     I am visiting Aunt Em now, but I am going to start to school next
     week. I like YOUNG PEOPLE so much!

  MINNIE M. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

  DOWNIEVILLE, CALIFORNIA.

     I live up in the mountains of Sierra County. My papa is editor of
     a newspaper here, and my little brother, ten years old, folds the
     papers for papa every Thursday night. Papa gave me a nice French
     kid doll. She can turn her head, and has joints.

     I have two brothers and a sister younger than myself. We all like
     to receive YOUNG PEOPLE and to look at the pictures. I liked "The
     Moral Pirates" very much, and would not mind being such a pirate
     myself.

     My home is on the famous Yuba River, but its current is too rapid
     for boats of any kind.

  ALTIE V.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HOUSTON, TEXAS.

     I want to know why "the two Eds" did not try to eat on the cars? I
     am six years old.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SAM MCI.

     I am a lover of YOUNG PEOPLE, and in common with others have
     exchanged specimens with many of the subscribers. A young lady of
     Wilkesbarre, Pennsylvania, sent me a piece of peacock coal, and
     wished St. Croix carnelians in exchange. Unfortunately I have lost
     her name and address, and I wish to ask her to kindly send it to
     me again.

  CARRIE E. SILLIMAN,
  Hudson, St. Croix County, Wisconsin.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WEST NEWTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

     Will some correspondent of YOUNG PEOPLE please give me directions
     for pressing flowers and different kinds of sea-weed?

  DAISY F.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I have a little kitten named Tommy Milo. Sometimes he comes into
     our chamber and lies at the foot of the bed till one or two
     o'clock in the morning, and then crawls up to the head to be
     petted. Sometimes he plagues us so that we have to put him out of
     the room.

     I can knit and crochet. I crocheted a collar of feathered-edge
     braid, and it is very pretty. I would like very much a pattern for
     knitting edging, if Gracie Meads or any one will send it to me.

  ELIZA F., P. O. Box 162,
  West Newton, Massachusetts.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BEAUFORT, SOUTH CAROLINA.

     I send you a pencil sketch of a magnolia blossom. I drew it
     myself. I draw a good deal for my own amusement, although I have
     had no instruction. The diameter of this blossom is about nine
     inches when it is fully open. This month is the time for the
     falling of the cones. They contain the seeds, which are covered
     with a bright red pulpy substance, and are suspended from the cone
     by a white silken thread about half an inch long. They are very
     pretty. Our magnolia-tree is very large. The circumference is
     about fifteen feet.

     Several days ago I saw a wild vine that resembles the sweet-potato
     vine, and the blossom is just the same. We have what I think is
     the wild onion growing here. It grows all around in the fields.

     I think HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE is a splendid paper.

  A. L. H.

Many thanks for your pretty drawing. We regret we have no room to give it in the Post-office Box.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WINDSOR, CONNECTICUT.

     I don't know but the little folks are tired of hearing about pets,
     but I want to tell them how my kitty jumped on the piano, and ran
     over the keys from one end of them to the other, and the tune she
     played frightened her so that she scampered away with all her
     might. She is now curled up in my hat, fast asleep. I have two
     carrier-doves for pets besides.

     I sent Carrie Harding, of Freeport, Illinois, some pressed flowers
     quite a long time ago, but I have not heard whether she received
     them or not.

  HARRY H. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ST. JOHNS, MICHIGAN.

     I am nine years old. I have a great many dolls--sixteen in all. I
     have a little baby brother, and I have two canaries, and a cat
     named Muggins. I did have one named Snow, but one morning all of a
     sudden he disappeared, and has never been found.

     I like YOUNG PEOPLE very much, especially the story of "Claudine's
     Doves." I wonder if Claudine is alive yet, and lives in Paris?

     My YOUNG PEOPLE comes every Thursday, and I can hardly wait for
     it.

  GRACE M. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

  PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.

     I live in Summerside. Our house is very near the water. There is
     an island in our bay, and we go there sometimes. I have a little
     garden, with some lovely black pansies and other flowers growing
     in it. My sister has a little white rabbit.

  ELLIE G.

       *       *       *       *       *

  GRAFTON, WEST VIRGINIA.

     I don't know what I would do now without my YOUNG PEOPLE. I have
     taken it ever since it was published, and I hope I will always get
     it. Of all the long stories, I like "The Moral Pirates" best, but
     I like the others too.

