

"What a girl Frank Darry is for accomplishing everything she undertakes!" said Miss Merton,
admiringly; "how she has improved her protégé! he can talk on subjects where I have to be silent,
though I have had what dear mamma used to call a 'finished education.'"

"Yes, darling. She has made his mental growth very rapid; but, in the process of cultivation,
he is gaining a little false pride, which I hope is not of her planting. He blushes, whenever
his trade is alluded to: foolish fellow! not to see that the very fact of being a blacksmith
is his claim to superiority. A thoroughly trained youth might have done far more than he without
any special ability."

"But, Hamilton, you may misconstrue blushes which are so frequent; he is in a new world, too;
do give him a chance to make himself at home, before you criticize him. You must admit I was
right about his not annoying one by any decided awkwardness of behavior."

"Oh, yes, dear. A certain sense of fitness goes with the artistic temperament. I suppose old
Dr. Johnson, devouring his food and drinking innumerable cups of tea, might be a far more shocking
social companion than this blacksmith's apprentice. You are always drawing out the lovable
traits of people, dear Alice," he added, in a lower tone; "and that is a thousand times better
than Frank Darry's intellectual developments."

They turned away then; and I, angry at being forced to listen at all to what was not meant
for my ear, and the more so that Mr. Lang had spoken of me so depreciatingly, stood burning
with shame and indignation. Annie Bray's undoubting faith and love would have comforted me
without a word of spoken confidence; but she was not here to give it; and, longing for the
reassurance of Miss Darry's presence, I entered the drawing-room,--but would gladly have withdrawn
again, for Mr. Lang came quickly toward me.

"Sandy," he said, "this may not be exactly the time to discuss business matters with you; but
your friends seem to feel that you deserve a better chance in the world. Mr. Bray, to whom
I spoke yesterday, says you were not bound to serve him after your eighteenth birthday, but
that you have never expressed a wish to leave. Don't you see what a foolish fellow you are
to work for him, when you might be earning for yourself?"

"But I have had no money to start with. I have had time for study, too," I stammered.

"Two reasons sufficient for an abstracted youth like you, but utterly unpractical. I want you
to hire a forge this side of Warren. I will insure you custom enough to warrant the step."

He looked at me keenly as he spoke, while I colored with the pride and indignation which, since
his words to Miss Merton a few moments before, I had been trying to control. Was this to be
the end of all my hopes, the object of Miss Darry's instructions, her flattering encouragements
and exaggerated estimate of my "genius," as she had termed it, that I might have a forge of
my own, to which I should be compelled to give undivided attention, and shoe Mr. Lang's horses,
and possibly some others belonging to Miss Merton's visitors? Yet, remembering how much had
been already, if unwisely, done for me, I held down these thoughts, and, after a momentary
pause, professed my willingness to think the matter over, if I could reserve time for other
pursuits. His face lighted up, then, with the smile which had charmed me at the forge.

"You are not spoiled yet, Sandy, I see. If you will only keep to your trade, I will keep you
to your art. You must have a boy at the forge, and in the afternoons you can come here and
paint under Mr. Leopold's direction: he makes his home here during the summer, and he says
you have a talent worth cultivation."

