2. Nashe's "Terrors of the Night" (wanting eight leaves at the beginning.) Of this, Beloe (the
only authority within my reach) says, that only one copy is known to exist; can his statement
be correct?

3. A religious tract, which seems only remarkable for its bad printing, obscure wording, and
almost invariably using the third person singular of the verb, whatever be the nominative.
It begins--

    "To all you who profess the name of our Lord Jesus in words, and
    makes mention of his words, &c."....

And the first division ends--

    "This have I written in love to all your soules, who am one who
    did drinke of the cup of fornication, and have drunke of the cup
    of indignation, but now drinkes the cup of salvation, where
    sorrow and tears is fled away; and yet am a man of sorrows and
    well acquainted with griefe, and suffers with the seed, and
    travels that it may be brought forth of captivity; called by the
    world F.H."

Who is F.H.?

4. Sundry poems on husbandry, housewifery, and the like, by Thomas Tusser; but as the tract
is mutilated up to cap. 3.,

  "I have been prayde,
  To shew mine aide," &c.,

I am not book-learned enough to know whether it be the same as Tusser's Five Hundred Poynts
of Good Husbandry. Information on any of the above points would oblige.

J.E.

Prebendaries.--When were prebendaries first appointed, and what the nature of their duties
generally? What is the rank of a prebendary of a cathedral or other church, whether as a layman
or a clerk in orders? Would a vicar, being a prebendary, take precedence as such of a rector
not being one? Where is the best account of prebends to be found?

S.S.S.

Luther's Portrait at Warwick Castle.--There is at Warwick Castle a fine half-length portrait
of Luther by Holbein, very unlike the ordinary portraits of the great reformer. Is this portrait
a genuine one? Has it been engraved?

E.M.B.

Rawdon Papers.--The Rev. Mr. Berwick, in introducing to the public, in 1819, the interesting
volume known by the name of Rawdon Papers, says,--

    "They are a small part of a correspondence which was left in the
    Editor's hands after the greater portion had been sent several
    years before to the Marquis of Hastings, whose absence at this
    time prevents the Editor's making such additions to his stock as
    might render it more interesting to the public."

Do these papers still exist in the possession of {401} the Hastings family, and is there any
chance of a further publication? The volume published by Mr. Berwick contains some very interesting
incidental illustrations of the politics, literature, and society of the seventeenth century,
and much might be expected from the remaining papers. I may add, that this volume has not been
so much used by historians as it should be; but, as was to be expected, it has not escaped
Mr. Macaulay. It is not not well edited.

C.

Wellington, Wyrwast, Cokam.--In a MS. letter which I have relating to the siege of Taunton
in the Civil war, is the following sentence, describing the movements of the royal army:--

    "The enemy on Friday last have quitted their garrisions in
    Wellington Wyrwast and Cokam houses; the two last they have
    burnt."

I am not certain about the second name, which seems to be Wyrwast; and hsould be obliged by
any information relative to these three houses.

C.

Blockade of Corfe Castle in 1644.--In Martyn's Life of Shafetesbury (vol. i. p. 148.) it is
stated that a parliamentary force, under Sir A.A. Cooper, blockaded Corfe Castle in 1644, after
the taking of Wareham. I can find no mention any where else of an attack on Corfe Castle in
1644. The blockade of that castle, which Lady Bankes's defence has made memorable, was in the
previous year, and Sir A.A. Cooper had not then joined the parliament. I should be glad if
any of your readers could either corroborate Martyn's account of a blockade of Corfe Castle
in 1644, or prove it to be, as I am inclined to think it, a mis-statement.

I should be very thankful for any information as to Sir Anthony Asteley Cooper's proceedings
in Dorsetshire, Wiltshire, and Somersetshire, during the Civil War and Commonwealth, being
engaged upon a life of Lord Shaftesbury.

C.

MSS. of Locke.--A translation, by Locke, of Nicole's Essays was published in 1828 by Harvey
and Darton, London; and it is stated in the title-page of the book, that it is printed from
an autograph MS. of Locke, in the possession of Thomas Hancock, M.D. I wish to know if Dr.
Hancock, who also edited the volume, is still alive? and, if so, would let this querist have
access to the other papers of Locke's which he speaks of in the preface?

C.

Locke's proposed Life of Lord Shaftesbury.--I perceive that the interesting volume of letters
of Locke, Algernon Sidney, and Lord Shaftesbury, published some years ago, by Mr. Foster, is
advertised in your columns by your own publisher; and I therefore inquire, with some hope of
eliciting information, whether the papers in Mr. Foster's possession, which he has abstained
from publishing, contain any notices of the first Earl of Shaftesbury; and I am particularly
anxious to know whether they contain any references to the Life of Lord Shaftesbury which Locke
meditated, or throw any light upon the mode in which Locke would have become possessed of some
suppressed passages of Edmund Ludlow's memoirs.

C.

Theses.--Many German works introduced into Catalogues, are theses defended at the universities.
The name of the President is generally first, and in larger letters than that of the propounder,
who is usually the author. Hence, it often happens, that the Thesis is entered as a work written
by the Præses. But is not unfrequently happened, that this Præses was really the author; and
that, as an easy way of publishing his thought, he entrusted an essay to a candidate for a
degree, to be defended by him. The seventh rule of the Museum Catalogue runs thus:--

    "The respondent or defender in a thesis to be considered its
    author, except when it unequivocally appears to be the work of
    the Præses."

Now, I would ask, what are the usual signs of the authorship? Are there any catalogues of Theses?
Any bibliographical works which contain hints for guidance in this matter? Any correspondents
who can advise generally on the whole matter?

M.

Apocrypha.--What editions of the Bible containing the Apocrypha are now on sale at the ordinary
way?

J.B.'s Treatise on Art and Nature.--By a scrap of a book, apparently of the sixteenth century,
it seems to be a Treatise by J.B. upon Art and Nature: the first book is "of Water-workes."
What book is this?

M.

Nursery Games and Rhymes.--In the Letters and Memoir of Bishop Shirley, allusion is made (p.
415.) to a once popular game called "Thread the needle," the first four lines of which are
given. Can any of your readers supply the remainder, or refer me to any work where they may
be found? I also should feel obliged by any information respecting the age and origin of the
popular nursery song, beginning,--

  "A frog he would a-wooing go,
    Heigho, says Rowley."

Perhaps some of your readers will state where the correct text may be met with.

B.G.J.

Emancipation of the Jews.--In Francis' History of the Bank of English, p. 24., mention is made
of an offer on the part of the Jews to pay 500,000l. to the state on the following conditions;--1.
That the laws against them should be repealed; 2. That the Bodleian Library should be assigned
to them; 3. That they should have permission to use St. {402} Paul's Cathedral as a Synagogue.
It is stated, on the authority of a letter in the Thurloe State Papers, that this proposition
was actually discussed. The larger sum of 800,000l. was demanded; but, being refused, the negotiation
was broken off. This proposition is said to have been made shortly before the elevation of
Cromwell to the Protectorate. The subject is an interesting one in these days, when Jewish
disabilities are under discussion.

I wish to offer two queries:--1. Is this story confirmed by any contemporary writer? 2. Is
it conceivable that the Jews would have consented to worship in a cruciform church, such as
was old St. Paul's, which was standing at the time this offer is supposed to have been made?

H.M. AUSTEN. St. Peter's, Thanet.

The Complutensian MSS.--Has not there been an account of these MSS. published in London in
1821? My authority for this Query is to be found in a work of Dr. D. Antonio Puigblanch:--

    "En el año 1821 per encargo que hice desde Madrid se imprimio
    mio aca en Londres, de que es falso este rumor[2], pues en la
    biblioteca de la Universidad de Alcala quedaban pocos meses
    antes en gue estune en ella siete manuscritos biblicos en
    aquellas dos lenguas[3], que son sin duda los mismos siete de
    que hace mencion en la Vida del Cardenal Cisneros, Alfonso de
    Castro, doctor téologo de la misma Universidad, i escritor
    contemporaneo o de poco tiempo después, parte de los cuales
    manuscritos, es a saber, los caldéos, son de letra de Alfonso de
   Zamora, que es uno de los tres judíos conversos editores de la
   Complutense."--Opusculos Gramatico-Satiricos del Dr. D. Antonio
   Puigblanch, Londres [1832], p. 365.

If the Chaldee and Hebrew MSS. of the Complutensian Polyglot were at Alcala in 1821, when were
they removed to Madrid, and in what library at Madrid are they now? The Greek MSS. are supposed
to have been returned to the Vatican Library. If the Chaldee MSS. are in the handwriting of
one of the editors, as stated by Puigblanch, they cannot be of much value or authority. I shall
add another Query:--Are they paper or parchment?

E.M.B.

    [Footnote 2: That the MSS. were destroyed.]

    [Footnote 3: Hebrew and Chaldee.]

Latin Names of Towns.--A correspondent who answered the Query as to the "Latin Names of Towns"
in titles, referred your readers to the Supplement of Lemprière. I am much obliged to him for
the hint, and have obtained the work in consequence; but it is right your readers should know
that the information therein given must only be taken as suggestive, and sometimes as dismissible
upon reference to the commonest gazetteer. I opened at the letter N; and found, that of three
entries, the first my eye lighted upon, two were palpably wrong. The first informs us that
"Næostadium in Palatinatu" is in "France;" the third that "Nellore" is in "Ceylon." I am bound
to say that I do not find errors so thickly scattered throughout, and that the list will be
useful to me. But, Query, is there any thing extensive of which the accuracy can be depended upon?

M. Kilkenny.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

SCALA COELI.

I incline to think that the testator whose will is referred to in No. 23. p. 336., by "Scala
Coeli," meant King Henry the Seventh's Chapel at Westminster. March, 21 Henry VII. (1506-6),
states that she had obtained papal bulls of indulgence, that all persons saying and hearing
her chantry masses should have as full remission from sin as in the place called Scala Coeli
beside Rome, "to the great comfort and relief of the said Monasterie and all Cristen people
resorting thereto." (MS. Lansd. 444.)

Henry Lord Marney, by his will, dated 22d Dec., 15 Hen. VIII. (1523), directs a trental of
masses to be "first at Scala Coeli, in Westminster." (Testamenta Vetusta, 609.)

Blomefield (Hist. of Norfolk, 8vo. edit., iv. 60) speaking of the Church of the Augustine Friars
at Norwich, observes,--

    "That which brought most profit to the convent, was the chapel
    of Our Lady in this church, called Scala Celi, to which people
    were continually coming in pilgrimage, and offering at the altar
    there; most folks desiring to have masses sung for them here, or
    to be buried in the cloister of Scala Celi, that they might be
    partakers of the many pardons and indulgences granted by the
    Popes to this place; this being the only chapel (except that of
    the same name at Westminster, and that of Our Lady in St.
    Buttolph's church at Boston,) that I find to have the same
    privileges and indulgences as the chapel of Scala Celi at Rome;
    which were so great as made all the three places aforesaid so
    much frequented; it being easier to pay their devotions here,
    than go so long a journey; all which indulgences and pardons may
    be seen in Fox's Acts and Monuments, fo. 1075."

In Bishop Bale's singular play of Kynge Johan, published by the Camden Society, the King charges
the clery with extorting money

  "For legacyes, trentalls with scalacely messys
  Whereby ye have made the people very assys."
  (p. 17.)

And Simon of Swineshead, after drinking the poison, says,-- {403}

  "To send me to heaven god rynge the holye belle,
  And synge for my sowle a masse of Scala Celi,
  That I may clyme up aloft with Enoch and Heli."
  (p. 82.)

There are bulls of indulgence in Scala Coeli in Rymer's Fædera, xii. 565. 591. 672., xiii.
102.; but I can now only give the reference, as I have not that work in hand.

C.H. COOPER. Cambridge, April 6, 1850

       *       *       *       *       *

WATCHING THE SEPULCHRE.

"T.W." (No. 20. p. 218.) will find no end of "Items" for watching the sepulchre, in the "Churchwardens'
Accounts" before the Reformation, and during the reign of Queen Mary. At Easter it was the
custom to erect a sepulchre on the north side of the chancel, to represent that of our Saviour.
This was generally a temporary structure of wood; though in some churches there still remain
elaborately ornamented ones of stone. Sometimes the founder's tomb was used for the purpose.
In this sepulchre was placed on Good Friday the crucifix, and occasionally the host, with other
emblems; and a person was employed to watch it till the morning of Easter Day, when it was
taken out with great ceremony, in imitation of our Lord's resurrection. It was the payment
for this watching that occurs continually in the Churchwardens' Accounts, and of which, it
appears, Fuller could not understand the meaning. A paper on the subject of Easter sepulchres,
by Mr. Venables, was read at the meeting of the Cambridge Camden Society in March, 1843, but
I am not aware whether it has been printed. Some very curious "Items" on this subject are given
in Britton's Redcliffe Church, which are quoted in the Oxford Glossary of Architecture. They
are so illustrative, that I subjoin them, to give you an opportunity, if you please, of serving
them up to your readers:--

    "Item, That Maister Canynge hath deliver'd, this 4th day of
    July, in the year of Our Lord 1470, to Maister Nicholas Petters,
    Vicar of St. Mary Redcliffe, Moses Conterin, Philip Barthelmew,
    Procurators of St. Mary Redcliffe aforesaid, a new sepulchre,
    well gilt with gold, and a civer thereto.

    "Item, An image of God Almighty rising out of the same
    sepulchre, with all the ordinance that 'longeth thereto; that is
    to say, a lathe made of timber and the iron work thereto.

    "Item, Thereto 'longeth Heaven, made of timber and stained
    clothes.

    "Item, Hell, made of timber, and the iron-work thereto, with
    Divels to the number of 13.

    "Item, 4 knights, armed, keeping the sepulchre, with their
    weapons in their hands; that is to say, 2 axes and 2 spears,
    with 2 pavés.

    "Item, 4 payr of angels' wings for 4 angels, made of timber and
    well painted.

    "Item, The Fadre, the crown and visage, the ball with a cross
    upon it, well gilt with fine gould.

    "Item, The Holy Ghost coming out of Heaven into the sepulchre.

    "Item, 'Longeth to the 4 angels 4 chevelers."

Ducange (vol. vi. p. 195. new edit.) gives a detailed account of the service performed at the
Easter sepulchres on the continent.

E. VEE. Cambridge, March 27.

"Watching the Sepulchre" (No. 20. p. 318.).--At the present day, in most Roman Catholic countries
it is the custom to exhibit in the principal churches at this period, and at Christmas, a kind
of tableau of the entombment and of the birth of the Saviour. The figures are sometimes small,
and at other times the size of life: generally coloured, and formed of wax, wood, stone, or
other materials; and when artistically arranged, and judiciously lighted, form sometimes beautiful
objects. I have no doubt the entry in the Churchwardens' Accounts of Waltham Abbey refers to
a custom of the same kind, prevailing in the country before the Reformation. If the date of
their entry were sought for, I have little doubt but that it would be found to have been about
Easter. The sepulchre itself was often, I believe, a permanent erection of stone, and some
of them probably now remain in the churches of England on the north side of the chancel, where
they may sometimes be taken for the tombs of individuals there interred.

W.C. TREVELYAN.

Watching the Sepulchre.--In reply to "T.W.'s" Query in No. 20., I have witnessed at Florence
the custom of dressing the sepulchre on the Thursday before Good Friday with the most beautiful
flowers, many of which are reared especially for the purpose. The devout attend at the sepulchre,
and make their prayers there throughout the day, the most profound silence being observed.
The convents rival each other in the beauty of their decorations.

Do you think that the Churchwardens' entries in Fuller can refer to a similar custom?

The loveliness of the flowers, and their delightful perfume, which pervades the church, present
a most soothing and agreeable type of death and the grave, under their Christian phase. I was
always at a loss to understand why this was done on Thursday, instead of on Saturday; the latter
being the day on which Our Lord rested in the sepulchre.

A.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES ANSWERED, NO. 7.

A new blunder of Mr. Malone.--I love the memory of Edmond Malone, albeit he sometimes committed
blunders. He committed a pitiable blunder when he broke his bow in shooting at the worthless
Samuel Ireland; and he committed an {404} irreparable blunder when he whitewashed the monumental
effigy of the matchless Shakspere. Of the blunder ascribed to him by a reverend querist (No.
14. p. 213) he was quite innocent.

Before we censure an author or editor, we should consult his own edition. He cannot be answerable
for the errors of any other impression. Such, at least, is my notion of critical equity.

I shall now state the plain facts. Malone, in the first instance, printed the spurious declaration
of John Shakspear in an imperfect state. (Plays and Poems of W.S., 1790, vol. i. part ii. p.
162.) He was soon afterwards enabled to complete it. (Ibid. vol. i. part ii. p. 330.) Steevens
reprinted it entire, and without comment. (Plays of W.S., 1793, vol. ii. p. 300.) Now the editor
of the Irish reimpression, who must have omitted to consult the edition of Steevens, merely
committed a blunder in attempting to unite the two fragments as first published by Mr. Malone.

There was no audacious fabrication on the occasion--there is no mystery in the case! (No. 24.
p. 386.) So, to stop the current of misconception, and economise space on future occasions,
I venture to repeat a few words in suggesting as a canon of criticism:--Before we censure an
author or editor we should consult his own edition.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Compendyous Olde Treatyse.--"F.M." (No. 18. p. 277.) will find this tract reprinted (with the
exception of the preface and verses) in Foxe's Acts and Monuments; a portion once peculiar
to the first edition of 1563, p. 452., but now appearing in the reprint of 1843, vol. iv. p.
671-76., which may be of some service in the absence of the original tract.

NOVUS.

Hordys (No. 5. p. 157.).--I have waited till now in hopes of seeing an answer from some more
competent pen than my own to the Query as to the meaning of the word "hordys," by your correspondent
"J.G.;" but having been disappointed, I venture a suggestion which occurred to me immediately
on reading it, viz. that "hordys" might be some possible or impossible derivation from hordeum,
and applied "irreverently" to the consecrated host, as though it were no better than a common
barley-cake.

Whether in those early days and in Ireland, the host was really made of barley, and whether
"hordys" was a name given to some kind of barley-cake then in vogue, or (supposing my suggestion
to be well founded) a word coined for the occasion, may perhaps be worthy of investigation.

A.R. Kenilworth, April 5.

Eachard's Tracts.--The Rev. George Wyatt, who inquires (No. 20. p. 320.) about Eachard's Tracts,
will probably get all the information he wants from the Life of Eachard prefixed to the collected
edition of his Works in three volumes, which I am sorry I have not the means at present of
referring to.

"I.O.," to whom the last of the tracts is addressed, is Dr. John Owen.

Philatus (what objection is there to Latinising, in the usual way, the Greek termination os?)
is, of course, intended for Hobbes; and, to convey Eachard's opinion of him, his opponent in
the Dialogue is Timothy, a God-honourer.

Let me add, as you have headed Mr. Wyatt's communication "Tracts attributed to Eachard," thereby
casting a doubt upon his authorship, that there is no doubt about Dr. John Eachard being the
author of all the tracts which Mr. Wyatt enumerates; nor was there any concealment by Eachard.
His authorship of the Grounds and Occasions of the Contempt of the Clergy is notorious. The
"Epistle Dedicatory," signed "J.E.," mentioned by Mr. Wyatt as prefixed to the Dialogue on
Hobbes' State of Nature, refers also to the five subsequent letters. These were published at
the same time with the Dialogue on Hobbes, in one volume, and are answers to attacks on the
Grounds and Occasions, &c. The Epistle Dedicatory is addressed to Gilbert Sheldon, Archbishop
of Canterbury, "and," says Eachard, "I hope my dialogue will not find the less acceptance with
your Grace for these Letters which follow after."

The second edition of the volume I have by me, published in 1672: the title, Mr. Hobbes's State
of Nature considered, &c.; to which are added, Five Letters from the Author of "The Grounds
and Occasions of the Contempt of the Clergy."

C.

Masters of St. Cross.--In reply to "H. EDWARDS" (No. 22. p. 352.), A List of the Masters of
St. Cross, I believe, is given in Browne Willis's Mitred Abbies, vol. i.; but the most correct
and perfect list is in the Sketches of Hampshire, by the late John Duthy, Esq. Henry or Humfrey
de Milers is the first master whose name is recorded, and nothing further is known of him:
between Bishop Sherborne and Bishop Compton there were thirteen masters.

F.J.B.

Has "H. EDWARDS" seen the History of St. Cross Hospital, by Mr. Moody, published within the
last six months? It may materially assist him.

JOHN R. FOX

A living Dog better than a dead Lion.--Your correspondent "MR. JOHN SANSOM" may, perhaps, accept
the following as an answer to the first part of his Query (No. 22. p. 352.). In an ancient
MS. preserved in the archives of the see of Ossory, at fol. 66., is entered, in a hand of the
latter part of the fourteenth century, a list of ancient proverbs under the following heading:--
{405}

    "Eux sount les proverbes en fraunceys conferme par auctorite del
    Dibil?

      "Chers amys receiuez de moy
      Un beau present q vo' envoy,
      Non pas dor ne dargent
      Mais de bon enseignment,
      Que en escriptur ai trove
      E de latin translatee, &c. &c."

Amongst them is the following:--

  "Meux valt un chien sein e fort
  Qe un leoun freid e mort;
  E meux valt povert od bountex
  Qe richeste od malueiste."

Jesus, the Son of Sirak, is not, however, the authority for this proverb; it occurs in the
9th chapter of Ecclesiastes and 4th verse.

And now, to ask a question in turn, what is meant by "auctorite del Dibil?"

JAMES GRAVES. Kilkenny.

Monumental Brass (No. 16. p. 247.).--On the floor of the Thorncombe church, in the co. of Devon,
is a splendid brass, representing Sir T. Brooke, and Joan, his wife, dated respectively 1419
and 1436. At the lower corner of the lady's robe is engraven a small dog, with a collar and
bells. May not these figures be the private mark of the artist?

S.S.S.

The Wickliffite Version of the Scriptures.--I have in my possession a very fair MS. of Wickliff's
translation of the New Testament; and should the editors of the Wickliffite Versions like to
see my MS., and let me know to whom I may send it, I shall be happy to lend it them.

DANIEL ROCK. Buckland, Faringdon.

Hever (pp. 269. 342.).--In confirmation of the meaning assigned to this word, there is an estate
near Westerham, in Kent, called "Hever's-wood."

S.S.S.

Steward Family (No. 21. p. 335.).--Though not an answer to his question, "O.C." may like to
be informed that the arms of the impalement in the drawing which he describes are (according
to Izacke's Exeter) those which were borne by Ralph Taxall, Sheriff of Devon, in 1519. Pole
calls him Texshall. Modern heralds give the coat to Pecksall of Westminster. If a conjecture
may be hazarded, I would suggest that the coat was a modification of the ancient arms of Batishull:
a crosslet in saltier, between four owls.

S.S.S.

Gloves (No. 5. p. 72.).--In connection with the subject of the presentation of gloves, I would
refer your correspondents to the curious scene in Vicar's Parliamentary Chronicle, where "Master
Prynne," on his visit to Archbishop Laud in the Tower in May 1643, accepts "a fair pair of
gloves, upon the Archbishop's extraordinary pressing importunity;" a present which, under the
disagreeable circumstances of the interview, seems to have been intended to convey an intimation
beyond that of mere courtesy.

S.S.S.

Cromlech.--As your learned correspondent "Dr. TODD" (No. 20. p. 319.) queries this word, I
think it is very doubtful whether the word was in use, or not, before the period mentioned
(16th century). Dr. Owain Pughe considered the word "cromlech" (crwm-llech, an inclined or
flat stone,) to be merely a popular name, having no reference to the original purpose of the
structure. The only Triadic name that will apply to the cromlechs, is maen ketti (stone chests,
or arks), the raising of which is described as one of "The three mighty labours of the Isle
of Britain."

GOMER.

Watewich (pp. 60. 121. 236.).--May not "Watewich" be Waterbeach?

S.S.S.

"By Hook or by Crook."--I imagine that the expression "By hook or by crook" is in very general
use throughout England. It was familiar to my ear forty years ago in Surrey, and within these
four years its origin was (to my satisfaction at the moment) brought home to my comprehension
in the North of Devon, where the tenant of a certain farm informed me that, by an old custom,
he was entitled to take wood from some adjoining land "by hook and crook;" which, on inquiry,
I understood to include, first, so much underwood as he could cut with the hook or bill, and,
secondly, so much of the branches of trees as he could pull down with the aid of a crook.

Whether this crook originally meant the shepherd's crook (a very efficient instrument for the
purpose), or simply such a crook-ed stick as boys use for gathering hazel-nuts, is not very
material. It seems highly probable that, in the vast forests which once overspread this country,
the right of taking "fire bote" by "hook or crook" was recognised; and we can hardly wish for
a more apt illustration of the idea of gaining a desired object by the ordinary means--"a hook,"
if it lay close to our hand; or, by a method requiring more effort, "a crook," if it were a
little beyond our reach.

J.A.S.

By Hook or by Crook (pp. 205, 237. 281. &c.).--In confirmation of this phrase having reference
to forest customs, my hind told me that my plantations were plundered by hook or by crook,
and he and I once caught a man in flagrante delicto, with a hook for cutting green wood, and
a crook at the end of a long pole for breaking off dry branches, which could not be otherwise
reached. For an early use of the term, see Bacon's Fortress of the Faithful, 1550.

    "Whatsoever is pleasant or profitable must be theirs by hook or
    by crook."

S.S.S. {406}

Tablet to Napoleon.--Will it assist "EMDEE's" interpretation of the inscription to Napoleon
(No. 17 p. 262.) if I suggest that it may mean--Ægyptiaco bis, Italico semper invicto?

C.I.R. Feb. 25.

Lines on Pharaoh (No. 19. p. 298.).--I beg to inform "J.T.," that the well-known couplet about
Pharaoh, and rascal rhyming to pascal, are from a certain History of the Bible, or Bible History,
by the Rev. Dr. Zachary Boyd, of Todrig, who was either Principal or Professor of Divinity
at Glasgow in the seventeenth century.

He left considerable property to the College there, on condition that his bust should be placed
in the quadrangle, and his great work printed under the care of the Academical Senatus. The
bust was placed accordingly, and is, or lately was, to be seen in a niche over the inner doorway.
The History was also printed, it is said, but never published. However, curious visitors have
always, I believe, been allowed a peep into it--whether the MS. or the solitary printed book,
I am not sure--and a few choice morsels are current. I recollect one stave of the lamentation
of Jonah--

  "Lord! what a doleful place is this!
    There's neither coal nor candle;
  And nothing I but fishes' tripes
    And greasy guts do bandle."

I think it a shame that the Maitland Club of Glasgow has not, ere now, volunteered an edition
of Zachary's immortal performance. The Senatus would hardly object (if the expense were undertaken),
as the circulation would be confined to true Scots.

PHILOBODIUS.

    [The following communication from a very competent authority,
    and the very passage quoted by "PHILOBODIUS" himself, quite
    justify the non-publication of Zachary's doggrel.]

Zachary Boyd (No. 19. p. 298.).--Your notice of Zachary Boyd, and his extraordinary paraphrase
of the Bible in the College at Glasgow, has reminded me of my having examined that strange
work, and found ample cause for its not being published, though a sufficient sum was bequeathed
for that purpose. The whole doggrel is only calculated to bring ridicule and contempt upon
the Scriptures; but there are, besides, passages such as refer to Job's "Curse God, and die;"
to Jeshuram waxing fat; to Jonah in the whale's belly; and other parts, which utterly unfit
the MS. for decent perusal.

W. JERDAN.

Welsh Ambassador.--The origin of the word "Welsh," from the Saxon "Wealh," a stranger, and
the use of it in this sense by our old writers (see Brady's Introd., p. 5.: Sir T. Smith's
Commonwealth of England, chap. xiii.), sufficiently explain this designation of the Cuckoo,
the temporary resident of our cold climate, and the ambassador extraordinary in the revolutions
of the seasons, in the words of the Nursery Rhymes,--

    "She comes as a stranger, and stays three months in the year."

    "Quid tibi vis aliud dicam? me vox mea prodit."

    Alciati, Emblema lx. Cuculi, Comment.

T.J.

Prince Madoc.--I was much gratified on reading "T.T.'s" note, commenting on my observations
respecting the Mandan language, as he proves the existence of Celtic words amongst the American
Indians. Regarding "T.T.'s" doubts as to the Mandans being descended from the followers of
Madoc, I confess that my opinions on the point do not differ very widely from his own. The
circumstances attending Madoc's emigration, in the paucity of its numbers and the entire separation
from the mother country, with the character of the Indians, would almost ensure the ultimate
destruction of the settlement, or the ultimate absorption of its remains by those who might
have had friendly relations with the Welsh. In this most favourable view, the evidences of
the presence of the Welsh seven centuries since would be few indeed at the present day. The
most striking circumstance of this nature that I met with in Mr. Catlin's work, is a description
of what he calls a "bull-boat," from its being covered with a bull's hide, which, in construction
and form, is perfectly identical with the Welsh "cwrygl." Yet, strong as this resemblance is,
it will have but little weight if unsupported by other evidence. In conclusion, I would observe,
that I never supposed Prince Madoc to be the discover of America, but that his voyage was induced
by the knowledge that other lands existed in the great ocean (see Humboldt's Examen critique).
The emblems found in America, and said to be crosses, are obviously the tau [cross symbol],
or symbol of life, and can have no connection with Christianity.

GOMER.

Poghell (No. 12. p. 186.).--In Cornwall and Devon there are places called Poughill or Poghill,--in
Domesday, Pochelle; and in the Taxatio Ecclesiastica, Pockehulle and Pogheheulle. The etymology
of the word, I take to be merely the addition (as is often found) of the Anglo-Saxon hill,
or hull, to the old Teutonic word Pock, or Pok, an eruption or protrusion. In low Latin, Pogetum
is colliculus. (See Ducange.)

S.S.S.

Swingeing Tureen (No. 19. p. 211., and No. 21. p. 340.).--How could "SELEUCUS" "conclude" that
Goldsmith's "Poor Beau Tibbs and Kitty his Wife," should have had "a silver tureen" of expensive
construction? It is evident that "Kitty's" husband, in the "Haunch of Venison," was the Beau
Tibbs of the "Citizen of the World." There can be no doubt that, however the word be spelled,
{407} the meaning is swingeing, "huge, great," which I admit was generally, if not always,
in those days spelled swinging, as in Johnson--"Swinging, from swinge, huge, great;" but which
ought to be, as it is pronounced, swingeing.

Tureen (pp. 246. 307. 340.).--"And instead of soup in a China terrene." (Knox, Essay 57 Works.
vol. ii. p. 572.)

S.S.S.

"A" or "An."--Quem Deus vult perdere.--Allow me to refer your correspondents "PRISCIAN" and
"E.S. JACKSON" (of No. 22.), to the Selections from the Gentleman's Magazine, London, 1814,
vol. ii. pp. 333. and 162., for some interesting papers on the subjects of their respective
inquiries.

The paper first referred to, at p. 333., is certainly well worth perusal, as the writer, "KUSTER,"
has examined the question with considerable care, and proves, by many curious instances, that
most of those whom we have been taught to look up to as the greatest authorities in English
writing--Dryden, Swift, Pope, Johnson, and others--seem to have had no fixed rule on the subject,
but to have used "a" or "an" before the same words with the most reckless inconsistency.

