At the end of sixty-two miles they reached the mouth of Flaming Gorge, near which some hunters
and Indians are settled. Flaming Gorge is a cañon bounded by perpendicular bluffs, banded with
red and yellow to a height of fifteen hundred feet, and the water flowing through it is a positive
malachite in color, crossed and edged with bars of glistening white sand. It leads into Red
Cañon, and in 1869 it was the gateway to a region which was almost wholly unknown. An old Indian
endeavored to deter Major Powell from his purpose. He held his hands above his head, with his
arms vertical, and, looking between them to the sky, said, "Rocks h-e-a-p, h-e-a-p high; the
water go h-oo-woogh; water-pony (boat) heap buck. Water catch 'em, no see 'em squaw any more,
no see 'em Injin any more, no see 'em pappoose any more." The prophecy was not encouraging,
and with some anxiety the explorers left the last vestige of civilization behind them. Below
the gorge they ran through Horseshoe Cañon, which describes an elongated letter U in the mountains,
and several portages became necessary. The cliffs increased a thousand feet in height, and
in many places the water completely filled the channel between them; but occasionally the cañon
opened into a little park, from the grassy carpet of which sprang crimson flowers on the stems
of pear-shaped cactus-plants, patches of blue and yellow blossoms, and a fragrant Spiræa.

As often as a rapid was approached Major Powell stood on the deck of the leading boat to examine
it, and if he could see a clear passage between the rocks he gave orders to go ahead, but if
the channel was barricaded he signalled the other boats to pull ashore, and landing himself
he walked along the edge of the cañon for further examination. If still no channel could be
found, the boats were lowered to the head of the falls and let down by ropes secured to the
stem and stern, or when this was impracticable both the cargoes and the boats were carried
by the men beyond the point of difficulty. When it was decided to run the rapids the greatest
danger was encountered in the first wave at the foot of the falls, which gathered higher and
higher until it broke. If the boat struck it the instant after it broke she cut through it,
and the men had all they could do to keep themselves from being washed overboard. If in going
over the falls she was caught by some side-current and borne against the wave "broadside on,"
she was capsized--an accident that happened more than once, without fatal results, however,
as the compartments served as buoys and the men clung to her and were dragged through the waves
until quieter water was reached.

In such a bay Major Powell landed one day, and, seeing one of the rear boats making for the
shore after he had given his signal, he supposed the others would follow her example, and walked
along the side of the cañon-wall to look for the fall of which a loud roar gave some premonition.
But a treacherous eddy carried the boat manned by the two Howlands and Goodman into the current,
and a moment later she disappeared over the unseen falls. The first fall was not great--not
more than ten or twelve feet--but below the river sweeps down forty or fifty feet through a
channel filled with spiked rocks which break it into whirlpools and frothy crests. Major Powell
scrambled around a crag just in time to see the boat strike one of these rocks, and, rebounding
from the shock, careen and fill the open compartment with water. The oars were dashed out of
the hands of two of the crew as she swung around and was carried down the stream with great
velocity, and immediately after she struck another rock amidships, which broke her in two and
threw the men into the water.