PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

October 10, 1891.

       *       *       *       *       *

ATROPOS AND THE ANTHROPOIDS.

(A DIRGE AT THE ZOO.)

    ["The Anthropoid apes, of which there was recently such a
    representative series in the Zoo, have dwindled sadly in
    numbers this year. The lamented decease of 'Sally' was
    referred to a few weeks ago; we have now to record the death
    of 'George,' the Orang-Outang."--Daily News.]

  Late for the Chimpanzee the requiem rang,
  Now the bell tolls for the Orang-Outang.
  Well may spasmodic sobs choke childhood's gorge,
  Now they who sighed for "Sally" grieve for "George."
  A "wilderness of monkeys" can't console,
  For Anthropoids defunct. Of Apedom's whole,
  One little Chimpanzee, one Gibbon small,
  (Who ought to write his race's "Rise and Fall,")
  Alone remain to cheer the tearful Zoo,
  And mitigate lone boyhood's loud bohoo!
  "Sally" adieu! to "George" a long farewell!
  Ah! muffle if you please their passing bell!
  Only one thought can cheer us in the least;
  "No doubt the stock will shortly be increased."
  Thanks, Daily News! Wipe, childhood, the wet eye,
  And Apedom for dead kin soften the Simian sigh!

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARITY'S WORD OF COMMAND.--"Present alms!"

       *       *       *       *       *

OYSTERS (NOT) FOR EVER!

  He was a gentle Fishmonger, and WILLIAMSON his name,
  No doubt you may have heard before his philanthropic game.
  The lack of oysters pained him much, for how could people royster
  And happy be in r-less months without the luscious oyster?

  A look of pain was in his face, a pucker on his brow,
  Long time he pondered very hard to try and find out how.
  At last he cried, "Eureka! from France I'll go and bring them,
  And into beds I've got at home without a murmur fling them."

  Then they came across the Channel, and he very sweetly said,
  "So glad to see you looking well, would you like to see your bed?
  For there, my little dears, you stay; you'll one day know the reason.
  I'll rouse you when the month of May makes natives out of season."

  The Fishmongers, the Worshipful, sent down a man to see,
  He wrung his hands and shook his head, and said, "Oh, miseree!
  It pains me very deeply, and it drives me to distraction,
  You've done what's wrong, and I shall have to institute an action."

  Then WILLIAMSON, he sobbed aloud, and shed a bitter tear,
  "Oh, hang it all," he cried, "why must you come and interfere?
  I quite admit, however, that I see your point precisely,
  So don't let's quarrel, let's be friends, and bring the action nicely."

  They brought that friendly action, and the clever counsel tried
  To prove to FAUDELL PHILLIPS that the law was on his side.
  But the oyster-dealer found the law for him was one too many,
  So he had to pay the piper--to be quite exact, a penny.

  And you who love your oyster in the latter end of May,
  In June, July, and August, too, will sadly rue the day,
  For philanthropic folk will find it unremunerative
  To introduce in summer-time this Franco-English native.[1]

[Footnote 1: Oysters are to be six shillings a dozen this winter!! How many of the ordinarily
careless will now be compelled to go by RULES without going in for Oysters. N.B.--"Action"
in these verses is poetic license for "summons."]

       *       *       *       *       *

"SAVE ME FROM MY FRIENDS!"

    SCENE--A Place of Meeting. Enter Parliamentary Leader and
    his Subordinate. They greet one another effusively.

Leader (cordially). And now, my dear fellow, how are my interests?

Sub. (with much heartiness). Getting on capitally! Just been writing to all the papers to say
that it is stupid to call you "Old Dot-and-go-one," because it is inapplicable to either your
age or your mode of controversy.

Lead. (with a feeble smile). That was kind of you! But who had said it?

Sub. (airily). Oh, someone of about fourth-rate importance! and it had been quite forgotten
you know. So I dragged it up again, and put it all right for you.

Lead. (shaking hands). Thanks, so very much. But if persons had forgotten it, why revert to it?

Sub. Oh, don't you see? Why, the point is, you are not a bit like it-not a scrap like it! Next
week I shall write and say that it's rubbish to call you a turncoat, because you have always
been consistent.

Lead. (anxiously). But is anybody calling me a turncoat?

Sub. Not that I know of, but they might, don't you see. So it's as well to be on the safe side.
I shall say that, if any one did call you a turncoat, that the speaker would prove himself
a liar! That ought to give you a leg up, oughtn't it?

Lead. (with some hesitation). My dear friend, you are most kind; but if you don't mind, I would
be so immensely obliged if you would leave my interests alone.

Sub. (with great cordiality). What, leave your interests alone! Never! You may be always sure
of my hearty support!

Lead. (earnestly). But as a personal matter, I must beg of you kindly to leave me alone.

Sub. (reluctantly). Well, of course, if you make it a personal matter, I must consent. But
the Party will suffer.

Lead. (dryly). Possibly--from your point of view. [Exeunt.

       *       *       *       *       *

JAWFUL NEWS!--The Diminution of the Jaw in the Civilised Races is the title of a pamphlet by
Mr. F. HOWARD COLLINS. We haven't read it; but if it be in favour of the diminution of "jaw,"
we heartily recommend its study to all Members of Parliament, actual or intending, and to all
post-prandial speechmakers generally.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bumble (after reading Dr. T. Orme Duffield's Report to the Vestry of Kensington on the health
and sanitary condition of the district), loquitur:--

  Oh bother this sanit'ry bosh! Always piping the same dull old strains,
  One would think there wos nothink in life to be done but go sniffing the
      Drains!
  Wich my nose is a dalicot one, and I don't like the job, not by lumps;
  And I won't be perpetual poked up by these peeping and prying old pumps.
  "Bumbledom and Disease!" I like that,--like the Times' dashed himperence,
      I think.
  We porochial pots is to pass all our time a-prospecting for Stink!
  Doctor DUDFIELD thinks WE should inspeck, periodical, all privit dwellings,
  Discover and show up defecks, sech as fumings and leakings, and smellings,
  As "lurk unsuspected about," which the tenants theirselves do not twig,
  And the landlords, in course, don't remove. Well, your tenant is mostly a
      pig,
  And your landlord is sometimes a 'og; still between 'em we jest slip
      along,
  But do dooty for both of 'em? Snakes! that is coming it slightly too
      strong.
  The tenants 'old on jest as long as they can, and the landlords 'old orf.
  A sort of a ketchy sore-throat, or a bit of a qualm or a korf,
  Make some idjots go fair orf their chumps on diphtheria, and typhod and
      such;
  But then others, who don't like a hupset, put up with the lot, pooty much,
  Jest to save topsy-turvey and 'oles in the garden, and mud on the stairs;
  Landlords, likeways, is dabs at postponing, and patching, and 'ushing up
      scares.
  But if we are to spot wot goes quisby, and be the responsible chaps,
  Wheugh! we should 'ave a regular beanfeast with sockets and air-pipes
      and traps!
  No, no, westry worrying sneaks, it won't work. As for "W.B.E."
  He may frighten the Kensington lot, he won't 'ave no effeck upon Me!
  Diphtheria be jolly well dashed! It is often, as DUDFIELD explains,
  Mere "follicular(--hem!--) tonsillitis." Me bother my 'ed about Drains?
  Go to! I 'ave got other fish, in a manner of speaking, to fry,
  That L.C.C. gave itself airs and declared it would wipe my old heye
  With its bloomin' Big Pots and "Progressives." Aha! where the doose are
      they now?
  Mister ROSEBERY resigned, regular sick of bad manners and endless bow-wow;
  Now LIBBOCK and FARRER are orf. FARRER gave the Times one in the eye,
  'Cos it seemed for to 'int even he of them precious Progressives wos shy.
  Swears their manners is quite up to dick, most consid'rit, and all that
      there stuff.
  Well they may 'ave been Brummels of course, but he seems to 'ave 'ad
      quite enough!
  'Owsomever, wotever the cause, now they're quit of the Great Toffy Three,
  They must 'ave a new Chairman, in course, and--ha! ha!--wot a hopening
      for Me!!
  Porochial Bumble must rule, spite of fads, in a steady and sane age,
  And 'aving a heye on High Orfice I can't waste my time on mere
      Drainage!

    [Kicks Report, and strikes an attitude.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HIDE AND SEEK.

  Ah! Pirate KID's Treasure has done good we know,
  It suggested a rattling good story to POE.
  But the "Syndicate" started to seek where 'tis hid,
  Will probably find that same Treasure--"all KID!"

       *       *       *       *       *

TEA IN TEN MINUTES.

(A SONG AT A RAILWAY STATION.)

AIR--"THEE, THEE, ONLY THEE."

  Ten minutes here! The sun is sinking
  And longingly we've long been thinking,
        Of Tea, Tea, fragrant Tea!

  The marble slabs we gather round,
    They're long in bringing what is wanted.
  The china cup with draught embrown'd
    Our thirsty souls are wholly haunted
        By Tea, Tea, fragrant Tea!

  Now then, you waiter, stir, awaken!
  Time's up. I'll hardly save my bacon.
        Tea, Tea, bring that Tea!

  At last! The infusion's rayther dark.
    But hurry up! Can't stay for ever!
  One swig! Br-r-r-r! Hang the cunning shark!
    Will't never cool? Nay, never, never!
        Tea, Tea, scalding Tea!

  More milk; don't be an hour in bringing!
  Heavens! That horrid bell is ringing!
    "Take your seats, please!" Can't touch the Tea!
  Cup to the carriage must not take;
    Crockery may be lost, or broken;
  Refreshment sharks are wide awake.
    But--many a naughty word is spoken
        O'er Tea, Tea, scalding Tea!

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTHING NEW.--The Editor of the Gentlewoman announces a forthcoming novel to be written by
about a dozen or more novelists. Mr. Punch highly commends this spirited enterprise. The scheme
is not absolutely a novelty, as in Mr. Punch's pages some time ago, was there not a "Limited
Novel Co." of Authors and Artists to produce "Chikkin Hazard?" They combined, but did not collaborate.
But any way, success to the Gentlewoman!

       *       *       *       *       *

"WHERE IS DAT BARTY NOW?"--After the recent suicide of le pauvre Général, the Boulangist party
cannot be said to have been left without leaders, at all events, in England, as they have had
leaders in all the papers, and actually two in the Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.

NO. X.

    SCENE--A flight of steps by the lake in the grounds of the
    Insel Hotel, Constance. Time, late afternoon. A small boat,
    containing three persons, is just visible far out on the
    glassy grey-green water. BOB PRENDERGAST and PODBUBY are
    perched side by side on a parapet, smoking disconsolately.

Podbury. Do they look at all as if they meant to come in? I tell you what, BOB, vote we row
out to them and tell them they'll be late for table d'hôte. Eh? [He knocks out his pipe.

Prendergast (phlegmatically). Only be late for it ourselves if we do. They'll come in when
they want to.

Podb. It's not safe for your sister,--I'm hanged if it is--going out in a boat with a duffer
like CULCHARD! He'll upset her as sure as eggs.

Prend. (with fraternal serenity). With pin-oars? Couldn't if he tried! And they've a man with
them, too. The less I see of that chap CULCHARD the better. I did hope we'd choked him off
at Nuremberg. I hate the sight of his supercilious old mug!

Podb. You can't hate it more than I do--but what can I do? (Pathetically.) I've tried rotting
him, but somehow he always manages to get the best of it in the end. I never saw such a beggar
to hang on!

Prend. What on earth made you ask him to come on here, after he declared he wouldn't?

Podb. I! I ask him? He settled it all with your sister. How could I help it?

Prend. I'd do something. Why can't you tell him right out he ain't wanted? I would--like a shot!

Podb. It's not so easy to tell him as you think. We haven't been on speaking terms these three
days. And, after all (feebly) we're supposed to be travelling together, don't you know! You
might drop him a hint now.

Prend. Don't see how I can very well--not on my own hook. Might lead to ructions with HYPATIA, too.

Podb. (anxiously). BOB, you--you don't think your sister really--eh?

Prend. HYPATIA's a rum girl--always was. She certainly don't seem to object to your friend
CULCHARD. What the dickens she can see in him, I don't know!--but it's no use my putting my
oar in. She'd only jump on me, y'know!

Podb. (rising). Then I must. If that's what he's really after, I think I can stop his little
game. I'll try, at any rate. It's a long worm that has no turning, and I've had about enough
of it. The first chance I get. I'll go for him.

Prend. Good luck to you, old chap. There, they're coming in now. We'd better go in and change,
eh? We've none too much time.

    [They go in.

    In the Lese-zimmer, a small gaslit room, with glazed doors
    opening upon the Musik-saal. Around a table piled with German
    and English periodicals, a mild Curate, the Wife of the English
    Chaplain, and two Old Maids are seated, reading and conversing.
    CULCHARD is on a central ottoman, conscientiously deciphering
    the jokes in "Fliegende Blätter." PODBURY is at the bookcase,
    turning over odd TAUCHNITZ volumes.

The Chaplain's Wife (to the Curate, a new arrival). Oh, you will very soon get into all our
little ways. The hours here are most convenient--breakfast (table d'hôte) with choice of eggs
or fish and coffee--really admirable coffee--from eight to nine; midday dinner at one. Supper
at nine. Then, if you want to write a letter, the post for England goes out at--(&c., &c.)
And on Sundays, eleven o'clock service (Evangelical, of course!) at the--(&c., &c.) My husband--(&c.,
&c.)

First Old Maid (looking up from a four days old "Telegraph"). I see they are still continuing
that very interesting correspondence on "Our Children's Mouths--and are they widening?" One
letter attributes it to the habit of thumb--sucking in infancy--which certainly ought to be
checked. Now I never would allow any--

The Chaplain's Wife. Nor I. But corals are quite as bad. Only this afternoon I was telling
a Lady in this hotel that her little boy would be much happier with a rubber ring. You get
them at a shop in the Hoch-strasse I can take you to it at any time, or if you like to mention
my name--(&c., &c.)

Second O.M. One correspondent thought the practice of eating soup with table-spoons tended
to enlarge the mouth. I really believe there may be something in it. [A pause.

The Curate. The weather we have been having seems to have materially affected the harvest prospects
at home; they say there will be little or no fodder for the cattle this year. I saw somewhere--I
forget where it was exactly--a suggestion to feed cows on chickweed.

Podb. (at the bookcase). Capital thing for them too, Sir. Know a man who never gives his cattle
anything else.

The Curate. Oh, really? And does he find the experiment answer?

