No other varieties of "spots" are found, and the four sensations of touch, warmth, cold and
pain are believed to be the only elementary skin sensations. Itch, stinging and aching seem
to be the same as pain. Tickle is touch, usually light touch or a succession of light touches.
Smooth and rough are successions of touch sensations. Moist is usually a compound of smooth
and cold. Hard and soft combine touch and the muscular sensation of resistance.

Hot and cold require more discussion. The elementary sensations are warmth and coolness, rather
than hot and cold. Hot and cold are painful, and the fact is that strong temperature stimuli
arouse the pain spots as well as the warmth or cold spots. Hot, accordingly, is a sensation
compounded of warmth and pain, and cold a sensation composed of coolness and pain. More than
this, when a cold spot is touched with a point heated well above the skin temperature (best
to a little over 100 Fahrenheit), the curious fact is noted that the cold spot responds with
its normal sensation of cold. This is called the "paradoxical cold sensation". From this fact
it is probable that a hot object excites the cold sensation, along with those of warmth and
{199} pain; so that the sensation of heat is a blend of the three. Another curious fact is
that a very cold object produces a burning sensation indistinguishable from that of a hot object;
so that the sensation of great cold, like that of heat, is probably a blend of the three elementary
sensations of warmth, cold and pain.

The stimulus that arouses the touch sensation is a bending of the skin. That which arouses
warmth or cold is of {200} course a temperature stimulus, but, strange as it may seem, the
exact nature of the effective stimulus has not been agreed upon. Either it is a warming or
cooling of the skin, or it is the existence of a higher or lower temperature in the skin than
that to which the skin is at the moment "adapted". This matter will become clearer when we
later discuss adaptation. The stimulus that arouses the pain sensation may be mechanical (as
a needle prick), or thermal (heat or cold), or chemical (as the drop of acid), or electrical;
but in any case it must be strong enough to injure or nearly to injure the skin. In other words,
the pain sense organ is not highly sensitive, but requires a fairly strong stimulus; and thus
it is fitted to give warning of stimuli that threaten injury.

Several kinds of sensory end-organ are found in the skin. There is the "spherical end-bulb",
into which a sensory axon penetrates; it is believed to be the sense organ for cold. There
is the rather similar "cylindrical end-bulb" believed to be the sense organ for warmth. There
is the "touch corpuscle", found in the skin of the palms and soles, and consisting, like the
end-bulbs, of a mass of accessory cells with a sensory axon ramifying inside it; this is an
end-organ for the sense of touch. There is the hair end-organ, consisting of a sensory axon
coiled about the root of the hair; this, also, is a touch receptor. Finally, there is the "free-branched
nerve end", consisting simply of the branching of a sensory axon, with no accessory apparatus
whatever; and this is the pain receptor. Perhaps the pain receptor requires no accessory apparatus
because it does not need to be extremely sensitive.

Now since we find, in the skin, "spots" responsive to four quite different stimuli, giving
four quite different sensations, and apparently provided with different types of end-organs,
it has become customary to speak of four skin senses in place of the traditional "sense of
touch". We {201} speak of the pain sense, the warmth sense, the cold sense, and the pressure
sense, which last is the sense of touch proper.

The Sense of Taste

Analysis has been as successful in the sense of taste as in cutaneous sensation. Ordinarily
we speak of an unlimited number of tastes, every article of food having its own characteristic
taste. Now the interior of the mouth possesses the four skin senses in addition to taste, and
many tastes are in part composed of touch, warmth, cold or pain. A "biting taste" is a compound
of pain with taste proper, and a "smooth taste" is partly touch. The consistency of the food,
soft, tough, brittle, gummy, also contributes, by way of the muscle sense, to the total "taste".
But in addition to all these sensations from the mouth, the flavor of the food consists largely
of odor. Food in the mouth stimulates the sense of smell along with that of taste, the odor
of the food reaching the olfactory organ by way of the throat and the rear passage to the nose.
If the nose is held tightly so as to prevent all circulation of air through it, most of the
"tastes" of foods vanish; coffee and quinine then taste alike, the only taste of each being
bitter, and apple juice cannot be distinguished from onion juice.

But when the nose is excluded, and when cutaneous and muscular sensations are deducted, there
still remain a few genuine tastes. These are sweet, sour, bitter and salty--and apparently
no more. These four are the elementary taste sensations, all others being compounds. The papillae
of the tongue, with their little "pits" already spoken of, correspond to the "spots" of the
skin, with this difference, however, that the papillae do not each give a single sensation.
Some of them give only two, some only three of the four tastes; and the bitter taste is aroused
principally from {202} the back of the tongue, the sweet from the tip, the sour from the sides,
the salty from both tip and sides.

The stimulus to the sense of taste is something of a chemical nature. The tasteable substances
must be in solution in order to penetrate the pits and get to the sensitive tips of the taste
cells. If the upper surface of the tongue is first dried, a dry lump of sugar or salt laid
on it gives no sensation of taste until a little saliva has accumulated and dissolved some
of the substance.

Exactly what is the chemical agent that produces a given taste sensation is a problem of some
difficulty. Many different substances give the sensation of bitter, and the question is, what
there is common to all these substances. The sweet taste is aroused not only by sugar, but
by glycerine, saccharine, and even "sugar of lead" (lead acetate). The sour taste is aroused
by most acids, but not by all, and also by some substances that are not chemically acids. Thus
the chemistry of taste stimuli involves something not as yet understood.

Though there is this uncertainty regarding the stimulus, on the whole the sense of taste affords
a fine example of success achieved by experimental methods in the analysis of complex sensations.
At the same time it affords a fine example of the fusion of different sensations into characteristic
blends. The numerous "tastes" of every-day life, though found on analysis to be compounded
of taste, smell, touch, pain, temperature and muscle sensations, have the effect of units.
The taste of lemonade, for example, compounded of sweet, sour, cold and lemon odor, has the
effect of a single characteristic sensation. It can be analyzed, but it ordinarily appears
as a unit. This is true generally of blends; indeed, what we mean by blending is that, while
the component sensations are still present and can be found by careful attention, they are
not simply present together {203} but are compounded into a characteristic total. Each elementary
sensation entering into the blend gives up some of its own quality, as, in the case of lemonade,
neither the sweet nor the sour is quite so distinct and obtrusive as either would be if present
alone. The same is true of the lemon odor, and it is true generally of the odor components
that enter into the "tastes" of food. Were the odor components in these tastes as clear and
distinct as they are when the same substance is smelled outside the mouth, we could not fail
to notice that the "tastes" were largely composed of odor. The obtrusive thing about a blend
is the total effect, not the elementary sensations that are blended.

The Sense of Smell

The great variety of odors long resisted every attempt at psychological analysis, largely because
the olfactory end-organ is so secluded in position. You cannot apply stimuli to separate parts
of it, as you can to the skin or tongue. But, recently, good progress has been made, [Footnote:
By Henning.] by assembling almost all possible odors, and becoming thoroughly acquainted with
them, not as substances, but simply as odors, and noting their likenesses and differences.
It seems possible now to state that there are six elementary odors, as follows:

1. Spicy, found in pepper, cloves, nutmeg, etc.

2. Flowery, found in heliotrope, etc.

3. Fruity, found in apple, orange oil, vinegar, etc.

4. Resinous, found in turpentine, pine needles, etc.

5. Foul, found in hydrogen sulphide, etc.

6. Scorched, found in tarry substances.

These being the elements, there are many compound odors. The odor of roasted coffee is a compound
of resinous and scorched, peppermint a compound of fruity and spicy.

{204}

Each elementary odor corresponds to a certain characteristic in the chemical constitution of
the stimulus.

The sense of smell is extremely delicate, responding to very minute quantities of certain substances
diffused in the air. It is extremely useful in warning us against bad air and bad food. It
has also considerable esthetic value.

Organic Sensation

The term "organic sensation" is used to cover a variety of sensations from the internal organs,
such as hunger, thirst, nausea, suffocation and less definite bodily sensations that color
the emotional tone of any moment, contributing to "euphoria" and also to disagreeable states
of mind. Hunger is a sensation aroused by the rubbing together of the stomach walls when the
stomach, being ready for food, begins its churning movements. Careful studies of sensations
from the internal organs reveal astonishingly little of sensation arising there, but there
can be little doubt that the sensations just listed really arise where they seem to arise,
in the interior of the trunk.

Little has been done to determine the elementary sensations in this field; probably the organic
sensations that every one is familiar with are blends rather than elements.

The Sense of Sight

Of the tremendous number and variety of visual sensations, the great majority are certainly
compounds. Two sorts of compound sensation can be distinguished here: blends similar to those
of taste or smell, and patterns which scarcely occur among sensations of taste and smell, though
they are found, along with blends, in cutaneous sensation. Heat, compounded of warmth, cold
and pain sensations, is an {205} excellent example of a blend, while the compound sensation
aroused by touching the skin simultaneously with two points--or three points, or a ring or
square--is to be classed as a pattern. In a pattern, the component parts are spread out in
space or time (or in both at once), and for that reason are more easily attended to separately
than the elements in a blend. Yet the pattern, like the blend, has the effect of a unit. A
spatial pattern has a characteristic shape, and a temporal pattern a characteristic course
or movement. A rhythm or a tune is a good example of a temporal pattern.

Visual sensations are spread out spatially, and thus fall into spatial patterns. They also
are in constant change and motion, and so fall into temporal patterns, many of which are spatial
as well. The visual sensation aroused, let us say in a young baby, by the light entering his
eye from a human face, is a spatial pattern; the visual sensation aroused by some one's turning
down the light is a pure temporal pattern; while the sensation from a person seen moving across
the room is a pattern both spatial and temporal. Finding the elements of a visual pattern would
mean finding the smallest possible bits of it, which would probably be the sensations due to
the action of single rods and cones, just as the smallest bit of a cutaneous sensation would
be due to the exciting of a single touch spot, warmth spot, cold spot or pain spot.

Analyzing a visual blend is quite a different job. Given the color pink, for example, let it
be required to discover whether this is a simple sensation or a blend of two or more elementary
sensations. Studying it intently, we see that it can be described as a whitish red, and if
we are willing to accept this analysis as final, we conclude that pink is a blend of the elementary
sensations of white and red. Of the thousands and thousands of distinguishable hues, shades
{206} and tints, only a few are elements and the rest are color blends; and our main problem
now is to identify the elements. Notice that we are not seeking for the physical elements of
light, nor for the primary pigments of the painter's art, but for the elementary sensations.
Our knowledge of physics and painting, indeed, is likely to lead us astray. Sensations are
our responses to the physical stimulus, and the psychological question is, what fundamental
responses we make to this class of stimuli.

Suppose, without knowing anything of pigments or of the physics of light, we got together a
collection of bits of color of every shade and tint, in order to see what we could discover
about visual sensations. Leaving aside the question of elements for the moment, we might first
try to classify the bits of color. We could sort out a pile of reds, a pile of blues, a pile
of browns, a pile of grays, etc., but the piles would shade off one into another. The salient
fact about colors is the gradual transition from one to another. We can arrange them in series
better than we can classify them. They can be serially arranged in three different ways, according
to brightness or intensity, according to color-tone, and according to saturation.

The intensity series runs from light to dark. We can arrange such a series composed entirely
of reds or blues or any other one color; or we can arrange the whole collection of bits of
color into a single light-dark series. It is not always easy to decide whether a given shade
of one color is lighter or darker than a given shade of a different color; but in a rough way,
at least, every bit of whatever color would have its place in the single intensity series.
An intensity series can, of course, be arranged in any other sense as well as in sight.

The color-tone series is best arranged from a collection consisting entirely of full or saturated
colors. Start the {207} series with any color and put next to this the color that most resembles
it in color-tone, i.e., in specific color quality; and so continue, adding always the color
that most resembles the one preceding. If we started with red, the next in order might be either
a yellowish red or a bluish red. If we took the yellowish red and placed it beside the red,
then the next in order would be a still more yellowish red, and the series would run on to
yellow and then to greenish yellow, green, bluish green, blue, violet, purple, purplish red,
and so back to red. The color-tone series returns upon itself. It is a circular series.

A saturation series runs from full-toned or saturated colors to pale or dull. Since we can
certainly say of a pale blue that it is less saturated than a vivid red, etc., we could, theoretically,
arrange our whole collection of bits of color in a single saturation series, but our judgment
would be very uncertain at many points. The most significant saturation series confine themselves
to a single color-tone, {208} and also, as far as possible, to a constant brightness, and extend
from the most vivid color sensation obtainable with this color-tone and brightness, through
a succession of less and less strongly colored sensations of the same tone and brightness,
to a dead gray of the same brightness. Any such saturation series terminates in a neutral gray,
which is light or dark to match the rest of the particular saturation series.

White, black and gray, which find no place in the color-tone series, give an intensity series
of their own, running from white through light gray and darker and darker gray to black, and
any gray in this series may be the zero point in a saturation series of any color-tone.

A three-dimensional diagram of the whole system of visual sensations can be built up in the
following way. Taking all the colors of the same degree of brightness, we can arrange the most
saturated, in the order of their color-tone, around the circumference of a circle, put a gray
of the same brightness at the center of this circle, and then arrange a saturation series for
each color-tone extending from the most saturated at the circumference to gray at the center.
This would be a two-dimensional diagram for colors having the same brightness. For a greater
brightness, we could arrange a similar circle and place it above the first, and for a smaller
brightness, a similar circle and place it below the first, and we could thus build up a pile
of circles, ranging from the greatest brightness at the top to the least at the bottom. But,
as the colors all lose saturation when their brightness is much increased, and also when it
is much decreased, we should make the circles smaller and smaller toward either the top or
the bottom of the pile, so that our three-dimensional diagram would finally take the form of
a double cone, with the most intense white, like that of sunlight, at the upper point, with
dead black at the lower point, {209} and with the greatest diameter near the middle brightness,
where the greatest saturations can be obtained. The axis of the double cone, extending from
brightest white to dead black, would give the series of neutral grays. All the thousands of
distinguishable colors, shades and tints, would find places in this scheme.

Simpler Forms of the Color Sense

Not every one gets all these sensations. In color-blindness, the system is reduced to one or
two dimensions, instead of three. There are two principal forms of color-blindness: total,
very uncommon; and red-green blindness, fairly {210} common. The totally color-blind individual
sees only white, black, and the various shades of gray. His system of visual sensations is
reduced to one dimension, corresponding to the axis of our double cone.

Red-green blindness, very uncommon in women, is present in three or four percent of men. It
is not a disease, not curable, not corrected by training, and not associated with any other
defect of the eye, or of the brain. It is simply a native peculiarity of the color sense. Careful
study shows that the only color sensations of the red-green blind person are blue and yellow,
along with white, black and the grays. His color circle reduces to a straight line with yellow
at one end and blue at the other. Instead of the color circle, he has a double saturation series,
reaching from saturated yellow through duller yellows to gray and thence through dull blues
to saturated blue. What appears to the normal eye as red, orange or grass green appears to
him as more or less unsaturated yellow; and what appears to the normal eye as greenish blue,
violet and purple appears to him as more or less unsaturated blue. His color system can be
represented in two dimensions, one for the double saturation series, yellow-gray-blue, and
the other for the intensity series, white-gray-black.

Color-blindness, always interesting and not without some practical importance (since the confusions
of the color-blind eye might lead to mistaking signals in navigation or railroading), takes
on additional significance when we discover the curious fact that every one is color-blind--in
certain parts of the retina. The outermost zone of the retina, corresponding to the margin
of the field of view, is totally color-blind (or very nearly so), and an intermediate zone,
between this and the central area of the retina that sees all the colors, is red-green blind,
and delivers only blue and yellow sensations, along with white, black and gray. Take {211}
a spot of yellow or blue and move it in from the side of the head into the margin of the field
of view and then on towards the center. When it first appears in the margin, it simply appears
gray, but when it has come inwards for a certain distance it changes to yellow. If a red or
green spot is moved in similarly, it first appears gray, then takes on a faint tinge of yellow,
and finally, as it approaches the center of the field of view, appears in its true color. The
outer zone gets only black and white, the intermediate zone gets, in addition to these, yellow
and blue, and the central area adds red and green (and with them all the colors).

Now as to the question of elements, let us see how far we can go, keeping still to the sensations,
without any reference to the stimulus. If a collection of bits of color is presented to a class
of students who have not previously studied this matter, with the request that each select
those colors that seem to him elementary and not blends, there is practically unanimous agreement
on three colors, red, yellow and blue; and there are some votes for green also, but almost
none for orange, violet, purple, brown or any other colors. {212} except white and black. That
white and black are elementary sensations is made clear by the case of total color-blindness,
since in this condition there are no other visual sensations from which white and black could
be compounded, and these two differ so completely from each other that it would be impossible
to think of white as made up of black, or black of white. Gray, on the other hand, appears
like a blend of black and white. In the same way, red-green blindness demonstrates the reality
of yellow and blue as elementary sensations, since neither of them could be reduced to a blend
of the other with white or black; and there are no other colors present in this form of color
vision to serve as possible elements out of which yellow and blue might be compounded. That
white, black, yellow and blue are elementary sensations is therefore clear from the study of
visual sensations alone; and there are indications that red and green are also elements.

Visual Sensations as Related to the Stimulus

Thus far, we have said nothing of the stimulus that arouses visual sensations. Light, the stimulus,
is physically a wave motion, its vibrations succeeding each other at the rate of 500,000000,000000
vibrations, more or less, per second, and moving through space with a speed of 186,000 miles
per second. The "wave-length", or distance from the crest of one wave to the crest of the next
following, is measured in millionths of a millimeter.

The most important single step ever taken towards a knowledge of the physics of light, and
incidentally towards a knowledge of visual sensations, was Newton's analysis of white light
into the spectrum. He found that when white light is passed through a prism, it is broken up
into all the colors of the rainbow or spectrum. Sunlight consists of a {213} mixture of waves
of various lengths. At one end of the spectrum are the long waves (wave-length 760 millionths
of a millimeter), at the other end are the short waves (wavelength 390), and in between are
waves of every intermediate length, arranged in order from the longest to the shortest. The
longest waves give the sensation of red, and the shortest that of violet, a slightly reddish blue.

Outside the limits of the visible spectrum, however, there are waves still longer and shorter,
incapable of arousing the retina, though the very long waves, beyond the red, arouse the sensation
of warmth from the skin, and the very short waves, beyond the violet, though arousing none
of the senses, do effect the photographic plate. Between red and orange, for instance, there
are quite a number of distinguishable orange-reds and reddish oranges.

If now we ask what differences in the stimulus give rise to the three kinds of difference in
visual sensation that were spoken of previously, we find that color-tone depends on the wave-length
of the light, brightness on the energy of the stimulus, i.e., on the amplitude of the vibration,
and saturation on the mixture of long and short wave-lengths in a complex light-stimulus--the
more mixture, the less saturation.

These are the general correspondences between the light stimulus and the visual sensation;
but the whole relationship is much more complex. Brightness depends, not only on the energy
of the stimulus, but also on wave-length. The {214} retina is tuned to waves of medium length,
corresponding to the yellow, which arouse much brighter sensation than long or short waves
of the same physical energy. Otherwise put, the sensitivity of the retina is greatest for medium
wavelengths, and decreases gradually towards the ends of the spectrum, ceasing altogether,
as has been said, at wavelengths of 760 at the red end and of 390 at the violet end.

Saturation, depending primarily on amount of mixture of different wave-lengths, depends also
on the particular wavelengths acting, and also on their amplitude. So, the red and blue of
the spectrum are more saturated than the yellow and green; and very bright or very dim light,
however homogeneous, gives a less saturated sensation than a stimulus of medium strength.

Color Mixing

Color-tone depends on the wave-length, as has been said, but this is far from the whole truth;
the whole truth, indeed, is one of the most curious and significant facts about color vision.
We have said that each color-tone is the response to a particular wave-length. But any color-tone
can be got without its particular wave-length being present at all; all that is necessary is
that wave-lengths centering about this particular one shall be present. A mixed light, consisting
of two wave-lengths, the one longer and the other shorter than the particular wave which when
acting alone gives a certain color-tone, will give that same color-tone. For example, the orange
color resulting from the isolated action of a wave-length of 650 is given also by the combined
action of wave-lengths of 600 and 700, in amounts suitably proportioned to each other.

A point of experimental technique: in mixing colored lights for the purpose of studying the
resulting sensations, we do not mix painter's pigments, since the physical {215} conditions
then would be far from simple, but we mix the lights themselves by throwing them together either
into the eye, or upon a white screen. We can also, on account of a certain lag or hang-over
in the response of the retina, mix lights by rapidly alternating them, and get the same effect
as if we had made them strike the retina simultaneously.

By mixing a red light with a yellow, in varying proportions, all the color-tones between red
and yellow can be got--reddish orange, orange and yellowish orange. By mixing yellow and green
lights, we get all the greenish yellow and yellowish green color-tones; and by mixing green
and blue lights we get the bluish greens and greenish blues. Finally, by mixing blue and red
lights, in varying proportions, we get violet, purple and purplish red. Purple has no place
in the spectrum, since it is a sensation which cannot be aroused by the action of any single
wave-length, but only by the mixture of long and short waves.

To get all the color-tones, then, we need not employ all the wave-lengths, but can get along
with only four. In fact, we can get along with three. Red, green and blue will do the trick.
Red and green lights, combined, would give the yellows; green and blue would give the greenish
blues; and red and blue would give purple and violet.

The sensation of white results--to go back to Newton--from the combined action of all the wave-lengths.
But the stimulus need not contain all the wave-lengths. Four are enough; the three just mentioned
would be enough. More surprising still, two are enough, if chosen just right. Mix a pure yellow
light with a pure blue, and you will find that you get the sensation of white--or gray, if
the lights used are not strong.

[Footnote: When you mix blue and yellow pigments, each absorbs part of the wave-lengths of
white light, and what is left after this double absorption may be predominantly green. This
is absolutely different from the addition of blue to yellow light; addition gives white, not
green.]

{216}

Lights, or wave-lengths, which when acting together on the retina give the sensation of white
or gray, are said to be complementary. Speaking somewhat loosely, we sometimes say that two
colors are complementary when they mix to produce white. Strictly, the colors--or at least
the color sensations--are not mixed; for when yellow and blue lights are mixed, the resulting
sensation is by no means a mixture of blue and yellow sensations, but the sensation of white
in which there is no trace of either blue or yellow. Mixing the stimuli which, acting separately,
give two complementary colors, arouses the colorless sensation of white.

Blue and yellow, then, are complementary. Suppose we set out to find the complementary of red.
Mixing red and yellow lights gives the color-tones intermediate between these two; mixing red
and green still gives the intermediate color-tones, but the orange and yellow and yellowish
green so got lack saturation, being whitish or grayish. Now mix red with bluish green, and
this grayishness is accentuated, and if just the right wave-length of bluish green is used,
no trace of orange or yellow or grass green is obtained, but white or gray. Red and bluish
green are thus complementary. The complement of orange light is a greenish blue, and that of
greenish yellow is violet. The typical green (grass green) has no single wave-length complementary
to it, but it does give white when mixed with a compound of long and short waves, which compound
by itself gives the sensation of purple; so that we may speak of green and purple as complementary.

What Are the Elementary Visual Sensations?

Returning now to the question of elementary sensations, which we laid aside till we had examined
the relationship of the sensations to the stimulus, we need to be on our guard against physics,
or at least against being so much impressed with the physics of light as to forget that we
are concerned with the response of the organism to physical light--a matter on which physics
cannot speak the final word.

{217}

  Fig. 36.--(After König.) The color triangle, a map of the laws of
  color mixture. The spectral colors are arranged in order along the
  heavy solid line, and the purples along the heavy dotted line. The
  numbers give the wave-lengths of different parts of the spectrum.
  Inside the heavy line are located the pale tints of each color,
  merging from every side into white, which is located at the point W.

  Suppose equal amounts of two spectral colors are mixed: to find from
  the diagram the color of the mixture. Locate the two colors on the
  heavy line, draw a straight line between these two points, and the
  middle of this line gives the color-tone and saturation of the
  mixture. For example, mix red and yellow: then the resulting color
  is a saturated reddish yellow. Mix red (760) and green (505): the
  resulting yellow is non-saturated, since the straight line between
  these two points lies inside the figure. If the straight line
  joining two points passes through W, the colors located at the two
  points are complementary.

  Spectral colors are themselves not completely saturated. The way to
  get color sensations of maximum saturation is first to stare at one
  color, so as to fatigue or adapt the eye for that color, and then to
  turn the eye upon the complementary color, which, under these
  conditions, appears fuller and richer than anything otherwise
  obtainable. The corners, R, G, and B, denote colors of maximum
  saturation, and the whole of the triangle outside of the heavy line
  is reserved for super-saturated color sensations.

{end 217; text continues from 216} {218}

Physics tells us of the stimulus, but we are concerned with the response. The facts of color-blindness
and color mixing show very clearly that the response does not tally in all respects with the
stimulus. Physics, then, is apt to confuse the student at this point and lead him astray. Much
impressed with the physical discovery that white light is a mixture of all wave-lengths, he
is ready to believe the sensation of white a mixed sensation. He says, "White is the sum of
all the colors", meaning that the sensation of white is compounded of the sensations of red,
orange, yellow, green, blue and violet--which is simply not true. No one can pretend to get
the sensations of red or blue in the sensation of white, and the fact of complementary colors
shows that you cannot tell, from the sensation of white, whether the stimulus consists of yellow
and blue, or red and bluish green, or red, green and blue, or all the wave-lengths, the response
being the same to all these various combinations. Total color-blindness showed us, when we
were discussing this matter before, that white was an elementary sensation, and nothing that
has been said since changes that conclusion.

Consider black, too. Physics says, black is the absence of light; but this must not be twisted
to mean that black is the absence of all visual sensation. Absence of visual sensation is simply
nothing, and black is far from that. It is a sensation, as positive as any, and undoubtedly
elementary.

From the point of view of physics, there is no reason for considering any one color more elementary
than any other. Every wave-length is elementary; and if sensation tallied precisely with the
stimulus, every spectral color-tone would be an element. But there are obvious objections to
such a view, such as: (1) there are not nearly as many {219} distinguishable color-tones as
there are wave-lengths; (2) orange, having a single wave-length, certainly appears to be a
blend as truly as purple, which has no single wave-length; and (3) we cannot get away from
the fact of red-green blindness, in which there are only two color-tones, yellow and blue.
In this form of color vision (which, we must remember, is normal in the intermediate zone of
the retina), there are certainly not as many elementary responses as there are wave-lengths,
but only one response to all the longer waves (the sensation of yellow), one response to all
the shorter waves (the sensation of blue), one response to the combination of long and short
waves (the sensation of white), and one response to the cessation of light (the sensation of
black). These four are certainly elementary sensations, and there are probably only a few more.

There must be at least two more, because of the fact that two of the sure elements, yellow
and blue, are complementary. For suppose we try to get along with one more, as red. Then red,
blended with yellow, would give the intervening color-tones, namely, orange with reddish and
yellowish orange; and red blended with blue would give violet and purple; but yellow and blue
would only give white or gray, and there would be no way of getting green. We must admit green
as another element. The particular red selected would be that of the red end of the spectrum,
if we follow the general vote; and the green would probably be something very near grass green.
We thus arrive at the conclusion that there are six elementary visual responses or sensations:
white and black, yellow and blue, red and green.

It is a curious fact that some of these elementary sensations blend with each other, while
some refuse to blend. White and black blend to gray, and either white or black or both together
will blend with any of the four elementary colors or with any possible blend of these four.
Brown, for {220} example, is a grayish orange, that is, a blend of white, black, red and yellow.
Red blends with yellow, yellow with green, green with blue, and blue with red. But we cannot
get yellow and blue to blend, nor red and green. When we try to get yellow and blue to blend,
by combining their appropriate stimuli, both colors disappear, and we get simply the colorless
sensation of white or gray. When we try to get red and green to blend, both of them disappear
and we get the sensation of yellow.

Theories of Color Vision

Of the most celebrated theories of color vision, the oldest, propounded by the physicists Young
and Helmholtz, recognized only three elements, red, green and blue. Yellow they regarded as
a blend of red and green, and white as a blend of all three elements. The unsatisfactory nature
of this theory is obvious. White as a sensation is certainly not a blend of these three color
sensations, but is, precisely, colorless; and no more is the yellow sensation a blend of red
and green. Moreover, the theory cannot do justice either to total color-blindness, with its
white and black but no colors, or to red-green blindness, with its yellow but no red or green.

The next prominent theory was that of the physiologist Hering. He did justice to white and
black by accepting them as elements; and to yellow and blue likewise. The fact that yellow
and blue would not blend he accounted for by supposing them to be antagonistic responses of
the retina; when, therefore, the stimuli for both acted together on the retina, neither of
the two antagonistic responses could occur, and what did occur was simply the more generic
response of white. Proceeding along this line, he concluded that red and green were also antagonistic
responses; but just here {221} he committed a wholly unnecessary error, in assuming that if
red and green were antagonistic responses, the combination of their stimuli must give white,
just as with yellow and blue. Accordingly, he was forced to select as his red and green elementary
color-tones two that would be complementary; and this meant a purplish (i.e., bluish) red,
and a bluish green, with the result that his "elementary" red and green appear to nearly every
one as compounds and not elements. It would really have been just as easy for Hering to suppose
that the red and green responses, antagonizing each other, left the sensation yellow; and then
he could have selected that red and green which we have concluded above to have the best claim.

