I do not know a more mortifying thing than to be conscious of a foregone delight, with a total
oblivion of the person and manner which conveyed it. In dreams I often stretch and strain after
the countenance of Edwin, whom I once saw in Peeping Tom. I cannot catch a feature of him.
He is no more to me than Nokes or Pinkethman. Parsons, and still more Dodd, were near being
lost to me, till I was refreshed with their portraits (fine treat) the other day at Mr. Mathews's
gallery at Highgate; which, with the exception of the Hogarth pictures, a few years since exhibited
in Pall Mall, was the most delightful collection I ever gained admission to. There hang the
players, in their single persons, and in grouped scenes, from the Restoration--Bettertons,
Booths, Garricks, justifying the prejudices which we entertain for them--the Bracegirdles,
the Mountforts, and the Oldfields, fresh as Cibber has described them--the Woffington (a true
Hogarth) upon a couch, dallying and dangerous--the Screen Scene in Brinsley's famous comedy,
with Smith and Mrs. Abingdon, whom I have not seen, and the rest, whom having seen, I see still
there. There is Henderson, unrivalled in Comus, whom I saw at second hand in the elder Harley--Harley,
the rival of Holman, in Horatio--Holman, with the bright glittering teeth in Lothario, and
the deep paviour's sighs in Romeo--the jolliest person ("our son is fat") of any Hamlet I have
yet seen, with the most laudable attempts (for a personable man) at looking melancholy--and
Pope, the abdicated monarch of tragedy and comedy, in Harry the Eighth and Lord Townley. There
hang the two Aickins, brethren in mediocrity--Wroughton, who in Kitely seemed to have forgotten
that in prouder days he had personated Alexander--the specious form of John Palmer, with the
special effrontery of Bobby--Bensley, with the trumpet-tongue, and little Quick (the retired
Dioclesian of Islington) with his squeak like a Bart'lemew fiddle. There are fixed, cold as
in life, the immovable features of Moody, who, afraid of o'erstepping nature, sometimes stopped
short of her--and the restless fidgetiness of Lewis, who, with no such fears, not seldom leaped
o' the other side. There hang Farren and Whitfield, and Burton and Phillimore, names of small
account in those times, but which, remembered now, or casually recalled by the sight of an
old play-bill, with their associated recordations, can "drown an eye unused to flow." There
too hangs (not far removed from them in death) the graceful plainness of the first Mrs. Pope,
with a voice unstrung by age, but which, in her better days, must have competed with the silver
tones of Barry himself, so enchanting in decay do I remember it--of all her lady parts exceeding
herself in the Lady Quakeress (there earth touched heaven!) of O'Keefe, when she played it
to the "merry cousin" of Lewis--and Mrs. Mattocks, the sensiblest of viragos--and Miss Pope,
a gentlewoman ever, to the verge of ungentility, with Churchill's compliment still burnishing
upon her gay Honeycomb lips. There are the two Bannisters, and Sedgwick, and Kelly, and Dignum
(Diggy), and the bygone features of Mrs. Ward, matchless in Lady Loverule; and the collective
majesty of the whole Kemble family, and (Shakspeare's woman) Dora Jordan; and, by her, two
Antics, who in former and in latter days have chiefly beguiled us of our griefs; whose portraits
we shall strive to recall, for the sympathy of those who may not have had the benefit of viewing
the matchless Highgate Collection.

MR. SUETT

O for a "slip-shod muse," to celebrate in numbers, loose and shambling as himself, the merits
and the person of Mr. Richard Suett, comedian!

ELIA.

NOTES

ELIA

Lamb took the name of Elia, which should, he said, be pronounced Ellia, from an old clerk,
an Italian, at the South-Sea House in Lamb's time: that is, in 1791-1792. Writing to John Taylor
in July, 1821, just after he had taken over the magazine (see below), Lamb says, referring
to the South-Sea House essay, "having a brother now there, and doubting how he might relish
certain descriptions in it, I clapt down the name of Elia to it, which passed off pretty well,
for Elia himself added the function of an author to that of a scrivener, like myself. I went
the other day (not having seen him [Elia] for a year) to laugh over with him at my usurpation
of his name, and found him, alas! no more than a name, for he died of consumption eleven months
ago, and I knew not of it. So the name has fairly devolved to me, I think; and 'tis all he
has left me."

In the library at Welbeck is a copy of a pamphlet, in French, entitled Considérations sur l'état
actuel de la France au mois de Juin 1815, par un Anglais, which was presented to the Duke of
Portland by the author, F.A. Elia. This was probably Lamb's Elia. The pamphlet is reprinted,
together with other interesting matter remotely connected with Lamb, in Letters from the Originals
at Welbeck Abbey, privately printed, 1909.

Elia. Essays which have appeared under that signature in the London Magazine, was published
early in 1823. Lamb's original intention was to furnish the book with a whimsical preface,
as we learn from the following letter to John Taylor, dated December 7, 1822:--

    "DEAR SIR,--I should like the enclosed Dedication to be printed,
    unless you dislike it. I like it. It is in the olden style. But if
    you object to it, put forth the book as it is; only pray don't let
    the printer mistake the word curt for curst.

    "C.L.

    "DEDICATION.

    "TO THE FRIENDLY AND JUDICIOUS READER,
    who will take these Papers, as they were meant; not understanding
    every thing perversely in its absolute and literal sense, but
    giving fair construction, as to an after-dinner conversation;
    allowing for the rashness and necessary incompleteness of first
    thoughts; and not remembering, for the purpose of an after taunt,
    words spoken peradventure after the fourth glass, the Author
    wishes (what he would will for himself) plenty of good friends to
    stand by him, good books to solace him, prosperous events to all
    his honest undertakings, and a candid interpretation to his most
    hasty words and actions. The other sort (and he hopes many of them
    will purchase his book too) he greets with the curt invitation of
    Timon, 'Uncover, dogs, and lap:' or he dismisses them with the
    confident security of the philosopher,--'you beat but on the case
    of Elia.'

    "On better consideration, pray omit that Dedication. The Essays
    want no Preface: they are all Preface. A Preface is nothing but
    a talk with the reader; and they do nothing else. Pray omit it.

    "There will be a sort of Preface in the next Magazine, which may
    act as an advertisement, but not proper for the volume.

    "Let ELIA come forth bare as he was born.

    "C.L.

    "N.B.--No Preface."

The "sort of Preface in the next number" was the character sketch of the late Elia on page 171.

Elia did not reach a second edition in Lamb's lifetime--that is to say, during a period of
twelve years--although the editions into which it has passed between his death and the present
day are legion. Why, considering the popularity of the essays as they appeared in the London
Magazine, the book should have found so few purchasers is a problem difficult of solution.
Lamb himself seems to have attributed some of the cause to Southey's objection, in the Quarterly
Review, that Elia "wanted a sounder religious feeling;" but more probably the book was too
dear: it was published at 9s. 6d.

Ordinary reviewers do not seem to have perceived at all that a rare humorist, humanist and
master of prose had arisen, although among the finer intellects who had any inclination to
search for excellence for excellence's sake Lamb made his way. William Hazlitt, for example,
drew attention to the rich quality of Elia; as also did Leigh Hunt; and William Hone, who cannot,
however, as a critic be mentioned with these, was tireless in advocating the book. Among strangers
to Lamb who from the first extolled his genius was Miss Mitford. But Elia did not sell.

Ten years passed before Lamb collected his essays again, and then in 1833 was published The
Last Essays of Elia, with Edward Moxon's imprint. The mass of minor essays in the London Magazine
and elsewhere, which Lamb disregarded when he compiled his two collections, will be found in
Vol. I. of the present edition. The Last Essays of Elia had little, if any, better reception
than the first; and Lamb had the mortification of being asked by the Norris family to suppress
the exquisite and kindly little memoir of Randal Norris, entitled "A Death-Bed" (see page 279),
which was held to be too personal. When, in 1835, after Lamb's death, a new edition of Elia
and The Last Essays of Elia was issued, the "Confessions of a Drunkard" took its place (see
Vol. I.).

Meanwhile a Philadelphian firm had been beforehand with Lamb, and had issued in 1828 a second
series of Elia. The American edition of Elia had been the same as the English except for a
slightly different arrangement of the essays. But when in 1828 the American second series was
issued, it was found to contain three pieces not by Lamb at all. A trick of writing superficially
like Lamb had been growing in the London Magazine ever since the beginning; hence the confusion
of the American editor. The three articles not by Lamb, as he pointed out to N.P. Willis (see
Pencillings by the Way), are "Twelfth Night," "The Nuns and Ale of Caverswell," and "Valentine's
Day." Of these Allan Cunningham wrote the second, and B.W. Procter (Barry Cornwall) the other
two. The volume contained only eleven essays which Lamb himself selected for The Last Essays
of Elia: it was eked out with the three spurious pieces above referred to, with several pieces
never collected by Lamb, and with four of the humorous articles in the Works, 1818. Bernard
Barton's sonnet "To Elia" stood as introduction. Altogether it was a very interesting book,
as books lacking authority often are.

In the notes that follow reference is often made to Lamb's Key. This is a paper explaining
certain initials and blanks in Elia, which Lamb drew up for R.B. Pitman, a fellow clerk at
the East India House. I give it here in full, merely remarking that the first numerals refer
to the pages of the original edition of Elia and those in brackets to the present volume:--

  M.  .    .     .   Page 13  [7] Maynard, hang'd himself.

  G.D.     .     .    "   21  [11] George Dyer, Poet.

  H.  .    .     .    "   32  [16] Hodges.

  W.  .    .     .    "   45  [23]

  Dr. T----e     .    "   46  [24] Dr. Trollope.

  Th.      .     .    "   47  [24] Thornton.

  S.       .     .    "   47  [24] Scott, died in Bedlam.

  M.       .     .    "   47  [24] Maunde, dismiss'd school.

  C.V. le G.     .    "   48  [25] Chs. Valentine le Grice.

  F.  .    .     .    "   49  [25] Favell; left Camb'rg because he was
                                   asham'd of his father, who was a
                                   house-painter there.

  Fr.      .     .    "   50  [26] Franklin, Gramr. Mast., Hertford.

  T.       .     .    "   50  [26] Marmaduke Thompson.

  K.       .     .    "   59  [30] Kenney, Dramatist. Author of
                                   Raising Wind, &c.

  S.T.C.   .     .    "   60  [31] Samuel Taylor Coleridge. [Not in
                                   Lamb's autograph.]

  Alice W----n   .    "   63  [32] Feigned (Winterton).

  ***      .     .    "   64  [32] No Meaning.

  ****     .     .    "   64  [32] No Meaning.

  ***      .     .    "   64  [32] No Meaning.

  Mrs. S.  .     .    "   87  [44] Mrs. Spinkes.

  R. .     .     .    "   98  [50] Ramsay, London Library, Ludg. St.;
                                   now extinct.

  Granville S.   .    "   98  [50] Granville Sharp. [Not in Lamb's
                                   autograph.]

  E.B.     .     .    "  130  [65] Edward Burney, half-brother of Miss
                                   Burney.

  B.  .    .     .    "  141  [71] Braham, now a Xtian.

  ***********    .    "  170  [85] Distrest Sailors.

  J----ll.       .    "  195  [97] Jekyll.

  Susan P.       .    "  198  [99] Susan Peirson.

  R.N.    .      .    "  206 [103] Randal Norris, Subtreasr, Inner Temple.

  C. .    .      .    "  216 [108] Coleridge.

  F. .    .      .    "  222 [111] Field.

  B.F.    .      .    "  238 [118] Baron Field, brother of Frank.

  Lord C.        .    "  243 [121] Lord Camelford.

  Sally W----r   .    "  248 [123] Sally Winter.

  J.W.    .      .    "  248 [123] Jas. White, author of Falstaff's
                                   Letters.

  St. L.  .      .    "  268 [133] No meaning.

  B., Rector of ----  "  268 [133] No meaning.

The London Magazine, with John Scott (1783-1821) as its editor was founded in 1820 by Baldwin,
Cradock & Joy. Its first number was dated January, 1820, and Lamb's first contribution was
in the number for August, 1820. Lamb had known Scott as editor of The Champion in 1814, but,
according to Talfourd, it was Hazlitt who introduced Lamb to the London Magazine.

John Scott, who was the author of two interesting books of travel, A Visit to Paris in 1814
and Paris Re-visited in 1815, was an admirable editor, and all was going exceedingly well until
he plunged into a feud with Blackwood's Magazine in general, and John Gibson Lockhart in particular,
the story of which in full may be read in Mr. Lang's Life and Letters of Lockhart, 1896. In
the duel which resulted Scott was shot above the hip. The wound was at first thought lightly
of, but Scott died on February 27, 1821--an able man much regretted.

The magazine did not at first show signs of Scott's loss; it continued to bear the imprint
of its original publishers and its quality remained very high. With Lamb and Hazlitt writing
regularly this could hardly be otherwise. But four months after the death of Scott and eighteen
months after its establishment the London Magazine passed into the hands of the publishers
Taylor & Hessey, the first number with their imprint being dated August, 1821. Although for
a while no diminution of merit was perceptible and rather an access of gaiety--for Taylor brought
Hood with him and John Hamilton Reynolds--yet the high editorial standards of Scott ceased
to be applied. Thenceforward the decline of the magazine was steady.

John Taylor (1781-1864), senior partner in the firm of Taylor & Hessey, was known as the identifier
of Sir Philip Francis with the author of "Junius," on which subject he had issued three books.
Although unfitted for the post, he acted as editor of the London Magazine until it was again
sold in 1825.

With the beginning of 1825 Taylor made a change in the magazine. He started a new series, and
increased the size and the price. But the experiment did not answer; the spirit had evaporated;
and in the autumn he sold it to Henry Southern (1799-1853), who had founded the Retrospective
Review in 1820. The last number of the London Magazine to bear Taylor & Hessey's name, and
(in my opinion) to contain anything by Lamb, was August, 1825. We have no definite information
on the matter, but there is every indication in Lamb's Letters that Taylor was penurious and
not clever in his relations with contributors. Scott Lamb seems to have admired and liked;
but even in Scott's day payment does not seem to have been prompt. Lamb was paid, according
to Barry Cornwall, two or three times the amount of other writers, who received for prose a
pound a page. But Lamb himself says that the rate for him was twenty guineas a sheet, a sheet
being sixteen pages; and he told Moore that he had received £170 for two years' Elia. In a
letter to Barton in January, 1823, Lamb remarks: "B---- [Baldwin] who first engaged me as 'Elia'
has not paid me up yet (nor any of us without repeated mortifying appeals)."

The following references to the London in Lamb's letters to Barton tell the story of its decadence
quite clearly enough. In May, 1823:--"I cannot but think the London drags heavily. I miss Janus
[Wainewright]. And O how it misses Hazlitt--Procter, too, is affronted (as Janus has been)
with their abominable curtailment of his things."

In January, 1824, at the beginning of his eight months' silence:--"The London must do without
me for a time, a time, and half a time, for I have lost all interest about it."

In January, 1825 (to Sarah Hutchinson):--"You ask about the editor of the Lond. I know of none.
This first specimen [of a new series] is flat and pert enough to justify subscribers, who grudge
at t'other shilling."

Next month Lamb writes, again to Barton:--"Our second Number [of the new series] is all trash.
What are T. & H. about? It is whip syllabub, 'thin sown with aught of profit or delight'. Thin
sown! not a germ of fruit or corn. Why did poor Scott die! There was comfort in writing with
such associates as were his little band of scribblers, some gone away, some affronted away,
and I am left as the solitary widow [in one of Barton's poems] looking for watercresses."

Finally, in August, 1825:--"Taylor has dropt the 'London'. It was indeed a dead weight.

In addition to Lamb and Hazlitt the London Magazine had more or less regular contributions,
in its best days, from De Quincey, Allan Cunningham (Nalla), T.G. Wainewright, afterwards the
poisoner, but in those days an amusing weaver of gay artificial prose, John Clare, Bernard
Barton, H.F. Cary, Richard Ayton, George Darley, Thomas Hood, John Hamilton Reynolds, Sir John
Bowring, John Poole, B.W. Procter; while among occasional writers for it were Thomas Carlyle,
Landor and Julius Hare.

The essay, "Stage Illusion," in the number for August, 1825, was, I believe, the last that
Lamb contributed. (In this connection see Mr. Bertram Dobell's Sidelights on Charles Lamb,
1903.) Lamb then passed over to Colburn's New Monthly Magazine, where the "Popular Fallacies"
appeared, together with certain other of his later essays. His last contribution to that magazine
was dated September, 1826. In 1827 he was chiefly occupied in selecting Garrick play extracts
for Hone's Table Book, at the British Museum, and for a while after that he seems to have been
more interested in writing acrostics and album verses than prose. In 1831, however, Moxon's
Englishman's Magazine offered harbourage for anything Lamb cared to give it, and a brief revival
of Elia (under the name of Peter) resulted. With its death in October, 1831, Lamb's writing
career practically ceased.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 1. THE SOUTH-SEA HOUSE.

London Magazine, August, 1820.

Although the "Bachelor's Complaint of the Behaviour of Married People," "Valentine's Day,"
and "On the Acting of Munden," were all written before this essay, it is none the less the
first of the essays of Elia. I have remarked, in the notes to a small edition of Elia, that
it is probably unique in literature for an author to find himself, as Lamb did, in his forty-fourth
year, by recording impressions gathered in his seventeenth; but I think now that Lamb probably
visited his brother at the South-Sea House from time to time in later years, and gathered other
impressions then. I am led to this conclusion partly by the fact that Thomas Tame was not appointed
Deputy-Accountant until four or five years after Lamb had left.

We do not know exactly what Lamb's duties were at the South-Sea House or how long he was there:
probably only for the twenty-three weeks--from September, 1791--mentioned in the receipt below,
discovered by Mr. J.A. Rutter in a little exhibition of documents illustrative of the South
Sea Bubble in the Albert Museum at Exeter:--

    Rec'd 8th feby 1792 of the Honble South Sea Company by the hands
    of their Secretary Twelve pounds 1s. 6d. for 23 weeks attendance
    in the Examiners Office.

    £12 1 6. CHAS. LAMB.

This shows that Lamb's salary was half a guinea weekly, paid half-yearly. His brother John
was already in the service of the Company, where he remained till his death, rising to Accountant.
It has been conjectured that it was through his influence that Charles was admitted, with the
view of picking up book-keeping; but the real patron and introducer was Joseph Pake, one of
the directors, whom we meet on page 92. Whether Lamb had ideas of remaining, or whether he
merely filled a temporary gap in the Examiners' Office, we cannot tell. He passed to the East
India House in the spring of 1792.

The South Sea Company was incorporated in 1710. The year of the Bubble was 1720. The South-Sea
House, remodelled, is now a congeries of offices.

Page 2, line 11. Forty years ago. To be accurate, twenty-eight to thirty.

Page 3, line 1. Accounts ... puzzle me. Here Elia begins his "matter-of-lie" career. Lamb was
at this time in the Accountants' Office of the India House, living among figures all day.

Page 3, line 7 from foot. Evans. William Evans. The Directories of those days printed lists
of the chief officials in some of the public offices, and it is possible to trace the careers
of the clerks whom Lamb names. All are genuine. Evans, whose name is given one year as Evan
Evans, was appointed cashier (or deputy-cashier) in 1792.

Page 4, line 4. Ready to imagine himself one. Lamb was fond of this conceit. See his little
essay "The Last Peach" (Vol. I.), and the mischievous letter to Bernard Barton, after Fauntleroy's
trial, warning him against peculation.

Page 4, line 7. Anderton's. Either the coffee-shop in Fleet Street, now Anderton's Hotel, or
a city offshoot of it. The portrait, if it ever was in existence, is no longer known there.

Page 5, line 17. John Tipp. John Lamb succeeded Tipp as Accountant somewhen about 1806.

Page 5, line 27. I know not, etc. This parenthesis was not in the London Magazine, but the
following footnote was appended to the sentence:--

    "I have since been informed, that the present tenant of them is
    a Mr. Lamb, a gentleman who is happy in the possession of some
    choice pictures, and among them a rare portrait of Milton, which
    I mean to do myself the pleasure of going to see, and at the same
    time to refresh my memory with the sight of old scenes. Mr.
    Lamb has the character of a right courteous and communicative
    collector."

Mr. Lamb was, of course, John Lamb, or James Elia (see the essay "My Relations"), then (in
1820) Accountant of the South-Sea House. He left the Milton to his brother. It is now in America.

Page 6, line 5 from foot. Henry Man. This was Henry Man (1747-1790), deputy-secretary of the
South-Sea House from 1776, and an author of light trifles in the papers, and of one or two
books. The Miscellaneous Works in Verse and Prose of the late Henry Man was published in 1802,
among the subscribers being three of the officials named in this essay--John Evans, R. Plumer,
and Mr. Tipp, and also Thomas Maynard, who, though assigned to the Stock Exchange, is probably
the "childlike, pastoral M----" of a later paragraph. Small politics are for the most part
kept out of Man's volumes, which are high-spirited rather than witty, but this punning epigram
(of which Lamb was an admirer) on Lord Spencer and Lord Sandwich may be quoted:--

  Two Lords whose names if I should quote,
    Some folks might call me sinner:
  The one invented half a coat,
    The other half a dinner.

  Such lords as these are useful men,
    Heaven sends them to console one;
  Because there's now not one in ten,
    That can procure a whole one.

Page 7, line 13. Plumer. Richard Plumer (spelled Plomer in the directories), deputy-secretary
after Man. Lamb was peculiarly interested in the Plumers from the fact that his grandmother,
Mrs. Field, had been housekeeper of their mansion at Blakesware, near Ware (see notes to "Dream-Children"
and "Blakesmoor in H----shire"). The fine old Whig was William Plumer, who had been her employer,
and was now living at Gilston. He died in 1821.

I borrow from Canon Ainger an interesting note on Walter Plumer, written in the eighteen-eighties,
showing that Lamb was mistaken on other matters too:--

    The present Mr. Plumer, of Allerton, Totness, a grandson of
    Richard Plumer of the South-Sea House, by no means acquiesces in
    the tradition here recorded as to his grandfather's origin. He
    believes that though the links are missing, Richard Plumer was
    descended in regular line from the Baronet, Sir Walter Plumer,
    who died at the end of the seventeenth century. Lamb's memory
    has failed him here in one respect. The "Bachelor Uncle," Walter
    Plumer, uncle of William Plumer of Blakesware, was most certainly
    not a bachelor (see the pedigree of the family in Cussans'
    Hertfordshire).

Page 7, line 10 from foot. M----. According to the Key to the initials and blanks in some of
the essays, which Lamb filled in for a curious correspondent, M---- stood for one Maynard.
"Maynard, hang'd himself" is Lamb's entry. He was chief clerk in the Old Annuities and Three
Per Cents, 1788-1793.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 8. OXFORD IN THE VACATION.

London Magazine, October, 1820, where it is dated at the end, "August 5, 1820. From my rooms
facing the Bodleian." My own belief is that Lamb wrote the essay at Cambridge, under the influence
of Cambridge, where he spent a few weeks in the summers of 1819 and 1820, and transferred the
scene to Oxford by way of mystification. He knew Oxford, of course, but he had not been there
for some years, and it was at Cambridge that he met Dyer and saw the Milton MSS.

The quotation is a reference to Lamb's sonnet, "I was not Trained in Academic Bowers," written
at Cambridge in 1819:--

  Yet can I fancy, wandering 'mid thy towers,
  Myself a nursling, Granta, of thy lap;
  My brow seems tightening with the Doctor's cap,
  And I walk gownèd.

Page 8, line 6 from foot. Agnize. Lamb was fond of this word. I have seen it stated ingeniously
that it was of his own coinage--from agnus, a lamb--but the derivation is ad gnoscere, to acknowledge,
to recognise, and the word is to be found in other places--in "Othello," for example (Act I.,
Scene 3, line 232):--

              I do agnise
  A natural and prompt alacrity.

Page 9, middle. Red-letter days. See note on page 351. The holidays at the India House, which
are given in the London directories of Lamb's early time there, make a considerable list. But
in 1820 the Accountants' Office, where Lamb was, kept only five days in the year.

Page 10, line 11. I can here ... enact the student. Lamb had distilled the matter of this paragraph
into his sonnet, "I was not Trained in Academic Bowers," written at Cambridge in August of
the preceding year (see above and Vol. IV.).

Page 11, line 12 from foot. Unsettle my faith. At this point, in the London Magazine, Lamb
appended the footnote:--

    "There is something to me repugnant, at any time, in written hand.
    The text never seems determinate. Print settles it.

In the Appendix to Vol. I., page 428, I have printed a passage from the original MS. of Comus,
which there is reason to believe was contributed to the London Magazine by Lamb.

Page 11, line 9 from foot. G.D. George Dyer (1755-1841), Lamb's friend for many years. This
is the first mention of him in the essays; but we shall meet him again, particularly in "Amicus
Redivivus." George Dyer was educated at Christ's Hospital long before Lamb's time there, and,
becoming a Grecian, had entered Emmanuel College, Cambridge. He became at first an usher in
Essex, then a private tutor to the children of Robert Robinson, the Unitarian, whose life he
afterwards excellently wrote, then an usher again, at Northampton, one of his colleagues being
John Clarke, father of Lamb's friend, Charles Cowden Clarke. In 1792 he settled in Clifford's
Inn as a hack; wrote poems, made indexes, examined libraries for a great bibliographical work
(never published), and contributed "all that was original" to Valpy's classics in 141 volumes.
Under this work his sight gave way; and he once showed Hazlitt two fingers the use of which
he had lost in copying out MSS. of Procrus and Plotinus in a fine Greek hand. Fortunately a
good woman took him under her wing; they were married in 1825; and Dyer's last days were happy.
His best books were his Life of Robert Robinson and his History of the University and Colleges
of Cambridge. Lamb and his friends laughed at him and loved him. In addition to the stories
told by Lamb in his letters and essays, there are amusing characteristics of Dyer in Crabb
Robinson's diary, in Leigh Hunt, in Hazlitt, in Talfourd, and in other places. All bear upon
his gentleness, his untidiness and his want of humour. One of the most famous stories tells
of Dyer's criticism of Williams, the terrible Ratcliffe Highway murderer. Dyer, who would never
say an ill word of any one, was asked his opinion of this cold-blooded assassin of two families.
"He must," he replied after due thought, "be rather an eccentric character."

Page 12, line 10. Injustice to him. In the London Magazine the following footnote came here,
almost certainly by Lamb:--

    "Violence or injustice certainly none, Mr. Elia. But you will
    acknowledge that the charming unsuspectingness of our friend has
    sometimes laid him open to attacks, which, though savouring (we
    hope) more of waggery than malice--such is our unfeigned respect
    for G.D.--might, we think, much better have been omitted. Such was
    that silly joke of L[amb], who, at the time the question of the
    Scotch Novels was first agitated, gravely assured our friend--who
    as gravely went about repeating it in all companies--that Lord
    Castlereagh had acknowledged himself to be the author of Waverly!
    Note--not by Elia."

Page 12, line 11. "Strike an abstract idea." I do not find this quotation--if it be one; but
when John Lamb once knocked Hazlitt down, during an argument on pigments, Hazlitt refrained
from striking back, remarking that he was a metaphysician and dealt not in blows but in ideas.
Lamb may be slyly remembering this.

Page 12, line 15. C----. Cambridge. Dyer added a work on Privileges of the University if Cambridge
to his History.

Page 12, line 8 from foot. Our friend M.'s. Basil Montagu, Q.C. (1770-1851), legal writer,
philanthropist, editor of Bacon, and the friend of Wordsworth and Coleridge. The Mrs. M. here
referred to was Montagu's third wife, a Mrs. Skepper. It was she who was called by Edward Irving
"the noble lady," and to whom Carlyle addressed some early letters. A.S. was Anne Skepper,
afterwards Mrs. Bryan Waller Procter, a fascinating lady who lived to a great age and died
as recently as 1888. The Montagus then lived at 25 Bedford Square.

Page 13, line 17. Starts like a thing surprised. Here we have an interesting example of Lamb's
gift of fused quotation. Wordsworth's line in the "Ode on Intimations of Immortality,"

  Tremble like a guilty thing surprised,

and Shakespeare's phrase in "Hamlet" (Act I., Scene 1, line 148),

  Started like a guilty thing,

were probably both in his mind as he wrote.

Page 13, line 24. Obtruded personal presence. In the London Magazine the following passage
came here:--

    "D. commenced life, after a course of hard study in the 'House of
    pure Emanuel,' as usher to a knavish fanatic schoolmaster at ***,
    at a salary of eight pounds per annum, with board and lodging.
    Of this poor stipend, he never received above half in all the
    laborious years he served this man. He tells a pleasant anecdote,
    that when poverty, staring out at his ragged knees, has sometimes
    compelled him, against the modesty of his nature, to hint at
    arrears, Dr. *** would take no immediate notice, but, after
    supper, when the school was called together to even-song, he would
    never fail to introduce some instructive homily against riches,
    and the corruption of the heart occasioned through the desire
    of them--ending with 'Lord, keep thy servants, above all things
    from the heinous sin of avarice. Having food and raiment,
    us therewithal be content. Give me Agar's wish,'--and the
    like;--which to the little auditory, sounded like a doctrine
    full of Christian prudence and simplicity,--but to poor D. was a
    receipt in full for that quarter's demands at least.

    "And D. has been under-working for himself ever since;--drudging
    at low rates for unappreciating booksellers,--wasting his fine
    erudition in silent corrections of the classics, and in those
    unostentatious but solid services to learning, which commonly fall
    to the lot of laborious scholars, who have not the art to sell
    themselves to the best advantage. He has published poems, which
    do not sell, because their character is inobtrusive like his
    own,--and because he has been too much absorbed in ancient
    literature, to know what the popular mark in poetry is, even if he
    could have hit it. And, therefore, his verses are properly, what
    he terms them, crotchets; voluntaries; odes to Liberty, and
    Spring; effusions; little tributes, and offerings, left behind
    him, upon tables and window-seats, at parting from friends'
    houses; and from all the inns of hospitality, where he has been
    courteously (or but tolerably) received in his pilgrimage. If his
    muse of kindness halt a little behind the strong lines, in fashion
    in this excitement-craving age, his prose is the best of the
    sort in the world, and exhibits a faithful transcript of his own
    healthy natural mind, and cheerful innocent tone of conversation."

The foregoing passage called forth a protest from one W.K. necessitating the following reply
from Lamb, which was printed in the London Magazine, under the "Lion's Head," for December, 1820:--

