Look at the map of Europe now! Germany is thrusting upon us again and again the discussion
of peace talks,--about what? Talks about Belgium; talks about northern France; talks about
Alsace-Lorraine. Well, those are deeply interesting subjects to us and to them, but they are
not the heart of the matter. Take the map and look at it. Germany has absolute control of Austria-Hungary,
practical control of the Balkan States, control of Turkey, control of Asia Minor. I saw a map
in which the whole thing was printed in appropriate black the other day, and the black stretched
all the way from Hamburg to Bagdad--the bulk of German power inserted into the heart of the
world. If she can keep that, she has kept all that her dreams contemplated when the war began.
If she can keep that, her power can disturb the world as long as she keeps it, always provided,
for I feel bound to put this proviso in--always provided the present influences that control
the German Government continue to control it. I believe that the spirit of freedom can get
into the hearts of Germans and find as fine a welcome there as it can find in any other hearts,
but the spirit of freedom does not suit the plans of the Pan-Germans. Power cannot be used
with concentrated force against free peoples if it is used by free people.

PEACE RUMORS

You know how many intimations come to us from one of the central powers that it is more anxious
for peace than the chief central power, and you know that it means that the people in that
central power know that if the war ends as it stands they will in effect themselves be vassals
of Germany, notwithstanding that their populations are compounded of all the peoples of that
part of the world, and notwithstanding the fact that they do not wish in their pride and proper
spirit of nationality to be so absorbed and dominated. Germany is determined that the political
power of the world shall belong to her. There have been such ambitions before. They have been
in part realized, but never before have those ambitions been based upon so exact and precise
and scientific a plan of domination.

May I not say that it is amazing to me that any group of persons should be so ill-informed
as to suppose, as some groups in Russia apparently suppose, that any reforms planned in the
interest of the people can live in the presence of a Germany powerful enough to undermine or
overthrow them by intrigue or force? Any body of free men that compounds with the present German
Government is compounding for its own destruction. But that is not the whole of the story.
Any man in America or anywhere else that supposes that the free industry and enterprise of
the world can continue if the Pan-German plan is achieved and German power fastened upon the
world is as fatuous as the dreamers in Russia. What I am opposed to is not the feeling of the
pacifists, but their stupidity. My heart is with them, but my mind has a contempt for them.
I want peace, but I know how to get it, and they do not.

COLONEL HOUSE'S MISSION

You will notice that I sent a friend of mine, Colonel House, to Europe, who is as great a lover
of peace as any man in the world; but I didn't send him on a peace mission yet. I sent him
to take part in a conference as to how the war was to be won, and he knows, as I know, that
that is the way to get peace, if you want it for more than a few minutes.

All of this is a preface to the conference that I have referred to with regard to what we are
going to do. If we are true friends of freedom, our own or anybody else's, we will see that
the power of this country and the productivity of this country is raised to its absolute maximum,
and that absolutely nobody is allowed to stand in the way of it. When I say that nobody is
allowed to stand in the way I do not mean that they shall be prevented by the power of the
Government but by the power of the American spirit. Our duty, if we are to do this great thing
and show America to be what we believe her to be--the greatest hope and energy of the world--is
to stand together night and day until the job is finished.

LABOR MUST BE FREE

While we are fighting for freedom we must see, among other things, that labor is free; and
that means a number of interesting things. It means not only that we must do what we have declared
our purpose to do, see that the conditions of labor are not rendered more onerous by the war,
but also that we shall see to it that the instrumentalities by which the conditions of labor
are improved are not blocked or checked. That we must do. That has been the matter about which
I have taken pleasure in conferring from time to time with your president, Mr. Gompers; and
if I may be permitted to do so, I want to express my admiration of his patriotic courage, his
large vision, and his statesmanlike sense of what has to be done. I like to lay my mind alongside
of a mind that knows how to pull in harness. The horses that kick over the traces will have
to be put in corral.

Now, to stand together means that nobody must interrupt the processes of our energy if the
interruption can possibly be avoided without the absolute invasion of freedom. To put it concretely,
that means this: Nobody has a right to stop the processes of labor until all the methods of
conciliation and settlement have been exhausted. And I might as well say right here that I
am not talking to you alone. You sometimes stop the courses of labor, but there are others
who do the same, and I believe I am speaking from my own experience not only, but from the
experience of others when I say that you are reasonable in a larger number of cases than the
capitalists. I am not saying these things to them personally yet, because I have not had a
chance, but they have to be said, not in any spirit of criticism, but in order to clear the
atmosphere and come down to business. Everybody on both sides has now got to transact business,
and a settlement is never impossible when both sides want to do the square and right thing.

SETTLEMENT HARD TO AVOID

Moreover, a settlement is always hard to avoid when the parties can be brought face to face.
I can differ from a man much more radically when he is not in the room than I can when he is
in the room, because then the awkward thing is he can come back at me and answer what I say.
It is always dangerous for a man to have the floor entirely to himself. Therefore, we must
insist in every instance that the parties come into each other's presence and there discuss
the issues between them, and not separately in places which have no communication with each
other. I always like to remind myself of a delightful saying of an Englishman of the past generation,
Charles Lamb. He stuttered a little bit, and once when he was with a group of friends he spoke
very harshly of some man who was not present. One of his friends said: "Why, Charles, I didn't
know that you knew so and so." "O-o-oh," he said, "I-I d-d-don't; I-I can't h-h-h hate a m-m-man
I-I know." There is a great deal of human nature, of very pleasant human nature, in the saying.
It is hard to hate a man you know. I may admit, parenthetically, that there are some politicians
whose methods I do not at all believe in, but they are jolly good fellows, and if they only
would not talk the wrong kind of politics to me, I would love to be with them.

NO SYMPATHY WITH MOB SPIRIT

So it is all along the line, in serious matters and things less serious. We are all of the
same clay and spirit, and we can get together if we desire to get together. Therefore, my counsel
to you is this: Let us show ourselves Americans by showing that we do not want to go off in
separate camps or groups by ourselves, but that we want to coöperate with all other classes
and all other groups in the common enterprise which is to release the spirits of the world
from bondage. I would be willing to set that up as the final test of an American. That is the
meaning of democracy. I have been very much distressed, my fellow-citizens, by some of the
things that have happened recently. The mob spirit is displaying itself here and there in this
country. I have no sympathy with what some men are saying, but I have no sympathy with the
men who take their punishment into their own hands; and I want to say to every man who does
join such a mob that I do not recognize him as worthy of the free institutions of the United
States. There are some organizations in this country whose object is anarchy and the destruction
of law, but I would not meet their efforts by making myself partner in destroying the law.
I despise and hate their purposes as much as any man, but I respect the ancient processes of
justice; and I would be too proud not to see them done justice, however wrong they are.

MUST OBEY COMMON COUNSEL

So I want to utter my earnest protest against any manifestation of the spirit of lawlessness
anywhere or in any cause. Why, gentlemen, look what it means. We claim to be the greatest democratic
people in the world, and democracy means first of all that we can govern ourselves. If our
men have not self-control, then they are not capable of that great thing which we call democratic
government. A man who takes the law into his own hands is not the right man to coöperate in
any formation or development of law and institutions, and some of the processes by which the
struggle between capital and labor is carried on are processes that come very near to taking
the law into your own hands. I do not mean for a moment to compare them with what I have just
been speaking of, but I want you to see that they are mere gradations in this manifestation
of the unwillingness to coöperate, and that the fundamental lesson of the whole situation is
that we must not only take common counsel, but that we must yield to and obey common counsel.
Not all of the instrumentalities for this are at hand. I am hopeful that in the very near future
new instrumentalities may be organized by which we can see to it that various things that are
now going on ought not to go on. There are various processes of the dilution of labor and the
unnecessary substitution of labor and the bidding in distant markets and unfairly upsetting
the whole competition of labor which ought not to go on. I mean now on the part of employers,
and we must interject some instrumentality of coöperation by which the fair thing will be done
all around. I am hopeful that some such instrumentalities may be devised, but whether they
are or not, we must use those that we have and upon every occasion where it is necessary have
such an instrumentality originated upon that occasion.

So, my fellow-citizens, the reason I came away from Washington is that I sometimes get lonely
down there. So many people come to Washington who know things that are not so, and so few people
who know anything about what the people of the United States are thinking about. I have to
come away and get reminded of the rest of the country. I have to come away and talk to men
who are up against the real thing, and say to them, "I am with you if you are with me." And
the only test of being with me is not to think about me personally at all, but merely to think
of me as the expression for the time being of the power and dignity and hope of the United States.

GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION OF RAILWAYS

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, January 4, 1918.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

I have asked the privilege of addressing you in order to report to you that on the twenty-eighth
of December last, during the recess of the Congress, acting through the Secretary of War and
under the authority conferred upon me by the Act of Congress approved August 29, 1916, I took
possession and assumed control of the railway lines of the country and the systems of water
transportation under their control. This step seemed to be imperatively necessary in the interest
of the public welfare, in the presence of the great tasks of war with which we are now dealing.
As our own experience develops difficulties and makes it clear what they are, I have deemed
it my duty to remove those difficulties wherever I have the legal power to do so. To assume
control of the vast railway systems of the country is, I realize, a very great responsibility,
but to fail to do so in the existing circumstances would have been a much greater. I assumed
the less responsibility rather than the weightier.

I am sure that I am speaking the mind of all thoughtful Americans when I say that it is our
duty as the representatives of the nation to do everything that it is necessary to do to secure
the complete mobilization of the whole resources of America by as rapid and effective means
as can be found. Transportation supplies all the arteries of, mobilization. Unless it be under
a single and unified direction, the whole process of the nation's action is embarrassed.

It was in the true spirit of America, and it was right, that we should first try to effect
the necessary unification under the voluntary action of those who were in charge of the great
railway properties; and we did try it. The directors of the railways responded to the need
promptly and generously. The group of railway executives who were charged with the task of
actual coördination and general direction performed their difficult duties with patriotic zeal
and marked ability, as was to have been expected, and did, I believe, everything that it was
possible for them to do in the circumstances. If I have taken the task out of their hands,
it has not been because of any dereliction or failure on their part but only because there
were some things which the Government can do and private management cannot. We shall continue
to value most highly the advice and assistance of these gentlemen and I am sure we shall not
find them withholding it.

It had become unmistakably plain that only under government administration can the entire equipment
of the several systems of transportation be fully and unreservedly thrown into a common service
without injurious discrimination against particular properties. Only under government administration
can an absolutely unrestricted and unembarrassed common use be made of all tracks, terminals,
terminal facilities and equipment of every kind. Only under that authority can new terminals
be constructed and developed without regard to the requirements or limitations of particular
roads. But under government administration all these things will be possible,--not instantly,
but as fast as practical difficulties, which cannot be merely conjured away, give way before
the new management.

