After some opposition this work began to progress somewhat in Virginia.[1] The first school
established in that colony was for Indians and Negroes.[2] In the course of time the custom
of teaching the latter had legal sanction there. On binding out a "bastard or pauper child
black or white," churchwardens specifically required that he should be taught "to read, write,
and calculate as well as to follow some profitable form of labor."[3] Other Negroes also had
an opportunity to learn. Reports of an increase in the number of colored communicants came
from Accomac County where four or five hundred families were instructing their slaves at home,
and had their children catechized on Sunday. Unusual interest in the cause at Lambeth, in the
same colony, is attested by an interesting document, setting forth in 1724 a proposition for
"Encouraging the Christian Education of Indian, Negro, and Mulatto Children." The author declares
it to be the duty of masters and mistresses of America to endeavor to educate and instruct
their heathen slaves in the Christian faith, and mentioned the fact that this work had been
"earnestly recommended by his Majesty's instructions." To encourage the movement it was proposed
that "every Indian, Negro and Mulatto child that should be baptized and afterward brought into
the Church and publicly catechized by the minister, and should before the fourteenth year of
his or her age give a distinct account of the creed, the Lord's Prayer, and the Ten Commandments,"
should receive from the minister a certificate which would entitle such children to exemption
from paying all levies until the age of eighteen.[4] The neighboring colony of North Carolina
also was moved by these efforts despite some difficulties which the missionaries there encountered.[5]

[Footnote 1: Meade, Old Families and Churches in Virginia, p. 264; Plumer, Thoughts on the
Religious Instruction of Negroes, pp. 11-12.]

[Footnote 2: Monroe, Cyclopaedia of Education, vol. iv., p. 406.]

[Footnote 3: Russell, The Free Negro in Virginia, in J.H.U. Studies, Series xxxi., No. 3, p. 107.]

[Footnote 4: Meade, Old Families and Churches in Virginia, pp. 264-65.]

[Footnote 5: Ashe, History of North Carolina, pp. 389-90.]

This favorable attitude toward the people of color, and the successful work among them, caused
the opponents of this policy to speak out boldly against their enlightenment. Some asserted
that the Negroes were such stubborn creatures that there could be no such close dealing with
them, and that even when converted they became saucier than pious. Others maintained that these
bondmen were so ignorant and indocile, so far gone in their wickedness, so confirmed in their
habit of evil ways, that it was vain to undertake to teach them such knowledge. Less cruel
slaveholders had thought of getting out of the difficulty by the excuse that the instruction
of Negroes required more time and labor than masters could well spare from their business.
Then there were others who frankly confessed that, being an ignorant and unlearned people themselves,
they could not teach others.[1]

[Footnote 1: For a summary of this argument see Meade, Four Sermons of Reverend Bacon, pp.
81-97; also, A Letter to an American Planter from his Friend in London, p. 5.]

Seeing that many leading planters had been influenced by those opposed to the enlightenment
of Negroes, Bishop Gibson of London issued an appeal in behalf of the bondmen, addressing the
clergy and laymen in two letters[1] published in London in 1727. In one he exhorted masters
and mistresses of families to encourage and promote the instruction of their Negroes in the
Christian faith. In the other epistle he directed the missionaries of the colonies to give
to this work whatever assistance they could. Writing to the slaveholders, he took the position
that considering the greatness of the profit from the labor of the slaves it might be hoped
that all masters, those especially who were possessed of considerable numbers, should be at
some expense in providing for the instruction of those poor creatures. He thought that others
who did not own so many should share in the expense of maintaining for them a common teacher.
In 1749 he set forth his protest in four sermons on "the great and indispensable duty of all
Christian masters to bring up their slaves in the knowledge and fear of God."[1] Contending
that slaves should enjoy rights like those of servants in the household of the patriarchs,
Bacon insisted that next to one's children and brethren by blood, one's servants, and especially
one's slaves, stood in the nearest relation to him, and that in return for their drudgery the
master owed it to his bondmen to have them enlightened. He believed that the reading and explaining
of the Holy Scriptures should be made a stated duty. In the course of time the place of catechist
in each family might be supplied out of the intelligent slaves by choosing such among them
as were best taught to instruct the rest.[2] He was of the opinion, too, that were some of
the slaves taught to read, were they sent to school for that purpose when young, were they
given the New Testament and other good books to be read at night to their fellow-servants,
such a course would vastly increase their knowledge of God and direct their minds to a serious
thought of futurity.[3]

[Footnote 1: Meade, Sermons of Thomas Bacon, pp. 31 et seq.]

[Footnote 2: Meade, Sermons of Thomas Bacon, pp. 116 et seq.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 118.]

With almost equal zeal did Bishops Williams and Butler plead the same cause.[1] They deplored
the fact that because of their dark skins Negro slaves were treated as a species different
from the rest of mankind. Denouncing the more cruel treatment of slaves as cattle, unfit for
mental and moral improvement, these churchmen asserted that the highest property possible to
be acquired in servants could not cancel the obligation to take care of the religious instruction
of those who "despicable as they are in the eyes of man are nevertheless the creatures of God."[2]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 363.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 363.]

On account of these appeals made during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries a larger number
of slaves of the English colonies were thereafter treated as human beings capable of mental,
moral, and spiritual development. Some masters began to provide for the improvement of these
unfortunates, not because they loved them, but because instruction would make them more useful
to the community. A much more effective policy of Negro education was brought forward in 1741
by Bishop Secker.[1] He suggested the employment of young Negroes prudently chosen to teach
their countrymen. To carry out such a plan he had already sent a missionary to Africa. Under
the direction of Rev. Mr. Garden, the missionary who had directed the training of these young
men, a building costing about three hundred and eight pounds was erected in Charleston, South
Carolina. In the school which opened in this building in 1744 Harry and Andrew served as teachers.[1]
In the beginning the school had about sixty young students, and had a very good daily attendance
for a number of years. The directors of the institution planned to send out annually between
thirty and forty youths "well instructed in religion and capable of reading their Bibles to
carry home and diffuse the same knowledge to their fellow slaves."[2] It is highly probable
that after 1740 this school was attended only by free persons of color. Because the progress
of Negro education had been rather rapid, South Carolina enacted that year a law prohibiting
any person from teaching or causing a slave to be taught, or from employing or using a slave
as a scribe in any manner of writing. From one source we learn that one of the teachers died,
and the other having turned out profligate, no instructors could be found to continue the work.
It does not seem that the sentiment against the education of free Negroes had by that time
become sufficiently strong to cause the school to be discontinued.[1] It is evident, however,
that with the assistance of influential persons of different communities the instruction of
slaves continued in that colony. In 1751 Reverend Hugh Neill, once a Presbyterian minister
of New Jersey, became a missionary of this organization to the Negroes of Pennsylvania. He
worked among them fifteen years. Dr. Smith, Provost of the College of Philadelphia, devoted
a part of his time to the work, and at the death of Neill in 1766 enlisted as a regular missionary
of the Society.[1] It seems, however, that prior to the eighteenth century not much had been
done to enlighten the slaves of that colony, although free persons of color had been instructed.
Rev. Mr. Wayman, another missionary to Pennsylvania about the middle of the eighteenth century,
asserted that "neither" was "there anywhere care taken for the instruction of Negro slaves,"
the duty to whom he had "pressed upon masters with little effect."[2]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 362.]

[Footnote 2: Wickersham, History of Education in Pennsylvania, p. 248.]

To meet this need the Society set the example of maintaining catechetical lectures for Negroes
in St. Peter's and Christ Church of Philadelphia, during the incumbency of Dr. Jennings from
1742 to 1762. William Sturgeon, a student of Yale, selected to do this work, was sent to London
for ordination and placed in charge in 1747.[1] In this position Rev. Mr. Sturgeon remained
nineteen years, rendering such satisfactory services in the teaching of Negroes that he deserves
to be recorded as one of the first benefactors of the Negro race.

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 241.]

Antedating this movement in Pennsylvania were the efforts of Reverend Dr. Thomas Bray. In 1696
he was sent to Maryland by the Bishop of London on an ecclesiastical mission to do what he
could toward the conversion of adult Negroes and the education of their children.[1] Bray's
most influential supporter was M. D'Alone, the private secretary of King William. D'Alone gave
for the maintenance of the cause a fund, the proceeds of which were first used for the employment
of colored catechists, and later for the support of the Thomas Bray Mission after the catechists
had failed to give satisfaction. At the death of this missionary the task was taken up by certain
followers of the good man, known as the "Associates of Doctor Bray."[2] They extended their
work beyond the confines of Maryland. In 1760 two schools for the education of Negroes were
maintained in Philadelphia by these benefactors. It was the aid obtained from the Dr. Bray
fund that enabled the abolitionists to establish in that city a permanent school which continued
for almost a hundred years.[3] About the close of the French and Indian War, Rev. Mr. Stewart,
a missionary in North Carolina, found there a school for the education of Indians and free
Negroes, conducted by Dr. Bray's Associates. The example of these men appealing to him as a
wise policy, he directed to it the attention of the clergy at home.[4]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 252; Smyth, Works of Franklin, vol. iv., p. 23; and vol. v., p. 431.]

[Footnote 2: Smyth, Works of Franklin, vol. v., p. 431.]

[Footnote 3: Wickersham, History of Education in Pennsylvania, p. 249.]

[Footnote 4: Bassett, Slavery and Servitude in North Carolina, Johns Hopkins University Studies,
vol. xv., p. 226.]

Not many slaves were found among the Puritans, but the number sufficed to bring the question
of their instruction before these colonists almost as prominently as we have observed it was
brought in the case of the members of the Established Church of England. Despite the fact that
the Puritans developed from the Calvinists, believers in the doctrine of election which swept
away all class distinction, this sect did not, like the Quakers, attack slavery as an institution.
Yet if the Quakers were the first of the Protestants to protest against the buying and selling
of souls, New England divines were among the first to devote attention to the mental, moral,
and spiritual development of Negroes.[1] In 1675 John Eliot objected to the Indian slave trade,
not because of the social degradation, but for the reason that he desired that his countrymen
"should follow Christ his Designe in this matter to promote the free passage of Religion" among
them. He further said: "For to sell Souls for Money seemeth to me to be dangerous Merchandise,
to sell away from all Means of Grace whom Christ hath provided Means of Grace for you is the
Way for us to be active in destroying their Souls when they are highly obliged to seek their
Conversion and Salvation." Eliot bore it grievously that the souls of the slaves were "exposed
by their Masters to a destroying Ignorance meerly for the Fear of thereby losing the Benefit
of their Vassalage."[2]

[Footnote 1: Pennsylvania Magazine of History, vol. xiii., p. 265.]

[Footnote 2: Locke, Anti-slavery Before 1808, p. 15; Mather, Life of John Eliot, p. 14; New
Plymouth Colony Records, vol. x., p. 452.]

Further interest in the work was manifested by Cotton Mather. He showed his liberality in his
professions published in 1693 in a set of Rules for the Society of Negroes, intended to present
the claims of the despised race to the benefits of religious instruction.[1] Mather believed
that servants were in a sense like one's children, and that their masters should train and
furnish them with Bibles and other religious books for which they should be given time to read.
He maintained that servants should be admitted to the religious exercises of the family and
was willing to employ such of them as were competent to teach his children lessons of piety.
Coming directly to the issue of the day, Mather deplored the fact that the several plantations
which lived upon the labor of their Negroes were guilty of the "prodigious Wickedness of deriding,
neglecting, and opposing all due Means of bringing the poor Negroes unto God." He hoped that
the masters, of whom God would one day require the souls of slaves committed to their care,
would see to it that like Abraham they have catechised servants. They were not to imagine that
the "Almighty God made so many thousands reasonable Creatures for nothing but only to serve
the Lusts of Epicures, or the Gains of Mammonists."[2]

[Footnote 1: Locke, Anti-slavery, etc., p. 15.]

[Footnote 2: Meade, Sermons of Thomas Bacon, p. 137 et seq.]

The sentiment of the clergy of this epoch was more directly expressed by Richard Baxter, the
noted Nonconformist, in his "Directions to Masters in Foreign Plantations," incorporated as
rules into the Christian Directory.[1] Baxter believed in natural liberty and the equality
of man, and justified slavery only on the ground of "necessitated consent" or captivity in
lawful war. For these reasons he felt that they that buy slaves and "use them as Beasts for
their meer Commodity, and betray, or destroy or neglect their Souls are fitter to be called
incarnate Devils than Christians, though they be no Christians whom they so abuse."[2] His
aim here, however, is not to abolish the institution of slavery but to enlighten the Africans
and bring them into the Church.[3] Exactly what effect Baxter had on this movement cannot be
accurately figured out. The fact, however, that his creed was extensively adhered to by the
Protestant colonists among whom his works were widely read, leads us to think that he influenced
some masters to change their attitude toward their slaves.

[Footnote 1: Baxter, Practical Works, vol. i., p. 438.]

[Footnote 2: Baxter, Practical Works, vol. i., p. 438-40.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 440.]

The next Puritan of prominence who enlisted among the helpers of the African slaves was Chief
Justice Sewall, of Massachusetts. In 1701 he stirred his section by publishing his Selling
of Joseph, a distinctly anti-slavery pamphlet, based on the natural and inalienable right of
every man to be free.[1] The appearance of this publication marked an epoch in the history
of the Negroes. It was the first direct attack on slavery in New England. The Puritan clergy
had formerly winked at the continuation of the institution, provided the masters were willing
to give the slaves religious instruction. In the Selling of Joseph Sewall had little to say
about their mental and moral improvement, but in the Athenian Oracle, which expressed his sentiments
so well that he had it republished in 1705,[2] he met more directly the problem of elevating
the Negro race. Taking up this question, Sewall said: "There's yet less doubt that those who
are of Age to answer for themselves would soon learn the Principles of our Faith, and might
be taught the Obligation of the Vow they made in Baptism, and there's little Doubt but Abraham
instructed his Heathen Servants who were of Age to learn, the Nature of Circumcision before
he circumcised them; nor can we conclude much less from God's own noble Testimony of him, 'I
know him that he will command his Children and his Household, and they shall keep the Way of
the Lord.'"[3] Sewall believed that the emancipation of the slaves should be promoted to encourage
Negroes to become Christians. He could not understand how any Christian could hinder or discourage
them from learning the principles of the Christian religion and embracing the faith.

[Footnote 1: Moore, Notes on Slavery in Massachusetts, p. 91.]

[Footnote 2: Moore, Notes on Slavery in Massachusetts, p. 92; Locke, Anti-slavery, etc., p. 31.]

[Footnote 3: Moore, Notes on Slavery, etc., p. 91; The Athenian Oracle, vol. ii., pp. 460 et seq.]

This interest shown in the Negro race was in no sense general among the Puritans of that day.
Many of their sect could not favor such proselyting,[1] which, according to their system of
government, would have meant the extension to the slaves of social and political privileges.
It was not until the French provided that masters should take their slaves to church and have
them indoctrinated in the Catholic faith, that the proposition was seriously considered by
many of the Puritans. Everly subsequently mentions in his diary the passing of a resolution
by the Council Board at Windsor or Whitehall, recommending that the blacks in plantations be
baptized, and meting out severe censure to those who opposed this policy.[3]

[Footnote 1: Moore, Notes on Slavery, etc., p. 79.]

[Footnote 2: This good example of the Catholics was in later years often referred to by Bishop
Porteus. Works of Bishop Porteus, vol. vi, pp. 168, 173, 177, 178, 401; Moore, Notes on Slavery,
etc., p. 96.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 96.]

More effective than the efforts of other sects in the enlightenment of the Negroes was the
work of the Quakers, despite the fact that they were not free to extend their operations throughout
the colonies. Just as the colored people are indebted to the Quakers for registering in 1688
the first protest against slavery in Protestant America, so are they indebted to this denomination
for the earliest permanent and well-developed schools devoted to the education of their race.
As the Quakers believed in the freedom of the will, human brotherhood, and equality before
God, they did not, like the Puritans, find difficulties in solving the problem of enlightening
the Negroes. While certain Puritans were afraid that conversion might lead to the destruction
of caste and the incorporation of undesirable persons into the "Body Politick," the Quakers
proceeded on the principle that all men are brethren and, being equal before God, should be
considered equal before the law. On account of unduly emphasizing the relation of man to God
the Puritans "atrophied their social humanitarian instinct" and developed into a race of self-conscious
saints. Believing in human nature and laying stress upon the relation between man and man the
Quakers became the friends of all humanity.

Far from the idea of getting rid of an undesirable element by merely destroying the institution
which supplied it, the Quakers endeavored to teach the Negro to be a man capable of discharging
the duties of citizenship. As early as 1672 their attention was directed to this important
matter by George Fox.[1] In 1679 he spoke out more boldly, entreating his sect to instruct
and teach their Indians and Negroes "how that Christ, by the Grace of God, tasted death for
every man."[2] Other Quakers of prominence did not fail to drive home this thought. In 1693
George Keith, a leading Quaker of his day, came forward as a promoter of the religious training
of the slaves as a preparation for emancipation.[3] William Penn advocated the emancipation
of slaves,[4] that they might have every opportunity for improvement. In 1696 the Quakers,
while protesting against the slave trade, denounced also the policy of neglecting their moral
and spiritual welfare.[5] The growing interest of this sect in the Negroes was shown later
by the development in 1713 of a definite scheme for freeing and returning them to Africa after
having been educated and trained to serve as missionaries on that continent.[6]

[Footnote 1: Quaker Pamphlet, p. 8; Moore, Anti-slavery, etc., p. 79.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 79.]

[Footnote 3: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., p. 376.]

[Footnote 4: Rhodes, History of the United States, vol. i., p. 6; Bancroft, History of the
United States, vol. ii., p. 401.]

[Footnote 5: Locke, Anti-slavery, p. 32.]

[Footnote 6: Ibid., p. 30.]

The inevitable result of this liberal attitude toward the Negroes was that the Quakers of those
colonies where other settlers were so neglectful of the enlightenment of the colored race,
soon found themselves at war with the leaders of the time. In slaveholding communities the
Quakers were persecuted, not necessarily because they adhered to a peculiar faith, not primarily
because they had manners and customs unacceptable to the colonists, but because in answering
the call of duty to help all men they incurred the ill will of the masters who denounced them
as undesirable persons, bringing into America spurious doctrines subversive of the institutions
of the aristocratic settlements.

Their experience in the colony of Virginia is a good example of how this worked out. Seeing
the unchristian attitude of the preachers in most parts of that colony, the Quakers inquired
of them, "Who made you ministers of the Gospel to white people only, and not to the tawny and
blacks also?"[1] To show the nakedness of the neglectful clergy there some of this faith manifested
such zeal in teaching and preaching to the Negroes that their enemies demanded legislation
to prevent them from gaining ascendancy over the minds of the slaves. Accordingly, to make
the colored people of that colony inaccessible to these workers it was deemed wise in 1672
to enact a law prohibiting members of that sect from taking Negroes to their meetings. In 1678
the colony enacted another measure excluding Quakers from the teaching profession by providing
that no person should be allowed to keep a school in Virginia unless he had taken the oath
of allegiance and supremacy.[2] Of course, it was inconsistent with the spirit and creed of
the Quakers to take this oath.

[Footnote 1: Quaker Pamphlet, p. 9.]

[Footnote 2: Hening, Statutes at Large, vol. i., 532; ii., 48, 165, 166, 180, 198, and 204.
Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 391.]

The settlers of North Carolina followed the same procedure to check the influence of Quakers,
who spoke there in behalf of the man of color as fearlessly as they had in Virginia. The apprehension
of the dominating element was such that Governor Tryon had to be instructed to prohibit from
teaching in that colony any person who had not a license from the Bishop of London.[1] Although
this order was seemingly intended to protect the faith and doctrine of the Anglican Church,
rather than to prevent the education of Negroes, it operated to lessen their chances for enlightenment,
since missionaries from the Established Church did not reach all parts of the colony.[2] The
Quakers of North Carolina, however, had local schools and actually taught slaves. Some of these
could read and write as early as 1731. Thereafter, household servants were generally given
the rudiments of an English education.

[Footnote 1: Ashe, History of North Carolina, vol. i., p. 389. The same instructions were given
to Governor Francis Nicholson.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., pp. 389, 390.]

It was in the settlements of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New York that the Quakers encountered
less opposition in carrying out their policy of cultivating the minds of colored people. Among
these Friends the education of Negroes became the handmaiden of the emancipation movement.
While John Hepburn, William Burling, Elihu Coleman, and Ralph Sandiford largely confined their
attacks to the injustice of keeping slaves, Benjamin Lay was working for their improvement
as a prerequisite of emancipation.[1] Lay entreated the Friends to "bring up the Negroes to
some Learning, Reading and Writing and" to "endeavor to the utmost of their Power in the sweet
love of Truth to instruct and teach 'em the Principles of Truth and Religiousness, and learn
some Honest Trade or Imployment and then set them free. And," says he, "all the time Friends
are teaching of them let them know that they intend to let them go free in a very reasonable
Time; and that our Religious Principles will not allow of such Severity, as to keep them in
everlasting Bondage and Slavery."[2]

[Footnote 1: Locke, Anti-slavery, etc., p. 31.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 32.]

The struggle of the Northern Quakers to enlighten the colored people had important local results.
A strong moral force operated in the minds of most of this sect to impel them to follow the
example of certain leaders who emancipated their slaves.[1] Efforts in this direction were
redoubled about the middle of the eighteenth century when Anthony Benezet,[2] addressing himself
with unwonted zeal to the uplift of these unfortunates, obtained the assistance of Clarkson
and others, who solidified the antislavery sentiment of the Quakers and influenced them to
give their time and means to the more effective education of the blacks. After this period
the Quakers were also concerned with the improvement of the colored people's condition in other
settlements.[3]

[Footnote 1: Dr. DuBois gives a good account of these efforts in his Suppression of the African
Slave Trade.]

[Footnote 2: Benezet was a French Protestant. Persecuted on account of their religion, his
parents moved from France to England and later to Philadelphia. He became a teacher in that
city in 1742. Thirteen years later he was teaching a school established for the education of
the daughters of the most distinguished families in Philadelphia. He was then using his own
spelling-book, primer, and grammar, some of the first text-books published in America. Known
to persecution himself, Benezet always sympathized with the oppressed. Accordingly, he connected
himself with the Quakers, who at that time had before them the double task of fighting for
religious equality and the amelioration of the condition of the Negroes. Becoming interested
in the welfare of the colored race, Benezet first attacked the slave trade, so exposing it
in his speeches and writings that Clarkson entered the field as an earnest advocate of the
suppression of the iniquitous traffic. See Benezet, Observations, p. 30, and the African Repository,
vol. iv., p. 61.]

[Footnote 3: Quaker Pamphlet, p. 31.]

What the other sects did for the enlightenment of Negroes during this period, was not of much
importance. As the Presbyterians, Methodists, and Baptists did not proselyte extensively in
this country prior to the middle of the eighteenth century, these denominations had little
to do with Negro education before the liberalism and spirit of toleration, developed during
the revolutionary era, made it possible for these sects to reach the people. The Methodists,
however, confined at first largely to the South, where most of the slaves were found, had to
take up this problem earlier. Something looking like an attempt to elevate the Negroes came
from Wesley's contemporary, George Whitefield,[1] who, strange to say, was regarded by the
Negro race as its enemy for having favored the introduction of slavery. He was primarily interested
in the conversion of the colored people. Without denying that "liberty is sweet to those who
are born free," he advocated the importation of slaves into Georgia "to bring them within the
reach of those means of grace which would make them partake of a liberty far more precious
than the freedom of body."[2] While on a visit to this country in 1740 he purchased a large
tract of land at Nazareth, Pennsylvania, for the purpose of founding a school for the education
of Negroes.[3] Deciding later to go south, he sold the site to the Moravian brethren who had
undertaken to establish a mission for Negroes at Bethlehem in 1738.[4] Some writers have accepted
the statement that Whitefield commenced the erection of a schoolhouse at Nazareth; others maintain
that he failed to accomplish anything.[5] Be that as it may, accessible facts are sufficient
to show that, unwise as was his policy of importing slaves, his intention was to improve their
condition. It was because of this sentiment in Georgia in 1747, when slavery was finally introduced
there, that the people through their representatives in convention recommended that masters
should educate their young slaves, and do whatever they could to make religious impressions
upon the minds of the aged. This favorable attitude of early Methodists toward Negroes caused
them to consider the new churchmen their friends and made it easy for this sect to proselyte
the race.

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 374.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 374.]

[Footnote 3: Turner, The Negro in Pennsylvania, p. 128.]

[Footnote 4: Equally interested in the Negroes were the Moravians who settled in the uplands
of Pennsylvania and roamed over the hills of the Appalachian region as far south as Carolina.
A painting of a group of their converts prior to 1747 shows among others two Negroes, Johannes
of South Carolina and Jupiter of New York. See Hamilton, History of the Church known as the
Moravian, p. 80; Plumer, Thoughts on the Religious Instruction of Negroes, p. 3; Reichel, The
Moravians in North Carolina, p. 139.]

[Footnote 5: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1869, p. 374.]

CHAPTER III

EDUCATION AS A RIGHT OF MAN

In addition to the mere diffusion of knowledge as a means to teach religion there was a need
of another factor to make the education of the Negroes thorough. This required force was supplied
by the response of the colonists to the nascent social doctrine of the eighteenth century.
During the French and Indian War there were set to work certain forces which hastened the social
and political upheaval called the American Revolution. "Bigoted saints" of the more highly
favored sects condescended to grant the rising denominations toleration, the aristocratic elements
of colonial society deigned to look more favorably upon those of lower estate, and a large
number of leaders began to think that the Negro should be educated and freed. To acquaint themselves
with the claims of the underman Americans thereafter prosecuted more seriously the study of
Coke, Milton, Locke, and Blackstone. The last of these was then read more extensively in the
colonies than in Great Britain. Getting from these writers strange ideas of individual liberty
and the social compact theory of man's making in a state of nature government deriving its
power from the consent of the governed, the colonists contended more boldly than ever for religious
freedom, industrial liberty, and political equality. Given impetus by the diffusion of these
ideas, the revolutionary movement became productive of the spirit of universal benevolence.
Hearing the contention for natural and inalienable rights, Nathaniel Appleton[1] and John Woolman,[2]
were emboldened to carry these theories to their logical conclusion. They attacked not only
the oppressors of the colonists but censured also those who denied the Negro race freedom of
body and freedom of mind. When John Adams heard James Otis basing his argument against the
writs of assistance on the British constitution "founded in the laws of nature," he "shuddered
at the doctrine taught and the consequences that might be derived from such premises."[3]

[Footnote 1: Locke, Anti-slavery, etc., p. 19, 20, 23.]

[Footnote 2: Works of John Woolman in two parts, pp. 58 and 73; Moore, Notes on Slavery in
Mass., p. 71.]

[Footnote 3: Adams, Works of John Adams, vol. x., p. 315; Moore, Notes on Slavery in Mass., p. 71.]

So effective was the attack on the institution of slavery and its attendant evils that interest
in the question leaped the boundaries of religious organizations and became the concern of
fair-minded men throughout the country. Not only did Northern men of the type of John Adams
and James Otis express their opposition to this tyranny of men's bodies and minds, but Laurens,
Henry, Wythe, Mason, and Washington pointed out the injustice of such a policy. Accordingly
we find arrayed against the aristocratic masters almost all the leaders of the American Revolution.[1]
They favored the policy, first, of suppressing the slave trade, next of emancipating the Negroes
in bondage, and finally of educating them for a life of freedom.[2] While students of government
were exposing the inconsistency of slaveholding among a people contending for political liberty,
and men like Samuel Webster, James Swan, and Samuel Hopkins attacked the institution on economic
grounds;[3] Jonathan Boucher,[4] Dr. Rush,[5] and Benjamin Franklin[6] were devising plans
to educate slaves for freedom; and Isaac Tatem[7] and Anthony Benezet[8] were actually in the
schoolroom endeavoring to enlighten their black brethren. To strengthen their position these
defendants of the education of the blacks cited the customs of the Greeks and Romans, who enslaved
not the minds and wills, but only the bodies of men. Nor did these benefactors fail to mention
the cases of ancient slaves, who, having the advantages of education, became poets, teachers,
and philosophers, instrumental in the diffusion of knowledge among the higher classes. There
was still the idea of Cotton Mather, who was willing to treat his servants as part of the family,
and to employ such of them as were competent to teach his children lessons of piety.[1]

[Footnote 1: Meade, Sermons of Thomas Bacon, appendix.]

The chief objection of these reformers to slavery was that its victims had no opportunity for
mental improvement. "Othello," a free person of color, contributing to the American Museum
in 1788, made the institution responsible for the intellectual rudeness of the Negroes who,
though "naturally possessed of strong sagacity and lively parts," were by law and custom prohibited
from being instructed in any kind of learning.[1] He styled this policy an effort to bolster
up an institution that extinguished the "divine spark of the slave, crushed the bud of his
genius, and kept him unacquainted with the world." Dr. McLeod denounced slavery because it
"debases a part of the human race" and tends "to destroy their intellectual powers."[2] "The
slave from his infancy," continued he, "is obliged implicitly to obey the will of another.
There is no circumstance which can stimulate him to exercise his intellectual powers." In his
arraignment of this system Rev. David Rice complained that it was in the power of the master
to deprive the slaves of all education, that they had not the opportunity for instructing conversation,
that it was put out of their power to learn to read, and that their masters kept them from
other means of information.[3] Slavery, therefore, must be abolished because it infringes upon
the natural right of men to be enlightened.

[Footnote 1: The American Museum, vol. iv., pp. 415 and 511.]

[Footnote 2: McLeod, Negro Slavery, p. 16.]

[Footnote 3: Rice, Speech in the Constitutional Convention of Kentucky, p. 5.]

During this period religion as a factor in the educational progress of the Negroes was not
eliminated. In fact, representative churchmen of the various sects still took the lead in advocating
the enlightenment of the colored people. These protagonists, however, ceased to claim this
boon merely as a divine right and demanded it as a social privilege. Some of the clergy then
interested had not at first seriously objected to the enslavement of the African race, believing
that the lot of these people would not be worse in this country where they might have an opportunity
for enlightenment. But when this result failed to follow, and when the slavery of the Africans'
bodies turned out to be the slavery of their minds, the philanthropic and religious proclaimed
also the doctrine of enlightenment as a right of man. Desiring to see Negroes enjoy this privilege,
Jonathan Boucher,[1] one of the most influential of the colonial clergymen, urged his hearers
at the celebration of the Peace of 1763 to improve and emancipate their slaves that they might
"participate in the general joy." With the hope of inducing men to discharge the same duty,
Bishop Warburton[2] boldly asserted a few years later that slaves are "rational creatures endowed
with all our qualities except that of color, and our brethren both by nature and grace." John
Woolman,[3] a Quaker minister, influenced by the philosophy of John Locke, began to preach
that liberty is the right of all men, and that slaves, being the fellow-creatures of their
masters, had a natural right to be elevated.

[Footnote 1: Jonathan Boucher was a rector of the Established Church in Maryland. Though not
a promoter of the movement for the political rights of the colonists, Boucher was, however,
so moved by the spirit of uplift of the downtrodden that he takes front rank among those who,
in emphasizing the rights of servants, caused a decided change in the attitude of white men
toward the improvement of Negroes. Boucher was not an immediate abolitionist. He abhorred slavery,
however, to the extent that he asserted that if ever the colonies would be improved to their
utmost capacity, an essential part of that amelioration had to be the abolition of slavery.
His chief concern then was the cultivation of the minds in order to make amends for the drudgery
to their bodies. See Boucher, Causes, etc., p. 39.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 363.]

[Footnote 3: An influential minister of the Society of Friends and an extensive traveler through
the colonies, Woolman had an opportunity to do much good in attacking the policy of those who
kept their Negroes in deplorable ignorance, and in commending the good example of those who
instructed their slaves in reading. In his Considerations on the Keeping of Slaves he took
occasion to praise the Friends of North Carolina for the unusual interest they manifested in
the cause at their meetings during his travels in that colony about the year 1760. With such
workers as Woolman in the field it is little wonder that Quakers thereafter treated slaves
as brethren, alleviated their burdens, enlightened their minds, emancipated and cared for them
until they could provide for themselves. See Works of John Woolman in two parts, pp. 58 and 73.]

Thus following the theories of the revolutionary leaders these liberal-minded men promulgated
along with the doctrine of individual liberty that of the freedom of the mind. The best expression
of this advanced idea came from the Methodist Episcopal Church, which reached the acme of antislavery
sentiment in 1784. This sect then boldly declared: "We view it as contrary to the golden law
of God and the prophets, and the inalienable rights of mankind as well as every principle of
the Revolution to hold in deepest abasement, in a more abject slavery than is perhaps to be
found in any part of the world, except America, so many souls that are capable of the image
of God."[1]

[Footnote 1: Matlack, History of American Slavery and Methodism, pp. 29 et seq.; McTyeire,
History of Methodism, p. 28.]

Frequently in contact with men who were advocating the right of the Negroes to be educated,
statesmen as well as churchmen could not easily evade the question. Washington did not have
much to say about it and did little more than to provide for the ultimate liberation of his
slaves and the teaching of their children to read.[1] Less aid to this movement came from John
Adams, although he detested slavery to the extent that he never owned a bondman, preferring
to hire freemen at extra cost to do his work.[2] Adams made it clear that he favored gradual
emancipation. But he neither delivered any inflammatory speeches against slaveholders neglectful
of the instruction of their slaves, nor devised any scheme for their enjoyment of freedom.
So was it with Hamilton who, as an advocate of the natural rights of man, opposed the institution
of slavery, but, with the exception of what assistance he gave the New York African Free Schools[3]
said and did little to promote the actual education of the colored people.

[Footnote 1: Lossing, Life of George Washington, vol. iii., p. 537.]

[Footnote 2: Adams, Works of John Adams, vol. viii., p. 379; vol. ix., p. 92; vol. x., p. 380.]

[Footnote 3: Andrews, History of the New York African Free Schools, p. 57.]

Madison in stating his position on this question was a little more definite than some of his
contemporaries. Speaking of the necessary preparation of the colored people for emancipation
he thought it was possible to determine the proper course of instruction. He believed, however,
that, since the Negroes were to continue in a state of bondage during the preparatory period
and to be within the jurisdiction of commonwealths recognizing ample authority over them, "a
competent discipline" could not be impracticable. He said further that the "degree in which
this discipline" would "enforce the needed labor and in which a voluntary industry" would "supply
the defect of compulsory labor, were vital points on which it" might "not be safe to be very
positive without some light from actual experiment."[1] Evidently he was of the opinion that
the training of slaves to discharge later the duties of freemen was a difficult task but, if
well planned and directed, could be made a success.

[Footnote 1: Madison, Works of, vol. iii., p. 496.]

No one of the great statesmen of this time was more interested in the enlightenment of the
Negro than Benjamin Franklin.[1] He was for a long time associated with the friends of the
colored people and turned out from his press such fiery anti-slavery pamphlets as those of
Lay and Sandiford. Franklin also became one of the "Associates of Dr. Bray." Always interested
in the colored schools of Philadelphia, the philosopher was, while in London, connected with
the English "gentlemen concerned with the pious design,"[2] serving as chairman of the organization
for the year 1760. He was a firm supporter of Anthony Benezet,[3] and was made president of
the Abolition Society of Philadelphia which in 1774 founded a successful colored school.[4]
This school was so well planned and maintained that it continued about a hundred years.

[Footnote 1: Smyth, Works of Benjamin Franklin, vol. v., p. 431.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., vol. iv., p. 23.]

[Footnote 3: Smyth, Works of Benjamin Franklin, vol. v., p. 431.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., vol. x., p. 127; and Wickersham, History of Education in Pennsylvania, p. 253.]

John Jay kept up his interest in the Negro race.[1] In the Convention of 1787 he coöperated
with Gouverneur Morris, advocating the abolition of the slave trade and the rejection of the
Federal ratio. His efforts in behalf of the colored people were actuated by his early conviction
that the national character of this country could be retrieved only by abolishing the iniquitous
traffic in human souls and improving the Negroes.[2] Showing his pity for the downtrodden people
of color around him, Jay helped to promote the cause of the abolitionists of New York who established
and supported several colored schools in that city. Such care was exercised in providing for
the attendance, maintenance, and supervision of these schools that they soon took rank among
the best in the United States.

[Footnote 1: Jay, Works of John Jay, vol. i., p. 136; vol. iii, p. 331.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., vol. iii., p. 343.]

More interesting than the views of any other man of this epoch on the subject of Negro education
were those of Thomas Jefferson. Born of pioneer parentage in the mountains of Virginia, Jefferson
never lost his frontier democratic ideals which made him an advocate of simplicity, equality,
and universal freedom. Having in mind when he wrote the Declaration of Independence the rights
of the blacks as well as those of whites, this disciple of John Locke, could not but feel that
the slaves of his day had a natural right to education and freedom. Jefferson said so much
more on these important questions than his contemporaries that he would have been considered
an abolitionist, had he lived in 1840.

Giving his views on the enlightenment of the Negroes he asserted that the minds of the masters
should be "apprized by reflection and strengthened by the energies of conscience against the
obstacles of self-interest to an acquiescence in the rights of others." The owners would then
permit their slaves to be "prepared by instruction and habit" for self-government, the honest
pursuit of industry, and social duty.[1] In his scheme for a modern system of public schools
Jefferson included the training of the slaves in industrial and agricultural branches to equip
them for a higher station in life, else he thought they should be removed from the country
when liberated.[2] Capable of mental development, as he had found certain men of color to be,
the Sage of Monticello doubted at times that they could be made the intellectual equals of
white men,[3] and did not actually advocate their incorporation into the body politic.

[Footnote 1: Washington, Works of Jefferson, vol. vi., p. 456.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., vol. viii., p. 380; and Mayo, Educational Movement in the South, p. 37.]

[Footnote 3: As to what Jefferson thought of the Negro intellect we are still in doubt. Writing
in 1791 to Banneker, the Negro mathematician and astronomer, he said that nobody wished to
see more than he such proofs as Banneker exhibited that nature has given to our black brethren
talents equal to those of men of other colors, and that the appearance of a lack of such native
ability was owing only to their degraded condition in Africa and America. Jefferson expressed
himself as being ardently desirous of seeing a good system commenced for raising the condition
both of the body and the mind of the slaves to what it ought to be as fast as the "imbecility"
of their then existence and other circumstances, which could not be neglected, would admit.
Replying to Grégoire of Paris, who wrote an interesting essay on the Literature of Negroes,
showing the power of their intellect, Jefferson assured him that no person living wished more
sincerely than he to see a complete refutation of the doubts he himself had entertained and
expressed on the grade of understanding allotted to them by nature and to find that in this
respect they are on a par with white men. These doubts, he said, were the result of personal
observations in the limited sphere of his own State where "the opportunities for the development
of their genius were not favorable, and those of exercising it still less so." He said that
he had expressed them with great hesitation; but "whatever be the degree of their talent, it
is no measure of their rights. Because Sir Isaac Newton was superior to others in understanding,
he was not therefore lord of the person or property of others." In this respect he believed
they were gaining daily in the opinions of nations, and hopeful advances were being made toward
their reëstablishment on an equal footing with other colors of the human family. He prayed,
therefore, that God might accept his thanks for enabling him to observe the "many instances
of respectable intelligence in that race of men, which could not fail to have effect in hastening
the day of their relief." Yet a few days later when writing to Joel Barlow, Jefferson referred
to Bishop Grégoire's essay and expressed his doubt that this pamphlet was weighty evidence
of the intellect of the Negro. He said that the whole did not amount in point of evidence to
what they themselves knew of Banneker. He conceded that Banneker had spherical knowledge enough
to make almanacs, but not without the suspicion of aid from Ellicott who was his neighbor and
friend, and never missed an opportunity of puffing him. Referring to the letter he received
from Banneker, he said it showed the writer to have a mind of very common stature indeed. See
Washington, Works of Jefferson, vol. v., pp. 429 and 503.]

So much progress in the improvement of slaves was effected with all of these workers in the
field that conservative southerners in the midst of the antislavery agitation contented themselves
with the thought that radical action was not necessary, as the institution would of itself
soon pass away. Legislatures passed laws facilitating manumission,[1] many southerners emancipated
their slaves to give them a better chance to improve their condition, regulations unfavorable
to the assembly of Negroes for the dissemination of information almost fell into desuetude,
a larger number of masters began to instruct their bondmen, and persons especially interested
in these unfortunates found the objects of their piety more accessible.[2]

[Footnote 1: Locke, Anti-slavery, etc., p. 14.]

[Footnote 2: Brissot de Warville, New Travels, vol. i., p. 220; Johann Schoepf, Travels in
the Confederation, p. 149.]

Not all slaveholders, however, were thus induced to respect this new right claimed for the
colored people. Georgia and South Carolina were exceptional in that they were not sufficiently
stirred by the revolutionary movement to have much compassion for this degraded class. The
attitude of the people of Georgia, however, was then more favorable than that of the South
Carolinians.[1] Nevertheless, the Georgia planters near the frontier were not long in learning
that the general enlightenment of the Negroes would endanger the institution of slavery. Accordingly,
in 1770, at the very time when radical reformers were clamoring for the rights of man, Georgia,
following in the wake of South Carolina, reënacted its act of 1740 which imposed a penalty
on any one who should teach or cause slaves to be taught or employ them "in any manner of writing
whatever."[2] The penalty, however, was less than that imposed in South Carolina.[3] The same
measure terminated the helpful mingling of slaves by providing for their dispersion when assembled
for the old-time "love feast" emphasized so much among the rising Methodists of the South.

[Footnote 1: The laws of Georgia were not so harsh as those of South Carolina. A larger number
of intelligent persons of color were found in the rural districts of Georgia. Charleston, however,
was exceptional in that its Negroes had unusual educational advantages.]

[Footnote 2: Marbury and Crawford, Digest of the Laws of the State of Georgia, p. 438.]

[Footnote 3: Brevard, Digest of the Public Statutes of South Carolina, vol. ii., p. 243.]

Those advocating the imposition of restraints upon Negroes acquiring knowledge were not, however,
confined to South Carolina and Georgia where the malevolent happened to be in the majority.
The other States had not seen the last of the generation of those who doubted that education
would fit the slaves for the exalted position of citizens. The retrogressives made much of
the assertion that adult slaves lately imported, were, on account of their attachment to heathen
practices and idolatrous rites, loath to take over the Teutonic civilization, and would at
best learn to speak the English language imperfectly only.[1] The reformers, who at times admitted
this, maintained that the alleged difficulties encountered in teaching the crudest element
of the slaves could not be adduced as an argument against the religious instruction of free
Negroes and the education of the American born colored children.[2] This problem, however,
was not a serious one in most Northern States, for the reason that the small number of slaves
in that section obviated the necessity for much apprehension as to what kind of education the
blacks should have, and whether they should be enlightened before or after emancipation. Although
the Northern people believed that the education of the race should be definitely planned, and
had much to say about industrial education, most of them were of the opinion that ordinary
training in the fundamentals of useful knowledge and in the principles of Christian religion,
was sufficient to meet the needs of those designated for freedom.

[Footnote 1: Meade, Sermons of Thomas Bacon, pp. 81-87.]

[Footnote 2: Porteus, Works of, vol. vi., p. 177; Warburton, A Sermon, etc., pp. 25 and 27.]

On the other hand, most southerners who conceded the right of the Negro to be educated did
not openly aid the movement except with the understanding that the enlightened ones should
be taken from their fellows and colonized in some remote part of the United States or in their
native land.[1] The idea of colonization, however, was not confined to the southern slaveholders,
for Thornton, Fothergill, and Granville Sharp had long looked to Africa as the proper place
for enlightened people of color.[2] Feeling that it would be wrong to expatriate them, Benezet
and Branagan[3] advocated the colonization of such Negroes on the public lands west of the
Alleghanies. There was some talk of giving slaves training in the elements of agriculture and
then dividing plantations among them to develop a small class of tenants. Jefferson, a member
of a committee appointed in 1779 by the General Assembly of that commonwealth to revise its
laws, reported a plan providing for the instruction of its slaves in agriculture and the handicrafts
to prepare them for liberation and colonization under the supervision of the home government
until they could take care of themselves.[4]

[Footnote 1: Writings of James Monroe, vol. iii., pp. 261, 266, 292, 295, 321, 322, 336, 338,
349, 351, 352, 353, 378.]

[Footnote 2: Brissot de Warville, Travels, vol. i., p. 262.]

[Footnote 3: Tyrannical Libertymen, pp. 10-11; Locke, Anti-slavery, etc., pp. 31-32; Branagan,
Serious Remonstrance, p. 18.]

[Footnote 4: Washington, Works of Jefferson, vol. iii., p. 296; vol. iv., p. 291 and vol. viii.,
p. 380.]

Without resorting to the subterfuge of colonization, not a few slaveholders were still wise
enough to show why the improvement of the Negroes should be neglected altogether. Vanquished
by the logic of Daniel Davis[1] and Benjamin Rush,[2] those who had theretofore justified slavery
on the ground that it gave the bondmen a chance to be enlightened, fell back on the theory
of African racial inferiority. This they said was so well exhibited by the Negroes' lack of
wisdom and of goodness that continued heathenism of the race was justifiable.[3] Answering
these inconsistent persons, John Wesley inquired: "Allowing them to be as stupid as you say,
to whom is that stupidity owing? Without doubt it lies altogether at the door of the inhuman
masters who give them no opportunity for improving their understanding and indeed leave them
no motive, either from hope or fear to attempt any such thing." Wesley asserted, too, that
the Africans were in no way remarkable for their stupidity while they remained in their own
country, and that where they had equal motives and equal means of improvement, the Negroes
were not only not inferior to the better inhabitants of Europe, but superior to some of them.[4]

[Footnote 1: Davis was a logical antislavery agitator. He believed that if the slaves had had
the means of education, if they had been treated with humanity, making slaves of them had been
no more than doing evil that good might come. He thought that Christianity and humanity would
have rather dictated the sending of books and teachers into Africa and endeavors for their
salvation.]

[Footnote 2: Benjamin Rush was a Philadelphia physician of Quaker parentage. He was educated
at the College of New Jersey and at the Medical School of Edinburgh, where he came into contact
with some of the most enlightened men of his time. Holding to the ideals of his youth, Dr.
Rush was soon associated with the friends of the Negroes on his return to Philadelphia. He
not only worked for the abolition of the slave trade but fearlessly advocated the right of
the Negroes to be educated. He pointed out that an inquiry into the methods of converting Negroes
to Christianity would show that the means were ill suited to the end proposed. "In many cases,"
said he, "Sunday is appropriated to work for themselves. Reading and writing are discouraged
among them. A belief is inculcated among some that they have no souls. In a word, every attempt
to instruct or convert them has been constantly opposed by their masters." See Rush, An Address
to the Inhabitants, etc., p. 16.]

[Footnote 3: Meade, Sermons of Rev. Thomas Bacon, pp. 81-97.]

[Footnote 4: Wesley, Thoughts upon Slavery, p. 92.]

William Pinkney, the antislavery leader of Maryland, believed also that Negroes are no worse
than white people under similar conditions, and that all the colored people needed to disprove
their so-called inferiority was an equal chance with the more favored race.[1] Others like
George Buchanan referred to the Negroes' talent for the fine arts and to their achievements
in literature, mathematics, and philosophy. Buchanan informed these merciless aristocrats "that
the Africans whom you despise, whom you inhumanly treat as brutes and whom you unlawfully subject
to slavery with tyrannizing hands of despots are equally capable of improvement with yourselves."[2]

[Footnote 1: Pinkney, Speech in Maryland House of Delegates, p. 6.]

[Footnote 2: Buchanan, An Oration on the Moral and Political Evil of Slavery, p. 10.]

Franklin considered the idea of the natural inferiority of the Negro as a silly excuse. He
conceded that most of the blacks were improvident and poor, but believed that their condition
was not due to deficient understanding but to their lack of education. He was very much impressed
with their achievements in music.[1] So disgusting was this notion of inferiority to Abbé Grégoire
of Paris that he wrote an interesting essay on "Negro Literature" to prove that people of color
have unusual intellectual power.[2] He sent copies of this pamphlet to leading men where slavery
existed. Another writer discussing Jefferson's equivocal position on this question said that
one would have thought that "modern philosophy himself" would not have the face to expect that
the wretch, who is driven out to labor at the dawn of day, and who toils until evening with
a whip over his head, ought to be a poet. Benezet, who had actually taught Negroes, declared
"with truth and sincerity" that he had found among them as great variety of talents as among
a like number of white persons. He boldly asserted that the notion entertained by some that
the blacks were inferior in their capacities was a vulgar prejudice founded on the pride or
ignorance of their lordly masters who had kept their slaves at such a distance as to be unable
to form a right judgment of them.[3]

[Footnote 1: Smyth, Works of Franklin, vol. vi., p. 222.]

[Footnote 2: Grégoire, La Littérature des Nègres.]

[Footnote 3: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 375.]

CHAPTER IV

ACTUAL EDUCATION

Would these professions of interest in the mental development of the blacks be translated into
action? What these reformers would do to raise the standard of Negro education above the plane
of rudimentary training incidental to religious instruction, was yet to be seen. Would they
secure to Negroes the educational privileges guaranteed other elements of society? The answer,
if not affirmative, was decidedly encouraging. The idea uppermost in the minds of these workers
was that the people of color could and should be educated as other races of men.

In the lead of this movement were the antislavery agitators. Recognizing the Negroes' need
of preparation for citizenship, the abolitionists proclaimed as a common purpose of their organizations
the education of the colored people with a view to developing in them self-respect, self-support,
and usefulness in the community.[1]

[Footnote 1: Smyth, Works of Benjamin Franklin, vol. x., p. 127; Torrey, Portraiture of Slavery,
p. 21. See also constitution of almost any antislavery society organized during this period.]

The proposition to cultivate the minds of the slaves came as a happy solution of what had been
a perplexing problem. Many Americans who considered slavery an evil had found no way out of
the difficulty when the alternative was to turn loose upon society so many uncivilized men
without the ability to discharge the duties of citizenship.[1] Assured then that the efforts
at emancipation would be tested by experience, a larger number of men advocated abolition.
These leaders recommended gradual emancipation for States having a large slave population,
that those designated for freedom might first be instructed in the value and meaning of liberty
to render them comfortable in the use of it.[2] The number of slaves in the States adopting
the policy of immediate emancipation was not considered a menace to society, for the schools
already open to colored people could exert a restraining influence on those lately given the
boon of freedom. See Proc. of Am. Conv., etc., 1795, address.]

[Footnote 4: Proceedings of the American Convention of Abolition Societies, 1794, p. 21; and
1795, p. 17; and Rise and Progress of the Testimony of Friends, etc., p. 27.]

This work was organized by the abolitionists but was generally maintained by members of the
various sects which did more for the enlightenment of the people of color through the antislavery
organizations than through their own.[1] The support of the clergy, however, did not mean that
the education of the Negroes would continue incidental to the teaching of religion. The blacks
were to be accepted as brethren and trained to be useful citizens. For better education the
colored people could then look to the more liberal sects, the Quakers, Baptists, Methodists,
and Presbyterians, who prior to the Revolution had been restrained by intolerance from extensive
proselyting. Upon the attainment of religious liberty they were free to win over the slaveholders
who came into the Methodist and Baptist churches in large numbers, bringing their slaves with
them.[2] The freedom of these "regenerated" churches made possible the rise of Negro exhorters
and preachers, who to exercise their gifts managed in some way to learn to read and write.
Schools for the training of such leaders were not to be found, but to encourage ambitious blacks
to qualify themselves white ministers often employed such candidates as attendants, allowing
them time to observe, to study, and even to address their audiences.[3]

[Footnote 1: The antislavery societies were at first the uniting influence among all persons
interested in the uplift of the Negroes. The agitation had not then become violent, for men
considered the institution not a sin but merely an evil.]

[Footnote 2: Coke, Journal, etc., p. 114; Lambert, Travels, p. 175; Baird, A Collection, etc.,
pp. 381, 387 and 816; James, Documentary, etc., p. 35; Foote, Sketches of Virginia, p. 31;
Matlack, History of American Slavery and Methodism, p. 31; Semple, History of the Rise and
Progress of the Baptists in Virginia, p. 222.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., and Coke, Journal, etc., pp. 16-18.]

It must be observed, however, that the interest of these benevolent men was no longer manifested
in the mere traditional teaching of individual slaves. The movement ceased to be the concern
of separate philanthropists. Men really interested in the uplift of the colored people organized
to raise funds, open schools, and supervise their education.[1] In the course of time their
efforts became more systematic and consequently more successful. These educators adopted the
threefold policy of instructing Negroes in the principles of the Christian religion, giving
them the fundamentals of the common branches, and teaching them the most useful handicrafts.[2]
The indoctrination of the colored people, to be sure, was still an important concern to their
teachers, but the accession to their ranks of a militant secular element caused the emphasis
to shift to other phases of education. Seeing the Negroes' need of mental development, the
Presbyterian Synod of New York and Pennsylvania urged the members of that denomination in 1787
to give their slaves "such good education as to prepare them for a better enjoyment of freedom."[3]
In reply to the inquiry as to what could be done to teach the poor black and white children
to read, the Methodist Conference of 1790 recommended the establishment of Sunday schools and
the appointment of persons to teach gratis "all that will attend and have a capacity to learn."[4]
The Conference recommended that the Church publish a special text-book to teach these children
learning as well as piety.[5] Men in the political world were also active. In 1788 the State
of New Jersey passed an act preliminary to emancipation, making the teaching of slaves to read
compulsory under a penalty of five pounds.[6]

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the American Convention of Abolition Societies, 1797.]

[Footnote 2: Proceedings of the American Convention of Abolition Societies, 1797.]

[Footnote 3: Locke, Anti-slavery, etc., p. 44.]

[Footnote 4: Washington, Story of the Negro, vol. ii, p. 121.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., p. 121.]

[Footnote 6: Laws of New Jersey, 1788.]

With such influence brought to bear on persons in the various walks of life, the movement for
the effective education of the colored people became more extensive. Voicing the sentiment
of the different local organizations, the American Convention of Abolition Societies of 1794
urged the branches to have the children of free Negroes and slaves instructed in "common literature."[1]
Two years later the Abolition Society of the State of Maryland proposed to establish an academy
to offer this kind of instruction. To execute this scheme the American Convention thought that
it was expedient to employ regular tutors, to form private associations of their members or
other well-disposed persons for the purpose of instructing the people of color in the most
simple branches of education.[2]

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the American Convention of Abolition Societies, 1796, p. 18.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., 1797, p. 41.]

The regular tutors referred to above were largely indentured servants who then constituted
probably the majority of the teachers of the colonies.[1] In 1773 Jonathan Boucher said that
two thirds of the teachers of Maryland belonged to this class.[2] The contact of Negroes with
these servants is significant. In the absence of rigid caste distinctions they associated with
the slaves and the barrier between them was so inconsiderable that laws had to be passed to
prevent the miscegenation of the races. The blacks acquired much useful knowledge from servant
teachers and sometimes assisted them.

[Footnote 1: See the descriptions of indentured servants in the advertisements of colonial
newspapers referred to on pages 82-84; and Boucher, A View of the Causes, etc., p. 39.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., pp. 39 and 40.]

Attention was directed also to the fact that neither literary nor religious education prepared
the Negroes for a life of usefulness. Heeding the advice of Kosciuszko, Madison and Jefferson,
the advocates of the education of the Negroes endeavored to give them such practical training
as their peculiar needs demanded. In the agricultural sections the first duty of the teacher
of the blacks was to show them how to get their living from the soil. This was the final test
of their preparation for emancipation. Accordingly, on large plantations where much supervision
was necessary, trustworthy Negroes were trained as managers. Many of those who showed aptitude
were liberated and encouraged to produce for themselves. Slaves designated for freedom were
often given small parcels of land for the cultivation of which they were allowed some of their
time. An important result of this agricultural training was that many of the slaves thus favored
amassed considerable wealth by using their spare time in cultivating crops of their own.[1]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 196.]

The advocates of useful education for the degraded race had more to say about training in the
mechanic arts. Such instruction, however, was not then a new thing to the blacks of the South,
for they had from time immemorial been the trustworthy artisans of that section. The aim then
was to give them such education as would make them intelligent workmen and develop in them
the power to plan for themselves. In the North, where the Negroes had been largely menial servants,
adequate industrial education was deemed necessary for those who were to be liberated.[1] Almost
every Northern colored school of any consequence then offered courses in the handicrafts. In
1784 the Quakers of Philadelphia employed Sarah Dwight to teach the colored girls sewing.[2]
Anthony Benezet provided in his will that in the school to be established by his benefaction
the girls should be taught needlework.[3] The teachers who took upon themselves the improvement
of the free people of color of New York City regarded industrial training as one of their important
tasks.[4]

[Footnote 1: See the Address of the Am. Conv. of Abolition Societies, 1794; ibid., 1795; ibid.,
1797 et passim.]

[Footnote 2: Wickersham, History of Ed. in Pa., p. 249.]

[Footnote 3: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1869, p. 375.]

[Footnote 4: Andrews, History of the New York African Free Schools, p. 20.]

None urged this duty upon the directors of these schools more persistently than the antislavery
organizations. In 1794 the American Convention of Abolition Societies recommended that Negroes
be instructed in "those mechanic arts which will keep them most constantly employed and, of
course, which will less subject them to idleness and debauchery, and thus prepare them for
becoming good citizens of the United States."[1] Speaking repeatedly on this wise the Convention
requested the colored people to let it be their special care to have their children not only
to work at useful trades but also to till the soil.[2] The early abolitionists believed that
this was the only way the freedmen could learn to support themselves.[3] In connection with
their schools the antislavery leaders had an Indenturing Committee to find positions for colored
students who had the advantages of industrial education.[4] In some communities slaves were
prepared for emancipation by binding them out as apprentices to machinists and artisans until
they learned a trade.

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the American Convention, 1794, p. 14.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., 1795, p. 29; ibid., 1797, pp. 12, 13, and 31.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., 1797, p. 31.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., 1818, p. 9.]

Two early efforts to carry out this policy are worthy of notice here. These were the endeavors
of Anthony Benezet and Thaddeus Kosciuszko. Benezet was typical of those men, who, having the
courage of their conviction, not only taught colored people, but gladly appropriated property
to their education. Benezet died in 1784, leaving considerable wealth to be devoted to the
purpose of educating Indians and Negroes. His will provided that as the estate on the death
of his wife would not be sufficient entirely to support a school, the Overseers of the Public
Schools of Philadelphia should join with a committee appointed by the Society of Friends, and
other benevolent persons, in the care and maintenance of an institution such as he had planned.
Finally in 1787 the efforts of Benezet reached their culmination in the construction of a schoolhouse,
with additional funds obtained from David Barclay of London and Thomas Sidney, a colored man
of Philadelphia. The pupils of this school were to study reading, writing, arithmetic, plain
accounts, and sewing.[1]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 375.]

With respect to conceding the Negroes' claim to a better education, Thaddeus Kosciuszko, the
Polish general, was not unlike Benezet. None of the revolutionary leaders were more moved with
compassion for the colored people than this warrior. He saw in education the powerful leverage
which would place them in position to enjoy the newly won rights of man. While assisting us
in gaining our independence, Kosciuszko acquired here valuable property which he endeavored
to devote to the enlightenment of the slaves. He authorized Thomas Jefferson, his executor,
to employ the whole thereof in purchasing Negroes and liberating them in the name of Kosciuszko,
"in giving them an education in trades or otherwise, and in having them instructed for their
new condition in the duties of morality." The instructors were to provide for them such training
as would make them "good neighbors, good mothers or fathers, good husbands or wives, teaching
them the duties of citizenship, teaching them to be defenders of their liberty and country,
and of the good order of society, and whatsoever might make them useful and happy."[1] Clearly
as this was set forth the executor failed to discharge this duty enjoined upon him. The heirs
of the donor instituted proceedings to obtain possession of the estate, which, so far as the
author knows, was never used for the purpose for which it was intended.

[Footnote 1: African Repository, vol. xi., pp. 294-295.]

In view of these numerous strivings we are compelled to inquire exactly what these educators
accomplished. Although it is impossible to measure the results of their early efforts, various
records of the eighteenth century prove that there was lessening objection to the instruction
of slaves and practically none to the enlightenment of freedmen. Negroes in considerable numbers
were becoming well grounded in the rudiments of education. They had reached the point of constituting
the majority of the mechanics in slaveholding communities; they were qualified to be tradesmen,
trustworthy helpers, and attendants of distinguished men, and a few were serving as clerks,
overseers, and managers.[1] Many who were favorably circumstanced learned more than mere reading
and writing. In exceptional cases, some were employed not only as teachers and preachers to
their people, but as instructors of the white race.[2]

[Footnote 1: Georgia and South Carolina had to pass laws to prevent Negroes from following
these occupations for fear that they might thereby become too well informed. Appealing to the
Negroes of Virginia about 1755, Benjamin Fawcett addressed them as intelligent people, commanding
them to read and study the Bible for themselves and consider "how the Papists do all they can
to hide it from their fellowmen." "Be particularly thankful," said he, "for the Ministers of
Christ around you, who are faithfully laboring to teach the truth as it is in Jesus."[1] Rev.
Mr. Davies, then a member of the Society for Promoting the Gospel among the Poor, reported
that there were multitudes of Negroes in different parts of Virginia who were "willingly, eagerly
desirous to be instructed and embraced every opportunity of acquainting themselves with the
Doctrine of the Gospel," and though they had generally very little help to learn to read, yet
to his surprise many of them by dint of application had made such progress that they could
"intelligently read a plain author and especially their Bible." Pity it was, he thought, that
any of them should be without necessary books. Negroes were wont to come to him with such moving
accounts of their needs in this respect that he could not help supplying them.[2] On Saturday
evenings and Sundays his home was crowded with numbers of those "whose very Countenances still
carry the air of importunate Petitioners" for the same favors with those who came before them.
Complaining that his stock was exhausted, and that he had to turn away many disappointed, he
urged his friends to send him other suitable books, for nothing else, thought he, could be
a greater inducement to their industry to learn to read.

[Footnote 1: Fawcett, Compassionate Address, etc., p. 33.]

[Footnote 2: Fawcett, Compassionate Address, etc., p. 33.]

Still more reliable testimony may be obtained, not from persons particularly interested in
the uplift of the blacks, but from slaveholders. Their advertisements in the colonial newspapers
furnish unconscious evidence of the intellectual progress of the Negroes during the eighteenth
century. "He's an 'artful,'"[1] "plausible,"[2] "smart,"[3] or "sensible fellow,"[4] "delights
much in traffic,"[5] and "plays on the fife extremely well,"[6] are some of the statements
found in the descriptions of fugitive slaves. Negroes were serving as salesmen, keeping accounts,
managing plantations, teaching and preaching, and had intellectually advanced to the extent
that fifteen or twenty per cent. of their adults could then at least read. Most of this talented
class became preachers, as this was the only calling even conditionally open to persons of
African blood. Among these clergymen was George Leile,[1] who won distinction as a preacher
in Georgia in 1782, and then went to Jamaica where he founded the first Baptist church of that
colony. The competent and indefatigable Andrew Bryan[2] proved to be a worthy successor of
George Leile in Georgia. From 1770 to 1790 Negro preachers were in charge of congregations
in Charles City, Petersburg, and Allen's Creek in Lunenburg County, Virginia.[3] In 1801 Gowan
Pamphlet of that State was the pastor of a progressive Baptist church, some members of which
could read, write, and keep accounts.[4] Lemuel Haynes was then widely known as a well-educated
minister of the Protestant Episcopal Church. John Gloucester, who had been trained under Gideon
Blackburn of Tennessee, distinguished himself in Philadelphia where he founded the African
Presbyterian Church.[5] One of the most interesting of these preachers was Josiah Bishop. By
1791 he had made such a record in his profession that he was called to the pastorate of the
First Baptist Church (white) of Portsmouth, Virginia.[6] After serving his white brethren a
number of years he preached some time in Baltimore and then went to New York to take charge
of the Abyssinian Baptist Church.[7] This favorable condition of affairs could not long exist
after the aristocratic element in the country began to recover some of the ground it had lost
during the social upheaval of the revolutionary era. It was the objection to treating Negroes
as members on a plane of equality with all, that led to the establishment of colored Baptist
churches and to the secession of the Negro Methodists under the leadership of Richard Allen
in 1794. The importance of this movement to the student of education lies in the fact that
a larger number of Negroes had to be educated to carry on the work of the new churches.

[Footnote 1: He was sometimes called George Sharp. See Benedict, History of the Baptists, etc.,
p. 189.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 189.]

[Footnote 3: Semple, History of the Baptists, etc., p. 112.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 114.]

[Footnote 5: Baird, A Collection, etc., p. 817.]

[Footnote 6: Semple, History of the Baptists, etc., p. 355.]

[Footnote 7: Ibid., p. 356.]

The intellectual progress of the colored people of that day, however, was not restricted to
their clergymen. Other Negroes were learning to excel in various walks of life. Two such persons
were found in North Carolina. One of these was known as Caesar, the author of a collection
of poems, which, when published in that State, attained a popularity equal to that of Bloomfield's.[1]
Those who had the pleasure of reading the poems stated that they were characterized by "simplicity,
purity, and natural grace."[2] The other noted Negro of North Carolina was mentioned in 1799
by Buchan in his Domestic Medicine as the discoverer of a remedy for the bite of the rattlesnake.
Buchan learned from Dr. Brooks that, in view of the benefits resulting from the discovery of
this slave, the General Assembly of North Carolina purchased his freedom and settled upon him
a hundred pounds per annum.[3]

[Footnote 1: Baldwin, Observations, etc., p. 20.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 21.]

[Footnote 3: Smyth, A Tour in the U.S., p. 109; and Baldwin, Observations, p. 20.]

To this class of bright Negroes belonged Thomas Fuller, a native African, who resided near
Alexandria, Virginia, where he startled the students of his time by his unusual attainments
in mathematics, despite the fact that he could neither read nor write. Once acquainted with
the power of numbers, he commenced his education by counting the hairs of the tail of the horse
with which he worked the fields. He soon devised processes for shortening his modes of calculation,
attaining such skill and accuracy as to solve the most difficult problems. Depending upon his
own system of mental arithmetic he learned to obtain accurate results just as quickly as Mr.
Zerah Colburn, a noted calculator of that day, who tested the Negro mathematician.[1] The most
abstruse questions in relation to time, distance, and space were no task for his miraculous
memory, which, when the mathematician was interrupted in the midst of a long and tedious calculation,
enabled him to take up some other work and later resume his calculation where he left off.[2]
One of the questions propounded him, was how many seconds of time had elapsed since the birth
of an individual who had lived seventy years, seven months, and as many days. Fuller was able
to answer the question in a minute and a half.

[Footnote 1: Baldwin, Observations, p. 21.]

[Footnote 2: Needles, An Historical Memoir, etc., p. 32.]

Another Negro of this type was James Durham, a native slave of the city of Philadelphia. Durham
was purchased by Dr. Dove, a physician in New Orleans, who, seeing the divine spark in the
slave, gave him a chance for mental development. It was fortunate that he was thrown upon his
own resources in this environment, where the miscegenation of the races since the early French
settlement, had given rise to a thrifty and progressive class of mixed breeds, many of whom
at that time had the privileges and immunities of freemen. Durham was not long in acquiring
a rudimentary education, and soon learned several modern languages, speaking English, French,
and Spanish fluently. Beginning his medical education early in his career, he finished his
course, and by the time he was twenty-one years of age became one of the most distinguished
physicians[1] of New Orleans. Dr. Benjamin Rush, the noted physician of Philadelphia, who was
educated at the Edinburgh Medical College, once deigned to converse professionally with Dr.
Durham. "I learned more from him than he could expect from me," was the comment of the Philadelphian
upon a conversation in which he had thought to appear as instructor of the younger physician.[2]

[Footnote 1: Brissot de Warville, New Travels, vol. i., p. 223.]

[Footnote 2: Baldwin, Observations, etc., p. 17.]

Most prominent among these brainy persons of color were Phyllis Wheatley and Benjamin Banneker.
The former was a slave girl brought from Africa in 1761 and put to service in the household
of John Wheatley of Boston. There, without any training but that which she obtained from her
master's family, she learned in sixteen months to speak the English language fluently, and
to read the most difficult parts of sacred writings. She had a great inclination for Latin
and made some progress in the study of that language. Led to writing by curiosity, she was
by 1765 possessed of a style which enabled her to count among her correspondents some of the
most influential men of her time. Phyllis Wheatley's title to fame, however, rested not on
her general attainments as a scholar but rather on her ability to write poetry. Her poems seemed
to have such rare merit that men marveled that a slave could possess such a productive imagination,
enlightened mind, and poetical genius. The publishers were so much surprised that they sought
reassurance as to the authenticity of the poems from such persons as James Bowdoin, Harrison
Gray, and John Hancock.[1] Glancing at her works, the modern critic would readily say that
she was not a poetess, just as the student of political economy would dub Adam Smith a failure
as an economist. A bright college freshman who has studied introductory economics can write
a treatise as scientific as the Wealth of Nations. The student of history, however, must not
"despise the day of small things." Judged according to the standards of her time, Phyllis Wheatley
was an exceptionally intellectual person.

[Footnote 1: Baldwin, Observations, etc., p. 18; Wright, Poems of Phyllis Wheatley, Introduction.]

The other distinguished Negro, Benjamin Banneker, was born in Baltimore County, Maryland, November
9, 1731, near the village of Ellicott Mills. Banneker was sent to school in the neighborhood,
where he learned reading, writing, and arithmetic. Determined to acquire knowledge while toiling,
he applied his mind to things intellectual, cultivated the power of observation, and developed
a retentive memory. These acquirements finally made him tower above all other American scientists
of his time with the possible exception of Benjamin Franklin. In conformity with his desire
to do and create, his tendency was toward mathematics. Although he had never seen a clock,
watches being the only timepieces in the vicinity, he made in 1770 the first clock manufactured
in the United States,[1] thereby attracting the attention of the scientific world. Learning
these things, the owner of Ellicott Mills became very much interested in this man of inventive
genius, lent him books, and encouraged him in his chosen field. Among these volumes were treatises
on astronomy, which Banneker soon mastered without any instruction.[2] Soon he could calculate
eclipses of sun and moon and the rising of each star with an accuracy almost unknown to Americans.
Despite his limited means, he secured through Goddard and Angell of Baltimore the publication
of the first almanac produced in this country. Jefferson received from Banneker a copy, for
which he wrote the author a letter of thanks. It appears that Jefferson had some doubts about
the man's genius, but the fact that the philosopher invited Banneker to visit him at Monticello
in 1803, indicates that the increasing reputation of the Negro must have caused Jefferson to
change his opinion as to the extent of Banneker's attainments and the value of his contributions
to mathematics and science.[3]

[Footnote 1: Washington, Jefferson's Works, vol. v., p. 429.]

[Footnote 2: Baldwin, Observations, etc., p. 16.]

[Footnote 3: Washington, Jefferson's Works, vol. v., p. 429.]

So favorable did the aspect of things become as a result of this movement to elevate the Negroes,
that persons observing the conditions then obtaining in this country thought that the victory
for the despised race had been won. Traveling in 1783 in the colony of Virginia, where the
slave trade had been abolished and schools for the education of freedmen established, Johann
Schoepf felt that the institution was doomed.[1] After touring Pennsylvania five years later,
Brissot de Warville reported that there existed then a country where the blacks were allowed
to have souls, and to be endowed with an understanding capable of being formed to virtue and
useful knowledge, and where they were not regarded as beasts of burden in order that their
masters might have the privilege of treating them as such. We have also learned that this upheaval
left the slaves the objects of piety for the sympathetic, the concern of workers in behalf
of social uplift, a class offered instruction as a prerequisite to emancipation. The private
teaching of Negroes became tolerable, benevolent persons volunteered to instruct them, and
some schools maintained for the education of white students were thrown open to those of African
blood. It was the day of better beginnings. In fact, it was the heyday of victory for the ante-bellum
Negro. Never had his position been so advantageous; never was it thus again until the whole
race was emancipated. Now the question which naturally arises here is, to what extent were
such efforts general? Were these beginnings sufficiently extensive to secure adequate enlightenment
to a large number of colored people? Was interest in the education of this class so widely
manifested thereafter as to cause the movement to endure? A brief account of these efforts
in the various States will answer these questions.

In the Northern and Middle States an increasing number of educational advantages for the white
race made germane the question as to what consideration should be shown to the colored people.[1]
A general admission of Negroes to the schools of these progressive communities was undesirable,
not because of the prejudice against the race, but on account of the feeling that the past
of the colored people having been different from that of the white race, their training should
be in keeping with their situation. To meet their peculiar needs many communities thought it
best to provide for them "special," "individual," or "unclassified" schools adapted to their
condition.[2] In most cases, however, the movement for separate schools originated not with
the white race, but with the people of color themselves.

[Footnote 1: Niles's Register, vol. xvi., pp. 241-243 and vol. xxiii., p. 23.]

[Footnote 2: See The Proceedings of the Am. Conv. of Abolition Societies.]

In New England, Negroes had almost from the beginning of their enslavement some chance for
mental, moral, and spiritual improvement, but the revolutionary movement was followed in that
section by a general effort to elevate the people of color through the influence of the school
and church. In 1770 the Rhode Island Quakers were endeavoring to give young Negroes such an
education as becomes Christians. In 1773 Newport had a colored school, maintained by a society
of benevolent clergymen of the Church of England, with a handsome fund for a mistress to teach
thirty children reading and writing. Providence did not exhibit such activity until the nineteenth
century. Having a larger black population than any other city in New England, Boston was the
center of these endeavors. In 1798 a separate school for colored children, under the charge
of Elisha Sylvester, a white man, was established in that city in the house of Primus Hall,
a Negro of very good standing.[1] Two years later sixty-six free blacks of that city petitioned
the school committee for a separate school, but the citizens in a special town meeting called
to consider the question refused to grant this request.[2] Undaunted by this refusal, the patrons
of the special school established in the house of Primus Hall, employed Brown and Hall of Harvard
College as instructors, until 1806.[3] The school was then moved to the African Meeting House
in Belknap Street where it remained until 1835 when, with funds contributed by Abiel Smith,
a building was erected. An epoch in the history of Negro education in New England was marked
in 1820, when the city of Boston opened its first primary school for the education of colored
children.[4]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 357.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 357.]

[Footnote 3: Next to be instructor of this institution was Prince Saunders, who was brought
to Boston by Dr. Channing and Caleb Bingham in 1809. Brought up in the family of a Vermont
lawyer, and experienced as a diplomatic official of Emperor Christopher of Hayti, Prince Saunders
was able to do much for the advancement of this work. Among others who taught in this school
was John B. Russworm, a graduate of Bowdoin College, and, later, Governor of the Colony of
Cape Palmas in Southern Liberia. See Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 357;
and African Repository, vol. ii., p. 271.]

[Footnote 4: Special Rep. of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 357.]

Generally speaking, we can say that while the movement for special colored schools met with
some opposition in certain portions of New England, in other parts of the Northeastern States
the religious organizations and abolition societies, which were espousing the cause of the
Negro, yielded to this demand. These schools were sometimes found in churches of the North,
as in the cases of the schools in the African Church of Boston, and the Sunday-school in the
African Improved Church of New Haven. In 1828 there was in that city another such school supported
by public-school money; three in Boston; one in Salem; and one in Portland, Maine.[1]

[Footnote 1: Adams, Anti-slavery, p. 142.]

Outside of the city of New York, not so much interest was shown in the education of Negroes
as in the States which had a larger colored population.[1] Those who were scattered through
the State were allowed to attend white schools, which did not "meet their special needs."[2]
In the metropolis, where the blacks constituted one-tenth of the inhabitants in 1800, however,
the mental improvement of the dark race could not be neglected. The liberalism of the revolutionary
era led to the organization in New York of the "Society for Promoting the Manumission of Slaves
and Protecting such of them as have been or may be liberated." This Society ushered in a new
day for the free persons of color of that city in organizing in 1787 the New York African Free
School.[3] Among those interested in this organization and its enterprises were Melancthon
Smith, John Bleecker, James Cogswell, Jacob Seaman, White Matlock, Matthew Clarkson, Nathaniel
Lawrence, and John Murray, Jr.[4] The school opened in 1790 with Cornelius Davis as a teacher
of forty pupils. In 1791 a lady was employed to instruct the girls in needle-work.[5] The expected
advantage of this industrial training was soon realized.

[Footnote 1: La Rochefoucauld-Liancourt, Travels, etc., p. 233.]

[Footnote 2: Am. The struggle was continued for about fifteen years with an attendance of from
forty to sixty pupils.[1] About 1801 the community began to take more interest in the institution,
and the Negroes "became more generally impressed with a sense of the advantages and importance
of education, and more disposed to avail themselves of the privileges offered them."[2] At
this time one hundred and thirty pupils of both sexes attended this school, paying their instructor,
a "discreet man of color," according to their ability and inclination.[3] Many more colored
children were then able to attend as there had been a considerable increase in the number of
colored freeholders. As a result of the introduction of the Lancastrian and monitorial systems
of instruction the enrollment was further increased and the general tone of the school was
improved. The directors then purchased a lot on which they constructed a building the following
year.[1] The nucleus then took the name of the New York "African Free Schools." These schools
grew so rapidly that it was soon necessary to rent additional quarters to accommodate the department
of sewing. This work had been made popular by the efforts of Misses Turpen, Eliza J. Cox, Ann
Cox, and Caroline Roe.[2] The subsequent growth of the classes was such that in 1820 the Manumission
Society had to erect a building large enough to accommodate five hundred pupils.[3] The instructors
were then not only teaching the elementary branches of reading, writing, arithmetic, and geography,
but also astronomy, navigation, advanced composition, plain sewing, knitting, and marking.[4]
Knowing the importance of industrial training, the Manumission Society then had an Indenturing
Committee find employment in trades for colored children, and had recommended for some of them
the pursuit of agriculture.[5] The comptrollers desired no better way of measuring the success
of the system in shaping the character of its students than to be able to boast that no pupils
educated there had ever been convicted of crime.[6] Lafayette, a promoter of the emancipation
and improvement of the colored people, and a member of the New York Manumission Society, visited
these schools in 1824 on his return to the United States. He was bidden welcome by an eleven-year-old
pupil in well-chosen and significant words. After spending the afternoon inspecting the schools
the General pronounced them the "best disciplined and the most interesting schools of children"
he had ever seen.[7]

[Footnote 1: Andrews, History of the New York African Free Schools, p. 18.]

[Footnote 2: Andrews, History of the New York African Free Schools, p. 17.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 18.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 19.]

[Footnote 5: Proceedings of the Am. Convention of Abolition Soc., 1818, P. 9; Adams, Anti-slavery,
p. 142.]

[Footnote 6: Proceedings of the American Convention, etc., 1820.]

[Footnote 7: Andrews, History of the New York African Free Schools, p. 20.]

The outlook for the education of Negroes in New Jersey was unusually bright. Carrying out the
recommendations of the Haddonfield Quarterly Meeting in 1777, the Quakers of Salem raised funds
for the education of the blacks, secured books, and placed the colored children of the community
at school. The delegates sent from that State, to the Convention of the Abolition Societies
in 1801, reported that there had been schools in Burlington, Salem, and Trenton for the education
of the Negro race, but that they had been closed.[1] It seemed that not much attention had
been given to this work there, but that the interest was increasing. These delegates stated
that they did not then know of any schools among them exclusively for Negroes. In most parts
of the State, and most commonly in the northern division, however, they were incorporated with
the white children in the various small schools scattered over the State.[2] There was then
in the city of Burlington a free school for the education of poor children supported by the
profits of an estate left for that particular purpose, and made equally accessible to the children
of both races. Conditions were just as favorable in Gloucester. An account from its antislavery
society shows that the local friends of the indigent had funds of about one thousand pounds
established for schooling poor children, white and black, without distinction. Many of the
black children, who were placed by their masters under the care of white instructors, received
as good moral and school education as the lower class of whites.[3] Later reports from this
State show the same tendency toward democratic education.

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the American Convention, etc., 1801, p. 12.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 12, and Quaker Pamphlet, p. 40.]

[Footnote 3: Proceedings of the American Conv., etc., 1801, p. 12.]

The efforts made in this direction in Delaware, were encouraging. The Abolition Society of
Wilmington had not greatly promoted the special education of "the Blacks and the people of
color." In 1801, however, a school was kept the first day of the week by one of the members
of the Society, who instructed them gratis in reading, writing, and arithmetic. About twenty
pupils generally attended and by their assiduity and progress showed themselves as "capable
as white persons laboring under similar disadvantages."[1] In 1802 plans for the extension
of this system were laid and bore good fruit the following year.[2] Seven years later, however,
after personal and pecuniary aid had for some time been extended, the workers had still to
lament that beneficial effects had not been more generally experienced, and that there was
little disposition to aid them in their friendly endeavors.[3] In 1816 more important results
had been obtained. Through a society formed a few years prior to this date for the express
purpose of educating colored children, a school had been established under a Negro teacher.
He had a fair attendance of bright children, who "by the facility with which they took in instruction
were silently but certainly undermining the prejudice"[4] against their education. A library
of religious and moral publications had been secured for this institution. In addition to the
school in Wilmington there was a large academy for young colored women, gratuitously taught
by a society of young ladies. The course of instruction covered reading, writing, and sewing.
The work in sewing proved to be a great advantage to the colored girls, many of whom through
the instrumentality of that society were provided with good positions.[5]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 20.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., 1802, p. 17.]

[Footnote 3: Proceedings of the American Convention, etc., 1809, p. 20.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., 1816, p. 20.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., 1821, p. 18.]

In Pennsylvania the interest of the large Quaker element caused the question of educating Negroes
to be a matter of more concern to that colony than it was to the others. Thanks to the arduous
labors of the antislavery movement, emancipation was provided for in 1780. The Quakers were
then especially anxious to see masters give their "weighty and solid attention" to qualifying
slaves for the liberty intended. By the favorable legislation of the State the poor were by
1780 allowed the chance to secure the rudiments of education.[1] Despite this favorable appearance
of things, however, friends of the despised race had to keep up the agitation for such a construction
of the law as would secure to the Negroes of the State the educational benefits extended to
the indigent. The colored youth of Pennsylvania thereafter had the right to attend the schools
provided for white children, and exercised it when persons interested in the blacks directed
their attention to the importance of mental improvement.[2] But as neither they nor their defenders
were numerous outside of Philadelphia and Columbia, not many pupils of color in other parts
of the State attended school during this period. Whatever special effort was made to arouse
them to embrace their opportunities came chiefly from the Quakers.

[Footnote 1: A.M.E. Church Review, vol. xv., p. 625.]

[Footnote 2: Wickersham, History of Education in Pa., p. 253.]

Not content with the schools which were already opened to Negroes, the friends of the race
continued to agitate and raise funds to extend their philanthropic operations. With the donation
of Anthony Benezet the Quakers were able to enlarge their building and increase the scope of
the work. They added a female department in which Sarah Dwight[1] was teaching the girls spelling,
reading, and sewing in 1784. The work done in Philadelphia was so successful that the place
became the rallying center for the Quakers throughout the country,[2] and was of so much concern
to certain members of this sect in London that in 1787 they contributed five hundred pounds
toward the support of this school.[3] In 1789 the Quakers organized "The Society for the Free
Instruction of the Orderly Blacks and People of Color." Taking into consideration the "many
disadvantages which many well-disposed blacks and people of color labored under from not being
able to read, write, or cast accounts, which would qualify them to act for themselves or provide
for their families," this society in connection with other organizations established evening
schools for the education of adults of African blood.[4] It is evident then that with the exception
of the school of the Abolition Society organized in 1774, and the efforts of a few other persons
generally coöperating like the anti-slavery leaders with the Quakers, practically all of the
useful education of the colored people of this State was accomplished in their schools. Philadelphia
had seven colored schools in 1797.[5]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 251.]

[Footnote 2: Quaker Pamphlet, p. 42.]

[Footnote 3: Wickersham, History of Ed. in Pa., p. 252.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 251.]

[Footnote 5: Turner, The Negro in Pa., p. 128.]

The next decade was of larger undertakings.[1] The report of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society
of 1801 shows that there had been an increasing interest in Negro education. For this purpose
the society had raised funds to the amount of $530.50 per annum for three years.[2] In 1803
certain other friends of the cause left for this purpose two liberal benefactions, one amounting
to one thousand dollars, and the other to one thousand pounds.[3] With these contributions
the Quakers and Abolitionists erected in 1809 a handsome building valued at four thousand dollars.
They named it Clarkson Hall in honor of the great friend of the Negro race.[4] In 1807 the
Quakers met the needs of the increasing population of the city by founding an additional institution
of learning known as the Adelphi School.[5]

[Footnote 1: Parish, Remarks on the Slavery, etc., p. 43.]

[Footnote 2: Proceedings of the American Conv., 1802, p. 18.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., 1803, p. 13.]

[Footnote 4: Statistical Inquiry into the Condition of the Colored People of Philadelphia, p. 19.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., p. 20.]

After the first decade of the nineteenth century the movement for the uplift of the Negroes
around Philadelphia was checked a little by the migration to that city of many freedmen who
had been lately liberated. The majority of them did not "exhibit that industry, economy, and
temperance" which were "expected by many and wished by all."[1] Not deterred, however, by this
seemingly discouraging development, the friends of the race toiled on as before. In 1810 certain
Quaker women who had attempted to establish a school for colored girls in 1795 apparently succeeded.[2]
The institution, however, did not last many years. But the Clarkson Hall schools maintained
by the Abolition Society were then making such progress that the management was satisfied that
they furnished a decided refutation of the charge that the "mental endowments of the descendants
of the African race are inferior to those possessed by their white brethren."[3] They asserted
without fear of contradiction that the pupils of that seminary would sustain a fair comparison
with those of any other institution in which the same elementary branches were taught. In 1815
these schools were offering free instruction to three hundred boys and girls, and to a number
of adults attending evening schools. These victories had been achieved despite the fact that
in regard to some of the objects of the Society for the Abolition of the Slave Trade "a tide
of prejudice, popular and legislative, set strongly against them."[4] After 1818, however,
help was obtained from the State to educate the colored children of Columbia and Philadelphia.

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the American Conv., 1809, p. 16, and 1812, p. 16.]

[Footnote 2: Wickersham, History of Ed. in Pa., p. 252.]

[Footnote 3: Proceedings of the American Convention, etc., 1812, Report from Philadelphia.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., 1815, Report from Phila.]

The assistance obtained from the State, however, was not taken as a pretext for the cessation
of the labors on the part of those who had borne the burden for more than a century. The faithful
friends of the colored race remained as active as ever. In 1822 the Quakers in the Northern
Liberties organized the Female Association which maintained one or more schools.[1] That same
year the Union Society founded in 1810 for the support of schools and domestic manufactures
for the benefit of the "African race and people of color" was conducting three schools for
adults.[2] The Infant School Society of Philadelphia was also doing good work in looking after
the education of small colored children.[3] In the course of time crowded conditions in the
colored schools necessitated the opening of additional evening classes and the erection of
larger buildings.

[Footnote 1: Wickersham, History of Education in Pa., p. 252.]

[Footnote 2: One of these was at the Sessions House of the Third Presbyterian Church; one at
Clarkston Schoolhouse, Cherry Street; one in the Academy on Locust Street. See Statistical
Inquiry into the Condition of the Colored People of Philadelphia, p. 19; and Wickersham, Education
in Pa., p. 253.]

[Footnote 3: Statistical Inquiry, etc., p. 19.]

At this time Maryland was not raising any serious objection to the instruction of slaves, and
public sentiment there did not seem to interfere with the education of free persons of color.
Maryland was long noted for her favorable attitude toward her Negroes. We have already observed
how Banneker, though living in a small place, was permitted to attend school, and how Ellicott
became interested in this man of genius and furnished him with books. Other Negroes of that
State were enjoying the same privilege. The abolition delegates from Maryland reported in 1797
that several children of the Africans and other people of color were under a course of instruction,
and that an academy and qualified teachers for them would be provided.[1] These Negroes were
then getting light from another source. Having more freedom in this State than in some others,
the Quakers were allowed to teach colored people.

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the American Convention, etc., 1797, p. 16.]

Most interest in the cause in Maryland was manifested near the cities of Georgetown and Baltimore.[1]
Long active in the cause of elevating the colored people, the influence of the revolutionary
movement was hardly necessary to arouse the Catholics to discharge their duty of enlightening
the blacks. Wherever they had the opportunity to give slaves religious instruction, they generally
taught the unfortunates everything that would broaden their horizon and help them to understand
life. The abolitionists and Protestant churches were also in the field, but the work of the
early fathers in these cities was more effective. These forces at work in Georgetown made it,
by the time of its incorporation into the District of Columbia, a center sending out teachers
to carry on the instruction of Negroes. So liberal were the white people of this town that
colored children were sent to school there with white boys and girls who seemed to raise no
objection.[2] Later in the nineteenth century the efforts made to educate the Negroes of the
rural districts of Maryland were eclipsed by the better work accomplished by the free blacks
in Baltimore and the District of Columbia.

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., pp. 195 et seq., and pp. 352-353.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 353.]

Having a number of antislavery men among the various sects buoyant with religious freedom,
Virginia easily continued to look with favor upon the uplift of the colored people. The records
of the Quakers of that day show special effort in this direction there about 1764, 1773, and
1785. In 1797 the abolitionists of Alexandria, some of whom were Quakers, had been doing effective
work among the Negroes of that section. They had established a school with one Benjamin Davis
as a teacher. He reported an attendance of one hundred and eight pupils, four of whom "could
write a very legible hand," "read the Scriptures with tolerable facility," and had commenced
arithmetic. Eight others had learned to read, but had made very little progress in writing.
Among his less progressive pupils fifteen could spell words of three or four syllables and
read easy lessons, some had begun to write, while the others were chiefly engaged in learning
the alphabet and spelling monosyllables.[1] It is significant that colored children of Alexandria,
just as in the case of Georgetown, attended schools established for the whites.[2] Their coeducation
extended not only to Sabbath schools but to other institutions of learning, which some Negroes
attended during the week.[3] Mrs. Maria Hall, one of the early teachers of the District of
Columbia, obtained her education in a mixed school of Alexandria.[4] Controlled then by aristocratic
people who did not neglect the people of color, Alexandria also became a sort of center for
the uplift of the blacks in Northern Virginia.

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the Am. Conv., etc., 1797, p. 35.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., 1797, p. 36.]

[Footnote 3: Proceedings of the Am. Conv., p. 17; ibid., 1827, p. 53.]

[Footnote 4: Special Report of U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 198.]

Schools for the education of Negroes were established in Richmond, Petersburg, and Norfolk.
An extensive miscegenation of the races in these cities had given rise to a very intelligent
class of slaves and a considerable number of thrifty free persons of color, in whom the best
people early learned to show much interest.[1] Of the schools organized for them in the central
part of the commonwealth, those about Richmond seemed to be less prosperous. The abolitionists
of Virginia, reporting for that city in 1798, said that considerable progress had been made
in the education of the blacks, and that they contemplated the establishment of a school for
the instruction of Negroes and other persons. They were apprehensive, however, that their funds
would be scarcely sufficient for this purpose.[2] In 1801, one year after Gabriel's Insurrection,
the abolitionists of Richmond reported that the cause had been hindered by the "rapacious disposition
which emboldened many tyrants" among them "to trample upon the rights of colored people even
in the violation of the laws of the State." For this reason the complainants felt that, although
they could not but unite in the opinion with the American Convention of Abolition Societies
as to the importance of educating the slaves for living as freedmen, they were compelled on
account of a "domineering spirit of power and usurpation"[3] to direct attention to the Negroes'
bodily comfort.

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 393.]

[Footnote 2: Proceedings of the Am. Conv., etc., 1798, p. 16.]

[Footnote 3: Proceedings of the Am. Conv., 1801, p. 15.]

This situation, however, was not sufficiently alarming to deter all the promoters of Negro
education in Virginia. It is remarkable how Robert Pleasants, a Quaker of that State who emancipated
his slaves at his death in 1801, had united with other members of his sect to establish a school
for colored people. In 1782 they circulated a pamphlet entitled "Proposals for Establishing
a Free School for the Instruction of Children of Blacks and People of Color."[1] They recommended
to the humane and benevolent of all denominations cheerfully to contribute to an institution
"calculated to promote the spiritual and temporal interests of that unfortunate part of our
fellow creatures in forming their minds in the principles of virtue and religion, and in common
or useful literature, writing, ciphering, and mechanic arts, as the most likely means to render
so numerous a people fit for freedom, and to become useful citizens." Pleasants proposed to
establish a school on a three-hundred-and-fifty-acre tract of his own land at Gravelly Hills
near Four-Mile Creek, Henrico County. The whole revenue of the land was to go toward the support
of the institution, or, in the event the school should be established elsewhere, he would give
it one hundred pounds. Ebenezer Maule, another friend, subscribed fifty pounds for the same
purpose.[2] Exactly what the outcome was, no one knows; but the memorial on the life of Pleasants
shows that he appropriated the rent of the three-hundred-and-fifty-acre tract and ten pounds
per annum to the establishment of a free school for Negroes, and that a few years after his
death such an institution was in operation under a Friend at Gravelly Run.[3]

[Footnote 1: Weeks, Southern Quakers, p. 215.]

[Footnote 2: Weeks, Southern Quakers, p. 216.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 216.]

Such philanthropy, however, did not become general in Virginia. The progress of Negro education
there was decidedly checked by the rapid development of discontent among Negroes ambitious
to emulate the example of Toussaint L'Ouverture. During the first quarter of the nineteenth
century that commonwealth tolerated much less enlightenment of the colored people than the
benevolent element allowed them in the other border States. The custom of teaching colored
pauper children apprenticed by church-wardens was prohibited by statute immediately after Gabriel's
Insurrection in 1800.[1] Negroes eager to learn were thereafter largely restricted to private
tutoring and instruction offered in Sabbath-schools. Furthermore, as Virginia developed few
urban communities there were not sufficient persons of color in any one place to coöperate
in enlightening themselves even as much as public sentiment allowed. After 1838 Virginia Negroes
had practically no chance to educate themselves.

[Footnote 1: Hening, Statutes at Large, vol. xvi., p. 124.]

North Carolina, not unlike the border States in their good treatment of free persons of color,
placed such little restriction on the improvement of the colored people that they early attained
rank among the most enlightened ante-bellum Negroes. This interest, largely on account of the
zeal of the antislavery leaders and Quakers,[1] continued unabated from 1780, the time of their
greatest activity, to the period of the intense abolition agitation and the servile insurrections.
In 1815 the Quakers were still exhorting their members to establish schools for the literary
and religious instruction of Negroes.[2] The following year a school for Negroes was opened
for two days in a week.[3] So successful was the work done by the Quakers during this period
that they could report in 1817 that most colored minors in the Western Quarter had been "put
in a way to get a portion of school learning."[4] In 1819 some of them could spell and a few
could write. The plan of these workers was to extend the instruction until males could "read,
write, and cipher," and until the females could "read and write."[5]

[Footnote 1: Weeks, Southern Quakers, p. 231; Levi Coffin, Reminiscences, pp. 69-71; Bassett,
Slavery in North Carolina, p. 66.]

[Footnote 2: Weeks, Southern Quakers, p. 232.]

[Footnote 3: Thwaites, Early Travels, vol. ii., p. 66.]

[Footnote 4: Weeks, Southern Quakers, p. 232.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., 232.]

In the course of time, however, these philanthropists met with some discouragement. In 1821
certain masters were sending their slaves to a Sunday-school opened by Levi Coffin and his
son Vestal. Before the slaves had learned more than to spell words of two or three syllables
other masters became unduly alarmed, thinking that such instruction would make the slaves discontented.[1]
The timorous element threatened the teachers with the terrors of the law, induced the benevolent
slaveholders to prohibit the attendance of their Negroes, and had the school closed.[2] Moreover,
it became more difficult to obtain aid for this cause. Between 1815 and 1825 the North Carolina
Manumission Societies were redoubling their efforts to raise funds for this purpose. By 1819
they had collected $47.00 but had not increased this amount more than $2.62 two years later.[3]

[Footnote 1: Coffin, Reminiscences, p. 69.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 70.]

[Footnote 3: Weeks, Southern Quakers, p. 241.]

The work done by the various workers in North Carolina did not affect the general improvement
of the slaves, but thanks to the humanitarian movement, they were not entirely neglected. In
1830 the General Association of the Manumission Societies of that commonwealth complained that
the laws made no provision for the moral improvement of the slaves.[1] Though learning was
in a very small degree diffused among the colored people of a few sections, it was almost unknown
to the slaves. They pointed out, too, that the little instruction some of the slaves had received,
and by which a few had been taught to spell, or perhaps to read in "easy places," was not due
to any legal provision, but solely to the charity "which endureth all things" and is willing
to suffer reproach for the sake of being instrumental in "delivering the poor that cry" and
"directing the wanderer in the right way."[2] To ameliorate these conditions the association
recommended among other things the enactment of a law providing for the instruction of slaves
in the elementary principles of language at least so far as to enable them to read the Holy
Scriptures.[3] The reaction culminated, however, before this plan could be properly presented
to the people of that commonwealth.

[Footnote 1: An Address to the People of North Carolina on the Evils of Slavery by the Friends
of Liberty and Equality, passim.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid.]

During these years an exceptionally bright Negro was serving as a teacher not of his own race
but of the most aristocratic white people of North Carolina. This educator was a freeman named
John Chavis. He was born probably near Oxford, Granville County, about 1763. Chavis was a full-blooded
Negro of dark brown color. Early attracting the attention of his white neighbors, he was sent
to Princeton "to see if a Negro would take a collegiate education." His rapid advancement under
Dr. Witherspoon "soon convinced his friends that the experiment would issue favorable."[1]
There he took rank as a good Latin and a fair Greek scholar.

[Footnote 1: Bassett, Slavery in North Carolina, p. 73.]

From Princeton he went to Virginia to preach to his own people. In 1801 he served at the Hanover
Presbytery as a "riding missionary under the direction of the General Assembly."[1] He was
then reported also as a regularly commissioned preacher to his people in Lexington. In 1805
he returned to North Carolina where he often preached to various congregations.[2] His career
as a clergyman was brought to a close in 1831 by the law enacted to prevent Negroes from preaching.[3]
Thereafter he confined himself to teaching, which was by far his most important work. He opened
a classical school for white persons, "teaching in Granville, Wake, and Chatham Counties."[4]
The best people of the community patronized this school. Chavis counted among his students
W.P. Mangum, afterwards United States Senator, P.H. Mangum, his brother, Archibald and John
Henderson, sons of Chief Justice Henderson, Charles Manly, afterwards Governor of that commonwealth,
and Dr. James L. Wortham of Oxford, North Carolina.[5]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 74; and Baird, A Collection, etc., pp. 816-817.]

[Footnote 2: Paul C. Cameron, a son of Judge Duncan of North Carolina, said: "In my boyhood
life at my father's home I often saw John Chavis, a venerable old negro man, recognized as
a freeman and as a preacher or clergyman of the Presbyterian Church. As such he was received
by my father and treated with kindness and consideration, and respected as a man of education,
good sense and most estimable character." Mr. George Wortham, a lawyer of Granville County,
said: "I have heard him read and explain the Scriptures to my father's family repeatedly. His
English was remarkably pure, containing no 'negroisms'; his manner was impressive, his explanations
clear and concise, and his views, as I then thought and still think, entirely orthodox. He
was said to have been an acceptable preacher, his sermons abounding in strong common sense
views and happy illustrations, without any effort at oratory or sensational appeals to the
passions of his hearers." See Bassett, Slavery in N.C., pp. 74-75.]

[Footnote 3: See Chapter VII.]

[Footnote 4: Bassett, Slavery in North Carolina, p. 74.]

[Footnote 5: John S. Bassett, Professor of History at Trinity College, North Carolina, learned
from a source of great respectability that Chavis not only taught the children of these distinguished
families, but "was received as an equal socially and asked to table by the most respectable
people of the neighborhood." See Bassett, Slavery in North Carolina, p. 75.]

We have no evidence of any such favorable conditions in South Carolina. There was not much
public education of the Negroes of that State even during the revolutionary epoch. Regarding
education as a matter of concern to persons immediately interested South Carolinians had long
since learned to depend on private instruction for the training of their youth. Colored schools
were not thought of outside of Charleston. Yet although South Carolina prohibited the education
of the slaves in 1740[1] and seemingly that of other Negroes in 1800,[2] these measures were
not considered a direct attack on the instruction of free persons of color. Furthermore, the
law in regard to the teaching of the blacks was ignored by sympathetic masters. Colored persons
serving in families and attending traveling men shared with white children the advantage of
being taught at home. Unfavorable as conditions in that State were, however, they were not
intolerable. Rev. James Flint, of Salem, Massachusetts, received letters from a friend in Louisiana,
who, in pointing out conditions around him, said: "In the regions where I live masters allow
entire liberty to the slaves to attend public worship, and as far as my knowledge extends,
it is generally the case in Louisiana. We have," said he, "regular meetings of the blacks in
the building where I attend public worship. I have in the past years devoted myself assiduously,
every Sabbath morning, to the labor of learning them to read. I found them quick of apprehension,
and capable of grasping the rudiments of learning more rapidly than the whites."[1]

[Footnote 1: Flint, Recollections of the Last Ten Years, p. 345.]

Later the problem of educating Negroes in this section became more difficult. The trouble was
that contrary to the stipulation in the treaty of purchase that the inhabitants of the territory
of Louisiana should be admitted to all the rights and immunities of citizens of the United
States, the State legislation, subsequent to the transfer of jurisdiction, denied the right
of education to a large class of mixed breeds.[1] Many of these, thanks to the liberality of
the French, had been freed, and constituted an important element of society. Not a few of them
had educated themselves, accumulated wealth, and ranked with white men of refinement and culture.[2]

[Footnote 1: Laws of Louisiana.]

[Footnote 2: Alliot, Collections Historiques, p. 85; and Thwaites, Early Western Travels, vol.
iv., pp. 320 and 321; vol. xii., p. 69; and vol. xix., p. 126.]

Considering the few Negroes found in the West, the interest shown there in their mental uplift
was considerable. Because of the scarcity of slaves in that section they came into helpful
contact with their masters. Besides, the Kentucky and Tennessee abolitionists, being much longer
active than those in most slave States, continued to emphasize the education of the blacks
as a correlative to emancipation. Furthermore, the Western Baptists, Methodists, and Scotch-Irish
Presbyterians early took a stand against slavery, and urged the masters to give their servants
all the proper advantages for acquiring the knowledge of their duty both to man and God. In
the large towns of Tennessee Negroes were permitted to attend private schools, and in Louisville
and Lexington there were several well-regulated colored schools.

Two institutions for the education of slaves in the West are mentioned during these years.
In October, 1825, there appeared an advertisement for eight or ten Negro slaves with their
families to form a community of this kind under the direction of an "Emancipating Labor Society"
of the State of Kentucky. In the same year Frances Wright suggested a school on a similar basis.
She advertised in the "Genius of Universal Emancipation" an establishment to educate freed
blacks and mulattoes in West Tennessee. This was supported by a goodly number of persons, including
George Fowler and, it was said, Lafayette. A letter from a Presbyterian clergyman in South
Carolina says that the first slave for this institution went from York District of that State.
The enterprise, however, was not well supported, and little was heard of it in later years.
Some asserted it was a money-making scheme for the proprietor, and that the Negroes taught
there were in reality slaves; others went to the press to defend it as a benevolent effort.
Both sides so muddled the affair that it is difficult to determine exactly what the intentions
of the founders were.[1]

[Footnote 1: Adams, Anti-slavery, p. 152.]

CHAPTER VI

EDUCATING THE URBAN NEGRO

Such an impetus was given Negro education during the period of better beginnings that some
of the colored city schools then established have existed even until to-day. Negroes learned
from their white friends to educate themselves. In the Middle and Southern States, however,
much of the sentiment in favor of developing the intellect of the Negro passed away during
the early part of the nineteenth century. This reform, like many others of that day, suffered
when Americans forgot the struggle for the rights of man. Recovering from the social upheaval
of the Revolution, caste soon began to claim its own. To discourage the education of the lowest
class was natural to the aristocrats who on coming to power established governments based on
the representation of interests, restriction of suffrage, and the ineligibility of the poor
to office. After this period the work of enlightening the blacks in the southern and border
States was largely confined to a few towns and cities where the concentration of the colored
population continued.

The rise of the American city made possible the contact of the colored people with the world,
affording them a chance to observe what the white man was doing, and to develop the power to
care for themselves. The Negroes who had this opportunity to take over the western civilization
were servants belonging to the families for which they worked; slaves hired out by their owners
to wait upon persons; and watermen, embracing fishermen, boatmen, and sailors. Not a few slaves
in cities were mechanics, clerks, and overseers. In most of these employments the rudiments
of an education were necessary, and what the master did not seem disposed to teach the slaves
so situated, they usually learned by contact with their fellowmen who were better informed.
Such persons were the mulattoes resulting from miscegenation, and therefore protected from
the rigors of the slave code; house servants, rewarded with unusual privileges for fidelity
and for manifesting considerable interest in things contributing to the economic good of their
masters; and slaves who were purchasing their freedom.[1] Before the close of the first quarter
of the nineteenth century not much was said about what these classes learned or taught. It
was then the difference in circumstances, employment, and opportunities for improvement that
made the urban Negro more intelligent than those who had to toil in the fields. Yet, the proportion
did not differ very much from that of the previous period, as the first Negroes were not chiefly
field hands but to a considerable extent house servants, whom masters often taught to read
and write.

[Footnote 1: Jones, Religious Instruction, p. 117.]

Urban Negroes had another important advantage in their opportunity to attend well-regulated
Sunday-schools. These were extensively organized in the towns and cities of this country during
the first decades of the last century. The "Sabbath-school" constituted an important factor
in Negro education. Although cloaked with the purpose of bringing the blacks to God by giving
them religious instruction the institution permitted its workers to teach them reading and
writing when they were not allowed to study such in other institutions.[1] Even the radical
slaveholder was slow to object to a policy which was intended to facilitate the conversion
of men's souls. All friends especially interested in the mental and spiritual uplift of the
race hailed this movement as marking an epoch in the elevation of the colored people.

[Footnote 1: See the reports of almost any abolition society of the first quarter of the nineteenth
century. Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 200; and Plumer, Thoughts on the
Religious Instruction of Negroes.]

In the course of time racial difficulties caused the development of the colored "Sabbath-school"
to be very much like that of the American Negro Church. It began as an establishment in the
white churches, then moved to the colored chapels, where white persons assisted as teachers,
and finally became an organization composed entirely of Negroes. But the separation here, as
in the case of the church, was productive of some good. The "Sabbath-schools," which at first
depended on white teachers to direct their work, were thereafter carried on by Negroes, who
studied and prepared themselves to perform the task given up by their former friends. This
change was easily made in certain towns and cities where Negroes already had churches of their
own. Before 1815 there was a Methodist church in Charleston, South Carolina, with a membership
of eighteen hundred, more than one thousand of whom were persons of color. About this time,
Williamsburg and Augusta had one each, and Savannah three colored Baptist churches. By 1822
the Negroes of Petersburg had in addition to two churches of this denomination, a flourishing
African Missionary Society.[1] In Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston
the free blacks had experienced such a rapid religious development that colored churches in
these cities were no longer considered unusual.

[Footnote 1: Adams, Anti-slavery, etc., pp. 73 and 74.]

The increase in the population of cities brought a larger number of these unfortunates into
helpful contact with the urban element of white people who, having few Negroes, often opposed
the institution of slavery. But thrown among colored people brought in their crude state into
sections of culture, the antislavery men of towns and cities developed from theorists, discussing
a problem of concern to persons far away, into actual workers striving by means of education
to pave the way for universal freedom.[1] Large as the number of abolitionists became and bright
as the future of their cause seemed, the more the antislavery men saw of the freedmen in congested
districts, the more inclined the reformers were to think that instant abolition was an event
which they "could not reasonably expect, and perhaps could not desire." Being in a state of
deplorable ignorance, the slaves did not possess sufficient information "to render their immediate
emancipation a blessing either to themselves or to society."[2]

[Footnote 1: As some masters regarded the ignorance of the slaves as an argument against their
emancipation, the antislavery men's problem became the education of the master as well as that
of the slave. Believing that intellectual and moral improvement is a "safe and permanent basis
on which the arch of freedom could be erected," Jesse Torrey, harking back to Jefferson's proposition,
recommended that it begin by instructing the slaveholders, overseers, their sons and daughters,
hitherto deprived of the blessing of education. Then he thought that such enlightened masters
should see to it that every slave less than thirty years of age should be taught the art of
reading sufficiently for receiving moral and religious instruction from books in the English
language. In presenting this scheme Torrey had the idea of most of the antislavery men of that
day, who advocated the education of slaves because they believed that, whenever the slaves
should become qualified by intelligence and moral cultivation for the rational enjoyment of
liberty and the performance of the various social duties, enlightened legislators would listen
to the voice of reason and justice and the spirit of the social organization, and permit the
release of the slave without banishing him as a traitor from his native land. See Torrey's
Portraiture of Domestic Slavery, p. 21.]

[Footnote 2: Sidney, An Oration Commemorative of the Abolition of the Slave Trade in the United
States, p. 5; and Adams, Anti-slavery, etc., pp. 40, 43, 65, and 66.]

Yet in the same proportion that antislavery men convinced masters of the wisdom of the policy
of gradual emancipation, they increased their own burden of providing extra facilities of education,
for liberated Negroes generally made their way from the South to urban communities of the Northern
and Middle States. The friends of the colored people, however, met this exigency by establishing
additional schools and repeatedly entreating these migrating freedmen to avail themselves of
their opportunities. The address of the American Convention of Abolition Societies in 1819
is typical of these appeals.[1] They requested free persons of color to endeavor as much as
possible to use economy in their expenses, to save something from their earnings for the education
of their children ... and "let all those who by attending to this admonition have acquired
means, send their children to school as soon as they are old enough, where their morals will
be an object of attention as well as their improvement in school learning." Then followed some
advice which would now seem strange. They said, "Encourage, also, those among you who are qualified
as teachers of schools, and when you are able to pay, never send your children to free schools;
for this may be considered as robbing the poor of their opportunities which are intended for
them alone."[2]

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the American Convention, etc., 1819, p. 21.]

[Footnote 2: Proceedings of the American Convention, etc., 1819, p. 22.]

The concentration of the colored population in cities and towns where they had better educational
advantages tended to make colored city schools self-supporting. There developed a class of
self-educating Negroes who were able to provide for their own enlightenment. This condition,
however, did not obtain throughout the South. Being a proslavery farming section of few large
towns and cities, that part of the country did not see much development of the self-sufficient
class. What enlightenment most urban blacks of the South experienced resulted mainly from private
teaching and religious instruction. There were some notable exceptions, however. A colored
"Santo Dominican" named Julian Troumontaine taught openly in Savannah up to 1829 when such
an act was prohibited by law. He taught clandestinely thereafter, however, until 1844.[1] In
New Orleans, where the Creoles and freedmen counted early in the nineteenth century as a substantial
element in society, persons of color had secured to themselves better facilities of education.
The people of this city did not then regard it as a crime for Negroes to acquire an education,
their white instructors felt that they were not condescending in teaching them, and children
of Caucasian blood raised no objection to attending special and parochial schools accessible
to both races. The educational privileges which the colored people there enjoyed, however,
were largely paid for by the progressive freedmen themselves.[2] Some of them educated their
children in France.

[Footnote 1: Wright, Negro Education in Georgia, p. 20.]

[Footnote 2: Many of the mixed breeds of New Orleans were leading business men.]

Charleston, South Carolina, furnished a good example of a center of unusual activity and rapid
strides of self-educating urban Negroes. Driven to the point of doing for themselves, the free
people of color of this city organized in 1810 the "Minor Society" to secure to their orphan
children the benefits of education.[1] Bishop Payne, who studied later under Thomas Bonneau,
attended the school founded by this organization. Other colored schools were doing successful
work. Enjoying these unusual advantages the Negroes of Charleston were early in the nineteenth
century ranked by some as economically and intellectually superior to any other such persons
in the United States. A large portion of the leading mechanics, fashionable tailors, shoe manufacturers,
and mantua-makers were free blacks, who enjoyed "a consideration in the community far more
than that enjoyed by any of the colored population in the Northern cities."[2] As such positions
required considerable skill and intelligence, these laborers had of necessity acquired a large
share of useful knowledge. The favorable circumstances of the Negroes in certain liberal southern
cities like Charleston were the cause of their return from the North to the South, where they
often had a better opportunity for mental as well as economic improvement.[3] The return of
certain Negroes from Philadelphia to Petersburg, Virginia, during the first decade of the nineteenth
century, is a case in evidence.[4]

[Footnote 1: Simmons, Men of Mark, p. 1078.]

[Footnote 2: Niles Register, vol. xlix., p. 40.]

[Footnote 3: Notions of the Americans, p. 26.]

[Footnote 4: Wright, Views of Society and Manners in America, p. 73.]

The successful strivings of the race in the District of Columbia furnish us with striking examples
of Negroes making educational progress. When two white teachers, Henry Potter and Mrs. Haley,
invited black children to study with their white pupils, the colored people gladly availed
themselves of this opportunity.[1] Mrs. Maria Billings, the first to establish a real school
for Negroes in Georgetown, soon discovered that she had their hearty support. She had pupils
from all parts of the District of Columbia, and from as far as Bladensburg, Maryland. The tuition
fee in some of these schools was a little high, but many free blacks of the District of Columbia
were sufficiently well established to meet these demands. The rapid progress made by the Bell
and Browning families during this period was of much encouragement to the ambitious colored
people, who were laboring to educate their children.[2]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, pp. 195 et seq.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 195.]

The city Negroes, however, were learning to do more than merely attend accessible elementary
schools. In 1807 George Bell, Nicholas Franklin, and Moses Liverpool, former slaves, built
the first colored schoolhouse in the District of Columbia. Just emerging from bondage, these
men could not teach themselves, but employed a white man to take charge of the school.[1] It
was not a success. Pupils of color thereafter attended the school of Anne Maria Hall, a teacher
from Prince George County, Maryland, and those of teachers who instructed white children.[2]
The ambitious Negroes of the District of Columbia, however, were not discouraged by the first
failure to provide their own educational facilities. The Bell School which had been closed
and used as a dwelling, opened again in 1818 under the auspices of an association of free people
of color of the city of Washington called the "Resolute Beneficial Society." The school was
declared open then "for the reception of free people of color and others that ladies and gentlemen
may think proper to send to be instructed in reading, writing, arithmetic, English grammar,
or other branches of education apposite to their capacities, by steady, active and experienced
teachers, whose attention is wholly devoted to the purpose described." The founders presumed
that free colored families would embrace the advantages thus presented to them either by subscription
to the funds of the Society or by sending their children to the school. Since the improvement
of the intellect and the morals of the colored youth were the objects of the institution, the
patronage of benevolent ladies and gentlemen was solicited. They declared, too, that "to avoid
disagreeable occurrences no writing was to be done by the teacher for a slave, neither directly
nor indirectly to serve the purpose of a slave on any account whatever."[3] This school was
continued until 1822 under Mr. Pierpont, of Massachusetts, a relative of the poet. He was succeeded
two years later by John Adams, a shoemaker, who was known as the first Negro to teach in the
District of Columbia.[4]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., 196.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., 197.]

[Footnote 3: Daily National Intelligencer, August 29, 1818.]

[Footnote 4: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 198.]

Of equal importance was the colored seminary established by Henry Smothers, a pupil of Mrs.
Billings. Like her, he taught first in Georgetown. He began his advanced work near the Treasury
building, having an attendance of probably one hundred and fifty pupils, generally paying tuition.
The fee, however, was not compulsory. Smothers taught for about two years, and then was succeeded
by John Prout, a colored man of rare talents, who later did much in opposition to the scheme
of transporting Negroes to Africa before they had the benefits of education.[1] The school
was then called the "Columbian Institute." Prout was later assisted by Mrs. Anne Maria Hall.[2]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., 1871, p. 199.]

[Footnote 2: Other schools of importance were springing up from year to year. As early as 1824
Mrs. Mary Wall, a member of the Society of Friends, had opened a school for Negroes and received
so many applications that many had to be refused. From this school came many well-prepared
colored men, among whom were James Wormley and John Thomas Johnson. Another school was established
by Thomas Tabbs, who received "a polished education from the distinguished Maryland family
to which he belonged." Mr. Tabbs came to Washington before the War of 1812 and began teaching
those who came to him when he had a schoolhouse, and when he had none he went from house to
house, stopping even under the trees to teach wherever he found pupils who were interested.
See Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, pp. 212, 213, and 214.]

Of this self-educative work of Negroes some of the best was accomplished by colored women.
With the assistance of Father Vanlomen, the benevolent priest then in charge of the Holy Trinity
Church, Maria Becraft, the most capable colored woman in the District of Columbia at that time,
established there the first seminary for the education of colored girls. She had begun to teach
in a less desirable section, but impressed with the unusual beauty and strong character of
this girl, Father Vanlomen had her school transferred to a larger building on Fayette Street
where she taught until 1831. She then turned over her seminary to girls she had trained, and
became a teacher in a convent at Baltimore as a Sister of Providence.[1] Other good results
were obtained by Louisa Parke Costin, a member of one of the oldest colored families in the
District of Columbia. Desiring to diffuse the knowledge she acquired from white teachers in
the early mixed schools of the District, she decided to teach. She opened her school just about
the time that Henry Smothers was making his reputation as an educator. She died in 1831, after
years of successful work had crowned her efforts. Her task was then taken up by her sister,
Martha, who had been trained in the Convent Seminary of Baltimore.[2]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 204.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 203.]

Equally helpful was the work of Arabella Jones. Educated at the St. Frances Academy at Baltimore,
she was well grounded in the English branches and fluent in French. She taught on the "Island,"
calling her school "The St. Agnes Academy."[1] Another worker of this class was Mary Wormley,
once a student in the Colored Female Seminary of Philadelphia under Sarah Douglass. This lady
began teaching about 1830, getting some assistance from Mr. Calvert, an Englishman.[2] The
institution passed later into the hands of Thomas Lee, during the incumbency of whom the school
was closed by the "Snow Riot." This was an attempt on the part of the white people to get rid
of the progressive Negroes of the District of Columbia. Their excuse for such drastic action
was that Benjamin Snow, a colored man running a restaurant in the city, had made unbecoming
remarks about the wives of the white mechanics.[3] John F. Cook, one of the most influential
educators produced in the District of Columbia, was driven out of the city by this mob. He
then taught at Lancaster, Pa.

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 211.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 211.]

[Footnote 3: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., p. 201.]

While the colored schools of the District of Columbia suffered as a result of this disturbance,
the Negroes then in charge of them were too ambitious, too well-educated to discontinue their
work. The situation, however, was in no sense encouraging. With the exception of the churches
of the Catholics and Quakers who vied with each other in maintaining a benevolent attitude
toward the education of the colored people,[1] the churches of the District of Columbia, in
the Sabbath schools of which Negroes once sat in the same seats with white persons, were on
account of this riot closed to the darker race.[2] This expulsion however, was not an unmixed
evil, for the colored people themselves thereafter established and directed a larger number
of institutions of learning.[3]

[Footnote 1: The Catholics admitted the colored people to their churches on equal footing with
others when they were driven to the galleries of the Protestant churches. Furthermore, they
continued to admit them to their parochial schools. The Sisters of Georgetown trained colored
girls, and the parochial school of the Aloysius Church at one time had as many as two hundred
and fifty pupils of color. Many of the first colored teachers of the District of Columbia obtained
their education in these schools. See Special Report of U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 218 et. seq.]

[Footnote 2: Sp. Report, etc. 187, pp. 217, 218, 219, 220, 221.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., pp. 220-222.]

The colored schools of the District of Columbia soon resumed their growth recovering most of
the ground they had lost and exhibiting evidences of more systematic work. These schools ceased
to be elementary classes, offering merely courses in reading and writing, but developed into
institutions of higher grade supplied with competent teachers. Among other useful schools then
flourishing in this vicinity were those of Alfred H. Parry, Nancy Grant, Benjamin McCoy, John
Thomas Johnson, James Enoch Ambush, and Dr. John H. Fleet.[1] John F. Cook returned from Pennsylvania
and reopened his seminary.[2] About this time there flourished a school established by Fannie
Hampton. After her death the work was carried on by Margaret Thompson until 1846. She then
married Charles Middleton and became his assistant teacher. He was a free Negro who had been
educated in Savannah, Georgia, while attending school with white and colored children. He founded
a successful school about the time that Fleet and Johnson[3] retired. Middleton's school, however,
owes its importance to the fact that it was connected with the movement for free colored public
schools started by Jesse E. Dow, an official of the city, and supported by Rev. Doctor Wayman,
then pastor of the Bethel Church.[4] Other colaborers with these teachers were Alexander Cornish,
Richard Stokes, and Margaret Hill.[5]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, pp. 212, 213, and 283.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 200.]

[Footnote 3: Compelled to leave Washington in 1838 because of the persecution of free persons
of color, Johnson stopped in Pittsburg where he entered a competitive teacher examination with
two white aspirants and won the coveted position. He taught in Pittsburg several years, worked
on the Mississippi a while, returned later to Washington, and in 1843 constructed a building
in which he opened another school. It was attended by from 150 to 200 students, most of whom
belonged to the most prominent colored families of the District of Columbia. See Special Report
of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 214.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 215.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., pp. 214-215.]

Then came another effort on a large scale. This was the school of Alexander Hays, an emancipated
slave of the Fowler family of Maryland. Hays succeeded his wife as a teacher. He soon had the
support of such prominent men as Rev. Doctor Sampson, William Winston Seaton and R.S. Coxe.
Joseph T. and Thomas H. Mason and Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher were Hays's contemporaries. The last
two were teachers from England. On account of the feeling then developing against white persons
instructing Negroes, these philanthropists saw their schoolhouses burned, themselves expelled
from the white churches, and finally driven from the city in 1858.[1] Other white men and women
were teaching colored children during these years. The most prominent of these were Thomas
Tabbs, an erratic philanthropist, Mr. Nutall, an Englishman; Mr. Talbot, a successful tutor
stationed near the present site of the Franklin School; and Mrs. George Ford, a Virginian,
conducting a school on New Jersey Avenue between K and L Streets.[2] The efforts of Miss Myrtilla
Miner, their contemporary, will be mentioned elsewhere.[3]

[Footnote 1: Besides the classes taught by these workers there was the Eliza Ann Cook private
school; Miss Washington's school; a select primary school; a free Catholic school maintained
by the St. Vincent de Paul Society, an association of colored Catholics in connection with
St. Matthew's Church. This institution was organized by the benevolent Father Walter at the
Smothers School. Then there were teachers like Elizabeth Smith, Isabella Briscoe, Charlotte
Beams, James Shorter, Charlotte Gordon, and David Brown. Furthermore, various churches, parochial,
and Sunday-schools were then sharing the burden of educating the Negro population of the District
of Columbia. See Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, pp. 214, 215, 216, 217, 218 et seq.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 214.]

[Footnote 3: O'Connor, Myrtilla Miner, p. 80.]

The Negroes of Baltimore were almost as self-educating as those of the District of Columbia.
The coming of the refugees and French Fathers from Santo Domingo to Baltimore to escape the
revolution[1] marked an epoch in the intellectual progress of the colored people of that city.
Thereafter their intellectual class had access to an increasing black population, anxious to
be enlightened. Given this better working basis, they secured from the ranks of the Catholics
additional catechists and teachers to give a larger number of illiterates the fundamentals
of education. Their untiring co-worker in furnishing these facilities, was the Most Reverend
Ambrose Maréchal, Archbishop of Baltimore from 1817 to 1828.[2] These schools were such an
improvement over those formerly opened to Negroes that colored youths of other towns and cities
thereafter came to Baltimore for higher training.[3]

[Footnote 1: Drewery, Slave Insurrections in Virginia, p. 121.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 205.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 205.]

The coming of these refugees to Baltimore had a direct bearing on the education of colored
girls. Their condition excited the sympathy of the immigrating colored women. These ladies
had been educated both in the Island of Santo Domingo and in Paris. At once interested in the
uplift of this sex, they soon constituted the nucleus of the society that finally formed the
St. Frances Academy for girls in connection with the Oblate Sisters of Providence Convent in
Baltimore, June 5, 1829.[1] This step was sanctioned by the Reverend James Whitefield, the
successor of Archbishop Maréchal, and was later approved by the Holy See. The institution was
located on Richmond Street in a building which on account of the rapid growth of the school
soon gave way to larger quarters. The aim of the institution was to train girls, all of whom
"would become mothers or household servants, in such solid virtues and religious and moral
principles as modesty, honesty, and integrity."[2] To reach this end they endeavored to supply
the school with cultivated and capable teachers. Students were offered courses in all the branches
of "refined and useful education, including all that is regularly taught in well regulated
female seminaries."[3] This school was so well maintained that it survived all reactionary
attacks and became a center of enlightenment for colored women.

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 205.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 206.]

[Footnote 3: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., p. 206.]

At the same time there were other persons and organizations in the field. Prominent among the
first of these workers was Daniel Coker, known to fame as a colored Methodist missionary, who
was sent to Liberia. Prior to 1812 he had in Baltimore an academy which certain students from
Washington attended when they had no good schools of their own, and when white persons began
to object to the co-education of the races. Because of these conditions two daughters of George
Bell, the builder of the first colored schoolhouse in the District of Columbia, went to Baltimore
to study under Coker.[1] An adult Negro school in this city had 180 pupils in 1820. There were
then in the Baltimore Sunday-schools about 600 Negroes. They had formed themselves into a Bible
association which had been received into the connection of the Baltimore Bible Society.[2]
In 1825 the Negroes there had a day and a night school, giving courses in Latin and French.
Four years later there appeared an "African Free School" with an attendance of from 150 to
175 every Sunday.[3]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 196.]

[Footnote 2: Adams, Anti-slavery, etc., p. 14.]

[Footnote 3: Adams, Anti-Slavery, etc., pp. 14 and 15.]

By 1830 the Negroes of Baltimore had several special schools of their own.[1] In 1835 there
was behind the African Methodist Church in Sharp Street a school of seventy pupils in charge
of William Watkins.[2] W. Livingston, an ordained clergyman of the Episcopal Church, had then
a colored school of eighty pupils in the African Church at the corner of Saratoga and Ninth
Streets.[3] A third school of this kind was kept by John Fortie at the Methodist Bethel Church
in Fish Street. Five or six other schools of some consequence were maintained by free women
of color, who owed their education to the Convent of the Oblate Sisters of Providence.[4] Observing
these conditions, an interested person thought that much more would have been accomplished
in that community, if the friends of the colored people had been able to find workers acceptable
to the masters and at the same time competent to teach the slaves.[5] Yet another observer
felt that the Negroes of Baltimore had more opportunities than they embraced.[6]

[Footnote 1: Buckingham, America, Historical, etc., vol. i., p. 438.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 438; Andrews, Slavery and the Domestic Slave Trade, pp. 54, 55, and
56; and Varle, A Complete View of Baltimore, p. 33.]

[Footnote 3: Varle, A Complete View of Baltimore, p. 33; and Andrews, Slavery and the Domestic
Slave Trade, pp. 85 and 92.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 33.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., p. 54.]

[Footnote 6: Ibid., p. 37.]

These conditions, however, were so favorable in 1835 that when Professor E.A. Andrews came
to Baltimore to introduce the work of the American Union for the Relief and Improvement of
the Colored People,[1] he was informed that the education of the Negroes of that city was fairly
well provided for. Evidently the need was that the "systematic and sustained exertions" of
the workers should spring from a more nearly perfect organization "to give efficiency to their
philanthropic labors."[2] He was informed that as his society was of New England, it would
on account of its origin in the wrong quarter, be productive of mischief.[3] The leading people
of Baltimore thought that it would be better to accomplish this task through the Colonization
Society, a southern organization carrying out the very policy which the American Union proposed
to pursue.[4]

[Footnote 1: On January 14, 1835, a convention of more than one hundred gentlemen from ten
different States assembled in Boston and organized the "American Union for the Relief and Improvement
of the Colored Race." Among these workers were William Reed, Daniel Noyes, J.W. Chickering,
J.W. Putnam, Baron Stow, B.B. Edwards, E.A. Andrews, Charles Scudder, Joseph Tracy, Samuel
Worcester, and Charles Tappan. The gentlemen were neither antagonistic to the antislavery nor
to the colonization societies. They aimed to do that which had been neglected in giving the
Negroes proper preparation for freedom. Knowing that the actual emancipation of an oppressed
race cannot be effected by legislation, they hoped to provide religious and literary instruction
for all colored children that they might "ameliorate their economic condition" and prepare
themselves for higher usefulness. See the Exposition of the Object and Plans of the American
Union, pp. 11-14.]

[Footnote 2: Andrews, Slavery and the Domestic Slave Trade, p. 57.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 188.]

[Footnote 4: Andrews, Slavery, etc., p. 56.]

The instruction of ambitious blacks in this city was not confined to mere rudimentary training.
The opportunity for advanced study was offered colored girls in the Convent of the Oblate Sisters
of Providence. These Negroes, however, early learned to help themselves. In 1835 considerable
assistance came from Nelson Wells, one of their own color. He left to properly appointed trustees
the sum of $10,000, the income of which was to be appropriated to the education of free colored
children.[1] With this benefaction the trustees concerned established in 1835 what they called
the Wells School. It offered Negroes free instruction long after the Civil War.

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 353.]

In seeking to show how these good results were obtained by the Negroes' coöperative power and
ability to supply their own needs, we are not unmindful of the assistance which they received.
To say that the colored people of Baltimore, themselves, provided all these facilities of education
would do injustice to the benevolent element of that city. Among its white people were found
so much toleration of opinion on slavery and so much sympathy with the efforts for its removal,
that they not only permitted the establishment of Negro churches, but opened successful colored
schools in which white men and women assisted personally in teaching. Great praise is due philanthropists
of the type of John Breckenridge and Daniel Raymond, who contributed their time and means to
the cause and enlisted the efforts of others. Still greater credit should be given to William
Crane, who for forty years was known as an "ardent, liberal, and wise friend of the black man."
At the cost of $20,000 he erected in the central part of the city an edifice exclusively for
the benefit of the colored people. In this building was an auditorium, several large schoolrooms,
and a hall for entertainments and lectures. The institution employed a pastor and two teachers[1]
and it was often mentioned as a high school.

[Footnote 1: A contributor to the Christian Chronicle found in this institution a pastor, a
principal of the school, and an assistant, all of superior qualifications. The classes which
this reporter heard recite grammar and geography convinced him of the thoroughness of the work
and the unusual readiness of the colored people to learn. See The African Repository, vol.
xxxii., p. 91.]

In northern cities like Philadelphia and New York, where benevolent organizations provided
an adequate number of colored schools, the free blacks did not develop so much of the power
to educate themselves. The Negroes of these cities, however, cannot be considered exceptions
to the rule. Many of those of Philadelphia were of the most ambitious kind, men who had purchased
their freedom or had developed sufficient intelligence to delude their would-be captors and
conquer the institution of slavery. Settled in this community, the thrifty class accumulated
wealth which they often used, not only to defray the expenses of educating their own children,
but to provide educational facilities for the poor children of color.

Gradually developing the power to help themselves, the free people of color organized a society
which in 1804 opened a school with John Trumbull as teacher.[1] About the same time the African
Episcopalians founded a colored school at their church.[2] A colored man gave three hundred
pounds of the required funds to build the first colored schoolhouse in Philadelphia.[3] In
1830 one fourth of the twelve hundred colored children in the schools of that city paid for
their instruction, whereas only two hundred and fifty were attending the public schools in
1825.[4] The fact that some of the Negroes were able and willing to share the responsibility
of enlightening their people caused a larger number of philanthropists to come to the rescue
of those who had to depend on charity. Furthermore, of the many achievements claimed for the
colored schools of Philadelphia none were considered more significant than that they produced
teachers qualified to carry on this work. Eleven of the sixteen colored schools in Philadelphia
in 1822 were taught by teachers of African descent. In 1830 the system was practically in the
hands of Negroes.[5]

[Footnote 1: Turner, The Negro in Pennsylvania, p. 129.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 130.]

[Footnote 3: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 377.]

[Footnote 4: Proceedings of the American Convention, etc., 1825, p. 13.]

[Footnote 5: Proceedings of the Am. Convention, etc., 1830, p.8; and Wickersham, History of
Education in Pennsylvania, p. 253.]

The statistics of later years show how successful these early efforts had been. By 1849 the
colored schools of Philadelphia had developed to the extent that they seemed like a system.
According to the Statistical Inquiry into the Condition of Colored People in and about Philadelphia,
published that year, there were 1643 children of color attending well-regulated schools. The
larger institutions were mainly supported by State and charitable organizations of which the
Society of Friends and the Pennsylvania Abolition Society were the most important. Besides
supporting these institutions, however, the intelligent colored men of Philadelphia had maintained
smaller schools and organized a system of lyceums and debating clubs, one of which had a library
of 1400 volumes. Moreover, there were then teaching in the colored families and industrial
schools of Philadelphia many men and women of both races.[1] Although these instructors restricted
their work to the teaching of the rudiments of education, they did much to help the more advanced
schools to enlighten the Negroes who came to that city in large numbers when conditions became
intolerable for the free people of color in the slave States. The statistics of the following
decade show unusual progress. In the year 1859 there were in the colored public schools of
Philadelphia, 1031 pupils; in the charity schools, 748; in the benevolent schools, 211; in
private schools, 331; in all, 2321, whereas in 1849 there were only 1643.[2]

[Footnote 1: About the middle of the nineteenth century colored schools of various kinds arose
in Philadelphia. With a view to giving Negroes industrial training their friends opened "The
School for the Destitute" at the House of Industry in 1848. Three years later Sarah Luciana
was teaching a school of seventy youths at this House of Industry, and the Sheppard School,
another industrial institution, was in operation in 1850 in a building bearing the same name.
In 1849 arose the "Corn Street Unclassified School" of forty-seven children in charge of Sarah
L. Peltz. "The Holmesburg Unclassified School" was organized in 1854. Other institutions of
various purposes were "The House of Refuge," "The Orphans' Shelter," and "The Home for Colored
Children." See Bacon, Statistics of the Colored People of Philadelphia, 1859.

Among those then teaching in private schools of Philadelphia were Solomon Clarkson, Robert
George, John Marshall, John Ross, Jonathan Tudas, and David Ware. Ann Bishop, Virginia Blake,
Amelia Bogle, Anne E. Carey, Sarah Ann Douglass, Rebecca Hailstock, Emma Hall, Emmeline Higgins,
Margaret Johnson, Martha Richards, Dinah Smith, Mary Still, and one Peterson were teaching
in families. See Statistical Inquiry, etc., 1849, p. 19; and Bacon, Statistics of the Colored
People of Philadelphia, 1859.]

[Footnote 2: Statistical Inquiry into the Condition of the Colored People of Philadelphia,
in 1859.]

Situated like those of Philadelphia, the free blacks of New York City did not have to maintain
their own schools. This was especially true after 1832 when the colored people had qualified
themselves to take over the schools of the New York Manumission Society. They then got rid
of all the white teachers, even Andrews, the principal, who had for years directed this system.
Besides, the economic progress of certain Negroes there made possible the employment of the
increasing number of colored teachers, who had availed themselves of the opportunities afforded
by the benevolent schools. The stigma then attached to one receiving seeming charity through
free schools stimulated thrifty Negroes to have their children instructed either in private
institutions kept by friendly white teachers or by teachers of their own color.[1] In 1812
a society of the free people of color was organized to raise a fund, the interest of which
was to sustain a free school for orphan children.[2] This society succeeded later in establishing
and maintaining two schools. At this time there were in New York City three other colored schools,
the teachers of which received their compensation from those who patronized them.[3]

[Footnote 1: See the Address of the American Convention, 1819.]

[Footnote 2: Proceedings of the Am. Convention, etc., 1812, p. 7.

Certain colored women were then organized to procure and make for destitute persons of color.
See Andrews, History of the New York African Free Schools, p. 58.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 58.]

Whether from lack of interest in their welfare on the part of the public, or from the desire
of the Negroes to share their own burdens, the colored people of Rhode Island were endeavoring
to provide for the education of their children during the first decades of the last century.
The Newport Mercury of March 26, 1808, announced that the African Benevolent Society had opened
there a school kept by Newport Gardner, who was to instruct all colored people "inclined to
attend." The records of the place show that this school was in operation eight years later.[1]

[Footnote 1: Stockwell, History of Ed. in R.I., p. 30.]

In Boston, where were found more Negroes than in most New England communities, the colored
people themselves maintained a separate school after the revolutionary era. In the towns of
Salem, Nantucket, New Bedford, and Lowell the colored schools failed to make much progress
after the first quarter of the nineteenth century on account of the more liberal construction
of the laws which provided for democratic education. This the free blacks were forced to advocate
for the reason that the seeming onerous task of supporting a dual system often caused the neglect,
and sometimes the extinction of the separate schools. Furthermore, either the Negroes of some
of these towns were too scarce or the movement to furnish them special facilities of education
started too late to escape the attacks of the abolitionists. Seeing their mistake of first
establishing separate schools, they began to attack caste in public education.

In the eastern cities where colored school systems thereafter continued, the work was not always
successful. The influx of fugitives in the rough sometimes jeopardized their chances for education
by menacing liberal communities with the trouble of caring for an undesirable class. The friends
of the Negroes, however, received more encouragement during the two decades immediately preceding
the Civil War. There was a change in the attitude of northern cities toward the uplift of the
colored refugees. Catholics, Protestants, and abolitionists often united their means to make
provision for the education of accessible Negroes, although these friends of the oppressed
could not always agree on other important schemes. Even the colonizationists, the object of
attack from the ardent antislavery element, considerably aided the cause. They educated for
work in Liberia a number of youths, who, given the opportunity to attend good schools, demonstrated
the capacity of the colored people. More important factors than the colonizationists were the
free people of color. Brought into the rapidly growing urban communities, these Negroes began
to accumulate sufficient wealth to provide permanent schools of their own. Many of these were
later assimilated by the systems of northern cities when their separate schools were disestablished.

CHAPTER VII

THE REACTION

Encouraging as had been the movement to enlighten the Negroes, there had always been at work
certain reactionary forces which impeded the intellectual progress of the colored people. The
effort to enlighten them that they might be emancipated to enjoy the political rights given
white men, failed to meet with success in those sections where slaves were found in large numbers.
Feeling that the body politic, as conceived by Locke and Montesquieu, did not include the slaves,
many citizens opposed their education on the ground that their mental improvement was inconsistent
with their position as persons held to service. For this reason there was never put forward
any systematic effort to elevate the slaves. Every master believed that he had a divine right
to deal with the situation as he chose. Moreover, even before the policy of mental and moral
improvement of the slaves could be given a trial, some colonists, anticipating the "evils of
the scheme," sought to obviate them by legislation. Such we have observed was the case in Virginia,[1]
South Carolina,[2] and Georgia.[3] To control the assemblies of slaves, North Carolina,[4]
Delaware,[5] and Maryland[6] early passed strict regulations for their inspection. These forces
were the industrial revolution and the development of an insurrectionary spirit among slaves,
accelerated by the rapid spreading of the abolition agitation. The industrial revolution was
effected by the multiplication of mechanical appliances for spinning and weaving which so influenced
the institution of slavery as seemingly to doom the Negroes to heathenism. These inventions
were the spinning jenny, the steam engine, the power loom, the wool-combing machine, and the
cotton gin. They augmented the output of spinning mills, and in cheapening cloth, increased
the demand by bringing it within the reach of the poor. The result was that a revolution was
brought about not only in Europe, but also in the United States to which the world looked for
this larger supply of cotton fiber.[1] This demand led to the extension of the plantation system
on a larger scale. It was unfortunate, however, that many of the planters thus enriched, believed
that the slightest amount of education, merely teaching slaves to read, impaired their value
because it instantly destroyed their contentedness. Since they did not contemplate changing
their condition, it was surely doing them an ill service to destroy their acquiescence in it.
This revolution then had brought it to pass that slaves who were, during the eighteenth century
advertised as valuable on account of having been enlightened, were in the nineteenth century
considered more dangerous than useful.

[Footnote 1: Turner, The Rise of the New West, pp. 45, 46, 47, 48, and 49; and Hammond, Cotton
Industry, chaps. i. and ii.]

With the rise of this system, and the attendant increased importation of slaves, came the end
of the helpful contact of servants with their masters. Slavery was thereby changed from a patriarchal
to an economic institution. Thereafter most owners of extensive estates abandoned the idea
that the mental improvement of slaves made them better servants. Doomed then to be half-fed,
poorly clad, and driven to death in this cotton kingdom, what need had the slaves for education?
Some planters hit upon the seemingly more profitable scheme of working newly imported slaves
to death during seven years and buying another supply rather than attempt to humanize them.[1]
Deprived thus of helpful advice and instruction, the slaves became the object of pity not only
to abolitionists of the North but also to some southerners. Not a few of these reformers, therefore,
favored the extermination of the institution. Others advocated the expansion of slavery not
to extend the influence of the South, but to disperse the slaves with a view to bringing about
a closer contact between them and their masters.[2] This policy was duly emphasized during
the debate on the admission of the State of Missouri.

[Footnote 1: Rhodes, History of the United States, vol. i., p. 32; Kemble, Journal, p. 28;
Martineau, Society in America, vol. i., p. 308; Weld, Slavery, etc., p. 41.]

[Footnote 2: Annals of Congress, First Session, vol. i., pp. 996 et seq. and 1296 et seq.]

Seeking to direct the attention of the world to the slavery of men's bodies and minds the abolitionists
spread broadcast through the South newspapers, tracts, and pamphlets which, whether or not
they had much effect in inducing masters to improve the condition of their slaves, certainly
moved Negroes themselves. It hardly required enlightenment to convince slaves that they would
be better off as freemen than as dependents whose very wills were subject to those of their
masters. Accordingly even in the seventeenth century there developed in the minds of bondmen
the spirit of resistance. The white settlers of the colonies held out successfully in putting
down the early riots of Negroes. When the increasing intelligent Negroes of the South, however,
observed in the abolition literature how the condition of the American slaves differed from
that of the ancient servants and even from what it once had been in the United States; when
they fully realized their intolerable condition compared with that of white men, who were clamoring
for liberty and equality, there rankled in the bosom of slaves that insurrectionary passion
productive of the daring uprisings which made the chances for the enlightenment of colored
people poorer than they had ever been in the history of this country.

The more alarming insurrections of the first quarter of the nineteenth century were the immediate
cause of the most reactionary measures. It was easily observed that these movements were due
to the mental improvement of the colored people during the struggle for the rights of man.
Not only had Negroes heard from the lips of their masters warm words of praise for the leaders
of the French Revolution but had developed sufficient intelligence themselves to read the story
of the heroes of the world, who were then emboldened to refresh the tree of liberty "with the
blood of patriots and tyrants."[1] The insurrectionary passion among the colored people was
kindled, too, around Baltimore, Norfolk, Charleston, and New Orleans by certain Negroes who
to escape the horrors of the political upheaval in Santo Domingo,[2] immigrated into this country
in 1793. The education of the colored race had paved the way for the dissemination of their
ideas of liberty and equality. Enlightened bondmen persistently made trouble for the white
people in these vicinities. Negroes who could not read, learned from others the story of Toussaint
L'Ouverture, whose example colored men were then ambitious to emulate.

[Footnote 1: Washington, Works of Jefferson, vol. iv., p. 467.]

[Footnote 2: Drewery, Insurrections in Virginia, p. 121.]

The insurrection of Gabriel in Virginia and that of South Carolina in the year 1800 are cases
in evidence. Unwilling to concede that slaves could have so well planned such a daring attack,
the press of the time insisted that two Frenchmen were the promoters of the affair in Virginia.[1]
James Monroe said there was no evidence that any white man was connected with it.[2] It was
believed that the general tendency of the Negroes toward an uprising had resulted from French
ideas which had come to the slaves through intelligent colored men.[3] Observing that many
Negroes were sufficiently enlightened to see things as other men, the editor of the Aurora
asserted that in negotiating with the "Black Republic" the United States and Great Britain
had set the seal of approval upon servile insurrection.[4] Others referred to inflammatory
handbills which Negroes extensively read.[5] Discussing the Gabriel plot in 1800, Judge St.
George Tucker said: "Our sole security then consists in their ignorance of this power (doing
us mischief) and their means of using it--a security which we have lately found is not to be
relied on, and which, small as it is, every day diminishes. Every year adds to the number of
those who can read and write; and the increase in knowledge is the principal agent in evolving
the spirit we have to fear."[6]

[Footnote 1: The New York Daily Advertiser, Sept. 22, 1800; and The Richmond Enquirer, Oct.
21, 1831.]

[Footnote 2: Writings of James Monroe, vol. iii., p. 217.]

[Footnote 3: Educated Negroes then constituted an alarming element in Massachusetts, Virginia,
and South Carolina. See The New York Daily Advertiser, Sept. 22, 1800.]

[Footnote 4: See The New York Daily Advertiser, Sept. 22, 1800.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., Oct. 7, 1800.]

[Footnote 6: Letter of St. George Tucker in Joshua Coffin's Slave Insurrections.]

Camden was disturbed by an insurrection in 1816 and Charleston in 1822 by a formidable plot
which the officials believed was due to the "sinister" influences of enlightened Negroes.[1]
The moving spirit of this organization was Denmark Vesey. He had learned to read and write,
had accumulated an estate worth $8000, and had purchased his freedom in 1800[2] Jack Purcell,
an accomplice of Vesey, weakened in the crisis and confessed. This official felt that Monday,
the slave of Mr. Gill, was the most daring conspirator. Being able to read and write he "attained
an extraordinary and dangerous influence over his fellows." "Permitted by his owner to occupy
a house in the central part of this city, he was afforded hourly opportunities for the exercise
of his skill on those who were attracted to his shop by business or favor." "Materials were
abundantly furnished in the seditious pamphlets brought into the State by equally culpable
incendiaries, while the speeches of the oppositionists in Congress to the admission of Missouri
gave a serious and imposing effect to his machinations."[1] It was thus brought home to the
South that the enlightened Negro was having his heart fired with the spirit of liberty by his
perusal of the accounts of servile insurrections and the congressional debate on slavery.

[Footnote 1: The Norfolk and Portsmouth Herald, Aug. 30, 1822.]

Southerners of all types thereafter attacked the policy of educating Negroes.[1] Men who had
expressed themselves neither one way nor the other changed their attitude when it became evident
that abolition literature in the hands of slaves would not only make them dissatisfied, but
cause them to take drastic measures to secure liberty. Those who had emphasized the education
of the Negroes to increase their economic efficiency were largely converted. The clergy who
had insisted that the bondmen were entitled to, at least, sufficient training to enable them
to understand the principles of the Christian religion, were thereafter willing to forego the
benefits of their salvation rather than see them destroy the institution of slavery.

[Footnote 1: Hodgson, Whitney's Remarks during a Journey through North America, p. 184.]

In consequence of this tendency, State after State enacted more stringent laws to control the
situation. Missouri passed in 1817 an act so to regulate the traveling and assembly of slaves
as to make them ineffective in making headway against the white people by insurrection. Of
course, in so doing the reactionaries deprived them of the opportunities of helpful associations
and of attending schools.[1] By 1819 much dissatisfaction had arisen from the seeming danger
of the various colored schools in Virginia. The General Assembly, therefore, passed a law providing
that there should be no more assemblages of slaves, or free Negroes, or mulattoes, mixing or
associating with such slaves for teaching them reading and writing.[2] The opposition here
seemed to be for the reasons that Negroes were being generally enlightened in the towns of
the State and that white persons as teachers in these institutions were largely instrumental
in accomplishing this result. Mississippi even as a Territory had tried to meet the problem
of unlawful assemblies. In the year 1823 it was declared unlawful for Negroes above the number
of five to meet for educational purposes.[3] Only with the permission of their masters could
slaves attend religious worship conducted by a recognized white minister or attended by "two
discreet and reputable persons."[4]

[Footnote 1: Laws of Missouri Territory, etc., p. 498.]

[Footnote 2: Tate, Digest of the Laws of Virginia, pp. 849-850.]

[Footnote 3: Poindexter, Revised Code of the Laws of Mississippi, p. 390.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 390.]

The problem in Louisiana was first to keep out intelligent persons who might so inform the
slaves as to cause them to rise. Accordingly in 1814[1] the State passed a law prohibiting
the immigration of free persons of color into that commonwealth. This precaution, however,
was not deemed sufficient after the insurrectionary Negroes of New Berne, Tarborough, and Hillsborough,
North Carolina,[2] had risen, and David Walker of Massachusetts had published to the slaves
his fiery appeal to arms.[3] In 1830, therefore, Louisiana enacted another measure, providing
that whoever should write, print, publish, or distribute anything having the tendency to produce
discontent among the slaves, should on conviction thereof be imprisoned at hard labor for life
or suffer death at the discretion of the court. It was provided, too, that whoever used any
language or became instrumental in bringing into the State any paper, book, or pamphlet inducing
this discontent should suffer practically the same penalty. All persons who should teach, or
permit or cause to be taught, any slave to read or write, should be imprisoned not less than
one month nor more than twelve.[4]

[Footnote 1: Bullard and Curry, A New Digest of the Statute Laws of the State of Louisiana,
p. 161.]

[Footnote 2: Coffin, Slave Insurrections, p. 22.]

[Footnote 3: Walker mentioned "our wretchedness in consequence of slavery, our wretchedness
in consequence of ignorance, our wretchedness in consequence of the preachers of the religion
of Jesus Christ, and our wretchedness in consequence of the colonization plan." See Walker's
Appeal.]

[Footnote 4: Acts passed at the Ninth Session of the Legislature of Louisiana, p. 96.]

Yielding to the demand of slaveholders, Georgia passed a year later a law providing that any
Negro who should teach another to read or write should be punished by fine and whipping. If
a white person should so offend, he should be punished with a fine not exceeding $500 and with
imprisonment in the common jail at the discretion of the committing magistrate.[1]

[Footnote 1] Dawson, A Compilation of the Laws of the State of Georgia, etc., p. 413.

In Virginia where the prohibition did not then extend to freedmen, there was enacted in 1831
a law providing that any meeting of free Negroes or mulattoes for teaching them reading or
writing should be considered an unlawful assembly. To break up assemblies for this purpose
any judge or justice of the peace could issue a warrant to apprehend such persons and inflict
corporal punishment not exceeding twenty lashes. White persons convicted of teaching Negroes
to read or write were to be fined fifty dollars and might be imprisoned two months. For imparting
such information to a slave the offender was subject to a fine of not less than ten nor more
than one hundred dollars.[1]

[Footnote 1]Laws of Virginia, 1830-1831, p. 108, Sections 5 and 6.

The whole country was again disturbed by the insurrection in Southampton County, Virginia,
in 1831. The slave States then had a striking example of what the intelligent Negroes of the
South might eventually do. The leader of this uprising was Nat Turner. Precocious as a youth
he had learned to read so easily that he did not remember when he first had that attainment.[1]
Given unusual social and intellectual advantages, he developed into a man of considerable "mental
ability and wide information." His education was chiefly acquired in the Sunday-schools in
which "the text-books for the small children were the ordinary speller and reader, and that
for the older Negroes the Bible."[2] He had received instruction also from his parents and
his indulgent young master, J.C. Turner.

[Footnote 1] Drewery, Insurrections in Virginia, p. 27.

[Footnote 2: Drewery, Insurrections in Virginia, p. 28.]

When Nat Turner appeared, the education of the Negro had made the way somewhat easier for him
than it was for his predecessors. Negroes who could read and write had before them the revolutionary
ideas of the French, the daring deeds of Toussaint L'Ouverture, the bold attempt of General
Gabriel, and the far-reaching plans of Denmark Vesey. These were sometimes written up in the
abolition literature, the circulation of which was so extensive among the slaves that it became
a national question.[1]

[Footnote 1: These organs were The Albany Evening Journal, The New York Free Press, The Genius
of Universal Emancipation, and The Boston Liberator. See The Richmond Enquirer, Oct. 21, 1831.]

Trying to account for this insurrection the Governor of the State lays it to the charge of
the Negro preachers who were in position to foment much disorder on account of having acquired
"great ascendancy over the minds" of discontented slaves. He believed that these ministers
were in direct contact with the agents of abolition, who were using colored leaders as a means
to destroy the institutions of the South. The Governor was cognizant of the fact that not only
was the sentiment of the incendiary pamphlets read but often the words.[1] To prevent the "enemies"
in other States from communicating with the slaves of that section he requested that the laws
regulating the assembly of Negroes be more rigidly enforced and that colored preachers be silenced.
The General Assembly complied with this request.[2]

[Footnote 1: The Richmond Enquirer, Oct. 21, 1831.]

[Footnote 2: The Laws of Virginia, 1831-1832, p. 20.]

The aim of the subsequent reactionary legislation of the South was to complete the work of
preventing the dissemination of information among Negroes and their reading of abolition literature.
This they endeavored to do by prohibiting the communication of the slaves with one another,
with the better informed free persons of color, and with the liberal white people; and by closing
all the schools theretofore opened to Negroes. The States passed laws providing for a more
stringent regulation of passes, defining unlawful assemblies, and fixing penalties for the
same. Other statutes prohibited religious worship, or brought it under direct supervision of
the owners of the slaves concerned, and proscribed the private teaching of slaves in any manner
whatever.

Mississippi, which already had a law to prevent the mental improvement of the slaves, enacted
in 1831 another measure to remove from them the more enlightened members of their race. All
free colored persons were to leave the State in ninety days. The same law provided, too, that
no Negro should preach in that State unless to the slaves of his plantation and with the permission
of the owner.[1] Delaware saw fit to take a bold step in this direction. The act of 1831 provided
that no congregation or meeting of free Negroes or mulattoes of more than twelve persons should
be held later than twelve o'clock at night, except under the direction of three respectable
white persons who were to attend the meeting. It further provided that no free Negro should
attempt to call a meeting for religious worship, to exhort or preach, unless he was authorized
to do so by a judge or justice of the peace, upon the recommendation of five "respectable and
judicious citizens." [2] This measure tended only to prevent the dissemination of information
among Negroes by making it impossible for them to assemble. It was not until 1863 that the
State of Delaware finally passed a positive measure to prevent the assemblages of colored persons
for instruction and all other meetings except for religious worship and the burial of the dead.[3]
Following the example of Delaware in 1832, Florida passed a law prohibiting all meetings of
Negroes except those for divine worship at a church or place attended by white persons.[4]
Florida made the same regulations more stringent in 1846 when she enjoyed the freedom of a
State.[5]

[Footnote 1] Hutchinson, Code of Mississippi, p. 533.

[Footnote 2] Laws of Delaware, 1832, pp. 181-182.

[Footnote 3] Ibid., 1863, p. 330 et seq.

[Footnote 4: Acts of the Legislative Council of the Territory of Florida, 1832, p. 145.]

[Footnote 5: Acts of Florida, 1846, ch. 87, sec. 9.]

Alabama had some difficulty in getting a satisfactory law. In 1832 this commonwealth enacted
a law imposing a fine of from $250 to $500 on persons who should attempt to educate any Negro
whatsoever. The act also prohibited the usual unlawful assemblies and the preaching or exhorting
of Negroes except in the presence of five "respectable slaveholders" or unless the officiating
minister was licensed by some regular church of which the persons thus exhorted were members.[1]
It soon developed that the State had gone too far. It had infringed upon the rights and privileges
of certain creoles, who, being residents of the Louisiana Territory when it was purchased in
1803, had been guaranteed the rights of citizens of the United States. Accordingly in 1833
the Mayor and the Aldermen of Mobile were authorized by law to grant licenses to such persons
as they might deem suitable to instruct for limited periods, in that city and the counties
of Mobile and Baldwin, the free colored children, who were descendants of colored creoles residing
in the district in 1803.[2]

[Footnote 1: Clay, Digest of the Laws of the State of Alabama, p. 543.]

[Footnote 2: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 323.]

Another difficulty of certain commonwealths had to be overcome. Apparently Georgia had already
incorporated into its laws provisions adequate to the prevention of the mental improvement
of Negroes. But it was discovered that employed as they had been in various positions either
requiring knowledge, or affording its acquirement, Negroes would pick up the rudiments of education,
despite the fact that they had no access to schools. The State then passed a law imposing a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars for the employment of any slave or free person of
color "in setting up type or other labor about a printing office requiring a knowledge of reading
and writing."[1] In 1834 South Carolina saw the same danger. In addition to enacting a more
stringent law for the prevention of the teaching of Negroes by white or colored friends, and
for the destruction of their schools, it provided that persons of African blood should not
be employed as clerks or salesmen in or about any shop or store or house used for trading.[2]

[Footnote 1: Cobb, Digest of the Laws of Georgia, p. 555; and Prince, Digest of the Laws of
Georgia, p. 658.]

[Footnote 2: Laws of South Carolina, 1834.]

North Carolina was among the last States to take such drastic measures for the protection of
the white race. In this commonwealth the whites and blacks had lived on liberal terms. Negroes
had up to this time enjoyed the right of suffrage there. Some attended schools open to both
races. A few even taught white children.[1]

[Footnote 1: Bassett, Slavery in North Carolina, p. 74; and testimonies of various ex-slaves.]

The intense feeling against Negroes engendered by the frequency of insurrections, however,
sufficed to swing the State into the reactionary column by 1835. An act passed by the Legislature
that year prohibited the public instruction of Negroes, making it impossible for youth of African
descent to get any more education than what they could in their own family circle.[1] The public
school system established thereafter specifically provided that its benefits should not extend
to any descendant from Negro ancestors to the fourth generation inclusive.[2] Bearing so grievously
this loss of their social status after they had toiled up from poverty, many ambitious free
persons of color, left the State for more congenial communities.

[Footnote 1: Revised Statutes of North Carolina, 578.]

[Footnote 2: Laws of North Carolina, 1835, C.6, S.2.]

The States of the West did not have to deal so severely with their slaves as was deemed necessary
in Southern States. Missouri found it advisable in 1833 to amend the law of 1817[1] so as to
regulate more rigorously the traveling and the assembling of slaves. It was not until 1847,
however, that this commonwealth specifically provided that no one should keep or teach any
school for the education of Negroes.[2] Tennessee had as early as 1803 a law governing the
movement of slaves but exhibited a little more reactionary spirit in 1836 in providing that
there should be no circulation of seditious books or pamphlets which might lead to insurrection
or rebellion among Negroes.[3] Tennessee, however, did not positively forbid the education
of colored people. Kentucky had a system of regulating the egress and regress of slaves but
never passed any law prohibiting their instruction. Yet statistics show that although the education
of Negroes was not penalized, it was in many places made impossible by public sentiment. So
was it in the State of Maryland, which did not expressly forbid the instruction of anyone.

[Footnote 1: Laws of the Territory of Missouri, p. 498.]

[Footnote 2: Laws of the State of Missouri, 1847, pp. 103 and 104.]

[Footnote 3: Public Acts passed at the First Session of the General Assembly of the State of
Tennessee, p. 145, chap. 44.]

These reactionary results were not obtained without some opposition. The governing element
of some States divided on the question. The opinions of this class were well expressed in the
discussion between Chancellor Harper and J.B. O'Neal of the South Carolina bar. The former
said that of the many Negroes whom he had known to be capable of reading, he had never seen
one read anything but the Bible. He thought that they imposed this task upon themselves as
a matter of duty. Because of the Negroes' "defective comprehension and the laborious nature
of this employment to them"[1] he considered such reading an inefficient method of religious
instruction. He, therefore, supported the oppressive measures of the South. The other member
of the bar maintained that men could not reflect as Christians and justify the position that
slaves should not be permitted to read the Bible. "It is in vain," added he, "to say there
is danger in it. The best slaves of the State are those who can and do read the Scriptures.
Again, who is it that teaches your slaves to read? It is generally done by the children of
the owners. Who would tolerate an indictment against his son or daughter for teaching a slave
to read? Such laws look to me as rather cowardly."[2] This attorney was almost of the opinion
of many others who believed that the argument that to Christianize and educate the colored
people of a slave commonwealth had a tendency to elevate them above their masters and to destroy
the "legitimate distinctions" of the community, could be admitted only where the people themselves
were degraded. Education was thereafter regarded as positively inconsistent with the institution.
The precaution taken to prevent the dissemination of information was declared indispensable
to the system. The situation in many parts of the South was just as Berry portrayed it in the
Virginia House of Delegates in 1832. He said: "We have as far as possible closed every avenue
by which light may enter their [the slaves'] minds. If we could extinguish the capacity to
see the light, our work would be completed; they would then be on a level with the beasts of
the field and we should be safe! I am not certain that we would not do it, if we could find
out the process, and that on the plea of necessity."[1]

[Footnote 1: Coffin, Slave Insurrections, p. 23; and Goodell, Slave Code, p. 323.]

It had then come to pass that in the South, where once were found a considerable number of
intelligent Negroes, they had become exceedingly scarce or disappeared from certain sections
altogether. On plantations of hundreds of slaves it was common to discover that not one of
them had the mere rudiments of education. In some large districts it was considered almost
a phenomenon to find a Negro who could read the Bible or sign his name.[1]

[Footnote 1:Ibid., pp. 323-324.]

The reactionary tendency was in no sense confined to the Southern States. Laws were passed
in the North to prevent the migration of Negroes to that section. Their education at certain
places was discouraged. In fact, in the proportion that the conditions in the South made it
necessary for free blacks to flee from oppression, the people of the North grew less tolerant
on account of the large number of those who crowded the towns and cities of the free States
near the border. The antislavery societies at one time found it necessary to devote their time
to the amelioration of the economic condition of the refugees to make them acceptable to the
white people rather than to direct their attention to mere education.[1] Not a few northerners,
dreading an influx of free Negroes, drove them even from communities to which they had learned
to, repair for education.

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the American Convention.]

The best example of this intolerance was the opposition encountered by Prudence Crandall, a
well-educated young Quaker lady, who had established a boarding-school at Canterbury, Connecticut.
Trouble arose when Sarah Harris, a colored girl, asked admission to this institution.[1] For
many reasons Miss Crandall hesitated to admit her but finally yielded. Only a few days thereafter
the parents of the white girls called on Miss Crandall to offer their objections to sending
their children to school with a "nigger."[2] Miss Crandall stood firm, the white girls withdrew,
and the teacher advertised for young women of color. The determination to continue the school
on this basis incited the townsmen to hold an indignation meeting. They passed resolutions
to protest through a committee of local officials against the establishment of a school of
this kind in that community. At this meeting Andrew T. Judson denounced the policy of Miss
Crandall, while the Rev. Samuel J. May ably defended it. Judson was not only opposed to the
establishment of such a school in Canterbury but in any part of the State. He believed that
colored people, who could never rise from their menial condition in the United States, should
not to be encouraged to expect to elevate themselves in Connecticut. He considered them inferior
servants who should not be treated as equals of the Caucasians, but should be sent back to
Africa to improve themselves and Christianize the natives.[3] On the contrary, Mr. May thought
that there would never be fewer colored people in this country than were found here then and
that it would be unjust to exile them. He asserted that white people should grant Negroes their
rights or lose their own and that since education is the primal, fundamental right of all men,
Connecticut was the last place where this should be denied.[4]

[Footnote 1: Jay, An Inquiry, etc., p. 30.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., pp. 32 et seq.]

[Footnote 3: Jay, An Inquiry, etc., p. 33; and Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., pp.
328 et seq.]

[Footnote 4: Jay, An Inquiry, etc., p. 33.]

Miss Crandall and her pupils were threatened with violence. Accommodation at the local stores
was denied her. The pupils were insulted. The house was besmeared and damaged. An effort was
made to invoke the law by which the selectmen might warn any person not an inhabitant of the
State to depart under penalty of paying $1.67 for every week he remained after receiving such
notice.[1] This failed, but Judson and his followers were still determined that the "nigger
school" should never be allowed in Canterbury nor any town of the State. They appealed to the
legislature. Setting forth in its preamble that the evil to be obviated was the increase of
the black population of the commonwealth, that body passed a law providing that no person should
establish a school for the instruction of colored people who were not inhabitants of the State
of Connecticut, nor should any one harbor or board students brought to the State for this purpose
without first obtaining, in writing, the consent of a majority of the civil authority and of
the selectmen of the town.[2]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 331; and May, Letters to A.T.
Judson, Esq., and Others, p. 5.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 5.]

The enactment of this law caused Canterbury to go wild with joy. Miss Crandall was arrested
on the 27th of June, and committed to await her trial at the next session of the Supreme Court.
She and her friends refused to give bond that the officials might go the limit in imprisoning
her. Miss Crandall was placed in a murderer's cell. Mr. May, who had stood by her, said when
he saw the door locked and the key taken out, "The deed is done, completely done. It cannot
be recalled. It has passed into the history of our nation and age." Miss Crandall was tried
the 23d of August, 1833, at Brooklyn, the county seat of the county of Windham. The jury failed
to agree upon a verdict, doubtless because Joseph Eaton, who presided, had given it as his
opinion that the law was probably unconstitutional. At the second trial before Judge Dagget
of the Supreme Court, who was an advocate of the law, Miss Crandall was convicted. Her counsel,
however, filed a bill of exceptions and took an appeal to the Court of Errors. The case came
up on the 22d of July, 1834. The nature of the law was ably discussed by W.W. Ellsworth and
Calvin Goddard, who maintained that it was unconstitutional, and by A.T. Judson and C.F. Cleveland,
who undertook to prove its constitutionality. The court reserved its decision, which was never
given. Finding that there were defects in the information prepared by the attorney for the
State, the indictment was quashed. Because of subsequent attempts to destroy the building,
Mr. May and Miss Crandall decided to abandon the school.[1]

[Footnote 1: Jay, An Inquiry, etc., p. 26.]

It resulted then that even in those States to which free blacks had long looked for sympathy,
the fear excited by fugitives from the more reactionary commonwealths had caused northerners
so to yield to the prejudices of the South that they opposed insuperable obstacles to the education
of Negroes for service in the United States. The colored people, as we shall see elsewhere,
were not allowed to locate their manual labor college at New Haven[1] and the principal of
the Noyes Academy at Canaan, New Hampshire, saw his institution destroyed because he decided
to admit colored students.[2] These fastidious persons, however, raised no objection to the
establishment of schools to prepare Negroes to expatriate themselves under the direction of
the American Colonization Society.[3]

[Footnote 1: Proceedings of the Third Annual Convention for the Improvement of the Free People
of Color, p. 14.]

[Footnote 2: Fourth Annual Report of the American Antislavery Society, p. 34.]

[Footnote 3: Alexander, A History of Colonization on the Western Continent, p. 348.]

Observing these conditions the friends of the colored people could not be silent. The abolitionists
led by Caruthers, May, and Garrison hurled their weapons at the reactionaries, branding them
as inconsistent schemers. After having advanced the argument of the mental inferiority of the
colored race they had adopted the policy of educating Negroes on the condition that they be
removed from the country.[1] Considering education one of the rights of man, the abolitionists
persistently rebuked the North and South for their inhuman policy. On every opportune occasion
they appealed to the world in behalf of the oppressed race, which the hostile laws had removed
from humanizing influences, reduced to the plane of beasts, and made to die in heathenism.

[Footnote 1: Jay,An Inquiry, etc., p. 26; Johns Hopkins University Studies, Series xvi., p.
319; and Proceedings of the New York State Colonization Society, 1831, p. 6.]

In reply to the abolitionists the protagonists of the reactionaries said that but for the "intrusive
and intriguing interference of pragmatical fanatics"[1] such precautionary enactments would
never have been necessary. There was some truth in this statement; for in certain districts
these measures operated not to prevent the aristocratic people of the South from enlightening
the Negroes, but to keep away from them what they considered undesirable instructors. The southerners
regarded the abolitionists as foes in the field, industriously scattering the seeds of insurrection
which could then be prevented only by blocking every avenue through which they could operate
upon the minds of the slaves. A writer of this period expressed it thus: "It became necessary
to check or turn aside the stream which instead of flowing healthfully upon the Negro is polluted
and poisoned by the abolitionists and rendered the source of discontent and excitement."[2]
He believed that education thus perverted would become equally dangerous to the master and
the slave, and that while fanaticism continued its war upon the South the measures of necessary
precaution and defense had to be continued. He asserted, however, that education would not
only unfit the Negro for his station in life and prepare him for insurrection, but would prove
wholly impracticable in the performance of the duties of a laborer.[3] The South has not yet
learned that an educated man is a better laborer than an ignorant one.

[Footnote 1: Hodgkin, An Inquiry into the Merits of the Am. Col. Soc., p. 31; and The South
Vindicated from the Treason and Fanaticism of the Abolitionists, p. 68.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 69.]

[Footnote 3: The South Vindicated from the Treason and Fanaticism of the Abolitionists, p. 69.]

CHAPTER VIII

RELIGION WITHOUT LETTERS

Stung by the effective charge of the abolitionists that the reactionary legislation of the
South consigned the Negroes to heathenism, slaveholders considering themselves Christians,
felt that some semblance of the religious instruction of these degraded people should be devised.
It was difficult, however, to figure out exactly how the teaching of religion to slaves could
be made successful and at the same time square with the prohibitory measures of the South.
For this reason many masters made no effort to find a way out of the predicament. Others with
a higher sense of duty brought forward a scheme of oral instruction in Christian truth or of
religion without letters. The word instruction thereafter signified among the southerners a
procedure quite different from what the term meant in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries,
when Negroes were taught to read and write that they might learn the truth for themselves.

Being aristocratic in its bearing, the Episcopal Church in the South early receded from the
position of cultivating the minds of the colored people. As the richest slaveholders were Episcopalians,
the clergy of that denomination could hardly carry out a policy which might prove prejudicial
to the interests of their parishioners. Moreover, in their propaganda there was then nothing
which required the training of Negroes to instruct themselves. As the qualifications of Episcopal
ministers were rather high even for the education of the whites of that time, the blacks could
not hope to be active churchmen. This Church, therefore, soon limited its work among the Negroes
of the South to the mere verbal instruction of those who belonged to the local parishes. Furthermore,
because this Church was not exceedingly militant, and certainly not missionary, it failed to
grow rapidly. In most parts it suffered from the rise of the more popular Methodists and Baptists
into the folds of which slaves followed their masters during the eighteenth century.

The adjustment of the Methodist and Baptist churches in the South to the new work among the
darker people, however, was after the first quarter of the nineteenth century practically easy.
Each of these denominations had once strenuously opposed slavery, the Methodists holding out
longer than the Baptists. But the particularizing force of the institution soon became such
that southern churches of these connections withdrew most of their objections to the system
and, of course, did not find it difficult to abandon the idea of teaching Negroes to read.[1]
Moreover, only so far as it was necessary to prepare men to preach and exhort was there an
urgent need for literary education among these plain and unassuming missionaries. They came,
not emphasizing the observance of forms which required so much development of the intellect,
but laying stress upon the quickening of man's conscience and the regeneration of his soul.
In the States, however, where the prohibitory laws were not so rigidly enforced, the instruction
received in various ways from workers of these denominations often turned out to be more than
religion without letters.[2]

[Footnote 1: Matlack, History of Methodism, etc., p. 132; Benedict, History of the Baptists,
p. 212.]

[Footnote 2: Adams, South-side View, p. 59.]

The Presbyterians found it more difficult to yield on this point. For decades they had been
interested in the Negro race and had in 1818 reached the acme of antislavery sentiment.[1]
Synod after synod denounced the attitude of cruel masters toward their slaves and took steps
to do legally all they could to provide religious instruction for the colored people.[2] When
public sentiment and reactionary legislation made the instruction of the Negroes of the South
impracticable the Presbyterians of New York and New Jersey were active in devising schemes
for the education of the colored people at points in the North.[3] Then came the crisis of
the prolonged abolition agitation which kept the Presbyterian Church in an excited state from
1818 to 1830 and resulted in the recession of that denomination from the position it had formerly
taken against slavery.[4] Yielding to the reactionaries in 1835, this noble sect which had
established schools for Negroes, trained ambitious colored men for usefulness, and endeavored
to fit them for the best civil and religious emoluments, thereafter became divided. The southern
connection lost much of its interest in the dark race, and fell back on the policy of the verbal
instruction and memory training of the blacks that they might never become thoroughly enlightened
as to their condition.

[Footnote 1: Baird, Collections, etc., pp. 814-817.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 815.]

[Footnote 3: Enormity of the Slave Trade, etc. p. 67.]

[Footnote 4: Baird, Collections, etc., pp. 816, 817.]

Despite the fact that southern Methodists and Presbyterians generally ceased to have much anti-slavery
ardor, there continued still in the western slave States and in the mountains of Virginia and
North Carolina, a goodly number of these churchmen, who suffered no diminution of interest
in the enlightenment of Negroes. In the States of Kentucky and Tennessee friends of the race
were often left free to instruct them as they wished. They had for centuries labored to promote
religion and education among their colored brethren. So earnest were these sects in working
for the uplift of the Negro race that the reactionary movement failed to swerve them from their
course. When the other churches adopted the policy of mere verbal training, the Quakers and
Catholics adhered to their idea that the Negroes should be educated to grasp the meaning of
the Christian religion just as they had been during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.[1]
This favorable situation did not mean so much, however, since with the exception of the Catholics
in Maryland and Louisiana and the Quakers in Pennsylvania, not many members of these sects
lived in communities of a large colored population. In most Southern States in which Negro
preachers could not be deterred from their mission by public sentiment, they were prohibited
by law from exhorting their fellows. The ground for such action was usually said to be incompetency
and liability to abuse their office and influence to the injury of the laws and peace of the
country. The elimination of the Christian teachers of the Negro race, and the prevention of
the immigration of workers from the Northern States rendered the blacks helpless and dependent
upon a few benevolent white ministers of the slave communities. During this period of unusual
proselyting among the whites, these preachers could not minister to the needs of their own
race.[1] Besides, even when there was found a white clergyman who was willing to labor among
these lowly people, he often knew little about the inner workings of their minds, and failing
to enlighten their understanding, left them the victims of sinful habits, incident to the institution
of slavery.

[Footnote 1: Jones, Religious Instruction, p. 175.]

To a civilized man the result was alarming. The Church as an institution had ceased to be the
means by which the Negroes of the South could be enlightened. The Sabbath-schools in which
so many colored people there had learned to read and write had by 1834 restricted their work
to oral instruction.[1] In places where the blacks once had the privilege of getting an elementary
education, only an inconceivable fraction of them could rise above illiteracy. Most of these
were freedmen found in towns and cities. With the exception of a few slaves who were allowed
the benefits of religious instruction, these despised beings were generally neglected and left
to die like heathen. In 1840 there were in the South only fifteen colored Sabbath-schools,
with an attendance of about 1459.

[Footnote 1: Goodell, Slave Code, p. 324.]

There had never been any regular daily instruction in Christian truths, but after this period
only a few masters allowed field hands to attend family prayers. Some sections went beyond
this point, prohibiting by public sentiment any and all kinds of religious instruction.[1]
In South Carolina a formal remonstrance signed by over 300 planters and citizens was presented
to a Methodist preacher chosen by a conference of that State as a "cautious and discreet person"[2]
especially qualified to preach to slaves, and pledged to confine himself to verbal instruction.
In Falmouth, Virginia, several white ladies began to meet on Sunday afternoons to teach Negro
children the principles of the Christian religion. They were unable to continue their work
a month before the local officials stopped them, although these women openly avowed that they
did not intend to teach reading and writing.[3] Thus the development of the religious education
of the Negroes in certain parts of the South had been from literary instruction as a means
of imparting Christian truth to the policy of oral indoctrination, and from this purely memory
teaching to no education at all.

[Footnote 1: The cause of this drastic policy was not so much race hatred as the fear that
any kind of instruction might cause the Negroes to assert themselves.]

[Footnote 2: Olmsted, Back Country, pp. 105, 108.]

[Footnote 3: Conway, Testimonies Concerning Slavery, p. 5.]

Thereafter the chief privilege allowed the slaves was to congregate for evening prayers conducted
by themselves under the surveillance of a number of "discreet persons." The leader chosen to
conduct the services, would in some cases read a passage from the Scriptures and "line a hymn,"
which the slaves took up in their turn and sang in a tune of their own suitable to the meter.
In case they had present no one who could read, or the law forbade such an exercise, some exhorter
among the slaves would be given an opportunity to address the people, basing his remarks as
far as his intelligence allowed him on some memorized portion of the Bible. The rest of the
evening would be devoted to individual prayers and the singing of favorite hymns, developed
largely from the experience of slaves, who while bearing their burdens in the heat of the day
had learned to sing away their troubles.

For this untenable position the slave States were so severely criticized by southern and northern
friends of the colored people that the ministers of that section had to construct a more progressive
policy. Yet whatever might be the arguments of the critics of the South to prove that the enlightenment
of Negroes was not a danger, it was clear after the Southampton insurrection in 1831 that two
factors in Negro education would for some time continue generally eliminated. These were reading
matter and colored preachers.

Prominent among the southerners who endeavored to readjust their policy of enlightening the
black population, were Bishop William Meade,[1] Bishop William Capers,[2] and Rev. C.C. Jones.[3]
Bishop Meade was a native of Virginia, long noted for its large element of benevolent slaveholders
who never lost interest in their Negroes. He was fortunate in finishing his education at Princeton,
so productive then of leaders who fought the institution of slavery.[4] Immediately after his
ordination in the Protestant Episcopal Church, Bishop Meade assumed the role of a reformer.
He took up the cause of the colored people, devoting no little of his time to them when he
was in Alexandria and Frederick in 1813 and 1814.[5] He began by preaching to the Negroes on
fifteen plantations, meeting them twice a day, and in one year reported the baptism of forty-eight
colored children.[6] Early a champion of the colonization of the Negroes, he was sent on a
successful mission to Georgia in 1818 to secure the release of certain recaptured Africans
who were about to be sold. Going and returning from the South he was active in establishing
auxiliaries of the American Colonization Society. He helped to extend its sphere also into
the Middle States and New-England.[7]

[Footnote 1: Goodloe, Southern Platform, pp. 64-65.]

[Footnote 2: Wightman, Life of Bishop William Capers, p. 294.]

[Footnote 3: Jones, Religious Instruction, Introductory Chapter.]

[Footnote 4: Goodloe, Southern Platform, p. 64.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., p. 65.]

[Footnote 6: Ibid., p. 66.]

[Footnote 7: Niles Register, vol. xvi., pp. 165-166.]

Bishop Meade was a representative of certain of his fellow-churchmen who were passing through
the transitory stage from the position of advocating the thorough education of Negroes to that
of recommending mere verbal instruction. Agreeing at first with Rev. Thomas Bacon, Bishop Meade
favored the literary training of Negroes, and advocated the extermination of slavery.[1] Later
in life he failed to urge his followers to emancipate their slaves, and did not entreat his
congregation to teach them to read. He was then committed to the policy of only lessening their
burden as much as possible without doing anything to destroy the institution. Thereafter he
advocated the education and emancipation of the slaves only in connection with the scheme of
colonization, to which he looked for a solution of these problems.[2]

[Footnote 1: Meade,Sermons of Rev. Thos. Bacon, p. 2; and Goodell, The Southern Platform, pp.
64, 65.]

[Footnote 2:Ibid., p. 65.]

Wishing to give his views on the religious instruction of Negroes, the Bishop found in Rev.
Thomas Bacon's sermons that "every argument which was likely to convince and persuade was so
forcibly exerted, and that every objection that could possibly be made, so fully answered,
and in fine everything that ought to be said so well said, and the same things so happily confirmed
..." that it was deemed "best to refer the reader for the true nature and object of the book
to the book itself."[1] Bishop Meade had uppermost in his mind Bacon's logical arraignment
of those who neglected to teach their Negroes the Christian religion. Looking beyond the narrow
circle of his own sect, the bishop invited the attention of all denominations to this subject
in which they were "equally concerned." He especially besought "the ministers of the gospel
to take it into serious consideration as a matter for which they also will have to give an
account. A southerner to the manner born, he did not share the zeal of the antislavery men
who would educate Negroes as a preparation for manumission.[1] Regarding the subject of abolition
as one belonging to the State and entirely inappropriate to the Church, he denounced the principles
of the religious abolitionists as originating in false philosophy. Capers endeavored to prove
that the relation of slave and master is authorized by the Holy Scriptures. He was of the opinion,
however, that certain abuses which might ensue, were immoralities to be prevented or punished
by all proper means, both by the Church discipline and the civil law.[2] Believing that the
neglect of the spiritual needs of the slaves was a reflection on the slaveholders, he set out
early in the thirties to stir up South Carolina to the duty of removing this stigma.

[Footnote 1: Wightman, Life of William Capers, p. 295.]

[Footnote 2: Wightman, Life of William Capers, p. 296.]

His plan of enlightening the blacks did not include literary instruction. His aim was to adapt
the teaching of Christian truth to the condition of persons having a "humble intellect and
a limited range of knowledge by means of constant and patient reiteration."[1] The old Negroes
were to look to preachers for the exposition of these principles while the children were to
be turned over to catechists who would avail themselves of the opportunity of imparting these
fundamentals to the young at the time their minds were in the plastic state. Yet all instructors
and preachers to Negroes had to be careful to inculcate the performance of the duty of obedience
to their masters as southerners found them stated in the Holy Scriptures. Any one who would
hesitate to teach these principles of southern religion should not be employed to instruct
slaves. The bishop was certain that such a one could not then be found among the preachers
of the Methodist Episcopal Church of South Carolina.[2]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 298.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 296.]

Bishop Capers was the leading spirit in the movement instituted in that commonwealth about
1829 to establish missions to the slaves. So generally did he arouse the people to the performance
of this duty that they not only allowed preachers access to their Negroes but requested that
missionaries be sent to their plantations. Such petitions came from C.C. Pinckney, Charles
Boring, and Lewis Morris.[1] Two stations were established in 1829 and two additional ones
in 1833. Thereafter the Church founded one or two others every year until 1847 when there were
seventeen missions conducted by twenty-five preachers. At the death of Bishop Capers in 1855
the Methodists of South Carolina had twenty-six such establishments, which employed thirty-two
preachers, ministering to 11,546 communicants of color. The missionary revenue raised by the
local conference had increased from $300 to $25,000 a year.[2]

[Footnote 1: Wightman, Life of William Capers, p. 296.]

[Footnote 2; African Repository, vol. xxiv., p. 157.]

The most striking example of this class of workers was the Rev. C.C. Jones, a minister of the
Presbyterian Church. Educated at Princeton with men actually interested in the cause of the
Negroes, and located in Georgia where he could study the situation as it was, Jones became
not a theorist but a worker. He did not share the discussion of the question as to how to get
rid of slavery. Accepting the institution as a fact, he endeavored to alleviate the sufferings
of the unfortunates by the spiritual cultivation of their minds. He aimed, too, not to take
into his scheme the solution of the whole problem but to appeal to a special class of slaves,
those of the plantations who were left in the depths of ignorance as to the benefits of right
living. In this respect he was like two of his contemporaries, Rev. Josiah Law[1] of Georgia
and Bishop Polk of Louisiana.[2] Denouncing the policy of getting all one could out of the
slaves and of giving back as little as possible, Jones undertook to show how their spiritual
improvement would exterminate their ignorance, vulgarity, idleness, improvidence, and irreligion;
Jones thought that if the circumstances of the Negroes were changed, they would equal, if not
excel, the rest of the human family "in majesty of intellect, elegance of manners, purity of
morals, and ardor of piety."[3] He feared that white men might cherish a contempt for Negroes
that would cause them to sink lower in the scale of intelligence, morality, and religion. Emphasizing
the fact that as one class of society rises so will the other, Jones advocated the mingling
of the classes together in churches, to create kindlier feelings among them, increase the tendency
of the blacks to subordination, and promote in a higher degree their mental and religious improvement.
He was sure that these benefits could never result from independent church organization.[4]

[Footnote 1: Rev. Josiah Law was almost as successful as Jones in carrying the gospel to the
neglected Negroes. His life is a large chapter in the history of Christianity among the slaves
of that commonwealth. See Wright, Negro Education in Georgia, p. 19.]

[Footnote 2: Rhodes, History of the U.S., vol. i., p. 331.]

[Footnote 3: Jones, Religious Instruction, p. 103.]

[Footnote 4: Jones, Religious Instruction, pp. 106, 217.]

Meeting the argument of those who feared the insubordination of Negroes, Jones thought that
the gospel would do more for the obedience of slaves and the peace of the community than weapons
of war. He asserted that the very effort of the masters to instruct their slaves created a
strong bond of union between them and their masters.[1] History, he believed, showed that the
direct way of exposing the slaves to acts of insubordination was to leave them in ignorance
and superstition to the care of their own religion.[2] To disprove the falsity of the charge
that literary instruction given in Neau's school in New York was the cause of a rising of slaves
in 1709, he produced evidence that it was due to their opposition to becoming Christians. The
rebellions in South Carolina from 1730 to 1739, he maintained, were fomented by the Spaniards
in St. Augustine. The upheaval in New York in 1741 was not due to any plot resulting from the
instruction of Negroes in religion, but rather to a delusion on the part of the whites. The
rebellions in Camden in 1816 and in Charleston in 1822 were not exceptions to the rule. He
conceded that the Southampton Insurrection in Virginia in 1831 originated under the color of
religion. It was pointed out, however, that this very act itself was a proof that Negroes left
to work out their own salvation, had fallen victims to "ignorant and misguided teachers" like
Nat Turner. Such undesirable leaders, thought he, would never have had the opportunity to do
mischief, if the masters had taken it upon themselves to instruct their slaves.[3] He asserted
that no large number of slaves well instructed in the Christian religion and taken into the
churches directed by white men had ever been found guilty of taking part in servile insurrections.[4]

[Footnote 1: Ibid., pp. 212, 274.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 215.]

[Footnote 3: Jones, Religious Instruction, etc., p. 212.]

[Footnote 4: Plumer, Thoughts, etc., p. 4.]

To meet the arguments of these reformers the slaveholders found among laymen and preachers
able champions to defend the reactionary policy. Southerners who had not gone to the extreme
in the prohibition of the instruction of Negroes felt more inclined to answer the critics of
their radical neighbors. One of these defenders thought that the slaves should have some enlightenment
but believed that the domestic element of the system of slavery in the Southern States afforded
"adequate means" for the improvement, adapted to their condition and the circumstances of the
country; and furnished "the natural, safe, and effectual means"[1] of the intellectual and
moral elevation of the Negro race. Another speaking more explicitly, said that the fact that
the Negro is such per se carried with it the "inference or the necessity that his education--the
cultivation of his faculties, or the development of his intelligence, must be in harmony with
itself." In other words, "his instruction must be an entirely different thing from the training
of the Caucasian," in regard to whom "the term education had widely different significations."
For this reason these defenders believed that instead of giving the Negro systematic instruction
he should be placed in the best position possible for the development of his imitative powers--"to
call into action that peculiar capacity for copying the habits, mental and moral, of the superior
race."[2] They referred to the facts that slaves still had plantation prayers and preaching
by numerous members of their own race, some of whom could read and write, that they were frequently
favored by their masters with services expressly for their instruction, that Sabbath-schools
had been established for the benefit of the young, and finally that slaves were received into
the churches which permitted them to hear the same gospel and praise the same God.[3]

[Footnote 1: Smith, Lectures on the Philosophy and Practice of Slavery, pp. 228 et seq.]

[Footnote 2: Van Evrie, Negroes and Negro Slavery, p. 215.]

[Footnote 3: Smith, Lectures on the Philosophy of Slavery, p. 228.]

Seeing even in the policy of religious instruction nothing but danger to the position of the
slave States, certain southerners opposed it under all circumstances. Some masters feared that
verbal instruction would increase the desire of slaves to learn. Such teaching might develop
into a progressive system of improvement, which, without any special effort in that direction,
would follow in the natural order of things.[1] Timorous persons believed that slaves thus
favored would neglect their duties and embrace seasons of religious worship for originating
and executing plans for insubordination and villainy. They thought, too, that missionaries
from the free States would thereby be afforded an opportunity to come South and inculcate doctrines
subversive of the interests and safety of that section.[2] It would then be only a matter of
time before the movement would receive such an impetus that it would dissolve the relations
of society as then constituted and revolutionize the civil institutions of the South.

[Footnote 1: Jones, Religious Instruction, p. 192; Olmsted, Back Country, pp. 106-108.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 106.]

The black population of certain sections, however, was not reduced to heathenism. Although
often threatening to execute the reactionary laws, many of which were never intended to be
rigidly enforced, the southerners did not at once eliminate the Negro as a religious instructor.[1]
It was fortunate that a few Negroes who had learned the importance of early Christian training,
organized among themselves local associations. These often appointed an old woman of the plantation
to teach children too young to work in the fields, to say prayers, repeat a little catechism,
and memorize a few hymns.[2] But this looked too much like systematic instruction. In some
States it was regarded as productive of evils destructive to southern society and was, therefore,
discouraged or prohibited.[3] To local associations organized by kindly slaveholders there
was less opposition because the chief aim always was to restrain strangers and undesirable
persons from coming South to incite the Negroes to servile insurrection. Two good examples
of these local organizations were the ones found in Liberty and McIntosh counties, Georgia.
The constitutions of these bodies provided that the instruction should be altogether oral,
embracing the general principles of the Christian religion as understood by orthodox Christians.[4]

[Footnote 1: This statement is based on the testimonies of ex-slaves.]

[Footnote 2: Jones, Religious Instruction, pp. 114, 117.]

[Footnote 3: While the laws in certain places were not so drastic as to prohibit religious
assemblies, the same was effected by patrols and mobs.]

[Footnote 4: The Constitution of the Liberty County Association for the Religious Instruction
of Negroes, Article IV.]

Directing their efforts thereafter toward mere verbal teaching, religious workers depended
upon the memory of the slave to retain sufficient of the truths and principles expounded to
effect his conversion. Pamphlets, hymn books, and catechisms especially adapted to the work
were written by churchmen, and placed in the hands of discreet missionaries acceptable to the
slaveholders. Among other publications of this kind were Dr. Capers's Short Catechism for the
Use of Colored Members on Trial in the Methodist Episcopal Church in South Carolina; A Catechism
to be Used by Teachers in the Religious Instruction of Persons of Color in the Episcopal Church
of South Carolina; Dr. Palmer's Cathechism; Rev. John Mine's Catechism; and C.C. Jones's Catechism
of Scripture, Doctrine and Practice Designed for the Original Instruction of Colored People.
Bishop Meade was once engaged in collecting such literature addressed particularly to slaves
in their stations. These extracts were to be read to them on proper occasions by any member
of the family.[1]

[Footnote 1: Meade, Sermons of Rev. Thomas Bacon, p. 2.]

Yet on the whole it can be safely stated that there were few societies formed in the South
to give the Negroes religious and moral instruction. Only a few missionaries were exclusively
devoted to work among them. In fact, after the reactionary period no propaganda of any southern
church included anything which could be designated as systematic instruction of the Negroes.[1]
Even owners, who took care to feed, clothe, and lodge their slaves well and treated them humanely,
often neglected to do anything to enlighten their understanding as to their responsibility
to God. [Footnote 1: Madison's Works, vol. in., p. 314; Olmsted, Back Country, p. 107; Birney,
The American Churches, etc., p. 6; and Jones, Religious Instruction, etc., p. 100.]

Observing closely these conditions one would wonder little that many Negroes became low and
degraded. The very institution of slavery itself produced shiftless, undependable beings, seeking
relief whenever possible by giving the least and getting the most from their masters. When
the slaves were cut off from the light of the gospel by the large plantation system, they began
to exhibit such undesirable traits as insensibility of heart, lasciviousness, stealing, and
lying. The cruelty of the "Christian" master to the slaves made the latter feel that such a
practice was not altogether inhuman. Just as the white slave drivers developed into hopeless
brutes by having human beings to abuse, so it turned out with certain Negroes in their treatment
of animals and their fellow-creatures in bondage. If some Negroes were commanded not to commit
adultery, such a prohibition did not extend to the slave women forced to have illicit relations
with masters who sold their mulatto offspring as goods and chattels. If the bondmen were taught
not to steal the aim was to protect the supplies of the local plantation. Few masters raised
any serious objection to the act of their half-starved slaves who at night crossed over to
some neighboring plantation to secure food. Many white men made it their business to dispose
of property stolen by Negroes.

In the strait in which most slaves were, they had to lie for protection. Living in an environment
where the actions of almost any colored man were suspected as insurrectionary, Negroes were
frequently called upon to tell what they knew and were sometimes forced to say what they did
not know. Furthermore, to prevent the slaves from coöperating to rise against their masters,
they were often taught to mistreat and malign each other to keep alive a feeling of hatred.
The bad traits of the American Negroes resulted then not from an instinct common to the natives
of Africa, but from the institutions of the South and from the actual teaching of the slaves
to be low and depraved that they might never develop sufficient strength to become a powerful
element in society.

As this system operated to make the Negroes either nominal Christians or heathen, the anti-slavery
men could not be silent.[1] James G. Birney said that the slaveholding churches like indifferent
observers, had watched the abasement of the Negroes to a plane of beasts without remonstrating
with legislatures against the iniquitous measures.[2] Moreover, because there was neither literary
nor systematic oral instruction of the colored members of southern congregations, uniting with
the Church made no change in the condition of the slaves. They were thrown back just as before
among their old associates, subjected to corrupting influences, allowed to forego attendance
at public worship on Sundays, and rarely encouraged to attend family prayers.[3] In view of
this state of affairs Birney was not surprised that it was only here and there that one could
find a few slaves who had an intelligent view of Christianity or of a future life.

[Footnote 1: Tower, Slavery Unmasked, p. 394.]

[Footnote 2: Birney, American Churches, p. 6.]

[Footnote 3: Ibid., p. 7.]

William E. Charming expressed his deep regret that the whole lot of the slave was fitted to
keep his mind in childhood and bondage. To Channing it seemed shameful that, although the slave
lived in a land of light, few beams found their way to his benighted understanding. He was
given no books to excite his curiosity. His master provided for him no teacher but the driver
who broke him almost in childhood to the servile tasks which were to fill up his life. Channing
complained that when benevolence would approach the slave with instruction it was repelled.
Not being allowed to be taught, the "voice which would speak to him as a man was put to silence."
For the lack of the privilege to learn the truth "his immortal spirit was systematically crushed
despite the mandate of God to bring all men unto Him."[1]

[Footnote 1: Channing, Slavery, p. 77.]

Discussing the report that slaves were taught religion, Channing rejoiced that any portion
of them heard of that truth "which gives inward freedom."[1] He thought, however, that this
number was very small. Channing was certain that most slaves were still buried in heathen ignorance.
But extensive as was this so-called religious instruction, he did not see how the teaching
of the slave to be obedient to his master could exert much power in raising one to the divinity
of man. How slavery which tends to debase the mind of the bondman could prepare it for spiritual
truth, or how he could comprehend the essential principles of love on hearing it from the lips
of his selfish and unjust owner, were questions which no defender of the system ever answered
satisfactorily for Channing. Seeing then no hope for the elevation of the Negro as a slave,
he became a more determined abolitionist.

[Footnote 1: Ibid., p. 78.]

William Jay, a son of the first Chief Justice of the United States, and an abolition preacher
of the ardent type, later directed his attention to these conditions. The keeping of human
beings in heathen ignorance by a people professing to reverence the obligation of Christianity
seemed to him an unpardonable sin. He believed that the natural result of this "compromise
of principle, this suppression of truth, this sacrifice to unanimity," had been the adoption
of expediency as a standard of right and wrong in the place of the revealed will of God.[1]
"Thus," continued he, "good men and good Christians have been tempted by their zeal for the
American Colonization Society to countenance opinions and practices inconsistent with justice
and humanity."[2] Jay charged to this disastrous policy of neglect the result that in 1835
only 245,000 of the 2,245,144 slaves had a saving knowledge of the religion of Christ. He deplored
the fact that unhappily the evil influence of the reactionaries had not been confined to their
own circles but had to a lamentable extent "vitiated the moral sense" of other communities.
The proslavery leaders, he said, had reconciled public opinion to the continuance of slavery,
and had aggravated those sinful prejudices which subjected the free blacks to insult and persecution
and denied them the blessings of education and religious instruction.[3]

[Footnote 1: Jay, An Inquiry, etc., p. 24.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 25.]

[Footnote 3: Jay, An Inquiry, etc., p. 26.]

Among the most daring of those who censured the South for its reactionary policy was Rev. John
G. Fee, an abolition minister of the gospel of Kentucky. Seeing the inevitable result in States
where public opinion and positive laws had made the education of Negroes impossible, Fee asserted
that in preventing them from reading God's Word and at the same time incorporating them into
the Church as nominal Christians, the South had weakened the institution. Without the means
to learn the principles of religion it was impossible for such an ignorant class to become
efficient and useful members.[1] Excoriating those who had kept their servants in ignorance
to secure the perpetuity of the institution of slavery, Fee maintained that sealing up the
mind of the slave, lest he should see his wrongs, was tantamount to cutting off the hand or
foot in order to prevent his escape from forced and unwilling servitude.[2] "If by our practice,
our silence, or our sloth," said he, "we perpetuate a system which paralyzes our hands when
we attempt to convey to them the bread of life, and which inevitably consigns the great mass
of them to unending perdition, can we be guiltless in the sight of Him who hath made us stewards
of His grace? This is sinful. Said the Saviour: 'Woe unto you lawyers! for ye have taken away
the key of knowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in ye hindered."'[3]

[Footnote 1: Fee, Antislavery Manual, p. 147.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 148.]

[Footnote 3: Fee, Antislavery Manual, p. 149.]

CHAPTER IX

LEARNING IN SPITE OF OPPOSITION

Discouraging as these conditions seemed, the situation was not entirely hopeless. The education
of the colored people as a public effort had been prohibited south of the border States, but
there was still some chance for Negroes of that section to acquire knowledge. Furthermore,
the liberal white people of that section considered these enactments, as we have stated above,
not applicable to southerners interested in the improvement of their slaves but to mischievous
abolitionists. The truth is that thereafter some citizens disregarded the laws of their States
and taught worthy slaves whom they desired to reward or use in business requiring an elementary
education. As these prohibitions in slave States were not equally stringent, white and colored
teachers of free blacks were not always disturbed. In fact, just before the middle of the nineteenth
century there was so much winking at the violation of the reactionary laws that it looked as
if some Southern States might recede from their radical position and let Negroes be educated
as they had been in the eighteenth century.

The ways in which slaves thereafter acquired knowledge are significant. Many picked it up here
and there, some followed occupations which were in themselves enlightening, and others learned
from slaves whose attainments were unknown to their masters. Often influential white men taught
Negroes not only the rudiments of education but almost anything they wanted to learn. Not a
few slaves were instructed by the white children whom they accompanied to school. While attending
ministers and officials whose work often lay open to their servants, many of the race learned
by contact and observation. Shrewd Negroes sometimes slipped stealthily into back streets,
where they studied under a private teacher, or attended a school hidden from the zealous execution
of the law.

The instances of Negroes struggling to obtain an education read like the beautiful romances
of a people in an heroic age. Sometimes Negroes of the type of Lott Carey[1] educated themselves.
James Redpath discovered in Savannah that in spite of the law great numbers of slaves had learned
to read well. Many of them had acquired a rudimentary knowledge of arithmetic. "But," said
he, "blazon it to the shame of the South, the knowledge thus acquired has been snatched from
the spare records of leisure in spite of their owners' wishes and watchfulness."[2] C.G. Parsons
was informed that although poor masters did not venture to teach their slaves, occasionally
one with a thirst for knowledge secretly learned the rudiments of education without any instruction.[3]
While on a tour through parts of Georgia, E.P. Burke observed that, notwithstanding the great
precaution which was taken to prevent the mental improvement of the slaves, many of them "stole
knowledge enough to enable them to read and write with ease."[4] Robert Smalls[5] of South
Carolina and Alfred T. Jones[6] of Kentucky began their education in this manner.

[Footnote 1: Mott, Biographical Sketches, p. 87.]

[Footnote 2: Redpath, Roving Editor, etc., p. 161.]

[Footnote 3: Parsons, Inside View, etc., p. 248.]

[Footnote 4: Burke, Reminiscences of Georgia, p. 85.]

[Footnote 5: Simmons, Men of Mark, p. 126.]

[Footnote 6: Drew, Refugee, p. 152.]

Probably the best example of this class was Harrison Ellis of Alabama. At the age of thirty-five
he had acquired a liberal education by his own exertions. Upon examination he proved himself
a good Latin and Hebrew scholar and showed still greater proficiency in Greek. His attainments
in theology were highly satisfactory. The Eufaula Shield, a newspaper of that State, praised
him as a man courteous in manners, polite in conversation, and manly in demeanor. Knowing how
useful Ellis would be in a free country, the Presbyterian Synod of Alabama purchased him and
his family in 1847 at a cost of $2500 that he might use his talents in elevating his own people
in Liberia.[1]

[Footnote 1: Niles Register, vol. lxxi., p. 296.]

Intelligent Negroes secretly communicated to their fellow men what they knew. Henry Banks of
Stafford County, Virginia, was taught by his brother-in-law to read, but not write.[1] The
father of Benedict Duncan, a slave in Maryland, taught his son the alphabet.[2] M.W. Taylor
of Kentucky received his first instruction from his mother. H.O. Wagoner learned from his parents
the first principles of the common branches.[3] A mulatto of Richmond taught John H. Smythe
when he was between the ages of five and seven.[4] The mother of Dr. C.H. Payne of West Virginia
taught him to read at such an early age that he does not remember when he first developed that
power.[5] Dr. E.C. Morris, President of the National Baptist Convention, belonged to a Georgia
family, all of whom were well instructed by his father.[6]

[Footnote 1: Drew, Refugee, etc., p. 72.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid., p. 110.]

[Footnote 3: Simmons, Men of Mark, p. 679.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 873.]

[Footnote 5: Ibid., p. 368.]

[Footnote 6: This is his own statement.]

The white parents of Negroes often secured to them the educational facilities then afforded
the superior race. The indulgent teacher of J. Morris of North Carolina was his white father,
his master.[1] W.J. White acquired his education from his mother, who was a white woman.[2]
Martha Martin, a daughter of her master, a Scotch-Irishman of Georgia, was permitted to go
to Cincinnati to be educated, while her sister was sent to a southern town to learn the milliner's
trade.[3] Then there were cases like that of Josiah Settle's white father. After the passage
of the law forbidding free Negroes to remain in the State of Tennessee, he took his children
to Hamilton, Ohio, to be educated and there married his actual wife, their colored mother.[4]

[Footnote 1: This is based on an account given by his son.]

[Footnote 2: The Crisis, vol. v., p. 119.]

[Footnote 3: Drew, Refugee, p. 143.]

[Footnote 4: Simmons, Men of Mark, p. 539.]

The very employment of slaves in business establishments accelerated their mental development.
Negroes working in stores often acquired a fair education by assisting clerks. Some slaves
were clerks themselves. Under the observation of E.P. Burke came the notable case of a young
man belonging to one of the best families of Savannah. He could read, write, cipher, and transact
business so intelligently that his master often committed important trusts to his care.[1]
B.K. Bruce, while still a slave, educated himself when he was working at the printer's trade
in Brunswick, Missouri. Even farther south where slavery assumed its worst form, we find that
this condition obtained. Addressing to the New Orleans Commercial Bulletin a letter on African
colonization, John McDonogh stated that the work imposed on his slaves required some education
for which he willingly provided. In 1842 he had had no white man over his slaves for twenty
years. He had assigned this task to his intelligent colored manager who did his work so well
that the master did not go in person once in six months to see what his slaves were doing.
He says, "They were, besides, my men of business, enjoyed my confidence, were my clerks, transacted
all my affairs, made purchases of materials, collected my rents, leased my houses, took care
of my property and effects of every kind, and that with an honesty and fidelity which was proof
against every temptation."[2] Traveling in Mississippi in 1852, Olmsted found another such
group of slaves all of whom could read, whereas the master himself was entirely illiterate.
He took much pride, however, in praising his loyal, capable, and intelligent Negroes.[3]

[Footnote 1: Burke, Reminiscences of Georgia, p. 86.

Frances Anne Kemble gives in her journal an interesting account of her observations in Georgia.
She says: "I must tell you that I have been delighted, surprised, and the very least perplexed,
by the sudden petition on the part of our young waiter, Aleck, that I will teach him to read.
He is a very intelligent lad of about sixteen, and preferred his request with urgent humility
that was very touching. I will do it; and yet, it is simply breaking the laws of the government
under which I am living. Unrighteous laws are made to be broken--perhaps--but then you see,
I am a woman, and Mr.---- stands between me and the penalty--. I certainly intend to teach
Aleck to read; and I'll teach every other creature that wants to learn." See Kemble, Journal,
p. 34.]

[Footnote 2: McDonogh, "Letter on African Colonization."]

[Footnote 3: Olmsted, Cotton Kingdom, vol. ii., p. 70.]

White persons deeply interested in Negroes taught them regardless of public opinion and the
law. Dr. Alexander T. Augusta of Virginia learned to read while serving white men as a barber.[1]
A prominent white man of Memphis taught Mrs. Mary Church Terrell's mother French and English.
The father of Judge R.H. Terrell was well-grounded in reading by his overseer during the absence
of his master from Virginia.[2] A fugitive slave from Essex County of the same State was not
allowed to go to school publicly, but had an opportunity to learn from white persons privately.[3]
The master of Charles Henry Green, a slave of Delaware, denied him all instruction, but he
was permitted to study among the people to whom he was hired.[4] M.W. Taylor of Kentucky studied
under attorneys J.B. Kinkaid and John W. Barr, whom he served as messenger.[5] Ignoring his
master's orders against frequenting a night school, Henry Morehead of Louisville learned to
spell and read sufficiently well to cause his owner to have the school unceremoniously closed.[6]

[Footnote 1: Special Report of the U.S. Com. of Ed., 1871, p. 258.]

[Footnote 2: This is based on the statements of Judge and Mrs. Terrell.]

[Footnote 3: Drew, Refugee, p. 335.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., p. 96.]

[Footnote 5: Simmons, Men of Mark, p. 933.]

[Footnote 6: Drew, Refugee, p. 180.]

The educational experiences of President Scarborough and of Bishop Turner show that some white
persons were willing to make unusual sacrifices to enlighten Negroes. President Scarborough
began to attend school in his native home in Bibb County, Georgia, at the age of six years.
He went out ostensibly to play, keeping his books concealed under his arm, but spent six or
eight hours each day in school until he could read well and had mastered the first principles
of geography, grammar, and arithmetic. At the age of ten he took regular lessons in writing
under an old South Carolinian, J.C. Thomas, a rebel of the bitterest type. Like Frederick Douglass,
President Scarborough received much instruction from his white playmates.[1]

[Footnote 1: Simmons, Men of Mark, p. 410.]

