The first witness was Lord HARCOURT, who said that he had done all he could, both in the House
of Lords and in the columns of The Times, where, he was glad to say, large type was given him,
to bring the Government to its senses on this matter. So long as the War was on, he and his
fellow-critics had refrained from interfering. But now that it was over they demanded that
the museums and galleries should be cleared at once of flappers and typewriters and thrown
open again to their rightful users, the public.

Sir Buffer Stayte, K.C.B., O.B.E., speaking for his own Government department, said that, although
in a manner of speaking the War was over, it was also not over. There was a heritage of trouble
which required endless attention, and the best place to attend to it was in the museums and
galleries. Experience had taught them that buildings filled with works of art acquired by the
nation, either by purchase or gift, for the nation, and held as a national trust, were the
most suitable places in which a clerical staff could perform clerical duties.

Lord HARCOURT begged to suggest that such a disregard of a national trust was a treachery.

Sir Buffer Stayte said that, although in ordinary times such might be the case, it was not
so in war-time or while the Defence of the Realm Act was in force. Under Dora's sanction all
black was white. Personally he had every belief in the efficiency of the staffs now employed
in the various public galleries and museums. He had seen them arrive late and leave early--he
meant arrive early and leave late--and could not sufficiently admire their willingness to put
up with the dismal surroundings of pictures and curiosities.

Mr. ROBERT WITT, one of the Trustees of the National Gallery, said that it was inconceivable
to him as a business man that even if so many clerks should still be required there was not
a more reasonable place for them than Trafalgar Square.

Sir Thomas Tannin, K.B.E., speaking for his own Government department, said that it was evident
that Mr. WITT did not fully realise the position. These were historic and abnormal times and
abnormal measures were necessary. We thought in high numbers, and therefore high numbers of
clerks were needed. Trafalgar Square was as conveniently central a spot as could be found;
hence their presence there. It had also been pointed out by the chiefs of the Government Clerks'
Tea Advisory Board that the facilities for obtaining more water for boiling were unusual on
account of the proximity of the two great fountains. If anybody could suggest a better place
for the accommodation of all these young ladies he would be glad to know of it. The only suggestion
yet made had reference to buildings which, having been designed for office work, were obviously
unsuitable. Another reason for keeping them on was their cost. Economy in one direction might
lead to economy in another, and the whole fabric of the now bureaucracy would be threatened.
It was therefore useless to hope for any early change.

Sir SIDNEY LEE pointed out that, owing to the occupation of a large part of the National Gallery,
all the National Portrait Gallery, all the Tate Gallery, and all Hertford House, where the
Wallace Collection is, by Government clerks, these national institutions were not open to our
soldiers from the Dominions and the provinces, who might never again have the opportunity of
refreshing their eyes by gazing upon some of our most beautiful possessions. In their interest
alone he pleaded for the rapid conversion of the buildings to their proper ends.

Sir Yutely Taryan, K.C.V.O., speaking for his own Government Department, said that in his opinion
a great deal of nonsense was talked about art, both its educational value and its power of
giving pleasure. Speaking for himself, even in normal times, he would rather see a picture
gallery given up to living clerks than to dead canvases. If he had his way there should be
no pictures but those that stimulated people to greater activity. He had, for example, never
seen any beauty in WHISTLER'S portrait of his (WHISTLER'S) mother until it was reproduced as
a War-savings poster, with words scrawled across it. A few of the placards which American business
men pinned up in their offices, such as, "To Hell with Yesterday," were better than all the
Old Masters.

Continuing, Sir Yutely said that he could not permit himself to accept the view that any privation
was being suffered by our brave lads from overseas. From conversations that he had had with
some of them he found that the only pictures that they knew anything of or cared about were
those in the cinemas. From his own recollections of his only visit to the National Gallery
some years ago he should say that these noble fellows were better outside that place than in.
One painting that he saw there was so scandalous in its nudity that he blushed even now when
he thought of it. Better far that our defenders from the Dominions should continue to walk
up and down the Strand.

On the motion of the Chairman, who said that he thought the case for the Government and the
continued closing of the galleries and museums had been adequately made out, the Commission
adjourned sine die, and Lord HARCOURT, Sir SIDNEY LEE and Mr. WITT were left sharpening their pens.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARMY ORACLE.

I cannot conceal from myself that I am a great acquisition to the Army of Occupation. My knowledge
of the language being far and away superior to that of any other British officer for miles
around, I am looked upon by the natives as a sort of high military authority in whom they may
have the privilege and the pleasure of confiding all their troubles. According to the intensity
of their various desires I am addressed crescendo as "Herr Ober-Leutenant," or "Herr Hauptmann,"
or "Herr Majeur," or "Herr Commandant." They always approach me in a becomingly servile attitude--cap
or hat in hand--and await with obvious tension my weighty pronouncements. They hide round corners
and wait behind doors or down narrow passages until I come past, and then they spring out on me.

"What about the coal we are burning? The electric light we are using? Who is going to pay?"
"So-and-so's charlady, who was out obliging another lady, had a breadknife pinched while she
was away from home. Was it one of my Soldaten, perhaps? Did I know anything about it, and if
so, would I punish the evildoer and restore the implement?"

The village expert in calf-delivery wants to know whether, in the case of the happy event taking
place after 9 P.M. (which it usually does), I would give him permission to leave his home after
closing hours, so that he might assist at the function.

The local yokels of this spot and its neighbouring villages want to resume their bi-weekly
choral society meetings but cannot reach the rendezvous until 8.45 P.M., which leaves them
just a quarter-of-an-hour to have their practice and to take cover for the night. "Would the
high-well-born be so fearfully gracious as to allow them to continue until 10 P.M.?"

To be suddenly taken unawares and to have such conundrums volleyed at you in a strange tongue
is apt to be rather exhausting. However I have a reputation to live up to and must be as frightful
as possible. I find the best thing to do is to refer them to the nearest notice-board, which
reads:--

HALT!

VORSICHT!

ALLES VERBOTEN!!!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUD LARKS.

The Visiting Brigadier cracked a walnut and glanced towards the General. "I wonder if you remember
a French interpreter by the name of de Blavincourt, Sir? He was with you once, I believe."

The A.P.M. across the way paused in the act of tapping a cigarette on his case. "Little gunner
man, wore red plush bags and a blue velvet hat? Yes, up in the salient in '17."

The General puffed three perfect smoke rings towards the chandelier (an accomplishment he had
acquired thirty-five years previously at the "Shop" and was still proud of) and smiled. "De
Blavincourt? why, yes, I remember him. He knew more about cooking than all the chefs in Europe
and taught my poisoner to make rations taste like food. Of course I remember him. Why?"

"Because he came my way just at the end of the War and had rather a curious adventure," said
the Brigadier, stirring his coffee. "I thought you might be interested."

"I am," the General replied. "What happened?"

The Brigadier cleared his throat. "We were in front of Tournai at the time, scrapping our way
from house to house through Faubourg de Lille, the city's western suburb. My Brigade Major
stumped into H.Q. one afternoon looking pretty grim. 'We'd best move out of here, Sir,' said
he, 'before we're wafted.'

"'What's the matter now?' I asked.

"'That unutterable little fool de Blavincourt has walked into Germany with a large scale-map
in his hand, showing every H.Q. mess and billet.' He tapped a despatch from the forward battalion.

"De Blavincourt, it appeared, had been at work all the morning evacuating unfortunate civilians
from the cellars. At noon or thereabouts he sidled along the wall, past a Lewis gun detachment
that was holding the street. The corporal shouted a warning, but de Blavincourt sidled on,
saying that he was only going to the first house round the corner to rescue some old women
he heard were in it. And that was the last of him. Seeing that the Bosch opened fire from the
said house seven minutes later his fate was obvious.

"It was also obvious what our fate would be if we continued in those marked billets, so we
moved out, bag and baggage, into a sunken road near by and spent the night there in the rain
and muck, and were most uncomfortable. What puzzled us rather was that the Hun did not shell
our old billets that night--that is, nothing out of the ordinary. 'But that's only his cunning,'
we consoled ourselves; 'he knows we know he knows, and he's trying to lure us back. Ah, no,
old friend.'

"So we camped miserably on in that sunken sewer. He dropped a lucky one through a barn the
same afternoon and lobbed a few wides over during the next night, but again nothing out of
the ordinary.

"We were more and more puzzled. Then, just about breakfast-time on the second morning, in walks
de Blavincourt himself, green as to the complexion and wounded in the arm, but otherwise intact.
I leapt upon him, snarling, 'Where's that map?'

"'I got 'im, Sir,' he gulped, 'safe' (gulp).

"This was his story. He had remembered the corporal shouting something, but so intent on his
work was he that he hardly noticed the warning until suddenly, to his horror, he perceived
a party of Huns creeping out of a passage behind him. He was cut off! They had not seen him
for the moment, so quick as thought he slipped into the nearest house, turned into a front
room--a sort of parlour place--and crouched there, wondering what to do.

"He was not left wondering long, for the Bosches followed him into that very house. There was
a small table in one corner covered with a large cloth. Under this de Blavincourt dived, and
not a second too soon, for the Bosches--seven of them--followed him into that very room and,
setting up their machine gun at the window, commenced to pop off down the street. Charming
state of affairs for little de Blavincourt--alone and unarmed in a room full of bristling Huns
with that fatal map in his possession.

"Sweating all over he eased the map out of his pocket and slowly and silently commenced to eat it.

"You know what those things are like. A yard square of tough paper backed by indestructible
calico--one might as well try to devour a child's rag book.

"Anyhow that's what de Blavincourt did. He ate it, and it took him forty hours to do the trick.
For forty hours day and night he squatted under that table, with the Huns sitting upon and
around it, and gnawed away at that square yard of calico.

"Just before the dawn of the third day he gulped the last corner down and peeped out under
the tablecloth. The Bosch on guard was oiling the lock of the machine-gun. Two more he could
hear in the kitchen clattering pots about. The remaining four were asleep, grotesquely sprawled
over sofas and chairs.

"De Blavincourt determined to chance it. He could not stop under the table for ever, and even
at the worst that map, that precious map, was out of harm's way. He crept stealthily from his
hiding-place, dealt the kneeling Bosch a terrific kick in the small of the back, dived headlong
out of the window and galloped down the street towards our Lewis gunners, squealing, ' Friend!
Ros'bif! Not'arf!'--which, in spite of his three years of interpreting, was all the English
he could muster at the moment. The Huns emptied their automatics after him, but only one bullet
found the target, and that an outer.

"'I weesh it vos t'rough my 'eart,' he told me later, tears rolling down his cheeks. 'Vot more
use to me my life, hein? My stomach she is for ever ruin.'"

The General laughed. "Stout fellow for a' that."

"I grant you," said the Brigadier, "but a fellow should be stout along accepted lines. 'To
Lieutenant Felix Marcel, Comte de Blavincourt, the Military Cross for eating his map.' No,
Sir, it can't be done."

The Horse-master, who was helping himself to old tawny, nodded vigorously and muttered "No,
by Jove, it can't."

"You speak with feeling, Coper," remarked the General.

"I do, Sir. I sat up the best part of three nights last March trying to write for official
consumption the story of a fellow who seemed to me to qualify for the 'Stout' class. It was
a wash-out, though; too absurd."

"Well, give the port a fair wind and let's have the absurdity now," said the General.

The Horse-master bowed to the command.

"I was with the Fifth Army last year when the wave swept us. We were fairly swamped for the
moment and all nohow. One evening, retreating on my own line, I came upon some little village--can't
remember the name just now, but you know the sort of thing--typical Somme hamlet, a smear of
brick-dust with a big notice-board on top, saying, 'THIS IS LE SARS,' or 'POZIÈRES,' or whatever
its name was. Anyway, in this village I found a Divisional H.Q., four Brigade H.Q.'s, and oddities
of all sorts sitting one on top of t'other waiting for the next thing to happen. The next thing
was a single wounded lancer who happened in about four in the morning with the glad tidings
that Bosch tanks were advancing on us". Questioned further he admitted that he had only actually
seen one and that in the dark. But it was the great-grandfather of all tanks, according to
the chap; it stood twenty foot high; it 'roared and rumbled' in its career, and it careered
by steam.

"It wasn't any manner of use assuring him that there wasn't a steam tank on anybody's front.
He said there was, and we couldn't move him.

"'I saw steam coming from it in clouds,' be mumbled, 'and sparks and smoke.' Then he crumpled
slowly on the floor, fast asleep.

"The Divisional General was properly mystified.

"'If only I had a single field-gun or even some gelignite,' he groaned; then turning to me,
'I must get the strength of this; it may be some new frightfulness the Hun is springing. You're
an old horse-soldier, I believe? Well, jump on your gee and go scout the thing, will you?'

"I scratched together a rag and bobtail patrol of grooms and pushed off just before daybreak.
Our people had the edge of the village manned with every rifle they could collect. A subaltern
lying ear to earth hailed me as I passed. 'It's coming,' he called.

"A quarter of a mile further on I could hear the roaring and rumbling myself without lying
on the road.

"Light was breaking fast, but there were wisps and shreds of fog blowing about which made observation
exceedingly difficult. Still, observation I was out to get, so, spreading my bobbery pack,
I worked closer and closer. Suddenly one of my patrol shrilled, 'There y'are, Sir!' and I saw
a monstrous shape loom for a moment through a thinning of mist, and rock onwards into obscurity
again.

"'It's an armoured car. I seed wheels under it,' gasped one groom. 'More like a blasted Dreadnought,'
grunted another. 'Cheer-o, chaps, the 'Un fleet 'as come out.' But nobody laughed or felt like
laughing; this mysterious monster, thundering westward wrapped in its barrage of fog, was getting
on our nerves."

The Horse-master paused and carefully removed the long ash from his cigar.

"Then the mists rolled up and revealed what I at first took to be a walking R.E. dump, but
secondly discovered to be a common ordinary domestic British steam-roller with 'LINCOLN URBAN
DISTRICT COUNCIL' in dirty white lettering upon its fuel box, a mountain of duck-boards stacked
on the cab roof, railway sleepers, riveting stakes and odds and ends of lumber tied on all
over it. As I rode up an elderly head, grimy and perspiring, was thrust between a couple of
duck-boards and nodded pleasantly to me. ''Ello,' it said, 'seen anythin' o' the lads?'

"I was too dumbfounded to say anything excepting that the lads were in the next village waiting
for him.

"'Ah'm right glad o' that,' said he; 'been feeling a bit lonesome-like these last two days;'
adding, in case I might not appreciate the situation, 'These yer Germans 'ave been after me,
you know, Sir.'

"I replied that my only wonder was that they had not captured him long since.

"'Very nearly did once or twice,' he admitted, and wagged his elderly head; 'but t'owd lass
is a great one to travel when she's sweet, an' ah've 'ad a lot o' luck pickin' oop these bits
o' firin' along the road;' and he jammed a bunch of riveting stakes into the furnace.

"'Oh, ah reckon we're just keepin' ahead of 'em. Well, best be gettin' along now, s'pose. Good
day to you, Sir.'

"He wrenched at a lever and 't'owd lass' rumbled off down the highway towards Albert, rearguard
of His Britannic Majesty's Armies in the Field."

PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MISTRESS AND MAID.

(New Style).

My wife burst into the room, her face aglow with the joy of success.

"Oh, George, isn't it simply splendid?"

"Absolutely top-hole, I am sure, my dear; but supposing you let me know what it's all about?"

"How silly I am," she murmured as she sank into a chair. "I quite forgot I had not seen you
all day, and it happened just after you left for the office. You had not been gone five minutes
when Jane came up and gave notice. I determined to be firm and told her she could go when she
liked, and then I marched straight off to Mrs. Smith's Registry Office. I found the dear old
thing just as amiable and ready to please as ever, but she told me I must not mind if the methods
of her establishment were a bit changed. In the old days, you know, we used to sit in a small
room and interview the servants she wanted places for. But now the position is reversed, and
the servants interview you and ask you questions. I was told to go in and see a nice-looking
girl. She was not a bit shy and, after asking me to take a chair, began to put questions--our
income? your profession? what other servants we kept? wages? margarine or butter in the kitchen?
etc.

"She seemed quite satisfied with everything until we came to the matter of her afternoons out.
I said that two a week and every other Sunday was my usual custom, and that I hoped this would
prove agreeable. She snapped me up at once and said she must have at least four, as well as
the whole of every other Sunday.

"My heart sank, because I did not see how we could possibly give her all that, so I just said
how sorry I was and got up to go--in fact I was half-way to the door--when she called me back
and said, 'I like your face, and perhaps for the present two afternoons and the Sunday will
be enough. If you will wait a minute I will have another talk to Mrs. Smith about you,' and
off she went.

"It seemed ages before anyone came, and then old Mrs. Smith walked in, saying, 'I'm glad to
tell you, Madam, that you have been approved of.'

"Isn't it too glorious, George? You and I have been approved of. We have got a situation."

       *       *       *       *       *

"OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN--"

  When, moved a few brief seasons back,
    To brave the battle's brunt,
  On Britain's shores I turned my pack
    And "somewhere" found a Front;

  Said I; as in my tympanum
    I heard the cannon's roar,
  "'Twill be a wonder if I come
    Impervious through the War."

  Yet bomb, shell, bullet and grenade
    Made no great hit with me;
  And now I'm--well, I've just been paid
    My war gratuity.

  But at the sight of civil life,
    If "life" it can be called,
  With all its agonising strife,
    I simply stand appalled.

  And "Oh!" in utter fear I cry,
    "How horrors never cease;
  'Twill be a miracle if I
    Ever survive the Peace."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, March 24th.--The Archbishop of CANTERBURY sought from the Government a clear statement
of policy regarding the repatriation of enemy aliens, and incidentally paid a high tribute
to the British Press, which, we were glad to hear, contains "nobody who desires to fabricate
baseless statements."

He was supported by Lord LAMBOURNE, who as a member of the Advisory Committee knows all about
aliens, and declared that "Repatriate them all" was a foolish cry, if it meant that we were
expected to present Germany with the British wives and children of the dear deported.

Lord JERSEY, for the Government, desired to treat even Germans justly, but could not see why
anyone should wish in these times to increase our alien population. His speech did not please
a batch of noble sentimentalists, drawn from both sides, but seemed to give great satisfaction
to Lord LINCOLNSHIRE, who quoted with approval the brave words on the subject uttered by the
LORD CHANCELLOR at the General Election, before his style had been mollified by the Woolsack.

In the Commons Mr. BONAR LAW regretfully explained that it was impossible for the Government
to do anything to reduce the high prices now being charged for furniture in the East End. His
own experience as a Cabinet-maker has been entirely confined to the West End.

Nor could the Government take any direct steps to ameliorate the overcrowding on the Underground
railways. But, as it was stated that large quantities of leather are still being purchased
on Government account, there are hopes that more accommodation for strap-hangers may shortly
be available.

Tuesday, March 25th.--The Lords spent three hours of almost unrelieved gloom in discussing
the financial condition of the country. On that old problem of the economists, "What is a pound?"
Lord D'ABERNON delivered an erudite discourse, from which I gathered that it was at present
about ten shillings and still shrinking. The only comfort is that at that rate the National
Debt has already been halved.

Lord MILNER made a fairly cheerful speech in the circumstances; but I hope that potential strikers
will not take too literally his observation that the one thing most needed at the present moment
was "economy of national energy."

Mr. CHURCHILL came down heavily upon Sir DONALD MACLEAN'S attempt to delay the adoption of
compulsion in the new Military Service Bill. When rather more than half of Europe was seething
with unrest, which might require military intervention, it would be fatal to let our army disappear;
yet the right hon. gentleman seemed to think that everyone ought to be disarmed except LENIN
and TROTSKY.

For the first time since 1914 private Members had an evening to themselves. They utilised it
in endeavouring to obtain from the Government a direct statement of its future fiscal policy.
On Imperial Preference Mr. BONAR LAW was quite explicit; the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER was
already considering how to incorporate it in the next Budget. As to the Government's fiscal
policy generally it had already been outlined in the PRIME MINISTER'S letter to himself, and
would be definitely declared as soon as the time was ripe--a cautious statement which, as was
perhaps intended, left Free Traders and Protectionists still guessing.

Wednesday, March 26th.--After Lord DESBOROUGH'S vivacious attack upon the Cippenham Motor Depot,
it is doubtful whether anyone could have enabled the Government to wriggle out of the demand
for an independent inquiry. At any rate Lord INVERFORTH was insufficiently agile. The innumerable
type-written sheets which he read out laboriously may have contained a complete reply to Lord
DESBOROUGH'S main allegations, even if they included no refutation of the stones of the bricks
imported by the hundred thousand into a district containing some of the best brick-earth in
the country, or of the four pounds a week paid for the services of a railway pensioner aged
ninety-two. But as hardly anyone could hear the recital it created little impression.

The Ministry are evidently unwilling to stake their political lives on Mr. CHURCHILL'S approval
of the project, for Mr. BONAR LAW announced that the Government Whips would not be put on for
the forthcoming division on the subject.

Mr. G. ROBERTS furnished an interesting analysis of the nine shillings now charged for a bottle
of whisky. Three-and-sixpence represents the cost of the spirit plus pre-war taxation. The
other five-and-sixpence is made up of interest to manufacturers, insurance and rent; increased
price of bottles and corks; margins of profit to blenders and bottlers, merchants and other
traders; and increase of taxation. By some oversight nothing appears to have been charged for
the extra water, but no doubt this will be remedied in the next Budget.

Thursday, March 27th.--To those who remember the debates on the Parliament Act, circa 1911,
it was amusing to hear Lords CREWE and BUCKMASTER complaining of the unceremonious manner in
which the Lords' amendments to the Rents Bill had been treated in "another place;" and being
entreated not to pick a quarrel with the Commons by those ancient champions of the Upper Chamber,
Lord CURZON and the LORD CHANCELLOR.

The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER announced the names of the Royal Commissioners who are to consider
how the income-tax can be improved. Several Members complained that there is only one woman
among them, and that, pending their report (expected some time next year), the glaring anomaly
by which husband and wife are regarded for taxable purposes as a single entity is apparently
to be continued. The idea of presenting Mr. CHAMBERLAIN with a box for The Purse Strings, in
the hope that it would convert him, has unfortunately been frustrated by the withdrawal of
the play.

Mr. BONAR LAW'S determination to leave the Cippenham question to the free judgment of the House
led (as possibly he anticipated) to its expressing no judgment at all. Sir DONALD MACLEAN and
others served up a rather insipid réchauffé of Lord DESBOROUGH'S indictment, and Mr. CHURCHILL
repeated Lord INVERFORTH'S defence, but put a little more ginger into it. Incidentally he mentioned
that a prolonged search for the nonagenarian pensioner had produced nobody more venerable than
a comparative youngster of sixty-five. Deprived of this prop the Opposition felt unequal to
walking through the Lobbies.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FAIRIES' FLITTING.

  There's a family of fairies lives inside our pigeon-cot,
    Down the garden, near the great big sumach-tree,
  Where the grass has grown across the path and dead leaves lie and rot
    And no one hardly ever goes but me;
  Yes, it's just the place for fairies, and they told the pigeons so;
    They begged to be allowed to move in soon;
  It's a most tremendous honour, as of course the pigeons know;
    It was all arranged this very afternoon.

  There's a family of fairies lives inside our pigeon-cot--
    Oh, the bustle and the sweeping there has been!
  For the pigeons didn't scrub their house (I think they all forgot),
    And the fairies like their home so scrup'lous clean;
  There are fairy dusters hanging from the sumach as you pass;
    Tiny drops are dripping still from overhead;
  Broken fairy-brooms are lying near the fir-tree on the grass,
    Though the fairies went an hour ago to bed.

  There's a family of fairies lives inside our pigeon-cot,
    And there's cooings round about our chimney-stack,
  For the pigeons are all sitting there and talking such a lot
    And there's nothing Gard'ner does will drive them back;
  "Why, they'll choke up those roof-gutters if they start this nesting fuss;
    They've got a house," he says, "so I don't see--"
  No, he doesn't know the secret, and there's no one does but--us,
    All the pigeons, and the fairy-folk and ME!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT EVERY MINISTER SHOULD KNOW.

The Times is much concerned with the chaotic condition of the Air Ministry and the strange
designs with which the political heads of the Department are credited. "These suspicions we
believe to be without any real foundation, but they are active, though Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL
and General SEELY may be wholly unconscious of them. We believe they are, and if they are the
sooner they are told what is said about their intentions the better."

So The Times proceeds to describe these nefarious if nebulous designs and appeals to Mr. WINSTON
CHURCHILL in particular, "if he has no such intentions, to disclaim them publicly and in a
way which will leave no breeding-ground for future rumours."

The Times has done a great service by its splendid candour, but it has only gone about one-fortieth
part of the way. There are still, we believe, some eighty Ministers, and all without exception
ought to know what is being said about them, to enable them to confirm or disavow these disquieting
speculations. The papers simply teem with secret histories of the week, diaries of omniscient
pundits and so forth, in which these rumours multiply to an extent that staggers the plain person.

Take the PREMIER to begin with. Is it really true that he has decided, as the brain of the
Empire can only be located in Printing House Square, to resign office and become home editor
of The Times, leaving foreign policy to be controlled by Mr. WICKHAM STEED? Is it true that
he meditates appointing Mr. AUGUSTUS JOHN Minister of Fine Arts? Is it true that he flies every
day from Paris to Mentone, to receive instructions from a Mysterious Nobleman who is shortly
to be raised to ducal honours? Is it true that until quite recently he had never heard of JOAN
OF ARC and thought that VICTOR HUGO was a Roman emperor?

Then there is Mr. BONAR LAW. He surely ought to know that it is said by The Job and The Morning
Ghost that he informed Mr. SMILLIE, during one of their recent conversations, that he hoped,
in the event of a general strike, to be allowed to get away to the small island in the South
Pacific which he has purchased as a refuge in case of such a contingency. Probably such an
idea never entered his head. But this is what he is supposed to be planning. Let him therefore
disclaim the intention promptly and publicly.

Grievous mischief again is being done by the persistent rumours current about the intention
of the LORD CHANCELLOR to take Orders with the view of becoming Archbishop of Canterbury at
the earliest possible opportunity. There may be absolutely nothing in it. Mr. HAROLD SMITH
scouts the notion as absurd. But very great men do not always confide in brothers. NAPOLEON,
as we know, thought poorly of his.

Lastly, is it true that, although Mr. AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN is still nominally Chancellor of the
Exchequer, he is really a prisoner in the Tower, conveyed under guard to and from the House,
and that the reprieve of the sentence of capital punishment passed on him by The Daily Mail
may expire--and he with it--at any moment?

These are only a few of the things which are said about them that Ministers ought to know--if
they don't know them already. And if they do, and basely pretend not to, we feel that we have
done a truly patriotic service in rendering it impossible for them to avoid enlightening the
public. It is always well to know the worst, even about politicians.

       *       *       *       *       *

WANTED, A HEBE.

    "Tablemaid (thoroughly experienced) required middle of March; god
    wages."--Scots Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "'Eh, what?' queried Lawrence in astonishment. 'What are you doing
    here, my dear? Are you French?'

    "'Je suis Belgique, M'sieu,' replied the girl, whose knowledge of
    English seemed limited."--Weekly Paper.

But not so limited as her knowledge of French, we hope.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "St. Ives, Cornwall.--Artists visiting this town will find
    their requirements in Artists' Materials well catered for. All
    manufacturers' colours stocked. Canvases sketched at shortest
    possible notice. ----, Artists' Colourman."--The Studio.

Surely there are no "ghosts" in "the Cornish School!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE OPERA.

In these dull days of reaction, when, in the intervals of jazzing, we have nothing to satisfy
the spiritual void left by the War except the possibility of an industrial cataclysm at home
and the triumph of Bolshevism abroad, we owe a large debt of gratitude to Sir THOMAS BEECHAM
for his efforts to revive the Town. And the Town is at last appreciating at their full worth
his services both to the cause of popular education in music and to the encouragement of native
talent.

It was perhaps a little unfortunate that Aïda should have been given on the night of the Guards'
march through London, for the parade of the Pharaoh's scratch soldiery suffered badly by comparison.
The priesthood of Isis, too, furnished more humour than could, I think, have been designed,
and I doubt if even Mr. WEEDON GROSSMITH could have given us anything funnier than the spectacle
presented by the Egyptian monarch when making his announcement of an Ethiopian raid. Nor shall
I easily forget the figure of the King of Ethiopia, with a head of hair like a Zulu's, and
swathed in a tiger-skin. I should myself have chosen the hide of a leopard, for the leopard
cannot change his spots nor the Ethiopian his skin, and when you get the two together you have
an extraordinarily durable combination.

It would be false flattery to say that Miss ROSINA BUCKMAN quite looked the part of Aïda, or
Miss EDNA THORNTON that of Amneris, but they both sang finely, and the orchestra did great
work under Mr. EUGENE GOOSSENS, Sen.

