 PULESTON"?
and shall we have to change refrain of our latest National Hymn? instead of singing 'Ask a
Policeman?' shall we have to chant 'Ask a PULESTON?' These are the new problems; suddenly rushed
in, bothering me to death when I thought I'd got pretty well through Session, Recess close
at hand and no more difficult points coming up. Don't think, TOBY, I was cut out for politics;
perhaps I take them too seriously; but like to know things, and there are so many things to know."

Try to cheer up NICHOLAS; suggest to him that he should put his questions down on the paper;
might address them to FERGUSON; a little out of the way of Foreign Affairs; but a conversation
publicly conducted between NICHOLAS and FERGUSON would be interesting.

Business done.--Votes in Supply.

Friday.--House in rather strange condition to-night; things all sevens and sixes; Motion is
that Anglo-German Agreement Bill be read Second Time. Opinion very mixed on merits of measure;
on the whole, no particular objection to it, even though with it goes Heligoland. Still, an
Opposition must oppose; but where is the Opposition? Mr. G. came down last night; said he'd
no particular objection to Treaty, but didn't like the process of confirming it; so publicly
washed his hands of the business. Since the announcement appeared in papers, HERBERT tells
me his illustrious father's life has been a burden to him. Every post brings him letters from
rival advertising soap manufacturers, making overtures of business transactions.

"Sir," runs one of these epistles, "alluding to your statement in the House of Commons last
night that you publicly washed your hands of participation in the Anglo-German Treaty, would
you have any objection to our stating that the substance used was our celebrated Salubrious
Savon? Anticipating your favourable reply, we assume that you would have no objection to our
publishing a portrait of you using our soap, with its familiar label, 'Does not wash collars.'
We have only to add that in the event of your favourably accepting this suggestion, we shall
esteem it a favour to be allowed to gratuitously supply you and your family with specimens
of our art for the term of your natural lives."

This is merely an incident in the struggle, illustrating one of the embarrassments it has evolved.
Only man thoroughly happy is HARCOURT. He invented the line of attack on ground of breach of
constitutional usages; put up Mr. G. to make his speech; supplied him with authorities, and
in supplementary speech amazed House with his erudition. Made stupendous speech last night;
literally gorged the House; to-night picks up fragments and provides another feast: six baskets
wouldn't hold it.

"Wish, TOBY, dear boy," he said, sinking back in his seat after delivering his second speech,
cunningly grafted on an Amendment, "we could carry this over next week. I could easily make
a speech a day. Remember when I was once in Ireland, asked a tenant how he liked the new agent,
who was reputed to be very able business man. 'Well,' said my acquaintance, 'I don't know about
his business daylings, but for blasphaymious language, he's au revoir.' On constitutional questions,
TOBY, I may, with all modesty, say I'm au revoir."

Business done.--Anglo-German Treaty agreed to.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S DICTIONARY OF PHRASES.

FRIENDLY COMMENTS ON CHARACTER AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS.

"She is never at a loss for a clever answer;" i.e., "A cat whose claws are always out."

"A little stand-offish to strangers, but wonderfully winning when one really knows him;" i.e.,
"Which one need never do, thank goodness!"

LEGAL.

"As your Lordship pleases;" i.e., "As a Judge, you are a stupid, self-sufficient dolt; but
so long as my client, the solicitor, gets his costs, it doesn't matter a jot to me or him what
you decide!"

"With your Lordship's permission, my Junior will settle the minutes;" i.e., "And so save us
both the trouble of apportioning, in the customary perfunctory fashion, the oyster to the solicitors,
and the shells to the clients."

IN THE SMOKING-ROOM.

"You don't mind my telling you exactly where I think you're wrong?" i.e., "You obviously want
setting down, and I may as well do it."

"Do you mind just stating that over again?" i.e., "While I think of something to say in reply."

"Of course you know more about the subject than I do;" i.e., "I am pretty sure you never gave
it a thought till this minute."

"If you care for my candid opinion;" i.e., "I am now about to be annoying, and perhaps rude."

"All right, I'm not deaf!" i.e., "Keep your confounded temper."