Mezzofanti's Method applied to the Study of the French Language, by J. Romer, published by
the same house, is a work of great philological interest, on account of the curious analogies
which it describes, and contains an excellent collection of specimens from French poets and
prose writers, but its value as a practical manual for the teacher can be determined only by use.

The Ojibway Conquest, by Kah-ge-gah-gah-bowh, or George Copway, issued by G. Putnam, will find
a place among the curiosities of literature as the production of a native Indian Chief, whose
muse has been inspired by the forest and stream of his original haunts, without having incurred
a large debt to the influence of civilization. Copway is an exemplary Christian and an intelligent
man, but he will get less fame from his poetry than from his descent.

Six Months in the Gold Mines, by E. Gould Buffum, from the press of Lea and Blanchard, is one
of the most readable books which have sprung up under the California excitement, the author
having been familiar with the country before the gold fever had broken out. His style is straight-forward
and pleasant, showing more of the soldier and adventurer than the scholar, but none the worse
for that. His information appears to have been collected with great care, when it was not gained
by personal observation, and has the outward and inward signs of authenticity, to a very satisfactory
degree. The book can not fail to be acceptable to all who have one foot in California, as well
as to the few readers who are not in that condition.

Crocker and Brewster, Boston, have published an admirable treatise, entitled Astronomy, or
the World as It Is and as It Appears, understood to be from the pen of a highly intelligent
lady of that city. It is equally excellent for the chaste beauty of its style, the clearness
of its scientific expositions, and the completeness and accuracy of the information which it
presents.

W. B. Smith and Co., Cincinnati, have published a large Treatise on the Principal Diseases
of the Interior Valley of North America, by Daniel Drake, M.D., which discusses the subject
with great learning, and in a popular style. It can hardly fail to take the rank of a standard
authority in the important department which it treats.

Summer Fashions.

FIG. 1. CARRIAGE COSTUME.--Dress of bright apple-green silk; the skirt with three deep flounces
pinked at the edges. The corsage high and plain. Mantelet of very pale lilac silk, trimmed
with two rows of lace de laine of the same color, and each row of lace surmounted by passementerie.
The lace extends merely round the back part of the mantelet, and the fronts are trimmed with
passementerie only. Bonnet of white crinoline, with rows of lilac ribbon set on in bouillonnées.
The bonnet is lined with white crape, and the under-trimming consists of bouquets of lilac
and white flowers. Straw-colored kid gloves. White silk parasol.

