"I can't tell you how it happened, Doctor," he said, turning his eyes, larger now in his pale
face, upon the coroner, "but I think I got very homesick--I guess I was pretty tired, too--and
I began thinking of things that had happened long ago, back when I was a little child, in a
little sod shanty that the old shack in the valley some way seemed to bring to mind. And then
I guess I fell asleep, too, but suddenly I sat up in a great fright. I'm not a coward," he
said, with a faint smile. "When I'm feeling myself it takes more than a notion or a dark night
to send the creeps up the back of my neck. But I own I sat up there so frightened my teeth
chattered. I had a feeling that I was going to be attacked--I didn't know by what--maybe by
a wild beast--but something was going to rush in through that old blanket hanging in the door
and pounce on me."

The sweat was standing on Allan's face, and he sank back weakly into the pillows. Beulah placed
a glass to his lips, and the doctor told him to take his time with his story. The jurors stood
about the bed in silence, looking from one to the other with expressions that suggested they
were almost in the presence of the supernatural. If the black bag with the money had slowly
risen out of the floor someone would have quietly set it in a corner until Allan was ready
to continue his evidence.

"As the minutes went by," Allan continued, after an interval, "that terrible dread grew upon
me, and my sense of danger changed from fear to certainty. Something was going to attack me
through that door! I raised my gun and took careful aim. I saw the blanket swing a little;
then I saw the fingers of a man's hand. Then I fired.

"Perhaps I am a murderer," he continued, simply, "but before God I know no more why I fired
that shot than you do."

There were deep breathing and shuffling of feet as Allan completed this part of his statement,
but only the coroner found his voice. "Most remarkable evidence," he ejaculated. "Most extraordinary
evidence. I have never heard anything so obviously sincere and at the same time so altogether
unexplainable."

"Perhaps it's not so unexplainable," said a quiet voice; and Mary Harris made her way through
the circle of men to the side of the bed. She sat down on the coverlet and took the boy's hand
in hers. It mattered not how many were looking on; he was her little boy again.

"You will understand, Doctor, and some of you men are parents," she began. "Allan will be twenty-five
years old this coming winter. A little less than twenty-five years ago my husband was obliged
to leave me alone for a considerable period in our little sod shanty on the homestead where
we had located down in Manitoba. There were no near neighbours, as we count distance in well-settled
districts, and I was altogether alone, I stood it all right for the first day or two, but my
nerves were not what they should have been, and gradually a strange, unreasoning fear came
upon me. I suppose it was the immensity of the prairies, the terrible loneliness of it all,
and my own state of health, but the dread grew from day to day and from night to night. I tried
to busy self, to keep my mind active, to throw off the spectre that haunted me, but day and
night I was oppressed with a sense of impending danger. We had no wooden door on the house;
we hadn't money to buy the boards to make one, and all my protection was a blanket hung in
the doorway. I used to watch that blanket at night; I would light the lantern and sit in the
corner and watch that blanket. My fear gradually pictured to itself an attack through that
doorway--I didn't know by what; by white man, or Indian, or wild beast, or ghost, or worse,
if that is possible; my mind could not balance things; nothing seemed too unreasonable or terrible
to expect. So I took the gun, and sat in the corner, and waited.

"And then at last it came. I didn't see anything, and I didn't hear anything, but I knew it
was there. I still remember how frightened and yet how cool I was in that last moment. I held
the gun to my shoulder and waited for It to thrust itself against the blanket. In another moment
I am sure I should have fired. But before that moment I heard my name called, and I knew my
husband's voice, and I came out of the nightmare."

She brought her eyes slowly from the face of the doctor over the group of men assembled in
the room, and then dropped them to meet Allan's. He was breathing her name softly. "If it was
a wrong thing for Allan to shoot this man," she said, "don't blame Allan for it. Let me pay
any price that must be paid."

"Most extraordinary," the coroner repeated, after a silence. "It seems to account for the shooting
of Riles, but it leaves us as much as ever--more than ever, I should say--in the dark concerning
the disappearance of the money, and the part which has implicated the young man Travers in
the affair."

The banker gave his evidence. It was not unusual, he said, for considerable sums in bank-notes
to be handled among speculators and land buyers, but the amount withdrawn by Harris was so
great that it had left him somewhat ill at ease, and as Sergeant Grey had happened his way
he had mentioned the matter to him.

The policeman shed little new light on the case. He had followed the party into the hills as
best he could, taking the off chance of something sinister afoot. He had found Harris, with
his wounded son, and a prisoner, and a man dead in the doorway. He had notified the coroner
and taken Travers in charge. Here his eyes met Beulah's. "I don't think there is anything more
to be said," he concluded.

During the hearing of the various witnesses Gardiner had attempted an air of impersonal interest,
but with no great success. His demeanour, studied though it was, betrayed a certain anxiety
and impatience. He was dressed just as he had dismounted from his horse, having removed only
his hat. But he smiled confidently when asked for his evidence, and told his story calmly and
connectedly.

It is quite true that he was associated with Riles and Mr. Harris in the coal-mine investment.
He was acting for the owner of the property; but had seen that a large profit was to be made
from the turn-over, and had been glad to place the opportunity in the way of two old friends.
The offer from the New York concern was entirely bona fide; he had the telegram in his pocket
at that moment, notwithstanding the suggestion made by the coroner, which, if he might say
so, he thought was hardly warranted, and would not have been made with a full knowledge of
the circumstances. The owner of the mine could be produced at the proper moment, if that became
necessary.

"I feel a grave responsibility in this whole matter," Gardiner protested, with some emotion.
"I feel that I am, at least indirectly, responsible for the serious loss that has befallen
Mr. Harris, and for the injury to his son. But when you have heard the whole circumstances
you will agree that the situation was one I could not possibly have foreseen. Let me give them
to you in some detail.

"The day before yesterday, in company with Riles, I met Mr. Harris and his son, and found that
their money had arrived. The remittance was not as large as they expected, but I believed that
I could raise some money privately, and that we would still be able to put the deal through.
I advised against losing any time, as I knew that if the owner should meet anyone else interested
in a proposition of a similar nature we would find it much harder to make a bargain with him.
It was arranged that the two Mr. Harrises were to drive ahead, taking the money with them,
and that Riles and I would follow. We were to overtake them at the old building where this
unfortunate tragedy occurred. As it happened, I had a sick horse at the ranch, and, as I was
delayed in getting some medicine for him, Riles suggested that he would ride out to the ranch--that
is, where I live--and wait for me there. Up to that time I had no suspicions, and I agreed to that.

"Well, when I reached the ranch, I could find nothing of Riles, and, on further search, I could
find nothing of Travers, who was working for me. Their riding horses were gone, and so were
their saddles and bridles. I found that Travers had taken his revolver out of the house. I
confess my suspicions were then somewhat aroused, but I found myself with the sick horse on
my hands, and I could not very well leave the place. Of course, I never thought of anything
so bad as has happened, or I would not have considered the horse, but I admit I was at a loss
to understand their conduct. But when I heard, early this morning, what had happened, it was
all clear to me."

During the latter part of this evidence Travers had fixed his eyes on Gardiner, but the witness
had steadily avoided him. Jim was now convinced that he was the victim, not of a coincidence,
but a plot. Of course, he could give his evidence, which would be directly contradictory to
that of Gardiner, but he was already under suspicion, and anything he might say would be unconsciously
discounted by the jurors. But he began calmly, a quiet smile still playing about his thin lips
and clean teeth. "I am sorry I cannot corroborate all the last witness has said," he commenced.
"I did not leave the ranch with Riles; on the contrary, I was fishing down by the river when
I saw Riles and Gardiner ride by. Gardiner was talking, and I heard him mention Mr. Harris's
name. I worked for Mr. Harris not long ago, but I did not know he was in this part of the country.
I heard Gardiner say--" Jim coloured a little, and stopped.

"Well, what did you hear him say?" said the coroner. "That is what we are anxious to know."
That made me suspicious, and I hurried back to the ranch, determined to follow them. I found
that my revolver had been taken. I armed myself as best I could, and set out. When I came near
the building which Gardiner had mentioned I dismounted and approached it carefully. It was
very dark. Suddenly I was attacked from behind. A sack was thrown over my head, and I was overpowered,
and bound. I don't know how long I was kept in that condition, but when at last the sack was
removed I was in the presence of Sergeant Grey."

With the progress of Travers' narrative all eyes had turned to Gardiner, but, whatever his
inward emotions, he outwardly showed no signs of discomfiture. "This seems to be a day of strange
tales," he said to the coroner, "and the last we have heard is stranger than the first. Of
course, it is quite absurd on the face of it. The suggestion that I would be a party to robbing
Mr. Harris of twenty thousand dollars, and so balk a transaction in which I stood to make a
profit of more than twice that amount, is too ridiculous for discussion. I didn't say so before,
because it didn't seem to bear on the case, but I have at home a telegram which I received
a few days ago from the New York investors, offering me a personal commission of twenty per
cent, on the transaction if I was able to get this property for them at the price they had
offered. So, from a purely selfish point of view, you see where my interests lay. But there
are other reasons for this fine tale which you have just heard. To spare the feelings of some
present, I intended to say nothing of them, but if I must tell what I know, why, I must tell
what I know. This man Travers was a farm hand working for Harris on his farm back in Manitoba.
Harris is--or was--well-to-do, and Travers accordingly mustered up an attachment for his daughter.
This the young lady, it seems, was foolish enough to return. They--"

"That'll do, Gardiner," interrupted Travers, in a quiet, vibrant voice. "You are getting away
from the subject."

"On the contrary, I'm getting close to the subject--a little too close for your comfort, it seems."

"I am not investigating any family closets," said the coroner. "You will have to show the connection
between these matters and the inquiry we are making."

"I will do that in a moment, sir," Gardiner returned. "But I cannot show the connection until
I have shown the events that are connected. Travers had trouble with Harris and had a fight
with Allan. Then he and the young lady ran away. They have both been in this part of the country
for some time. But Travers' plan to inherit the Harris property was upset on account of the
girl quarrelling with her parents, and his ardour seems to have cooled off noticeably. But
he was as keen for the property as ever. Riles was a weakling in the hands of a man like Travers,
and no doubt he betrayed the fact that Harris was taking his money with him into the hills.
Then the two of them framed up the plan which has resulted in the death of one and the arrest
of the other." During these exchanges the sympathies of the jurors seemed to veer from side
to side. The theories propounded were so contradictory that opinions wavered with each sentence
of evidence. But a new bolt was ready for the shooting.

"Mr. Coroner," said Beulah, rising and pointing at Gardiner, "will you make that man take his
gauntlets off?"

There seemed an instant recession of the blood from Gardiner's face. But it was for the instant
only. "My hat is off," he said, with a smile. "Is not that sufficient?"

"Make him take them off!" Beulah insisted.

"There is no rule against wearing gauntlets in a coroner's court," said the coroner. "I do
not see the point of your objection."

"Make him take them off," said Beulah.

"As the young lady insists," said the coroner, turning to Gardiner, "I suggest that you comply
with her request."

"I should be glad to," said Gardiner, "but the fact is I have a sore hand. When I was giving
the horse medicine the night Travers left me alone the brute nipped me a little, and I have
been keeping it covered up since."

"Make him take them off," said Beulah.

"Why should you be so insistent?" said the coroner. "Surely it makes no difference--"

"Only this difference. You have heard my father's evidence of the fight in the old house. The
man with whom he fought will have tooth-marks in his hand. Make him take them off. Or if you
won't--look at these hands." She seized Jim's hands in hers and held them up before the coroner
and the jury. "Any tooth-marks there? Now make this other man show his."

For a moment all eyes were on Travers' hands. In that moment Gardiner rushed for the open window,
and in another instant would have been through it, had not the quick arm of the policeman intercepted.

"Not so fast, my man," said Grey. "Now we will see this horse-bite of yours." Gardiner made
no further resistance, and he drew the glove from his hand. There was a fresh scar on the right
thumb.

The coroner examined it carefully. When he spoke it was in the voice of a judge delivering
sentence. "That is not a horse-bite," he said. "Those are the marks of human teeth!"

Gardiner smiled a faint smile. "Well, what are you going to do about it?" he said.

"We are going to put you in Travers' place and tender him our apologies," said the coroner.

"Very good," said Gardiner. "And do I marry the girl?"

"This is no time for levity," said the coroner, sternly. "You have escaped a murder charge
only by grace of this young man's excellent constitution."

But Travers had crowded into the centre of the circle. "Gardiner," he said, "if you weren't
under arrest I'd thrash you here and now. But you can at least do something to square yourself.
Where is that money?"

"That's right, Jim. Everyone thinks of what is nearest his heart."

"You scoundrel! You know why it is near my heart. You have robbed Mr. Harris of all that he
had spent his whole life for. You will have no chance to use that money yourself. You are sure
of your living for the next twenty years. Why not show that you are not all bad--that you have
some human sentiments in you? It seems as little as you can do."

"There may be something in what you say," said Gardiner. "I have a slip of paper here with
the key to the secret."

He reached with his finger and thumb in his vest pocket and drew out a small folded paper.

This he unfolded very slowly and deliberately before the eyes of the onlookers. It contained
a small quantity of white powder. Before any hand could reach him he had thrown his head back
and swallowed it.

"Too late!" he cried, as Grey snatched the empty paper from his fingers. "Too late! Well, I
guess I beat you all out, eh? And, as I said before, what are you going to do about it? Twenty
years, eh, Jim? You'll be scrawny and rheumatic by that time, and the beautiful Beulah will
be fat and figureless. Twenty years for you, Jim, but twenty minutes for me--and I wouldn't
trade with you, damn you! I beg the pardon of the ladies present. One should never forget to
be a gentleman, even when--when--"

But Gardiner's breath was beginning to come fast, and he raised his hands to his throat. A
choking spell seized him, and he would have fallen had not the policeman and the coroner held
him on his feet. "Let me lie down," he said, when he got his breath. "Let me lie down, can't
you? Have I got to die on end, like a murderer?"

They led him to the adjoining room, where he fell upon the bed. The muscles of his great arms
and neck were working in contortions, and his tongue seemed to fill his mouth.

"Most extraordinary," said the coroner. "Strychnine, doubtless. We can't do much for him, I'm
afraid. We might try some mustard and hot water, Mrs. Arthurs."

"Take your time, Lil," whispered Arthurs. "You may save your country a long board bill." But
Lilian Arthurs' abhorrence of Gardiner's perfidy had been overwhelmed in a wave of sympathy
for a suffering fellow-being. She hurried to the kitchen, while the men of the party filed
down the stairs and out into the yard. John Harris was the last to leave the house, and he
walked slowly, with bare, bowed head, into the group who were excitedly discussing the amazing
turn events had taken. He took no part in their conversation, but stood a little apart, plunged
deep in his own inward struggle.

At last he turned and called his wife in the kitchen door. "Bring Beulah," he said.

The two women joined him. At first Harris stood with face averted, but in a moment he spoke
in a clear, quiet voice.

"I haven't played the game fair with you two," he said, "and I want to say so now. Perhaps
it would be truer to say that I played the wrong game. Twenty-five years have proved it was
the wrong game. Now, without a penny, I can start just where I started twenty-five years ago.
The only difference is that I am an old man instead of a young one. I'm going to take another
homestead and start again, at the right game, if Mary will start with me."

She put her hand in his, and her eyes were bright again with the fire of youth. "You know there
is only one answer, John," she whispered.

Harris called Travers over from the group of men.

"There's one thing more," he continued. "When I started I had only a wife to keep, and I don't
intend to take any bigger responsibility now. Allan will be having a homestead of his own.
Jim Travers, I am speaking to you! I owe you an apology for some things and an explanation
for some things, but I'm going to square the debt with the only gift I have left."

The light breeze tossed the hair of Beulah's uncovered head, and the light of love and health
glowed in her face and thrilled through the fine symmetry of her figure.

"Take her, Jim," he said.

"She is a godly gift," said the young man reverently.

"You think so now," said her father. "You know nothing about it. In twenty-five years you will
know just how great a gift she is--or she will not be worthy of her mother."

Harris and his wife were gazing with unseeing eyes into the mountains when Arthurs handed them
a letter. "It came in the mail which the boys brought out this morning," he said, "and I forgot
all about it until this minute."

It was from Bradshaw. Harris opened it indifferently, but the first few lines aroused his interest,
and he read it eagerly to the end.

"My dear Harris," it ran, "on receipt of your telegram I immediately opened negotiations through
my connections looking to a sale of your farm with its crop and equipment, complete as a going
concern. I succeeded in getting an offer of the $40,000 you set on it, and had all the papers
drawn up, when I discovered that among us we had made a serious omission. You will remember
that, a good many years ago, when you were taking on some fresh obligations, you transferred
the homestead into your wife's name. I assured the purchaser that there would be no difficulty
about getting title from your wife, but as all the buildings are on the homestead quarter he
would agree to nothing better than paying $20,000 for the rest of your land, leaving the homestead
quarter, with the buildings, stock, and implements, out of the transaction. As his price seemed
a fair one for the balance of the property, and as I assumed your need of the money was urgent,
I closed a deal on that basis, cashed the agreement, and remitted the proceeds to you at once
by wire. I trust my actions in the matter meet with your approval,

"Yours sincerely,

"GEORGE BRADSHAW."

Harris placed the letter in the hands of his wife. She tried to read it, but a great happiness
enveloped her as a flood and the typewritten characters seemed to swim before her. "What does
it mean, John?" she asked, noting his restrained excitement. "What does it mean?"

"It means that the homestead quarter was not sold--after all--that it is still yours, with
the buildings, and machinery, and stock, and this year's crop just ready for cutting."

She raised her eyes to his. "Still ours, John, you mean. Still ours."

In the rapid succession of events everyone seemed to have forgotten, or disregarded, Gardiner.
But at this moment the doctor came rushing out of the house.

"Gardiner's gone!" he exclaimed, as he came up to the men.

Some of the party removed their hats.

"Oh, not that way--not that way!" exclaimed the doctor. "I mean he's gone--skipped--beat it,
if you understand. Most extraordinary! I was taking his pulse. It was about normal, and he
seemed resting easier, so I slipped downstairs for the antidote. When I went back--I was only
gone a moment--there wasn't sight or sound of him."

The men stared at each other for a moment; then followed the doctor in a race for Gardiner's
room. They found it as he said. There was neither sight nor sound of Gardiner.

Sergeant Grey conducted a swift examination, not of Gardiner's room, but of the one in which
Allan was lying. He was rewarded by finding the little slip of paper, with a few crystals of
powder still clinging to it. The coroner examined the crystals through his magnifying-glass;
then, somewhat dubiously, raised them on a moistened finger to his tongue, and after a moment's
hesitation swallowed in an impressive, scholarly fashion.

"Saccharum album!" he exclaimed. "Common white sugar! Most extraordinary!"

But Sergeant Grey was at the open window. It was only an eight-foot drop to the soft earth,
and to the policeman there was no longer any mystery in Gardiner's disappearance. The mock
suicide was a carefully-planned ruse to be employed by Gardiner if the worst came to the worst.

