No time to finish, Yours ever, R. L. S.

CHAPTER XVIII

MAY 1ST. 1892.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - As I rode down last night about six, I saw  a sight I must try to tell you
of.  In front of me, right  over the top of the forest into which I was descending was a  vast
cloud.  The front of it accurately represented the  somewhat rugged, long-nosed, and beetle-browed
profile of a  man, crowned by a huge Kalmuck cap; the flesh part was of a  heavenly pink, the
cap, the moustache, the eyebrows were of a  bluish gray; to see this with its childish exactitude
of  design and colour, and hugeness of scale - it covered at  least 25 degrees - held me spellbound.
As I continued to  gaze, the expression began to change; he had the exact air of  closing one
eye, dropping his jaw, and drawing down his nose;  had the thing not been so imposing, I could
have smiled; and  then almost in a moment, a shoulder of leaden-coloured bank  drove in front
and blotted it.  My attention spread to the  rest of the cloud, and it was a thing to worship.
It rose  from the horizon, and its top was within thirty degrees of  the zenith; the lower
parts were like a glacier in shadow,  varying from dark indigo to a clouded white in exquisite
gradations.  The sky behind, so far as I could see, was all  of a blue already enriched and
darkened by the night, for the  hill had what lingered of the sunset.  But the top of my  Titanic
cloud flamed in broad sunlight, with the most  excellent softness and brightness of fire and
jewels,  enlightening all the world.  It must have been far higher  than Mount Everest, and
its glory, as I gazed up at it out of  the night, was beyond wonder.  Close by rode the little
crescent moon; and right over its western horn, a great  planet of about equal lustre with
itself.  The dark woods  below were shrill with that noisy business of the birds'  evening
worship.  When I returned, after eight, the moon was  near down; she seemed little brighter
than before, but now  that the cloud no longer played its part of a nocturnal sun,  we could
see that sight, so rare with us at home that it was  counted a portent, so customary in the
tropics, of the dark  sphere with its little gilt band upon the belly.  The planet  had been
setting faster, and was now below the crescent.   They were still of an equal brightness.

I could not resist trying to reproduce this in words, as a  specimen of these incredibly beautiful
and imposing meteors  of the tropic sky that make so much of my pleasure here;  though a ship's
deck is the place to enjoy them.  O what  AWFUL scenery, from a ship's deck, in the tropics!
People  talk about the Alps, but the clouds of the trade wind are  alone for sublimity.

Now to try and tell you what has been happening.  The state  of these islands, and of Mataafa
and Laupepa (Malietoa's  AMBO) had been much on my mind.  I went to the priests and  sent a
message to Mataafa, at a time when it was supposed he  was about to act.  He did not act, delaying
in true native  style, and I determined I should go to visit him.  I have  been very good not
to go sooner; to live within a few miles  of a rebel camp, to be a novelist, to have all my
family  forcing me to go, and to refrain all these months, counts for  virtue.  But hearing
that several people had gone and the  government done nothing to punish them, and having an
errand  there which was enough to justify myself in my own eyes, I  half determined to go,
and spoke of it with the half-caste  priest.  And here (confound it) up came Laupepa and his
guards to call on me; we kept him to lunch, and the old  gentleman was very good and amiable.
He asked me why I had  not been to see him?  I reminded him a law had been made, and  told
him I was not a small boy to go and ask leave of the  consuls, and perhaps be refused.  He
told me to pay no  attention to the law but come when I would, and begged me to  name a day
to lunch.  The next day (I think it was) early in  the morning, a man appeared; he had metal
buttons like a  policeman - but he was none of our Apia force; he was a rebel  policeman, and
had been all night coming round inland through  the forest from Malie.  He brought a letter
addressed

I LAUA SUSUGA         To his Excellency MISI MEA.             Mr. Thingumbob.

(So as not to compromise me).  I can read Samoan now, though  not speak it.  It was to ask
me for last Wednesday.  My  difficulty was great; I had no man here who was fit, or who  would
have cared to write for me; and I had to postpone the  visit.  So I gave up half-a-day with
a groan, went down to  the priests, arranged for Monday week to go to Malie, and  named Thursday
as my day to lunch with Laupepa.  I was  sharply ill on Wednesday, mail day.  But on Thursday
I had to  trail down and go through the dreary business of a feast, in  the King's wretched
shanty, full in view of the President's  fine new house; it made my heart burn.

This gave me my chance to arrange a private interview with  the King, and I decided to ask
Mr. Whitmee, one of our  missionaries, to be my interpreter.  On Friday, being too  much exhausted
to go down, I begged him to come up.  He did,  I told him the heads of what I meant to say;
and he not only  consented, but said, if we got on well with the King, he  would even proceed
with me to Malie.  Yesterday, in  consequence, I rode down to W.'s house by eight in the  morning;
waited till ten; received a message that the King  was stopped by a meeting with the President
and FAIPULE; made  another engagement for seven at night; came up; went down;  waited till
eight, and came away again, BREDOUILLE, and a  dead body.  The poor, weak, enslaved King had
not dared to  come to me even in secret.  Now I have to-day for a rest, and  to-morrow to Malie.
Shall I be suffered to embark?  It is  very doubtful; they are on the trail.  On Thursday,
a  policeman came up to me and began that a boy had been to see  him, and said I was going
to see Mataafa.  - 'And what did  you say?' said I. - 'I told him I did not know about where
you were going,' said he. - 'A very good answer,' said I, and  turned away.  It is lashing
rain to-day, but to-morrow, rain  or shine, I must at least make the attempt; and I am so 
weary, and the weather looks so bad.  I could half wish they  would arrest me on the beach.
All this bother and pother to  try and bring a little chance of peace; all this opposition
and obstinacy in people who remain here by the mere  forbearance of Mataafa, who has a great
force within six  miles of their government buildings, which are indeed only  the residences
of white officials.  To understand how I have  been occupied, you must know that 'Misi Mea'
has had another  letter, and this time had to answer himself; think of doing  so in a language
so obscure to me, with the aid of a Bible,  concordance and dictionary!  What a wonderful Baboo
compilation it must have been!  I positively expected to hear  news of its arrival in Malie
by the sound of laughter.  I  doubt if you will be able to read this scrawl, but I have  managed
to scramble somehow up to date; and to-morrow, one  way or another, should be interesting.
But as for me, I am a  wreck, as I have no doubt style and handwriting both testify.

8 P.M.

Wonderfully rested; feel almost fit for to-morrow's dreary  excursion - not that it will be
dreary if the weather favour,  but otherwise it will be death; and a native feast, and I  fear
I am in for a big one, is a thing I loathe.  I wonder if  you can really conceive me as a politician
in this extra- mundane sphere - presiding at public meetings, drafting  proclamations, receiving
mis-addressed letters that have been  carried all night through tropical forests?  It seems
strange  indeed, and to you, who know me really, must seem stranger.   I do not say I am free
from the itch of meddling, but God  knows this is no tempting job to meddle in; I smile at
picturesque circumstances like the Misi Mea (MONSIEUR CHOSE  is the exact equivalent) correspondence,
but the business as  a whole bores and revolts me.  I do nothing and say nothing;  and then
a day comes, and I say 'this can go on no longer.'

9.30 P. M.

The wretched native dilatoriness finds me out.  News has just  come that we must embark at
six to-morrow; I have divided the  night in watches, and hope to be called to-morrow at four
and  get under way by five.  It is a great chance if it be  managed; but I have given directions
and lent my own clock to  the boys, and hope the best.  If I get called at four we  shall do
it nicely.  Good-night; I must turn in.

MAY 3RD.

Well, we did get off by about 5.30, or, by'r lady! quarter of  six: myself on Donald, the huge
grey cart-horse, with a ship- bag across my saddle bow, Fanny on Musu and Belle on Jack.  
We were all feeling pretty tired and sick, and I looked like  heaven knows what on the cart
horse: 'death on the pale  horse,' I suggested - and young Hunt the missionary, who met  me
to-day on the same charger, squinted up at my perch and  remarked, 'There's a sweet little
cherub that sits up aloft.'   The boat was ready and we set off down the lagoon about  seven,
four oars, and Talolo, my cook, steering.

MAY 9TH (MONDAY ANYWAY).

And see what good resolutions came to!  Here is all this time  past, and no speed made.  Well,
we got to Malie and were  received with the most friendly consideration by the rebel  chief.
Belle and Fanny were obviously thought to be my two  wives; they were served their kava together,
as were Mataafa  and myself.  Talolo utterly broke down as interpreter; long  speeches were
made to me by Mataafa and his orators, of which  he could make nothing but they were 'very
much surprised' -  his way of pronouncing obliged - and as he could understand  nothing that
fell from me except the same form of words, the  dialogue languished and all business had to
be laid aside.   We had kava, and then a dish of arrowroot; one end of the  house was screened
off for us with a fine tapa, and we lay  and slept, the three of us heads and tails, upon the
mats  till dinner.  After dinner his illegitimate majesty and  myself had a walk, and talked
as well as my twopenny Samoan  would admit.  Then there was a dance to amuse the ladies  before
the house, and we came back by moonlight, the sky  piled full of high faint clouds that long
preserved some of  the radiance of the sunset.  The lagoon was very shallow; we  continually
struck, for the moon was young and the light  baffling; and for a long time we were accompanied
by, and  passed and re-passed, a huge whale-boat from Savaii, pulling  perhaps twelve oars,
and containing perhaps forty people who  sang in time as they went So to the hotel, where we
slept,  and returned the next Tuesday morning on the three same  steeds.

Meanwhile my business was still untransacted.  And on  Saturday morning, I sent down and arranged
with Charlie  Taylor to go down that afternoon.  I had scarce got the  saddle bags fixed and
had not yet mounted, when the rain  began.  But it was no use delaying now; off I went in a
wild  waterspout to Apia; found Charlie (Sale) Taylor - a  sesquipedalian young half-caste
- not yet ready, had a snack  of bread and cheese at the hotel while waiting him, and then
off to Malie.  It rained all the way, seven miles; the road,  which begins in triumph, dwindles
down to a nasty, boggy,  rocky footpath with weeds up to a horseman's knees; and there  are
eight pig fences to jump, nasty beastly jumps - the next  morning we found one all messed with
blood where a horse had  come to grief - but my Jack is a clever fencer; and  altogether we
made good time, and got to Malie about dark.   It is a village of very fine native houses,
high, domed, oval  buildings, open at the sides, or only closed with slatted  Venetians.  To
be sure, Mataafa's is not the worst.  It was  already quite dark within, only a little fire
of cocoa-shell  blazed in the midst and showed us four servants; the chief  was in his chapel,
whence we heard the sound of chaunting.   Presently he returned; Taylor and I had our soaking
clothes  changed, family worship was held, kava brewed, I was  exhibited to the chiefs as a
man who had ridden through all  that rain and risked deportation to serve their master; they
were bidden learn my face, and remember upon all occasions to  help and serve me.  Then dinner,
and politics, and fine  speeches until twelve at night - O, and some more kava - when  I could
sit up no longer; my usual bed-time is eight, you  must remember.  Then one end of the house
was screened off  for me alone, and a bed made - you never saw such a couch - I  believe of
nearly fifty (half at least) fine mats, by  Mataafa's daughter, Kalala.  Here I reposed alone;
and on the  other side of the tafa, Majesty and his household.  Armed  guards and a drummer
patrolled about the house all night;  they had no shift, poor devils; but stood to arms from
sun- down to sun-up.

About four in the morning, I was awakened by the sound of a  whistle pipe blown outside on
the dark, very softly and to a  pleasing simple air; I really think I have hit the first  phrase:

[Fragment of music score which cannot be reproduced]

It sounded very peaceful, sweet and strange in the dark; and  I found this was a part of the
routine of my rebel's night,  and it was done (he said) to give good dreams.  By a little 
before six, Taylor and I were in the saddle again fasting.   My riding boots were so wet I
could not get them on, so I  must ride barefoot.  The morning was fair but the roads very 
muddy, the weeds soaked us nearly to the waist, Sale was  twice spilt at the fences, and we
got to Apia a bedraggled  enough pair.  All the way along the coast, the pate (small  wooden
drum) was beating in the villages and the people  crowding to the churches in their fine clothes.
Thence  through the mangrove swamp, among the black mud and the green  mangroves, and the black
and scarlet crabs, to Mulinuu, to  the doctor's, where I had an errand, and so to the inn to
breakfast about nine.  After breakfast I rode home.

You are to understand: if I take all this bother, it is not  only from a sense of duty, or
a love of meddling - damn the  phrase, take your choice - but from a great affection for  Mataafa.
He is a beautiful, sweet old fellow, and he and I  grew quite fulsome on Saturday night about
our sentiments.  I  had a messenger from him to-day with a flannel undershirt  which I had
left behind like a gibbering idiot; and  perpetrated in reply another baboo letter.  It rains
again  to-day without mercy; blessed, welcome rains, making up for  the paucity of the late
wet season; and when the showers  slacken, I can hear my stream roaring in the hollow, and
tell  myself that the cacaos are drinking deep.  I am desperately  hunted to finish my Samoa
book before the mail goes; this  last chapter is equally delicate and necessary.  The prayers
of the congregation are requested.  Eheu! and it will be  ended before this letter leaves and
printed in the States ere  you can read this scribble.  The first dinner gong has  sounded;
JE VOUS SALUE, MONSIEUR ET CHER CONFRERE.  TOFA,  SOIFUA!  Sleep! long life! as our Samoan
salutation of  farewell runs.

FRIDAY, MAY 13TH.

Well, the last chapter, by far the most difficult and  ungrateful, is well under way, I have
been from six to seven  hours upon it daily since I last wrote; and that is all I  have done
forbye working at Samoan rather hard, and going  down on Wednesday evening to the club.  I
make some progress  now at the language; I am teaching Belle, which clears and  exercises myself.
I am particularly taken with the FINESSE  of the pronouns.  The pronouns are all dual and plural
and  the first person, both in the dual and plural, has a special  exclusive and inclusive
form.  You can conceive what fine  effects of precision and distinction can be reached in 
certain cases.  Take Ruth, i. VV. 8 to 13, and imagine how  those pronouns come in; it is exquisitely
elegant, and makes  the mouth of the LITTERATEUR to water.  I am going to  exercitate my pupil
over those verses to-day for pronoun  practice.

TUESDAY.

Yesterday came yours.  Well, well, if the dears prefer a  week, why, I'll give them ten days,
but the real document,  from which I have scarcely varied, ran for one night.  I  think you
seem scarcely fair to Wiltshire, who had surely,  under his beast-ignorant ways, right noble
qualities.  And I  think perhaps you scarce do justice to the fact that this is  a place of
realism A OUTRANCE; nothing extenuated or  coloured.  Looked at so, is it not, with all its
tragic  features, wonderfully idyllic, with great beauty of scene and  circumstance?  And will
you please to observe that almost all  that is ugly is in the whites?  I'll apologise for Papa
Randal if you like; but if I told you the whole truth - for I  did extenuate there! - and he
seemed to me essential as a  figure, and essential as a pawn in the game, Wiltshire's  disgust
for him being one of the small, efficient motives in  the story.  Now it would have taken a
fairish dose to disgust  Wiltshire. - Again, the idea of publishing the Beach  substantively
is dropped - at once, both on account of  expostulation, and because it measured shorter than
I had  expected.  And it was only taken up, when the proposed  volume, BEACH DE MAR, petered
out.  It petered out thus: the  chief of the short stories got sucked into SOPHIA SCARLET -
and Sophia is a book I am much taken with, and mean to get  to, as soon as - but not before
- I have done DAVID BALFOUR  and THE YOUNG CHEVALIER.  So you see you are like to hear no 
more of the Pacific or the nineteenth century for a while.   THE YOUNG CHEVALIER is a story
of sentiment and passion,  which I mean to write a little differently from what I have  been
doing - if I can hit the key; rather more of a  sentimental tremolo to it.  It may thus help
to prepare me  for SOPHIA, which is to contain three ladies, and a kind of a  love affair between
the heroine and a dying planter who is a  poet! large orders for R. L. S.

O the German taboo is quite over; no soul attempts to support  the C. J. or the President,
they are past hope; the whites  have just refused their taxes - I mean the council has  refused
to call for them, and if the council consented,  nobody would pay; 'tis a farce, and the curtain
is going to  fall briefly.  Consequently in my History, I say as little as  may be of the two
dwindling stars.  Poor devils!  I liked the  one, and the other has a little wife, now lying
in!  There  was no man born with so little animosity as I. When I heard  the C. J. was in low
spirits and never left his house, I  could scarce refrain from going to him.

