Naaman folded the letter in his tunic, and filling a few small bags with silver and gold, and
rolling up some bundles of new clothing, he put them into the wide saddle-bags of his camels
as presents for the King of Israel.  Then stepping into his chariot, he drove down the river
valley, with his men clattering after him, and up the hills to Samaria on the watch-hill, where
he delivered the letter.

The King of Israel read it, and his chiefs saw that he was much troubled.  Seizing his white
tunic with both hands, he tore it from neck to hem--a sign of great grief--saying bitterly
that he was not able to heal people of leprosy, and that the powerful King of Syria was only
seeking another cause to quarrel with him.  What kings say and what kings do many tongues tell,
and Elisha the prophet, who had a house in white-walled Samaria, heard about the king's grief,
and sent his servant Gehazi to give him a message,--

"Why do you rend your clothes?  Send the man to me!"

The king was delighted, and soon Naaman's chariot and horses, his armed guards and his brown
camels, were standing at the door of the prophet's house.  But only Gehazi appeared in answer
to the captain's call.

"Go," he said to the proud Syrian chief--"go and wash thyself seven times in the river Jordan,
and thou shalt be healed, and be clean of thy leprosy."

This was a message from his master Elisha, who was not coming out to see the great captain!
The Syrian chief was filled with anger at the man who dared to send him away from the prophet's
door as if he were a beggar, and he exclaimed,--

"I thought he would surely come out to see me, and stand and call on his God, and wave his
hand over the place and heal me.

Springing into his chariot, he grasped the reins, and shook them as he brought his whip fiercely
down on the horses' backs, causing them to leap forward from the door.  The horses galloped
swiftly through the narrow streets, and out by the gate in the city wall, and down the road
to the plain, the guards and servants of the great captain following after him as quickly as
they could.  Naaman considered that he had been mocked by this foreign prophet, and was galloping
back to Syria as quickly as he could.

But horses cannot gallop for ever, however angry their masters may be; and when at length they
came to a walking pace, Naaman began to talk with his friends about the insult he had received
from the rude old prophet.  Why should he bathe in the Jordan River, where the water was clay-white
and often muddy, when he had his own rivers of Abana the golden and Pharpar the sweet, brimming
with the finest water in the world?  His friends did not answer him in his wrath; but they
soon reached the ford of crossing, and if he would not bathe in the Jordan, he would have to
ride through it, for there was no bridge.  Then one of his friends gave him this piece of very
good advice.

"My father," he said, "if the prophet had told thee to do some hard thing, thou wouldst have
done it.  How much more shouldst thou obey him when what he commands is such a little thing
as this?"

Naaman's rage had passed off with the lashing of his horses and his furious driving, but his
terrible leprosy remained.  Was he going back to his master with the disease still upon him,
to tell him that he had not done what the prophet had told him because it was too easy?  There
was the white river rushing past at his feet.  To ride so far and then refuse to wash would
seem very foolish; so he changed his mind, and stopping his chariot at the water's edge, went
into the stream and bathed, and to his surprise and delight was at once healed of his leprosy,
so that his skin became like that of a little child.

It was with a changed heart that he turned his horses' heads and drove slowly back out of the
valley, and up the road to the hills down which he had just come clattering in his anger. 
When next he stood at the door of the prophet's little house all the pride was gone out of him.

"Now I know," he said to the prophet, "that there is no God in all the world but in Israel.
I pray thee to take a present from thy servant."

Elisha stood before him in worn cloak and sandals, his head covered with a striped kerchief,
his eyes bright and piercing.  The camels were there, laden with presents in their saddle-bags.

"As God liveth, before whom I stand," exclaimed the old man, "I will take nothing."

Gold and silver, fine clothing, sweet spices, scented oils, had no real value for him.  They
were only a few of the many things he could quite well do without.  This Syrian chief had obeyed
what was really the command of the living God, and that was much more important.  The Syrian
pressed him to take something, but the poor prophet would have nothing.  Naaman then asked
leave to carry away two mule loads of earth from Samaria, saying that he would never again
offer sacrifice to idols after the manner of his own people, but would sacrifice to God only.

Again Naaman shook the reins and cracked his whip as the horses sprang forward with the light
chariot, the wooden wheels clattering on the stones.  Outside the city walls his servants scraped
the earth together until they had filled two mule-sacks, and then the small band of Syrians,
shouldering their spears, set out on the homeward road.

Soon the eyes of the Syrian drivers saw the green palm-trees, the spires of glittering brass,
and the white walls of Damascus.  They were back again in their own country, bringing no camel-loads
of plunder, no droves of stolen cattle, no chains of weeping slaves--only two sacks of earth
from Samaria, and a chief with a healthy body and a grateful heart.  If his wife was glad to
see him, so also was the little Jewish maid; and we need not doubt that she would not be much
longer a slave, but free--set free as a sign that Naaman the Syrian had a grateful heart for
his little friend who had sent him to be healed by the prophet of Israel.

THE END.