EXPERIMENT 68. Caution: Keep the switches turned off throughout this experiment.[6]

[Footnote 6: All through this chapter it is assumed that the electrical apparatus described
in the appendix is being used. In this apparatus all the switches are on one wire, the other
wire being alive even when the switches are turned off.]

    (a) Put a piece of fuse wire across the fuse gap. Screw the
    plug with nails in it into the lamp socket. Connect the bare
    end of a piece of insulated wire to the water faucet and touch
    the other end to one nail of the plug. If nothing happens,
    touch it to the other nail instead. The electricity has gone
    down into the ground through the water pipe, instead of into
    the other wire. The ground carries the electricity back to the
    dynamo just as a wire would.

    (b) Put a new piece of fuse wire across the gap. Keep
    switches turned off. Touch the brass disk at the bottom of
    an electric lamp to the nail which worked, and touch the wire
    from the faucet to the other brass part of the lamp (Fig.
    129). What happens?

    Caution: Under no circumstances allow the switch to be turned
    on while you are doing any part of this experiment. Under no
    circumstances touch the wire from the faucet to the binding
    posts of the fuse gap. Do only as directed. Explain what
    would happen if you disobeyed these rules.

WHY A BIRD IS NOT ELECTROCUTED WHEN IT SITS ON A LIVE WIRE. If a man accidentally touches a
live wire that carries a strong current of electricity he is electrocuted; yet birds perch
on such a wire in perfect safety. If a man should leap into the air and grasp a live wire,
hanging from it without touching the ground, he would be no more hurt by it than a bird is.
A person who is electrocuted by touching such a wire must at the same time be standing on the
ground or on something connected with it. The ground completes the electric circuit which passes
through the body. An electric circuit can always be completed through the ground, and when
this is done, it is called grounding a circuit.

    APPLICATION 54. Explain why only one wire is needed to
    telegraph between two stations; why you should not turn an
    electric light on or off while standing in a tub of water.

    APPLICATION 55. In a house in the country, the electric wires
    passed through a double wall. They were separated from each
    other and well covered with insulation, but they were not
    within an iron pipe, as is now required in many cities. The
    current was alternating. One night when the lights were out a
    rat in the wall gnawed through the insulation of the wire
    and also gnawed clear through one of the wires. Did he get a
    shock? The next morning, the woman of the house wanted to use
    the electric iron in the kitchen and it would not work. The
    kitchen had in it a gas stove, a sink with running water, a
    table, a couple of chairs, and the usual kitchen utensils.
    There was also a piece of wire about long enough to reach
    across the kitchen. The electrician could not come out for
    several hours, and the woman wanted very much to do her
    ironing. Figure 130 is a diagram of the wires and the kitchen.
    Show what the woman might have done in order to use her iron
    until the electrician arrived.

    APPLICATION 56. A man wanted to change the location of the
    wiring in his cement-floored garage. While he was working,
    would it have been best for him to stand on the bare cement
    floor, on a wire mat, on an old automobile tire, on a wet rug,
    or on some skid chains that were there?

INFERENCE EXERCISE

    Explain the following:

    331. An ungreased wheel squeaks.

    332. Lightning rods extend into the earth.

    333.

    334. When the filament breaks, an electric lamp will no longer
    glow.

    335. An inverted image is formed by the lens of a camera.

    336. A blown-out fuse may be replaced temporarily with a
    hairpin or with a copper cent.

    337. Sparks fly when a horse's shoe hits a stone.

    338. A room requires less artificial light if the wall paper
    is light than if it is dark.

    339. Phonographs usually have horns, either inside or outside.

    340. An electric car needs only one wire to make it go.

SECTION 37. Resistance.

What makes an electric heater hot?

Why does lightning kill people when it strikes them?

What makes an electric light glow?

We have talked about making electricity work when it flows in a steady stream, and everybody
knows that it makes lights glow, makes toasters and electric stoves hot, and heats electric
irons. But did it ever strike you as remarkable that the same electricity that flows harmlessly
through the wires in your house without heating them, suddenly makes the wire in your toaster
or the filament in your incandescent lamp glowing hot? The insulation is not what keeps the
wire cool, as you can see by the next experiment.

    EXPERIMENT 69. Between two of the laboratory switches you will
    find one piece of wire which has no insulation. Turn on the
    electricity and make the lamp glow; see that you are standing
    on dry wood and are not touching any pipes or anything
    connected to the ground. Feel the bare piece of wire with your
    fingers. Why does this not give you a shock? What would happen
    if you touched your other hand to the gas pipe or water pipe?
    Do not try it! But what would happen if you did?

The reason that the filament of the electric lamp gets white hot while the copper wire stays
cool is this: All substances that conduct electricity resist the flow somewhat; there is something
like friction between the wire and the electricity passing through it. The smaller around a
wire is, the greater resistance it offers to the passing of an electric current. The filament
of an electric lamp is very fine and therefore offers considerable resistance. However, if
the filament were made of copper, even as fine as it is, it would take a much greater flow
of electricity to make it white hot, and it would be very expensive to use. So filaments are
not made of copper but of substances which do not conduct electricity nearly as well and which
therefore have much higher resistance. Carbon was once used, but now a metal called tungsten
is used for most incandescent lamps. Both carbon and tungsten resist an electric current so
much that they are easily heated white hot by it. On the other hand, they let so little current
through that what does pass flows through the larger copper wires very easily and does not
heat them noticeably.

    EXPERIMENT 70. Watch the wire.

The resistance wire you are using is an alloy, a mixture of metals that will resist electricity
much more than ordinary metals will. This is the same kind of wire that is used in electric
irons and toasters and heaters. It has so great a resistance to the electricity that it is
heated red hot, or almost white hot, by the electricity passing through it.

    APPLICATION 57. A power company wanted to send large
    quantities of electricity down from a mountain. Should the
    company have obtained resistance wire or copper wire to carry
    it? Should the wire have been large or fine?

