"That is a kittle question," said the falconer; "and if you ask it often, Master Roland, I
am fain to tell you that you will be mewed up yourself in some of those castles, if they do
not prefer twisting your head off, to save farther trouble with you--Adventure any thing? Lord,
why, Murray has the wind in his poop now, man, and flies so high and strong, that the devil
a wing of them can match him--No, no; there she is, and there she must lie, till Heaven send
her deliverance, or till her son has the management of all--But Murray will never let her loose
again, he knows her too well.--And hark thee, we are now bound for Holyrood, where thou wilt
find plenty of news, and of courtiers to tell it--But, take my counsel, and keep a calm sough,
as the Scots say--hear every man's counsel, and keep your own. And if you hap to learn any
news you like, leap not up as if you were to put on armour direct in the cause--Our old Mr.
Wingate says--and he knows court-cattle well--that if you are told old King Coul is come alive
again, you should turn it off with, 'And is he in truth?--I heard not of it,' and should seem
no more moved, than if one told you, by way of novelty, that old King Coul was dead and buried.
Wherefore, look well to your bearing, Master Roland, for, I promise you, you come among a generation
that are keen as a hungry hawk--And never be dagger out of sheath at every wry word you hear
spoken; for you will find as hot blades as yourself, and then will be letting of blood without
advice either of leech or almanack."

"You shall see how staid I will be, and how cautious, my good friend," said Graeme; "but, blessed
Lady, what goodly house is that which is lying all in ruins so close to the city? Have they
been playing at the Abbot of Unreason here, and ended the gambol by burning the church?"

"There again now," replied his companion, "you go down the wind like a wild haggard, that minds
neither lure nor beck--that is a question you should have asked in as low a tone as I shall
answer it."

"If I stay here long," said Roland Graeme, "it is like I shall lose the natural use of my voice--but
what are the ruins then?"

"The Kirk of Field," said the falconer, in a low and impressive whisper, laying at the same
time his finger on his lip; "ask no more about it--somebody got foul play, and somebody got
the blame of it; and the game began there which perhaps may not be played out in our time.--Poor
Henry Darnley! to be an ass, he understood somewhat of a hawk; but they sent him on the wing
through the air himself one bright moonlight night."

The memory of this catastrophe was so recent, that the page averted his eyes with horror from
the scathed ruins in which it had taken place; and the accusations against the Queen, to which
it had given rise, came over his mind with such strength as to balance the compassion he had
begun to entertain for her present forlorn situation.

It was, indeed, with that agitating state of mind which arises partly from horror, but more
from anxious interest and curiosity, that young Graeme found himself actually traversing the
scene of those tremendous events, the report of which had disturbed the most distant solitudes
in Scotland, like the echoes of distant thunder rolling among the mountains.

"Now," he thought, "now or never shall I become a man, and bear my part in those deeds which
the simple inhabitants of our hamlets repeat to each other, as if they were wrought by beings
of a superior order to their own. I will know now, wherefore the Knight of Avenel carries his
crest so much above those of the neighbouring baronage, and how it is that men, by valour and
wisdom, work their way from the hoddin-gray coat to the cloak of scarlet and gold. Men say
I have not much wisdom to recommend me; and if that be true, courage must do it; for I will
be a man amongst living men, or a dead corpse amongst the dead."

From these dreams of ambition he turned his thoughts to those of pleasure, and began to form
many conjectures, when and where he should see Catherine Seyton, and in what manner their acquaintance
was to be renewed. With such conjectures he was amusing himself, when he found that they had
entered the city, and all other feelings were suspended in the sensation of giddy astonishment
with which an inhabitant of the country is affected, when, for the first time, he finds himself
in the streets of a large and populous city, a unit in the midst of thousands.

The principal street of Edinburgh was then, as now, one of the most spacious in Europe. The
extreme height of the houses, and the variety of Gothic gables and battlements, and balconies,
by which the sky-line on each side was crowned and terminated, together with the width of the
street itself, might have struck with surprise a more practised eye than that of young Graeme.
The population, close packed within the walls of the city, and at this time increased by the
number of the lords of the King's party who had thronged to Edinburgh to wait upon the Regent
Murray, absolutely swarmed like bees on the wide and stately street. Instead of the shop-windows,
which are now calculated for the display of goods, the traders had their open booths projecting
on the street, in which, as in the fashion of the modern bazaars, all was exposed which they
had upon sale. And though the commodities were not of the richest kinds, yet Graeme thought
he beheld the wealth of the whole world in the various bales of Flanders cloths, and the specimens
of tapestry; and, at other places, the display of domestic utensils and pieces of plate struck
him with wonder. The sight of cutlers' booths, furnished with swords and poniards, which were
manufactured in Scotland, and with pieces of defensive armour, imported from Flanders, added
to his surprise; and, at every step, he found so much to admire and gaze upon, that Adam Woodcock
had no little difficulty in prevailing on him to advance through such a scene of enchantment.

The sight of the crowds which filled the streets was equally a subject of wonder. Here a gay
lady, in her muffler, or silken veil, traced her way delicately, a gentleman-usher making way
for her, a page bearing up her train, and a waiting gentlewoman carrying her Bible, thus intimating
that her purpose was towards the church--There he might see a group of citizens bending the
same way, with their short Flemish cloaks, wide trowsers, and high-caped doublets, a fashion
to which, as well as to their bonnet and feather, the Scots were long faithful. Then, again,
came the clergyman himself, in his black Geneva cloak and band, lending a grave and attentive
ear to the discourse of several persons who accompanied him, and who were doubtless holding
serious converse on the religious subject he was about to treat of. Nor did there lack passengers
of a different class and appearance.

At every turn, Roland Graeme might see a gallant ruffle along in the newer or French mode,
his doublet slashed, and his points of the same colours with the lining, his long sword on
one side, and his poniard on the other, behind him a body of stout serving men, proportioned
to his estate and quality, all of whom walked with the air of military retainers, and were
armed with sword and buckler, the latter being a small round shield, not unlike the Highland
target, having a steel spike in the centre. Two of these parties, each headed by a person of
importance, chanced to meet in the very centre of the street, or, as it was called, "the crown
of the cause-way," a post of honour as tenaciously asserted in Scotland, as that of giving
or taking the wall used to be in the more southern part of the island. The two leaders being
of equal rank, and, most probably, either animated by political dislike, or by recollection
of some feudal enmity, marched close up to each other, without yielding an inch to the right
or the left; and neither showing the least purpose of giving way, they stopped for an instant,
and then drew their swords. Their followers imitated their example; about a score of weapons
at once flashed in the sun, and there was an immediate clatter of swords and bucklers, while
the followers on either side cried their master's name; the one shouting "Help, a Leslie! a
Leslie!" while the others answered with shouts of "Seyton!  Seyton!" with the additional punning
slogan, "Set on, set on--bear the knaves to the ground!"

If the falconer found difficulty in getting the page to go forward before, it was now perfectly
impossible. He reined up his horse, clapped his hands, and, delighted with the fray, cried
and shouted as fast as any of those who were actually engaged in it.

The noise and cries thus arising on the Highgate, as it was called, drew into the quarrel two
or three other parties of gentlemen and their servants, besides some single passengers, who,
hearing a fray betwixt these two distinguished names, took part in it, either for love or hatred.

The combat became now very sharp, and although the sword-and-buckler men made more clatter
and noise than they did real damage, yet several good cuts were dealt among them; and those
who wore rapiers, a more formidable weapon than the ordinary Scottish swords, gave and received
dangerous wounds. Two men were already stretched on the causeway, and the party of Seyton began
to give ground, being much inferior in number to the other, with which several of the citizens
had united themselves, when young Roland Graeme, beholding their leader, a noble gentleman,
fighting bravely, and hard pressed with numbers, could withhold no longer. "Adam Woodcock,"
he said, "an you be a man, draw, and let us take part with the Seyton." And, without waiting
a reply, or listening to the falconer's earnest entreaty, that he would leave alone a strife
in which he had no concern, the fiery youth sprung from his horse, drew his short sword, and
shouting like the rest, "A Seyton! a Seyton! Set on! set on!" thrust forward into the throng,
and struck down one of those who was pressing hardest upon the gentleman whose cause he espoused.
This sudden reinforcement gave spirit to the weaker party, who began to renew the combat with
much alacrity, when four of the magistrates of the city, distinguished by their velvet cloaks
and gold chains, came up with a guard of halberdiers and citizens, armed with long weapons,
and well accustomed to such service, thrust boldly forward, and compelled the swordsmen to
separate, who immediately retreated in different directions, leaving such of the wounded on
both sides, as had been disabled in the fray, lying on the street.

The falconer, who had been tearing his beard for anger at his comrade's rashness, now rode
up to him with the horse which he had caught by the bridle, and accosted him with "Master Roland--master
goose--master mad-cap--will it please you to get on horse, and budge? or will you remain here
to be carried to prison, and made to answer for this pretty day's work?"

The page, who had begun his retreat along with the Seytons, just as if he had been one of their
natural allies, was by this unceremonious application made sensible that he was acting a foolish
part; and, obeying Adam Woodcock with some sense of shame, he sprung actively on horseback,
and upsetting with the shoulder of the animal a city-officer, who was making towards him, he
began to ride smartly down the street, along with his companion, and was quickly out of the
reach of the hue and cry. In fact, rencounters of the kind were so common in Edinburgh at that
period, that the disturbance seldom excited much attention after the affray was over, unless
some person of consequence chanced to have fallen, an incident which imposed on his friends
the duty of avenging his death on the first convenient opportunity. So feeble, indeed, was
the arm of the police, that it was not unusual for such skirmishes to last for hours, where
the parties were numerous and well matched. But at this time the Regent, a man of great strength
of character, aware of the mischief which usually arose from such acts of violence, had prevailed
with the magistrates to keep a constant guard on foot for preventing or separating such affrays
as had happened in the present case.

The falconer and his young companion were now riding down the Canongate, and had slackened
their pace to avoid attracting attention, the rather that there seemed to be no appearance
of pursuit. Roland hung his head as one who was conscious his conduct had been none of the
wisest, whilst his companion thus addressed him:

"Will you be pleased to tell me one thing, Master Roland Graeme, and that is, whether there
be a devil incarnate in you or no?"

"Truly, Master Adam Woodcock," answered the page, "I would fain hope there is not."

"Then," said Adam, "I would fain know by what other influence or instigation you are perpetually
at one end or the other of some bloody brawl?  What, I pray, had you to do with these Seytons
and Leslies, that you never heard the names of in your life before?"

"You are out there, my friend," said Roland Graeme, "I have my own reasons for being a friend
to the Seytons."

"They must have been very secret reasons then," answered Adam Woodcock, "for I think I could
have wagered, you had never known one of the name; and I am apt to believe still, that it was
your unhallowed passion for that clashing of cold iron, which has as much charm for you as
the clatter of a brass pan hath for a hive of bees, rather than any care either for Seyton
or for Leslie, that persuaded you to thrust your fool's head into a quarrel that no ways concerned
you. But take this for a warning, my young master, that if you are to draw sword with every
man who draws sword on the Highgate here, it will be scarce worth your while to sheathe bilbo
again for the rest of your life, since, if I guess rightly, it will scarce endure on such terms
for many hours--all which I leave to your serious consideration."

"By my word, Adam, I honour your advice; and I promise you, that I will practise by it as faithfully
as if I were sworn apprentice to you, to the trade and mystery of bearing myself with all wisdom
and safety through the new paths of life that I am about to be engaged in."

"And therein you will do well," said the falconer; "and I do not quarrel with you, Master Roland,
for having a grain over much spirit, because I know one may bring to the hand a wild hawk which
one never can a dung-hill hen--and so betwixt two faults you have the best on't. But besides
your peculiar genius for quarrelling and lugging out your side companion, my dear Master Roland,
you have also the gift of peering under every woman's muffler and screen, as if you expected
to find an old acquaintance. Though were you to spy one, I should be as much surprised at it,
well wotting how few you have seen of these same wild-fowl, as I was at your taking so deep
an interest even now in the Seyton."

"Tush, man! nonsense and folly," answered Roland Graeme, "I but sought to see what eyes these
gentle hawks have got under their hood."

"Ay, but it's a dangerous subject of inquiry," said the falconer; "you had better hold out
your bare wrist for an eagle to perch upon.--Look you, Master Roland, these pretty wild-geese
cannot be hawked at without risk--they have as many divings, boltings, and volleyings, as the
most gamesome quarry that falcon ever flew at--And besides, every woman of them is manned with
her husband, or her kind friend, or her brother, or her cousin, or her sworn servant at the
least--But you heed me not, Master Roland, though I know the game so well--your eye is all
on that pretty damsel who trips down the gate before us--by my certes, I will warrant her a
blithe dancer either in reel or revel--a pair of silver morisco bells would become these pretty
ankles as well as the jesses would suit the fairest Norway hawk."

"Thou art a fool, Adam," said the page, "and I care not a button about the girl or her ankles--But,
what the foul fiend, one must look at something!"

"Very true, Master Roland Graeme," said his guide, "but let me pray you to choose your objects
better. Look you, there is scarce a woman walks this High-gate with a silk screen or a pearlin
muffler, but, as I said before, she has either gentleman-usher before her, or kinsman, or lover,
or husband, at her elbow, or it may be a brace of stout fellows with sword and buckler, not
so far behind but what they can follow close--But you heed me no more than a goss-hawk minds
a yellow yoldring."

"O yes, I do--I do mind you indeed," said Roland Graeme; "but hold my nag a bit--I will be
with you in the exchange of a whistle." So saying, and ere Adam Woodcock could finish the sermon
which was dying on his tongue, Roland Graeme, to the falconer's utter astonishment, threw him
the bridle of his jennet, jumped off horseback, and pursued down one of the closes or narrow
lanes, which, opening under a vault, terminate upon the main-street, the very maiden to whom
his friend had accused him of showing so much attention, and who had turned down the pass in
question.

"Saint Mary, Saint Magdalen, Saint Benedict, Saint Barnabas!" said the poor falconer, when
he found himself thus suddenly brought to a pause in the midst of the Canongate, and saw his
young charge start off like a madman in quest of a damsel whom he had never, as Adam supposed,
seen in his life before,--"Saint Satan and Saint Beelzebub--for this would make one swear saint
and devil--what can have come over the lad, with a wanion! And what shall I do the whilst!--he
will have his throat cut, the poor lad, as sure as I was born at the foot of Roseberry-Topping.
Could I find some one to hold the horses! but they are as sharp here north-away as in canny
Yorkshire herself, and quit bridle, quit titt, as we say. An I could but see one of our folks
now, a holly-sprig were worth a gold tassel; or could I but see one of the Regent's men--but
to leave the horses to a stranger, that I cannot--and to leave the place while the lad is in
jeopardy, that I wonot."

We must leave the falconer, however, in the midst of his distress, and follow the hot-headed
youth who was the cause of his perplexity.

The latter part of Adam Woodcock's sage remonstrance had been in a great measure lost upon
Roland, for whose benefit it was intended; because, in one of the female forms which tripped
along the street, muffled in a veil of striped silk, like the women of Brussels at this day,
his eye had discerned something which closely resembled the exquisite shape and spirited bearing
of Catherine Seyton.--During all the grave advice which the falconer was dinning in his ears,
his eye continued intent upon so interesting an object of observation; and at length, as the
damsel, just about to dive under one of the arched passages which afforded an outlet to the
Canongate from the houses beneath, (a passage, graced by a projecting shield of arms, supported
by two huge foxes of stone,) had lifted her veil for the purpose perhaps of descrying who the
horseman was who for some time had eyed her so closely, young Roland saw, under the shade of
the silken plaid, enough of the bright azure eyes, fair locks, and blithe features, to induce
him, like an inexperienced and rash madcap, whose wilful ways never had been traversed by contradiction,
nor much subjected to consideration, to throw the bridle of his horse into Adam Woodcock's
hand, and leave him to play the waiting gentleman, while he dashed down the paved court after
Catherine Seyton--all as aforesaid.

Women's wits are proverbially quick, but apparently those of Catherine suggested no better
expedient than fairly to betake herself to speed of foot, in hopes of baffling the page's vivacity,
by getting safely lodged before he could discover where. But a youth of eighteen, in pursuit
of a mistress, is not so easily outstripped. Catherine fled across a paved court, decorated
with large formal vases of stone, in which yews, cypresses, and other evergreens, vegetated
in sombre sullenness, and gave a correspondent degree of solemnity to the high and heavy building
in front of which they were placed as ornaments, aspiring towards a square portion of the blue
hemisphere, corresponding exactly in extent to the quadrangle in which they were stationed,
and all around which rose huge black walls, exhibiting windows in rows of five stories, with
heavy architraves over each, bearing armorial and religious devices.

Through this court Catherine Seyton flashed like a hunted doe, making the best use of those
pretty legs which had attracted the commendation even of the reflective and cautious Adam Woodcock.
She hastened towards a large door in the centre of the lower front of the court, pulled the
bobbin till the latch flew up, and ensconced herself in the ancient mansion. But, if she fled
like a doe, Roland Graeme followed with the speed and ardour of a youthful stag-hound, loosed
for the first time on his prey. He kept her in view in spite of her efforts; for it is remarkable
what an advantage, in such a race, the gallant who desires to see, possesses over the maiden
who wishes not to be seen--an advantage which I have known counterbalance a great start in
point of distance. In short, he saw the waving of her screen, or veil, at one corner, heard
the tap of her foot, light as that was, as it crossed the court, and caught a glimpse of her
figure just as she entered the door of the mansion.

Roland Graeme, inconsiderate and headlong as we have described him, having no knowledge of
real life but from the romances which he had read, and not an idea of checking himself in the
midst of any eager impulse; possessed, besides, of much courage and readiness, never hesitated
for a moment to approach the door through which the object of his search had disappeared. He,
too, pulled the bobbin, and the latch, though heavy and massive, answered to the summons, and
arose. The page entered with the same precipitation which had marked his whole proceeding,
and found himself in a large hall, or vestibule, dimly enlightened by latticed casements of
painted glass, and rendered yet dimmer through the exclusion of the sunbeams, owing to the
height of the walls of those buildings by which the court-yard was enclosed. The walls of the
hall were surrounded with suits of ancient and rusted armour, interchanged with huge and massive
stone scutcheons, bearing double tressures, fleured and counter-fleured, wheat-sheaves, coronets,
and so forth, things to which Roland Graeme gave not a moment's attention.

In fact, he only deigned to observe the figure of Catherine Seyton, who, deeming herself safe
in the hall, had stopped to take breath after her course, and was reposing herself for a moment
on a large oaken settle which stood at the upper end of the hall. The noise of Roland's entrance
at once disturbed her; she started up with a faint scream of surprise, and escaped through
one of the several folding-doors which opened into this apartment as a common centre. This
door, which Roland Graeme instantly approached, opened on a large and well-lighted gallery,
at the upper end of which he could hear several voices, and the noise of hasty steps approaching
towards the hall or vestibule. A little recalled to sober thought by an appearance of serious
danger, he was deliberating whether he should stand fast or retire, when Catherine Seyton re-entered
from a side door, running towards him with as much speed as a few minutes since she had fled
from him.

"Oh, what mischief brought you hither?" she said; "fly--fly, or you are a dead man,--or stay--they
come--flight is impossible--say you came to ask for Lord Seyton."

She sprung from him and disappeared through the door by which she had made her second appearance;
and, at the same instant, a pair of large folding-doors at the upper end of the gallery flew
open with vehemence, and six or seven young gentlemen, richly dressed, pressed forward into
the apartment, having, for the greater part, their swords drawn.

"Who is it," said one, "dare intrude on us in our own mansion?"

"Cut him to pieces," said another; "let him pay for this day's insolence and violence--he is
some follower of the Rothes."

"No, by Saint Mary," said another; "he is a follower of the arch-fiend and ennobled clown Halbert
Glendinning, who takes the style of Avenel--once a church-vassal, now a pillager of the church."

"It is so," said a fourth; "I know him by the holly-sprig, which is their cognizance. Secure
the door, he must answer for this insolence."

Two of the gallants, hastily drawing their weapons, passed on to the door by which Roland had
entered the hall, and stationed themselves there as if to prevent his escape. The others advanced
on Graeme, who had just sense enough to perceive that any attempt at resistance would be alike
fruitless and imprudent. At once, and by various voices, none of which sounded amicably, the
page was required to say who he was, whence he came, his name, his errand, and who sent him
hither. The number of the questions demanded of him at once, afforded a momentary apology for
his remaining silent, and ere that brief truce had elapsed, a personage entered the hall, at
whose appearance those who had gathered fiercely around Roland, fell back with respect.

This was a tall man, whose dark hair was already grizzled, though his high and haughty features
retained all the animation of youth. The upper part of his person was undressed to his Holland
shirt, whose ample folds were stained with blood. But he wore a mantle of crimson, lined with
rich fur, cast around him, which supplied the deficiency of his dress. On his head he had a
crimson velvet bonnet, looped up on one side with a small golden chain of many links, which,
going thrice around the hat, was fastened by a medal, agreeable to the fashion amongst the
grandees of the time.

"Whom have you here, sons and kinsmen," said he, "around whom you crowd thus roughly?--Know
you not that the shelter of this roof should secure every one fair treatment, who shall come
hither either in fair peace, or in open and manly hostility?"

"But here, my lord," answered one of the youths, "is a knave who comes on treacherous espial!"

"I deny the charge!" said Roland Graeme, boldly, "I came to inquire after my Lord Seyton."

"A likely tale," answered his accusers, "in the mouth of a follower of Glendinning."

"Stay, young men," said the Lord Seyton, for it was that nobleman himself, "let me look at
this youth--By heaven, it is the very same who came so boldly to my side not very many minutes
since, when some of my own knaves bore themselves with more respect to their own worshipful
safety than to mine! Stand back from him, for he well deserves honour and a friendly welcome
at your hands, instead of this rough treatment."

They fell back on all sides, obedient to Lord Seyton's commands, who, taking Roland Graeme
by the hand, thanked him for his prompt and gallant assistance, adding, that he nothing doubted,
"the same interest which he had taken in his cause in the affray, brought him hither to inquire
after his hurt."

Roland bowed low in acquiescence.

"Or is there any thing in which I can serve you, to show my sense of your ready gallantry?"

But the page, thinking it best to abide by the apology for his visit which the Lord Seyton
had so aptly himself suggested, replied, "that to be assured of his lordship's safety, had
been the only cause of his intrusion. He judged," he added, "he had seen him receive some hurt
in the affray."

"A trifle," said Lord Seyton; "I had but stripped my doublet, that the chirurgeon might put
some dressing on the paltry scratch, when these rash boys interrupted us with their clamour."

Roland Graeme, making a low obeisance, was now about to depart, for, relieved from the danger
of being treated as a spy, he began next to fear, that his companion, Adam Woodcock, whom he
had so unceremoniously quitted, would either bring him into some farther dilemma, by venturing
into the hotel in quest of him, or ride off and leave him behind altogether. But Lord Seyton
did not permit him to escape so easily. "Tarry," he said, "young man, and let me know thy rank
and name. The Seyton has of late been more wont to see friends and followers shrink from his
side, than to receive aid from strangers-but a new world may come around, in which he may have
the chance of rewarding his well-wishers."

"My name is Roland Graeme, my lord," answered the youth, "a page, who, for the present, is
in the service of Sir Halbert Glendinning."

"I said so from the first," said one of the young men; "my life I will wager, that this is
a shaft out of the heretic's quiver-a stratagem from first to last, to injeer into your confidence
some espial of his own. They know how to teach both boys and women to play the intelligencers."

"That is false, if it be spoken of me," said Roland; "no man in Scotland should teach me such
a foul part!"

"I believe thee, boy," said Lord Seyton, "for thy strokes were too fair to be dealt upon an
understanding with those that were to receive them. Credit me, however, I little expected to
have help at need from one of your master's household; and I would know what moved thee in
my quarrel, to thine own endangering?"

"So please you, my lord," said Roland, "I think my master himself would not have stood by,
and seen an honourable man borne to earth by odds, if his single arm could help him. Such,
at least, is the lesson we were taught in chivalry, at the Castle of Avenel."

"The good seed hath fallen into good ground, young man," said Seyton; "but, alas! if thou practise
such honourable war in these dishonourable days, when right is every where borne down by mastery,
thy life, my poor boy, will be but a short one."

"Let it be short, so it be honourable," said Roland Graeme; "and permit me now, my lord, to
commend me to your grace, and to take my leave. A comrade waits with my horse in the street."

"Take this, however, young man," said Lord Seyton,

[Footnote: George, fifth Lord Seton, was immovably faithful to Queen Mary during all the mutabilities
of her fortune. He was grand master of the household, in which capacity he had a picture painted
of himself, with his official baton, and the following motto:

  In adversitate, patiens;
  In prosperitate, benevolus.
  Hazard, yet forward.

On various parts of his castle he inscribed, as expressing his religious and political creed,
the legend:

  Un Dieu, un Foy, un Roy, un Loy.

He declined to be promoted to an earldom, which Queen Mary offered him at the same time when
she advanced her natural brother to be Earl of Mar, and afterwards of Murray.

On his refusing this honour, Mary wrote, or caused to be written, the following lines in Latin
and French:

  Sunt comites, ducesque alii; sunt denique reges;
  Sethom dominum sit satis esse mihi.

  Il y a des comptes, des roys, des ducs; ainsi
  C'est assez pour moy d'estre Seigneur de Seton.

Which may be thus rendered:--

  Earl, duke, or king, be thou that list to be:
  Seton, thy lordship is enough for me.

This distich reminds us of the "pride which aped humility," in the motto of the house of Couci:

  Je suis ni roy, ni prince aussi;
  Je suis le Seigneur de Coucy.

After the battle of Langside, Lord Seton was obliged to retire abroad for safety, and was an
exile for two years, during which he was reduced to the necessity of driving a waggon in Flanders
for his subsistence. He rose to favour in James VI's reign, and assuming his paternal property,
had himself painted in his waggoner's dress, and in the act of driving a wain with four horses,
on the north end of a stately gallery at Seton Castle]

undoing from his bonnet the golden chain and medal, "and wear it for my sake."

With no little pride Roland Graeme accepted the gift, which he hastily fastened around his
bonnet, as he had seen gallants wear such an ornament, and renewing his obeisance to the Baron,
left the hall, traversed the court, and appeared in the street, just as Adam Woodcock, vexed
and anxious at his delay, had determined to leave the horses to their fate, and go in quest
of his youthful comrade. "Whose barn hast thou broken next?" he exclaimed, greatly relieved
by his appearance, although his countenance indicated that he had passed through an agitating
scene.

"Ask me no questions," said Roland, leaping gaily on his horse; "but see how short time it
takes to win a chain of gold," pointing to that which he now wore.

"Now, God forbid that thou hast either stolen it, or reft it by violence," said the falconer;
"for, otherwise, I wot not how the devil thou couldst compass it. I have been often here, ay,
for months at an end, and no one gave me either chain or medal."

"Thou seest I have got one on shorter acquaintance with the city," answered the page, "but
set thine honest heart at rest; that which is fairly won and freely given, is neither reft
nor stolen."

"Marry, hang thee, with thy fanfarona [Footnote: A name given to the gold chains worn by the
military men of the period. It is of Spanish origin: for the fashion of wearing these costly
ornaments was much followed amongst the conquerors of the New World.] about thy neck!" said
the falconer; "I think water will not drown, nor hemp strangle thee. Thou hast been discarded
as my lady's page, to come in again as my lord's squire; and for following a noble young damsel
into some great household, thou gettest a chain and medal, where another would have had the
baton across his shoulders, if he missed having the dirk in his body. But here we come in front
of the old Abbey. Bear thy good luck with you when you cross these paved stones, and, by our
Lady, you may brag Scotland."

As he spoke, they checked their horses, where the huge old vaulted entrance to the Abbey or
Palace of Holyrood crossed the termination of the street down which they had proceeded. The
courtyard of the palace opened within this gloomy porch, showing the front of an irregular
pile of monastic buildings, one wing of which is still extant, forming a part of the modern
palace, erected in the days of Charles I.

At the gate of the porch the falconer and page resigned their horses to the serving-man in
attendance; the falconer commanding him with an air of authority, to carry them safely to the
stables. "We follow," he said, "the Knight of Avenel--We must bear ourselves for what we are
here," said he in a whisper to Roland, "for every one here is looked on as they demean themselves;
and he that is too modest must to the wall, as the proverb says; therefore cock thy bonnet,
man, and let us brook the causeway bravely."

Assuming, therefore, an air of consequence, corresponding to what he supposed to be his master's
importance and quality, Adam Woodcock led the way into the courtyard of the Palace of Holyrood.

He appears to have been fond of the arts; for there exists a beautiful family-piece of him
in the centre of his family. Mr. Pinkerton, in his Scottish Iconographia, published an engraving
of this curious portrait. The original is the property of Lord Somerville, nearly connected
with the Seton family, and is at present at his lordship's fishing villa of the Pavilion, near
Melrose.

Chapter the Eighteenth.

  --The sky is clouded, Gaspard,
  And the vexed ocean sleeps a troubled sleep,
  Beneath a lurid gleam of parting sunshine.
  Such slumber hangs o'er discontented lands,
  While factions doubt, as yet, if they have strength
  To front the open battle.
                             ALBION--A POEM.

The youthful page paused on the entrance of the court-yard, and implored his guide to give
him a moment's breathing space. "Let me but look around me, man," said he; "you consider not
I have never seen such a scene as this before.--And this is Holyrood--the resort of the gallant
and gay, and the fair, and the wise, and the powerful!"

"Ay, marry, is it!" said Woodcock; "but I wish I could hood thee as they do the hawks, for
thou starest as wildly as if you sought another fray or another fanfarona. I would I had thee
safely housed, for thou lookest wild as a goss-hawk."

It was indeed no common sight to Roland, the vestibule of a palace traversed by its various
groups,--some radiant with gaiety--some pensive, and apparently weighed down by affairs concerning
the state, or concerning themselves. Here the hoary statesman, with his cautious yet commanding
look, his furred cloak and sable pantoufles; there the soldier in buff and steel, his long
sword jarring against the pavement, and his whiskered upper lip and frowning brow, looking
an habitual defiance of danger, which perhaps was not always made good; there again passed
my lord's serving-man, high of heart, and bloody of hand, humble to his master and his master's
equals, insolent to all others. To these might be added, the poor suitor, with his anxious
look and depressed mien--the officer, full of his brief authority, elbowing his betters, and
possibly his benefactors, out of the road--the proud priest, who sought a better benefice--the
proud baron, who sought a grant of church lands--the robber chief, who came to solicit a pardon
for the injuries he had inflicted on his neighbors--the plundered franklin, who came to seek
vengeance for that which he had himself received. Besides there was the mustering and disposition
of guards and soldiers--the despatching of messengers, and the receiving them--the trampling
and neighing of horses without the gate--the flashing of arms, and rustling of plumes, and
jingling of spurs, within it. In short, it was that gay and splendid confusion, in which the
eye of youth sees all that is brave and brilliant, and that of experience much that is doubtful,
deceitful, false, and hollow--hopes that will never be gratified--promises which will never
be fulfilled--pride in the disguise of humility--and insolence in that of frank and generous
bounty.

As, tired of the eager and enraptured attention which the page gave to a scene so new to him,
Adam Woodcock endeavoured to get him to move forward, before his exuberance of astonishment
should attract the observation of the sharp-witted denizens of the court, the falconer himself
became an object of attention to a gay menial in a dark-green bonnet and feather, with a cloak
of a corresponding colour, laid down, as the phrase then went, by six broad bars of silver
lace, and welted with violet and silver. The words of recognition burst from both at once.
"What! Adam Woodcock at court!" and "What! Michael Wing-the-wind--and how runs the hackit greyhound
bitch now?"

"The waur for the wear, like ourselves, Adam--eight years this grass --no four legs will carry
a dog forever; but we keep her for the breed, and so she 'scapes Border doom--But why stand
you gazing there? I promise you my lord has wished for you, and asked for you."

"My Lord of Murray asked for me, and he Regent of the kingdom too!" said Adam. "I hunger and
thirst to pay my duty to my good lord;--but I fancy his good lordship remembers the day's sport
on Carnwath-moor; and my Drummelzier falcon, that beat the hawks from the Isle of Man, and
won his lordship a hundred crowns from the Southern baron whom they called Stanley."

"Nay, not to flatter thee, Adam," said his court-friend, "he remembers nought of thee, or of
thy falcon either. He hath flown many a higher flight since that, and struck his quarry too.
But come, come hither away; I trust we are to be good comrades on the old score."

"What!" said Adam, "you would have me crush a pot with you; but I must first dispose of my
eyas, where he will neither have girl to chase, nor lad to draw sword upon."

"Is the youngster such a one?" said Michael.

"Ay, by my hood, he flies at all game," replied Woodcock.

"Then had he better come with us," said Michael Wing-the-wind; "for we cannot have a proper
carouse just now, only I would wet my lips, and so must you. I want to hear the news from Saint
Mary's before you see my lord, and I will let you know how the wind sits up yonder."

While he thus spoke, he led the way to a side door which opened into the court; and threading
several dark passages with the air of one who knew the most secret recesses of the palace,
conducted them to a small matted chamber, where he placed bread and cheese and a foaming flagon
of ale before the falconer and his young companion, who immediately did justice to the latter
in a hearty draught, which nearly emptied the measure. Having drawn his breath, and dashed
the froth from his whiskers, he observed, that his anxiety for the boy had made him deadly dry.

"Mend your draught," said his hospitable friend, again supplying the flagon from a pitcher
which stood beside. "I know the way to the butterybar. And now, mind what I say--this morning
the Earl of Morton came to my lord in a mighty chafe."

"What! they keep the old friendship, then?" said Woodcock.

"Ay, ay, man, what else?" said Michael; "one hand must scratch the other. But in a mighty chafe
was my Lord of Morton, who, to say truth, looketh on such occasions altogether uncanny, and,
as it were, fiendish; and he says to my lord,--for I was in the chamber taking orders about
a cast of hawks that are to be fetched from Darnoway--they match your long-winged falcons,
friend Adam."

"I will believe that when I see them fly as high a pitch," replied Woodcock, this professional
observation forming a sort of parenthesis.

"However," said Michael, pursuing his tale, "my Lord of Morton, in a mighty chafe, asked my
Lord Regent whether he was well dealt with--'for my brother,' said he, 'should have had a gift
to be Commendator of Kennaqubair, and to have all the temporalities erected into a lordship
of regality for his benefit; and here,' said he, 'the false monks have had the insolence to
choose a new Abbot to put his claim in my brother's way; and moreover, the rascality of the
neighbourhood have burnt and plundered all that was left in the Abbey, so that my brother will
not have a house to dwell in, when he hath ousted the lazy hounds of priests.' And my lord,
seeing him chafed, said mildly to him, 'These are shrewd tidings, Douglas, but I trust they
be not true; for Halbert Glendinning went southward yesterday, with a band of spears, and assuredly,
had either of these chances happened, that the monks had presumed to choose an Abbot, or that
the Abbey had been burnt, as you say, he had taken order on the spot for the punishment of
such insolence, and had despatched us a messenger.' And the Earl of Morton replied--now I pray
you, Adam, to notice, that I say this out of love to you and your lord, and also for old comradeship,
and also because Sir Halbert hath done me good, and may again--and also because I love not
the Earl of Morton, as indeed more fear than like him--so then it were a foul deed in you to
betray me.--'But,' said the Earl to the Regent, 'take heed, my lord, you trust not this Glendinning
too far--he comes of churl's blood, which was never true to the nobles'--by Saint Andrew, these
were his very words.--'And besides,' he said, 'he hath a brother, a monk in Saint Mary's, and
walks all by his guidance, and is making friends on the Border with Buccleuch and with Ferniehirst,
[Footnote: Both these Border Chieftains were great friends of Queen Mary.] and will join hand
with them, were there likelihood of a new world.' And my lord answered, like a free noble lord
as he is; 'Tush! my Lord of Morton, I will be warrant for Glendinning's faith; and for his
brother, he is a dreamer, that thinks of nought but book and breviary--and if such hap have
chanced as you tell of, I look to receive from Glendinning the cowl of a hanged monk, and the
head of a riotous churl, by way of sharp and sudden justice.'--And my Lord of Morton left the
place, and, as it seemed to me, somewhat malecontent. But since that time, my lord has asked
me more than once whether there has arrived no messenger from the Knight of Avenel. And all
this I have told you, that you may frame your discourse to the best purpose, for it seems to
me that my lord will not be well-pleased, if aught has happened like what my Lord of Morton
said, and if your lord hath not ta'en strict orders with it."

There was something in this communication which fairly blanked the bold visage of Adam Woodcock,
in spite of the reinforcement which his natural hardihood had received from the berry-brown
ale of Holyrood.

"What was it he said about a churl's head, that grim Lord of Morton?" said the discontented
falconer to his friend.

"Nay, it was my Lord Regent, who said that he expected, if the Abbey was injured, your Knight
would send him the head of the ringleader among the rioters."

"Nay, but is this done like a good Protestant," said Adam Woodcock, "or a true Lord of the
Congregation? We used to be their white-boys and darlings when we pulled down the convents
in Fife and Perthshire." "Ay, but that," said Michael, "was when old mother Rome held her own,
and our great folks were determined she should have no shelter for her head in Scotland. But,
now that the priests are fled in all quarters, and their houses and lands are given to our
grandees, they cannot see that we are working the work of reformation in destroying the palaces
of zealous Protestants."

"But I tell you Saint Mary's is not destroyed!" said Woodcock, in increasing agitation; "some
trash of painted windows there were broken--things that no nobleman could have brooked in his
house--some stone saints were brought on their marrow-bones, like old Widdrington at Chevy-Chase;
but as for fire-raising, there was not so much as a lighted lunt amongst us, save the match
which the dragon had to light the burning tow withal, which he was to spit against Saint George;
nay, I had caution of that."

"How! Adam Woodcock," said his comrade, "I trust thou hadst no hand in such a fair work? Look
you, Adam, I were loth to terrify you, and you just come from a journey; but I promise you,
Earl Morton hath brought you down a Maiden from Halifax, you never saw the like of her--and
she'll clasp you round the neck, and your head will remain in her arms."

"Pshaw!" answered Adam, "I am too old to have my head turned by any maiden of them all. I know
my Lord of Morton will go as far for a buxom lass as anyone; but what the devil took him to
Halifax all the way?  and if he has got a gamester there, what hath she to do with my head?"

"Much, much!" answered Michael. "Herod's daughter, who did such execution with her foot and
ankle, danced not men's heads off more cleanly than this maiden of Morton. [Footnote: Maiden
of Morton--a species of Guillotine which the Regent Morton brought down from Halifax, certainly
at a period considerably later than intimated in the tale. He was himself the first who suffered
by the engine.] 'Tis an axe, man,--an axe which falls of itself like a sash window, and never
gives the headsmen the trouble to wield it."

"By my faith, a shrewd device," said Woodcock; "heaven keep us free on't!"

The page, seeing no end to the conversation betwixt these two old comrades, and anxious from
what he had heard, concerning the fate of the Abbot, now interrupted their conference.

"Methinks," he said, "Adam Woodcock, thou hadst better deliver thy master's letter to the Regent;
questionless he hath therein stated what has chanced at Kennaquhair, in the way most advantageous
for all concerned."

"The boy is right," said Michael Wing-the-wind, "my lord will be very impatient."

"The child hath wit enough to keep himself warm," said Adam Woodcock, producing from his hawking-bag
his lord's letter, addressed to the Earl of Murray, "and for that matter so have I. So, Master
Roland, you will e'en please to present this yourself to the Lord Regent; his presence will
be better graced by a young page than by an old falconer."

"Well said, canny Yorkshire!" replied his friend; "and but now you were so earnest to see our
good lord!--Why, wouldst thou put the lad into the noose that thou mayst slip tether thyself?--or
dost thou think the maiden will clasp his fair young neck more willingly than thy old sunburnt
weasand?"

"Go to," answered the falconer; "thy wit towers high an it could strike the quarry. I tell
thee, the youth has nought to fear--he had nothing to do with the gambol--a rare gambol it
was, Michael, as mad-caps ever played; and I had made as rare a ballad, if we had had the luck
to get it sung to an end. But mum for that--tace, as I said before, is Latin for a candle.
Carry the youth to the presence, and I will remain here, with bridle in hand, ready to strike
the spurs up to the rowel-heads, in case the hawk flies my way.--I will soon put Soltraedge,
I trow, betwixt the Regent and me, if he means me less than fair play."

"Come on then, my lad," said Michael, "since thou must needs take the spring before canny Yorkshire."
So saying, he led the way through winding passages, closely followed by Roland Graeme, until
they arrived at a large winding stone stair, the steps of which were so long and broad, and
at the same time so low, as to render the ascent uncommonly easy. When they had ascended about
the height of one story, the guide stepped aside, and pushed open the door of a dark and gloomy
antechamber; so dark, indeed, that his youthful companion stumbled, and nearly fell down upon
a low step, which was awkwardly placed on the very threshold.

"Take heed," said Michael Wing-the-wind, in a very low tone of voice, and first glancing cautiously
round to see if any one listened--"Take heed, my young friend, for those who fall on these
boards seldom rise again--Seest thou that," he added, in a still lower voice, pointing to some
dark crimson stains on the floor, on which a ray of light, shot through a small aperture, and
traversing the general gloom of the apartment, fell with mottled radiance--"Seest thou that,
youth?--walk warily, for men have fallen here before you."

"What mean you?" said the page, his flesh creeping, though he scarce knew why; "Is it blood?"

"Ay, ay," said the domestic, in the same whispering tone, and dragging the youth on by the
arm--"Blood it is,--but this is no time to question, or even to look at it. Blood it is, foully
and fearfully shed, as foully and fearfully avenged. The blood," he added, in a still more
cautious tone, "of Seignior David."

Roland Graeme's heart throbbed when he found himself so unexpectedly in the scene of Rizzio's
slaughter, a catastrophe which had chilled with horror all even in that rude age, which had
been the theme of wonder and pity through every cottage and castle in Scotland, and had not
escaped that of Avenel. But his guide hurried him forward, permitting no farther question,
and with the manner of one who has already tampered too much with a dangerous subject. A tap
which he made at a low door at one end of the vestibule, was answered by a huissier or usher,
who, opening it cautiously, received Michael's intimation that a page waited the Regent's leisure,
who brought letters from the Knight of Avenel.

"The Council is breaking up," said the usher; "but give me the packet; his Grace the Regent
will presently see the messenger."

"The packet," replied the page, "must be delivered into the Regent's own hands; such were the
orders of my master."

The usher looked at him from head to foot, as if surprised at his boldness, and then replied,
with some asperity, "Say you so, my young master? Thou crowest loudly to be but a chicken,
and from a country barn-yard too."

"Were it a time or place," said Roland, "thou shouldst see I can do more than crow; but do
your duty, and let the Regent know I wait his pleasure."

"Thou art but a pert knave to tell me of my duty," said the courtier in office; "but I will
find a time to show you you are out of yours; meanwhile, wait there till you are wanted." So
saying, he shut the door in Roland's face.

Michael Wing-the-wind, who had shrunk from his youthful companion during this altercation,
according to the established maxim of courtiers of all ranks, and in all ages, now transgressed
their prudential line of conduct so far as to come up to him once more. "Thou art a hopeful
young springald," said he, "and I see right well old Yorkshire had reason in his caution. Thou
hast been five minutes in the court, and hast employed thy time so well, as to make a powerful
and a mortal enemy out of the usher of the council-chamber. Why, man, you might almost as well
have offended the deputy butler!"

"I care not what he is," said Roland Graeme; "I will teach whomever I speak with to speak civilly
to me in return. I did not come from Avenel to be browbeaten in Holyrood."

"Bravo, my lad!" said Michael; "it is a fine spirit if you can but hold it--but see, the door
opens."

The usher appeared, and, in a more civil tone of voice and manner, said, that his Grace the
Regent would receive the Knight of Avenel's message; and accordingly marshalled Roland Graeme
the way into the apartment, from which the Council had been just dismissed, after finishing
their consultations. There was in the room a long oaken table, surrounded by stools of the
same wood, with a large elbow chair, covered with crimson velvet, at the head. Writing materials
and papers were lying there in apparent disorder; and one or two of the privy counsellors who
had lingered behind, assuming their cloaks, bonnets, and swords, and bidding farewell to the
Regent, were departing slowly by a large door, on the opposite side to that through which the
page entered. Apparently the Earl of Murray had made some jest, for the smiling countenances
of the statesmen expressed that sort of cordial reception which is paid by courtiers to the
condescending pleasantries of a prince.

The Regent himself was laughing heartily as he said, "Farewell, my lords, and hold me remembered
to the Cock of the North."

He then turned slowly round towards Roland Graeme, and the marks of gaiety, real or assumed,
disappeared from his countenance, as completely as the passing bubbles leave the dark mirror
of a still profound lake into which a traveller has cast a stone; in the course of a minute
his noble features had assumed their natural expression of deep and even melancholy gravity.

This distinguished statesman, for as such his worst enemies acknowledged him, possessed all
the external dignity, as well as almost all the noble qualities, which could grace the power
that he enjoyed; and had he succeeded to the throne as his legitimate inheritance, it is probable
he would have been recorded as one of Scotland's wisest and greatest kings. But that he held
his authority by the deposition and imprisonment of his sister and benefactress, was a crime
which those only can excuse who think ambition an apology for ingratitude. He was dressed plainly
in black velvet, after the Flemish fashion, and wore in his high-crowned hat a jewelled clasp,
which looped it up on one side, and formed the only ornament of his apparel. He had his poniard
by his side, and his sword lay on the council table.

Such was the personage before whom Roland Graeme now presented himself, with a feeling of breathless
awe, very different from the usual boldness and vivacity of his temper. In fact, he was, from
education and nature, forward, but not impudent, and was much more easily controlled by the
moral superiority, arising from the elevated talents and renown of those with whom he conversed,
than by pretensions founded only on rank or external show. He might have braved with indifference
the presence of an earl, merely distinguished by his belt and coronet; but he felt overawed
in that of the eminent soldier and statesman, the wielder of a nation's power, and the leader
of her armies.--The greatest and wisest are flattered by the deference of youth--so graceful
and becoming in itself; and Murray took, with much courtesy, the letter from the hands of the
abashed and blushing page, and answered with complaisance to the imperfect and half-muttered
greeting, which he endeavoured to deliver to him on the part of Sir Halbert of Avenel. He even
paused a moment ere he broke the silk with which the letter was secured, to ask the page his
name--so much he was struck with his very handsome features and form.

"Roland Graeme," he said, repeating the words after the hesitating page.  "What! of the Grahams
of the Lennox?"

"No, my lord," replied Roland; "my parents dwelt in the Debateable Land."

Murray made no further inquiry, but proceeded to read his dispatches; during the perusal of
which his brow began to assume a stern expression of displeasure, as that of one who found
something which at once surprised and disturbed him. He sat down on the nearest seat, frowned
till his eyebrows almost met together, read the letter twice over, and was then silent for
several minutes. At length, raising his head, his eye encountered that of the usher, who in
vain endeavoured to exchange the look of eager and curious observation with which he had been
perusing the Regent's features, for that open and unnoticing expression of countenance, which,
in looking at all, seems as if it saw and marked nothing--a cast of look which may be practised
with advantage by all those, of whatever degree, who are admitted to witness the familiar and
unguarded hours of their superiors. Great men are as jealous of their thoughts as the wife
of King Candaules was of her charms, and will as readily punish those who have, however involuntarily,
beheld them in mental deshabille and exposure.

"Leave the apartment, Hyndman," said the Regent, sternly, "and carry your observation elsewhere.
You are too knowing, sir, for your post, which, by special order, is destined for men of blunter
capacity. So! now you look more like a fool than you did,"--(for Hyndman, as may easily be
supposed, was not a little disconcerted by this rebuke)--"keep that confused stare, and it
may keep your office. Begone, sir!"

The usher departed in dismay, not forgetting to register, amongst his other causes of dislike
to Roland Graeme, that he had been the witness of this disgraceful chiding. When he had left
the apartment, the Regent again addressed the page.

"Your name, you say, is Armstrong?"

"No," replied Roland, "my name is Graeme, so please you--Roland Graeme, whose forbears were
designated of Heathergill, in the Debateable Land."

"Ay, I knew it was a name from the Debateable Land. Hast thou any acquaintance in Edinburgh?"

"My lord," replied Roland, willing rather to evade this question than to answer it directly,
for the prudence of being silent with respect to Lord Seyton's adventure immediately struck
him, "I have been in Edinburgh scarce an hour, and that for the first time in my life."

"What! and thou Sir Halbert Glendinning's page?" said the Regent.

"I was brought up as my Lady's page," said the youth, "and left Avenel Castle for the first
time in my life--at least since my childhood--only three days since."

"My Lady's page!" repeated the Earl of Murray, as if speaking to himself; "it was strange to
send his Lady's page on a matter of such deep concernment--Morton will say it is of a piece
with the nomination of his brother to be Abbot; and yet in some sort an inexperienced youth
will best serve the turn.--What hast thou been taught, young man, in thy doughty apprenticeship?"

"To hunt, my lord, and to hawk," said Roland Graeme.

"To hunt coneys, and to hawk at ouzels!" said the Regent, smiling; "for such are the sports
of ladies and their followers."

Graeme's cheek reddened deeply as he replied, not without some emphasis, "To hunt red-deer
of the first head, and to strike down herons of the highest soar, my lord, which, in Lothian
speech, may be termed, for aught I know, coneys and ouzels;-also I can wield a brand and couch
a lance, according to our Border meaning; in inland speech these may be termed water-flags
and bulrushes."

"Thy speech rings like metal," said the Regent, "and I pardon the sharpness of it for the truth.--Thou
knowest, then, what belongs to the duty of a man-at-arms?"

"So far as exercise can teach--it without real service in the field," answered Roland Graeme;
"but our Knight permitted none of his household to make raids, and I never had the good fortune
to see a stricken field."

"The good fortune!" repeated the Regent, smiling somewhat sorrowfully, "take my word, young
man, war is the only game from which both parties rise losers."

"Not always, my lord!" answered the page, with his characteristic audacity, "if fame speaks truth."

"How, sir?" said the Regent, colouring in his turn, and perhaps suspecting an indiscreet allusion
to the height which he himself had attained by the hap of civil war.

"Because, my lord," said Roland Graeme, without change of tone, "he who fights well, must have
fame in life, or honour in death; and so war is a game from which no one can rise a loser."

The Regent smiled and shook his head, when at that moment the door opened, and the Earl of
Morton presented himself.

"I come somewhat hastily," he said, "and I enter unannounced because my news are of weight--It
is as I said; Edward Glendinning is named Abbot, and--"

"Hush, my lord!" said the Regent, "I know it, but--"

"And perhaps you knew it before I did, my Lord of Murray," answered Morton, his dark red brow
growing darker and redder as he spoke.

"Morton," said Murray, "suspect me not--touch not mine honour--I have to suffer enough from
the calumnies of foes, let me not have to contend with the unjust suspicions of my friends.--We
are not alone," said he, recollecting himself, "or I could tell you more."

He led Morton into one of the deep embrasures which the windows formed in the massive wall,
and which afforded a retiring place for their conversing apart. In this recess, Roland observed
them speak together with much earnestness, Murray appearing to be grave and earnest, and Morton
having a jealous and offended air, which seemed gradually to give way to the assurances of
the Regent.

As their conversation grew more earnest, they became gradually louder in speech, having perhaps
forgotten the presence of the page, the more readily as his position in the apartment placed
him put of sight, so that he found himself unwillingly privy to more of their discourse than
he cared to hear. For, page though he was, a mean curiosity after the secrets of others had
never been numbered amongst Roland's failings; and moreover, with all his natural rashness,
he could not but doubt the safety of becoming privy to the secret discourse of these powerful
and dreaded men. Still he could neither stop his ears, nor with propriety leave the apartment;
and while he thought of some means of signifying his presence, he had already heard so much,
that, to have produced himself suddenly would have been as awkward, and perhaps as dangerous,
as in quiet to abide the end of their conference. What he overheard, however, was but an imperfect
part of their communication; and although an expert politician, acquainted with the circumstances
of the times, would have had little difficulty in tracing the meaning, yet Roland Graeme could
only form very general and vague conjectures as to the import of their discourse.

"All is prepared," said Murray, "and Lindsay is setting forward--She must hesitate no longer--thou
seest I act by thy counsel, and harden myself against softer considerations."

"True, my lord," replied Morton, "in what is necessary to gain power, you do not hesitate,
but go boldly to the mark. But are you as careful to defend and preserve what you have won?--Why
this establishment of domestics around her?--has not your sister men and maidens enough to
tend her, but you must consent to this superfluous and dangerous retinue?"

"For shame, Morton!--a Princess, and my sister, could I do less than allow her due attendance?"

"Ay," replied Morton, "even thus fly all your shafts--smartly enough loosened from the bow,
and not unskilfully aimed--but a breath of foolish affection ever crosses in the mid volley,
and sways the arrow from the mark."

"Say not so, Morton," replied Murray, "I have both dared and done--"

"Yes, enough to gain, but not enough to keep--reckon not that she will think and act thus--you
have wounded her deeply, both in pride and in power--it signifies nought, that you would tent
now the wound with unavailing salves--as matters stand with you, you must forfeit the title
of an affectionate brother, to hold that of a bold and determined statesman."

"Morton!" said Murray, with some impatience, "I brook not these taunts--what I have done I
have done--what I must farther do, I must and will--but I am not made of iron like thee, and
I cannot but remember--Enough of this-my purpose holds."

"And I warrant me," said Morton, "the choice of these domestic consolations will rest with--"

Here he whispered names which escaped Roland Graeme's ear. Murray replied in a similar tone,
but so much raised towards the conclusion, of the sentence, that the page heard these words--"And
of him I hold myself secure, by Glendinning's recommendation."

"Ay, which may be as much trustworthy as his late conduct at the Abbey of Saint Mary's--you
have heard that his brother's election has taken place. Your favourite Sir Halbert, my Lord
of Murray, has as much fraternal affection as yourself."

"By heaven, Morton, that taunt demanded an unfriendly answer, but I pardon it, for your brother
also is concerned; but this election shall be annulled. I tell you, Earl of Morton, while I
hold the sword of state in my royal nephew's name, neither Lord nor Knight in Scotland shall
dispute my authority; and if I bear--with insults from my friends, it is only while I know
them to be such, and forgive their follies for their faithfulness."

Morton muttered what seemed to be some excuse, and the Regent answered him in a milder tone,
and then subjoined, "Besides, I have another pledge than Glendinning's recommendation, for
this youth's fidelity--his nearest relative has placed herself in my hands as his security,
to be dealt withal as his doings shall deserve."

"That is something," replied Morton; "but yet in fair love and goodwill, I must still pray
you to keep on your guard. The foes are stirring again, as horse-flies and hornets become busy
so soon as the storm-blast is over. George of Seyton was crossing the causeway this morning
with a score of men at his back, and had a ruffle with my friends of the house of Leslie--they
met at the Tron, and were fighting hard, when the provost, with his guard of partisans, came
in thirdsman, and staved them asunder with their halberds, as men part dog and bear."

"He hath my order for such interference," said the Regent--"Has any one been hurt?"

"George of Seyton himself, by black Ralph Leslie--the devil take the rapier that ran not through
from side to side! Ralph has a bloody coxcomb, by a blow from a messan-page whom nobody knew--Dick
Seyton of Windygowl is run through the arm, and two gallants of the Leslies have suffered phlebotomy.
This is all the gentle blood which has been spilled in the revel; but a yeoman or two on both
sides have had bones broken and ears chopped. The ostlere-wives, who are like to be the only
losers by their miscarriage, have dragged the knaves off the street, and are crying a drunken
coronach over them."

"You take it lightly, Douglas," said the Regent; "these broils and feuds would shame the capital
of the great Turk, let alone that of a Christian and reformed state. But, if I live, this gear
shall be amended; and men shall say, when they read my story, that if it were my cruel hap
to rise to power by the dethronement of a sister, I employed it, when gained, for the benefit
of the commonweal."

"And of your friends," replied Morton; "wherefore I trust for your instant order annulling
the election of this lurdane Abbot, Edward Glendinning."

"You shall be presently satisfied." said the Regent; and stepping forward, he began to call,
"So ho, Hyndman!" when suddenly his eye lighted on Roland Graeme--"By my faith, Douglas," said
he, turning to his friend, "here have been three at counsel!"

"Ay, but only two can keep counsel," said Morton; "the galliard must be disposed of."

"For shame, Morton--an orphan boy!--Hearken thee, my child--Thou hast told me some of thy accomplishments--canst
thou speak truth?" "Ay, my lord, when it serves my turn," replied Graeme.

"It shall serve thy turn now," said the Regent; "and falsehood shall be thy destruction. How
much hast thou heard or understood of what we two have spoken together?"

"But little, my lord," replied Roland Graeme boldly, "which met my apprehension, saving that
it seemed to me as if in something you doubted the faith of the Knight of Avenel, under whose
roof I was nurtured."

"And what hast thou to say on that point, young man?" continued the Regent, bending his eyes
upon him with a keen and strong expression of observation.

"That," said the page, "depends on the quality of those who speak against his honour whose
bread I have long eaten. If they be my inferiors, I say they lie, and will maintain what I
say with my baton; if my equals, still I say they lie, and will do battle in the quarrel, if
they list, with my sword; if my superiors"--he paused.

"Proceed boldly," said the Regent--"What if thy superiors said aught that nearly touched your
master's honour?"

"I would say," replied Graeme, "that he did ill to slander the absent, and that my master was
a man who could render an account of his actions to any one who should manfully demand it of
him to his face."

"And it were manfully said," replied the Regent--"what thinkest thou, my Lord of Morton?"

"I think," replied Morton, "that if the young galliard resemble a certain ancient friend of
ours, as much in the craft of his disposition as he does in eye and in brow, there may be a
wide difference betwixt what he means and what he speaks."

"And whom meanest thou that he resembles so closely?" said Murray.

"Even the true and trusty Julian Avenel," replied Morton.

"But this youth belongs to the Debateable Land," said Murray.

"It may be so; but Julian was an outlaying striker of venison, and made many a far cast when
he had a fair doe in chase."

"Pshaw!" said the Regent, "this is but idle talk--Here, thou Hyndman--thou curiosity," calling
to the usher, who now entered,--"conduct this youth to his companion--You will both," he said
to Graeme, "keep yourselves in readiness to travel on short notice."--And then motioning to
him courteously to withdraw, he broke up the interview.

Chapter the Nineteenth.

  It is and is not--'tis the thing I sought for,
  Have kneel'd for, pray'd for, risk'd my fame and life for,
  And yet it is not--no more than the shadow
  Upon the hard, cold, flat, and polished mirror,
  Is the warm, graceful, rounded, living substance
  Which it presents in form and lineament.
                                     OLD PLAY.

The usher, with gravity which ill concealed a jealous scowl, conducted Roland Graeme to a lower
apartment, where he found his comrade the falconer. The man of office then briefly acquainted
them that this would be their residence till his Grace's farther orders; that they were to
go to the pantry, to the buttery, to the cellar, and to the kitchen, at the usual hours, to
receive the allowances becoming their station,--instructions which Adam Woodcock's old familiarity
with the court made him perfectly understand--"For your beds," he said, "you must go to the
hostelry of Saint Michael's, in respect the palace is now full of the domestics of the greater
nobles."

No sooner was the usher's back turned than Adam exclaimed with all the glee of eager curiosity,
"And now, Master Roland, the news--the news--come unbutton thy pouch, and give us thy tidings--What
says the Regent?  asks he for Adam Woodcock?--and is all soldered up, or must the Abbot of
Unreason strap for it?"

"All is well in that quarter," said the page; "and for the rest--But, hey-day, what! have you
taken the chain and medal off from my bonnet?"

"And meet time it was, when yon usher, vinegar-faced rogue that he is, began to inquire what
Popish trangam you were wearing.--By the mass, the metal would have been confiscated for conscience-sake,
like your other rattle-trap yonder at Avenel, which Mistress Lilias bears about on her shoes
in the guise of a pair of shoe-buckles--This comes of carrying Popish nicknackets about you."

"The jade!" exclaimed Roland Graeme, "has she melted down my rosary into buckles for her clumsy
hoofs, which will set off such a garnish nearly as well as a cow's might?--But, hang her, let
her keep them--many a dog's trick have I played old Lilias, for want of having something better
to do, and the buckles will serve for a remembrance. Do you remember the verjuice I put into
the comfits, when old Wingate and she were to breakfast together on Easter morning?"

"In troth do I, Master Roland--the major-domo's mouth was as crooked as a hawk's beak for the
whole morning afterwards, and any other page in your room would have tasted the discipline
of the porter's lodge for it.  But my Lady's favour stood between your skin and many a jerking--Lord
send you may be the better for her protection in such matters!"

"I am least grateful for it, Adam! and I am glad you put me in mind of it."

"Well, but the news, my young master," said Woodcock, "spell me the tidings--what are we to
fly at next?--what did the Regent say to you?"

"Nothing that I am to repeat again," said Roland Graeme, shaking his head.

"Why, hey-day," said Adam, "how prudent we are become all of a sudden! You have advanced rarely
in brief space, Master Roland. You have well nigh had your head broken, and you have gained
your gold chain, and you have made an enemy, Master Usher to wit, with his two legs like hawks'
perches, and you have had audience of the first man in the realm, and bear as much mystery
in your brow, as if you had flown in the court-sky ever since you were hatched. I believe,
in my soul, you would run with a piece of the egg-shell on your head like the curlews, which
(I would we were after them again) we used to call whaups in the Halidome and its neighbourhood.
But sit thee down, boy; Adam Woodcock was never the lad to seek to enter into forbidden secrets--sit
thee down, and I will go and fetch the vivers--I know the butler and the pantler of old."

The good-natured falconer set forth upon his errand, busying himself about procuring their
refreshment; and, during his absence, Roland Graeme abandoned himself to the strange, complicated,
and yet heart-stirring reflections, to which the events of the morning had given rise. Yesterday
he was of neither mark nor likelihood; a vagrant boy, the attendant on a relative, of whose
sane judgment he himself had not the highest opinion; but now he had become, he knew not why,
or wherefore, or to what extent, the custodier, as the Scottish phrase went, of some important
state secret, in the safe keeping of which the Regent himself was concerned. It did not diminish
from, but rather added to the interest of a situation so unexpected, that Roland himself did
not perfectly understand wherein he stood committed by the state secrets, in which he had unwittingly
become participator. On the contrary, he felt like one who looks on a romantic landscape, of
which he sees the features for the first time, and then obscured with mist and driving tempest.
The imperfect glimpse which the eye catches of rocks, trees, and other objects around him,
adds double dignity to these shrouded mountains and darkened abysses, of which the height,
depth, and extent, are left to imagination.

But mortals, especially at the well-appetized age which precedes twenty years, are seldom so
much engaged either by real or conjectural subjects of speculation, but that their earthly
wants claim their hour of attention. And with many a smile did our hero, so the reader may
term him if he will, hail the re-appearance of his friend Adam Woodcock, bearing on one platter
a tremendous portion of boiled beef, and on another a plentiful allowance of greens, or rather
what the Scotch call lang-kale. A groom followed with bread, salt, and the other means of setting
forth a meal; and when they had both placed on the oaken table what they bore in their hands,
the falconer observed, that since he knew the court, it had got harder and harder every day
to the poor gentlemen and yeoman retainers, but that now it was an absolute flaying of a flea
for the hide and tallow. Such thronging to the wicket, and such churlish answers, and such
bare beef-bones, such a shouldering at the buttery-hatch and cellarage, and nought to be gained
beyond small insufficient single ale, or at best with a single straike of malt to counterbalance
a double allowance of water--"By the mass, though, my young friend," said he, while he saw
the food disappearing fast under Roland's active exertions, "it is not so to well to lament
for former times as to take the advantage of the present, else we are like to lose on both sides."

So saying, Adam Woodcock drew his chair towards the table, unsheathed his knife, (for every
one carried that minister of festive distribution for himself,) and imitated his young companion's
example, who for the moment had lost his anxiety for the future in the eager satisfaction of
an appetite sharpened by youth and abstinence.

In truth, they made, though the materials were sufficiently simple, a very respectable meal,
at the expense of the royal allowance; and Adam Woodcock, notwithstanding the deliberate censure
which he had passed on the household beer of the palace, had taken the fourth deep draught
of the black jack ere he remembered him that he had spoken in its dispraise. Flinging himself
jollily and luxuriously back in an old danske elbow-chair, and looking with careless glee towards
the page, extending at the same time his right leg, and stretching the other easily over it,
he reminded his companion that he had not yet heard the ballad which he had made for the Abbot
of Unreason's revel. And accordingly he struck merrily up with

  "The Pope, that pagan full of pride,
   Has blinded us full lang."------

Roland Graeme, who felt no great delight, as may be supposed, in the falconer's satire, considering
its subject, began to snatch up his mantle, and fling it around his shoulders, an action which
instantly interrupted the ditty of Adam Woodcock.

"Where the vengeance are you going now," he said, "thou restless boy?--Thou hast quicksilver
in the veins of thee to a certainty, and canst no more abide any douce and sensible communing,
than a hoodless hawk would keep perched on my wrist!"

"Why, Adam," replied the page, "if you must needs know, I am about to take a walk and look
at this fair city. One may as well be still mewed up in the old castle of the lake, if one
is to sit the live-long night between four walls, and hearken to old ballads."

"It is a new ballad--the Lord help thee!" replied Adam, "and that one of the best that ever
was matched with a rousing chorus."

"Be it so," said the page, "I will hear it another day, when the rain is dashing against the
windows, and there is neither steed stamping, nor spur jingling, nor feather waving in the
neighbourhood to mar my marking it well. But, even now, I want to be in the world, and to look
about me."

"But the never a stride shall you go without me," said the falconer, "until the Regent shall
take you whole and sound off my hand; and so, if you will, we may go to the hostelrie of Saint
Michael's, and there you will see company enough, but through the casement, mark you me; for
as to rambling through the street to seek Seytons and Leslies, and having a dozen holes drilled
in your new jacket with rapier and poniard, I will yield no way to it."

"To the hostelrie of Saint Michael's, then, with all my heart," said the page; and they left
the palace accordingly, rendered to the sentinels at the gate, who had now taken their posts
for the evening, a strict account of their names and business, were dismissed through a small
wicket of the close-barred portal, and soon reached the inn or hostelrie of Saint Michael,
which stood in a large court-yard, off the main street, close under the descent of the Calton-hill.
The place, wide, waste, and uncomfortable, resembled rather an Eastern caravansary, where men
found shelter indeed, but were obliged to supply themselves with every thing else, than one
of our modern inns;

  Where not one comfort shall to those be lost,
  Who never ask, or never feel, the cost.

But still, to the inexperienced eye of Roland Graeme, the bustle and confusion of this place
of public resort, furnished excitement and amusement. In the large room, into which they had
rather found their own way than been ushered by mine host, travellers and natives of the city
entered and departed, met and greeted, gamed or drank together, forming the strongest contrast
to the stern and monotonous order and silence with which matters were conducted in the well-ordered
household of the Knight of Avenel. Altercation of every kind, from brawling to jesting, was
going on amongst the groups around them, and yet the noise and mingled voices seemed to disturb
no one and indeed to be noticed by no others than by those who composed the group to which
the speaker belonged.

The falconer passed through the apartment to a projecting latticed window, which formed a sort
of recess from the room itself; and having here ensconced himself and his companion, he called
for some refreshments; and a tapster, after he had shouted for the twentieth time, accommodated
him with the remains of a cold capon and a neat's tongue, together with a pewter stoup of weak
French vin-de-pays. "Fetch a stoup of brandy-wine, thou knave--We will be jolly to-night, Master
Roland," said he, when he saw himself thus accommodated, "and let care come to-morrow."

But Roland had eaten too lately to enjoy the good cheer; and feeling his curiosity much sharper
than his appetite, he made it his choice to look out of the lattice, which overhung a large
yard, surrounded by the stables of the hostelrie, and fed his eyes on the busy sight beneath,
while Adam Woodcock, after he had compared his companion to the "Laird of Macfarlane's geese,
who liked their play better than their meat," disposed of his time with the aid of cup and
trencher, occasionally humming the burden of his birth-strangled ballad, and beating time to
it with his fingers on the little round table. In this exercise he was frequently interrupted
by the exclamations of his companion, as he saw something new in the yard beneath, to attract
and interest him.

It was a busy scene, for the number of gentlemen and nobles who were now crowded into the city,
had filled all spare stables and places of public reception with their horses and military
attendants. There were some score of yeomen, dressing their own or their masters' horses in
the yard, whistling, singing, laughing, and upbraiding each other, in a style of wit which
the good order of Avenel Castle rendered strange to Roland Graeme's ears. Others were busy
repairing their own arms, or cleaning those of their masters. One fellow, having just bought
a bundle of twenty spears, was sitting in a corner, employed in painting the white staves of
the weapons with yellow and vermillion. Other lacqueys led large stag-hounds, or wolf-dogs,
of noble race, carefully muzzled to prevent accidents to passengers. All came and went, mixed
together and separated, under the delighted eye of the page, whose imagination had not even
conceived a scene so gaily diversified with the objects he had most pleasure in beholding;
so that he was perpetually breaking the quiet reverie of honest Woodcock, and the mental progress
which he was making in his ditty, by exclaiming, "Look here, Adam--look at the bonny bay horse--Saint
Anthony, what, a gallant forehand he hath got!--and see the goodly gray, which yonder fellow
in the frieze-jacket is dressing as awkwardly as if he had never touched aught but a cow--I
would I were nigh him to teach him his trade!--And lo you, Adam, the gay Milan armour that
the yeoman is scouring, all steel and silver, like our Knight's prime suit, of which old Wingate
makes such account--And see to yonder pretty wench, Adam, who comes tripping through them all
with her milk-pail--I warrant me she has had a long walk from the loaning; she has a stammel
waistcoat, like your favourite Cicely Sunderland, Master Adam!"

"By my hood, lad," answered the falconer, "it is well for thee thou wert brought up where grace
grew. Even in the Castle of Avenel thou wert a wild-blood enough, but hadst thou been nurtured
here, within a flight-shot of the Court, thou hadst been the veriest crack-hemp of a page that
ever wore feather in thy bonnet or steel by thy side: truly, I wish it may end well with thee."

"Nay, but leave thy senseless humming and drumming, old Adam, and come to the window ere thou
hast drenched thy senses in the pint-pot there. See here comes a merry minstrel with his crowd,
and a wench with him, that dances with bells at her ankles; and see, the yeomen and pages leave
their horses and the armour they were cleaning, and gather round, as is very natural, to hear
the music. Come, old Adam, we will thither too."

"You shall call me cutt if I do go down," said Adam; "you are near as good minstrelsy as the
stroller can make, if you had but the grace to listen to it."

"But the wench in the stammel waistcoat is stopping too, Adam--by heaven, they are going to
dance! Frieze-jacket wants to dance with stammel waistcoat, but she is coy and recusant."

Then suddenly changing his tone of levity into one of deep interest and surprise, he exclaimed,
"Queen of Heaven! what is it that I see!" and then remained silent.

The sage Adam Woodcock, who was in a sort of languid degree amused with the page's exclamations,
even while he professed to despise them, became at length rather desirous to set his tongue
once more a-going, that he might enjoy the superiority afforded by his own intimate familiarity
with all the circumstances which excited in his young companion's mind so much wonderment.

"Well, then," he said at last, "what is it you do see, Master Roland, that you have become
mute all of a sudden?"

Roland returned no answer.

"I say, Master Roland Graeme," said the falconer, "it is manners in my country for a man to
speak when he is spoken to."

Roland Graeme remained silent.

"The murrain is in the boy," said Adam Woodcock, "he has stared out his eyes, and talked his
tongue to pieces, I think."

The falconer hastily drank off his can of wine, and came to Roland, who stood like a statue,
with his eyes eagerly bent on the court-yard, though Adam Woodcock was unable to detect amongst
the joyous scenes which it exhibited aught that could deserve such devoted attention.

"The lad is mazed!" said the falconer to himself.

But Roland Graeme had good reasons for his surprise, though they were not such as he could
communicate to his companion.

The touch of the old minstrel's instrument, for he had already begun to play, had drawn in
several auditors from the street when one entered the gate of the yard, whose appearance exclusively
arrested the attention of Roland Graeme. He was of his own age, or a good deal younger, and
from his dress and bearing might be of the same rank and calling, having all the air of coxcombry
and pretension, which accorded with a handsome, though slight and low figure, and an elegant
dress, in part hid by a large purple cloak. As he entered, he cast a glance up towards the
windows, and, to his extreme astonishment, under the purple velvet bonnet and white feather,
Roland recognized the features so deeply impressed on his memory, the bright and clustered
tresses, the laughing full blue eyes, the well-formed eyebrows, the nose, with the slightest
possible inclination to be aquiline, the ruby lip, of which an arch and half-suppressed smile
seemed the habitual expression--in short, the form and face of Catherine Seyton; in man's attire,
however, and mimicking, as it seemed, not unsuccessfully, the bearing of a youthful but forward
page.

"Saint George and Saint Andrew!" exclaimed the amazed Roland Graeme to himself, "was there
ever such an audacious quean!--she seems a little ashamed of her mummery too, for she holds
the lap of her cloak to her face, and her colour is heightened--but Santa Maria, how she threads
the throng, with as firm and bold a step as if she had never tied petticoat round her waist!--Holy
Saints! she holds up her riding-rod as if she would lay it about some of their ears, that stand
most in her way--by the hand of my father!  she bears herself like the very model of pagehood.--Hey!
what! sure she will not strike frieze-jacket in earnest?" But he was not long left in doubt;
for the lout whom he had before repeatedly noticed, standing in the way of the bustling page,
and maintaining his place with clownish obstinacy or stupidity, the advanced riding-rod was,
without a moment's hesitation, sharply applied to his shoulders, in a manner which made him
spring aside, rubbing the part of the body which had received so unceremonious a hint that
it was in the way of his betters. The party injured growled forth an oath or two of indignation,
and Roland Graeme began to think of flying down stairs to the assistance of the translated
Catherine; but the laugh of the yard was against frieze-jacket, which indeed had, in those
days, small chance of fair play in a quarrel with velvet and embroidery; so that the fellow,
who was menial in the inn, slunk back to finish his task of dressing the bonny gray, laughed
at by all, but most by the wench in the stammel waistcoat, his fellow-servant, who, to crown
his disgrace, had the cruelty to cast an applauding smile upon the author of the injury, while,
with a freedom more like the milk-maid of the town than she of the plains, she accosted him
with--"Is there any one you want here, my pretty gentleman, that you seem in such haste?"

"I seek a sprig of a lad," said the seeming gallant, "with a sprig of holly in his cap, black
hair, and black eyes, green jacket, and the air of a country coxcomb--I have sought him through
every close and alley in the Canongate, the fiend gore him!"

"Why, God-a-mercy, Nun!" muttered Roland Graeme, much bewildered.

"I will inquire him presently out for your fair young worship," said the wench of the inn.

"Do," said the gallant squire, "and if you bring me to him, you shall have a groat to-night,
and a kiss on Sunday when you have on a cleaner kirtle."

"Why, God-a-mercy, Nun!" again muttered Roland, "this is a note above E La."

In a moment after, the servant entered the room, and ushered in the object of his surprise.

While the disguised vestal looked with unabashed brow, and bold and rapid glance of her eye,
through the various parties in the large old room, Roland Graeme, who felt an internal awkward
sense of bashful confusion, which he deemed altogether unworthy of the bold and dashing character
to which he aspired, determined not to be browbeaten and put down by this singular female,
but to meet her with a glance of recognition so sly, so penetrating, so expressively humorous,
as should show her at once he was in possession of her secret and master of her fate, and should
compel her to humble herself towards him, at least into the look and manner of respectful and
deprecating observance.

This was extremely well planned; but just as Roland had called up the knowing glance, the suppressed
smile, the shrewd intelligent look, which was to ensure his triumph, he encountered the bold,
firm, and steady gaze of his brother or sister-page, who, casting on him a falcon glance, and
recognizing him at once as the object of his search, walked up with the most unconcerned look,
the most free and undaunted composure, and hailed him with "You, Sir Holly-top, I would speak
with you."

The steady coolness and assurance with which these words were uttered, although the voice was
the very voice he had heard at the old convent, and although the features more nearly resembled
those of Catharine when seen close than when viewed from a distance, produced, nevertheless,
such a confusion in Roland's mind, that he became uncertain whether he was not still under
a mistake from the beginning; the knowing shrewdness which should have animated his visage
faded into a sheepish bashfulness, and the half-suppressed but most intelligible smile, became
the senseless giggle of one who laughs to cover his own disorder of ideas.

"Do they understand a Scotch tongue in thy country, Holly-top?" said this marvellous specimen
of metamorphosis. "I said I would speak with thee."

"What is your business with my comrade, my young chick of the game?" said Adam Woodcock, willing
to step in to his companion's assistance, though totally at a loss to account for the sudden
disappearance of all Roland's usual smartness and presence of mind.

"Nothing to you, my old cock of the perch," replied the gallant; "go mind your hawk's castings.
I guess by your bag and your gauntlet that you are squire of the body to a sort of kites."

He laughed as he spoke, and the laugh reminded Roland so irresistibly of the hearty fit of
risibility, in which Catherine had indulged at his expense when they first met in the old nunnery,
that he could scarce help exclaiming, "Catherine Seyton, by Heavens!"--He checked the exclamation,
however, and only said, "I think, sir, we two are not totally strangers to each other."

"We must have met in our dreams then" said the youth; "and my days are too busy to remember
what I think on at nights."

"Or apparently to remember upon one day those whom you may have seen on the preceding eve"
said Roland Graeme.

The youth in his turn cast on him a look of some surprise, as he replied, "I know no more of
what you mean than does the horse I ride on--if there be offence in your words, you shall find
me ready to take it as any lad in Lothian."

"You know well," said Roland, "though it pleases you to use the language of a stranger, that
with you I have no purpose to quarrel."

"Let me do mine errand, then, and be rid of you," said the page. "Step hither this way, out
of that old leathern fist's hearing."

They walked into the recess of the window, which Roland had left upon the youth's entrance
into the apartment. The messenger then turned his back on the company, after casting a hasty
and sharp glance around to see if they were observed. Roland did the same, and the page in
the purple mantle thus addressed him, taking at the same time from under his cloak a short
but beautifully wrought sword, with the hilt and ornaments upon the sheath of silver, massively
chased and over-gilded--"I bring you this weapon from a friend, who gives it you under the
solemn condition, that you will not unsheath it until you are commanded by your rightful Sovereign.
For your warmth of temper is known, and the presumption with which you intrude yourself into
the quarrels of others; and, therefore, this is laid upon you as a penance by those who wish
you well, and whose hand will influence your destiny for good or for evil.  This is what I
was charged to tell you. So if you will give a fair word for a fair sword, and pledge your
promise, with hand and glove, good and well; and if not, I will carry back Caliburn to those
who sent it."

"And may I not ask who these are?" said Roland Graeme, admiring at the same time the beauty
of the weapon thus offered him.

"My commission in no way leads me to answer such a question," said he of the purple mantle.

"But if I am offended" said Roland, "may I not draw to defend myself?"

"Not this weapon," answered the sword-bearer; "but you have your own at command, and, besides,
for what do you wear your poniard?"

"For no good," said Adam Woodcock, who had now approached close to them, "and that I can witness
as well as any one."

"Stand back, fellow," said the messenger, "thou hast an intrusive curious face, that will come
by a buffet if it is found where it has no concern."

"A buffet, my young Master Malapert?" said Adam, drawing back, however; "best keep down fist,
or, by Our Lady, buffet will beget buffet!"

"Be patient, Adam Woodcock," said Roland Graeme; "and let me pray you, fair sir, since by such
addition you choose for the present to be addressed, may I not barely unsheathe this fair weapon,
in pure simplicity of desire to know whether so fair a hilt and scabbard are matched with a
befitting blade?"

"By no manner of means," said the messenger; "at a word, you must take it under the promise
that you never draw it until you receive the commands of your lawful Sovereign, or you must
leave it alone."

"Under that condition, and coming from your friendly hand, I accept of the sword," said Roland,
taking it from his hand; "but credit me, if we are to work together in any weighty emprise,
as I am induced to believe, some confidence and openness on your part will be necessary to
give the right impulse to my zeal--I press for no more at present, it is enough that you understand
me."

"I understand you!" said the page, exhibiting the appearance of unfeigned surprise in his turn,--"Renounce
me if I do!--here you stand jiggeting, and sniggling, and looking cunning, as if there were
some mighty matter of intrigue and common understanding betwixt you and me, whom you never
set your eyes on before!"

"What!" said Roland Graeme, "will you deny that we have met before?"

"Marry that I will, in any Christian court," said the other page.

"And will you also deny," said Roland, "that it was recommended to us to study each other's
features well, that in whatever disguise the time might impose upon us, each should recognize
in the other the secret agent of a mighty work? Do not you remember, that Sister Magdalen and
Dame Bridget----"

The messenger here interrupted him, shrugging up his shoulders, with a look of compassion,
"Bridget and Magdalen! why, this is madness and dreaming! Hark ye, Master Holly-top, your wits
are gone on wool-gathering; comfort yourself with a caudle, and thatch your brain-sick noddle
with a woollen night-cap, and so God be with you!"

As he concluded this polite parting address, Adam Woodcock, who was again seated by the table
on which stood the now empty can, said to him, "Will you drink a cup, young man, in the way
of courtesy, now you have done your errand, and listen to a good song?" and without waiting
for an answer, he commenced his ditty,--

  "The Pope, that pagan full of pride,
  Hath blinded us full lang--"

It is probable that the good wine had made some innovation in the falconer's brain, otherwise
he would have recollected the danger of introducing any thing like political or polemical pleasantry
into a public assemblage at a time when men's minds were in a state of great irritability.
To do him justice, he perceived his error, and stopped short so soon as he saw that the word
Pope had at once interrupted the separate conversations of the various parties which were assembled
in the apartment; and that many began to draw themselves up, bridle, look big, and prepare
to take part in the impending brawl; while others, more decent and cautious persons, hastily
paid down their lawing, and prepared to leave the place ere bad should come to worse.

And to worse it was soon likely to come; for no sooner did Woodcock's ditty reach the ear of
the stranger page, than, uplifting his riding-rod, he exclaimed, "He who speaks irreverently
of the Holy Father of the church in my presence, is the cub of a heretic wolf-bitch, and I
will switch him as I would a mongrel-cur."

"And I will break thy young pate," said Adam, "if thou darest to lift a finger to me." And
then, in defiance of the young Drawcansir's threats, with a stout heart and dauntless accent,
he again uplifted the stave.

  "The Pope, that pagan full of pride.
  Hath blinded--"

But Adam was able to proceed no farther, being himself unfortunately blinded by a stroke of
the impatient youth's switch across his eyes. Enraged at once by the smart and the indignity,
the falconer started up, and darkling as he was, for his eyes watered too fast to permit his
seeing any thing, he would soon have been at close grips with his insolent adversary, had not
Roland Graeme, contrary to his nature, played for once the prudent man and the peacemaker,
and thrown himself betwixt them, imploring Woodcock's patience. "You know not," he said, "with
whom you have to do.--And thou," addressing the messenger, who stood scornfully laughing at
Adam's rage, "get thee gone, whoever thou art; if thou be'st what I guess thee, thou well knowest
there are earnest reasons why thou shouldst."

"Thou hast hit it right for once, Holly-top," said the gallant, "though I guess you drew your
bow at a venture.--Here, host, let this yeoman have a bottle of wine to wash the smart out
of his eyes--and there is a French crown for him." So saying, he threw the piece of money on
the table, and left the apartment, with a quick yet steady pace, looking firmly at right and
left, as if to defy interruption: and snapping his fingers at two or three respectable burghers,
who, declaring it was a shame that any one should be suffered to rant and ruffle in defence
of the Pope, were labouring to find the hilts of their swords, which had got for the present
unhappily entangled in the folds of their cloaks. But, as the adversary was gone ere any of
them had reached his weapon, they did not think it necessary to unsheath cold iron, but merely
observed to each other, "This is more than masterful violence, to see a poor man stricken in
the face just for singing a ballad against the whore of Babylon! If the Pope's champions are
to be bangsters in our very change-houses, we shall soon have the old shavelings back again."

"The provost should look to it," said another, "and have some five or six armed with partisans,
to come in upon the first whistle, to teach these gallants their lesson. For, look you, neighbour
Lugleather, it is not for decent householders like ourselves to be brawling with the godless
grooms and pert pages of the nobles, that are bred up to little else save bloodshed and blasphemy."

"For all that, neighbour," said Lugleather, "I would have curried that youngster as properly
as ever I curried a lamb's hide, had not the hilt of my bilbo been for the instant beyond my
grasp; and before I could turn my girdle, gone was my master!"

"Ay," said the others, "the devil go with him, and peace abide with us--I give my rede, neighbours,
that we pay the lawing, and be stepping homeward, like brother and brother; for old Saint Giles's
is tolling curfew, and the street grows dangerous at night."

With that the good burghers adjusted their cloaks, and prepared for their departure, while
he that seemed the briskest of the three, laying his hand on his Andrea Ferrara, observed,
"that they that spoke in the praise of the Pope on the High-gate of Edinburgh, had best bring
the sword of Saint Peter to defend them."

While the ill-humour excited by the insolence of the young aristocrat was thus evaporating
in empty menace, Roland Graeme had to control the far more serious indignation of Adam Woodcock.
"Why, man, it was but a switch across the mazzard--blow your nose, dry your eyes, and you will
see all the better for it."

"By this light, which I cannot see," said Adam Woodcock, "thou hast been a false friend to
me, young man--neither taking up my rightful quarrel, nor letting me fight it out myself."

"Fy for shame, Adam Woodcock," replied the youth, determined to turn the tables on him, and
become in turn the counsellor of good order and peaceable demeanour--"I say, fy for shame!--Alas,
that you will speak thus! Here are you sent with me, to prevent my innocent youth getting into
snares----"

"I wish your innocent youth were cut short with a halter, with all my heart," said Adam, who
began to see which way the admonition tended.

--"And instead of setting before me," continued Roland, "an example of patience and sobriety
becoming the falconer of Sir Halbert Glendinning, you quaff me off I know not how many flagons
of ale, besides a gallon of wine, and a full measure of strong waters."

"It was but one small pottle," said poor Adam, whom consciousness of his own indiscretion now
reduced to a merely defensive warfare.

"It was enough to pottle you handsomely, however," said the page--"And then, instead of going
to bed to sleep off your liquor, must you sit singing your roistering songs about popes and
pagans, till you have got your eyes almost switched out of your head; and but for my interference,
whom your drunken ingratitude accuses of deserting you, yon galliard would have cut your throat,
for he was whipping out a whinger as broad as my hand, and as sharp as a razor--And these are
lessons for an inexperienced youth!--Oh, Adam! out upon you! out upon you!"

"Marry, amen, and with all my heart," said Adam; "out upon my folly for expecting any thing
but impertinent raillery from a page like thee, that if he saw his father in a scrape, would
laugh at him, instead of lending him aid.

"Nay, but I will lend you aid," said the page, still laughing, "that is, I will lend thee aid
to thy chamber, good Adam, where thou shalt sleep off wine and ale, ire and indignation, and
awake the next morning with as much fair wit as nature has blessed thee withal. Only one thing
I will warn thee, good Adam, that henceforth and for ever, when thou railest at me for being
somewhat hot at hand, and rather too prompt to out with poniard or so, thy admonition shall
serve as a prologue to the memorable adventure of the switching of Saint Michael's."

With such condoling expressions he got the crest-fallen falconer to his bed, and then retired
to his own pallet, where it was some time ere he could fall asleep. If the messenger whom he
had seen were really Catherine Seyton, what a masculine virago and termagant must she be! and
stored with what an inimitable command of insolence and assurance!--The brass on her brow would
furbish the front of twenty pages; "and I should know," thought Roland, "what that amounts
to--And yet, her features, her look, her light gait, her laughing eye, the art with which she
disposed the mantle to show no more of her limbs than needs must be seen--I am glad she had
at least that grace left--the voice, the smile--it must have been Catherine Seyton, or the
devil in her likeness! One thing is good, I have silenced the eternal predications of that
ass, Adam Woodcock, who has set up for being a preacher and a governor, over me, so soon as
he has left the hawks' mew behind him."

And with this comfortable reflection, joined to the happy indifference which youth hath for
the events of the morrow, Roland Graeme fell fast asleep.

Chapter the Twentieth.

  Now have you reft me from my staff, my guide,
  Who taught my youth, as men teach untamed falcons,
  To use my strength discreetly--I am reft
  Of comrade and of counsel.
                                        OLD PLAY.

In the gray of the next morning's dawn, there was a loud knocking at the gate of the hostelrie;
and those without, proclaiming that they came in the name of the Regent, were instantly admitted.
A moment or two afterwards, Michael Wing-the-wind stood by the bedside of our travellers.

"Up! up!" he said, "there is no slumber where Murray hath work ado."

Both sleepers sprung up, and began to dress themselves.

"You, old friend," said Wing-the-wind to Adam Woodcock, "must to horse instantly, with this
packet to the Monks of Kennaquhair; and with this," delivering them as he spoke, "to the Knight
of Avenel."

"As much as commanding the monks to annul their election, I'll warrant me, of an Abbot," quoth
Adam Woodcock, as he put the packets into his bag, "and charging my master to see it done--To
hawk at one brother with another, is less than fair play, methinks."

"Fash not thy beard about it, old boy," said Michael, "but betake thee to the saddle presently;
for if these orders are not obeyed, there will be bare walls at the Kirk of Saint Mary's, and
it may be at the Castle of Avenel to boot; for I heard my Lord of Morton loud with the Regent,
and we are at a pass that we cannot stand with him anent trifles."

"But," said Adam, "touching the Abbot of Unreason--what say they to that outbreak--An they
be shrewishly disposed, I were better pitch the packets to Satan, and take the other side of
the Border for my bield."

"Oh, that was passed over as a jest, since there was little harm done.--But, hark thee, Adam,"
continued his comrade, "if there was a dozen vacant abbacies in your road, whether of jest
or earnest, reason or unreason, draw thou never one of their mitres over thy brows.--The time
is not fitting, man!--besides, our Maiden longs to clip the neck of a fat churchman."

"She shall never sheer mine in that capacity," said the falconer, while he knotted the kerchief
in two or three double folds around his sunburnt bull-neck, calling out at the same time, "Master
Roland, Master Roland, make haste! we must back to perch and mew, and, thank Heaven, more than
our own wit, with our bones whole, and without a stab in the stomach."

"Nay, but," said Wing-the-wind, "the page goes not back with you; the Regent has other employment
for him."

"Saints and sorrows!" exclaimed the falconer--"Master Roland Graeme to remain here, and I to
return to Avenel!--Why, it cannot be--the child cannot manage himself in this wide world without
me, and I question if he will stoop to any other whistle than mine own; there are times I myself
can hardly bring him to my lure."

It was at Roland's tongue's end to say something concerning the occasion they had for using
mutually each other's prudence, but the real anxiety which Adam evinced at parting with him,
took away his disposition to such ungracious raillery. The falconer did not altogether escape,
however, for, in turning his face towards the lattice, his friend Michael caught a glimpse
of it, and exclaimed, "I prithee, Adam Woodcock, what hast thou been doing with these eyes
of thine? They are swelled to the starting from the socket!"

"Nought in the world," said he, after casting a deprecating glance at Roland Graeme, "but the
effect of sleeping in this d--ned truckle without a pillow."

"Why, Adam Woodcock, thou must be grown strangely dainty," said his old companion; "I have
known thee sleep all night with no better pillow than a bush of ling, and start up with the
sun, as glegg as a falcon; and now thine eyes resemble----"

"Tush, man, what signifies how mine eyes look now?" said Adam--"let us but roast a crab-apple,
pour a pottle of ale on it, and bathe our throats withal, thou shalt see a change in me."

"And thou wilt be in heart to sing thy jolly ballad about the Pope," said his comrade.

"Ay, that I will," replied the falconer, "that is, when we have left this quiet town five miles
behind us, if you will take your hobby and ride so far on my way."

"Nay, that I may not," said Michael--"I can but stop to partake your morning draught, and see
you fairly to horse--I will see that they saddle them, and toast the crab for thee, without
loss of time."

During his absence the falconer took the page by the hand--"May I never hood hawk again," said
the good-natured fellow, "if I am not as sorry to part with you as if you were a child of mine
own, craving pardon for the freedom--I cannot tell what makes me love you so much, unless it
be for the reason that I loved the vicious devil of a brown galloway nag whom my master the
Knight called Satan, till Master Warden changed his name to Seyton; for he said it was over
boldness to call a beast after the King of Darkness----"

"And," said the page, "it was over boldness in him, I trow, to call a vicious brute after a
noble family."

"Well," proceeded Adam, "Seyton or Satan, I loved that nag over every other horse in the stable---There
was no sleeping on his back--he was for ever fidgeting, bolting, rearing, biting, kicking,
and giving you work to do, and maybe the measure of your back on the heather to the boot of
it all. And I think I love you better than any lad in the castle, for the self-same qualities."

"Thanks, thanks, kind Adam. I regard myself bound to you for the good estimation in which you
hold me."

"Nay, interrupt me not," said the falconer--"Satan was a good nag-- But I say I think I shall
call the two eyases after you, the one Roland, and the other Graeme; and while Adam Woodcock
lives, be sure you have a friend--Here is to thee, my dear son."

Roland most heartily returned the grasp of the hand, and Woodcock, having taken a deep draught,
continued his farewell speech.

"There are three things I warn you against, Roland, now that you art to tread this weary world
without my experience to assist you. In the first place, never draw dagger on slight occasion--every
man's doublet is not so well stuffed as a certain abbot's that you wot of. Secondly, fly not
at every pretty girl, like a merlin at a thrush--you will not always win a gold chain for your
labour--and, by the way, here I return to you your fanfarona--keep it close, it is weighty,
and may benefit you at a pinch more ways than one. Thirdly, and to conclude, as our worthy
preacher says, beware of the pottle-pot--it has drenched the judgment of wiser men than you.
I could bring some instances of it, but I dare say it needeth not; for if you should forget
your own mishaps, you will scarce fail to remember mine--And so farewell, my dear son."

Roland returned his good wishes, and failed not to send his humble duty to his kind Lady, charging
the falconer, at the same time, to express his regret that he should have offended her, and
his determination so to bear him in the world that she would not be ashamed of the generous
protection she had afforded him.

The falconer embraced his young friend, mounted his stout, round-made, trotting-nag, which
the serving-man, who had attended him, held ready at the door, and took the road to the southward.
A sullen and heavy sound echoed from the horse's feet, as if indicating the sorrow of the good-natured
rider. Every hoof-tread seemed to tap upon Roland's heart as he heard his comrade withdraw
with so little of his usual alert activity, and felt that he was once more alone in the world.

He was roused from his reverie by Michael Wing-the-wind, who reminded him that it was necessary
they should instantly return to the palace, as my Lord Regent went to the Sessions early in
the morning. They went thither accordingly, and Wing-the-wind, a favourite old domestic, who
was admitted nearer to the Regent's person and privacy, than many whose posts were more ostensible,
soon introduced Graeme into a small matted chamber, where he had an audience of the present
head of the troubled State of Scotland. The Earl of Murray was clad in a sad-coloured morning-gown,
with a cap and slippers of the same cloth, but, even in this easy deshabillé, held his sheathed
rapier in his hand, a precaution which he adopted when receiving strangers, rather in compliance
with the earnest remonstrances of his friends and partisans, than from any personal apprehensions
of his own. He answered with a silent nod the respectful obeisance of the page, and took one
or two turns through the small apartment in silence, fixing his keen eye on Roland, as if he
wished to penetrate into his very soul. At length he broke silence.

"Your name is, I think, Julian Graeme?"

"Roland Graeme, my lord, not Julian," replied the page.

"Right--I was misled by some trick of my memory--Roland Graeme, from the Debateable Land.--Roland,
thou knowest the duties which belong to a lady's service?"

"I should know them, my lord," replied Roland, "having been bred so near the person of my Lady
of Avenel; but I trust never more to practise them, as the Knight hath promised----"

"Be silent, young man," said the Regent, "I am to speak, and you to hear and obey. It is necessary
that, for some space at least, you shall again enter into the service of a lady, who, in rank,
hath no equal in Scotland; and this service accomplished, I give thee my word as Knight and
Prince, that it shall open to you a course of ambition, such as may well gratify the aspiring
wishes of one whom circumstances entitle to entertain much higher views than thou. I will take
thee into my household and near to my person, or, at your own choice, I will give you the command
of a foot-company--either is a preferment which the proudest laird in the land might be glad
to ensure for a second son."

"May I presume to ask, my lord," said Roland, observing the Earl paused for a reply, "to whom
my poor services are in the first place destined?"

"You will be told hereafter," said the Regent; and then, as if overcoming some internal reluctance
to speak farther himself, he added, "or why should I not myself tell you, that you are about
to enter into the service of a most illustrious--most unhappy lady-- into the service of Mary
of Scotland."

"Of the Queen, my lord!" said the page, unable to suppress his surprise.

"Of her who was the Queen!" said Murray, with a singular mixture of displeasure and embarrassment
in his tone of voice. "You must be aware, young man, that her son reigns in her stead."

He sighed from an emotion, partly natural, perhaps, and partly assumed.

"And am I to attend upon her Grace in her place of imprisonment, my lord?" again demanded the
page, with a straightforward and hardy simplicity, which somewhat disconcerted the sage and
powerful statesman.

"She is not imprisoned," answered Murray, angrily; "God forbid she should--she is only sequestered
from state affairs, and from the business of the public, until the world be so effectually
settled, that she may enjoy her natural and uncontrolled freedom, without her royal disposition
being  exposed to the practices of wicked and designing men. It is for this purpose," he added,
"that while she is to be furnished, as right is, with such attendance as may befit her present
secluded state, it becomes necessary that those placed around her, are persons on whose prudence
I can have reliance. You see, therefore, you are at once called on to discharge an office most
honourable in itself, and so to discharge it that you may make a friend of the Regent of Scotland.
Thou art, I have been told, a singularly apprehensive youth; and I perceive by thy look, that
thou dost already understand what I would say on this matter. In this schedule your particular
points of duty are set down at length--but the sum required of you is fidelity--I mean fidelity
to myself and to the state. You are, therefore, to watch every attempt which is made, or inclination
displayed, to open any communication with any of the lords who have become banders in the west--with
Hamilton, Seyton, with Fleming, or the like. It is true that my gracious sister, reflecting
upon the ill chances that have happened to the state of this poor kingdom, from evil counsellors
who have abused her royal nature in time past, hath determined to sequestrate herself from
state affairs in future. But it is our duty, as acting for and in the name of our infant nephew,
to guard against the evils which may arise from any mutation or vacillation in her royal resolutions.
Wherefore, it will be thy duty to watch, and report to our lady mother, whose guest our sister
is for the present, whatever may infer a disposition to withdraw her person from the place
of security in which she is lodged, or to open communication with those without. If, however,
your observation should detect any thing of weight, and which may exceed mere suspicion, fail
not to send notice by an especial messenger to me directly, and this ring shall be thy warrant
to order horse and men on such service.--And now begone. If there be half the wit in thy head
that there is apprehension in thy look, thou fully comprehendest all that I would say--Serve
me faithfully, and sure as I am belted earl, thy reward shall be great."

Roland Graeme made an obeisance, and was about to depart.

The Earl signed to him to remain. "I have trusted thee deeply," he said, "young man, for thou
art the only one of her suite who has been sent to her by my own recommendation. Her gentlewomen
are of her own nomination--it were too hard to have barred her that privilege, though some
there were who reckoned it inconsistent with sure policy.  Thou art young and handsome. Mingle
in their follies, and see they cover not deeper designs under the appearance of female levity--if
they do mine, do thou countermine. For the rest, bear all decorum and respect to the person
of thy mistress--she is a princess, though a most unhappy one, and hath been a queen! though
now, alas! no longer such! Pay, therefore, to her all honour and respect, consistent with thy
fidelity to the King and me--and now, farewell.--Yet stay--you travel with Lord Lindesay, a
man of the old world, rough and honest, though untaught; see that thou offend him not, for
he is not patient of raillery, and thou, I have heard, art a crack-halter." This he said with
a smile, then added, "I could have wished the Lord Lindesay's mission had been intrusted to
some other and more gentle noble."

"And wherefore should you wish that, my lord?" said Morton, who even then entered the apartment;
"the council have decided for the best--we have had but too many proofs of this lady's stubbornness
of mind, and the oak that resists the sharp steel axe, must be riven with the rugged iron wedge.--And
this is to be her page?--My Lord Regent hath doubtless instructed you, young man, how you shall
guide yourself in these matters; I will add but a little hint on my part. You are going to
the castle of a Douglas, where treachery never thrives--the first moment of suspicion will
be the last of your life. My kinsman, William Douglas, understands no raillery, and if he once
have cause to think you false, you will waver in the wind from the castle battlements ere the
sun set upon his anger.--And is the lady to have an almoner withal?"

"Occasionally, Douglas," said the Regent; "it were hard to deny the spiritual consolation which
she thinks essential to her salvation."

"You are ever too soft hearted, my lord--What! a false priest to communicate her lamentations,
not only to our unfriends in Scotland, but to the Guises, to Rome, to Spain, and I know not where!"

"Fear not," said the Regent, "we will take such order that no treachery shall happen."

"Look to it then." said Morton; "you know my mind respecting the wench you have consented she
shall receive as a waiting-woman--one of a family, which, of all others, has ever been devoted
to her, and inimical to us. Had we not been wary, she would have been purveyed of a page as
much to her purpose as her waiting-damsel. I hear a rumour that an old mad Romish pilgrimer,
who passes for at least half a saint among them, was employed to find a fit subject."

"We have escaped that danger at least," said Murray, "and converted it into a point of advantage,
by sending this boy of Glendinning's--and for her waiting-damsel, you cannot grudge her one
poor maiden instead of her four noble Marys and all their silken train?"

"I care not so much for the waiting-maiden," said Morton, "but I cannot brook the almoner--I
think priests of all persuasions are much like each other--Here is John Knox, who made such
a noble puller-down, is ambitious of becoming a setter-up, and a founder of schools and colleges
out of the Abbey lands, and bishops' rents, and other spoils of Rome, which the nobility of
Scotland have won with their sword and bow, and with which he would endow new hives to sing
the old drone."

"John is a man of God," said the Regent, "and his scheme is a devout imagination."

The sedate smile with which this was spoken, left it impossible to conjecture whether the words
were meant in approbation, or in derision, of the plan of the Scottish Reformer. Turning then
to Roland Graeme, as if he thought he had been long enough a witness of this conversation,
he bade him get him presently to horse, since my Lord of Lindesay was already mounted. The
page made his reverence, and left the apartment.

Guided by Michael Wing-the-wind, he found his horse ready saddled and prepared for the journey,
in front of the palace porch, where hovered about a score of men-at-arms, whose leader showed
no small symptoms of surly impatience.

"Is this the jackanape page for whom we have waited thus long?" said he to Wing-the-wind.--"And
my Lord Ruthven will reach the castle long before us."

Michael assented, and added, that the boy had been detained by the Regent to receive some parting
instructions. The leader made an inarticulate sound in his throat, expressive of sullen acquiescence,
and calling to one of his domestic attendants, "Edward," said he, "take the gallant into your
charge, and let him speak with no one else."

He then addressed, by the title of Sir Robert, an elderly and respectable-looking gentleman,
the only one of the party who seemed above the rank of a retainer or domestic, and observed,
that they must get to horse with all speed.

During this discourse, and while they were riding slowly along the street of the suburb, Roland
had time to examine more accurately the looks and figure of the Baron, who was at their head.

Lord Lindesay of the Byres was rather touched than stricken with years. His upright stature
and strong limbs, still showed him fully equal to all the exertions and fatigues of war. His
thick eyebrows, now partially grizzled, lowered over large eyes full of dark fire, which seemed
yet darker from the uncommon depth at which they were set in his head. His features, naturally
strong and harsh, had their sternness exaggerated by one or two scars received in battle. These
features, naturally calculated to express the harsher passions, were shaded by an open steel
cap, with a projecting front, but having no visor, over the gorget of which fell the black
and grizzled beard of the grim old Baron, and totally hid the lower part of his face. The rest
of his dress was a loose buff-coat, which had once been lined with silk and adorned with embroidery,
but which seemed much stained with travel, and damaged with cuts, received probably in battle.
It covered a corslet, which had once been of polished steel, fairly gilded, but was now somewhat
injured with rust. A sword of antique make and uncommon size, framed to be wielded with both
hands, a kind of weapon which was then beginning to go out of use, hung from his neck in a
baldrick, and was so disposed as to traverse his whole person, the huge hilt appearing over
his left shoulder, and the point reaching well-nigh to the right heel, and jarring against
his spur as he walked. This unwieldy weapon could only be unsheathed by pulling the handle
over the left shoulder--for no human arm was long enough to draw it in the usual manner. The
whole equipment was that of a rude warrior, negligent of his exterior even to misanthropical
sullenness; and the short, harsh, haughty tone, which he used towards his attendants, belonged
to the same unpolished character.

The personage who rode with Lord Lindesay, at the head of the party, was an absolute contrast
to him, in manner, form, and features. His thin and silky hair was already white, though he
seemed not above forty-five or fifty years old. His tone of voice was soft and insinuating--his
form thin, spare, and bent by an habitual stoop-- his pale cheek was expressive of shrewdness
and intelligence--his eye was quick though placid, and his whole demeanour mild and conciliatory.
He rode an ambling nag, such as were used by ladies, clergymen, or others of peaceful professions--wore
a riding habit of black velvet, with a cap and feather of the same hue, fastened up by a golden
medal--and for show, and as a mark of rank rather than for use, carried a walking-sword, (as
the short light rapiers were called,) without any other arms, offensive or defensive.

The party had now quitted the town, and proceeded, at a steady trot, towards the west.--As
they prosecuted their journey, Roland Graeme would gladly have learned something of its purpose
and tendency, but the countenance of the personage next to whom he had been placed in the train,
discouraged all approach to familiarity. The Baron himself did not look more grim and inaccessible
than his feudal retainer, whose grisly beard fell over his mouth like the portcullis before
the gate of a castle, as if for the purpose of preventing the escape of any word, of which
absolute necessity did not demand the utterance. The rest of the train seemed under the same
taciturn influence, and journeyed on without a word being exchanged amongst them--more like
a troop of Carthusian friars than a party of military retainers. Roland Graeme was surprised
at this extremity of discipline; for even in the household of the Knight of Avenel, though
somewhat distinguished for the accuracy with which decorum was enforced, a journey was a period
of license, during which jest and song, and every thing within the limits of becoming mirth
and pastime were freely permitted. This unusual silence was, however, so far acceptable, that
it gave him time to bring any shadow of judgment which he possessed to council on his own situation
and prospects, which would have appeared to any reasonable person in the highest degree dangerous
and perplexing.

It was quite evident that he had, through various circumstances not under his own control,
formed contradictory connexions with both the contending factions, by whose strife the kingdom
was distracted, without being properly an adherent of either. It seemed also clear, that the
same situation in the household of the deposed Queen, to which he was now promoted by the influence
of the Regent, had been destined to him by his enthusiastic grandmother, Magdalen Graeme; for
on this subject, the words which Morton had dropped had been a ray of light; yet it was no
less clear that these two persons, the one the declared enemy, the other the enthusiastic votary,
of the Catholic religion,--the one at the head of the King's new government, the other, who
regarded that government as a criminal usurpation--must have required and expected very different
services from the individual whom they had thus united in recommending. It required very little
reflection to foresee that these contradictory claims on his services might speedily place
him in a situation where his honour as well as his life might be endangered. But it was not
in Roland Graeme's nature to anticipate evil before it came, or to prepare to combat difficulties
before they arrived. "I will see this beautiful and unfortunate Mary Stewart," said he, "of
whom we have heard so much, and then there will be time enough to determine whether I will
be kingsman or queensman. None of them can say I have given word or promise to either of their
factions; for they have led me up and down like a blind Billy, without giving me any light
into what I was to do. But it was lucky that grim Douglas came into the Regent's closet this
morning, otherwise I had never got free of him without plighting my troth to do all the Earl
would have me, which seemed, after all, but foul play to the poor imprisoned lady, to place
her page as an espial on her."

Skipping thus lightly over a matter of such consequence, the thoughts of the hare-brained boy
went a wool-gathering after more agreeable topics. Now he admired the Gothic towers of Barnbougle,
rising from the seabeaten rock, and overlooking one of the most glorious landscapes in Scotland--and
now he began to consider what notable sport for the hounds and the hawks must be afforded by
the variegated ground over which they travelled--and now he compared the steady and dull trot
at which they were then prosecuting their journey, with the delight of sweeping over hill and
dale in pursuit of his favourite sports. As, under the influence of these joyous recollections,
he gave his horse the spur, and made him execute a gambade, he instantly incurred the censure
of his grave neighbour, who hinted to him to keep the pace, and move quietly and in order,
unless he wished such notice to be taken of his eccentric movements as was likely to be very
displeasing to him.

The rebuke and the restraint under which the youth now found himself, brought back to his recollection
his late good-humoured and accommodating associate and guide, Adam Woodcock; and from that
topic his imagination made a short flight to Avenel Castle, to the quiet and unconfined life
of its inhabitants, the goodness of his early protectress, not forgetting the denizens of its
stables, kennels, and hawk-mews. In a brief space, all these subjects of meditation gave way
to the resemblance of that riddle of womankind, Catherine Seyton, who appeared before the eye
of his mind--now in her female form, now in her male attire--now in both at once--like some
strange dream, which presents to us the same individual under two different characters at the
same instant. Her mysterious present also recurred to his recollection--the sword which he
now wore at his side, and which he was not to draw save by command of his legitimate Sovereign!
But the key of this mystery he judged he was likely to find in the issue of his present journey.

With such thoughts passing through his mind, Roland Graeme accompanied the party of Lord Lindesay
to the Queen's-Ferry, which they passed in vessels that lay in readiness for them. They encountered
no adventure whatever in their passage, excepting one horse being lamed in getting into the
boat, an accident very common on such occasions, until a few years ago, when the ferry was
completely regulated. What was more peculiarly characteristic of the olden age, was the discharge
of a culverin at the party from the battlements of the old castle of Rosythe, on the north
side of the Ferry, the lord of which happened to have some public or private quarrel with the
Lord Lindesay, and took this mode of expressing his resentment. The insult, however, as it
was harmless, remained unnoticed and unavenged, nor did any thing else occur worth notice until
the band had come where Lochleven spread its magnificent sheet of waters to the beams of a
bright summer's sun.

The ancient castle, which occupies an island nearly in the centre of the lake, recalled to
the page that of Avenel, in which he had been nurtured. But the lake was much larger, and adorned
with several islets besides that on which the fortress was situated; and instead of being embosomed
in hills like that of Avenel, had upon the southern side only a splendid mountainous screen,
being the descent of one of the Lomond hills, and on the other was surrounded by the extensive
and fertile plain of Kinross. Roland Graeme looked with some degree of dismay on the water-girdled
fortress, which then, as now, consisted only of one large donjon-keep, surrounded with a court-yard,
with two round flanking-towers at the angles, which contained within its circuit some other
buildings of inferior importance. A few old trees, clustered together near the castle, gave
some relief to the air of desolate seclusion; but yet the page, while he gazed upon a building
so sequestrated, could not but feel for the situation of a captive Princess doomed to dwell
there, as well as for his own. "I must have been born," he thought, "under the star that presides
over ladies and lakes of water, for I cannot by any means escape from the service of the one,
or from dwelling in the other. But if they allow me not the fair freedom of my sport and exercise,
they shall find it as hard to confine a wild-drake, as a youth who can swim like one."

The band had now reached the edge of the water, and one of the party advancing displayed Lord
Lindesay's pennon, waving it repeatedly to and fro, while that Baron himself blew a clamorous
blast on his bugle. A banner was presently displayed from the roof of the castle in reply to
these signals, and one or two figures were seen busied as if unmooring a boat which lay close
to the islet.

"It will be some time ere they can reach us with the boat," said the companion of Lord Lindesay;
"should we not do well to proceed to the town, and array ourselves in some better order, ere
we appear before----"

"You may do as you list, Sir Robert," replied Lindesay, "I have neither time nor temper to
waste on such vanities. She has cost me many a hard ride, and must not now take offence at
the threadbare cloak and soiled doublet that I am arrayed in. It is the livery to which she
has brought all Scotland."

"Do not speak so harshly," said Sir Robert; "if she hath done wrong, she hath dearly abied
it; and in losing all real power, one would not deprive her of the little external homage due
at once to a lady and a princess."

"I say to you once more, Sir Robert Melville," replied Lindesay, "do as you will--for me, I
am now too old to dink myself as a gallant to grace the bower of dames."

"The bower of dames, my lord!" said Melville, looking at the rude old tower--"is it yon dark
and grated castle, the prison of a captive Queen, to which you give so gay a name?"

"Name it as you list," replied Lindesay; "had the Regent desired to send an envoy capable to
speak to a captive Queen, there are many gallants in his court who would have courted the occasion
to make speeches out of Amadis of Gaul, or the Mirror of Knighthood. But when he sent blunt
old Lindesay, he knew he would speak to a misguided woman, as her former misdoings and her
present state render necessary. I sought not this employment--it has been thrust upon me; and
I will not cumber myself with more form in the discharge of it, than needs must be tacked to
such an occupation."

So saying, Lord Lindesay threw himself from horseback, and wrapping his riding-cloak around
him, lay down at lazy length upon the sward, to await the arrival of the boat, which was now
seen rowing from the castle towards the shore. Sir Robert Melville, who had also dismounted,
walked at short turns to and fro upon the bank, his arms crossed on his breast, often looking
to the castle, and displaying in his countenance a mixture of sorrow and of anxiety. The rest
of the party sate like statues on horseback, without moving so much as the points of their
lances, which they held upright in the air.

As soon as the boat approached a rude quay or landing-place, near to which they had stationed
themselves, Lord Lindesay started up from his recumbent posture, and asked the person who steered,
why he had not brought a larger boat with him to transport his retinue.

"So please you," replied the boatman, "because it is the order of our lady, that we bring not
to the castle more than four persons."

"Thy lady is a wise woman," said Lindesay, "to suspect me of treachery!--Or, had I intended
it, what was to hinder us from throwing you and your comrades into the lake, and filling the
boat with my own fellows?"

The steersman, on hearing this, made a hasty signal to his men to back their oars, and hold
off from the shore which they were approaching.

"Why, thou ass," said Lindesay, "thou didst not think that I meant thy fool's head serious
harm? Hark thee, friend--with fewer than three servants I will go no whither--Sir Robert Melville
will require at least the attendance of one domestic; and it will be at your peril and your
lady's to refuse us admission, come hither as we are, on matters of great national concern."

The steersman answered with firmness, but with great civility of expression, that his orders
were positive to bring no more than four into the island, but he offered to row back to obtain
a revisal of his orders.

"Do so, my friend," said Sir Robert Melville, after he had in vain endeavoured to persuade
his stubborn companion to consent to a temporary abatement of his train, "row back to the castle,
sith it will be no better, and obtain thy lady's orders to transport the Lord Lindesay, myself,
and our retinue hither."

"And hearken," said Lord Lindesay, "take with you this page, who comes as an attendant on your
lady's guest.--Dismount, sirrah," said he, addressing Roland, "and embark with them in that boat."

"And what is to become of my horse?" said Graeme; "I am answerable for him to my master."

"I will relieve you of the charge," said Lindesay; "thou wilt have little enough to do with
horse, saddle, or bridle, for ten years to come--Thou mayst take the halter an thou wilt--it
may stand thee in a turn."

"If I thought so," said Roland--but he was interrupted by Sir Robert Melville, who said to
him good-humouredly, "Dispute it not, young friend--resistance can do no good, but may well
run thee into danger."

Roland Graeme felt the justice of what he said, and, though neither delighted with the matter
or manner of Lindesay's address, deemed it best to submit to necessity, and to embark without
farther remonstrance. The men plied their oars. The quay, with the party of horse stationed
near it, receded from the page's eyes--the castle and the islet seemed to draw near in the
same proportion, and in a brief space he landed under the shadow of a huge old tree which overhung
the landing place. The steersman and Graeme leaped ashore; the boatmen remained lying on their
oars ready for farther service.

Chapter the Twenty-First.

  Could valour aught avail or people's love,
    France had not wept Navarre's brave Henry slain;
  If wit or beauty could compassion move,
    The rose of Scotland had not wept in vain.
           Elegy in a Royal Mausoleum. LEWIS.

At the gate of the court-yard of Lochleven appeared the stately form of the Lady Lochleven,
a female whose early charms had captivated James V., by whom she became mother of the celebrated
Regent Murray. As she was of noble birth (being a daughter of the house of Mar) and of great
beauty, her intimacy with James did not prevent her being afterwards sought in honourable marriage
by many gallants of the time, among whom she had preferred Sir William Douglas of Lochleven.
But well has it been said

  ----"Our pleasant vices
  Are made the whips to scourge us"---

The station which the Lady of Lochleven now held as the wife of a man of high rank and interest,
and the mother of a lawful family, did not prevent her nourishing a painful sense of degradation,
even while she was proud of the talents, the power, and the station of her son, now prime ruler
of the state, but still a pledge of her illicit intercourse. "Had James done to her," she said,
in her secret heart, "the justice he owed her, she had seen in her son, as a source of unmixed
delight and of unchastened pride, the lawful monarch of Scotland, and one of the ablest who
ever swayed the sceptre." The House of Mar, not inferior in antiquity or grandeur to that of
Drummond, would then have also boasted a Queen among its daughters, and escaped the stain attached
to female frailty, even when it has a royal lover for its apology. While such feelings preyed
on a bosom naturally proud and severe, they had a corresponding effect on her countenance,
where, with the remains of great beauty, were mingled traits of inward discontent and peevish
melancholy. It perhaps contributed to increase this habitual temperament, that the Lady Lochleven
had adopted uncommonly rigid and severe views of religion, imitating in her ideas of reformed
faith the very worst errors of the Catholics, in limiting the benefit of the gospel to those
who profess their own speculative tenets.

In every respect, the unfortunate Queen Mary, now the compulsory guest, or rather prisoner,
of this sullen lady, was obnoxious to her hostess. Lady Lochleven disliked her as the daughter
of Mary of Guise, the legal possessor of those rights over James's heart and hand, of which
she conceived herself to have been injuriously deprived; and yet more so as the professor of
a religion which she detested worse than Paganism.

Such was the dame, who, with stately mien, and sharp yet handsome features, shrouded by her
black velvet coif, interrogated the domestic who steered her barge to the shore, what had become
of Lindesay and Sir Robert Melville. The man related what had passed, and she smiled scornfully
as she replied, "Fools must be flattered, not foughten with.--Row back--make thy excuse as
thou canst--say Lord Ruthven hath already reached this castle, and that he is impatient for
Lord Lindesay's presence. Away with thee, Randal--yet stay--what galopin is that thou hast
brought hither?"

"So please you, my lady, he is the page who is to wait upon----"

"Ay, the new male minion," said the Lady Lochleven; "the female attendant arrived yesterday.
I shall have a well-ordered house with this lady and her retinue; but I trust they will soon
find some others to undertake such a charge. Begone, Randal--and you" (to Roland Graeme) "follow
me to the garden."

She led the way with a slow and stately step to the small garden, which, enclosed by a stone
wall ornamented with statues, and an artificial fountain in the centre, extended its dull parterres
on the side of the court-yard, with which it communicated by a low and arched portal. Within
the narrow circuit of its formal and limited walks, Mary Stewart was now learning to perform
the weary part of a prisoner, which, with little interval, she was doomed to sustain during
the remainder of her life. She was followed in her slow and melancholy exercise by two female
attendants; but in the first glance which Roland Graeme bestowed upon one so illustrious by
birth, so distinguished by her beauty, accomplishments, and misfortunes, he was sensible of
the presence of no other than the unhappy Queen of Scotland.

Her face, her form, have been so deeply impressed upon the imagination, that even at the distance
of nearly three centuries, it is unnecessary to remind the most ignorant and uninformed reader
of the striking traits which characterize that remarkable countenance, which seems at once
to combine our ideas of the majestic, the pleasing, and the brilliant, leaving us to doubt
whether they express most happily the queen, the beauty, or the accomplished woman. Who is
there, that, at the very mention of Mary Stewart's name, has not her countenance before him,
familiar as that of the mistress of his youth, or the favourite daughter of his advanced age?
Even those who feel themselves compelled to believe all, or much, of what her enemies laid
to her charge, cannot think without a sigh upon a countenance expressive of anything rather
than the foul crimes with which she was charged when living, and which still continue to shade,
if not to blacken, her memory. That brow, so truly open and regal--those eyebrows, so regularly
graceful, which yet were saved from the charge of regular insipidity by the beautiful effect
of the hazel eyes which they overarched, and which seem to utter a thousand histories--the
nose, with all its Grecian precision of outline--the mouth, so well proportioned, so sweetly
formed, as if designed to speak nothing but what was delightful to hear--the dimpled chin--the
stately swan-like neck, form a countenance, the like of which we know not to have existed in
any other character moving in that class of life, where the actresses as well as the actors
command general and undivided attention. It is in vain to say that the portraits which exist
of this remarkable woman are not like each other; for, amidst their discrepancy, each possesses
general features which the eye at once acknowledges as peculiar to the vision which our imagination
has raised while we read her history for the first time, and which has been impressed upon
it by the numerous prints and pictures which we have seen. Indeed we cannot look on the worst
of them, however deficient in point of execution, without saying that it is meant for Queen
Mary; and no small instance it is of the power of beauty, that her charms should have remained
the subject not merely of admiration, but of warm and chivalrous interest, after the lapse
of such a length of time. We know that by far the most acute of those who, in latter days,
have adopted the unfavourable view of Mary's character, longed, like the executioner before
his dreadful task was performed, to kiss the fair hand of her on whom he was about to perform
so horrible a duty.

Dressed, then, in a deep mourning robe, and with all those charms of face, shape, and manner,
with which faithful tradition has made each reader familiar, Mary Stewart advanced to meet
the Lady of Lochleven, who, on her part, endeavoured to conceal dislike and apprehension under
the appearance of respectful indifference. The truth was, that she had experienced repeatedly
the Queen's superiority in that species of disguised yet cutting sarcasm, with which women
can successfully avenge themselves, for real and substantial injuries. It may be well doubted,
whether this talent was not as fatal to its possessor as the many others enjoyed by that highly
gifted, but most unhappy female; for, while it often afforded her a momentary triumph over
her keepers, it failed not to exasperate their resentment; and the satire and sarcasm in which
she had indulged were frequently retaliated by the deep and bitter hardships which they had
the power of inflicting. It is well known that her death was at length hastened by a letter
which she wrote to Queen Elizabeth, in which she treated her jealous rival, and the Countess
of Shrewsbury, with the keenest irony and ridicule.

As the ladies met together, the Queen said, bending her head at the same time, in return to
the obeisance of the Lady Lochleven, "We are this day fortunate--we enjoy the company of our
amiable hostess at an unusual hour, and during a period which we have hitherto been permitted
to give to our private exercise. But our good hostess knows well she has at all times access
to our presence, and need not observe the useless ceremony of requiring our permission."

"I am sorry my presence is deemed an intrusion by your Grace," said the Lady of Lochleven.
"I came but to announce the arrival of an addition to your train," motioning with her hand
towards Roland Graeme; "a circumstance to which ladies are seldom indifferent."

"Oh! I crave your ladyship's pardon; and am bent to the earth with obligations for the kindness
of my nobles--or my sovereigns, shall I call them?--who have permitted me such a respectable
addition to my personal retinue."

"They have indeed studied, Madam," said the Lady of Lochleven, "to show their kindness towards
your Grace--something at the risk perhaps of sound policy, and I trust their doings will not
be misconstrued."

"Impossible!" said the Queen; "the bounty which permits the daughter of so many kings, and
who yet is Queen of the realm, the attendance of two waiting-women and a boy, is a grace which
Mary Stewart can never sufficiently acknowledge. Why! my train will be equal to that of any
country dame in this your kingdom of Fife, saving but the lack of a gentleman-usher, and a
pair or two of blue-coated serving-men. But I must not forget, in my selfish joy, the additional
trouble and charges to which this magnificent augmentation of our train will put our kind hostess,
and the whole house of Lochleven. It is this prudent anxiety, I am aware, which clouds your
brows, my worthy lady. But be of good cheer; the crown of Scotland has many a fair manor, and
your affectionate son, and my no less affectionate brother, will endow the good knight your
husband with the best of them, ere Mary should be dismissed from this hospitable castle from
your ladyship's lack of means to support the charges."

"The Douglasses of Lochleven, madam," answered the lady, "have known for ages how to discharge
their duty to the State, without looking for reward, even when the task was both irksome and
dangerous."

"Nay! but, my dear Lochleven," said the Queen, "you are over scrupulous--I pray you accept
of a goodly manor; what should support the Queen of Scotland in this her princely court, saving
her own crown-lands--and who should minister to the wants of a mother, save an affectionate
son like the Earl of Murray, who possesses so wonderfully both the power and inclination?--Or
said you it was the danger of the task which clouded your smooth and hospitable brow?--No doubt,
a page is a formidable addition to my body-guard of females; and I bethink me it must have
been for that reason that my Lord of Lindesay refused even now to venture within the reach
of a force so formidable, without being attended by a competent retinue."

The Lady Lochleven started, and looked something surprised; and Mary suddenly changing her
manner from the smooth ironical affectation of mildness to an accent of austere command, and
drawing up at the same time her fine person, said, with the full majesty of her rank, "Yes!
Lady of Lochleven; I know that Ruthven is already in the castle, and that Lindesay waits on
the bank the return of your barge to bring him hither along with Sir Robert Melville. For what
purpose do these nobles come--and why am I not in ordinary decency apprised of their arrival?"'

"Their purpose, madam," replied the Lady of Lochleven, "they must themselves explain--but a
formal annunciation were needless, where your Grace hath attendants who can play the espial
so well."

"Alas! poor Fleming," said the Queen, turning to the elder of the female attendants, "thou
wilt be tried, condemned, and gibbeted, for a spy in the garrison, because thou didst chance
to cross the great hall while my good Lady of Lochleven was parleying at the full pitch of
her voice with her pilot Randal. Put black wool in thy ears, girl, as you value the wearing
of them longer. Remember, in the Castle of Lochleven, ears and tongues are matters not of use,
but for show merely. Our good hostess can hear, as well as speak, for us all. We excuse your
farther attendance, my lady hostess," she said, once more addressing the object of her resentment,
"and retire to prepare for an interview with our rebel lords. We will use the ante-chamber
of our sleeping apartment as our hall of audience. You, young man," she proceeded, addressing
Roland Graeme, and at once softening the ironical sharpness of her manner into good-humoured
raillery, "you, who are all our male attendance, from our Lord High Chamberlain down to our
least galopin, follow us to prepare our court."

She turned, and walked slowly towards the castle. The Lady of Lochleven folded her arms, and
smiled in bitter resentment, as she watched her retiring steps.

"The whole male attendance!" she muttered, repeating the Queen's last words, "and well for
thee had it been had thy train never been larger;" then turning to Roland, in whose way she
had stood while making this pause, she made room for him to pass, saying at the same time,
"Art thou already eaves-dropping? follow thy mistress, minion, and, if thou wilt, tell her
what I have now said."

Roland Graeme hastened after his royal mistress and her attendants, who had just entered a
postern-gate communicating betwixt the castle and the small garden. They ascended a winding-stair
as high as the second story, which was in a great measure occupied by a suite of three rooms,
opening into each other, and assigned as the dwelling of the captive Princess.  The outermost
was a small hall or ante-room, within which opened a large parlour, and from that again the
Queen's bedroom. Another small apartment, which opened into the same parlour, contained the
beds of the gentlewomen in waiting.

Roland Graeme stopped, as became his station, in the outermost of these apartments, there to
await such orders as might be communicated to him. From the grated window of the room he saw
Lindesay, Melville, and their followers disembark; and observed that they were met at the castle
gate by a third noble, to whom Lindesay exclaimed, in his loud harsh voice, "My Lord of Ruthven,
you have the start of us!"

At this instant, the page's attention was called to a burst of hysterical sobs from the inner
apartment, and to the hurried ejaculations of the terrified females, which led him almost instantly
to hasten to their assistance. When he entered, he saw that the Queen had thrown herself into
the large chair which stood nearest the door, and was sobbing for breath in a strong fit of
hysterical affection. The elder female supported her in her arms, while the younger bathed
her face with water and with tears alternately.

"Hasten, young man!" said the elder lady, in alarm, "fly--call in assistance--she is swooning!"

But the Queen ejaculated in a faint and broken voice, "Stir not, I charge you!--call no one
to witness--I am better--I shall recover instantly." And, indeed, with an effort which seemed
like that of one struggling for life, she sate up in her chair, and endeavoured to resume her
composure, while her features yet trembled with the violent emotion of body and mind which
she had undergone. "I am ashamed of my weakness, girls," she said, taking the hands of her
attendants; "but it is over--and I am Mary Stewart once more. The savage tone of that man's
voice--my knowledge of his insolence-- the name which he named--the purpose for which they
come--may excuse a moment's weakness, and it shall be a moment's only." She snatched from her
head the curch or cap, which had been disordered during her hysterical agony, shook down the
thick clustered tresses of dark brown which had been before veiled under it--and, drawing her
slender fingers across the labyrinth which they formed, she arose from the chair, and stood
like the inspired image of a Grecian prophetess in a mood which partook at once of sorrow and
pride, of smiles and of tears. "We are ill appointed," she said, "to meet our rebel subjects;
but, as far as we may, we will strive to present ourselves as becomes their Queen. Follow me,
my maidens," she said; "what says thy favourite song, my Fleming?

  'My maids, come to my dressing-bower,
  And deck my nut-brown hair;
  Where'er ye laid a plait before,
  Look ye lay ten times 'mair.'

"Alas!" she added, when she had repeated with a smile these lines of an old ballad, "violence
has already robbed me of the ordinary decorations of my rank; and the few that nature gave
me have been destroyed by sorrow and by fear." Yet while she spoke thus, she again let her
slender fingers stray through the wilderness of the beautiful tresses which veiled her kingly
neck and swelling bosom, as if, in her agony of mind, she had not altogether lost the consciousness
of her unrivalled charms. Roland Graeme, on whose youth, inexperience, and ardent sense of
what was dignified and lovely, the demeanour of so fair and high-born a lady wrought like the
charm of a magician, stood rooted to the spot with surprise and interest, longing to hazard
his life in a quarrel so fair as that which Mary Stewart's must needs be. She had been bred
in France--she was possessed of the most distinguished beauty--she had reigned a Queen and
a Scottish Queen, to whom knowledge of character was as essential as the use of vital air.
In all these capacities, Mary was, of all women on the earth, most alert at perceiving and
using the advantages which her charms gave her over almost all who came within the sphere of
their influence. She cast on Roland a glance which might have melted a heart of stone. "My
poor boy," she said, with a feeling partly real, partly politic, "thou art a stranger to us--sent
to this doleful captivity from the society of some tender mother, or sister, or maiden, with
whom you had freedom to tread a gay measure round the Maypole. I grieve for you; but you are
the only male in my limited household--wilt thou obey my orders?"

"To the death, madam," said Graeme, in a determined tone.

"Then keep the door of mine apartment," said the Queen; "keep it till they offer actual violence,
or till we shall be fitly arrayed to receive these intrusive visiters."

"I will defend it till they pass over my body," said Roland Graeme; any hesitation which he
had felt concerning the line of conduct he ought to pursue being completely swept away by the
impulse of the moment.

"Not so, my good youth," answered Mary; "not so, I command. If I have one faithful subject
beside me, much need, God wot, I have to care for his safety. Resist them but till they are
put to the shame of using actual violence, and then give way, I charge you. Remember my commands."
And, with a smile expressive at once of favour and of authority, she turned from him, and,
followed by her attendants, entered the bedroom.

The youngest paused for half a second ere she followed her companion, and made a signal to
Roland Graeme with her hand. He had been already long aware that this was Catherine Seyton--a
circumstance which could not much surprise a youth of quick intellects, who recollected the
sort of mysterious discourse which had passed betwixt the two matrons at the deserted nunnery,
and on which his meeting with Catherine in this place seemed to cast so much light. Yet such
was the engrossing effect of Mary's presence, that it surmounted for the moment even the feelings
of a youthful lover; and it was not until Catherine Seyton had disappeared, that Roland began
to consider in what relation they were to stand to each other. "She held up her hand to me
in a commanding manner," he thought; "perhaps she wanted to confirm my purpose for the execution
of the Queen's commands; for I think she could scarce purpose to scare me with the sort of
discipline which she administered to the groom in the frieze-jacket, and to poor Adam Woodcock.
But we will see to that anon; meantime, let us do justice to the trust reposed in us by this
unhappy Queen. I think my Lord of Murray will himself own that it is the duty of a faithful
page to defend his lady against intrusion on her privacy."

Accordingly, he stepped to the little vestibule, made fast, with lock and bar, the door which
opened from thence to the large staircase, and then sat himself down to attend the result.
He had not long to wait--a rude and strong hand first essayed to lift the latch, then pushed
and shook the door with violence, and, when it resisted his attempt to open it, exclaimed,
"Undo the door there, you within!"

"Why, and at whose command," said the page, "am I to undo the door of the apartments of the
Queen of Scotland?"

Another vain attempt, which made hinge and bolt jingle, showed that the impatient applicant
without would willingly have entered altogether regardless of his challenge; but at length
an answer was returned.

"Undo the door, on your peril--the Lord Lindesay comes to speak with the Lady Mary of Scotland."

"The Lord Lindesay, as a Scottish noble," answered the page, "must await his Sovereign's leisure."

An earnest altercation ensued amongst those without, in which Roland distinguished the remarkable
harsh voice of Lindesay in reply to Sir Robert Melville, who appeared to have been using some
soothing language--"No!  no! no! I tell thee, no! I will place a petard against the door rather
than be baulked by a profligate woman, and bearded by an insolent footboy."

"Yet, at least," said Melville, "let me try fair means in the first instance. Violence to a
lady would stain your scutcheon for ever. Or await till my Lord Ruthven comes."

"I will await no longer," said Lindesay; "it is high time the business were done, and we on
our return to the council. But thou mayest try thy fair play, as thou callest it, while I cause
my train to prepare the petard. I came hither provided with as good gunpowder as blew up the
Kirk of Field."

"For God's sake, be patient," said Melville; and, approaching the door, he said, as speaking
to those within, "Let the Queen know, that I, her faithful servant, Robert Melville, do entreat
her, for her own sake, and to prevent worse consequences, that she will undo the door, and
admit Lord Lindesay, who brings a mission from the Council of State."

"I will do your errand to the Queen," said the page, "and report to you her answer."

He went to the door of the bedchamber, and tapping against it gently, it was opened by the
elderly lady, to whom he communicated his errand, and returned with directions from the Queen
to admit Sir Robert Melville and Lord Lindesay. Roland Graeme returned to the vestibule, and
opened the door accordingly, into which the Lord Lindesay strode, with the air of a soldier
who has fought his way into a conquered fortress; while Melville, deeply dejected, followed
him more slowly.

"I draw you to witness, and to record," said the page to this last, "that, save for the especial
commands of the Queen, I would have made good the entrance, with my best strength, and my best
blood, against all Scotland."

"Be silent, young man," said Melville, in a tone of grave rebuke; "add not brands to fire--this
is no time to make a flourish of thy boyish chivalry."

"She has not appeared even yet," said Lindesay, who had now reached the midst of the parlour
or audience-room; "how call you this trifling?"

"Patience, my lord," replied Sir Robert, "time presses not--and Lord Ruthven hath not as yet
descended."

At this moment the door of the inner apartment opened, and Queen Mary presented herself, advancing
with an air of peculiar grace and majesty, and seeming totally unruffled, either by the visit,
or by the rude manner in which it had been enforced. Her dress was a robe of black velvet;
a small ruff, open in front, gave a full view of her beautifully formed chin and neck, but
veiled the bosom. On her head she wore a small cap of lace, and a transparent white veil hung
from her shoulders over the long black robe, in large loose folds, so that it could be drawn
at pleasure over the face and person. She wore a cross of gold around her neck, and had her
rosary of gold and ebony hanging from her girdle. She was closely followed by her two ladies,
who remained standing behind her during the conference. Even Lord Lindesay, though the rudest
noble of that rude age, was surprised into something like respect by the unconcerned and majestic
mien of her, whom he had expected to find frantic with impotent passion, or dissolved in useless
and vain sorrow, or overwhelmed with the fears likely in such a situation to assail fallen royalty.

"We fear we have detained you, my Lord of Lindesay," said the Queen, while she curtsied with
dignity in answer to his reluctant obeisance; "but a female does not willingly receive her
visiters without some minutes spent at the toilette. Men, my lord, are less dependant on such
ceremonies."

Lord Lindesay, casting his eye down on his own travel-stained and disordered dress, muttered
something of a hasty journey, and the Queen paid her greeting to Sir Robert Melville with courtesy,
and even, as it seemed, with kindness. There was then a dead pause, during which Lindesay looked
towards the door, as if expecting with impatience the colleague of their embassy. The Queen
alone was entirely unembarrassed, and, as if to break the silence, she addressed Lord Lindesay,
with a glance at the large and cumbrous sword which he wore, as already mentioned, hanging
from his neck.

"You have there a trusty and a weighty travelling companion, my lord. I trust you expected
to meet with no enemy here, against whom such a formidable weapon could be necessary? it is,
methinks, somewhat a singular ornament for a court, though I am, as I well need to be, too
much of a Stuart to fear a sword."

"It is not the first time, madam," replied Lindesay, bringing round the weapon so as to rest
its point on the ground, and leaning one hand on the huge cross-handle, "it is not the first
time that this weapon has intruded itself into the presence of the House of Stewart."

"Possibly, my lord," replied the Queen, "it may have done service to my ancestors--Your ancestors
were men of loyalty"

"Ay, madam," replied he, "service it hath done; but such as kings love neither to acknowledge
nor to reward. It was the service which the knife renders to the tree when trimming it to the
quick, and depriving it of the superfluous growth of rank and unfruitful suckers, which rob
it of nourishment."

"You talk riddles, my lord," said Mary; "I will hope the explanation carries nothing insulting
with it."

"You shall judge, madam," answered Lindesay. "With this good sword was Archibald Douglas, Earl
of Angus, girded on the memorable day when he acquired the name of Bell-the-Cat, for dragging
from the presence of your great grandfather, the third James of the race, a crew of minions,
flatterers, and favourites whom he hanged over the bridge of Lauder, as a warning to such reptiles
how they approach a Scottish throne. With this same weapon, the same inflexible champion of
Scottish honour and nobility slew at one blow Spens of Kilspindie, a courtier of your grandfather,
James the fourth, who had dared to speak lightly of him in the royal presence. They fought
near the brook of Fala; and Bell-the-Cat, with this blade, sheared through the thigh of his
opponent, and lopped the limb as easily as a shepherd's boy slices a twig from a sapling."

"My lord," replied the Queen, reddening, "my nerves are too good to be alarmed even by this
terrible history--May I ask how a blade so illustrious passed from the House of Douglas to
that of Lindesay?--Methinks it should have been preserved as a consecrated relic, by a family
who have held all that they could do against their king, to be done in favour of their country."

"Nay, madam," said Melville, anxiously interfering, "ask not that question of Lord Lindesay--And
you, my lord, for shame--for decency-- forbear to reply to it."

"It is time that this lady should hear the truth," replied Lindesay.

"And be assured," said the Queen, "that she will be moved to anger by none that you can tell
her, my lord. There are cases in which just scorn has always the mastery over just anger."

"Then know," said Lindesay, "that upon the field of Carberry-hill, when that false and infamous
traitor and murderer, James, sometime Earl of Bothwell, and nicknamed Duke of Orkney, offered
to do personal battle with any of the associated nobles who came to drag him to justice, I
accepted his challenge, and was by the noble Earl of Morton gifted with his good sword that
I might therewith fight it out--Ah! so help me Heaven, had his presumption been one grain more,
or his cowardice one grain less, I should have done such work with this good steel on his traitorous
corpse, that the hounds and carrion-crows should have found their morsels daintily carved to
their use !"

The Queen's courage well-nigh gave way at the mention of Bothwell's name--a name connected
with such a train of guilt, shame, and disaster. But the prolonged boast of Lindesay gave her
time to rally herself, and to answer with an appearance of cold contempt--"It is easy to slay
an enemy who enters not the lists. But had Mary Stewart inherited her father's sword as well
as his sceptre, the boldest of her rebels should not upon that day have complained that they
had no one to cope withal. Your lordship will forgive me if I abridge this conference. A brief
description of a bloody fight is long enough to satisfy a lady's curiosity; and unless my Lord
of Lindesay has something more important to tell us than of the deeds which old Bell-the-Cat
achieved, and how he would himself have emulated them, had time and tide permitted, we will
retire to our private apartment, and you, Fleming, shall finish reading to us yonder little
treatise Des Rodomontades Espagnolles."

"Tarry, madam," said Lindesay, his complexion reddening in his turn, "I know your quick wit
too well of old to have sought an interview that you might sharpen its edge at the expense
of my honour. Lord Ruthven and myself, with Sir Robert Melville as a concurrent, come to your
Grace on the part of the Secret Council, to tender to you what much concerns the safety of
your own life and the welfare of the State."

"The Secret Council?" said the Queen; "by what powers can it subsist or act, while I, from
whom it holds its character, am here detained under unjust restraint? But it matters not--what
concerns the welfare of Scotland shall be acceptable to Mary Stewart, come from whatever quarter
it will--and for what concerns her own life, she has lived long enough to be weary of it, even
at the age of twenty-five.--Where is your colleague, my lord?--why tarries he?"

"He comes, madam," said Melville, and Lord Ruthven entered at the instant, holding in his hand
a packet. As the Queen returned his salutation she became deadly pale, but instantly recovered
herself by dint of strong and sudden resolution, just as the noble, whose appearance seemed
to excite such emotions in her bosom, entered the apartment in company with George Douglas,
the youngest son of the Knight of Lochleven, who, during the absence of his father and brethren,
acted as Seneschal of the Castle, under the direction of the elder Lady Lochleven, his father's
mother.

Chapter the Twenty-Second.

  I give this heavy weight from off my head,
  And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand;
  With mine own tears I wash away my balm,
  With mine own hand I give away my crown,
  With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
  With mine own breath release all duteous oaths.
                                   RICHARD II.

Lord Ruthven had the look and bearing which became a soldier and a statesman, and the martial
cast of his form and features procured him the popular epithet of Greysteil, by which he was
distinguished by his intimates, after the hero of a metrical romance then generally known.
His dress, which was a buff-coat embroidered, had a half-military character, but exhibited
nothing of the sordid negligence which distinguished that of Lindesay. But the son of an ill-fated
sire, and the father of a yet more unfortunate family, bore in his look that cast of inauspicious
melancholy, by which the physiognomists of that time pretended to distinguish those who were
predestined to a violent and unhappy death.

The terror which the presence of this nobleman impressed on the Queen's mind, arose from the
active share he had borne in the slaughter of David Rizzio; his father having presided at the
perpetration of that abominable crime, although so weak from long and wasting illness, that
he could not endure the weight of his armour, having arisen from a sick-bed to commit a murder
in the presence of his Sovereign. On that occasion his son also had attended and taken an active
part. It was little to be wondered at, that the Queen, considering her condition when such
a deed of horror was acted in her presence, should retain an instinctive terror for the principal
actors in the murder. She returned, however, with grace the salutation of Lord Ruthven, and
extended her hand to George Douglas, who kneeled, and kissed it with respect; the first mark
of a subject's homage which Roland Graeme had seen any of them render to the captive Sovereign.
She returned his greeting in silence, and there was a brief pause, during which the steward
of the castle, a man of a sad brow and a severe eye, placed, under George Douglas's directions,
a table and writing materials; and the page, obedient to his mistress's dumb signal, advanced
a large chair to the side on which the Queen stood, the table thus forming a sort of bar which
divided the Queen and her personal followers from her unwelcome visitors. The steward then
withdrew after a low reverence. When he had closed the door behind him, the Queen broke silence--"With
your favour, my lords, I will sit--my walks are not indeed extensive enough at present to fatigue
me greatly, yet I find repose something more necessary than usual."

She sat down accordingly, and, shading her cheek with her beautiful hand, looked keenly and
impressively at each of the nobles in turn. Mary Fleming applied her kerchief to her eyes,
and Catherine Seyton and Roland Graeme exchanged a glance, which showed that both were too
deeply engrossed with sentiments of interest and commiseration for their royal mistress, to
think of any thing which regarded themselves.

"I wait the purpose of your mission, my lords," said the Queen, after she had been seated for
about a minute without a word-being spoken,--"I wait your message from those you call the Secret
Council.-I trust it is a petition of pardon, and a desire that I will resume my rightful throne,
without using with due severity my right of punishing those who have dispossessed me of it."

"Madam," replied Ruthven, "it is painful for us to speak harsh truths to a Princess who has
long ruled us. But we come to offer, not to implore, pardon. In a word, madam, we have to propose
to you on the part of the Secret Council, that you sign these deeds, which will contribute
greatly to the pacification of the State, the advancement of God's word, and the welfare of
your own future life."

"Am I expected to take these fair words on trust, my lord? or may I hear the contents of these
reconciling papers, ere I am asked to sign them?"

"Unquestionably, madam; it is our purpose and wish, you should read what you are required to
sign," replied Ruthven.

"Required?" replied the Queen, with some emphasis; "but the phrase suits well the matter-read,
my lord."

The Lord Ruthven proceeded to read a formal instrument, running in the Queen's name, and setting
forth that she had been called, at an early age, to the administration of the crown and realm
of Scotland, and had toiled diligently therein, until she was in body and spirit so wearied
out and disgusted, that she was unable any longer to endure the travail and pain of State affairs;
and that since God had blessed her with a fair and hopeful son, she was desirous to ensure
to him, even while she yet lived, his succession to the crown, which was his by right of hereditary
descent. "Wherefore," the instrument proceeded, "we, of the motherly affection we bear to our
said son, have renounced and demitted, and by these our letters of free good-will, renounce
and demit, the Crown, government, and guiding of the realm of Scotland, in favour of our said
son, that he may succeed to us as native Prince thereof, as much as if we had been removed
by disease, and not by our own proper act. And that this demission of our royal authority may
have the more full and solemn effect, and none pretend ignorance, we give, grant, and commit,
fall and free and plain power to our trusty cousins, Lord Lindesay of the Byres, and William
Lord Ruthven, to appear in our name before as many of the nobility, clergy, and burgesses,
as may be assembled at Stirling, and there, in our name and behalf, publicly, and in their
presence, to renounce the Crown, guidance, and government of this our kingdom of Scotland."

The Queen here broke in with an air of extreme surprise. "How is this, my lords?" she said:
"Are my ears turned rebels, that they deceive me with sounds so extraordinary?--And yet it
is no wonder that, having conversed so long with rebellion, they should now force its language
upon my understanding. Say I am mistaken, my lords--say, for the honour of yourselves and the
Scottish nobility, that my right trusty cousins of Lindesay and Ruthven, two barons of warlike
fame and ancient line, have not sought the prison-house of their kind mistress for such a purpose
as these words seem to imply. Say, for the sake of honour and loyalty, that my ears have deceived
me."

"No, madam," said Ruthven gravely, "your ears do not deceive you--they deceived you when they
were closed against the preachers of the evangele, and the honest advice of your faithful subjects;
and when they were ever open to flattery of pickthanks and traitors, foreign cubiculars and
domestic minions. The land may no longer brook the rule of one who cannot rule herself; wherefore,
I pray you to comply with the last remaining wish of your subjects and counsellors, and spare
yourself and us the farther agitation of matter so painful."

"And is this all my loving subjects require of me, my lord?" said Mary, in a tone of bitter
irony. "Do they really stint themselves to the easy boon that I should yield up the crown,
which is mine by birthright, to an infant which is scarcely more than a year old--fling down
my sceptre, and take up a distaff--Oh no! it is too little for them to ask--That other roll
of parchment contains something harder to be complied with, and which may more highly task
my readiness to comply with the petitions of my lieges."

"This parchment," answered Ruthven, in the same tone of inflexible gravity, and unfolding the
instrument as he spoke, "is one by which your grace constitutes your nearest in blood, and
the most honourable and trustworthy of your subjects, James, Earl of Murray, Regent of the
kingdom during the minority of the young King. He already holds the appointment from the Secret
Council."

The Queen gave a sort of shriek, and, clapping her hands together, exclaimed, "Comes the arrow
out of his quiver?--out of my brother's bow?--Alas! I looked for his return from France as
my sole, at least my readiest, chance of deliverance.--And yet, when I heard he had assumed
the government, I guessed he would shame to wield it in my name."

"I must pray your answer, madam," said Lord Ruthven, "to the demand of the Council."

"The demand of the Council!" said the Queen; "say rather the demand of a set of robbers, impatient
to divide the spoil they have seized. To such a demand, and sent by the mouth of a traitor,
whose scalp, but for my womanish mercy, should long since have stood on the city gates, Mary
of Scotland has no answer."

"I trust, madam," said Lord Ruthven, "my being unacceptable to your presence will not add to
your obduracy of resolution. It may become you to remember that the death of the minion, Rizzio,
cost the house of Ruthven its head and leader. My father, more worthy than a whole province
of such vile sycophants, died in exile, and broken-hearted."

The Queen clasped her hands on her face, and, resting her arms on the table, stooped down her
head and wept so bitterly, that the tears were seen to find their way in streams between the
white and slender fingers with which she endeavoured to conceal them.

"My lords," said Sir Robert Melville, "this is too much rigour. Under your lordship's favour,
we came hither, not to revive old griefs, but to find the mode of avoiding new ones."

"Sir Robert Melville," said Ruthven, "we best know for what purpose we were delegated hither,
and wherefore you were somewhat unnecessarily sent to attend us."

"Nay, by my hand," said Lord Lindesay, "I know not why we were cumbered with the good knight,
unless he comes in place of the lump of sugar which pothicars put into their wholesome but
bitter medicaments, to please a froward child--a needless labour, methinks, where men have
the means to make them swallow the physic otherwise."

"Nay, my lords," said Melville, "ye best know your own secret instructions. I conceive I shall
best obey mine in striving to mediate between her Grace and you."

"Be silent, Sir Robert Melville," said the Queen, arising, and her face still glowing with
agitation as she spoke. "My kerchief, Fleming--I shame that traitors should have power to move
me thus.--Tell me, proud lords," she added, wiping away the tears as she spoke, "by what earthly
warrant can liege subjects pretend to challenge the rights of an anointed Sovereign--to throw
off the allegiance they have vowed, and to take away the crown from the head on which Divine
warrant hath placed it?"

"Madam," said Ruthven, "I will deal plainly with you. Your reign, from the dismal field of
Pinkie-cleugh, when you were a babe in the cradle, till now that ye stand a grown dame before
us, hath been such a tragedy of losses, disasters, civil dissensions, and foreign wars, that
the like is not to be found in our chronicles. The French and English have, with one consent,
made Scotland the battle-field on which to fight out their own ancient quarrel.--For ourselves
every man's hand hath been against his brother, nor hath a year passed over without rebellion
and slaughter, exile of nobles, and oppressing of the commons. We may endure it no longer,
and therefore, as a prince, to whom God hath refused the gift of hearkening to wise counsel,
and on whose dealings and projects no blessing hath ever descended, we pray you to give way
to other rule and governance of the land, that a remnant may yet be saved to this distracted
realm."

"My lord," said Mary, "it seems to me that you fling on my unhappy and devoted head those evils,
which, with far more justice, I may impute to your own turbulent, wild, and untameable dispositions--the
frantic violence with which you, the Magnates of Scotland, enter into feuds against each other,
sticking at no cruelty to gratify your wrath, taking deep revenge for the slightest offences,
and setting at defiance those wise laws which your ancestors made for stanching of such cruelty,
rebelling against the lawful authority, and bearing yourselves as if there were no king in
the land; or rather as if each were king in his own premises. And now you throw the blame on
me--on me, whose life has been embittered--whose sleep has been broken--whose happiness has
been wrecked by your dissensions. Have I not myself been obliged to traverse wilds and mountains,
at the head of a few faithful followers, to maintain peace and put down oppression?  Have I
not worn harness on my person, and carried pistols at my saddle; fain to lay aside the softness
of a woman, and the dignity of a Queen, that I might show an example to my followers?"

"We grant, madam," said Lindesay, "that the affrays occasioned by your misgovernment, may sometimes
have startled you in the midst of a masque or galliard; or it may be that such may have interrupted
the idolatry of the mass, or the jesuitical counsels of some French ambassador. But the longest
and severest journey which your Grace has taken in my memory, was from Hawick to Hermitage
Castle; and whether it was for the weal of the state, or for your own honour, rests with your
Grace's conscience."

The Queen turned to him with inexpressible sweetness of tone and manner, and that engaging
look which Heaven had assigned her, as if to show that the choicest arts to win men's affections
may be given in vain. "Lindesay," she said, "you spoke not to me in this stern tone, and with
such scurril taunt, yon fair summer evening, when you and I shot at the butts against the Earl
of Mar and Mary Livingstone, and won of them the evening's collation, in the privy garden of
Saint Andrews. The Master of Lindesay was then my friend, and vowed to be my soldier. How I
have offended the Lord of Lindesay I know not, unless honours have changed manners."

Hardhearted as he was, Lindesay seemed struck with this unexpected appeal, but almost instantly
replied, "Madam, it is well known that your Grace could in those days make fools of whomever
approached you. I pretend not to have been wiser than others. But gayer men and better courtiers
soon jostled aside my rude homage, and I think your Grace cannot but remember times, when my
awkward attempts to take the manners that pleased you, were the sport of the court-popinjays,
the Marys and the Frenchwomen."

"My lord, I grieve if I have offended you through idle gaiety," said the Queen; "and can but
say it was most unwittingly done. You are fully revenged; for through gaiety," she said with
a sigh, "will I never offend any one more."

"Our time is wasting, madam," said Lord Ruthven; "I must pray your decision on this weighty
matter which I have submitted to you."

"What, my lord!" said the Queen, "upon the instant, and without a moment's time to deliberate?--Can
the Council, as they term themselves, expect this of me?"

"Madam," replied Ruthven, "the Council hold the opinion, that since the fatal term which passed
betwixt the night of King Henry's murder and the day of Carberry-hill, your Grace should have
held you prepared for the measure now proposed, as the easiest escape from your numerous dangers
and difficulties."

"Great God!" exclaimed the Queen; "and is it as a boon that you propose to me, what every Christian
king ought to regard as a loss of honour equal to the loss of life!--You take from me my crown,
my power, my subjects, my wealth, my state. What, in the name of every saint, can you offer,
or do you offer, in requital of my compliance?"

"We give you pardon," answered Ruthven, sternly--"we give you space and means to spend your
remaining life in penitence and seclusion--we give you time to make your peace with Heaven,
and to receive the pure Gospel, which you have ever rejected and persecuted."

The Queen turned pale at the menace which this speech, as well as the rough and inflexible
tones of the speaker, seemed distinctly to infer--"And if I do not comply with your request
so fiercely urged, my lord, what then follows?"

She said this in a voice in which female and natural fear was contending with the feelings
of insulted dignity.--There was a pause, as if no one cared to return to the question a distinct
answer. At length Ruthven spoke: "There is little need to tell to your Grace, who are well
read both in the laws and in the chronicles of the realm, that murder and adultery are crimes
for which ere now queens themselves have suffered death."

"And where, my lord, or how, found you an accusation so horrible, against her who stands before
you?" said Queen Mary. "The foul and odious calumnies which have poisoned the general mind
of Scotland, and have placed me a helpless prisoner in your hands, are surely no proof of guilt?"

"We need look for no farther proof," replied the stern Lord Ruthven, "than the shameless marriage
betwixt the widow of the murdered and the leader of the band of murderers!--They that joined
hands in the fated month of May, had already united hearts and counsel in the deed which preceded
that marriage but a few brief weeks."

"My lord, my lord!" said the Queen, eagerly, "remember well there were more consents than mine
to that fatal union, that most unhappy act of a most unhappy life. The evil steps adopted by
sovereigns are often the suggestion of bad counsellors; but these counsellors are worse than
fiends who tempt and betray, if they themselves are the first to call their unfortunate princes
to answer for the consequences of their own advice.--Heard ye never of a bond by the nobles,
my lords, recommending that ill-fated union to the ill-fated Mary? Methinks, were it carefully
examined, we should see that the names of Morton and of Lindesay, and of Ruthven, may be found
in that bond, which pressed me to marry that unhappy man.--Ah! stout and loyal Lord Herries,
who never knew guile or dishonour, you bent your noble knee to me in vain, to warn me of my
danger, and wert yet the first to draw thy good sword in my cause when I suffered for neglecting
thy counsel! Faithful knight and true noble, what a difference betwixt thee and those counsellors
of evil, who now threaten my life for having fallen into the snares they spread for me!"

"Madam," said Ruthven, "we know that you are an orator; and perhaps for that reason the Council
has sent hither men, whose converse hath been more with the wars, than with the language of
the schools or the cabals of state. We but desire to know if, on assurance of life and honour,
ye will demit the rule of this kingdom of Scotland?"

"And what warrant have I," said the Queen, "that ye will keep treaty with me, if I should barter
my kingly estate for seclusion, and leave to weep in secret?"

"Our honour and our word, madam," answered Ruthven.

"They are too slight and unsolid pledges, my lord," said the Queen; "add at least a handful
of thistle-down to give them weight in the balance."

"Away, Ruthven," said Lindesay; "she was ever deaf to counsel, save of slaves and sycophants;
let her remain by her refusal, and abide by it!"

"Stay, my lord," said Sir Robert Melville, "or rather permit me to have but a few minutes'
private audience with her Grace. If my presence with you could avail aught, it must be as a
mediator--do not, I conjure you, leave the castle, or break off the conference, until I bring
you word how her Grace shall finally stand disposed."

"We will remain in the hall," said Lindesay, "for half an hour's space; but in despising our
words and our pledge of honour, she has touched the honour of my name--let her look herself
to the course she has to pursue.  If the half hour should pass away without her determining
to comply with the demands of the nation, her career will be brief enough."

With little ceremony the two nobles left the apartment, traversed the vestibule, and descended
the winding-stairs, the clash of Lindesay's huge sword being heard as it rang against each
step in his descent. George Douglas followed them, after exchanging with Melville a gesture
of surprise and sympathy.

As soon as they were gone, the Queen, giving way to grief, fear, and agitation, threw herself
into the seat, wrung her hands, and seemed to abandon herself to despair. Her female attendants,
weeping themselves, endeavoured yet to pray her to be composed, and Sir Robert Melville, kneeling
at her feet, made the same entreaty. After giving way to a passionate burst of sorrow, she
at length said to Melville, "Kneel not to me, Melville--mock me not with the homage of the
person, when the heart is far away--Why stay you behind with the deposed, the condemned? her
who has but few hours perchance to live? You have been favoured as well as the rest; why do
you continue the empty show of gratitude and thankfulness any longer than they?"

"Madam," said Sir Robert Melville, "so help me Heaven at my need, my heart is as true to you
as when you were in your highest place."

"True to me! true to me!" repeated the Queen, with some scorn; "tush, Melville, what signifies
the truth which walks hand in hand with my enemies' falsehood?--thy hand and thy sword have
never been so well acquainted that I can trust thee in aught where manhood is required--Oh,
Seyton, for thy bold father, who is both wise, true, and valiant!"

Roland Graeme could withstand no longer his earnest desire to offer his services to a princess
so distressed and so beautiful. "If one sword," he said, "madam, can do any thing to back the
wisdom of this grave counsellor, or to defend your rightful cause, here is my weapon, and here
is my hand ready to draw and use it." And raising his sword with one hand, he laid the other
upon the hilt.

As he thus held up the weapon, Catherine Seyton exclaimed, "Methinks I see a token from my
father, madam;" and immediately crossing the apartment, she took Roland Graeme by the skirt
of the cloak, and asked him earnestly whence he had that sword.

The page answered with surprise, "Methinks this is no presence in which to jest--Surely, damsel,
you yourself best know whence and how I obtained the weapon."

"Is this a time for folly?" said Catherine Seyton; "unsheathe the sword instantly!"

"If the Queen commands me," said the youth, looking towards his royal mistress.

"For shame, maiden!" said the Queen; "wouldst thou instigate the poor boy to enter into useless
strife with the two most approved soldiers in Scotland?"

"In your Grace's cause," replied the page, "I will venture my life upon them!" And as he spoke,
he drew his weapon partly from the sheath, and a piece of parchment, rolled around the blade,
fell out and dropped on the floor. Catherine Seyton caught it up with eager haste.

"It is my father's hand-writing," she said, "and doubtless conveys his best duteous advice
to your Majesty; I know that it was prepared to be sent in this weapon, but I expected another
messenger."

"By my faith, fair one," thought Roland, "and if you knew not that I had such a secret missive
about me, I was yet more ignorant."

The Queen cast her eye upon the scroll, and remained a few minutes wrapped in deep thought.
"Sir Robert Melville," she at length said, "this scroll advises me to submit myself to necessity,
and to subscribe the deeds these hard men have brought with them, as one who gives way to the
natural fear inspired by the threats of rebels and murderers. You, Sir Robert, are a wise man,
and Seyton is both sagacious and brave. Neither, I think, would mislead me in this matter."

"Madam," said Melville, "if I have not the strength of body of the Lord Herries or Seyton,
I will yield to neither in zeal for your Majesty's service. I cannot fight for you like these
lords, but neither of them is more willing to die for your service."

"I believe it, my old and faithful counsellor," said the Queen, "and believe me, Melville,
I did thee but a moment's injustice. Read what my Lord Seyton hath written to us, and give
us thy best counsel."

He glanced over the parchment, and instantly replied,--"Oh! my dear and royal mistress, only
treason itself could give you other advice than Lord Seyton has here expressed. He, Herries,
Huntly, the English ambassador Throgmorton, and others, your friends, are all alike of opinion,
that whatever deeds or instruments you execute within these walls, must lose all force and
effect, as extorted from your Grace by duresse, by sufferance of present evil, and fear of
men, and harm to ensue on your refusal. Yield, therefore, to the tide, and be assured, that
in subscribing what parchments they present to you, you bind yourself to nothing, since your
act of signature wants that which alone can make it valid, the free will of the granter."

"Ay, so says my Lord Seyton," replied Mary; "yet methinks, for the daughter of so long a line
of sovereigns to resign her birthright, because rebels press upon her with threats, argues
little of royalty, and will read ill for the fame of Mary in future chronicles. Tush! Sir Robert
Melville, the traitors may use black threats and bold words, but they will not dare to put
their hands forth on our person."

"Alas! madam, they have already dared so far and incurred such peril by the lengths which they
have gone, that they are but one step from the worst and uttermost."

"Surely," said the Queen, her fears again predominating, "Scottish nobles would not lend themselves
to assassinate a helpless woman?"

"Bethink you, madam," he replied, "what horrid spectacles have been seen in our day; and what
act is so dark, that some Scottish hand has not been found to dare it? Lord Lindesay, besides
his natural sullenness and hardness of temper, is the near kinsman of Henry Darnley, and Ruthven
has his own deep and dangerous plans. The Council, besides, speak of proofs by writ and word,
of a casket with letters--of I know not what."

"Ah! good Melville," answered the Queen, "were I as sure of the even-handed integrity of my
judges, as of my own innocence--and yet----"

"Oh! pause, madam," said Melville; "even innocence must sometimes for a season stoop to injurious
blame. Besides, you are here--"

He looked round, and paused.

"Speak out, Melville," said the Queen, "never one approached my person who wished to work me
evil; and even this poor page, whom I have to-day seen for the first time in my life, I can
trust safely with your communication."

"Nay, madam," answered Melville, "in such emergence, and he being the bearer of Lord Seyton's
message, I will venture to say, before him and these fair ladies, whose truth and fidelity
I dispute not--I say I will venture to say, that there are other modes besides that of open
trial, by which deposed sovereigns often die; and that, as Machiavel saith, there is but one
step betwixt a king's prison and his grave."

"Oh I were it but swift and easy for the body," said the unfortunate Princess, "were it but
a safe and happy change for the soul, the woman lives not that would take the step so soon
as I--But, alas! Melville, when we think of death, a thousand sins, which we have trod as worms
beneath our feet, rise up against us as flaming serpents. Most injuriously do they accuse me
of aiding Darnley's death; yet, blessed Lady! I afforded too open occasion for the suspicion--I
espoused Bothwell."

"Think not of that now, madam," said Melville, "think rather of the immediate mode of saving
yourself and son. Comply with the present unreasonable demands, and trust that better times
will shortly arrive."

"Madam," said Roland Graeme, "if it pleases you that I should do so, I will presently swim
through the lake, if they refuse me other conveyance to the shore; I will go to the courts
successively of England, France, and Spain, and will show you have subscribed these vile instruments
from no stronger impulse than the fear of death, and I will do battle against them that say
otherwise."

The Queen turned her round, and with one of those sweet smiles which, during the era of life's
romance, overpay every risk, held her hand towards Roland, but without "speaking a word. He
kneeled reverently, and kissed it, and Melville again resumed his plea.

"Madam," he said, "time presses, and you must not let those boats, which I see they are even
now preparing, put forth on the lake. Here are enough of witnesses--your ladies--this bold
youth--myself, when it can serve your cause effectually, for I would not hastily stand committed
in this matter--but even without me here is evidence enough to show, that you have yielded
to the demands of the Council through force and fear, but from no sincere and unconstrained
assent. Their boats are already manned for their return--oh! permit your old servant to recall
them."

"Melville," said the Queen, "thou art an ancient courtier--when didst thou ever know a Sovereign
Prince recall to his presence subjects who had parted from him on such terms as those on which
these envoys of the Council left us, and who yet were recalled without submission or apology?--Let
it cost me both life and crown, I will not again command them to my presence."

"Alas! madam, that empty form should make a barrier! If I rightly understand, you are not unwilling
to listen to real and advantageous counsel--but your scruple is saved--I hear them returning
to ask your final resolution. Oh! take the advice of the noble Seyton, and you may once more
command those who now usurp a triumph over you. But hush! I hear them in the vestibule."

As he concluded speaking, George Douglas opened the door of the apartment, and marshalled in
the two noble envoys.

"We come, madam," said the Lord Ruthven, "to request your answer to the proposal of the Council."

"Your final answer," said Lord Lindesay; "for with a refusal you must couple the certainty
that you have precipitated your fate, and renounced the last opportunity of making peace with
God, and ensuring your longer abode in the world."

"My lords," said Mary, with inexpressible grace and dignity, "the evils we cannot resist we
must submit to--I will subscribe these parchments with such liberty of choice as my condition
permits me. Were I on yonder shore, with a fleet jennet and ten good and loyal knights around
me, I would subscribe my sentence of eternal condemnation as soon as the resignation of my
throne. But here, in the Castle of Lochleven, with deep water around me--and you, my lords,
beside me,--I have no freedom of choice.--Give me the pen, Melville, and bear witness to what
I do, and why I do it."

"It is our hope your Grace will not suppose yourself compelled by any apprehensions from us,"
said the Lord Ruthven, "to execute what must be your own voluntary deed."

The Queen had already stooped towards the table, and placed the parchment before her, with
the pen between her fingers, ready for the important act of signature. But when Lord Ruthven
had done speaking, she looked up, stopped short, and threw down the pen. "If," she said, "I
am expected to declare I give away my crown of free will, or otherwise than because I am compelled
to renounce it by the threat of worse evils to myself and my subjects, I will not put my name
to such an untruth--not to gain full possession of England, France, and Scotland!--all once
my own, in possession, or by right."

"Beware, madam," said Lindesay, and, snatching hold of the Queen's arm with his own gauntleted
hand, he pressed it, in the rudeness of his passion, more closely, perhaps, than he was himself
aware of,--"beware how you contend with those who are the stronger, and have the mastery of
your fate!"

He held his grasp on her arm, bending his eyes on her with a stern and intimidating look, till
both Ruthven and Melville cried shame; and Douglas, who had hitherto remained in a state of
apparent apathy, had made a stride from the door, as if to interfere. The rude Baron then quitted
his hold, disguising the confusion which he really felt at having indulged his passion to such
extent, under a sullen and contemptuous smile.

The Queen immediately began, with an expression of pain, to bare the arm which he had grasped,
by drawing up the sleeve of her gown, and it appeared that his gripe had left the purple marks
of his iron fingers upon her flesh--"My lord," she said, "as a knight and gentleman, you might
have spared my frail arm so severe a proof that you have the greater strength on your side,
and are resolved to use it--But I thank you for it--it is the most decisive token of the terms
on which this day's business is to rest.--I draw you to witness, both lords and ladies," she
said, "showing the marks of the grasp on her arm, "that I subscribe these instruments in obedience
to the sign manual of my Lord of Lindesay, which you may see imprinted on mine arm."

[Footnote: The details of this remarkable event are, as given in the preceding chapter, imaginary;
but the outline of the events is historical. Sir Robert Lindesay, brother to the author of
the Memoirs, was at first intrusted with the delicate commission of persuading the imprisoned
queen to resign her crown. As he flatly refused to interfere, they determined to send the Lord
Lindesay, one of the rudest and most violent of their own faction, with instructions, first
to use fair persuasions, and if these did not succeed, to enter into harder terms. Knox associates
Lord Ruthven with Lindesay in this alarming commission. He was the son of that Lord Ruthven
who was prime agent in the murder of Rizzio; and little mercy was to be expected from his conjunction
with Lindesay.

The employment of such rude tools argued a resolution on the part of those who had the Queen's
person in their power, to proceed to the utmost extremities, should they find Mary obstinate.
To avoid this pressing danger, Sir Robert Melville was despatched by them to Lochleven, carrying
with him, concealed in the scabbard of his sword, letters to the Queen from the Earl of Athole,
Maitland of Lethington, and even from Throgmorton, the English Ambassador, who was then favourable
to the unfortunate Mary, conjuring her to yield to the necessity of the times, and to subscribe
such deeds as Lindesay should lay before her, without being startled by their tenor; and assuring
her that her doing so, in the state of captivity under which she was placed, would neither,
in law, honour, nor conscience, be binding upon her when she should obtain her liberty. Submitting
by the advice of one part of her subjects to the menace of the others, and learning that Lindesay
was arrived in a boasting, that is, threatening humour, the Queen, "with some reluctancy, and
with tears," saith Knox, subscribed one deed resigning her crown to her infant son, and another
establishing the Earl of Murray regent. It seems agreed by historians that Lindesay behaved
with great brutality on the occasion. The deeds were signed 24th July, 1567.]

Lindesay would have spoken, but was restrained by his colleague Ruthven, who said to him, "Peace,
my lord. Let the Lady Mary of Scotland ascribe her signature to what she will, it is our business
to procure it, and carry it to the Council. Should there be debate hereafter on the manner
in which it was adhibited, there will be time enough for it."

Lindesay was silent accordingly, only muttering within his beard, "I meant not to hurt her;
but I think women's flesh be as tender as new-fallen snow."

The Queen meanwhile subscribed the rolls of parchment with a hasty indifference, as if they
had been matters of slight consequence, or of mere formality. When she had performed this painful
task, she arose, and, having curtsied to the lords, was about to withdraw to her chamber. Ruthven
and Sir Robert Melville made, the first a formal reverence, the second an obeisance, in which
his desire to acknowledge his sympathy was obviously checked by the fear of appearing in the
eyes of his colleagues too partial to his former mistress. But Lindesay stood motionless, even
when they were preparing to withdraw. At length, as if moved by a sudden impulse, he walked
round the table which had hitherto been betwixt them and the Queen, kneeled on one knee, took
her hand, kissed it, let it fall, and arose--"Lady," he said, "thou art a noble creature, even
though thou hast abused God's choicest gifts. I pay that devotion to thy manliness of spirit,
which I would not have paid to the power thou hast long undeservedly wielded--I kneel to Mary
Stewart, not to the Queen."

"The Queen and Mary Stewart pity thee alike, Lindesay," said Mary-- "alike thee pity, and they
forgive thee. An honoured soldier hadst thou been by a king's side--leagued with rebels, what
art thou but a good blade in the hands of a ruffian?--Farewell, my Lord Ruthven, the smoother
but the deeper traitor.--Farewell, Melville--Mayest thou find masters that can understand state
policy better, and have the means to reward it more richly, than Mary Stewart.--Farewell, George
of Douglas--make your respected grand-dame comprehend that we would be alone for the remainder
of the day--God wot, we have need to collect our thoughts."

All bowed and withdrew; but scarce had they entered the vestibule, ere Ruthven and Lindesay
were at variance. "Chide not with me, Ruthven," Lindesay was heard to say, in answer to something
more indistinctly urged by his colleague--"Chide not with me, for I will not brook it! You
put the hangman's office on me in this matter, and even the very hangman hath leave to ask
some pardon of those on whom he does his office. I would I had as deep cause to be this lady's
friend as I have to be her enemy--thou shouldst see if I spared limb and life in her quarrel."

"Thou art a sweet minion," said Ruthven, "to fight a lady's quarrel, and all for a brent brow
and a tear in the eye! Such toys have been out of thy thoughts this many a year."

"Do me right, Ruthven," said Lindesay. "You are like a polished corslet of steel; it shines
more gaudily, but it is not a whit softer--nay, it is five times harder than a Glasgow breastplate
of hammered iron. Enough. We know each other."

They descended the stairs, were heard to summon their boats, and the Queen signed to Roland
Graeme to retire to the vestibule, and leave her with her female attendants.

Chapter the Twenty-Third.

  Give me a morsel on the greensward rather,
  Coarse as you will the cooking--Let the fresh spring
  Bubble beside my napkin--and the free birds
  Twittering and chirping, hop from bough to bough,
  To claim the crumbs I leave for perquisites--
  Your prison feasts I like not.
                           THE WOODSMAN, A DRAMA.

A recess in the vestibule was enlightened by a small window, at which Roland Graeme stationed
himself to mark the departure of the lords. He could see their followers mustering on horseback
under their respective banners--the western sun glancing on their corslets and steel-caps as
they moved to and fro, mounted or dismounted, at intervals. On the narrow space betwixt the
castle and the water, the Lords Ruthven and Lindesay were already moving slowly to their boats,
accompanied by the Lady of Lochleven, her grandson, and their principal attendants. They took
a ceremonious leave of each other, as Roland could discern by their gestures, and the boats
put oft from their landing-place; the boatmen stretched to their oars, and they speedily diminished
upon the eye of the idle gazer, who had no better employment than to watch their motions. Such
seemed also the occupation of the Lady Lochleven and George Douglas, who, returning from the
landing-place, looked frequently back to the boats, and at length stopped as if to observe
their progress under the window at which Roland Graeme was stationed.--As they gazed on the
lake, he could hear the lady distinctly say, "And she has bent her mind to save her life at
the expense of her kingdom?"

"Her life, madam!" replied her son; "I know not who would dare to attempt it in the castle
of my father. Had I dreamt that it was with such purpose that Lindesay insisted on bringing
his followers hither, neither he nor they should have passed the iron gate of Lochleven castle."

"I speak not of private slaughter, my son, but of open trial, condemnation, and execution;
for with such she has been threatened, and to such threats she has given way. Had she not more
of the false Gusian blood than of the royal race of Scotland in her veins, she had bidden them
defiance to their teeth--But it is all of the same complexion, and meanness is the natural
companion of profligacy.--I am discharged, forsooth, from intruding on her gracious presence
this evening. Go thou, my son, and render the usual service of the meal to this unqueened Queen."

"So please you, lady mother," said Douglas," I care not greatly to approach her presence."

"Thou art right, my son; and therefore I trust thy prudence, even because I have noted thy
caution. She is like an isle on the ocean, surrounded with shelves and quicksands; its verdure
fair and inviting to the eye, but the wreck of many a goodly vessel which hath approached it
too rashly. But for thee, my son, I fear nought; and we may not, with our honour, suffer her
to eat without the attendance of one of us. She may die by the judgment of Heaven, or the fiend
may have power over her in her despair; and then we would be touched in honour to show that
in our house, and at our table, she had had all fair play and fitting usage."

Here Roland was interrupted by a smart tap on the shoulders, reminding him sharply of Adam
Woodcock's adventure of the preceding evening. He turned round, almost expecting to see the
page of Saint Michael's hostelry. He saw, indeed, Catherine Seyton; but she was in female attire,
differing, no doubt, a great deal in shape and materials from that which she had worn when
they first met, and becoming her birth as the daughter of a great baron, and her rank as the
attendant on a princess. "So, fair page," said she, "eaves-dropping is one of your page-like
qualities, I presume."

"Fair sister," answered Roland, in the same tone, "if some friends of mine be as well acquainted
with the rest of our mystery as they are with the arts of swearing, swaggering, and switching,
they need ask no page in Christendom for farther insight into his vocation."

"Unless that pretty speech infer that you have yourself had the discipline of the switch since
we last met, the probability whereof I nothing doubt, I profess, fair page, I am at a loss
to conjecture your meaning. But there is no time to debate it now--they come with the evening
meal. Be pleased, Sir Page, to do your duty."

Four servants entered bearing dishes, preceded by the same stern old steward whom Roland had
already seen, and followed by George Douglas, already mentioned as the grandson of the Lady
of Lochleven, and who, acting as seneschal, represented, upon this occasion, his father, the
Lord of the Castle. He entered with his arms folded on his bosom, and his looks bent on the
ground. With the assistance of Roland Graeme, a table was suitably covered in the next or middle
apartment, on which the domestics placed their burdens with great reverence, the steward and
Douglas bending low when they had seen the table properly adorned, as if their royal prisoner
had sat at the board in question. The door opened, and Douglas, raising his eyes hastily, cast
them again on the earth, when he perceived it was only the Lady Mary Fleming who entered.

"Her Grace," she said, "will not eat to-night."

"Let us hope she may be otherwise persuaded," said Douglas; "meanwhile, madam, please to see
our duty performed."

A servant presented bread and salt on a silver plate, and the old steward carved for Douglas
a small morsel in succession from each of the dishes presented, which he tasted, as was then
the custom at the tables of princes, to which death was often suspected to find its way in
the disguise of food.

"The Queen will not then come forth to-night?" said Douglas.

"She has so determined," replied the lady.

"Our farther attendance then is unnecessary--we leave you to your supper, fair ladies, and
wish you good even."

He retired slowly as he came, and with the same air of deep dejection, and was followed by
the attendants belonging to the castle. The two ladies sate down to their meal, and Roland
Graeme, with ready alacrity, prepared to wait upon them. Catherine Seyton whispered to her
companion, who replied with the question spoken in a low tone, but looking at the page--"Is
he of gentle blood and well nurtured?"

The answer which she received seemed satisfactory, for she said to Roland, "Sit down, young
gentleman, and eat with your sisters in captivity."

"Permit me rather to perform my duty in attending them," said Roland, anxious to show he was
possessed of the high tone of deference prescribed by the rules of chivalry towards the fair
sex, and especially to dames and maidens of quality.

"You will find, Sir Page," said Catherine, "you will have little time allowed you for your
meal; waste it not in ceremony, or you may rue your politeness ere to-morrow morning."

"Your speech is too free, maiden," said the elder lady; "the modesty of the youth may teach
you more fitting fashions towards one whom to-day you have seen for the first time."

Catherine Seyton cast down her eyes, but not till she had given a single glance of inexpressible
archness towards Roland, whom her more grave companion now addressed in a tone of protection.

"Regard her not, young gentleman--she knows little of the world, save the forms of a country
nunnery--take thy place at the board-end, and refresh thyself after thy journey."

Roland Graeme obeyed willingly, as it was the first food he had that day tasted; for Lindesay
and his followers seemed regardless of human wants. Yet, notwithstanding the sharpness of his
appetite, a natural gallantry of disposition, the desire of showing himself a well-nurtured
gentleman, in all courtesies towards the fair sex, and, for aught I know, the pleasure of assisting
Catherine Seyton, kept his attention awake, during the meal, to all those nameless acts of
duty and service which gallants of that age were accustomed to render. He carved with neatness
and decorum, and selected duly whatever was most delicate to place before the ladies. Ere they
could form a wish, he sprung from the table, ready to comply with it--poured wine--tempered
it with water--removed the exchanged trenchers, and performed the whole honours of the table,
with an air at once of cheerful diligence, profound respect, and graceful promptitude.

When he observed that they had finished eating, he hastened to offer to the elder lady the
silver ewer, basin, and napkin, with the ceremony and gravity which he would have used towards
Mary herself. He next, with the same decorum, having supplied the basin with fair water, presented
it to Catherine Seyton. Apparently, she was determined to disturb his self-possession, if possible;
for, while in the act of bathing her hands, she contrived, as it were by accident, to flirt
some drops of water upon the face of the assiduous assistant. But if such was her mischievous
purpose she was completely disappointed; for Roland Graeme, internally piquing himself on his
self-command, neither laughed nor was discomposed; and all that the maiden gained by her frolic
was a severe rebuke from her companion, taxing her with mal-address and indecorum. Catherine
replied not, but sat pouting, something in the humour of a spoilt child, who watches the opportunity
of wreaking upon some one or other its resentment for a deserved reprimand.

The Lady Mary Fleming, in the mean-while, was naturally well pleased with the exact and reverent
observance of the page, and said to Catherine, after a favourable glance at Roland Graeme,--"You
might well say, Catherine, our companion in captivity was well born and gentle nurtured. I
would not make him vain by my praise, but his services enable us to dispense with those which
George Douglas condescends not to afford us, save when the Queen is herself in presence."

"Umph! I think hardly," answered Catherine. "George Douglas is one of the most handsome gallants
in Scotland, and 'tis pleasure to see him even still, when the gloom of Lochleven Castle has
shed the same melancholy over him, that it has done over every thing else. When he was at Holyrood
who would have said the young sprightly George Douglas would have been contented to play the
locksman here in Lochleven, with no gayer amusement than that of turning the key on two or
three helpless women?--a strange office for a Knight of the Bleeding Heart--why does he not
leave it to his father or his brothers?"

"Perhaps, like us, he has no choice," answered the Lady Fleming. "But, Catherine, thou hast
used thy brief space at court well, to remember what George Douglas was then."

"I used mine eyes, which I suppose was what I was designed to do, and they were worth using
there. When I was at the nunnery, they were very useless appurtenances; and now I am at Lochleven,
they are good for nothing, save to look over that eternal work of embroidery."

"You speak thus, when you have been but a few brief hours amongst us --was this the maiden
who would live and die in a dungeon, might she but have permission to wait on her gracious Queen?"

"Nay, if you chide in earnest, my jest is ended," said Catherine Seyton.  "I would not yield
in attachment to my poor god-mother, to the gravest dame that ever had wise saws upon her tongue,
and a double-starched ruff around her throat--you know I would not, Dame Mary Fleming, and
it is putting shame on me to say otherwise."

"She will challenge the other court lady," thought Roland Graeme; "she will to a certainty
fling down her glove, and if Dame Mary Fleming hath but the soul to lift it, we may have a
combat in the lists!"--but the answer of Lady Mary Fleming was such as turns away wrath.

"Thou art a good child," she said, "my Catherine, and a faithful; but Heaven pity him who shall
have one day a creature so beautiful to delight him, and a thing so mischievous to torment
him--thou art fit to drive twenty husbands stark mad."

"Nay," said Catherine, resuming the full career of her careless good-humour, "he must be half-witted
beforehand, that gives me such an opportunity. But I am glad you are not angry with me in sincerity,"
casting herself as she spoke into the arms of her friend, and continuing, with a tone of apologetic
fondness, while she kissed her on either side of the face; "you know, my dear Fleming, that
I have to contend with both my father's lofty pride, and with my mother's high spirit--God
bless them! they have left me these good qualities, having small portion to give besides, as
times go--and so I am wilful and saucy; but let me remain only a week in this castle, and oh,
my dear Fleming, my spirit will be as chastised and humble as thine own."

Dame Mary Fleming's sense of dignity, and love of form, could not resist this affectionate
appeal. She kissed Catherine Seyton in her turn affectionately; while, answering the last part
of her speech, she said, "Now Our Lady forbid, dear Catherine, that you should lose aught that
is beseeming of what becomes so well your light heart and lively humour. Keep but your sharp
wit on this side of madness, and it cannot but be a blessing to us. But let me go, mad wench--I
hear her Grace touch her silver call." And, extricating herself from Catherine's grasp, she
went towards the door of Queen Mary's apartment, from which was heard the low tone of a silver
whistle, which, now only used by the boatswains in the navy, was then, for want of bells, the
ordinary mode by which ladies, even of the very highest rank, summoned their domestics. When
she had made two or three steps towards the door, however, she turned back, and advancing to
the young couple whom she left together, she said, in a very serious though a low tone, "I
trust it is impossible that we can, any of us, or in any circumstances, forget, that, few as
we are, we form the household of the Queen of Scotland; and that, in her calamity, all boyish
mirth and childish jesting can only serve to give a great triumph to her enemies, who have
already found their account in objecting to her the lightness of every idle folly, that the
young and the gay practised in her court." So saying, she left the apartment.

Catherine Seyton seemed much struck with this remonstrance--She suffered herself to drop into
the seat which she had quitted when she went to embrace Dame Mary Fleming, and for some time
rested her brow upon her hands; while Roland Graeme looked at her earnestly, with a mixture
of emotions which perhaps he himself could neither have analysed nor explained. As she raised
her face slowly from the posture to which a momentary feeling of self-rebuke had depressed
it, her eyes encountered those of Roland, and became gradually animated with their usual spirit
of malicious drollery, which not unnaturally excited a similar expression in those of the equally
volatile page. They sat for the space of two minutes, each looking at the other with great
seriousness on their features, and much mirth in their eyes, until at length Catherine was
the first to break silence.

"May I pray you, fair sir," she began, very demurely, "to tell me what you see in my face to
arouse looks so extremely sagacious and knowing as those with which it is your worship's pleasure
to honour me? It would seem as if there were some wonderful confidence and intimacy betwixt
us, fair sir, if one is to judge from your extremely cunning looks; and so help me, Our Lady,
as I never saw you but twice in my life before."

"And where were those happy occasions," said Roland, "if I may be bold enough to ask the question?"

"At the nunnery of St. Catherine's," said the damsel, "in the first instance; and, in the second,
during five minutes of a certain raid or foray which it was your pleasure to make into the
lodging of my lord and father, Lord Seyton, from which, to my surprise, as probably to your
own, you returned with a token of friendship and favour, instead of broken bones, which were
the more probable reward of your intrusion, considering the prompt ire of the house of Seyton.
I am deeply mortified," she added, ironically, "that your recollection should require refreshment
on a subject so important; and that my memory should be stronger than yours on such an occasion,
is truly humiliating."

"Your own, memory is not so exactly correct, fair mistress," answered the page, "seeing you
have forgotten meeting the third, in the hostelrie of St. Michael's, when it pleased you to
lay your switch across the face of my comrade, in order, I warrant, to show that, in the house
of Seyton, neither the prompt ire of its descendants, nor the use of the doublet and hose,
are subject to Salique law, or confined to the use of the males."

"Fair sir," answered Catherine, looking at him with great steadiness, and some surprise, "unless
your fair wits have forsaken you, I am at a loss what to conjecture of your meaning."

"By my troth, fair mistress," answered Roland, "and were I as wise a warlock as Michael Scott,
I could scarce riddle the dream you read me. Did I not see you last night in the hostelrie
of St. Michael's?--Did you not bring me this sword, with command not to draw it save at the
command of my native and rightful Sovereign? And have I not done as you required me? Or is
the sword a piece of lath--my word a bulrush--my memory a dream--and my eyes good for nought--espials
which corbies might pick out of my head?"

"And if your eyes serve you not more truly on other occasions than in your vision of St. Michael,"
said Catherine, "I know not, the pain apart, that the corbies would do you any great injury
in the deprivation--But hark, the bell--hush, for God's sake, we are interrupted.--"

The damsel was right; for no sooner had the dull toll of the castle bell begun to resound through
the vaulted apartment, than the door of the vestibule flew open, and the steward, with his
severe countenance, his gold chain, and his white rod, entered the apartment, followed by the
same train of domestics who had placed the dinner on the table, and who now, with the same
ceremonious formality, began to remove it.

The steward remained motionless as some old picture, while the domestics did their office;
and when it was accomplished, every thing removed from the table, and the board itself taken
from its tressels and disposed against the wall, he said aloud, without addressing any one
in particular, and somewhat in the tone of a herald reading a proclamation, "My noble lady,
Dame Margaret Erskine, by marriage Douglas, lets the Lady Mary of Scotland and her attendants
to wit, that a servant of the true evangele, her reverend chaplain, will to-night, as usual,
expound, lecture, and catechise, according to the forms of the congregation of gospellers."

"Hark you, my friend, Mr. Dryfesdale," said Catherine, "I understand this announcement is a
nightly form of yours. Now, I pray you to remark, that the Lady Fleming and I--for I trust
your insolent invitation concerns us only--have chosen Saint Peter's pathway to Heaven, so
I see no one whom your godly exhortation, catechise, or lecture, can benefit, excepting this
poor page, who, being in Satan's hand as well as yourself, had better worship with you than
remain to cumber our better-advised devotions."

The page was well-nigh giving a round denial to the assertions which this speech implied, when,
remembering what had passed betwixt him and the Regent, and seeing Catherine's finger raised
in a monitory fashion, he felt himself, as on former occasions at the Castle of Avenel, obliged
to submit to the task of dissimulation, and followed Dryfesdale down to the castle chapel,
where he assisted in the devotions of the evening.

The chaplain was named Elias Henderson. He was a man in the prime of life, and possessed of
good natural parts, carefully improved by the best education which those times afforded. To
these qualities were added a faculty of close and terse reasoning; and, at intervals, a flow
of happy illustration and natural eloquence. The religious faith of Roland Graeme, as we have
already had opportunity to observe, rested on no secure basis, but was entertained rather in
obedience to his grandmother's behests, and his secret desire to contradict the chaplain of
Avenel Castle, than from any fixed or steady reliance which he placed on the Romish creed.
His ideas had been of late considerably enlarged by the scenes he had passed through; and feeling
that there was shame in not understanding something of those political disputes betwixt the
professors of the ancient and the reformed faith, he listened with more attention than it had
hitherto been in his nature to yield on such occasions, to an animated discussion of some of
the principal points of difference betwixt the churches. So passed away the first day in the
Castle of Lochleven; and those which followed it were, for some time, of a very monotonous
and uniform tenor.

Chapter the Twenty-Fourth.

  'Tis a weary life this--
  Vaults overhead, and grates and bars around me,
  And my sad hours spent with as sad companions,
  Whose thoughts are brooding: o'er their own mischances,
  Far, far too deeply to take part in mine.
                                      THE WOODSMAN.

The course of life to which Mary and her little retinue were doomed, was in the last degree
secluded and lonely, varied only as the weather permitted or rendered impossible the Queen's
usual walk in the garden or on the battlements. The greater part of the morning she wrought
with her ladies at those pieces of needlework, many of which still remain proofs of her indefatigable
application. At such hours the page was permitted the freedom of the castle and islet; nay,
he was sometimes invited to attend George Douglas when he went a-sporting upon the lake, or
on its margin; opportunities of diversion which were only clouded by the remarkable melancholy
which always seemed to brood on that gentleman's brow, and to mark his whole demeanour,--a
sadness so profound, that Roland never observed him to smile, or to speak any word unconnected
with the immediate object of their exercise.

The most pleasant part of Roland's day, was the occasional space which he was permitted to
pass in personal attendance on the Queen and her ladies, together with the regular dinner-time,
which he always spent with Dame Mary Fleming and Catharine Seyton. At these periods, he had
frequent occasion to admire the lively spirit and inventive imagination of the latter damsel,
who was unwearied in her contrivances to amuse her mistress, and to banish, for a time at least,
the melancholy which preyed on her bosom. She danced, she sung, she recited tales of ancient
and modern times, with that heartfelt exertion of talent, of which the pleasure lies not in
the vanity of displaying it to others, but in the enthusiastic consciousness that we possess
it ourselves. And yet these high accomplishments were mixed with an air of rusticity and harebrained
vivacity, which seemed rather to belong to some village maid, the coquette of the ring around
the Maypole, than to the high-bred descendant of an ancient baron. A touch of audacity, altogether
short of effrontery, and far less approaching to vulgarity, gave as it were a wildness to all
that she did; and Mary, while defending her from some of the occasional censures of her grave
companion, compared her to a trained singing-bird escaped from a cage, which practises in all
the luxuriance of freedom, and in full possession of the greenwood bough, the airs which it
had learned during its earlier captivity.

The moments which the page was permitted to pass in the presence of this fascinating creature,
danced so rapidly away, that, brief as they were, they compensated the weary dulness of all
the rest of the day. The space of indulgence, however, was always brief, nor were any private
interviews betwixt him and Catharine permitted, or even possible. Whether it were some special
precaution respecting the Queen's household, or whether it were her general ideas of propriety,
Dame Fleming seemed particularly attentive to prevent the young people from holding any separate
correspondence together, and bestowed, for Catharine's sole benefit in this matter, the full
stock of prudence and experience which she had acquired, when mother of the Queen's maidens
of honour, and by which she had gained their hearty hatred. Casual meetings, however, could
not be prevented, unless Catherine had been more desirous of shunning, or Roland Graeme less
anxious in watching for them. A smile, a gibe, a sarcasm, disarmed of its severity by the arch
look with which it was accompanied, was all that time permitted to pass between them on such
occasions. But such passing interviews neither afforded means nor opportunity to renew the
discussion of the circumstances attending their earlier acquaintance, nor to permit Roland
to investigate more accurately the mysterious apparition of the page in the purple velvet cloak
at the hostelrie of Saint Michael's.

The winter months slipped heavily away, and spring was already advanced, when Roland Graeme
observed a gradual change in the manners of his fellow-prisoners. Having no business of his
own to attend to, and being, like those of his age, education, and degree, sufficiently curious
concerning what passed around, he began by degrees to suspect, and finally to be convinced,
that there was something in agitation among his companions in captivity, to which they did
not desire that he should be privy. Nay, he became almost certain that, by some means unintelligible
to him, Queen Mary held correspondence beyond the walls and waters which surrounded her prison-house,
and that she nourished some secret hope of deliverance or escape. In the conversations betwixt
her and her attendants, at which he was necessarily present, the Queen could not always avoid
showing that she was acquainted with the events which were passing abroad in the world, and
which he only heard through her report. He observed that she wrote more and worked less than
had been her former custom, and that, as if desirous to lull suspicion asleep, she changed
her manner towards the Lady Lochleven into one more gracious, and which seemed to express a
resigned submission to her lot. "They think I am blind," he said to himself, "and that I am
unfit to be trusted because I am so young, or it may be because I was sent hither by the Regent.
Well!--be it so--they may be glad to confide in me in the long run; and Catherine Seyton, for
as saucy as she is, may find me as safe a confidant as that sullen Douglas, whom she is always
running after. It may be they are angry with me for listening to Master Elias Henderson; but
it was their own fault for sending me there, and if the man speaks truth and good sense, and
preaches only the word of God, he is as likely to be right as either Pope or Councils."

It is probable that in this last conjecture, Roland Graeme had hit upon the real cause why
the ladies had not intrusted him with their councils. He had of late had several conferences
with Henderson on the subject of religion, and had given him to understand that he stood in
need of his instructions, although he had not thought there was either prudence or necessity
for confessing that hitherto he had held the tenets of the Church of Rome.

Elias Henderson, a keen propagator of the reformed faith, had sought the seclusion of Lochleven
Castle, with the express purpose and expectation of making converts from Rome amongst the domestics
of the dethroned Queen, and confirming the faith of those who already held the Protestant doctrines.
Perhaps his hopes soared a little higher, and he might nourish some expectation of a proselyte
more distinguished in the person of the deposed Queen. But the pertinacity with which she and
her female attendants refused to see or listen to him, rendered such hope, if he nourished
it, altogether abortive.

The opportunity, therefore, of enlarging the religious information of Roland Graeme, and bringing
him to a more due sense of his duties to Heaven, was hailed by the good man as a door opened
by Providence for the salvation of a sinner. He dreamed not, indeed, that he was converting
a Papist, but such was the ignorance which Roland displayed upon some material points of the
reformed doctrine, that Master Henderson, while praising his docility to the Lady Lochleven
and her grandson, seldom failed to add, that his venerable brother, Henry Warden, must be now
decayed in strength and in mind, since he found a catechumen of his flock so ill-grounded in
the principles of his belief. For this, indeed, Roland Graeme thought it was unnecessary to
assign the true reason, which was his having made it a point of honour to forget all that Henry
Warden taught him, as soon as he was no longer compelled to read it over as a lesson acquired
by rote. The lessons of his new instructor, if not more impressively delivered, were received
by a more willing ear, and a more awakened understanding, and the solitude of Lochleven Castle
was favourable to graver thoughts than the page had hitherto entertained. He wavered yet, indeed,
as one who was almost persuaded; but his attention to the chaplain's instructions procured
him favour even with the stern old dame herself; and he was once or twice, but under great
precaution, permitted to go to the neighbouring village of Kinross, situated on the mainland,
to execute some ordinary commission of his unfortunate mistress.

For some time Roland Graeme might be considered as standing neuter betwixt the two parties
who inhabited the water-girdled Tower of Lochleven; but, as he rose in the opinion of the Lady
of the Castle and her chaplain, he perceived, with great grief, that he lost ground in that
of Mary and her female allies.

He came gradually to be sensible that he was regarded as a spy upon their discourse, and that,
instead of the ease with which they had formerly conversed in his presence, without suppressing
any of the natural feelings of anger, of sorrow, or mirth, which the chance topic of the moment
happened to call forth, their talk was now guardedly restricted to the most indifferent subjects,
and a studied reserve observed even in their mode of treating these. This obvious want of confidence
was accompanied with a correspondent change in their personal demeanor towards the unfortunate
page. The Queen, who had at first treated him with marked courtesy, now scarce spoke to him,
save to convey some necessary command for her service. The Lady Fleming restricted her notice
to the most dry and distant expressions of civility, and Catherine Seyton became bitter in
her pleasantries, and shy, cross, and pettish, in any intercourse they had together. What was
yet more provoking, he saw, or thought he saw, marks of intelligence betwixt George Douglas
and the beautiful Catherine Seyton; and, sharpened by jealousy, he wrought himself almost into
a certainty, that the looks which they exchanged, conveyed matters of deep and serious import.
"No wonder," he thought, "if, courted by the son of a proud and powerful baron, she can no
longer spare a word or look to the poor fortuneless page."

In a word, Roland Graeme's situation became truly disagreeable, and his heart naturally enough
rebelled against the injustice of this treatment, which deprived him of the only comfort which
he had received for submitting to a confinement in other respects irksome. He accused Queen
Mary and Catherine Seyton (for concerning the opinion of Dame Fleming he was indifferent) of
inconsistency in being displeased with him on account of the natural consequences of an order
of their own. Why did they send him to hear this overpowering preacher? The Abbot Ambrosius,
he recollected, understood the weakness of their Popish cause better, when he enjoined him
to repeat within his own mind, aves, and credos, and paters, all the while old Henry Warden
preached or lectured, that so he might secure himself against lending even a momentary ear
to his heretical doctrine. "But I will endure this life no longer," said he to himself, manfully;
"do they suppose I would betray my mistress, because I see cause to doubt of her religion?--that
would be a serving, as they say, the devil for God's sake. I will forth into the world--he
that serves fair ladies, may at least expect kind looks and kind words; and I bear not the
mind of a gentleman, to submit to cold treatment and suspicion, and a life-long captivity besides.
I will speak to George Douglas to-morrow when we go out a-fishing."

A sleepless night was spent in agitating this magnanimous resolution, and he arose in the morning
not perfectly decided in his own mind whether he should abide by it or not. It happened that
he was summoned by the Queen at an unusual hour, and just as he was about to go out with George
Douglas. He went to attend her commands in, the garden; but as he had his angling-rod in his
hand, the circumstance announced his previous intention, and the Queen, turning to the Lady
Fleming, said, "Catherine must devise some other amusement for us, ma bonnie amie; our discreet
page has already made his party for the day's pleasure."

"I said from the beginning," answered the Lady Fleming, "that your Grace ought not to rely
on being favoured with the company of a youth who has so many Huguenot acquaintances, and has
the means of amusing himself far more agreeably than with us."

"I wish," said Catherine, her animated features reddening with mortification, "that his friends
would sail away with him for good, and bring us in return a page (if such a thing can be found)
faithful to his Queen and to his religion."

"One part of your wishes may be granted, madam," said Roland Graeme, unable any longer to restrain
his sense of the treatment which he received on all sides; and he was about to add, "I heartily
wish you a companion in my room, if such can be found, who is capable of enduring women's caprices
without going distracted." Luckily, he recollected the remorse which he had felt at having
given way to the vivacity of his temper upon a similar occasion; and, closing his lips, imprisoned,
until it died on his tongue, a reproach so misbecoming the presence of majesty.

"Why do you remain there," said the Queen, "as if you were rooted to the parterre?"

"I but attend your Grace's commands," said the page.

"I have none to give you--Begone, sir."

As he left the garden to go to the boat, he distinctly heard Mary upbraid one of her attendants
in these words:--"You see to what you have exposed us!"

This brief scene at once determined Roland Graeme's resolution to quit the castle, if it were
possible, and to impart his resolution to George Douglas without loss of time. That gentleman,
in his usual mood of silence, sate in the stern of the little skiff which they used on such
occasions, trimming his fishing-tackle, and, from time to time, indicating by signs to Graeme,
who pulled the oars, which way he should row. When they were a furlong or two from the castle,
Roland rested on the oars, and addressed his companion somewhat abruptly,--"I have something
of importance to say to you, under your pleasure, fair sir."

The pensive melancholy of Douglas's countenance at once gave way to the eager, keen, and startled
look of one who expects to hear something of deep and alarming import.

"I am wearied to the very death of this Castle of Lochleven," continued Roland.

"Is that all?" said Douglas; "I know none of its inhabitants who are much better pleased with it."

"Ay, but I am neither a native of the house, nor a prisoner in it, and so I may reasonably
desire to leave it."

"You might desire to quit it with equal reason," answered Douglas, "if you were both the one
and the other."

"But," said Roland Graeme, "I am not only tired of living in Lochleven Castle, but I am determined
to quit it."

"That is a resolution more easily taken than executed," replied Douglas.

"Not if yourself, sir, and your Lady Mother, choose to consent," answered the page.

"You mistake the matter, Roland," said Douglas; "you will find that the consent of two other
persons is equally essential--that of the Lady Mary your mistress, and that of my uncle the
Regent, who placed you about her person, and who will not think it proper that she should change
her attendants so soon."

"And must I then remain whether I will or no?" demanded the page, somewhat appalled at a view
of the subject, which would have occurred sooner to a person of more experience.

"At least," said George Douglas, "you must will to remain till my uncle consents to dismiss you."

"Frankly," said the page, "and speaking to you as a gentleman who is incapable of betraying
me, I will confess, that if I thought myself a prisoner here, neither walls nor water should
confine me long."

"Frankly," said Douglas, "I could not much blame you for the attempt; yet, for all that, my
father, or uncle, or the earl, or any of my brothers, or in short any of the king's lords into
whose hands you fell, would in such a case hang you like a dog, or like a sentinel who deserts
his post; and I promise you that you will hardly escape them. But row towards Saint Serf's
island--there is a breeze from the west, and we shall have sport, keeping to windward of the
isle, where the ripple is strongest.  We will speak more of what you have mentioned when we
have had an hour's sport."

Their fishing was successful, though never did two anglers pursue even that silent and unsocial
pleasure with less of verbal intercourse.

When their time was expired, Douglas took the oars in his turn, and by his order Roland Graeme
steered the boat, directing her course upon the landing-place at the castle. But he also stopped
in the midst of his course, and, looking around him, said to Graeme, "There is a thing which
I could mention to thee; but it is so deep a secret, that even here, surrounded as we are by
sea and sky, without the possibility of a listener, I cannot prevail on myself to speak it out."

"Better leave it unspoken, sir," answered Roland Graeme, "if you doubt the honour of him who
alone can hear it."

"I doubt not your honour," replied George Douglas; "but you are young, imprudent, and changeful."

"Young," said Roland, "I am, and it may be imprudent--but who hath informed you that I am changeful?"

"One that knows you, perhaps, better than you know yourself," replied Douglas.

"I suppose you mean Catherine Seyton," said the page, his heart rising as he spoke; "but she
is herself fifty times more variable in her humour than the very water which we are floating upon."

"My young acquaintance," said Douglas, "I pray you to remember that Catherine Seyton is a lady
of blood and birth, and must not be lightly spoken of."

"Master George of Douglas," said Graeme, "as that speech seemed to be made under the warrant
of something like a threat, I pray you to observe, that I value not the threat at the estimation
of a fin of one of these dead trouts; and, moreover, I would have you to know that the champion
who undertakes the defence of every lady of blood and birth, whom men accuse of change of faith
and of fashion, is like to have enough of work on his hands."

"Go to," said the Seneschal, but in a tone of good-humour, "thou art a foolish boy, unfit to
deal with any matter more serious than the casting of a net, or the flying of a hawk."

"If your secret concern Catherine Seyton," said the page, "I care not for it, and so you may
tell her if you will. I wot she can shape you opportunity to speak with her, as she has ere now."

The flush which passed over Douglas's face, made the page aware that he had alighted on a truth,
when he was, in fact, speaking at random; and the feeling that he had done so, was like striking
a dagger into his own heart. His companion, without farther answer, resumed the oars, and pulled
lustily till they arrived at the island and the castle. The servants received the produce of
their spoil, and the two fishers, turning from each other in silence, went each to his several
apartment.

Roland Graeme had spent about an hour in grumbling against Catherine Seyton, the Queen, the
Regent, and the whole house of Lochleven, with George Douglas at the head of it, when the time
approached that his duty called him to attend the meal of Queen Mary. As he arranged his dress
for this purpose, he grudged the trouble, which, on similar occasions, he used, with boyish
foppery, to consider as one of the most important duties of his day; and when he went to take
his place behind the chair of the Queen, it was with an air of offended dignity, which could
not escape her observation, and probably appeared to her ridiculous enough, for she whispered
something in French to her ladies, at which the lady Fleming laughed, and Catherine appeared
half diverted and half disconcerted. This pleasantry, of which the subject was concealed from
him, the unfortunate page received, of course, as a new offence, and called an additional degree
of sullen dignity into his mien, which might have exposed him to farther raillery, but that
Mary appeared disposed to make allowance for and compassionate his feelings.

With the peculiar tact and delicacy which no woman possessed in greater perfection, she began
to soothe by degrees the vexed spirit of her magnanimous attendant. The excellence of the fish
which he had taken in his expedition, the high flavour and beautiful red colour of the trouts,
which have long given distinction to the lake, led her first to express her thanks to her attendant
for so agreeable an addition to her table, especially upon a jour de jeune; and then brought
on inquiries into the place where the fish had been taken, their size, their peculiarities,
the times when they were in season, and a comparison between the Lochleven trouts and those
which are found in the lakes and rivers of the south of Scotland. The ill humour of Roland
Graeme was never of an obstinate character. It rolled away like mist before the sun, and he
was easily engaged in a keen and animated dissertation about Lochleven trout, and sea trout,
and river trout, and bull trout, and char, which never rise to a fly, and par, which some suppose
infant salmon, and herlings, which frequent the Nith, and vendisses, which are only found in
the Castle-Loch of Lochmaben; and he was hurrying on with the eager impetuosity and enthusiasm
of a young sportsman, when he observed that the smile with which the Queen at first listened
to him died languidly away, and that, in spite of her efforts to suppress them, tears rose
to her eyes. He stopped suddenly short, and, distressed in his turn, asked, "If he had the
misfortune unwittingly to give displeasure to her Grace?"

"No, my poor boy," replied the Queen; "but as you numbered up the lakes and rivers of my kingdom,
imagination cheated me, as it will do, and snatched me from these dreary walls away to the
romantic streams of Nithsdale, and the royal towers of Lochmaben.--O land, which my fathers
have so long ruled! of the pleasures which you extend so freely, your Queen is now deprived,
and the poorest beggar, who may wander free from one landward town to another, would scorn
to change fates with Mary of Scotland!"

"Your highness," said the Lady Fleming, "will do well to withdraw."

"Come with me, then, Fleming," said the Queen, "I would not burden hearts so young as these
are, with the sight of my sorrows."

She accompanied these words with a look of melancholy compassion towards Roland and Catherine,
who were now left alone together in the apartment.

The page found his situation not a little embarrassing; for, as every reader has experienced
who may have chanced to be in such a situation, it is extremely difficult to maintain the full
dignity of an offended person in the presence of a beautiful girl, whatever reason we may have
for being angry with her. Catherine Seyton, on her part, sate still like a lingering ghost,
which, conscious of the awe which its presence imposes, is charitably disposed to give the
poor confused mortal whom it visits, time to recover his senses, and comply with the grand
rule of demonology by speaking first. But as Roland seemed in no hurry to avail himself of
her condescension, she carried it a step farther, and herself opened the conversation.

"I pray you, fair sir, if it may be permitted me to disturb your august reverie by a question
so simple,--what may have become of your rosary?"

"It is lost, madam--lost some time since," said Roland, partly embarrassed and partly indignant.

"And may I ask farther, sir," said Catherine, "why you have not replaced it with another?--I
have half a mind," she said, taking from her pocket a string of ebony beads adorned with gold,
"to bestow one upon yon, to keep for my sake, just to remind you of former acquaintance."

There was a little tremulous accent in the tone with which these words were delivered, which
at once put to flight Roland Graeme's resentment, and brought him to Catherine's side; but
she instantly resumed the bold and firm accent which was more familiar to her. "I did not bid
you," she said, "come and sit so close by me; for the acquaintance that I spoke of, has been
stiff and cold, dead and buried, for this many a day."

"Now Heaven forbid!" said the page, "it has only slept, and now that you desire it should awake,
fair Catherine, believe me that a pledge of your returning favour--"

"Nay, nay," said Catherine, withholding the rosary, towards which, as he spoke, he extended
his hand, "I have changed my mind on better reflection. What should a heretic do with these
holy beads, that have been blessed by the father of the church himself?"

Roland winced grievously, for he saw plainly which way the discourse was now likely to tend,
and felt that it must at all events be embarrassing. "Nay, but," he said, "it was as a token
of your own regard that you offered them."

"Ay, fair sir, but that regard attended the faithful subject, the loyal and pious Catholic,
the individual who was so solemnly devoted at the same time with myself to the same grand duty;
which, you must now understand, was to serve the church and Queen. To such a person, if you
ever heard of him, was my regard due, and not to him who associates with heretics, and is about
to become a renegado."

"I should scarce believe, fair mistress," said Roland, indignantly, "that the vane of your
favour turned only to a Catholic wind, considering that it points so plainly to George Douglas,
who, I think, is both kingsman and Protestant."

"Think better of George Douglas," said Catherine, "than to believe--" and then checking herself,
as if she had spoken too much, she went on, "I assure you, fair Master Roland, that all who
wish you well are sorry for you."

"Their number is very few, I believe," answered Roland, "and their sorrow, if they feel any,
not deeper than ten minutes' time will cure."

"They are more numerous, and think more deeply concerning you, than you seem to be aware,"
answered Catherine. "But perhaps they think wrong--You are the best judge in your own affairs;
and if you prefer gold and church-lands to honour and loyalty, and the faith of your fathers,
why should you be hampered in conscience more than others?"

"May Heaven bear witness for me," said Roland, "that if I entertain any difference of opinion--that
is, if I nourish any doubts in point of religion, they have been adopted on the conviction
of my own mind, and the suggestion of my own conscience!"

"Ay, ay, your conscience--your conscience!" repeated she with satiric emphasis; "your conscience
is the scape-goat; I warrant it an able one--it will bear the burden of one of the best manors
of the Abbey of Saint Mary of Kennaquhair", lately forfeited to our noble Lord the King, by
the Abbot and community thereof, for the high crime of fidelity to their religious vows, and
now to be granted by the High and Mighty Traitor, and so forth, James Earl of Murray, to the
good squire of dames Roland Graeme, for his loyal and faithful service as under-espial, and
deputy-turnkey, for securing the person of his lawful sovereign, Queen Mary."

"You misconstrue me cruelly," said the page; "yes, Catherine, most cruelly--God knows I would
protect this poor lady at the risk of my life, or with my life; but what can I do--what can
any one do for her?"

"Much may be done--enough may be done--all may be done--if men will be but true and honourable,
as Scottish men were in the days of Bruce and Wallace. Oh, Roland, from what an enterprise
you are now withdrawing your heart and hand, through mere fickleness and coldness of spirit!"

"How can I withdraw," said Roland, "from an enterprise which has never been communicated to
me?--Has the Queen, or have you, or has any one, communicated with me upon any thing for her
service which I have refused? Or have you not, all of you, held me at such distance from your
counsels, as if I were the most faithless spy since the days of Ganelon?" [Footnote: Gan, Gano,
or Ganelon of Mayence, is in the Romances on the subject of Charlemagne and his Paladins, always
represented as the traitor by whom the Christian champions are betrayed.]

"And who," said Catherine Seyton, "would trust the sworn friend, and pupil, and companion,
of the heretic preacher Henderson? ay--a proper tutor you have chosen, instead of the excellent
Ambrosius, who is now turned out of house and homestead, if indeed he is not languishing in
a dungeon, for withstanding the tyranny of Morton, to whose brother the temporalities of that
noble house of God have been gifted away by the Regent."

"Is it possible?" said the page; "and is the excellent Father Ambrose in such distress?"

"He would account the news of your falling away from the faith of your fathers," answered Catherine,
"a worse mishap than aught that tyranny can inflict on himself."

"But why," said Roland, very much moved, "why should you suppose that--that--that it is with
me as you say?"

"Do you yourself deny it?" replied Catherine; "do you not admit that you have drunk the poison
which you should have dashed from your lips? --Do you deny that it now ferments in your veins,
if it has not altogether corrupted the springs of life?--Do you deny that you have your doubts,
as you proudly term them, respecting what popes and councils have declared it unlawful to doubt
of?--Is not your faith wavering, if not overthrown?--Does not the heretic preacher boast his
conquest?--Does not the heretic woman of this prison-house hold up thy example to others?--Do
not the Queen and the Lady Fleming believe in thy falling away?--And is there any except one--yes,
I will speak it out, and think as lightly as you please of my good-will--is there one except
myself that holds even a lingering hope that you may yet prove what we once all believed of you?"

"I know not," said our poor page, much embarrassed by the view which was thus presented to
him of the conduct he was expected to pursue, and by a person in whom he was not the less interested
that, though long a resident in Lochleven Castle, with no object so likely to attract his undivided
attention, no lengthened interview had taken place since they had first met,--"I know not what
you expect of me, or fear from me. I was sent hither to attend Queen Mary, and to her I acknowledge
the duty of a servant through life and death. If any one had expected service of another kind,
I was not the party to render it. I neither avow nor disclaim the doctrines of the reformed
church.--Will you have the truth?--It seems to me that the profligacy of the Catholic clergy
has brought this judgment on their own heads, and, for aught I know, it may be for their reformation.
But, for betraying this unhappy Queen, God knows I am guiltless of the thought. Did I even
believe worse of her, than as her servant I wish--as her subject I dare to do--I would not
betray her--far from it--I would aid her in aught which could tend to a fair trial of her cause."

"Enough! enough!" answered Catherine, clasping her hands together; "then thou wilt not desert
us if any means are presented, by which, placing our Royal Mistress at freedom, this case may
be honestly tried betwixt her and her rebellious subjects?"

"Nay--but, fair Catherine," replied the page, "hear but what the Lord of Murray said when he
sent me hither."--

"Hear but what the devil said," replied the maiden, "rather than what a false subject, a false
brother, a false counsellor, a false friend, said! A man raised from a petty pensioner on the
crown's bounty, to be the counsellor of majesty, and the prime distributor of the bounties
of the state;--one with whom rank, fortune, title, consequence, and power, all grew up like
a mushroom, by the mere warm good-will of the sister, whom, in requital, he hath mewed up in
this place of melancholy seclusion--whom, in farther requital, he has deposed, and whom, if
he dared, he would murder!"

"I think not so ill of the Earl of Murray," said Roland Graeme; "and sooth to speak," he added,
with a smile, "it would require some bribe to make me embrace, with firm and desperate resolution,
either one side or the other."

"Nay, if that is all," replied Catherine Seyton, in a tone of enthusiasm, "you shall be guerdoned
with prayers from oppressed subjects--from dispossessed clergy--from insulted nobles--with
immortal praise by future ages--with eager gratitude by the present--with fame on earth, and
with felicity in heaven! Your country will thank you--your Queen will be debtor to you--you
will achieve at once the highest from the lowest degree in chivalry--all men will honour, all
women will love you--and I, sworn with you so early to the accomplishment of Queen Mary's freedom,
will--yes, I will--love you better than--ever sister loved brother!" "Say on--say on!" whispered
Roland, kneeling on one knee, and taking her hand, which, in the warmth of exhortation, Catherine
held towards him.

"Nay," said she, pausing, "I have already said too much--far too much, if I prevail not with
you--far too little if I do. But I prevail," she continued, seeing that the countenance of
the youth she addressed returned the enthusiasm of her own--"I prevail; or rather the good
cause prevails through its own strength--thus I devote thee to it." And as she spoke she approached
her finger to the brow of the astonished youth, and, without touching it, signed the cross
over his forehead--stooped her face towards him, and seemed to kiss the empty space in which
she had traced the symbol; then starting up, and extricating herself from his grasp, darted
into the Queen's apartment.

Roland Graeme remained as the enthusiastic maiden had left him, kneeling on one knee, with
breath withheld, and with eyes fixed upon the space which the fairy form of Catherine Seyton
had so lately occupied. If his thoughts were not of unmixed delight, they at least partook
of that thrilling and intoxicating, though mingled sense of pain and pleasure, the most over-powering
which life offers in its blended cup. He rose and retired slowly; and although the chaplain
Mr. Henderson preached on that evening his best sermon against the errors of Popery, I would
not engage that he was followed accurately through the train of his reasoning by the young
proselyte, with a view to whose especial benefit he had handled the subject.

Chapter the Twenty-Fifth.

  And when love's torch hath set the heart in flame,
  Comes Seignor Reason, with his saws and cautions,
  Giving such aid as the old gray-beard Sexton,
  Who from the church-vault drags the crazy engine,
  To ply its dribbling ineffectual streamlet
  Against a conflagration.
                                OLD PLAY.

In a musing mood, Roland Graeme upon the ensuing morning betook himself to the battlements
of the Castle, as a spot where he might indulge the course of his thick-coming fancies with
least chance of interruption.  But his place of retirement was in the present case ill chosen,
for he was presently joined by Mr. Elias Henderson.

"I sought you, young man," said the preacher, "having to speak of something which concerns
you nearly."

The page had no pretence for avoiding the conference which the chaplain thus offered, though
he felt that it might prove an embarrassing one.

"In teaching thee, as far as my feeble knowledge hath permitted, thy duty towards God," said
the chaplain, "there are particulars of your duty towards man, upon which I was unwilling long
or much to insist. You are here in the service of a lady, honourable as touching her birth,
deserving of all compassion as respects her misfortunes, and garnished with even but too many
of those outward qualities which win men's regard and affection. Have you ever considered your
regard to this Lady Mary of Scotland, in its true light and bearing?"

"I trust, reverend sir," replied Roland Graeme, "that I am well aware of the duties a servant
in my condition owes to his royal mistress, especially in her lowly and distressed condition."

"True," answered the preacher; "but it is even that honest feeling which may, in the Lady Mary's
case, carry thee into great crime and treachery."

"How so, reverend sir?" replied the page; "I profess I understand you not."

"I speak to you not of the crimes of this ill-advised lady," said the preacher; "they are not
subjects for the ears of her sworn servant. But it is enough to say, that this unhappy person
hath rejected more offers of grace, and more hopes of glory, than ever were held out to earthly
princes; and that she is now, her day of favour being passed, sequestered in this lonely castle,
for the common weal of the people of Scotland, and it may be for the benefit of her own soul."

"Reverend sir," said Roland, somewhat impatiently, "I am but too well aware that my unfortunate
mistress is imprisoned, since I have the misfortune to share in her restraint myself--of which,
to speak sooth, I am heartily weary."

"It is even of that which I am about to speak," said the chaplain, mildly; "but, first, my
good Roland, look forth on the pleasant prospect of yonder cultivated plain. You see, where
the smoke arises, yonder village standing half hidden by the trees, and you know it to be the
dwelling-place of peace and industry. From space to space, each by the side of its own stream,
you see the gray towers of barons, with cottages interspersed; and you know that they also,
with their household, are now living in unity; the lance hung upon the wall, and the sword
resting in its sheath. You see, too, more than one fair church, where the pure waters of life
are offered to the thirsty, and where the hungry are refreshed with spiritual food.--What would
he deserve, who should bring fire and slaughter into so fair and happy a scene--who should
bare the swords of the gentry and turn them against each other--who should give tower and cottage
to the flames, and slake the embers with the blood of the indwellers?--What would he deserve
who should lift up again that ancient Dagon of Superstition, whom the worthies of the time
have beaten down, and who should once more make the churches of God the high places of Baal?"

"You have limned a frightful picture, reverend sir," said Roland Graeme; "yet I guess not whom
you would charge with the purpose of effecting a change so horrible."

"God forbid," replied the preacher, "that I should say to thee, Thou art the man.--Yet beware,
Roland Graeme, that thou, in serving thy mistress, hold fast the still higher service which
thou owest to the peace of thy country, and the prosperity of her inhabitants; else, Roland
Graeme, thou mayest be the very man upon whose head will fall the curses and assured punishment
due to such work. If thou art won by the song of these sirens to aid that unhappy lady's escape
from this place of penitence and security, it is over with the peace of Scotland's cottages,
and with the prosperity of her palaces--and the babe unborn shall curse the name of the man
who gave inlet to the disorder which will follow the war betwixt the mother and the son."

"I know of no such plan, reverend sir," answered the page, "and therefore can aid none such.--My
duty towards the Queen has been simply that of an attendant; it is a task, of which, at times,
I would willingly have been freed; nevertheless--"

"It is to prepare thee for the enjoyment of something more of liberty," said the preacher,
"that I have endeavoured to impress upon you the deep responsibility under which your office
must be discharged. George Douglas hath told the Lady Lochleven that you are weary of this
service, and my intercession hath partly determined her good ladyship, that, as your discharge
cannot be granted, you shall, instead, be employed in certain commissions on the mainland,
which have hitherto been discharged by other persons of confidence. Wherefore, come with me
to the lady, for even to-day such duty will be imposed on you."

"I trust you will hold me excused, reverend sir," said the page, who felt that an increase
of confidence on the part of the Lady of the Castle and her family would render his situation
in a moral view doubly embarrassing, "one cannot serve two masters--and I much fear that my
mistress will not hold me excused for taking employment under another."

"Fear not that," said the preacher; "her consent shall be asked and obtained. I fear she will
yield it but too easily, as hoping to avail herself of your agency to maintain correspondence
with her friends, as those falsely call themselves, who would make her name the watchword for
civil war."

"And thus," said the page, "I shall be exposed to suspicion on all sides; for my mistress will
consider me as a spy placed on her by her enemies, seeing me so far trusted by them; and the
Lady Lochleven will never cease to suspect the possibility of my betraying her, because circumstances
put it into my power to do so--I would rather remain as I am."

There followed a pause of one or two minutes, during which Henderson looked steadily in Roland's
countenance, as if desirous to ascertain whether there was not more in the answer than the
precise words seemed to imply. He failed in this point, however; for Roland, bred a page from
childhood, knew how to assume a sullen pettish cast of countenance, well enough calculated
to hide all internal emotions.

"I understand thee not, Roland," said the preacher, "or rather thou thinkest on this matter
more deeply than I apprehended to be in thy nature. Methought, the delight of going on shore
with thy bow, or thy gun, or thy angling-rod, would have borne away all other feelings."

"And so it would," replied Roland, who perceived the danger of suffering Henderson's half-raised
suspicions to become fully awake,--"I would have thought of nothing but the gun and the oar,
and the wild water-fowl that tempt me by sailing among the sedges yonder so far out of flight-shot,
had you not spoken of my going on shore as what was to occasion burning of town and tower,
the downfall of the evangele, and the upsetting of the mass."

"Follow me, then," said Henderson, "and we will seek the Lady Lochleven."

They found her at breakfast with her grandson George Douglas.--"Peace be with your ladyship!"
said the preacher, bowing to his patroness; "Roland Graeme awaits your order."

"Young man," said the lady, "our chaplain hath warranted for thy fidelity, and we are determined
to give you certain errands to do for us in our town of Kinross."

"Not by my advice," said Douglas, coldly.

"I said not that it was," answered the lady, something sharply. "The mother of thy father may,
I should think, be old enough to judge for herself in a matter so simple.--Thou wilt take the
skiff, Roland, and two of my people, whom Dryfesdale or Randal will order out, and fetch off
certain stuff of plate and hangings, which should last night be lodged at Kinross by the wains
from Edinburgh."

"And give this packet," said George Douglas, "to a servant of ours, whom you will find in waiting
there.--It is the report to my father," he added, looking towards his grandmother, who acquiesced
by bending her head.

"I have already mentioned to Master Henderson," said Roland Graeme, "that as my duty requires
my attendance on the Queen, her Grace's permission for my journey ought to be obtained before
I can undertake your commission."

"Look to it, my son," said the old lady, "the scruple of the youth is honourable."

"Craving your pardon, madam, I have no wish to force myself on her presence thus early," said.
Douglas, in an indifferent tone; "it might displease her, and were no way agreeable to me."

"And I," said the Lady Lochleven, "although her temper hath been more gentle of late, have
no will to undergo, without necessity, the rancour of her wit."

"Under your permission, madam," said the chaplain, "I will myself render your request to the
Queen. During my long residence in this house she hath not deigned to see me in private, or
to hear my doctrine; yet so may Heaven prosper my labours, as love for her soul, and desire
to bring her into the right path, was my chief desire for coming hither."

"Take care, Master Henderson," said Douglas, in a tone which seemed almost sarcastic, "lest
you rush hastily on an adventure to which you have no vocation--you are learned, and know the
adage, Ne accesseris in consilium nisi vocatus.--Who hath required this at your hand?"

"The Master to whose service I am called," answered the preacher, looking upward,--"He who
hath commanded me to be earnest in season and out of season."

"Your acquaintance hath not been much, I think, with courts or princes," continued the young
Esquire.

"No, sir," replied Henderson, "but like my Master Knox, I see nothing frightful in the fair
face of a pretty lady."

"My son," said the Lady of Lochleven, "quench not the good man's zeal --let him do the errand
to this unhappy Princess."

"With more willingness than I would do it myself," said George Douglas.  Yet something in his
manner appeared to contradict his words.

The minister went accordingly, followed by Roland Graeme, and, demanding an audience of the
imprisoned Princess, was admitted. He found her with her ladies engaged in the daily task of
embroidery. The Queen received him with that courtesy, which, in ordinary cases, she used towards
all who approached her, and the clergyman, in opening his commission, was obviously somewhat
more embarrassed than he had expected to be.--"The good Lady of Lochleven--may it please your
Grace--"

He made a short pause, during which Mary said, with a smile, "My Grace would, in truth, be
well pleased, were the Lady Lochleven our good lady--But go on--what is the will of the good
Lady of Lochleven?"

"She desires, madam," said the chaplain, "that your Grace will permit this young gentleman,
your page, Roland Graeme, to pass to Kinross, to look after some household stuff and hangings,
sent hither for the better furnishing your Grace's apartments."

"The Lady of Lochleven," said the Queen, "uses needless ceremony, in requesting our permission
for that which stands within her own pleasure.  We well know that this young gentleman's attendance
on us had not been so long permitted, were he not thought to be more at the command of that
good lady than at ours.--But we cheerfully yield consent that he shall go on her errand--with
our will we would doom no living creature to the captivity which we ourselves must suffer."

"Ay, madam," answered the preacher, "and it is doubtless natural for humanity to quarrel with
its prison-house. Yet there have been those, who have found, that time spent in the house of
temporal captivity may be so employed as to redeem us from spiritual slavery."

"I apprehend your meaning, sir," replied the Queen, "but I have heard your apostle--I have
heard Master John Knox; and were I to be perverted, I would willingly resign to the ablest
and most powerful of heresiarchs, the poor honour he might acquire by overcoming my faith and
my hope."

"Madam," said the preacher, "it is not to the talents or skill of the husbandman that God gives
the increase--the words which were offered in vain by him whom you justly call our apostle,
during the bustle and gaiety of a court, may yet find better acceptance during the leisure
for reflection which this place affords. God knows, lady, that I speak in singleness of heart,
as one who would as soon compare himself to the immortal angels, as to the holy man whom you
have named. Yet would you but condescend to apply to their noblest use, those talents and that
learning which all allow you to be possessed of--would you afford us but the slightest hope
that you would hear and regard what can be urged against the blinded superstition and idolatry
in which you are brought up, sure am I, that the most powerfully-gifted of my brethren, that
even John Knox himself, would hasten hither, and account the rescue of your single soul from
the nets of Romish error--"

"I am obliged to you and to them for their charity," said Mary; "but as I have at present but
one presence-chamber, I would reluctantly see it converted into a Huguenot synod."

"At least, madam, be not thus obstinately blinded in your errors! Hear one who has hungered
and thirsted, watched and prayed, to undertake the good work of your conversion, and who would
be content to die the instant that a work so advantageous for yourself and so beneficial to
Scotland were accomplished--Yes, lady, could I but shake the remaining pillar of the heathen
temple in this land--and that permit me to term your faith in the delusions of Rome--I could
be content to die overwhelmed in the ruins!"

"I will not insult your zeal, sir," replied Mary, "by saying you are more likely to make sport
for the Philistines than to overwhelm them--your charity claims my thanks, for it is warmly
expressed and may be truly purposed--But believe as well of me as I am willing to do of you,
and think that I may be as anxious to recall you to the ancient and only road, as you are to
teach me your new by-ways to paradise."

"Then, madam, if such be your generous purpose," said Henderson, eagerly, "--what hinders that
we should dedicate some part of that time, unhappily now too much at your Grace's disposal,
to discuss a question so weighty? You, by report of all men, are both learned and witty; and
I, though without such advantages, am strong in my cause as in a tower of defence. Why should
we not spend some space in endeavouring to discover which of us hath the wrong side in this
important matter?"

"Nay," said Queen Mary, "I never alleged my force was strong enough to accept of a combat en
champ clos, with a scholar and a polemic. Besides, the match is not equal. You, sir, might
retire when you felt the battle go against you, while I am tied to the stake, and have no permission
to say the debate wearies me.--I would be alone."

She curtsied low to him as she uttered these words; and Henderson, whose zeal was indeed ardent,
but did not extend to the neglect of delicacy, bowed in return, and prepared to withdraw.

"I would," he said, "that my earnest wish, my most zealous prayer, could procure to your Grace
any blessing or comfort, but especially that in which alone blessing or comfort is, as easily
as the slightest intimation of your wish will remove me from your presence."

He was in the act of departing, when Mary said to him with much courtesy, "Do me no injury
in your thoughts, good sir; it may be, that if my time here be protracted longer--as surely
I hope it will not, trusting that either my rebel subjects will repent of their disloyalty,
or that my faithful lieges will obtain the upper hand--but if my time be here protracted, it
may be I shall have no displeasure in hearing one who seems so reasonable and compassionate
as yourself, and I may hazard your contempt by endeavouring to recollect and repeat the reasons
which schoolmen and councils give for the faith that is in me,--although I fear that, God help
me! my Latin has deserted me with my other possessions. This must, however, be for another
day. Meanwhile, sir, let the Lady of Lochleven employ my page as she lists--I will not afford
suspicion by speaking a word to him before he goes.--Roland Graeme, my friend, lose not an
opportunity of amusing thyself--dance, sing, run, and leap--all may be done merrily on the
mainland; but he must have more than quicksilver in his veins who would frolic here."

"Alas! madam," said the preacher, "to what is it you exhort the youth, while time passes, and
eternity summons? Can our salvation be insured by idle mirth, or our good work wrought out
without fear and trembling?"

"I cannot fear or tremble," replied the Queen; "to Mary Stewart such emotions are unknown.
But if weeping and sorrow on my part will atone for the boy's enjoying an hour of boyish pleasure,
be assured the penance shall be duly paid."

"Nay, but, gracious lady," said the preacher, "in this you greatly err;--our tears and our
sorrows are all too little for our own faults and follies, nor can we transfer them, as your
church falsely teaches, to the benefit of others."

"May I pray you, sir," answered the Queen, "with as little offence as such a prayer may import,
to transfer yourself elsewhere? We are sick at heart, and may not now be disposed with farther
controversy--and thou, Roland, take this little purse;" (then, turning to the divine, she said,
showing its contents,) "Look, reverend sir,--it contains only these two or three gold testoons,
a coin which, though bearing my own poor features, I have ever found more active against me
than on my side, just as my subjects take arms against me, with my own name for their summons
and signal.--Take this purse, that thou mayest want no means of amusement. Fail not--fail not
to bring met back news from Kinross; only let it be such as, without suspicion or offence,
may be told in the presence of this reverend gentleman, or of the good Lady Lochleven herself."

The last hint was too irresistible to be withstood; and Henderson withdrew, half mortified,
half pleased, with his reception; for Mary, from long habit, and the address which was natural
to her, had learned, in an extraordinary degree, the art of evading discourse which was disagreeable
to her feelings or prejudices, without affronting those by whom it was proffered.

Roland Graeme retired with the chaplain, at a signal from his lady; but it did not escape him,
that as he left the room, stepping backwards, and making the deep obeisance due to royalty,
Catherine Seyton held up her slender forefinger, with a gesture which he alone could witness,
and which seemed to say, "Remember what has passed betwixt us."

The young page had now his last charge from the Lady of Lochleven. "There are revels," she
said, "this day at the village--my son's authority is, as yet, unable to prevent these continued
workings of the ancient leaven of folly which the Romish priests have kneaded into the very
souls of the Scottish peasantry. I do not command thee to abstain from them--that would be
only to lay a snare for thy folly, or to teach thee falsehood; but enjoy these vanities with
moderation, and mark them as something thou must soon learn to renounce and contemn. Our chamberlain
at Kinross, Luke Lundin,--Doctor, as he foolishly calleth himself,--will acquaint thee what
is to be done in the matter about which thou goest. Remember thou art trusted--show thyself,
therefore, worthy of trust."

When we recollect that Roland Graeme was not yet nineteen, and that he had spent his whole
life in the solitary Castle of Avenel, excepting the few hours he had passed in Edinburgh,
and his late residence at Lochleven, (the latter period having very little served to enlarge
his acquaintance with the gay world.) we cannot wonder that his heart beat, high with hope
and curiosity, at the prospect of partaking the sport even of a country wake. He hastened to
his little cabin, and turned over the wardrobe with which (in every respect becoming his station)
he had been supplied from Edinburgh, probably by order of the Earl of Murray. By the Queen's
command he had hitherto waited upon her in mourning, or at least in sad-coloured raiment. Her
condition, she said, admitted of nothing more gay. But now he selected the gayest dress his
wardrobe afforded; composed of scarlet slashed with black satin, the royal colours of Scotland--combed
his long curled hair-- disposed his chain and medal round a beaver hat of the newest block;
and with the gay falchion which had reached him in so mysterious a manner, hung by his side
in an embroidered belt, his apparel, added to his natural frank mien and handsome figure, formed
a most commendable and pleasing specimen of the young gallant of the period. He sought to make
his parting reverence to the Queen and her ladies, but old Dryfesdale hurried him to the boat.

"We will have no private audiences," he said, "my master; since you are to be trusted with
somewhat, we will try at least to save thee from the temptation of opportunity. God help thee,
child," he added, with a glance of contempt at his gay clothes, "an the bear-ward be yonder
from Saint Andrews, have a care thou go not near him."

"And wherefore, I pray you?" said Roland.

"Lest he take thee for one of his runaway jackanapes," answered the steward, smiling sourly.

"I wear not my clothes at thy cost," said Roland indignantly.

"Nor at thine own either, my son" replied the steward, "else would thy garb more nearly resemble
thy merit and thy station."

Roland Graeme suppressed with difficulty the repartee which arose to his lips, and, wrapping
his scarlet mantle around him, threw himself into the boat, which two rowers, themselves urged
by curiosity to see the revels, pulled stoutly towards the west end of the lake. As they put
off, Roland thought he could discover the face of Catherine Seyton, though carefully withdrawn
from observation, peeping from a loophole to view his departure. He pulled off his hat, and
held it up as a token that he saw and wished her adieu. A white kerchief waved for a second
across the window, and for the rest of the little voyage, the thoughts of Catherine Seyton
disputed ground in his breast with the expectations excited by the approaching revel. As they
drew nearer and nearer the shore, the sounds of mirth and music, the laugh, the halloo, and
the shout, came thicker upon the ear, and in a trice the boat was moored, and Roland Graeme
hastened in quest of the chamberlain, that, being informed what time he had at his own disposal,
he might lay it out to the best advantage.

Chapter the Twenty-Sixth.

  Room for the master of the ring, ye swains,
  Divide your crowded ranks--before him march
  The rural minstrelsy, the rattling drum,
  The clamorous war-pipe, and far-echoing horn.
               Rural Sports.--SOMERVILLE.

No long space intervened ere Roland Graeme was able to discover among the crowd of revellers,
who gambolled upon the open space which extends betwixt the village and the lake, a person
of so great importance as Dr. Luke Lundin, upon whom devolved officially the charge of representing
the lord of the land, and who was attended for support of his authority by a piper, a drummer,
and four sturdy clowns armed with rusty halberds, garnished with party-coloured ribbons; myrmidons
who, early as the day was, had already broken more than one head in the awful names of the
Laird of Lochleven and his chamberlain.

[Footnote: At Scottish fairs, the bailie, or magistrate, deputed by the lord in whose name
the meeting is held, attends the fair with his guard, decides trifling disputes, and punishes
on the spot any petty delinquencies. His attendants are usually armed with halberds, and sometimes,
at least, escorted by music. Thus, in the "Life and Death of Habbie Simpson," we are told of
that famous minstrel,--

   "At fairs he play'd before the spear-men,
   And gaily graithed in their gear-men;--
   Steel bonnets, jacks, and swords shone clear then,
        Like ony bead;
   Now wha shall play before sic weir-men,
        Since Habbie's dead! ]

As soon as this dignitary was informed that the castle skiff had arrived, with a gallant, dressed
like a lord's son at the least, who desired presently to speak to him, he adjusted his ruff
and his black coat, turned round his girdle till the garnished hilt of his long rapier became
visible, and walked with due solemnity towards the beach. Solemn indeed he was entitled to
be, even on less important occasions, for he had been bred to the venerable study of medicine,
as those acquainted with the science very soon discovered from the aphorisms which ornamented
his discourse. His success had not been equal to his pretensions; but as he was a native of
the neighbouring kingdom of Fife, and bore distant relation to, or dependence upon, the ancient
family of Lundin of that Ilk, who were bound in close friendship with the house of Lochleven,
he had, through their interest, got planted comfortably enough in his present station upon
the banks of that beautiful lake. The profits of his chamberlainship being moderate, especially
in those unsettled times, he had eked it out a little with some practice in his original profession;
and it was said that the inhabitants of the village and barony of Kinross were not more effectually
thirled (which may be translated enthralled) to the baron's mill, than they were to the medical
monopoly of the chamberlain. Wo betide the family of the rich boor, who presumed to depart
this life without a passport from Dr. Luke Lundin! for if his representatives had aught to
settle with the baron, as it seldom happened otherwise, they were sure to find a cold friend
in the chamberlain. He was considerate enough, however, gratuitously to help the poor out of
their ailments, and sometimes out of all their other distresses at the same time.

Formal, in a double proportion, both as a physician and as a person in office, and proud of
the scraps of learning which rendered his language almost universally unintelligible, Dr. Luke
Lundin approached the beach, and hailed the page as he advanced towards him.--"The freshness
of the morning upon you, fair sir--You are sent, I warrant me, to see if we observe here the
regimen which her good ladyship hath prescribed, for eschewing all superstitious observances
and idle anilities in these our revels. I am aware that her good ladyship would willingly have
altogether abolished and abrogated them--But as I had the honour to quote to her from the works
of the learned Hercules of Saxony, omnis curatio est vel canonica vel coacta,--that is, fair
sir, (for silk and velvet have seldom their Latin ad unguem,) every cure must be wrought either
by art and induction of rule, or by constraint; and the wise physician chooseth the former.
Which argument her ladyship being pleased to allow well of, I have made it my business so to
blend instruction and caution with delight--fiat mixtio, as we say--that I can answer that
the vulgar mind will be defecated and purged of anile and Popish fooleries by the medicament
adhibited, so that the primae vice being cleansed, Master Henderson, or any other able pastor,
may at will throw in tonics, and effectuate a perfect moral cure, tuto, cito, jucunde."

"I have no charge, Dr. Lundin," replied the page--

"Call me not doctor," said the chamberlain, "since I have laid aside my furred gown and bonnet,
and retired me into this temporality of chamberlainship."

"Oh, sir," said the page, who was no stranger by report to the character of this original,
"the cowl makes not the monk, neither the cord the friar--we have all heard of the cures wrought
by Dr. Lundin."

"Toys, young sir--trifles," answered the leech with grave disclamation of superior skill; "the
hit-or-miss practice of a poor retired gentleman, in a short cloak and doublet--Marry, Heaven
sent its blessing--and this I must say, better fashioned mediciners have brought fewer patients
through--lunga roba corta scienzia, saith the Italian--ha, fair sir, you have the language?"

Roland Graeme did not think it necessary to expound to this learned Theban whether he understood
him or no; but, leaving that matter uncertain, he told him he came in quest of certain packages
which should have arrived at Kinross, and been placed under the chamberlain's charge the evening
before.

"Body o' me!" said Doctor Lundin, "I fear our common carrier, John Auchtermuchty, hath met
with some mischance, that he came not up last night with his wains--bad land this to journey
in, my master; and the fool will travel by night too, although, (besides all maladies from
your tussis to your pestis, which walk abroad in the night-air,) he may well fall in with half
a dozen swash-bucklers, who will ease him at once of his baggage and his earthly complaints.
I must send forth to inquire after him, since he hath stuff of the honourable household on
hand--and, by our Lady, he hath stuff of mine too--certain drugs sent me from the city for
composition of my alexipharmics--this gear must be looked to.--Hodge," said he, addressing
one of his redoubted body-guard, "do thou and Toby Telford take the mickle brown aver and the
black cut-tailed mare, and make out towards the Kerry-craigs, and see what tidings you can
have of Auchtermuchty and his wains--I trust it is only the medicine of the pottle-pot, (being
the only medicamentum which the beast useth,) which hath caused him to tarry on the road. Take
the ribbons from your halberds, ye knaves, and get on your jacks, plate-sleeves, and knapskulls,
that your presence may work some terror if you meet with opposers." He then added, turning
to Roland Graeme, "I warrant me, we shall have news of the wains in brief season. Meantime
it will please you to look upon the sports; but first to enter my poor lodging and take your
morning's cup. For what saith the school of Salerno?

  Poculum, mane haustum,
  Restaurat naturam exhaustam."

"Your learning is too profound for me," replied the page; "and so would your draught be likewise,
I fear."

"Not a whit, fair sir--a cordial cup of sack, impregnated with wormwood, is the best anti-pestilential
draught; and, to speak truth, the pestilential miasmata are now very rife in the atmosphere.
We live in a happy time, young man," continued he, in a tone of grave irony, "and have many
blessings unknown to our fathers--Here are two sovereigns in the land, a regnant and a claimant--that
is enough of one good thing--but if any one wants more, he may find a king in every peel-house
in the country; so if we lack government, it is not for want of governors. Then have we a civil
war to phlebotomize us every year, and to prevent our population from starving for want of
food--and for the same purpose we have the Plague proposing us a visit, the best of all recipes
for thinning a land, and converting younger brothers into elder ones. Well, each man in his
vocation. You young fellows of the sword desire to wrestle, fence, or so forth, with some expert
adversary; and for my part, I love to match myself for life or death against that same Plague."

As they proceeded up the street of the little village towards the Doctor's lodgings, his attention
was successively occupied by the various personages whom he met, and pointed out to the notice
of his companion.

"Do you see that fellow with the red bonnet, the blue jerkin, and the great rough baton in
his hand?--I believe that clown hath the strength of a tower--he has lived fifty years in the
world, and never encouraged the liberal sciences by buying one penny-worth of medicaments.--But
see you that man with the facies hippocratica?" said he, pointing out a thin peasant, with
swelled legs, and a most cadaverous countenance; "that I call one of the worthiest men in the
barony--he breakfasts, luncheons, dines, and sups by my advice, and not without my medicine;
and, for his own single part, will go farther to clear out a moderate stock of pharmaceutics,
than half the country besides.--How do you, my honest friend?" said he to the party in question,
with a tone of condolence.

"Very weakly, sir, since I took the electuary," answered the patient; "it neighboured ill with
the two spoonfuls of pease-porridge and the kirnmilk."

"Pease-porridge and kirnmilk! Have you been under medicine these ten years, and keep your diet
so ill?--the next morning take the electuary by itself, and touch nothing for six hours."--The
poor object bowed, and limped off.

The next whom the Doctor deigned to take notice of, was a lame fellow, by whom the honour was
altogether undeserved, for at sight of the mediciner, he began to shuffle away in the crowd
as fast as his infirmities would permit.

"There is an ungrateful hound for you," said Doctor Lundin; "I cured him of the gout in his
feet, and now he talks of the chargeableness of medicine, and makes the first use of his restored
legs to fly from his physician. His podagra hath become a chiragra, as honest Martial hath
it--the gout has got into his fingers, and he cannot draw his purse. Old saying and true,

  Praemia cum poscit medicus, Sathan est.

We are angels when we come to cure--devils when we ask payment--but I will administer a purgation
to his purse I warrant him. There is his brother too, a sordid chuff.--So ho, there! Saunders
Darlet! you have been ill, I hear?"

"Just got the turn, as I was thinking to send to your honour, and I am brawly now again--it
was nae great thing that ailed me."

"Hark you, sirrah," said the Doctor, "I trust you remember you are owing to the laird four
stones of barleymeal, and a bow of oats; and I would have you send no more such kain-fowls
as you sent last season, that looked as wretchedly as patients just dismissed from a plague-hospital;
and there is hard money owing besides."

"I was thinking, sir," said the man, more Scotico, that is, returning no direct answer on the
subject on which he was addressed, "my best way would be to come down to your honour, and take
your advice yet, in case my trouble should come back."

"Do so, then, knave," replied Lundin, "and remember what Ecclesiasticus saith--'Give place
to the physician-let him not go from thee, for thou hast need of him.'"

His exhortation was interrupted by an apparition, which seemed to strike the doctor with as
much horror and surprise, as his own visage inflicted upon sundry of those persons whom he
had addressed.

The figure which produced this effect on the Esculapius of the village, was that of a tall
old woman, who wore a high-crowned hat and muffler. The first of these habiliments added apparently
to her stature, and the other served to conceal the lower part of her face, and as the hat
itself was slouched, little could be seen besides two brown cheek-bones, and the eyes of swarthy
fire, that gleamed from under two shaggy gray eyebrows. She was dressed in a long dark-coloured
robe of unusual fashion, bordered at the skirts, and on the stomacher, with a sort of white
trimming resembling the Jewish phylacteries, on which were wrought the characters of some unknown
language. She held in her hand a walking staff of black ebony.

"By the soul of Celsus," said Doctor Luke Lundin, "it is old Mother Nicneven herself--she hath
come to beard me within mine own bounds, and in the very execution of mine office! Have at
thy coat, Old Woman, as the song says--Hob Anster, let her presently be seized and committed
to the tolbooth; and if there are any zealous brethren here who would give the hag her deserts,
and duck her, as a witch, in the loch, I pray let them in no way be hindered."

But the myrmidons of Dr. Lundin showed in this case no alacrity to do his bidding. Hob Anster
even ventured to remonstrate in the name of himself and his brethren. "To be sure he was to
do his honour's bidding; and for a' that folks said about the skill and witcheries of Mother
Nicneven, he would put his trust in God, and his hand on her collar, without dreadour. But
she was no common spaewife, this Mother Nicneven, like Jean Jopp that lived in the Bricrie-baulk.
She had lords and lairds that would ruffle for her. There was Moncrieff of Tippermalloch, that
was Popish, and the laird of Carslogie, a kend Queen's man, were in the fair, with wha kend
how mony swords and bucklers at their back; and they would be sure to make a break-out if the
officers meddled with the auld Popish witch-wife, who was sae weel friended; mair especially
as the laird's best men, such as were not in the castle, were in Edinburgh with him, and he
doubted his honour the Doctor would find ower few to make a good backing, if blades were bare."

The doctor listened unwillingly to this prudential counsel, and was only comforted by the faithful
promise of his satellite, that "the old woman should," as he expressed it, "be ta'en canny
the next time she trespassed on the bounds."

"And in that event," said the Doctor to his companion, "fire and fagot shall be the best of
her welcome."

This he spoke in hearing of the dame herself, who even then, and in passing the Doctor, shot
towards him from under her gray eyebrows a look of the most insulting and contemptuous superiority.

"This way," continued the physician, "this way," marshalling his guest into his lodging,--"take
care you stumble not over a retort, for it is hazardous for the ignorant to walk in the ways
of art."

The page found all reason for the caution; for besides stuffed birds, and lizards, and snakes
bottled up, and bundles of simples made up, and other parcels spread out to dry, and all the
confusion, not to mention the mingled and sickening smells, incidental to a druggist's stock
in trade, he had also to avoid heaps of charcoal crucibles, bolt-heads, stoves, and the other
furniture of a chemical laboratory.

Amongst his other philosophical qualities, Doctor Lundin failed not to be a confused sloven,
and his old dame housekeeper, whose life, as she said, was spent in "redding him up," had trotted
off to the mart of gaiety with other and younger folks. Much chattering and jangling therefore
there was among jars, and bottles, and vials, ere the Doctor produced the salutiferous potion
which he recommended so strongly, and a search equally long and noisy followed, among broken
cans and cracked pipkins, ere he could bring forth a cup out of which to drink it. Both matters
being at length achieved, the Doctor set the example to his guest, by quaffing off a cup of
the cordial, and smacking his lips with approbation as it descended his gullet.--Roland, in
turn, submitted to swallow the potion which his host so earnestly recommended, but which he
found so insufferably bitter, that he became eager to escape from the laboratory in search
of a draught of fair water to expel the taste. In spite of his efforts, he was nevertheless
detained by the garrulity of his host, till he gave him some account of Mother Nicneven.

"I care not to speak of her," said the Doctor, "in the open air, and among the throng of people;
not for fright, like yon cowardly dog Anster, but because I would give no occasion for a fray,
having no leisure to look to stabs, slashes, and broken bones. Men call the old hag a prophetess--I
do scarce believe she could foretell when a brood of chickens will chip the shell--Men say
she reads the heavens--my black bitch knows as much of them when she sits baying the moon--Men
pretend the ancient wretch is a sorceress, a witch, and, what not--Inter nos, I will never
contradict a rumour which may bring her to the stake which she so justly deserves; but neither
will I believe that the tales of witches which they din into our ears are aught but knavery,
cozenage, and old women's fables."

"In the name of Heaven, what is she then," said the page, "that you make such a stir about her?"

"She is one of those cursed old women," replied the Doctor, "who take currently and impudently
upon themselves to act as advisers and curers of the sick, on the strength of some trash of
herbs, some rhyme of spells, some julap or diet, drink or cordial."

"Nay, go no farther," said the page; "if they brew cordials, evil be their lot and all their
partakers!"

"You say well, young man," said Dr. Lundin; "for mine own part, I know no such pests to the
commonwealth as these old incarnate devils, who haunt the chambers of the brain-sick patients,
that are mad enough to suffer them to interfere with, disturb, and let, the regular process
of a learned and artificial cure, with their sirups, and their julaps, and diascordium, and
mithridate, and my Lady What-shall-call'um's powder, and worthy Dame Trashem's pill; and thus
make widows and orphans, and cheat the regular and well-studied physician, in order to get
the name of wise women and skeely neighbours, and so forth. But no more on't--Mother Nicneven
[Footnote: This was the name given to the grand Mother Witch, the very Hecate of Scottish popular
superstition. Her name was bestowed, in one or two instances, upon sorceresses, who were held
to resemble her by their superior skill in "Hell's black grammar."] and I will meet one day,
and she shall know there is danger in dealing with the Doctor."

"It is a true word, and many have found it," said the page; "but under your favour, I would
fain walk abroad for a little, and see these sports."

"It is well moved," said the Doctor, "and I too should be showing myself abroad. Moreover the
play waits us, young man-to-day, totus mundus agit histrionem."--And they sallied forth accordingly
into the mirthful scene.

Chapter the Twenty-Seventh.

  See on yon verdant lawn, the gathering crowd
  Thickens amain; the buxom nymphs advance,
  Usher'd by jolly clowns; distinctions cease,
  Lost in the common joy, and the bold slave
  Leans on his wealthy master unreproved.
              Rural Games.--SOMERVILLLE.

The re-appearance of the dignified Chamberlain on the street of the village was eagerly hailed
by the revellers, as a pledge that the play, or dramatic representation, which had been postponed
owing to his absence, was now full surely to commence. Any thing like an approach to this most
interesting of all amusements, was of recent origin in Scotland, and engaged public attention
in proportion. All other sports were discontinued. The dance around the Maypole was arrested--the
ring broken up and dispersed, while the dancers, each leading his partner by the hand, tripped,
off to the silvan theatre. A truce was in like manner achieved betwixt a huge brown bear and
certain mastiffs, who were tugging and pulling at his shaggy coat, under the mediation of the
bear-ward and half a dozen butchers and yeomen, who, by dint of staving and tailing, as it
was technically termed, separated the unfortunate animals, whose fury had for an hour past
been their chief amusement. The itinerant minstrel found himself deserted by the audience he
had collected, even in the most interesting passage of the romance which he recited, and just
as he was sending about his boy, with bonnet in hand, to collect their oblations. He indignantly
stopped short in the midst of Rosewal and Lilian, and, replacing his three-stringed fiddle,
or rebeck, in its leathern case, followed the crowd, with no good-will, to the exhibition which
had superseded his own. The juggler had ceased his exertions of emitting flame and smoke, and
was content to respire in the manner of ordinary mortals, rather than to play gratuitously
the part of a fiery dragon. In short, all other sports were suspended, so eagerly did the revellers
throng towards the place of representation.

They would err greatly, who should regulate their ideas of this dramatic exhibition upon those
derived from a modern theatre; for the rude shows of Thespis were far less different from those
exhibited by Euripides on the stage of Athens, with all its magnificent decorations and pomp
of dresses and of scenery. In the present case, there were no scenes, no stage, no machinery,
no pit, box, and gallery, no box-lobby; and, what might in poor Scotland be some consolation
for other negations, there was no taking of money at the door. As in the devices of the magnanimous
Bottom, the actors had a greensward plot for a stage, and a hawthorn bush for a greenroom and
tiring-house; the spectators being accommodated with seats on the artificial bank which had
been raised around three-fourths of the playground, the remainder being left open for the entrance
and exit of the performers. Here sate the uncritical audience, the Chamberlain in the centre,
as the person highest in office, all alive to enjoyment and admiration, and all therefore dead
to criticism.

The characters which appeared and disappeared before the amused and interested audience, were
those which fill the earlier stage in all nations--old men, cheated by their wives and daughters,
pillaged by their sons, and imposed on by their domestics, a braggadocia captain, a knavish
pardoner or quaestionary, a country bumpkin and a wanton city dame. Amid all these, and more
acceptable than almost the whole put together, was the all-licensed fool, the Gracioso of the
Spanish drama, who, with his cap fashioned into the resemblance of a coxcomb, and his bauble,
a truncheon terminated by a carved figure wearing a fool's cap, in his hand, went, came, and
returned, mingling in every scene of the piece, and interrupting the business, without having
any share himself in the action, and ever and anon transferring his gibes from the actors on
the stage to the audience who sate around, prompt to applaud the whole.

The wit of the piece, which was not of the most polished kind, was chiefly directed against
the superstitious practices of the Catholic religion; and the stage artillery had on this occasion
been levelled by no less a person than Doctor Lundin, who had not only commanded the manager
of the entertainment to select one of the numerous satires which had been written against the
Papists, (several of which were cast in a dramatic form,) but had even, like the Prince of
Denmark, caused them to insert, or according to his own phrase, to infuse here and there, a
few pleasantries of his own penning, on the same inexhaustible subject, hoping thereby to mollify
the rigour of the Lady of Lochleven towards pastimes of this description. He failed not to
jog Roland's elbow, who was sitting in state behind him, and recommend to his particular attention
those favourite passages. As for the page, to whom, the very idea of such an exhibition, simple
as it was, was entirely new, he beheld it with the undiminished and ecstatic delight with which
men of all ranks look for the first time on dramatic representation, and laughed, shouted,
and clapped his hands as the performance proceeded. An incident at length took place, which
effectually broke off his interest in the business of the scene.

One of the principal personages in the comic part of the drama was, as we have already said,
a quaestionary or pardoner, one of those itinerants who hawked about from place to place relics,
real or pretended, with which he excited the devotion at once, and the charity of the populace,
and generally deceived both the one and the other. The hypocrisy, impudence, and profligacy
of these clerical wanderers, had made them the subject of satire from the time of Chaucer down
to that of Heywood. Their present representative failed not to follow the same line of humour,
exhibiting pig's bones for relics, and boasting the virtues of small tin crosses, which had
been shaken in the holy porringer at Loretto, and of cockleshells, which had been brought from
the shrine of Saint James of Compostella, all which he disposed of to the devout Catholics
at nearly as high a price as antiquaries are now willing to pay for baubles of similar intrinsic
value. At length the pardoner pulled from his scrip a small phial of clear water, of which
he vaunted the quality in the following verses:--

  Listneth, gode people, everiche one
  For in the londe of Babylone,
  Far eastward I wot it lyeth,
  And is the first londe the sonne espieth,
  Ther, as he cometh fro out the sé;
  In this ilk londe, as thinketh me,
  Right as holie legendes tell.
  Snottreth from a roke a well,
  And falleth into ane bath of ston,
  Where chaste Susanne, in times long gon,

  Wax wont to wash her bodie and lim
  Mickle vertue hath that streme,
  As ye shall se er that ye pas,
  Ensample by this little glas--
  Through nightés cold and dayés hote
  Hiderward I have it brought;
  Hath a wife made slip or side,
  Or a maiden stepp'd aside,
  Putteth this water under her nese,
  Wold she nold she, she shall snese.

The jest, as the reader skilful in the antique language of the drama must at once perceive,
turned on the same pivot as in the old minstrel tales of the Drinking Horn of King Arthur,
and the Mantle made Amiss. But the audience were neither learned nor critical enough to challenge
its want of originality. The potent relic was, after such grimace and buffoonery as befitted
the subject, presented successively to each of the female personages of the drama, not one
of whom sustained the supposed test of discretion; but, to the infinite delight of the audience,
sneezed much louder and longer than perhaps they themselves had counted on. The jest seemed
at last worn threadbare, and the pardoner was passing on to some new pleasantry, when the jester
or clown of the drama, possessing himself secretly of the phial which contained the wondrous
liquor, applied it suddenly to the nose of a young woman, who, with her black silk muffler,
or screen drawn over her face, was sitting in the foremost rank of the spectators, intent apparently
upon the business of the stage. The contents of the phial, well calculated to sustain the credit
of the pardoner's legend, set the damsel a-sneezing violently, an admission of frailty which
was received with shouts of rapture by the audience. These were soon, however, renewed at the
expense of the jester himself, when the insulted maiden extricated, ere the paroxysm was well
over, one hand from the folds of her mantle, and bestowed on the wag a buffet, which made him
reel fully his own length from the pardoner, and then acknowledge the favour by instant prostration.

No one pities a jester overcome in his vocation, and the clown met with little sympathy, when,
rising from the ground, and whimpering forth his complaints of harsh treatment, he invoked
the assistance and sympathy of the audience. But the Chamberlain, feeling his own dignity insulted,
ordered two of his halberdiers to bring the culprit before him. When these official persons
first approached the virago, she threw herself into an attitude of firm defiance, as if determined
to resist their authority; and from the sample of strength and spirit which she had already
displayed, they showed no alacrity at executing their commission. But on half a minute's reflection,
the damsel changed totally her attitude and manner, folded her cloak around her arms in modest
and maiden-like fashion, and walked of her own accord to the presence of the great man, followed
and guarded by the two manful satellites. As she moved across the vacant space, and more especially
as she stood at the footstool of the Doctor's judgment-seat, the maiden discovered that lightness
and elasticity of step, and natural grace of manner, which connoisseurs in female beauty know
to be seldom divided from it. Moreover, her neat russet-coloured jacket, and short petticoat
of the same colour, displayed a handsome form and a pretty leg. Her features were concealed
by the screen; but the Doctor, whose gravity did not prevent his pretensions to be a connoisseur
of the school we have hinted at, saw enough to judge favourably of the piece by the sample.

He began, however, with considerable austerity of manner.--"And how now, saucy quean!" said
the medical man of office; "what have you to say why I should not order you to be ducked in
the loch, for lifting your hand to the man in my presence?"

"Marry," replied the culprit, "because I judge that your honour will not think the cold bath
necessary for my complaints."

"A pestilent jade," said the Doctor, whispering to Roland Graeme; "and I'll warrant her a good
one--her voice is as sweet as sirup.--But, my pretty maiden," said he, "you show us wonderful
little of that countenance of yours--be pleased to throw aside your muffler."

"I trust your honour will excuse me till we are more private," answered the maiden; "for I
have acquaintance, and I should like ill to be known in the country as the poor girl whom that
scurvy knave put his jest upon."

"Fear nothing for thy good name, my sweet little modicum of candied manna," replied the Doctor,
"for I protest to you, as I am Chamberlain of Lochleven, Kinross, and so forth, that the chaste
Susanna herself could not have snuffed that elixir without sternutation, being in truth a curious
distillation of rectified acetum, or vinegar of the sun, prepared by mine own hands--Wherefore,
as thou sayest thou wilt come to me in private, and express thy contrition for the offence
whereof thou hast been guilty, I command that all for the present go forward as if no such
interruption of the prescribed course had taken place."

The damsel curtsied and tripped back to her place. The play proceeded, but it no longer attracted
the attention of Roland Graeme.

The voice, the figure, and what the veil permitted to be seen of the neck and tresses of the
village damsel, bore so strong a resemblance to those of Catherine Seyton, that he felt like
one bewildered in the mazes of a changeful and stupifying dream. The memorable scene of the
hostelrie rushed on his recollection, with all its doubtful and marvellous circumstances. Were
the tales of enchantment which he had read in romances realized in this extraordinary girl?
Could she transport herself from the walled and guarded Castle of Lochleven, moated with its
broad lake, (towards which he cast back a look as if to ascertain it was still in existence,)
and watched with such scrupulous care as the safety of a nation demanded?--Could she surmount
all these obstacles, and make such careless and dangerous use of her liberty, as to engage
herself publicly in a quarrel in a village fair?  Roland was unable to determine whether the
exertions which it must have cost her to gain her freedom or the use to which she had put it,
rendered her the most unaccountable creature.

Lost in these meditations, he kept his gaze fixed on the subject of them; and in every casual
motion, discovered, or thought he discovered, something which reminded him still more strongly
of Catherine Seyton. It occurred to him more than once, indeed, that he might be deceiving
himself by exaggerating some casual likeness into absolute identity. But then the meeting at
the hostelrie of Saint Michael's returned to his mind, and it seemed in the highest degree
improbable, that, under such various circumstances, mere imagination should twice have found
opportunity to play him the selfsame trick. This time, however, he determined to have his doubts
resolved, and for this purpose he sate during the rest of the play like a greyhound in the
slip, ready to spring upon the hare the instant that she was started. The damsel, whom he watched
attentively lest she should escape in the crowd when the spectacle was closed, sate as if perfectly
unconscious that she was observed. But the worthy Doctor marked the direction of his eyes,
and magnanimously suppressed his own inclination to become the Theseus to this Hippolyta, in
deference to the rights of hospitality, which enjoined him to forbear interference with the
pleasurable pursuits of his young friend. He passed one or two formal gibes upon the fixed
attention which the page paid to the unknown, and upon his own jealousy; adding, however, that
if both were to be presented to the patient at once, he had little doubt she would think the
younger man the sounder prescription. "I fear me," he added, "we shall have no news of the
knave Auchtermuchty for some time, since the vermin whom I sent after him seem to have proved
corbie-messengers. So you have an hour or two on your hands, Master Page; and as the minstrels
are beginning to strike up, now the play is ended, why, an you incline for a dance, yonder
is the green, and there sits your partner--I trust you will hold me perfect in my diagnostics,
since I see with half an eye what disease you are sick of, and have administered a pleasing remedy.

  "Discernit sapiens res (as Chambers hath it) quas
    confundit asellus."

The page hardly heard the end of the learned adage, or the charge which the Chamberlain gave
him to be within reach, in case of the wains arriving suddenly, and sooner than expected--so
eager he was at once to shake himself free of his learned associate, and to satisfy his curiosity
regarding the unknown damsel. Yet in the haste with which he made towards her he found time
to reflect, that, in order to secure an opportunity of conversing with her in private, he must
not alarm her at first accosting her. He therefore composed his manner and gait, and advancing
with becoming self-confidence before three or four country-fellows who were intent on the same
design, but knew not so well how to put their request into shape, he acquainted her that he,
as the deputy of the venerable Chamberlain, requested the honour of her hand as a partner.

"The venerable Chamberlain," said the damsel frankly, reaching the page her hand, "does very
well to exercise this part of his privilege by deputy; and I suppose the laws of the revels
leave me no choice but to accept of his faithful delegate."

"Provided, fair damsel," said the page, "his choice of a delegate is not altogether distasteful
to you."

"Of that, fair sir," replied the maiden, "I will tell you more when we have danced the first
measure."

Catherine Seyton had admirable skill in gestic lore, and was sometimes called on to dance for
the amusement of her royal mistress. Roland Graeme had often been a spectator of her skill,
and sometimes, at the Queen's command, Catherine's partner on such occasions. He was, therefore,
perfectly acquainted with Catherine's mode of dancing; and observed that his present partner,
in grace, in agility, in quickness of ear, and precision of execution, exactly resembled her,
save that the Scottish jig, which he now danced with her, required a more violent and rapid
motion, and more rustic agility, than the stately pavens, lavoltas, and courantoes, which he
had seen her execute in the chamber of Queen Mary. The active duties of the dance left him
little time for reflection, and none for conversation; but when their pas de deux was finished,
amidst the acclamations of the villagers, who had seldom witnessed such an exhibition, he took
an opportunity, when they yielded up the green to another couple, to use the privilege of a
partner and enter into conversation with the mysterious maiden, whom he still held by the hand.

"Fair partner, may I not crave the name of her who has graced me thus far?"

"You may," said the maiden; "but it is a question whether I shall answer you."

"And why?" asked Roland.

"Because nobody gives anything for nothing--and you can tell me nothing in return which I care
to hear."

"Could I not tell you my name and lineage, in exchange for yours?" returned Roland.

"No!" answered the maiden, "for you know little of either."

"How?" said the page, somewhat angrily.

"Wrath you not for the matter," said the damsel; "I will show you in an instant that I know
more of you than you do of yourself."

"Indeed," answered Graeme; "for whom then do you take me?"

"For the wild falcon," answered she, "whom a dog brought in his mouth to a certain castle,
when he was but an unfledged eyas--for the hawk whom men dare not fly, lest he should check
at game, and pounce on carrion--whom folk must keep hooded till he has the proper light of
his eyes, and can discover good from evil."

"Well--be it so," replied Roland Graeme; "I guess at a part of your parable, fair mistress
mine--and perhaps I know as much of you as you do of me, and can well dispense with the information
which you are so niggard in giving."

"Prove that," said the maiden, "and I will give you credit for more penetration than I judged
you to be gifted withal."

"It shall be proved instantly," said Roland Graeme. "The first letter of your name is S, and
the last N."

"Admirable," said his partner, "guess on."

"It pleases you to-day," continued Roland, "to wear the snood and kirtle, and perhaps you may
be seen to-morrow in hat and feather, hose and doublet."

"In the clout! in the clout! you have hit the very white," said the damsel, suppressing a great
inclination to laugh.

"You can switch men's eyes out of their heads, as well as the heart out of their bosoms."

These last words were uttered in a low and tender tone, which, to Roland's great mortification,
and somewhat to his displeasure, was so far from allaying, that it greatly increased, his partner's
disposition to laughter. She could scarce compose herself while she replied, "If you had thought
my hand so formidable," extricating it from his hold, "you would not have grasped it so hard;
but I perceive you know me so fully, that there is no occasion to show you my face."

"Fair Catherine," said the page, "he were unworthy ever to have seen you, far less to have
dwelt so long in the same service, and under the same roof with you, who could mistake your
air, your gesture, your step in walking or in dancing, the turn of your neck, the symmetry
of your form--none could be so dull as not to recognize you by so many proofs; but for me,
I could swear even to that tress of hair that escapes from under your muffler."

"And to the face, of course, which that muffler covers," said the maiden, removing her veil,
and in an instant endeavouring to replace it. She showed the features of Catherine; but an
unusual degree of petulant impatience inflamed them, when, from some awkwardness in her management
of the muffler, she was unable again to adjust it with that dexterity which was a principal
accomplishment of the coquettes of the time.

"The fiend rive the rag to tatters!" said the damsel, as the veil fluttered about her shoulders,
with an accent so earnest and decided, that it made the page start. He looked again at the
damsel's face, but the information which his eyes received, was to the same purport as before.
He assisted her to adjust her muffler, and both were for an instant silent. The damsel spoke
first, for Roland Graeme was overwhelmed with surprise at the contrarieties which Catherine
Seyton seemed to include in her person and character.

"You are surprised," said the damsel to him, "at what you see and hear --But the times which
make females men, are least of all fitted for men to become women; yet you yourself are in
danger of such a change."

"I in danger of becoming effeminate!" said the page.

"Yes, you, for all the boldness of your reply," said the damsel. "When you should hold fast
your religion, because it is assailed on all sides by rebels, traitors, and heretics, you let
it glide out of your breast like water grasped in the hand. If you are driven from the faith
of your fathers from fear of a traitor, is not that womanish?--If you are cajoled by the cunning
arguments of a trumpeter of heresy, or the praises of a puritanic old woman, is not that womanish?--If
you are bribed by the hope of spoil and preferment, is not that womanish?--And when you wonder
at my venting a threat or an execration, should you not wonder at yourself, who, pretending
to a gentle name and aspiring to knighthood, can be at the same time cowardly, silly, and self-interested!"

"I would that a man would bring such a charge," said the page; "he should see, ere his life
was a minute older, whether he had cause to term me coward or no."

"Beware of such big words," answered the maiden; "you said but anon that I sometimes wear hose
and doublet."

"But remain still Catharine Seyton, wear what you list," said the page, endeavouring again
to possess himself of her hand.

"You indeed are pleased to call me so," replied the maiden, evading his intention, "but I have
many other names besides."

"And will you not reply to that," said the page, "by which you are distinguished beyond every
other maiden in Scotland?"

The damsel, unallured by his praises, still kept aloof, and sung with gaiety a verse from an
old ballad,

  "Oh, some do call me Jack, sweet love,
    And some do call me Gill;
  But when I ride to Holyrood,
    My name is Wilful Will."

"Wilful Will" exclaimed the page, impatiently; "say rather Will o' the Wisp--Jack with the
Lantern--for never was such a deceitful or wandering meteor!"

"If I be such," replied the maiden, "I ask no fools to follow me--If they do so, it is at their
own pleasure, and must be on their own proper peril."

"Nay, but, dearest Catherine," said Roland Graeme, "be for one instant serious."

"If you will call me your dearest Catherine, when I have given you so many names to choose
upon," replied the damsel, "I would ask you how, supposing me for two or three hours of my
life escaped from yonder tower, you have the cruelty to ask me to be serious during the only
merry moments I have seen perhaps for months?"

"Ay, but, fair Catherine, there are moments of deep and true feeling, which are worth ten thousand
years of the liveliest mirth; and such was that of yesterday, when you so nearly--"

"So nearly what?" demanded the damsel, hastily.

"When you approached your lips so near to the sign you had traced on my forehead."

"Mother of Heaven!" exclaimed she, in a yet fiercer tone, and with a more masculine manner
than she had yet exhibited,-"Catherine Seyton approach her lips to a man's brow, and thou that
man!--vassal, thou liest!"

The page stood astonished; but, conceiving he had alarmed the damsel's delicacy by alluding
to the enthusiasm of a moment, and the manner in which she had expressed it, he endeavoured
to falter forth an apology. His excuses, though he was unable to give them any regular shape,
were accepted by his companion, who had indeed suppressed her indignation after its first explosion--"Speak
no more on't," she said. "And now let us part; our conversation may attract more notice than
is convenient for either of us."

"Nay, but allow me at least to follow you to some sequestered place."

"You dare not," replied the maiden.

"How," said the youth, "dare not? where is it you dare go, where I dare not follow?"

"You fear a Will o' the Wisp," said the damsel; "how would you face a fiery dragon, with an
enchantress mounted on its back?"

"Like Sir Eger, Sir Grime, or Sir Greysteil," said the page; "but be there such toys to be
seen here?"

"I go to Mother Nicneven's," answered the maid; "and she is witch enough to rein the horned
devil, with a red silk thread for a bridle, and a rowan-tree switch for a whip."

"I will follow you," said the page.

"Let it be at some distance," said the maiden.

And wrapping her mantle round her with more success than on her former attempt, she mingled
with the throng, and walked towards the village, heedfully followed by Roland Graeme at some
distance, and under every precaution which he could use to prevent his purpose from being observed.

Chapter the Twenty-Eighth.

  Yes, it is he whose eyes look'd on thy childhood,
  And watch'd with trembling hope thy dawn of youth,
  That now, with these same eyeballs dimm'd with age,
  And dimmer yet with tears, sees thy dishonour.
                                OLD PLAY.

At the entrance of the principal, or indeed, so to speak, the only street in Kinross, the damsel,
whose steps were pursued by Roland Graeme, cast a glance behind her, as if to be certain he
had not lost trace of her and then plunged down a very narrow lane which ran betwixt two rows
of poor and ruinous cottages. She paused for a second at the door of one of those miserable
tenements, again cast her eye up the lane towards Roland, then lifted the latch, opened the
door, and disappeared from his view.

With whatever haste the page followed her example, the difficulty which he found in discovering
the trick of the latch, which did not work quite in the usual manner, and in pushing open the
door, which did not yield to his first effort, delayed for a minute or two his entrance into
the cottage. A dark and smoky passage led, as usual, betwixt the exterior wall of the house,
and the hallan, or clay wall, which served as a partition betwixt it and the interior. At the
end of this passage, and through the partition, was a door leading into the ben, or inner chamber
of the cottage, and when Roland Graeme's hand was upon the latch of this door, a female voice
pronounced, "Benedictus qui veniat in nomine Domini, damnandus qui in nomine inimici." On entering
the apartment, he perceived the figure which the chamberlain had pointed out to him as Mother
Nicneven, seated beside the lowly hearth. But there was no other person in the room. Roland
Graeme gazed around in surprise at the disappearance of Catherine Seyton, without paying much
regard to the supposed sorceress, until she attracted and riveted his regard by the tone in
which she asked him--"What seekest thou here?"

"I seek," said the page, with much embarrassment; "I seek--"

But his answer was cut short, when the old woman, drawing her huge gray eyebrows sternly together,
with a frown which knitted her brow into a thousand wrinkles, arose, and erecting herself up
to her full natural size, tore the kerchief from her head, and seizing Roland by the arm, made
two strides across the floor of the apartment to a small window through which the light fell
full on her face, and showed the astonished youth the countenance of Magdalen Graeme.--"Yes,
Roland," she said, "thine eyes deceive thee not; they show thee truly the features of her whom
thou hast thyself deceived, whose wine thou hast turned into gall, her bread of joyfulness
into bitter poison, her hope into the blackest despair--it is she who now demands of thee,
what seekest thou here?--She whose heaviest sin towards Heaven hath been, that she loved thee
even better than the weal of the whole church, and could not without reluctance surrender thee
even in the cause of God--she now asks you, what seekest thou here?"

While she spoke, she kept her broad black eye riveted on the youth's face, with the expression
with which the eagle regards his prey ere he tears it to pieces. Roland felt himself at the
moment incapable either of reply or evasion. This extraordinary enthusiast had preserved over
him in some measure the ascendency which she had acquired during his childhood; and, besides,
he knew the violence of her passions and her impatience of contradiction, and was sensible
that almost any reply which he could make, was likely to throw her into an ecstasy of rage.
He was therefore silent; and Magdalen Graeme proceeded with increasing enthusiasm in her apostrophe--"Once
more, what seek'st thou, false boy?--seek'st thou the honour thou hast renounced, the faith
thou hast abandoned, the hopes thou hast destroyed?--Or didst thou seek me, the sole protectress
of thy youth, the only parent whom thou hast known, that thou mayest trample on my gray hairs,
even as thou hast already trampled on the best wishes of my heart?"

"Pardon me, mother," said Roland Graeme; "but, in truth and reason, I deserve not your blame.
I have been treated amongst you--even by yourself, my revered parent, as well as by others--as
one who lacked the common attributes of free-will and human reason, or was at least deemed
unfit to exercise them. A land of enchantment have I been led into, and spells have been cast
around me--every one has met me in disguise--every one has spoken to me in parables--I have
been like one who walks in a weary and bewildering dream; and now you blame me that I have
not the sense, and judgment, and steadiness of a waking, and a disenchanted, and a reasonable
man, who knows what he is doing, and wherefore he does it. If one must walk with masks and
spectres, who waft themselves from place to place as it were in vision rather than reality,
it might shake the soundest faith and turn the wisest head. I sought, since I must needs avow
my folly, the same Catherine Seyton with whom you made me first acquainted, and whom I most
strangely find in this village of Kinross, gayest among the revellers, when I had but just
left her in the well-guarded castle of Lochleven, the sad attendant of an imprisoned Queen-I
sought her, and in her place I find you, my mother, more strangely disguised than even she is."

"And what hadst thou to do with Catherine Seyton?" said the matron, sternly; "is this a time
or a world to follow maidens, or to dance around a Maypole? When the trumpet summons every
true-hearted Scotsman around the standard of the true sovereign, shalt thou be found loitering
in a lady's bower?"

"No, by Heaven, nor imprisoned in the rugged walls of an island castle!" answered Roland Graeme:
"I would the blast were to sound even now, for I fear that nothing less loud will dispel the
chimerical visions by which I am surrounded."

"Doubt not that it will be winded," said the matron, "and that so fearfully loud, that Scotland
will never hear the like until the last and loudest blast of all shall announce to mountain
and to valley that time is no more. Meanwhile, be thou but brave and constant--Serve God and
honour thy sovereign--Abide by thy religion--I cannot--I will not--I dare not ask thee the
truth of the terrible surmises I have heard touching thy falling away--perfect not that accursed
sacrifice--and yet, even at this late hour, thou mayest be what I have hoped for the son of
my dearest hope--what say I? the son of my hope--thou shalt be the hope of Scotland, her boast
and her honour!--Even thy wildest and most foolish wishes may perchance be fulfilled--I might
blush to mingle meaner motives with the noble guerdon I hold out to thee--It shames me, being
such as I am, to mention the idle passions of youth, save with contempt and the purpose of
censure. But we must bribe children to wholesome medicine by the offer of cates, and youth
to honourable achievement with the promise of pleasure. Mark me, therefore, Roland. The love
of Catherine Seyton will follow him only who shall achieve the freedom of her mistress; and
believe, it may be one day in thine own power to be that happy lover. Cast, therefore, away
doubt and fear, and prepare to do what religion calls for, what thy country demands of thee,
what thy duty as a subject and as a servant alike require at your hand; and be assured, even
the idlest or wildest wishes of thy heart will be most readily attained by following the call
of thy duty."

As she ceased speaking, a double knock was heard against the inner door. The matron hastily
adjusting her muffler, and resuming her chair by the hearth, demanded who was there.

"Salve in nomine sancto," was answered from without.

"Salvete et vos," answered Magdalen Graeme.

And a man entered in the ordinary dress of a nobleman's retainer, wearing at his girdle a sword
and buckler--"I sought you," said he, "my mother, and him whom I see with you." Then addressing
himself to Roland Graeme, he said to him, "Hast thou not a packet from George Douglas?"

"I have," said the page, suddenly recollecting that which had been committed to his charge
in the morning, "but I may not deliver it to any one without some token that they have a right
to ask it."

"You say well," replied the serving-man, and whispered into his ear, "The packet which I ask
is the report to his father--will this token suffice?"

"It will," replied the page, and taking the packet from his bosom, gave it to the man.

"I will return presently," said the serving-man, and left the cottage.

Roland had now sufficiently recovered his surprise to accost his relative in turn, and request
to know the reason why he found her in so precarious a disguise, and a place so dangerous--"You
cannot be ignorant," he said, "of the hatred that the Lady of Lochleven bears to those of your--that
is of our religion--your present disguise lays you open to suspicion of a different kind, but
inferring no less hazard; and whether as a Catholic, or as a sorceress, or as a friend to the
unfortunate Queen, you are in equal danger, if apprehended within the bounds of the Douglas;
and in the chamberlain who administers their authority, you have, for his own reasons, an enemy,
and a bitter one."

"I know it," said the matron, her eyes kindling with triumph; "I know that, vain of his school-craft,
and carnal wisdom, Luke Lundin views with jealousy and hatred the blessings which the saints
have conferred on my prayers, and on the holy relics, before the touch, nay, before the bare
presence of which, disease and death have so often been known to retreat.--I know he would
rend and tear me; but there is a chain and a muzzle on the ban dog that shall restrain his
fury, and the Master's servant shall not be offended by him until the Master's work is wrought.
When that hour comes, let the shadows of the evening descend on me in thunder and in tempest;
the time shall be welcome that relieves my eyes from seeing guilt, and my ears from listening
to blasphemy. Do thou but be constant--play thy part as I have played and will play mine, and
my release shall be like that of a blessed martyr whose ascent to heaven angels hail with psalm
and song, while earth pursues him with hiss and with execration."

As she concluded, the serving-man again entered the cottage, and said, "All is well! the time
holds for to-morrow night."

"What time? what holds?" exclaimed Roland Graeme; "I trust I have given the Douglas's packet
to no wrong--"

"Content yourself, young man," answered the serving-man; "thou hast my word and token."

"I know not if the token be right," said the page; "and I care not much for the word of a stranger."

"What," said the matron, "although thou mayest have given a packet delivered to thy charge
by one of the Queen's rebels into the hand of a loyal subject--there were no great mistake
in that, thou hot-brained boy!"

"By Saint Andrew, there were foul mistake, though," answered the page; "it is the very spirit
of my duty, in this first stage of chivalry, to be faithful to my trust; and had the devil
given me a message to discharge, I would not (so I had plighted my faith to the contrary) betray
his counsel to an angel of light."

"Now, by the love I once bore thee," said the matron, "I could slay thee with mine own hand,
when I hear thee talk of a dearer faith being due to rebels and heretics, than thou owest to
thy church and thy prince!"

"Be patient, my good sister," said the serving-man; "I will give him such reasons as shall
counterbalance the scruples which beset him---the spirit is honourable, though now it may be
mistimed and misplaced.--Follow me, young man."

"Ere I go to call this stranger to a reckoning," said the page to the matron, "is there nothing
I can do for your comfort and safety?"

"Nothing," she replied, "nothing, save what will lead more to thine own honour;--the saints
who have protected me thus far, will lend me succour as I need it. Tread the path of glory
that is before thee, and only think of me as the creature on earth who will be most delighted
to hear of thy fame.--Follow the stranger--he hath tidings for you that you little expect."

The stranger remained on the threshold as if waiting for Roland, and as soon as he saw him
put himself in motion, he moved on before at a quick pace. Diving still deeper down the lane,
Roland perceived that it was now bordered by buildings upon the one side only, and that the
other was fenced by a high old wall, over which some trees extended their branches. Descending
a good way farther, they came to a small door in the wall. Roland's guide paused, looked around
an instant to see if any one were within sight, then taking a key from his pocket, opened the
door and entered, making a sign to Roland Graeme to follow him. He did so, and the stranger
locked the door carefully on the inside.  During this operation the page had a moment to look
around, and perceived that he was in a small orchard very trimly kept.

The stranger led him through an alley or two, shaded by trees loaded with summer-fruit, into
a pleached arbour, where, taking the turf-seat which was on the one side, he motioned to Roland
to occupy that which was opposite to him, and, after a momentary silence, opened the conversation
as follows: "You have asked a better warrant than the word of a mere stranger, to satisfy you
that I have the authority of George of Douglas for possessing myself of the packet intrusted
to your charge."

"It is precisely the point on which I demand reckoning of you," said Roland. "I fear I have
acted hastily; if so, I must redeem my error as I best may."

"You hold me then as a perfect stranger?" said the man. "Look at my face more attentively,
and see if the features do not resemble those of a man much known to you formerly."

Roland gazed attentively; but the ideas recalled to his mind were so inconsistent with the
mean and servile dress of the person before him, that he did not venture to express the opinion
which he was irresistibly induced to form.

"Yes, my son," said the stranger, observing his embarrassment, "you do indeed see before you
the unfortunate Father Ambrosius, who once accounted his ministry crowned in your preservation
from the snares of heresy, but who is now condemned to lament thee as a castaway!"

Roland Graeme's kindness of heart was at least equal to his vivacity of temper--he could not
bear to see his ancient and honoured master and spiritual guide in a situation which inferred
a change of fortune so melancholy, but throwing himself at his feet, grasped his knees and
wept aloud.

"What mean these tears, my son?" said the Abbot; "if they are shed for your own sins and follies,
surely they are gracious showers, and may avail thee much--but weep not, if they fall on my
account. You indeed see the Superior of the community of Saint Mary's in the dress of a poor
sworder, who gives his master the use of his blade and buckler, and, if needful, of his life,
for a coarse livery coat and four marks by the year. But such a garb suits the time, and, in
the period of the church militant, as well becomes her prelates, as staff, mitre, and crosier,
in the days of the church's triumph."

"By what fate," said the page--"and yet why," added he, checking himself, "need I ask? Catherine
Seyton in some sort prepared me for this. But that the change should be so absolute--the destruction
so complete!"--

"Yes, my son," said the Abbot Ambrosius, "thine own eyes beheld, in my unworthy elevation to
the Abbot's stall, the last especial act of holy solemnity which shall be seen in the church
of Saint Mary's, until it shall please Heaven to turn back the captivity of the church. For
the present, the shepherd is smitten--ay, well-nigh to the earth--the flock are scattered,
and the shrines of saints and martyrs, and pious benefactors to the church, are given to the
owls of night, and the satyrs of the desert."

"And your brother, the Knight of Avenel--could he do nothing for your protection?"

"He himself hath fallen under the suspicion of the ruling powers," said the Abbot, "who are
as unjust to their friends as they are cruel to their enemies. I could not grieve at it, did
I hope it might estrange him from his cause; but I know the soul of Halbert, and I rather fear
it will drive him to prove his fidelity to their unhappy cause, by some deed which may be yet
more destructive to the church, and more offensive to Heaven. Enough of this; and now to the
business of our meeting.--I trust you will hold it sufficient if I pass my word to you that
the packet of which you were lately the bearer, was designed for my hands by George of Douglas?"

"Then," said the page, "is George of Douglas----"

"A true friend to his Queen, Roland; and will soon, I trust, have his eyes opened to the errors
of his (miscalled) church."

"But what is he to his father, and what to the Lady of Lochleven, who has been as a mother
to him?" said the page impatiently.

"The best friend to both, in time and through eternity," said the Abbot, "if he shall prove
the happy instrument for redeeming the evil they have wrought, and are still working."

"Still," said the page, "I like not that good service which begins in breach of trust."

"I blame not thy scruples, my son," said the Abbot; "but the time which has wrenched asunder
the allegiance of Christians to the church, and of subjects to their king, has dissolved all
the lesser bonds of society; and, in such days, mere human ties must no more restrain our progress,
than the brambles and briers which catch hold of his garments, should delay the path of a pilgrim
who travels to pay his vows."

"But, my father,"--said the youth, and then stopt short in a hesitating manner.

"Speak on, my son," said the Abbot; "speak without fear."

"Let me not offend you then," said Roland, "when I say, that it is even this which our adversaries
charge against us; when they say that, shaping the means according to the end, we are willing
to commit great moral evil in order that we may work out eventual good."

"The heretics have played their usual arts on you, my son," said the Abbot; "they would willingly
deprive us of the power of acting wisely and secretly, though their possession of superior
force forbids our contending with them on terms of equality. They have reduced us to a state
of exhausted weakness, and now would fain proscribe the means by which weakness, through all
the range of nature, supplies the lack of strength and defends itself against its potent enemies.
As well might the hound say to the hare, use not these wily turns to escape me, but contend
with me in pitched battle, as the armed and powerful heretic demand of the down-trodden and
oppressed Catholic to lay aside the wisdom of the serpent, by which alone they may again hope
to raise up the Jerusalem over which they weep, and which it is their duty to rebuild--But
more of this hereafter. And now, my son, I command thee on thy faith to tell me truly and particularly
what has chanced to thee since we parted, and what is the present state of thy conscience.
Thy relation, our sister Magdalen, is a woman of excellent gifts, blessed with a zeal which
neither doubt nor danger can quench; but yet it is not a zeal altogether according to knowledge;
wherefore, my son, I would willingly be myself thy interrogator, and thy counsellor, in these
days of darkness and stratagem."

With the respect which he owed to his first instructor, Roland Graeme went rapidly through
the events which the reader is acquainted with; and while he disguised not from the prelate
the impression which had been made on his mind by the arguments of the preacher Henderson,
he accidentally and almost involuntarily gave his Father Confessor to understand the influence
which Catherine Seyton had acquired over his mind.

