On the second night of his acquaintance with "Dutch Mike," their "jungle" was raided by a constable
with half a dozen deputies; for a determined effort was being made just then to drive vagrants
from the neighbourhood--or to get them to work in the mines. Hal's friend, who slept with one
eye open, made a break in the darkness, and Hal followed him, getting under the guard of the
raiders by a foot-ball trick. They left their food and blankets behind them, but "Dutch Mike"
made light of this, and lifted a chicken from a roost to keep them cheerful through the night
hours, and stole a change of underclothing off a clothes-line the next day. Hal ate the chicken,
and wore the underclothing, thus beginning his career in crime.

Parting from "Dutch Mike," he went back to Pedro. The hobo had told him that saloon-keepers
nearly always had friends in the coal-camps, and could help a fellow to a job. So Hal began
enquiring, and the second one replied, Yes, he would give him a letter to a man at North Valley,
and if he got the job, the friend would deduct a dollar a month from his pay. Hal agreed, and
set out upon another tramp up another canyon, upon the strength of a sandwich "bummed" from
a ranch-house at the entrance to the valley. At another stockaded gate of the General Fuel
Company he presented his letter, addressed to a person named O'Callahan, who turned out also
to be a saloon-keeper.

The guard did not even open the letter, but passed Hal in at sight of it, and he sought out
his man and applied for work. The man said he would help him, but would have to deduct a dollar
a month for himself, as well as a dollar for his friend in Pedro. Hal kicked at this, and they
bartered back and forth; finally, when Hal turned away and threatened to appeal directly to
the "super," the saloon-keeper compromised on a dollar and a half.

"You know mine-work?" he asked.

"Brought up at it," said Hal, made wise, now, in the ways of the world.

"Where did you work?"

Hal named several mines, concerning which he had learned something from the hoboes. He was
going by the name of "Joe Smith," which he judged likely to be found on the payroll of any
mine. He had more than a week's growth of beard to disguise him, and had picked up some profanity
as well.

The saloon-keeper took him to interview Mr. Alec Stone, pit-boss in Number Two mine, who inquired
promptly: "You know anything about mules?"

"I worked in a stable," said Hal, "I know about horses."

"Well, mules is different," said the man. "One of my stable-men got the colic the other day,
and I don't know if he'll ever be any good again."

"Give me a chance," said Hal. "I'll manage them."

The boss looked him over. "You look like a bright chap," said he. "I'll pay you forty-five
a month, and if you make good I'll make it fifty."

"All right, sir. When do I start in?"

"You can't start too quick to suit me. Where's your duds?"

"This is all I've got," said Hal, pointing to the bundle of stolen underwear in his hand.

"Well, chuck it there in the corner," said the man; then suddenly he stopped, and looked at
Hal, frowning. "You belong to any union?"

"Lord, no!"

"Did you ever belong to any union?"

"No, sir. Never."

The man's gaze seemed to imply that Hal was lying, and that his secret soul was about to be
read. "You have to swear to that, you know, before you can work here."

"All right," said Hal, "I'm willing."

"I'll see you about it to-morrow," said the other. "I ain't got the paper with me. By the way,
what's your religion?"

"Seventh Day Adventist."

"Holy Christ! What's that?"

"It don't hurt," said Hal. "I ain't supposed to work on Saturdays, but I do."

"Well, don't you go preachin' it round here. We got our own preacher--you chip in fifty cents
a month for him out of your wages. Come ahead now, and I'll take you down." And so it was that
Hal got his start in life.

SECTION 5.

The mule is notoriously a profane and godless creature; a blind alley of Nature, so to speak,
a mistake of which she is ashamed, and which she does not permit to reproduce itself. The thirty
mules under Hal's charge had been brought up in an environment calculated to foster the worst
tendencies of their natures. He soon made the discovery that the "colic" of his predecessor
had been caused by a mule's hind foot in the stomach; and he realised that he must not let
his mind wander for an instant, if he were to avoid this dangerous disease.

These mules lived their lives in the darkness of the earth's interior; only when they fell
sick were they taken up to see the sunlight and to roll about in green pastures. There was
one of them called "Dago Charlie," who had learned to chew tobacco, and to rummage in the pockets
of the miners and their "buddies." Not knowing how to spit out the juice, he would make himself
ill, and then he would swear off from indulgence. But the drivers and the pit-boys knew his
failing, and would tempt "Dago Charlie" until he fell from grace. Hal soon discovered this
moral tragedy, and carried the pain of it in his soul as he went about his all-day drudgery.

He went down the shaft with the first cage, which was very early in the morning. He fed and
watered his charges, and helped to harness them. Then, when the last four hoofs had clattered
away, he cleaned out the stalls, and mended harness, and obeyed the orders of any person older
than himself who happened to be about.

Next to the mules, his torment was the "trapper-boys," and other youngsters with whom he came
into contact. He was a newcomer, and so they hazed him; moreover, he had an inferior job--there
seemed to their minds to be something humiliating and comic about the task of tending mules.
These urchins came from a score of nations of Southern Europe and Asia; there were flat-faced
Tartars and swarthy Greeks and shrewd-eyed little Japanese. They spoke a compromise language,
consisting mainly of English curse words and obscenities; the filthiness which their minds
had spawned was incredible to one born and raised in the sunlight. They alleged obscenities
of their mothers and their grandmothers; also of the Virgin Mary, the one mythological character
they had heard of. Poor little creatures of the dark, their souls grimed and smutted even more
quickly and irrevocably than their faces!

Hal had been advised by his boss to inquire for board at "Reminitsky's." He came up in the
last car, at twilight, and was directed to a dimly lighted building of corrugated iron, where
upon inquiry he was met by a stout Russian, who told him he could be taken care of for twenty-seven
dollars a month, this including a cot in a room with eight other single men. After deducting
a dollar and a half a month for his saloon-keepers, fifty cents for the company clergyman and
a dollar for the company doctor, fifty cents a month for wash-house privileges and fifty cents
for a sick and accident benefit fund, he had fourteen dollars a month with which to clothe
himself, to found a family, to provide himself with beer and tobacco, and to patronise the
libraries and colleges endowed by the philanthropic owners of coal mines.

