Our interview was rather shy. I was a little doubtful about the proper way to talk to a real
author, being purely a Chicagoan myself, and I had an idea that while my usual vocabulary was
good enough for business purposes it might be too easy-going to impress a literary person properly,
and in trying to talk up to her standard I had to be very careful in my choice of words. No
publisher likes to have his authors think he is weak in the grammar line.

Miss Rosa Belle Vincent, however, was quite as flustered as I was. She seemed ill-at-ease and
anxious to get away, which I supposed was because she had not often conversed with publishers
who paid a thousand dollars cash in advance for a manuscript.

She was not at all what I had thought an author would look like. She didn't even wear glasses.
If I had met her on the street I should have said: "There goes a pretty flip stenographer."
She was that kind--big picture hat and high pompadour.

I was afraid she would try to run the talk into literary lines and Ibsen and Gorky, where I
would have been swamped in a minute, but she didn't, and, although I had wondered how to break
the subject of money when conversing with one who must be thinking of nobler things, I found
she was less shy when on that subject than when talking about her book.

"Well now," I said, as soon as I had got her seated, "we have decided to buy this novel of
yours. Can you recommend it as a thoroughly respectable and intellectual production?"

She said she could.

"Haven't you read it?" she asked in some surprise.

"No," I stammered. "At least, not yet. I'm going to as soon as I can find the requisite leisure.
You see, we are very busy just now--very busy. But if you can vouch for the story being a first-class
article--something, say, like 'The Vicar of Wakefield' or 'David Harum'--we'll take it."

"Now you're talking," she said. "And do I get the check now?"

"Wait," I said; "not so fast. I have forgotten one thing," and I saw her face fall. "We want
the privilege of publishing the novel under a title of our own, and anonymously. If that is
not satisfactory the deal is off."

She brightened in a moment.

"It's a go, if that's all," she said. "Call it whatever you please, and the more anonymous
it is the better it will suit yours truly."

So we settled the matter then and there, and when I gave her our check for a thousand she said
I was all right.

III

Half an hour after Miss Vincent had left the office Perkins came in with his arms full of bundles,
which he opened, spreading their contents on my desk.

He had a pair of suspenders with nickel-silver mountings, a tie, a lady's belt, a pair of low
shoes, a shirt, a box of cigars, a package of cookies, and a half-dozen other things of divers
and miscellaneous character. I poked them over and examined them, while he leaned against the
desk with his legs crossed. He was beaming upon me.

"Well," I said, "what is it--a bargain sale?"

Perkins leaned over and tapped the pile with his long fore-finger.

"Aftermath!" he crowed, "aftermath!"

"The dickens it is," I exclaimed, "and what has aftermath got to do with this truck? It looks
like the aftermath of a notion store."

He tipped his "Air-the-Hair" hat over one ear and put his thumbs in the armholes of his "ready-tailored"
vest.

"Genius!" he announced. "Brains! Foresight! Else why Perkins the Great? Why not Perkins the
Nobody?"

He raised the suspenders tenderly from the pile and fondled them in his hands.

"See this?" he asked, running his finger along the red corded edge of the elastic. He took
up the tie and ran his nail along the red stripe that formed the selvedge on the back, and
said: "See this?" He pointed to the red laces of the low shoes and asked, "See this?" And so
through the whole collection.

"What is it?" he asked. "It's genius! It's foresight."

He waved his hand over the pile.

"The aftermath!" he exclaimed.

"These suspenders are the Crimson Cord suspenders. These shoes are the Crimson Cord shoes.
This tie is the Crimson Cord tie. These crackers are the Crimson Cord brand. Perkins & Co.
get out a great book, 'The Crimson Cord!' Sell five million copies. Dramatized, it runs three
hundred nights. Everybody talking Crimson Cord. Country goes Crimson Cord crazy. Result--up
jump Crimson Cord this and Crimson Cord that. Who gets the benefit? Perkins & Co.? No! We pay
the advertising bills and the other man sells his Crimson Cord cigars. That is usual."

"Yes," I said, "I'm smoking a David Harum cigar this minute, and I am wearing a Carvel collar."

"How prevent it?" asked Perkins. "One way only,--discovered by Perkins. Copyright the words
'Crimson Cord' as trade-mark for every possible thing. Sell the trade-mark on royalty; ten
per cent. of all receipts for 'Crimson Cord' brands comes to Perkins & Co. Get a cinch on the
aftermath!"

"Perkins!" I cried, "I admire you. You are a genius. And have you contracts with all these--notions?"

"Yes," said Perkins, "that's Perkins' method. Who originated the Crimson Cord? Perkins did.
Who is entitled to the profits on the Crimson Cord? Perkins is. Perkins is wide awake all the
time. Perkins gets a profit on the aftermath and the math and the before the math."

And so he did. He made his new contracts with the magazines on the exchange plan--we gave a
page of advertising in the "Crimson Cord" for a page of advertising in the magazine. We guaranteed
five million circulation. We arranged with all the manufacturers of the Crimson Cord brands
of goods to give coupons, one hundred of which entitled the holder to a copy of "The Crimson
Cord." With a pair of Crimson Cord suspenders you get five coupons; with each Crimson Cord
cigar, one coupon; and so on.

IV

On the first of October we announced in our advertisement that "The Crimson Cord" was a book;
the greatest novel of the century; a thrilling, exciting tale of love. Miss Vincent had told
me it was a love story. Just to make everything sure, however, I sent the manuscript to Professor
Wiggins, who is the most erudite man I ever met. He knows eighteen languages, and reads Egyptian
as easily as I read English. In fact his specialty is old Egyptian ruins and so on. He has
written several books on them.

Professor said the novel seemed to him very light and trashy, but grammatically O.K. He said
he never read novels, not having time, but he thought that "The Crimson Cord" was just about
the sort of thing a silly public that refused to buy his "Some Light on the Dynastic Proclivities
of the Hyksos" would scramble for. On the whole I considered the report satisfactory.

We found we would be unable to have Pyle illustrate the book, he being too busy, so we turned
it over to a young man at the Art Institute.

That was the fifteenth of October, and we had promised the book to the public for the first
of November, but we had it already in type and the young man, his name was Gilkowsky, promised
to work night and day on the illustrations.

The next morning, almost as soon as I reached the office, Gilkowsky came in. He seemed a little
hesitant, but I welcomed him warmly, and he spoke up.

"I have a girl to go with," he said, and I wondered what I had to do with Mr. Gilkowsky's girl,
but he continued:

"She's a nice girl and a good looker, but she's got bad taste in some things. She's too loud
in hats, and too trashy in literature. I don't like to say this about her, but it's true and
I'm trying to educate her in good hats and good literature. So I thought it would be a good
thing to take around this 'Crimson Cord' and let her read it to me."

I nodded.

"Did she like it?" I asked.

Mr. Gilkowsky looked at me closely.

"She did," he said, but not so enthusiastically as I had expected.

"It's her favorite book. Now, I don't know what your scheme is, and I suppose you know what
you are doing better than I do; but I thought perhaps I had better come around before I got
to work on the illustrations and see if perhaps you hadn't given me the wrong manuscript."

"No, that was the right manuscript," I said. "Was there anything wrong about it?"

Mr. Gilkowsky laughed nervously.

"Oh, no!" he said. "But did you read it?"

I told him I had not because I had been so rushed with details connected with advertising the book.

"Well," he said, "I'll tell you. This girl of mine reads pretty trashy stuff, and she knows
about all the cheap novels there are. She dotes on 'The Duchess,' and puts her last dime into
Braddon. She knows them all by heart. Have you ever read 'Lady Audley's Secret'?"

"I see," I said. "One is a sequel to the other."

"No," said Mr. Gilkowsky. "One is the other. Some one has flim-flammed you and sold you a typewritten
copy of 'Lady Audley's Secret' as a new novel."

V

When I told Perkins he merely remarked that he thought every publishing house ought to have
some one in it who knew something about books, apart from the advertising end, although that
was, of course, the most important. He said we might go ahead and publish "Lady Audley's Secret"
under the title of "The Crimson Cord," as such things had been done before, but the best thing
to do would be to charge Rosa Belle Vincent's thousand dollars to Profit and Loss and hustle
for another novel--something reliable and not shop-worn.

Perkins had been studying the literature market a little and he advised me to get something
from Indiana this time, so I telegraphed an advertisement to the Indianapolis papers and two
days later we had ninety-eight historical novels by Indiana authors from which to choose. Several
were of the right length, and we chose one and sent it to Mr. Gilkowsky with a request that
he read it to his sweetheart. She had never read it before.

We sent a detective to Dillville, Indiana, where the author lived, and the report we received
was most satisfactory.

The author was a sober, industrious young man, just out of the high school, and bore a first-class
reputation for honesty. He had never been in Virginia, where the scene of his story was laid,
and they had no library in Dillville, and our detective assured us that the young man was in
every way fitted to write a historical novel.

"The Crimson Cord" made an immense success. You can guess how it boomed when I say that although
it was published at a dollar and a half, it was sold by every department store for fifty-four
cents, away below cost, just like sugar, or Vandeventer's Baby Food, or Q & Z Corsets, or any
other staple. We sold our first edition of five million copies inside of three months, and
got out another edition of two million, and a specially illustrated holiday edition and an
edition de luxe, and "The Crimson Cord" is still selling in paper-covered cheap edition.

With the royalties received from the aftermath and the profit on the book itself, we made--well,
Perkins has a country place at Lakewood, and I have my cottage at Newport.

[Footnote 1: Copyright, 1904, by Leslie's Magazine.]

THE RHYME OF THE CHIVALROUS SHARK[2]

BY WALLACE IRWIN

    Most chivalrous fish of the ocean,
      To ladies forbearing and mild,
    Though his record be dark, is the man-eating shark
      Who will eat neither woman nor child.

    He dines upon seamen and skippers,
      And tourists his hunger assuage,
    And a fresh cabin boy will inspire him with joy
      If he's past the maturity age.

    A doctor, a lawyer, a preacher,
      He'll gobble one any fine day,
    But the ladies, God bless 'em, he'll only address 'em
      Politely and go on his way.

    I can readily cite you an instance
      Where a lovely young lady of Breem,
    Who was tender and sweet and delicious to eat,
      Fell into the bay with a scream.

    She struggled and flounced in the water
      And signaled in vain for her bark,
    And she'd surely been drowned if she hadn't been found
      By a chivalrous man-eating shark.

    He bowed in a manner most polished,
      Thus soothing her impulses wild;
    "Don't be frightened," he said, "I've been properly bred
      And will eat neither woman nor child."

    Then he proffered his fin and she took it--
      Such a gallantry none can dispute--
    While the passengers cheered as the vessel they neared
      And a broadside was fired in salute.

    And they soon stood alongside the vessel,
      When a life-saving dingey was lowered
    With the pick of the crew, and her relatives, too,
      And the mate and the skipper aboard.

    So they took her aboard in a jiffy,
      And the shark stood attention the while,
    Then he raised on his flipper and ate up the skipper
      And went on his way with a smile.

    When I would rest beneath its shade
    Comes the shrill-voiced book-selling maid,
    And smites me with her tireless breath--
    Then am I angry unto death.

    When I would slumber in my booth,
    Who comes with accents loud and smooth,
    And talks from dawn to midnight late?
    The honest labor candidate.

    Who pounds mine ear with noisy talk,
    Whose brazen gall no ire can balk
    And wearies me of life's short span?
    The accident insurance man.

    And when, all other torments flown,
    I think to call one hour mine own,
    Who takes my leisure by the throat?
    The villain taking up a vote.

A DOS'T O' BLUES

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

    I' got no patience with blues at all!
      And I ust to kindo talk
    Aginst 'em, and claim, 'tel along last Fall,
      They was none in the fambly stock;
    But a nephew of mine, from Eelinoy,
      That visited us last year,
    He kindo convinct me differunt
      While he was a-stayin' here.

    Frum ever'-which way that blues is from,
      They'd tackle him ever' ways;
    They'd come to him in the night, and come
      On Sundays, and rainy days;
    They'd tackle him in corn-plantin' time,
      And in harvest, and airly Fall,
    But a dose't of blues in the wintertime,
      He 'lowed, was the worst of all!

    Said all diseases that ever he had--
      The mumps, er the rheumatiz--
    Er ever'-other-day-aigger's bad
      Purt' nigh as anything is!--
    Er a cyarbuncle, say, on the back of his neck,
      Er a felon on his thumb,--
    But you keep the blues away from him,
      And all o' the rest could come!

    And he'd moan, "They's nary a leaf below!
      Ner a spear o' grass in sight!
    And the whole wood-pile's clean under snow!
      And the days is dark as night!
    You can't go out--ner you can't stay in--
      Lay down--stand up--ner set!"
    And a tetch o' regular tyfoid-blues
      Would double him jest clean shet!

    I writ his parents a postal-kyard,
      He could stay 'tel Spring-time come;
    And Aprile first, as I rickollect,
      Was the day we shipped him home!
    Most o' his relatives, sence then,
      Has either give up, er quit,
    Er jest died off; but I understand
      He's the same old color yit! He'll take this floor next.
Now, see here, child, don't look so frightened. And so he set about creating the distress which he would
later change to gratitude and joy. Assuredly the Honorable Timothy had a
well-developed sense of humor.

[Footnote 3: From Little Citizens; reprinted by permission of McClure, Phillips & Company.

Copyright 1903 by the S.S. McClure Company. "There have been thirty-nine new comic operas produced
this year and four of 'em were worth seeing. It is very evident that the Gilbert and Sullivan
industry hasn't gone to the wall whatever slumps other enterprises have suffered from."

