Whispering Smith shook his head, and his hand fell on the table with a tired laugh. "Barney
Rebstock," he murmured, "of all men! Coward, skate, filler-in! Barney Rebstock--stale-beer
man, sneak, barn-yard thief! Hit two men!" He turned to McCloud. "What kind of a wizard is
Murray Sinclair? What sort of red-blood toxin does he throw into his gang to draw out a spirit
like that? Murray Sinclair belongs to the race of empire-builders. By Heaven, it is pitiful
a man like that should be out of a job! England, McCloud, needs him. And here he is holding
up trains on the mountain division!"

"They are all up at Oroville with the Williams Cache gang, celebrating," continued Wickwire.

Whispering Smith looked at the cowboy. "Wickwire, you made a good ride and I thank you. You
are all right. This is the young lady and this is the man who had you sent to the hospital
from Smoky Creek," he added, rising. "You can thank them for picking you up. When you leave
here tell Bob Scott to meet me at the Wickiup with the horses at eleven o'clock, will you?"
He turned to Dicksie in a gentle aside. "I am riding north to-night--I wish you were going
part way."

Dicksie looked at him intently. "You are worried over something," she murmured; "I can see
it in your face."

"Nothing more than usual. I thrive, you know, on trouble--and I'm sorry to say good-night so
early, but I have a long ride ahead." He stepped quietly past McCloud and out of the door.

Wickwire was thanking Dicksie when unwillingly she let Whispering Smith's hand slip out of
her own. "I shore wouldn't have been here to-night if you two hadn't picked me up," laughed
Wickwire, speaking softly to Dicksie when she turned to him. "I've knowed my friends a long
time, but I reckon they all didn't know me."

"I've known you longer than you think," returned Dicksie with a smile. "I've seen you at the
ranch-house. But now that we really do know each other, please remember you are always sure
of a home at the ranch--whenever you want one, Mr. Wickwire, and just as long as you want one.
We never forget our friends on the Crawling Stone."

"If I may make so bold, I thank you kindly. And if you all will let me run away now, I want
to catch Mr. Whispering Smith for just one minute."

Wickwire overtook Smith in Fort Street. "Talk quick, Wickwire," he said; "I'm in a hurry. What
do you want?"

"Partner, I've always played fair with you."

"So far as I know, Wickwire, yes. Why?"

"I've got a favor to ask."

"What is it--money?"

"No, partner, not money this time. You've always been more than liberal with me. But so far
I've had to keep under cover; you asked me to. I want to ask the privilege now of coming out
into the open. The jig is up so far as watching anybody goes."

"Yes."

"There's nobody to watch any more--they're all to chase, I reckon, now. The open is my kind
of a fight, anyway. I want to ride out this manhunt with you."

"How is your arm?"

"My arm is all right, and there ought to be a place for me in the chase now that Ed Banks is
out of it. I want to cut loose up on the range, anyhow; if I'm a man I want to know it, and
if I ain't I want to know it. I want to ride with you after Seagrue and Sinclair and Barney
Rebstock."

Whispering Smith spoke coldly: "You mean, Wickwire, you want to get killed."

"Why, partner, if it's coming to me, I don't mind--yes."

"What's the use, Wickwire?"

"If I'm a man I want to know it; if I ain't, it's time my friends knowed it. Anyhow, I'm man
enough to work out with some of that gang. Most of them have put it over me one time or another;
Sinclair pasted me like a blackbird only the other day. They all say I'm nothing but a damned
tramp. You say I have done you service--give me a show."

Whispering Smith stopped a minute in the shadow of a tree and looked keenly at him. "I'm too
busy to-night to say much, Wickwire," he said after a moment. "You go over to the barn and
report to Bob Scott. If you want to take the chances, it is up to you; and if Bob Scott is
agreeable, I'll use you where I can--that's all I can promise. You will probably have more
than one chance to get killed."

CHAPTER XXXVIII

INTO THE NORTH

The moon had not yet risen, and in the darkness of Boney Street Smith walked slowly toward
his room. The answer to his question had come. The rescue of Seagrue made it clear that Sinclair
would not leave the country. He well knew that Sinclair cared no more for Seagrue than for
a prairie-dog. It was only that he felt strong enough, with his friends and sympathizers, to
defy the railroad force and Whispering Smith, and planned now, probably, to kill off his pursuers
or wear them out. There was a second incentive for remaining: nearly all the Tower W money
had been hidden at Rebstock's cabin by Du Sang. That Kennedy had already got hold of it Sinclair
could not know, but it was certain that he would not leave the country without an effort to
recover the booty from Rebstock.

Whispering Smith turned the key in the door of his room as he revolved the situation in his
mind. Within, the dark was cheerless, but he made no effort to light a lamp. Groping his way
to the side of the low bed, he sat down and put his head between his hands to think.

There was no help for it that he could see: he must meet Sinclair. The situation he had dreaded
most, from the moment Bucks asked him to come back to the mountains, had come.

He thought of every phase of the outcome. If Sinclair should kill him the difficulties were
less. It would be unpleasant, certainly, but something that might happen any time and at any
man's hands. He had cut into the game too long ago and with his eyes too wide open to complain
at this time of the possibility of an accident. They might kill each other; but if, escaping
himself, he should kill Sinclair----

He came back in the silence always to that if. It rose dark between him and the woman he loved--whom
he had loved since she was a child with school-girl eyes and braided hair. After he had lost
her, only to find years afterward that she was hardly less wretched in her life than he in
his, he had dreamed of the day when she might again be free and he free to win a love long
hoped for.

But to slay this man--her husband--in his inmost heart he felt it would mean the raising of
a bar as impalpable as fate, and as undying, to all his dreams. Deserved or not, whatever she
should say or not say, what would she feel? How could her husband's death in that encounter,
if it ever came, be other than a stain that must shock and wound her, no matter how much she
should try not to see. Could either of them ever quite forget it?

                  *       *       *       *       *

Kennedy and his men were guarding the Cache. Could they be sent against Sinclair? That would
be only a baser sort of murder--the murder of his friends. He himself was leader, and so looked
upon; the post of danger was his.

He raised his head. Through the window came a faint light. The moon was rising, and against
the inner wall of the room the straight, hard lines of the old wardrobe rose dimly. The rifles
were within. He must choose.

He walked to the window and pushed the curtain aside. It was dark everywhere across the upper
town, but in the distance one light burned. It was in Marion's cottage. He had chosen this
room because from the window he could see her home. He stood for a few moments with his hands
in his pockets, looking. When he turned away he drew the shade closely, lighted a lamp, and
unlocked the wardrobe door.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Scott left the barn at half-past ten with a led horse for Whispering Smith. He rode past Smith's
room in Fort Street, but the room was dark, and he jogged down to the Wickiup square, where
he had been told to meet him. After waiting and riding about for an hour, he tied the horses
and went up to McCloud's office. McCloud was at his desk, but knew nothing of Whispering Smith
except that he was to come in before he started. "He's a punctual man," murmured Bob Scott,
who had the low voice of the Indian. "Usually he is ahead of time."

"Is he in his room, do you think?" asked McCloud.

"I rode around that way about fifteen minutes ago; there was no light."

"He must be there," declared McCloud. "Have you the horses below? We will ride over and try
the room again."

Fort Street back of Front is so quiet after eleven o'clock at night that a footfall echoes
in it. McCloud dismounted in front of the bank building and, throwing the reins to Bob Scott,
walked upstairs and back toward Smith's room. In the hallway he paused. He heard faint strains
of music. They came from within the room--fragments of old airs played on a violin, and subdued
by a mute, in the darkness. Instinct stayed McCloud's hand at the door. He stood until the
music ceased and footsteps moved about in the room; then he knocked, and a light appeared within.
Whispering Smith opened the door. He stood in his trousers and shirt, with his cartridge-belt
in his hand. "Come in, George. I'm just getting hooked up."

"Which way are you going to-night, Gordon?" asked McCloud, sitting down on the chair.

"I am going to Oroville. The crowd is celebrating there. It is a défi, you know."

"Who are you going to take with you?"

"Nobody."

McCloud moved uneasily. "I don't like that."

"There will be nothing doing. Sinclair may be gone by the time I arrive, but I want to see
Bob and Gene Johnson, and scare the Williams Cache coyotes, just to keep their tails between
their legs."

"I'd like to kill off half a dozen of that gang."

Whispering Smith said nothing for a moment. "Did you ever have to kill a man, George?" he asked
buckling his cartridge-belt.

"No. Why?"

There was no reply. Smith had taken a rifle from the rack and was examining the firing mechanism.
He worked the lever for a moment with lightning-like speed, laid the gun on the bed, and sat
down beside it.

"You would hardly believe, George, how I hate to go after Murray Sinclair. I've known him all
my life. His folks and mine lived across the street from one another for twenty years. Which
is the older? Murray is five years older than I am; he was always a big, strong, good-looking
fellow." Whispering Smith put his hands on the side of the bed. "It is curious how you remember
things that happened when you were a boy, isn't it? I thought of something to-night I hadn't
thought of for twenty years. A little circus came to town. While they were setting up the tent
the lines for the gasolene tank got fouled in the block at the top of the centre pole. The
head canvasman offered a quarter to any boy that would climb the pole and free the block. One
boy after another tried it, but they couldn't climb half-way up. Then Murray sailed in. I was
seven years old and Murray was twelve, and he wore a vest. He gave me the vest to hold while
he went up. I felt like a king. There was a lead-pencil in one pocket, beautifully sharpened,
and I showed it to the other boys. Did he make good? He always made good," said Whispering
Smith gloomily. "The canvasman gave him the quarter and two tickets, and he gave one of the
tickets to me. I got to thinking about that to-night. As boys, Murray and I never had a quarrel."
He stopped. McCloud said nothing, and, after an interval, Smith spoke again:

