In terror she stammered reply. "The pigeons, dear husband. Don't you hear them?"

It was their sad cooing that came from the roof of the house. "They are returning! Who knows?
He is yet warm!" she cried.

And in the heart of the woman arose a great hope.

Tiburcio shrugged his shoulders.

"Now it's their turn to mourn!" he answered. "They are sobbing, like us. It's a pair that remained
behind because of the little ones. I dashed the pigeon-house to earth, I have killed the fledglings.
See!"

And he showed his bloody hands.

"They flew away; they're on the house. Do you want to see?"

He went out; she followed. They walked to the terrace. Tiburcio pointed to the ruined pigeon-house.
Then he grasped the crushed bodies of the little birds. "Look!"

Without breathing a word Joanna looked on. In her horror she had stopped weeping. She gazed
upon her husband, whose burning eyes flashed fire. He threw the first little pigeon upon the
roof bellowing, "'T is well!"

He threw the second.

"'T is well!" he repeated.

The pigeons, frightened, flew off into the dark foliage.

"'T is well," he said once more.

Joanna, dumb, terrified, could not remove her eyes from her husband, who was now crying with
sobs, his opened hands stained with blood.

"Come, dear husband. It was the will of God. Our little son is in heaven!" And slowly she heartened
him. They entered their cabin and, before the pallet of the dead child, the tears gushed from
their eyes, while, on the roof above, the pigeons, who had returned, were cooing dolorously.

AUNT ZEZE'S TEARS

By Carmen Dolores

(Emilia Moncorva Bandeira de Mello, 1852-1910)

Pale and thin, for eighteen years she had lived with her youngest sister, who had married very
early and now possessed five children: two young ladies of marriageable age, a third still
in short dresses, and two little boys.

Maria-José, whose nickname was Zézé, had never been beautiful or winning. Upon her father's
death it was thought best that she should go to live with her sister Engracigna's family. Here
she led a monotonous existence, helping to bring up her nephews and nieces, who were born in
that young and happy household with a regularity that brooked small intervals between the births.

A long, pointed nose disfigured her face, and her lips, extremely thin, looked like a pale
crack. Her thoughtful gaze alone possessed a certain melancholy attractiveness. But even here,
her eyes, protruding too far for the harmony of the lines upon her face seemed always to be
red, and her brows narrow and sparse.

Of late, an intricate network of wrinkles as fine as hairs, had formed at the corner of her
eyes. From her nose, likewise, two furrows ran along the transparent delicacy of her skin and
reached either side of her mouth. When she smiled, these wrinkles would cover her countenance
with a mask of premature age, and threatened soon to disfigure her entirely. And yet, from
habit, and through passive obedience to routine, Maria-José continued to dress like a young
girl of eighteen, in brightly colored gowns, thin waists and white hats that ill became her
frail and oldish face.

She would remain for a long time in painful indecision when it was a matter of picking out
some piece of goods that was of too bright a red or blue,--as if instinctively she understood
the disharmony of these hues with her age, whose rapid oncoming they moreover placed in all
the more noticeable contrast. And at such times Engracigna and her daughters would say to her
with a vehemence whose effect they little guessed, "Why, Zézé! Buy something and be done with
it!... How silly! Do you want to dress like a widow? What a notion!"

And at bottom they meant it.

