No. 207.]
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15.                               358
  Druses, by. T. J. Buckton                                   360
  FOLK LORE:--Legends of the County Clare                     360
  Shakspeare Correspondence, by Thomas Keightley, &c.         361
  Death on the Fingers                                        362

  MINOR NOTES:--On a "Custom of y^e Englyshe"--Epitaph
  at Crayford--The Font at Islip--"As good
  as a Play"                                                  363

  QUERIES:--

  Lovett of Astwell                                           363
  Oaths                                                       364
  The Electric Telegraph                                      364

  MINOR QUERIES:--Queries relating to the Porter
  Family--Lord Ball of Bagshot--Marcarnes--The
  Claymore--Sir William Chester, Kt.--Canning on
  the Treaty of 1824 between the Netherlands and
  Great Britain--Ireland a bastinadoed Elephant--Memorial
  Lines by Thomas Aquinas--"Johnson's
  turgid style"--Meaning of "Lane," &c.--Theobald
  le Botiller--William, fifth Lord Harrington--Singular
  Discovery of a Cannon-ball--Scottish Castles--Sneezing--
  Spenser's "Fairy Queen"--Poema del Cid--The Brazen Head     364

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--"The Basilics"--Fire
  at Houlton--Michaelmas Goose                                367

  REPLIES:--

  Portraits of Hobbes and Letters of Hollar, by S. W.
  Singer                                                      368
  Parochial Libraries, by the Rev. Thos. Corser               369
  Battle of Villers en Couché, by H. L. Mansel, B.D., &c.     370
  Attainment of Majority, by Russell Gole and Professor
    De Morgan                                                 371
  Similarity of Idea in St. Luke and Juvenal                  372

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Mr. Sisson's developing
  Fluid--Dr. Diamond's Process for Albumenized
  Paper--Mr. Lyte's New Process                               373

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Derivation of the Word
  "Island"--"Pætus and Arria"--"That Swinney"--The
  Six Gates of Troy--Milton's Widow--Boom--"Nugget"
  not an American Term--Soke Mill--Binometrical
  Verse--Watch-paper Inscription--Dotinchem--Reversible
  Names and Words--Detached Church Towers--Bishop
  Ferrar--"They shot him by the nine stone rig"--Punning
  Devices--Ashman's Park--"Crowns have their compass,"
  &c.--Ampers and--Throwing Old Shoes for Luck--Ennui         374

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                377
  Notices to Correspondents                                   377
  Advertisements                                              378

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

Notes on Midland County Minstrelsy.

It has often occurred to me that the old country folk-songs are as worthy of a niche in your
mausoleum as the more prosy lore to which you allot a separate division. Why does not some
one write a Minstrelsy of the Midland Counties? There is ample material to work upon, and not
yet spoiled by dry-as-dust-ism. It would be vain, perhaps, to emulate the achievements of the
Scottish antiquary; but surely something might be done better than the county Garlands, which,
with a few honorable exceptions, are sad abortions, mere channels for rhyme-struck editors.
There is one peculiarity of the midland songs and ballads which I do not remember to have seen
noticed, viz. their singular affinity to those of Scotland, as exhibited in the collections
of Scott and Motherwell. I have repeatedly noticed this, even so far south as Gloucestershire.
Of the old Staffordshire ballad which appeared in your columns some months ago, I remember
to have heard two distinct versions in Warwickshire, all approaching more or less to the Scottish
type:

 "Hame came our gude man at e'en."

Now whence this curious similarity in the vernacular ideology of districts so remote? Are all
the versions from one original, distributed by the wandering minstrels, and in course of time
adapted to new localities and dialects? and, if so, whence came the original, from England
or Scotland? Here is a nut for DR. RIMBAULT, or some of your other correspondents learned in
popular poetry. Another instance also occurs to me. Most of your readers are doubtless familiar
with the pretty little ballad of "Lady Anne" in the Border Minstrelsy, which relates so plaintively
the murder of the two innocent babes, and the ghostly retribution to the guilty mother. Other
versions are given by Kinloch in his Ancient Scottish Ballads, and by Buchan in the Songs of
the North, the former laying the scene in London:

 "There lived a ladye in London,
    All alone and alonie,
  She's gane wi' bairn to the clerk's son,
    Down by the green-wood side sae bonny."

{358}

And the latter across the Atlantic:

 "The minister's daughter of New York,
    Hey with the rose and the Lindie, O,
  Has fa'en in love wi' her father's clerk,
    A' by the green burn sidie, O."

A Warwickshire version, on the contrary, places the scene on our own "native leas:"

 "There was a lady lived on lea,
    All alone, alone O,
  Down the greenwood side went she,
    Down the greenwood side, O.

 "She set her foot all on a thorn[1],
    Down the greenwood side, O,
  There she had two babies born,
    All alone, alone O.

 "O she had nothing to lap them in,
    All alone, alone O,
  But a white appurn and that was thin,
    Down the greenwood side, O," &c.

Here there are no less than four versions of the same ballad, each differing materially from
the other, but all bearing unmistakeable marks of a common origin. It would be interesting
to know the process by which this was managed.

C. CLIFTON BARRY.

[Footnote 1: In one of the Scottish ballads the same idea is more prettily expressed "leaned
until a brier."]

       *       *       *       *       *

COMET SUPERSTITIONS IN 1853.

From the 19th of August to the present time that brilliant comet, which was first seen by M.
Klinkerfues, at Göttingen, on the 10th of June last, has been distinctly visible here, and
among the ignorant classes its appearance has caused no little alarm. The reason of this we
shall briefly explain.

During the past fifty-five years the Maltese have grievously suffered on three different occasions;
firstly, by the revolution of 1798, which was followed by the plague in 1813; and lastly, by
the cholera in 1837. In these visitations, all of which are in the recollection of the oldest
inhabitants, thirty thousand persons are supposed to have perished.

Mindful as these aged people are of these sad bereavements, and declaring as they do that they
were all preceded by some "curious signs" in the heavens which foretold their approach, men's
minds have become excited, and, reason as one may, still the impression now existing that some
fatal harm is shortly to follow will not be removed.

A few of the inhabitants, more terrified than their neighbours, have fancied the comet's tail
to be a fiery sword, and therefore predict a general war in Europe, and consequent fall of
the Ottoman Empire. But as this statement is evidently erroneous, we still live in great hopes,
notwithstanding all previous predictions and "curious signs," that the comet will pass away
without bringing in its train any grievous calamity.

By the following extracts, taken from some leading journals of the day, it will be seen that
the Maltese are not alone in entertaining a superstitious dread of a comet's appearance. The
Americans, Prussians, Spaniards, and Turks come in the same list, which perhaps may be increased
by your correspondents:

    "The Madrid journals announce that the appearance of the comet has
    excited great alarm in that city, as it is considered a symptom of
    divine wrath, and a presage of war, pestilence, and affliction for
    humanity."--Vide Galignani's Messenger of August 31, 1853.

    "The entire appearance (of the comet) is brilliant and dazzling; and
    while it engrosses the attention and investigation of the scientific,
    it excites the alarm of the superstitious, who, as in ancient times,
    regard it as the concomitant of pestilence and the herald of
    war."--Vide New York correspondence of The Sun, Aug. 24, 1853.

    "The splendid comet now visible after sun-set on the western horizon,
    has attracted the attention of every body here. The public impression
    is, that this celestial phenomenon is to be considered as a sign of
    war; and their astrologers, to whom appeal is made for an
    interpretation, make the most absurd declarations: and I have been
    laughed at by very intelligent Turks, when I ventured to persuade them
    that great Nature's laws do not care about troubles here below."--Vide
    Turkish correspondence of The Herald, Aug. 25, 1853.

    "The comet which has lately been visible has served a priest not far
    from Warsaw with materials for a very curious sermon. After having
    summoned his congregation together, although it was neither Sunday nor
    festival, and shown them the comet, he informed them that this was the
    same star that had appeared to the Magi at the birth of our Saviour,
    and that it was only visible now in the Russian empire. Its appearance
    on this occasion was to intimate to the Russian eagle, that the time
    was now come for it to spread out its wings, and embrace all mankind in
    one orthodox and sanctifying church. He showed them the star now
    standing immediately over Constantinople, and explained that the dull
    light of the nucleus indicated its sorrow at the delay of the Russian
    army in proceeding to its destination."--Vide Berlin correspondence of
    The Times.

W. W.

Malta.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD ENGLISH WORD "BELIKE."

The word belike, much used by old writers, but now almost obsolete, even among the poor, seems
to have been but very imperfectly understood--as far as regards its original meaning and derivation.
Most persons understand it to be equivalent, or nearly so, to very likely, in all likelihood,
perhaps, or, ironically, forsooth; and in that {359} opinion they are not far wrong. It occurs
in this sense in numerous passages in Shakspeare; for instance:

 "Some merry mocking lord, belike."--Love's Labour's Lost.

 "O then, belike, she was old and gentle."--Henry V.

 "Belike, this show imports the argument."--Hamlet.

Such also was Johnson's opinion of the word, for he represents it to be "from like, as by likelihood;"
and assigns to it the meanings of "probably, likely, perhaps." However, I venture to say, in
opposition to so great an authority, that there is no immediate connexion whatever between
the words belike and likely, with the exception of the accidental similarity in the syllable like.

We find three different meanings attached to the same form like in English, viz. like, similis;
to like, i. e. to be pleased with; and the present word belike, whose real meaning I propose
to explain.

The first is from the A.-S. lic, gelic; Low Germ. lick; Dutch gelyk; Dan. lig (which is said
to take its meaning from lic, a corpse, i. e. an essence), which word also forms our English
termination -ly, sometimes preserving its old form like; as manly or manlike, Godly or Godlike;
A.-S. werlic, Godlic; to which the Teut. adjectival termination lich is analogous.

