There are many follies, in some degree, peculiar to women:  sins against reason, of commission,
as well as of omission; but all flowing from ignorance or prejudice, I shall only point out
such as appear to be injurious to their moral character.  And in animadverting on them, I wish
especially to prove, that the weakness of mind and body, which men have endeavoured by various
motives to perpetuate, prevents their discharging the peculiar duty of their sex:  for when
weakness of body will not permit them to suckle their children, and weakness of mind makes
them spoil their tempers--is woman in a natural state?

SECTION 13.1.

One glaring instance of the weakness which proceeds from ignorance, first claims attention,
and calls for severe reproof.

In this metropolis a number of lurking leeches infamously gain a subsistence by practising
on the credulity of women, pretending to cast nativities, to use the technical phrase; and
many females who, proud of their rank and fortune, look down on the vulgar with sovereign contempt,
show by this credulity, that the distinction is arbitrary, and that they have not sufficiently
cultivated their minds to rise above vulgar prejudices.  Women, because they have not been
led to consider the knowledge of their duty as the one thing necessary to know, or, to live
in the present moment by the discharge of it, are very anxious to peep into futurity, to learn
what they have to expect to render life interesting, and to break the vacuum of ignorance.
I must be allowed to expostulate seriously with the ladies, who follow these idle inventions;
for ladies, mistresses of families, are not ashamed to drive in their own carriages to the
door of the cunning man.  And if any of them should peruse this work, I entreat them to answer
to their own hearts the following questions, not forgetting that they are in the presence of God.

Do you believe that there is but one God, and that he is powerful, wise, and good?

Do you believe that all things were created by him, and that all beings are dependent on him?

Do you rely on his wisdom, so conspicuous in his works, and in your own frame, and are you
convinced, that he has ordered all things which do not come under the cognizance of your senses,
in the same perfect harmony, to fulfil his designs?

Do you acknowledge that the power of looking into futurity and seeing things that are not,
as if they were, is an attribute of the Creator?  And should he, by an impression on the minds
of his creatures, think fit to impart to them some event hid in the shades of time, yet unborn,
to whom would the secret be revealed by immediate inspiration?  The opinion of ages will answer
this question--to reverend old men, to people distinguished for eminent piety.

The oracles of old were thus delivered by priests dedicated to the service of the God, who
was supposed to inspire them.  The glare of worldly pomp which surrounded these impostors,
and the respect paid to them by artful politicians, who knew how to avail themselves of this
useful engine to bend the necks of the strong under the dominion of the cunning, spread a sacred
mysterious veil of sanctity over their lies and abominations.  Impressed by such solemn devotional
parade, a Greek or Roman lady might be excused, if she inquired of the oracle, when she was
anxious to pry into futurity, or inquire about some dubious event:  and her inquiries, however
contrary to reason, could not be reckoned impious.  But, can the professors of Christianity
ward off that imputation?  Can a Christian suppose, that the favourites of the most High, the
highly favoured would be obliged to lurk in disguise, and practise the most dishonest tricks
to cheat silly women out of the money, which the poor cry for in vain?

Say not that such questions are an insult to common sense for it is your own conduct, O ye
foolish women! which throws an odium on your sex!  And these reflections should make you shudder
at your thoughtlessness, and irrational devotion, for I do not suppose that all of you laid
aside your religion, such as it is, when you entered those mysterious dwellings.  Yet, as I
have throughout supposed myself talking to ignorant women, for ignorant ye are in the most
emphatical sense of the word, it would be absurd to reason with you on the egregious folly
of desiring to know what the Supreme Wisdom has concealed.

Probably you would not understand me, were I to attempt to show you that it would be absolutely
inconsistent with the grand purpose of life, that of rendering human creatures wise and virtuous:
and that, were it sanctioned by God, it would disturb the order established in creation; and
if it be not sanctioned by God, do you expect to hear truth?  Can events be foretold, events
which have not yet assumed a body to become subject to mortal inspection, can they be foreseen
by a vicious worldling, who pampers his appetites by preying on the foolish ones?

Perhaps, however, you devoutly believe in the devil, and imagine, to shift the question, that
he may assist his votaries? but if really respecting the power of such a being, an enemy to
goodness and to God, can you go to church after having been under such an obligation to him.
From these delusions to those still more fashionable deceptions, practised by the whole tribe
of magnetisers, the transition is very natural.  With respect to them, it is equally proper
to ask women a few questions.

Do you know any thing of the construction of the human frame?  If not, it is proper that you
should be told, what every child ought to know, that when its admirable economy has been disturbed
by intemperance or indolence, I speak not of violent disorders, but of chronical diseases,
it must be brought into a healthy state again by slow degrees, and if the functions of life
have not been materially injured, regimen, another word for temperance, air, exercise, and
a few medicines prescribed by persons who have studied the human body, are the only human means,
yet discovered, of recovering that inestimable blessing health, that will bear investigation.

Do you then believe, that these magnetisers, who, by hocus pocus tricks, pretend, to work a
miracle, are delegated by God, or assisted by the solver of all these kind of difficulties--the
devil.

Do they, when they put to flight, as it is said, disorders that have baffled the powers of
medicine, work in conformity to the light of reason? Or do they effect these wonderful cures
by supernatural aid?

By a communication, an adept may answer, with the world of spirits. A noble privilege, it must
be allowed.  Some of the ancients mention familiar demons, who guarded them from danger, by
kindly intimating (we cannot guess in what manner,) when any danger was nigh; or pointed out
what they ought to undertake.  Yet the men who laid claim to this privilege, out of the order
of nature, insisted, that it was the reward or consequence of superior temperance and piety.
But the present workers of wonders are not raised above their fellows by superior temperance
or sanctity.  They do not cure for the love of God, but money.  These are the priests of quackery,
though it be true they have not the convenient expedient of selling masses for souls in purgatory,
nor churches, where they can display crutches, and models of limbs made sound by a touch or a word.

