Antoine Jaffier, a French captain, is there made chief evidence against Pierre and Renault,
who are employed by d'Ossuna, as he vaguely states, to surprise some maritime place belonging
to the republic. This informer was rewarded with four thousand sequins, and instructed forthwith
to quit the Venetian territories; but having, while at Brescia, renewed communications with
suspected persons, he was brought back to the Lagune and drowned. The minute particularities
of Jaffier's depositions, and the motive which prompted him to offer them, (the latter, as
we have already shown, resting on a gross anachronism,) are, we believe pure inventions by
St. Real; and Otway has used a poet's license to palliate still farther deviations from authentic
history. Under his hands, Pierre,--whom all accounts conspire in representing to us as a foreign,
vulgar and mercenary bravo, equally false to every party, and frightened into confession,--is
transformed into a Venetian patriot, the proud champion of his country's liberty; who declaims
in good, set, round, customary terms against slavery and oppression; and who, in the end, escapes
a mode of execution unknown to Venice, by persuading the friend who has betrayed him, and whom
he has consequently renounced, to stab him to the heart, in order "to preserve his memory."
The weak, whining, vacillating, uxorious Jaffier, by turns a cut-throat and a King's evidence;
now pawning, now fondling, and now menacing with his dagger an imaginary wife; first placing
his comrade's life in jeopardy, then begging it against his will, and finally taking it with
his own hand, is a yet more unhappy creation of wayward fancy; and it is only in the names
of the conspirators, in the introduction of an Englishman, Eliot, (whom he has brought nearer
vernacular spelling than he found him,--Haillot,[15]) and in the character of Rainault, that
Otway is borne out by authority. The last-mentioned person is described by the French ambassador
as a sot, a gambler, and a sharper, whose rogueries are well known to all the world; in a word,
therefore, as a fit leader of a revolutionary crew wrought up, "without the least remorse,
with fire and sword t' exterminate" all who bore the stamp of nobility; and not as the most
fitting depository in which Belvidera's honour might be lodged as a security for that of her
irresolute husband.

    [15] Nani, iii. p. 169. He was to have commanded the naval part
    of the enterprise.

Whatever hypothesis may be adopted, be this conspiracy true or false, there is no bloodier,
probably no blacker page in history than that which records its development. Were it not for
the immeasurable weight of guilt which must press upon the memory of the rulers of Venice if
we suppose the plot to have been altogether fictitious, we should assuredly admit that the
evidence greatly preponderates in favour of that assertion. But respect for human nature compels
us to hesitate in admitting a charge so monstrous.

Returning to the "Sketches," we must observe that we beg to differ with the Editor in merely
applying the epithets "coarse and boisterous," to Otway's play, and pointing to "coups de Theatre"
as its only merits. He surely ought not to have omitted its originality of whatever order it
may be.

The volume before us brings the history of Venice to her subjection to Austria in 1798. It
is throughout spiritedly executed. The illustrations, antique and modern, are precisely of
this character, being from Titian, and our contemporary artist, Prout.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir Hercules Langreish and his Friend.--We found him in his study alone, poring over the national
accounts, with two claret bottles empty before him, and a third bottle on the wane; it was
about eight o'clock in the evening, and the butler, according to general orders when gentlemen
came in, brought a bottle of claret to each of us. "Why," said Parnell, "Sir Heck, you have
emptied two bottles already." "True," said Sir Hercules. "And had you nobody to help you?"
"O yes, I had that bottle of port there, and I assure you he afforded me very great assistance!"--Sir
Jonah Barrington.

The Irish Bar.--They used to tell a story of Fitzgibbon respecting a client who brought his
own brief, and fee, that he might personally apologize for the smallness of the latter. Fitzgibbon,
on receiving the fee, looked rather discontented. "I assure you, counsellor," said the client
(mournfully) "I am ashamed of its smallness; but in fact it is all I have in the world." "Oh!
then," said Fitzgibbon, "you can do no more:--as it's all you have in the world--why--hem--I
must take it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Speaking of the Catholics in the hall of the Four Courts, Keller seemed to insinuate that Norcott
was favourable to their emancipation. "What!" said Norcott, with a great show of pomposity--"what!
Pray, Keller, do you see anything that smacks of the Pope about me?" "I don't know," replied
Keller; "but at all events there is a great deal of the Pretender, and I always understood
them to travel in company."

National Gallery and Record Office, on the site of the King's Mews, Charing Cross.--The estimated
expense of erecting the above building is 50,000l.; the amount proposed to be taken for the
present year is 15,000l.; leaving to be granted in future years 35,000l. The proposed building
will be 461 feet in length and 56 feet in width in its extreme dimensions, and will consist
of a centre and two wings. The western wing will contain, on the ground floor, rooms for the
reception of records, and an entrance into the barrack-yard such as now exists. Above them
will be the picture-gallery, divided into four rooms; one 50 feet by 50 feet; two 50 feet by
38 feet; and one room 50 feet by 32 feet; together with four cabinets for the reception of
small pictures, or for the use of the keeper. The floors will be made fire-proof. The eastern
wing, of similar extent, will contain, on the ground floor, a hall for casts, the library and
council-room of the Royal Academy, and a dwelling for the keeper. There will be likewise a
gateway or entrance corresponding to that leading into the barrack-yard in the other wing.
In the basement below this wing there will be offices for the use of the Royal Academy, and
a separate set attached to the dwelling-house of the keeper. The centre building will consist
of halls, vestibules, staircases, &c. for both establishments; they will be distinct and separated;
but so brought together as to form one grand feature of interior decoration. The building is
proposed to be executed in stone. The central portico is to be constructed with the columns
and other members of that which formerly decorated the palace at Carlton House. The materials
of the present building are to be used in the construction of the new building, so far as they
can be employed with propriety. The whole cost of the building will be 50,000l., exclusive
of the old materials above mentioned, which have been valued at 4,000/l. It is impossible to
state with any degree of accuracy the cost of the grates, air-stoves, and fittings of the buildings,
which will mainly depend upon the mode to be adopted in warming them; but it may be confidently
stated that it will not exceed 600l.--Parliamentary Paper, No. 611.

Home Truth.--"Give me my liar," was the phrase in which Charles the Fifth was used to call
for a volume of history; and certainly no man can attentively examine any important period
of our annals without remarking, that almost every incident admits of two handles, almost every
character of two interpretations; and that, by a judicious packing of facts, the historian
may make his picture assume nearly what form he pleases, without any direct violation of truth.--Quarterly
Rev.

Envy.--"Of all the spies that are," says Mr. Owen Feltham, "envy is the most observant and
prying. When the physicians to Frederick were relating what most would sharpen the sight, some
were for fennel, and some for glasses, and others for other matters; the noble Actius did assure
them, there was nothing that would do it like envy. Whatsoever man does ill, by it is magnified,
and multiplied; his failings are all watched, drawn out, and blazed to the world; and under
the pretence of good, he is oft led to the extremest issue of evil. Like oil that is poured
upon the roots of trees, which softens, it destroys and withers all the branches. And being
once catched, with scorn he is insulted on. For envy is so unnoble a devil, that it ever tyrannizeth
most upon a slip or low prostration, at which time gallant minds do most disdain to triumph.
The envious is more unhappy than the serpent: for though he hath poison within him, and can
cast it upon others, yet to his proper bosom it is not burdensome, as is the rancour that the
envious keeps; but this most plainly is the plague, as it infects others, so it fevers him
that hath it, till he dies. Nor is it more noxious to the owner than fatal and detrimental
to all the world beside. It was envy first unmade the angels and created devils. It was envy
first that turned man out of Paradise, and with the blood of the innocent first dyed the untainted
earth. It was envy sold chaste Joseph as a bondman, and unto crucifixion gave the only Son
of God. He walks among burning coals that converses with those that are envious. He that would
avoid it in himself, must have worth enough to be humble and beneficent. But he that would
avoid the danger of it from others, must abandon their company."

Extraordinary Whipping.--During the minority of King James I. he was at Stirling Castle, under
the tuition of the celebrated Buchanan. It is reported that Buchanan's reverence for his royal
pupil, did not prevent his giving him a severe whipping when he persisted against remonstrance,
in disturbing him whilst he was reading. Historians do not tell us how the royal pupil supported
this chastisement. Swift says, "Heirs to titles and large estates, have a weakness in their
eyes, and are not able to bear the pain and indignity of whipping." P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Erratum in page 2--the line quoted from Montgomery should be "The parrots swung like blossoms
on the trees."