The wonderful display of our power and resources has given a reputation--call it notoriety,
if you will--among the middle and lower classes of the old world, which in long years of peace
we could not have attained. And our success in withstanding the terrible tempest which has
assailed us, in maintaining the integrity of our political system, will spread that reputation
far and wide, and give us a prestige whose effect will be seen in the increased tide of immigration
that will flow in upon us upon the reëstablishment of peace. The teeming soil and salubrious
climate of the far West, together with the prospect it affords, not only of wealth, but of
social advancement, both of which are forever denied them in their own country, and extremely
difficult of attainment even in our own Eastern States, where the population is dense and every
branch of industry crowded to repletion, will allure the hardy laborers of Europe by thousands
and tens of thousands to the prairie land. In the immense unsettled tracts west of the Mississippi
there is room for the action of men inured to toil, and promise of quick and abundant returns
for their labor. There they will be free from the disastrous competition of their superiors
in education and enlightenment, and have opportunities such as no other portion of the earth
presents, for the founding of communities of their own, and the practical realization of their
own ideas of social progress. Comparatively few years will pass after the restoration of peace
before the West will be peopled by the very bone and sinew of all civilized nations. And these
men will come to our shores imbued with the bitterest hatred of monarchical institutions, and
an unbounded admiration and love of our own. Hence the new country will be intensely republican
in its tendencies, and this will be another strong bond of union--another mighty element of
strength and perpetuity to republicanism. For, as the movement goes steadily on, in time the
balance of political power will rest with them. And it will be ours to see that the strong
bias in favor of antiquated customs, laws, and usages, the result of centuries of unopposed
tyranny, is eradicated from the minds of these men. They must be properly instructed in the
principles of true liberty and self-government. They must be familiarized with the workings
of free institutions and put to school in the experience of our century of experiment. Our
very safety requires it; for so great is the field and so quickly will it be filled, that if
we are not alive to the work, a mighty nation will soon have sprung up on our borders, and
almost in our midst, which will be entirely beyond our control, and threaten the very existence
of our race, and of the principles we most cherish. For the danger is that, suddenly released
from all the restrictions of their own feudal climes, they will fly to the other extreme, and
become lawless, reckless, and turbulent. For many years to come all legislation must have an
eye to the possible and probable capacities and immense importance of the yet unsettled West,
and to the exigencies arising from causes which at present we know not of save by conjecture.
We have a future before us such as the past has never known, and an incentive, nay, rather
a necessity, for more vigorous action than we have yet been called upon to display, and for
a deeper and more far-sighted wisdom than has ever yet pervaded our councils.

The religious future of this portion of our country is veiled in the deepest obscurity. Here
we shall have the free-thinking German, the bigoted Roman Catholic, the atheistic Frenchman,
and the latitudinarian Yankee, in one grand heterogeneous conglomeration of nations and ideas
such as the world has never seen. Whether these diverse peculiarities will by close contact
and mutual attrition, by the advancing light of education and refinement as well as by the
progress of intellect, be in time softened down, assimilated, and fused into a pure, elevating
religion, or aggravated till they result in a godless, materialistic race, God only knows.
For no man was ever yet able to prognosticate of religion, or prophecy with the remotest degree
of its future action. For it is a thing of God, under his exclusive care, and subject to none
of the influences of human action. In His hands we must leave it, in the earnest hope and belief
that He will not suffer His divine purposes to be thwarted, and this people, to whom He has
intrusted the task of the world's regeneration, to forget and deny their God, who has led them
on to power and prosperity and happiness, to go back upon the scale of the soul's eternal progress,
and become a race of wicked, corrupt, and God-defying sensualists.

Yet there is no maxim more true than that 'the gods help those who help themselves,' and in
this great work of religious advancement we have nevertheless a part to act, a duty to perform.
And the day is not far distant when the work of the missionary in our own land will overshadow
that of the teacher in African climes. Here will be an ample field for all our exertions, all
our contributions; and if we do our duty by our own people, we shall be forced, for a time
at least, to leave the task of instructing the heathen of foreign lands to the Christian nations
of the Old World. Our greatest responsibility is here, and it behooves us to look well to the
religious culture of our own rapidly increasing population, that in after times they may be
fitted for the task of Christianizing the world.

