"I said the Cassim ben Halim you knew, is dead. The Cassim I knew, and know now, is alive--and
one of the most important men in Africa, though we live like this, buried among the desert
dunes, out of the world--or what you'd think the world."

"My world is where you are," Victoria said.

"Dear little Babe! Mine is a terrible world. You must get out of it as soon as you can, or
you'll never get out at all."

"Never till I take you with me."

"Don't say that! I must send you away. I must--no matter how hard it may be to part from you,"
Saidee insisted. "You don't know what you're talking about. How should you? I suppose you must
have heard something. You must anyhow suspect there's a secret?"

"Yes, Si Maïeddine told me that. He said, when I talked of my sister, and how I was trying
to find her, that he'd once known Cassim. I had to agree not to ask questions,--and he would
never say for certain whether Cassim was dead or not, but he promised sacredly to bring me
to the place where my sister lived. His cousin Lella M'Barka Bent Djellab was with us,--very
ill and suffering, but brave. We started from Algiers, and he made a mystery even of the way
we came, though I found out the names of some places we passed, like El Aghouat and Ghardaia----"

Saidee's eyes widened with a sudden flash. "What, you came here by El Aghouat and Ghardaia?"

"Yes. Isn't that the best way?"

"The best, if the longest is the best. I don't know much about North Africa geographically.
They've taken care I shouldn't know! But I--I've lately found out from--a person who's made
the journey, that one can get here from Algiers in a week or eight days. Seventeen hours by
train to Biskra: Biskra to Touggourt two long days in a diligence, or carriage with plenty
of horses; Touggourt to Oued Tolga on camel or horse, or mule, in three or four days going
up and down among the great dunes. You must have been weeks travelling."

"We have. I----"

"How very queer! What could Si Maïeddine's reason have been? Rich Arabs love going by train
whenever they can. Men who come from far off to see the marabout always do as much of the journey
as possible by rail. I hear things about all important pilgrims. Then why did Si Maïeddine
bring you by El Aghouat and Ghardaia--especially when his cousin's an invalid? It couldn't
have been just because he didn't want you to be seen, because, as you're dressed like an Arab
girl no one could guess he was travelling with a European."

"His father lives near El Aghouat," Victoria reminded her sister. And Maïeddine had used this
fact as one excuse, when he admitted that they might have taken a shorter road. But in her
heart the girl had guessed why the longest way had been chosen. She did not wish to hide from
Saidee things which concerned herself, yet Maïeddine's love was his secret, not hers, therefore
she had not meant to tell of it, and she was angry with herself for blushing. She blushed more
and more deeply, and Saidee understood.

"I see! He's in love with you. That's why he brought you here. How clever of him! How like
an Arab!"

For a moment Saidee was silent, thinking intently. It could not be possible, Victoria told
herself, that the idea pleased her sister. Yet for an instant the white face lighted up, as
if Saidee were relieved of heavy anxiety.

She drew Victoria closer, with an arm round her waist. "Tell me about it," she said. "How you
met him, and everything."

The girl knew she would have to tell, since her sister had guessed, but there were many other
things which it seemed more important to say and hear first. She longed to hear all, all about
Saidee's existence, ever since the letters had stopped; why they had stopped; and whether the
reason had anything to do with the mystery about Cassim. Saidee seemed willing to wait, apparently,
for details of Victoria's life, since she wanted to begin with the time only a few weeks ago,
when Maïeddine had come into it. But the girl would not believe that this meant indifference.
They must begin somewhere. Why should not Saidee be curious to hear the end part first, and
go back gradually? Saidee's silence had been a torturing mystery for years, whereas about her,
her simple past, there was no mystery to clear up.

"Yes," she agreed. "But you promised to tell me about yourself and--and----"

"I know. Oh, you shall hear the whole story. It will seem like a romance to you, I suppose,
because you haven't had to live it, day by day, year by year. It's sordid reality to me--oh,
how sordid!--most of it. But this about Maïeddine changes everything. I must hear what's happened--quickly--because
I shall have to make a plan. It's very important--dreadfully important. I'll explain, when
you've told me more. But there's time to order something for you to eat and drink, first, if
you're tired and hungry. You must be both, poor child--poor, pretty child! You are pretty--lovely.
No wonder Maïeddine--but what will you have. Which among our horrid Eastern foods do you hate
least?"

"I don't hate any of them. But don't make me eat or drink now, please, dearest. I couldn't.
By and by. We rested and lunched this side of the city. I don't feel as if I should ever be
hungry again. I'm so----" Victoria stopped. She could not say: "I am so happy," though she
ought to have been able to say that. What was she, then, if not happy? "I'm so excited," she
finished.

Saidee stroked the girl's hand, softly. On hers she wore no ring, not even a wedding ring,
though Cassim had put one on her finger, European fashion, when she was a bride. Victoria remembered
it very well, among the other rings he had given during the short engagement. Now all were
gone. But on the third finger of the left hand was the unmistakable mark a ring leaves if worn
for many years. The thought passed through Victoria's mind that it could not be long since
Saidee had ceased to wear her wedding ring.

"I don't want to be cruel, or frighten you, my poor Babe," she said, "but--you've walked into
a trap in coming here, and I've got to try and save you. Thank heaven my husband's away, but
we've no time to lose. Tell me quickly about Maïeddine. I've heard a good deal of him, from
Cassim, in old days; but tell me all that concerns him and you. Don't skip anything, or I can't
judge."

Saidee's manner was feverishly emphatic, but she did not look at Victoria. She watched her
own hand moving back and forth, restlessly, from the girl's finger-tips, up the slender, bare
wrist, and down again.

Victoria told how she had seen Maïeddine on the boat, coming to Algiers; how he had appeared
later at the hotel, and offered to help her, hinting, rather than saying, that he had been
a friend of Cassim's, and knew where to find Cassim's wife. Then she went on to the story of
the journey through the desert, praising Maïeddine, and hesitating only when she came to the
evening of his confession and threat. But Saidee questioned her, and she answered.

"It came out all right, you see," she finished at last. "I knew it must, even in those few
minutes when I couldn't help feeling a little afraid, because I seemed to be in his power.
But of course I wasn't really. God's power was over his, and he felt it. Things always do come
out right, if you just know they will."

Saidee shivered a little, though her hand on Victoria's was hot. "I wish I could think like
that," she half whispered. "If I could, I----"

"What, dearest?"

"I should be brave, that's all. I've lost my spirit--lost faith, too--as I've lost everything
else. I used to be quite a good sort of girl; but what can you expect after ten years shut
up in a Mussulman harem? It's something in my favour that they never succeeded in 'converting'
me, as they almost always do with a European woman when they've shut her up--just by tiring
her out. But they only made me sullen and stupid. I don't believe in anything now. You talk
about 'God's power.' He's never helped me. I should think 'things came right' more because
Maïeddine felt you couldn't get away from him, then and later, and because he didn't want to
offend the marabout, than because God troubled to interfere. Besides, things haven't come right.
If it weren't for Maïeddine, I might smuggle you away somehow, before the marabout arrives.
But now, Maïeddine will be watching us like a lynx--or like an Arab. It's the same thing where
women are concerned."

"Why should the marabout care what I do?" asked Victoria. "He's nothing to us, is he?--except
that I suppose Cassim must have some high position in his Zaouïa."

"A high position! I forgot, you couldn't know--since Maïeddine hid everything from you. An
Arab man never trusts a woman to keep a secret, no matter how much in love he may be. He was
evidently afraid you'd tell some one the great secret on the way. But now you're here, he won't
care what you find out, because he knows perfectly well that you can never get away."

Victoria started, and turned fully round to stare at her sister with wide, bright eyes. "I
can and I will get away!" she exclaimed. "With you. Never without you, of course. That's why
I came, as I said. To take you away if you are unhappy. Not all the marabouts in Islam can
keep you, dearest, because they have no right over you--and this is the twentieth century,
not hundreds of years ago, in the dark ages."

"Hundreds of years in the future, it will still be the dark ages in Islam. And this marabout
thinks he has a right over me."

"But if you know he hasn't?"

"I'm beginning to know it--beginning to feel it, anyhow. To feel that legally and morally I'm
free. But law and morals can't break down walls."

"I believe they can. And if Cassim----"

"My poor child, when Cassim ben Halim died--at a very convenient time for himself--Sidi El
Hadj Mohammed ben Abd-el-Kadr appeared to claim this maraboutship, left vacant by the third
marabout in the line, an old, old man whose death happened a few weeks before Cassim's. This
present marabout was his next of kin--or so everybody believes. And that's the way saintships
pass on in Islam, just as titles and estates do in other countries. Now do you begin to understand
the mystery?"

"Not quite. I----"

"You heard in Algiers that Cassim had died in Constantinople?"

"Yes. The Governor himself said so."

"The Governor believes so. Every one believes--except a wretched hump-backed idiot in Morocco,
who sold his inheritance to save himself trouble, because he didn't want to leave his home,
or bother to be a marabout. Perhaps he's dead by this time, in one way or another. I shouldn't
be surprised. If he is, Maïeddine and Maïeddine's father, and a few other powerful friends
of Cassim's, are the only ones left who know the truth, even a part of it. And the great Sidi
El Hadj Mohammed himself."

"Oh, Saidee--Cassim is the marabout!"

"Sh! Now you know the secret that's kept me a prisoner in his house long, long after he'd tired
of me, and would have got rid of me if he'd dared--and if he hadn't been afraid in his cruel,
jealous way, that I might find a little happiness in my own country. And worse still, it's
the secret that will keep you a prisoner, too, unless you make up your mind to do the one thing
which can possibly help you."

"What thing?" Victoria could not believe that the answer which darted into her mind was the
one Saidee really meant to give.

Saidee's lips opened, but with the girl's eyes gazing straight into hers, it was harder to
speak than she had thought. Out of them looked a highly sensitive yet brave spirit, so true,
so loving and loyal, that disloyalty to it was a crime--even though another love demanded it.

"I--I hate to tell you," she stammered. "Only, what can I do? If Maïeddine hadn't loved you--but
if he hadn't, you wouldn't be here. And being here, we--we must just face the facts. The man
who calls himself my husband--I can't think of him as being that any more--is like a king in
this country. He has even more power than most kings have nowadays. He'll give you to Maïeddine
when he comes home, if Maïeddine asks him, as of course he will. Maïeddine wouldn't have given
you up, there in the desert, if he hadn't been sure he could bribe the marabout to do exactly
what he wanted."

"But why can't I bribe him?" Victoria persisted, hopefully. "If he's truly tired of you, my
money----"

"He'd laugh at you for offering it, and say you might keep it for a dot. He's too rich to be
tempted with money, unless it was far more than you or I have ever seen. From his oasis alone
he has an income of thousands and thousands of dollars; and presents--large ones and small
ones--come to him from all over North Africa--from France, even. All the Faithful in the desert,
for hundreds of miles around, give him their first and best dates of the year, their first-born
camels, their first foals, and lambs, and mules, in return for his blessing on their palms
and flocks. He has wonderful rugs, and gold plate, and jewels, more than he knows what to do
with, though he's very charitable. He's obliged to be, to keep up his reputation and the reputation
of the Zaouïa. Everything depends on that--all his ambitions, which he thinks I hardly know.
But I do know. And that's why I know that Maïeddine will be able to bribe him. Not with money:
with something Cassim wants and values far more than money. You wouldn't understand what I
mean unless I explained a good many things, and it's hardly the time for explaining more now.
You must just take what I say for granted, until I can tell you everything by and by. But there
are enormous interests mixed up with the marabout's ambitions--things which concern all Africa.
Is it likely he'll let you and me go free to tell secrets that would ruin him and his hopes
for ever?"

"We wouldn't tell."

"Didn't I say that an Arab never trusts a woman? He'd kill us sooner than let us go. And you've
learned nothing about Arab men if you think Maïeddine will give you up and see you walk out
of his life after all the trouble he's taken to get you tangled up in it. That's why we've
got to look facts in the face. You meant to help me, dear, but you can't. You can only make
me miserable, because you've spoiled your happiness for my sake. Poor little Babe, you've wandered
far, far out of the zone of happiness, and you can never get back. All you can do is to make
the best of a bad bargain."

"I asked you to explain that, but you haven't yet."

"You must--promise Maïeddine what he asks, before Cassim comes back from South Oran."

This was the thing Victoria had feared, but could not believe Saidee would propose. She shrank
a little, and Saidee saw it. "Don't misunderstand," the elder woman pleaded in the soft voice
which pronounced English almost like a foreign language. "I tell you, we can't choose what
we want to do, you and I. If you wait for Cassim to be here, it will come to the same thing,
but it will be fifty times worse, because then you'll have the humiliation of being forced
to do what you might seem to do now of your own free will."

"I can't be forced to marry Maïeddine. Nothing could make me do it. He knows that already,
unless----"

"Unless what? Why do you look horrified?"

"There's one thing I forgot to tell you about our talk in the desert. I promised him I would
say 'yes' in case something happened--something I thought then couldn't happen."

"But you find now it could?"

"Oh, no--no, I don't believe it could."

"You'd better tell me what it is."

"That you--I said, I would promise to marry him if you wished it. He asked me to promise that,
and I did, at once."

A slow colour crept over Saidee's face, up to her forehead. "You trusted me," she murmured.

"And I do now--with all my heart. Only you've lived here, out of the world, alone and sad for
so long, that you're afraid of things I'm not afraid of."

"I'm afraid because I know what cause there is for fear. But you're right. My life has made
me a coward. I can't help it."

"Yes, you can--I've come to help you help it."

"How little you understand! They'll use you against me, me against you. If you knew I were
being tortured, and you could save me by marrying Maïeddine, what would you do?"

Victoria's hand trembled in her sister's, which closed on it nervously. "I would marry him
that very minute, of course. But such things don't happen."

"They do. That's exactly what will happen, unless you tell Maïeddine you've made up your mind
to say 'yes'. You can explain that it's by my advice. He'll understand. But he'll respect you,
and won't be furious at your resistance, and want to revenge himself on you in future, as he
will if you wait to be forced into consenting."

Victoria sprang up and walked away, covering her face with her hands. Her sister watched her
as if fascinated, and felt sick as she saw how the girl shuddered. It was like watching a trapped
bird bleeding to death. But she too was in the trap, she reminded herself. Really, there was
no way out, except through Maïeddine. She said this over and over in her mind. There was no
other way out. It was not that she was cruel or selfish. She was thinking of her sister's good.
There was no doubt of that, she told herself: no doubt whatever.

XXXVII

Victoria felt as if all her blood were beating in her brain. She could not think, and dimly
she was glad that Saidee did not speak again. She could not have borne more of those hatefully
specious arguments.

For a moment she stood still, pressing her hands over her eyes, and against her temples. Then,
without turning, she walked almost blindly to a window that opened upon Saidee's garden. The
little court was a silver cube of moonlight, so bright that everything white looked alive with
a strange, spiritual intelligence. The scent of the orange blossoms was lusciously sweet. She
shrank back, remembering the orange-court at the Caïd's house in Ouargla. It was there that
Zorah had prophesied: "Never wilt thou come this way again."

"I'm tired, after all," the girl said dully, turning to Saidee, but leaning against the window
frame. "I didn't realize it before. The perfume--won't let me think."

"You look dreadfully white!" exclaimed Saidee. "Are you going to faint? Lie down here on this
divan. I'll send for something."

"No, no. Don't send. And I won't faint. But I want to think. Can I go out into the air--not
where the orange blossoms are?"

"I'll take you on to the roof," Saidee said. "It's my favourite place--looking over the desert."

She put her arm round Victoria, leading her to the stairway, and so to the roof.

"Are you better?" she asked, miserably. "What can I do for you?"

"Let's not speak for a little while, please. I can think now. Soon I shall be well. Don't be
anxious about me, darling."

Very gently she slipped away from Saidee's arm that clasped her waist; and the softness of
the young voice, which had been sharp with pain, touched the elder woman. She knew that the
girl was thinking more of her, Saidee, than of herself.

Victoria leaned on the white parapet, and looked down over the desert, where the sand rippled
in silvery lines and waves, like water in moonlight.

"The golden silence!" she thought.

It was silver now, not golden; but she knew that this was the place of her dream. On a white
roof like this, she had seen Saidee stand with eyes shaded from the sun in the west; waiting
for her, calling for her, or so she had believed. Poor Saidee! Poor, beautiful Saidee; changed
in soul, though so little changed in face! Could it be that she had never called in spirit
to her sister?

Victoria bowed her head, and tears fell from her eyes upon her cold bare arms, crossed on the
white wall.

Saidee did not want her. Saidee was sorry that she had come. Her coming had only made things worse.

"I wish--" the girl was on the point of saying to herself--"I wish I'd never been born." But
before the words shaped themselves fully in her mind--terrible words, because she had felt
the beauty and sacred meaning of life--the desert spoke to her.

"Saidee does want you," the spirit of the wind and the glimmering sands seemed to say. "If
she had not wanted you, do you think you would have been shown this picture, with your sister
in it, the picture which brought you half across the world? She called once, long ago, and
you heard the call. You were allowed to hear it. Are you so weak as to believe, just because
you're hurt and suffering, that such messages between hearts mean nothing? Saidee may not know
that she wants you, but she does, and needs you more than ever before. This is your hour of
temptation. You thought everything was going to be wonderfully easy, almost too easy, and instead,
it is difficult, that's all. But be brave for Saidee and yourself, now and in days to come,
for you are here only just in time."

The pure, strong wind blowing over the dunes was a tonic to Victoria's soul, and she breathed
it eagerly. Catching at the robe of faith, she held the spirit fast, and it stayed with her.

Suddenly she felt at peace, sure as a child that she would be taught what to do next. There
was her star, floating in the blue lake of the sky, like a water lily, where millions of lesser
lilies blossomed.

"Dear star," she whispered, "thank you for coming. I needed you just then."

"Are you better?" asked Saidee in a choked voice.

Victoria turned away from sky and desert to the drooping figure of the woman, standing in a
pool of shadow, dark as fear and treachery.

"Yes, dearest one, I am well again, and I won't have to worry you any more." The girl gently
wound two protecting arms round her sister.

"What have you decided to do?"

Victoria could feel Saidee's heart beating against her own.

"I've decided to pray about deciding, and then to decide. Whatever's best for you, I will do,
I promise."

"And for yourself. Don't forget that I'm thinking of you. Don't believe it's all cowardice."

"I don't believe anything but good of my Saidee."

"I envy you, because you think you've got Someone to pray to. I've nothing. I'm--alone in the
dark."

Victoria made her look up at the moon which flooded the night with a sea of radiance. "There
is no dark," she said. "We're together--in the light."

"How hopeful you are!" Saidee murmured. "I've left hope so far behind, I've almost forgotten
what it's like."

"Maybe it's always been hovering just over your shoulder, only you forgot to turn and see.
It can't be gone, because I feel sure that truth and knowledge and hope are all one."

"I wonder if you'll still feel so when you've married a man of another race--as I have?"

Victoria did not answer. She had to conquer the little cold thrill of superstitious fear which
crept through her veins, as Saidee's words reminded her of M'Barka's sand-divining. She had
to find courage again from "her star," before she could speak.

"Forgive me, Babe!" said Saidee, stricken by the look in the lifted eyes. "I wish I needn't
remind you of anything horrid to-night--your first night with me after all these years. But
we have so little time. What else can I do?"

"I shall know by to-morrow what we are to do," Victoria said cheerfully. "Because I shall take
counsel of the night."

"You're a very odd girl," the woman reflected aloud. "When you were a tiny thing, you used
to have the weirdest thoughts, and do the quaintest things. I was sure you'd grow up to be
absolutely different from any other human being. And so you have, I think. Only an extraordinary
sort of girl could ever have made her way without help from Potterston, Indiana, to Oued Tolga
in North Africa."

"I had help--every minute. Saidee--did you think of me sometimes, when you were standing here
on this roof?"

"Yes, of course I thought of you often--only not so often lately as at first, because for a
long time now I've been numb. I haven't thought much or cared much about anything, or--or any
one except----"

"Except----"

"Except--except myself, I'm afraid." Saidee's face was turned away from Victoria's. She looked
toward Oued Tolga, the city, whither the carrier-pigeon had flown.

"I wondered," she went on hastily, "what had become of you, and if you were happy, and whether
by this time you'd nearly forgotten me. You were such a baby child when I left you!"

"I won't believe you really wondered if I could forget. You, and thoughts of you, have made
my whole life. I was just living for the time when I could earn money enough to search for
you--and preparing for it, of course, so as to be ready when it came."

Saidee still looked toward Oued Tolga, where the white domes shimmered, far away in the moonlight,
like a mirage. Was love a mirage, too?--the love that called for her over there, the love whose
voice made the strings of her heart vibrate, though she had thought them broken and silent
for ever. Victoria's arms round her felt strong and warm, yet they were a barrier. She was
afraid of the barrier, and afraid of the girl's passionate loyalty. She did not deserve it,
she knew, and she would be more at ease--she could not say happier, because there was no such
word as happiness for her--without it. Somehow she could not bear to talk of Victoria's struggle
to come to her rescue. The thought of all the girl had done made her feel unable to live up
to it, or be grateful. She did not want to be called upon to live up to any standard. She wanted--if
she wanted anything--simply to go on blindly, as fate led. But she felt that near her fate
hovered, like the carrier-pigeon; and some terrible force within herself, which frightened
her, seemed ready to push away or destroy anything that might come between her and that fate.
She knew that she ought to question Victoria about the past years of their separation, one
side of her nature was eager to hear the story. But the other side, which had gained strength
lately, forced her to dwell upon less intimate things.

"I suppose Mrs. Ray managed to keep most of poor father's money?" she said.

"Mrs. Ray died when I was fourteen, and after that Mr. Potter lost everything in speculation,"
the girl answered.

"Everything of yours, too?"

"Yes. But it didn't matter, except for the delay. My dancing--your dancing really, dearest,
because if it hadn't been for you I shouldn't have put my heart into it so--earned me all I
needed."

"I said you were extraordinary! But how queer it seems to hear those names again. Mrs. Ray.
Mr. Potter. They're like names in a dream. How wretched I used to think myself, with Mrs. Ray
in Paris, when she was so jealous and cross! But a thousand times since, I've wished myself
back in those days. I was happy, really. I was free. Life was all before me."

"Dearest! But surely you weren't miserable from the very first, with--with Cassim?"

"No-o. I suppose I wasn't. I was in love with him. It seemed very interesting to be the wife
of such a man. Even when I found that he meant to make me lead the life of an Arab woman, shut
up and veiled, I liked him too well to mind much. He put it in such a romantic way, telling
me how he worshipped me, how mad with jealousy he was even to think of other men seeing my
face, and falling in love with it. He thought every one must fall in love! All girls like men
to be jealous--till they find out how sordid jealousy can be. And I was so young--a child.
I felt as if I were living in a wonderful Eastern poem. Cassim used to give me the most gorgeous
presents, and our house in Algiers was beautiful. My garden was a dream--and how he made love
to me in it! Besides, I was allowed to go out, veiled. It was rather fun being veiled--in those
days, I thought so. It made me feel mysterious, as if life were a masquerade ball. And the
Arab women Cassim let me know--a very few, wives and sisters of his friends--envied me immensely.
I loved that--I was so silly. And they flattered me, asking about my life in Europe. I was
like a fairy princess among them, until--one day--a woman told me a thing about Cassim. She
told me because she was spiteful and wanted to make me miserable, of course, for I found out
afterwards she'd been expressly forbidden to speak, on account of my 'prejudices'--they'd all
been forbidden. I wouldn't believe at first,--but it was true--the others couldn't deny it.
And to prove what she said, the woman took me to see the boy, who was with his grandmother--an
aunt of Maïeddine's, dead now."

"The boy?"

"Oh, I forgot. I haven't explained. The thing she told was, that Cassim had a wife living when
he married me."

"Saidee!--how horrible! How horrible!"

"Yes, it was horrible. It broke my heart." Saidee was tingling with excitement now. Her stiff,
miserable restraint was gone in the feverish satisfaction of speaking out those things which
for years had corroded her mind, like verdigris. She had never been able to talk to anyone
in this way, and her only relief had been in putting her thoughts on paper. Some of the books
in her locked cupboard she had given to a friend, the writer of to-day's letter, because she
had seen him only for a few minutes at a time, and had been able to say very little, on the
one occasion when they had spoken a few words to each other. She had wanted him to know what
a martyrdom her life had been. Involuntarily she talked to her sister, now, as she would have
talked to him, and his face rose clearly before her eyes, more clearly almost than Victoria's,
which her own shadow darkened, and screened from the light of the moon as they stood together,
clasped in one another's arms.

"Cassim thought it all right, of course," she went on. "A Mussulman may have four wives at
a time if he likes--though men of his rank don't, as a rule, take more than one, because they
must marry women of high birth, who hate rivals in their own house. But he was too clever to
give me a hint of his real opinions in Paris. He knew I wouldn't have looked at him again,
if he had--even if he hadn't told me about the wife herself. She had had this boy, and gone
out of her mind afterwards, so she wasn't living with Cassim--that was the excuse he made when
I taxed him with deceiving me. Her father and mother had taken her back. I don't know surely
whether she's living or dead, but I believe she's dead, and her body buried beside the grave
supposed to be Cassim's. Anyhow, the boy's living, and he's the one thing on earth Cassim loves
better than himself."

"When did you find out about--about all this?" Victoria asked, almost whispering.

"Eight months after we were married I heard about his wife. I think Cassim was true to me,
in his way, till that time. But we had an awful scene. I told him I'd never live with him again
as his wife, and I never have. After that day, everything was different. No more happiness--not
even an Arab woman's idea of happiness. Cassim began to hate me, but with the kind of hate
that holds and won't let go. He wouldn't listen when I begged him to set me free. Instead,
he wouldn't let me go out at all, or see anyone, or receive or send letters. He punished me
by flirting outrageously with a pretty woman, the wife of a French officer. He took pains that
I should hear everything, through my servants. But his cruelty was visited on his own head,
for soon there came a dreadful scandal. The woman died suddenly of chloral poisoning, after
a quarrel with her husband on Cassim's account, and it was thought she'd taken too much of
the drug on purpose. The day after his wife's death, the officer shot himself. I think he was
a colonel; and every one knew that Cassim was mixed up in the affair. He had to leave the army,
and it seemed--he thought so himself--that his career was ruined. He sold his place in Algiers,
and took me to a farm-house in the country where we lived for a while, and he was so lonely
and miserable he would have been glad to make up, but how could I forgive him? He'd deceived
me too horribly--and besides, in my own eyes I wasn't his wife. Surely our marriage wouldn't
be considered legal in any country outside Islam, would it? Even you, a child like you, must
see that?"

"I suppose so," Victoria answered, sadly. "But----"

"There's no 'but.' I thought so then. I think so a hundred times more now. My life's been a
martyrdom. No one could blame me if--but I was telling you about what happened after Algiers.
There was a kind of armed truce between us in the country, though we lived only like two acquaintances
under the same roof. For months he had nobody else to talk to, so he used to talk with me--quite
freely sometimes, about a plan some powerful Arabs, friends of his--Maïeddine and his father
among others--were making for him. It sounded like a fairy story, and I used to think he must
be going mad. But he wasn't. It was all true about the plot that was being worked. He knew
I couldn't betray him, so it was a relief to his mind, in his nervous excitement, to confide
in me."

"Was it a plot against the French?"

"Indirectly. That was one reason it appealed to Cassim. He'd been proud of his position in
the army, and being turned out, or forced to go--much the same thing--made him hate France
and everything French. He'd have given his life for revenge, I'm sure. Probably that's why
his friends were so anxious to put him in a place of power, for they were men whose watchword
was 'Islam for Islam.' Their hope was--and is--to turn France out of North Africa. You wouldn't
believe how many there are who hope and band themselves together for that. These friends of
Cassim's persuaded and bribed a wretched cripple--who was next of kin to the last marabout,
and ought to have inherited--to let Cassim take his place. Secretly, of course. It was a very
elaborate plot--it had to be. Three or four rich, important men were in it, and it would have
meant ruin if they'd been found out.

"Cassim would really have come next in succession if it hadn't been for the hunchback, who
lived in Morocco, just over the border. If he had any conscience, I suppose that thought soothed
it. He told me that the real heir--the cripple--had epileptic fits, and couldn't live long,
anyhow. The way they worked their plan out was by Cassim's starting for a pilgrimage to Mecca.
I had to go away with him, because he was afraid to leave me. I knew too much. And it was simpler
to take me than to put me out of the way."

"Saidee--he would never have murdered you?" Victoria whispered.

"He would if necessary--I'm sure of it. But it was safer not. Besides, I'd often told him I
wanted to die, so that was an incentive to keep me alive. I didn't go to Mecca. I left the
farm-house with Cassim, and he took me to South Oran, where he is now. I had to stay in the
care of a marabouta, a terrible old woman, a bigot and a tyrant, a cousin of Cassim's, on his
mother's side, and a sister of the man who invented the whole plot. The idea was that Cassim
should seem to be drowned in the Bosphorus, while staying at Constantinople with friends, after
his pilgrimage to Mecca. But luckily for him there was a big fire in the hotel where he went
to stop for the first night, so he just disappeared, and a lot of trouble was saved. He told
me about the adventure, when he came to Oran. The next move was to Morocco. And from Morocco
he travelled here, in place of the cripple, when the last marabout died, and the heir was called
to his inheritance. That was nearly eight years ago."

"And he's never been found out?"

"No. And he never will be. He's far too clever. Outwardly he's hand in glove with the French.
High officials and officers come here to consult with him, because he's known to have immense
influence all over the South, and in the West, even in Morocco. He's masked, like a Touareg,
and the French believe it's because of a vow he made in Mecca. No one but his most intimate
friends, or his own people, have ever seen the face of Sidi Mohammed since he inherited the
maraboutship, and came to Oued Tolga. He must hate wearing his mask, for he's as handsome as
he ever was, and just as vain. But it's worth the sacrifice. Not only is he a great man, with
everything--or nearly everything--he wants in the world, but he looks forward to a glorious
revenge against the French, whose interests he pretends to serve."

"How can he revenge himself? What power has he to do that?" the girl asked. She had a strange
impression that Saidee had forgotten her, that all this talk of the past, and of the marabout,
was for some one else of whom her sister was thinking.

"He has tremendous power," Saidee answered, almost angrily, as if she resented the doubt. "All
Islam is at his back. The French humour him, and let him do whatever he likes, no matter how
eccentric his ways may be, because he's got them to believe he is trying to help the Government
in the wildest part of Algeria, the province of Oran--and with the Touaregs in the farthest
South; and that he promotes French interests in Morocco. Really, he's at the head of every
religious secret society in North Africa, banded together to turn Christians out of Mussulman
countries. The French have no idea how many such secret societies exist, and how rich and powerful
they are. Their dear friend, the good, wise, polite marabout assures them that rumours of that
sort are nonsense. But some day, when everything's ready--when Morocco and Oran and Algeria
and Tunisia will obey the signal, all together, then they'll have a surprise--and Cassim ben
Halim will be revenged."

"It sounds like the weavings of a brain in a dream," Victoria said.

"It will be a nightmare-dream, no matter how it ends;--maybe a nightmare of blood, and war,
and massacre. Haven't you ever heard, or read, how the Mussulman people expect a saviour, the
Moul Saa, as they call him--the Man of the Hour, who will preach a Holy War, and lead it himself,
to victory?"

"Yes, I've read that----"

"Well, Cassim hopes to be the Moul Saa, and deliver Islam by the sword. I suppose you wonder
how I know such secrets, or whether I do really know them at all. But I do. Some things Cassim
told me himself, because he was bursting with vanity, and simply had to speak. Other things
I've seen in writing--he would kill me if he found out. And still other things I've guessed.
Why, the boys here in the Zaouïa are being brought up for the 'great work,' as they call it.
Not all of them--but the most important ones among the older boys. They have separate classes.
Something secret and mysterious is taught them. There are boys from Morocco and Oran, and sons
of Touareg chiefs--all those who most hate Christians. No other zaouïa is like this. The place
seethes with hidden treachery and sedition. Now you can see where Si Maïeddine's power over
Cassim comes in. The Agha, his father, is one of the few who helped make Cassim what he is,
but he's a cautious old man, the kind who wants to run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
Si Maïeddine's cautious too, Cassim has said. He approves the doctrines of the secret societies,
but he's so ambitious that without a very strong incentive to turn against them, in act he'd
be true to the French. Well, now he has the incentive. You."

"I don't understand," said Victoria. Yet even as she spoke, she began to understand.

"He'll offer to give himself, and to influence the Agha and the Agha's people--the Ouled-Sirren--if
Cassim will grant his wish. And it's no use saying that Cassim can't force you to marry any
man. You told me yourself, a little while ago, that if you saw harm coming to me----"

"Oh don't--don't speak of that again, Saidee!" the girl cried, sharply. "I've told you--yes--that
I'll do anything--anything on earth to save you pain, or more sorrow. But let's hope--let's pray."

"There is no hope. I've forgotten how to pray," Saidee answered, "and God has forgotten me."

XXXVIII

There was no place for a guest in that part of the marabout's house which had been allotted
to Saidee. She had her bedroom and reception-room, her roof terrace, and her garden court.
On the ground floor her negresses lived, and cooked for their mistress and themselves. She
did not wish to have Victoria with her, night and day, and so she had quietly directed Noura
to make up a bed in the room which would have been her boudoir, if she had lived in Europe.
When the sisters came down from the roof, the bed was ready.

In the old time Victoria had slept with her sister; and her greatest happiness as a child had
been the "bed-talks," when Saidee had whispered her secret joys or troubles, and confided in
the little girl as if she had been a "grown-up."

Hardly a night had passed since their parting, that Victoria had not thought of those talks,
and imagined herself again lying with her head on Saidee's arm, listening to stories of Saidee's
life. She had taken it for granted that she would be put in her sister's room, and seeing the
bed made up, and her luggage unpacked in the room adjoining, was a blow. She knew that Saidee
must have given orders, or these arrangements would not have been made, and again she felt
the dreadful sinking of the heart which had crushed her an hour ago. Saidee did not want her.
Saidee was sorry she had come, and meant to keep her as far off as possible. But the girl encouraged
herself once more. Saidee might think now that she would rather have been left alone. But she
was mistaken. By and by she would find out the truth, and know that they needed each other.

"I thought you'd be more comfortable here, than crowded in with me," Saidee explained, blushing
faintly.

"Yes, thank you, dear," said Victoria quietly. She did not show her disappointment, and seemed
to take the matter for granted, as if she had expected nothing else; but the talk on the roof
had brought back something into Saidee's heart which she could not keep out, though she did
not wish to admit it there. She was sorry for Victoria, sorry for herself, and more miserable
than ever. Her nerves were rasped by an intolerable irritation as she looked at the girl, and
felt that her thoughts were being read. She had a hideous feeling, almost an impression, that
her face had been lifted off like a mask, and that the workings of her brain were open to her
sister's eyes, like the exposed mechanism of a clock.

"Noura has brought some food for you," she went on hastily. "You must eat a little, before
you go to bed--to please me."

"I will," Victoria assured her. "You mustn't worry about me at all."

"You'll go to sleep, won't you?--or would you rather talk--while you're eating, perhaps?"

The girl looked at the woman, and saw that her nerves were racked; that she wanted to go, but
did not wish her sister to guess.

"You've talked too much already," Victoria said. "The surprise of my coming gave you a shock.
Now you must rest and get over it, so you can be strong for to-morrow. Then we'll make up our
minds about everything."

"There's only one way to make up our minds," Saidee insisted, dully.

Victoria did not protest. She kissed her sister good-night, and gently refused help from Noura.
Then Saidee went away, followed by the negress, who softly closed the door between the two
rooms. Her mistress had not told her to do this, but when it was done, she did not say, "Open
the door." Saidee was glad that it was shut, because she felt that she could think more freely.
She could not bear the idea that her thoughts and life were open to the criticism of those
young, blue eyes, which the years since childhood had not clouded. Nevertheless, when Noura
had undressed her, and she was alone, she saw Victoria's eyes looking at her sweetly, sadly,
with yearning, yet with no reproach. She saw them as clearly as she had seen a man's face,
a few hours earlier; and now his was dim, as Victoria's face had been dim when his was clear.

It was dark in the room, except for the moon-rays which streamed through the lacelike open-work
of stucco, above the shuttered windows, making jewelled patterns on the wall--pink, green,
and golden, according to the different colours of the glass. There was just enough light to
reflect these patterns faintly in the mirrors set in the closed door, opposite which Saidee
lay in bed; and to her imagination it was as if she could see through the door, into a lighted
place beyond. She wondered if Victoria had gone to bed; if she were sleeping, or if she were
crying softly--crying her heart out with bitter grief and disappointment she would never confess.

Victoria had always been like that, even as a little girl. If Saidee did anything to hurt her,
she made no moan. Sometimes Saidee had teased her on purpose, or tried to make her jealous,
just for fun.

As memories came crowding back, the woman buried her face in the pillow, striving with all
her might to shut them out. What was the use of making herself wretched? Victoria ought to
have come long, long ago, or not at all.

But the blue eyes would look at her, even when her own were shut; and always there was the
faint light in the mirror, which seemed to come through the door.

At last Saidee could not longer lie still. She had to get up and open the door, to see what
her sister was really doing. Very softly she turned the handle, for she hoped that by this
time Victoria was asleep; but as she pulled the door noiselessly towards her, and peeped into
the next room, she saw that one of the lamps was burning. Victoria had not yet gone to bed.
She was kneeling beside it, saying her prayers, with her back towards the door.

So absorbed was she in praying, and so little noise had Saidee made, that the girl heard nothing.
She remained motionless on her knees, not knowing that Saidee was looking at her.

A sharp pain shot through the woman's heart. How many times had she softly opened their bedroom
door, coming home late after a dance, to find her little sister praying, a small, childish
form in a long white nightgown, with quantities of curly red hair pouring over its shoulders!

Sometimes Victoria had gone to sleep on her knees, and Saidee had waked her up with a kiss.

Just as she had looked then, so she looked now, except that the form in the long, white nightgown
was that of a young girl, not a child. But the thick waves of falling hair made it seem childish.

"She is praying for me," Saidee thought; and dared not close the door tightly, lest Victoria
should hear. By and by it could be done, when the light was out, and the girl dropped asleep.

Meanwhile, she tiptoed back to her bed, and sat on the edge of it, to wait. At last the thread
of light, fine as a red-gold hair, vanished from the door; but as it disappeared a line of
moonlight was drawn in silver along the crack. Victoria must have left her windows wide open,
or there would not have been light enough to paint this gleaming streak.

Saidee sat on her bed for nearly half an hour, trying to concentrate her thoughts on the present
and future, yet unable to keep them from flying back to the past, the long-ago past, which
lately had seemed unreal, as if she had dreamed it; the past when she and Victoria had been
all the world to each other.

There was no sound in the next room, and when Saidee was weary of her strained position, she
crossed the floor on tiptoe again, to shut the door. But she could not resist a temptation
to peep in.

It was as she had expected. Victoria had left the inlaid cedar-wood shutters wide open, and
through the lattice of old wrought-iron, moonlight streamed. The room was bright with a silvery
twilight, like a mysterious dawn; but because the bed-linen and the embroidered silk coverlet
were white, the pale radiance focused round the girl, who lay asleep in a halo of moonbeams.

"She looks like an angel," Saidee thought, and with a curious mingling of reluctance and eagerness,
moved softly toward the bed, her little velvet slippers from Tunis making no sound on the thick
rugs.

Very well the older woman remembered an engaging trick of the child's, a way of sleeping with
her cheek in her hand, and her hair spread out like a golden coverlet for the pillow. Just
so she was lying now; and in the moonlight her face was a child's face, the face of the dear,
little, loving child of ten years ago. Like this Victoria had lain when her sister crept into
their bedroom in the Paris flat, the night before the wedding, and Saidee had waked her by
crying on her eyelids. Cassim's unhappy wife recalled the clean, sweet, warm smell of the child's
hair when she had buried her face in it that last night together. It had smelled like grape-leaves
in the hot sun.

"If you don't come back to me, I'll follow you all across the world," the little girl had said.
Now, she had kept her promise. Here she was--and the sister to whom she had come, after a thousand
sacrifices, was wishing her back again at the other end of the world, was planning to get rid
of her.

Suddenly, it was as if the beating of Saidee's heart broke a tight band of ice which had compressed
it. A fountain of tears sprang from her eyes. She fell on her knees beside the bed, crying
bitterly.

"Childie, childie, comfort me, forgive me!" she sobbed.

Victoria woke instantly. She opened her eyes, and Saidee's wet face was close to hers. The
girl said not a word, but wrapped her arms round her sister, drawing the bowed head on to her
breast, and then she crooned lovingly over it, with little foolish mumblings, as she used to
do in Paris when Mrs. Ray's unkindness had made Saidee cry.

"Can you forgive me?" the woman faltered, between sobs.

"Darling, as if there were anything to forgive!" The clasp of the girl's arms tightened. "Now
we're truly together again. How I love you! How happy I am!"

"Don't--I don't deserve it," Saidee stammered. "Poor little Babe! I was cruel to you. And you'd
come so far."

"You weren't cruel!" Victoria contradicted her, almost fiercely.

"I was. I was jealous--jealous of you. You're so young and beautiful--just what I was ten years
ago, only better and prettier. You're what I can never be again--what I'd give the next ten
years to be. Everything's over with me. I'm old--old!"

"You're not to say such things," cried Victoria, horrified. "You weren't jealous. You----"

"I was. I am now. But I want to confess. You must let me confess, if you're to help me."

"Dearest, tell me anything--everything you choose, but nothing you don't choose. And nothing
you say can make me love you less--only more."

"There's a great deal to tell," Saidee said, heavily "And I'm tired--sick at heart. But I can't
rest now, till I've told you."

"Wouldn't you come into bed?" pleaded Victoria humbly. "Then we could talk, the way we used
to talk."

Saidee staggered up from her knees, and the girl almost lifted her on to the bed. Then she
covered her with the thyme-scented linen sheet, and the silk coverlet under which she herself
lay. For a moment they were quite still, Saidee lying with her head on Victoria's arm. But
at last she said, in a whisper, as if her lips were dry: "Did you know I was sorry you'd come?"

"I knew you thought you were sorry," the girl answered. "Yet I hoped that you'd find out you
weren't, really. I prayed for you to find out--soon."

"Did you guess why I was sorry?"

"Not--quite."

"I told you I--that it was for your sake."

"Yes."

"Didn't you believe it?"

"I--felt there was something else, beside."

"There was!" Saidee confessed. "You know now--at least you know part. I was jealous. I am still--but
I'm ashamed of myself. I'm sick with shame. And I do love you!"

"Of course--of course you do, darling."

"But--there's somebody else I love. A man. And I couldn't bear to think he might see you, because
you're so much younger and fresher than I."

"You mean--Cassim?"

"No. Not Cassim."

Silence fell between the two. Victoria did not speak; and suddenly Saidee was angry with her
for not speaking.

"If you're shocked, I won't go on," she said. "You can't help me by preaching."

"I'm not shocked," the girl protested. "Only sorry--so sorry. And even if I wanted to preach,
I don't know how."

"There's nothing to be shocked about," Saidee said, her tears dry, her voice hard as it had
been at first. "I've seen him three times. I've talked with him just once. But we love each
other. It's the first and only real love of my life. I was too young to know, when I met Cassim.
That was a fascination. I was in love with romance. He carried me off my feet, in spite of myself."

"Then, dearest Saidee, don't let yourself be carried off your feet a second time."

"Why not?" Saidee asked, sharply. "What incentive have I to be true to Cassim?"

"I'm not thinking about Cassim. I'm thinking of you. All one's world goes to pieces so, if
one isn't true to oneself."

"He says I can't be true to myself if I stay here. He doesn't consider that I'm Cassim's wife.
I thought myself married, but was I, when he had a wife already? Would any lawyer, or even
clergyman, say it was a legal marriage?"

"Perhaps not," Victoria admitted. "But----"

"Just wait, before you go on arguing," Saidee broke in hotly, "until I've told you something
you haven't heard yet. Cassim has another wife now--a lawful wife, according to his views,
and the views of his people. He's had her for a year. She's a girl of the Ouled Naïl tribe,
brought up to be a dancer. But Cassim saw her at Touggourt, where he'd gone on one of his mysterious
visits. He doesn't dream that I know the whole history of the affair, but I do, and have known,
since a few days after the creature was brought here as his bride. She's as ignorant and silly
as a kitten, and only a child in years. She told her 'love story' to one of her negresses,
who told Noura--who repeated it to me. Perhaps I oughtn't to have listened, but why not?"

Victoria did not answer. The clouds round Saidee and herself were dark, but she was trying
to see the blue beyond, and find the way into it, with her sister.

"She's barely sixteen now, and she's been here a year," Saidee went on. "She hadn't begun to
dance yet, when Cassim saw her, and took her away from Touggourt. Being a great saint is very
convenient. A marabout can do what he likes, you know. Mussulmans are forbidden to touch alcohol,
but if a marabout drinks wine, it turns to milk in his throat. He can fly, if he wants to.
He can even make French cannon useless, and withdraw the bullets from French guns, in case
of war, if the spirit of Allah is with him. So by marrying a girl brought up for a dancer,
daughter of generations of dancing women, he washes all disgrace from her blood, and makes
her a female saint, worthy to live eternally. The beautiful Miluda's a marabouta, if you please,
and when her baby is taken out by the negress who nurses it, silly, bigoted people kneel and
kiss its clothing."

"She has a baby!" murmured Victoria.

"Yes, only a girl, but better than nothing--and she hopes to be more fortunate next time. She
isn't jealous of me, because I've no children, not even a girl, and because for that reason
Cassim could repudiate me if he chose. She little knows how desperately I wish he would. She
believes--Noura says--that he keeps me here only because I have no people to go to, and he's
too kind-hearted to turn me out alone in the world, when my youth's past. You see--she thinks
me already old--at twenty-eight! Of course the real reason that Cassim shuts me up and won't
let me go, is because he knows I could ruin not only him, but the hopes of his people. Miluda
doesn't dream that I'm of so much importance in his eyes. The only thing she's jealous of is
the boy, Mohammed, who's at school in the town of Oued Tolga, in charge of an uncle. Cassim
guesses how Miluda hates the child, and I believe that's the reason he daren't have him here.
He's afraid something might happen, although the excuse he makes is, that he wants his boy
to learn French, and know something of French ways. That pleases the Government--and as for
the Arabs, no doubt he tells them it's only a trick to keep French eyes shut to what's really
going on, and to his secret plans. Now, do you still say I ought to consider myself married
to Cassim, and refuse to take any happiness if I can get it?"

"The thing is, what would make you happy?" Victoria said, as if thinking aloud.

"Love, and life. All that women in Europe have, and take for granted," Saidee answered passionately.

"How could it come to you?" the girl asked.

"I would go to it, and find it with the man who's ready to risk his life to save me from this
hateful prison, and carry me far away. Now, I've told you everything, exactly as it stands.
That's why I was sorry you came, just when I was almost ready to risk the step. I was sure
you'd be horrified if you found out, and want to stop me. Besides, if he should see you--but
I won't say that again. I know you wouldn't try to take him away from me, even if you tried
to take me from him. I don't know why I've told you, instead of keeping the whole thing secret
as I made up my mind to do at first. Nothing's changed. I can't save you from Maïeddine, but--there's
one difference. I would save you if I could. Just at first, I was so anxious for you to be
out of the way of my happiness--the chance of it--that the only thing I longed for was that
you should be gone."

Victoria choked back a sob that rose in her throat, but Saidee felt, rather than heard it,
as she lay with her burning head on the girl's arm.

"I don't feel like that now," she said. "I peeped in and saw you praying--perhaps for me--and
you looked just as you used, when you were a little girl. Then, when I came in, and you were
asleep, I--I couldn't stand it. I broke down. I love you, dear little Babe. The ice is gone
out of my heart. You've melted it. I'm a woman again; but just because I'm a woman, I won't
give up my other love to please you or any one. I tell you that, honestly."

Victoria made no reply for a moment, though Saidee waited defiantly, expecting a protest or
an argument. Then, at last, the girl said: "Will you tell me something about this man?"

Saidee was surprised to receive encouragement. It was a joy to speak of the subject that occupied
all her thoughts, and wonderful to have a confidante.

"He's a captain in the Chasseurs d'Afrique," she said. "But he's not with his regiment. He's
an expert in making desert wells, and draining marshes. That's the business which has brought
him to the far South, now. He's living at Oued Tolga--the town, I mean; not the Zaouïa. A well
had to be sunk in the village, and he was superintending. I watched him from my roof, though
it was too far off to see his face. I don't know exactly what made me do it--I suppose it was
Fate, for Cassim says we all have our fate hung round our necks--but when I went to the Moorish
bath, between here and the village, I let my veil blow away from my face as I passed close
to him and his party of workers. No one else saw, except he. It was only for a second or two,
but we looked straight into each other's eyes; and there was something in his that seemed to
draw my soul out of me. It was as if, in that instant, I told him with a look the whole tragedy
of my life. And his soul sprang to mine. There was never anything like it. You can't imagine
what I felt, Babe."

"Yes. I--think I can," Victoria whispered, but Saidee hardly heard, so deeply was she absorbed
in the one sweet memory of many years.

"It was in the morning," the elder woman went on, "but it was hot, and the sun was fierce as
it beat down on the sand. He had been working, and his face was pale from the heat. It had
a haggard look under brown sunburn. But when our eyes met, a flush like a girl's rushed up
to his forehead. You never saw such a light in human eyes! They were illuminated as if a fire
from his heart was lit behind them. I knew he had fallen in love with me--that something would
happen: that my life would never be the same again.

"The next time I went to the bath, he was there; and though I held my veil, he looked at me
with the same wonderful look, as if he could see through it. I felt that he longed to speak,
but of course he could not. It would have meant my ruin.

"In the baths, there's an old woman named Bakta--an attendant. She always comes to me when
I go there. She's a great character--knows everything that happens in every house, as if by
magic; and loves to talk. But she can keep secrets. She is a match-maker for all the neighbourhood.
When there's a young man of Oued Tolga, or of any village round about, who wants a wife, she
lets him know which girl who comes to the baths is the youngest and most beautiful. Or if a
wife is in love with some one, Bakta contrives to bring letters from him, and smuggle them
to the young woman while she's at the Moorish bath. Well, that day she gave me a letter--a
beautiful letter.

"I didn't answer it; but next time I passed, I opened my veil and smiled to show that I thanked
him. Because he had laid his life at my feet. If there was anything he could do for me, he
would do it, without hope of reward, even if it meant death. Then Bakta gave me another letter.
I couldn't resist answering, and so it's gone on, until I seem to know this man, Honoré Sabine,
better than any one in the world; though we've only spoken together once."

"How did you manage it?" Victoria asked the question mechanically, for she felt that Saidee
expected it of her.

"Bakta managed, and Noura helped. He came dressed like an Arab woman, and pretended to be old
and lame, so that he could crouch down and use a stick as he walked, to disguise his height.
Bakta waited--and we had no more than ten minutes to say everything. Ten hours wouldn't have
been enough!--but we were in danger every instant, and he was afraid of what might happen to
me, if we were spied upon. He begged me to go with him then, but I dared not. I couldn't decide.
Now he writes to me, and he's making a cypher, so that if the letters should be intercepted,
no one could read them. Then he hopes to arrange a way of escape if--if I say I'll do what
he asks."

"Which, of course, you won't," broke in Victoria. "You couldn't, even though it were only for
his sake alone, if you really love him. You'd be too unhappy afterwards, knowing that you'd
ruined his career in the army."

"I'm more to him than a thousand careers!" Saidee flung herself away from the girl's arm. "I
see now," she went on angrily, "what you were leading up to, when you pretended to sympathize.
You were waiting for a chance to try and persuade me that I'm a selfish wretch. I may be selfish,
but--it's as much for his happiness as mine. It's just as I thought it would be. You're puritanical.
You'd rather see me die, or go mad in this prison, than have me do a thing that's unconventional,
according to your schoolgirl ideas."

"I came to take you out of prison," said Victoria.

"And you fell into it yourself!" Saidee retorted quickly. "You broke the spring of the door,
and it will be harder than ever to open. But"--her voice changed from reproach to persuasion--"Honoré
might save us both. If only you wouldn't try to stop my going with him, you might go too. Then
you wouldn't have to marry Maïeddine. There's a chance--just a chance. For heaven's sake do
all you can to help, not to hinder. Don't you see, now that you're here, there are a hundred
more reasons why I must say 'yes' to Captain Sabine?"

"If I did see that, I'd want to die now, this minute," Victoria answered.

"How cruel you are! How cruel a girl can be to a woman. You pretend that you came to help me,
and the one only thing you can do, you refuse to do. You say you want to get me away. I tell
you that you can't--and you can't get yourself away. Perhaps Honoré can do what you can't,
but you'll try to prevent him."

"If I could get you away, would you give him up--until you were free to go to him without spoiling
both your lives?"

"What do you mean?" Saidee asked.

"Please answer my question."

Saidee thought for a moment. "Yes. I would do that. But what's the use of talking about it?
You! A poor little mouse caught in a trap!"

"A mouse once gnawed a net, and set free a whole lion," said Victoria. "Give me a chance to
think, that's all I ask, except--except--that you love me meanwhile. Oh, darling, don't be
angry, will you? I can't bear it, if you are."

Saidee laid her head on the girl's arm once more, and they kissed each other.

XXXIX

Maïeddine did not try to see Victoria, or send her any message.

In spite of M'Barka's vision in the sand, and his own superstition, he was sure now that nothing
could come between him and his wish. The girl was safe in the marabout's house, to which he
had brought her, and it was impossible for her to get away without his help, even if she were
willing to go, and leave the sister whom she had come so far to find. Maïeddine knew what he
could offer the marabout, and knew that the marabout would willingly pay even a higher price
than he meant to ask.

He lived in the guest-house, and had news sometimes from his cousin Lella M'Barka in her distant
quarters. She was tired, but not ill, and the two sisters were very kind to her.

So three days passed, and the doves circled and moaned round the minaret of the Zaouïa mosque,
and were fed at sunset on the white roof, by hands hidden from all eyes save eyes of birds.

On the third day there was great excitement at Oued Tolga.

His procession was watched by women on many roofs--with reverent interest by some; with joy
by one woman who was his wife; with fear and despair by another, who had counted on his absence
for a few days longer. And Victoria stood beside her sister, looking out over the golden silence
towards the desert city of Oued Tolga, with a pair of modern field-glasses sent to her by Si
Maïeddine.

Maïeddine himself went out to meet the marabout, riding El Biod, and conscious of unseen eyes
that must be upon him. He was a notable figure among the hundreds which poured out of town,
and villages, and Zaouïa, in honour of the great man's return; the noblest of all the desert
men in floating white burnouses, who rode or walked, with the sun turning their dark faces
to bronze, their eyes to gleaming jewels. But even Maïeddine himself became insignificant as
the procession from the Zaouïa was joined by that from the city,--the glittering line in the
midst of which Sidi El Hadj Mohammed sat high on the back of a grey mehari.

From very far off Victoria saw the meeting, looking through the glasses sent by Maïeddine,
those which he had given her once before, bidding her see how the distant dunes leaped forward.

Then as she watched, and the procession came nearer, rising and falling among the golden sand-billows,
she could plainly make out the majestic form of the marabout. The sun blazed on the silver
cross of his saddle, and the spear-heads of the banners which waved around him; but he was
dressed with severe simplicity, in a mantle of green silk, with the green turban to which he
had earned the right by visiting Mecca. The long white veil of many folds, which can be worn
only by a descendant of the Prophet, flowed over the green cloak; and the face below the eyes
was hidden completely by a mask of thin black woollen stuff, such as has been named "nun's
veiling" in Europe. He was tall, and no longer slender, as Victoria remembered Cassim ben Halim
to have been ten years ago; but all the more because of his increasing bulk, was his bearing
majestic as he rode on the grey mehari, towering above the crowd. Even the Agha, Si Maïeddine's
father, had less dignity than that of this great saint of the southern desert, returning like
a king to his people, after carrying through a triumphant mission.

"If only he had been a few days later!" Saidee thought.

And Victoria felt an oppressive sense of the man's power, wrapping round her and her sister
like a heavy cloak. But she looked above and beyond him, into the gold, and with all the strength
of her spirit she sent out a call to Stephen Knight.

"I love you. Come to me. Save my sister and me. God, send him to us. He said he would come,
no matter how far. Now is the time. Let him come."

The silence of the golden sea was broken by cries of welcome to the marabout, praises of Allah
and the Prophet who had brought him safely back, shouts of men, and wailing "you-yous" of women,
shrill voices of children, and neighing of horses.

Up the side of the Zaouïa hill, lame beggars crawled out of the river bed, each hurrying to
pass the others--hideous deformities, legless, noseless, humpbacked, twisted into strange shapes
like brown pots rejected by the potter, groaning, whining, eager for the marabout's blessing,
a supper, and a few coins. Those who could afford a copper or two were carried through the
shallow water on the backs of half-naked, sweating Negroes from the village; but those who
had nothing except their faith to support them, hobbled or crept over the stones, wetting their
scanty rags; laughed at by black and brown children who feared to follow, because of the djinn
who lived in a cave of evil yellow stones, guarding a hidden spring which gushed into the river.

On Miluda's roof there was music, which could be heard from another roof, nearer the minaret
where the doves wheeled and moaned; and perhaps the marabout himself could hear it, as he approached
the Zaouïa; but though it called him with a song of love and welcome, he did not answer the
call at once. First he took Maïeddine into his private reception room, where he received only
the guests whom he most delighted to honour.

There, though the ceiling and walls were decorated in Arab fashion, with the words, El Afia
el Bakia, "eternal health," inscribed in lettering of gold and red, opposite the door, all
the furniture was French, gilded, and covered with brocade of scarlet and gold. The curtains
draped over the inlaid cedar-wood shutters of the windows were of the same brocade, and the
beautiful old rugs from Turkey and Persia could not soften its crudeness. The larger reception
room from which this opened had still more violent decorations, for there the scarlet mingled
with vivid blue, and there were curiosities enough to stock a museum--presents sent to the
marabout from friends and admirers all over the world. There were first editions of rare books,
illuminated missals, dinner services of silver and gold, Dresden and Sèvres, and even Royal
Worcester; splendid crystal cases of spoons and jewellery; watches old and new; weapons of
many countries, and an astonishing array of clocks, all ticking, and pointing to different
hours. But the inner room, which only the intimate friends of Sidi Mohammed ever saw, was littered
with no such incongruous collection. On the walls were a few fine pictures by well-known French
artists of the most modern school, mostly representing nude women; for though the Prophet forbade
the fashioning of graven images, he made no mention of painting. There were comfortable divans,
and little tables, on which were displayed boxes of cigars and cigarettes, and egg-shell coffee-cups
in filigree gold standards.

In this room, behind shut doors, Maïeddine told his errand, not forgetting to enumerate in
detail the great things he could do for the Cause, if his wish were granted. He did not speak
much of Victoria, or his love for her, but he knew that the marabout must reckon her beauty
by the price he was prepared to pay; and he gave the saint little time to picture her fascinations.
Nor did Sidi Mohammed talk of the girl, or of her relationship to one placed near him; and
his face (which he unmasked with a sigh of relief when he and his friend were alone) did not
change as he listened, or asked questions about the services Maïeddine would render the Cause.
At first he seemed to doubt the possibility of keeping such promises, some of which depended
upon the Agha; but Maïeddine's enthusiasm inspired him with increasing confidence. He spoke
freely of the great work that was being done by the important societies of which he was the
head; of what he had accomplished in Oran, and had still to accomplish; of the arms and ammunition
smuggled into the Zaouïa and many other places, from France and Morocco, brought by the "silent
camels" in rolls of carpets and boxes of dates. But, he added, this was only a beginning. Years
must pass before all was ready, and many more men, working heart and soul, night and day, were
needed. If Maïeddine could help, well and good. But would the Agha yield to his influence?

"Not the Agha," Maïeddine answered, "but the Agha's people. They are my people, too, and they
look to me as their future head. My father is old. There is nothing I cannot make the Ouled-Sirren
do, nowhere I cannot bid them go, if I lead."

"And wilt thou lead in the right way? If I give thee thy desire, wilt thou not forget, when
it is already thine?" the marabout asked. "When a man wears a jewel on his finger, it does
not always glitter so brightly as when he saw and coveted it first."

"Not always. But in each man's life there is one jewel, supreme above others, to possess which
he eats the heart, and which, when it is his, becomes the star of his life, to be worshipped
forever. Once he has seen the jewel, the man knows that there is nothing more glorious for
him this side heaven; that it is for him the All of joy, though to others, perhaps, it might
not seem as bright. And there is nothing he would not do to have and to keep it."

The marabout looked intently at Maïeddine, searching his mind to the depths; and the face of
each man was lit by an inner flame, which gave nobility to his expression. Each was passionately
sincere in his way, though the way of one was not the way of the other.

In his love Maïeddine was true, according to the light his religion and the unchanging customs
of his race had given him. He intended no wrong to Victoria, and as he was sure that his love
was an honour for her, he saw no shame in taking her against what she mistakenly believed to
be her wish. Her confession of love for another man had shocked him at first, but now he had
come to feel that it had been but a stroke of diplomacy on her part, and he valued her more
than ever for her subtlety. Though he realized dimly that with years his passion for her might
cool, it burned so hotly now that the world was only a frame for the picture of her beauty.
And he was sure that never in time to come could he forget the thrill of this great passion,
or grudge the price he now offered and meant to pay.

Cassim ben Halim had begun his crusade under the name and banner of the marabout, in the fierce
hope of revenge against the power which broke him, and with an entirely selfish wish for personal
aggrandizement. But as the years went on, he had converted himself to the fanaticism he professed.
Still a selfish sensualist on one side of his nature, there was another side capable of high
courage and self-sacrifice for the one cause which now seemed worth a sacrifice. To the triumph
of Islam over usurpers he was ready to devote his life, or give his life; but having no mercy
upon himself if it came to a question between self and the Cause, he had still less mercy upon
others, with one exception; his son. Unconsciously, he put the little boy above all things,
all aims, all people. But as for Saidee's sister, the child he remembered, who had been foolish
enough and irritating enough to find her way to Oued Tolga, he felt towards her, in listening
to the story of her coming, as an ardent student might feel towards a persistent midge which
disturbed his studies. If the girl could be used as a pawn in his great game, she had a certain
importance, otherwise none--except that her midge-like buzzings must not annoy him, or reach
ears at a distance.

Both men were naturally schemers, and loved scheming for its own sake, but never had either
pitted his wits against the other with less intention of hiding his real mind. Each was in
earnest, utterly sincere, therefore not ignoble; and the bargain was struck between the two
with no deliberate villainy on either side. The marabout promised his wife's sister to Maïeddine
with as little hesitation as a patriarch of Israel, three thousand years ago, would have promised
a lamb for the sacrificial altar. He stipulated only that before the marriage Maïeddine should
prove, not his willingness, but his ability to bring his father's people into the field.

"Go to the douar," he said, "and talk with the chief men. Then bring back letters from them,
or send if thou wilt, and the girl shall be thy wife. I shall indeed be gratified by the connection
between thine illustrious family and mine."

Maïeddine had expected this, though he had hoped that his eloquence might persuade the marabout
to a more impulsive agreement. "I will do what thou askest," he answered, "though it means
delay, and delay is hard to bear. When I passed through the douar, my father's chief caïds
were on the point of leaving for Algiers, to do honour to the Governor by showing themselves
at the yearly ball. They will have started before I can reach the douar again, by the fastest
travelling, for as thou knowest, I should be some days on the way."

"Go then to Algiers, and meet them. That is best, and will be quicker, since journeying alone,
thou canst easily arrive at Touggourt in three days from here. In two more, by taking a carriage
and relays of horses, thou canst be at Biskra; and after that, there remains but the seventeen
hours of train travelling."

"How well thou keepest track of all progress, though things were different when thou wast last
in the north," Maïeddine said.

"It is my business to know all that goes on in my own country, north, south, east, and west.
When wilt thou start?"

"To-night."

"Thou art indeed in earnest! Thou wilt of course pay thine own respects to the Governor? I
will send him a gift by thee, since there is no reason he should not know that we have met.
The mission on which thou wert ostensibly travelling brought thee to the south."

"I will take thy gift and messages with pleasure." Maïeddine said. "It was expected that I
should return for the ball, and present myself in place of my father, who is too old now for
such long journeys; but I intended to make my health an excuse for absence. I should have pleaded
a touch of the sun, and a fever caught in the marshes while carrying out the mission. Indeed,
it is true that I am subject to fever. However, I will go, since thou desirest. The ball, which
was delayed, is now fixed for a week from to-morrow. I will show myself for some moments, and
the rest of the night I can devote to a talk with the caïds. I know what the result will be.
And a fortnight from to-morrow thou wilt see me here again with the letters."

"I believe thou wilt not fail," the marabout answered. "And neither will I fail thee."

XL

On the night of the Governor's ball, it was four weeks to the day since Stephen Knight and
Nevill Caird had inquired for Victoria Ray at the Hotel de la Kasbah, and found her gone.

For rather more than a fortnight, they had searched for her quietly without applying to the
police; but when at the end of that time, no letter had come, or news of any kind, the police
were called into consultation. Several supposed clues had been followed, and had led to nothing;
but Nevill persuaded Stephen to hope something from the ball. If any caïds of the south knew
that Roumis had a secret reason for questioning them, they would pretend to know nothing, or
give misleading answers; but if they were drawn on to describe their own part of the country,
and the facilities for travelling through it, news of those who had lately passed that way
might be inadvertently given.

Stephen was no longer in doubt about his feelings for Victoria. He knew that he had loved her
ever since the day when she came to Nevill's house, and they talked together in the lily garden.
He knew that the one thing worth living for was to find her; but he expected no happiness from
seeing her again, rather the contrary. Margot would soon be coming back to England from Canada,
and he planned to meet her, and keep all his promises. Only, he must be sure first that Victoria
Ray was safe. He had made up his mind by this time that, if necessary, Margot would have to
wait for him. He would not leave Algeria until Victoria had been found. It did not matter whether
this decision were right or wrong, he would stick to it. Then, he would atone by doing as well
as he could by Margot. She should have no cause of complaint against him in the future, so
far as his love for Victoria was concerned; but he did not mean to try and kill it. Love for
such a girl was too sacred to kill, even though it meant unhappiness for him. Stephen meant
to guard it always in his heart, like a lamp to light him over the dark places; and there would
be many dark places he knew in a life lived with Margot.

Through many anxious days he looked forward to the Governor's ball, pinning his faith to Nevill's
predictions; but when the moment came, his excitement fell like the wind at sunset. It did
not seem possible that, after weeks of suspense, he should have news now, or ever. He went
with Nevill to the summer palace, feeling dull and depressed. But perhaps the depression was
partly the effect of a letter from Margot Lorenzi in Canada, received that morning. She said
that she was longing to see him, and "hurrying all she knew," to escape from her friends, and
get back to "dear London, and her darling White Knight."

"I'm an ass to expect anything from coming here," he thought, as he saw the entrance gates
of the palace park blazing with green lights in a trellis of verdure. The drive and all the
paths that wound through the park were bordered with tiny lamps, and Chinese lanterns hung
from the trees. There was sure to be a crush, and it seemed absurd to hope that even Nevill's
cajoleries could draw serious information from Arab guests in such a scene as this.

The two young men went into the palace, passing through a big veranda where French officers
were playing bridge, and on into a charming court, where Turkish coffee was being served. Up
from this court a staircase led to the room where the Governor was receiving, and at each turn
of the stairs stood a Spahi in full dress uniform, with a long white haïck. Nevill was going
on ahead, meaning to introduce Stephen to the Governor before beginning his search for acquaintances
among the Arab chiefs who grouped together over the coffee cups. But, turning to speak to Stephen,
who had been close behind at starting, he found that somehow they had been swept apart. He
stepped aside to wait for his friend, and let the crowd troop past him up the wide staircase.
Among the first to go by was an extremely handsome Arab wearing a scarlet cloak heavy with
gold embroidery, thrown over a velvet coat so thickly encrusted with gold that its pale-blue
colour showed only here and there. He held his turbaned head proudly, and, glancing at Caird
as he passed, seemed not to see him, but rather to see through him something more interesting
beyond.

Nevill still waited for his friend, but fully two minutes had gone before Stephen appeared.
"Did you see that fellow in the red cloak?" he asked. "That was the Arab of the ship."

"Si Maïeddine----"

"Yes. Did you notice a queer brooch that held his cloak together? A wheel-like thing, set with
jewels?"

"No. He hadn't it on. His cloak was hanging open."

"By Jove! You're sure?"

"Certain. I saw the whole breast of his coat."

"That settles it, then. He did recognize me. Hang it, I wish he hadn't."

"I don't know what's in your mind exactly. But I suppose you'll tell me."

"Rather. But no time now. We mustn't lose sight of him if we can help it. I wanted to follow
him up, on the instant, but didn't dare, for I hoped he'd think I hadn't spotted him. He can't
be sure, anyhow, for I had the presence of mind not to stare. Let's go up now. He was on his
way to pay his respects to the Governor, I suppose. He can't have slipped away yet."

"It would seem not," Nevill assented, thoughtfully.

But a few minutes later, it seemed that he had. And Nevill was not surprised, for in the last
nine years he had learned never to wonder at the quick-witted diplomacy of Arabs. Si Maïeddine
had made short work of his compliments to the Governor, and had passed out of sight by the
time that Stephen Knight and Nevill Caird escaped from the line of Europeans and gorgeous Arabs
pressing towards their host. It was not certain, however, that he had left the palace. His
haste to get on might be only a coincidence, Nevill pointed out. "Frenchified Arabs" like Si
Maïeddine, he said, were passionately fond of dancing with European women, and very likely
Maïeddine was anxious to secure a waltz with some Frenchwomen of his acquaintance.

The two Englishmen went on as quickly as they could, without seeming to hurry, and looked for
Maïeddine in the gaily decorated ball-room where a great number of Europeans and a few Arabs
were dancing. Maïeddine would have been easy to find there, for his high-held head in its white
turban must have towered above most other heads, even those of the tallest French officers;
but he was not to be seen, and Nevill guided Stephen out of the ball-room into a great court
decorated with palms and banners, and jewelled with hundreds of coloured lights that turned
the fountain into a spouting rainbow.

Pretty women sat talking with officers in uniforms, and watching the dancers as they strolled
out arm in arm, to walk slowly round the flower-decked fountain. Behind the chatting Europeans
stood many Arab chiefs of different degree, bach aghas, aghas, caïds and adels, looking on
silently, or talking together in low voices; and compared with these stately, dark men in their
magnificent costumes blazing with jewels and medals, the smartest French officers were reduced
to insignificance. There were many handsome men, but Si Maïeddine was not among them.

"We've been told that he's persona grata here," Nevill reminded Stephen, "and there are lots
of places where he may be in the palace, that we can't get to. He's perhaps hob-nobbing with
some pal, having a private confab, and maybe he'll turn up at supper."

"He doesn't look like a man to care about food, I will say that for him," answered Stephen.
"He's taken the alarm, and sneaked off without giving me time to track him. I'll bet anything
that's the fact. Hiding the brooch is a proof he saw me, I'm afraid. Smart of him! He thought
my friend would be somewhere about, and he'd better get rid of damaging evidence."

"You haven't explained the brooch, yet."

"I forgot. It's one she wore on the boat--and that day at your house--Miss Ray, I mean. She
told me about it; said it had been a present from Ben Halim to her sister, who gave it to her."

"Sure you couldn't mistake it? There's a strong family likeness in Arab jewellery."

"I'm sure. And even if I hadn't been at first, I should be now, from that chap's whisking it
off the instant he set eyes on me. His having it proves a lot. As she wore the thing at your
house, he must have got it somehow after we saw her. Jove, Nevill, I'd like to choke him!"

"If you did, he couldn't tell what he knows."

"I'm going to find out somehow. Come along, no use wasting time here now, trying to get vague
information out of Arab chiefs. We can learn more by seeing where this brute lives, than by
catechizing a hundred caïds."

"It's too late for him to get away from Algiers to-night by train, anyhow," said Nevill. "Nothing
goes anywhere in particular. And look here, Legs, if he's really onto us, he won't have made
himself scarce without leaving some pal he can trust, to see what we're up to."

"There were two men close behind who might have been with him," Stephen remembered aloud.

"Would you recognize them?"

"I--think so. One of the two, anyhow. Very dark, hook-nosed, middle-aged chap, pitted with
smallpox."

"Then you may be sure he's chosen the less noticeable one. No good our trying to find Maïeddine
himself, if he's left the palace; though I hope, by putting our heads and Roslin's together,
that among the three of us we shall pick him up later. But if he's left somebody here to keep
an eye on us, our best course is to keep an eye on that somebody. They'll have to communicate."

"You're right," Stephen admitted. "I'm vague about the face, but I'll force myself to recognize
it. That's the sort of thing Miss Ray would do. She's got some quaint theory about controlling
your subconscious self. Now I'll take a leaf out of her book. By Jove--there's one of the men
now. Don't look yet. He doesn't seem to notice us, but who knows? He's standing by the door,
under a palm. Let's go back into the ball-room, and see if he follows."

But to "see if he followed" was more easily said than done. The Arab, a melancholy and grizzled
but dignified caïd of the south, contrived to lose himself in a crowd of returning dancers,
and it was not until later that the friends saw him in the ball-room, talking to a French officer
and having not at all the air of one who spied or followed. Whether he remained because they
remained was hard to say, for the scene was amusing and many Arabs watched it; but he showed
no sign of restlessness, and it began to seem laughable to Nevill that, if he waited for them,
they would be forced to wait for him. Eventually they made a pretence of eating supper. The
caïd was at the buffet with an Arab acquaintance. The Englishmen lingered so long, that in
the end he walked away; yet they were at his beck and call. They must go after him, if he went
before them, and it was irritating to see that, when he had taken respectful leave of his host,
the sad-faced caïd proceeded quietly out of the palace as if he had nothing to conceal. Perhaps
he had nothing or else, suspecting the game, he was forcing the hand of the enemy. Stephen
and Nevill had to follow, if they would keep him in sight; and though they walked as far behind
as possible, passing out of the brilliantly lighted park, they could not be sure that he did
not guess they were after him.

They had walked the short distance from Djenan el Djouad to the Governor's summer palace; and
now, outside the gates, the caïd turned to the left, which was their way home also. This was
lucky, because, if the man were on the alert, and knew where Nevill lived, he would have no
reason to suppose they took this direction on his account.

But he had not gone a quarter of a mile when he stopped, and rang at a gate in a high white wall.

"Djenan el Taleb," mumbled Nevill. "Perhaps Si Maïeddine's visiting there--or else this old
beggar is."

"Is it an Arab's house?" Stephen wanted to know.

"Was once--long ago as pirate days. Now a Frenchman owns it--Monsieur de Mora--friend of the
Governor's. Always puts up several chiefs at the time of the ball."

The gate opened to let the caïd in and was shut again.

"Hurrah!--just thought of a plan," exclaimed Nevill. "I don't think De Mora can have got home
yet from the palace. I saw him having supper. Suppose I dart back, flutter gracefully round
him, babble 'tile talk' a bit--he's a tile expert after my own heart--then casually ask what
Arabs he's got staying with him. If Maïeddine's in his house it can't be a secret--incidentally
I may find out where the fellow comes from and where he's going."

"Good!" said Stephen. "I'll hang about in the shadow of some tree and glue my eye to this gate.
Is there any other way out?"

"There is; but not one a visitor would be likely to take, especially if he didn't want to be
seen. It opens into a street where a lot of people might be standing to peer into the palace
grounds and hear the music. Now run along, Legs, and find a comfortable shadow. I'm off."

He was gone three-quarters of an hour, but nothing happened meanwhile. Nobody went in at the
gate, or came out, and the time dragged for Stephen. He thought of a hundred dangers that might
be threatening Victoria, and it seemed that Caird would never come. But at last he saw the
boyish figure, hurrying along under the light of a street-lamp.

"Couldn't find De Mora at first--then had to work slowly up to the subject," Nevill panted.
"But it's all right. Maïeddine is stopping with him--leaves to-morrow or day after; supposed
to have come from El Aghouat, and to be going back there. But that isn't to say either supposition's
true."

"We must find out where he's going--have him watched," said Stephen.

"Yes. Only, the trouble is, if he's on to the game, it's just what he'll expect. But I've been
thinking how we may be able to bluff--make him think it was his guilty conscience tricked him
to imagine our interest in his movements. You know I'm giving a dinner to-morrow night to a
few people?"

"Yes. Lady MacGregor told me."

"Well, a Mademoiselle Vizet, a niece of De Mora's, is coming, so that gave me a chance to mention
the dinner to her uncle. Maïeddine can easily hear about it, if he chooses to inquire what's
going on at my house. And I said something else to De Mora, for the benefit of the same gentleman.
I hope you'll approve."

"Sure to. What was it?"

"That I was sorry my friend, Mr. Knight, had got news which would call him away from Algiers
before the dinner. I said you'd be going on board the Charles Quex to-morrow when she leaves
for Marseilles."

"But Maïeddine can find out----"

"That's just what we want. He can find out that your ticket's taken, if we do take it. He can
see you go on board if he likes to watch or send a spy. But he mustn't see you sneaking off
again with the Arab porters who carry luggage. If you think anything of the plan, you'll have
to stand the price of a berth, and let some luggage you can do without, go to Marseilles. I'll
see you off, and stop on board till the last minute. You'll be in your cabin, putting on the
clothes I wear sometimes when I want some fun in the old town--striped wool burnous, hood over
your head, full white trousers--good 'props,' look a lot the worse for wear--white stockings
like my Kabyle servants have; and you can rub a bit of brown grease-paint on your legs where
the socks leave off. That's what I do. Scheme sounds complicated; but so is an Arab's brain.
You've got to match it. What do you say?"

"I say 'done!'" Stephen answered.

"Thought you would. Some fellows'd think it too sensational; but you can't be too sensational
with Arabs, if you want to beat 'em. This ought to put Maïeddine off the scent. If he's watching,
and sees you--as he thinks--steam calmly out of Algiers harbour, and if he knows I'm entertaining
people at my house, he won't see why he need go on bothering himself with extra precautions."

"Right. But suppose he's off to-morrow morning--or even to-night."

"Then we needn't bother about the boat business. For we shall know if he goes. Either you or
I must now look up Roslin. Perhaps it had better be I, because I can run into Djenan el Djouad
first, and send my man Saunders to watch De Mora's other gate, and make assurance doubly sure."

"You're a brick, Wings," said Stephen.

XLI

Lady MacGregor had sat up in order to hear the news, and was delighted with Nevill's plan,
especially the part which concerned Stephen, and his proposed adventure on the Charles Quex.
Even to hear about it, made her feel young again, she said. Nothing ever happened to her or
to Nevill when they were alone, and they ought to be thankful to Stephen for stirring them
up. Not one of the three had more than two hours' sleep that night, but according to her nephew,
Lady MacGregor looked sweet sixteen when she appeared at an unusually early hour next morning.
"No breakfast in bed for me to-day, or for days to come," said she. "I'll have my hands full
every instant getting through what I've got to do, I can tell you. Hamish and Angus are worried
about my health, but I say to them they needn't grudge me a new interest in life. It's very
good for me."

"Why, what have you got to do?" ventured Nevill, who was ready to go with Stephen and buy a
berth on board the Charles Quex the moment the office opened.

Lady MacGregor looked at him mysteriously. "Being men, I suppose neither of you would guess,"
she replied. "But you shall both know after Stephen's adventure is over. I hope you'll like
the idea. But if you don't I'm sorry to say it won't make any difference."

The so-called "adventure" had less of excitement in it than had been in the planning. It was
faithfully carried out according to Nevill's first suggestion, with a few added details, but
Stephen felt incredibly foolish, rather like a Guy Fawkes mummer, or a masked and bedizened
guest arriving by mistake the night after the ball. So far as he could see, no one was watching.
All his trouble seemed to be for nothing, and he felt that he had made a fool of himself, even
when it was over, and he had changed into civilized clothing, in a room in the old town, taken
by Adolphe Roslin, the detective. It was arranged for Stephen to wait there, until Roslin could
give him news of Si Maïeddine's movements, lest the Arab should be subtle enough to suspect
a trick, after all.

Toward evening the news came. Maïeddine had taken a ticket for Biskra, and a sleeping berth
in the train which would leave at nine o'clock. Nevertheless, Roslin had a man watching Monsieur
de Mora's house, in case the buying of the ticket were a "bluff," or Si Maïeddine should change
his plans at the last minute.

Nevill had come in, all excitement, having bought cheap "antique" jewellery in a shop downstairs,
by way of an excuse to enter the house. He was with Stephen when Roslin arrived, and they consulted
together as to what should be done next.

"Roslin must buy me a ticket for Biskra, of course," said Stephen. "I'll hang about the station
in an overcoat with my collar turned up and a cap over my eyes. If Maïeddine gets into the
train I'll get in too, at a respectful distance of course, and keep an eye open to see what
he does at each stop."

"There's a change of trains, to-morrow morning," remarked Nevill. "There'll be your difficulty,
because after you're out of one train you have to wait for the other. Easy to hide in Algiers
station, and make a dash for the end of the train when you're sure of your man. But in a little
open, road-side halting-place, in broad daylight, you'll have to be sharp if you don't want
him to spot you. Naturally he'll keep his eyes as wide open, all along the line, as you will,
even though he does think you're on the way to Marseilles."

"If you're working up to a burnous and painted legs for me again, my dear chap, it's no good,"
Stephen returned with the calmness of desperation. "I've done with that sort of nonsense; but
I won't trust myself out of the train till I see the Arab's back. Then I'll make a bolt for
it and dodge him, till the new train's run along the platform and he's safely in it."

"Monsieur has confidence in himself as a detective," smiled Roslin.

Knight could have given a sarcastic answer, since the young man from Marseilles had not made
much progress with the seemingly simple case put into his hands a month ago. But both he and
Nevill had come to think that the case was not simple, and they were lenient with Roslin. "I
hope I'm not conceited," Stephen defended himself, "but I do feel that I can at least keep
my end up against this nigger, anyhow till the game's played out so far that he can't stop it."

"And till I'm in it with you," Nevill finished. "By the way, that reminds me. Some one else
intends to play the game with us, whether we like or not."

"Who?" asked Stephen, surprised and half defiant.

"My aunt. That's the mystery she was hinting at. You know how unnaturally quiet she was while
we arranged that you should look after Maïeddine, on your own, till the dinner-party was over,
anyhow, and I could get off, on a wire from you--wherever you might be?"

"Yes. She seemed interested."

"And busy. Her 'great work' was getting herself ready to follow you with me, in the car."

"Magnificent!" said Stephen. "And like her. Hurrah for Lady MacGregor!"

"I'm glad you take it that way. I wasn't sure you would, which might have made things awkward
for me; because when my aunt wants to do a thing, you know by this time as well as I do, it's
as good as done."

"But it's splendid--if she can stand the racket. Of course her idea is, that if we find Miss
Ray she oughtn't to come back alone with us, perhaps a long way, from some outlandish hole."

"You've got it. That's her argument. Or rather, her mandate. And I believe she's quite able
to stand the racket. Her state of mind is such, that if she looked sixteen in the morning,
this afternoon she's gone back to fifteen."

"Wonderful old lady! But she's so fragile--and has nervous headaches----"

"She won't have any in my motor car."

"But Hamish and Angus. Can she get on without them?"

"She intends to have them follow her by train, with luggage. She says she has a 'feeling in
her bones' that they'll come in handy, either for cooking or fighting. And by Jove, she may
be right. She often is. If you go to Biskra and wire when you get there, I'll start at once--we'll
start, I mean. And if Maïeddine goes on anywhere else, and you follow to keep him in sight,
I'll probably catch you up with the car, because the railway line ends at Biskra, you know;
and beyond, there are only horses or camels."

"Can motors go farther?"

"They can to Touggourt--with 'deeficulty,' as the noble twins would say."

"Maïeddine may take a car."

"Not likely. Though there's just a chance he might get some European friend with a motor to
give him a lift. In that case, you'd be rather stuck."

"Motor cars leave tracks," said Stephen.

"Especially in the desert, where they are quite conspicuous," Nevill agreed. "My aunt will
be enchanted with your opinion of her and her plan--but not surprised. She thinks you've twice
my sense and knowledge of the world."

Nevill usually enjoyed his own dinner-parties, for he was a born host, and knew that guests
were happy in his house. That night, however, was an exception. He was absent-minded, and pulled
his moustache, and saw beautiful things in the air over people's heads, so often that not only
Lady MacGregor but Angus and Hamish glared at him threateningly. He then did his best to atone;
nevertheless, for once he was delighted when every one had gone. At last he was able to read
for the second time a letter from Roslin, sent in while dinner was in progress. There had been
only time for a glance at it, by begging his friends' indulgence for an instant, while he bolted
the news that Stephen had followed Maïeddine to Biskra. Now, Nevill and Lady MacGregor both
hugely enjoyed the details given by Roslin from the report of an employé; how cleverly Monsieur
had kept out of sight, though the Arab had walked up and down the platform, with two friends,
looking about keenly. How, when Maïeddine was safely housed in his compartment, his companions
looking up to his window for a last word, Monsieur Knight had whisked himself into a second-class
compartment at the other end of the train.

Next day, about four o'clock, a telegram was brought to Djenan el Djouad. It came from Biskra,
and said: "Arrived here. Not spotted. He went house of French commandant with no attempt at
concealment. Am waiting. Will wire again soon as have news. Perhaps better not start till you
hear."

An hour and a half later a second blue envelope was put into Nevill's hand.

"He and an officer leave for Touggourt in private carriage three horses relays ordered. Have
interviewed livery stable. They start at five will travel all night. I follow."

"Probably some officer was going on military business, and Maïeddine's asked for a lift," Nevill
said to Lady MacGregor. "Well, it's too late for us to get away now; but we'll be off as early
as you like to-morrow morning."

"If I weren't going, would you start to-day?" his aunt inquired.

"Yes, I suppose so. But----"

"Then please give orders for the car. I'm ready to leave at five minutes' notice, and I can
go on as long as you can. I'm looking forward to the trip."

"But I've often offered to take you to Biskra."

"That's different. Now I've got an incentive."

XLII

Just as he came in sight of the great chott between Biskra and Touggourt, Stephen heard a sound
which struck him strangely in the silence of the desert. It was the distant teuf-teuf of a
powerful motor car, labouring heavily through deep sand.

Stephen was travelling in a carriage, which he had hired in Biskra, and was keeping as close
as he dared to the vehicle in front, shared by Maïeddine and a French officer. But he never
let himself come within sight or sound of it. Now, as he began to hear the far-off panting
of a motor, he saw nothing ahead but the vast saltpetre lake, which, viewed from the hill his
three horses had just climbed, shimmered blue and silver, like a magic sea, reaching to the
end of the world. There were white lines like long ruffles of foam on the edges of azure waves,
struck still by enchantment while breaking on an unseen shore; and far off, along a mystic
horizon, little islands floated on the gleaming flood. Stephen could hardly believe that there
was no water, and that his horses could travel the blue depths without wetting their feet.

It was just as he was thinking thus, and wondering if Victoria had passed this way, when the
strange sound came to his ears, out of the distance. "Stop," he said in French to his Arab
driver. "I think friends of mine will be in that car." He was right. A few minutes later Nevill
and Lady MacGregor waved to him, as he stood on the top of a low sand-dune.

Lady MacGregor was more fairylike than ever in a little motoring bonnet made for a young girl,
but singularly becoming to her. They had had a glorious journey, she said. She supposed some
people would consider that she had endured hardships, but they were not worth speaking of.
She had been rather bumped about on the ghastly desert tracks since Biskra, but though she
was not quite sure if all her bones were whole, she did not feel in the least tired; and even
if she did, the memory of the Gorge of El Kantara would alone be enough to make up for it.

"Anything new?" asked Nevill.

"Nothing," Stephen answered, "except that the driver of the carriage ahead let drop at the
last bordj that he'd been hired by the French officer, who was taking Maïeddine with him."

"Just what we thought," Lady MacGregor broke in.

"And the carriage will bring the Frenchman back, later. Maïeddine's going on. But I haven't
found out where."

"H'm! I was in hopes we were close to our journey's end at Touggourt," said Nevill. "The car
can't get farther, I'm afraid. The big dunes begin there."

"Whatever Maïeddine does, we can follow his example. I mean, I can," Stephen amended.

"So can Nevill. I'm no spoil-sport," snapped the old lady, in her childlike voice. "I know
what I can do and what I can't. I draw the line at camels! Angus and Hamish will take care
of me, and I'll wait for you at Touggourt. I can amuse myself in the market-place, and looking
at the Ouled Naïls, till you find Miss Ray, or----"

"There won't be an 'or,' Lady MacGregor. We must find her. And we must bring her to you," said
Stephen.

He had slept in the carriage the night before, a little on the Biskra side of Chegga, because
Maïeddine and the French officer had rested at Chegga. Nevill and Lady MacGregor had started
from Biskra at five o'clock that morning, having arrived there the evening before. It was now
ten, and they could make Touggourt that night. But they wished Maïeddine to reach there first,
so they stopped by the chott, and lunched from a smartly fitted picnic-basket Lady MacGregor
had brought. Stephen paid his Arab coachman, told him he might go back, and transferred a small
suitcase--his only luggage--from the carriage to the car. They gave Maïeddine two hours' grace,
and having started on, always slowed up whenever Nevill's field-glasses showed a slowly trotting
vehicle on the far horizon. The road, which was hardly a road, far exceeded in roughness the
desert track Stephen had wondered at on the way from Msila to Bou-Saada; but Lady MacGregor
had the courage, he told her, of a Joan of Arc.

They bumped steadily along, through the heat of the day, protected from the blazing sun by
the raised hood, but they were thankful when, after the dinner-halt, darkness began to fall.
Talking over ways and means, they decided not to drive into Touggourt, where an automobile
would be a conspicuous object since few motors risked springs and tyres by coming so far into
the desert. The chauffeur should be sent into the town while the passengers sat in the car
a mile away.

Eventually Paul was instructed to demand oil for his small lamps, by way of an excuse for having
tramped into town. He was to find out what had become of the two men who must have arrived
about an hour before, in a carriage.

While the chauffeur was gone, Lady MacGregor played Patience and insisted on teaching Stephen
and Nevill two new games. She said that it would be good discipline for their souls; and so
perhaps it was. But Stephen never ceased calculating how long Paul ought to be away. Twenty
minutes to walk a mile--or thirty minutes in desert sand; forty minutes to make inquiries;
surely it needn't take longer! And thirty minutes back. But an hour and a half dragged on,
before there was any sign of the absentee; then at last, Stephen's eye, roving wistfully from
the cards, saw a moving spark at about the right height above the ground to be a cigarette.

A few yards away from the car, the spark vanished decorously, and Paul was recognizable, in
the light of the inside electric lamp, the only illumination they allowed themselves, lest
the stranded car prove attractive to neighbouring nomads.

The French officer was at the hotel for the night; the Arab was dining with him, but instead
of resting, would go on with his horse and a Negro servant who, it seemed, had been waiting
for several days, since their master had passed through Touggourt on the way to Algiers.

"Then he didn't come from El Aghouat," said Nevill. "Where is he going? Did you find out that?"

"Not for certain. But an Arab servant who talks French, says he believes they're bound for
a place called Oued Tolga," Paul replied, delighted with the confidence reposed in him, and
with the whole adventure.

"That means three days in the dunes for us!" said Nevill. "Aunt Charlotte, you can practice
Patience, in Touggourt."

"I shall invent a new game, and call it Hope," returned Lady MacGregor. "Or if it's a good
one, I'll name it Victoria Ray, which is better than Miss Millikens. It will just be done in
time to teach that poor child when you bring her back to me."

"Hope wouldn't be a bad name for the game we've all been playing, and have got to go on playing,"
mumbled Nevill. "We'll give Maïeddine just time to turn his back on Touggourt, before we show
our noses there. Then you and I, Legs, will engage horses and a guide."

"You deserve your name, Wings," said Stephen. And he wondered how Josette Soubise could hold
out against Caird. He wondered also what she thought of this quest; for her sister Jeanne was
in the secret. No doubt she had written Josette more fully than Nevill had, even if he had
dared to write at all. And if, as long ago as the visit to Tlemcen, she had been slightly depressed
by her friend's interest in another girl, she must by this time see the affair in a more serious
light. Stephen was cruel enough to hope that she was unhappy. He had heard women say that no
cure for a woman's obstinacy was as sure as jealousy.

When they arrived at the hotel, and ordered all in the same breath, a room for a lady, two
horses and a guide, only the first demand could be granted. It would be impossible, said the
landlady and her son, to produce horses on the instant. There were some to be had, it was true,
but they had come in after a hard day's work, and must have several hours' rest. The gentlemen
might get off at dawn, if they wished, but not before.

"After all, it doesn't much matter," Nevill said to Stephen. "Even an Arab must have some sleep.
We'll have ours now, and catch up with Maïeddine while he's taking his. Don't worry. Suppose
the worst--that he isn't really going to Oued Tolga. We shall get on his track, with an Arab
guide to pilot us. There are several stopping places where we can inquire. He'll be seen passing
them, even if he goes by."

"But you say Arabs never betray each other to white men."

"This won't be a question of betrayal. Watch and see how ingenuous, as well as ingenious, I'll
be in all my inquiries."

"I never heard of Oued Tolga," Stephen said, half to himself.

"Don't confess that to an Arab. It would be like telling a Frenchman you'd never heard of Bordeaux.
It's a desert city, bigger than Touggourt, I believe, and--by Jove, yes, there's a tremendously
important Zaouïa of the same name. Great marabout hangs out there--kind of Mussulman pope of
the desert. I hope to goodness----"

"What?" Stephen asked, as Nevill broke off suddenly.

"Oh, nothing to fash yourself about, as the twins would say. Only--it would be awkward if she's
there. Harder to get her out. However--time to cross the stile when we come to it."

But Stephen crossed a great many stiles with his mind before that darkest hour before the dawn,
when he was called to get ready for the last stage of the journey.

Lady MacGregor was up to see them off, and never had her cap been more elaborate, or her hair
been dressed more daintily.

"You'll wire me from the end of the world, won't you?" she asked briskly. "Paul and I (and
Hamish and Angus if necessary) will be ready to rush you all three back to civilization the
instant you arrive with Miss Ray. Give her my love. Tell her I've brought clothes for her.
They mayn't be what she'd choose, but I dare say she won't be sorry to see them. And by the
way, if there are telegrams--you know I told the servants to send them on from home--shall
I wire them on to Oued Tolga?"

"No. We're tramps, with no address," laughed Nevill. "Anything that comes can wait till we
get back."

Stephen could not have told why, for he was not thinking of Margot, but suddenly he was convinced
that a telegram from her was on the way, fixing the exact date when she might be expected in
England.

XLIII

Since the day when Victoria had called Stephen to her help, always she had expected him. She
had great faith, for, in her favourite way, she had "made a picture of him," riding up and
down among the dunes, with the "knightly" look on his face which had first drawn her thoughts
to him. Always her pictures had materialized sooner or later, since she was a little girl,
and had first begun painting them with her mind, on a golden background.

She spent hours on the roof, with Saidee or alone, looking out over the desert, through the
field-glasses which Maïeddine had sent to her. Very often Saidee would remain below, for Victoria's
prayers were not her prayers, nor were Victoria's wishes her wishes. But invariably the older
woman would come up to the roof just before sunset, to feed the doves that lived in the minaret.

At first Victoria had not known that her sister had any special reason for liking to feed the
doves, but she was an observant, though not a sophisticated girl; and when she had lived with
Saidee for a few days, she saw birds of a different colour among the doves. It was to those
birds, she could not help noticing, that Saidee devoted herself. The first that appeared, arrived
suddenly, while Victoria looked in another direction. But when the girl saw one alight, she
guessed it had come from a distance. It fluttered down heavily on the roof, as if tired, and
Saidee hid it from Victoria by spreading out her skirt as she scattered its food.

Then it was easy to understand how Saidee and Captain Sabine had managed to exchange letters;
but she could not bear to let her sister know by word or even look that she suspected the secret.
If Saidee wished to hide something from her she had a right to hide it. Only--it was very sad.

For days neither of the sisters spoke of the pigeons, though they came often, and the girl
could not tell what plans might be in the making, unknown to her. She feared that, if she had
not come to Oued Tolga, by this time Saidee would have gone away, or tried to go away, with
Captain Sabine; and though, since the night of her arrival, when Saidee had opened her heart,
they had been on terms of closest affection, there was a dreadful doubt in Victoria's mind
that the confidences were half repented. But when the girl had been rather more than a week
in the Zaouïa, Saidee spoke out.

"I suppose you've guessed why I come up on the roof at sunset," she said.

"Yes," Victoria answered.

"I thought so, by your face. Babe, if you'd accused me of anything, or reproached me, I'd have
brazened it out with you. But you've never said a word, and your eyes--I don't know what they've
been like, unless violets after rain. They made me feel a beast--a thousand times worse than
I would if you'd put on an injured air. Last night I dreamed that you died of grief, and I
buried you under the sand. But I was sorry, and tore all the sand away with my fingers till
I found you again--and you were alive after all. It seemed like an allegory. I'm going to dig
you up again, you little loving thing!"

"That means you'll give me back your confidence, doesn't it?" Victoria asked, smiling in a
way that would have bewitched a man who loved her.

"Yes; and something else. I'm going to tell you a thing you'll like to hear. I've written to
him about you--our cypher's ready now--and said that you'd had the most curious effect on me.
I'd tried to resist you, but I couldn't, not even to please him--or myself. I told him I'd
promised to wait for you to help me; and though I didn't see what you could possibly do, still,
your faith was contagious. I said that in spite of myself I felt some vague stirrings of hope
now and then. There! does that please you?"

"Oh Saidee, I am so happy!" cried the girl, flinging both arms round her sister. "Then I did
come at the right time, after all."

"The right time to keep me from happiness in this world, perhaps. That's the way I feel about
it sometimes. But I can't be sorry you're here, Babe, as I was at first. You're too sweet--too
like the child who used to be my one comfort."

"I could almost die of happiness, when you say that!" Victoria answered, with tears in her voice.

"What a baby you are! I'm sure you haven't much more than I have, to be happy about. Cassim
has promised Maïeddine that you shall marry him, whether you say 'yes' or 'no'. And it's horrible
when an Arab girl won't consent to marry the man to whom her people have promised her. I know
what they do. She----"

"Don't tell me about it. I'd hate to hear!" Victoria broke in, and covered her ears with her
hands. So Saidee said no more. But in black hours of the night, when the girl could not sleep,
dreadful imaginings crept into her mind, and it was almost more than she could do to chase
them away by making her "good pictures." "I won't be afraid--I won't, I won't!" she would repeat
to herself. "I've called him, and my thoughts are stronger than the carrier pigeons. They fly
faster and farther. They travel like the light, so they must have got to him long ago; and
he said he'd come, no matter when or where. By this time he is on the way."

So she looked for Stephen, searching the desert; and at last, one afternoon long before sunset,
she saw a man riding toward the Zaouïa from the direction of the city, far away. She could
not see his face, but he seemed to be tall and slim; and his clothes were European.

"Thank God!" she said to herself. For she did not doubt that it was Stephen Knight.

Soon she would call Saidee; but she must have a little time to herself, for silent rejoicing,
before she tried to explain. There was no great hurry. He was far off, still.

She kept her eyes to Maïeddine's glasses, and felt it a strange thing that they should have
come to her from him. It was almost as if he gave her to Stephen, against his will. She was
so happy that she seemed to hear the world singing. "I knew--I knew, through it all!" she told
herself, with a sob of joy in her throat. "It had to come right." And she thought that she
could hear a voice saying: "It is love that has brought him. He loves you, as much as you love
him."

To her mind, especially in this mood, it was not extraordinary that each should love the other
after so short an acquaintance. She was even ready to believe of herself that, unconsciously,
she had fallen in love with Stephen the first time she met him on the Channel boat. He had
interested her. She had remembered his face, and had been sorry to think that she would never
see it again. On the ship, going out from Marseilles, she had been so glad when he came on
deck that her heart had begun to beat quickly. She had scolded herself at the time, for being
silly, and school-girlishly romantic; but now she realized that her soul had known its mate.
It could scarcely be real love, she fancied, that was not born in the first moment, when spirit
spoke to spirit. And her love could not have drawn a man hundreds of miles across the desert,
if it had not met and clasped hands with his love for her.

"Oh, how happy I am!" she thought. "And the glory of it is, that it's not strange--only wonderful.
The most wonderful thing that ever happened or could happen."

Then she remembered the sand-divining, and how M'Barka had said that "her wish was far from
her, but that Allah would send a strong man, young and dark, of another country than her own;
a man whose brain, and heart, and arm would be at her service, and in whom she might trust."
Victoria recalled these words, and did not try to bring back to her mind what remained of the
prophecy.

Almost, she had been foolish enough to be superstitious, and afraid of Maïeddine's influence
upon her life, since that night; and of course she had known that it was of Maïeddine M'Barka
had thought, whether she sincerely believed in her own predictions or no. Now, it pleased Victoria
to feel that, not only had she been foolish, but stupid. She might have been happy in her childish
superstition, instead of unhappy, because the description of the man applied to Stephen as
well as to Maïeddine.

For the moment, she did not ask herself how Stephen Knight was going to take her and Saidee
away from Maïeddine and Cassim, for she was so sure he had not come across miles of desert
in vain, that she took the rest for granted in her first joy. She was certain that Saidee's
troubles and hers were over, and that by and by, like the prince and princess in the fairy
stories, she and Stephen would be married and "live happily ever after." In these magic moments
of rapture, while his face and figure grew more clear to her eyes, it seemed to the girl that
love and happiness were one, and that all obstacles had fallen down in the path of her lover,
like the walls of Jericho that crumbled at the blast of the trumpet.

When she had looked through the glass until she could distinctly see Stephen, and an Arab who
rode at a short distance behind him, she called her sister.

Saidee came up to the roof, almost at once, for there was a thrill of excitement in Victoria's
voice that roused her curiosity.

She thought of Captain Sabine, and wondered if he were riding toward the Zaouïa. He had come,
before his first encounter with her, to pay his respects to the marabout. That was long ago
now, yet there might be a reason, connected with her, for a second visit. But the moment she
saw Victoria's face, even before she took the glasses the girl held out, she guessed that,
though there was news, it was not of Captain Sabine.

"You might have been to heaven and back since I saw you; you're so radiant!" she said.

"I have been to heaven. But I haven't come back. I'm there now," Victoria answered. "Look--and
tell me what you see."

Saidee put the glasses to her eyes. "I see a man in European clothes," she said. "I can see
that he's young. I should think he's a gentleman, and good looking----"

"Oh, he is!" broke in Victoria, childishly.

"Do you know him?"

"I've been praying and longing for him to find me, and save us. He's an Englishman. His name
is Stephen Knight. He promised to come if I called, and I have. Oh, how I've called, day and
night, night and day!"

"You never told me."

"I waited. Somehow I--couldn't speak of him, even to you."

"I've told you everything."

"But I had nothing to tell, really--nothing I could have put into words. And you might only
have laughed if I'd said 'There's a man I know in Algiers who hasn't any idea where I am, but
I think he'll come here, and take us both away.'"

"Are you engaged to each other?" Saidee asked, curiously, even enviously.

"Oh no! But--but----"

"But what? Do you mean you will be--if you ever get away from this place?"

"I hope so," the girl answered bravely, with a deep blush. "He has never asked me. We haven't
known each other long--a very little while, only since the night I left London for Paris. Yet
he's the first man I ever cared about, and I think of him all the time. Perhaps he thinks of
me in the same way."

"Of course he must, Babe, if he's really come to search for you," Saidee said, looking at her
young sister affectionately.

"Thank you a hundred times for saying that, dearest! I do hope so!" Victoria exclaimed, hugging
the elder woman impulsively, as she used when she was a little child.

But Saidee's joy, caught from her sister's, died down suddenly, like a flame quenched with
salt. "What good will it do you--or us--that he is coming?" she asked bitterly. "He can ask
for the marabout, and perhaps see him. Any traveller can do that. But he will be no nearer
to us, than if we were dead and in our graves. Does Maïeddine know about him?"

"They saw each other on the ship, coming to Algiers--and again just as we landed."

"But has Maïeddine any idea that you care about each other?"

"I had to tell him one day in the desert (the day Si Maïeddine said he loved me, and I promised
to consent if you put my hand in his) that--that there was a man I loved. But I didn't say
who. Perhaps he suspects, though I don't see why he should. I might have meant some one in
America."

"You may be pretty sure he suspects. People of the old, old races, like the Arabs, have the
most wonderful intuitions. They seem to know things without being told. I suppose they've kept
nearer nature than more civilized peoples."

"If he does suspect, I can't help it."

"No. Only it's still more sure that your Englishman won't be able to do us any good. Not that
he could, anyhow."

"But Si Maïeddine's been very ill since he came back, M'Barka says. Mr. Knight will ask for
the marabout."

"Maïeddine will hear of him. Not five Europeans in five years come to Oued Tolga. If only Maïeddine
hadn't got back! This man may have been following him, from Algiers. It looks like it, as Maïeddine
arrived only yesterday. Now, here's this Englishman! Could he have found out in any way, that
you were acquainted with Maïeddine?"

"I don't know, but he might have guessed," said Victoria. "I wonder----"

"What? Have you thought of something?"

"It's just an idea. You know, I told you that on the journey, when Si Maïeddine was being very
kind to me--before I knew he cared--I made him a present of the African brooch you gave me
in Paris. I hated to take so many favours of him, and give nothing in return; so I thought,
as I was on my way to you and would soon see you, I might part with that brooch, which he admired.
If Si Maïeddine wore it in Algiers, and Mr. Knight saw----"

"Would he be likely to recognize it, do you think?"

"He noticed it on the boat, and I told him you gave it to me."

"If he would come all the way from Algiers on the strength of a brooch which might have been
yours, and you might have given to Maïeddine, then he's a man who knows what he wants, and
deserves to get it," Saidee said. "If he could help us! I should feel rewarded for telling
Honoré I wouldn't go with him; because some day I may be free, and then perhaps I shall be
glad I waited----"

"You will be glad. Whatever happens, you'll be glad," Victoria insisted.

"Maybe. But now--what are we to do? We can see him, and you can recognize him with the field-glass,
but unless he has a glass too, he can't see who you are--he can't see at all, because by the
time he rides near enough, the ground dips down so that even our heads will be hidden from
him by the wall round the roof. And he'll be hidden from us, too. If he asks for you, he'll
be answered only by stares of surprise. Cassim will pretend not to know what he's talking about.
And presently he'll have to go away without finding out anything."

"He'll come back," said Victoria, firmly. But her eyes were not as bright with the certainty
of happiness as they had been.

"What if he does? Or it may be that he'll try to come back, and an accident will happen to
him. I hate to frighten you. But Arabs are jealous--and Maïeddine's a true Arab. He looks upon
you almost as his wife now. In a week or two you will be, unless----"

"Yes. Unless--unless!" echoed Victoria. "Don't lose hope, Saidee, for I shan't. Let's think
of something to do. He's near enough now, maybe, to notice if we wave our handkerchiefs."

"Many women on roofs in Africa wave to men who will never see their faces. He won't know who
waves."

"He will feel. Besides, he's searching for me. At this very minute, perhaps, he's thinking
of the golden silence I talked about, and looking up to the white roofs."

Instantly they began to wave their handkerchiefs of embroidered silk, such as Arab ladies use.
But there came no answering signal. Evidently, if the rider were looking at a white roof, he
had chosen one which was not theirs. And soon he would be descending the slope of the Zaouïa
hill. After that they would lose sight of each other, more and more surely, the closer he came
to the gates.

"If only you had something to throw him!" Saidee sighed. "What a pity you gave the brooch to
Maïeddine. He might have recognized that."

"It isn't a pity if he traced me by it," said Victoria. "But wait. I'll think of something."

"He's riding down the dip. In a minute it will be too late," Saidee warned her.

The girl lifted over her head the long string of amber beads she had bought in the curiosity
shop of Jeanne Soubise. Wrapping it in her handkerchief, she began to tie the silken ends together.

Stephen was so close to the Zaouïa now that they could no longer see him.

"Throw--throw! He'll be at the gates."

Victoria threw the small but heavy parcel over the wall which hid the dwellers on the roof.

Where it fell, they could not see, and no sound came up from the sand-dune far below. Some
beggar or servant of the Zaouïa might have found and snatched the packet, for all that they
could tell.

For a time which seemed long, they waited, hoping that something would happen. They did not
speak at all. Each heard her own heart beating, and imagined that she could hear the heart
of the other.

At last there were steps on the stairs which led from Saidee's rooms to the roof. Noura came
up. "O twin stars, forgive me for darkening the brightness of thy sky," she said, "but I have
here a letter, given to me to put into the hands of Lella Saïda."

She held out a folded bit of paper, that had no envelope.

Saidee, pale and large-eyed, took it in silence. She read, and then handed the paper to Victoria.

A few lines were scrawled on it in English, in a very foreign handwriting. The language, known
to none in this house except the marabout, Maïeddine, Saidee and Victoria, was as safe as a
cypher, therefore no envelope had been needed.

"Descend into thy garden immediately, and bring with thee thy sister," the letter said. And
it was signed "Thy husband, Mohammed."

"What can it mean?" asked Victoria, giving back the paper to Saidee.

"I don't know. But we shall soon see--for we must obey. If we didn't go down of our own accord,
we'd soon be forced to go."

"Perhaps Cassim will let me talk to Mr. Knight," said the girl.

"He is more likely to throw you to his lion, in the court," Saidee answered, with a laugh.

They went down into the garden, and remained there alone. Nothing happened except that, after
a while, they heard a noise of pounding. It seemed to come from above, in Saidee's rooms.

Listening intently, her eyes flashed, and a bright colour rushed to her cheeks.

"Now I know why we were told to come into the garden!" she exclaimed, her voice quivering with
anger. "They're nailing up the door of my room that leads to the roof!"

"Saidee!" To Victoria the thing seemed too monstrous to believe.

"Cassim threatened to do it once before--a long time ago--but he didn't. Now he has. That's
his answer to your Mr. Knight."

"Perhaps you're wrong. How could any one have got into your rooms without our seeing them pass
through the garden?"

"I've always thought there was a sliding door at the back of one of my wall cupboards. There
generally is one leading into the harem rooms in old houses like this. Thank goodness I've
hidden my diaries in a new place lately!"

"Let's go up and make sure," whispered Victoria.

Still the pounding went on.

"They'll have locked us out."

"We can try."

Victoria went ahead, running quickly up the steep, narrow flight of steps that led to the upper
rooms which she and Saidee shared. Saidee had been right. The door of the outer room was locked.
Standing at the top of the stairs, the pounding sounded much louder than before.

Saidee laughed faintly and bitterly.

"They're determined to make a good job of it," she said.

XLIV

Stephen rode back with his Arab companion, to the desert city where Nevill waited. He had gone
to the Zaouïa alone with the guide, because Nevill had thought it well, in case of emergencies,
that he should be able to say: "I have a friend in Oued Tolga who knows where I am, and is
expecting me." Now he was coming away, thwarted for the moment, but far from hopeless.

It is a four hours' ride among the dunes, between the Zaouïa and the town, for the sand is
heavy and the distance is about seventeen miles. The red wine of sunset was drained from the
cups of the sand-hollows, and the shadows were cool when Stephen saw the minaret of the town
mosque and the crown of an old watch-tower, pointing up like a thumb and finger of a buried
hand. Soon after, he passed through the belt of black tents which at all seasons encircles
Oued Tolga as a girdle encircles the waist of an Ouled Naïl, and so he rode into the strange
city. The houses were crowded together, two with one wall between, like Siamese twins, and
they had the pale yellow-brown colour of honeycomb, in the evening light. The roughness of
the old, old bricks, made of baked sand, gave an effect of many little cells; so that the honeycomb
effect was intensified; and the sand which flowed in small rippling waves round the city, and
through streets narrow and broad, was of the same honey-yellow as the houses, except that it
glittered with gypsum under the kindling stars. Among the bubbly domes, and low square towers,
vague in the dimming light, bunches of palms in hidden gardens nodded over crumbling walls,
like dark plumes on the crowns of the dancing-women.

In the market-place was the little hotel, newly built; the only French thing in Oued Tolga,
except the military barracks, the Bureau Arabe, and a gurgling artesian well which a French
officer had lately completed. But before Stephen could reach the market-place and the hotel,
he had to pass through the quarter of the dancing-girls.

It was a narrow street, which had low houses on either side, with a balcony for every mean
window. Dark women leaned their elbows on the palm-wood railings, and looked down, smoking
cigarettes, and calling across to each other. Other girls sat in lighted doorways below, each
with a candle guttering on a steep step of her bare staircase; and in the street walked silent
men with black or brown faces, whose white burnouses flowed round their tall figures like blowing
clouds. Among them were a few soldiers, whose uniforms glowed red in the twilight, like the
cigarette ends pulsing between the painted lips of the Ouled Naïls. All that quarter reeked
with the sweet, wicked smell of the East; and in the Moorish café at the far end, the dancing-music
had begun to throb and whine, mingling cries of love and death, with the passion of both. But
there was no dancing yet, for the audience was not large enough. The brilliant spiders crouched
in their webs, awaiting more flies; for caravans were coming in across that desert sea which
poured its yellow billows into the narrow street; and in the market-place, camel-drivers only
just arrived were cooking their suppers. They would all come a little later into this quarter
to drink many cups of coffee, and to spend their money on the dancers.

As Stephen went by on horseback, the girls on the balconies and in the doorways looked at him
steadily without smiling, but their eyes sparkled under their golden crowns, or scarlet headkerchiefs
and glittering veils. Behind him and his guide, followed a procession of boys and old men,
with donkeys loaded with dead palm-branches from the neighbouring oasis, and the dry fronds
made a loud swishing sound; but the dancers paid no attention, and appeared to look through
the old men and children as if they did not exist.

In the market-place were the tired camels, kneeling down, looking gloomily at their masters
busy cooking supper on the sand. Negro sellers of fruit and fly-embroidered lumps of meat,
or brilliant-coloured pottery, and cheap, bright stuffs, were rolling up their wares for the
night, in red and purple rags or tattered matting. Beggars lingered, hoping for a stray dried
date, or a coin before crawling off to secret dens; and two deformed dwarfs in enormous turbans
and blue coats, claimed power as marabouts, chanting their own praises and the praises of Allah,
in high, cracked voices.

As Stephen rode to the hotel, and stopped in front of the arcade which shaded the ground floor,
Nevill and another man sprang up from chairs pushed back against the white house-wall.

"By Jove, Legs, I'm glad to see you!" Nevill exclaimed, heartily, "What news?"

"Nothing very great so far, I'm sorry to say. Much as we expected," Stephen answered. And as
he spoke, he glanced at the stranger, as if surprised that Nevill should speak out before him.
The man wore the smart uniform of the Chasseurs d'Afrique. He was quite young, not over thirty-four,
and had a keen, brave face, as Stephen could see by the crude light of a lamp that was fixed
in the wall. But the large grey eyes, somewhat pale in contrast with deep sunburn, were the
eyes of a poet rather than those of a born soldier.

"I must introduce you and Captain Sabine to each other," Nevill went on, in French, as Stephen
got off his horse and it was led away by the Arab. "He's staying at the hotel. He and I've
been talking about the Zaouïa and--the marabout. The upshot of our conversation will astonish
you. I feel sure, when you hear it, you will think we can talk freely about our business to
Captain Sabine."

Stephen said something polite and vague. He was interested, of course, but would have preferred
to tell his adventure to Nevill alone.

"Monsieur Caird and I made acquaintance, and have been chatting all the afternoon," volunteered
Sabine. "To begin with, we find we have many friends in common, in Algiers. Also he knows relations
of mine, who have spoken of me to him, so it is almost as if we had known each other longer.
He tells me that you and he are searching for a young lady who has disappeared. That you have
followed here a man who must know where she is; that in the city, you lost track of the man
but heard he had gone on to the Zaouïa; that this made you hope the young lady was there with
her sister, whose husband might perhaps have some position under the marabout."

"I told him these things, because I thought, as Captain Sabine's been sinking an artesian well
near the Zaouïa, he might have seen Miss Ray, if she were there. No such luck. He hasn't seen
her; however, he's given me a piece of information which makes it just about as sure she is
there, as if he had. You shall have it from him. But first let me ask you one question. Did
you get any news of her?"

"No. I heard nothing."

"Does that mean you saw----"

"No. I'll tell you later. But anyhow, I went into the Zaouïa, almost certain she was there,
and that she'd seen me coming. That was a good start, because of course I'd had very little
to go on. There was only a vague hope. I asked for the marabout, and they made me send a visiting-card--quaint
in the desert. Then they kept me moving about a while, and insisted on showing me the mosque.
At last they took me to a hideous reception room, with a lot of good and vile things in it,
mixed up together. The marabout came in, wearing the black mask we'd heard about--a fellow
with a splendid bearing, and fine eyes that looked at me very hard over the mask. They were
never off my face. We complimented each other in French. Then I said I was looking for a Miss
Ray, an American girl who had disappeared from Algiers, and had been traced to the Zaouïa,
where I had reason to believe she was staying with a relative from her own country, a lady
married to some member of his staff. I couldn't give him the best reason I had for being sure
she was there, as you'll see when I tell you what it was. But he said gravely that no European
lady was married to any one in the Zaouïa; that no American or any other foreign person, male
or female, was there. In the guest-house were one or two Arab ladies, he admitted, who had
come to be cured of maladies by virtue of his power; but no one else. His denial showed me
that he was in the plot to hide Miss Ray. That was one thing I wanted to know; so I saw that
the best thing for her, would be for me to pretend to be satisfied. If it hadn't been for what
happened before I got to the Zaouïa gates, I should almost have been taken in by him, perhaps,
he had such an air of noble, impeccable sincerity. But just as I dipped down into a kind of
hollow, on the Zaouïa side of the river, something was thrown from somewhere. Unluckily I couldn't
be sure where. I'd been looking up at the roofs behind the walls, but I must have had my eyes
on the wrong one, if this thing fell from a roof, as I believe it did. It was a little bundle,
done up in a handkerchief, and I saw it only as it touched the ground, about a dozen yards
in front. Then I hurried on, you may be sure, hoping it was meant for me, to grab the thing
before any one else could appear and lay hands on it."

"Well?"

"Luckily I'd outridden the guide. I made him think afterward that I'd jumped off my horse to
pick up the whip, which I dropped for a blind, in case of spying eyes. Tied up in the silk
handkerchief--an Arab-looking handkerchief--was a string of amber beads. Do you remember the
beads Miss Ray bought of Miss Soubise, and wore to your house?"

"I remember she had a handsome string of old prayer-beads."

"Is this the one?" Stephen took the handkerchief and its contents from his pocket, and Nevill
examined the large, round lumps of gleaming amber, which were somewhat irregular in shape.
Captain Sabine looked on with interest.

"I can't be sure," Nevill said reluctantly.

"Well, I can," Stephen answered with confidence. "She showed it to me, in your garden. I remember
a fly in the biggest bead, which was clear, with a brown spot, and a clouded bead on either
side of it. I had the necklace in my hand. Besides, even if I weren't as certain as I am, who
would throw a string of amber beads at my feet, if it weren't some one trying to attract my
attention, in the only way possible? It was as much as to say, 'I know you've come looking
for me. If you're told I'm not here, it's false.' I was a good long way from the gates; but
much nearer to a lot of white roofs grouped behind the high wall of the Zaouïa, than I would
have been in riding on, closer to the gates. Unfortunately there are high parapets to screen
any one standing on the roofs. And anyhow, by the time the beads were thrown, I was too low
down in the hollow to see even a waved hand or handkerchief. Still, with that necklace in my
pocket, I knew pretty well what I was about, in talking with the marabout."

"You thought you did," said Nevill. "But you'd have known a lot more if only you could have
made Captain Sabine's acquaintance before you started."

Stephen looked questioningly at the Frenchman.

"Perhaps it would be better to speak in English," suggested Sabine. "I have not much, but I
get on. And the kitchen windows are not far away. Our good landlord and his wife do not cook
with their ears. I was telling your friend that the marabout himself has a European wife--who
is said to be a great beauty. These things get out. I have heard that she has red hair and
skin as white as cream. That is also the description which Mr. Caird gave me of the young lady
seeking a sister. It makes one put two and two together, does it not?"

"By Jove!" exclaimed Stephen. He and Nevill looked at each other, but Nevill raised his eyebrows
slightly. He had not thought it best, at present, to give the mystery of Cassim ben Halim,
as he now deciphered it, into a French officer's keeping. It was a secret in which France would
be deeply, perhaps inconveniently, interested. A little later, the interference of the French
might be welcome, but it would be just as well not to bring it in prematurely, or separately
from their own personal interests. "I wish to heaven," Stephen went on, "I'd known this when
I was talking to the fellow! And yet--I'm not sure it would have made much difference. We were
deadly polite to each other, but I hinted in a veiled way that, if he were concealing any secret
from me, the French authorities might have something to say to him. I was obsequious about
the great power of Islam in general, and his in particular, but I suggested that France was
the upper dog just now. Maybe his guilty conscience made him think I knew more than I did.
I hope he expects to have the whole power of France down on him, as well as the United States,
which I waved over his head, Miss Ray being an American. Of course I remembered your advice,
Nevill, and was tactful--for her sake, for fear anything should be visited on her. I didn't
say I thought he was hiding her in the Zaouïa. I put it as if I wanted his help in finding
her. But naturally he expects me back again; and we must make our plans to storm the fortress
and reduce it to subjection. There isn't an hour to waste, either, since this necklace, and
Captain Sabine's knowledge, have proved to us that she's there. Too bad we didn't know it earlier,
as we might have done something decisive in the beginning. But now we do know, with Captain
Sabine's good will and introduction we may get the military element here to lend a hand in
the negotiations. A European girl can't be shut up with impunity, I should think, even in this
part of the world. And the marabout has every reason not to get in the bad books of the French."

"He is in their very best books at present," said Sabine. "He is thought much of. The peace
of the southern desert is largely in his hands. My country would not be easily persuaded to
offend him. It might be said in his defence that he is not compelled to tell strangers if he
has a European wife, and her sister arrives to pay her a visit. Arab ideas are peculiar; and
we have to respect them."

"I think my friend and I must talk the whole matter over," said Stephen, "and then, perhaps,
we can make up our minds to a plan of action we couldn't have taken if it weren't for what
you've told us--about the marabout and his European wife."

"I am glad if I have helped," Sabine answered. "And"--rather wistfully--"I should like to help
further."

XLV

"Oh Lella Saïda, there is a message, of which I hardly dare to speak," whispered Noura to her
mistress, when she brought supper for the two sisters, the night when the way to the roof had
been closed up.

"Tell me what it is, and do not be foolish," Saidee said sharply. Her nerves were keyed to
the breaking point, and she had no patience left. It was almost a pleasure to visit her misery
upon some one else. She hated everybody and everything, because all hope was gone now. The
door to the roof was nailed shut; and she and Victoria were buried alive.

"But one sends the message who must not be named; and it is not even for thee, lady. It is
for the Little Rose, thy sister."

"If thou dost not speak out instantly, I will strike thee!" Saidee exclaimed, on the verge
of hysterical tears.

"And if I speak, still thou wilt strike! Be this upon thine own head, my mistress. The Ouled
Naïl has dared send her woman, saying that if the Little Rose will visit her house after supper,
it will be for the good of all concerned, since she has a thing to tell of great importance.
At first I would have refused even to take the message, but her woman, Hadda, is my cousin,
and she feared to go back without some answer. The Ouled Naïl is a demon when in a temper,
and she would thrust pins into Hadda's arms and thighs."

Saidee blushed with anger, disgustful words tingling on her tongue; but she remained silent,
her lips parted.

"Of course I won't go," said Victoria, shocked. The very existence of Miluda was to her a dreadful
mystery upon which she could not bear to let her mind dwell.

"I'm not sure," Saidee murmured. "Let me think. This means something very curious, I can't
think what. But I should like to know. It can't make things worse for us if you accept her
invitation. It may make them better. Will you go and see what the creature wants?"

"Oh, Saidee, how can I?"

"Because I ask it," Saidee answered, the girl's opposition deciding her doubts. "She can't
eat you."

"It isn't that I'm afraid----"

"I know! It's because of your loyalty to me. But if I send you, Babe, you needn't mind. It
will be for my sake."

"Hadda is waiting for an answer," Noura hinted.

"My sister will go. Is the woman ready to take her?"

"I will find out, lady."

In a moment the negress came back. "Hadda will lead the Little Rose to her mistress. She is
glad that it is to be now, and not later."

"Be very careful what you say, and forget nothing that she says," was Saidee's last advice.
And it sounded very Eastern to Victoria.

She hated her errand, but undertook it without further protest, since it was for Saidee's sake.

Hadda was old and ugly. She and Noura had been born in the quarter of the freed Negroes, in
the village across the river, and knew nothing of any world beyond; yet all the wiliness and
wisdom of female things, since Eve--woman, cat and snake--glittered under their slanting eyelids.

Victoria had not been out of her sister's rooms and garden, except to visit M'Barka in the
women's guest-house, since the night when Maïeddine brought her to the Zaouïa; and when she
had time to think of her bodily needs, she realized that she longed desperately for exercise.
Physically it was a relief to walk even the short distance between Saidee's house and Miluda's;
but her cheeks tingled with some emotion she could hardly understand when she saw that the
Ouled Naïl's garden-court was larger and more beautiful than Saidee's.

Miluda, however, was not waiting for her in the garden. The girl was escorted upstairs, perhaps
to show her how much more important was the favourite wife of the marabout than a mere Roumia,
an unmarried maiden.

A meal had been cleared away, in a room larger and better furnished than Saidee's and on the
floor stood a large copper incense-burner, a thin blue smoke filtering through the perforations,
clouding the atmosphere and loading it with heavy perfume. Behind the mist Victoria saw a divan,
spread with trailing folds of purple velvet, stamped with gold; and something lay curled up
on a huge tiger-skin, flung over pillows.

As the blue incense wreaths floated aside the curled thing on the tiger skin moved, and the
light from a copper lamp like Saidee's, streamed through huge coloured lumps of glass, into
a pair of brilliant eyes. A delicate brown hand, ringed on each finger, waved away the smoke
of a cigarette it held, and Victoria saw a small face, which was like the face of a perfectly
beautiful doll. Never had she imagined anything so utterly pagan; yet the creature was childlike,
even innocent in its expression, as a baby tigress might be innocent.

Having sat up, the little heathen goddess squatted in her shrine, only bestirring herself to
show the Roumia how beautiful she was, and what wonderful jewellery she had. She thought, that
without doubt, the girl would run back jealously to the sister (whom Miluda despised) to pour
out floods of description. She herself had heard much of Lella Saïda, and supposed that unfortunate
woman had as eagerly collected information about her; but it was especially piquant that further
details of enviable magnificence should be carried back by the forlorn wife's sister.

The Ouled Naïl tinkled at the slightest movement, even with the heaving of her bosom, as she
breathed, making music with many necklaces, and long earrings that clinked against them. Dozens
of old silver cases, tubes, and little jewelled boxes containing holy relics; hairs of Mohammed's
beard; a bit of web spun by the sacred spider which saved his life; moles' feet blessed by
marabouts, and texts from the Koran; all these hung over Miluda's breast, on chains of turquoise
and amber beads. They rattled metallically, and her bracelets and anklets tinkled. Some luscious
perfume hung about her, intoxicatingly sweet. A thick, braided clump of hair was looped on
each side of the small face painted white as ivory, and her eyes, under lashes half an inch
long, were bright and unhuman as those of an untamed gazelle.

"Wilt thou sit down?" she asked, waving the hand with the cigarette towards a French chair,
upholstered in red brocade. "The Sidi gave me that seat because I asked for it. He gives me
all I ask for."

"I will stand," answered Victoria.

"Oh, it is true, then, thou speakest Arab! I had heard so. I have heard much of thee and of
thy youth and beauty. I see that my women did not lie. But perhaps thou art not as young as
I am, though I have been a wife for a year, and have borne a beautiful babe. I am not yet sixteen."

Victoria did not answer, and the Ouled Naïl gazed at her unwinkingly, as a child gazes.

"Thou hast travelled much, even more than the marabout himself, hast thou not?" she inquired,
graciously. "I have heard that thou hast been to England. Are there many Arab villages there,
and is it true that the King was deposed when the Sultan, the head of our faith, lost his throne?"

"There are no Arab villages, and the King still reigns," said Victoria. "But I think thou didst
not send for me to ask these questions?"

"Thou art right. Yet there is no harm in asking them. I sent for thee, for three reasons. One
is, that I wished to see thee, to know if indeed thou wert as beautiful as I; another is, that
I had a thing to give thee, and before I tell thee my third reason, thou shalt have the gift."

She fumbled in the tawny folds of the tiger-skin on which she lay, and presently held out a
bracelet, made of flexible squares of gold, like scales, jewelled with different stones.

"It is thy wedding present from me," she said. "I wish to give it, because it is not long since
I myself was married, and because we are both young. Besides, Si Maïeddine is a good friend
of the marabout. I have heard that he is brave and handsome, all that a young girl can most
desire in a husband."

"I am not going to marry Si Maïeddine," said Victoria. "I thank thee; but thou must keep thy
gift for his bride when he finds one."

"He has found her in thee. The marriage will be a week from to-morrow, if Allah wills, and
he will take thee away to his home. The marabout himself has told me this, though he does not
know that I have sent for thee, and that thou art with me now."

"Allah does not will," said the girl.

"Perhaps not, since thy bridegroom-to-be lies ill with marsh fever, so Hadda has told me. He
came back from Algiers with the sickness heavy upon him, caught in the saltpetre marshes that
stretch between Biskra and Touggourt. I know those marshes, for I was in Biskra with my mother
when she danced there; but she was careful, and we did not lie at night in the dangerous regions
where the great mosquitoes are. Men are never careful, though they do not like to be ill, and
thy bridegroom is fretting. But he will be better in a few days if he takes the draughts which
the marabout has blessed for him; and if the wedding is not in a week, it will be a few days
later. It is in Allah's hands."

"I tell thee, it will be never," Victoria persisted. "And I believe thou but sayest these things
to torture me."

"Dost thou not love Si Maïeddine?" Miluda asked innocently.

"Not at all."

"Then it must be that thou lovest some other man. Dost thou, Roumia?"

"Thou hast no right to ask such questions."

"Be not angry, Roumia, for we are coming now to the great reason why I sent for thee. It is
to help thee. I wish to know whether there is a man of thine own people thou preferest to Si
Maïeddine."

"Why shouldst thou wish to help me? Thou hast never seen me till now."

"I will speak the truth with thee," said Miluda, "because thy face pleases me, though I prefer
my own. Thine is pure and good, like the face of the white angel that is ever at our right
hand; and even if I should speak falsely, I think thou wouldst not be deceived. Before I saw
thee, I did not care whether thou wert happy or sad. It was nothing to me; but I saw a way
of getting thee and thy sister out of my husband's house, and for a long time I have wished
thy sister gone. Not that I am jealous of her. I have not seen her face, but I know she is
already old, and if she were not friendless in our land, the Sidi would have put her away at
the time of my marriage to him, since long ago he has ceased to care whether she lives or dies.
But his heart is great, and he has kept her under his roof for kindness' sake, though she has
given him no child, and is no longer a wife to him. I alone fill his life."

She paused, hoping perhaps that Victoria would answer; but the girl was silent, biting her
lip, her eyes cast down. So Miluda talked on, more quietly.

"There is a wise woman in the city, who brings me perfumes and silks which have come to Oued
Tolga by caravan from Tunis. She has told me that thy sister has ill-wished me, and that I
shall never have a boy--a real child--while Lella Saïda breathes the same air with me. That
is the reason I want her to be gone. I will not help thee to go, unless thou takest her with thee."

"I will never, never leave this place unless we go together," Victoria answered, deeply interested
and excited now.

"That is well. And if she loves thee also, she would not go alone; so my wish is to do what
I can for both."

"What canst thou do?" the girl asked.

"I will tell thee. But first there is something to make clear. I was on my roof to-day, when
a young Roumi rode up to the Zaouïa on the road from Oued Tolga. He looked towards the roofs,
and I wondered. From mine, I cannot see much of thy sister's roof, but I watched, and I saw
an arm outstretched, to throw a packet. Then I said to myself that he had come for thee. And
later I was sure, because my women told me that while he talked with the marabout, the door
which leads to thy sister's roof was nailed up hastily, by command of the master. Some order
must have gone from him, unknown to the Roumi, while the two men were together. I could coax
nothing of the story from the Sidi when he came to me, but he was vexed, and his brows drew
together over eyes which for the first time did not seem to look at me with pleasure."

"Thou hast guessed aright," Victoria admitted, thankful that Miluda's suspicions concerned
her affairs only, and not Saidee's. "The man who came here was my friend. I care for him more
than for any one in the world, except my sister; and if I cannot marry him, I will die rather
than marry Si Maïeddine or any other."

"Then, unless I help thee, thou wilt have to die, for nothing which thou alone, or thy sister
can do, will open the gates for thee to go out, except as Si Maïeddine's wife."

"Then help me," said Victoria, boldly, "and thou wilt be rid of us both forever."

"It is with our wits we must work, not with our hands," replied the Ouled Naïl. "The power
of the marabout is great. He has many men to serve him, and the gates are strong, while women
are very, very weak. Yet I have seen into the master's heart, and I can give thee a key which
will unlock the gates. Only it had better be done soon, for when Si Maïeddine is well, he will
fight for thee; and if thou goest forth free, he will follow, and take thee in the dunes."

Victoria shivered, for the picture was vivid before her eyes, as Miluda painted it. "Give me
the key," she said in a low voice.

"The key of the master's heart is his son," the other answered, in a tone that kept down anger
and humiliation. "Even me he would sacrifice to his boy. I know it well, and I hate the child.
I pray for one of my own, for because the Sidi loves me, and did not love the boy's mother,
he would care ten thousand times more for a child of mine. The wise woman says so, and I believe
it. When thy sister is gone, I shall have a boy, and nothing left to wish for on earth. Send
a message to thy lover, saying that the marabout's only son is at school in Oued Tolga, the
city. Tell him to steal the child and hide it, making a bargain with the marabout that he shall
have it safely back, if he will let thee and thy sister go; otherwise he shall never see it again."

"That would be a cruel thing to do, and my sister could not consent," said Victoria, "even
if we were able to send a message."

"Hadda would send the message. A friend from the village is coming to see her, and the master
has no suspicion of me at present, as he has of thee. We could send a letter, and Hadda would
manage everything. But there is not much time, for now while my husband is with Si Maïeddine,
treating him for his fever, is our only chance, to-night. We have perhaps an hour in which
to decide and arrange everything. After that, his coming may be announced to me. And no harm
would happen to the child. The master would suffer in his mind for a short time, till he decided
to make terms, that is all. As for me, have no fear of my betraying thee. Thou needst but revenge
thyself by letting the master know how I plotted for the stealing of his boy, for him to put
me out of his heart and house forever. Then I should have to kill myself with a knife, or with
poison; and I am young and happy, and do not desire to die yet. Go now, and tell thy sister
what I have said. Let her answer for thee, for she knows this land and the people of it, and
she is wiser than thou."

Without another word or look at the beautiful pagan face, Victoria went out of the room, and
found Hadda waiting to hurry her away.

XLVI

It was after one o'clock when Stephen and Nevill bade each other good night, after a stroll
out of the town into the desert. They had built up plans and torn them down again, and no satisfactory
decision had been reached, for both feared that, if they attempted to threaten the marabout
with their knowledge of his past, he would defy them to do their worst. Without Saidee and
Victoria, they could bring forward no definite and visible proof that the great marabout, Sidi
El Hadj Mohammed Abd el Kadr, and the disgraced Captain Cassim ben Halim were one. And the
supreme difficulty was to produce Saidee and Victoria as witnesses. It was not even certain,
if the marabout were threatened and thought himself in danger, that he might not cause the
sisters to disappear. That thought prevented the two men from coming easily to any decision.
Sabine had not told them that he knew Saidee, or that he had actually heard of the girl's arrival
in the Zaouïa. He longed to tell and join with them in their quest; but it would have seemed
a disloyalty to the woman he loved. It needed a still greater incentive to make him speak out;
while as for the Englishmen, though they would gladly have taken his advice, they hesitated
to give away the secret of Saidee Ray's husband to a representative of Ben Halim's stern judge,
France.

Various plans for action had been discussed, yet Stephen and Nevill both felt that all were
subject to modification. Each had the hope that the silent hours would bring inspiration, and
so they parted at last. But Stephen had not been in his room ten minutes when there came a
gentle tap at his door. He thought that it must be Nevill, returning to announce the birth
of a new idea; but in the dark corridor stood a shadowy Arab, he who did most of the work in
the hotel outside the kitchen.

"A person has come with a letter for Monsieur," the man mumbled in bad French, his voice so
sleepy as to be almost inarticulate. "He would not give it to me, the foolish one. He insists
on putting it into the hand of Monsieur. No doubt it is a pourboire he wants. He has followed
me to the head of the stairs, and he has no French."

"Where does he come from?" asked Stephen.

"He will not say. But he is a Negro whom I have never seen in the city."

"Call him," Stephen said. And in a moment a thin young Negro, dusted all over with sand, came
into the square of light made by the open door. His legs were bare, and over his body he appeared
to have no other garment but a ragged, striped gandourah. In a purple-black hand he held a
folded piece of paper, and Stephen's heart jumped at sight of his own name written in a clear
handwriting. It was not unlike Victoria's but it was not hers.

"The man says he cannot take a letter back," explained the Arab servant. "But if Monsieur will
choose a word to answer, he will repeat it over and over until he has it by heart. Then he
will pass it on in the same way."

Stephen was reading his letter and scarcely heard. It was Victoria's sister who wrote. She
signed herself at the bottom of the bit of paper--a leaf torn from a copy book--"Saidee Ray,"
as though she had never been married. She had evidently written in great haste, but the thing
she proposed was clearly set forth, as if in desperation. Victoria did not approve, she said,
and hoped some other plan might be found; but in Saidee's opinion there was no other plan which
offered any real chance of success. In their situation, they could not afford to stick at trifles,
and neither could Mr. Knight, if he wished to save Victoria from being married against her
will to an Arab. There was no time to lose if anything were to be done; and if Mr. Knight were
willing to take the way suggested, would he say the word "yes," very distinctly, to the messenger,
as it would not be safe to try and smuggle a letter into the Zaouïa.

It was a strange, even a detestable plot, which Saidee suggested; yet when Stephen had turned
it over in his mind for a moment he said the word "yes" with the utmost distinctness. The sand-covered
Negro imitated him several times, and having achieved success, was given more money than he
had ever seen in his life. He would not tell the Arab, who escorted him downstairs again, whence
he had come, but it was a long distance and he had walked. He must return on foot, and if he
were to be back by early morning, he ought to get off at once. Stephen made no effort to keep
him, though he would have liked Saidee's messenger to be seen by Caird.

Nevill had not begun to undress, when Stephen knocked at his door. He was about to begin one
of his occasional letters to Josette, with his writing materials arranged abjectly round one
tallow candle, on a washhand stand.

"That beast of a Cassim! He's going to try and marry the poor child off to his friend Maïeddine!"
Nevill growled, reading the letter. "Stick at trifles indeed! I should think not. This is Providential--just
when we couldn't quite make up our minds what to do next."

"You're not complimentary to Providence," said Stephen. "Seems to me a horrid sort of thing
to do, though I'm not prepared to say I won't do it. She doesn't approve, her sister says,
you see----"

"Who knows the man better, his wife or the girl?"

"That goes without saying. Well, I'm swallowing my scruples as fast as I can get them down,
though they're a lump in my throat. However, we wouldn't hurt the little chap, and if the father
adores him, as she says, we'd have Ben Halim pretty well under our thumbs, to squeeze him as
we chose. Knowing his secret as we do, he wouldn't dare apply to the French for help, for fear
we'd give him away. We must make it clear that we well know who he is, and that if he squeals,
the fat's in the fire!"

"That's the right spirit. We'll make him shake in his boots for fear we give not only the secret,
but the boy, over to the tender mercies of the authorities. For it's perfectly true that if
the Government knew what a trick had been played on them, they'd oust the false marabout in
favour of the rightful man, whoever he may be, clap the usurper into prison, and make the child
a kind of--er--ward in chancery, or whatever the equivalent is in France. Oh, I can tell you,
my boy, this idea is the inspiration of a genius! The man will see we're making no idle threat,
that we can't carry out. He'll have to hand over the ladies, or he'll spend some of his best
years in prison, and never see his beloved boy again."

"First we've got to catch our hare. But there Sabine could help us, if we called him in."

"Yes. And we couldn't do better than have him with us, I think, Legs, now we've come to this
turn in the road."

"I agree so far. Still, let's keep Ben Halim's secret to ourselves. We must have it to play
with. I believe Sabine's a man to trust; but he's a French officer; and a plot of that sort
he might feel it his duty to make known."

"All right. We'll keep back that part of the business. It isn't necessary to give it away.
But otherwise Sabine's the man for us. He's a romantic sort of chap, not unlike me in that;
it's what appealed to me in him the minute we began to draw each other out. He'll snap at an
adventure to help a pretty girl even though he's never seen her; and he knows the marabout's
boy and the guardian-uncle. He was talking to me about them this afternoon. Let's go and rout
him out. I bet he'll have a plan to propose."

"Rather cheek, to rouse him up in the middle of the night. We might wait till morning, since
I don't see that we can do anything useful before."

"He only got in from seeing some friend in barracks, about one. He doesn't look like a sleepy-head.
Besides, if I'm not mistaken, I smell his cigarettes. He's probably lying on his bed, reading
a novel."

But Sabine was reading something to him far more interesting than any novel written by the
greatest genius of all ages; a collection of Saidee's letters, which he invariably read through,
from first to last, every night before even trying to sleep.

The chance to be in the game of rescue was new life to him. He grudged Saidee's handwriting
to another man, even though he felt that, somehow, she had hoped that he would see it, and
that he would work with the others. He laughed at the idea that the adventure would be more
dangerous for him as a French officer, if anything leaked out, than for two travelling Englishmen.

"I would give my soul to be in this!" he exclaimed, before he knew what he was saying, or what
meaning might be read into his words. But both faces spoke surprise. He was abashed, yet eager.
The impulse of his excitement led him on, and he began stammering out the story he had not
meant to tell.

"I can't say the things you ought to know, without the things that no one ought to know," he
explained in his halting English, plunging back now and then inadvertently into fluent French.
"It is wrong not to confess that all the time I know that young lady is there--in the Zaouïa.
But there is a reason I feel it not right to confess. Now it will be different because of this
letter that has come. You must hear all and you can judge me."

So the story was poured out: the romance of that wonderful day when, while he worked at the
desert well in the hot sun, a lady went by, with her servants, to the Moorish baths. How her
veil had fallen aside, and he had seen her face--oh, but the face of a houri, an angel. Yet
so sad--tragedy in the beautiful eyes. In all his life he had not seen such beauty or felt
his heart so stirred. Through an attendant at the baths he had found out that the lovely lady
was the wife of the marabout, a Roumia, said not to be happy. From that moment he would have
sacrificed his hopes of heaven to set her free. He had written--he had laid his life at her
feet. She had answered. He had written again. Then the sister had arrived. He had been told
in a letter of her coming. At first he had thought it impossible to confide a secret concerning
another--that other a woman--even to her sister's friends. But now there was no other way.
They must all work together. Some day he hoped that the dear prisoner would be free to give
herself to him as his wife. Till then, she was sacred, even in his thoughts. Even her sister
could find no fault with his love. And would the new friends shake his hand wishing him joy
in future.

So all three shook hands with great heartiness; and perhaps Sabine would have become still
more expansive had he not been brought up to credit Englishmen stolid fellows at best with
a favourite motto: "Deeds, not words."

As Sabine told his story, Stephen's brain had been busily weaving. He did not like the thing
they had to do, but if it must be done, the only hope lay in doing it well and thoroughly.
Sabine's acquaintance with the boy and his guardian would be a great help.

"I've been thinking how we can best carry out this business," he said, when the pact of friendship
had been sealed by clasp of hands. "We can't afford to have any row or scandal. It must somehow
be managed without noise, for the sake of--the ladies, most of all, and next, for the sake
of Captain Sabine. As a Frenchman and an officer, it would certainly be a lot worse for him
than for us, if we landed him in any mess with the authorities."

"I care nothing for myself." Sabine broke in, hotly.

"All the more reason for us to keep our heads cool if we can, and look after you. We must get
the boy to go away of his own accord."

"That is more easy to propose than to do," said Sabine, with a shrug of the shoulders.

"Well, an idea has come into my head. There may be something in it--if you can help us work
it. We couldn't do it without you. Do you know the child and his uncle so well that it wouldn't
seem queer to invite them to the hotel for a meal--say luncheon to-morrow, or rather to-day--for
it's morning now?"

"Yes, I could do that. And they would come. It would be an amusement for them. Life is dull
here," Sabine eagerly replied.

"Good. Does the child speak French?"

"A little. He is learning in the school."

"That's lucky, for I don't know a dozen words of Arab, and even my friend Caird can't be eloquent
in it. Wings, do you think you could work up the boy to a wild desire for a tour in a motor-car?"

"I would bet on myself to do that. I could make him a motor fiend, between the hors d'oeuvres
and fruit."

"Our great stumbling block, then, is the uncle. I suppose he's a sort of watch-dog, who couldn't
be persuaded to leave the boy alone a minute?"

"I am not sure of that," said Sabine. "It is true he is a watch-dog; but I could throw him
a bone I think would tempt him to desert his post--if he had no suspicion of a trap. What you
want, I begin to see, is to get him out of the way, so that Monsieur Caird could induce the
little Mohammed to go away willingly?"

"Yes."

"Eh bien! It is as good as done. I see the way. Hassan ben Saad, the respectable uncle, has
a secret weakness which I have found out. He has lost his head for the prettiest and youngest
dancer in the quarter of the Ouled Naïls. She is a great favourite, Nedjma, and she will not
look at him. He is too old and dry. Besides, he has no money except what the marabout gives
him as guardian to the boy at school. Hassan sends Nedjma such presents as he can afford, and
she laughs at them with the other girls, though she keeps them, of course. To please me, she
will write a letter to Ben Saad, telling him that if he comes to her at once, without waiting
a moment, he may find her heart soft for him. This letter shall be brought to our table, at
the hotel, while Hassan finishes his déjeuner with us. He will make a thousand apologies and
tell a thousand lies, saying it is a call of business. Probably he will pretend that it concerns
the marabout, of whom he boasts always as his relative. Then he will go, in a great hurry,
leaving the child, because we will kindly invite him to do so; and he will promise to return
soon for his nephew. But Nedjma will be so sweet that he will not return soon. He will be a
long time away--hours. He will forget the boy, and everything but his hope that at last Nedjma
will love him. Does that plan of mine fit in with yours, Monsieur?"

"Perfectly," said Knight. "What do you think, Wings?"

"As you do. You're both geniuses. And I'll try to keep my end up by fascinating the child.
He shall be mine, body and soul, by the end of lunch. When he finds that we're leaving Oued
Tolga, instantly, and that he must be sent ignominiously home, he shall be ready to howl with
grief. Then I'll ask him suddenly, how he'd like to go on a little trip, just far enough to
meet my motor-car, and have a ride in it. He'll say yes, like a shot, if he's a normal boy.
And if the uncle's away, it will be nobody's business even if they see the marabout's son having
a ride behind me on my horse, as he might with his own father. Trust me to lure the imp on
with us afterward, step by step, in a dream of happiness. I was always a born lurer--except
when I wanted a thing or person for myself."

"You say, lure him on with 'us'" Stephen cut in. "But it will have to be you alone. I must
stay at this end of the line, and when the time comes, give the marabout our ultimatum. The
delay will be almost intolerable, but of course the only thing is to lie low until you're so
far on the way to Touggourt with the child, that a rescue scheme would be no good. Touggourt's
a bit on the outskirts of the marabout's zone of influence, let's hope. Besides, he wouldn't
dare attack you there, in the shadow of the French barracks. It's his business to help keep
peace in the desert, and knowing what we know of his past, I think with the child out of his
reach he'll be pretty well at our mercy."

"When Hassan ben Saad finds the boy gone, he will be very sick," said Sabine. "But I shall
be polite and sympathetic, and will give him good advice. He is in deadly awe of the marabout,
and I will say that, if the child's father hears what has happened, there will be no forgiveness--nothing
but ruin. Waiting is the game to play, I will counsel Hassan. I shall remind him that, being
Friday, no questions will be asked at school till Monday, and I shall raise his hopes that
little Mohammed will be back soon after that, if not before. At worst, I will say, he can pretend
the child is shut up in the house with a cough. I shall assure him that Monsieur Caird is a
man of honour and great riches; that no harm can come to little Mohammed in his care. I will
explain how the boy pleaded to go, and make Hassan happy with the expectation that in a few
days Monsieur Caird is coming back to fetch his friend; that certainly Mohammed will be with
him, safe and sound; and that, if he would not lose his position, he must say nothing of what
has happened to any one who might tell the marabout."

"Do you think you can persuade him to keep a still tongue in his head till it suits us to have
him speak, or write a letter for me to take?" asked Stephen.

"I am sure of it. Hassan is a coward, and you have but to look him in the face to see he has
no self-reliance. He must lean on some one else. He shall lean on me. And Nedjma shall console
him, so that time will pass, and he shall hardly know how it is going. He will speak when we
want him to speak or write, not before."

The three men talked on in Stephen's room till dawn, deciding details which cropped up for
instant settlement. At last it was arranged--taking the success of their plan for granted--that
Stephen should wait a day and a half after the departure of Nevill's little caravan. By that
time, it should have got half-way to Touggourt; but there was one bordj where it would come
in touch with the telegraph. Stephen would then start for the Zaouïa, for an interview with
the marabout, who, no doubt, was already wondering why he did not follow up his first attempt
by a second. He would hire or buy in the city a racing camel fitted with a bassour large enough
for two, and this he would take with him to the Zaouïa, ready to bring away both sisters. No
allusion to Saidee would be made in words. The "ultimatum" would concern Victoria only, as
the elder sister was wife to the marabout, and no outsider could assume to have jurisdiction
over her. But as it was certain that Victoria would not stir without Saidee, a demand for one
was equivalent to a demand for the other.

This part of the plan was to be subject to modification, in case Stephen saw Victoria, and
she proposed any course of action concerning her sister. As for Sabine, having helped to make
the plot he was to hold himself ready at Oued Tolga, the city, for Stephen's return from the
Zaouïa. And the rest was on the knees of the gods.

XLVII

For the second time Stephen entered by the great gates of the Zaouïa. The lounging Negro, who
had let him in before, stared at the grey mehari with the red-curtained bassour, whose imposing
height dwarfed the Roumi's horse. No doubt the man wondered why it was there, since only women
or invalids travelled in a bassour;--and his eyes dwelt with interest on the two Arabs from
the town of Oued Tolga. Perhaps he thought that they would satisfy his curiosity, when the
visitor had gone inside. But Stephen thought differently. The Arabs would tell nothing, because
they knew nothing which could explain the mystery.

The Negro had no French, and either did not understand or pretended not to understand the Roumi's
request to see the marabout. This looked ominous, because Stephen had been let in without difficulty
the first time; and the Negro seemed intelligent enough to be stupid in accordance with instructions.
Great insistance, however, and the production of documents (ordinary letters, but effective
to impress the uneducated intelligence) persuaded the big gate-keeper to send for an interpreter.

Stephen waited with outward patience, though a loud voice seemed crying in his ears, "What
will happen next? What will the end be--success, or a sudden fluke that will mean failure?"
He barred his mind against misgivings, but he had hoped for some sign of life when he rode
in sight of the white roofs; and there had been no sign.

For many minutes he waited; and then came an old man who had showed him to the marabout's reception
room on his first visit. Stephen was glad to see this person, because he could speak a little
French, and because he had a mild air, as if he might easily be browbeaten.

"I must see Sidi Mohammed on important business," Stephen said.

The old man was greatly grieved, but Sidi Mohammed was indisposed and not able to speak with
any one. Would Monsieur care to visit the mosque again, and would he drink coffee?

So this was the game! Stephen was not surprised. His face flushed and his jaw squared. He would
not drink coffee, and he would not give himself the pleasure of seeing the mosque; but would
trouble the interpreter with a message to the marabout; and would await an answer. Then Stephen
wrote on one of his visiting cards, in English. "I have important news of your son, which you
would regret not hearing. And it can be told to no one but yourself."

In less than ten minutes the messenger came back. The marabout, though not well, would receive
Monsieur. Stephen was led through the remembered labyrinth of covered passages, dim and cool,
though outside the desert sand flamed under the afternoon sun; and as he walked he was aware
of softly padding footsteps behind him. Once, he turned his head quickly, and saw that he was
followed by a group of three tall Negroes. They looked away when they met his eyes, as if they
were on his heels by accident; but he guessed that they had been told to watch him, and took
the caution as a compliment. Yet he realized that he ran some risk in coming to this place
on such an errand as his. Already the marabout looked upon him as an enemy, no doubt; and it
was not impossible that news of the boy's disappearance had by this time reached the Zaouïa,
in spite of his guardian's selfish cowardice. If so, and if the father connected the kidnapping
of his son with to-day's visitor, he might let his desire for revenge overcome prudence. To
prove his power by murdering an Englishman, his guest, would do the desert potentate more harm
than good in the end; yet men of mighty passions do not always stop to think of consequences,
and Stephen was not blind to his own danger. If the marabout lost his temper, not a man in
the Zaouïa but would be ready to obey a word or gesture, and short work might be made of Victoria
Ray's only champion. However, Stephen counted a good deal on Ben Halim's caution, and on the
fact that his presence in the Zaouïa was known outside. He meant to acquaint his host with
that fact as a preface to their conversation.

"The marabout will come presently," the mild interpreter announced, when he had brought Stephen
once more to the reception room adjoining the mosque. So saying, he bowed himself away, and
shut the door; but Stephen opened it almost instantly, to look out. It was as he expected.
The tall Negroes stood lazily on guard. They scarcely showed surprise at being caught, yet
their fixed stare was somewhat strained.

"I wonder if there's to be a signal?" thought Stephen.

It was very still in the reception-room of Sidi Mohammed. The young man sat down opposite the
door of that inner room from which the marabout had come to greet him the other day, but he
did not turn his back fully upon the door behind which were the watchers. Minutes passed on.
Nothing happened, and there was no sound. Stephen grew impatient. He knew, from what he had
heard of the great Zaouïa, that manifold and strenuous lives were being lived all around him
in this enormous hive, which was university, hospice, mosque, and walled village in one. Yet
there was no hum of men talking, of women chatting over their work, or children laughing at
play. The silence was so profound that it was emphasized to his ears by the droning of a fly
in one of the high, iron-barred windows; and in spite of himself he started when it was suddenly
and ferociously broken by a melancholy roar like the thunderous yawn of a bored lion. But still
the marabout did not appear. Evidently he intended to show the persistent Roumi that he was
not to be intimidated or browbeaten, or else he did not really mean to come at all.

The thought that perhaps, while he waited, he had been quietly made a prisoner, brought Stephen
to his feet. He was on the point of trying the inner door, when it opened, and the masked marabout
stood looking at him, with keen eyes which the black veil seemed to darken and make sinister.

Without speaking, the Arab closed, but did not latch, the door behind him; and standing still
he spoke in the deep voice that was slightly muffled by the thin band of woollen stuff over
the lower part of his face.

"Thou hast sent me an urgent summons to hear tidings of my son," he said in his correct, measured
French. "What canst thou know, which I do not know already?"

"I began to think you were not very desirous to hear my news," replied Stephen, "as I have
been compelled to wait so long that my friends in Oued Tolga will be wondering what detains
me in the Zaouïa, or whether any accident has befallen me."

"As thou wert doubtless informed, I am not well, and was not prepared to receive guests. I
have made an exception in thy favour, because of the message thou sent. Pray, do not keep me
in suspense, if harm has come to my son." Sidi Mohammed did not invite his guest to sit down.

"No harm has come to the boy," Stephen reassured him. "He is in good hands."

"In charge of his uncle, whom I have appointed his guardian," the marabout broke in.

"He doesn't know anything yet," Stephen said to himself, quickly. Then, aloud: "At present,
he is not in charge of his uncle, but is with a friend of mine. He will be sent back safe and
well to Oued Tolga, when you have discovered the whereabouts of Miss Ray--the young lady of
whom you knew nothing the other day--and when you have produced her. I know now, with absolute
certainty, that she is here in the Zaouïa. When she leaves it, with me and the escort I have
brought, to join her friends, you will see your son again, but not before; and never unless
Miss Ray is given up."

The marabout's dark hands clenched themselves, and he took a step forward, but stopped and
stood still, tall and rigid, within arm's-length of the Englishman.

"Thou darest to come here and threaten me!" he said. "Thou art a fool. If thou and thy friends
have stolen my child, all will be punished, not by me, but by the power which is set above
me to rule this land--France."

"We have no fear of such punishment, or any other," Stephen answered. "We have 'dared' to take
the boy; and I have dared, as you say, to come here and threaten, but not idly. We have not
only your son, but your secret, in our possession; and if Miss Ray is not allowed to go, or
if anything happens to me, you will never see your boy again, because France herself will come
between you and him. You will be sent to prison as a fraudulent pretender, and the boy will
become a ward of the nation. He will no longer have a father."

The dark eyes blazed above the mask, though still the marabout did not move. "Thou art a liar
and a madman," he said. "I do not understand thy ravings, for they have no meaning."

"They will have a fatal meaning for Cassim ben Halim if they reach the ears of the French authorities,
who believe him dead," said Stephen, quietly. "Ben Halim was only a disgraced officer, not
a criminal, until he conspired against the Government, and stole a great position which belonged
to another man. Since then, prison doors are open for him if his plottings are found out."

Unwittingly Stephen chose words which were as daggers in the breast of the Arab. Although made
without knowledge of the secret work to which the marabout had vowed himself and all that was
his, the young man's threat sounded like a hint so terrible in its meaning that Ben Halim's
heart turned suddenly to water. He saw himself exposed, defeated, hand and foot in the enemy's
power. How this Roumi had wormed out the hidden truth he could not conceive; but he realized
on the instant that the situation was desperate, and his brain seemed to him to become a delicate
and intricate piece of mechanism, moving with oiled wheels. All the genius of a great soldier
and a great diplomat were needed at one and the same time, and if he could not call such inspiration
to his aid he was lost. He had been tempted for one volcanic second to stab Stephen with the
dagger which he always carried under his burnous and embroidered vest, but a lightning-flash
of reason bade him hold his hand. There were other ways--there must be other ways. Fortunately
Maïeddine had not been told of the Roumi's presence in the Zaouïa, and need not learn anything
concerning him or his proposals until the time came when a friend could be of use and not a
hindrance. Even in this moment, when he saw before his eyes a fiery picture of ruin, Ben Halim
realized that Maïeddine's passion for Victoria Ray might be utilized by and by, for the second
time.

Not once did the dark eyes falter or turn from the enemy's, and Stephen could not help admiring
the Arab's splendid self-control. It was impossible to feel contempt for Ben Halim, even for
Ben Halim trapped. Stephen had talked with an air of cool indifference, his hands in his pockets,
but in one pocket was a revolver, and he kept his fingers on it as the marabout stood facing
him silently after the ultimatum.

"I have listened to the end," the Arab said at last, "because I wished to hear what strange
folly thou hadst got in thy brain. But now, when thou hast finished apparently, I cannot make
head or tail of thy accusations. Of a man named Cassim ben Halim I may have heard, but he is
dead. Thou canst hardly believe in truth that he and I are one; but even if thou dost believe
it, I care little, for if thou wert unwise enough to go with such a story to my masters and
friends the French, they could bring a hundred proofs that thy tale was false, and they would
laugh thee to scorn. I have no fear of anything thou canst do against me; but if it is true
that thou and thy friend have stolen my son, rather than harm should come to him who is my
all on earth, I may be weak enough to treat with thee."

"I have brought proof that the boy is gone," returned Stephen. For the moment, he tacitly accepted
the attitude which the marabout chose to take up. "Let the fellow save his face by pretending
to yield entirely for the boy's sake," he said to himself. "What can it matter so long as he
does yield?"

In the pocket with the revolver was a letter which Sabine had induced Hassan ben Saad to write,
and now Stephen produced it. The writing was in Arabic, of course; but Sabine, who knew the
language well, had translated every word for him before he started from Oued Tolga. Stephen
knew, therefore, that the boy's uncle, without confessing how he had strayed from duty, admitted
that, "by an incredible misfortune," the young Mohammed had been enticed away from him. He
feared, Hassan ben Saad added, to make a disturbance, as an influential friend--Captain Sabine--advised
him to inform the marabout of what had happened before taking public action which the child's
father might disapprove.

The Arab frowned as he read on, not wholly because of his anger with the boy's guardian, though
that burned in his heart, hot as a new-kindled fire, and could be extinguished only by revenge.

"This Captain Sabine," he said slowly, "I know slightly. He called upon me at a time when he
made a well in the neighbourhood. Was it he who put into thine head these ridiculous notions
concerning a dead man? I warn thee to answer truly if thou wouldst gain anything from me."

"My countrymen don't, as a rule, transact business by telling diplomatic lies," said Stephen
smiling, as he felt that he could now afford to smile. "Captain Sabine did not put the notion
into my head."

"Hast thou spoken of it to him?"

Stephen shrugged his shoulders slightly. "I do not see that I'm called upon to answer that
question. All I will say is, you need have no fear of Captain Sabine or of any one else, once
Miss Ray is safely out of this place."

The marabout turned this answer over quickly in his mind. He knew that, if Sabine or any Frenchman
suspected his identity and his plans for the future, he was irretrievably lost. No private
consideration would induce a French officer to spare him, if aware that he hoped eventually
to overthrow the rule of France in North Africa. This being the case (and believing that Knight
had learned of the plot), he reflected that Sabine could not have been taken into the secret,
otherwise the Englishman dare not make promises. He saw too, that it would have been impolitic
for Knight to take Sabine into his confidence. A Frenchman in the secret would have ruined
this coup d'état; and, beginning to respect Stephen as an enemy, he decided that he was too
clever to be in real partnership with the officer. Ben Halim's growing conviction was that
his wife, Saidee, had told Victoria all she knew and all she suspected, and that the girl had
somehow contrived to smuggle a letter out of the Zaouïa to her English lover.

The distrust and dislike he had long felt for Saidee suddenly burst into a flame of hatred.
He longed to crush under his foot the face he had once loved, to grind out its beauty with
a spurred heel. And he hated the girl, too, though he could not punish her as he could punish
Saidee, for he must have Maïeddine's help presently, and Maïeddine would insist that she should
be protected, whatever might happen to others. But he was beginning to see light ahead, if
he might take it for granted that his secret was suspected by no more than four persons--Saidee,
Victoria, and the two Englishmen who were acting for the girl.

"I see by this letter from my brother-in-law that it is even as thou sayest; thou and thy friend
together have committed the cruel wrong of which thou boastest," Ben Halim said at last. "A
father robbed of his one son is as a stag pinned to earth with a spear through his heart. He
is in the hands of the hunter, his courage ebbing with his life-blood. Had this thing been
done when thou wert here before, I should have been powerless to pay the tribute, for the lady
over whom thou claimst a right was not within my gates. Now, I admit, she has come. If she
wish to go with thee, she is free to do so. But I will send with her men of my own, to travel
by her side, and refuse to surrender her until my child is given into their hands."

"That is easy to arrange," Stephen agreed. "I will telegraph to my friend, who is by this time--as
you can see by your letter--two days' journey away or more. He will return with your son, and
an escort, but only a certain distance. I will meet him at some place appointed, and we will
hand the boy over to your men."

"It will be better that the exchange should be made here," said the marabout.

"I can see why it might be so from your point of view, but that view is not ours. You have
too much power here, and frankly, I don't trust you. You'll admit that I'd be a fool if I did!
The meeting must be at some distance from your Zaouïa."

The marabout raised his eyebrows superciliously. They said--"So thou art afraid!" But Stephen
was not to be taunted into an imprudence where Victoria's safety was at stake.

"Those are our terms," he repeated.

"Very well, I accept," said the Arab. "Thou mayest send a message to the lady, inviting her
to leave my house with thee; and I assure thee, that in any case I would have no wish to keep
her, other than the desire of hospitality. Thou canst take her at once, if she will go; and
passing through the city, with her and my men, thou canst send thy telegram. Appoint as a meeting
place the Bordj of Toudja, one day's march from the town of Oued Tolga. When my men have the
child in their keeping, thou wilt be free to go in peace with the girl and thy friend."

"I should be glad if thou wouldst send for her, and let me talk with her here," Stephen suggested.

"No, that cannot be," the marabout answered decidedly. "When she is out of my house, I wash
my hands of her; but while she is under my roof it would be shameful that she should speak,
even in my presence, with a strange man."

Stephen was ready to concede a point, if he could get his wish in another way. "Give me paper,
then, and I will write to the lady," he said. "There will be an answer, and it must be brought
to me quickly, for already I have stopped longer than I expected, and Captain Sabine, who knows
I have come to call upon you and fetch a friend, may be anxious."

He spoke his last words with a certain emphasis, knowing that Ben Halim would understand the
scarcely veiled threat.

The marabout went into the next room, and got some French writing paper. Stephen wrote a hasty
note, begging Victoria to leave the Zaouïa under his care. He would take her, he said, to Lady
MacGregor, who had come to Touggourt on purpose to be at hand if wanted. He wrote in English,
but because he was sure that Ben Halim knew the language, he said nothing to Victoria about
her sister. Only he mentioned, as if carelessly, that he had brought a good camel with a comfortable
bassour large enough for two.

When the letter was in an envelope, addressed to Miss Ray, the marabout took it from Stephen
and handed it to somebody outside the door, no doubt one of the three watchers. There were
mumbled instructions in Arabic, and ten minutes later an answer came back. Stephen could have
shouted for joy at sight of Victoria's handwriting. There were only a few lines, in pencil,
but he knew that he would keep them always, with her first letter.

"Oh, how glad I am that you're here!" she wrote. "By and by I hope to thank you--but of course
I can't come without my sister. She is wretched, and wants to leave the man who seems to her
no longer a husband, but she thinks he will not want to let her go. Tell him that it must be
both of us, or neither. Or if you feel it would be better, give him this to read, and ask him
to send an answer."

Stephen guessed why the girl had written in French. She had fancied that the marabout would
not choose to admit his knowledge of English, and he admired the quickness of her wit in a
sudden emergency.

As he handed the letter to the Arab, Stephen would have given a great deal to see the face
under the black mask. He could read nothing of the man's mind through the downcast eyelids,
with their long black fringe of close-set lashes. And he knew that Ben Halim must have finished
the short letter at least sixty seconds before he chose to look up from the paper.

"It is best," the marabout said slowly, "that the two sisters go together. A man of Islam has
the right to repudiate a woman who gives him no children, but I have been merciful. Now an
opportunity has come to rid myself of a burden, without turning adrift one who is helpless
and friendless. For my son's sake I have granted thy request; for my own sake I grant the girl's
request: but both, only on one condition--that thou swearest in the name of thy God, and upon
the head of thy father, never to breathe with thy lips, or put with thy hand upon paper, the
malicious story about me, at which thou hast to-day hinted; that thou enforce upon the two
sisters the same silence, which, before going, they must promise me to guard for ever. Though
there is no foundation for the wicked fabrication, and no persons of intelligence who know
me would believe it, even if I had no proof, still for a man who holds a place of spiritual
eminence, evil gossip is a disgrace."

"I promise for myself, for my friend, and for both the ladies, silence on that subject, so
long as we may live. I swear before my God, and on the head of my dead father, that I will
keep my word, if you keep yours to me," said Stephen, who knew only half the secret. Yet he
was astonished at gaining his point so easily. He had expected more trouble. Nevertheless,
he did not see how the marabout could manage to play him false, if he wanted to get his boy
and hide the truth about himself.

"I am content," said the Arab. "And thou shouldst be content, since thou hast driven a successful
bargain, and it is as if the contract between us were signed in my heart's blood. Now, I will
leave thee. When the ladies are ready, thou shalt be called by one of the men who will be of
their escort. It is not necessary that thou and I meet again, since we have, I hope, finished
our business together, once and for ever."

        *        *        *        *        *        *        *

"Why is it that he lets me go, without even trying to make me swear never to tell what I know?"
Saidee asked Victoria, while all in haste and in confusion they put together a few things for
the long journey. Saidee packed the little volumes of her diary, with trembling fingers, and
looked a frightened question at her sister.

"I'm thankful that he doesn't ask us," Victoria answered, "for we couldn't promise not to tell,
unless he would vow never to do the dreadful things you say he plans--lead a great rising,
and massacre the French. Even to escape, one couldn't make a promise which might cost thousands
of lives."

"We could perhaps evade a promise, yet seem to do what he asked," said Saidee, who had learned
subtle ways in a school of subtlety. "I'm terrified that he doesn't ask. Why isn't he afraid
to let us go, without any assurances?"

"He knows that because you've been his wife, we wouldn't betray him unless we were forced to,
in order to prevent massacres," Victoria tried to reassure her sister. "And perhaps for the
sake of getting his boy back, he's willing to renounce all his horrible plans."

"Perhaps--since he worships the child," Saidee half agreed. "Yet--it doesn't seem like Cassim
to be so easily cowed, and to give up the whole ambition of his life, with scarcely a struggle,
even for his child."

"You said, when you told me how you had written to Mr. Knight, that Cassim would be forced
to yield, if they took the boy, and so the end would justify the means."

"Yes. It was a great card to play. But--but I expected him to make me take a solemn oath never
to tell what I know."

"Don't let's think of it," said Victoria. "Let's just be thankful that we're going, and get
ready as quickly as we can, lest he should change his mind at the last moment."

"Or lest Maïeddine should find out," Saidee added. "But, if Cassim really means us to go, he
won't let Maïeddine find out. He will thank Allah and the Prophet for sending the fever that
keeps Maïeddine in his bedroom."

"Poor Maïeddine!" Victoria half whispered. In her heart lurked kindness for the man who had
so desperately loved her, even though love had driven him to the verge of treachery. "I hope
he'll forget all about me and be happy," she said. And then, because she was happy herself,
and the future seemed bright, she forgot Maïeddine, and thought only of another.

XLVIII

"That must be the bordj of Toudja, at last," Victoria said, looking out between the curtains
of her bassour. "Aren't you thankful, Saidee? You'll feel happier and freer, when Cassim's
men have gone back to the Zaouïa, and our ransom has been paid by the return of the little
boy. That volume of your life will be closed for ever and ever, and you can begin the next."

Saidee was silent. She did not want to think that the volume was closed for ever, because in
it there was one chapter which, unless it could be added to the new volume, would leave the
rest of the book without interest for her. Half involuntarily she touched the basket which
Honoré Sabine had given her when they parted in the desert city of Oued Tolga early that morning.
In the basket were two carrier pigeons. She had promised to send one from the Bordj of Toudja,
and another at the end of the next day's journey. After that she would be within reach of the
telegraph. Her reason told her it was well that Sabine was not with her now, yet she wished
for him, and could not be glad of his absence. Perhaps she would never see him again. Who could
tell? It would have been unwise for Sabine, as an officer and as a man, to leave his duty to
travel with her: she could see that, yet she was secretly angry with Victoria, because Victoria,
happy herself, seemed to have little sympathy with her sister's hopes. The girl did not like
to talk about Sabine, or discuss any connection he might possibly have with Saidee's future;
and because Victoria was silent on that subject, Saidee revenged herself by being reticent
on others. Victoria guessed the reason, and her heart yearned over Saidee; but this was something
of which they could not talk. Some day, perhaps, Saidee would understand, and they would be
drawn together again more closely than before.

"There's Toudja," Stephen said, as the girl looked out again from the bassour. Whenever he
saw her face, framed thus by the dark red curtains, his heart beat, as if her beauty were new
to him, seen that instant for the first time. This was the flood-tide of his life, now when
they travelled through the desert together, he and she, and she depended upon his help and
protection. For to-day, and the few more days until the desert journey should come to an end
at Biskra, the tide would be at flood: then it would ebb, never to rise again, because at Algiers
they must part, she to go her way, he to go his; and his way would lead him to Margot Lorenzi.
After Algiers there would be no more happiness for him, and he did not hope for it; but, right
or wrong, he was living passionately in every moment now.

Victoria smiled down from the high bassour at the dark, sunburnt face of the rider. How different
it was from the dark face of another rider who had looked up at her, between her curtains,
when she had passed that way before! There was only one point of resemblance between the two:
the light of love in the eyes. Victoria could not help recognizing that likeness. She could
not help being sure that Stephen loved her, and the thought made her feel safe, as well as
happy. There had been a sense of danger in the knowledge of Maïeddine's love.

"The tower in the bordj is ruined," she said, looking across the waving sea of dunes to a tall
black object like the crooked finger of a giant pointing up out of the gold into the blue.
"It wasn't so when I passed before."

"No," Stephen answered, welcoming any excuse for talk with her. "But it was when we came from
Touggourt. Sabine told me there'd been a tremendous storm in the south just before we left
Algiers, and the heliograph tower at Toudja was struck by lightning. They'll build it up again
soon, for all these heliograph stations are supposed to be kept in order, in case of any revolt;
for the first thing a rebellious tribe does is to cut the telegraph wires. If that happened,
the only way of communication would be by heliograph; and Sabine says that from Touggourt to
Tombouctou this chain of towers has been arranged always on elevations, so that signals can
be seen across great stretches of desert; and inside the walls of a bordj whenever possible,
for defence. But the South is so contented and peaceful now, I don't suppose the Government
will get out of breath in its hurry to restore the damage here."

At the sound of Sabine's name Saidee had instantly roused to attention, and as Stephen spoke
calmly of the peace and content in the South, she smiled. Then suddenly her face grew eager.

"Did the marabout appoint Toudja as the place to make the exchange, or was it you?" she asked,
over Victoria's shoulder.

"The marabout," said Stephen. "I fell in with the idea because I'd already made objections
to several, and I could see none to Toudja. It's a day's journey farther north than the Zaouïa,
and I remembered the bordj being kept by two Frenchmen, who would be of use if----" He checked
himself, not wishing to hint that it might be necessary to guard against treason. "If we had
to stop for the night," he amended, "no doubt the bordj would be better kept than some others.
And we shall have to stop, you know, because my friend, Caird, can't arrive from Touggourt
with the boy till late, at best."

"Did--the marabout seem bent on making this bordj the rendezvous?" Saidee asked.

Stephen's eyes met hers in a quick, involuntary glance, then turned to the ruined tower. He
saw it against the northern sky as they came from the south, and, blackened by the lightning,
it accentuated the desolation of the dunes. In itself, it looked sinister as a broken gibbet.
"If the marabout had a strong preference for the place, he didn't betray it," was the only
answer he could make. "Have you a special reason for asking?"

"No," Saidee echoed. "No special reason."

But Stephen and Victoria both guessed what was in her mind. As they looked at the tower all
three thought of the Arabs who formed their caravan. There were six, sent out from the Zaouïa
to take back the little Mohammed. They belonged body and soul to the marabout. At the town
of Oued Tolga, Stephen had added a third to his escort of two; but though they were good guides,
brave, upstanding fellows, he knew they would turn from him if there were any question between
Roumis and men of their own religion. If an accident had happened to the child on the way back
from Touggourt, or if any other difficulty arose, in which their interest clashed with his,
he would have nine Arabs against him. He and Caird, with the two Highlanders, if they came,
would be alone, no matter how large might be Nevill's Arab escort. Stephen hardly knew why
these thoughts pressed upon him suddenly, with new insistence, as he saw the tower rise dark
against the sky, jagged as if it had been hacked with a huge, dull knife. He had known from
the first what risks they ran. Nevill and he and Sabine had talked them all over, and decided
that, on the whole, there was no great danger of treachery from the marabout, who stood to
lose too much, to gain too little, by breaking faith. As for Maïeddine, he was ill with fever,
so the sisters said, and Saidee and Victoria believed that he had been kept in ignorance of
the marabout's bargain. Altogether, circumstances seemed to have combined in their favour.
Ben Halim's wife was naturally suspicious and fearful, after her long martyrdom, but there
was no new reason for uneasiness. Only, Stephen reminded himself, he must not neglect the slightest
wavering of the weather-vane. And in every shadow he must look for a sign.

They had not made a hurried march from the desert city, for Stephen and Sabine had calculated
the hour at which Nevill might have received the summons, and the time he would take on the
return journey. It was possible, Lady MacGregor being what she was, that she might have rewired
the telegram to a certain bordj, the only telegraph station between Touggourt and Oued Tolga.
If she had done this, and the message had caught Nevill, many hours would be saved. Instead
of getting to the bordj about midnight, tired out with a long, quick march, he might be expected
before dark. Even so, Stephen would be well ahead, for, as the caravan came to the gate of
the bordj, it was only six o'clock, blazing afternoon still, and hot as midday, with the fierce,
golden heat of the desert towards the end of May.

The big iron gates were wide open, and nothing stirred in the quadrangle inside; but as Stephen
rode in, one of the Frenchmen he remembered slouched out of a room where the wooden shutters
of the window were closed for coolness. His face was red, and he yawned as he came forward,
rubbing his eyes as if he had been asleep. But he welcomed Stephen politely, and seeing that
a good profit might be expected from so large a party, he roused himself to look pleased.

"I must have a room for two ladies," said Stephen, "and I am expecting a friend with a small
caravan, to arrive from the north. However, six of my Arabs will go back when he comes. You
must do the best you can for us, but nothing is of any importance compared to the ladies' comfort."

"Certainly, I will do my best," the keeper of the bordj assured him. "But as you see, our accommodation
is humble. It is strained when we have four or five officers for the night, and though I and
my brother have been in this God-forsaken place--worse luck!--for nine years, we have never
yet had to put up ladies. Unfortunately, too, my brother is away, gone to Touggourt to buy
stores, and I have only one Arab to help me. Still, though I have forgotten many useful things
in this banishment, I have not forgotten how to cook, as more than one French officer could
tell you."

"One has told me," said Stephen. "Captain Sabine, of the Chasseurs d'Afrique."

"Ah, ce beau sabreur! He stopped with me on his way to Oued Tolga, for the well-making. If
he has recommended me, I shall be on my mettle, Monsieur."

The heavy face brightened; but there were bags under the bloodshot eyes, and the man's breath
reeked of alcohol. Stephen was sorry the brother was away. He had been the more alert and prepossessing
of the two.

As they talked, the quadrangle of the bordj--which was but an inferior caravanserai--had waked
to animation. The landlord's one Arab servant had appeared, like a rat out of a hole, to help
the new arrivals with their horses and camels. The caravans had filed in, and the marabout's
men and Stephen's guides had dismounted.

None of these had seen the place since the visitation of the storm, and one or two from the
Zaouïa had perhaps never been so far north before, yet they looked at the broken tower with
grave interest rather than curiosity. Stephen wondered whether they had been primed with knowledge
before starting, or if their lack of emotion were but Arab stoicism.

As usual in a caravanserai or large bordj, all round the square courtyard were series of rooms:
a few along one wall for the accommodation of French officers and rich Arabs, furnished with
elementary European comforts; opposite, a dining-room and kitchen; to the left, the quarters
of the two landlords and their servants; along the fourth wall, on either side of the great
iron gate, sheds for animals, untidily littered with straw and refuse, infested with flies.
Further disorder was added by the débris from the broken heliograph-tower which had been only
partially cleared away since the storm. Other towers there were, also; three of them, all very
low and squat, jutting out from each corner of the high, flat-topped wall, and loopholed as
usual, so that men stationed inside could defend against an escalade. These small towers were
intact, though the roof of one was covered with rubbish from the ruined shell rising above;
and looking up at this, Stephen saw that much had fallen away since he passed with Nevill,
going to Oued Tolga. One entire wall had been sliced off, leaving the inside of the tower,
with the upper chamber, visible from below. It was like looking into a half-dissected body,
and the effect was depressing.

"If we should be raided by Arabs now," said the landlord, laughing, as he saw Stephen glance
at the tower, "we should have to pray for help: there would be no other means of getting it."

"You don't seem to worry much," replied Stephen.

"No, for the Arabs in these parts are sheep nowadays," said the Frenchman. "Like sheep, they
might follow a leader; but where is the leader? It is different among the Touaregs, where I
spent some time before I came here. They are warriors by nature, but even they are quiet of late."

"Do you ever see any here?" Stephen asked.

"A few occasionally, going to Touggourt, but seldom. They are formidable-looking fellows, in
their indigo-coloured masks, which stain their skin blue, but they are tractable enough if
one does not offend them."

There was only one room which could be made passably habitable for Saidee and Victoria, and
they went into it, out of the hot sun, as soon as it could be prepared. The little luggage
they had brought went with them, and the basket containing the two carrier pigeons. Saidee
fed the birds, and scribbled a few words on a scrap of paper, to tell Sabine that they had
arrived safely at Toudja. On second thoughts, she added a postscript, while Victoria unpacked
what they needed for the night. "He chose the rendezvous," Saidee wrote. "I suppose I'm too
superstitious, but I can't help wondering if his choice had anything to do with the ruined
tower? Don't be anxious, though. You will probably receive another line to-morrow night, to
say that we've reached the next stage, and all's well."

"I suppose you think I'm doing wrong to write to him?" she said to Victoria, as she took one
of the pigeons out of its basket.

"No," the girl answered. "Why shouldn't you write to say you're safe? He's your friend, and
you're going far away."

Saidee almost wished that Victoria had scolded her. Without speaking again, she began to fasten
her letter under the bird's wing, but gave a little cry, for there was blood on her fingers.
"Oh, he's hurt himself somehow!" she exclaimed. "He won't be able to fly, I'm afraid. What
shall I do? I must send the other one. And yet--if I do, there'll be nothing for to-morrow."

"Won't you wait until after Mr. Caird has come, and you can tell about the little boy?" Victoria
suggested.

"He mayn't arrive till very late, and--I promised Captain Sabine that he should hear to-night."

"But think how quickly a pigeon flies! Surely it can go in less than half the time we would
take, riding up and down among the dunes."

"Oh, much less than half! Captain Sabine said that from the bordj of Toudja the pigeon would
come to him in an hour and a half, or two at most."

"Then wait a little longer. Somehow I feel you'll be glad if you do."

Saidee looked quickly at the girl. "You make me superstitious," she said.

"Why?"

"With your 'feelings' about things. They're almost always right. I'm afraid of them. I shouldn't
dare send the pigeon now, for fear----"

"For fear of what?"

"I hardly know. I told you that you made me superstitious."

Stephen stood between the open gates of the bordj, looking north, whence Nevill should come.
The desert was empty, a great, waving stretch of gold, but a caravan might be engulfed among
the dunes. Any moment horses or camels might come in sight; and he was not anxious about Nevill
or the boy. It was impossible that they could have been cut off by an attacking party from
the Zaouïa. Captain Sabine and he, Stephen, had kept too keen a watch for that to happen, for
the Zaouïa lay south of Oued Tolga the city.

Others besides himself were searching the sea of sand. One of his own guides was standing outside
the gates, talking with two of the marabout's men, and looking into the distance. But rather
oddly, it seemed to him, their faces were turned southward, until the guide said something
to the others. Then, slowly, they faced towards the north. Stephen remembered how he had told
himself to neglect no sign. Had he just seen a sign?

For some moments he did not look at the Arabs. Then, glancing quickly at the group, he saw
that the head man sent by the marabout was talking emphatically to the guide from Oued Tolga,
the city. Again, their eyes flashed to the Roumi, before he had time to turn away, and without
hesitation the head man from the Zaouïa came a few steps towards him. "Sidi, we see horses,"
he said, in broken French. "The caravan thou dost expect is there," and he pointed.

Stephen had very good eyesight, but he saw nothing, and said so.

"We Arabs are used to looking across great distances," the man answered. "Keep thy gaze steadily
upon the spot where I point, and presently thou wilt see."

It was as he prophesied. Out of a blot of shadow among the tawny dunes crawled some dark specks,
which might have been particles of the shadow itself. They moved, and gradually increased in
size. By and by Stephen could count seven separate specks. It must be Nevill and the boy, and
Stephen wondered if he had added two more Arabs to the pair who had gone back with him from
Oued Tolga, towards Touggourt.

"Hurrah for Lady MacGregor!" the watcher said under his breath. "She wired on my telegram,
and caught him before he'd passed the last station. I might have known she would, the glorious
old darling!" He hurried inside the bordj to knock at the ladies' door, and tell the news.
"They're in sight!" he cried. "Would you like to come outside the gate and look?"

Instantly the door opened, and the sisters appeared. Victoria looked flushed and happy, but
Saidee was pale, almost haggard in comparison with the younger girl. Both were in Arab dress
still, having nothing else, even if they had wished to change; and as she came out, Saidee
mechanically drew the long blue folds of her veil closely over her face. Custom had made this
a habit which it would be hard to break.

All three went out together, and the Arabs, standing in a group, turned at the sound of their
voices. Again they had been looking southward. Stephen looked also, but the dazzle of the declining
sun was in his eyes.

"Don't seem to notice anything," said Saidee in a low voice.

"What is there to notice?" he asked in the same tone.

"A big caravan coming from the south. Can't you see it?"

"No. I see nothing."

"You haven't stared at the desert for eight years, as I have. There must be eighteen or twenty
men."

"Do you think they're from the Zaouïa?" asked Victoria.

"Who can tell? We can't know till they're very close, and then----"

"Nevill Caird will get here first," Stephen said, half to himself. "You can see five horses
and two camels plainly now. They're travelling fast."

"Those Arabs have seen the others," Saidee murmured. "But they don't want us to know they're
thinking about them."

"Even if men are coming from the Zaouïa," said Stephen, "it may easily be that they've only
been sent as an extra escort for the boy, owing to his father's anxiety."

"Yes, it may be only that," Saidee admitted. "Still, I'm glad----" She did not finish her sentence.
But she was thinking about the carrier pigeon, and Victoria's advice.

All three looked northward, watching the seven figures on horseback, in the far distance; but
now and then, when they could hope to do so without being noticed by the Arabs, they stole
a hasty glance in the other direction. "The caravan has stopped," Saidee declared at last.
"In the shadow of a big dune."

"I see, now," said Stephen.

"And I," added Victoria.

"Perhaps after all, it's just an ordinary caravan," Saidee said more hopefully. "Many nomads
come north at this time of year. They may be making their camp now. Anyway, its certain they
haven't moved for some time."

And still they had not moved, when Nevill Caird was close enough to the bordj for a shout of
greeting to be heard.

"There are two of the strangest-looking creatures with him!" cried Saidee. "What can they be--on
camels!"

"Why," exclaimed Victoria, "it's those men in kilts, who waited on the table at Mr. Caird's house!"

"Hurrah for Lady MacGregor again!" laughed Stephen. "It's the twins, Angus and Hamish." He
pulled off his panama hat and waved it, shouting to his friend in joy. "We're a regiment!"
he exclaimed gaily.

XLIX

The boy Mohammed was proud and very happy. He had not been in a motor-car, for he had not got
to Touggourt; but it was glorious to have travelled far north, almost out of the dunes, and
not only to have seen giant women in short skirts with bare legs, but not to be afraid of them,
as the grown-up Arabs were. The giant women were Hamish and Angus, and it was a great thing
to know them, and to be able to explain them to his father's men from the Zaouïa.

He was a handsome little fellow, with a face no darker than old ivory, and heavily lashed,
expressive eyes, like those which looked over the marabout's mask. His dress was that of a
miniature man; a white silk burnous, embroidered with gold, over a pale blue vest, stitched
in many colours; a splendid red cloak, whose embroidery of stiff gold stood out like a bas-relief;
a turban and chechia of thin white muslin; and red-legged boots finer than those of the Spahis.
Though he was but eleven years old, and had travelled hard for days, he sat his horse with
a princely air, worthy the son of a desert potentate; and like a prince he received the homage
of the marabout's men who rushed to him with guttural cries, kissing the toes of his boots,
in their short stirrups, and fighting for an end of his cloak to touch with their lips. He
did not know that he had been "kidnapped." His impression was that he had deigned to favour
a rather agreeable Roumi with his company. Now he was returning to his own people, and would
bid his Roumi friend good-bye with the cordiality of one gentleman to another, though with
a certain royal condescension fitted to the difference in their positions.

Nevill was in wild spirits, though pale with heat and fatigue. He had nothing to say of himself,
but much of his aunt and of the boy Mohammed. "Ripping little chap," he exclaimed, when Saidee
had gone indoors. "You never saw such pluck. He'd die sooner than admit he was tired. I shall
be quite sorry to part from him. He was jolly good company, a sort of living book of Arab history.
And what do you say to our surprise,--the twins? My aunt sent them off at the same time with
the telegram, but of course they put in an appearance much later. They caught me up this morning,
riding like devils on racing camels, with one guide. No horses could be got big enough for
them. They've frightened every Arab they've met--but they're used to that and vain of it. They've
got rifles--and bagpipes too, for all I know. They're capable of them."

"I can't tell you how glad I am to see you, Wings," said Stephen, "and only a little less glad
to see those big fellows with their brave faces." Then he mentioned to Nevill the apparition
of that mysterious caravan which had appeared, and vanished. Also he described the behaviour
of the Zaouïa men when they had looked south, instead of north.

"Oh, that's all right, I'll bet," exclaimed Nevill, exuberant with the joy of success, and
in the hope of coolness, food and rest. "Might have been any old caravan, on its own business--nothing
to do with us. That's the most likely thing. But if the marabout's mixed up with it, I should
say it's only because he couldn't bear to stop at home and wait in suspense, and I don't blame
him, now I've made acquaintance with the kid. He'd be too proud to parade his anxiety under
our noses, but would lurk in the distance, out of our sight, he probably flatters himself,
to welcome his son, and take him back to Oued Tolga. Not unnatural--and in spite of all, I
can't help being a little sorry for the man. We've humiliated and got the better of him, because
we happen to have his secret. It's a bit like draining a chap's blood, and then challenging
him to fight. He's got all he can expect now, in receiving the child back and if I can judge
him by myself, he'll be so happy, that he'll be only too thankful to see our backs for the
last time."

"He might feel safer to stick a knife in them."

"Oh, lord, I'm too hot to worry!" laughed Nevill. "Let's bid the boy Godspeed, or the Mussulman
equivalent, which is a lot more elaborate, and then turn our thoughts to a bath of sorts and
a dinner of sorts. I think Providence has been good to us so far, and we can afford to trust
It. I'm sure Miss Ray would agree with me there." And Nevill glanced with kind blue eyes toward
the shut door behind which Victoria had disappeared with her sister.

When at last the little Mohammed had been despatched with great ceremony of politeness, as
well as a present of Stephen's gold watch, the two Englishmen watched him fade out of sight
with his cavalcade of men from the Zaouïa, and saw that nothing moved in the southern distance.

"All's right with the world, and now for a wash and food!" cried Nevill, turning in with a
sigh of relief at the gate of the bordj. "But oh, by the way--Hamish has got a letter for you--or
is it Angus? Anyhow, it's from my fairy aunt, which I would envy you, if she hadn't sent me
on something better--a post-card from Tlemcen. My tyrant goddess thinks letters likely to give
undue encouragement, but once in a while she sheds the light of a post-card on me. Small favours
thankfully received--from that source!"

Inside the courtyard, the Highlanders were watching the three Arabs who had travelled with
them and their master, attending to the horses and camels. These newcomers were being shown
the ropes by the one servant of the bordj, Stephen's men helping with grave good-nature. They
all seemed very friendly together, as is the way of Arabs, unless they inhabit rival districts.

Hamish had the letter, and gave it to Stephen, who retired a few steps to read it, and Nevill,
seeing that the twins left all work to the Arabs, ordered them to put his luggage into the
musty-smelling room which he was to share with Stephen, and to get him some kind of bath, if
it were only a tin pan.

Stephen did not listen to these directions, nor did he hear or see anything that went on in
the courtyard, for the next ten minutes. There was, indeed, a short and characteristic letter
from Lady MacGregor, but it was only to say that she had finished and named the new game of
Patience for Victoria Ray, and that, after all, she enclosed him a telegram, forwarded from
Algiers to Touggourt. "I know Nevill told me that everything could wait till you got back,"
she explained, "but as I am sending the twins, they might as well take this. It may be of importance;
and I'm afraid by the time you get it, the news will be several days old already."

He guessed, before he looked, whence the telegram came; and he dreaded to make sure. For an
instant, he was tempted to put the folded bit of paper in his pocket, unread until Touggourt,
or even Biskra. "Why shouldn't I keep these few days unspoiled by thoughts of what's to come,
since they're the only happy days I shall ever have?" he asked himself. But it would be weak
to put off the evil moment, and he would not yield. He opened the telegram.

     "Sailing on Virginian. Hope you can meet me Liverpool May 22nd.
     Love and longing. Margot."

To-day was the 25th.

        *        *        *        *        *        *        *

When he looked up, the courtyard was empty, and quiet, save for the quacking of two or three
forlorn ducks. Nevill had gone inside, and the Highlanders were waiting upon him, no doubt--for
Nevill liked a good deal of waiting upon. The Arabs had left the animals peacefully feeding,
and had disappeared into the kitchen, or perhaps to have a last look at the vanishing escort
of the marabout's sacred son.

Stephen was suddenly conscious of fatigue, and a depression as of great weariness. He envied
Nevill, whose boyish laugh he heard. The girl Nevill loved had refused to marry him, but she
smiled when she saw him, and sent him post-cards when he was absent. There was hope for Nevill.
For him there was none; although--and it was as if a fierce hand seized and wrenched his heart--sometimes
it had seemed, in the last few hours, that in Victoria Ray's smile for him there was the same
lovely, mysterious light which made the eyes of Josette Soubise wonderful when she looked at
Nevill. If it were not for Margot--but there was no use thinking of that. He could not ask
Margot to set him free, after all that had passed, and even if he should ask, she would refuse.
Shuddering disgustfully, the thought of a new family scandal shot through his mind: a breach-of-promise
case begun by Margot against him, if he tried to escape. It was the sort of thing she would
do, he could not help recognizing. Another cause célèbre, more vulgar than the fight for his
brother's title! How Victoria would turn in shocked revulsion from the hero of such a coarse
tragi-comedy. But he would never be that hero. He would keep his word and stick to Margot.
When he should come to the desert telegraph station between Toudja and Touggourt, he would
wire to the Carlton, where she thought of returning, and explain as well as he could that,
not expecting her quite yet, he had stayed on in Africa, but would see her as soon as possible.

"Better hurry up and get ready for dinner!" shouted Nevill, through a crack of their bedroom
door. "I warn you, I'm starving!"

By this time the Highlanders were out in the courtyard again--two gigantic figures, grotesque
and even fearful in the eyes of Arabs; but there were no Arabs to stare at them now. All had
gone about their business in one direction or other.

Stephen said nothing to his friend about the enclosure in Lady MacGregor's letter, mentioning
merely the new game of cards named in honour of Miss Ray, at which they both laughed. And it
seemed rather odd to Stephen just then, to hear himself laugh.

The quick-falling twilight had now given sudden coolness and peace to the desert. The flies
had ceased their persecutions. The whole air was blue as the light seen through a pale star-sapphire,
for the western sky was veiled with a film of cloud floating up out of the sunset like the
smoke of its fire, and there was no glow of red.

As the two friends made themselves ready for dinner, and talked of such adventures as each
had just passed through, they heard the voice of the landlord, impatiently calling, "Abdallah!
Abdallah!"

There was no reply, and again he roared the name of his servant, from the kitchen and from
the courtyard, into which he rushed with a huge ladle in his hand; then from farther off, outside
the gate, which remained wide open. Still there came no answer; and presently Stephen, looking
from his bedroom, saw the Frenchman, hot and red-faced, slowly crossing the courtyard, mumbling
to himself.

Nevill had not quite finished his toilet, for he had a kind of boyish vanity, and wished to
show how well and smart he could look after the long, tiresome journey. But Stephen was ready,
and he stepped out, closing the door behind him.

"Can't you find your servant?" he asked the keeper of the bordj.

"No," said the man, adding some epithets singularly unflattering to the absent one and his
ancestors. "He has vanished as if his father, the devil, had dragged him down to hell."

"Where are the others?" inquired Stephen. "My men and my friend's men? Are they still standing
outside the gates, watching the boy and his caravan?"

"I saw them nowhere," returned the Frenchman. "It is bad enough to keep one Arab in order.
I do not run after others. Would that the whole nation might die like flies in a frost! I hate
them. What am I to do for my dinner, and ladies in the bordj for the first time? It is just
my luck. I cannot leave the kitchen, and that brute Abdallah has not laid the table! When I
catch him I will wring his neck as if he were a hen."

He trotted back to the kitchen, swearing, and an instant later he was visible through the open
door, drinking something out of a bottle.

Stephen went to the door of the third and last guest-room of the bordj. It was larger than
the others, and had no furniture except a number of thick blue and red rugs spread one on top
of the other, on the floor. This was the place where those who paid least were accommodated,
eight or ten at a time if necessary; and it was expected that Hamish and Angus would have to
share the room with the Arab guides of both parties.

Stephen looked in at the twins, as they scornfully inspected their quarters.

"Where are the Arabs?" he asked, as he had asked the landlord.

"We dinna ken whaur they've ta'en theirsel's," replied Angus. "All we ken is, we wull not lie
in the hoose wi' 'em. Her leddyship wadna expect it, whateffer. We prefair t' sleep in th' open."

Stephen retired from the argument, and mounted a steep, rough stairway, close to the gate,
which led to the flat top of the wall, and had formerly been connected by a platform with the
ruined heliograph tower. The wall was perhaps two feet thick, and though the top was rough
and somewhat broken, it was easy to walk upon it. Once it had been defended by a row of nails
and bits of glass, but most of these were gone. It was an ancient bordj, and many years of
peace had passed since it was built in the old days of raids and razzias.

Stephen looked out over the desert, through the blue veil of twilight, but could see no sign
of life anywhere. Then, coming down, he mounted into each squat tower in turn, and peered out,
so that he might spy in all directions, but there was nothing to spy save the shadowy dunes,
more than ever like waves of the sea, in this violet light. He was not reassured, however,
by the appearance of a vast peace and emptiness. Behind those billowing dunes that surged away
toward the horizon, north, south, east, and west, there was hiding-place for an army.

As he came down from the last of the four towers, his friend sauntered out from his bedroom.
"I hope the missing Abdallah's turned up, and dinner's ready," said Nevill gaily.

Then Stephen told him what had happened, and Nevill's cheerful face settled into gravity.

"Looks as if they'd got a tip from the marabout's men," he said slowly.

"It can be nothing else," Stephen agreed.

"I blame myself for calling the twins inside to help me," said Nevill. "If I'd left them to
moon about the courtyard, they'd have seen those sneaks creeping away, and reported."

"They wouldn't have thought it strange that the Arabs stood outside, watching the boy go. You're
not to blame, because you didn't see the sly look in my fellows' faces. I had the sign, and
neglected it, in spite of my resolutions. But after all, if we're in for trouble, I don't know
that it isn't as well those cowards have taken French leave. If they'd stayed, we'd only have
had an enemy inside the gates, as well as out. And that reminds me, we must have the gates
shut at once. Thank heaven we brought those French army rifles and plenty of cartridges from
Algiers, when we didn't know what we might be in for. Now we do know; and all are likely to
come handy. Also our revolvers."

"Thank heaven and my aunt for the twins, too," said Nevill. "They might be better servants,
but I'll bet on them as fighters. And perhaps you noticed the rifles her 'leddyship' provided
them with at Touggourt?"

"I saw the muzzles glitter as they rode along on camel-back," Stephen answered. "I was glad
even then, but now----" He did not need to finish the sentence. "We'd better have a word with
our host," he said.

To reach the dining-room, where the landlord was busy, furiously clattering dishes, they had
to pass the door of the room occupied by the sisters. It was half open, and as they went by,
Victoria came out.

"Please tell me things," she said. "I'm sure you're anxious. When we heard the landlord call
his servant and nobody answered, Saidee was afraid there was something wrong. You know, from
the first she thought that her--that Cassim didn't mean to keep his word. Have the Arabs all gone?"

Nevill was silent, to let Stephen take the responsibility. He was not sure whether or no his
friend meant to try and hide their anxiety from the women. But Stephen answered frankly. "Yes,
they've gone. It may be that nothing will happen, but we're going to shut the gates at once,
and make every possible preparation."

"In case of an attack?"

"Yes. But we have a good place for defence here. It would be something to worry about if we
were out in the open desert."

"There are five men, counting your Highlanders," said Victoria, turning to Nevill. "I think
they are brave, and I know well already what you both are." Her eyes flashed to Stephen's with
a beautiful look, all for him. "And Saidee and I aren't cowards. Our greatest grief is that
we've brought you into this danger. It's for our sakes. If it weren't for us, you'd be safe
and happy in Algiers."

Both men laughed. "We'd rather be here, thank you," said Stephen. "If you're not frightened,
that's all we want. We're as safe as in a fort, and shall enjoy the adventure, if we have any."

"It's like you to say that," Victoria answered. "But there's no use pretending, is there? Cassim
will bring a good many men, and Si Maïeddine will be with them, I think. They couldn't afford
to try, and fail. If they come, they'll have to--make thorough work."

"Yet, on the other hand, they wouldn't want to take too many into their secret," Stephen tried
to reassure her.

"Well, we may soon know," she said. "But what I came out to say, is this. My sister has two
carrier pigeons with her. One has hurt its wing and is no use. But the other is well, and--he
comes from Oued Tolga. Not the Zaouïa, but the city. We've been thinking, she and I, since
the Arab servant didn't answer, that it would be a good thing to send a letter to--to Captain
Sabine, telling him we expected an attack."

"It would be rather a sell if he got the message, and acted on it--and then nothing happened
after all," suggested Nevill.

"I think we'll send the message," said Stephen. "It would be different if we were all men here,
but----"

Victoria turned, and ran back to the open door.

"The pigeon shall go in five minutes," she called over her shoulder.

Stephen and Nevill went to the dining-room.

The landlord was there, drunk, talking to himself. He had broken a dish, and was kicking the
fragments under the table. He laughed at first when the two Englishmen tried to impress upon
him the gravity of the situation; at last, however, they made him understand that this was
no joke, but deadly earnest. They helped him close and bar the heavy iron gates; and as they
looked about for material with which to build up a barrier if necessary, they saw the sisters
come to the door. Saidee had a pigeon in her hands, and opening them suddenly, she let it go.
It rose, fluttered, circling in the air, and flew southward. Victoria ran up the dilapidated
stairway by the gate, to see it go, but already the tiny form was muffled from sight in the
blue folds of the twilight.

"In less than two hours it will be at Oued Tolga," the girl cried, coming down the steep steps.

At that instant, far away, there was the dry bark of a gun.

They looked at each other, and said nothing, but the same doubt was in the minds of all.

It might be that the message would never reach Oued Tolga.

Then another thought flashed into Stephen's brain. He asked himself whether it would be possible
to climb up into the broken tower. If he could reach the top, he might be able to call for
help if they should be hard-pressed; for some years before he had, more for amusement than
anything else, taken a commission in a volunteer battalion and among many other things which
he considered more or less useless, had learned signalling. He had not entirely forgotten the
accomplishment, and it might serve him very well now, only--and he looked up critically at
the jagged wall--it would be difficult to get into that upper chamber, a shell of which remained.
In any case, he would not think of so extreme a measure, until he was sure that, if he gave
an alarm, it would not be a false one.

"Let's have dinner," said Nevill. "If we have fighting to do, I vote we start with ammunition
in our stomachs as well as in our pockets."

Saidee had gone part way up the steps, and was looking over the wall.

"I see something dark, that moves," she said. "It's far away, but I am sure. My eyes haven't
been trained in the desert for nothing. It's a caravan--quite a big caravan, and it's coming
this way. That's where the shot came from. If they killed the pigeon, or winged it, we're all
lost. It would only be childish to hope. We must look our fate in the face. The men will be
killed, and I, too. Victoria will be saved, but I think she'd rather die with the rest of us,
for Maïeddine will take her."

"It's never childish to hope, it seems to me," said Nevill. "This little fort of ours isn't
to be conquered in an hour, or many hours, I assure you."

"And we have no intention of letting you be killed, or Miss Ray carried off, or of dying ourselves,
at the hands of a few Arabs," Knight added. "Have confidence."

"In our star," Victoria half whispered, looking at Stephen. They both remembered, and their
eyes spoke, in a language they had never used before.

In England, Margot Lorenzi was wondering why Stephen Knight had not come to meet her, and angrily
making up her mind that she would find out the reason.

L

Somehow, they all contrived to take a little food, three watching from the wall-towers while
the others ate; and Saidee prepared strong, delicious coffee, such as had never been tasted
in the bordj of Toudja.

When they had dined after a fashion, each making a five-minute meal, there was still time to
arrange the defence, for the attacking party--if such it were--could not reach the bordj in
less than an hour, marching as fast as horses and camels could travel among the dunes.

The landlord was drunk. There was no disguising that, but though he was past planning, he was
not past fighting. He had a French army rifle and bayonet. Each of the five men had a revolver,
and there was another in the bordj, belonging to the absent brother. This Saidee asked for,
and it was given her. There were plenty of cartridges for each weapon, enough at all events
to last out a hot fight of several hours. After that--but it was best not to send thoughts
too far ahead.

The Frenchman had served long ago in the Chasseurs d'Afrique, and had risen, he said, to the
rank of sergeant; but the fumes of absinthe clouded his brain, and he could only swagger and
boast of old exploits as a soldier, crying from time to time "Vive l'entente cordiale," and
assuring the Englishmen that they could trust him to the death. It was Stephen who, by virtue
of his amateur soldiering experience, had to take the lead. He posted the Highlanders in opposite
watch-towers, placing Nevill in one which commanded the two rear walls of the bordj. The next
step was the building of bonfires, one at each corner of the roof, so that when the time for
fighting came, the defenders might confound the enemy by lighting the surrounding desert, making
a surprise impossible. Old barrels were broken up, therefore, and saturated with oil. The spiked
double gates of iron, though apparently strong, Stephen judged incapable of holding out long
against battering rams, but he knew heavy baulks of wood to be rare in the desert, far from
the palms of the oases. What he feared most was gunpowder; and though he was ignorant of the
marabout's secret ambitions and warlike preparations, he thought it not improbable that a store
of gunpowder might be kept in the Zaouïa. True, the French Government forbade Arabs to have
more than a small supply in their possession; but the marabout was greatly trusted, and was
perhaps allowed to deal out a certain amount of the coveted treasure for "powder play" on religious
fête days. To prevent the bordj falling into the hands of the Arabs if the gate were blown
down, Stephen and his small force built up at the further corner of the yard, in front of the
dining-room door, a barrier of mangers, barrels, wooden troughs, iron bedsteads and mattresses
from the guest-rooms. Also they reinforced the gates against pressure from the outside, using
the shafts of an old cart to make struts, which they secured against the side walls or frame
of the gateway. These formed buttresses of considerable strength; and the landlord, instead
of grumbling at the damage which might be done to his bordj, and the danger which threatened
himself, was maudlin with delight at the prospect of killing a few detested Arabs.

"I don't know what your quarrel's about, unless it's the ladies," he said, breathing vengeance
and absinthe, "but whatever it is, I'll make it mine, whether you compensate me or not. Depend
upon me, mon capitaine. Depend on an old soldier."

But Stephen dared not depend upon him to man one of the watch-towers. Eye and hand were too
unsteady to do good service in picking off escaladers. The ex-soldier was brave enough for
any feat, however, and was delighted when the Englishman suggested, rather than gave orders,
that his should be the duty of lighting the bonfires. That done, he was to take his stand in
the courtyard, and shoot any man who escaped the rifles in the wall-towers.

It was agreed among all five men that the gate was to be held as long as possible; that if
it fell, a second stand should be made behind the crescent-shaped barricade outside the dining-room
door; that, should this defence fall also, all must retreat into the dining-room, where the
two sisters must remain throughout the attack; and this would be the last stand.

Everything being settled, and the watch-towers well supplied with food for the rifles, Stephen
went to call Saidee and Victoria, who were in their almost dismantled room. The bedstead, washstand,
chairs and table had ceased to be furniture, and had become part of the barricade.

"Let me carry your things into the dining-room now," he said. "And your bed covering. We can
make up a sort of couch there, for you may as well be comfortable if you can. And you know,
it's on the cards that all our fuss is in vain. Nothing whatever may happen."

They obeyed, without objection; but Saidee's look as she laid a pair of Arab blankets over
Stephen's arm, told how little rest she expected. She gathered up a few things of her own,
however, to take from the bedroom to the dining-room, and as she walked ahead, Stephen asked
Victoria if, in the handbag she had brought from the Zaouïa there was a mirror.

"Yes," she answered. "There's quite a good-sized one, which I used to have on my dressing-table
in the theatre. How far away that time seems now!"

"Will you lend the mirror to me--or do you value it too much to risk having it smashed?"

"Of course I'll lend it. But----" she looked up at him anxiously, in the blue star-dusk. "What
are you going to do?"

"Nothing particular, unless we've reason to believe that an attack will be made; that is, if
a lot of Arabs come near the bordj. In that case, I want to try and get up into the tower,
and do some signalling--for fear the shot we heard hit your sister's messenger. I used to be
rather a nailer at that sort of thing, when I played at soldiering a few years ago."

"But no one could climb the tower now!" the girl exclaimed.

"I don't know. I almost flatter myself that I could. I've done the Dent Blanche twice, and
a Welsh mountain or two. To be sure, I must be my own guide now, but I think I can bring it
off all right. I've been searching about for a mirror and reflector, in case I try the experiment;
for the heliographing apparatus was spoilt in the general wreckage of things by the storm.
I've got a reflector off a lamp in the kitchen, but couldn't find a looking-glass anywhere,
and I saw there was only a broken bit in your room. My one hope was in you."

As he said this, he felt that the words meant a great deal more than he wished her to understand.

"I hate being afraid of things," said Victoria. "But I am afraid to have you go up in the tower.
It's only a shell, that looks as if it might blow down in another storm. It could fall with
you, even if you got up safely to the signalling place. And besides, if Cassim's men were near,
they might see you and shoot. Oh, I don't think I could bear to have you go!"

"You care--a little--what becomes of me?" Stephen had stammered before he had time to forbid
himself the question.

"I care a great deal--what becomes of you."

"Thank you for telling me that," he said, warmly. "I--" but he knew he must not go on. "I shan't
be in danger," he finished. "I'll be up and back before any one gets near enough to see what
I'm at, and pot at me."

As he spoke, the sound of a strange, wild singing came to them, with the desert wind that blew
from the south.

"That's a Touareg song," exclaimed Saidee, turning. "It isn't Arab. I've heard Touaregs sing
it, coming to the Zaouïa."

"Madame is right," said the landlord. "I, too, have heard Touaregs sing it, in their own country,
and also when they have passed here, in small bands. Perhaps we have deceived ourselves. Perhaps
we are not to enjoy the pleasure of a fight. I feared it was too good to be true."

"I can see a caravan," cried Nevill, from his cell in a wall-tower. "There seem to be a lot
of men."

"Would they come like that, if they wanted to fight?" asked the girl. "Wouldn't they spread
out, and hope to surprise us?"

"They'll either try to rush the gate, or else they'll pretend to be a peaceful caravan," said
Stephen.

"I see! Get the landlord to let their leaders in, and then.... That's why they sing the Touareg
song, perhaps, to put us off our guard."

"Into the dining-room, both of you, and have courage! Whatever happens, don't come out. Will
you give me the mirror?"

"Must you go?"

"Yes. Be quick, please."

On the threshold of the dining-room Victoria opened her bag, and gave him a mirror framed in
silver. It had been a present from an enthusiastic millionairess in New York, who admired her
dancing. That seemed very odd now. The girl's hand trembled as for an instant it touched Stephen's.
He pressed her fingers, and was gone.

"Babe, I think this will be the last night of my life," said Saidee, standing behind the girl,
in the doorway, and pressing against her. "Cassim will kill me, when he kills the men, because
I know his secret and because he hates me. If I could only have had a little happiness! I don't
want to die. I'm afraid. And it's horrible to be killed."

"I love being alive, but I want to know what happens next," said Victoria. "Sometimes I want
it so much, that I almost long to die. And probably one feels brave when the minute comes.
One always does, when the great things arrive. Besides, we're sure it must be glorious as soon
as we're out of our bodies. Don't you know, when you're going to jump into a cold bath, you
shiver and hesitate a little, though you know perfectly well it will be splendid in an instant.
Thinking of death's rather like that."

"You haven't got to think of it for yourself to-night. Maïeddine will----"

"No," the girl broke in. "I won't go with Maïeddine."

"If they take this place--as they must, if they've brought many men, you'll have to go, unless----"

"Yes; 'unless.' That's what I mean. But don't ask me any more. I--I can't think of ourselves now."

"You're thinking of some one you love better than you do me."

"Oh, no, not better. Only----" Victoria's voice broke. The two clung to each other. Saidee
could feel how the girl's heart was beating, and how the sobs rose in her throat, and were
choked back.

Victoria watched the tower, that looked like a jagged black tear in the star-strewn blue fabric
of the sky. And she listened. It seemed as if her very soul were listening.

The wild Touareg chant was louder now, but she hardly heard it, because her ears strained for
some sound which the singing might cover: the sound of rubble crumbling under a foot that climbed
and sought a holding-place.

From far away came the barking of Kabyle dogs, in distant camps of nomads. In stalls of the
bordj, where the animals rested, a horse stamped now and then, or a camel grunted. Each slightest
noise made Victoria start and tremble. She could be brave for herself, but it was harder to
be brave for one she loved, in great danger.

"They'll be here in ten minutes," shouted Nevill. "Legs, where are you?"

There was no answer; but Victoria thought she heard the patter of falling sand. At least, the
ruin stood firm so far. By this time Stephen might have nearly reached the top. He had told
her not to leave the dining-room, and she had not meant to disobey; but she had made no promise,
and she could bear her suspense no longer. Where she stood, she could not see into the shell
of the broken tower. She must see!

Running out, she darted across the courtyard, pausing near the Frenchman, Pierre Rostafel,
who wandered unsteadily up and down the quadrangle, his torch of alfa grass ready in his hand.
He did not know that one of the Englishmen was trying to climb the tower, and would not for
an instant have believed that any human being could reach the upper chamber, if suddenly a
light had not flashed out, at the top, seventy feet above his head.

Dazed already with absinthe, fantastic ideas beat stupidly upon his brain, like bats that blunder
against a lamp and extinguish it with foolish, flapping wings. He thought that somehow the
enemy must have stolen a march upon the defenders: that the hated Arabs had got into the tower,
from a ladder raised outside the wall, and that soon they would be pouring down in a swarm.
Before he knew what he was doing, he had stumbled up the stairs on to the flat wall by the
gate. Scrambling along with his torch, he got on to the bordj roof, and lit bonfire after bonfire,
though Victoria called on him to stop, crying that it was too soon--that the men outside would
shoot and kill him who would save them all.

The sweet silence of the starry evening was crashed upon with lights and jarring sounds.

Stephen, who had climbed the tower with a lantern and a kitchen lamp-reflector slung in a table-cover,
on his back, had just got his makeshift apparatus in order, and standing on a narrow shelf
of floor which overhung a well-like abyss, had begun his signalling to the northward.

Too late he realized that, for all the need of haste, he ought to have waited long enough to
warn the drunken Frenchman what he meant to do. If he had, this contretemps would not have
happened. His telegraphic flashes, long and short, must have told the enemy what was going
on in the tower, but they could not have seen him standing there, exposed like a target to
their fire, if Rostafel had not lit the bonfires.

Suddenly a chorus of yells broke out, strange yells that sprang from savage hearts; and one
sidewise glance down showed Stephen the desert illuminated with red fire. He went on with his
work, not stopping to count the men on horses and camels who rode fast towards the bordj, though
not yet at the foot of that swelling sand hill on which it stood. But a picture--of uplifted
dark faces and pointing rifles--was stamped upon his brain in that one swift look, clear as
an impression of a seal in hot wax. He had even time to see that those faces were half enveloped
in masks such as he had noticed in photographs of Touaregs, yet he was sure that the twenty
or thirty men were not Touaregs. When close to the bordj all flung themselves from their animals,
which were led away, while the riders took cover by throwing themselves flat on the sand. Then
they began shooting, but he looked no more. He was determined to keep on signalling till he
got an answer or was shot dead.

There were others, however, who looked and saw the faces, and the rifles aimed at the broken
tower. The bonfires which showed the figure in the ruined heliographing-room, to the enemy,
also showed the enemy to the watchers in the wall-towers, on opposite sides of the gates.

The Highlanders open fire. Their skill as marksmen, gained in the glens and mountains of Sutherlandshire,
was equally effective on different game, in the desert of the Sahara. One shot brought a white
mehari to its knees. Another caused a masked man in a striped gandourah to wring his hand and
squeal.

The whole order of things was changed by the sudden flashes from the height of the dark ruin,
and the lighting of the bonfires on the bordj roof.

Two of the masked men riding on a little in advance of the other twenty had planned, as Stephen
guessed, to demand admittance to the bordj, declaring themselves leaders of a Touareg caravan
on its way to Touggourt. If they could have induced an unsuspecting landlord to open the gates,
so much the better for them. If not, a parley would have given the band time to act upon instructions
already understood. But Cassim ben Halim, an old soldier, and Maïeddine, whose soul was in
this venture, were not the men to meet an emergency unprepared. They had calculated on a check,
and were ready for surprises.

It was Maïeddine's camel that went down, shot in the neck. He had been keeping El Biod in reserve,
when the splendid stallion might be needed for two to ride away in haste--his master and a
woman. As the mehari fell, Maïeddine escaped from the saddle and alighted on his feet, his
blue Touareg veil disarranged by the shock. His face uncovered, he bounded up the slope with
the bullets of Angus and Hamish pattering around him in the sand.

"She's bewitched, whateffer!" the twins mumbled, each in his watch-tower, as the tall figure
sailed on like a war-cloud, untouched. And they wished for silver bullets, to break the charm
woven round the "fanatic" by a wicked spirit.

Over Maïeddine's head his leader was shooting at Stephen in the tower, while Hamish returned
his fire, leaving the running man to Angus. But suddenly Angus wheeled after a shot, to yell
through the tower door into the courtyard. "Oot o' the way, wimmen! He's putten gunpowder to
the gate if I canna stop him." Then, he wheeled into place, and was entranced to see that the
next bullet found its billet under the Arab's turban. In the orange light of the bonfires,
Angus could see a spout of crimson gush down the bronze forehead and over the glittering eyes.
But the wounded Arab did not fall back an inch or drop a burden which he carried carefully.
Now he was sheltering behind the high, jutting gate-post. In another minute it would be too
late to save the gate.

But Angus did not think of Victoria. Nor did Victoria stop to think of herself. Something seemed
to say in her heart, "Maïeddine won't let them blow up the gate, if it means your death, and
so, maybe, you can save them all."

This was not a thought, since she had no time for thought. It was but a murmur in her brain,
as she ran up the steep stairway close to the gate, and climbed on to the wall.

Maïeddine, streaming with blood, was sheltering in the narrow angle of the gate-post where
the firing from the towers struck the wall instead of his body. He had suspended a cylinder
of gunpowder against the gate, and, his hands full of powder to sprinkle a trail, he was ready
to make a dash for life when a voice cried his name.

Victoria stood on the high white wall of the bordj, just above the gate, on the side where
he had hung the gunpowder. A few seconds more--his soul sickened at the thought. He forgot
his own danger, in thinking of hers, and how he might have destroyed her, blotting out the
light of his own life.

"Maïeddine!" she called, before she knew who had been ready to lay the fuse, and that, instead
of crying to a man in the distance, she spoke to one at her feet. He stared up at her through
a haze of blood. In the red light of the fire, she was more beautiful even than when she had
danced in his father's tent, and he had told himself that if need be he would throw away the
world for her. She recognized him as she looked down, and started back with an impulse to escape,
he seemed so near and so formidable. But she feared that, if the gate were blown up, the ruined
tower might be shaken down by the explosion. She must stay, and save the gate, until Stephen
had reached the ground.

"Thou!" exclaimed Maïeddine. "Come to me, heart of my life, thou who art mine forever, and
thy friends shall be spared, I promise thee."

"I am not thine, nor ever can be," Victoria answered him. "Go thou, or thou wilt be shot with
many bullets. They fire at thee and I cannot stop them. I do not wish to see thee die."

"Thou knowest that while thou art on the wall I cannot do what I came to do," Maïeddine said.
"If they kill me here, my death will be on thy head, for I will not go without thee. Yet if
thou hidest from me, I will blow up the gate."

Victoria did not answer, but looked at the ruined tower. One of its walls and part of another
stood firm, and she could not see Stephen in the heliographing-chamber at the top. But through
a crack between the adobe bricks she caught a gleam of light, which moved. It was Stephen's
lantern, she knew. He was still there. Farther down, the crack widened. On his way back, he
would see her, if she were still on the wall above the gate. She wished that he need not learn
she was there, lest he lose his nerve in making that terrible descent. But every one else knew
that she was trying to save the gate, and that while she remained, the fuse would not be lighted.
Saidee, who had come out from the dining-room into the courtyard, could see her on the wall,
and Rostafel was babbling that she was "une petite lionne, une merveille de courage et de finesse."
The Highlanders knew, too, and were doing their best to rid her of Maïeddine, but, perhaps
because of the superstition which made them doubt the power of their bullets against a charmed
life, they could not kill him, though his cloak was pierced, and his face burned by a bullet
which had grazed his cheek. Suddenly, however, to the girl's surprise and joy, Maïeddine turned
and ran like a deer toward the firing line of the Arabs. Then, as the bullets of Hamish and
Angus spattered round him, he wheeled again abruptly and came back towards the bordj as if
borne on by a whirlwind. With a run, he threw himself towards the gate, and leaping up caught
at the spikes for handhold. He grasped them firmly, though his fingers bled, got a knee on
the wall, and freeing a hand snatched at Victoria's dress.

LI

Saidee, down in the courtyard, shrieked as she saw her sister's danger. "Fire!--wound him--make
him fall!" she screamed to Rostafel. But to fire would be at risk of the girl's life, and the
Frenchman danced about aimlessly, yelling to the men in the watch-towers.

In the tower, Stephen heard a woman's cry and thought the voice was Victoria's. His work was
done. He had signalled for help, and, though this apparatus was a battered stable lantern,
a kitchen-lamp reflector, and a hand-mirror, he had got an answer. Away to the north, a man
whom perhaps he would never see, had flashed him back a message. He could not understand all,
for it is easier to send than to receive signals; but there was something about soldiers at
Bordj Azzouz, changing garrison, and Stephen believed that they meant marching to the rescue.
Now, his left arm wounded, his head cut, and eyes half blinded with a rain of rubble brought
down by an Arab bullet, he had made part of the descent when Saidee screamed her high-pitched
scream of terror.

