January 18th.--It is all settled, and I am in the service of the New York Globe. After two
days of hesitation, I presented myself this morning at the Globe office. I was shown to the
Employment Bureau, and there, through a little grating, I was interviewed by a young clerk
of supernatural composure. He had a cool discerning eye that seemed to read my very soul, and
take in my situation and errand at a glance. I produced the Globe letter as the simplest method
of introducing myself.

He looked at me with his discriminating expression. "Let me see," he murmured. "We have had
three thousand applications since the day before yesterday, and our list is complete. But six
feet--blonde--good-looking--distinguished, in fact"--he bit the handle of his pen meditatively.
His air of reflection changed to one of decision. "Just follow me, please," he concluded.

I followed him through a dim passage to a little room where there was a piano with some music
on it. Standing beside the piano was a small dark man, rubbing his hands and bowing politely
as we entered. It reminded me of one of the torture chambers of the Inquisition. What were
they going to do to me?

The chief inquisitor, in the shape of the clerk, began the ceremonies by saying: "I suppose
you would not have come here without being able to fill the requirements of the Globe circular.
Be kind enough to sit down and sing and play that song."

It proved to be "In the Gloaming." I was in good voice, and managed to sing it with some expression.

"Bravo!" said the second inquisitor, in the shape of the little dark man.

He then took me in hand. He proved to be an Italian, and asked me questions in Italian and
French, in both of which languages I answered as well as I could. I was then obliged to sing
pathetic songs, drinking songs, comic songs, opéra bouffe, English ballads, and then--worse
than all--requested to recite some dramatic poetry. Here I was at sea. I confessed that I knew
none.

"Never mind," said the clerk, encouragingly; "you have done remarkably well in other respects,
and you can easily learn the regulation pieces."

He handed me a list, beginning with "Curfew shall not ring To-night" and "The Charge of the
Light Brigade," and ending with "Betsy and I are Out" and "The May Queen." I choked down my
rising resentment. What wouldn't I do for fifteen dollars an evening, short of crime?

"Very well," I said, obediently.

I was led out of the torture chamber, exhausted, but still living. It is queer. I feel shaky.
I had to give them my own name. I found that there was no getting out of this. They said that
the whole matter was strictly in confidence. They required references, and I had taken the
precaution to bring several letters of recommendation from well-known business men--letters
that had been given to me a short while before when I was trying to get a situation in a business
house down town. These were satisfactory as to my character.

I have put the halter around my own neck now.

N.B.--Suppose Morton were to find this out!

January 20th.--I have had my first experience in my new character. I had been told to be ready
every afternoon by five o'clock for orders. Yesterday, about six in the afternoon, I received
a message from the Globe, directing me to go to a house in East Seventy-fourth Street, near
Fifth Avenue, at nine o'clock that evening, and submit myself to the orders of Mr. Q. K. Slater.
It was a consoling thought that I had never heard of Mr. Q. K. Slater, and that East Seventy-fourth
Street was an unknown region to me.

Punctually at nine that evening I found myself in the large parlor of a house in Seventy-fourth
Street, brightly lighted, and filled with people. The centre of the room was cleared, and several
people were dancing to the strains of a band. Near the door stood a tall imposing gentleman
with gray whiskers, and a lady in full evening dress. Doubtless my hosts, or rather my proprietors.

What was I to do? How were they to know who and what I was? As I stood hesitating, I found
that their eyes were fixed upon me with a significant glance. I immediately went toward them.
To my astonishment the lady greeted me by my name with the utmost suavity.

"Good-evening, Mr. Valentine," she said. "I am delighted to see you."

Mr. Slater murmured something that sounded like "How do you do?"

I said that I was delighted to meet--see them. Mrs. Slater turned to another lady standing
near her.

"Mrs. Raggles, do let me introduce Mr. Valentine. We were so afraid that he would not be able
to come."

While I talked as well as I could to Mrs. Raggles, I surreptitiously observed my host and hostess.
Mr. Slater looked uncomfortable. There was a consciousness in his uneasy manner that if I was
a sham, so was he. I feared that he might give us both away before the evening was over. Mrs.
Slater, on the contrary, soared above any feeling of this sort. Her party was to be a success;
that was evidently her principal object. What a comfort this was to me! I felt safe in her
hands. Of course it was as much of an object to her as to me to conceal the fact that I was
not a bona fide invited guest. I took my cue at once. Avoid Mr. Slater; arrange matters in
such a way that Mrs. Slater could engineer me through the evening. All the time I had a sensation
that in avoiding Mr. Slater I was avoiding an old and tried friend. There was something strangely
familiar in his face; in the almost courtly wave of his hand as he directed his guests to the
refreshment-room; in his protecting manner as he walked about, first with one lady, then with
another. I cannot recall distinctly the events of the evening. I have a confused impression
of lights, flowers, music, and people, much like any other party, yet with certain differences.
The dressing was not in particularly good taste, and the German was managed in a most extraordinary
manner. At eleven o'clock the man who was to lead it came forward with a hat containing scraps
of paper. I noticed that all the men went up and drew a slip of paper. They examined it, and
retired into the crowd. I couldn't imagine what this ceremony meant, and felt sure that when
my turn came I should make some frightful blunder. As I thought this, I found Mrs. Slater beside
me. She hurriedly explained to me that this party was one of a series of Germans given at the
houses of her friends, and that there had been some feeling on the part of certain young ladies
because others had been oftener asked to dance the German and drive home afterward than they
had. In order to obviate this a system of lots had been arranged, by which chance alone decided
the matter. "Each young gentleman," concluded Mrs. Slater, "can bring any young lady that he
wishes to the party; but he is expected to go home with the lady whom he draws for the German.
I hope you understand what is expected of you. You dance, of course?" she added, with a slightly
stern manner--the manner of a proprietor. I said that I could.

Accordingly I drew my lot, and found myself the partner of a pretty girl, who proved to be
the daughter of Mrs. Raggles.

