HAUNTINGS

FANTASTIC STORIES

VERNON LEE

1890

To FLORA PRIESTLEY and ARTHUR LEMON

Are Dedicated

DIONEA, AMOUR DURE,

and THESE PAGES OF INTRODUCTION AND APOLOGY.

Preface

We were talking last evening--as the blue moon-mist poured in through the old-fashioned grated
window, and mingled with our yellow lamplight at table--we were talking of a certain castle
whose heir is initiated (as folk tell) on his twenty-first birthday to the knowledge of a secret
so terrible as to overshadow his subsequent life. It struck us, discussing idly the various
mysteries and terrors that may lie behind this fact or this fable, that no doom or horror conceivable
and to be defined in words could ever adequately solve this riddle; that no reality of dreadfulness
could seem caught but paltry, bearable, and easy to face in comparison with this vague we know
not what.

And this leads me to say, that it seems to me that the supernatural, in order to call forth
those sensations, terrible to our ancestors and terrible but delicious to ourselves, skeptical
posterity, must necessarily, and with but a few exceptions, remain enwrapped in mystery. Indeed,
'tis the mystery that touches us, the vague shroud of moonbeams that hangs about the haunting
lady, the glint on the warrior's breastplate, the click of his unseen spurs, while the figure
itself wanders forth, scarcely outlined, scarcely separated from the surrounding trees; or
walks, and sucked back, ever and anon, into the flickering shadows.

A number of ingenious persons of our day, desirous of a pocket-superstition, as men of yore
were greedy of a pocket-saint to carry about in gold and enamel, a number of highly reasoning
men of semi-science have returned to the notion of our fathers, that ghosts have an existence
outside our own fancy and emotion; and have culled from the experience of some Jemima Jackson,
who fifty years ago, being nine years of age, saw her maiden aunt appear six months after decease,
abundant proof of this fact. One feels glad to think the maiden aunt should have walked about
after death, if it afforded her any satisfaction, poor soul! but one is struck by the extreme
uninterestingness of this lady's appearance in the spirit, corresponding perhaps to her want
of charm while in the flesh. Altogether one quite agrees, having duly perused the collection
of evidence on the subject, with the wisdom of these modern ghost-experts, when they affirm
that you can always tell a genuine ghost-story by the circumstance of its being about a nobody,
its having no point or picturesqueness, and being, generally speaking, flat, stale, and unprofitable.

A genuine ghost-story! But then they are not genuine ghost-stories, those tales that tingle
through our additional sense, the sense of the supernatural, and fill places, nay whole epochs,
with their strange perfume of witchgarden flowers.

No, alas! neither the story of the murdered King of Denmark (murdered people, I am told, usually
stay quiet, as a scientific fact), nor of that weird woman who saw King James the Poet three
times with his shroud wrapped ever higher; nor the tale of the finger of the bronze Venus closing
over the wedding-ring, whether told by Morris in verse patterned like some tapestry, or by
Merimee in terror of cynical reality, or droned by the original mediaeval professional story-teller,
none of these are genuine ghost-stories. They exist, these ghosts, only in our minds, in the
minds of those dead folk; they have never stumbled and fumbled about, with Jemima Jackson's
maiden aunt, among the armchairs and rep sofas of reality.

They are things of the imagination, born there, bred there, sprung from the strange confused
heaps, half-rubbish, half-treasure, which lie in our fancy, heaps of half-faded recollections,
of fragmentary vivid impressions, litter of multi-colored tatters, and faded herbs and flowers,
whence arises that odor (we all know it), musty and damp, but penetratingly sweet and intoxicatingly
heady, which hangs in the air when the ghost has swept through the unopened door, and the flickering
flames of candle and fire start up once more after waning.

The genuine ghost? And is not this he, or she, this one born of ourselves, of the weird places
we have seen, the strange stories we have heard--this one, and not the aunt of Miss Jemima
Jackson? For what use, I entreat you to tell me, is that respectable spinster's vision? Was
she worth seeing, that aunt of hers, or would she, if followed, have led the way to any interesting
brimstone or any endurable beatitude?

The supernatural can open the caves of Jamschid and scale the ladder of Jacob: what use has
it got if it land us in Islington or Shepherd's Bush? It is well known that Dr. Faustus, having
been offered any ghost he chose, boldly selected, for Mephistopheles to convey, no less a person
than Helena of Troy. Imagine if the familiar fiend had summoned up some Miss Jemima Jackson's
Aunt of Antiquity!

That is the thing--the Past, the more or less remote Past, of which the prose is clean obliterated
by distance--that is the place to get our ghosts from. Indeed we live ourselves, we educated
folk of modern times, on the borderland of the Past, in houses looking down on its troubadours'
orchards and Greek folks' pillared courtyards; and a legion of ghosts, very vague and changeful,
are perpetually to and fro, fetching and carrying for us between it and the Present.

Hence, my four little tales are of no genuine ghosts in the scientific sense; they tell of
no hauntings such as could be contributed by the Society for Psychical Research, of no specters
that can be caught in definite places and made to dictate judicial evidence. My ghosts are
what you call spurious ghosts (according to me the only genuine ones), of whom I can affirm
only one thing, that they haunted certain brains, and have haunted, among others, my own and
my friends'--yours, dear Arthur Lemon, along the dim twilit tracks, among the high growing
bracken and the spectral pines, of the south country; and yours, amidst the mist of moonbeams
and olive-branches, dear Flora Priestley, while the moonlit sea moaned and rattled against
the moldering walls of the house whence Shelley set sail for eternity.

VERNON LEE

MAIANO, near FLORENCE, June 1889.

Amour Dure:

PASSAGES FROM THE DIARY OF SPIRIDION TREPKA.

Part I

Urbania, August 20th, 1885.--

I had longed, these years and years, to be in Italy, to come face to face with the Past; and
was this Italy, was this the Past? I could have cried, yes cried, for disappointment when I
first wandered about Rome, with an invitation to dine at the German Embassy in my pocket, and
three or four Berlin and Munich Vandals at my heels, telling me where the best beer and sauerkraut
could be had, and what the last article by Grimm or Mommsen was about.

Is this folly? Is it falsehood? Am I not myself a product of modern, northern civilization;
is not my coming to Italy due to this very modern scientific vandalism, which has given me
a traveling scholarship because I have written a book like all those other atrocious books
of erudition and art-criticism? Nay, am I not here at Urbania on the express understanding
that, in a certain number of months, I shall produce just another such book? Dost thou imagine,
thou miserable Spiridion, thou Pole grown into the semblance of a German pedant, doctor of
philosophy, professor even, author of a prize essay on the despots of the fifteenth century,
dost thou imagine that thou, with thy ministerial letters and proof-sheets in thy black professorial
coat-pocket, canst ever come in spirit into the presence of the Past?

Too true, alas! But let me forget it, at least, every now and then; as I forgot it this afternoon,
while the white bullocks dragged my gig slowly winding along interminable valleys, crawling
along interminable hill-sides, with the invisible droning torrent far below, and only the bare
grey and reddish peaks all around, up to this town of Urbania, forgotten of mankind, towered
and battlemented on the high Apennine ridge. Sigillo, Penna, Fossombrone, Mercatello, Montemurlo--each
single village name, as the driver pointed it out, brought to my mind the recollection of some
battle or some great act of treachery of former days. And as the huge mountains shut out the
setting sun, and the valleys filled with bluish shadow and mist, only a band of threatening
smoke-red remaining behind the towers and cupolas of the city on its mountain-top, and the
sound of church bells floated across the precipice from Urbania, I almost expected, at every
turning of the road, that a troop of horsemen, with beaked helmets and clawed shoes, would
emerge, with armor glittering and pennons waving in the sunset. And then, not two hours ago,
entering the town at dusk, passing along the deserted streets, with only a smoky light here
and there under a shrine or in front of a fruit-stall, or a fire reddening the blackness of
a smithy; passing beneath the battlements and turrets of the palace.... Ah, that was Italy,
it was the Past!

August 21st.--

And this is the Present! Four letters of introduction to deliver, and an hour's polite conversation
to endure with the Vice-Prefect, the Syndic, the Director of the Archives, and the good man
to whom my friend Max had sent me for lodgings....

August 22nd-27th.--

Spent the greater part of the day in the Archives, and the greater part of my time there in
being bored to extinction by the Director thereof, who today spouted Aeneas Sylvius' Commentaries
for three-quarters of an hour without taking breath. From this sort of martyrdom (what are
the sensations of a former racehorse being driven in a cab? If you can conceive them, they
are those of a Pole turned Prussian professor) I take refuge in long rambles through the town.
This town is a handful of tall black houses huddled on to the top of an Alp, long narrow lanes
trickling down its sides, like the slides we made on hillocks in our boyhood, and in the middle
the superb red brick structure, turreted and battlemented, of Duke Ottobuono's palace, from
whose windows you look down upon a sea, a kind of whirlpool, of melancholy grey mountains.
Then there are the people, dark, bushy-bearded men, riding about like brigands, wrapped in
green-lined cloaks upon their shaggy pack-mules; or loitering about, great, brawny, low-headed
youngsters, like the parti-colored bravos in Signorelli's frescoes; the beautiful boys, like
so many young Raphaels, with eyes like the eyes of bullocks, and the huge women, Madonnas or
St. Elizabeths, as the case may be, with their clogs firmly poised on their toes and their
brass pitchers on their heads, as they go up and down the steep black alleys. I do not talk
much to these people; I fear my illusions being dispelled. At the corner of a street, opposite
Francesco di Giorgio's beautiful little portico, is a great blue and red advertisement, representing
an angel descending to crown Elias Howe, on account of his sewing-machines; and the clerks
of the Vice-Prefecture, who dine at the place where I get my dinner, yell politics, Minghetti,
Cairoli, Tunis, ironclads, &c., at each other, and sing snatches of La Fille de Mme. Angot,
which I imagine they have been performing here recently.

No; talking to the natives is evidently a dangerous experiment. Except indeed, perhaps, to
my good landlord, Signor Notaro Porri, who is just as learned, and takes considerably less
snuff (or rather brushes it off his coat more often) than the Director of the Archives. I forgot
to jot down (and I feel I must jot down, in the vain belief that some day these scraps will
help, like a withered twig of olive or a three-wicked Tuscan lamp on my table, to bring to
my mind, in that hateful Babylon of Berlin, these happy Italian days)--I forgot to record that
I am lodging in the house of a dealer in antiquities. My window looks up the principal street
to where the little column with Mercury on the top rises in the midst of the awnings and porticoes
of the market-place. Bending over the chipped ewers and tubs full of sweet basil, clove pinks,
and marigolds, I can just see a corner of the palace turret, and the vague ultramarine of the
hills beyond. The house, whose back goes sharp down into the ravine, is a queer up-and-down
black place, whitewashed rooms, hung with the Raphaels and Francias and Peruginos, whom mine
host regularly carries to the chief inn whenever a stranger is expected; and surrounded by
old carved chairs, sofas of the Empire, embossed and gilded wedding-chests, and the cupboards
which contain bits of old damask and embroidered altar-cloths scenting the place with the smell
of old incense and mustiness; all of which are presided over by Signor Porri's three maiden
sisters--Sora Serafina, Sora Lodovica, and Sora Adalgisa--the three Fates in person, even to
the distaffs and their black cats.

Sor Asdrubale, as they call my landlord, is also a notary. He regrets the Pontifical Government,
having had a cousin who was a Cardinal's train-bearer, and believes that if only you lay a
table for two, light four candles made of dead men's fat, and perform certain rites about which
he is not very precise, you can, on Christmas Eve and similar nights, summon up San Pasquale
Baylon, who will write you the winning numbers of the lottery upon the smoked back of a plate,
if you have previously slapped him on both cheeks and repeated three Ave Marias. The difficulty
consists in obtaining the dead men's fat for the candles, and also in slapping the saint before
he have time to vanish.

"If it were not for that," says Sor Asdrubale, "the Government would have had to suppress the
lottery ages ago--eh!"

Sept. 9th.--This history of Urbania is not without its romance, although that romance (as usual)
has been overlooked by our Dryasdusts. Even before coming here I felt attracted by the strange
figure of a woman, which appeared from out of the dry pages of Gualterio's and Padre de Sanctis'
histories of this place. This woman is Medea, daughter of Galeazzo IV. Malatesta, Lord of Carpi,
wife first of Pierluigi Orsini, Duke of Stimigliano, and subsequently of Guidalfonso II., Duke
of Urbania, predecessor of the great Duke Robert II.

This woman's history and character remind one of that of Bianca Cappello, and at the same time
of Lucrezia Borgia. Born in 1556, she was affianced at the age of twelve to a cousin, a Malatesta
of the Rimini family. This family having greatly gone down in the world, her engagement was
broken, and she was betrothed a year later to a member of the Pico family, and married to him
by proxy at the age of fourteen. But this match not satisfying her own or her father's ambition,
the marriage by proxy was, upon some pretext, declared null, and the suit encouraged of the
Duke of Stimigliano, a great Umbrian feudatory of the Orsini family. But the bridegroom, Giovanfrancesco
Pico, refused to submit, pleaded his case before the Pope, and tried to carry off by force
his bride, with whom he was madly in love, as the lady was most lovely and of most cheerful
and amiable manner, says an old anonymous chronicle. Pico waylaid her litter as she was going
to a villa of her father's, and carried her to his castle near Mirandola, where he respectfully
pressed his suit; insisting that he had a right to consider her as his wife. But the lady escaped
by letting herself into the moat by a rope of sheets, and Giovanfrancesco Pico was discovered
stabbed in the chest, by the hand of Madonna Medea da Carpi. He was a handsome youth only eighteen
years old.

The Pico having been settled, and the marriage with him declared null by the Pope, Medea da
Carpi was solemnly married to the Duke of Stimigliano, and went to live upon his domains near Rome.

Two years later, Pierluigi Orsini was stabbed by one of his grooms at his castle of Stimigliano,
near Orvieto; and suspicion fell upon his widow, more especially as, immediately after the
event, she caused the murderer to be cut down by two servants in her own chamber; but not before
he had declared that she had induced him to assassinate his master by a promise of her love.
Things became so hot for Medea da Carpi that she fled to Urbania and threw herself at the feet
of Duke Guidalfonso II., declaring that she had caused the groom to be killed merely to avenge
her good fame, which he had slandered, and that she was absolutely guiltless of the death of
her husband. The marvelous beauty of the widowed Duchess of Stimigliano, who was only nineteen,
entirely turned the head of the Duke of Urbania. He affected implicit belief in her innocence,
refused to give her up to the Orsinis, kinsmen of her late husband, and assigned to her magnificent
apartments in the left wing of the palace, among which the room containing the famous fireplace
ornamented with marble Cupids on a blue ground. Guidalfonso fell madly in love with his beautiful
guest. Hitherto timid and domestic in character, he began publicly to neglect his wife, Maddalena
Varano of Camerino, with whom, although childless, he had hitherto lived on excellent terms;
he not only treated with contempt the admonitions of his advisers and of his suzerain the Pope,
but went so far as to take measures to repudiate his wife, on the score of quite imaginary
ill-conduct. The Duchess Maddalena, unable to bear this treatment, fled to the convent of the
barefooted sisters at Pesaro, where she pined away, while Medea da Carpi reigned in her place
at Urbania, embroiling Duke Guidalfonso in quarrels both with the powerful Orsinis, who continued
to accuse her of Stimigliano's murder, and with the Varanos, kinsmen of the injured Duchess
Maddalena; until at length, in the year 1576, the Duke of Urbania, having become suddenly,
and not without suspicious circumstances, a widower, publicly married Medea da Carpi two days
after the decease of his unhappy wife. No child was born of this marriage; but such was the
infatuation of Duke Guidalfonso, that the new Duchess induced him to settle the inheritance
of the Duchy (having, with great difficulty, obtained the consent of the Pope) on the boy Bartolommeo,
her son by Stimigliano, but whom the Orsinis refused to acknowledge as such, declaring him
to be the child of that Giovanfrancesco Pico to whom Medea had been married by proxy, and whom,
in defense, as she had said, of her honor, she had assassinated; and this investiture of the
Duchy of Urbania on to a stranger and a bastard was at the expense of the obvious rights of
the Cardinal Robert, Guidalfonso's younger brother.

In May 1579 Duke Guidalfonso died suddenly and mysteriously, Medea having forbidden all access
to his chamber, lest, on his deathbed, he might repent and reinstate his brother in his rights.
The Duchess immediately caused her son, Bartolommeo Orsini, to be proclaimed Duke of Urbania,
and herself regent; and, with the help of two or three unscrupulous young men, particularly
a certain Captain Oliverotto da Narni, who was rumored to be her lover, seized the reins of
government with extraordinary and terrible vigor, marching an army against the Varanos and
Orsinis, who were defeated at Sigillo, and ruthlessly exterminating every person who dared
question the lawfulness of the succession; while, all the time, Cardinal Robert, who had flung
aside his priest's garb and vows, went about in Rome, Tuscany, Venice--nay, even to the Emperor
and the King of Spain, imploring help against the usurper. In a few months he had turned the
tide of sympathy against the Duchess-Regent; the Pope solemnly declared the investiture of
Bartolommeo Orsini worthless, and published the accession of Robert II., Duke of Urbania and
Count of Montemurlo; the Grand Duke of Tuscany and the Venetians secretly promised assistance,
but only if Robert were able to assert his rights by main force. Little by little, one town
after the other of the Duchy went over to Robert, and Medea da Carpi found herself surrounded
in the mountain citadel of Urbania like a scorpion surrounded by flames. (This simile is not
mine, but belongs to Raffaello Gualterio, historiographer to Robert II.) But, unlike the scorpion,
Medea refused to commit suicide. It is perfectly marvelous how, without money or allies, she
could so long keep her enemies at bay; and Gualterio attributes this to those fatal fascinations
which had brought Pico and Stimigliano to their deaths, which had turned the once honest Guidalfonso
into a villain, and which were such that, of all her lovers, not one but preferred dying for
her, even after he had been treated with ingratitude and ousted by a rival; a faculty which
Messer Raffaello Gualterio clearly attributed to hellish connivance.

At last the ex-Cardinal Robert succeeded, and triumphantly entered Urbania in November 1579.
His accession was marked by moderation and clemency. Not a man was put to death, save Oliverotto
da Narni, who threw himself on the new Duke, tried to stab him as he alighted at the palace,
and who was cut down by the Duke's men, crying, "Orsini, Orsini! Medea, Medea! Long live Duke
Bartolommeo!" with his dying breath, although it is said that the Duchess had treated him with
ignominy. The little Bartolommeo was sent to Rome to the Orsinis; the Duchess, respectfully
confined in the left wing of the palace.

It is said that she haughtily requested to see the new Duke, but that he shook his head, and,
in his priest's fashion, quoted a verse about Ulysses and the Sirens; and it is remarkable
that he persistently refused to see her, abruptly leaving his chamber one day that she had
entered it by stealth. After a few months a conspiracy was discovered to murder Duke Robert,
which had obviously been set on foot by Medea. But the young man, one Marcantonio Frangipani
of Rome, denied, even under the severest torture, any complicity of hers; so that Duke Robert,
who wished to do nothing violent, merely transferred the Duchess from his villa at Sant' Elmo
to the convent of the Clarisse in town, where she was guarded and watched in the closest manner.
It seemed impossible that Medea should intrigue any further, for she certainly saw and could
be seen by no one. Yet she contrived to send a letter and her portrait to one Prinzivalle degli
Ordelaffi, a youth, only nineteen years old, of noble Romagnole family, and who was betrothed
to one of the most beautiful girls of Urbania. He immediately broke off his engagement, and,
shortly afterwards, attempted to shoot Duke Robert with a holster-pistol as he knelt at mass
on the festival of Easter Day. This time Duke Robert was determined to obtain proofs against
Medea. Prinzivalle degli Ordelaffi was kept some days without food, then submitted to the most
violent tortures, and finally condemned. When he was going to be flayed with red-hot pincers
and quartered by horses, he was told that he might obtain the grace of immediate death by confessing
the complicity of the Duchess; and the confessor and nuns of the convent, which stood in the
place of execution outside Porta San Romano, pressed Medea to save the wretch, whose screams
reached her, by confessing her own guilt. Medea asked permission to go to a balcony, where
she could see Prinzivalle and be seen by him. She looked on coldly, then threw down her embroidered
kerchief to the poor mangled creature. He asked the executioner to wipe his mouth with it,
kissed it, and cried out that Medea was innocent. Then, after several hours of torments, he
died. This was too much for the patience even of Duke Robert. Seeing that as long as Medea
lived his life would be in perpetual danger, but unwilling to cause a scandal (somewhat of
the priest-nature remaining), he had Medea strangled in the convent, and, what is remarkable,
insisted that only women--two infanticides to whom he remitted their sentence--should be employed
for the deed.

"This clement prince," writes Don Arcangelo Zappi in his life of him, published in 1725, "can
be blamed only for one act of cruelty, the more odious as he had himself, until released from
his vows by the Pope, been in holy orders. It is said that when he caused the death of the
infamous Medea da Carpi, his fear lest her extraordinary charms should seduce any man was such,
that he not only employed women as executioners, but refused to permit her a priest or monk,
thus forcing her to die unshriven, and refusing her the benefit of any penitence that may have
lurked in her adamantine heart."

Such is the story of Medea da Carpi, Duchess of Stimigliano Orsini, and then wife of Duke Guidalfonso
II. of Urbania. She was put to death just two hundred and ninety-seven years ago, December
1582, at the age of barely seven-and twenty, and having, in the course of her short life, brought
to a violent end five of her lovers, from Giovanfrancesco Pico to Prinzivalle degli Ordelaffi.

Sept. 20th.--

A grand illumination of the town in honor of the taking of Rome fifteen years ago. Except Sor
Asdrubale, my landlord, who shakes his head at the Piedmontese, as he calls them, the people
here are all Italianissimi. The Popes kept them very much down since Urbania lapsed to the
Holy See in 1645.

Sept. 28th.--

I have for some time been hunting for portraits of the Duchess Medea. Most of them, I imagine,
must have been destroyed, perhaps by Duke Robert II.'s fear lest even after her death this
terrible beauty should play him a trick. Three or four I have, however, been able to find--one
a miniature in the Archives, said to be that which she sent to poor Prinzivalle degli Ordelaffi
in order to turn his head; one a marble bust in the palace lumber-room; one in a large composition,
possibly by Baroccio, representing Cleopatra at the feet of Augustus. Augustus is the idealized
portrait of Robert II., round cropped head, nose a little awry, clipped beard and scar as usual,
but in Roman dress. Cleopatra seems to me, for all her Oriental dress, and although she wears
a black wig, to be meant for Medea da Carpi; she is kneeling, baring her breast for the victor
to strike, but in reality to captivate him, and he turns away with an awkward gesture of loathing.
None of these portraits seem very good, save the miniature, but that is an exquisite work,
and with it, and the suggestions of the bust, it is easy to reconstruct the beauty of this
terrible being. The type is that most admired by the late Renaissance, and, in some measure,
immortalized by Jean Goujon and the French. The face is a perfect oval, the forehead somewhat
over-round, with minute curls, like a fleece, of bright auburn hair; the nose a trifle over-aquiline,
and the cheek-bones a trifle too low; the eyes grey, large, prominent, beneath exquisitely
curved brows and lids just a little too tight at the corners; the mouth also, brilliantly red
and most delicately designed, is a little too tight, the lips strained a trifle over the teeth.
Tight eyelids and tight lips give a strange refinement, and, at the same time, an air of mystery,
a somewhat sinister seductiveness; they seem to take, but not to give. The mouth with a kind
of childish pout, looks as if it could bite or suck like a leech. The complexion is dazzlingly
fair, the perfect transparent rosette lily of a red-haired beauty; the head, with hair elaborately
curled and plaited close to it, and adorned with pearls, sits like that of the antique Arethusa
on a long, supple, swan-like neck. A curious, at first rather conventional, artificial-looking
sort of beauty, voluptuous yet cold, which, the more it is contemplated, the more it troubles
and haunts the mind. Round the lady's neck is a gold chain with little gold lozenges at intervals,
on which is engraved the posy or pun (the fashion of French devices is common in those days),
"Amour Dure--Dure Amour." The same posy is inscribed in the hollow of the bust, and, thanks
to it, I have been able to identify the latter as Medea's portrait. I often examine these tragic
portraits, wondering what this face, which led so many men to their death, may have been like
when it spoke or smiled, what at the moment when Medea da Carpi fascinated her victims into
love unto death--"Amour Dure--Dure Amour," as runs her device--love that lasts, cruel love--yes
indeed, when one thinks of the fidelity and fate of her lovers.

Oct. 13th.--

I have literally not had time to write a line of my diary all these days. My whole mornings
have gone in those Archives, my afternoons taking long walks in this lovely autumn weather
(the highest hills are just tipped with snow). My evenings go in writing that confounded account
of the Palace of Urbania which Government requires, merely to keep me at work at something
useless. Of my history I have not yet been able to write a word.... By the way, I must note
down a curious circumstance mentioned in an anonymous MS. life of Duke Robert, which I fell
upon today. When this prince had the equestrian statue of himself by Antonio Tassi, Gianbologna's
pupil, erected in the square of the Corte, he secretly caused to be made, says my anonymous
MS., a silver statuette of his familiar genius or angel--"familiaris ejus angelus seu genius,
quod a vulgo dicitur idolino"--which statuette or idol, after having been consecrated by the
astrologers--"ab astrologis quibusdam ritibus sacrato"--was placed in the cavity of the chest
of the effigy by Tassi, in order, says the MS., that his soul might rest until the general
Resurrection. This passage is curious, and to me somewhat puzzling; how could the soul of Duke
Robert await the general Resurrection, when, as a Catholic, he ought to have believed that
it must, as soon as separated from his body, go to Purgatory? Or is there some semi-pagan superstition
of the Renaissance (most strange, certainly, in a man who had been a Cardinal) connecting the
soul with a guardian genius, who could be compelled, by magic rites ("ab astrologis sacrato,"
the MS. says of the little idol), to remain fixed to earth, so that the soul should sleep in
the body until the Day of Judgment? I confess this story baffles me. I wonder whether such
an idol ever existed, or exists nowadays, in the body of Tassi's bronze effigy?

Oct. 20th.--

I have been seeing a good deal of late of the Vice-Prefect's son: an amiable young man with
a love-sick face and a languid interest in Urbanian history and archaeology, of which he is
profoundly ignorant. This young man, who has lived at Siena and Lucca before his father was
promoted here, wears extremely long and tight trousers, which almost preclude his bending his
knees, a stick-up collar and an eyeglass, and a pair of fresh kid gloves stuck in the breast
of his coat, speaks of Urbania as Ovid might have spoken of Pontus, and complains (as well
he may) of the barbarism of the young men, the officials who dine at my inn and howl and sing
like madmen, and the nobles who drive gigs, showing almost as much throat as a lady at a ball.
This person frequently entertains me with his amori, past, present, and future; he evidently
thinks me very odd for having none to entertain him with in return; he points out to me the
pretty (or ugly) servant-girls and dressmakers as we walk in the street, sighs deeply or sings
in falsetto behind every tolerably young-looking woman, and has finally taken me to the house
of the lady of his heart, a great black-mustachioed countess, with a voice like a fish-crier;
here, he says, I shall meet all the best company in Urbania and some beautiful women--ah, too
beautiful, alas! I find three huge half-furnished rooms, with bare brick floors, petroleum
lamps, and horribly bad pictures on bright washball-blue and gamboge walls, and in the midst
of it all, every evening, a dozen ladies and gentlemen seated in a circle, vociferating at
each other the same news a year old; the younger ladies in bright yellows and greens, fanning
themselves while my teeth chatter, and having sweet things whispered behind their fans by officers
with hair brushed up like a hedgehog. And these are the women my friend expects me to fall
in love with! I vainly wait for tea or supper which does not come, and rush home, determined
to leave alone the Urbanian beau monde.

It is quite true that I have no amori, although my friend does not believe it. When I came
to Italy first, I looked out for romance; I sighed, like Goethe in Rome, for a window to open
and a wondrous creature to appear, "welch mich versengend erquickt." Perhaps it is because
Goethe was a German, accustomed to German Fraus, and I am, after all, a Pole, accustomed to
something very different from Fraus; but anyhow, for all my efforts, in Rome, Florence, and
Siena, I never could find a woman to go mad about, either among the ladies, chattering bad
French, or among the lower classes, as 'cute and cold as money-lenders; so I steer clear of
Italian womankind, its shrill voice and gaudy toilettes. I am wedded to history, to the Past,
to women like Lucrezia Borgia, Vittoria Accoramboni, or that Medea da Carpi, for the present;
some day I shall perhaps find a grand passion, a woman to play the Don Quixote about, like
the Pole that I am; a woman out of whose slipper to drink, and for whose pleasure to die; but
not here! Few things strike me so much as the degeneracy of Italian women. What has become
of the race of Faustinas, Marozias, Bianca Cappellos? Where discover nowadays (I confess she
haunts me) another Medea da Carpi? Were it only possible to meet a woman of that extreme distinction
of beauty, of that terribleness of nature, even if only potential, I do believe I could love
her, even to the Day of Judgment, like any Oliverotto da Narni, or Frangipani or Prinzivalle.

Oct. 27th.--

Fine sentiments the above are for a professor, a learned man! I thought the young artists of
Rome childish because they played practical jokes and yelled at night in the streets, returning
from the Caffe Greco or the cellar in the Via Palombella; but am I not as childish to the full--I,
melancholy wretch, whom they called Hamlet and the Knight of the Doleful Countenance?

Nov. 5th.--

I can't free myself from the thought of this Medea da Carpi. In my walks, my mornings in the
Archives, my solitary evenings, I catch myself thinking over the woman. Am I turning novelist
instead of historian? And still it seems to me that I understand her so well; so much better
than my facts warrant. First, we must put aside all pedantic modern ideas of right and wrong.
Right and wrong in a century of violence and treachery does not exist, least of all for creatures
like Medea. Go preach right and wrong to a tigress, my dear sir! Yet is there in the world
anything nobler than the huge creature, steel when she springs, velvet when she treads, as
she stretches her supple body, or smooths her beautiful skin, or fastens her strong claws into
her victim?

Yes; I can understand Medea. Fancy a woman of superlative beauty, of the highest courage and
calmness, a woman of many resources, of genius, brought up by a petty princelet of a father,
upon Tacitus and Sallust, and the tales of the great Malatestas, of Caesar Borgia and such-like!--a
woman whose one passion is conquest and empire--fancy her, on the eve of being wedded to a
man of the power of the Duke of Stimigliano, claimed, carried off by a small fry of a Pico,
locked up in his hereditary brigand's castle, and having to receive the young fool's red-hot
love as an honor and a necessity! The mere thought of any violence to such a nature is an abominable
outrage; and if Pico chooses to embrace such a woman at the risk of meeting a sharp piece of
steel in her arms, why, it is a fair bargain. Young hound--or, if you prefer, young hero--to
think to treat a woman like this as if she were any village wench! Medea marries her Orsini.
A marriage, let it be noted, between an old soldier of fifty and a girl of sixteen. Reflect
what that means: it means that this imperious woman is soon treated like a chattel, made roughly
to understand that her business is to give the Duke an heir, not advice; that she must never
ask "wherefore this or that?" that she must courtesy before the Duke's counselors, his captains,
his mistresses; that, at the least suspicion of rebelliousness, she is subject to his foul
words and blows; at the least suspicion of infidelity, to be strangled or starved to death,
or thrown down an oubliette. Suppose that she know that her husband has taken it into his head
that she has looked too hard at this man or that, that one of his lieutenants or one of his
women have whispered that, after all, the boy Bartolommeo might as soon be a Pico as an Orsini.
Suppose she know that she must strike or be struck? Why, she strikes, or gets some one to strike
for her. At what price? A promise of love, of love to a groom, the son of a serf! Why, the
dog must be mad or drunk to believe such a thing possible; his very belief in anything so monstrous
makes him worthy of death. And then he dares to blab! This is much worse than Pico. Medea is
bound to defend her honor a second time; if she could stab Pico, she can certainly stab this
fellow, or have him stabbed.

Hounded by her husband's kinsmen, she takes refuge at Urbania. The Duke, like every other man,
falls wildly in love with Medea, and neglects his wife; let us even go so far as to say, breaks
his wife's heart. Is this Medea's fault? Is it her fault that every stone that comes beneath
her chariot-wheels is crushed? Certainly not. Do you suppose that a woman like Medea feels
the smallest ill-will against a poor, craven Duchess Maddalena? Why, she ignores her very existence.
To suppose Medea a cruel woman is as grotesque as to call her an immoral woman. Her fate is,
sooner or later, to triumph over her enemies, at all events to make their victory almost a
defeat; her magic faculty is to enslave all the men who come across her path; all those who
see her, love her, become her slaves; and it is the destiny of all her slaves to perish. Her
lovers, with the exception of Duke Guidalfonso, all come to an untimely end; and in this there
is nothing unjust. The possession of a woman like Medea is a happiness too great for a mortal
man; it would turn his head, make him forget even what he owed her; no man must survive long
who conceives himself to have a right over her; it is a kind of sacrilege. And only death,
the willingness to pay for such happiness by death, can at all make a man worthy of being her
lover; he must be willing to love and suffer and die. This is the meaning of her device--"Amour
Dure--Dure Amour." The love of Medea da Carpi cannot fade, but the lover can die; it is a constant
and a cruel love.

Nov. 11th.--

I was right, quite right in my idea. I have found--Oh, joy! I treated the Vice-Prefect's son
to a dinner of five courses at the Trattoria La Stella d'Italia out of sheer jubilation--I
have found in the Archives, unknown, of course, to the Director, a heap of letters--letters
of Duke Robert about Medea da Carpi, letters of Medea herself! Yes, Medea's own handwriting--a
round, scholarly character, full of abbreviations, with a Greek look about it, as befits a
learned princess who could read Plato as well as Petrarch. The letters are of little importance,
mere drafts of business letters for her secretary to copy, during the time that she governed
the poor weak Guidalfonso. But they are her letters, and I can imagine almost that there hangs
about these moldering pieces of paper a scent as of a woman's hair.

The few letters of Duke Robert show him in a new light. A cunning, cold, but craven priest.
He trembles at the bare thought of Medea--"la pessima Medea"--worse than her namesake of Colchis,
as he calls her. His long clemency is a result of mere fear of laying violent hands upon her.
He fears her as something almost supernatural; he would have enjoyed having had her burnt as
a witch. After letter on letter, telling his crony, Cardinal Sanseverino, at Rome his various
precautions during her lifetime--how he wears a jacket of mail under his coat; how he drinks
only milk from a cow which he has milked in his presence; how he tries his dog with morsels
of his food, lest it be poisoned; how he suspects the wax-candles because of their peculiar
smell; how he fears riding out lest some one should frighten his horse and cause him to break
his neck--after all this, and when Medea has been in her grave two years, he tells his correspondent
of his fear of meeting the soul of Medea after his own death, and chuckles over the ingenious
device (concocted by his astrologer and a certain Fra Gaudenzio, a Capuchin) by which he shall
secure the absolute peace of his soul until that of the wicked Medea be finally "chained up
in hell among the lakes of boiling pitch and the ice of Caina described by the immortal bard"--old
pedant! Here, then, is the explanation of that silver image--quod vulgo dicitur idolino--which
he caused to be soldered into his effigy by Tassi. As long as the image of his soul was attached
to the image of his body, he should sleep awaiting the Day of Judgment, fully convinced that
Medea's soul will then be properly tarred and feathered, while his--honest man!--will fly straight
to Paradise. And to think that, two weeks ago, I believed this man to be a hero! Aha! my good
Duke Robert, you shall be shown up in my history; and no amount of silver idolinos shall save
you from being heartily laughed at!

Nov. 15th.--

Strange! That idiot of a Prefect's son, who has heard me talk a hundred times of Medea da Carpi,
suddenly recollects that, when he was a child at Urbania, his nurse used to threaten him with
a visit from Madonna Medea, who rode in the sky on a black he-goat. My Duchess Medea turned
into a bogey for naughty little boys!

Nov. 20th.--

I have been going about with a Bavarian Professor of mediaeval history, showing him all over
the country. Among other places we went to Rocca Sant'Elmo, to see the former villa of the
Dukes of Urbania, the villa where Medea was confined between the accession of Duke Robert and
the conspiracy of Marcantonio Frangipani, which caused her removal to the nunnery immediately
outside the town. A long ride up the desolate Apennine valleys, bleak beyond words just now
with their thin fringe of oak scrub turned russet, thin patches of grass seared by the frost,
the last few yellow leaves of the poplars by the torrents shaking and fluttering about in the
chill Tramontana; the mountaintops are wrapped in thick grey cloud; tomorrow, if the wind continues,
we shall see them round masses of snow against the cold blue sky. Sant' Elmo is a wretched
hamlet high on the Apennine ridge, where the Italian vegetation is already replaced by that
of the North. You ride for miles through leafless chestnut woods, the scent of the soaking
brown leaves filling the air, the roar of the torrent, turbid with autumn rains, rising from
the precipice below; then suddenly the leafless chestnut woods are replaced, as at Vallombrosa,
by a belt of black, dense fir plantations. Emerging from these, you come to an open space,
frozen blasted meadows, the rocks of snow clad peak, the newly fallen snow, close above you;
and in the midst, on a knoll, with a gnarled larch on either side, the ducal villa of Sant'
Elmo, a big black stone box with a stone escutcheon, grated windows, and a double flight of
steps in front. It is now let out to the proprietor of the neighboring woods, who uses it for
the storage of chestnuts, faggots, and charcoal from the neighboring ovens. We tied our horses
to the iron rings and entered: an old woman, with disheveled hair, was alone in the house.
The villa is a mere hunting-lodge, built by Ottobuono IV., the father of Dukes Guidalfonso
and Robert, about 1530. Some of the rooms have at one time been frescoed and paneled with oak
carvings, but all this has disappeared. Only, in one of the big rooms, there remains a large
marble fireplace, similar to those in the palace at Urbania, beautifully carved with Cupids
on a blue ground; a charming naked boy sustains a jar on either side, one containing clove
pinks, the other roses. The room was filled with stacks of faggots.

We returned home late, my companion in excessively bad humor at the fruitlessness of the expedition.
We were caught in the skirt of a snowstorm as we got into the chestnut woods. The sight of
the snow falling gently, of the earth and bushes whitened all round, made me feel back at Posen,
once more a child. I sang and shouted, to my companion's horror. This will be a bad point against
me if reported at Berlin. A historian of twenty-four who shouts and sings, and that when another
historian is cursing at the snow and the bad roads! All night I lay awake watching the embers
of my wood fire, and thinking of Medea da Carpi mewed up, in winter, in that solitude of Sant'
Elmo, the firs groaning, the torrent roaring, the snow falling all round; miles and miles away
from human creatures. I fancied I saw it all, and that I, somehow, was Marcantonio Frangipani
come to liberate her--or was it Prinzivalle degli Ordelaffi? I suppose it was because of the
long ride, the unaccustomed pricking feeling of the snow in the air; or perhaps the punch which
my professor insisted on drinking after dinner.

Nov. 23rd.--

Thank goodness, that Bavarian professor has finally departed! Those days he spent here drove
me nearly crazy. Talking over my work, I told him one day my views on Medea da Carpi; whereupon
he condescended to answer that those were the usual tales due to the mythopoeic (old idiot!)
tendency of the Renaissance; that research would disprove the greater part of them, as it had
disproved the stories current about the Borgias, &c.; that, moreover, such a woman as I made
out was psychologically and physiologically impossible. Would that one could say as much of
such professors as he and his fellows!

Nov. 24th.--

I cannot get over my pleasure in being rid of that imbecile; I felt as if I could have throttled
him every time he spoke of the Lady of my thoughts--for such she has become--Metea, as the
animal called her!

Nov. 30th.--

I feel quite shaken at what has just happened; I am beginning to fear that that old pedant
was right in saying that it was bad for me to live all alone in a strange country, that it
would make me morbid. It is ridiculous that I should be put into such a state of excitement
merely by the chance discovery of a portrait of a woman dead these three hundred years. With
the case of my uncle Ladislas, and other suspicions of insanity in my family, I ought really
to guard against such foolish excitement.

Yet the incident was really dramatic, uncanny. I could have sworn that I knew every picture
in the palace here; and particularly every picture of Her. Anyhow, this morning, as I was leaving
the Archives, I passed through one of the many small rooms--irregular-shaped closets--which
fill up the ins and outs of this curious palace, turreted like a French chateau. I must have
passed through that closet before, for the view was so familiar out of its window; just the
particular bit of round tower in front, the cypress on the other side of the ravine, the belfry
beyond, and the piece of the line of Monte Sant' Agata and the Leonessa, covered with snow,
against the sky. I suppose there must be twin rooms, and that I had got into the wrong one;
or rather, perhaps some shutter had been opened or curtain withdrawn. As I was passing, my
eye was caught by a very beautiful old mirror-frame let into the brown and yellow inlaid wall.
I approached, and looking at the frame, looked also, mechanically, into the glass. I gave a
great start, and almost shrieked, I do believe--(it's lucky the Munich professor is safe out
of Urbania!). Behind my own image stood another, a figure close to my shoulder, a face close
to mine; and that figure, that face, hers! Medea da Carpi's! I turned sharp round, as white,
I think, as the ghost I expected to see. On the wall opposite the mirror, just a pace or two
behind where I had been standing, hung a portrait. And such a portrait!--Bronzino never painted
a grander one. Against a background of harsh, dark blue, there stands out the figure of the
Duchess (for it is Medea, the real Medea, a thousand times more real, individual, and powerful
than in the other portraits), seated stiffly in a high-backed chair, sustained, as it were,
almost rigid, by the stiff brocade of skirts and stomacher, stiffer for plaques of embroidered
silver flowers and rows of seed pearl. The dress is, with its mixture of silver and pearl,
of a strange dull red, a wicked poppy-juice color, against which the flesh of the long, narrow
hands with fringe-like fingers; of the long slender neck, and the face with bared forehead,
looks white and hard, like alabaster. The face is the same as in the other portraits: the same
rounded forehead, with the short fleece-like, yellowish-red curls; the same beautifully curved
eyebrows, just barely marked; the same eyelids, a little tight across the eyes; the same lips,
a little tight across the mouth; but with a purity of line, a dazzling splendor of skin, and
intensity of look immeasurably superior to all the other portraits.

She looks out of the frame with a cold, level glance; yet the lips smile. One hand holds a
dull-red rose; the other, long, narrow, tapering, plays with a thick rope of silk and gold
and jewels hanging from the waist; round the throat, white as marble, partially confined in
the tight dull-red bodice, hangs a gold collar, with the device on alternate enameled medallions,
"AMOUR DURE--DURE AMOUR."

On reflection, I see that I simply could never have been in that room or closet before; I must
have mistaken the door. But, although the explanation is so simple, I still, after several
hours, feel terribly shaken in all my being. If I grow so excitable I shall have to go to Rome
at Christmas for a holiday. I feel as if some danger pursued me here (can it be fever?); and
yet, and yet, I don't see how I shall ever tear myself away.

Dec. 10th.--

I have made an effort, and accepted the Vice-Prefect's son's invitation to see the oil-making
at a villa of theirs near the coast. The villa, or farm, is an old fortified, towered place,
standing on a hillside among olive-trees and little osier-bushes, which look like a bright
orange flame. The olives are squeezed in a tremendous black cellar, like a prison: you see,
by the faint white daylight, and the smoky yellow flare of resin burning in pans, great white
bullocks moving round a huge millstone; vague figures working at pulleys and handles: it looks,
to my fancy, like some scene of the Inquisition. The Cavaliere regaled me with his best wine
and rusks. I took some long walks by the seaside; I had left Urbania wrapped in snow-clouds;
down on the coast there was a bright sun; the sunshine, the sea, the bustle of the little port
on the Adriatic seemed to do me good. I came back to Urbania another man. Sor Asdrubale, my
landlord, poking about in slippers among the gilded chests, the Empire sofas, the old cups
and saucers and pictures which no one will buy, congratulated me upon the improvement in my
looks. "You work too much," he says; "youth requires amusement, theatres, promenades, amori--it
is time enough to be serious when one is bald"--and he took off his greasy red cap. Yes, I
am better! and, as a result, I take to my work with delight again. I will cut them out still,
those wiseacres at Berlin!

Dec. 14th.--

I don't think I have ever felt so happy about my work. I see it all so well--that crafty, cowardly
Duke Robert; that melancholy Duchess Maddalena; that weak, showy, would-be chivalrous Duke
Guidalfonso; and above all, the splendid figure of Medea. I feel as if I were the greatest
historian of the age; and, at the same time, as if I were a boy of twelve. It snowed yesterday
for the first time in the city, for two good hours. When it had done, I actually went into
the square and taught the ragamuffins to make a snowman; no, a snow-woman; and I had the fancy
to call her Medea. "La pessima Medea!" cried one of the boys--"the one who used to ride through
the air on a goat?" "No, no," I said; "she was a beautiful lady, the Duchess of Urbania, the
most beautiful woman that ever lived." I made her a crown of tinsel, and taught the boys to
cry "Evviva, Medea!" But one of them said, "She is a witch! She must be burnt!" At which they
all rushed to fetch burning faggots and tow; in a minute the yelling demons had melted her down.

Dec. 15th.--

What a goose I am, and to think I am twenty-four, and known in literature! In my long walks
I have composed to a tune (I don't know what it is) which all the people are singing and whistling
in the street at present, a poem in frightful Italian, beginning "Medea, mia dea," calling
on her in the name of her various lovers. I go about humming between my teeth, "Why am I not
Marcantonio? or Prinzivalle? or he of Narni? or the good Duke Alfonso? that I might be beloved
by thee, Medea, mia dea," &c. &c. Awful rubbish! My landlord, I think, suspects that Medea
must be some lady I met while I was staying by the seaside. I am sure Sora Serafina, Sora Lodovica,
and Sora Adalgisa--the three Parcae or Norns, as I call them--have some such notion. This afternoon,
at dusk, while tidying my room, Sora Lodovica said to me, "How beautifully the Signorino has
taken to singing!" I was scarcely aware that I had been vociferating, "Vieni, Medea, mia dea,"
while the old lady bobbed about making up my fire. I stopped; a nice reputation I shall get!
I thought, and all this will somehow get to Rome, and thence to Berlin. Sora Lodovica was leaning
out of the window, pulling in the iron hook of the shrine-lamp which marks Sor Asdrubale's
house. As she was trimming the lamp previous to swinging it out again, she said in her odd,
prudish little way, "You are wrong to stop singing, my son" (she varies between calling me
Signor Professore and such terms of affection as "Nino," "Viscere mie," &c.); "you are wrong
to stop singing, for there is a young lady there in the street who has actually stopped to
listen to you."

I ran to the window. A woman, wrapped in a black shawl, was standing in an archway, looking
up to the window.

"Eh, eh! the Signor Professore has admirers," said Sora Lodovica.

"Medea, mia dea!" I burst out as loud as I could, with a boy's pleasure in disconcerting the
inquisitive passer-by. She turned suddenly round to go away, waving her hand at me; at that
moment Sora Lodovica swung the shrine-lamp back into its place. A stream of light fell across
the street. I felt myself grow quite cold; the face of the woman outside was that of Medea
da Carpi!

What a fool I am, to be sure!

Part II

Dec. 17th.--I fear that my craze about Medea da Carpi has become well known, thanks to my silly
talk and idiotic songs. That Vice-Prefect's son--or the assistant at the Archives, or perhaps
some of the company at the Contessa's, is trying to play me a trick! But take care, my good
ladies and gentlemen, I shall pay you out in your own coin! Imagine my feelings when, this
morning, I found on my desk a folded letter addressed to me in a curious handwriting which
seemed strangely familiar to me, and which, after a moment, I recognized as that of the letters
of Medea da Carpi at the Archives. It gave me a horrible shock. My next idea was that it must
be a present from some one who knew my interest in Medea--a genuine letter of hers on which
some idiot had written my address instead of putting it into an envelope. But it was addressed
to me, written to me, no old letter; merely four lines, which ran as follows:--

"To Spiridion.--

"A person who knows the interest you bear her will be at the Church of San Giovanni Decollato
this evening at nine. Look out, in the left aisle, for a lady wearing a black mantle, and holding
a rose."

By this time I understood that I was the object of a conspiracy, the victim of a hoax. I turned
the letter round and round. It was written on paper such as was made in the sixteenth century,
and in an extraordinarily precise imitation of Medea da Carpi's characters. Who had written
it? I thought over all the possible people. On the whole, it must be the Vice-Prefect's son,
perhaps in combination with his lady-love, the Countess. They must have torn a blank page off
some old letter; but that either of them should have had the ingenuity of inventing such a
hoax, or the power of committing such a forgery, astounds me beyond measure. There is more
in these people than I should have guessed. How pay them off? By taking no notice of the letter?
Dignified, but dull. No, I will go; perhaps some one will be there, and I will mystify them
in their turn. Or, if no one is there, how I shall crow over them for their imperfectly carried
out plot! Perhaps this is some folly of the Cavalier Muzio's to bring me into the presence
of some lady whom he destines to be the flame of my future amori. That is likely enough. And
it would be too idiotic and professorial to refuse such an invitation; the lady must be worth
knowing who can forge sixteenth-century letters like this, for I am sure that languid swell
Muzio never could. I will go! By Heaven! I'll pay them back in their own coin! It is now five--how
long these days are!

Dec. 18th.--

Am I mad? Or are there really ghosts? That adventure of last night has shaken me to the very
depth of my soul.

I went at nine, as the mysterious letter had bid me. It was bitterly cold, and the air full
of fog and sleet; not a shop open, not a window unshuttered, not a creature visible; the narrow
black streets, precipitous between their, high walls and under their lofty archways, were only
the blacker for the dull light of an oil-lamp here and there, with its flickering yellow reflection
on the wet flags. San Giovanni Decollato is a little church, or rather oratory, which I have
always hitherto seen shut up (as so many churches here are shut up except on great festivals);
and situate behind the ducal palace, on a sharp ascent, and forming the bifurcation of two
steep paved lanes. I have passed by the place a hundred times, and scarcely noticed the little
church, except for the marble high relief over the door, showing the grizzly head of the Baptist
in the charger, and for the iron cage close by, in which were formerly exposed the heads of
criminals; the decapitated, or, as they call him here, decollated, John the Baptist, being
apparently the patron of axe and block.

A few strides took me from my lodgings to San Giovanni Decollato. I confess I was excited;
one is not twenty-four and a Pole for nothing. On getting to the kind of little platform at
the bifurcation of the two precipitous streets, I found, to my surprise, that the windows of
the church or oratory were not lighted, and that the door was locked! So this was the precious
joke that had been played upon me; to send me on a bitter cold, sleety night, to a church which
was shut up and had perhaps been shut up for years! I don't know what I couldn't have done
in that moment of rage; I felt inclined to break open the church door, or to go and pull the
Vice-Prefect's son out of bed (for I felt sure that the joke was his). I determined upon the
latter course; and was walking towards his door, along the black alley to the left of the church,
when I was suddenly stopped by the sound as of an organ close by, an organ, yes, quite plainly,
and the voice of choristers and the drone of a litany. So the church was not shut, after all!
I retraced my steps to the top of the lane. All was dark and in complete silence. Suddenly
there came again a faint gust of organ and voices. I listened; it clearly came from the other
lane, the one on the right-hand side. Was there, perhaps, another door there? I passed beneath
the archway, and descended a little way in the direction whence the sounds seemed to come.
But no door, no light, only the black walls, the black wet flags, with their faint yellow reflections
of flickering oil-lamps; moreover, complete silence. I stopped a minute, and then the chant
rose again; this time it seemed to me most certainly from the lane I had just left. I went
back--nothing. Thus backwards and forwards, the sounds always beckoning, as it were, one way,
only to beckon me back, vainly, to the other.

At last I lost patience; and I felt a sort of creeping terror, which only a violent action
could dispel. If the mysterious sounds came neither from the street to the right, nor from
the street to the left, they could come only from the church. Half-maddened, I rushed up the
two or three steps, and prepared to wrench the door open with a tremendous effort. To my amazement,
it opened with the greatest ease. I entered, and the sounds of the litany met me louder than
before, as I paused a moment between the outer door and the heavy leathern curtain. I raised
the latter and crept in. The altar was brilliantly illuminated with tapers and garlands of
chandeliers; this was evidently some evening service connected with Christmas. The nave and
aisles were comparatively dark, and about half-full. I elbowed my way along the right aisle
towards the altar. When my eyes had got accustomed to the unexpected light, I began to look
round me, and with a beating heart. The idea that all this was a hoax, that I should meet merely
some acquaintance of my friend the Cavaliere's, had somehow departed: I looked about. The people
were all wrapped up, the men in big cloaks, the women in woolen veils and mantles. The body
of the church was comparatively dark, and I could not make out anything very clearly, but it
seemed to me, somehow, as if, under the cloaks and veils, these people were dressed in a rather
extraordinary fashion. The man in front of me, I remarked, showed yellow stockings beneath
his cloak; a woman, hard by, a red bodice, laced behind with gold tags. Could these be peasants
from some remote part come for the Christmas festivities, or did the inhabitants of Urbania
don some old-fashioned garb in honor of Christmas?

As I was wondering, my eye suddenly caught that of a woman standing in the opposite aisle,
close to the altar, and in the full blaze of its lights. She was wrapped in black, but held,
in a very conspicuous way, a red rose, an unknown luxury at this time of the year in a place
like Urbania. She evidently saw me, and turning even more fully into the light, she loosened
her heavy black cloak, displaying a dress of deep red, with gleams of silver and gold embroideries;
she turned her face towards me; the full blaze of the chandeliers and tapers fell upon it.
It was the face of Medea da Carpi! I dashed across the nave, pushing people roughly aside,
or rather, it seemed to me, passing through impalpable bodies. But the lady turned and walked
rapidly down the aisle towards the door. I followed close upon her, but somehow I could not
get up with her. Once, at the curtain, she turned round again. She was within a few paces of
me. Yes, it was Medea. Medea herself, no mistake, no delusion, no sham; the oval face, the
lips tightened over the mouth, the eyelids tight over the corner of the eyes, the exquisite
alabaster complexion! She raised the curtain and glided out. I followed; the curtain alone
separated me from her. I saw the wooden door swing to behind her. One step ahead of me! I tore
open the door; she must be on the steps, within reach of my arm!

I stood outside the church. All was empty, merely the wet pavement and the yellow reflections
in the pools: a sudden cold seized me; I could not go on. I tried to re-enter the church; it
was shut. I rushed home, my hair standing on end, and trembling in all my limbs, and remained
for an hour like a maniac. Is it a delusion? Am I too going mad? O God, God! am I going mad?

Dec. 19th.--

A brilliant, sunny day; all the black snow-slush has disappeared out of the town, off the bushes
and trees. The snow-clad mountains sparkle against the bright blue sky. A Sunday, and Sunday
weather; all the bells are ringing for the approach of Christmas. They are preparing for a
kind of fair in the square with the colonnade, putting up booths filled with colored cotton
and woolen ware, bright shawls and kerchiefs, mirrors, ribbons, brilliant pewter lamps; the
whole turn-out of the peddler in "Winter's Tale." The pork-shops are all garlanded with green
and with paper flowers, the hams and cheeses stuck full of little flags and green twigs. I
strolled out to see the cattle-fair outside the gate; a forest of interlacing horns, an ocean
of lowing and stamping: hundreds of immense white bullocks, with horns a yard long and red
tassels, packed close together on the little piazza d'armi under the city walls. Bah! Why do
I write this trash? What's the use of it all? While I am forcing myself to write about bells,
and Christmas festivities, and cattle-fairs, one idea goes on like a bell within me: Medea,
Medea! Have I really seen her, or am I mad?

Two hours later.--That Church of San Giovanni Decollato--so my landlord informs me--has not
been made use of within the memory of man. Could it have been all a hallucination or a dream--perhaps
a dream dreamed that night? I have been out again to look at that church. There it is, at the
bifurcation of the two steep lanes, with its bas-relief of the Baptist's head over the door.
The door does look as if it had not been opened for years. I can see the cobwebs in the windowpanes;
it does look as if, as Sor Asdrubale says, only rats and spiders congregated within it. And
yet--and yet; I have so clear a remembrance, so distinct a consciousness of it all. There was
a picture of the daughter of Herodias dancing, upon the altar; I remember her white turban
with a scarlet tuft of feathers, and Herod's blue caftan; I remember the shape of the central
chandelier; it swung round slowly, and one of the wax lights had got bent almost in two by
the heat and draught.

Things, all these, which I may have seen elsewhere, stored unawares in my brain, and which
may have come out, somehow, in a dream; I have heard physiologists allude to such things. I
will go again: if the church be shut, why then it must have been a dream, a vision, the result
of over-excitement. I must leave at once for Rome and see doctors, for I am afraid of going
mad. If, on the other hand--pshaw! there is no other hand in such a case. Yet if there were--why
then, I should really have seen Medea; I might see her again; speak to her. The mere thought
sets my blood in a whirl, not with horror, but with... I know not what to call it. The feeling
terrifies me, but it is delicious. Idiot! There is some little coil of my brain, the twentieth
of a hair's-breadth out of order--that's all!

Dec. 20th.--

I have been again; I have heard the music; I have been inside the church; I have seen Her!
I can no longer doubt my senses. Why should I? Those pedants say that the dead are dead, the
past is past. For them, yes; but why for me?--why for a man who loves, who is consumed with
the love of a woman?--a woman who, indeed--yes, let me finish the sentence. Why should there
not be ghosts to such as can see them? Why should she not return to the earth, if she knows
that it contains a man who thinks of, desires, only her?

A hallucination? Why, I saw her, as I see this paper that I write upon; standing there, in
the full blaze of the altar. Why, I heard the rustle of her skirts, I smelt the scent of her
hair, I raised the curtain which was shaking from her touch. Again I missed her. But this time,
as I rushed out into the empty moonlit street, I found upon the church steps a rose--the rose
which I had seen in her hand the moment before--I felt it, smelt it; a rose, a real, living
rose, dark red and only just plucked. I put it into water when I returned, after having kissed
it, who knows how many times? I placed it on the top of the cupboard; I determined not to look
at it for twenty-four hours lest it should be a delusion. But I must see it again; I must....
Good Heavens! this is horrible, horrible; if I had found a skeleton it could not have been
worse! The rose, which last night seemed freshly plucked, full of color and perfume, is brown,
dry--a thing kept for centuries between the leaves of a book--it has crumbled into dust between
my fingers. Horrible, horrible! But why so, pray? Did I not know that I was in love with a
woman dead three hundred years? If I wanted fresh roses which bloomed yesterday, the Countess
Fiammetta or any little sempstress in Urbania might have given them me. What if the rose has
fallen to dust? If only I could hold Medea in my arms as I held it in my fingers, kiss her
lips as I kissed its petals, should I not be satisfied if she too were to fall to dust the
next moment, if I were to fall to dust myself?

Dec. 22nd, Eleven at night.--

I have seen her once more!--almost spoken to her. I have been promised her love! Ah, Spiridion!
you were right when you felt that you were not made for any earthly amori. At the usual hour
I betook myself this evening to San Giovanni Decollato. A bright winter night; the high houses
and belfries standing out against a deep blue heaven luminous, shimmering like steel with myriads
of stars; the moon has not yet risen. There was no light in the windows; but, after a little
effort, the door opened and I entered the church, the altar, as usual, brilliantly illuminated.
It struck me suddenly that all this crowd of men and women standing all round, these priests
chanting and moving about the altar, were dead--that they did not exist for any man save me.
I touched, as if by accident, the hand of my neighbor; it was cold, like wet clay. He turned
round, but did not seem to see me: his face was ashy, and his eyes staring, fixed, like those
of a blind man or a corpse. I felt as if I must rush out. But at that moment my eye fell upon
Her, standing as usual by the altar steps, wrapped in a black mantle, in the full blaze of
the lights. She turned round; the light fell straight upon her face, the face with the delicate
features, the eyelids and lips a little tight, the alabaster skin faintly tinged with pale
pink. Our eyes met.

I pushed my way across the nave towards where she stood by the altar steps; she turned quickly
down the aisle, and I after her. Once or twice she lingered, and I thought I should overtake
her; but again, when, not a second after the door had closed upon her, I stepped out into the
street, she had vanished. On the church step lay something white. It was not a flower this
time, but a letter. I rushed back to the church to read it; but the church was fast shut, as
if it had not been opened for years. I could not see by the flickering shrine-lamps--I rushed
home, lit my lamp, pulled the letter from my breast. I have it before me. The handwriting is
hers; the same as in the Archives, the same as in that first letter:--

"To Spiridion.--

"Let thy courage be equal to thy love, and thy love shall be rewarded. On the night preceding
Christmas, take a hatchet and saw; cut boldly into the body of the bronze rider who stands
in the Corte, on the left side, near the waist. Saw open the body, and within it thou wilt
find the silver effigy of a winged genius. Take it out, hack it into a hundred pieces, and
fling them in all directions, so that the winds may sweep them away. That night she whom thou
lovest will come to reward thy fidelity."

On the brownish wax is the device--"AMOUR DURE--DURE AMOUR."

Dec. 23rd.--

So it is true! I was reserved for something wonderful in this world. I have at last found that
after which my soul has been straining. Ambition, love of art, love of Italy, these things
which have occupied my spirit, and have yet left me continually unsatisfied, these were none
of them my real destiny. I have sought for life, thirsting for it as a man in the desert thirsts
for a well; but the life of the senses of other youths, the life of the intellect of other
men, have never slaked that thirst. Shall life for me mean the love of a dead woman? We smile
at what we choose to call the superstition of the past, forgetting that all our vaunted science
of today may seem just such another superstition to the men of the future; but why should the
present be right and the past wrong? The men who painted the pictures and built the palaces
of three hundred years ago were certainly of as delicate fiber, of as keen reason, as ourselves,
who merely print calico and build locomotives. What makes me think this, is that I have been
calculating my nativity by help of an old book belonging to Sor Asdrubale--and see, my horoscope
tallies almost exactly with that of Medea da Carpi, as given by a chronicler. May this explain?
No, no; all is explained by the fact that the first time I read of this woman's career, the
first time I saw her portrait, I loved her, though I hid my love to myself in the garb of historical
interest. Historical interest indeed!

I have got the hatchet and the saw. I bought the saw of a poor joiner, in a village some miles
off; he did not understand at first what I meant, and I think he thought me mad; perhaps I
am. But if madness means the happiness of one's life, what of it? The hatchet I saw lying in
a timber-yard, where they prepare the great trunks of the fir-trees which grow high on the
Apennines of Sant' Elmo. There was no one in the yard, and I could not resist the temptation;
I handled the thing, tried its edge, and stole it. This is the first time in my life that I
have been a thief; why did I not go into a shop and buy a hatchet? I don't know; I seemed unable
to resist the sight of the shining blade. What I am going to do is, I suppose, an act of vandalism;
and certainly I have no right to spoil the property of this city of Urbania. But I wish no
harm either to the statue or the city, if I could plaster up the bronze, I would do so willingly.
But I must obey Her; I must avenge Her; I must get at that silver image which Robert of Montemurlo
had made and consecrated in order that his cowardly soul might sleep in peace, and not encounter
that of the being whom he dreaded most in the world. Aha! Duke Robert, you forced her to die
unshriven, and you stuck the image of your soul into the image of your body, thinking thereby
that, while she suffered the tortures of Hell, you would rest in peace, until your well-scoured
little soul might fly straight up to Paradise;--you were afraid of Her when both of you should
be dead, and thought yourself very clever to have prepared for all emergencies! Not so, Serene
Highness. You too shall taste what it is to wander after death, and to meet the dead whom one
has injured.

What an interminable day! But I shall see her again tonight.

Eleven o'clock.--No; the church was fast closed; the spell had ceased. Until tomorrow I shall
not see her. But tomorrow! Ah, Medea! did any of thy lovers love thee as I do?

Twenty-four hours more till the moment of happiness--the moment for which I seem to have been
waiting all my life. And after that, what next? Yes, I see it plainer every minute; after that,
nothing more. All those who loved Medea da Carpi, who loved and who served her, died: Giovanfrancesco
Pico, her first husband, whom she left stabbed in the castle from which she fled; Stimigliano,
who died of poison; the groom who gave him the poison, cut down by her orders; Oliverotto da
Narni, Marcantonio Frangipani, and that poor boy of the Ordelaffi, who had never even looked
upon her face, and whose only reward was that handkerchief with which the hangman wiped the
sweat off his face, when he was one mass of broken limbs and torn flesh: all had to die, and
I shall die also.

The love of such a woman is enough, and is fatal--"Amour Dure," as her device says. I shall
die also. But why not? Would it be possible to live in order to love another woman? Nay, would
it be possible to drag on a life like this one after the happiness of tomorrow? Impossible;
the others died, and I must die. I always felt that I should not live long; a gipsy in Poland
told me once that I had in my hand the cut-line which signifies a violent death. I might have
ended in a duel with some brother-student, or in a railway accident. No, no; my death will
not be of that sort! Death--and is not she also dead? What strange vistas does such a thought
not open! Then the others--Pico, the Groom, Stimigliano, Oliverotto, Frangipani, Prinzivalle
degli Ordelaffi--will they all be there? But she shall love me best--me by whom she has been
loved after she has been three hundred years in the grave!

Dec. 24th.--

I have made all my arrangements. Tonight at eleven I slip out; Sor Asdrubale and his sisters
will be sound asleep. I have questioned them; their fear of rheumatism prevents their attending
midnight mass. Luckily there are no churches between this and the Corte; whatever movement
Christmas night may entail will be a good way off. The Vice-Prefect's rooms are on the other
side of the palace; the rest of the square is taken up with state-rooms, archives, and empty
stables and coach-houses of the palace. Besides, I shall be quick at my work.

I have tried my saw on a stout bronze vase I bought of Sor Asdrubale; and the bronze of the
statue, hollow and worn away by rust (I have even noticed holes), cannot resist very much,
especially after a blow with the sharp hatchet. I have put my papers in order, for the benefit
of the Government which has sent me hither. I am sorry to have defrauded them of their "History
of Urbania." To pass the endless day and calm the fever of impatience, I have just taken a
long walk. This is the coldest day we have had. The bright sun does not warm in the least,
but seems only to increase the impression of cold, to make the snow on the mountains glitter,
the blue air to sparkle like steel. The few people who are out are muffled to the nose, and
carry earthenware braziers beneath their cloaks; long icicles hang from the fountain with the
figure of Mercury upon it; one can imagine the wolves trooping down through the dry scrub and
beleaguering this town. Somehow this cold makes me feel wonderfully calm--it seems to bring
back to me my boyhood.

As I walked up the rough, steep, paved alleys, slippery with frost, and with their vista of
snow mountains against the sky, and passed by the church steps strewn with box and laurel,
with the faint smell of incense coming out, there returned to me--I know not why--the recollection,
almost the sensation, of those Christmas Eves long ago at Posen and Breslau, when I walked
as a child along the wide streets, peeping into the windows where they were beginning to light
the tapers of the Christmas-trees, and wondering whether I too, on returning home, should be
let into a wonderful room all blazing with lights and gilded nuts and glass beads. They are
hanging the last strings of those blue and red metallic beads, fastening on the last gilded
and silvered walnuts on the trees out there at home in the North; they are lighting the blue
and red tapers; the wax is beginning to run on to the beautiful spruce green branches; the
children are waiting with beating hearts behind the door, to be told that the Christ-Child
has been. And I, for what am I waiting? I don't know; all seems a dream; everything vague and
unsubstantial about me, as if time had ceased, nothing could happen, my own desires and hopes
were all dead, myself absorbed into I know not what passive dreamland. Do I long for tonight?
Do I dread it? Will tonight ever come? Do I feel anything, does anything exist all round me?

I sit and seem to see that street at Posen, the wide street with the windows illuminated by
the Christmas lights, the green fir-branches grazing the window-panes.

Christmas Eve, Midnight.--

I have done it. I slipped out noiselessly. Sor Asdrubale and his sisters were fast asleep.
I feared I had waked them, for my hatchet fell as I was passing through the principal room
where my landlord keeps his curiosities for sale; it struck against some old armor which he
has been piecing. I heard him exclaim, half in his sleep; and blew out my light and hid in
the stairs. He came out in his dressing-gown, but finding no one, went back to bed again. "Some
cat, no doubt!" he said. I closed the house door softly behind me. The sky had become stormy
since the afternoon, luminous with the full moon, but strewn with grey and buff-colored vapors;
every now and then the moon disappeared entirely. Not a creature abroad; the tall gaunt houses
staring in the moonlight.

I know not why, I took a roundabout way to the Corte, past one or two church doors, whence
issued the faint flicker of midnight mass. For a moment I felt a temptation to enter one of
then; but something seemed to restrain me. I caught snatches of the Christmas hymn. I felt
myself beginning to be unnerved, and hastened towards the Corte. As I passed under the portico
at San Francesco I heard steps behind me; it seemed to me that I was followed. I stopped to
let the other pass. As he approached his pace flagged; he passed close by me and murmured,
"Do not go: I am Giovanfrancesco Pico." I turned round; he was gone. A coldness numbed me;
but I hastened on.

Behind the cathedral apse, in a narrow lane, I saw a man leaning against a wall. The moonlight
was full upon him; it seemed to me that his face, with a thin pointed beard, was streaming
with blood. I quickened my pace; but as I grazed by him he whispered, "Do not obey her; return
home: I am Marcantonio Frangipani." My teeth chattered, but I hurried along the narrow lane,
with the moonlight blue upon the white walls. At last I saw the Corte before me: the square
was flooded with moonlight, the windows of the palace seemed brightly illuminated, and the
statue of Duke Robert, shimmering green, seemed advancing towards me on its horse. I came into
the shadow. I had to pass beneath an archway. There started a figure as if out of the wall,
and barred my passage with his outstretched cloaked arm. I tried to pass. He seized me by the
arm, and his grasp was like a weight of ice. "You shall not pass!" he cried, and, as the moon
came out once more, I saw his face, ghastly white and bound with an embroidered kerchief; he
seemed almost a child. "You shall not pass!" he cried; "you shall not have her! She is mine,
and mine alone! I am Prinzivalle degli Ordelaffi." I felt his ice-cold clutch, but with my
other arm I laid about me wildly with the hatchet which I carried beneath my cloak. The hatchet
struck the wall and rang upon the stone. He had vanished.

I hurried on. I did it. I cut open the bronze; I sawed it into a wider gash. I tore out the
silver image, and hacked it into innumerable pieces. As I scattered the last fragments about,
the moon was suddenly veiled; a great wind arose, howling down the square; it seemed to me
that the earth shook. I threw down the hatchet and the saw, and fled home. I felt pursued,
as if by the tramp of hundreds of invisible horsemen.

Now I am calm. It is midnight; another moment and she will be here! Patience, my heart! I hear
it beating loud. I trust that no one will accuse poor Sor Asdrubale. I will write a letter
to the authorities to declare his innocence should anything happen.... One! the clock in the
palace tower has just struck.... "I hereby certify that, should anything happen this night
to me, Spiridion Trepka, no one but myself is to be held..." A step on the staircase! It is
she! it is she! At last, Medea, Medea! Ah! AMOUR DURE--DURE AMOUR!

      *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.--Here ends the diary of the late Spiridion Trepka The chief newspapers of the province
of Umbria informed the public that, on Christmas morning of the year 1885, the bronze equestrian
statue of Robert II. had been found grievously mutilated; and that Professor Spiridion Trepka
of Posen, in the German Empire, had been discovered dead of a stab in the region of the heart,
given by an unknown hand.

Dionea

From the Letters of Doctor Alessandro De Rosis to the Lady Evelyn Savelli, Princess of Sabina.

Montemiro Ligure, June 29, 1873.

I take immediate advantage of the generous offer of your Excellency (allow an old Republican
who has held you on his knees to address you by that title sometimes, 'tis so appropriate)
to help our poor people. I never expected to come a-begging so soon. For the olive crop has
been unusually plenteous. We semi-Genoese don't pick the olives unripe, like our Tuscan neighbors,
but let them grow big and black, when the young fellows go into the trees with long reeds and
shake them down on the grass for the women to collect--a pretty sight which your Excellency
must see some day: the grey trees with the brown, barefoot lads craning, balanced in the branches,
and the turquoise sea as background just beneath.... That sea of ours--it is all along of it
that I wish to ask for money. Looking up from my desk, I see the sea through the window, deep
below and beyond the olive woods, bluish-green in the sunshine and veined with violet under
the cloud-bars, like one of your Ravenna mosaics spread out as pavement for the world: a wicked
sea, wicked in its loveliness, wickeder than your grey northern ones, and from which must have
arisen in times gone by (when Phoenicians or Greeks built the temples at Lerici and Porto Venere)
a baleful goddess of beauty, a Venus Verticordia, but in the bad sense of the word, overwhelming
men's lives in sudden darkness like that squall of last week.

To come to the point. I want you, dear Lady Evelyn, to promise me some money, a great deal
of money, as much as would buy you a little mannish cloth frock--for the complete bringing-up,
until years of discretion, of a young stranger whom the sea has laid upon our shore. Our people,
kind as they are, are very poor, and overburdened with children; besides, they have got a certain
repugnance for this poor little waif, cast up by that dreadful storm, and who is doubtless
a heathen, for she had no little crosses or scapulars on, like proper Christian children. So,
being unable to get any of our women to adopt the child, and having an old bachelor's terror
of my housekeeper, I have bethought me of certain nuns, holy women, who teach little girls
to say their prayers and make lace close by here; and of your dear Excellency to pay for the
whole business.

Poor little brown mite! She was picked up after the storm (such a set-out of ship-models and
votive candles as that storm must have brought the Madonna at Porto Venere!) on a strip of
sand between the rocks of our castle: the thing was really miraculous, for this coast is like
a shark's jaw, and the bits of sand are tiny and far between. She was lashed to a plank, swaddled
up close in outlandish garments; and when they brought her to me they thought she must certainly
be dead: a little girl of four or five, decidedly pretty, and as brown as a berry, who, when
she came to, shook her head to show she understood no kind of Italian, and jabbered some half-intelligible
Eastern jabber, a few Greek words embedded in I know not what; the Superior of the College
De Propaganda Fide would be puzzled to know. The child appears to be the only survivor from
a ship which must have gone down in the great squall, and whose timbers have been strewing
the bay for some days past; no one at Spezia or in any of our ports knows anything about her,
but she was seen, apparently making for Porto Venere, by some of our sardine-fishers: a big,
lumbering craft, with eyes painted on each side of the prow, which, as you know, is a peculiarity
of Greek boats. She was sighted for the last time off the island of Palmaria, entering, with
all sails spread, right into the thick of the storm-darkness. No bodies, strangely enough,
have been washed ashore.

July 10.

I have received the money, dear Donna Evelina. There was tremendous excitement down at San
Massimo when the carrier came in with a registered letter, and I was sent for, in presence
of all the village authorities, to sign my name on the postal register.

The child has already been settled some days with the nuns; such dear little nuns (nuns always
go straight to the heart of an old priest-hater and conspirator against the Pope, you know),
dressed in brown robes and close, white caps, with an immense round straw-hat flapping behind
their heads like a nimbus: they are called Sisters of the Stigmata, and have a convent and
school at San Massimo, a little way inland, with an untidy garden full of lavender and cherry-trees.
Your protegee has already half set the convent, the village, the Episcopal See, the Order of
St. Francis, by the ears. First, because nobody could make out whether or not she had been
christened. The question was a grave one, for it appears (as your uncle-in-law, the Cardinal,
will tell you) that it is almost equally undesirable to be christened twice over as not to
be christened at all. The first danger was finally decided upon as the less terrible; but the
child, they say, had evidently been baptized before, and knew that the operation ought not
to be repeated, for she kicked and plunged and yelled like twenty little devils, and positively
would not let the holy water touch her. The Mother Superior, who always took for granted that
the baptism had taken place before, says that the child was quite right, and that Heaven was
trying to prevent a sacrilege; but the priest and the barber's wife, who had to hold her, think
the occurrence fearful, and suspect the little girl of being a Protestant. Then the question
of the name. Pinned to her clothes--striped Eastern things, and that kind of crinkled silk
stuff they weave in Crete and Cyprus--was a piece of parchment, a scapular we thought at first,
but which was found to contain only the name Dionea--Dionea, as they pronounce it here. The
question was, Could such a name be fitly borne by a young lady at the Convent of the Stigmata?
Half the population here have names as unchristian quite--Norma, Odoacer, Archimedes--my housemaid
is called Themis--but Dionea seemed to scandalize every one, perhaps because these good folk
had a mysterious instinct that the name is derived from Dione, one of the loves of Father Zeus,
and mother of no less a lady than the goddess Venus. The child was very near being called Maria,
although there are already twenty-three other Marias, Mariettas, Mariuccias, and so forth at
the convent. But the sister-bookkeeper, who apparently detests monotony, bethought her to look
out Dionea first in the Calendar, which proved useless; and then in a big vellum-bound book,
printed at Venice in 1625, called "Flos Sanctorum, or Lives of the Saints, by Father Ribadeneira,
S.J., with the addition of such Saints as have no assigned place in the Almanack, otherwise
called the Movable or Extravagant Saints." The zeal of Sister Anna Maddalena has been rewarded,
for there, among the Extravagant Saints, sure enough, with a border of palm-branches and hour-glasses,
stands the name of Saint Dionea, Virgin and Martyr, a lady of Antioch, put to death by the
Emperor Decius. I know your Excellency's taste for historical information, so I forward this
item. But I fear, dear Lady Evelyn, I fear that the heavenly patroness of your little sea-waif
was a much more extravagant saint than that.

December 21, 1879.

Many thanks, dear Donna Evelina, for the money for Dionea's schooling. Indeed, it was not wanted
yet: the accomplishments of young ladies are taught at a very moderate rate at Montemirto:
and as to clothes, which you mention, a pair of wooden clogs, with pretty red tips, costs sixty-five
centimes, and ought to last three years, if the owner is careful to carry them on her head
in a neat parcel when out walking, and to put them on again only on entering the village. The
Mother Superior is greatly overcome by your Excellency's munificence towards the convent, and
much perturbed at being unable to send you a specimen of your protegee's skill, exemplified
in an embroidered pocket-handkerchief or a pair of mittens; but the fact is that poor Dionea
has no skill. "We will pray to the Madonna and St. Francis to make her more worthy," remarked
the Superior. Perhaps, however, your Excellency, who is, I fear but a Pagan woman (for all
the Savelli Popes and St. Andrew Savelli's miracles), and insufficiently appreciative of embroidered
pocket-handkerchiefs, will be quite as satisfied to hear that Dionea, instead of skill, has
got the prettiest face of any little girl in Montemirto. She is tall, for her age (she is eleven)
quite wonderfully well proportioned and extremely strong: of all the convent-full, she is the
only one for whom I have never been called in. The features are very regular, the hair black,
and despite all the good Sisters' efforts to keep it smooth like a Chinaman's, beautifully
curly. I am glad she should be pretty, for she will more easily find a husband; and also because
it seems fitting that your protegee should be beautiful. Unfortunately her character is not
so satisfactory: she hates learning, sewing, washing up the dishes, all equally. I am sorry
to say she shows no natural piety. Her companions detest her, and the nuns, although they admit
that she is not exactly naughty, seem to feel her as a dreadful thorn in the flesh. She spends
hours and hours on the terrace overlooking the sea (her great desire, she confided to me, is
to get to the sea--to get back to the sea, as she expressed it), and lying in the garden, under
the big myrtle-bushes, and, in spring and summer, under the rose-hedge. The nuns say that rose-hedge
and that myrtle-bush are growing a great deal too big, one would think from Dionea's lying
under them; the fact, I suppose, has drawn attention to them. "That child makes all the useless
weeds grow," remarked Sister Reparata. Another of Dionea's amusements is playing with pigeons.
The number of pigeons she collects about her is quite amazing; you would never have thought
that San Massimo or the neighboring hills contained as many. They flutter down like snowflakes,
and strut and swell themselves out, and furl and unfurl their tails, and peck with little sharp
movements of their silly, sensual heads and a little throb and gurgle in their throats, while
Dionea lies stretched out full length in the sun, putting out her lips, which they come to
kiss, and uttering strange, cooing sounds; or hopping about, flapping her arms slowly like
wings, and raising her little head with much the same odd gesture as they;--'tis a lovely sight,
a thing fit for one of your painters, Burne Jones or Tadema, with the myrtle-bushes all round,
the bright, white-washed convent walls behind, the white marble chapel steps (all steps are
marble in this Carrara country) and the enamel blue sea through the ilex-branches beyond. But
the good Sisters abominate these pigeons, who, it appears, are messy little creatures, and
they complain that, were it not that the Reverend Director likes a pigeon in his pot on a holiday,
they could not stand the bother of perpetually sweeping the chapel steps and the kitchen threshold
all along of those dirty birds....

August 6, 1882.

Do not tempt me, dearest Excellency, with your invitations to Rome. I should not be happy there,
and do but little honor to your friendship. My many years of exile, of wanderings in northern
countries, have made me a little bit into a northern man: I cannot quite get on with my own
fellow-countrymen, except with the good peasants and fishermen all round. Besides--forgive
the vanity of an old man, who has learned to make triple acrostic sonnets to cheat the days
and months at Theresienstadt and Spielberg--I have suffered too much for Italy to endure patiently
the sight of little parliamentary cabals and municipal wranglings, although they also are necessary
in this day as conspiracies and battles were in mine. I am not fit for your roomful of ministers
and learned men and pretty women: the former would think me an ignoramus, and the latter--what
would afflict me much more--a pedant.... Rather, if your Excellency really wants to show yourself
and your children to your father's old protege of Mazzinian times, find a few days to come
here next spring. You shall have some very bare rooms with brick floors and white curtains
opening out on my terrace; and a dinner of all manner of fish and milk (the white garlic flowers
shall be mown away from under the olives lest my cow should eat it) and eggs cooked in herbs
plucked in the hedges. Your boys can go and see the big ironclads at Spezia; and you shall
come with me up our lanes fringed with delicate ferns and overhung by big olives, and into
the fields where the cherry-trees shed their blossoms on to the budding vines, the fig-trees
stretching out their little green gloves, where the goats nibble perched on their hind legs,
and the cows low in the huts of reeds; and there rise from the ravines, with the gurgle of
the brooks, from the cliffs with the boom of the surf, the voices of unseen boys and girls,
singing about love and flowers and death, just as in the days of Theocritus, whom your learned
Excellency does well to read. Has your Excellency ever read Longus, a Greek pastoral novelist?
He is a trifle free, a trifle nude for us readers of Zola; but the old French of Amyot has
a wonderful charm, and he gives one an idea, as no one else does, how folk lived in such valleys,
by such sea-boards, as these in the days when daisy-chains and garlands of roses were still
hung on the olive-trees for the nymphs of the grove; when across the bay, at the end of the
narrow neck of blue sea, there clung to the marble rocks not a church of Saint Laurence, with
the sculptured martyr on his gridiron, but the temple of Venus, protecting her harbor.... Yes,
dear Lady Evelyn, you have guessed aright. Your old friend has returned to his sins, and is
scribbling once more. But no longer at verses or political pamphlets. I am enthralled by a
tragic history, the history of the fall of the Pagan Gods.... Have you ever read of their wanderings
and disguises, in my friend Heine's little book?

And if you come to Montemirto, you shall see also your protegee, of whom you ask for news.
It has just missed being disastrous. Poor Dionea! I fear that early voyage tied to the spar
did no good to her wits, poor little waif! There has been a fearful row; and it has required
all my influence, and all the awfulness of your Excellency's name, and the Papacy, and the
Holy Roman Empire, to prevent her expulsion by the Sisters of the Stigmata. It appears that
this mad creature very nearly committed a sacrilege: she was discovered handling in a suspicious
manner the Madonna's gala frock and her best veil of pizzo di Cantu, a gift of the late Marchioness
Violante Vigalcila of Fornovo. One of the orphans, Zaira Barsanti, whom they call the Rossaccia,
even pretends to have surprised Dionea as she was about to adorn her wicked little person with
these sacred garments; and, on another occasion, when Dionea had been sent to pass some oil
and sawdust over the chapel floor (it was the eve of Easter of the Roses), to have discovered
her seated on the edge of the altar, in the very place of the Most Holy Sacrament. I was sent
for in hot haste, and had to assist at an ecclesiastical council in the convent parlor, where
Dionea appeared, rather out of place, an amazing little beauty, dark, lithe, with an odd, ferocious
gleam in her eyes, and a still odder smile, tortuous, serpentine, like that of Leonardo da
Vinci's women, among the plaster images of St. Francis, and the glazed and framed samplers
before the little statue of the Virgin, which wears in summer a kind of mosquito-curtain to
guard it from the flies, who, as you know, are creatures of Satan.

Speaking of Satan, does your Excellency know that on the inside of our little convent door,
just above the little perforated plate of metal (like the rose of a watering-pot) through which
the Sister-portress peeps and talks, is pasted a printed form, an arrangement of holy names
and texts in triangles, and the stigmatized hands of St. Francis, and a variety of other devices,
for the purpose, as is explained in a special notice, of baffling the Evil One, and preventing
his entrance into that building? Had you seen Dionea, and the stolid, contemptuous way in which
she took, without attempting to refute, the various shocking allegations against her, your
Excellency would have reflected, as I did, that the door in question must have been accidentally
absent from the premises, perhaps at the joiner's for repair, the day that your protegee first
penetrated into the convent. The ecclesiastical tribunal, consisting of the Mother Superior,
three Sisters, the Capuchin Director, and your humble servant (who vainly attempted to be Devil's
advocate), sentenced Dionea, among other things, to make the sign of the cross twenty-six times
on the bare floor with her tongue. Poor little child! One might almost expect that, as happened
when Dame Venus scratched her hand on the thorn-bush, red roses should sprout up between the
fissures of the dirty old bricks.

October 14, 1883.

You ask whether, now that the Sisters let Dionea go and do half a day's service now and then
in the village, and that Dionea is a grown-up creature, she does not set the place by the ears
with her beauty. The people here are quite aware of its existence. She is already dubbed La
bella Dionea; but that does not bring her any nearer getting a husband, although your Excellency's
generous offer of a wedding-portion is well known throughout the district of San Massimo and
Montemirto. None of our boys, peasants or fishermen, seem to hang on her steps; and if they
turn round to stare and whisper as she goes by straight and dainty in her wooden clogs, with
the pitcher of water or the basket of linen on her beautiful crisp dark head, it is, I remark,
with an expression rather of fear than of love. The women, on their side, make horns with their
fingers as she passes, and as they sit by her side in the convent chapel; but that seems natural.
My housekeeper tells me that down in the village she is regarded as possessing the evil eye
and bringing love misery. "You mean," I said, "that a glance from her is too much for our lads'
peace of mind." Veneranda shook her head, and explained, with the deference and contempt with
which she always mentions any of her country-folk's superstitions to me, that the matter is
different: it's not with her they are in love (they would be afraid of her eye), but where-ever
she goes the young people must needs fall in love with each other, and usually where it is
far from desirable. "You know Sora Luisa, the blacksmith's widow? Well, Dionea did a half-service
for her last month, to prepare for the wedding of Luisa's daughter. Well, now, the girl must
say, forsooth! that she won't have Pieriho of Lerici any longer, but will have that raggamuffin
Wooden Pipe from Solaro, or go into a convent. And the girl changed her mind the very day that
Dionea had come into the house. Then there is the wife of Pippo, the coffee-house keeper; they
say she is carrying on with one of the coastguards, and Dionea helped her to do her washing
six weeks ago. The son of Sor Temistocle has just cut off a finger to avoid the conscription,
because he is mad about his cousin and afraid of being taken for a soldier; and it is a fact
that some of the shirts which were made for him at the Stigmata had been sewn by Dionea;" ...
and thus a perfect string of love misfortunes, enough to make a little "Decameron," I assure
you, and all laid to Dionea's account. Certain it is that the people of San Massimo are terribly
afraid of Dionea....

July 17, 1884.

Dionea's strange influence seems to be extending in a terrible way. I am almost beginning to
think that our folk are correct in their fear of the young witch. I used to think, as physician
to a convent, that nothing was more erroneous than all the romancings of Diderot and Schubert
(your Excellency sang me his "Young Nun" once: do you recollect, just before your marriage?),
and that no more humdrum creature existed than one of our little nuns, with their pink baby
faces under their tight white caps. It appeared the romancing was more correct than the prose.
Unknown things have sprung up in these good Sisters' hearts, as unknown flowers have sprung
up among the myrtle-bushes and the rose-hedge which Dionea lies under. Did I ever mention to
you a certain little Sister Giuliana, who professed only two years ago?--a funny rose and white
little creature presiding over the infirmary, as prosaic a little saint as ever kissed a crucifix
or scoured a saucepan. Well, Sister Giuliana has disappeared, and the same day has disappeared
also a sailor-boy from the port.

August 20, 1884.

The case of Sister Giuliana seems to have been but the beginning of an extraordinary love epidemic
at the Convent of the Stigmata: the elder schoolgirls have to be kept under lock and key lest
they should talk over the wall in the moonlight, or steal out to the little hunchback who writes
love-letters at a penny a-piece, beautiful flourishes and all, under the portico by the Fishmarket.
I wonder does that wicked little Dionea, whom no one pays court to, smile (her lips like a
Cupid's bow or a tiny snake's curves) as she calls the pigeons down around her, or lies fondling
the cats under the myrtle-bush, when she sees the pupils going about with swollen, red eyes;
the poor little nuns taking fresh penances on the cold chapel flags; and hears the long-drawn
guttural vowels, amore and morte and mio bene, which rise up of an evening, with the boom of
the surf and the scent of the lemon-flowers, as the young men wander up and down, arm-in-arm,
twanging their guitars along the moonlit lanes under the olives?

October 20, 1885.

A terrible, terrible thing has happened! I write to your Excellency with hands all a-tremble;
and yet I must write, I must speak, or else I shall cry out. Did I ever mention to you Father
Domenico of Casoria, the confessor of our Convent of the Stigmata? A young man, tall, emaciated
with fasts and vigils, but handsome like the monk playing the virginal in Giorgione's "Concert,"
and under his brown serge still the most stalwart fellow of the country all round? One has
heard of men struggling with the tempter. Well, well, Father Domenico had struggled as hard
as any of the Anchorites recorded by St. Jerome, and he had conquered. I never knew anything
comparable to the angelic serenity of gentleness of this victorious soul. I don't like monks,
but I loved Father Domenico. I might have been his father, easily, yet I always felt a certain
shyness and awe of him; and yet men have accounted me a clean-lived man in my generation; but
I felt, whenever I approached him, a poor worldly creature, debased by the knowledge of so
many mean and ugly things. Of late Father Domenico had seemed to me less calm than usual: his
eyes had grown strangely bright, and red spots had formed on his salient cheekbones. One day
last week, taking his hand, I felt his pulse flutter, and all his strength as it were, liquefy
under my touch. "You are ill," I said. "You have fever, Father Domenico. You have been overdoing
yourself--some new privation, some new penance. Take care and do not tempt Heaven; remember
the flesh is weak." Father Domenico withdrew his hand quickly. "Do not say that," he cried;
"the flesh is strong!" and turned away his face. His eyes were glistening and he shook all
over. "Some quinine," I ordered. But I felt it was no case for quinine. Prayers might be more
useful, and could I have given them he should not have wanted. Last night I was suddenly sent
for to Father Domenico's monastery above Montemirto: they told me he was ill. I ran up through
the dim twilight of moonbeams and olives with a sinking heart. Something told me my monk was
dead. He was lying in a little low whitewashed room; they had carried him there from his own
cell in hopes he might still be alive. The windows were wide open; they framed some olive-branches,
glistening in the moonlight, and far below, a strip of moonlit sea. When I told them that he
was really dead, they brought some tapers and lit them at his head and feet, and placed a crucifix
between his hands. "The Lord has been pleased to call our poor brother to Him," said the Superior.
"A case of apoplexy, my dear Doctor--a case of apoplexy. You will make out the certificate
for the authorities." I made out the certificate. It was weak of me. But, after all, why make
a scandal? He certainly had no wish to injure the poor monks.

Next day I found the little nuns all in tears. They were gathering flowers to send as a last
gift to their confessor. In the convent garden I found Dionea, standing by the side of a big
basket of roses, one of the white pigeons perched on her shoulder.

"So," she said, "he has killed himself with charcoal, poor Padre Domenico!"

Something in her tone, her eyes, shocked me.

"God has called to Himself one of His most faithful servants," I said gravely.

Standing opposite this girl, magnificent, radiant in her beauty, before the rose-hedge, with
the white pigeons furling and unfurling, strutting and pecking all round, I seemed to see suddenly
the whitewashed room of last night, the big crucifix, that poor thin face under the yellow
waxlight. I felt glad for Father Domenico; his battle was over.

"Take this to Father Domenico from me," said Dionea, breaking off a twig of myrtle starred
over with white blossom; and raising her head with that smile like the twist of a young snake,
she sang out in a high guttural voice a strange chant, consisting of the word Amor--amor--amor.
I took the branch of myrtle and threw it in her face.

January 3, 1886

It will be difficult to find a place for Dionea, and in this neighborhood well-nigh impossible.
The people associate her somehow with the death of Father Domenico, which has confirmed her
reputation of having the evil eye. She left the convent (being now seventeen) some two months
back, and is at present gaining her bread working with the masons at our notary's new house
at Lerici: the work is hard, but our women often do it, and it is magnificent to see Dionea,
in her short white skirt and tight white bodice, mixing the smoking lime with her beautiful
strong arms; or, an empty sack drawn over her head and shoulders, walking majestically up the
cliff, up the scaffoldings with her load of bricks.... I am, however, very anxious to get Dionea
out of the neighborhood, because I cannot help dreading the annoyances to which her reputation
for the evil eye exposes her, and even some explosion of rage if ever she should lose the indifferent
contempt with which she treats them. I hear that one of the rich men of our part of the world,
a certain Sor Agostino of Sarzana, who owns a whole flank of marble mountain, is looking out
for a maid for his daughter, who is about to be married; kind people and patriarchal in their
riches, the old man still sitting down to table with all his servants; and his nephew, who
is going to be his son-in-law, a splendid young fellow, who has worked like Jacob, in the quarry
and at the saw-mill, for love of his pretty cousin. That whole house is so good, simple, and
peaceful, that I hope it may tame down even Dionea. If I do not succeed in getting Dionea this
place (and all your Excellency's illustriousness and all my poor eloquence will be needed to
counteract the sinister reports attaching to our poor little waif), it will be best to accept
your suggestion of taking the girl into your household at Rome, since you are curious to see
what you call our baleful beauty. I am amused, and a little indignant at what you say about
your footmen being handsome: Don Juan himself, my dear Lady Evelyn, would be cowed by Dionea....

May 29, 1886.

Here is Dionea back upon our hands once more! but I cannot send her to your Excellency. Is
it from living among these peasants and fishing-folk, or is it because, as people pretend,
a skeptic is always superstitious? I could not muster courage to send you Dionea, although
your boys are still in sailor-clothes and your uncle, the Cardinal, is eighty-four; and as
to the Prince, why, he bears the most potent amulet against Dionea's terrible powers in your
own dear capricious person. Seriously, there is something eerie in this coincidence. Poor Dionea!
I feel sorry for her, exposed to the passion of a once patriarchally respectable old man. I
feel even more abashed at the incredible audacity, I should almost say sacrilegious madness,
of the vile old creature. But still the coincidence is strange and uncomfortable. Last week
the lightning struck a huge olive in the orchard of Sor Agostino's house above Sarzana. Under
the olive was Sor Agostino himself, who was killed on the spot; and opposite, not twenty paces
off, drawing water from the well, unhurt and calm, was Dionea. It was the end of a sultry afternoon:
I was on a terrace in one of those villages of ours, jammed, like some hardy bush, in the gash
of a hill-side. I saw the storm rush down the valley, a sudden blackness, and then, like a
curse, a flash, a tremendous crash, re-echoed by a dozen hills. "I told him," Dionea said very
quietly, when she came to stay with me the next day (for Sor Agostino's family would not have
her for another half-minute), "that if he did not leave me alone Heaven would send him an accident."

July 15, 1886.

My book? Oh, dear Donna Evelina, do not make me blush by talking of my book! Do not make an
old man, respectable, a Government functionary (communal physician of the district of San Massimo
and Montemirto Ligure), confess that he is but a lazy unprofitable dreamer, collecting materials
as a child picks hips out of a hedge, only to throw them away, liking them merely for the little
occupation of scratching his hands and standing on tiptoe, for their pretty redness.... You
remember what Balzac says about projecting any piece of work?--"C'est fumier des cigarettes
enchantees...." Well, well! The data obtainable about the ancient gods in their days of adversity
are few and far between: a quotation here and there from the Fathers; two or three legends;
Venus reappearing; the persecutions of Apollo in Styria; Proserpina going, in Chaucer, to reign
over the fairies; a few obscure religious persecutions in the Middle Ages on the score of Paganism;
some strange rites practiced till lately in the depths of a Breton forest near Lannion....
As to Tannhaeuser, he was a real knight, and a sorry one, and a real Minnesinger not of the
best. Your Excellency will find some of his poems in Von der Hagen's four immense volumes,
but I recommend you to take your notions of Ritter Tannhaeuser's poetry rather from Wagner.
Certain it is that the Pagan divinities lasted much longer than we suspect, sometimes in their
own nakedness, sometimes in the stolen garb of the Madonna or the saints. Who knows whether
they do not exist to this day? And, indeed, is it possible they should not? For the awfulness
of the deep woods, with their filtered green light, the creak of the swaying, solitary reeds,
exists, and is Pan; and the blue, starry May night exists, the sough of the waves, the warm
wind carrying the sweetness of the lemon-blossoms, the bitterness of the myrtle on our rocks,
the distant chant of the boys cleaning out their nets, of the girls sickling the grass under
the olives, Amor--amor--amor, and all this is the great goddess Venus. And opposite to me,
as I write, between the branches of the ilexes, across the blue sea, streaked like a Ravenna
mosaic with purple and green, shimmer the white houses and walls, the steeple and towers, an
enchanted Fata Morgana city, of dim Porto Venere; ... and I mumble to myself the verse of Catullus,
but addressing a greater and more terrible goddess than he did:--

"Procul a mea sit furor omnis, Hera, domo; alios; age incitatos, alios age rabidos."

March 25, 1887.

Yes; I will do everything in my power for your friends. Are you well-bred folk as well bred
as we, Republican bourgeois, with the coarse hands (though you once told me mine were psychic
hands when the mania of palmistry had not yet been succeeded by that of the Reconciliation
between Church and State), I wonder, that you should apologize, you whose father fed me and
housed me and clothed me in my exile, for giving me the horrid trouble of hunting for lodgings?
It is like you, dear Donna Evelina, to have sent me photographs of my future friend Waldemar's
statue.... I have no love for modern sculpture, for all the hours I have spent in Gibson's
and Dupre's studio: 'tis a dead art we should do better to bury. But your Waldemar has something
of the old spirit: he seems to feel the divineness of the mere body, the spirituality of a
limpid stream of mere physical life. But why among these statues only men and boys, athletes
and fauns? Why only the bust of that thin, delicate-lipped little Madonna wife of his? Why
no wide-shouldered Amazon or broad-flanked Aphrodite?

April 10, 1887.

You ask me how poor Dionea is getting on. Not as your Excellency and I ought to have expected
when we placed her with the good Sisters of the Stigmata: although I wager that, fantastic
and capricious as you are, you would be better pleased (hiding it carefully from that grave
side of you which bestows devout little books and carbolic acid upon the indigent) that your
protegee should be a witch than a serving-maid, a maker of philters rather than a knitter of
stockings and sewer of shirts.

A maker of philters. Roughly speaking, that is Dionea's profession. She lives upon the money
which I dole out to her (with many useless objurgations) on behalf of your Excellency, and
her ostensible employment is mending nets, collecting olives, carrying bricks, and other miscellaneous
jobs; but her real status is that of village sorceress. You think our peasants are skeptical?
Perhaps they do not believe in thought-reading, mesmerism, and ghosts, like you, dear Lady
Evelyn. But they believe very firmly in the evil eye, in magic, and in love-potions. Every
one has his little story of this or that which happened to his brother or cousin or neighbor.
My stable-boy and male factotum's brother-in-law, living some years ago in Corsica, was seized
with a longing for a dance with his beloved at one of those balls which our peasants give in
the winter, when the snow makes leisure in the mountains. A wizard anointed him for money,
and straightway he turned into a black cat, and in three bounds was over the seas, at the door
of his uncle's cottage, and among the dancers. He caught his beloved by the skirt to draw her
attention; but she replied with a kick which sent him squealing back to Corsica. When he returned
in summer he refused to marry the lady, and carried his left arm in a sling. "You broke it
when I came to the Veglia!" he said, and all seemed explained. Another lad, returning from
working in the vineyards near Marseilles, was walking up to his native village, high in our
hills, one moonlight night. He heard sounds of fiddle and fife from a roadside barn, and saw
yellow light from its chinks; and then entering, he found many women dancing, old and young,
and among them his affianced. He tried to snatch her round the waist for a waltz (they play
Mme. Angot at our rustic balls), but the girl was unclutchable, and whispered, "Go; for these
are witches, who will kill thee; and I am a witch also. Alas! I shall go to hell when I die."

I could tell your Excellency dozens of such stories. But love-philters are among the commonest
things to sell and buy. Do you remember the sad little story of Cervantes' Licentiate, who,
instead of a love-potion, drank a philter which made him think he was made of glass, fit emblem
of a poor mad poet? ... It is love-philters that Dionea prepares. No; do not misunderstand;
they do not give love of her, still less her love.

Your seller of love-charms is as cold as ice, as pure as snow. The priest has crusaded against
her, and stones have flown at her as she went by from dissatisfied lovers; and the very children,
paddling in the sea and making mud-pies in the sand, have put out forefinger and little finger
and screamed, "Witch, witch! ugly witch!" as she passed with basket or brick load; but Dionea
has only smiled, that snake-like, amused smile, but more ominous than of yore. The other day
I determined to seek her and argue with her on the subject of her evil trade. Dionea has a
certain regard for me; not, I fancy, a result of gratitude, but rather the recognition of a
certain admiration and awe which she inspires in your Excellency's foolish old servant. She
has taken up her abode in a deserted hut, built of dried reeds and thatch, such as they keep
cows in, among the olives on the cliffs. She was not there, but about the hut pecked some white
pigeons, and from it, startling me foolishly with its unexpected sound, came the eerie bleat
of her pet goat.... Among the olives it was twilight already, with streakings of faded rose
in the sky, and faded rose, like long trails of petals, on the distant sea. I clambered down
among the myrtle-bushes and came to a little semicircle of yellow sand, between two high and
jagged rocks, the place where the sea had deposited Dionea after the wreck. She was seated
there on the sand, her bare foot dabbling in the waves; she had twisted a wreath of myrtle
and wild roses on her black, crisp hair. Near her was one of our prettiest girls, the Lena
of Sor Tullio the blacksmith, with ashy, terrified face under her flowered kerchief. I determined
to speak to the child, but without startling her now, for she is a nervous, hysteric little
thing. So I sat on the rocks, screened by the myrtle-bushes, waiting till the girl had gone.
Dionea, seated listless on the sands, leaned over the sea and took some of its water in the
hollow of her hand. "Here," she said to the Lena of Sor Tullio, "fill your bottle with this
and give it to drink to Tommasino the Rosebud." Then she set to singing:--

"Love is salt, like sea-water--I drink and I die of thirst.... Water! water! Yet the more I
drink, the more I burn. Love! thou art bitter as the seaweed."

April 20, 1887.

Your friends are settled here, dear Lady Evelyn. The house is built in what was once a Genoese
fort, growing like a grey spiked aloes out of the marble rocks of our bay; rock and wall (the
walls existed long before Genoa was ever heard of) grown almost into a homogeneous mass, delicate
grey, stained with black and yellow lichen, and dotted here and there with myrtle-shoots and
crimson snapdragon. In what was once the highest enclosure of the fort, where your friend Gertrude
watches the maids hanging out the fine white sheets and pillow-cases to dry (a bit of the North,
of Hermann and Dorothea transferred to the South), a great twisted fig-tree juts out like an
eccentric gargoyle over the sea, and drops its ripe fruit into the deep blue pools. There is
but scant furniture in the house, but a great oleander overhangs it, presently to burst into
pink splendor; and on all the window-sills, even that of the kitchen (such a background of
shining brass saucepans Waldemar's wife has made of it!) are pipkins and tubs full of trailing
carnations, and tufts of sweet basil and thyme and mignonette. She pleases me most, your Gertrude,
although you foretold I should prefer the husband; with her thin white face, a Memling Madonna
finished by some Tuscan sculptor, and her long, delicate white hands ever busy, like those
of a mediaeval lady, with some delicate piece of work; and the strange blue, more limpid than
the sky and deeper than the sea, of her rarely lifted glance.

It is in her company that I like Waldemar best; I prefer to the genius that infinitely tender
and respectful, I would not say lover --yet I have no other word--of his pale wife. He seems
to me, when with her, like some fierce, generous, wild thing from the woods, like the lion
of Una, tame and submissive to this saint.... This tenderness is really very beautiful on the
part of that big lion Waldemar, with his odd eyes, as of some wild animal--odd, and, your Excellency
remarks, not without a gleam of latent ferocity. I think that hereby hangs the explanation
of his never doing any but male figures: the female figure, he says (and your Excellency must
hold him responsible, not me, for such profanity), is almost inevitably inferior in strength
and beauty; woman is not form, but expression, and therefore suits painting, but not sculpture.
The point of a woman is not her body, but (and here his eyes rested very tenderly upon the
thin white profile of his wife) her soul. "Still," I answered, "the ancients, who understood
such matters, did manufacture some tolerable female statues: the Fates of the Parthenon, the
Phidian Pallas, the Venus of Milo."...

"Ah! yes," exclaimed Waldemar, smiling, with that savage gleam of his eyes; "but those are
not women, and the people who made them have left as the tales of Endymion, Adonis, Anchises:
a goddess might sit for them."...

May 5, 1887.

Has it ever struck your Excellency in one of your La Rochefoucauld fits (in Lent say, after
too many balls) that not merely maternal but conjugal unselfishness may be a very selfish thing?
There! you toss your little head at my words; yet I wager I have heard you say that other women
may think it right to humor their husbands, but as to you, the Prince must learn that a wife's
duty is as much to chasten her husband's whims as to satisfy them. I really do feel indignant
that such a snow-white saint should wish another woman to part with all instincts of modesty
merely because that other woman would be a good model for her husband; really it is intolerable.
"Leave the girl alone," Waldemar said, laughing. "What do I want with the unaesthetic sex,
as Schopenhauer calls it?" But Gertrude has set her heart on his doing a female figure; it
seems that folk have twitted him with never having produced one. She has long been on the look-out
for a model for him. It is odd to see this pale, demure, diaphanous creature, not the more
earthly for approaching motherhood, scanning the girls of our village with the eyes of a slave-dealer.

"If you insist on speaking to Dionea," I said, "I shall insist on speaking to her at the same
time, to urge her to refuse your proposal." But Waldemar's pale wife was indifferent to all
my speeches about modesty being a poor girl's only dowry. "She will do for a Venus," she merely
answered.

We went up to the cliffs together, after some sharp words, Waldemar's wife hanging on my arm
as we slowly clambered up the stony path among the olives. We found Dionea at the door of her
hut, making faggots of myrtle-branches. She listened sullenly to Gertrude's offer and explanations;
indifferently to my admonitions not to accept. The thought of stripping for the view of a man,
which would send a shudder through our most brazen village girls, seemed not to startle her,
immaculate and savage as she is accounted. She did not answer, but sat under the olives, looking
vaguely across the sea. At that moment Waldemar came up to us; he had followed with the intention
of putting an end to these wranglings.

"Gertrude," he said, "do leave her alone. I have found a model--a fisher-boy, whom I much prefer
to any woman."

Dionea raised her head with that serpentine smile. "I will come," she said.

Waldemar stood silent; his eyes were fixed on her, where she stood under the olives, her white
shift loose about her splendid throat, her shining feet bare in the grass. Vaguely, as if not
knowing what he said, he asked her name. She answered that her name was Dionea; for the rest,
she was an Innocentina, that is to say, a foundling; then she began to sing:--

  "Flower of the myrtle!
  My father is the starry sky,
  The mother that made me is the sea."

June 22, 1887.

I confess I was an old fool to have grudged Waldemar his model. As I watch him gradually building
up his statue, watch the goddess gradually emerging from the clay heap, I ask myself--and the
case might trouble a more subtle moralist than me--whether a village girl, an obscure, useless
life within the bounds of what we choose to call right and wrong, can be weighed against the
possession by mankind of a great work of art, a Venus immortally beautiful? Still, I am glad
that the two alternatives need not be weighed against each other. Nothing can equal the kindness
of Gertrude, now that Dionea has consented to sit to her husband; the girl is ostensibly merely
a servant like any other; and, lest any report of her real functions should get abroad and
discredit her at San Massimo or Montemirto, she is to be taken to Rome, where no one will be
the wiser, and where, by the way, your Excellency will have an opportunity of comparing Waldemar's
goddess of love with our little orphan of the Convent of the Stigmata. What reassures me still
more is the curious attitude of Waldemar towards the girl. I could never have believed that
an artist could regard a woman so utterly as a mere inanimate thing, a form to copy, like a
tree or flower. Truly he carries out his theory that sculpture knows only the body, and the
body scarcely considered as human. The way in which he speaks to Dionea after hours of the
most rapt contemplation of her is almost brutal in its coldness. And yet to hear him exclaim,
"How beautiful she is! Good God, how beautiful!" No love of mere woman was ever so violent
as this love of woman's mere shape.

June 27, 1887.

You asked me once, dearest Excellency, whether there survived among our people (you had evidently
added a volume on folk-lore to that heap of half-cut, dog's-eared books that litter about among
the Chineseries and mediaeval brocades of your rooms) any trace of Pagan myths. I explained
to you then that all our fairy mythology, classic gods, and demons and heroes, teemed with
fairies, ogres, and princes. Last night I had a curious proof of this. Going to see the Waldemar,
I found Dionea seated under the oleander at the top of the old Genoese fort, telling stories
to the two little blonde children who were making the falling pink blossoms into necklaces
at her feet; the pigeons, Dionea's white pigeons, which never leave her, strutting and pecking
among the basil pots, and the white gulls flying round the rocks overhead. This is what I heard...
"And the three fairies said to the youngest son of the King, to the one who had been brought
up as a shepherd, 'Take this apple, and give it to her among us who is most beautiful.' And
the first fairy said, 'If thou give it to me thou shalt be Emperor of Rome, and have purple
clothes, and have a gold crown and gold armor, and horses and courtiers;' and the second said,
'If thou give it to me thou shalt be Pope, and wear a miter, and have the keys of heaven and
hell;' and the third fairy said, 'Give the apple to me, for I will give thee the most beautiful
lady to wife.' And the youngest son of the King sat in the green meadow and thought about it
a little, and then said, 'What use is there in being Emperor or Pope? Give me the beautiful
lady to wife, since I am young myself.' And he gave the apple to the third of the three fairies."...

Dionea droned out the story in her half-Genoese dialect, her eyes looking far away across the
blue sea, dotted with sails like white sea-gulls, that strange serpentine smile on her lips.

"Who told thee that fable?" I asked.

She took a handful of oleander-blossoms from the ground, and throwing them in the air, answered
listlessly, as she watched the little shower of rosy petals descend on her black hair and pale
breast--

"Who knows?"

July 6, 1887.

How strange is the power of art! Has Waldemar's statue shown me the real Dionea, or has Dionea
really grown more strangely beautiful than before? Your Excellency will laugh; but when I meet
her I cast down my eyes after the first glimpse of her loveliness; not with the shyness of
a ridiculous old pursuer of the Eternal Feminine, but with a sort of religious awe--the feeling
with which, as a child kneeling by my mother's side, I looked down on the church flags when
the Mass bell told the elevation of the Host.... Do you remember the story of Zeuxis and the
ladies of Crotona, five of the fairest not being too much for his Juno? Do you remember--you,
who have read everything--all the bosh of our writers about the Ideal in Art? Why, here is
a girl who disproves all this nonsense in a minute; she is far, far more beautiful than Waldemar's
statue of her. He said so angrily, only yesterday, when his wife took me into his studio (he
has made a studio of the long-desecrated chapel of the old Genoese fort, itself, they say,
occupying the site of the temple of Venus).

As he spoke that odd spark of ferocity dilated in his eyes, and seizing the largest of his
modeling tools, he obliterated at one swoop the whole exquisite face. Poor Gertrude turned
ashy white, and a convulsion passed over her face....

July 15.

I wish I could make Gertrude understand, and yet I could never, never bring myself to say a
word. As a matter of fact, what is there to be said? Surely she knows best that her husband
will never love any woman but herself. Yet ill, nervous as she is, I quite understand that
she must loathe this unceasing talk of Dionea, of the superiority of the model over the statue.
Cursed statue! I wish it were finished, or else that it had never been begun.

July 20.

This morning Waldemar came to me. He seemed strangely agitated: I guessed he had something
to tell me, and yet I could never ask. Was it cowardice on my part? He sat in my shuttered
room, the sunshine making pools on the red bricks and tremulous stars on the ceiling, talking
of many things at random, and mechanically turning over the manuscript, the heap of notes of
my poor, never-finished book on the Exiled Gods. Then he rose, and walking nervously round
my study, talking disconnectedly about his work, his eye suddenly fell upon a little altar,
one of my few antiquities, a little block of marble with a carved garland and rams' heads,
and a half-effaced inscription dedicating it to Venus, the mother of Love.

"It was found," I explained, "in the ruins of the temple, somewhere on the site of your studio:
so, at least, the man said from whom I bought it."

Waldemar looked at it long. "So," he said, "this little cavity was to burn the incense in;
or rather, I suppose, since it has two little gutters running into it, for collecting the blood
of the victim? Well, well! they were wiser in that day, to wring the neck of a pigeon or burn
a pinch of incense than to eat their own hearts out, as we do, all along of Dame Venus;" and
he laughed, and left me with that odd ferocious lighting-up of his face. Presently there came
a knock at my door. It was Waldemar. "Doctor," he said very quietly, "will you do me a favor?
Lend me your little Venus altar--only for a few days, only till the day after tomorrow. I want
to copy the design of it for the pedestal of my statue: it is appropriate." I sent the altar
to him: the lad who carried it told me that Waldemar had set it up in the studio, and calling
for a flask of wine, poured out two glasses. One he had given to my messenger for his pains;
of the other he had drunk a mouthful, and thrown the rest over the altar, saying some unknown
words. "It must be some German habit," said my servant. What odd fancies this man has!

July 25.

You ask me, dearest Excellency, to send you some sheets of my book: you want to know what I
have discovered. Alas! dear Donna Evelina, I have discovered, I fear, that there is nothing
to discover; that Apollo was never in Styria; that Chaucer, when he called the Queen of the
Fairies Proserpine, meant nothing more than an eighteenth century poet when he called Dolly
or Betty Cynthia or Amaryllis; that the lady who damned poor Tannhaeuser was not Venus, but
a mere little Suabian mountain sprite; in fact, that poetry is only the invention of poets,
and that that rogue, Heinrich Heine, is entirely responsible for the existence of Dieux en
Exil.... My poor manuscript can only tell you what St. Augustine, Tertullian, and sundry morose
old Bishops thought about the loves of Father Zeus and the miracles of the Lady Isis, none
of which is much worth your attention.... Reality, my dear Lady Evelyn, is always prosaic:
at least when investigated into by bald old gentlemen like me.

And yet, it does not look so. The world, at times, seems to be playing at being poetic, mysterious,
full of wonder and romance. I am writing, as usual, by my window, the moonlight brighter in
its whiteness than my mean little yellow-shining lamp. From the mysterious greyness, the olive
groves and lanes beneath my terrace, rises a confused quaver of frogs, and buzz and whirr of
insects: something, in sound, like the vague trails of countless stars, the galaxies on galaxies
blurred into mere blue shimmer by the moon, which rides slowly across the highest heaven. The
olive twigs glisten in the rays: the flowers of the pomegranate and oleander are only veiled
as with bluish mist in their scarlet and rose. In the sea is another sea, of molten, rippled
silver, or a magic causeway leading to the shining vague offing, the luminous pale sky-line,
where the islands of Palmaria and Tino float like unsubstantial, shadowy dolphins. The roofs
of Montemirto glimmer among the black, pointing cypresses: farther below, at the end of that
half-moon of land, is San Massimo: the Genoese fort inhabited by our friends is profiled black
against the sky. All is dark: our fisher-folk go to bed early; Gertrude and the little ones
are asleep: they at least are, for I can imagine Gertrude lying awake, the moonbeams on her
thin Madonna face, smiling as she thinks of the little ones around her, of the other tiny thing
that will soon lie on her breast.... There is a light in the old desecrated chapel, the thing
that was once the temple of Venus, they say, and is now Waldemar's workshop, its broken roof
mended with reeds and thatch. Waldemar has stolen in, no doubt to see his statue again. But
he will return, more peaceful for the peacefulness of the night, to his sleeping wife and children.
God bless and watch over them! Good-night, dearest Excellency.

July 26.

I have your Excellency's telegram in answer to mine. Many thanks for sending the Prince. I
await his coming with feverish longing; it is still something to look forward to. All does
not seem over. And yet what can he do?

The children are safe: we fetched them out of their bed and brought them up here. They are
still a little shaken by the fire, the bustle, and by finding themselves in a strange house;
also, they want to know where their mother is; but they have found a tame cat, and I hear them
chirping on the stairs.

It was only the roof of the studio, the reeds and thatch, that burned, and a few old pieces
of timber. Waldemar must have set fire to it with great care; he had brought armfuls of faggots
of dry myrtle and heather from the bakehouse close by, and thrown into the blaze quantities
of pine-cones, and of some resin, I know not what, that smelt like incense. When we made our
way, early this morning, through the smoldering studio, we were stifled with a hot church-like
perfume: my brain swam, and I suddenly remembered going into St. Peter's on Easter Day as a child.

It happened last night, while I was writing to you. Gertrude had gone to bed, leaving her husband
in the studio. About eleven the maids heard him come out and call to Dionea to get up and come
and sit to him. He had had this craze once before, of seeing her and his statue by an artificial
light: you remember he had theories about the way in which the ancients lit up the statues
in their temples. Gertrude, the servants say, was heard creeping downstairs a little later.

Do you see it? I have seen nothing else these hours, which have seemed weeks and months. He
had placed Dionea on the big marble block behind the altar, a great curtain of dull red brocade--you
know that Venetian brocade with the gold pomegranate pattern--behind her, like a Madonna of
Van Eyck's. He showed her to me once before like this, the whiteness of her neck and breast,
the whiteness of the drapery round her flanks, toned to the color of old marble by the light
of the resin burning in pans all round.... Before Dionea was the altar--the altar of Venus
which he had borrowed from me. He must have collected all the roses about it, and thrown the
incense upon the embers when Gertrude suddenly entered. And then, and then...

We found her lying across the altar, her pale hair among the ashes of the incense, her blood--she
had but little to give, poor white ghost!--trickling among the carved garlands and rams' heads,
blackening the heaped-up roses. The body of Waldemar was found at the foot of the castle cliff.
Had he hoped, by setting the place on fire, to bury himself among its ruins, or had he not
rather wished to complete in this way the sacrifice, to make the whole temple an immense votive
pyre? It looked like one, as we hurried down the hills to San Massimo: the whole hillside,
dry grass, myrtle, and heather, all burning, the pale short flames waving against the blue
moonlit sky, and the old fortress outlined black against the blaze.

August 30.

Of Dionea I can tell you nothing certain. We speak of her as little as we can. Some say they
have seen her, on stormy nights, wandering among the cliffs: but a sailor-boy assures me, by
all the holy things, that the day after the burning of the Castle Chapel--we never call it
anything else--he met at dawn, off the island of Palmaria, beyond the Strait of Porto Venere,
a Greek boat, with eyes painted on the prow, going full sail to sea, the men singing as she
went. And against the mast, a robe of purple and gold about her, and a myrtle-wreath on her
head, leaned Dionea, singing words in an unknown tongue, the white pigeons circling around her.

They have been congratulating me again today upon being the only composer of our days--of these
days of deafening orchestral effects and poetical quackery--who has despised the new-fangled
nonsense of Wagner, and returned boldly to the traditions of Handel and Gluck and the divine
Mozart, to the supremacy of melody and the respect of the human voice.

O cursed human voice, violin of flesh and blood, fashioned with the subtle tools, the cunning
hands, of Satan! O execrable art of singing, have you not wrought mischief enough in the past,
degrading so much noble genius, corrupting the purity of Mozart, reducing Handel to a writer
of high-class singing-exercises, and defrauding the world of the only inspiration worthy of
Sophocles and Euripides, the poetry of the great poet Gluck? Is it not enough to have dishonored
a whole century in idolatry of that wicked and contemptible wretch the singer, without persecuting
an obscure young composer of our days, whose only wealth is his love of nobility in art, and
perhaps some few grains of genius?

And then they compliment me upon the perfection with which I imitate the style of the great
dead masters; or ask me very seriously whether, even if I could gain over the modern public
to this bygone style of music, I could hope to find singers to perform it. Sometimes, when
people talk as they have been talking today, and laugh when I declare myself a follower of
Wagner, I burst into a paroxysm of unintelligible, childish rage, and exclaim, "We shall see
that some day!"

Yes; some day we shall see! For, after all, may I not recover from this strangest of maladies?
It is still possible that the day may come when all these things shall seem but an incredible
nightmare; the day when Ogier the Dane shall be completed, and men shall know whether I am
a follower of the great master of the Future or the miserable singing-masters of the Past.
I am but half-bewitched, since I am conscious of the spell that binds me. My old nurse, far
off in Norway, used to tell me that were-wolves are ordinary men and women half their days,
and that if, during that period, they become aware of their horrid transformation they may
find the means to forestall it. May this not be the case with me? My reason, after all, is
free, although my artistic inspiration be enslaved; and I can despise and loathe the music
I am forced to compose, and the execrable power that forces me.

Nay, is it not because I have studied with the doggedness of hatred this corrupt and corrupting
music of the Past, seeking for every little peculiarity of style and every biographical trifle
merely to display its vileness, is it not for this presumptuous courage that I have been overtaken
by such mysterious, incredible vengeance?

And meanwhile, my only relief consists in going over and over again in my mind the tale of
my miseries. This time I will write it, writing only to tear up, to throw the manuscript unread
into the fire. And yet, who knows? As the last charred pages shall crackle and slowly sink
into the red embers, perhaps the spell may be broken, and I may possess once more my long-lost
liberty, my vanished genius.

It was a breathless evening under the full moon, that implacable full moon beneath which, even
more than beneath the dreamy splendor of noon-tide, Venice seemed to swelter in the midst of
the waters, exhaling, like some great lily, mysterious influences, which make the brain swim
and the heart faint--a moral malaria, distilled, as I thought, from those languishing melodies,
those cooing vocalizations which I had found in the musty music-books of a century ago. I see
that moonlight evening as if it were present. I see my fellow-lodgers of that little artists'
boarding-house. The table on which they lean after supper is strewn with bits of bread, with
napkins rolled in tapestry rollers, spots of wine here and there, and at regular intervals
chipped pepper-pots, stands of toothpicks, and heaps of those huge hard peaches which nature
imitates from the marble-shops of Pisa. The whole pension-full is assembled, and examining
stupidly the engraving which the American etcher has just brought for me, knowing me to be
mad about eighteenth century music and musicians, and having noticed, as he turned over the
heaps of penny prints in the square of San Polo, that the portrait is that of a singer of those
days.

Singer, thing of evil, stupid and wicked slave of the voice, of that instrument which was not
invented by the human intellect, but begotten of the body, and which, instead of moving the
soul, merely stirs up the dregs of our nature! For what is the voice but the Beast calling,
awakening that other Beast sleeping in the depths of mankind, the Beast which all great art
has ever sought to chain up, as the archangel chains up, in old pictures, the demon with his
woman's face? How could the creature attached to this voice, its owner and its victim, the
singer, the great, the real singer who once ruled over every heart, be otherwise than wicked
and contemptible? But let me try and get on with my story.

I can see all my fellow-boarders, leaning on the table, contemplating the print, this effeminate
beau, his hair curled into ailes de pigeon, his sword passed through his embroidered pocket,
seated under a triumphal arch somewhere among the clouds, surrounded by puffy Cupids and crowned
with laurels by a bouncing goddess of fame. I hear again all the insipid exclamations, the
insipid questions about this singer:--"When did he live? Was he very famous? Are you sure,
Magnus, that this is really a portrait," &c. &c. And I hear my own voice, as if in the far
distance, giving them all sorts of information, biographical and critical, out of a battered
little volume called The Theatre of Musical Glory; or, Opinions upon the most Famous Chapel-masters
and Virtuosi of this Century, by Father Prosdocimo Sabatelli, Barnalite, Professor of Eloquence
at the College of Modena, and Member of the Arcadian Academy, under the pastoral name of Evander
Lilybaean, Venice, 1785, with the approbation of the Superiors. I tell them all how this singer,
this Balthasar Cesari, was nick-named Zaffirino because of a sapphire engraved with cabalistic
signs presented to him one evening by a masked stranger, in whom wise folk recognized that
great cultivator of the human voice, the devil; how much more wonderful had been this Zaffirino's
vocal gifts than those of any singer of ancient or modern times; how his brief life had been
but a series of triumphs, petted by the greatest kings, sung by the most famous poets, and
finally, adds Father Prosdocimo, "courted (if the grave Muse of history may incline her ear
to the gossip of gallantry) by the most charming nymphs, even of the very highest quality."

My friends glance once more at the engraving; more insipid remarks are made; I am requested--especially
by the American young ladies--to play or sing one of this Zaffirino's favorite songs--"For
of course you know them, dear Maestro Magnus, you who have such a passion for all old music.
Do be good, and sit down to the piano." I refuse, rudely enough, rolling the print in my fingers.
How fearfully this cursed heat, these cursed moonlight nights, must have unstrung me! This
Venice would certainly kill me in the long-run! Why, the sight of this idiotic engraving, the
mere name of that coxcomb of a singer, have made my heart beat and my limbs turn to water like
a love-sick hobbledehoy.

After my gruff refusal, the company begins to disperse; they prepare to go out, some to have
a row on the lagoon, others to saunter before the cafes at St. Mark's; family discussions arise,
gruntings of fathers, murmurs of mothers, peals of laughing from young girls and young men.
And the moon, pouring in by the wide-open windows, turns this old palace ballroom, nowadays
an inn dining-room, into a lagoon, scintillating, undulating like the other lagoon, the real
one, which stretches out yonder furrowed by invisible gondolas betrayed by the red prow-lights.
At last the whole lot of them are on the move. I shall be able to get some quiet in my room,
and to work a little at my opera of Ogier the Dane. But no! Conversation revives, and, of all
things, about that singer, that Zaffirino, whose absurd portrait I am crunching in my fingers.

The principal speaker is Count Alvise, an old Venetian with dyed whiskers, a great check tie
fastened with two pins and a chain; a threadbare patrician who is dying to secure for his lanky
son that pretty American girl, whose mother is intoxicated by all his mooning anecdotes about
the past glories of Venice in general, and of his illustrious family in particular. Why, in
Heaven's name, must he pitch upon Zaffirino for his mooning, this old duffer of a patrician?

"Zaffirino,--ah yes, to be sure! Balthasar Cesari, called Zaffirino," snuffles the voice of
Count Alvise, who always repeats the last word of every sentence at least three times. "Yes,
Zaffirino, to be sure! A famous singer of the days of my forefathers; yes, of my forefathers,
dear lady!" Then a lot of rubbish about the former greatness of Venice, the glories of old
music, the former Conservatoires, all mixed up with anecdotes of Rossini and Donizetti, whom
he pretends to have known intimately. Finally, a story, of course containing plenty about his
illustrious family:--"My great grand-aunt, the Procuratessa Vendramin, from whom we have inherited
our estate of Mistra, on the Brenta"--a hopelessly muddled story, apparently, fully of digressions,
but of which that singer Zaffirino is the hero. The narrative, little by little, becomes more
intelligible, or perhaps it is I who am giving it more attention.

"It seems," says the Count, "that there was one of his songs in particular which was called
the 'Husbands' Air'--L'Aria dei Marit--because they didn't enjoy it quite as much as their
better-halves.... My grand-aunt, Pisana Renier, married to the Procuratore Vendramin, was a
patrician of the old school, of the style that was getting rare a hundred years ago. Her virtue
and her pride rendered her unapproachable. Zaffirino, on his part, was in the habit of boasting
that no woman had ever been able to resist his singing, which, it appears, had its foundation
in fact--the ideal changes, my dear lady, the ideal changes a good deal from one century to
another!--and that his first song could make any woman turn pale and lower her eyes, the second
make her madly in love, while the third song could kill her off on the spot, kill her for love,
there under his very eyes, if he only felt inclined. My grandaunt Vendramin laughed when this
story was told her, refused to go to hear this insolent dog, and added that it might be quite
possible by the aid of spells and infernal pacts to kill a gentildonna, but as to making her
fall in love with a lackey--never! This answer was naturally reported to Zaffirino, who piqued
himself upon always getting the better of any one who was wanting in deference to his voice.
Like the ancient Romans, parcere subjectis et debellare superbos. You American ladies, who
are so learned, will appreciate this little quotation from the divine Virgil. While seeming
to avoid the Procuratessa Vendramin, Zaffirino took the opportunity, one evening at a large
assembly, to sing in her presence. He sang and sang and sang until the poor grand-aunt Pisana
fell ill for love. The most skilful physicians were kept unable to explain the mysterious malady
which was visibly killing the poor young lady; and the Procuratore Vendramin applied in vain
to the most venerated Madonnas, and vainly promised an altar of silver, with massive gold candlesticks,
to Saints Cosmas and Damian, patrons of the art of healing. At last the brother-in-law of the
Procuratessa, Monsignor Almoro Vendramin, Patriarch of Aquileia, a prelate famous for the sanctity
of his life, obtained in a vision of Saint Justina, for whom he entertained a particular devotion,
the information that the only thing which could benefit the strange illness of his sister-in-law
was the voice of Zaffirino. Take notice that my poor grand-aunt had never condescended to such
a revelation.

"The Procuratore was enchanted at this happy solution; and his lordship the Patriarch went
to seek Zaffirino in person, and carried him in his own coach to the Villa of Mistra, where
the Procuratessa was residing.

"On being told what was about to happen, my poor grand-aunt went into fits of rage, which were
succeeded immediately by equally violent fits of joy. However, she never forgot what was due
to her great position. Although sick almost unto death, she had herself arrayed with the greatest
pomp, caused her face to be painted, and put on all her diamonds: it would seem as if she were
anxious to affirm her full dignity before this singer. Accordingly she received Zaffirino reclining
on a sofa which had been placed in the great ballroom of the Villa of Mistra, and beneath the
princely canopy; for the Vendramins, who had intermarried with the house of Mantua, possessed
imperial fiefs and were princes of the Holy Roman Empire. Zaffirino saluted her with the most
profound respect, but not a word passed between them. Only, the singer inquired from the Procuratore
whether the illustrious lady had received the Sacraments of the Church. Being told that the
Procuratessa had herself asked to be given extreme unction from the hands of her brother-in-law,
he declared his readiness to obey the orders of His Excellency, and sat down at once to the
harpsichord.

"Never had he sung so divinely. At the end of the first song the Procuratessa Vendramin had
already revived most extraordinarily; by the end of the second she appeared entirely cured
and beaming with beauty and happiness; but at the third air--the Aria dei Mariti, no doubt--she
began to change frightfully; she gave a dreadful cry, and fell into the convulsions of death.
In a quarter of an hour she was dead! Zaffirino did not wait to see her die. Having finished
his song, he withdrew instantly, took post-horses, and traveled day and night as far as Munich.
People remarked that he had presented himself at Mistra dressed in mourning, although he had
mentioned no death among his relatives; also that he had prepared everything for his departure,
as if fearing the wrath of so powerful a family. Then there was also the extraordinary question
he had asked before beginning to sing, about the Procuratessa having confessed and received
extreme unction.... No, thanks, my dear lady, no cigarettes for me. But if it does not distress
you or your charming daughter, may I humbly beg permission to smoke a cigar?"

And Count Alvise, enchanted with his talent for narrative, and sure of having secured for his
son the heart and the dollars of his fair audience, proceeds to light a candle, and at the
candle one of those long black Italian cigars which require preliminary disinfection before
smoking.

... If this state of things goes on I shall just have to ask the doctor for a bottle; this
ridiculous beating of my heart and disgusting cold perspiration have increased steadily during
Count Alvise's narrative. To keep myself in countenance among the various idiotic commentaries
on this cock-and-bull story of a vocal coxcomb and a vaporing great lady, I begin to unroll
the engraving, and to examine stupidly the portrait of Zaffirino, once so renowned, now so
forgotten. A ridiculous ass, this singer, under his triumphal arch, with his stuffed Cupids
and the great fat winged kitchenmaid crowning him with laurels. How flat and vapid and vulgar
it is, to be sure, all this odious eighteenth century!

But he, personally, is not so utterly vapid as I had thought. That effeminate, fat face of
his is almost beautiful, with an odd smile, brazen and cruel. I have seen faces like this,
if not in real life, at least in my boyish romantic dreams, when I read Swinburne and Baudelaire,
the faces of wicked, vindictive women. Oh yes! he is decidedly a beautiful creature, this Zaffirino,
and his voice must have had the same sort of beauty and the same expression of wickedness....

"Come on, Magnus," sound the voices of my fellow-boarders, "be a good fellow and sing us one
of the old chap's songs; or at least something or other of that day, and we'll make believe
it was the air with which he killed that poor lady."

"Oh yes! the Aria dei Mariti, the 'Husbands' Air,'" mumbles old Alvise, between the puffs at
his impossible black cigar. "My poor grand-aunt, Pisana Vendramin; he went and killed her with
those songs of his, with that Aria dei Mariti."

I feel senseless rage overcoming me. Is it that horrible palpitation (by the way, there is
a Norwegian doctor, my fellow-countryman, at Venice just now) which is sending the blood to
my brain and making me mad? The people round the piano, the furniture, everything together
seems to get mixed and to turn into moving blobs of color. I set to singing; the only thing
which remains distinct before my eyes being the portrait of Zaffirino, on the edge of that
boarding-house piano; the sensual, effeminate face, with its wicked, cynical smile, keeps appearing
and disappearing as the print wavers about in the draught that makes the candles smoke and
gutter. And I set to singing madly, singing I don't know what. Yes; I begin to identify it:
'tis the Biondina in Gondoleta, the only song of the eighteenth century which is still remembered
by the Venetian people. I sing it, mimicking every old-school grace; shakes, cadences, languishingly
swelled and diminished notes, and adding all manner of buffooneries, until the audience, recovering
from its surprise, begins to shake with laughing; until I begin to laugh myself, madly, frantically,
between the phrases of the melody, my voice finally smothered in this dull, brutal laughter....
And then, to crown it all, I shake my fist at this long-dead singer, looking at me with his
wicked woman's face, with his mocking, fatuous smile.

"Ah! you would like to be revenged on me also!" I exclaim. "You would like me to write you
nice roulades and flourishes, another nice Aria dei Mariti, my fine Zaffirino!"

That night I dreamed a very strange dream. Even in the big half-furnished room the heat and
closeness were stifling. The air seemed laden with the scent of all manner of white flowers,
faint and heavy in their intolerable sweetness: tuberoses, gardenias, and jasmines drooping
I know not where in neglected vases. The moonlight had transformed the marble floor around
me into a shallow, shining, pool. On account of the heat I had exchanged my bed for a big old-fashioned
sofa of light wood, painted with little nosegays and sprigs, like an old silk; and I lay there,
not attempting to sleep, and letting my thoughts go vaguely to my opera of Ogier the Dane,
of which I had long finished writing the words, and for whose music I had hoped to find some
inspiration in this strange Venice, floating, as it were, in the stagnant lagoon of the past.
But Venice had merely put all my ideas into hopeless confusion; it was as if there arose out
of its shallow waters a miasma of long-dead melodies, which sickened but intoxicated my soul.
I lay on my sofa watching that pool of whitish light, which rose higher and higher, little
trickles of light meeting it here and there, wherever the moon's rays struck upon some polished
surface; while huge shadows waved to and fro in the draught of the open balcony.

I went over and over that old Norse story: how the Paladin, Ogier, one of the knights of Charlemagne,
was decoyed during his homeward wanderings from the Holy Land by the arts of an enchantress,
the same who had once held in bondage the great Emperor Caesar and given him King Oberon for
a son; how Ogier had tarried in that island only one day and one night, and yet, when he came
home to his kingdom, he found all changed, his friends dead, his family dethroned, and not
a man who knew his face; until at last, driven hither and thither like a beggar, a poor minstrel
had taken compassion of his sufferings and given him all he could give--a song, the song of
the prowess of a hero dead for hundreds of years, the Paladin Ogier the Dane.

The story of Ogier ran into a dream, as vivid as my waking thoughts had been vague. I was looking
no longer at the pool of moonlight spreading round my couch, with its trickles of light and
looming, waving shadows, but the frescoed walls of a great saloon. It was not, as I recognized
in a second, the dining-room of that Venetian palace now turned into a boarding-house. It was
a far larger room, a real ballroom, almost circular in its octagon shape, with eight huge white
doors surrounded by stucco moldings, and, high on the vault of the ceiling, eight little galleries
or recesses like boxes at a theatre, intended no doubt for musicians and spectators. The place
was imperfectly lighted by only one of the eight chandeliers, which revolved slowly, like huge
spiders, each on its long cord. But the light struck upon the gilt stuccoes opposite me, and
on a large expanse of fresco, the sacrifice of Iphigenia, with Agamemnon and Achilles in Roman
helmets, lappets, and knee-breeches. It discovered also one of the oil panels let into the
moldings of the roof, a goddess in lemon and lilac draperies, foreshortened over a great green
peacock. Round the room, where the light reached, I could make out big yellow satin sofas and
heavy gilded consoles; in the shadow of a corner was what looked like a piano, and farther
in the shade one of those big canopies which decorate the anterooms of Roman palaces. I looked
about me, wondering where I was: a heavy, sweet smell, reminding me of the flavor of a peach,
filled the place.

Little by little I began to perceive sounds; little, sharp, metallic, detached notes, like
those of a mandolin; and there was united to them a voice, very low and sweet, almost a whisper,
which grew and grew and grew, until the whole place was filled with that exquisite vibrating
note, of a strange, exotic, unique quality. The note went on, swelling and swelling. Suddenly
there was a horrible piercing shriek, and the thud of a body on the floor, and all manner of
smothered exclamations. There, close by the canopy, a light suddenly appeared; and I could
see, among the dark figures moving to and fro in the room, a woman lying on the ground, surrounded
by other women. Her blond hair, tangled, full of diamond-sparkles which cut through the half-darkness,
was hanging disheveled; the laces of her bodice had been cut, and her white breast shone among
the sheen of jeweled brocade; her face was bent forwards, and a thin white arm trailed, like
a broken limb, across the knees of one of the women who were endeavoring to lift her. There
was a sudden splash of water against the floor, more confused exclamations, a hoarse, broken
moan, and a gurgling, dreadful sound.... I awoke with a start and rushed to the window.

Outside, in the blue haze of the moon, the church and belfry of St. George loomed blue and
hazy, with the black hull and rigging, the red lights, of a large steamer moored before them.
From the lagoon rose a damp sea-breeze. What was it all? Ah! I began to understand: that story
of old Count Alvise's, the death of his grand-aunt, Pisana Vendramin. Yes, it was about that
I had been dreaming.

I returned to my room; I struck a light, and sat down to my writing-table. Sleep had become
impossible. I tried to work at my opera. Once or twice I thought I had got hold of what I had
looked for so long.... But as soon as I tried to lay hold of my theme, there arose in my mind
the distant echo of that voice, of that long note swelled slowly by insensible degrees, that
long note whose tone was so strong and so subtle.

There are in the life of an artist moments when, still unable to seize his own inspiration,
or even clearly to discern it, he becomes aware of the approach of that long-invoked idea.
A mingled joy and terror warn him that before another day, another hour have passed, the inspiration
shall have crossed the threshold of his soul and flooded it with its rapture. All day I had
felt the need of isolation and quiet, and at nightfall I went for a row on the most solitary
part of the lagoon. All things seemed to tell that I was going to meet my inspiration, and
I awaited its coming as a lover awaits his beloved.

I had stopped my gondola for a moment, and as I gently swayed to and fro on the water, all
paved with moonbeams, it seemed to me that I was on the confines of an imaginary world. It
lay close at hand, enveloped in luminous, pale blue mist, through which the moon had cut a
wide and glistening path; out to sea, the little islands, like moored black boats, only accentuated
the solitude of this region of moonbeams and wavelets; while the hum of the insects in orchards
hard by merely added to the impression of untroubled silence. On some such seas, I thought,
must the Paladin Ogier, have sailed when about to discover that during that sleep at the enchantress's
knees centuries had elapsed and the heroic world had set, and the kingdom of prose had come.

While my gondola rocked stationary on that sea of moonbeams, I pondered over that twilight
of the heroic world. In the soft rattle of the water on the hull I seemed to hear the rattle
of all that armor, of all those swords swinging rusty on the walls, neglected by the degenerate
sons of the great champions of old. I had long been in search of a theme which I called the
theme of the "Prowess of Ogier;" it was to appear from time to time in the course of my opera,
to develop at last into that song of the Minstrel, which reveals to the hero that he is one
of a long-dead world. And at this moment I seemed to feel the presence of that theme. Yet an
instant, and my mind would be overwhelmed by that savage music, heroic, funereal.

Suddenly there came across the lagoon, cleaving, checkering, and fretting the silence with
a lacework of sound even as the moon was fretting and cleaving the water, a ripple of music,
a voice breaking itself in a shower of little scales and cadences and trills.

I sank back upon my cushions. The vision of heroic days had vanished, and before my closed
eyes there seemed to dance multitudes of little stars of light, chasing and interlacing like
those sudden vocalizations.

"To shore! Quick!" I cried to the gondolier.

But the sounds had ceased; and there came from the orchards, with their mulberry-trees glistening
in the moonlight, and their black swaying cypress-plumes, nothing save the confused hum, the
monotonous chirp, of the crickets.

I looked around me: on one side empty dunes, orchards, and meadows, without house or steeple;
on the other, the blue and misty sea, empty to where distant islets were profiled black on
the horizon.

A faintness overcame me, and I felt myself dissolve. For all of a sudden a second ripple of
voice swept over the lagoon, a shower of little notes, which seemed to form a little mocking laugh.

Then again all was still. This silence lasted so long that I fell once more to meditating on
my opera. I lay in wait once more for the half-caught theme. But no. It was not that theme
for which I was waiting and watching with baited breath. I realized my delusion when, on rounding
the point of the Giudecca, the murmur of a voice arose from the midst of the waters, a thread
of sound slender as a moonbeam, scarce audible, but exquisite, which expanded slowly, insensibly,
taking volume and body, taking flesh almost and fire, an ineffable quality, full, passionate,
but veiled, as it were, in a subtle, downy wrapper. The note grew stronger and stronger, and
warmer and more passionate, until it burst through that strange and charming veil, and emerged
beaming, to break itself in the luminous facets of a wonderful shake, long, superb, triumphant.

There was a dead silence.

"Row to St. Mark's!" I exclaimed. "Quick!"

The gondola glided through the long, glittering track of moonbeams, and rent the great band
of yellow, reflected light, mirroring the cupolas of St. Mark's, the lace-like pinnacles of
the palace, and the slender pink belfry, which rose from the lit-up water to the pale and bluish
evening sky.

In the larger of the two squares the military band was blaring through the last spirals of
a crescendo of Rossini. The crowd was dispersing in this great open-air ballroom, and the sounds
arose which invariably follow upon out-of-door music. A clatter of spoons and glasses, a rustle
and grating of frocks and of chairs, and the click of scabbards on the pavement. I pushed my
way among the fashionable youths contemplating the ladies while sucking the knob of their sticks;
through the serried ranks of respectable families, marching arm in arm with their white frocked
young ladies close in front. I took a seat before Florian's, among the customers stretching
themselves before departing, and the waiters hurrying to and fro, clattering their empty cups
and trays. Two imitation Neapolitans were slipping their guitar and violin under their arm,
ready to leave the place.

"Stop!" I cried to them; "don't go yet. Sing me something--sing La Camesella or Funiculi, funicula--no
matter what, provided you make a row;" and as they screamed and scraped their utmost, I added,
"But can't you sing louder, d--n you!--sing louder, do you understand?"

I felt the need of noise, of yells and false notes, of something vulgar and hideous to drive
away that ghost-voice which was haunting me.

Again and again I told myself that it had been some silly prank of a romantic amateur, hidden
in the gardens of the shore or gliding unperceived on the lagoon; and that the sorcery of moonlight
and sea-mist had transfigured for my excited brain mere humdrum roulades out of exercises of
Bordogni or Crescentini.

But all the same I continued to be haunted by that voice. My work was interrupted ever and
anon by the attempt to catch its imaginary echo; and the heroic harmonies of my Scandinavian
legend were strangely interwoven with voluptuous phrases and florid cadences in which I seemed
to hear again that same accursed voice.

To be haunted by singing-exercises! It seemed too ridiculous for a man who professedly despised
the art of singing. And still, I preferred to believe in that childish amateur, amusing himself
with warbling to the moon.

One day, while making these reflections the hundredth time over, my eyes chanced to light upon
the portrait of Zaffirino, which my friend had pinned against the wall. I pulled it down and
tore it into half a dozen shreds. Then, already ashamed of my folly, I watched the torn pieces
float down from the window, wafted hither and thither by the sea-breeze. One scrap got caught
in a yellow blind below me; the others fell into the canal, and were speedily lost to sight
in the dark water. I was overcome with shame. My heart beat like bursting. What a miserable,
unnerved worm I had become in this cursed Venice, with its languishing moonlights, its atmosphere
as of some stuffy boudoir, long unused, full of old stuffs and potpourri!

That night, however, things seemed to be going better. I was able to settle down to my opera,
and even to work at it. In the intervals my thoughts returned, not without a certain pleasure,
to those scattered fragments of the torn engraving fluttering down to the water. I was disturbed
at my piano by the hoarse voices and the scraping of violins which rose from one of those music-boats
that station at night under the hotels of the Grand Canal. The moon had set. Under my balcony
the water stretched black into the distance, its darkness cut by the still darker outlines
of the flotilla of gondolas in attendance on the music-boat, where the faces of the singers,
and the guitars and violins, gleamed reddish under the unsteady light of the Chinese-lanterns.

"Jammo, jammo; jammo, jammo ja," sang the loud, hoarse voices; then a tremendous scrape and
twang, and the yelled-out burden, "Funiculi, funicula; funiculi, funicula; jammo, jammo, jammo,
jammo, jammo ja."

Then came a few cries of "Bis, Bis!" from a neighboring hotel, a brief clapping of hands, the
sound of a handful of coppers rattling into the boat, and the oar-stroke of some gondolier
making ready to turn away.

"Sing the Camesella," ordered some voice with a foreign accent.

"No, no! Santa Lucia."

"I want the Camesella."

"No! Santa Lucia. Hi! sing Santa Lucia--d'you hear?"

The musicians, under their green and yellow and red lamps, held a whispered consultation on
the manner of conciliating these contradictory demands. Then, after a minute's hesitation,
the violins began the prelude of that once famous air, which has remained popular in Venice--the
words written, some hundred years ago, by the patrician Gritti, the music by an unknown composer--La
Biondina in Gondoleta.

That cursed eighteenth century! It seemed a malignant fatality that made these brutes choose
just this piece to interrupt me.

At last the long prelude came to an end; and above the cracked guitars and squeaking fiddles
there arose, not the expected nasal chorus, but a single voice singing below its breath.

My arteries throbbed. How well I knew that voice! It was singing, as I have said, below its
breath, yet none the less it sufficed to fill all that reach of the canal with its strange
quality of tone, exquisite, far-fetched.

They were long-drawn-out notes, of intense but peculiar sweetness, a man's voice which had
much of a woman's, but more even of a chorister's, but a chorister's voice without its limpidity
and innocence; its youthfulness was veiled, muffled, as it were, in a sort of downy vagueness,
as if a passion of tears withheld.

There was a burst of applause, and the old palaces re-echoed with the clapping. "Bravo, bravo!
Thank you, thank you! Sing again--please, sing again. Who can it be?"

And then a bumping of hulls, a splashing of oars, and the oaths of gondoliers trying to push
each other away, as the red prow-lamps of the gondolas pressed round the gaily lit singing-boat.

But no one stirred on board. It was to none of them that this applause was due. And while every
one pressed on, and clapped and vociferated, one little red prow-lamp dropped away from the
fleet; for a moment a single gondola stood forth black upon the black water, and then was lost
in the night.

For several days the mysterious singer was the universal topic. The people of the music-boat
swore that no one besides themselves had been on board, and that they knew as little as ourselves
about the owner of that voice. The gondoliers, despite their descent from the spies of the
old Republic, were equally unable to furnish any clue. No musical celebrity was known or suspected
to be at Venice; and every one agreed that such a singer must be a European celebrity. The
strangest thing in this strange business was, that even among those learned in music there
was no agreement on the subject of this voice: it was called by all sorts of names and described
by all manner of incongruous adjectives; people went so far as to dispute whether the voice
belonged to a man or to a woman: every one had some new definition.

In all these musical discussions I, alone, brought forward no opinion. I felt a repugnance,
an impossibility almost, of speaking about that voice; and the more or less commonplace conjectures
of my friend had the invariable effect of sending me out of the room.

Meanwhile my work was becoming daily more difficult, and I soon passed from utter impotence
to a state of inexplicable agitation. Every morning I arose with fine resolutions and grand
projects of work; only to go to bed that night without having accomplished anything. I spent
hours leaning on my balcony, or wandering through the network of lanes with their ribbon of
blue sky, endeavoring vainly to expel the thought of that voice, or endeavoring in reality
to reproduce it in my memory; for the more I tried to banish it from my thoughts, the more
I grew to thirst for that extraordinary tone, for those mysteriously downy, veiled notes; and
no sooner did I make an effort to work at my opera than my head was full of scraps of forgotten
eighteenth century airs, of frivolous or languishing little phrases; and I fell to wondering
with a bitter-sweet longing how those songs would have sounded if sung by that voice.

At length it became necessary to see a doctor, from whom, however, I carefully hid away all
the stranger symptoms of my malady. The air of the lagoons, the great heat, he answered cheerfully,
had pulled me down a little; a tonic and a month in the country, with plenty of riding and
no work, would make me myself again. That old idler, Count Alvise, who had insisted on accompanying
me to the physician's, immediately suggested that I should go and stay with his son, who was
boring himself to death superintending the maize harvest on the mainland: he could promise
me excellent air, plenty of horses, and all the peaceful surroundings and the delightful occupations
of a rural life--"Be sensible, my dear Magnus, and just go quietly to Mistra."

Mistra--the name sent a shiver all down me. I was about to decline the invitation, when a thought
suddenly loomed vaguely in my mind.

"Yes, dear Count," I answered; "I accept your invitation with gratitude and pleasure. I will
start tomorrow for Mistra."

The next day found me at Padua, on my way to the Villa of Mistra. It seemed as if I had left
an intolerable burden behind me. I was, for the first time since how long, quite light of heart.
The tortuous, rough-paved streets, with their empty, gloomy porticoes; the ill-plastered palaces,
with closed, discolored shutters; the little rambling square, with meager trees and stubborn
grass; the Venetian garden-houses reflecting their crumbling graces in the muddy canal; the
gardens without gates and the gates without gardens, the avenues leading nowhere; and the population
of blind and legless beggars, of whining sacristans, which issued as by magic from between
the flag-stones and dust-heaps and weeds under the fierce August sun, all this dreariness merely
amused and pleased me. My good spirits were heightened by a musical mass which I had the good
fortune to hear at St. Anthony's.

Never in all my days had I heard anything comparable, although Italy affords many strange things
in the way of sacred music. Into the deep nasal chanting of the priests there had suddenly
burst a chorus of children, singing absolutely independent of all time and tune; grunting of
priests answered by squealing of boys, slow Gregorian modulation interrupted by jaunty barrel-organ
pipings, an insane, insanely merry jumble of bellowing and barking, mewing and cackling and
braying, such as would have enlivened a witches' meeting, or rather some mediaeval Feast of
Fools. And, to make the grotesqueness of such music still more fantastic and Hoffmannlike,
there was, besides, the magnificence of the piles of sculptured marbles and gilded bronzes,
the tradition of the musical splendor for which St. Anthony's had been famous in days gone
by. I had read in old travelers, Lalande and Burney, that the Republic of St. Mark had squandered
immense sums not merely on the monuments and decoration, but on the musical establishment of
its great cathedral of Terra Firma. In the midst of this ineffable concert of impossible voices
and instruments, I tried to imagine the voice of Guadagni, the soprano for whom Gluck had written
Che faru senza Euridice, and the fiddle of Tartini, that Tartini with whom the devil had once
come and made music. And the delight in anything so absolutely, barbarously, grotesquely, fantastically
incongruous as such a performance in such a place was heightened by a sense of profanation:
such were the successors of those wonderful musicians of that hated eighteenth century!

The whole thing had delighted me so much, so very much more than the most faultless performance
could have done, that I determined to enjoy it once more; and towards vesper-time, after a
cheerful dinner with two bagmen at the inn of the Golden Star, and a pipe over the rough sketch
of a possible cantata upon the music which the devil made for Tartini, I turned my steps once
more towards St. Anthony's.

The bells were ringing for sunset, and a muffled sound of organs seemed to issue from the huge,
solitary church; I pushed my way under the heavy leathern curtain, expecting to be greeted
by the grotesque performance of that morning.

I proved mistaken. Vespers must long have been over. A smell of stale incense, a crypt-like
damp filled my mouth; it was already night in that vast cathedral. Out of the darkness glimmered
the votive-lamps of the chapels, throwing wavering lights upon the red polished marble, the
gilded railing, and chandeliers, and plaqueing with yellow the muscles of some sculptured figure.
In a corner a burning taper put a halo about the head of a priest, burnishing his shining bald
skull, his white surplice, and the open book before him. "Amen" he chanted; the book was closed
with a snap, the light moved up the apse, some dark figures of women rose from their knees
and passed quickly towards the door; a man saying his prayers before a chapel also got up,
making a great clatter in dropping his stick.

The church was empty, and I expected every minute to be turned out by the sacristan making
his evening round to close the doors. I was leaning against a pillar, looking into the greyness
of the great arches, when the organ suddenly burst out into a series of chords, rolling through
the echoes of the church: it seemed to be the conclusion of some service. And above the organ
rose the notes of a voice; high, soft, enveloped in a kind of downiness, like a cloud of incense,
and which ran through the mazes of a long cadence. The voice dropped into silence; with two
thundering chords the organ closed in. All was silent. For a moment I stood leaning against
one of the pillars of the nave: my hair was clammy, my knees sank beneath me, an enervating
heat spread through my body; I tried to breathe more largely, to suck in the sounds with the
incense-laden air. I was supremely happy, and yet as if I were dying; then suddenly a chill
ran through me, and with it a vague panic. I turned away and hurried out into the open.

The evening sky lay pure and blue along the jagged line of roofs; the bats and swallows were
wheeling about; and from the belfries all around, half-drowned by the deep bell of St. Anthony's,
jangled the peel of the Ave Maria.

"You really don't seem well," young Count Alvise had said the previous evening, as he welcomed
me, in the light of a lantern held up by a peasant, in the weedy back-garden of the Villa of
Mistra. Everything had seemed to me like a dream: the jingle of the horse's bells driving in
the dark from Padua, as the lantern swept the acacia-hedges with their wide yellow light; the
grating of the wheels on the gravel; the supper-table, illumined by a single petroleum lamp
for fear of attracting mosquitoes, where a broken old lackey, in an old stable jacket, handed
round the dishes among the fumes of onion; Alvise's fat mother gabbling dialect in a shrill,
benevolent voice behind the bullfights on her fan; the unshaven village priest, perpetually
fidgeting with his glass and foot, and sticking one shoulder up above the other. And now, in
the afternoon, I felt as if I had been in this long, rambling, tumble-down Villa of Mistra--a
villa three-quarters of which was given up to the storage of grain and garden tools, or to
the exercise of rats, mice, scorpions, and centipedes--all my life; as if I had always sat
there, in Count Alvise's study, among the pile of undusted books on agriculture, the sheaves
of accounts, the samples of grain and silkworm seed, the ink-stains and the cigar-ends; as
if I had never heard of anything save the cereal basis of Italian agriculture, the diseases
of maize, the peronospora of the vine, the breeds of bullocks, and the iniquities of farm laborers;
with the blue cones of the Euganean hills closing in the green shimmer of plain outside the window.

After an early dinner, again with the screaming gabble of the fat old Countess, the fidgeting
and shoulder-raising of the unshaven priest, the smell of fried oil and stewed onions, Count
Alvise made me get into the cart beside him, and whirled me along among clouds of dust, between
the endless glister of poplars, acacias, and maples, to one of his farms.

In the burning sun some twenty or thirty girls, in colored skirts, laced bodices, and big straw-hats,
were threshing the maize on the big red brick threshing-floor, while others were winnowing
the grain in great sieves. Young Alvise III. (the old one was Alvise II.: every one is Alvise,
that is to say, Lewis, in that family; the name is on the house, the carts, the barrows, the
very pails) picked up the maize, touched it, tasted it, said something to the girls that made
them laugh, and something to the head farmer that made him look very glum; and then led me
into a huge stable, where some twenty or thirty white bullocks were stamping, switching their
tails, hitting their horns against the mangers in the dark. Alvise III. patted each, called
him by his name, gave him some salt or a turnip, and explained which was the Mantuan breed,
which the Apulian, which the Romagnolo, and so on. Then he bade me jump into the trap, and
off we went again through the dust, among the hedges and ditches, till we came to some more
brick farm buildings with pinkish roofs smoking against the blue sky. Here there were more
young women threshing and winnowing the maize, which made a great golden Danae cloud; more
bullocks stamping and lowing in the cool darkness; more joking, fault-finding, explaining;
and thus through five farms, until I seemed to see the rhythmical rising and falling of the
flails against the hot sky, the shower of golden grains, the yellow dust from the winnowing-sieves
on to the bricks, the switching of innumerable tails and plunging of innumerable horns, the
glistening of huge white flanks and foreheads, whenever I closed my eyes.

"A good day's work!" cried Count Alvise, stretching out his long legs with the tight trousers
riding up over the Wellington boots. "Mamma, give us some aniseed-syrup after dinner; it is
an excellent restorative and precaution against the fevers of this country."

"Oh! you've got fever in this part of the world, have you? Why, your father said the air was
so good!"

"Nothing, nothing," soothed the old Countess. "The only thing to be dreaded are mosquitoes;
take care to fasten your shutters before lighting the candle."

"Well," rejoined young Alvise, with an effort of conscience, "of course there are fevers. But
they needn't hurt you. Only, don' go out into the garden at night, if you don't want to catch
them. Papa told me that you have fancies for moonlight rambles. It won't do in this climate,
my dear fellow; it won't do. If you must stalk about at night, being a genius, take a turn
inside the house; you can get quite exercise enough."

After dinner the aniseed-syrup was produced, together with brandy and cigars, and they all
sat in the long, narrow, half-furnished room on the first floor; the old Countess knitting
a garment of uncertain shape and destination, the priest reading out the newspaper; Count Alvise
puffing at his long, crooked cigar, and pulling the ears of a long, lean dog with a suspicion
of mange and a stiff eye. From the dark garden outside rose the hum and whirr of countless
insects, and the smell of the grapes which hung black against the starlit, blue sky, on the
trellis. I went to the balcony. The garden lay dark beneath; against the twinkling horizon
stood out the tall poplars. There was the sharp cry of an owl; the barking of a dog; a sudden
whiff of warm, enervating perfume, a perfume that made me think of the taste of certain peaches,
and suggested white, thick, wax-like petals. I seemed to have smelt that flower once before:
it made me feel languid, almost faint.

"I am very tired," I said to Count Alvise. "See how feeble we city folk become!"

But, despite my fatigue, I found it quite impossible to sleep. The night seemed perfectly stifling.
I had felt nothing like it at Venice. Despite the injunctions of the Countess I opened the
solid wooden shutters, hermetically closed against mosquitoes, and looked out.

The moon had risen; and beneath it lay the big lawns, the rounded tree-tops, bathed in a blue,
luminous mist, every leaf glistening and trembling in what seemed a heaving sea of light. Beneath
the window was the long trellis, with the white shining piece of pavement under it. It was
so bright that I could distinguish the green of the vine-leaves, the dull red of the catalpa-flowers.
There was in the air a vague scent of cut grass, of ripe American grapes, of that white flower
(it must be white) which made me think of the taste of peaches all melting into the delicious
freshness of falling dew. From the village church came the stroke of one: Heaven knows how
long I had been vainly attempting to sleep. A shiver ran through me, and my head suddenly filled
as with the fumes of some subtle wine; I remembered all those weedy embankments, those canals
full of stagnant water, the yellow faces of the peasants; the word malaria returned to my mind.
No matter! I remained leaning on the window, with a thirsty longing to plunge myself into this
blue moonmist, this dew and perfume and silence, which seemed to vibrate and quiver like the
stars that strewed the depths of heaven.... What music, even Wagner's, or of that great singer
of starry nights, the divine Schumann, what music could ever compare with this great silence,
with this great concert of voiceless things that sing within one's soul?

As I made this reflection, a note, high, vibrating, and sweet, rent the silence, which immediately
closed around it. I leaned out of the window, my heart beating as though it must burst. After
a brief space the silence was cloven once more by that note, as the darkness is cloven by a
falling star or a firefly rising slowly like a rocket. But this time it was plain that the
voice did not come, as I had imagined, from the garden, but from the house itself, from some
corner of this rambling old villa of Mistra.

Mistra--Mistra! The name rang in my ears, and I began at length to grasp its significance,
which seems to have escaped me till then. "Yes," I said to myself, "it is quite natural." And
with this odd impression of naturalness was mixed a feverish, impatient pleasure. It was as
if I had come to Mistra on purpose, and that I was about to meet the object of my long and
weary hopes.

Grasping the lamp with its singed green shade, I gently opened the door and made my way through
a series of long passages and of big, empty rooms, in which my steps re-echoed as in a church,
and my light disturbed whole swarms of bats. I wandered at random, farther and farther from
the inhabited part of the buildings.

This silence made me feel sick; I gasped as under a sudden disappointment.

All of a sudden there came a sound--chords, metallic, sharp, rather like the tone of a mandolin--close
to my ear. Yes, quite close: I was separated from the sounds only by a partition. I fumbled
for a door; the unsteady light of my lamp was insufficient for my eyes, which were swimming
like those of a drunkard. At last I found a latch, and, after a moment's hesitation, I lifted
it and gently pushed open the door. At first I could not understand what manner of place I
was in. It was dark all round me, but a brilliant light blinded me, a light coming from below
and striking the opposite wall. It was as if I had entered a dark box in a half-lighted theatre.
I was, in fact, in something of the kind, a sort of dark hole with a high balustrade, half-hidden
by an up-drawn curtain. I remembered those little galleries or recesses for the use of musicians
or lookers-on--which exist under the ceiling of the ballrooms in certain old Italian palaces.
Yes; it must have been one like that. Opposite me was a vaulted ceiling covered with gilt moldings,
which framed great time-blackened canvases; and lower down, in the light thrown up from below,
stretched a wall covered with faded frescoes. Where had I seen that goddess in lilac and lemon
draperies foreshortened over a big, green peacock? For she was familiar to me, and the stucco
Tritons also who twisted their tails round her gilded frame. And that fresco, with warriors
in Roman cuirasses and green and blue lappets, and knee-breeches--where could I have seen them
before? I asked myself these questions without experiencing any surprise. Moreover, I was very
calm, as one is calm sometimes in extraordinary dreams--could I be dreaming?

I advanced gently and leaned over the balustrade. My eyes were met at first by the darkness
above me, where, like gigantic spiders, the big chandeliers rotated slowly, hanging from the
ceiling. Only one of them was lit, and its Murano-glass pendants, its carnations and roses,
shone opalescent in the light of the guttering wax. This chandelier lighted up the opposite
wall and that piece of ceiling with the goddess and the green peacock; it illumined, but far
less well, a corner of the huge room, where, in the shadow of a kind of canopy, a little group
of people were crowding round a yellow satin sofa, of the same kind as those that lined the
walls. On the sofa, half-screened from me by the surrounding persons, a woman was stretched
out: the silver of her embroidered dress and the rays of her diamonds gleamed and shot forth
as she moved uneasily. And immediately under the chandelier, in the full light, a man stooped
over a harpsichord, his head bent slightly, as if collecting his thoughts before singing.

He struck a few chords and sang. Yes, sure enough, it was the voice, the voice that had so
long been persecuting me! I recognized at once that delicate, voluptuous quality, strange,
exquisite, sweet beyond words, but lacking all youth and clearness. That passion veiled in
tears which had troubled my brain that night on the lagoon, and again on the Grand Canal singing
the Biondina, and yet again, only two days since, in the deserted cathedral of Padua. But I
recognized now what seemed to have been hidden from me till then, that this voice was what
I cared most for in all the wide world.

The voice wound and unwound itself in long, languishing phrases, in rich, voluptuous rifiorituras,
all fretted with tiny scales and exquisite, crisp shakes; it stopped ever and anon, swaying
as if panting in languid delight. And I felt my body melt even as wax in the sunshine, and
it seemed to me that I too was turning fluid and vaporous, in order to mingle with these sounds
as the moonbeams mingle with the dew.

Suddenly, from the dimly lighted corner by the canopy, came a little piteous wail; then another
followed, and was lost in the singer's voice. During a long phrase on the harpsichord, sharp
and tinkling, the singer turned his head towards the dais, and there came a plaintive little
sob. But he, instead of stopping, struck a sharp chord; and with a thread of voice so hushed
as to be scarcely audible, slid softly into a long cadenza. At the same moment he threw his
head backwards, and the light fell full upon the handsome, effeminate face, with its ashy pallor
and big, black brows, of the singer Zaffirino. At the sight of that face, sensual and sullen,
of that smile which was cruel and mocking like a bad woman's, I understood--I knew not why,
by what process--that his singing must be cut short, that the accursed phrase must never be
finished. I understood that I was before an assassin, that he was killing this woman, and killing
me also, with his wicked voice.

I rushed down the narrow stair which led down from the box, pursued, as it were, by that exquisite
voice, swelling, swelling by insensible degrees. I flung myself on the door which must be that
of the big saloon. I could see its light between the panels. I bruised my hands in trying to
wrench the latch. The door was fastened tight, and while I was struggling with that locked
door I heard the voice swelling, swelling, rending asunder that downy veil which wrapped it,
leaping forth clear, resplendent, like the sharp and glittering blade of a knife that seemed
to enter deep into my breast. Then, once more, a wail, a death-groan, and that dreadful noise,
that hideous gurgle of breath strangled by a rush of blood. And then a long shake, acute, brilliant,
triumphant.

The door gave way beneath my weight, one half crashed in. I entered. I was blinded by a flood
of blue moonlight. It poured in through four great windows, peaceful and diaphanous, a pale
blue mist of moonlight, and turned the huge room into a kind of submarine cave, paved with
moonbeams, full of shimmers, of pools of moonlight. It was as bright as at midday, but the
brightness was cold, blue, vaporous, supernatural. The room was completely empty, like a great
hayloft. Only, there hung from the ceiling the ropes which had once supported a chandelier;
and in a corner, among stacks of wood and heaps of Indian-corn, whence spread a sickly smell
of damp and mildew, there stood a long, thin harpsichord, with spindle-legs, and its cover
cracked from end to end.

I felt, all of a sudden, very calm. The one thing that mattered was the phrase that kept moving
in my head, the phrase of that unfinished cadence which I had heard but an instant before.
I opened the harpsichord, and my fingers came down boldly upon its keys. A jingle-jangle of
broken strings, laughable and dreadful, was the only answer.

Then an extraordinary fear overtook me. I clambered out of one of the windows; I rushed up
the garden and wandered through the fields, among the canals and the embankments, until the
moon had set and the dawn began to shiver, followed, pursued for ever by that jangle of broken
strings.

People expressed much satisfaction at my recovery.

It seems that one dies of those fevers.

Recovery? But have I recovered? I walk, and eat and drink and talk; I can even sleep. I live
the life of other living creatures. But I am wasted by a strange and deadly disease. I can
never lay hold of my own inspiration. My head is filled with music which is certainly by me,
since I have never heard it before, but which still is not my own, which I despise and abhor:
little, tripping flourishes and languishing phrases, and long-drawn, echoing cadences.

O wicked, wicked voice, violin of flesh and blood made by the Evil One's hand, may I not even
execrate thee in peace; but is it necessary that, at the moment when I curse, the longing to
hear thee again should parch my soul like hell-thirst? And since I have satiated thy lust for
revenge, since thou hast withered my life and withered my genius, is it not time for pity?
May I not hear one note, only one note of thine, O singer, O wicked and contemptible wretch?

Other books by Vernon Lee

Fiction

 Miss Brown

Baldwin

