   [6] Of John Findlay (so he signed his name), "the
       precursor and pilot of Daniel Boone to Kentucky," but little is
       known and less has been published. Apparently he was a native
       of the north of Ireland. In early life he emigrated to the
       neighborhood of Carlisle, Cumberland county, Pa., a district
       almost wholly settled by Scotch-Irish Protestants. In
       February, 1752, we find him a trader among the Shawnees; the
       following year, he was robbed and driven off. It is probable
       that he served in the Pennsylvania frontier militia from the
       opening of the French and Indian War (1754). Boone met him on
       the Braddock campaign (1755), and they became fast friends.
       Findlay had already (1752) been in Kentucky as far as the
       Falls of the Ohio, in the course of his ramblings as a
       trader, and inspired Boone with an intense desire to seek this
       El Dorado of the West. It was in 1767, when settled near the
       head of the Yadkin River, that Boone first tried to reach
       Kentucky by way of the Sandy, but failed. In the winter of
       1768-69, Findlay, now a peddler, with a horse to carry his
       traps, appeared at Boone's cabin on the Yadkin, and the two
       old comrades had a happy time rehearsing their various
       adventures during the thirteen years of separation. An
       expedition to Kentucky was agreed upon, and the party set
       out from Boone's cabin, May 1, 1769; it was composed of
       Findlay, now advanced in years, Daniel Boone, the latter's
       brother-in-law, John Stuart, and three Yadkin neighbors,
       Joseph Holden, James Mooney, and William Cooley. The story of
       their expedition through Cumberland Gap, and their long hunt,
       is now familiar to readers of Western history. Their
       principal camp was probably on Red Lick Fork of Station Camp
       Creek. In December, Stuart and Boone were captured by
       Indians, but escaped early in January (1770), and on
       rejoining their comrades on Rockcastle River found that
       Daniel's brother, Squire, had arrived with fresh horses and
       traps from the North Carolina home; and with him was
       Alexander Neely, whom Squire had found on New (Great
       Kanawha) River. Findlay, Holden, Mooney, and Cooley now
       elected to return home, leaving the others to spend a longer
       period in Kentucky; Findlay took the left-hand road through the
       West Virginia settlements, to Pennsylvania, and the others,
       turning to the right, wended their way to North Carolina
       through Cumberland Gap. Not long after this, Stuart was
       killed by Indians, while alone in the woods, and Neely,
       discouraged by his fate, returned home. The story, often
       copied from Withers, that Neely was killed by a wolf, is
       erroneous. As for Findlay, he appears to have again become an
       Indian trader in Western Pennsylvania; for late in 1771 he is
       reported to have been robbed of $500 worth of goods, by a
       Seneca war party raiding the Youghiogheny district. There is a
       tradition that not long after this he "was lost in the wilds
       of the West." Holden and Cooley spent the rest of their
       days on the Upper Yadkin. Mooney was killed at the battle of
       Point Pleasant (1774).--R. G. T.

