The houses in Lerwick had been built in all sorts of positions without any attempt at uniformity,
and the rough, flagged passage which did duty for the main street was, to our mind, the greatest
curiosity of all, and almost worth going all the way to Shetland to see. It was curved and
angled in such an abrupt and zigzag manner that it gave us the impression that the houses had
been built first, and the street, where practicable, filled in afterwards. A gentleman from
London was loud in his praise of this wonderful street; he said he felt so much safer there
than in "beastly London," as he could stand for hours in that street before the shop windows
without being run over by any cab, cart, or omnibus, and without feeling a solitary hand exploring
his coat pockets. This was quite true, as we did not see any vehicles in Lerwick, nor could
they have passed each other through the crooked streets had they been there, and thieves would
have been equally difficult to find. Formerly, however, Lerwick had an evil reputation in that
respect, as it was noted for being the abode of sheep-stealers and pirates, so much so, that,
about the year 1700, it had become such a disreputable place that an earnest appeal was made
to the "Higher Authorities" to have the place burnt, and for ever made desolate, on account
of its great wickedness. Since that time, however, the softening influences of the Christian
religion had permeated the hearts of the people, and, at the time of our visit, the town was
well supplied with places of worship, and it would have been difficult to have found any thieves
there then. We attended evening service in the Wesleyan Chapel, where we found a good congregation,
a well-conducted service, and an acceptable preacher, and we reflected that Mr. Wesley himself
would have rejoiced to know that even in such a remote place as Lerwick his principles were
being promulgated.

Monday, September 11th.

We rose early with the object of seeing all we could in the short time at our disposal, which
was limited to the space of a single day, or until the St. Magnus was due out in the evening
on her return journey. We were anxious to see a large cavern known as the Orkneyman's Cave,
but as it could only be reached from the sea, we should have had to engage a boat to take us
there. We were told the cave was about fifty feet square at the entrance, but immediately beyond
it increased to double the size; it was possible indeed to sail into it with a boat and to
lose sight of daylight altogether.

The story goes that many years ago an Orkneyman was pursued by a press-gang, but escaped being
captured by sailing into the cave with his boat. He took refuge on one of the rocky ledges
inside, but in his haste he forgot to secure his boat, and the ground swell of the sea washed
it out of the cave. To make matters worse, a storm came on, and there he remained a prisoner
in the cave for two days; but as soon as the storm abated he plunged into the water, swam to
a small rock outside, and thence climbed to the top of the cliff and so escaped. Since that
event it had been known as the Orkneyman's Cave.

We went to the boat at the appointed time, but unfortunately the wind was too strong for us
to get round to the cave, so we were disappointed. The boatman suggested as the next best thing
that we should go to see the Island of Noss. He accordingly took us across the bay, which was
about a mile wide, and landed us on the Island of Bressay. Here it was necessary for us to
get a permit to enable us to proceed farther, so, securing his boat, the boatman accompanied
us to the factor's house, where he procured a pass, authorising us to land on the Island of
Noss, of which the following is a facsimile:

  Allow Mr. Nailer and friends
  to land on Noss.
  To Walter.                    A.M. Walker.

Here he left us, as we had to walk across the Island of Bressay, and, after a tramp of two
or three miles, during which we did not see a single human being, we came to another water
where there was a boat. Here we found Walter, and, after we had exhibited our pass, he rowed
us across the narrow arm of the sea and landed us on the Island of Noss. He gave us careful
instructions how to proceed so that we could see the Holm of Noss, and warned us against approaching
too near the edge of the precipice which we should find there. After a walk of about a mile,
all up hill, we came to the precipitous cliffs which formed the opposite boundary of the island,
and from a promontory there we had a magnificent view of the rocks, with the waves of the sea
dashing against them, hundreds of feet below. A small portion of the island was here separated
from the remainder by a narrow abyss about fifty feet wide, down which it was terrible to look,
and this separated portion was known as the Holm of Noss. It rose precipitously on all sides
from the sea, and its level surface on the top formed a favourite nesting-place for myriads
of wild birds of different varieties, which not only covered the top of the Holm, but also
the narrow ledges along its jagged sides. Previous to the seventeenth century, this was one
of the places where the foot of man had never trod, and a prize of a cow was offered to any
man who would climb the face of the cliff and establish a connection with the mainland by means
of a rope, as it was thought that the Holm would provide pasturage for about twenty sheep.
A daring fowler, from Foula Island, successfully performed the feat, and ropes were firmly
secured to the rocks on each side, and along two parallel ropes a box or basket was fixed,
capable of holding a man and a sheep. This apparatus was named the Cradle of Noss, and was
so arranged that an Islander with or without a sheep placed in the cradle could drag himself
across the chasm in either direction. Instead, however, of returning by the rope or cradle,
on which he would have been comparatively safe, the hardy fowler decided to go back by the
same way he had come, and, missing his foothold, fell on the rocks in the sea below and was
dashed to pieces, so that the prize was never claimed by him.

We felt almost spellbound as we approached this awful chasm, and as if we were being impelled
by some invisible force towards the edge of the precipice. It fairly made us shudder as on
hands and knees we peered down on the abysmal depths below. It was a horrible sensation, and
one that sometimes haunted us in our dreams for years afterwards, and we felt greatly relieved
when we found that we could safely crawl away and regain an upright posture. We could see thousands
upon thousands of wild birds, amongst which the ordinary sea-gull was largely represented;
but there were many other varieties of different colours, and the combination of their varied
cries, mingled with the bleating of the sheep, the whistling of the wind, the roaring of the
waves as they dashed against the rocks below, or entered the caverns with a sound like distant
thunder, tended to make us feel quite bewildered. We retired to the highest elevation we could
find, and there, 600 miles from home, and perhaps as many feet above sea-level, was solitude
in earnest. We were the only human beings on the island, and the enchanting effect of the wild
scenery, the vast expanse of sea, the distant moaning of the waters, the great rocks worn by
the wind and the waves into all kinds of fantastic shapes and caverns, the blue sky above with
the glorious sun shining upon us, all proclaimed to our minds the omnipotence of the great
Creator of the Universe, the Almighty Maker and Giver of all.

We lingered as long as we could in these lonely and romantic solitudes, and, as we sped down
the hill towards the boat, we suddenly became conscious that we had not thought either of what
we should eat or what we should drink since we had breakfasted early in the morning, and we
were very hungry. Walter was waiting for us on our side of the water, as he had been watching
for our return, and had seen us coming when we were nearly a mile away. There was no vegetation
to obstruct the view, for, as he said, we might walk fifty miles in Shetland without meeting
with a bush or tree. We had an agreeable surprise when we reached the other side of the water
in finding some light refreshments awaiting our arrival which he had thoughtfully provided
in the event of their being required, and for which we were profoundly thankful. The cradle
of Noss had disappeared some time before our visit, but, if it had been there, we should have
been too terrified to make use of it. It had become dangerous, and as the pasturage of sheep
on the Holm had proved a failure, the birds had again become masters of the situation, while
the cradle had fallen to decay. Walter gave us an awful description of the danger of the fowler's
occupation, especially in the Foula Island, where the rocks rose towering a thousand feet above
the sea. The top of the cliffs there often projected over their base, so that the fowler had
to be suspended on a rope fastened to the top of the cliff, swinging himself backwards and
forwards like a pendulum until he could reach the ledge of rock where the birds laid their
eggs. Immediately he landed on it, he had to secure his rope, and then gather the eggs in a
hoop net, and put them in his wallet, and then swing off again, perhaps hundreds of feet above
the sea, to find another similar ledge, so that his business was practically carried on in
the air. On one of these occasions a fowler had just reached a landing-place on the precipice,
when his rope slipped out of his hand, and swung away from the cliff into the empty air. If
he had hesitated one moment, he would have been lost for ever, as in all probability he would
either have been starved to death on the ledge of rock on which he was or fallen exhausted
into the sea below. The first returning swing of the rope might bring him a chance of grasping
it, but the second would be too far away. The rope came back, the desperate man measured the
distance with his eye, sprang forward in the air, grasped the rope, and was saved.

Sometimes the rope became frayed or cut by fouling some sharp edge of rock above, and, if it
broke, the fowler was landed in eternity. Occasionally two or three men were suspended on the
same rope at the same time. Walter told us of a father and two sons who were on the rope in
this way, the father being the lowest and his two sons being above him, when the son who was
uppermost saw that the rope was being frayed above him, and was about to break. He called to
his brother who was just below that the rope would no longer hold them all, and asked him to
cut it off below him and let their father go. This he indignantly refused to do, whereupon
his brother, without a moment's hesitation, cut the rope below himself, and both his father
and brother perished.

It was terrible to hear such awful stories, as our nerves were unstrung already, so we asked
our friend Walter not to pile on the agony further, and, after rewarding him for his services,
we hurried over the remaining space of land and sea that separated us from our comfortable
quarters at Lerwick, where a substantial tea was awaiting our arrival.

We were often asked what we thought of Shetland and its inhabitants.

Shetland was fine in its mountain and coast scenery, but it was wanting in good roads and forests,
and it seemed strange that no effort had been made to plant some trees, as forests had formerly
existed there, and, as a gentleman told us, there seemed no peculiarity in either the soil
or climate to warrant an opinion unfavourable to the country's arboricultural capacity. Indeed,
such was the dearth of trees and bushes, that a lady, who had explored the country thoroughly,
declared that the tallest and grandest tree she saw during her visit to the Islands was a stalk
of rhubarb which had run to seed and was waving its head majestically in a garden below the
old fort of Lerwick!

Agriculture seemed also to be much neglected, but possibly the fishing industry was more profitable.
The cottages also were very small and of primitive construction, many of them would have been
condemned as being unfit for human habitation if they had existed elsewhere, and yet, in spite
of this apparent drawback, these hardy islanders enjoyed the best of health and brought up
large families of very healthy-looking children. Shetland will always have a pleasant place
in our memories, and, as regards the people who live there, to speak the truth we scarcely
ever met with folks we liked better. We received the greatest kindness and hospitality, and
met with far greater courtesy and civility than in the more outwardly polished and professedly
cultivated parts of the countries further south, especially when making inquiries from people
to whom we had not been "introduced"! The Shetlanders spoke good English, and seemed a highly
intelligent race of people. Many of the men went to the whale and other fisheries in the northern
seas, and "Greenland's icy mountains" were well known to them.

On the island there were many wives and mothers who mourned the loss of husbands and sons who
had perished in that dangerous occupation, and these remarks also applied to the Orkney Islands,
to which we were returning, and might also account for so many of these women being dressed
in black. Every one told us we were visiting the islands too late in the year, and that we
ought to have made our appearance at an earlier period, when the sun never sets, and when we
should have been able to read at midnight without the aid of an artificial light. Shetland
was evidently in the range of the "Land of the Midnight Sun," but whether we should have been
able to keep awake in order to read at midnight was rather doubtful, as we were usually very
sleepy. At one time of the year, however, the sun did not shine at all, and the Islanders had
to rely upon the Aurora Borealis, or the Northern Lights, which then made their appearance
and shone out brilliantly, spreading a beautifully soft light over the islands. We wondered
if it were this or the light of the midnight sun that inspired the poet to write:

  Night walked in beauty o'er the peaceful sea.
  Whose gentle waters spoke tranquillity,

or if it had been borrowed from some more peaceful clime, as we had not yet seen the "peaceful
sea" amongst these northern islands. We had now once more to venture on its troubled waters,
and we made our appearance at the harbour at the appointed time for the departure of the St.
Magnus. We were, however, informed that the weather was too misty for our boat to leave, so
we returned to our lodgings, ordered a fire, and were just making ourselves comfortable and
secretly hoping our departure might be delayed until morning, when Mrs. Sinclair, our landlady,
came to tell us that the bell, which was the signal for the St. Magnus to leave, had just rung.
We hurried to the quay, only to find that the boat which conveyed passengers and mails to our
ship had disappeared. We were in a state of consternation, but a group of sailors, who were
standing by, advised us to hire a special boat, and one was brought up immediately, by which,
after a lot of shouting and whistling--for we could scarcely see anything in the fog--we were
safely landed on the steamboat. We had only just got beyond the harbour, however, when the
fog became so dense that we suddenly came to a standstill, and had to remain in the bay for
a considerable time. When at last we moved slowly outwards, the hoarse whistle of the St. Magnus
was sounded at short intervals, to avoid collision with any other craft. It had a strangely
mournful sound, suggestive of a funeral or some great calamity, and we should almost have preferred
being in a storm, when we could have seen the danger, rather than creeping along in the fog
and darkness, with a constant dread of colliding with some other boat or with one of the dangerous
rocks which we knew were in the vicinity. Sleep was out of the question until later, when the
fog began to clear a little, and, in the meantime, we found ourselves in the company of a group
of young men who told us they were going to Aberdeen.

One of them related a rather sorrowful story. He and his mates had come from one of the Shetland
Islands from which the inhabitants were being expelled by the factor, so that he could convert
the whole of the island into a sheep farm for his own personal advantage. Their ancestors had
lived there from time immemorial, but their parents had all received notice to leave, and other
islands were being depopulated in the same way. The young men were going to Aberdeen to try
to find ships on which they could work their passage to some distant part of the world; they
did not know or care where, but he said the time would come when this country would want soldiers
and sailors, and would not be able to find them after the men had been driven abroad. He also
told us about what he called the "Truck System," which was a great curse in their islands,
as "merchants" encouraged young people to get deeply in their debt, so that when they grew
up they could keep them in their clutches and subject them to a state of semi-slavery, as with
increasing families and low wages it was then impossible to get out of debt. We were very sorry
to see these fine young men leaving the country, and when we thought of the wild and almost
deserted islands we had just visited, it seemed a pity they could not have been employed there.
We had a longer and much smoother passage than on our outward voyage, and the fog had given
place to a fine, clear atmosphere as we once more entered the fine harbour of Kirkwall, and
we had a good view of the town, which some enthusiastic passenger described as the "Metropolis
of the Orcadean Archipelago."

Tuesday, September 12th.

We narrowly escaped a bad accident as we were leaving the St. Magnus. She carried a large number
of sheep and Shetland ponies on deck, and our way off the ship was along a rather narrow passage
formed by the cattle on one side and a pile of merchandise on the other. The passengers were
walking in single file, my brother immediately in front of myself, when one of the ponies suddenly
struck out viciously with its hind legs just as we were passing. If we had received the full
force of the kick, we should have been incapacitated from walking; but fortunately its strength
was exhausted when it reached us, and it only just grazed our legs. The passengers behind thought
at first we were seriously injured, and one of them rushed forward and held the animal's head
to prevent further mischief; but the only damage done was to our overalls, on which the marks
of the pony's hoofs remained as a record of the event. On reaching the landing-place the passengers
all came forward to congratulate us on our lucky escape, and until they separated we were the
heroes of the hour, and rather enjoyed the brief notoriety.

There was an old-world appearance about Kirkwall reminiscent of the time

  When Norse and Danish galleys plied
    Their oars within the Firth of Clyde,
  When floated Haco's banner trim
    Above Norwegian warriors grim,
  Savage of heart and huge of limb.

for it was at the palace there that Haco, King of Norway, died in 1263. There was only one
considerable street in the town, and this was winding and narrow and paved with flags in the
centre, something like that in Lerwick, but the houses were much more foreign in appearance,
and many of them had dates on their gables, some of them as far back as the beginning of the
fifteenth century. We went to the same hotel as on our outward journey, and ordered a regular
good "set out" to be ready by the time we had explored the ancient cathedral, which, like our
ship, was dedicated to St. Magnus. We were directed to call at a cottage for the key, which
was handed to us by the solitary occupant, and we had to find our way as best we could. After
entering the ancient building, we took the precaution of locking the door behind us. The interior
looked dark and dismal after the glorious sunshine we had left outside, and was suggestive
more of a dungeon than a place of worship, and of the dark deeds done in the days of the past.
The historian relates that St. Magnus met his death at the hands of his cousin Haco while in
the church of Eigleshay. He had retired there with a presentiment of some evil about to happen
him, and "while engaged in devotional exercises, prepared and resigned for whatever might occur,
he was slain by one stroke of a hatchet. Being considered eminently pious, he was looked upon
as a saint, and his nephew Ronald built the cathedral in accordance with a vow made before
leaving Norway to lay claim to the Earldom of Orkney." The cathedral was considered to be the
best-preserved relic of antiquity in Scotland, and we were much impressed by the dim religious
light which pervaded the interior, and quite bewildered amongst the dark passages inside the
walls. We had been recommended to ascend the cathedral tower for the sake of the fine view
which was to be obtained from the top, but had some difficulty in finding the way to the steps.
Once we landed at the top of the tower we considered ourselves well repaid for our exertions,
as the view over land and sea was very beautiful. Immediately below were the remains of the
bishop's and earl's palaces, relics of bygone ages, now gradually crumbling to decay, while
in the distance we could see the greater portion of the sixty-seven islands which formed the
Orkney Group. Only about one-half of these were inhabited, the remaining and smaller islands
being known as holms, or pasturages for sheep, which, seen in the distance, resembled green
specks in the great blue sea, which everywhere surrounded them.

I should have liked to stay a little longer surveying this fairy-like scene, but my brother
declared he could smell our breakfast, which by this time must have been waiting for us below.
Our exit was a little delayed, as we took a wrong turn in the rather bewildering labyrinth
of arches and passages in the cathedral walls, and it was not without a feeling of relief that
we reached the door we had so carefully locked behind us. We returned the key to the caretaker,
and then went to our hotel, where we loaded ourselves with a prodigious breakfast, and afterwards
proceeded to walk across the Mainland of the Orkneys, an estimated distance of fifteen miles.

On our rather lonely way to Stromness we noticed that agriculture was more advanced than in
the Shetland Islands, and that the cattle were somewhat larger, but we must say that we had
been charmed with the appearance of the little Shetland ponies, excepting perhaps the one that
had done its best to give us a farewell kick when we were leaving the St. Magnus. Oats and
barley were the crops chiefly grown, for we did not see any wheat, and the farmers, with their
wives and children, were all busy harvesting their crops of oats, but there was still room
for extension and improvement, as we passed over miles of uncultivated moorland later. On our
inquiring what objects of interest were to be seen on our way, our curiosity was raised to
its highest pitch when we were told we should come to an underground house and to a large number
of standing stones a few miles farther on. We fully expected to descend under the surface of
the ground, and to find some cave or cavern below; but when we got to the place, we found the
house practically above ground, with a small mountain raised above it. It was covered with
grass, and had only been discovered in 1861, about ten years before our visit. Some boys were
playing on the mountain, when one of them found a small hole which he thought was a rabbit
hole, but, pushing his arm down it, he could feel no bottom. He tried again with a small stick,
but with the same result. The boys then went to a farm and brought a longer stick, but again
failed to reach the bottom of the hole, so they resumed their play, and when they reached home
they told their parents of their adventure, and the result was that this ancient house was
discovered and an entrance to it found from the level of the land below.

We went in search of the caretaker, and found him busy with the harvest in a field some distance
away, but he returned with us to the mound. He opened a small door, and we crept behind him
along a low, narrow, and dark passage for a distance of about seventeen yards, when we entered
a chamber about the size of an ordinary cottage dwelling, but of a vault-like appearance. It
was quite dark, but our guide proceeded to light a number of small candles, placed in rustic
candlesticks, at intervals, round this strange apartment. We could then see some small cells
in the wall, which might once have been used as burial places for the dead, and on the walls
themselves were hundreds of figures or letters cut in the rock, in very thin lines, as if engraved
with a needle. We could not decipher any of them, as they appeared more like Egyptian hieroglyphics
than letters of our alphabet, and the only figure we could distinguish was one which had the
appearance of a winged dragon.

The history of the place was unknown, but we were afterwards told that it was looked upon as
one of the most important antiquarian discoveries ever made in Britain. The name of the place
was Maeshowe. The mound was about one hundred yards in circumference, and it was supposed that
the house, or tumulus, was first cut out of the rock and the earth thrown over it afterwards
from the large trench by which it was surrounded.

Our guide then directed us to the "Standing Stones of Stenness," which were some distance away;
but he could not spare time to go with us, so we had to travel alone to one of the wildest
and most desolate places imaginable, strongly suggestive of ghosts and the spirits of the departed.
We crossed the Bridge of Brogar, or Bruargardr, and then walked along a narrow strip of land
dividing two lochs, both of which at this point presented a very lonely and dismal appearance.
Although they were so near together, Loch Harry contained fresh water only and Loch Stenness
salt water, as it had a small tidal inlet from the sea passing under Waith Bridge, which we
crossed later. There were two groups of the standing stones, one to the north and the other
to the south, and each consisted of a double circle of considerable extent. The stones presented
a strange appearance, as while many stood upright, some were leaning; others had fallen, and
some had disappeared altogether. The storms of many centuries had swept over them, and "they
stood like relics of the past, with lichens waving from their worn surfaces like grizzly beards,
or when in flower mantling them with brilliant orange hues," while the areas enclosed by them
were covered with mosses, the beautiful stag-head variety being the most prominent.

These lichened "Standing Stones of Stenness," with the famous Stone of Odin about 150 yards
to the north, are second only to Stonehenge, one measuring 18 feet in length, 5 feet 4 inches
in breadth, and 18 inches in thickness. The Stone of Odin had a hole in it to which it was
supposed that sacrificial victims were fastened in ancient times, but in later times lovers
met and joined hands through the hole in the stone, and the pledge of love then given was almost
as sacred as a marriage vow. An antiquarian description of this reads as follows: "When the
parties agreed to marry, they repaired to the Temple of the Moon, where the woman in the presence
of the man fell down on her knees and prayed to the God Wodin that he would enable her to perform,
all the promises and obligations she had made, and was to make, to the young man present, after
which they both went to the Temple of the Sun, where the man prayed in like manner before the
woman. They then went to the Stone of Odin, and the man being on one side and the woman on
the other, they took hold of each other's right hand through the hole and there swore to be
constant and faithful to each other." The hole in the stone was about five feet from the ground,
but some ignorant farmer had destroyed the stone, with others, some years before our visit.

There were many other stones in addition to the circles, probably the remains of Cromlechs,
and there were numerous grass mounds, or barrows, both conoid and bowl-shaped, but these were
of a later date than the circles. It was hard to realise that this deserted and boggarty-looking
place was once the Holy Ground of the ancient Orcadeans, and we were glad to get away from
it. We recrossed the Bridge of Brogar and proceeded rapidly towards Stromness, obtaining a
fine prospective view of that town, with the huge mountain masses of the Island of Hoy as a
background, on our way. These rise to a great height, and terminate abruptly near where that
strange isolated rock called the "Old Man of Hoy" rises straight from the sea as if to guard
the islands in the rear. The shades of evening were falling fast as we entered Stromness, but
what a strange-looking town it seemed to us! It was built at the foot of the hill in the usual
irregular manner and in one continuous crooked street, with many of the houses with their crow-stepped
gables built as it were over the sea itself, and here in one of these, owing to a high recommendation
received inland, we stayed the night. It was perched above the water's edge, and, had we been
so minded, we might have caught the fish named sillocks for our own breakfast without leaving
the house: many of the houses, indeed, had small piers or landing-stages attached to them,
projecting towards the bay.

We found Mrs. Spence an ideal hostess and were very comfortable, the only drawback to our happiness
being the information that the small steamboat that carried mails and passengers across to
Thurso had gone round for repairs "and would not be back for a week, but a sloop would take
her place" the day after to-morrow. But just fancy crossing the stormy waters of the Pentland
Firth in a sloop! We didn't quite know what a sloop was, except that it was a sailing-boat
with only one mast; but the very idea gave us the nightmare, and we looked upon ourselves as
lost already. The mail boat, we had already been told, had been made enormously strong to enable
her to withstand the strain of the stormy seas, besides having the additional advantage of
being propelled by steam, and it was rather unfortunate that we should have arrived just at
the time she was away. We asked the reason why, and were informed that during the summer months
seaweeds had grown on the bottom of her hull four or five feet long, which with the barnacles
so impeded her progress that it was necessary to have them scraped off, and that even the great
warships had to undergo the same process.

Seaweeds of the largest size and most beautiful colours flourish, in the Orcadean seas, and
out of 610 species of the flora in the islands we learned that 133 were seaweeds. Stevenson
the great engineer wrote that the large Algæ, and especially that one he named the "Fucus esculentus,"
grew on the rocks from self-grown seed, six feet in six months, so we could quite understand
how the speed of a ship would be affected when carrying this enormous growth on the lower parts
of her hull.

Wednesday, September 13th.

We had the whole of the day at our disposal to explore Stromness and the neighbourhood, and
we made the most of it by rambling about the town and then along the coast to the north, but
we were seldom out of sight of the great mountains of Hoy.

Sir Walter Scott often visited this part of the Orkneys, and some of the characters he introduced
in his novels were found here. In 1814 he made the acquaintance of a very old woman near Stromness,
named Bessie Miller, whom he described as being nearly one hundred years old, withered and
dried up like a mummy, with light blue eyes that gleamed with a lustre like that of insanity.
She eked out her existence by selling favourable winds to mariners, for which her fee was sixpence,
and hardly a mariner sailed out to sea from Stromness without visiting and paying his offering
to Old Bessie Miller. Sir Walter drew the strange, weird character of "Norna of the Fitful
Head" in his novel The Pirate from her.

The prototype of "Captain Cleveland" in the same novel was John Gow, the son of a Stromness
merchant. This man went to sea, and by some means or other became possessed of a ship named
the Revenge, which carried twenty-four guns. He had all the appearance of a brave young officer,
and on the occasions when he came home to see his father he gave dancing-parties to his friends.
Before his true character was known--for he was afterwards proved to be a pirate--he engaged
the affections of a young lady of fortune, and when he was captured and convicted she hastened
to London to see him before he was executed; but, arriving there too late, she begged for permission
to see his corpse, and, taking hold of one hand, she vowed to remain true to him, for fear,
it was said, of being haunted by his ghost if she bestowed her hand upon another.

