THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 13, No. 352.] SATURDAY, JANUARY 17, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRINCE RUPERT'S PALACE

Prince Rupert, who will be remembered in the annals of the useful and fine arts when his military
fame shall be forgotten, resided at a house in Beech-lane, Barbican, of the remains of which
the above is a representation. His residence here was in the time of Charles II.; for it is
said that Charles paid him a visit, when the ringers of Cripplegate had a guinea for complimenting
the royal guest with a "merry peal." As the abode of a man of science, (for the prince was
one of the most ingenious men of his time,) this engraving will doubtless be acceptable to
the readers of the MIRROR. It, moreover, shows that even at that period, a residence in the
City and its neighbourhood was not thought derogatory to a man of rank or fortune.[1]

With the historical character of Prince Rupert, most of our readers are probably familiar.
Many useful inventions resulted from his studies, among which are the invention of "Prince's
Metal," locks for fire-arms, improvements in gunpowder, &c. After the restoration, he was admitted
into the Privy Council. He likewise became a fellow of the newly-founded Royal Society, and
a member of the Board of Trade; and to his influence is ascribed the establishment of the Hudson's
Bay Company, of which he was the first governor. Orford, Evelyn, and Vertue attribute to him
the invention of mezzotinto engraving; but this has been disputed, and, we believe, disproved.

    [1] He likewise held the villa of Brandenburgh House, at
    Hammersmith, since known as the residence of Queen Caroline.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOME ACCOUNT OF THE COLOSSEUM, IN THE REGENT'S PARK.

By the courtesy of Mr. Hornor, the proprietor, we have been favoured with a private view of
the interior of this stupendous building; and, as it is our intention to illustrate the ensuing
Number of the MIRROR with a view of the exterior, we shall for the present confine ourselves
to such descriptive details as we have been enabled to collect in our recent visit. The interior
is, however, in an unfinished state; the works are in actual progress, and the operations of
the several artists continue uninterrupted by the access of visiters.

On entering the edifice by the large door in front, a staircase on the right leads to a passage,
which communicates with a circular saloon hung with coloured drapery. This room, which, when
finished, will be the largest of the kind in London, occupies the whole internal space, or
the basement of the building, with the exception of the staircase leading to the summit, which
rises like a large column from the centre. This circular saloon is intended for the exhibition
of paintings and other productions of the fine arts; and it redounds highly to the credit of
Mr. Hornor, that this exhibition is to be entirely free of charge to the artists. Such an introduction
of their works to public notice cannot fail to prove mutually advantageous.

It may be here necessary to state that the wall of the building represents a panoramic View
of London, as seen from the several galleries of St. Paul's Cathedral--and that the view of
the picture is obtained from three galleries--the first of which corresponds, in relation to
the view, with the first gallery at the summit of the dome of St. Paul's; the second is like
that of the upper gallery on the same edifice; and the third, from its great elevation, commands
a view of the remote distance which describes the horizon in the painting. Above the last-mentioned
gallery is placed the identical copper ball which for so many years occupied the summit of
St. Paul's; and above it is a fac-simile of the cross by which it was surmounted. Over these
is hung the small wooden cabin in which Mr. Hornor made his drawings for the picture, in the
same perilous situation it occupied during the period of the repairs which some years ago were
done to the cathedral. A small flight of stairs leads from this spot to the open gallery which
surrounds the top of the Colosseum, commanding a view of the Regent's Park and the subjacent
country.

The communication with the galleries is by staircases of curious construction, built on the
outer side of the central column already mentioned. This column is hollow, and within it a
small circular chamber is to be caused to ascend when freighted with company, by means of machinery,
with an imperceptible motion to the first gallery. The doors of the chamber will then open,
and by this novel means of being elevated, visiters may avoid the fatigue of ascending by the
stairs, and then walk out into the gallery to enjoy the picture.

In extent and accuracy, the Panorama is one of the most surprising achievements of art in this
or any other country. The picture covers upwards of 40,000 square feet, or nearly an acre of
canvass; the dome of the building on which the sky is painted, is thirty feet more in diameter
than the cupola of St. Paul's; and the circumference of the horizon from the point of view,
is nearly 130 miles. The painting is almost completed; indeed, sufficiently so, for the general
effect; although this will be considerably increased by the insertion of the remaining details,
and the last or finishing touches. Much as the spectator will be struck by the fidelity of
the representation, there is one claim it has to his admiration, which has only to be explained
to be universally acknowledged. It is simply this. Only let such of our readers as have ascended
the galleries of St. Paul's, think of the fatigue they experienced in the toil, and comparatively
speaking, the little gratification they experienced on their arrival at the summit. In short,
what had they for their pains but the distinct roofs of the houses in the immediate vicinity,
while the rest of the city was half lost in fog and the smoke of "groves of chimneys." The
only period at which London can be seen, is at sun-rise on a fine summer morning--such a morning,
for instance, as that of the last Coronation. This too must be before the many thousand fires
are lighted--exactly the period at which it is impossible to gain admittance to the cathedral.
In the Panorama of the Colosseum, therefore, alone it is that we can see the "mighty heart,"
the town we inhabit; and for this grand scene we are indebted to the indefatigable genius of
Mr. Hornor.[2]

The magnificent effect of the Panorama, however, baffles all description of our pen. Indeed,
the scene gives rise to so many inspiring associations in an enthusiastic mind, that few Englishmen,
and still fewer Londoners, are equal to the detail of its description. Every inch of the vast
circumference abounds with subject for reflection. The streets filled with passengers and vehicles--the
grandeur of the public buildings, churches, and palatial structures--the majestic river winding
grandly along, with the shipping, vessels, and gay trim of civic barges gliding on its surface,
its banks studded with splendid hospitals, docks, and antique towers--and its stream crossed
with magnificent bridges--till it stretches away beyond the busy haunts of industry, to the
rural beauties of Richmond, and the castellated splendour of Windsor. Of course, the river
is the most attractive object in the painting; but overlooking the merits of the town itself,
and the world of streets and buildings--the representation of the environs is delightfully
picturesque, and the distances are admirably executed; while the whole forms an assemblage
of grandeur, unparalleled in art, as the reality is in the history of mankind.

