By the by, speaking of dull Publics, I ought to say that I have seen a review of myself in
the Christian Examiner (I think that is it) of Boston;  the author of which, if you know him,
I desire you to thank on my part.  For if a dull million is good, then withal a seeing unit
or two is also good.  This man images back a beautiful idealized Clothes-Philosopher, very
satisfactory to look upon;  in whose beatified features I did verily detect more similitude
to what I myself meant to be, than in any or all the other criticisms I have yet seen written
of me.  That a man see himself reflected from the soul of his brother-man in this brotherly
improved way:  there surely is one of the most legitimate joys of existence.  Friend Ripley
took the trouble to send me this Review, in which I detected an Article of his own; there came
also some Discourses of his much to be approved of;  a Newspaper passage-of-fence with a Philistine
of yours;  and a set of Essays on Progress-of-the-species and such like by a man whom I grieved
to see confusing himself with that.  Progress of the species is a thing I can get no good of
at all.  These Books, which Miss Martineau has borrowed from me, did not arrive till three
weeks ago or less.  I pray you to thank Ripley for them very kindly;  which at present I still
have not time to do.  He seems to me a good man, with good aims;  with considerable natural
health of mind, wherein all goodness is likely to grow better, all clearness to grow clearer.
Miss Martineau laments that he does not fling himself, or not with the due impetuosity, into
the Black Controversy;  a thing lamentable in the extreme, when one considers what a world
this is, and how perfect it would be could Mungo once get his stupid case rectified, and eat
his squash as a stupid Apprentice instead of stupid Slave!

Miss Martineau's Book on America is out, here and with you.  I have read it for the good Authoress's
sake, whom I love much. She is one of the strangest phenomena to me.  A genuine little Poetess,
buckramed, swathed like a mummy into Socinian and Political-Economy formulas;  and yet verily
alive in the inside of that!  "God has given a Prophet to every People in its own speech,"
say the Arabs.  Even the English Unitarians were one day to have their Poet, and the best that
could be said for them too was to be said.  I admire this good lady's integrity, sincerity;
her quick, sharp discernment to the depth it goes:  her love also is great;  nay, in fact it
is too great:  the host of illustrious obscure mortals whom she produces on you, of Preachers,
Pamphleteers, Antislavers, Able Editors, and other Atlases bearing (unknown to us) the world
on their shoulder, is absolutely more than enough.  What they say to her Book here I do not
well know.  I fancy the general reception will be good, and even brilliant.  I saw Mrs. Butler*
last night, "in an ocean of blonde and broadcloth," one of those oceans common at present.
Ach Gott!  They are not of Persons, these soirdes, but of Cloth Figures.

---------- * Mrs Fanny Kemble Butler. ----------

