When they are all ready for their quiet talks the public man decides that it is time he got
up; he leaps out of bed and rushes out of the room and shaves and baths and does his exercises
very very quickly. Then he rushes back and has a talk with the HOME SECRETARY on the telephone
while he is drying his ears. When his ears are nice and dry he rings off and ties his tie,
meanwhile dictating a nasty letter to The Times about the Scavengers (Minimum Wage) (Scotland)
No. 2 Bill. In the middle of this letter two new crises arise--(1) The HOME SECRETARY'S Private
Secretary's Secretary rings up and says that the Fish-Friers' deputation is postponed till
11 A.M. because of a Cabinet Meeting about the new war. (2) The Assistant-Secretary to the
PRIME MINISTER'S Principal Secretary's Secretary rings up and says that the PRIME MINISTER
can see the public man for ten seconds at one minute past eleven. It is now clear that the
Bottle-Washers and the Fish-Friers and the PRIME MINISTER are going to clash pretty badly,
and a scene of intense confusion takes place. The public man runs about the room in his shirt-sleeves
smelling distractedly at the papers on the floor and on the bed and everywhere else. Some of
the papers he throws at the Private Secretary and tells him to write a memorandum about them,
and go and see the War Office about them and have six copies made of them. Most of them, however,
he just throws on the floor or hides away in a dressing-gown where the Private Secretary won't
find them; this is the only way of making sure of a permanent supply of good crises. A crisis
about a lost document is far and away the most fruitful kind of crisis.

Meanwhile the valet pursues the public man about the room with spats and tries to attach them
to his person. If he can attach both spats before the Fish-Friers' man really gets hold of
him he has won the game. The Fish-Friers' man keeps clearing his throat and beginning, "The
position is this--"; and the Private Secretary keeps saying in a cold dispassionate voice,
"Are you going to the Lord Mayor's lunch?" or "How much will you give to the Dyspeptic Postmen's
Association?" or "What about this letter from Bunt?"

The public man takes no notice of any one of them, but says rapidly over and over again, "Where
are my spectacles?" or "What have you done with the brown socks?" He is playing for time. If
he can put them off for a little more, some new crisis may occur and he will be able to say
that he is too busy to deal with them now.

The Private Secretary knows this and continues to say, "Are you going to the Lord Mayor's lunch?"
The Fish-Friers' man doesn't know it, and crawls about excitedly on the floor looking for the
spectacles under the bed. When he is well under the bed the public man tells the Private Secretary
to ring up the Bottle-Washers and the Fish-Friers and the PRIME MINISTER and arrange things
somehow, and rushes out of the room. He is hotly pursued by the valet and the hosier and the
hairdresser, but there's a taxi at the door and with any luck he will now get clear away. In
the hall, however, the cook meets him in order to give notice, and by the time he has dealt
with that crisis the Private Secretary has had three wrong numbers and given it up, and the
Fish-Friers' man has bumped his head and given it up. They give chase together and catch the
public man just as he is escaping from the front-door. The Private Secretary starts again about
the Lord Mayor's lunch, and the Fish-Friers' man starts again about the position.

The public man knows now that he is done, so he drives them into the taxi and says he will
talk to them on the way to the PRIME MINISTER. The taxi dashes off, leaving the hosier and
the hairdresser and the valet wringing their hands in the hall.

So he thinks of one of the letters he has hidden in his dressing-gown and tells the Private
Secretary that he must have that letter for the Bottle-Washers' meeting. Then he stops the
taxi at a place where there is no Underground and no 'bus, and pushes the Private Secretary
out. He has disposed of the Private Secretary for the day.

But the Fish-Friers' man's throat is practically clear by now and he gets to work at once.
The public man pays no attention but prepares in his mind his opening sentences to the PRIME
MINISTER. In the Park he sees two other public men walking and he takes them into the cab.
Each of them has discovered some entirely new smells and starts talking about them at once
very fast. The public man promises to go and try them all immediately. When he gets to the
PRIME MINISTER'S he rings up and cancels the Fish-Friers and the Bottle-Washers. When he has
done that the Assistant-Secretary to the PRIME MINISTER'S Principal Private Secretary's Secretary
comes out and says that the PRIME MINISTER has been called away suddenly to Geneva.

The public man then goes off after the new smells. A dog's life.

A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A SPORTING OFFER.

"Rabbit trapper would take so much the couple or rent them, or give so much the couple and
kill them."--Scotch Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CORNISH LULLABY.

              A.D. 1760.

        Sleep, my little ugling,
        Daddy's gone a-smuggling,
  Daddy's gone to Roscoff in the Mevagissey Maid,
        A sloop of ninety tons
        With ten brass-carriage guns,
  To teach the King's ships manners and respect for honest trade.

        Hush, my joy and sorrow,
        Daddy'll come to-morrow
  Bringing baccy, tea and snuff and brandy home from France;
        And he'll run the goods ashore
        While the old Collectors snore
  And the wicked troopers gamble in the dens of Penzance.

        Rock-a-bye, my honey,
        Daddy's making money;
  You shall be a gentleman and sail with privateers,
        With a silver cup for sack
        And a blue coat on your back,
  With diamonds on your finger-bones and gold rings in your ears.

  PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR CRICKET.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--I enclose a cut from Le Radical, one of the leading Mauritius papers, and
on behalf of the lovers of our national game in the island venture to ask for information regarding
the last match recorded:--

"Londres, 14 mai, 4 hres P.M.--Mary-le-bone a battu Nottingham par 5 wickets; Lancashire a
battu Leichester; Sussex a battu Warrick. En second lieu un joueur du Sussex a abattu H. Wilson
par 187 wickets."

We are much perturbed at the strange developments that are evidently taking place in the game
at home. Was this match, we want to know, a single-wicket game between the Sussex player and
H. WILSON? If so how did he beat him by 187 wickets?

An ex-captain of the Cambridge eleven living here is of the opinion that, in order to make
cricket more popular, the numbers of the opposing sides are being increased, and that this
match must have been between a team of, say, a couple of hundred Sussex players and one of
a like number captained by H. WILSON, and that only some dozen wickets had fallen in the second
innings when the match ended. If this is the correct interpretation we should be very grateful
for the rules, plan of the field, etc., as we are most anxious to move with the times in this
little outpost of Empire.

I fear however that we shall have some difficulty here in raising two teams of more than a
hundred-a-side.

We presume that, as a match of eleven-a-side takes two or three days to finish, about six or
eight weeks are allotted to this new game.

Any help that you can give us, Sir, will be much appreciated.

Yours faithfully,

M.C.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM THE FILM WORLD.

As an interesting supplement to the announcement that Sir THOMAS LIPTON has kindly placed his
bungalows and estates in Ceylon at the disposal of the East and West Films, Limited, for the
filming of The Life of BUDDHA, we are glad to learn that preparations are already well advanced
for the presentation of the Life of HANNIBAL on the screen.

Messrs. Sowerly and Bitterton, the well-known vinegar manufacturers, have undertaken to provide
the necessary plant for illustration of the famous exploit of splitting the rocks with that
disintegrating condiment, and Messrs. Rappin and Jebb, the famous cutlers, have been approached
with a view to furnish the necessary implements for the portrayal of the tragedy of the Caudine
Forks. Professor Chollop, who is superintending the taking of the pictures of the battle of
Cannæ and the subsequent period of repose at Capua in their proper atmosphere, states that
he is receiving every support from the local condottieri, pifferari, banditti and lazzaroni,
and expects to be able to complete his task by the late autumn.

A certain amount of antagonism, on humanitarian grounds, has been shown by the Italian Government
to the importation of a herd of elephants, which were essential to the realistic depiction
of the passage of the Alps by the Carthaginian army; but it is hoped that by the use of skis
the transit may be effected without undue casualties among the elephantine fraternity.

Lord FISHER has been invited to impersonate SCIPIO, and the rôle of FABIUS, the originator
of the "Wait and See" policy, has been offered to Mr. ASQUITH, but authentic details are as
yet lacking as to their decision.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, June 21st.--While the PRIME MINISTER was celebrating the longest--and pretty nearly
the hottest--day by a vin d'honneur at Boulogne Mr. BONAR LAW had to content himself with small
beer in the Commons.

The Government, it seems, is to offer its services to effect a peaceful settlement between
the Imam YAHYA and the Said IDRISSI, who are rival rulers in Arabia. There is believed to be
a possibility that in return the said Said will offer his services to effect a peaceful settlement
in Hibernia Infelix.

The Government is not so indifferent to economy as is sometimes suggested. The PRIME MINISTER'S
famous letter to the Departments was only written in August last, yet already, Mr. BONAR LAW
assured the House, some progress has been made in reducing redundant staffs, and the Government
has appointed--no, I beg pardon, "decided to appoint"--independent Committees to carry out
investigations. The hustlers!

The Member for Wood Green, who urged that the Treasury should prepare an estimate of the national
income, with the view of limiting the national expenditure to a definite proportion of that
amount, displayed, it seems to me, amazing temerity. The course of taxation in recent years
encourages the belief that the only thing that restrains the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER from
taking our little all is that he does not know how much it is.

Capt. WEDGEWOOD BENN'S complaint that the MINISTER OF TRANSPORT habitually absented himself
from the House met with little encouragement from the SPEAKER, who sarcastically inquired if
he should send the SERJEANT-AT-ARMS to fetch the delinquent. Capt. BENN then dropped the subject,
and Sir COLIN KEPPEL looked relieved.

The Government insisted on taking the Report stage and Third Reading of the Rent (Restrictions)
Bill at one sitting, and kept the House up till half-past three in order to do it. Dr. ADDISON
had need of what the IRON DUKE called "two o'clock in the morning courage" to ward off attacks.
Once, when Sir ARTHUR FELL was depicting the desperate plight of the landladies of Yarmouth,
forbidden under a penalty of a hundred pounds to charge more than twenty-five per cent. in
excess of their pre-war prices, it looked as if the Minister must give way; but with some difficulty
he convinced his critics that the clause in question had nothing to do with seaside landladies.

Tuesday, June 22nd.--In the Lords the Bishops, reinforced by the ecclesiastically-minded lay
Peers, made a last attempt to throw out the Matrimonial Causes Bill. Lord BRAYE moved its rejection,
and was supported by Lord HALIFAX in a speech whose pathos was even stronger than its argument,
and by the Archbishop of CANTERBURY, who admitted that reform of the marriage laws was required,
but considered that the Bill went a great deal further than was necessary. The LORD CHANCELLOR
thereupon re-stated the case for the measure, for which be believed the Government were prepared
to give facilities in the other House, and Lord BUCKMASTER repeated his exegesis of the vexed
passage in St. MATTHEW'S Gospel, on which the whole theological controversy turns. The Third
Reading was carried by 154 votes to 107.

The Commons in the course of the Irish Debate discussed the failure of the Government to prevent
the regrettable incidents in Derry and Dublin. Colonel ASHLEY demanded martial law; Major O'NEILL
was for organising the loyal population; Sir KEITH FRASER approved both courses and advanced
the amazing proposition that the trouble in Ireland was entirely due to the religious question,
and that even the Sinn Feiners were loyal to the Empire.

The ATTORNEY-GENERAL FOR IRELAND pointed out that faction-fighting in Derry was endemic, and
drew an amusing picture of the old city, where everyone had some kind of rabbit-hole from which
he could emerge to fire a revolver. As regards the general question he denied that the Constabulary
had been instructed not to shoot. On the contrary they had been told to treat attackers as
"enemies in the field," and to call upon suspected persons to hold up their hands.

Lord ROBERT CECIL was at a loss to understand the Government that applied coercion to the very
people to whom it was preparing to hand over the government of Southern Ireland, and Mr. INSKIP
was equally at a loss to understand the policy of the noble lord, who seemed to think that
conciliation was incompatible with putting down crime.

Wednesday, June 23rd.--A large company, including the QUEEN and Princess MARY, attended the
House of Lords to see Prince ALBERT take his seat as Duke of YORK. It was unfortunate that
the new peer was unable to wait for the ensuing debate, for Lord NEWTON was in his best form.
His theme was the absurdity of the present Parliamentary arrangement under which the Peers
were kept kicking their heels in London for the best months of the year, then overwhelmed with
business for a week or two, and finally despatched to the country in time for the hunting season,
which nowadays most of them were too much impoverished to enjoy. Lord CURZON condescended a
little from his usual Olympian heights, and declared that one of the drawbacks to conducting
business in that House was the difficulty of inducing noble Lords to attend it after dinner.

To judge by Mr. ASQUITH'S recent speeches outside he meant to have delivered a thundering philippic
against our continued occupation of Mesopotamia. Some of the sting was taken out of the indictment
by the publication of an official statement showing that Great Britain was remaining there
at the request of the Allies. After all, as Mr. LLOYD GEORGE observed in his reply, it would
not be an economical policy to withdraw to Basra if we were to be immediately requested to
return to Baghdad.

The rest of the evening was devoted to a renewal of the protests against Mr. CHURCHILL'S "Red
Army." Among the critics were Mr. ESMOND HARMSWORTH and Mr. OSWALD MOSLEY, the two "babies"
of the House, and the MINISTER adopted quite a fatherly tone in recalling his own callow youth,
when he too, just after the Boer War, denounced "the folly of gaudy and tinselled uniforms."

Thursday, June 24th.--On behalf of the Government Lord ONSLOW gave a rather chilly welcome
to Lord BALFOUR OF BURLEIGH'S Bill for the regulation of advertisements. It is true that the
noble author had explained that his object was to secure "publicity without offence," but I
believe he had no desire to cramp the PRIME MINISTER'S style.

Sir ERIC GEDDES belongs to that wicked species of fauna that defends itself when attacked.
He complained this afternoon that Mr. ASQUITH had in his recent speeches "trounced a beginner,"
but Sir ERIC showed, for a novice, considerable aggressive power. He claimed that the Ministry
of Transport had already saved a cool million by securing the abrogation of an extravagant
contract entered into by Mr. ASQUITH'S Government. The EX PREMIER, however, insisted that if
a mistake had been made the Railway Department of the Board of Trade could have corrected it
just as well as its grandiose successor and at an infinitely smaller cost.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW COURTIERSHIP.

    (With profound acknowledgment to the writer of the article on "Heroine
    Worship" in "The Times" of June 24th.)

While thrones and dynasties have rocked or fallen in the great world upheaval of the last six
years, there remains one form of monarchy which has proved impervious to all the shocks of
circumstance--the monarchy of genius. If proof be demanded of this assertion we need only point
to the wonderful manifestations of loyalty evoked in the last week by the advent of the Queen
of the Film World and her admirable consort. The adoration of MARY PICKFORD has been compared
with that of MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS, and not without some show of reason, for the appeal which
her acting, makes is always to the sense of chivalry which, in however sentimental a form,
is characteristic of our race.

But the noble adulation which the latest of our royal visitors inspires is deeper and more
universal than that prompted by the charm and the misfortunes of her namesake. MARY QUEEN OF
SCOTS, as the evidence of contemporary portraits conclusively establishes, was not conspicuous
for her personal beauty. In the "Queen business" she was a failure, and her prestige is largely
if not entirely posthumous. Her character has been impugned by historians; even her most faithful
champions have not pronounced her impeccable.

Centuries were necessary to raise MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS to her somewhat insecure pinnacle of
devotion; by the alchemy of a machine centuries have been shortened to days and nights in the
meteoric career of Miss PICKFORD. Yet merit has joined fortune in high cabal. Handicapped by
a somewhat uneuphonious patronymic, MARY PICKFORD has established her rule without recourse
to any of the disputable methods adopted by her predecessor. At home in all the "palaces" of
both hemispheres, she owes her triumphs to the triple endowment of genius, loveliness and gentleness.
Moreover, in the highest sense she is truly an ambassadress of our race, for the kiss which
she so graciously bestowed on Mlle. SUZANNE LENGLEN at Wimbledon on Wednesday last has probably
done even more to heal the wounds inflicted on our gallant Allies by the disastrous policy
of Mr. LLOYD GEORGE than the heroic efforts of The Times to maintain the Entente in its integrity.

