Never before Published.

LONDON. Printed by E. Tyler, and R. Holt, for Nath. Brooke, at the Angel in Corn-Hill, near
the Royal Exchange. 1671.

A QUEENS DELIGHT OF Conserves, and Preserves, Candying and Distilling Waters.

To preserve white Pear Plums, or green.

Take the Plums, and cut the stalk off, and wipe them then take the just weight of them in Sugar,
then put them in a skillet of water, and let them stand in and scald, being close covered till
they be tender, they must not seeth, when they be soft lay them in a Dish, and cover them with
a cloth, and stew some of the the Sugar in the glass bottom, and put in the Plums, strewing
the sugar over till all be in, then let them stand all night, the next day put them in a pan,
and let them boil a pace, keeping them clean scummed, & when your Plums look clear, your syrup
will gelly, and they are enough. If your Plums be ripe, peel off the skins before you put them
in the glass; they will be the better and clearer a great deal to dry, if you will take the
Plums white; if green, do them with the rinds on.

To preserve Grapes

Take Grapes when they be almost through ripe, and cut the stalks off, and stone them in the
side, and as fast as you can stone them strew Sugar on them; you must take to every pound of
Grapes three quarters of a pound of Sugar, then take some of the sower Grapes; and wring the
juyce of them, and put to every pound of Grapes two spoonfuls of juyce, then set them on the
fire, and still lift up the pan and shake it round, for fear of burning to, then set them on
again, & when the Sugar is melted, boil them as fast as you can possible, and when they look
very clear, and the syrup is somewhat thick, they are enough.

To preserve Quinces white.

Take a pair and coar them, and to every pound of your equal weights in Sugar and Quince, take
a wine pint of water; put them together, and boil them as fast as you can uncovered; and this
way you may also preserve Pippins white as you do Quinces.

To preserve Respass.

Take a pound of Respass, a pound of fine Sugar, a quarter of a pint of the juyce of Respass,
strew the Sugar under and above the Respass, sprinkle the juyce all on them, set them on a
clear fire, let them boil as soft as is possible, till the syrup will gelly, then take them
off, let them stand till they be cold, then put them in a glass. After this manner is the best way.

To preserve Pippins.

Take fair Pippins, and boil them in fair water till they be somewhat tender, then take them
out, and peel off the skins and put them into a fair earthen pot, and cover them till they
be cold, then make the syrup with fair water and Sugar, seeth it, and scum it very clean, then
being almost cold, put in your Pippins, so boil them softly together, put in as much rind of
Oranges as you think will tast them, if you have no Oranges take whole Cinamon and Cloves,
so boil them high enough to keep them all the year.

To preserve fruits green.

Take Pippins, Apricocks, Pear-Plums, or Peaches when they be green, scald them in hot water,
and peel them or scrape them, put them into another water not so hot as the first, then boil
them very tender, take the weight of them in Sugar, put to it as much water as will make a
syrup to cover them; then boil them something leisurely, and take them up, then boil the syrup
till it be somewhat thick, that it will batten on a dish side, and when they are cold, put
them together.

To preserve Oranges and Lemons the best way.

Take and boil them as for paste, then take as much sugar as they weigh, and put to it as much
water as will cover them by making a syrrup, then boil them very leisurely till they be clear,
then take them up and boil the syrup till it batten on the dish side, and when they are cold
put them up, &c.

An approved Conserve for a Cough or Consumption of the Lungs.

Take a pound of Elecampane Roots, draw out the pith, and boil them in two waters till they
be soft, when it is cold put to it the like quantity of the pap of roasted Pippins, and three
times their weight of brown sugar-candy beaten to powder, stamp these in a Mortar to a Conserve,
whereof take every morning fasting as much as a Walnut for a week or fortnight together, and
afterwards but three times a week. Approved.

To make conserve of Any of these Fruits.

When you have boiled your paste as followeth ready to fashion on the Pie-plate, put it up into
Gallipots, and never dry it, and this is all the difference between Conserves. And so you may
make Conserves of any Fruits, this is for all hard Fruits, as Quinces, Pippins, Oranges and Lemons.

To dry any Fruits after they are preserved, to or Candy them.

Take Pippins, Pears or Plums, and wash them out in warm water from the syrup they are preserved
in, strew them over with searsed Sugar, as you would do flower upon fish to fry them; set them
in a broad earthen Pan, that they may lie one by one; then set them in a warm Oven or Stove
to dry. If you will candy them withall, you must strew on Sugar three or four times in the drying.

To preserve Artichokes young, green Walnuts and Lemons, and the Elecampane-Roots, or any bitter
thing.

Take any of these, and boil them tender, and shift them in their boyling six or seven times
to take away their bitterness out of one hot water into another, then put a quart of Salt unto
them, then take them up and dry them with a fair cloth, then put them into as much clarified
Sugar as will cover them, then let them boil a walm or two, and so let them stand soaking in
the Sugar till the next morning, then take them up and boil the Sugar a little higher by it
self, and when they are cold put them up.

Let your green Walnuts be prickt full of holes with a great pin, and let them not be long in
one water, for that will make them look black; being boiled tender, stick two or three Cloves
in each of them.

Set your Elecampane-Roots, being clean scraped, and shifted in their boilings a dozen times,
then dry them in a fair cloth, and so boil them as is above written, take half so much more
than it doth weigh, because it is bitter, &c.

To preserve Quinces white or red.

Take the Quinces, and coar them, and pare them, those that you will have white, put them into
a pail of water two or three hours, then take as much Sugar as they weigh, put to it as much
water as will make a Syrup to cover them, then boil your Syrup a little while, then put your
Quinces in, and boil them as fast as you can, till they be tender and clear, then take them
up, and boil the Syrup a little higher by it self, and being cold put them up. And if you will
have them red, put them raw into Sugar, and boil them leisurely close covered till they be
red and put them not into cold water.

To preserve Grapes.

Take the Clusters, and stone them as you do Barberries, then take a little more Sugar than
they weigh, put to it as much Apple water as will make a Syrup to cover them, then boil them
as you do Cherries as fast as you can, till the Syrup be thick and being cold pot it, thus
may you preserve Barberries or English Currans, or any kind of Berries.

To preserve Pippins, Apricoks, Pear-Plums and Peaches when they are ripe.

Your Apricoks and Peaches must be stoned & pared, but the Pear-Plums must not be stoned nor
pared. Then take a little more Sugar than they weigh, then take as much Apple water and Sugar
as will make a Syrup for them, then boil them as you do your Pippins, and Pot them as you do
the Pippins likewise, &c.

To preserve Pippins, Apricocks, Pear-Plums, or Peaches green.

Take your Pippins green and quoddle them in fair water, but let the water boil first before
you put them in, & you must shift them in two hot waters before they will be tender, then pull
off the skin from them, and so case them in so much clarified Sugar as will cover them, and
so boil them as fast as you can, keeping them from breaking, then take them up, and boil the
syrup until it be as thick as for Quiddony; then pot them, and pour the syrup into them before
they be cold.

Take your Apricocks and Pear-Plums and boil them tender, then take as much Sugar as they do
weigh, and take as much water as will make the syrup, take your green Peaches before they be
stoned and thrust a pin through them, and then make a strong water of ashes, and cast them
into the hot standing lye to take off the fur from them, then wash them in three or four waters
warm, so then put them into so much clarified Sugar as will candy them; so boil them, and put
them up, &c.

To dry Pippins, or Pears without Sugar.

Take Pippins or Pears and prick them full of holes with a bodkin, & lay them in sweet wort
three or four dayes, then lay them on a sieves bottom, till they be dry in an Oven, but a drying
heat. This you may do to any tender Plum.

To make Syrup of Clove-gilly flowers.

Take a quart of water, half a bushel of Flowers, cut off the whites, and with a sieve sift
away the seeds, bruise them a little; let your water be boiled, and a little cold again, then
put in your Flowers, and let them stand close covered twenty four hours; you may put in but
half the flowers at a time, the strength will come out the better; to that liquor put in four
pound of Sugar, let it lye in all night, next day boil it in a Gallipot, set it in a pot of
water, and there let it boil till all the Sugar be melted and the syrup be pretty thick, then
take it out, and let it stand in that till it be through cold, then glass it.

To make Syrup of Hysop for Colds.

Take a handful of Hysop, of Figs, Raisins, Dates, of each an ounce, of Collipint half an handful,
French Barley one ounce, boil therein three pints of fair water to a quart, strain it and clarifie
it with two whites of Eggs, then put in two pound of fine sugar, and boil it to a syrup.

To make Orange Water.

Take a pottle of the best Maligo Sack, and put in as many of the peels of Oranges as will go
in, cut the white clean off, let them steep twenty four hours; still them in a glass still,
and let the water run into the Receiver upon fine Sugar-candy; you may still it in an ordinary
Still.

To dry Cherries.

Take a pound of sugar, dissolve it in thin fair water, when it is boiled a little while, put
in your Cherries after they are stoned, four pound to one pound of Sugar, let them lye in the
Sugar three dayes, then take them out of the syrup and lay them on sieves one by one, and set
them before the Sun upon stools, turn them every day, else they will mould; when they look
of a dark red colour, and are dry then put them up. And so you may do any manner of Fruit.
In the Sun is the best drying of them, put into the syrup some juyce of Rasps.

To make juyce of Liquorish.

Take English Liquorish, and stamp it very clean, bruise it with a hammer, and cut it in peices;
to a pound of Liquorish thus bruised, put a quart of Hysop water, let them soak together in
an earthen pot a day and a night, then pull the Liquorish into small pieces, and lay it in
soak again two dayes more; then strain out the Liquorish, and boil the liquor a good while.
Stir it often; then put in half a pound of Sugar-candy, or Loaf-sugar finely beaten, four grains
of Musk, as much Ambergreece, bruise them small with a little Sugar; then boil them together
till it be good & thick, still have care you burn it not; then put it out in glass plates,
and make it into round rolls, and set it in a drying place till it be stiff, that you may work
it into rolls to be cut as big as Barley corns, and so lay them on a place again: If it be
needful strew on the place again a little Sugar to prevent thickning; so dry them still if
there be need and if they should be too dry, the heat of the fire will soften them again.

A Perfume for Cloths, Gloves.

Take of Linet two grains, of Musk three, of Ambergreece four, and the oyl of Bems a pretty
quantity; grinde them all upon a Marble stone fit for that purpose; then with a brush or sponge
rake them over, and it will sweeten them very well; your Gloves or Jerkins must first be washed
in red Rose-water, and when they are almost dry, stretch them forth smooth, and lay on the
Perfumes.

To dry Apricocks.

First stone them, then weigh them, take the weight of them in double refined Sugar, make the
syrup with so much water as will wet them, and boil it up so high, that a drop being droped
on a Plate it will slip clean off, when it is cold, put in your Apricocks being pared, whilst
your Syrup is hot, but it must not be taken off the fire before you put them in, then turn
them in the syrup often, then let them stand 3 quarters of an hour, then take them out of the
syrup, and tie them up in Tiffanies, one in a tiffany or more, as they be in bigness, and whilst
you are tying them up, set the syrup on the fire to heat, but not to boil, then put your Apricocks
into the syrup, and set them on a quick fire, and let them boil, as fast as you can, skim them
clean, and when they look clear take them from the fire, and let them lie in the syrup till
the next day, then set them on the fire to heat, but not to boil; then set them by till the
next day, and lay them upon a clean Sieve to drain, and when they are well drained, take them
out of the Tiffanies, and so dry them in a Stove, or better in the Sun with Glasses over them,
to keep them from the dust.

To make Quinces for Pies.

Wipe the Quinces, and put them into a little vessel of swall Beer when it hath done working;
stop them close that no air can get in, and this will keep them fair all the year and good.

The best way to break sweet Powder.

Take of Orrice one pound, Calamus a quarter of a pound, Benjamin one half pound, Storax half
a pound, Civet a quarter of an ounce, Cloves a quarter of a pound, Musk one half ounce, Oyl
of Orange flowers one ounce, Lignum Aloes one ounce, Rosewood a quarter of a pound, Ambergreece
a quarter of an ounces. To every pound of Roses put a pound of powder; the bag must be of Taffity,
or else the powder will run through.

To make excellent Perfumes.

Take a quarter of a pound of Damask Rose-buds cut clean from the Whites, stamp them very small,
put to them a good spoonful of Damask Rose-water, so let them stand close stoopped all night,
then take one ounce and a quarter of Benjamin finely beaten, and also searsed, (if you will)
twenty grains of Civit, and ten grains of Musk; mingle them well together, then make it up
in little Cakes between Rose leaves, and dry them between sheets of Paper.

To make Conserve of Roses boiled.

Take a quart of red Rose-water, a quart of fair water, boil in the Water a pound of red Rose-leaves,
the whites cut off, the leaves must be boiled very tender; then take three pound of Sugar,
and put to it a pound at a time, and let it boil a little between every pound, so put it up
in your pots.

To make Conserves of Roses unboiled.

Take a pound of red Rose leaves, the whites cut off, stamp them very fine, take a pound of
Sugar, and beat in with the Roses, and put it in a pot, and cover it with leather, and set
it in a cool place.

To make a very good Pomatum.

Take the Fat of a young Dog one pound, it must be killed well that the blood settle not into
the fat, then let the outer skin be taken off before it be opened, lest any of the hair come
to the fat, then take all the fat from the inside, and as soon as you take it off fling it
into Conduit water, and if you see the second skin be clear, peel it and water it with the
other: be sure it cools not out of the water: you must not let any of the flesh remain on it,
for then the Pomatum will not keep. To one pound of this fat take two pound of Lambs caule,
and put it to the other in the water and when you see it is cold, drain it from the water in
a Napkin, and break it in little peices with your fingers, and take out all the little veins;
then take eight ounces of Oyl of Tartar, and put in that first, stiring it well together, then
put it into a Gallon of Conduit water, and let it stand till night; shift this with so much
Oyl and Water, morning and evening seven dayes together, and be sure you shift it constantly;
and the day before you mean to melt it wring it hard by a little at a time, and be sure the
Oyl and water be all out of it, wring the water well out of it with a Napkin every time you
shift it; then put in three pints of Rose-water; let it stand close covered twelve hours, then
wring out that, and put it in a pint of fresh Rose-water into a high Gallipot with the Fæces;
then tie it close up, and set it in a pot of water, and let it boil two hours then take it
out, and strain it into an earthen Pan, let it stand till it be cold; then cut a hole in it,
and let out the water, then scrape away the bottom, and dry it with a cloth, and dry the pan,
melt it in a Chafing-dish of Coales, or in the Gallipots; beat it so long till it look very
white and shining; then with your hand fling it in fine Cakes upon white paper, and let it
lye till it be cold, then put it into Gallipots. This will be very good for two or three years.

To make Raisin Wine.

Take two pound of Raisins of the Sun shred, a pound of good powdered Sugar, the juice of two
Lemons, one pill, put these into an earthen Pot with a top, then take two gallons of water,
let it boil half an hour, then take it hot from the fire, and put it into the pot, and cover
it close for three or four dayes, stirring it twice a day, being strained put it into bottles,
and stop it more close, in a fortnight or three weeks it may be drunk; you may put in Clove
Gilly flowers, or Cowslips, as the time of the year is when you make it; and when you have
drawn this from the Raisins, and bottled it up, heat two quarts of water more, put it to the
ingredients, and let it stand as aforesaid. This will be good, but smaller than the other,
the water must be boiled as the other.

To make Rasberry Wine.

Take a Gallon of good Rhenish Wine, put into it as much Rasberries very ripe as will make it
strong, put it in an earthen pot, and let it stand two dayes, then pour your Wine from your
Rasberries, and put into every bottle two ounces of Sugar, stop it up and keep it by you.

The best way to preserve Cherries.

Take the best Cherries you can get, and cut the stalks something short, then for every pound
of these Cherries take two pound of other Cherries, and put them of their stalks and stones,
put to them ten spoonfuls of fair water, and then set them on the fire to boil very fast till
you see that the colour of the syrup be like pale Claret wine, then take it off the fire, and
drain them from the Cherries into a Pan to preserve in. Take to every pound of Cherries a quarter
of Sugar, of which take half, and dissolve it with the Cherry water drained from the Cherries,
and keep them boiling very fast till they will gelly in a spoon, and as you see the syrup thin,
take off the Sugar that you kept finely beaten, and put it to the Cherries in the boiling,
the faster they boil, the better they will be preserved, and let them stand in a Pan till they
be almost cold.

A Tincture of Ambergreece.

Take Ambergreece one ounce, Musk two drams, spirit of Wine half a pint, or as much as will
cover the ingredients two or three fingers breadth, put all into a glass, stop it close with
a Cork and Bladder; set it in Horse dung ten or twelve days, then pour off gently the Spirit
of Wine, and keep it in a Glass close stopt, then put more spirit of Wine on the Ambergreece,
and do as before, then pour it off, after all this the Ambergreece will serve for ordinary
uses. A drop of this will perfume any thing, and in Cordials it is very good.

To make Usquebath the best way.

Take two quarts of the best Aqua vitæ, four ounces of scraped liquorish, and half a pound of
sliced Raisins of the Sun, Anniseeds four ounces, Dates and Figs, of each half a pound, sliced
Nutmeg, Cinnamon, Ginger, of each half an ounce, put these to the Aqua vitæ, stop it very close,
and set it in a cold place ten dayes, stirring it twice a day with a stick, then strain and
sweeten it with Sugar-candy; after it is strained, let it stand till it be clear, then put
into the glass Musk and Ambergreece; two grains is sufficient for this quantity.

To preserve Cherries with a quarter of their weights in Sugar.

Take four pound of Cherries, one pound of Sugar, beat your Sugar and strew a little in the
bottom of your skillet, then pull off the stalk and stones of your Cherries, and cut them cross
the bottom with a knife; let the juyce of the Cherries run upon the Sugar; for there must be
no other liquor but the juyce of the Cherries; cover your Cherries over with one half of your
Sugar, boil them very quick, when they are half boiled, put in the remainder of your sugar,
when they are almost enough, put in the rest of the sugar; you must let them boil till they
part in sunder like Marmalade, stirring them continually; so put them up hot into your Marmalade
glasses.

To make Gelly of Pippins.

Take Pippins, and pare them, and quarter them, and put as much water to them as will cover
them, and let them boil till all the vertue of the Pippins are out; then strain them, and take
to a pint of that liquor a pound of Sugar, and cut long threads of Orange peels, and boil in
it, then take a Lemon, and pare and slice it very thin, and boil it in your liquor a little
thin, take them out, and lay them in the bottom of your glass, and when it is boiled to a gelly,
pour it on the Lemons in the glass. You must boil the Oranges in two or three waters before
you boil it in the gelly.

To make Apricock Cakes.

Take the fairest Apricocks you can get, and parboil them very tender, then take off the Pulp
and their weight of Sugar, and boil the Sugar and Apricocks together very fast, stir them ever
lest they burn to, and when you can see the bottom of the Skillet it is enough; then put then
into Cards sowed round, and dust them with fine Sugar, and when they are cold stone them, then
turn them, and fill them up with some more of the same stuff; but you must let them stand for
three or four dayes before you turn them off the first place; and when you find they begin
to candy, take them out of the Cards, dust them with Sugar again; so do ever when you turn them.

To preserve Barberries the best way.

First stone them and weigh them, half a pound of sugar to half a pound of them, then pair them
and slice them into that liquor, take the weight of it in sugar; then take as many Rasberries
as will colour it, and strain them into the liquor, then put in the sugar, boil it as fast
as you can, then skim it till it be very clear, then put in your Barberries, and that sugar
you weighed, and so let them boil till the skin be fully risen up, then take them off, and
skin them very clean, and put them up.

To make Lozenges of Red Roses.

Boil your sugar to sugar again, then put in your Red Roses being finely beaten and made moist
with the juyce of a Lemmon, let it not boil after the Roses are in but pour it upon a Pye-plate,
and cut it into what form you please.

To make Chips of Quinces.

First scald them very well, then slice them into a Dish, and pour a Candy Syrup to them scalding
hot, and let them stand all night, then lay them on plates, and searse sugar on them, and turn
them every day, and scrape more sugar on them till they be dry. If you would have them look
clear, heat them in syrup, but not to boil.

To make Sugar of Wormwood, Mint, Anniseed, or any other of that kinde.

Take double refined Sugar, and do but wet it in fair water, or Rose-water and boil it to a
Candy, when it is almost boiled take it off, and stir it till it be cold; then drop in three
or four drops of the Oyls of whatsoever you will make, and stir it well; then drop it on a
board, being before fitted with Sugar.

To make Syrup of Lemons or Citrons.

Pare off all the rindes, then slice your Lemmons very thin, and lay a lare of Sugar finely
beaten, and a lare of Lemons in a silver Bason till you have filled it, or as much as you mean
to make, & so let it stand all night; the next day pour off the liquor that runs from it into
a glass through a Tiffany strainer. Be sure you put sugar enough to them at the first, and
it will keep a year good, if it be set up well.

To make Jambals of Apricocks or Quinces.

Take Apricocks or Quinces, and quoddle them tender, then take their Pulp and dry it in a dish
over a Chafing-dish of coals, and set it in a Stove for a day or two; then beat it in a stone
Mortar, putting in as much Sugar as will make a stiff paste; then colour it with Saunders,
Cochinele or blew Starch, and make it up in what colour you please, rowl them with battle doors
into long pieces, and tye them up in knots, and so dry them.

To make Cherry-water.

Take nine pound of Cherries, pull out the stones and stalks, break them with you hand, and
put them into nine pints of Claret Wine, take nine ounces of Cinamon, and three Nutmegs, bruise
them, and put them into this, then take of Rosemary and Balm, of each half a handful, of sweet
Marjoram a quarter of a handful; put all these with the aforenamed into an earthen pot well
leaded; so let them stand to infuse twenty four hours; so distil it in a Limbeck, keeping the
strongest water by it self, put some sugar finely beaten into your glasses. If your first water
be too strong, put some of the second to it as you use it. If you please you may tye some Musk
and Ambergreese, in a rag, and hang it by a thread in your glass.

To make Orange Cakes.

Take Oranges and pare them as thin as you can, then take out the meats clean, and put them
in water; let them lye about an hour, shift the water, and boil them very tender in three or
four waters, then put them up, and dry them on a cloath: mince them as small as you can, then
put them into a dish, and squeeze all the juyce of the meat into them, and let them stand till
the next day, take to every pound of these a pound and a quarter of double refined Sugar. Boil
it with a spoonful of water at the bottom to keep it from burning till it be Sugar again; then
put in your Oranges and let them stand and dry on the fire, but not boil; then put them on
glass plates, and put them in a stove, the next day make them into Cakes, and so fry them as
fast as you can.

To preserve Oranges the French way.

Take twelve of the fairest Oranges and best coloured, and if you can get them with smooth skins
they are the better, and lay them in Conduit water, six dayes and nights, shifting them into
fresh water morning and evening; then boil them very tender, and with a knife pare them very
thin, rub them with salt, when you have so done, core them with a coring Iron, taking out the
meat and seeds; then rub them with a dry cloth till they be clean, add to every pound of Oranges
a pound and half of Sugar, and to a pound of sugar a pint of water; then mingle your, sugar
and water well together in a large skillet or pan; beat the whites of three Eggs and put that
into it, then set it on the fire, and let it boil till it rises, and strain it through a Napkin;
then set it on the fire again, and let it boil till the syrup be thick, then put in your Oranges,
and make them seethe as fast as you can, now and then putting in a piece of fine loaf Sugar
the bigness of a Walnut, when they have boiled near an hour, put into them a pint of Apple
water; then boil them apace, and add half a pint of white Wine, this should be put in before
the Apple-water, when your Oranges are very clear, & your Syrup is so thick that it will gelly,
(which you may know by setting some to cool in a spoon) when they are ready to be taken off
from the fire; then put in the juyce of eight Lemons warm into them, then put them into an
earthen pan, and so let them stand till they be cold, then put every Orange in a several glass
or pot; if you do but six Oranges at a time it is the better.

To preserve green Plums.

The greatest Wheaten Plum is the best, which will be ripe in the midst of July, gather them
about that time, or later, as they grow in bigness, but you must not suffer them to turn yellow,
for then they never be of good colour; being gathered, lay them in water for the space of twelve
hours, and when you gather them, wipe them with a clean linnen cloth, and cut off a little
of the stalks of every one, then set two skillets of water on the fire, and when one is scalding
hot put in your Plums, and take them from the fire, and cover them, and let them rest for the
space of a quarter of an hour; then take them up, and when your other skillet of water doth
boil, put them into it; let them but stay in it a very little while, and so let the other skillet
of water, wherein they were first boiled, be set to the fire again, and make it to boil, and
put in your Plums as before, and then you shall see them rivet over, and yet your Plums very
whole; then while they be hot, you must with your knife scrape away the riveting; then take
to every pound of Plums a pound and two ounces of Sugar finely beaten, then set a pan with
a little fair water on the fire, and when it boils, put in your Plums, and let them settle
half a quarter of an hour till you see the colour wax green, then set them off the fire a quarter
of an hour, and take a handful of Sugar that is weighed, and strow it in the bottom of the
pan wherein you will preserve, and so put in your Plums one by one, drawing the liquor from
them, and cast the rest of your Sugar on them; then set the pan on a moderate fire, letting
them boil continually but very softly, and in three quarters of an hour they will be ready,
as you may perceive by the greenness of your Plums, and thickness of your syrup, which if they
be boiled enough, will gelly when it is cold; then take up your Plums, and put them into a
Gallipot, but boil your Syrup a little longer, then strain it into some vessel, and being blood-warm,
pour it upon your plums, but stop not the pot before they be cold. Note also you must preserve
them in such a pan, as they may lye one by another, and turn of themselves; and when they have
been five or six days in the syrup, that the syrup grow thin, you may boil it again with a
little Sugar, but put it not to your Plums till they be cold. They must have three scaldings,
and one boiling.

To dry Plums.

Take three quarters of a pound of Sugar to a pound of black Pear-plums, or Damsins, slit the
Plums in the crest, lay a lay of Sugar with a lay of Plums, and let them stand all night; if
you stone the Plums, fill up the place with sugar, then boil them gently till they be very
tender, without breaking the skins, take them into an earthen or silver dish, and boil your
syrup afterwards for a gelly, then pour it on your Plums scalding hot, and let them stand two
or three dayes, then let them be put to the Oven after you draw your bread, so often untill
your syrup be dryed up, and when you think they are almost dry, lay them in a sieve, and pour
some scalding water on them, which will run through the sieve, and set them in an Oven afterwards
to dry.

To preserve Cherries the best way, bigger than they grow naturally, &c.

Take a pound of the smallest Cherries, and boil them tender in a pint of fair water, then strain
the liquor from the substance, then take two pound of good Cherries, and put them into a preserving-pan
with a lay of Cherries, and a lay of sugar: then pour the syrup of the other Cherries about
them, and so let them boil as fast as you can with a quick fire, that the syrup may boil over
them, and when your syrup is thick and of good colour, then take them up, and let them stand
a cooling by partitions one from another, and being cold you may pot them up.

To preserve Damsins, red Plums or black.

Take your Plums newly gathered, and take a little more sugar than they do weigh, then put to
it as much water as will cover them; then boil your syrup a little while, and so let it cool,
then put in your Damsins or Plums, then boil them leasurely in a pot of seething water till
they be tender, then being almost cold pot them up.

To dry Pippins or Pears.

Take your Pippins, Pears, Apricocks, pare them, and lay them in a broad earthen pan one by
one, and so rowl them in searsed Sugar as you flower fried fish; put them in an Oven as hot
as for manchet, and so take them out, and turn them as long as the Oven is hot; when the Oven
is of a drying heat, lay them upon a Paper, and dry them on the bottom of a Sieve; so you may
do the least Plum that is.

To dry Pippins or Pears another way.

Take Pippins or Pears, and lay them in an earthen Pan one by one, and when they be baked plump
and not broken, then take them out, and lay them upon a Paper, then lay them on a Sieves bottom,
and dry them as you did before.

To dry Apricocks tender.

Take the ripest of the Apricoks, pare them, put them into a silver or earthen skillet, and
to a pound of Apricocks put three quarters of a pound of Sugar, set your Apricocks over your
fire; stirring them till they come to a pulp, and set the Sugar in another skillet by boiling
it up to a good height, then take all the Apricocks, and stir them round till they be well
mingled, then let it stand till it be something cold and thick, then put it into cards, being
cut of the fashion of an Apricock, and laid upon glass plates; fill the Cards half full, then
set them in your stove, but when you find they are so dry that they are ready to turn, then
provide as much of your pulp as you had before, and so put to every one a stove, when they
are turned, (which you must have laid before) & pour the rest of the Pulp upon them, so set
them into your stove, turning them till they be dry.

To dry Plums.

Take a pound of Sugar to a pound of Plums, pare them, scald your Plums, then lay your Plums
upon a sieve till the water be drained from them, boil your Sugar to a Candy height, and then
put your Plums in whilst your syrup is hot, so warm them every morning for a week, then take
them out, and put them into your stove and dry them.

To dry Apricocks.

Take your Apricocks, pare and stone them, then weigh half a pound of sugar to a pound of Apricocks,
then take half that sugar, and make a thin syrup, and when it boileth, put in the Apricocks;
then scald them in that syrup; then take them off the fire, and let them stand all night in
that syrup, in the morning take them out of that syrup, and make another syrup with the other
half of the sugar, then put them in, and preserve them till they look clear; but be sure you
do not do them so much as those you keep preserved without drying; then take them out of that
syrup, and lay them on a piece of Plate till they be cold; then take a skillet of fair water,
and when the water boils take your Apricocks one after another in a spoon, and dip them in
the water first on one side, and then on the other; not letting them go out of the spoon: you
must do it very quick, then put them on a piece of plate, and dry them in a Stove, turning
them every day; you must be sure that your Stove or Cupboard where you dry them, the heat of
it be renewed three times a day with a temperate drying heat untill they be something dry,
then afterwards turn once as you see cause.

Conserves of Violets the Italian manner.

Take the leaves of blue Violets separated from their stalks and greens, beat them very well
in a stone Mortar, with twice their weight of Sugar, and reserve them for your use in a glass
vessel.

The Vertue.

The heat of Choller it doth mitigate extinguisheth thirst, asswageth the belly, and helpeth
the Throat of hot hurts, sharp droppings and driness, and procureth rest: It will keep one year.

Conserves of red Roses the Italian manner.

Take fresh red Roses not quite ripe, beat them in a stone Mortar, mix them with double their
weight of Sugar, and put them in a glass close stopped, being not full, let them remain before
you use them three months, stirring of them once a day.

The Vertues.

The Stomach, Heart, and Bowels it cooleth, and hindreth vapours, the spitting of blood and
corruption for the most part (being cold) it helpeth. It will keep many years.

Conserve of Borage Flowers after the Italian manner.

Take fresh Borage flowers cleansed well from their heads four ounces, fine sugar twelve ounces,
beat them well together in a stone Mortar, and keep them in a vessel well placed.

The vertues are the same with Bugloss flowers.

Conserve of Rosemary flowers after the Italian manner.

Take new Rosemary Flowers one pound, of white sugar one pound; so beat them together in a Marble
Mortar with a wooden Pestle, keep it in a gallipot, or vessel of earth well glassed, or in
one of hard stone. It may be preserved for one year or two.

The Vertues.

It comforteth the heart, the stomach, the brain, and all the nervous part of the Body.

Conserve of Betony after the Italian way.

Betony new and tender one pound, the best sugar three pound, beat them very small in a stone
Mortar, let the sugar be boiled with two pound of Betony-water to the consistance of a syrup,
at length mix them together by little and little over a small fire, and make a Conserve, which
keep in a glass.

The Vertues.

It helpeth the cold pains of the head, purgeth the stomach and womb: it helpeth stoniness of
the Reins, and furthereth Conception.

Conserve of Sage.

Take new flowers of Sage one pound, sugar one pound; so beat them together very small in a
Marble Mortar, put them in a vessel well glassed and steeped, set them in the Sun, stir them
daily; it will last one year.

The Vertues.

It is good in all cold hurts of the brain, it refresheth the Stomach, it openeth obstructions
and takes away superfluous and hurtfull humours from the stomach.

Conserve of flowers of Lavender.

Take the flowers being new, so many as you please, and beat them with three times their weight
of white Sugar, after the same manner as Rosemary flowers; they will keep one year.

The Vertues.

The Brain, the Stomach, Liver, Spleen, and Womb it maketh warm, and is good in the Suffocation
of the Womb, hardness of the spleen and for the Apoplexy.

Conserve of Marjoram.

The Conserve is prepared as Betony, it keepeth a year.

The Vertues.

It is good against the coldness, moistness of the Brain, and Stomach, and it strengthneth the
Vital spirits.

Conserve of Peony after the Italian way.

In the Spring take of the Flowers fresh half a pound, Sugar one pound, beat them together in
a good stone Mortar, then put them in a glass, and set them in the sun for three months, stirring
them daily with a wooden Spathula.

The Vertues.

It is good against the Falling-sickness, and giddiness in the head, it cleanseth the Reins
and Bladder.

Touching Candies, as followeth.

To Candy Rosemary-flowers in the Sun.

Take Gum-Dragon, and steep it in Rose-water, then take the Rosemary flowers, good coloured,
and well pickt, and wet them in the water that your Gum dragon is steeped in, then take them
out, and lay them upon a paper, and strew fine Sugar over them; this do in the hot sun, turning
them, and strewing Sugar on them, till they are candied, and so keep them for your use.

To Make Sugar of Roses.

Take the deepest coloured red Roses, pick them, cut off the white bottoms, and dry your red
leaves in an Oven, till they be as dry as possible, then beat them to powder and searse them,
then take half a pound of Sugar beaten fine, put it into your pan with as much fair water as
will wet it; then set it in a chaffing-dish of coals, and let it boil till it be sugar again,
then put as much powder of Roses as will make it look very red stir them well together, and
when it is almost cold, put it into pailes, and when it is throughly cold, take them off, and
put them in boxes.

To Candy Pippins, Pears, Apricocks or Plums.

Take of these fruits being pared, and strew sugar upon them, as you do flower upon frying fish;
then lay them on a board in a Pewter dish, so put them into an Oven as hot as for Manchet;
as the liquor comes from them, pour forth, turn them, and strew more Sugar on them, and sprinkle
Rose-water on them, thus turning and sugaring of them three or four times, till they be almost
dry, then lay them on a Lettice Wire, or on the bottom of a sieve in a warm Oven, after the
bread is drawn out, till they be full dry: so you may keep them all the year.

To Candy or clear Rockcandy flowers.

Take spices, and boil them in a syrup of Sugar, then put in the flowers, boil them till they
be stiff, when you spread them on a Paper, lay them on round Wires in an earthen pan, then
take as much hard Sugar as will fill your pan, and as much water as will melt the sugar, that
is half a pint to every pound; then beat a dozen spoonfuls of fair water, and the white of
an Egg in a bason, with a birchen rod till it come to a Froth, when your sugar is melted and
boiled, put the froth of the Egg in the hot syrup, and as it riseth, drop in a little cold
water; so let it boil a little while, then scum it, then boil it to a Candy height, that is,
when you may draw it in small threads between your finger and your thumb: then pour forth all
your syrup that will run from it in your pan, then set it a drying one hour or two, which done
pick up the wiers, and take off the flowers, and lay them on papers, and so dry them.

To Candy Spanish Flowers.

Take the Blossoms of divers sorts of flowers, and make a syrup of water and sugar, and boil
it very thick, then put in your Blossoms, and stir them in their boiling, till it turn to sugar
again, then stir them with the back of a spoon, till the Sugar fall from it; so may you keep
them for Sallets all the year.

To Candy Grapes, Cherries or Barberries.

Take of these fruits, and strew fine sifted sugar on them, as you do flower on frying fish,
lay them on a lattice of wier in a deep earthen pan, and put them into an Oven as hot as for
Manchet; then take them out, and turn them and sugar them again, and sprinkle a little Rose-water
on them, pour the syrup forth as it comes from them, thus turning and sugaring them till they
be almost dry, then take them out of the earthen pan, and lay them on a lattice of wire, upon
two billets of wood in a warm Oven, after the bread is drawn, till they be dry and well candied.

To Candy Suckets of Oranges, Lemons, Citrons, and Angelica.

Take, and boil them in fair water tender, and shift them in three boilings, six or seven times,
to take away their bitterness, then put them into as much Sugar as will cover them, and so
let them boil a walm or two, then take them out, and dry them in a warm Oven as hot as Manchet,
and being dry boil the Sugar to a Candy height, and so cast your Oranges into the hot Sugar,
and take them out again suddenly, and then lay them upon a lattice of Wyer or the bottom of
a Sieve in a warm Oven after the bread is drawn, still warming the Oven till it be dry, and
they will be well candied.

To Candy the Orange Roots.

Take the Orange Roots being well and tenderly boiled, petch them and peel them, and wash them
out of two or three waters; then dry them well with a fair cloth; then pot them together two
or three in a knot, then put them into as much clarified Sugar as will cover them, and so let
them boil leisurely, turning them well until you see the Sugar drunk up into the Root; then
shake them in the Bason to sunder the knits; and when they wax dry, take them up suddenly,
and lay them on sheets of white Paper, and so dry them before the fire an hour or two, and
they will be candied.

Candy Orange Peels after the Italian way.

Take Orange Peels so often steeped in cold water, as you think convenient for their bitterness,
then dry them gently, and candy them with some convenient syrup made with Sugar, some that
are more grown, take away that spongious white under the yellow peels, others do both together.

The Vertues.

They corroborate the Stomach and Heart.

To Candy Citrons after the Spanish way.

Take Citron Peels so large as you please the inner part being taken away, let them be steeped
in a clear lye of water and ashes for nine dayes, and shift them the fifth day, afterward wash
them in fair water, till the bitterness be taken away, and that they grow sweet, then let them
be boiled in fair water till they grow soft, the watry part being taken away, let them be steeped
in a vessel of stone twenty four hours, with a Julip, made of white Sugar and three parts water;
after let them be boiled upon a gentle fire, to candiness of Penidies or Paste; being taken
out of that, let them be put into a glass vessel, one by one, with the julip of Roses made
somewhat hard or with sugar; some do add Amber and Musk to them.

The Vertues.

It comforteth the Stomach and Heart, it helpeth concoction.

Candied Cherries, the Italian way.

Take Cherries before they are full ripe, the stones taken out, put clarified sugar boiled to
a height, then pour it on them.

Chicory Roots candied the Italian way.

Take Chicory new and green, the outward Bark being taken away, then before they be candied,
let them be cut in several parts, and gently boiled, that no bitterness may remain, then set
them in the air placed severally, and put sugar to them boiled to a height.

Touching Marmalets, and Quiddony, as followeth.

To make Marmalet of Damsins.

Take two quarts of Damsins that be through ripe, and pare off the skin of three pints of them,
then put them into an earthen Pipkin, those with the skins undermost then set the Pipkin into
a pot of seething water, and let the water seethe apace untill the Damsins be tender. Cover
the Pipkin close, that no water gets into them, and when they are tender, put them out into
an earthen pan, and take out all the stones and skins, and weigh them, and take the weight
with hard sugar, then break the sugar fine, and put it into the Damsins, then set it on the
fire, and make it boil apace till it will come from the bottome of the skillet, then take it
up, and put it into a glass but scum it clear in the boiling.

To make white Marmalet of Quinces.

Take unpared Quinces, and boil them whole in fair water, peel them and take all the pap from
the core, to every pound thereof add three quarters of a pound of Sugar, boil it well till
it comes well from the pans bottom, then put it into boxes.

To make Marmalet of any tender Plum.

Take your Plums, & boil them between two dishes on a Chafing dish of coals, then strain it,
and take as much Sugar as the Pulp doth weigh, and put to it as much Rose-water, and fair water
as will melt it, that is, half a pint of water to a pound of Sugar, and so boil it to a Candy
height, then put the pulp into hot sugar, with the pap of a roasted apple. In like manner you
must put roasted apples to make Past Royal of it, or else it will be tough in the drying.

To make Orange Marmalet.

Take Oranges, pare them as thin as you can; boil them in four several waters, let them be very
soft before you take them out, then take two quarts of Spring-water, put thereto twenty Pippins
pared, quartered, and coared, let them boil till all the vertue be out, take heed they do not
lose the colour; then strain them, put to every pint of water a pound of sugar, boil it almost
to a Candy-height, then take out all the meat out of the Oranges, slice the peel in long slits
as thin as you can, then put in your peel with the juyce of two Lemmons, and one half Orange,
then boil it to a Candy.

To make Quiddony of Pippins of Ruby or any Amber colour.

Take Pippins, and cut them in quarters, and pare them, and boil them with as much fair water
as will cover them, till they be tender, and sunk into the water, then strain all the liquor
from the Pulp, then take a pint of that liquor, and half a pound of Sugar, and boil it till
it be a quaking gelly on the back of a spoon; so then pour it on your moulds, being taken out
of fair water; then being cold turn them on a wet trencher, and so slide them into the boxes,
and if you would have it ruddy colour, then boil it leasurely close covered, till it be as
red as Claret Wine, so may you conceive, the difference is in the boiling of it; remember to
boil your Quinces in Apple-water as you do your Plums.

To make Quiddony of all kind of Plums.

Take your Apple-water, and boil the Plums in it till it be red as Claret Wine, and when you
have made it strong of the Plums, put to every pint half a pound of Sugar, and so boil it till
a drop of it hang on the back of a spoon like a quaking gelly. If you will have it of an Amber
colour, then boil it with a quick fire, that is all the difference of the colouring of it.

To make Marmalet of Oranges, or Orange Cakes, &c.

Take the yellowest and fairest Oranges, and water them three days, shifting the water twice
a day, pare them as thin as you possible can, boil them in a water changed five or six times,
until the bitterness of the Orange be boiled out, those that you preserve must be cut in halves,
but those for Marmalet must be boiled whole, let them be very tender, and slice them very thin
on a Trencher, taking out the seeds and long strings, and with a Knife make it as fine as the
Pap of an Apple; then weigh your Pap of Oranges, and to a pound of it, take a pound and a half
of sugar; then you must have Pippins boiled ready in a skillet of fair water, and take the
pap of them made fine on a Trencher, and the strings taken out, (but take not half so much
Pippins as Oranges) then take the weight of it in sugar, and mix it both together in a Silver
or Earthen Dish; and set it on the coals to dry the water out of it, (as you do with Quince
Marmalet) when your sugar is Candy height, put in your stuff, and boil it till you think it
stiff enough, stirring it continually: if you please you may put a little Musk in it.

Touching Pastrey and Pasties.

To make Sugar Cakes.

Take three pound of the finest Wheat Flower, one pound of fine Sugar, Cloves, and Mace of each
one ounce finely searsed, two pound of butter, a little Rose-water, knead and mould this very
well together, melt your butter as you put it in; then mould it with your hand forth upon a
board, cut them round with a glass, then lay them on papers, and set them in an Oven, be sure
your Oven be not too hot, so let them stand till they be coloured enough.

To make clear Cakes of Plums.

Take Plums of any sorts, Raspiss are the best, put them in a stone Jug, into a pot of seething
water, and when they are dissolved, strain them together through a fair cloth, and take to
a pint of that a pound of sugar, put to as much color as will melt it, and boil to a Candy
height; boil the liquor likewise in another Posnet, then put them seething hot together, and
so boil a little while stirring them together, then put them into glasses, and set them in
an Oven or Stove in a drying heat, let them stand so two or three weeks, and never be cold,
removing them from one warm place to another, they will turn in a week; beware you set them
not too hot, for they will be tough; so every day turn them till they be dry; they will be
very clear.

To make Paste of Oranges and Lemons.

Take your Oranges well coloured, boil them tender in water, changing them six or seven times
in the boiling, put into the first water one handful of Salt, and then beat them in a wooden
bowl with a wooden Pestle, and then strain them through a piece of Cushion Canvas, then take
somewhat more than the weight of them in Sugar, then boil it, dry and fashion it as you please.

To make Rasberry Cakes.

Take Rasberries, and put them into a Gallipot, cover them close, and set them into a skillet
of water, and let them boil till they are all to mash, then rub them through a strainer of
Cushion Canvas, put the liquor into a silver bason, and set it upon a very quick fire; and
put into it one handful or two of whole Rasberries, according to the quantity of your liquor;
and as you shall like to have seeds in your paste: Thus let it boyl very fast till it be thick;
and continually stir, lest it burn; then take two silver dishes that are of a weight, and put
them into your scales, in the one put the Raspiss stuffe, and in the other double refined Sugar
finely beaten, as much as the weight of Raspiss stuff; then put as much water to the sugar
as will melt it, set it upon the fire, and let it boil till it be very high candied, then take
it from the fire, and put your Raspiss stuff into it; and when your Sugar and Rasberries are
very well mixt together, and the sugar well melted from about the dish, (which if it will not
do from the fire, set it on again) but let it not boil in any case; when it is pretty cool,
lay it by spoonfuls in places, and put it into your stuff, keeping temperate fire to it twice
a day till it be candied that will turn them, joyn two of the pieces together, to make the
cakes the thicker.

To make Paste of Genoa Citrons.

Take Citrons, & boil them in their skins, then scrape all the pulp from the core, strain it
through a piece of Cushion Canvas, take twice the weight of the pulp in Sugar, put to it twice
as much water as will melt it that is half a pint to every pound of Sugar, boil it to a Candy
height; dry the Pulp upon a Chafing-dish of Coales, then put the syrup and the Pulp hot together,
boil it with stirring until it will lye upon a Pye-plate, set it in a warm stone Oven upon
two billets of wood, from the heat of the Oven, all one night, in the morning turn it, and
set it in the like heat again, so turn it every day till it be dry.

To make a French Tart.

Take a quarter of Almonds or thereabouts, and peel them, then beat them in a mortar, take the
white of the breast of a cold Capon, and take so much Lard as twice the quantity of the Capon,
and so much Butter, or rather more, and half a Marrow-bone, and if the bone be little then
all the Marrow, with the juyce of one Lemon; beat them all together in a Mortar very well,
then put in one half pound of loaf sugar grated, then take a good piece of Citron, cut it in
small pieces, and half a quarter of Pistanius, mingle all these together, take some flour,
and the yolks of two or three Eggs, and some sweet Butter, and work it with cold water.

To make Cakes of Pear Plums.

Take a pound of the clear, or the Pulp, a pound of Sugar, and boil it to a Sugar again, then
break it as small as you can, and put in the clear, when your Sugar is melted in it, and almost
cold, put it in glass plates, and set them into your stove as fast as you can, with coals under
them, and so twice a day whilst they be dry enough to cut; if you make them of the clear, you
must make paste of Apples to lay upon them, you must scald them, and beat them very well, and
so use them as you do your Plums, and then you may put them into what fashion you please.

To make Cakes, viz.

Take a pound of Sugar finely beaten, four yolks of Eggs, two whites, one half pound of Butter
washt in Rose-water, six spoonfuls of sweet Cream warmed, one pound of Currans well pickt,
as much flower as will make it up, mingle them well together, make them into Cakes, bake them
in an Oven; almost as hot as for Manchet, half an hour will bake them.

To make a Cake the way of the Royal Princess, the Lady Elizabeth, daughter to King Charles
the first.

Take half a peck of Flower, half a pint of Rose-water, a pint of Ale-yeast, a pint of Cream,
boil it, a pound and an half of Butter, six Eggs, (leave out the whites) four pound of Currans,
one half pound of Sugar, one Nutmeg, and a little Salt, work it very well, and let it stand
half an hour by the fire, and then work it again, and then make it up, and let it stand an
hour and a half, in the Oven; let not your Oven be too hot.

To make Paste of Apricocks.

Take your Apricock, & pare them, and stone them, then boil them tender betwixt two dishes on
a Chafing-dish of coals; then being cold, lay it forth on a white sheet of paper; then take
as much sugar as it doth weigh, & boil it to a candy height, with as much Rose-water and fair
water as will melt the sugar; then put the pulp into the Sugar, and so let it boil till it
be as thick as for Marmalet, now and then stirring of it; then fashion it upon a Pye-plate
like to half Apricocks, and the next day close the half Apricocks to the other, and when they
are dry, they will be as cleer as Amber, and eat much better than Apricocks itself.

To make Paste of Pippins like leaves, and some like Plums, with their stones, and Stalks in them.

To make Paste of Elecampane roots, an excellent remedy for the Cough of the Lungs.

To make Paste of flowers of the colour of Marble, tasting of natural flowers.

Take every sort of pleasing Flowers, as Violets, Cowslips, Gilly-flowers, Roses or Marigolds,
and beat them in a Mortar, each flower by it self with sugar, till the sugar become the colour
of the flower, then put a little Gum Dragon steept in water into it, and beat it into a perfect
paste; and when you have half a dozen colours, every flower will take of his nature, then rowl
the paste therein, and lay one piece upon another, in mingling sort, so rowl your Paste in
small rowls, as big and as long as your finger, then cut it off the bigness of a small Nut,
overthwart, and so rowl them thin, that you may see a knife through them, so dry them before
the fire till they be dry.

To make Paste of Rasberries or English Currans.

To make Naples Bisket.

Take of the same stuff the Mackaroons are made of, and put to it an ounce of pine-apple-seeds
in a quarter of a pound of stuff, for that is all the difference between the Mackaroons and
the Naples Bisket.

To make Italian Biskets.

Take a quarter of a pound of searsed sugar, and beat it in an Alablaster mortar with the white
of an Egg, and a little Gum Dragon steept in Rose-water, to bring it to a perfect paste, then
mould it up with a little Anniseed and a grain of Musk; then make it up like Dutch-bread, and
bake it on a Pie-plate in a warm Oven till they rise somewhat high and white, take them out,
but handle them not till they be throughly dry and cold.

To make Prince Biskets

Take a pound of searsed sugar, and a pound of fine flower, eight Eggs with two of the reddest
yolks taken out, and so beat together one whole hour, then take you Coffins, and indoice them
over with Butter very thin, then put an ounce of Anniseeds finely dusted, and when you are
ready to fill your Coffins, put in the Anniseeds and so bake it in an Oven as hot as for Manchet.

To make Marchpane to Ice and Gild, and garnish it according to Art.

Take Almonds, and blanch them out of seething water, and beat them till they come to a fine
paste in a stone Mortar, then take fine searsed sugar, and so beat it altogether till it come
to a prefect paste, putting in now and then a spoonful of Rose-water, to keep it from oyling;
then cover your Marchpane with a sheet of paper as big as a Charger, then cut it round by that
Charger, and set an edge about it as about a Tart, then bottom it with Wafers, then bake it
in an Oven, or in a Baking-pan, and when it is hard and dry, take it out of the Oven, and ice
it with Rose-water and Sugar, and the white of an Egg, being as thick as butter, and spread
it over thin with two or three feathers; and then put it into the Oven again, and when you
see it rise high and white, take it out again and garnish it with some pretty conceit, and
stick some long Comfits upright in it, so gild it, then strow Biskets and Carrawayes on it.
If your Marchpane be Oyly in beating, then put to it as much Rose-water as will make it almost
as thin as to ice.

Lozenges

Take Blossoms of Flowers, and beat them in a bowl-dish, and put them in as much clarified Sugar
as may come to the colour of the cover, then boile them with stirring, till it is come to Sugar
again; then beat it fine, and searse it, and so work it up to paste with a little Gum Dragon,
steep it in Rose-water, then print it with your mould, and being dry, keep it up.

To make Walnuts artificial.

Take searsed Sugar, and Cinnamon, of quantity a like, work it up with a little Gum Dragon,
steep it in Rose-water, and print it in a mould made like a Walnut-shell, then take white Sugar
Plates, print it in a mold made like a Walnut kernel, so when they are both dry, close them
up together with a little Gum Dragon betwixt, and they will dry as they lie.

To make artificial Fruits.

Take a Mould made of Alablaster, three yolks, and tye two pieces together, and lay them in
water an hour, and take as much sugar as will fill up your mold, and boil it in a Manus Christi,
then pour it into your mould suddenly, and clap on the lid, round it about with your hand,
and it will be whole and yellow, then colour it with what colour you please, half red, or half
yellow, and you may yellow it with a little Saffron steept in water.

Touching Preserves and Pomanders.

To make an excellent perfume to burn between two Rose leaves.

Take an ounce of Juniper, an ounce of Storax, half a dozen drops of the water of Cloves, six
grains of Musk, a little Gum Dragon steept in water, and beat all this to paste, then roll
it in little pieces as big as you please, then put them betwixt two Rose-leaves, and so dry
them in a dish in an Oven, and being so dried, they will will burn with a most pleasant smell.

To make Pomander.

Take an ounce of Benjamin, an ounce of Storax, and an ounce of Laudanum, heat a Mortar very
hot, and beat all these Gums to a perfect paste; in beating of it, put in six grains of Musk,
four grains of Civet; when you have beaten all this to a fine paste with you hands with Rose-water,
rowl it round betwixt your hands, and make holes in the heads, and so string them while they
be hot.

To make an Ipswich Water.

To make a sweet Smell.

Take the Maste of a sweet Apple-tree, being gathered betwixt the two Lady-dayes, and put to
it a quarter of Damask Rose-water, & dry it in a dish in an Oven; wet in drying two or three
times with Rose-water, then put to it an ounce of Benjamin, an ounce of Storax Calamintæ: these
Gums being beaten to powder, with a few leaves of Roses, then you may put what cost of Smells
you will bestow, as much Civet or Ambergreese, and beat it altogether in a Pomander or a Bracelet.

Touching Wine.

To make Hypocras.

Take four Gallons of Claret Wine, eight ounces of Cinnamon, three Oranges, of Ginger, Cloves,
and Nutmegs a small quantity, Sugar six pound, three sprigs of Rosemary, bruise all the spices
somewhat small, and so put them into the Wine, and keep them close stopped, and often shaked
together a day or two, then let it run through a gelly bag twice or thrice with a quart of
new Milk.

The Lady Thornburghs Syrup of Elders.

Take Elder-berries when they be red, bruise them in a stone Mortar, strain the juyce, and boil
it to a consumption of almost half, scum it very clear, take it off the fire whilest it is
hot, put in sugar to the thickness of a syrup; put it no more on the fire, when it is cold,
put it into Glasses, not filling them to the top, for it will work like Beer.

This cleanseth the stomach and spleen, and taketh away all obstructions of the Liver, by taking
the quantity of a spoonful in a morning, and fasting a short time after it.

To make gelly of Raspis the best way.

Take the Raspis, and set them over the fire in a Posnet, and gather out the thin juyce, the
bottom of the skillet being cooled with fair water, and strain it with a fine strainer, and
when you have as much as you will, then weigh it with Sugar, and boil them till they come to
a Gelly, which you may perceive by drawing your finger on the back of the spoon.

To dry Fox Skins.

Take your shee Fox Skins, nail them upon a board as strait as you can, then brush them as clean
as you can, then take Aqua Fortis, and put into it a six pence, and still put in more as long
as it will dissolve it, then wash your skin over with this water, and set it to dry in the
sun; and when it is dry, wash it over with the spirits of wine; this must be done in hottest
time of Summer.

Choice Secrets made known.

To make true Magistery of Pearl.

How to make Hair grow.

To write Letters of Secret, that they cannot be read without the directions following.

Take fine Allum, beat it small, and put a reasonable quantity of it into water, then write
with the said water.

The work cannot be read, but by steeping your paper in fair running water.

You may likewise write with Vinegar, or the juyce of Lemon or Onion; if you would read the
same, you must hold it before the fire.

How to keep Wine from Sowring.

Tye a piece of very salt Bacon on the inside of your barrel, so as it touch not the Wine, which
will preserve Wine from sowring.

To take out Spots of Grease or Oyl.

Take bones of sheeps feet, burn them almost to ashes, then bruise them to powder, and put of
it on the spot, and lay it in the sun when it shineth hottest, when the powder becomes black,
lay on fresh in the place till it fetch out the spots, which will be done in a very short time.

To make hair grow black, though any colour.

King Edwards perfume.

Take twelve spoonfuls of right red Rose-water, the weight of six pence in fine powder of Sugar,
and boil it on hot Embers and Coles softly, and the house will smell as though it were full
of Roses; but you must burn the sweet Cypress wood before, to take away the gross air.

Queen Elizabeths Perfume. This Perfume is very sweet, and good for the time.

Mr. Ferene of the New Exchange, Perfumer to the Queen, his rare Dentifrice, so much approved
of at Court.

To make the said Powder into Paste.

The Receipt of the Lady Kents powder, presented by her Ladyship to the Queen.

Take white Amber, Crabs eyes, red Corral, Harts-horn and Pearl, all prepared several, of each
a like proportion, tear and mingle them, then take Harts-horn gelly, that hath some Saffron
put into a bag, dissolve into it while the gelly is warm, then let the gelly cool, and therewith
make a paste of the powders, which being made up into little balls, you must dry gently by
the fire side. Pearl is prepared by dissolving it with the juyce of Lemons, Amber prepared
by beating it to powder; so also Crabs-eyes and Coral, Harts-horn prepared by burning it in
the fire, and taking the shires of it especially, the pith wholly rejected.

A Cordial Water of Sir Walter Raleigh.

Take a gallon of Strawberries, and put them into a pint of Aqua vitæ, let them stand for four
or five days, strain them gently out, and sweeten the water as you please with fine Sugar;
or else with perfume.

The Lady Malets Cordial Water.

Take a pound of fine Sugar beaten and put to it a quart of running water, pour it three or
four times through a bag; then put a pint of Damask Rose-water, which you must always pour
still through the bag, then four penniworth of Angelica water, four pence in Clove-water, four
pence of Rosa Solis, one pint of Cinnamon-water, or three pints and a half Aqua vitæ, as you
find it in taste; put all these together three or four times through the bag or strainer, and
then take half an ounce of good Muskallis and cut them grosly, & put them into a glass, and
fill them with the water, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Sovereign Water of Dr. Stephens, which he long times used, wherewith he did many Cures; he
kept secretly till a little before his death, and then he gave it to the Lord Arch-bishop of
Canterbury in writing, being as followeth, viz.

       *       *       *       *       *

Take a Gallon of good Gascoine Wine, and take Ginger, Gallingale, Cinamon, Nutmegs, Cloves,
Grains, Anniseeds, Fennil-seed, of every of them a dram, then take Caraway-seed, of red Mints,
Roses, Thime, Pellitory of the Wall, Rosemary, wild Thime, Camomil, the leaves if you cannot
get the flowers, of small Lavander, of each a handful, then bray the Spices small, and bray
the Herbs, and put all into the Wine, and let it stand for twelve hours, stirring divers times,
then still it in a Limbeck, and keep the first water, for it is best, then put the second water
by it self, for it is good, but not of such vertues, &c.

The Vertues of this water.

It comforts the Spirits Vital, and helps all inward Diseases that come of cold, it is good
against the shaking of the Palsie; it cures the contraction of the Sinews, helps the conception
of Women if they be Barren, it kills the Worms in the Belly and Stomach; it cures the cold
Dropsie, and helps the Stone in the Bladder, and in the Reins of the back; it helps shortly
the stinking breath, and whosoever useth this Water morning and evening, (and not too often)
it preserveth him in good liking, and will make him seem young very long, and Comforteth nature
marvellously; with this water did Dr. Stephens preserve his life, till extream age would not
let him go or stand and he continued five years, when all the Physicians judged he would not
live a year longer, nor did he use any other Medicine but this, &c.

A Plague Water to be taken one spoonful every four hours with one sweat every time.

Take Scabious; Betony, Pimpernel, and Turmentine-roots, of each a pound, steep these all night
in three gallons of strong Beer, and distil them all in a Limbeck, and when you use it, take
a spoonful thereof every four hours, and sweat well after it, draw two quarts of water, if
your Beer be strong, and mingle them both together.

Poppy water.

Take four pound of the flower of Poppies well pickt and sifted, steep them all night in three
Gallons of Ale that is strong, and still it in a Limbeck; you may draw two quarts, the one
will be strong and the other will be small, &c.

A Water for a Consumption, or for a Brain that is weak.

Take Cream (or new milk) and Claret-wine, of each three pints of Violet-flowers, Bugloss and
Borage-flowers, of each a spoonful, Comfrey, Knot-grass, and Plantane of these half a handful,
three or four Pome-waters sliced, a stick of Liquorish, some Pompion seeds and strings; put
to this a Cock that hath been chased and beaten before he was killed, dress it as to boil,
and parboil it until there be no blood in it; then put them in a pot, and set them over your
Limbeck, and the soft fire; draw out a pottle of water, then put your water in a Pipkin over
a Charcoal fire, and boil it a while, dissolve therein six ounces of white Sugar-candy, & two
penny weight of Saffron: when it is cold strain it into a glass, & let the Patient drink three
or four spoonfuls three or four times a day blood-warm; your Cock must be cut into small pieces,
& the bones broken, and in case the flowers and herbs are hard to come by, a spoonful of their
stilled waters are to be used.

Another of the same.

Take a pottle of good Milk, one pint of Muscadine, half a pint of red Rose-water, a penny manchet
sliced thin, two handfuls of Raisins of the sun stoned, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar,
sixteen Eggs beaten; mix all these together, then distill them in a common still with a soft
fire, then let the Patient drink three or four spoonfuls at a time blood warm, being sweetned
with Manus Christi made with Corral and Pearl; when your things are all in the still, strew
four ounces of Cinamon beaten; this water is good to put into broath, &c.

A good Stomach Water.

Take a quart of Aqua Composita, or Aqua vitæ, (the smaller) and put into it one handful of
Cowslip flowers, a good handful of Rosemary flowers, sweet Marjoram, a little Pellitory of
the Wall, a little Betony and Balm, of each a little handful, Cinnamon half an ounce, Nutmegs
a dram, Anniseeds, Coriander seeds, Caroway seeds, Gromel seeds, Juniper berries, of each a
dram, bruise the spice and seed, and put them into Aqua Composita, or Aqua vitæ, with your
Herbs together, and put into them a pound of very fine sugar, stir them well together, and
put them into a glass and let it stand in the sun nine days, and stir it every day; two or
three Dates, and a little race of Ginger sliced into it will make it the better, especially
against wind, &c.

A Bag of purging Ale.

Take of Agrimony, Speedwell, Liverwort, Scurvy-grass, Water-cresses, of each a handful, of
Monks Rhubarb, and red Madder, of each half a pound, of Horseradishes three ounces, Liquorish
two ounces, Sassafrage four ounces, Sena seven ounces, sweet Fennil-seeds two drams, Nutmegs
four; pick and wash your Herbs and Roots, and bruise them in a Mortar, and put them in a bag
made of a Bolter, & so hang them in three gallons of middle Ale, and let it work in the Ale,
and after three days you may drink it as you see occasion, &c.

The Ale of Health and Strength, by Viscount St. Albans.

Take Sassafras wood half an ounce, Sarsaparilla three ounces, white Saunders one ounce, Chamapition
an ounce, China-root half an ounce, Mace a quarter of an ounce, cut the wood as thin as may
be with a knife into small peices, and bruise them in a Mortar; put to them these sorts of
Herbs, (viz.) Cowslip flowers, Roman-wormwood, of each a handful, of Sage, Rosemary, Betony,
Mugwort, Balm and Sweet-marjoram, of each half a handful, of Hops; boil all these in six gallons
of Ale till it come to four; then put the wood and hearbs into six gallons of Ale of the second
wort, and boil it till it come to four, let it run from the dregs, and put your Ale together,
and tun it as you do other purging Ale, &c.

A Water excellent good against the Plague.

Take three pints of Malmsey, or Muscadine, of Sage and Rue, of each one handful, boil them
together gently to one pint, then strain it and set it on the fire again, and put to it one
penniworth of Long Pepper, Ginger four drams, Nutmegs two drams, all beaten together, then
let it boil a little, take it off the fire, and while it is very hot, dissolve therein six
penniworth of Mithridate, and three penniworth of Venice Treacle, and when it is almost cold
put to it a pint of strong Angelica water, or so much Aqua vitæ, and so keep it in a glass
close stopped.

A Cordial Cherry-water.

Take a pottle of Aqua vitæ, two ounces of ripe Cherries stoned, Sugar one pound, twenty four
Cloves, one stick of Cinamon, three spoonfuls of aniseeds bruised, let these stand in the Aqua
vitæ fifteen days, and when the water hath fully drawn out the tincture, pour it off into another
glass for your use, which keep close stopped, the Spice and the Cherries you may keep, for
they are very good for winde in the Stomach.

The Lord Spencers Cherry-water.

Take a pottle of new Sack, four pound of through ripe Cherries stoned, put them into an earthen
pot, to which put an ounce of Cinnamon, Saffron unbruised one dram, tops of Balm, Rosemary
or their flowers, of each one handful, let them stand close covered twenty four hours, now
and then stirring them; then put them into a cold Still, to which put of beaten Amber two drams,
Corianderseed one ounce, Alkerms one dram, and distill it leisurely, and when it is fully distilled,
put to it twenty grains of Musk. This is an excellent Cordial, good for Faintings and Swoundings,
for the Crudities of the Stomach, Winde and Swelling of the Bowels, and divers other evil Symptomes
in the Body of Men and Women.

The Herbs to be distilled for Usquebath.

Take Agrimony, Fumitory, Betony, Bugloss, Wormwood, Harts-tongue, Carduus Benedictus, Rosemary,
Angelica, Tormentil, of each of these for every gallon of Ale one handful, Anniseed, and Liquorish
well bruised half a pound, still these together, and when it is stilled, you must infuse Cinamon,
Nutmeg, Mace, Liquorish, Dates, and Raisins of the Sun, and sugar what quantity you please.
The infusion must be till the colour please you.

Dr. Kings way to make Mead. It must be cold before you tun it up.

To make Syrup of Rasberries.

Take nine quarts of Rasberries, clean pickt, and gathered in a dry day, and put to them four
quarts of good Sack, into an earthen pot, then paste it up very close, and set it in a Cellar
for ten days, then distill it in a Glass or Rosestill, then take more Sack and put in Rasberries
to it, then when it hath taken out all the colour of the Raspis, strain it out and put in some
fine Sugar to your taste, and set it on the fire, keeping it continually stirring till the
scum doth rise; then take it off the fire, let it not boil, skim it very clean, and when it
is cold put it to your distilled Raspis; colour it no more than to make it a pale Claret Wine.
This put into bottles or Glasses stopt very close.

To make Lemon Water.

Take twelve of the fairest Lemons, slice them, and put them into two pints of White wine, and
put to them Cinamon two drams, Gallingale two drams, of Rose-leaves, Borage and Bugloss flowers,
of each one handful, of yellow Saunders one dram; steep all these together twelve hours; then
distill them gently in a Glass still untill you have distilled one pint and an half of the
Water, and then adde to it three ounces of Sugar; one grain of Ambergreese, and you will have
a most pleasing cleansing Cordial water for many uses.

To make Gilly-flower Wine.

Take two ounces of dryed Gilly-flowers, and put them into a pottle of Sack, and beat three
ounces of Sugar-candy, or fine Sugar and grind some Ambergreese, and put it in the bottle and
shake it oft, then run it through a gelly bag, and give it for a great Cordial after a weeks
standing or more. You may make Lavander as you do this.

The Lady Spotswood Stomach Water.

Take white Wine one pottle, Rosemary and Cowslip flowers, of each one handful, as much Betony
leaves, Cinamon and Cloves grosly beaten, of both one ounce; steep all these three dayes, stirring
it often; then put to it Mithridate four ounces, and stir it together, and distil it in an
ordinary still.

Water of Time for the Passion of the Heart.

Take a quart of white Wine, and a pint of Sack, steep in it as much broad Thime as it will
wet, put to it of Galingale and Calamus Aromaticus, of each one ounce, Cloves, Mace, Ginger,
and grains of Paradise two drams, steep these all night, the next morning distil it in an ordinary
still, drink it warm with Sugar.

A Receipt to make damnable Hum.

Take Species de Gemmis, Aromaticum Rosatum, Diarrhodon Abbatis, Lætificans Galeni, of each
four drams, Loaf-sugar beaten to powder half a pound, small Aqua Vitæ three Pints, strong Angelica
water one pint; mix all these together, and when you have drunk it to the Dregs, you may fill
it up again with the same quantity of water. The same powders will serve twice, and after twice
using it, it must be made new again.

An admirable Water for sore Eyes.

Take Lapis Tutiæ; Aloes Hepatica, fine hard sugar, of each three drams, beat them very small,
and put them into a Glass of three pints, to which put red Rose-water and white Wine, of each
one pint; set the Glass in the Sun, in the Month of July, for the whole Month, shaking it twice
in a day for all that while; then use it as followeth, put one drop thereof into the Eye in
the evening, when the party is in bed, and one drop in the morning an hour before the Patient
riseth: Continue the use of it till the Eyes be well. The older the Water, the better it is.
Most approved.

A Snail Water for weak Children, and old People.

Take a pottle of Snails, and wash them well in two or three waters, and then in small Beer,
bruise them shells and all, then put them into a gallon of red Cows Milk, red Rose leaves dried,
the whites cut off, Rosemary, sweet Marjoram, of each one handful, and so distil them in a
cold still, and let it drop upon powder of white Sugar candy in the receiver; drink of it first
and last, and at four a clock in the afternoon, a wine-glass full at a time.

Clary Water for the Back, Stomach, &c.

Take three gallons of midling Beer, put in a great brass Pot of four gallons, and put to it
ten handfuls of Clary gathered in a dry day, Raisins of the Sun stoned three pounds, Anniseeds,
and Liquorish, of each four ounces, the whites and shells of twenty four eggs, or half so many,
if there be not so much need, beat the shells small, and mix them with the whites; put to the
bottoms of three white loaves, put into the Receiver one pound of white sugar-candy, or so
much fine loaf sugar beaten small, and distill it through a Limbeck, keep it close, and be
seldom without it; for it reviveth very much the stomach and heart, strengtheneth the back,
procureth appetite and digestion, driveth away Melancholly, sadness and heaviness of the heart, &c.

Dr. Montfords Cordial Water.

Take Angelica leaves twelve handfuls, six leaves of Carduus Benedictus, Balm & Sage, of each
five handfuls, the seeds of Angelica and sweet Fennil, of each five ounces bruised, scraped
and bruised Liquorish twelve ounces, Aromaticum Rosatum, Diamoscus dulcis, of each six drams;
the Herbs being cut small, the seeds and Liquorish bruised, infuse them into two gallons of
Canary Sack for twenty four hours, then distill it with a gentle fire, and draw off onely five
pints of the spirits, which mix with one pound of the best Sugar dissolved into a Syrup in
half a pint of pure red Rose-water.

Aqua Mirabilis, Sir Kenelm Digby's way.

Take Cubebs, Gallingale, Cardamus, Melliot flowers, Cloves, Mace, Ginger, Cinamon, of each
one dram bruised small, juyce of Celandine one pint, juyce of Spearmint half a pint, juyce
of Balm half a pint, sugar one pound, flower of Cowslips, Rosemary, Borage, Bugloss, Marigolds,
of each two drams, the best Sack three pints, strong Angelica water one pint, red Rose-water
half a pint, bruise the Spices and flowers, & steep them in the Sack & Juyces one night, the
next morning distill it in an ordinary Limbeck or glass still, and first lay Hearts-tongue
leaves in the bottom of the Still.

The Vertues of the precedent Water.

This Water preserveth the Lungs without grievances, and helpeth them; being wounded, it suffereth
the blood not to putrifie, but multiplieth the same; this water suffereth not the heart to
burn, nor melancholly, nor the Spleen to be lifted up above nature; it expelleth the Rheum,
preserveth the Stomach, conserveth Youth, and procureth a good colour, it preserveth Memory,
it destroyeth the palsie; if this be given to one a dying, a spoonful of it reviveth him; in
the summer use one spoonful a week fasting, in the winter two spoonfuls.

A Water for fainting of the Heart.

Take Bugloss and red Rose-water of each one pint, Milk half a pint, Anniseeds and Cinamon grosly
bruised, of each half an ounce, Maiden-hair two handfuls, Harts-tongue one handful, both shred,
mix all together, and distill it in an ordinary still, drink of it morning and evening With
a little sugar.

A Surfeit Water.

Take half a bushel of red Corn Poppy, put it into a large dish, cover it with brown Paper,
and lay another dish upon it, set it in an Oven after brown bread is baked divers times till
it be dry, which put into a pottle of good Aqua vitæ, to which put Raisins of the sun stoned
half a pound, six figs sliced, three Nutmegs sliced, two flakes of Mace bruised, two races
of Ginger sliced, one stick of Cinnamon bruised, Liquorish sliced one ounce, Aniseed, Fennil-seed,
and Cardamums bruised, of each one dram; put all these into a broad glass body, and lay first
some Poppy in the bottom, then some of the other ingredients, then Poppy again, and so untill
the Glass be full; then put in the Aqua vitæ, and let it infuse till it be strong of the spices,
and very red with the Poppy, close covered, of which take two or three spoonfuls upon a surfeit,
and when all the liquor is spent, put more Aqua vitæ to it, and it will have the same effect
the second time, but no more after.

Dr. Butlers Cordial Water against Melancholly, &c. most approved.

Take the flowers of Cowslips, Marigolds, Pinks, Clove-gilly-flowers, single stock gilly-flowers,
of each four handfuls, the flowers of Rosemary, and Damask Roses, of each three handfuls, Borage
and Bugloss flowers, and Balm leaves, of each two handfuls; put them in a quart of Canary Wine
into a great Bottle or Jug close stopped, with a Cork, sometimes stirring the flowers and wine
together, adding to them Anniseeds bruised one dram, two Nutmegs sliced, English Saffron two
pennyworth; after some time of infusion, distill them in a cold Still with a hot fire, hanging
at the Nose of the Still Ambergreece and Musk, of each one grain; then to the distilled water
put White Sugar-candy finely beaten six ounces, and put the glass wherein they are into hot
water for one hour. Take of this water at one time three spoonfuls thrice a week, or when you
are ill, it cureth all melancholly fumes, and infinitely comforts the spirits.

The admirable and most famous Snail Water.

This Water is good against all Obstructions whatsoever. It cureth a Consumption and Dropsie,
the stopping of the Stomach and Liver. It may be distilled with milk for weak people and children,
with Harts-tongue and Elecampance.

A singular Mint water.

Take a still full of Mints, put Balm, and Penniroyal, of each one good handful, steep them
in Sack, or Lees of Sack twenty four hours, stop it close, and stir it now and then: Distill
it in an ordinary Still with a very quick fire, and keep the Still with wet cloaths, put into
the receiver as much sugar as will sweeten it, and so double distill it.

Distillings.

A most Excellent Aqua Coelestis taught by Mr. Philips Apothecary.

Take of Cinamon one dram, Ginger half a dram, the three sorts of Saunders, of each of them
three quarters of an ounce, Mace and cubebs, of each of them one dram, Cardamom the bigger
and lesser, of each three drams, Setwall-roots half an ounce, Anniseed, Fennil-seed Basil-seed,
of each two drams, Angelica roots, Gilly-flowers, Thyme, Calamint, Liquorish, Calamus, Masterwort,
Pennyroyal, Mint, Mother of Thyme, Marjoram, of each two drams, red Rose-seed, the flowers
of Sage and Betony, of each a dram and a half, Cloves, Galingal, Nutmegs, of each two drams,
the flowers of Stechados, Rosemary, Borage and Bugloss flowers, of each a dram and half, Citron
Rindes three drams; bruise them all, and put in these Cordial Powders, Diamber Aromaticum,
Diamascum, Diachoden, the Spices made with Pearl, of each three drams; infuse all these in
twelve pints of Aqua Vitæ; in a glass, close stopped for fifteen dayes, often shaking it, then
let it be put into a Limbeck close stopped, and let it be distilled gently; when you have done,
hang in a cloth, two drams of Musk, half a dram of Ambergreese, and ten or twelve grains of
gold, and so receive it to your use.

Hypocras taught by Dr. Twine for Wind in the Stomach.

Take Pepper, Grains, Ginger, of each half an ounce, Cinnamon, Cloves, Nutmegs, Mace, of each
one ounce grosly beaten, Rosemary, Agrimony, both shred of each a few crops, red Rose leaves
a pretty quantity, as an indifferent gripe, a pound of Sugar beaten; lay these to steep in
a gallon of good Rhenish or white-Wine in a close vessel, stirring it two or three times a
day the space of three or four dayes together, then strain it through an Hypocras strainer,
and drink a draught of it before meat half an hour, and sometimes after to help digestion.

Marigold flowers distilled, good for the pain of the Head.

Take Marigold flowers, and distill them, then take a fine cloth and wet in the aforesaid distilled
water, and so lay it to the forehead of the Patient, and being so applied, let him sleep if
he can; this with Gods help will cease the pain.

A Water good for Sun burning.

Take Water drawn off the Vine dropping, the flowers of white Thorn, Bean-flowers, Water Lilly-flowers,
Garden Lilly-flowers, Elder-flowers, and Tansie-flowers, Althea-flowers, the whites of Eggs,
French Barley.

The Lady Giffords cordial Water.

Take four quarts of Aqua vitæ, Borrage and Poppy-water, of each a pint, two pounds of Sugar-candy,
one pound of figs sliced, one pound of Raisins of the Sun stoned, two handfuls of red Roses
clipped and dried, one handful of red Mint, half a handful of Rosemary, as much of Hysop, a
few Cloves; put all these in a great double Glass close stopped, and set it in the sun three
months, and so use it.

A water for one pensive and very sick, to comfort the Heart very excellent.

Take a good spoonful of Manus Christi, beaten very small into powder, then take a quarter of
a pound of very fine sugar, and beat it small, and six spoonfuls of Cinamon water, and put
to it, and ten spoonfuls of red Rose-water; mingle all these together, and put them in a dish,
and set them over a soft fire five or six walms, and so let it be put into a glass, and let
the party drink thereof a spoonful or two, as he shall see cause.

To perfume Water.

Take Malmsey or any kind of sweet water; then take Lavender, Spike, sweet Marjoram, Balm, Orange
peels, Thyme, Basil, Cloves, Bay leaves, Woodbine flowers, red and white Roses, and still them
all together.

FINIS.

The Table.

Ale of health and strength.

Almond Bisket.

Apricock cakes how to make.

Aqua mirabilis, Sir Kenelm Digby's way.

Aqua Coelestis.

Cake the Lady Elizabeths way.

Cakes how to make, &c.

Cakes of Pear-plums.

Clear cakes of Plums.

Collops like bacon of Marchpane.

Cherry water.

Cordial Cherry water.

Cherry water by the Lord Spencer.

Chips of Quinces.

Cordial water by Sir Walter Raleigh.
 by the Lady Malet.
 by Doctor Muntford.
 by Doctor Butler.
 by the Lady Gifford.

Conserve for a cough or consumption of the Lungs.

Conserve of Borage flowers.
 Betony.
 Lavender flower.
 Lemons.
 Oranges.
 Piony.
 Pippins.
 Quinces.
 Roses boyl'd.
 unboild.
 Roses.
 Sage.
 Violets.
 Marjoram.

Candy, or clear Rockcandy flowers.

Candy Apricocks.
 Barberries.
 Chicory roots.
 Cherries.
 Citrons.

Grapes.
 Orange roots.
 Orange pills.
 Pippins, Pears, Plums.
 Rosemary-flowers in the sun.
 Spanish flowers.
 Suckets of Oranges, Lemons, &c.

Dry Fox-skins how.

Dry Apricoks.
 Cherries.
 Plums.
 Pippins or Pears.
 Pippins or Pear-Plums without sugar.

Dentifrices the best and paste of the same.

Damnable Hum.

French Tart to make.

Fruits to dry or Candy after preserved.

Fruit artificial to make.

Gelly of Pippins.
 Of Raspiss.

Gilly-flower Wine.

Hair to make grow.
 To grow black.

Hypocras.
 Doctor Twines way.

Jumbals of Apricocks or Quinces.

Ipswich water.

Italian Bisquet.

Juyce of Liquorish.

Letters to write secretly.

Lozenges
 Of red Roses.

Lemon water.

Magistery of Pearl.

Marchpane to ice and gild.

Marmalet of Damsins.
 Oranges.
 Plums.
 Quinces.

Mead, Doctor Kings way.

Mint-Water.

Marigold-flowers distild good for the head.

Naples-Bisquet.

Orange-Water.

Orange-Cakes.

Preserves.
 To preserve Artichokes young.
 Apricocks.
 Barberries.
 Cherries.
 Damsins.
 Elecampane-root.
 Fruit green.
 Grapes.
 Green plums.
 Lemons.
 Oranges.
 Pear-plums white or green.
 Pippins, or Peaches.
 Plums red or black.
 Quinces white.
 White or red.
 Respass.

Paste of Apricocks.
 Citrons.
 Elecampane-roots.
 Flowers with its natural taste.
 Oranges and Lemons.
 Pippins like leaves, and some like plums,
  with their stones and stalks in them.
 Rasberries or English Currans.

Perfumes, for Cloathes, Gloves.
 Perfumes excellent.
 K. Edwards.
 Q. Elizabeths.
 Perfume water.

Purging-bag for Ale.

Plague-water.

Poppy-water.

Pomander.

Pomatum good.

Prince-Bisquet.

Powder the Lady Kents.

Quinces for pies.

Quiddony of Pippins.
 Of all kinds of plums.

Raisin Wine.

Rasberry Wine.

Shrubbery cakes.

Sweet smell.

Sweet powder to break.

Syrup of Clove-gillyflowers.
 Of Hysop for colds.
 Lemons or Citrons.
 Elders.
 Rasberries.

Spots of grease or Oyle to take out.

Dr. Stephens sovereign Water.

Stomach water the Lady Spotswoods.

Snail-water most excellent.

Sugar of Wormwood, Mint, Aniseed &c.
 Of Roses.

Surfeit water.

Tincture of Ambergreese.

Usquebath distilled with herbs.

Walnuts artificial.

Wine to keep from souring.

Water for a Consumption.
 For the stomach.
 The Plague.
 Of Time for passion of the heart.
 For sore eyes.
 Of Snails for children and old people.
 Of Clary for the back and stomach.
 For fainting of the heart.
 Sunburning.
 One pensive to comfort the heart.

FINIS.

