"The Vinsons and Frys what lived next to massa sold slaves and I seed 'em sold and chained
together and druv off in herds by a white man on a hoss. They'd sell babies 'way from the mammy
and the Lord never did 'tend sich as that.

"I 'lieve in that hant business yet. I seed one when I was a boy, right after mammy die. I
woke up and seed it come in the door, and it had a body and legs and tail and a face like a
man and it walked to the fireplace and lifted the lid off a skillet of 'taters what sot there
and came to my bed and raised up the cover and crawled in and I hollers so loud it wakes everybody.
I tell 'em I seed a ghost and they say I crazy, but I guess I knows a hant when I sees one.
Minerva there can tell you 'bout that haunted house we lived in near Marshall jus' after we's
married." (Minerva says, 'Deed, I can,' and here is her story:)

"The nex' year after Anderson and me marries we moves to a place that had 'longed to white
folks and the man was real mean and choked his wife to death and he lef' the country and we
moved in. We heered peculiar noises by night and the niggers 'round there done told us it was
hanted but I didn't 'lieve 'em, but I do now. One night we seed the woman what died come all
'round with a light in the hand and the neighbors said that candle light the house all over
and it look like it on fire. She come ev'ry night and we left our crop and moved 'way from
there and ain't gone back yit to gather that crop. 'Fore we moved in that place been empty
since the woman die, 'cause nobody live there. One night Charlie Williams, what lives in Marshall,
and runs a store out by the T. & P. Hospital git drunk and goes out there to sleep and while
he sleepin' that same woman come in and nigh choked him to death. Ain't nobody ever live in
that house since we is there."

Anderson then resumed his story: "I 'member when war starts and massa's boy, George it was,
saddles up ole Bob, his pony, and lef'. He stays six months and when he rid up massa say, 'How's
the war, George?' and massa George say, 'It's Hell. Me and Bob has been runnin' Yankees ever
since us lef'.' 'Fore war massa didn't never say much 'bout slavery but when he heered us free
he cusses and say, 'Gawd never did 'tend to free niggers,' and he cussed till he died. But
he didn't tell us we's free till a whole year after we was, but one day a bunch of Yankee soldiers
come ridin' up and massa and missy hid out. The soldiers walked into the kitchen and mammy
was churnin' and one of them kicks the churn over and say, 'Git out, you's jus' as free as
I is.' Then they ramsacked the place and breaks out all the window lights and when they leaves
it look like a storm done hit that house. Massa come back from hidin' and that when he starts
on a cussin' spree what lasts as long as he lives.

"'bout four year after that war pappy took me to Harrison County and I've lived here ever,
since and Minerva's pappy moves from the Flannigan place to a jinin' farm 'bout that time and
sev'ral years later we was married. It was at her house and she had a blue serge suit and I
wore a cutaway Prince Albert suit and they was 'bout 200 folks at our weddin'. The nex' day
they give us an infair and a big dinner. We raises sixteen chillen to be growed and six of
the boys is still livin' and workin' in Marshall.

"I been preachin' the Gospel and farmin' since slavery time. I jined the church mos' 83 year
ago when I was Major Gaud's slave and they baptises me in the spring branch clost to where
I finds the Lord. When I starts preachin' I couldn't read or write and had to preach what massa
told me and he say tell them niggers iffen they obeys the massa they goes to Heaven but I knowed
there's something better for them, but daren't tell them 'cept on the sly. That I done lots.
I tells 'em iffen they keeps prayin' the Lord will set 'em free. But since them days I's done
studied some and I preached all over Panola and Harrison County and I started the Edward's
Chapel over there in Marshall and pastored it till a few year ago. It's named for me.

"I don't preach much now, 'cause I can't hold out to walk far and I got no other way to go.
We has a $14.00 pension and lives on that and what we can raise on the farm.

420219

     ANN J. EDWARDS, 81, was born a slave of John Cook, of Arlington
     County, Virginia. He manumitted his slaves in 1857. Four years
     later Ann was adopted by Richard H. Cain, a colored preacher. He
     was elected to the 45th Congress in 1876, and remained in
     Washington, D.C., until his death, in 1887. Ann married Jas. E.
     Edwards, graduate of Howard College, a preacher. She now lives with
     her granddaughter, Mary Foster, at 804 E. 4th St., Fort Worth,
     Texas.

"I shall gladly relate the story of my life. I was born a slave on January 27th, 1856, and
my master's name was John J. Cook, who was a resident of Arlington County, Virginia. He moved
to Washington, D.C., when I was nearly two years old and immediately gave my parents their
freedom. They separated within a year after that, and my mother earned our living, working
as a hairdresser until her death in 1861. I was then adopted by Richard H. Cain, a minister
of the Gospel in the African Methodist Church.

"I remember the beginning of the war well. The conditions made a deep impression on my mind,
and the atmosphere of Washington was charged with excitement and expectations. There existed
considerable need for assistance to the Negroes who had escaped after the war began, and Rev.
Cain took a leading part in rendering aid to them. They came into the city without clothes
or money and no idea of how to secure employment. A large number were placed on farms, some
given employment as domestics and still others mustered into the Federal Army.

"The city was one procession of men in blue and the air was full of martial music. The fife
and drum could be heard almost all the time, so you may imagine what emotions a colored person
of my age would experience, especially as father's church was a center for congregating the
Negroes and advising them. That was a difficult task, because a large majority were illiterate
and ignorant.

"The year father was called to Charleston, South Carolina, to take charge of a church, we became
the center of considerable trouble. It was right after the close of the war. In addition to
his ministerial duties, father managed a newspaper and became interested in politics. He was
elected a delegate to the Constitutional Convention of South Carolina in 1868. He was also
elected a Republican member of the State Senate and served from 1868 to 1872. Then he became
the Republican candidate for the United States Representative of the Charleston district, was
elected and served in the 45th Congress from March 4, 1877 to March 3, 1879.

"You can imagine the bitter conflict his candidacy brought on. A Negro running for public office
against a white person in a Southern state that was strong for slavery does not seem the sensible
thing for a man to do, but he did and was, of course, successful. From the moment he became
delegate to the Constitutional Convention a guard was necessary night and day to watch our
home. He was compelled to have a bodyguard wherever he went. We, his family, lived in constant
fear at all times. Many times mother pleaded with him to cease his activities, but her pleadings
were of no avail.

"In the beginning the resentment was not so pronounced. The white people were shocked and dejected
over the outcome of the war, but gradually recovered. As they did, determination to establish
order and prosperity developed, and they resented the Negro taking part in public affairs.
On the other side of the cause was the excess and obstinate actions of some ignorant Negroes,
acting under ill advice. Father was trying to prevent excesses being done by either side. He
realized that the slaves were unfit, at that time, to take their place as dependable citizens,
for the want of experience and wisdom, and that there would have to be mental development and
wisdom learned by his race, and that such would only come by a gradual process.

"He entered the contest in the interest of his own race, primarily, but as a whole, to do justice
to all. No one could change his course. He often stated, 'It is by the Divine will that I am
in this battle.'

"The climax of the resentment against him took place when he was chosen Republican candidate
to the House of Representatives. He had to maintain an armed guard at all times. Several times,
despite these guards, attempts were made to either burn the house or injure some member of
the family. If it had not been for the fact that the officials of the city and county were
afraid of the federal government, which gave aid in protecting him, the mob would have succeeded
in harming him.

"A day or two before election a mob gathered suddenly in front of the house, and we all thought
the end had come. Father sent us all upstairs, and said he would, if necessary, give himself
up to the mob and let them satisfy their vengeance on him, to save the rest of us.

"While he was talking, mother noticed another body of men in the alley. They were certainly
sinister looking. Father told us to prepare for the worst, saying, 'What they plan to do is
for those in front to engage the attention of ourselves and the guard, then those in the rear
will fire the place and force us out.' He was calm throughout it all, but mother was greatly
agitated and I was crying.

"The chief of the guard called father for a parley. The mob leader demanded that father come
out for a talk. Then the sheriff and deputies appeared and he addressed the crowd of men, and
told them if harm came to us the city would be placed under martial law. The men then dispersed,
after some discussion among themselves.

"Father moved to Washington, took the oath of office and served until March 4th, 1879. He then
received the appointment of Bishop of the African Methodist Church and served until his death
in Washington, on Jan. 18th, 1887.

"I began my schooling in Charleston and continued in Washington, where I entered Howard College,
but did not continue until graduation. I met James E. Edwards, another student, who graduated
in 1881, and my heart overruled my desire for an education. We married and he entered the ministry
and was called to Dallas, Texas. He remained two years, then we were called to Los Angeles.
The Negroes there were privileged to enter public eating establishments, but a cafe owner we
patronized told us the following:

"'After a time, I was compelled to refuse service to Negroes because they abused the privilege.
They came in in a boisterous manner and crowded and shoved other patrons. It was due to a lack
of wisdom and education.'

"That was true. The white people tried to give the Negro his rights and he abused the privilege
because he was ignorant, a condition he could not then help.

"My husband and I were called to Kansas City in 1896 and from there to many other towns. Finally
we came to Waco, and he had charge of a church there when he died, in 1927. We had a pleasant
married life and I tried to do my duty as a pastor's wife and help elevate my race. We were
blessed with three children, and the only one now living is in Boston, Massachusetts.

"I now reside with my granddaughter, Mary Foster, and this shack is the best her husband can
afford. In fact, we are living in destitute circumstances. It is depressing to me, after having
lived a life in a comfortable home. It is the Lord's will and I must accept what is provided.
There is a purpose for all things. I shall soon go to meet my Maker, with the satisfaction
of having done my duty--first, to my race, second, to mankind.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Note: The biography of Richard H. Cain is published in the
     Biographical Directory of the American Congress.

420008

     MARY KINCHEON EDWARDS says she was born on July 8, 1810, but she
     has nothing to substantiate this claim. However, she is evidently
     very old. Her memory is poor, but she knows she was reared by the
     Kincheons, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and that she spoke French
     when a child. The Kincheons gave her to Felix Vaughn, who brought
     her to Texas before the Civil War. Mary lives with Beatrice
     Watters, near Austin, Texas.

"When I's a li'l gal my name Mary Anne Kincheon and I's born on the eighth of July, in 1810.
I lives with de Kincheon family over in Louisiana. Baton Rouge am de name of dat place. Dem
Kincheons have plenty chillen. O, dey have so many chillen!

"I don't 'member much 'bout dem days. I's done forgot so many things, but I 'members how de
stars fell and how scared us was. Dem stars got to fallin' and was out 'fore dey hits de ground.
I don't knew when dat was, but I's good size den.

"I get give to Massa Felix Vaughn and he brung me to Texas. Dat long 'fore de war for freedom,
but I don't know de year. De most work I done for de Vaughns was wet nuss de baby son, what
name Elijah. His mammy jes' didn't have 'nough milk for him.

"Den I knit de socks and wash de clothes and sometimes I work in de fields. I he'ped make de
baskets for de cotton. De man git white-oak wood and we lets it stay in de water for de night
and de nex' mornin' and it soft and us split it in strips for makin' of de baskets. Everybody
try see who could make de bes' basket.

"Us pick 'bout 100 pound cotton in one basket. I didn't mind pickin' cotton, 'cause I never
did have de backache. I pick two and three hunnert pounds a day and one day I picked 400. Sometime
de prize give by massa to de slave what pick de most. De prize am a big cake or some clothes.
Pickin' cotton not so bad, 'cause us used to it and have de fine time of it. I gits a dress
one day and a pair shoes 'nother day for pickin' most. I so fast I take two rows at de time.

"De women brung oil cloths to de fields, so dey make shady place for de chillen to sleep, but
dem what big 'nough has to pick. Sometime dey sing

  "'O--ho, I's gwine home,
  And cuss de old overseer.'

"Us have ash-hopper and uses drip-lye for make barrels soap and hominy. De way us test de lye
am drap de egg in it and if de egg float de lye ready to put in de grease for makin' de soap.
Us throwed greasy bones in de lye and dat make de bes' soap. De lye eat de bones.

"Us boil wild sage and make tea and it smell good. It good for de fever and chills. Us git
slippery elm out de bottom and chew it. Some chew it for bad feelin's and some jes' to be chewin'.

"Sometimes us go to dances and missy let me wear some her jewl'ry. I out dances dem all and
folks didn't know dat not my jewl'ry. After freedom I stays with de Vaughns and marries, but
I forgit he name. Dat 'fore freedom. After freedom I marries Osburn Edwards and has five chillen.
Dey all dead now. I can still git 'round with dis old gnarly cane. Jes' you git me good and
scared and see how fast I can git 'round!"

420266

     LUCINDA ELDER, 86, was born a slave of the Cardwell family, near
     Concord Deport, Virginia. She came to Texas with Will Jones and his
     wife, Miss Susie, in 1860, and was their nurse-girl until she
     married Will Elder, in 1875. Lucinda lives at 1007 Edwards St.,
     Houston, Texas.

"You chilluns all go 'way now, while I talks to dis gen'man. I 'clares to goodness, chilluns
nowadays ain't got no manners 'tall. 'Tain't like when I was li'l, dey larnt you manners and
you larnt to mind, too. Nowadays you tell 'em to do somethin' and you is jes' wastin' you breath,
'less you has a stick right handy. Dey is my great grandchilluns, and dey sho' is spoilt. Maybe
I ain't got no patience no more, like I use to have, 'cause dey ain't so bad.

"Well, suh, you all wants me to tell you 'bout slave times, and I'll tell you first dat I had
mighty good white folks, and I hope dey is gone up to Heaven. My mama 'long to Marse John Cardwell,
what I hear was de riches' man and had de bigges' plantation round Concord Depot. Dat am in
Campbell County, in Virginny. I don't 'member old missy's name, but she mighty good to de slaves,
jes' like Marse John was.

"Mama's name was Isabella and she was de cook and born right on de plantation. Papa's name
was Gibson, his first name was Jim, and he 'long to Marse Gibson what had a plantation next
to Marse John, and I knows papa come to see mama on Wednesday and Sat'day nights.

"Lemme see, now, dere was six of us chilluns. My mem'ry ain't so good no more, but Charley
was oldes', den come Dolly and Jennie and Susie and me and Laura. Law me, I guess old Dr. Bass,
what was doctor for Marse John, use to be right busy with us 'bout once a year for quite a spell.

"Dem times dey don't marry by no license. Dey takes a slave man and woman from de same plantation
and puts 'em together, or sometime a man from 'nother plantation, like my papa and mama. Mamma
say Marse John give 'em a big supper in de big house and read out de Bible 'bout obeyin' and
workin' and den dey am married. Course, de nigger jes' a slave and have to do what de white
folks say, so dat way of marryin' 'bout good as any.

"But Marse John sho' was de good marse and we had plenty to eat and wear and no one ever got
whipped. Marse John say iffen he have a nigger what oughta be whipped, he'd git rid of him
quick, 'cause a bad nigger jes' like a rotten 'tater in a sack of good ones--it spoil de others.

"Back dere in Virginny it sho' git cold in winter, but come September de wood gang git busy
cuttin' wood and haulin' it to de yard. Dey makes two piles, one for de big house and de bigges'
pile for de slaves. When dey git it all hauled it look like a big woodyard. While dey is haulin',
de women make quilts and dey is wool quilts. Course, dey ain't made out of shearin' wool, but
jes' as good. Marse John have lots of sheep and when dey go through de briar patch de wool
cotch on dem briars and in de fall de women folks goes out and picks de wool off de briars
jes' like you picks cotton. Law me, I don't know nothin' 'bout makin' quilts out of cotton
till I comes to Texas.

"Course I never done no work, 'cause Marse John won't work no one till dey is fifteen years
old. Den dey works three hours a day and dat all. Dey don't work full time till dey's eighteen.
We was jes' same as free niggers on our place. He gives each slave a piece of ground to make
de crop on and buys de stuff hisself. We growed snap beans and corn and plant on a light moon,
or turnips and onions we plant on de dark moon.

"When I gits old 'nough Marse John lets me take he daughter, Nancy Lee, to school. It am twelve
miles and de yard man hitches up old Bess to de buggy and we gits in and no one in dat county
no prouder dan what I was.

"Marse John lets us go visit other plantations and no pass, neither. Iffen de patterroller
stop us, we jes' say we 'long to Marse John and dey don't bother us none. Iffen dey comes to
our cabin from other plantations, dey has to show de patterroller de pass, and iffen dey slipped
off and ain't got none, de patterroller sho' give a whippin' den. But dey waits till dey off
our place, 'cause Marse John won't 'low no whippin' on our place by no one.

"Well, things was jes' 'bout de same all de time till jes' 'fore freedom. Course, I hears some
talk 'bout bluebellies, what dey call de Yanks, fightin' our folks, but dey wasn't fightin'
round us. Den one dey mamma took sick and she had hear talk and call me to de bed and say,
'Lucinda, we all gwine be free soon and not work 'less we git paid for it.' She sho' was right,
'cause Marse John calls all us to de cookhouse and reads de freedom papers to us and tells
us we is all free, but iffen we wants to stay he'll give us land to make a crop and he'll feed
us. Now I tells you de truth, dey wasn't no one leaves, 'cause we all loves Marse John.

"Den, jus' three weeks after freedom mama dies and dat how come me to leave Marse John. You
see, Marse Gibson what owns papa 'fore freedom, was a good marse and when papa was sot free
Marse Gibson gives him some land to farm. 'Course, papa was gwine have us all with him, but
when mamma dies, Marse Gibson tell him Mr. Will Jones and Miss Susie, he wife, want a nurse
girl for de chilluns, so papa hires me out to 'em and I want to say right now, dey jes' as
good white folks as Marse John and Old Missy, and sho' treated me good.

"Law me, I never won't forgit one day. Mr. Will say, 'Lucinda, we is gwine drive you over to
Appomatox and take de chilluns and you can come, too.' Course, I was tickled mos' to pieces
but he didn't tell what he gwine for. You know what? To see a nigger hung. I gettin' long mighty
old now, but I won't never forgit dat. He had kilt a man, and I never saw so many people 'fore,
what dere to see him hang. I jes' shut my eyes.

"Den Mr. Will he take me to de big tree what have all de bark strip off it and de branches
strip off, and say, 'Lucinda, dis de tree where Gen. Lee surrendered.' I has put dese two hands
right on dat tree, yes, suh, I sho' has.

"Miss Susie say one day, 'Lucinda, how you like to go with us to Texas?' Law me, I didn't know
where Texas was at, or nothin', but I loved Mr. Will and Miss Susie and de chilluns was all
wrop up in me, so I say I'll go. And dat how come I'm here, and I ain't never been back, and
I ain't see my own sisters and brother and papa since.

"We come to New Orleans on de train and takes de boat on de Gulf to Galveston and den de train
to Hempstead. Mr. Will farm at first and den he and Miss Susie run de hotel, and I stays with
dem till I gets married to Will Elder in '75, and I lives with him till de good Lawd takes
him home.

"I has five chilluns but all dead now, 'ceptin' two. I done served de Lawd now for 64 years
and soon he's gwine call old Lucinda, but I'm ready and I know I'll be better off when I die
and go to Heaven, 'cause I'm old and no 'count now.

420024

     JOHN ELLIS, was born June 26, 1852, a slave of the Ellis family in
     Johnson County near Cleburne, Texas. He remained with his white
     folks and was paid by the month for his labor for one year after
     freedom, when his master died and his mistress returned to
     Mississippi. He worked as a laborer for many years around Cleburne,
     coming to San Angelo, Texas in 1928. He now lives alone and is very
     active for his age.

John relates:

"My father and mother, John and Fannie Ellis, were sold in Springfield, Missouri, to my marster,
Parson Ellis, and taken away from all their people and brought to Johnson County, Texas.

"My marster, he was a preacher and a good man. None of de slaves ever have better white folks
den we did.

"We had good beds and good food and dey teaches us to read and write too. De buffalo and de
antelope and de deer was mos' as thick as de cattle now, and we was sent out after dem, so
we would always have plenty of fresh meat. We had hogs and cattle too. Any of dem what was
not marked was just as much ours as iffen we had raised dem, 'cause de range was all free.

"Some of de fish we would catch out of dat Brazos River would be so big dey would pull us in
but finally we would manage to gits dem out. De rabbits and de 'possum was plentiful too and
wid de big garden what our marster had for us all, we sho' had good to eat.

"I's done all kinds of work what it takes to run a fa'm. My boss he had only fourteen slaves
and what was called a small fa'm, compared wid de big plantations. After our days work was
done we would set up at night and pick de seed out of de cotton so dey could spin it into thread.
Den we goes out and gits different kinds of bark and boils it to git dye for de thread 'fore
it was spinned into cloth. De chillun jes' have long shirts and slips made out of dis home
spun and we makes our shoes out of rawhide, and Lawdy! Dey was so hard we would have to warm
dem by de fire and grease dem wid tallow to ever wear dem 'tall.

"We had good log huts and our boss had a bigger log house. We never did work long into de night
and long 'fore day like I hear tell some did. We didn' have none of dem drivers and when we
done anything very bad old marster he whoop us a little but we never got hurt.

"I didn' see no slaves sold. Dat was done, I hear, but not so much in Texas. I never did see
no jails nor chains nor nothin' like dat either, but I hears 'bout dem.

"We never worked Sat'days and de colored went to church wid de whites and jine de church too,
but dey never baptized dem so far as I knows.

"We had lots to eat and big times on Christmas, mos' as big as when de white folks gits married.
Umph, um! One of de gi'ls got married once and she had such a long train on dat weddin' gown
'til me and my sister, we have to walks along behind her and carry dat thing, all of us a-walkin'
on a strip of nice cloth from de carriage to de church. We sho' have de cakes and all dem good
eats at dem weddin' suppers.

"I nev'r hear tell of many colored weddin's. We jes' jumps over de broom an' de bride she has
to jump over it backwards and iffen she couldn' jump it backwards she couldn't git married.
Dat was sho' funny, seein' dem colored gi'ls a tryin' to jump dat broom.

"Our boss, he tells us 'bout bein' free and he say he hire us by de month and we stays dere
a year and he dies, den ole miss she go back to Mississippi and we jes' scatter 'round, some
a workin' here and some a workin' yonder, mos' times for our victuals and clothes. I couldn'
tell much difference myself 'cause I had good people to live wid and when it was dat way de
whites and de colored was better off de way I sees it den dey is now, some of dem.

"I seem jes' punyin' away, de doctors don' know jes' what's wrong wid me but I never was use
to doctors anyway, jes' some red root tea or sage weed and sheep waste tea for de measles am
all de doctoring we gits when we was slaves and dat done jes' as well.

"My wife she been dead all dese years an' I jes' lives here alone.

"Chillun? No mam, I never had no chillun 'fore I was married an' I only had twelve after I
was married; yes mam, jes' nine boys and three girls, but I prefers to live here by myself,
'cause I gits along alright."

420945

     LORENZA EZELL, Beaumont, Texas, Negro, was born in 1850 on the
     plantation of Ned Lipscomb, in Spartanburg County, South Carolina.
     Lorenza is above the average in intelligence and remembers many
     incidents of slavery and Reconstruction days. He came to Brenham,
     Texas, in 1882, and several years later moved to Beaumont, where he
     lives in a little shack almost hidden by vines and trees.

"Us plantation was jes' east from Pacolet Station on Thicketty Creek, in Spartanburg County,
in South Carolina. Dat near Little and Big Pacolet Rivers on de route to Limestone Springs,
and it jes' a ordinary plantation with de main crops cotton and wheat.

"I 'long to de Lipscombs and my mama, Maria Ezell, she 'long to 'em, too. Old Ned Lipscomb
was 'mongst de oldest citizens of dat county. I's born dere on July 29th, in 1850 and I be
87 year old dis year. Levi Ezell, he my daddy, and he 'long to Landrum Ezell, a Baptist preacher.
Dat young massa and de old massa, John Ezell, was de first Baptist preacher I ever heered of.
He have three sons, Landrum and Judson and Bryson. Bryson have gif' for business and was right
smart of a orator.

"Dey's fourteen niggers on de Lipscomb place. Dey's seven of us chillen, my mamma, three uncle
and three aunt and one man what wasn't no kin to us. I was oldest of de chillen, and dey called
Sallie and Carrie and Alice and Jabus and Coy and LaFate and Rufus and Nelson.

"Old Ned Lipscomb was one de best massa in de whole county. You know dem old patterrollers,
dey call us 'Old Ned's free niggers,' and sho' hate us. Dey cruel to us, 'cause dey think us
have too good a massa. One time dey cotch my uncle and beat him most to death.

"Us go to work at daylight, but us wasn't 'bused. Other massas used to blow de horn or ring
de bell, but massa, he never use de horn or de whip. All de man folks was 'lowed raise a garden
patch with tobaccy or cotton for to sell in de market. Wasn't many massas what 'lowed dere
niggers have patches and some didn't even feed 'em enough. Dat's why dey have to git out and
hustle at night to git food for dem to eat.

"De old massa, he 'sisted us go to church. De Baptist church have a shed built behind de pulpit
for cullud folks, with de dirt floor and split log seat for de women folks, but most de men
folks stands or kneels on de floor. Dey used to call dat de coop. De white preacher back to
us, but iffen he want to he turn 'round and talk to us awhile. Us mess up songs, 'cause us
couldn't read or write. I 'member dis one:

  'De rough, rocky road what Moses done travel,
  I's bound to carry my soul to de Lawd;
  It's a mighty rocky road but I mos' done travel,
  And I's bound to carry my soul to de Lawd.'

"Us sing 'Sweet Chariot,' but us didn't sing it like dese days. Us sing:

  'Swing low, sweet chariot,
  Freely let me into rest,
  I don't want to stay here no longer;
  Swing low, sweet chariot,
  When Gabriel make he las' alarm
  I wants to be rollin' in Jesus arm,
  'Cause I don't want to stay here no longer.'

Us sing 'nother song what de Yankees take dat tune and make a hymm out of it. Sherman army
sung it, too. When de little white chillen go to school 'bout half mile, I wait till noon and
run all de way up to de school to run base when dey play at noon. Dey sev'ral young Lipscombs,
dere Smith and Bill and John and Nathan, and de oldest son, Elias.

"In dem days cullud people jes' like mules and hosses. Dey didn't have no last name. My mamma
call me after my daddy's massa, Ezell. Mamma was de good woman and I 'member her more dan once
rockin' de little cradle and singin' to de baby. Dis what she sing:

  "Milk in de dairy nine days old,
  Sing-song Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?
  Frogs and skeeters gittin' mighty bol!
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?

  (Chorus)

  Keemo, kimo, darro, wharro,
  With me hi, me ho;
  In come Sally singin'
    Sometime penny winkle,
  Lingtum nip cat,
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?

  Dere a frog live in a pool,
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?
  Sure he was de bigges' fool,
  Sing-song Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?

  For he could dance and he could sing
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?
  And make de woods aroun' him ring
  Sing-song, Kitty, can't you ki-me-o?'

"Old massa didn't hold with de way some mean massas treat dey niggers. Dere a place on our
plantation what us call 'De old meadow.' It was common for runaway niggers to have place 'long
de way to hide and res' when dey run off from mean massa. Massa used to give 'em somethin'
to eat when dey hide dere. I saw dat place operated, though it wasn't knowed by dat den, but
long time after I finds out dey call it part of de 'Underground railroad.' Dey was stops like
dat all de way up to de north.

