JOURNAL

                                   OF

                             THE PROCEEDINGS

                                   OF

                           THE LINNEAN SOCIETY.

                                 ZOOLOGY.

                                VOL. III.

                                 LONDON:
                  LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, LONGMANS & ROBERTS,
                                   AND
                          WILLIAMS AND NORGATE.
                                  1859.

                      PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS,
                      RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.

LIST OF PAPERS.

                                                                  Page
BAIKIE, Dr.

Extract of a Letter from Dr. Baikie to Sir John Richardson, M.D., C.B., F.R. & L.S., dated
29th October, 1857, Rabba, on the Qworra                                                       76

BATE, C. SPENCE, Esq., F.L.S.

On the Importance of an Examination of the Structure of the Integument of Crustacea in the
determination of doubtful Species.--Application to the genus Galathea, with the Description
of a New Species of that Genus                           1

BELL, THOMAS, Esq., P.L.S.

Description of a new Genus of Crustacea, of the Family Pinnotheridæ; in which the fifth pair
of legs are reduced to an almost imperceptible rudiment                                       27

DARWIN, CHARLES, Esq., F.R.S., F.L.S., & F.G.S., and WALLACE, ALFRED R., Esq.

Death of the Common Hive Bee; supposed to be occasioned by a parasitic Fungus             
29

HUXLEY, T. H., Esq., F.R.S., Professor of Natural History, Government School of Mines.

On some points in the Anatomy of Nautilus Pompilius               36

KNOX, R., Esq., M.D., F.R.S.E.

Contributions to the Anatomy and Natural History of the Cetacea.    63

SMITH, FREDERICK, Esq., Assistant in the Zoological Department in the British Museum.

Natural-History Extracts from the Journal of Captain Denham, H.M. Surveying Vessel 'Herald,'
1857                                32

WETHERELL, JOHN W., Esq.

Notice of the occurrence of recent Worm Tracks in the Upper Part of the London Clay Formation
near Highgate                     31

INDEX                                                              199

JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

LINNEAN SOCIETY OF LONDON. By SPENCE BATE, Esq., F.L.S.

[Read January 21, 1858.]

Of the various genera of Decapod Crustacea none are more interesting, or more difficult of
description, than those which constitute the family Galatheadæ.

The interest attaching to these forms arises from the intermediate position which they occupy
in the natural arrangement of the class, their structure placing them between the Macrura and
Brachyura; in accordance with which we find that, whilst Professor M.-Edwards classes them
among the Macrura, Professor Bell, in his work on the British Crustacea, places them (more
correctly, as we think) in the intermediate group of Anomura.

This opinion is fully borne out both in the development of the animals and in their structure
in the adult state.

The early form of the larva bears, anteriorly, a resemblance to the Brachyural type, whilst
the caudal appendages assimilate to those of the Macrura. The same conditions obtain in the
young of Anomura. At the time of birth, the larva, like that of the Brachyura, has only the
two gnathopoda developed, whilst the termination of the tail is like that of a fish, as in
the Macrura. In the adult, the internal antennæ possess short flagella and complementary appendages,
such as exist in the order Brachyura, whilst the external antennæ have the long and slender
flagella proper to the Macrura. The scale, however, commonly appended to the external antennæ
in the latter order is wanting, a circumstance which exhibits a relation to the Brachyura.

An examination of the legs shows that the coxæ are fused with the thorax, as in the Brachyura,
and not articulated with it as in the Macrura, whilst, on the other hand, the posterior division
and caudal termination approach the Macrural type more nearly than that of the Brachyura, the
animal thus assuming a character intermediate between the two orders.

But in the description of the several species of the genus Galathea, a peculiar difficulty
appears to arise, originating in the affinity which they bear to each other. So close, in fact,
is the approximation, that the descriptions of the best writers will scarcely avail for the
distinction of the individual species without the assistance of figures. This arises from the
fact that the general characters, upon which the descriptions are based, vary, in this genus,
only in their comparative degrees of development.

In the three species recognized in Professor Bell's work on the British Crustacea, it will
be found that each species retains the same characters in greater or less degree.

Galathea strigosa is peculiar for the spinous character of the carapace and cheliform legs.
Every spine, however, is repeated in both the other species, only less developed. We find the
rostrum furnished with four lateral teeth on each side, a character which also exists in each
of the other species; and although close observation may detect a slightly different arrangement
in the relative position of these teeth, the differences are not of sufficient importance to
enable a naturalist thence to derive a specific distinction, unless the peculiarity is seconded
by some more unqualified character less liable to be affected by any peculiarity of condition.

In order to arrive at more certain results in the identification of species, we think that
the microscopic examination of the surface of the integument will be found peculiarly useful.

This mode of examination of species may also be applied to a considerable extent throughout
the Crustacea generally with great advantage; and if found valuable in recent, there can be
no doubt that it will prove of far greater importance in extinct forms, where parts on which
the identification of species visually rests are lost, and fragments only of the animal obtainable.

It should be borne in mind that, as the structure in question undergoes modifications more
or less considerable in different parts of the animal, it will always be advisable to compare
the corresponding parts with each other.

Applying this test to the known species of Galathea, we perceive that the structure of the
integument upon the arms, independent of the marginal spines, exhibits a squamiform appearance,
but that the scales, which characterise the structure, possess features peculiar to each species.

In Galathea strigosa the scales are convex, distant from each other, smooth at the edge, and
fringed with long hairs. In G. squamifera they are convex, closely placed, scalloped at the
edge, and without hairs. In G. nexa the scales are obsolete, tufts of hair representing the
supposed edges. In G. depressa, n. sp., the scales are broad, less convex than in G. strigosa
and G. squamifera, smooth, closely set, and fringed with short hairs. In G. Andrewsii they
are small, distant, very convex, tipped with red, and slightly furnished with hair.

As another instance of the practical application of the microscopical examination of the surface,
I would refer to two species of Amphipoda, classed by Leach under the name of Gammarus Locusta,
from his inability to assign them any separate specific characters. In the structure of their
integuments, however, these two forms will be found to exhibit widely different microscopical
appearances.

Again, there exists in the same group three or four species, the description of any one of
which would apply to either of the others; and it is probable they would never have been ranked
as separate species had not their habitats been geographically distant. Thus Gammarus Olivii,
M.-Ed., G. affinis, M.-E., G. Kröyii, Rathke, and G. gracilis, R., can only be specifically
determined by a microscopic examination of the integument.

The same may be said of other Amphipoda, such as Urothoe inostratus, Dana, from South America,
which so nearly resembles in form the U. elegans of the British shores.

GALATHEA DISPERSA, mihi.

G. rostro brevi, dentibus 4 utrinque ornato, 2 anterioribus minoribus; pedibus anterioribus
elongatis, sparse spiosus; chelarum digitis parallelis.

Galathea with short rostrum, armed on each side with 4 teeth, the two posterior being less
important than the two anterior. The fingers of the chelæ impinge through their whole length;
outer margin of the hand furnished with 3 or 4 small spines.

Hab. Trawling-ground, Plymouth, common; Moray Frith, Scotland.

This species unites G. Andrewsii with G. nexa, and, I think, has often been mistaken for the
young of the latter; but G. nexa, so far as my experience goes, is a species peculiar to the
north of England, whereas G. dispersa, I anticipate, will be found to be the most universally
dispersed, in deep water, of any of the species known. It can always be detected from G. nexa
by the form of the hand and the manner in which the fingers impinge: in G. nexa the hand is
broad towards the extremity, and the fingers meet only at the apex; in G. dispersa the hand
gradually narrows to the apex, and the fingers meet each other through their whole length,
the inner margin of the finger being finely serrated, the thumb not.

It also may be distinguished from G. Andrewsii by the breadth of the hands, which are narrow
and round in G. Andrewsii, and moderately broad and flat in G. dispersa.

By an examination of the texture of the integument under a magnifying power of low degree,
the surface of G. dispersa will be seen distinctly to differ from that of any of the others;
it is covered with flat scales, fringed with short cilia. The length of the animal, including
the arms, is about 2-1/4 inches.

Catalogue of Hymenopterous Insects collected at Celebes by Mr. A. R. WALLACE. By FREDERICK
SMITH, Esq., Assistant in the Zoological Department, British Museum. Communicated by W. W.
SAUNDERS, Esq., F.R.S., F.L.S.

[Read April 15th, 1858.]

This collection of the Hymenoptera of Celebes is specially interesting, as adding greatly to
our knowledge of the geographical range of many well-known species, while the additions made
to the Fossorial group contain many of great beauty and rarity. A new species belonging to
the tribe of Solitary Wasps, Odynerus clavicornis, is perhaps the most interesting insect in
the collection; this Wasp has clavate antennæ, the flagellum being broadly dilated towards
the apex, convex above and concave beneath. I am not acquainted with any other insect belonging
to the Vespidious group which exhibits such an anomaly.

Fam. ANDRENIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. SPHECODES, Latr.

1. SPHECODES INSULARIS. S. niger, abdominis segmentis primo secundo et tertio (basi) rubris;
alis hyalinis.

Male. Length 3-1/2 lines. Head and thorax black, closely and strongly punctured; the face below
the antennæ with silvery-white pubescence; the joints of the flagellum submoniliform; the mandibles
ferruginous. Thorax: the tegulæ pale rufo-testaceous, wings hyaline, the nervures ferruginous;
the metathorax coarsely rugose; the articulations of the legs and the tarsi ferruginous. Abdomen:
the first, second, and base of the third segments red, the apical ones black, very finely and
closely punctured, with the apical margins of the segments smooth and shining; a black spot
in the middle of the basal segment.

Hab. Celebes.

Gen. NOMIA, Latr.

1. NOMIA PUNCTATA. N. nigra nitida punctata, alis nigro-fuscis.

Male. Length 4-1/2 lines. Shining black: head and thorax coarsely punctured, the metathorax
ruggedly sculptured, truncate at the apex, the truncation and sides smooth with a few fine
punctures; the abdomen closely and rather finely punctured, the apical margins of the segments
smooth and shining. The tips of the mandibles, the tarsi and apex of the abdomen rufo-testaceous,
the wings fuscous.

Hab. Celebes.

2. NOMIA FLAVIPES. N. nigra pedibus flavis, abdomine cinereo fasciato, alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 3-1/4 lines. Black; the face and cheeks densely clothed with short cinereous
pubescence, the vertex thinly so; the margins of the prothorax, mesothorax and scutellum with
a line of pale ochraceous pubescence, the disk of the thorax thinly covered with short pubescence
of the same colour, the emargination of the metathorax as well as its sides with longer pubescence
of the same colour; the base of the abdomen and basal margin of the second and following segments
covered with short cinereous pubescence. The flagellum beneath fulvous; the mandibles ferruginous.
The legs reddish-yellow, with the coxæ and base of the femora black; the wings hyaline; the
tegulæ yellow, the nervures pale testaceous.

Hab. Celebes.

3. NOMIA FORMOSA. N. capite thoraceque nigris; abdomine chalybeo; marginibus apicalibus segmentorum
cæruleo fasciatis.

Female. Length 5-1/2 lines. Head and thorax black and very closely punctured; the face covered
with griseous pubescence; the clypeus with a central longitudinal carina. Thorax: the apical
margin of the prothorax, the margins of the scutellum, and the sides of the metathorax covered
with a dense short ochraceous pubescence; the disk of the thorax thinly sprinkled with short
black hairs; the posterior tibiæ obscurely ferruginous; the tarsi ferruginous; the legs covered
with bright golden-yellow pubescence; wings subhyaline, the nervures ferruginous; the tegulæ
yellow with a fuscous stain in the middle. Abdomen obscurely chalybeous, closely punctured,
the two basal segments strongly so; the apical margins of the segments with smooth shining
narrow blue fasciæ.

Male. Closely resembling the female, but with the legs black; the posterior femora incrassate,
the tibiæ narrow at their base and broadly dilated at their apex, which, as well as the calcaria,
are pale testaceous.

This species closely resembles a species from North China, N. chalybeata, Westw. MS., from
which it is readily distinguished by the form of the fourth ventral segment, which is notched
in the middle, rounded, and then emarginate with the lateral angles rounded; in the species
from China the margin is arched, and fringed with fulvous pubescence.

4. NOMIA HALIOTOIDES. N. nigra, pube cinerea tecta, abdominis segmentis intermediis pube alba
fasciatis.

Female. Length 4-1/2 lines. Black; head and thorax opake, and thinly clothed with cinereous
pubescence, that on the disk of the thorax and margin of the scutellum slightly ochraceous.
The flagellum fulvous beneath, the mandibles ferruginous at their apex; the tarsi ferruginous,
wings hyaline, nervures fuscous, stigma testaceous. Abdomen shining, delicately punctured;
the basal margins of the second, third, and fourth segments with a band of cinereous pubescence,
attenuated in the middle.

Hab. Celebes.

Fam. DASYGASTRÆ.

1. MEGACHILE INCISA. M. nigra, rude et dense punctata, facie fulvo pubescente; alis fuscis,
segmentis abdominis marginibus multo depressis.

Male. Length 5-1/2 lines. Black; closely and strongly punctured, the punctures confluent on
the abdomen. The face clothed with fulvous pubescence. The tarsi obscurely rufo-piceous, the
claws ferruginous; wings dark fuscous, their base hyaline. Abdomen: the apical margins of the
segments smooth, impunctate, their basal margins very deeply depressed; a deep fovea at the
tip of the apical segment; the head, thorax, and abdomen clothed beneath with short cinereous
pubescence.

Hab. Celebes.

2. MEGACHILE FULVIFRONS. M. nigra, delicatule punctata; facie dense fulvo pubescente; thoracis
lateribus abdomineque subtus fulvo pubescentibus; fasciis marginalibus abdominis fulvis.

Female. Length 7 lines. Black; head and thorax closely punctured, the abdomen delicately so
and shining; the mandibles stout, with two acute teeth at their apex, shining and covered with
oblong punctures; the face, sides of the thorax, and abdomen beneath, densely clothed with
fulvous pubescence; the apical margins of the segments of the abdomen above with narrow fasciæ
of short fulvous pubescence; the abdomen in certain lights has a metallic tinge.

The male is similarly clothed to the female, the margins of the segments are deeply depressed,
and that of the apical segment slightly notched in the middle.

Hab. Celebes.

3. MEGACHILE TERMINALIS. M. nigra, capite thoraceque dense punctatis; abdomine pube nigra vestito;
segmentis duobus apicalibus pube alba vestitis; alis fuscis.

Female. Length 9 lines. Black; the face with tufts of black pubescence above the insertion
of the antennæ; mandibles very stout, with an acute tooth at their apex, the inner margin subdentate,
and covered with fine cinereous pubescence. Thorax with black pubescence at the sides of the
metathorax; the wings dark fuscous. Abdomen clothed with black pubescence; the fifth and sixth
segments clothed with ochraceous pubescence above, that on the sixth nearly white.

Hab. Celebes.

This species resembles the M. ornata; but when viewed beneath, the different colour of the
pollen-brush at once separates them.

Gen. CERATINA, Spin.

1. Ceratina viridis, Guér. Icon. Reg. Ann. 444. t. 73. f. 6.

Hab. India (Bengal, N. India), Ceylon, Celebes, China.

2. Ceratina hieroglyphica, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. ii. 226.

Hab. Northern India, Celebes, Philippine Islands, Hong Kong.

Fam. DENUDATÆ.

1. STELIS ABDOMINALIS. S. dense punctata, capite thoraceque nigris, abdomine ferrugineo; alis
nigro-fuscis violaceo iridescentibus.

Male. Length 5 lines. Head and thorax black, abdomen ferruginous; head and thorax strongly
punctured, the scutellum very strongly so; the sides of the face and the anterior margin of
the face fringed with white pubescence. The posterior margin of the scutellum rounded; wings
dark brown with a violet iridescence. Abdomen ferruginous and closely punctured.

Hab. Celebes.

2. COELIOXYS FULVIFRONS. C. nigra, rude punctata, facie pube fulva vestita; alis fuscis cupreo
iridescentibus.

Male. Length 6 lines. Black; the head and thorax with large confluent punctures; the face clothed
with fulvous pubescence. Thorax: a stout tooth on each side of the scutellum at its base; wings
dark brown with a coppery effulgence, subhyaline at their base; beneath clothed with short
cinereous pubescence. Abdomen: elongate, conical; closely punctured, with the apical and basal
margins of the segments smooth; the apical segment with a tooth on each side at its base and
four at its apex; beneath the margins of the segments fringed with pale pubescence; the apical
margin of the fourth segment notched in the middle; the fifth entirely clothed with pale pubescence.

Hab. Celebes.

Fam. SCOPULIPEDES.

Gen. ANTHOPHORA, Latr.

1. Anthophora zonata, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. 955. 19.

Hab. India, Ceylon, Malacca, Sumatra, Borneo, Philippine Islands, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Celebes.

Gen. XYLOCOPA, Latr.

1. Xylocopa fenestrata, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 339. 6. [Symbol: male].

Hab. India, Celebes.

2. Xylocopa æstuans, Linn. Syst. Nat. 961. 53.

Hab. India, Java, Singapore, Celebes.

3. Xylocopa Dejeanii, St. Farg. Hym. ii. 209. 59.

Hab. Java, Borneo, Sumatra, Celebes.

4. Xylocopa collaris, St. Farg. Hym. ii. 189. 26.

Hab. India, Sumatra, Malacca, Borneo, Celebes.

5. XYLOCOPA NOBILIS. X. nigra, pube nigra induta; abdominis basi pube flava, apice lateritio.

Female. Length 11 lines. Black; a narrow line of pale fulvous pubescence on the margin of the
thorax in front, a patch of the same colour on each side of the metathorax, and the basal segment
of the abdomen covered above with similar pubescence; the apical margin of the third and fourth
segments, and the fifth and six entirely, covered with bright brick-red pubescence; the wings
black, with coppery iridescence.

Hab. Celebes.

Fam. SOCIALES.

1. APIS ZONATA. A. nigra, thoracis lateribus dense ochraceo pubescentibus; alis fumatis; abdomine
nitido, segmentis secundo tertio quartoque basi niveo pubescentibus.

Worker. Length 8--8-1/2 lines. Black; the head and thorax opake, the abdomen shining; the clypeus
smooth and shining, the flagellum rufo-piceous beneath; the anterior margin of the labrum narrowly,
and the apex of the mandibles, ferruginous; the face with a little fine short cinereous pubescence
above the insertion of the antennæ; the vertex with long black pubescence; the eyes covered
with short black pubescence. Thorax: the sides with ochraceous pubescence; wings smoky, the
superior pair darkest at their anterior margin beyond the stigma. Abdomen: a snow-white band
at the basal margin of the second, third, and fourth segments, the bands continued beneath,
but narrower.

Hab. Celebes, Philippine Islands.

Specimens of this species denuded of their white bands would approach the A. unicolor of Latreille;
but that insect is described as having the anterior wings black; in the present species both
pairs are of the same smoky colour, not approaching black.

Fam. MUTILLIDÆ.

Gen. MUTILLA.

1. Mutilla sexmaculata, Swed. Nov. Act. Holm. viii. 286. 44. [Symbol: female]. Mutilla fuscipennis,
Fabr. Syst. Piez. 436. 35. [Symbol: male].

Hab. India (Punjaub, &c.), China, Java, Celebes.

2. Mutilla unifasciata, Smith, Cat. Hym. pt. iii. p. 38.

Hab. India, Celebes.

3. Mutilla rufogastra, St. Farg. Hym. iii. 629. 51. [Symbol: male].

Hab. India, Celebes.

4. MUTILLA VOLATILIS. M. nigra, rude punctata et pubescens; capite abdomineque nitidis, alis
fusco-hyalinis.

Male. Length 5-6 lines. Black. Head and thorax very coarsely punctured; head and disk of the
thorax punctured; the metathorax opake, with a central abbreviated channel and covered with
large shallow punctures; the eyes notched on their inner margin; wings fuscous and iridescent;
the tegulæ smooth and shining. Abdomen shining and rather finely punctured; the basal segment
narrow and campanulate; the margins of the segments thickly fringed with silvery-white hair;
the cheeks, sides of the thorax, and beneath the legs and abdomen with scattered long silvery-white
hairs.

Hab. Celebes.

Fam. SCOLIADÆ, Leach.

Gen. SCOLIA, Fabr.

1. Scolia erratica, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. pt. iii. p. 88. 10. Scolia verticalis, Burm. Abh.
Nat.-Ges. Halle, i. 37. 61.

Hab. India, Sumatra, Celebes.

2. Scolia aurulenta, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. pt. iii. p. 102. 80. (nec Fabr.).

Hab. Philippine Islands, Celebes.

3. Scolia fimbriata, Burm. Abh. Nat.-Ges. Halle, i. p. 32. 24.

Hab. Java, Celebes.

4. Scolia dimidiata, Guér. Voy. Coq. Zool. ii. pt. 2. p. 248.

Hab. Senegal, Celebes.

5. SCOLIA TERMINATA. S. nigra, clypeo mandibulisque flavis, thorace flavo variegato, alis hyalinis,
abdomine flavo quinque-fasciato, apicisque marginibus flavis.

Male. Length 5 lines. Black; the clypeus, labrum, and mandibles yellow; the former with a triangular
black spot in the middle; the latter ferruginous at their apex. The posterior margin of the
prothorax, the tegulæ, a transverse curved line on the scutellum, and a spot on the postscutellum
yellow; the anterior and intermediate tarsi, tibiæ, and knees, and the posterior tibiæ outside,
yellow; a black line on the intermediate tibiæ beneath, and the apical joints of the tarsi
fuscous; wings hyaline, the nervures ferruginous. Abdomen brightly prismatic; the margins of
all the segments with a narrow yellow fascia, those on the second and third segments terminating
at the sides in a large rounded macula; the fascia very narrow or obliterated on the sixth
segment; the fasciæ on the second and third segments continued beneath.

Hab. Celebes.

6. SCOLIA AGILIS. S. nigra, mandibulis clypeoque flavis, alis fulvo-hyalinis, abdomine prismatico
flavo quadrifasciato.

Male. Length 8 lines. Black and punctured, with thin long griseous pubescence; the vertex,
disk of the thorax, and the abdomen shining; the mandibles and clypeus yellow, the latter with
a black bell-shaped spot in the middle; wings fulvo-hyaline, the nervures ferruginous; the
tibiæ with a yellow line outside. Abdomen beautifully prismatic; the first and three following
segments with a yellow fascia on their apical margins, the second and two following much attenuated
in the middle, or the fourth interrupted.

Hab. Celebes.

7. SCOLIA FULVIPENNIS. S. nigra, antennis capiteque supra basin antennarum rubris, alis fulvo-hyalinis.

Male. Length 7 lines. Black; the antennæ and the head above their insertion ferruginous, the
scape black, the head coarsely punctured. Thorax: coarsely punctured; the mesothorax with an
abbreviated deeply impressed line in the middle of its anterior margin; wings fulvo-hyaline,
the nervures ferruginous; the apex of the wings slightly fuscous, the anterior pair with two
submarginal cells and one recurrent nervure. Abdomen: shining, punctured, and prismatic.

Hab. Celebes.

8. SCOLIA ALECTO. S. nigra, capite supra basin antennarum rubro; alis nigris violaceo micantibus.

Female. Length 14 lines. Black and shining; head red above the insertion of the antennæ, very
smooth and glossy, with a few punctures at the sides of and in front of the ocelli; antennæ
black; the mandibles with a fringe of ferruginous hairs on their inferior margin. Thorax: smooth
on the disk, which has a few scattered punctures at the sides; the scutellum punctured and
shining; the thorax in front and the metathorax with black pubescence, the latter widely emarginate
at the verge of the truncation, the lateral angles produced; wings black with a bright violet
iridescence. Abdomen punctured, with the middle of the second, third, and fourth segments smooth
and shining in the middle; the first segment with a smooth shining carina at its base slightly
produced forwards, the abdomen with a slight metallic lustre. The wings with one marginal and
three submarginal cells, and one recurrent nervure.

Male. Smaller than the female, and differs in having the clypeus red and the red colour running
down behind the eyes, the antennæ longer, and the abdomen with a bright metallic iridescence.

Hab. Celebes.

9. SCOLIA MINUTA. S. nigra, abdomine iridescente, segmentorum marginibus apicalibus flavo fasciatis,
alis subhyalinis iridescentibus.

Male. Length 4 lines. Head and thorax black and shining, with scattered pale pubescence; the
mandibles and clypeus yellow, the latter with an anchor-shaped black spot. Thorax: the posterior
margin of the prothorax and the anterior and intermediate tibiæ and tarsi yellow; a minute
yellow spot on the postscutellum yellow; the wings subhyaline, the nervures fusco-ferruginous.
Abdomen: the apical margins of the segments with a narrow yellow border, the second and third
uniting with a lateral spot; the sixth segment immaculate; the apex pale testaceous.

Hab. Celebes.

Fam. POMPILIDÆ, Leach.

1. Pompilus analis, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 209. 42.

Hab. India, Java, Ceylon, Celebes.

2. POMPILUS SALTITANS. P. niger, pedibus subferrugineis, prothoracis margine postica flava;
alis flavo-hyalinis, apice fuscis, abdomine pilis cinereis fasciato.

Female. Length 6 lines. Black and thinly covered with ashy pile. The scape, labrum, mandibles
and palpi ferruginous; the clypeus widely emarginate anteriorly. The posterior margin of the
prothorax angular and with a yellow border; the scutellum prominent, covered on each side with
a dense silvery-white pile, the postscutellum with two spots of the same; the wings flavo-hyaline,
their apex with a broad dark-fuscous border, the nervures ferruginous, the tegulæ yellow; the
posterior wings palest; legs pale ferruginous, the coxæ black with their tips pale; the apical
joints of the tarsi blackish, the spines of the legs black. Abdomen: the first, second, and
third segments with a fascia of silvery-white pile at their basal margins; the apex of the
abdomen ferruginous.

Hab. Celebes.

3. POMPILUS CONTORTUS. P. niger, cinereo-pilosus, prothorace flavo postice marginato; alis
subhyalinis, marginibus apicalibus fuscis, pedibus subferrugineis.

Female. Length 5-1/2 lines. Black; the head, thorax, and four basal segments of the abdomen
covered with ashy pile; the first and second segments with their apical margins naked. The
scape yellow in front; the flagellum beneath, the labrum, mandibles and palpi ferruginous;
the joints of the antennæ arcuate, particularly the apical ones; the apex of each joint is
oblique, giving the antennæ a twisted appearance. Thorax: the posterior margin of the prothorax
angular and with a broad yellow border; the scutellum compressed and prominent; wings subhyaline
with a broad fuscous border at their apex, the tegulæ yellow; legs pale ferruginous, with their
coxæ and trochanters black; the apical joints of the tarsi fuscous. Abdomen with a yellow macula
at the tip.

Hab. Celebes.

4. POMPILUS PILIFRONS. P. niger, facie argenteis pilis dense tecta; thorace abdomineque flavo
maculatis, alis subhyalinis, apice fuscis.

Female. Length 4-1/2 lines. Black; the face densely covered with silvery-white pile; a narrow
line at the inner orbits of the eyes, the palpi and mandibles yellow; the latter ferruginous
at their apex. The posterior margin of the prothorax rounded and yellow; a minute yellow spot
on the mesothorax touching the scutellum, the thorax and abdomen covered with a changeable
silky pile; the wings subhyaline, their nervures fuscous, a broad dark fuscous border at the
apex of the superior pair. A transverse spot on each side of the basal margin of the second
and third segments, and an emarginate fascia on that of the fifth, yellow.

5. POMPILUS DECEPTOR. P. rufescenti-flavus; vertice nigro, alis anticis apice fuscis.

Male. Length 6 lines. Pale reddish-yellow; the antennæ slightly dusky above; a black transverse
stripe on the vertex between the eyes, and another issuing from it in the middle and passing
beyond the ocelli. Thorax: a black stripe on each side of the mesothorax over the tegulæ; the
wings subhyaline, the nervures ferruginous, the superior pair fuscous at their apex. Abdomen
immaculate.

Subgenus PRIOCNEMIS.

1. PRIOCNEMIS RUFIFRONS. P. niger; facie, antennis, tibiis tarsisque ferrugineis, alis fulvo-hyalinis;
abdominis segmento apicali flavo unimaculato.

Female. Length 9-1/2 lines. Black; the face above the clypeus, as high as the anterior ocellus,
reddish-yellow; the extreme edge of the clypeus, the labrum and base of the mandibles ferruginous;
the antennæ reddish-yellow. Thorax: fulvo-hyaline, with a dark fuscous border at the apex;
the knees, tibiæ and tarsi reddish-yellow; the two latter spinose. Abdomen: gradually tapering
to an acute point at the apex, the sixth segment with an elongate red spot.

Hab. Celebes.

Subgenus AGENIA.

1. Agenia blanda, Guér. Voy. Coq. Zool. ii. pt. 2. p. 260.

2. AGENIA BIMACULATA. A. nigra, cinereo-pilosa, clypeo plagis duabus flavis; antennarum articulis
apicalibus, tibiis tarsisque anticis et intermediis femoribusque posticis ferrugineis; alis
subhyalinis, nervuris nigris.

Female. Length 7 lines. Black, and covered with ashy pile; a large macula on each side of the
clypeus, the mandibles and palpi yellow; the base and apex of the mandibles rufo-piceous; the
flagellum pale ferruginous, more or less fuscous above towards the base. Thorax: the posterior
margin of the prothorax arched; the anterior and intermediate tibiæ and tarsi and the femora
at their apex beneath, also the posterior femora, pale ferruginous; the wings subhyaline, the
nervures dark fuscous. Abdomen: the apical margins of the segments obscurely and narrowly rufo-piceous,
the apex ferruginous.

Hab. Celebes.

Gen. MACROMERIS, St. Farg.

1. Macromeris splendida, St. Farg. Hym. iii. 463. 1. [Symbol: male].

Hab. India, China, Malacca, Borneo, Java, Celebes.

Gen. MYGNIMIA, Smith.

1. Mygnimia iridipennis, Smith, Journ. Proc. Linn. Soc. ii. p. 98.

Hab. Celebes, Borneo.

This insect, a female, is 5 lines larger than M. iridipennis; but I can point out no other
distinction beyond a slight difference in the colour of the wings: the specimen from Borneo
has a metallic bluish-green iridescence, the Celebes insect has a violet iridescence; notwithstanding
which I am inclined to regard them as one species.

2. MYGNIMIA FUMIPENNIS. M. aurantiaco-rubra, alis obscure fuscis.

Female. Length 9 lines. Orange-red; the anterior margin of the clypeus entire; the labrum produced,
its anterior margin widely emarginate; eyes large, black and ovate. Thorax: the posterior margin
of the prothorax rounded; the mesothorax with a longitudinal fuscous stripe on each side, widest
anteriorly; the metathorax truncate; above, transversely striate; the tibiæ and tarsi spinose;
wings dark fuscous, with a pale semitransparent macula at the base of the second discoidal
cell and a dark fuscous macula beyond; the insect entirely covered with a fine orange-red downy
pile.

Hab. Celebes.

Fam. SPHEGIDÆ.

1. SPHEX PRÆDATOR. The face with silvery pile on each side of the clypeus, and sprinkled with
erect black hairs. Thorax: the posterior margin of the prothorax with a line of silvery pubescence;
the metathorax with a short light-brown pubescence at the apex, and thinly clothed with black
hairs; wings dark brown, with a brilliant violet iridescence. Abdomen blue-black, smooth and
shining.

Hab. Celebes.

2. AMMOPHILA INSOLATA. A. nigra, scapo mandibulis, pedibus, abdominisque segmentis primo et
secundo ferrugineis; alis subhyalinis.

Female. Length 8-1/2 lines. Black; the scape, the base of the flagellum beneath, the anterior
margin of the clypeus and the mandibles ferruginous; the latter black at their apex. Thorax:
the prothorax smooth and shining; the meso- and metathorax above transversely striated, the
scutellum longitudinally so; the legs ferruginous, with their coxæ black; a spot of silvery-white
pubescence on each side of the metathorax at its base, and two at its apex close to the insertion
of the petiole; the wings fulvo-hyaline with the nervures ferruginous. Abdomen: the petiole
and the following segment red, the base of the third also slightly red; the three apical segments
obscurely blue, with a thin glittering pile.

The male differs in having the legs black, their articulations only being ferruginous; the
head entirely black with the face densely covered with silvery-white pile. The thorax is sculptured
as in the other sex; the petiole more elongate and slender, the basal joint black, the second
and the first segment ferruginous beneath; the rest of the abdomen blue.

Hab. Celebes.

Gen. PELOPÆUS, Latr.

1. Pelopæus Madraspatanus, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 203. 3.

Hab. Malabar, Madras, Nepaul, Bengal, Celebes.

2. Pelopæus Bengalensis, Dahlb. Syst. Nat. i. 941. 2.

Hab. India, Philippine Islands, China, Isle of France, Celebes.

3. PELOPÆUS INTRUDENS. P. niger; clypeo bidentato, tibiis anticis et intermediis, femorumque
apice, femoribusque posticis basi, trochanteribus, tibiarum dimidio basali, petioloque rufescenti-flavis;
alis fulvo-hyalinis.

Female. Length 11 lines. Black; the face with silvery pubescence; the clypeus with two large
blunt teeth at its apex, formed by a deep notch in its anterior margin; the scape reddish-yellow
in front. The meso- and metathorax transversely striated; the wings fulvo-hyaline, the nervures
ferruginous; the anterior and intermediate tibiæ and the femora at their apex, the posterior
femora at their base, the trochanters, the tibiæ with their basal half and the middle of the
basal joint of the posterior tarsi, reddish-yellow; the petiole of the abdomen of a paler yellow;
the abdomen smooth and shining. The male only differs in being rather smaller.

Hab. Celebes.

Mr. Wallace says of this species, "A common house-wasp in Macassar; builds mud cells on rafters."

Note.--In describing the species of this genus collected by Mr. Wallace at Borneo, I incorrectly
gave that locality for P. javanus. The insect mistaken for that species may be shortly characterized
as P. benignus, length 12 lines. Opake-black, with the petiole shining; the metathorax transversely
striated; the wings pale fulvo-hyaline, the nervures ferruginous; the scape in front, the anterior
and intermediate tibiæ, the apex of the femora, and the basal joint of the tarsi reddish-yellow;
the posterior legs, with the trochanters and basal half of the femora, yellow.

4. PELOPÆUS FLAVO-FASCIATUS. P. niger; capite thoraceque flavo variegato; pedibus abdominisque
basi ferrugineis; alis hyalinis, apice fuscis, abdominisque segmento tertio fascia lata flava
ornato.

Female. Length 9 lines. Black; the clypeus yellow; the mandibles and scape ferruginous, the
former black at their base, the latter yellow in front; the sides of the face with a bright
golden pile. Thorax: the posterior margin of the prothorax, the tegulæ, scutellum, and a quadrate
spot on each side of the metathorax at its base yellow; the legs ferruginous, with the coxæ,
trachanters, and claw-joint of the tarsi black; wings fulvo-hyaline, the nervures ferruginous,
a fuscous spot at the apex of the anterior pair; the meso- and metathorax transversely striated,
the latter with a yellow spot at the insertion of the petiole. Abdomen: the petiole slightly
curved upwards, the first segment ferruginous; a broad yellow fascia at the apex of the third
segment, the apex of the fourth with a narrow obscure fascia; the abdomen covered with a fine
silky pile.

Hab. Celebes.

Fam. BEMBICIDÆ, Westw.

1. Bembex trepanda, Dahlb. Hym. Europ. i. p. 181.

Hab. India, Celebes.

Fam. LARRIDÆ.

Genus LARRA, Fabr.

1. Larra prismatica, Smith, Journ. Proc. Linn. Soc. ii. p. 103.

Hab. Malacca, Celebes.

Genus LARRADA, Smith.

1. Larrada aurulenta, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. pt. iv. 276. 6. Sphex aurulenta, Fabr. Mant. i.
274. 10.

Hab. India, Java, Sumatra, Celebes, Philippine Islands, China, Cape of Good Hope, Gambia.

2. Larrada exilipes, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. pt. iv. p. 278.

3. LARRADA ÆDILIS. L. nigra; facie argenteo-pilosa, alis subhyalinis, articulis apicalibus
tarsorum rufo-testaceis, abdomine lævi et nitido. The metathorax transversely and rather finely
rugose, the truncation more strongly striated; the scutellum shining; the wings subhyaline,
the nervures ferruginous; the tibiæ with scattered spines, the tarsi spinose.

4. LARRADA AURIFRONS. L. nigra; facie mesothoracis metathoracisque lateribus aurato pubescentibus,
abdominis marginibus segmentorum trium basalium argentato piloso fasciatis; alis fuscis.

Male. Length 8 lines. Black; the face and outer orbits of the eyes clothed with golden pile;
the lateral margins of the mesothorax and the metathorax thinly clothed with golden pile; wings
dark fuscous with a violet iridescence; the three basal segments of the abdomen with fasciæ
of silvery pile.

Hab. Celebes.

5. LARRADA PERSONATA. L. capite thoraceque nigris, abdomine ferrugineo.

Female. Length 8-1/2 lines. Head, thorax, and legs black; the two former closely punctured
and thinly covered with short cinereous pubescence; the metathorax with the punctures running
into transverse striæ in the middle; the sides of the thorax and the legs with a fine silky
silvery-white pile; the tibiæ and tarsi strongly spinose; wings fusco-hyaline; abdomen entirely
red, smooth and shining.

The male is smaller, and has the four apical segments of the abdomen black, the face, cheeks,
and apical margins of the segments of the abdomen with silvery pile.

Hab. Celebes.

This is probably merely a variety of L. simillima, wanting the black apex to the abdomen; it
very much resembles the L. anathema of Europe.

6. LARRADA RUFIPES. L. nigra, mandibulis pedibusque rufis; alis hyalinis, venis pallide testaceis;
abdomine sericeo-piloso.

Female. Length 7 lines. Black; the head smooth and shining; the clypeus, the cheeks, and face
anteriorly covered with silvery pile; the scape in front, the mandibles, and palpi ferruginous.
Thorax: the sides and beneath with a thin silvery-white pile; the legs ferruginous with the
coxæ black, the posterior pair red beneath; the thorax closely punctured, the metathorax transversely
striated; wings fulvo-hyaline, the nervures pale-testaceous. Abdomen shining, very closely
and delicately punctured; thinly covered with a fine white silky pile, which is very bright
on the margins of the segments, which are slightly rufo-piceous.

The male closely resembles the female, and is similarly sculptured and coloured.

Hab. Celebes.

7. LARRADA FESTINANS. L. nigra; facie abdominisque marginibus segmentorum argentato-pilosis.

Female. Length 3 lines. Black; the face and cheeks thinly covered with silvery pile. Thorax:
the disk very closely punctured, the metathorax rugose; the sides and the legs with a fine
glittering sericeous pile, the wings subhyaline, their apical margins fuscous, the nervures
fuscous. Abdomen smooth and sinning, covered with a thin silky pile, the apical margins with
bright silvery fasciæ, only observable in certain lights.

The male closely resembles the female, but has the face more silvery.

Hab. Celebes.

Genus MORPHOTA, Smith.

1. MORPHOTA FORMOSA. M. capite thoraceque nigris; abdomine rufo, apice nigro, pilis argentatis
ornato.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black, with the two basal segments of the abdomen red; covered with
a brilliant changeable silvery pile, most dense on the face, cheeks, sides of the metathorax,
and on the apical margins of the abdominal segments. The mandibles ferruginous, with their
apex piceous. The vertex smooth, and having three distinct ocelli; the head more produced behind
the eyes than in Larrada. Thorax: the prothorax subtuberculate at the sides; wings subhyaline
and iridescent, the nervures fuscous, the tegulæ pale testaceous behind. The apical margin
of the first segment of the abdomen rufo-fuscous.

Hab. Celebes.

The insects belonging to the genus Morphota differ from those of Larrada in having three distinct
ocelli, the vertex without any depressions, and the head much less compressed than in Larrada;
the recurrent nervures are received nearer to the base and apex of the second submarginal cell;
the species have, in fact, a distinct habit, and do not assimilate with the species of Larrada.

Genus TACHYTES, Panz.

1. TACHYTES MOROSUS. T. niger, scutello abdomineque nitidis, facie argenteo-pilosa; marginibus
lateralibus abdominis segmentorum argentatis. Abdomen smooth and shining; the apical margins
of the intermediate segments slightly depressed, with the sides sericeous.

Fam. CRABRONIDÆ.

Genus OXYBELUS, Latr.

1. Oxybelus agilis, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. pt. iv. 387. 25.

Hab. India, Celebes.

GENUS CRABRO, Latr.

1. CRABRO (RHOPALUM) AGILIS. C. obscuro-nigra, clypeo argentato, capite, thorace abdomineque
flavo variis.

Female. Length 4 lines. Black, opake; head larger than the thorax, quadrate; the ocelli in
a curve on the vertex; the clypeus and lower portion of the cheeks with silvery pile; the scape,
two basal joints of the flagellum, the palpi, and the mandibles, yellow; the latter rufo-piceous
at their apex. The margin of the prothorax, the tubercles, the scutellum, the tibiæ and tarsi,
the anterior femora and the intermediate pair at their apex yellow; the anterior femora black
above; the wings subhyaline and iridescent, the nervures testaceous. Abdomen: with an elongate
clavate petiole; the first segment with an oblique yellow macula on each side, the third with
a large lateral macula at its base, and the following segments entirely yellow.

Hab. Celebes.

This species closely resembles the C. Westermanni of Dahlbome, from the Cape of Good Hope.

GENUS CERCERIS, Latr.

1. Cerceris instabilis, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. pt. iv. 452. 74.

Hab. India, China, Celebes.

2. Cerceris unifasciata, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. pt. iv. 456. 84.

Hab. North China, Celebes.

3. Cerceris fuliginosa, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. pt. iv. 454. 79.

Hab. Celebes.

4. CERCERIS VARIPES. C. nigra, facie flavo varia; alis fuscis basi hyalinis; pedibus variegatis;
abdomine flavo maculato.

Male. Length 6 lines. Black; a line down the inner orbits of the eyes, continued along the
lower margins of the face, and uniting with the clypeus, which as well as a line above it between
the antennæ are yellow; a spot on the scape in front, and the mandibles, yellow; the latter
rufo-piceous at their apex. Thorax: a spot on each side of the prothorax, a minute one on the
tegulæ; the postscutellum, the intermediate and posterior coxæ and trochanters, the anterior
tibiæ behind, the femora beneath, and the intermediate and posterior tibiæ yellow; the femora
reddish above and at their articulations; the posterior femora and tibiæ black, with the tarsi
rufo-testaceous; the anterior wings and the apex of the posterior pair brown, the base of the
anterior pair hyaline. Abdomen: the second and three following segments with a short yellow
stripe on each side.

Hab. Celebes.

Tribe VESPIDÆ.

Fam. EUMENIDÆ, Westw.

Genus ZETHUS, Fabr.

1. Zethus cyanopterus, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Sol. i. 23. 2.

Genus MONTEZUMIA, Sauss.

1. Montezumia Indica, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Sol. i. supp. 167. 59. t. 9. f. 4.

Hab. India, Celebes.

Genus RHYNCHIUM, Spin.

1. Rhynchium hæmorrhoidale, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Sol. i. 109. 12. Vespa hæmorrhoidalis, Fabr.
Syst. Piez. p. 259. 28.

Hab. India, Java, Cape of Good Hope, Celebes.

2. Rhynchium argentatum, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Sol. i. 115. 22. Vespa argentata, Fabr. Syst. Piez.
p. 260. 39.

Hab. India, Celebes.

3. Rhynchium atrum, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Sol. i. 109. 11.

Hab. India, Celebes.

4. Rhynchium parentissimum, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Sol. p. 111. 14. Var. R. hæmorrhoidale?

Hab. India, Java, Celebes.

Genus EUMENES.

1. Eumenes circinalis, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 286. 4.

Hab. India, Sumatra, Celebes.

2. Eumenes fulvipennis, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. pt. v. 24. 26.

Hab. Celebes.

3. EUMENES VINDEX. E. niger, flavo variegatus, alis subhyalinis iridescentibus.

Male. Length 6 lines. Black; strongly punctured and shining; a minute spot behind the eyes,
another in their emargination, the clypeus, with two minute spots above it, a spot at the base
of the mandibles, and the scape in front yellow. Thorax: a subinterrupted line on its anterior
margin, the tubercles, a spot on the tegulæ behind, and the legs yellow; the coxæ, femora at
their base, and the posterior tibiæ outside dusky; wings light brown and iridescent, the anterior
margin of the superior pair darkest. Abdomen delicately punctured; the apical margin of the
first segment with a narrow yellow border slightly interrupted on each side; the apical segments
with a thin cinereous pile.

Hab. Celebes.

4. EUMENES ARCHITECTUS. E. niger, clypeo, prothoracis margine postscutello abdominisque segmenti
primi margine flavis.

Female. Length 6 lines. Black and closely punctured; a line behind the eyes near their vertex,
a spot between the antennæ and the clypeus, yellow; the latter black at the apex, which is
notched; the labrum and mandibles reddish-yellow, the latter black at their base. Thorax: the
anterior margin yellow; the tubercles, tegulæ, postscutellum, an interrupted line on each side
of the metathorax, the tibiæ, tarsi, and femora at their apex, yellow; the coxæ spotted with
yellow and the posterior tibiæ dusky; the wings fusco-hyaline; a black line across the tegulæ.
Abdomen: an ovate spot on each side of the petiole, its apical margin, a transverse ovate spot
on each side of the first segment, and its posterior margin yellow; the following segments
covered with a grey silky pile.

Male. Differs from the female in having the clypeus entirely yellow, the metathorax and abdomen
entirely black; only the apical margin of the petiole is yellow, it is also longer.

Hab. Celebes.

5. EUMENES FLORALIS. E. niger; clypeo flavo; thorace pedibusque ferrugineo-flavo variegatis.

Male. Length 6-1/2 lines. Black; strongly punctured and shining; the clypeus and a spot above
yellow; a narrow abbreviated line behind the eyes, a minute spot in their emargination, and
the tips of the mandibles orange-red; the flagellum fulvous beneath. Thorax: the anterior and
posterior margin of the prothorax, the tubercles, and a spot on the tegulæ behind, a line on
the postscutellum and the legs, orange-red, the coxæ black, and the tarsi dusky; the wings
slightly brownish with a violet iridescence. Abdomen immaculate, with a minute spot on the
posterior border of the petiole; the third and following segments with a fine cinereous pile.

Hab. Celebes.

Genus ODYNERUS, Latr.

1. Odynerus ovalis, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Sol. 215. 122. t. 19. f. 4.

Hab. India, China, Celebes.

2. ODYNERUS (ANCISTROCERUS) CLAVICORNIS. O. niger, flavo varius; capite thoraceque fortiter,
abdomine delicatule punctatis, antennis clavatis.

Male. Thorax: two spots on the anterior margin, a spot on the tegulæ in front, and the legs,
reddish-yellow, the coxæ dusky; the metathorax coarsely rugose and deeply concave-truncate.
Abdomen: the first segment with a transverse carina at its base, in front of which is an irregularly
cut deep transverse channel forming a second carina in front of the groove; the segments finely
punctured, the first and second segments with a yellow posterior border, the fourth and following
segments rufo-piceous.

Hab. Celebes.

3. ODYNERUS (LEIONOTUS) INSULARIS. O. niger, flavo et aurantio variegatus; abdominis basi ferruginea.

Male. Length 6 lines. Black; the head and thorax strongly punctured; the mandibles, clypeus,
a line above extending to the anterior ocellus, the emargination of the eyes, a spot at their
vertex and a line at their outer orbits, yellow; the antennæ reddish-yellow, with the scape
pale yellow in front and a narrow fuscous line above; the yellow marking more or less stained
orange. Thorax: the prothorax orange, its anterior border, the tubercles, tegulæ, two spots
on the scutellum and postscutellum, the lateral margins of the metathorax and the legs, yellow,
the latter with reddish stains; wings subhyaline, the superior pair with a fuscous cloud at
their apex. The base of the abdomen and a large macula on each side of the second segment ferruginous;
the apical margin of the segments with a yellow border, the first and second with a minute
notch in the middle; the first and second segments entirely ferruginous beneath.

4. ODYNERUS FULVIPENNIS. O. niger, flavo varius, pedibus ferrugineis, alis fulvo-hyalinis.

Male. Black; head and thorax closely and strongly punctured; the clypeus and two spots above,
a line along the lower margin of the sinus of the eyes, a narrow line behind them, the scape
in front, and the mandibles yellow; the tips of the latter rufo-piceous; the antennæ and legs
ferruginous; an interrupted yellow line on the anterior margin of the thorax; the wings fulvo-hyaline;
the veins which enclose the marginal and second and third submarginal cells fuscous, the rest
pale testaceous; a fuscous cloud in the marginal cell. Abdomen: the apical margin of the second
segment with a yellow fascia, the following segments with red fasciæ.

Hab. Celebes.

Genus ICARIA, Sauss.

1. Icaria ferruginea, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Soc. p. 37. 15.

Hab. India, Celebes.

2. ICARIA PILOSA. I. nigra, rude punctata et densissime pubescens, clypeo flavo, thorace, pedibus
abdomineque ferrugineo variegatis; alis subhyalinis, anticis apice fusco maculatis.

Male. Length 7-1/2 lines. Black; closely and strongly punctured; the clypeus, a line on the
mandibles, and the scape in front, yellow; tips of the mandibles, the scape above, and the
base of the flagellum ferruginous. Thorax: the prothorax, scutellum and postscutellum, ferruginous;
the tegulæ and legs pale ferruginous, the coxæ black; wings fusco-hyaline, with a dark cloud
in the marginal cell extending to the apex of the wing; a fainter cloud traverses the margin
of the wing to its base. Abdomen: the first, second and third segments with a reddish-yellow
fascia, that on the second segment continued beneath; a longitudinal broad stripe of the same
colour on each side of the second segment; its apical margin serrated.

Hab. Celebes.

Genus POLISTES, Latr.

1. Polistes sagittarius, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Soc. p. 56. 12.

Various specimens from Greece and Celebes have the thorax more or less ferruginous.

Hab. India, Celebes, China, Greece.

2. Polistes Picteti, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Soc. 69. 28. t. 6. f. 8.

Hab. Ceram, Australia, Celebes.

3. Polistes fastidiosus, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Soc. p. 60. 18.

Hab. Africa (Gambia), Celebes.

4. Polistes stigma, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 261. 41.

Hab. India, Ceram, Celebes.

5. Polistes Philippinensis, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Soc. 58. 14 (var.).

Hab. Philippine Islands.

Genus VESPA, Linn.

1. Vespa affinis, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 254. 6 (var. V. cincta?).

Hab. India, China, Singapore, Celebes.

2. VESPA FERVIDA. V. nigra, delicatule punctata; clypei margine antica, macula pone oculos,
margineque postica segmenti primi abdominis flavis; alis fulvo-hyalinis.

Female. Length 13 lines. Black; closely and finely punctured; the clypeus convex and strongly
punctured, emarginate anteriorly, the emargination with a yellow border; the eyes extending
to the base of the mandibles, which have three stout teeth at their apex and a narrow yellow
line at their inner margin. Thorax: the postscutellum yellow, and a minute yellow spot on the
outer margin of the tegulæ; the wings rufo-hyaline, darkest along the anterior margin of the
superior pair; the nervures ferruginous, gradually becoming darker at the base of the wings,
the costal nervure black.

Worker. Length 9 lines. Very closely resembles the female, but in addition to the yellow markings
of that sex has the anterior margin of the clypeus yellow, a narrow transverse line between
the antennæ, another along the lower margin of the notch of the eyes, an abbreviated stripe
behind them at the base of the mandibles, a spot beneath the postscutellum and a narrow yellow
line along the posterior margin of the basal segment of the abdomen.

Hab. Celebes.

Fam. TENTHREDINIDÆ.

Genus TENTHREDO, Linn.

1. TENTHREDO (ALLANTUS) PURPURATA. T. capite thoraceque cæruleo-viridibus, abdomine purpureo,
alis fuscis iridescentibus.

Size, length 4 lines. Head and thorax blue-green, abdomen purple; wings dark fuscous with a
violet iridescence; an oblique white line on each side beneath the scutellum; legs and antennæ
black.

Hab. Celebes.

Fam. ICHNEUMONIDÆ.

Genus MEGISCHUS, Brullé.

1. Megischus indicus, Westw. Trans. Ent. Soc. new ser. i. 1851.

Hab. Philippine Islands, Celebes.

Genus MESOSTENUS, Brullé.

1. MESOSTENUS ALBO-SPINOSUS. M. niger, albo varius, abdominis segmentis albo marginatis, metathorace
spinis duabus albis armato.

Female. Length 5-1/2 lines. Black; a half-circular spot on the clypeus, a heart-shaped one
above it, a spot at the base of the mandibles, the orbits of the eyes, interrupted at their
vertex, yellowish white, the palpi of the same colour, and a broad incomplete annulus on the
antennæ beyond their middle. Thorax: the mesothorax with two deeply impressed oblique lines
inclined inwards and terminating at an ovate spot in the middle of the disk, the scutellum
and an oblique line on each side a little before it, a horseshoe-shaped spot in the middle
of the metathorax, and a little below it on each side a conical tooth, yellowish white; four
spots beneath the wings, one on each side of the metathorax, and the coxæ beneath, white; the
legs ferruginous, with the intermediate pair dusky behind, the posterior pair entirely so,
the femora being black; the wings hyaline, nervures fuscous. Abdomen: punctured and with a
white fascia on the margins of the three basal segments; the two apical segments with very
narrow fasciæ.

Hab. Celebes.

This species is closely allied to the M. literatus of Brullé; but it differs too much, I think,
to be identical with it.

2. PIMPLA TRIMACULATA. P. flava, oculis, macula circa ocellos, vittulis tribus mesothoracis
setisque caudalibus nigris.

Female. Length 6 lines. Yellow; the antennæ fuscous above, also a fuscous cloud at the apex
of the anterior wings, the wings hyaline with the nervures black; a spot on the scape within,
and three longitudinal stripes on the mesothorax, black; the latter slightly punctured anteriorly;
the metathorax smooth and shining, with three oblique carinæ on each side, and a small subovate
enclosed space in the middle of the disk. Abdomen punctured, all the segments margined at their
apex, and each with a deeply impressed line at their extreme lateral margins; the sixth segment
with two minute black spots at its basal margin, the two apical segments smooth and shining;
the ovipositor black.

Hab. Celebes.

This species is closely allied to the P. trilineata of Brullé.

Fam. BRACONIDÆ.

1. BRACON INSINUATOR. B. capite, thorace pedibusque ferrugineis; antennis, tibiis tarsisque
posticis et abdomine nigris; alis nigro-fuscis, macula hyalina sub stigmate.

Female. Length 7-1/2 lines. Head and thorax smooth, shining, and ferruginous, the legs ferruginous,
with the posterior tibiæ and tarsi black; the antennæ black, with the scape and following joint
ferruginous; wings dark brown, with their extreme base pale testaceous; a hyaline stripe runs
from the stigma across the first submarginal cell and passes a little below it. Abdomen black,
smooth, and shining, with the lateral margins of the basal segment pale yellow-testaceous;
this segment has on each side a longitudinal carina, and between them is a highly polished
bell-shaped form; the second segment with deep oblique depressions at the sides, and deeply
longitudinally rugose-striate, leaving the apical margin smooth and shining; the second segment
is similarly sculptured, and the third has a transverse groove at its base.

Hab. Celebes.

2. BRACON INTRUDENS. B. rufescenti-flavus, antennis setisque caudalibus nigris; alis nigro-fuscis,
basi fasciaque angusta transversa flavis.

Female. Length 9 lines. Pale reddish-yellow; the eyes, flagellum, and ovipositor black; the
scape and the following segment yellow; the head and thorax smooth and shining, both pubescent
at the sides and beneath, the legs covered with a similar pale pubescence; the face with an
upright horn between the antennæ, and a raised flattened plate in front of it. Abdomen: the
basal segment with the lateral margins raised, and having on each side an elongate broad depression
extending its entire length; the three following with an oblique depression on each side at
the base of the segment; the third, fourth, and fifth segments distinctly margined at their
apex; the ovipositor the length of the insect.

Hab. Celebes.

Genus AGATHIS, Latr.

1. AGATHIS SCULPTURALIS. A. nigra, prothorace, pedibus anticis mediisque ferrugineis; abdomine
lævigato nitido.

Male. Length 5-1/2 lines. Black; the mouth, prothorax, anterior and intermediate legs, ferruginous;
the face with two teeth or horns between or a little before the insertion of the antennæ, and
another at the side of each, close to their insertion. Thorax: the mesothorax with two deeply
impressed lines in front, running inwards, and uniting about the middle, and with two or three
deep transverse channels before their junction; the lateral margins of the mesothorax deeply
impressed; the metathorax ruggedly sculptured; the posterior coxæ and femora closely punctured;
wings black with a hyaline spot in the first submarginal cell. Abdomen very smooth and shining,
with a deeply impressed line on each side of the basal segment.

Hab. Celebes.

2. AGATHIS MODESTA. A. rufescenti-flava; antennis, vertice, tibiis posticis apice, tarsisque
nigris; alis fusco maculatis.

Female. Length 4 lines. Reddish-yellow: the antennæ and vertex, black. The mesothorax with
two deeply impressed longitudinal oblique lines, and two parallel ones between them; the metathorax
reticulated; wings hyaline, with a dark fuscous stain crossing the anterior pair at the base
of the first submarginal cell, these hyaline to the middle of the stigma, beyond which they
are fuscous; a subhyaline spot at the apex of the marginal cell, and another beneath it at
the inferior margin of the wing; the posterior tarsi dusky, and the tips of the tibiæ black.

Hab. Celebes.

3. AGATHIS NITIDA. A. nigra, nitida; facie, pectore, pedibus anticis et intermediis, plaga
infra alas, scutelloque pallide ferrugineis.

Length 4 lines. Black and shining; the face, mandibles, head beneath, legs, pectus, sides of
the thorax beneath the wings, the scutellum and the basal half of the abdomen beneath, pale
ferruginous; the mesothorax with two longitudinal oblique lines on the disk, which have two
parallel ones between them; the metathorax coarsely rugose; the wings dark brown, with the
base of the stigma pale, and a hyaline spot beneath it. Abdomen very smooth and shining, with
the apical margins of the segments narrowly rufo-piceous; the posterior legs incrassate and
dark rufo-piceous.

Fam. CHRYSIDIDÆ.

Genus HEDYCHRUM, Latr.

1. HEDYCHRUM FLAMMULATUM. H. viridi-purpureo lavatum; capite thoraceque fortiter, abdomine
delicatule, punctatis; alis fuscis basi hyalinis.

Length 3 lines. Bright green; the vertex, two oblique stripes on the prothorax, meeting in
the centre of its anterior margin, a broad longitudinal stripe on the disk of the mesothorax,
and the sides of the scutellum and postscutellum deep purple. Abdomen: the middle of the basal
segment, the second and third segments at their base, broadly purple; the apical margin of
the third tinged with purple; wings subfuscous, with their base hyaline. The head and thorax
coarsely and closely punctured, the abdomen finely so; the tarsi with the claws unidentate.

Hab. Celebes.

Genus CHRYSIS, Linn.

1. CHRYSIS PURPUREA. C. læte purpurea, capite, thorace abdominisque basi rugosis punctatis,
segmentis abdominis secundo et tertio delicatule punctatis, apice quadridentato.

Length 3 lines. Bright purple; the head, thorax, and base of the abdomen strongly and coarsely
punctured, the rest of the abdomen finely punctured; the disk of the thorax and apical margins
of the segments of the abdomen reflecting bright tints of green; the wings subhyaline, the
nervures dark fuscous; the apical margin of the third segment of the abdomen with four teeth,
the two central ones approximating, separated by a deep notch, the lateral teeth more distant,
separated from the others by a wide emargination.

Hab. Celebes.

2. CHRYSIS INSULARIS. C. nigro-purpurea, violaceo et viridi lavata; capite, thorace abdominisque
basi rude punctatis.

Length 5 lines. Dark purple, with violet and green reflections; the face, legs, and thorax
beneath, green; wings slightly fuscous, and iridescent; the head and thorax closely and coarsely
punctured; the base of the abdomen roughly punctured, the two following segments much more
finely so; the apical segment armed with six teeth, the outer ones subacute.

Hab. Celebes.

3. CHRYSIS SUMPTUOSA. C. fortiter punctata, metallico-viridis auro lavata; thoracis disco,
abdominis segmentis secundo et tertio basi purpureis; segmento apicali margine integro.

Length 3-1/4 lines. Golden-green; the thorax at the sides and posteriorly with bright coppery
effulgence; an oblong purple spot on the disk of the thorax; the metathorax and its lateral
teeth vivid green, the vertex and prothorax splashed with gold. Abdomen: the basal segment
bright green, with a bright coppery or golden effulgence at the sides; the second segment purple
at the base, coppery at the apex, and with a suffusion of green between these tints; the third
segment is similarly coloured, with the apical margin entire; the insect closely and strongly
punctured throughout.

Hab. Celebes. By THOMAS BELL, Esq., Pres. L. S.

[Read June 3rd, 1858.]

Fam. PINNOTHERIDÆ, Edwards.

Genus AMORPHOPUS, Bell.

CHAR. GEN.:--Corpus subcylindricum. Testa semicircularis, margine posteriore recto.--Antennæ
externæ minimæ, articulo basali orbitam subtus partim claudente.--Antennularum fossulæ transversæ,
continuæ, et ab orbitis haud separatæ.--Pedipalpi externi articulo quarto ovato, palpo tri-articulato,
ad angulum antico-interiorem articuli quarti inserto.--Oris apertura antice arcuata.--Orbitæ
apertæ, margine inferiore carente, superiore integro.--Oculi transversim positi.--Pedes antici
robusti, inæquales; pedum paria secundum, tertium et quartum longa, subcompressa; par quintum
exiguum, simplicissimum, rudimentarium, in incisura articuli basalis paris quarti insertum.--Abdomen
MARIS segmentis tertio cum quarto, et quinto cum sexto coalitis; FOEMINÆ?

Sp. unica. Amorphopus cylindraceus, mihi.

Description.--The body is nearly cylindrical, somewhat depressed, the carapace very much curved
from the point to the back, quite straight from side to side; the anterior and lateral margins
forming nearly a semicircle, the posterior margin straight; the orbits are deeply cut in the
anterior margin of the carapace, looking upwards; the inferior margin wanting; the oral aperture
much arched anteriorly; the external footjaws with the third articulation somewhat rhomboid,
the fourth irregularly oval, and the palpi three-jointed, inserted at its anterior and inner
angle. Epistome extremely small, transversely linear; the external antennæ placed directly
beneath the orbits, the basal joints partly filling them beneath. The antennules folded transversely
in large open fossæ, which are scarcely at all separated from each other, and are open to the
orbits, the eyes lying transversely; the peduncles short and thick; the sternum is semicircular,
the segments separated by very deep grooves; the abdomen very long and narrow, the first and
second joint transversely linear, the third and fourth united and forming a triangle truncated
anteriorly at the articulation of the portion formed by the fifth and sixth joints united,
and which with the seventh form a very narrow and linear piece extending forwards to the posterior
margin of the oral aperture; the first pair of legs robust, unequal (the right being the larger
in the only specimen at present observed); the hand in each as broad as it is long; that of
the smaller conspicuously tuberculated, that of the larger much less so; the former with the
fingers nearly meeting throughout their length, those of the latter only at the tips; the second,
third, and fourth pairs of legs are long, somewhat compressed, the third joint tuberculated
on the under side, the third pair the longest; the fifth pair is reduced to a mere rudiment,
in the form of a minute tubercle inserted in a little notch at the base of the first joint
of the fourth pair, and scarcely discernible by the naked eye.

Observations.--The relation of this genus to the Pinnotheridæ is tolerably obvious, in the
smallness of the antennæ, the direction and arrangement of the eyes, and particularly in the
form of the oral aperture, and of the external footjaws. I shall not, however, enter upon the
consideration of these relations, as I am about shortly to offer to the Society a review and
monograph of the whole of this family. The most remarkable peculiarity in the genus is the
apparent absence of the fifth pair of legs, which can only be discovered to exist at all by
examination with the help of a lens. In this respect I doubt not that the Fabrician genus Hexapus,
adopted and figured by De Haan, will be found to agree with it, although it is very remarkable
that the anomalous condition of this part never excited any particular attention on the part
of either of these distinguished naturalists; and De Haan describes Fabricius's species, Hexapus
sexpes, as if there were nothing especial or abnormal in a Decapod having only six pairs of
legs besides the claws. Mr. White made a similar mistake on one occasion, when he described
an anomourous genus allied to Lithodes, in which the fifth pair of legs were not visible; but
when, at my suggestion, a more careful examination was made, they were found, as was anticipated,
in a rudimentary form, concealed under the edge of the carapace. I believe that I can discover
even in De Haan's figure something like a little tubercle at the base of the fourth leg, which
is probably the rudimentary representative of the fifth. By the Rev. HENRY HIGGINS. Communicated
by the President.

[Read June 3rd, 1858.]

On the 18th of March last, Timpron Martin, Esq., of Liverpool, communicated to me some circumstances
respecting the death of a hive of bees in his possession, which induced me to request from
him a full statement of particulars. Mr. Martin gave me the following account:--

"In October last I had three hives of bees which I received into my house. Each doorway was
closed, and the hive placed upon a piece of calico; the corners were brought over the top,
leaving a loop by which the hive was suspended from the ceiling. The hives were taken down
about the 14th of March; two were healthy, but all the bees in the third were dead. There was
a gallon of bees. The two hives containing live bees were much smaller; but in each of them
were dead ones. Under whatever circumstances you preserve bees through the winter, dead ones
are found at the bottom, in the spring. The room, an attic, was dry; and I had preserved the
same hives in the same way during the winter of 1856. In what I may call the dead hive there
was an abundance of honey when it was opened; and it is clear that its inmates did not die
for want. It is not a frequent occurrence for bees so to die; but I have known another instance.
In that case the hive was left out in the ordinary way, and possibly cold was the cause of
death. I think it probable that my bees died about a month before the 14th of March, merely
from the circumstance that some one remarked about that time that there was no noise in the
hive. They might have died earlier; but there were certainly live bees in the hive in January.
I understand there was an appearance of mould on some of the combs. There was ample ventilation,
I think; indeed, as the bees were suspended, they had more air than through the summer when
placed on a stand."

When the occurrence was first made known to me, I suggested that the bees might probably have
died from the growth of a fungus, and requested some of the dead bees might be sent for examination.
They were transmitted to me in a very dry state; and a careful inspection with a lens afforded
no indications of vegetable growth. I then broke up a specimen, and examined the portions under
a compound microscope, using a Nachet No. 4. The head and thorax were clean; but on a portion
of the sternum were innumerable very minute, linear, slightly curved bodies, showing the well-known
oscillatory or swarming motion. Notwithstanding the agreement of these minute bodies with the
characters of the genus of Bacterium of the Vibrionia, I regarded them as spermatia, having
frequently seen others undistinguishable from them under circumstances inconsistent with the
presence of Confervæ, as in the interior of the immature peridia and sporangia of Fungals.

In the specimen first examined there were no other indications of the growth of any parasite;
but from the interior of the abdomen of a second bee I obtained an abundance of well-defined
globular bodies resembling the spores of a fungus, varying in size from .00016 to .00012 in.
Three out of four specimens subsequently examined contained similar spores within the abdomen.
No traces of a mycelium were visible; the plants had come to maturity, fruited, and withered
away, leaving only the spores.

The chief question then remaining to be solved was as to the time when the spores were developed;
whether before or after the death of the bees. In order, if possible, to determine this, I
placed four of the dead bees in circumstances favourable for the germination of the spores,
and in about ten days I submitted them again to examination. They were covered with mould,
consisting chiefly of a species of Mucor, and one also of Botrytis or Botryosporium. These
fungi were clearly extraneous, covering indifferently all parts of the insects, and spreading
on the wood on which they were lying. On the abdomen of all the specimens, and on the clypeus
of one of them, grew a fungus wholly unlike the surrounding mould. It was white and very short,
and apparently consisted entirely of spores arranged in a moniliform manner, like the fertile
filaments of a stemless Penicillium. These spores resembled those found in the abdomen of the
Bees, and proceeded I think, from them. The filaments were most numerous at the junction of
the segments. The spores did not resemble the globules in Sporendonema muscæ of the English
Flora, neither were they apparently enclosed.

The Rev. M. J. Berkeley, to whom I sent some of the bees, procured, by scraping the interior
of the abdomen with a lancet, very minute, curved linear bodies from 1/8000 to 1/10000 in.
long, which he compares to Vibrios. He also found mixed with them globular bodies, but no visible
stratum of mould.

From the peculiar position of the supposed spores within the abdomen of the bees, and from
the subsequent growth of a fungus unlike any of our common forms of Mucedines, I think it probable
that the death of the bees was occasioned by the presence of a parasitic fungus. By JOHN W.
WETHERELL. Communicated by JAMES YATES, Esq., M.A., F.L.S.

[Read June 3rd, 1858.]

The London clay is very tenacious, and near the surface is generally of a brown colour, probably
owing to the decomposition of the iron pyrites which it contains. It abounds in selenite or
sulphate of lime, and in nodules which often contain organic remains. Fossil wood with Teredo
antenautæ is also met with, and pyritous casts of univalve and bivalve shells. Lower down the
stratum becomes more compact and is of a bluish or blackish colour, and its fossil contents
are in a fine state of preservation. During the last summer, while examining the London Clay
in the vicinity of Highgate in search of fossils, my attention was directed to certain appearances
in it which I could not account for. This led to a further examination, when I found they were
produced by the borings of Lumbrici or earth-worms. These appearances consisted of long tubes
passing nearly perpendicularly through the clay and terminating in receptacles or nidi, each
tube leading to a separate receptacle. As these receptacles occurred in large numbers, I had
an opportunity of examining a great many of them with various results. In one instance, I found
a dead worm coiled up; in another, a portion of a worm protruding into the lower part of the
tube. Again, nidi were found partially filled with only the casts of worms, whilst others contained
more or less of a species of Conferva; and, lastly, I obtained some with the cavities partially
or wholly filled up. The receptacles varied in shape, from a sphere to an oval, and were extremely
thin and fragile. They also varied in size from a pea to a nut. Externally they presented an
appearance so singularly contorted, that I could not help considering they were moulded from
the casts of worms. They did not appear to have any attachment to the surrounding clay, except
at the point of junction with the tube; and the clay beneath them presented no unusual appearance.

Internally they generally exhibited impressions of the worm; but occasionally I detected some
of the round and contorted appearances which I have mentioned as being so conspicuous on the
outside. I cannot speak with precision as to the length of the tubes, as the clay when examined
had been broken up into large rough masses in digging for the foundations of houses. The largest
noticed was about three inches long, and the general width one-eighth of an inch. They often
run parallel to each other, but at unequal distances. I now have to notice what I consider
a remarkable circumstance, namely, that all the tubes contained a solid cylinder of clay, and
in every instance where the worms occurred under the circumstances above recorded, they were
found to be dead. Researches of this kind are calculated to throw a light on some of those
singular phenomena which geologists occasionally meet with in the older rocks. Communicated
by Captain WASHINGTON, through the Secretary.

[Read June 3rd, 1858.]

We found upon the larger islands the small species of the Kangaroo, bearing the native name
Wallaby (Halmaturus Billardierii), which, when mixed with other meats, affords a fine-flavoured
soup.

On the islets are flocks of the Cape Banca goose, which Mr. Smith informed me were only to
be found in these straits in the vicinity of Flinders Island, from Cape Banca to Cape Frankland
(west about), and that they are readily domesticated, and hatch from three to seven eggs, and
afford an acceptable dish. I obtained a live specimen, which Dr. Rayner of this ship describes
thus:--"Cereopsis Novæ Hollandiæ. Body about the size of a common goose; bill short, vaulted,
obtuse, two-thirds of which is covered by an expanded cere of a pale greenish-yellow colour,
the tip of the bill being black, arcuated, and truncated. Nostrils large, round, open, and
situated in the middle of the bill. Wings ample, third quill longest. Legs long, light dull-red,
and naked to a little above the knee. Feet black, webbed, the membrane being deeply notched,
great toe articulated to the metatarsus. Plumage slate-grey, with black spots upon the wings
and back. Wing-feathers dusky black, and edged at the tip with pale grey. Irides light hazel."

We likewise obtained specimens of the following wildfowl:--

AVES.

  A BRONZE-WING PIGEON,   Phaps elegans.
  QUAIL,                  Corturnix pectoralis (Gould).
  OYSTER-CATCHER,         Hæmatophus fuliginosus.
  RING PLOVER,            Hiaticula bicincta.
  WILD DUCK,              Anas punctata (Cuvier).
  GREAT GULL,             Larus pacificus.
  LESSER GULL,            Xema Jamesonii.
  MUTTON BIRD,            Puffinus brevicaudus (Brandt).
  SOUTHERN GANNET,        Sulu australis (Gould).
  SMALL PENGUIN,          Spheniscus minor (Temminck).

The Mutton Bird we observed streaming from island to island; and I learnt from Mr. Benvenuto
Smith the following particulars of its habits from his own observations.

The male birds come in from sea in the month of September, and prepare the burrows for the
reception of the hens. The hen bird does not make her appearance till about the 25th November,
when she lays and sits at once.

The Mutton Bird lays but one egg; they are employed rearing the young bird until the month
of May, at which time the old birds leave the young ones to shift for themselves; the young
birds remain in the burrows till they are starved down, and then set off to sea, and are not
seen again amongst the islands till September. The cock and hen sit alternately night and day;
and all the labour of providing for the young is equally shared.

There are at this date about ninety people living on the small islands in "Franklin Inlet"
who make a livelihood by gathering the oil, feathers, and eggs of the Mutton Bird.

Upwards of 2000 gallons of the oil are extracted from the birds annually; and although 300,000
birds are known to be destroyed each year, they appear undiminished in numbers. The oil burns
well, and is of a bright-red colour.

I was presented by Mr. Smith with two Paper Nautilus shells (Argonauta tuberculosa) found on
the shore of Flinders Island this season, a circumstance which he has remarked occurs but every
seventh year, when many hundreds are thrown up: the shells are rarely obtained perfect, as
they are extremely fragile, and the sea fowl pick the fish out of them.

Our Botanic Collector, Mr. Milne, ascertained, from what he obtained himself and from what
we could contribute from our individual visits to the islets, the existence of plants, which
he believes to be indigenous, belonging to the following families and genera, viz.

  Amentaceæ.         Umbelliferæ.
  Asteraceæ.         Graminaceæ.
  Rosaceæ.           Junceæ.
  Geraniaceæ.        Solanum.
  Euphorbiaceæ.      Geranium.
  Myrtaceæ.

Testing the chances of fish refreshment at this anchorage, we found little encouragement for
hook and line; but the two favouring opportunities which the weather allowed for hawling the
seine produced as tabulated on opposite page.

We found the Reef Islands in this sound so abundant in rabbits since Captain Stokes's forethought
had set some loose upon them, that, in two visits of four hours with but four guns, 100 brace
were brought on board.

I took care to follow my esteemed brother officers' example and the system of introducing such
productions, and obtained a dozen couple alive for letting loose in Shark Bay.

[A coloured drawing of Cereopsis Novæ Hollandiæ accompanied Captain Denham's observations.]

                    |  Trawl-seine, |
                    |   or hook     |
          |How many |   and line.   |
          |hawls and| Depth | Nature|  Natural
          |  phase  |  of   |   of  |  History     | Common   |No. of|Pounds
Locality. |of [moon]| water.|bottom.|   Names.     |  Names.  |sorts.|weight.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
West side | 6 hawls |   with seine. |Mugil         |Mullet    |     23| 28|
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
Flinders  | ... ... |  1/2  |... ...|Hemiramphus   |Gar-fish  |     10|  5|
Isl.      |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
Settlement|[moon] } |   1   | Sand  |{Platycephalus|Flat-head,|      3|  1|
          |         |fathom |       |              |small     |       |   |
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
Bay       |14 days} |  on   |  and  |{Raia         |Sting Ray |      2| 29|
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
H.W.F. &  |... ... }|a flat | weed  |{Iulis        |Small fish|Several|...|
C. [moon] |         |       |       |              |of the    |       |   |
X. 30.    |         |       |       |              |Basse     |       |   |
          |         |       |       |              |family    |       |   |
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
Range 10  |  L.W.   |... ...|... ...|Labrax        |Basse     |      1|  1|
ft.       |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
East side | 7 hawls |  with seine   |{Myliobatis   |Ray       |     11|375|
of }      |         |    (mar.).    |              |          |       |   |
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
Hummock } | [moon]  |... ...|... ...|{Mugil        |Mullet    |     20| 30|
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
Island    | 26 days |1 to 3 | Sandy |Platycephalus |Flat-head |      3|  2|
centre    |         | fams. | beach |              |          |       |   |
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
          |         |       |       |{Siphyracus   |Barracouta|      1|  1|
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
Bay       | at 3/4  |... ...|... ...|{Scomberesox  |Saury     |     27| 17|
          |  flood  |       |       |              |          |       |   |
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
          |         |       |       |{Sepioteuthis |Cuttlefish|Several|...|
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
          |         |       |       |              |Total     |    ...|489|
          |         |       |       |              |          |       |   |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

On some points in the Anatomy of Nautilus pompilius. By T. H. HUXLEY, F.R.S., Professor of
Natural History, Government School of Mines.

[Read June 3rd, 1858.]

Some time ago my friend Dr. Sinclair, of New Zealand, had the kindness to offer me two specimens
of the Pearly Nautilus which had been brought to him from New Caledonia, preserved in Goadby's
solution. I gladly accepted the present, and looked forward to the dissection of the rare animal
with no little pleasure; but on proceeding to examine one of the specimens, I found its anatomical
value greatly diminished by the manner in which a deposit from the solution had glued together
some of the internal viscera. Other parts of the Nautilus, however, were in a very good state
of preservation; and I have noted down such novel and interesting peculiarities as they presented,
in the hope that an account of them will be acceptable to the Linnean Society.

Of the six apertures which, besides the genital and anal outlets, open into the branchial cavity
of Nautilus pompilius, one on each side lies immediately above and in front of that fold of
the inner wall of the mantle which forms the lower root of the smaller and inner gill, and
encloses the branchial vein of that gill. The aperture is elongated and narrow, with rather
prominent lips. It measures about 1/8th of an inch.

The other two apertures are larger, and lie at a distance of 7/16ths of an inch below and behind
the other. They are in close juxta-position, being separated only by a thin triangular fold
of membrane, which constitutes the inner lip of the one and the outer lip of the other.

The inner aperture is the larger, measuring 3/16ths of an inch in long diameter, and having
the form of a triangle with its base directed posteriorly. The outer aperture is not more than
1/8th of an inch long. The two apertures lie just above the edge of the fold of membrane which
runs from the inner root of the larger or outer branchia, across the branchial cavity and beneath
the rectum, to the other side.

These apertures lead into five sacs, which collectively constitute what has been described
as the pericardium. The sacs into which the superior apertures open, by a short wide canal
with folded walls, are situated on each side of and above the rectum. Their inner boundaries
are separated by a space of not less than 5/8ths of an inch in width, in which lie the vena
cava and the oviduct. Each cavity has a rounded circumference, and a transverse diameter of
about half an inch. In a direction at right angles to this diameter the dimensions vary with
its state of distension; but a quarter of an inch would be a fair average.

The anterior or outer wall of the cavity is formed by the mantle; the posterior, inner, or
visceral wall by a delicate membrane. The former separates it from the branchial cavity; the
latter from the fifth sac, to be described by-and-by. I could find no natural aperture in the
thin inner wall, so that I conceive no communication can take place between either of these
sacs and the fifth sac.

Two irregular, flattened, brownish, soft plates depend from the posterior wall of the sac into
its cavity; their attached edges are fixed along a line which is directed from behind obliquely
forwards and upwards.

The outer and smaller of the inferior apertures on each side leads into a sac of similar dimensions
and constitution to the preceding, but having a less rounded outline in consequence of its
being flattened in one direction against its fellow of the opposite side, from which it is
separated only by a delicate membranous wall, whilst on another side it is applied against
the inferior wall of the superior sac, and is in like manner separated from it only by a thin
and membranous partition.

Like the upper sacs, each of these has two dark-brown, lamellar, glandular masses depending
from its membranous visceral wall.

A delicate, but broad, triangular membranous process, about 1/4th of an inch long, hangs down
freely from the visceral wall of the cavity just behind the opening of the short canal which
connects the sac with its aperture.

The third and largest aperture on each side opens directly into a very large fifth cavity,
whose boundary is formed anteriorly by the visceral walls of the sacs already described, and
behind this by the mantle itself as far as the horny band which marks and connects the insertion
of the shell-muscles.

In fact this cavity may be said to be co-extensive with the attached part of the mantle,--the
viscera, enclosed within their delicate "peritoneal" membranous coat, projecting into and nearly
filling it, but nevertheless leaving a clear space between themselves and the delicate posterior
wall of the mantle.

A layer of the "peritoneal" membrane extends from the posterior edge of the muscular expansion
which lies between the shell-muscles and from the upper wall of the dilatation of the vena
cava, and passes upwards and backwards like a diaphragm to the under surfaces of the gizzard
and liver. It is traversed by the aorta, to whose coats it closely adheres.

Along a line nearly corresponding with the horny band which proceeds from the insertions of
the shell-muscles and encircles the mantle below, the pallial wall is produced inwards and
forwards into a membranous fold or ligament, which I will call the pallio-visceral ligament;
and this pallio-visceral ligament becoming attached to various viscera, divides the great fifth
chamber into an anterior inferior, and a posterior superior portion, which communicate freely
with one another.

Commencing with its extreme right-hand end, the ligament is inserted into the line of reflection
of the mantle, and then into the wall of the oviduct, which becomes enclosed as it were within
the ligament. The latter then ends in a free edge on the inner side of the oviduct, and is
continued along it until it reaches the inferior surface of the apex of the ovary, into which
it is inserted.

The free edge is arcuated; and the rectum passes over it, but is in no way connected with it.

Here, therefore, is one great passage of communication between the anterior and posterior divisions
of the fifth chamber.

On the left side, this aperture is limited by the heart, whose posterior edge is, on the left
side, connected by means of a ligamentous band with the surface of the apex of the ovary; but
on the right, for the greater part of its extent, receives a process of the pallio-visceral
ligament. Between the ovario-cardiac ligament and this process lies the small oval aperture
already described by Professor Owen, which gives passage to the siphonal artery. It constitutes
the middle aperture of communication between the two divisions of the fifth chamber.

The left-hand end of the ligament is inserted into the upper wall of the dilated end of the
vena cava; but between this point and the heart it has a free arcuated edge, as on the right side.

Thus there are in reality three apertures of communication between the two divisions of the
fifth chamber, the middle, by far the smallest, being alone hitherto known.

A delicate membranous band passes from the whole length of the middle line of the rectum to
the heart and to the ovary.

The singular "pyriform appendage" of the heart lies in the left process of the ligament, its
anterior edge nearly following the arcuated contour of that process.

The siphuncular process of the mantle was broken in my specimen; but its aperture appeared
to communicate quite freely with the posterior division of the fifth chamber.

Four sets of brownish, glandular-looking bodies depend into the anterior division of the fifth
chamber, from parts of the delicate septa dividing this from the four small sacs, corresponding
with the insertions of the glandular bodies above described.

In fact, on distending the vena cava with air, it is found that the four branchial arteries
traverse these septa, and that the appendages in question are diverticula of their walls. Consequently
the anterior wall of each branchial vein is produced into two glandular appendages, which hang
into one of the four smaller sacs, while the posterior wall is produced into a single mass
of appendages, which hangs into the anterior division of the fifth chamber.

Although, as I believe, the five chambers do not communicate directly, all the appendages must
nevertheless be equally bathed with sea-water, which enters by the apertures of the chambers.

An impacted yellowish-white concretionary matter filled the anterior chamber; and a small quantity
of it lay as a fine powder at the bottom of the posterior one. In the latter, however, its
presence might, by possibility, have been accidental. My colleague, Dr. Percy, who kindly undertook
to examine this substance, informs me that he has been unable to detect uric acid in it. The
follicular appendages of the branchial arteries present remarkable differences in their external
appearance. The eight which hang into the four anterior chambers are similar, slightly festooned,
but otherwise simple lamellæ; while the four which depend into the posterior chambers are produced
into a number of papillary processes. This external difference is obvious enough: whether it
be accompanied by a corresponding discrepancy in minute structure I am unable to say; for I
have not as yet been able to arrive at any satisfactory results from the microscopic examination
of the altered tissues, and, as will be seen below, the only observer who has had the opportunity
of examining the Nautilus in the fresh state has not noted any difference of structure in the
two sets of follicles.

One is naturally led to seek among other mollusks for a structure analogous to the vast posterior
aquiferous chamber of the Nautilus; and it appears to me that something quite similar is offered
by the Ascidioida and the Brachiopoda. In both cases, the viscera, inclosed within a delicate
tissue, project into a large cavity communicating freely with the exterior by the cloacal aperture
in the one case, and by the funnel-shaped channels which have been miscalled "hearts" in the other.

The rudimentary renal organs of the Ascidian are developed in the walls of the cavity in question;
and an aquiferous chamber of smaller dimensions has the same relation to the kidney in Lamellibranchiata--in
Gasteropoda, Heteropoda, Pteropoda, and dibranchiate Cephalopoda. But although such is likely
enough to be the case, we do not know at present that the aquiferous chambers in any of the
last named mollusks attain an extension similar to that which obtains in Nautilus.

On comparing the observations detailed above with the statements of previous writers, I find
that, in his well-known "Memoir on the Pearly Nautilus" (1832), Professor Owen describes "on
each side, at the roots of the branchiæ," "a small mamillary eminence with a transverse slit
which conducts from the branchial cavity into the pericardium. There is, moreover, a foramen
at the lower part of the cavity (o, pl. 5) permitting the escape of a small vessel; and by
the side of this vessel a free passage is continued between the gizzard and ovary into the
membranous tube or siphon that traverses the divisions of the shell, thus establishing a communication
between the interior of that tube and the exterior of the animal."

The foramen here described is easily seen; but, as I have stated, there are other modes of
communication between the so-called pericardium and the cavity with which the siphuncle communicates,
of a far more extensive nature.

With respect to the pericardium itself, Professor Owen states, "The peritoneum, after lining
the cavity which contains the crop and liver, and enveloping those viscera, forms two distinct
pouches at the bottom of the pallial sac, in one of which, the left, is contained the gizzard,
and in the other the ovary; anterior to these, and on the ventral aspect of the liver, is another
distinct cavity, of a square shape, which contains the heart and principal vessels, with the
glandular appendages connected therewith." This is what the author terms the pericardium.

As Van der Hoeven has pointed out, however, the gizzard lies to the right and the ovary to
the left. Moreover, the gizzard is superior to the ovary, so as only to overlap it a little
above; and I can find no evidence of the existence of such distinct pouches as those described.

Professor Owen states that the branchiæ "arise by a common peduncle from the inner surface
of the mantle." My own observations, however, and Van der Hoeven's figures, of both male and
female, lead me to believe that the peduncles of the branchiæ are perfectly distinct from one
another.

The follicles of the branchial arteries are thus described in the "Memoir on the Pearly Nautilus:"--"They
are short and pyriform and closely set together. To each of the branchial arteries are appended
three clusters of these glands, of which one is larger than the united volume of both the others;
and the larger cluster is situated on one side of the vessel and the two smaller on the opposite
side. Each of these clusters is contained in a membranous receptacle proper to itself, partitioned
off, as it were, from the pericardium, but communicating with it.... The two canals which form
the communication between the pericardium and the branchial cavity commence at the receptacle
of the lesser cluster attached to the superior branchial arteries, and terminate at the papillæ
before mentioned, which are situated at the roots of the branchiæ. The pericardium and these
receptacles of the glands, when first laid open, were found filled with a coagulated substance
so closely compacted as to require a careful removal, bit by bit, before the contained follicles
and vessels could be brought into view."

Like Valenciennes and Van der Hoeven, I have been unable to find any communication between
the four sacs in which the small double clusters of follicles are contained, and the "pericardium;"
and I hold it to be certain that the other four sets of follicles are not contained in sacs
at all, but lie free in the "pericardium" or posterior chamber.

No notice is here taken of the widely different characters of the anterior and posterior follicles;
and the figure gives both a similar structure.

Valenciennes ("Nouvelles Recherches sur le Nautile Flambé," 'Archives du Muséum,' ii., 1841)
pointed out the existence of three pairs of apertures opening into the branchial sac, besides
the genital and anal openings; and he affirms that they open into as many closed sacs, which
communicate neither with one another nor with the cavity that contains the heart. M. Valenciennes
indicates the difference in the structure of the anterior and posterior venous appendages.
He seems to me to have seen something of the part which I have described as the pallio-visceral
ligament; but I cannot clearly comprehend either his figure or his description.

Van der Hoeven, in his 'Contributions to the Knowledge of the Animal of Nautilus pompilius,'
1850, confirmed the statement of Valenciennes with regard to the existence of three pairs of
apertures; but he showed, in opposition to him, that one of these pairs of apertures communicated
with the pericardium. The sacs into which the other two pairs open are, according to this anatomist,
blind. In the aperture of the anterior blind sac he found a concretionary matter which he supposed
to contain uric acid, but chemical analysis did not confirm the supposition. Van der Hoeven
refers to some observations by Vrolik; but as these are in Dutch, and have not, so far as I
can find, been translated into either French, German, or English, I know not what they may contain.

In his more recent essay, translated in 'Wiegmann's Archiv' for 1857, under the title of "Beitrag
zur Anatomie von Nautilus pompilius," Van der Hoeven states that he has again found hard concretions
in the chamber enclosing the appendage of the anterior branchial artery, and that these on
chemical analysis yielded phosphate of lime and traces of fat and albumen, but no uric acid.

Mr. Macdonald, in a valuable paper on the anatomy of Nautilus umbilicatus, published in the
Philosophical Transactions for 1855, thus describes the follicular appendages of the branchial
arteries:--

"These follicles are subcylindrical in form, somewhat dilated at the free extremity, to which
is appended a folded and funnel-shaped process of membrane, which expands rather suddenly,
presenting a jagged and irregular border. They open by a smooth and oval or slit-like, orifice
into the afferent pulmonary vessels, on each of which, as Professor Owen has observed, they
are disposed in three clusters. The outer membrane is smooth and glassy, homogeneous in structure
and sprinkled over with minute rounded and transparent bodies, probably the nuclei of cells.
Beneath this layer, flat bundles of fibres, apparently muscular, are traceable here and there,
principally disposed in a longitudinal direction, and sometimes branched. The lining membrane
consists of a loose epithelial pavement in many respects similar to that of the uriniferous
tubules of the higher animals, the cells containing, besides the nuclei, numerous minute oil-globules,
or a substance much resembling concrete fatty matter. This membrane is thrown up into an infinite
number of papillæ and corrugations, so as to augment the extent of surface considerably. The
papillæ are more numerous at the inner part or towards the attached end; and a circlet of longitudinally
disposed folds radiate from the bottom of the follicles, in which a number of small pits or
fenestrations are sometimes visible. The sides of these folds are wrinkled transversely so
as to present a median zigzag elevation. The funnel-shaped membranous process above noticed
is continuous with the lining membrane, consisting of an extension of the same epithelial pavement;
but the cells are somewhat larger and more regular in form. The cavity of each follicle, therefore,
communicates with the exterior through the centre of this process; and the aperture is thus
guarded by a kind of circular valve, permitting the escape of secreted matter, but effectually
preventing the entrance of fluid from without."

In his fig. 9, pl. xv., Mr. Macdonald depicts certain "crystalline bodies often occurring within
the follicles."

From what Mr. Macdonald states, one would be led to conclude that all the follicles have the
same structure; but I suspect this to be an oversight. There are also two similar, but smaller,
slits, contiguous to one another, near the root of the posterior branchia on each side, which
lead to and may admit sea-water into the compartments containing the posterior cluster of the
venous follicles." In this work the ovary is not only described, but figured, on the right
side of the gizzard. The figure, however, rightly places the greater part of the ovary below
that organ. Communicated by Sir CHARLES LYELL, F.R.S., F.L.S., and J. D. HOOKER, Esq., M.D.,
V.P.R.S., F.L.S., &c.

[Read July 1st, 1858.]

London, June 30th, 1858.

MY DEAR SIR,--The accompanying papers, which we have the honour of communicating to the Linnean
Society, and which all relate to the same subject, viz. the Laws which affect the Production
of Varieties, Races, and Species, contain the results of the investigations of two indefatigable
naturalists, Mr. Charles Darwin and Mr. Alfred Wallace.

These gentlemen having, independently and unknown to one another, conceived the same very ingenious
theory to account for the appearance and perpetuation of varieties and of specific forms on
our planet, may both fairly claim the merit of being original thinkers in this important line
of inquiry; but neither of them having published his views, though Mr. Darwin has for many
years past been repeatedly urged by us to do so, and both authors having now unreservedly placed
their papers in our hands, we think it would best promote the interests of science that a selection
from them should be laid before the Linnean Society.

Taken in the order of their dates, they consist of:--

1. Extracts from a MS. work on Species[A], by Mr. Darwin, which was sketched in 1839, and copied
in 1844, when the copy was read by Dr. Hooker, and its contents afterwards communicated to
Sir Charles Lyell.

2. An abstract of a private letter addressed to Professor Asa Gray, of Boston, U.S., in October
1857, by Mr. Darwin, in which he repeats his views, and which shows that these remained unaltered
from 1839 to 1857.

3.

We have the honour to be yours very obediently,

                                         CHARLES LYELL.
                                         JOS. D. HOOKER.

J. J. Bennett, Esq.,
  Secretary of the Linnean Society. As this increase is
quite impossible, we must conclude either that birds do not rear nearly
half their young, or that the average life of a bird is, from accident,
not nearly seven years. Both checks probably concur. The same kind of
calculation applied to all plants and animals affords results more or
less striking, but in very few instances more striking than in man.

But let the external conditions of a country alter.

II. Abstract of a Letter from C. DARWIN, Esq., to Prof. ASA GRAY, Boston, U.S., dated Down,
September 5th, 1857.

1. Now suppose there were a being who did not judge by mere external appearances, but who could
study the whole internal organization, who was never capricious, and should go on selecting
for one object during millions of generations; who will say what he might not effect?

3.

4. Such individuals will have a better chance of surviving, and of propagating their new and
slightly different structure; and the modification may be slowly increased by the accumulative
action of natural selection to any profitable extent.

5. Multiform difficulties will occur to every one, with respect to this theory. Many can, I
think, be satisfactorily answered. Natura non facit saltum answers some of the most obvious.
The slowness of the change, and only a very few individuals undergoing change at any one time,
answers others. The extreme imperfection of our geological records answers others.

6.

C. DARWIN.

III. On the Tendency of Varieties to depart indefinitely from the Original Type. By ALFRED
RUSSELL WALLACE.

Ternate, February, 1858.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] This MS. work was never intended for publication, and therefore was not written with care.--C.
D. 1858.

[B] I can see no more difficulty in this, than in the planter improving his varieties of the
cotton plant.--C. D. 1858.

Contributions to the Anatomy and Natural History of the Cetacea. By R. KNOX, Esq., M.D., F.R.S.E.
Communicated by the Secretary.

[Received Oct. 6, 1857.]

Part I. THE DOLPHINS.

The dissection of the Cetacea, and more especially of the larger kinds, is attended with great
difficulty, and not unfrequently entails heavy expenses on those who attempt it. For these
reasons I have thought that zoologists might be pleased to have, even now, submitted to them
the results of numerous dissections made many years ago, when, not stinted in means, and having
the aid of excellent assistants, I attempted the dissection even of the gigantic Arctic Rorqual,
the largest, perhaps, of all living beings. Certain of the details have been from time to time
laid before the public, but in an extremely scattered and incomplete form, and without the
illustrations (artistic), which explain so much better than any verbal description. The greater
part is still before me in manuscript. It is my intention in the following contributions to
endeavour to connect them together, adding to those already published many facts I find in
MSS. The original drawings, made by my brother and by Messrs. Edward Forbes and Henry Goodsir
(who were at that time my students and assistants), are still in my possession.

Determination of Species.--The determination of species as regards the Cetacea is one of much
difficulty; Cuvier met this difficulty by an appeal to anatomy. The number of vertebræ composing
the vertebral column (exclusive of the cephalic) seemed to me a tolerably secure guide in the
determination of species,--being aware, however, that some doubted the method, believing that
the number of the vertebræ might vary, first, with the individual, secondly with the age of
the specimen. I still continue to be of my original opinion, that the number of vertebræ comprising
the vertebral column, properly so called, may safely be trusted in determining the species
of the Cetacea; and with this view I drew up the following Table, excepting from it the genus
Dugong, which I have never considered to be a Cetacean:--

Tabular View of the Number of the Vertebræ in certain Cetacea.

(Cephalic vertebræ excluded.)

--------------------------------------------------------------------- |                   
Authorities.                         | |                 ---------------------------------------------------
|  SPECIES.       |  CUVIER. RUDOLPHI.   KNOX. J. HUNTER.   HUNTER  | |                 | 
(Glasgow.)| --------------------------------------------------------------------- |       
|         |         |        |        |           | |1. MYSTICETUS.   |         |         |
|        |           | |Skeleton of the  |         |         |        |        |          
| |foetus (the      |         |         |        |        |           | |cervical reckoned|
|         |        |        |           | |as 7) of the     |         |         |        |
|           | |Mysticetus     |         |         |        |        |           | |borealis,
|         |         |        |        |           | |Greenland        |         |         |
48   |        |           | |                 |         |         |        |        |     
| |Adult            |         |         |        |        |           | |Mysticetus,    | 
|         |        |        |           | |Whale of         |         |         |        |
|           | |Commerce.        | unknown |         |        |        |           | |     
|         |         |        |        |           | |B. Mysticetus  |         |         | 
|        |           | |australis, True|         |         |        |        |           |
|Whale of the Cape|         |         |        |        |           | |Seas             | 
59    |         |        |        |           | |                 |         |         |   
|        |           | |2. BALÆNOPTERA.  |         |         |        |        |          
| |Gigantic Northern|         |         |        |        |           | |Rorqual          |
|         |   65   |        |           | |                 |         |         |        |
|           | |Specimen of      |         |         |        |        |           | |Rorqual
described|         |         |        |        |           | |by Rudolphi      |         |
54    |        |        |           | |                 |         |         |        |    
|           | |B. rostrata of |         |         |        |        |           | |Fabricius;
on the|         |         |        |        |           | |authority of Van |         |   
|        |        |           | |Beneden: A.      |         |         |        |        | 
| |Rorqual          |         |         |        |        |    48     | |                 |
|         |        |        |           | |Great Whale at   |         |         |        |
|           | |Antwerp. Van     |         |         |        |        |           | |Beneden.
Species |         |         |        |        |           | |not stated       |         | 
|        |        | 61 or 62. | |                 |         |         |        |        | 
| |The lesser       |         |         |        |        |           | |Rorqual of the   |
|         |        |        |           | |North            |         |         |   48   |
46   |    46     | |                 |         |         |        |        |           | |Great
Rorqual of |         |         |        |        |           | |the Cape         |   52   
|         |        |        |           | |                 |         |         |        |
|           | |3. PHYSETER.     |         |         |        |        |           | |Sperm
Whale or   |         |         |        |        |           | |Cachalot         |   60   
|         |        |        |           | |                 |         |         |        |
|           | |4. DELPHINUS.    |         |         |        |        |           | |D. Delphis
|   67    |         |        |        |           | |                 |         |         |
|        |           | |D. Delphis. In |         |         |        |        |           |
|my museum        |         |         |   81   |        |           | |                 | 
|         |        |        |           | |D. Delphis. In |         |         |        |  
|           | |the Museum of Dr.|         |         |        |        |           | |R. Hunter,
|         |         |        |        |           | |Glasgow          |         |         |
|        |    90     | |                 |         |         |        |        |          
| |D. Delphis.    |         |         |        |        |           | |Dissected by John| 
|         |        |        |           | |Hunter           |         |         |        |
60   |           | |                 |         |         |        |        |           | |D.
Phocæna     |   66    |         |   65   |   51   |           | |                 |       
|         |        |        |           | |D. Ebsenii. Van|         |         |        |  
|           | |Beneden          |         |         |        |        |    90     | ---------------------------------------------------------------------

In a late number of the 'Bulletins of the Royal Academy of Brussels' I find some valuable remarks
in respect of these points by M. Van Beneden. He praises, and deservedly, no doubt, the exertions
of M. Eschricht to collect a proper Museum of the Cetacea. It appears, according to M. Eschricht,
that at no age whatever do we find in true whales (meaning, I presume, the Mysticetus borealis
and australis) any distinct vertebræ in the cervical region as in other mammals. A fusion of
all into one bone or cartilage seems to take place even in the youngest foetus. In the foetus
examined by me of this species (a specimen removed from the uterus of a true Mysticetus killed
in the Greenland seas), I do not recollect the precise appearance of the cervical vertebræ;
but the skeleton is in existence, and shall be referred to. To the skeleton of the Rorqual
now in the Museum at Antwerp, and which seems to me of the same species as the one I dissected
in Scotland (and of which the skeleton, prepared with infinite care by my brother and myself,
was presented by me to the Town Council of Edinburgh, and is now preserved in the Zoological
Gardens of the same city), he gives the following vertebræ:--

  Skeleton of the Rorqual at Antwerp--Cervical  7
  Dorsal                                       14-15
  Lumbar                                       15
  Caudal                                       25[C]
                                               --------
  Total                                        61 or 62

In the skeleton of the Great Rorqual now in the Zoological Gardens at Edinburgh, and originally
dissected and prepared by my brother and myself, these vertebræ are--

  Cervical             7
  Dorsal              15
  Lumbar and Caudal   43
                      --
  Total               65

In that of the Lesser Rorqual I dissected in 1830, the skeleton of which I think is still preserved
in the Museum of the University of Edinburgh, we found--

         Vertebræ.
  Cervical       7
  Dorsal        11
  Lumbar        13
  Caudal        17
                --
  Total         48

The specimen was that of a young animal, and of the same species, I believe, as the one described
by Mr. Hunter and Fabricius; it is a distinct species, and not merely the young of the Great
Rorqual.

I shall return to the Dugong, as not being a Cetacean, in a future Section: its skeleton has
been examined in a masterly way by De Blainville, an anatomist and observer of the highest
order, since the time I wrote and published my Memoir on the Dugong.

The first great step in the anatomy of the Cetacea is unquestionably due to Cuvier; but his
dissections were almost confined to the genus Delphinus, or the common Porpoise of our coasts.
I repeated all his dissections, and found them, as they almost always were, scrupulously exact;
but when I came to examine Cetacea with whalebone instead of teeth, I was surprised to find
how different, in fact, the anatomy of the two great families was. Scarcely in any great natural
family do we find Cuvier's favourite theory of anatomical and physiological co-relations so
entirely at fault as in the Cetacea. The teeth or whalebone, as natural-history characters,
lead to no results; the whole structure of the interior defies all à-priori reasoning. The
brain in whalebone-whales does not fill the interior of the cranium; so that the capacity of
the one is no measure of the solid bulk of the other. Their food is various, having no relation
to the teeth or buccal appendages; vascular structures surround the spinal marrow, and extend
in the Balænopteræ into the cavity of the cranium, which seem to be without any analogy in
other mammals, or, at the least, a very obscure one, and whose functions are wholly unknown.

Cetacea might with some propriety be divided into whales with whalebone, and whales with teeth.
Those with whalebone have rudimentary teeth in both jaws in the foetal state. Fossil Cetacea
exist, and they seem to have been of both kinds, but, no doubt, were generically and specifically
distinct from the recent. Judging from the remains of those I have seen, I am inclined to think
that those with teeth were of a stronger and firmer build in the skeleton than those called
recent; that the neck was longer, and the caudal portion of the column shorter than in the
recent kinds, and that they approached the Saurians in form. There is a remarkable want of
symmetry in the crania of some of the Cetacea; but most remarkable is the cranium of the Narwhal.
Of this fact I have already spoken, in the article published in the Transactions of the Royal
Society of Edinburgh.

Delphinus Phocæna. Dissection of a small Cetacean sent to me from Orkney in the month of May
1835.--This species is said to abound on the coasts, and to furnish a kind of fishery to the
inhabitants. On dissection we found 81 vertebræ, exclusive of the cephalic. The species must
be quite distinct from those previously and subsequently examined by myself and many others,
in which the number of vertebræ ranged from 61 to 66. It is also, I think, distinct from the
specimen I saw in Dr. R. Hunter's Museum in Glasgow, in which the number of vertebræ was 90,
exclusive of the cephalic in all the cases. Thus it stands with regard to the Cetacea called
Porpoises and Dolphins.

In certain species of Delphinus the vertical column is composed of 61 vertebræ, in others of
65, in others of 66, in others of 81, in others of 90.

The specimen I now describe was, no doubt, that of a young animal; and the skeleton was prepared,
consequently, as a natural one. This method has the advantage of security against the loss
of any important osseous structures, which too frequently happens when the bones require to
be macerated. The bones contained little oil, and weighed, head included, only 7-1/4 lbs.;
the whole animal, when entire, weighed 14 stone, or 196 lbs.; the skeleton therefore was about
a twenty-fourth part of the whole weight. It was a female. The external nostrils terminated
in a single orifice of a semilunar shape, with the concavity turned towards the snout. Measurements
of young animals have not the importance of those of the adult; but I give them here because
I think that the specimen, although young, had nearly attained its full growth:--

                                                   ft.  in.
  Total length over the dorsum                      6   5-2/8
  Total length lateral surface                      6  11-2/8
  Total length abdominal surface                    6  11-2/8
  From the snout to the nostrils                    0  11-4/8
  From the nostrils to the dorsal fin               1   6-4/8
  Base of the dorsal fin                            0  11
  From dorsal fin to foot of tail                   3   0-2/8
  Breadth of pectoral limb                          0   4-4/8
  From the snout to the organs of generation        3   9-4/8
  Circumference anterior to the arm                 2   9
  Circumference anterior to dorsal fin              3   2-4/8
  Circumference posterior to dorsal fin             2  10
  Circumference at setting on of the tail           0   8-4/8
  Length of pectoral limb                           0  10
  Breadth of tail                                   1   2
  Greatest height of the dorsal fin                 0   9

From the notes taken at the time, I find that my brother remarks that the Dolphin of Orkney
differed a good deal in shape from those found in the Forth and seas in the South of Scotland.
There were, moreover, 16 more vertebræ than in the skeleton of the Common Porpoise of authors.
The teeth generally weighed 2-1/2 grains each.

Further, the muscles of the tongue, intrinsic as well as extrinsic, were extremely well developed.
The isthmus faucium was 3 inches long. All this part was extremely glandular. A well-marked
muscular gullet followed, composed of two layers of muscular fibres,--one circular internally,
and one longitudinal externally. These latter sent a slip to the base of the arytænoid cartilages.
The mucous membrane of the gullet had no true epidermic covering, and in this respect differed
remarkably from the first gastric compartment, from which a cuticular lining could be peeled
off, as strong as that from the sole of the foot in man. The larynx presented that organization
so well described by the illustrious Cuvier, and which I believe to be peculiar to the whales
with teeth. It differs very much, as I explained long ago, in its arrangement from that of
Whalebone Whales,--a fact of which I think Cuvier was not aware. The cricoid cartilage was
imperfect in form; the hyo-epiglottic muscles very strong. The proper arytænoid were present,
and strong, but did not extend so high as in man; the thyro-arytænoid muscles were very fully
developed. In the interior of the larynx there were no projections nor ventricles, no cuneiform
cartilages, nor cornicula laryngis. The rings of the trachea formed complete circles.

Stomach.--The cuticular lining is limited to the first cavity or compartment. It is in the
second compartment that is found the curious glandular arrangement first, I believe, described
by me in the 'Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.' This structure is most probably
not limited to the second compartment. There are four distinct compartments in the stomach
of this animal. A dilated duodenum follows, 6 inches in length. It is possible that this may
have been in some instances mistaken for a stomach. The valvulæ conniventes commence with the
jejunum; these are longitudinal, and extend to within about 6 inches of the anus, terminating
at a point where the intestine seems enlarged. The length of the intestines, large and small,
was 90 feet; circumference generally about 2 inches. Thousands and tens of thousands of parasitical
worms were found in the stomach, but none in the intestine. In the stomach also we found four
mandibles of the cuttlefish, but no remains of anything in the intestines, and no parasites.

Heart and Vessels.--The heart weighed exactly one pound. The Eustachian valve was small, that
of Thebesius imperfect. The aorta proceeded for about 3 inches of its course before giving
off any branches. At a point corresponding to the 15th or 16th lumbar vertebra the vessel divided
into the common iliacs. The art. sacri media, its continuation, continued its course protected
by the V-bones, and giving off branches corresponding to the intervertebral spaces.

Brain and Nervous System.--The erectile tissue surrounding the spinal cord and origin of the
spinal nerves in the Cetacea did not extend into the interior of the cranium. The entire encephalic
mass weighed 2-1/2 lbs.: cerebrum, 2 lbs.; cerebellum, 1/4; pons and medulla, 1/4 = 2-1/2.
Compared with a drawing of Camper of the Delphinus Phocæna, the brain was found to differ remarkably,
in being much broader in the line of the middle and posterior lobes. In no animal did I ever
find the fibrous structure of the brain so well marked; and this extended to the cerebellum[D].
I give here some measurements of the brain, which may be of use to future observers. The brain
is short from before backwards, but broad transversely:--

  Antero-posterior diameter                 5-2/8  inches.
  Breadth                                   8      inches.
  Greatest breadth of the cerebellum        4      inches.
  Length of the cerebellar hemisphere       4-6/8  inches.
  Depth of ditto                            3-2/8  inches.
  Weight of the encephalic mass             2-1/2  lbs.
  Depth of the interhemispherical fissure   1-2/8  inches.
  Length of the corpus callosum             1-7/8  inches.
  Weight of cerebrum                        2    }
  Weight of cerebellum                      0-1/4}  = 2-1/2 lbs.
  Weight of the pons and med. oblongata     0-1/4}

Nerves.--The 7th pair was found to be unexpectedly large and firm, including both portions.
The anterior roots of the spinal nerves were far more numerous than the posterior or dorsal.

Muscles.--The panniculus carnosus, strong and fleshy, extended nearly over the whole trunk.
The recti abdominis were powerful, and attached inferiorly in this way:--A portion runs to
the pelvic bones; a much stronger to a strong aponeurosis, situated between the anus and the
root of the tail.

The erector muscles of the spine (sacrolumbalis, longissimus dorsi and multifidus spinæ) weighed
fully 16 lbs. They had but slender costal attachments; but their spinal (small delicate tendons)
were innumerable. The scaleni were very large; and the vessels held the same relation to them
as in man. The serratus magnus was comparatively small. The larger rhomboid had no spinal attachment;
the minor rhomboid seemed to be the larger of the two. The pectorals were comparatively small.
The adipose tissue appeared to be wholly confined to the subcutaneous region. The muscles were
of a deep brown colour, full of blood, with a short, dark, and well-flavoured fibre: when cooked,
they had a strong resemblance in flavour and taste to the flesh of the hare.

Part II. THE BALÆNA WHALES, OR WHALES WITH WHALEBONE.

In February 1834 a young whale of the family of Balæna Whales was caught near the Queensferry,
in the Firth of Forth. One much larger had been seen some time before, but escaped. I purchased
it for dissection, although I was aware that it was impossible for me, during the hurry of
the winter session, to devote much time to it. But I had able assistants (Mr. Henry Goodsir,
Mr. Edward Forbes, and my brother), from whom I expected a good deal of aid. Some very beautiful
drawings of this whale, made for me by Mr. Edward Forbes and by my brother, are still in my
possession.

It was easy to see, by the dorsal fin and by the numerous plaits or folds on the abdominal
surface of the throat and chest, before any dissection, that the specimen was a young Balænopterous
whale, differing in a great many points from the true whale or Mysticetus: for, 1st, the form
of the head was entirely different; 2nd, it had a dorsal fin; and, 3rd, occupying the lower
surface of the throat and thorax were numerous folds of the integuments. To this class of whales
I have been in the habit of giving the name of Rorqual, to distinguish them from the other
class of Whalebone Whales, the Mysticetus both borealis and australis.

It appears from my notes, that at that time M. G. Cuvier considered the species I now describe
as identical with the Great Rorqual I had described about two years previously; but I felt
convinced then, as now, that they form distinct species, and in this opinion some continental
anatomists seem to coincide.

Being persuaded that there was some inaccuracy in former drawings of the species, I had the
specimen suspended and drawn with great care by Mr. Edward Forbes. This position explained
the mechanism of the mouth, showing its great size, even in the short Balæna Whales; its great
capacity in the Mysticetus had never been doubted.

As to the species, the conclusion I arrived at was, that the specimen belonged to that termed
by Fabricius rostrata, and that individuals of the species had been seen by John Hunter, Sir
James Watson, and Fabricius.

  Measurements.                                       ft.  in.

  Total length of the specimen                                9  11
  Circumference immediately behind the pectoral extremities   5   2
  Circumference where the folds or rugæ terminated            4   8-1/4
  Ditto of the tail at its origin                             1   5-1/2
  Length from the back fin to the setting on of the tail      2  10
  Length from the snout to the ear                            3   0
  Length from snout to nostrils                               1   4
  Length of lower jaw                                         2   3
  Length of arm; inner side                                   1   3
  Length from the angle of the mouth to the arm               1   3
  Length from snout to arm                                    2   9
  Length of tail in depth                                     0  11
  Length of back fin at the base                              0   8
  Height of back fin                                          0   8-1/2
  From top to tip of tail                                     2   8-1/2
  Stomach:--1st compartment, in length                        1   2
            2nd compartment, in length                        1   4
            3rd compartment, in length                        0   8
            4th compartment, in length                        0   7
            5th compartment, in length                        0   3
  Spleen weighed 4 ounces; its length  was                    0   5
  Liver, 9 lbs.
  Small intestines, length                                   20   0
  Large intestines, length                                    2   4
  Kidney, weight 2-1/4 lbs.
  Brain (including 2 inches of spinal marrow), 3-1/2 lbs.
  Cerebellum, pons, and 2 inches of spinal marrow, 3/4 lb.
  Great hemisphere of the brain measured 3 inches in
    length, in breadth, 6-1/2; at the base, 8 inches.
  Tuber annulare                                              0   1-2/8
  Olfactory nerves, in length                                 0   1-1/2
  Ditto, breadth                                              0   2-1/2
  Skeleton:--Length of cranium                                2  11
             Greatest breadth between the orbits              1   3
             Length of vertebral column                       7   8

When we compare the skeleton of this Rorqual with the Gigantic Rorqual I also dissected, we
find as follows:--

                       R. giganteus.   R. minor.

  Cervical         vertebræ  7          vertebræ  7
  Dorsal                    15                   11
  Lumbar, sacral, caudal    43                   30
                            --                   --
                            65                   48

These differences must be specific.

At the extremity of the snout in either jaw there were 8 strong bristles, being the only vestiges
of hair found on the external surface. The mouth was of great size; the tongue large and tolerably
free, and of a pale rose or vermilion colour. The baleen, where deepest, measured about 4 inches;
there were 370 plates on each side; but anteriorly and posteriorly these plates were reduced
to mere bristles.

The isthmus faucium allowed the closed hand to pass through it; through this isthmus I do not
believe that any water ever passes into the pharynx, unless it be accidentally, as in man.
The "spout" of the Whalebone Whale is composed, no doubt, of the pulmonary vapour, and not
of any water received into the pharynx from the mouth.

The stomach seemed composed of five compartments externally, but presented only four when laid
open, the fifth being manifestly the duodenum. In the intestines no remains of food were found,
but abundance of intestinal worms, and a substance strongly resembling the human meconium.
There was an ilio-cæcal valve as distinct as in man. In the rectum the folds of the mucous
membrane were transverse.

Organs of Respiration.--The external nostrils were double; and the cavities of the nostrils
provided with the remarkable cartilages and muscular apparatus I discovered and described in
the anatomy of the Great Rorqual. In this specimen they were about 4 inches in length, but
of as many feet in the large Rorqual. The mode of breathing in the Rorquals does not differ
much from that in man, with the exception of the apparatus of the protruding cartilages, which
in man are rudimentary.

The Olfactory Nerves were quite as large as in other mammals; and in this respect the Balæna
Whales are quite unlike the Dolphins[E].

The trachea communicated, near its upper part, with a sac or pouch; the lungs were each composed
of a single lobe. The rings of the trachea were mostly deficient anteriorly. In the heart the
foetal arrangements had wholly disappeared. The dura mater seemed divisible into three layers,
the external being vascular. A remarkable vascular substance connected with this layer covers
the back part of the brain and cerebellum, extending into the spinal canal, and even into the
chest. At the base of the brain the vascular plexus was about 2 inches in thickness. It is,
as is well known, a sort of erectile tissue, of whose functions we are wholly ignorant. It
is not confined to this course, but extends to the neck, and, passing through the foramina
intervertebralia, fills the intercostal spaces exterior to the pleura.

There was evidently a canal in the centre of the spinal marrow. Wherever the nerves of the
lungs and stomach were traced, they terminated in loops. We did not observe in the Great Rorqual
any tracheal pouch like that in the smaller; but it may have escaped notice: if absent in the
Great Rorqual, it would be another proof of the distinctness of the species.

The doubts raised by M. St. Hilaire, as to the Whale being a mammal in the true sense of the
term, were set aside long ago by an appeal to facts. The young of the Whale tribe suckle like
the young of all mammals; nevertheless I showed, in 1834, that the lactiferous glands in the
Balænopteræ differ in structure from the same organs in most mammals.

I do not find in my notes anything to add to the description of the Great Rorqual already published
in the 'Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh' for 1827, to which I beg leave to refer
the reader.

A single remark must be added regarding the nature of the vascular plexus which, in the Cetacea,
surrounds the spinal marrow, and extends into the chest. On selecting the artery which seemed
to form the plexus, which was, if I rightly recollect, in this instance an intercostal artery,
and dissecting it under water, I found, to my surprise, that the artery, so long as I followed
it, never gave off any branches, but continued of the same calibre throughout, making innumerable
flexuosities or turnings. Thus, on a plexiform mass of this kind being cut across, the first
impression is, that a great number of arterial branches or arteries have been divided, whilst
in fact the entire plexus seems to be formed of one artery.

As was to be expected of animals so much withdrawn from human observation, there is but little
to say on the natural history of the Cetacea properly so called. Their food, no doubt, is various,
and seems to have little or no relation to the character of their dentition. The enormous Cachalot,
with its vast teeth implanted only in one jaw, is generally understood to prey chiefly on the
Cuttlefish. The food of the true Whale, or Mysticetus, is well known to be the Clio and other
smaller Mollusca, with which certain regions of the ocean abound; the same, or similar, is
probably the food of the more active and restless Rorquals, found in both hemispheres. The
Dolphins, or Toothed Whales, generally prey, no doubt, on fishes of various kinds; yet, even
as regards these, it has been proved by my esteemed friend, the late Mr. Henry Goodsir, that
some of the largest, following in the wake of the herring shoals, prey not on these, but on
the various microscopic food (the Entomostraca and other marine animals) which I was the first
to prove to be the natural food of many excellent gregarious freshwater fish, as the Vendace,
Early Loch Leven Trout, the Brown Trout of the Highland and Scottish lakes generally, and of
the Herring itself[F]. It is scarcely necessary to add, that the complex apparatus connected
with the exterior nostrils of the Dolphins is wholly wanting in the Balæna Whales,--a fact
of which M. Cuvier was not aware when he wrote his celebrated Treatise on Comparative Anatomy.

Appendix.--Since writing the above, I have received an answer to a letter I addressed to my
friend, John Goodsir, Esq., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh. The request
contained in my letter to Mr. Goodsir was, to examine for me the skeleton of a foetal Mysticetus
now in the University Museum. The foetus from which this skeleton was prepared was removed
from the uterus of the mother, killed in the North Seas by the seamen of a whaling ship, by
one of my former students, Mr. R. Auld, who presented the specimen to me. The point at issue
was the composition of the cervical vertebræ in the true or Greenland Whale, the Balæna Mysticetus.
Now, I had enjoyed the rare opportunity of dissecting the foetus of the Mysticetus, and I knew
that the skeleton, prepared with the greatest care, was still preserved in the Museum of the
University of Edinburgh. I wrote to Mr. Goodsir to re-examine this point for me, for I did
not find in my notes any confirmation of the observations of Eschricht. Mr. Goodsir's reply
to my note is as follows:--

                                             "University, Edinburgh,
                                                 Sept. 30, 1857.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"In the skeleton of the foetal Mysticetus now in the University Museum, the bodies of the axis
and atlas have shrivelled up together, having evidently consisted of cartilage only; but the
bodies of the five posterior cervical vertebræ are beautifully distinct, having well-formed
osseous centres, which give them more of the configuration of the succeeding vertebral bodies
than they present in their compressed form in the adult.

"The neural arches in the cervical region of this skeleton are five in number; the two anterior,
which are distinctly those of the atlas and axis, have an osseous nodule on each side, where
the transverse processes pass off. The third arch belongs to the third vertebra, the fourth
and fifth to the sixth and seventh. These three arches are cartilaginous, and present no osseous
centres. It is impossible to determine from the preparation whether the arches of the fourth
and fifth vertebræ had been cut away in dissecting the parts, or whether they have shrivelled
up in drying; but as the skeleton was very carefully prepared, and as these two arches are
deficient (at least laterally) in the adult Mysticetus, I presume that the cartilaginous matrices
were at least extremely delicate in the foetus.

"I believe I have stated all the facts, afforded by this skeleton, which bear upon your questions.
They appear to me to afford no support to the views to which they refer.

                                            "Yours very sincerely,
                                          (Signed)        "JOHN GOODSIR."

The conclusion I arrived at is this,--that the actual number of cervical vertebræ in the Mysticetus
is, as in most other mammals, seven, and that, notwithstanding their earlier fusion, they are
originally quite distinct.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] It is stated that some of the last of these are of wood. The skeleton in Edinburgh is perfect.

[D] "The substance of the brain is more visibly fibrous than I ever saw it in any other animal,
the fibres passing from the ventricles as from a centre to the circumference, which fibrous
texture is also continued through the cortical substance."--HUNTER, "On Whales," 'Animal Economy,'
Palmer's edit. p. 373.

[E] In his paper "On the Structure of Whales" (Phil. Trans. 1787), Hunter remarks that the
organ of smell "is peculiar to the large and small Whalebone Whales." He further remarks, that,
"in those that have olfactory nerves, the lateral ventricles are not continued into them as
in many quadrupeds;" and he notices "the want of the olfactory nerves in the genus of the Porpoise."--'Anim.
Economy,' Palmer's edit. pp. 372, 373, 376.

[F] See Memoirs in the 'Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh' for 1832.

[Read January 21st, 1858.]

"In natural history my collection is advancing, especially in skins and skeletons of birds.
I am collecting skulls of all the domesticated animals, and skeletons of the sheep and goats.
I have got a few fish, including a prettily-marked Diodon or Tetraodon, probably new, and a
Myletes which I did not meet with formerly. The Siluridæ are the most abundant fishes; and
one species closely resembles the Hypophthalmus, figured by Rüppell in his 'Fishes of the Nile
and Red Sea.' I have not met with another Polypterus. I shall get a Lepidosiren in the river,
and have heard of an electrical fish, I believe a Malopteruris, such as I formerly found. I
enclose two scales of a fish which is said to grow to the length of 5 feet, but of which I
have specimens half that size only,--also a sketch of a curious fish 2-1/2 feet, which I put
into spirits; it has neither ventral nor anal fins, a very peculiar caudal, and a slender head,
while the dorsal extends along the whole back; eyes very small; teeth numerous and hard, but
not sharp." He adds, in a postscript, that he had got the Lepidosiren. He had collected 700
species of plants, and numerous fine fruits, which he says "will rejoice Sir William Hooker's
heart."

Dr. Baikie's postscript, however, mentions that his vessel had been wrecked about twelve miles
above Lagos, and that she sunk in a few minutes after she struck. He does not say what was
the fate of his collections, but states that all the party had fever from fatigue and sleeping
in swamps after the wreck.--J. R.

Catalogue of the Dipterous Insects collected in the Aru Islands by Mr. A. R. WALLACE, with
Descriptions of New Species. By FRANCIS WALKER.

ARU ISLAND.

Fam. MYCETOPHILIDÆ, Haliday.

Gen. SCIARA, Meigen.

Div. A. a., Meig. vi. 305.

1. SCIARA SELECTA, n. s. Mas. Nigra, cinereo-tomentosa, antennis sat validis, pedibus piceis,
alis cinereis, venis costalibus crassis.

Male. Black, with cinereous tomentum; antennæ rather stout; legs piceous; wings greyish; veins
black; radial and cubital veins thick; radial vein extending to the fork of the subapical.
Length of the body 1-3/4 line; of the wings 4 lines.

Fam. BIBIONIDÆ, Haliday.

Gen. PLECIA, Hoffmansegg.

2. Plecia dorsalis, Walk. See Vol. I. p. 5.

Fam. CULICIDÆ, Haliday.

3. CULEX SCUTELLARIS, n. s. Mas. Nigro-fuscus, capite thoraceque argenteo trivittatis, scutello
rufescente; abdominis segmentis argenteo fasciatis, genubus et tarsorum posticorum fasciis
niveis; alis subcinereis, venis nigris ciliatis.

Male. Blackish brown. Head and thorax with three silvery stripes, the middle one very distinct;
scutellum reddish; pectus with silvery gloss; abdomen with silvery bands, which are narrow
above, broad beneath; femora pale towards the base; knees snow-white; hind tarsi with 5 broad
snow-white bands; middle tarsi with the first and second joints white at the base; wings slightly
greyish; veins black, fringed. Length of the body 3 lines; of the wings 5 lines.

Fam. TIPULIDÆ.

Gen. MEGISTOCERA, Wied.

4. Megistocera tuscana, Wied. Auss. Zweist. 1. 55. 1. Inhabits also Java.

Gen. GYNOPLISTIA, Westw.

5. GYNOPLISTIA JURGIOSA, n. s. Mas. et Foem. Nigra, capite rufescente, alis cinereis, plagis
costalibus nigro-fuscis.--Mas. Abdomine ochraceo, apice nigro, femoribus basi testaceis.--Foem.
Abdomine atro fasciis albidis apice luteo.

Male and Female. Black. Head reddish; antennæ testaceous at the base; thorax testaceous in
front; wings greyish, blackish-brown along the costa, and with three subcostal blackish-brown
patches, the third continued along the veins towards the hind border. Male. Abdomen ochraceous,
black at the tip; femora testaceous at the base; halteres testaceous. Female. Abdomen deep
black, with whitish bands on the sutures; tip luteous. Length of the body 5-6 lines; of the
wings 9-10 lines.

Fam. STRATIOMIDÆ, Haliday.

Gen. PTILOCERA, Wied.

6. Ptilocera quadridentata. See Vol. 1. p. 7.

7. MASSICYTA INFLATA, n. s. Foem. Nigra, capite viridi maculis nigris, antennis basi ferrugineis,
pectoris callis duobus scutelloque testaceis, abdomine basi sordide albido lineis tribus nigris,
fasciis duabus cano-tomentosis, segmentis tertio quartoque apice ferrugineis, tibiis basi tarsisque
albidis, alis subcinereis fusco marginatis, stigmate nigricante, halteribus testaceis.

Female. Black. Head dull green, with several black spots; mouth testaceous; antennæ dark ferruginous
towards the base; two pectoral calli and the scutellum testaceous; abdomen at the base dingy-whitish
and semihyaline, and with three black lines; third and fourth segments with hoary bands, their
hind borders ferruginous; tibiæ towards the base, and tarsi, whitish; hind tibiæ with the two
colours most distinctly marked; wings grey, with broad brownish borders; stigma blackish; veins
black; halteres testaceous. Length of the body 6 lines; of the wings 11 lines.

8. MASSICYTA CERIOÏDES, n. s. Foem.

Female. Black. Head testaceous, with some black spots on the vertex. Antennæ dark ferruginous
towards the base. An interrupted stripe on each side of the thorax, two pectoral calli, the
scutellum, and the hind borders of the second, third, and fourth abdominal segments green.
Abdomen testaceous at the base beneath; first band interrupted, having before it two testaceous
spots. Knees lurid; tarsi white. Wings blackish brown; stigma and veins black; halteres apple-green.
Length of the body 5-6 lines; of the wings 10-12 lines.

Gen. SALDUBA, n. g.

Male. Corpus angustum, sublineare. Caput transversum; vertex angustus. Oculi magni. Antennæ
capite transverso valde longiores; articuli primo ad septimum breves; flagellum longum, lanceolatum,
subarcuatum. Thorax longus, subcompressus; scutellum inerme. Abdomen planum, thorace paullo
longius. Pedes graciles; postici longi. Alæ angustæ.

Male. Body narrow, nearly linear. Head slightly transverse, nearly as broad as the thorax;
vertex narrow. Eyes large. Antennæ shorter than the thorax; joints from the first to the seventh
short; flagellum long, lanceolate, slightly curved. Thorax long, slightly increasing in breadth
from the head to the base of the wings. Abdomen nearly flat and linear, a little longer than
the thorax. Legs slender; hind pair long. Wings narrow; veins complete, distinctly marked;
first cubital areolet rather short, divided from the second by the oblique first cubital rim;
discal areolet large, hexagonal; subanal and anal veins united at some distance from the border.

9. SALDUBA DIPHYSOIDES, n. s., Mas. Nigra, ore flavo, thorace vittis quatuor subauratis, abdominis
apice cinereo, pedibus albidis, femoribus posticis apices versus tibiisque posticis nigris,
alis cinereis, venis stigmateque nigris, halteribus testaceis.

Male. Black. Mouth yellow; thorax with four stripes of slightly gilded tomentum; tip of the
abdomen with cinereous tomentum; legs whitish, hind femora towards the tips and hind tibiæ
black; wings greyish, veins and stigma black; halteres testaceous. Length of the body 4-1/2
lines; of the wings 8 lines.

Gen. STRATIOMYS.

10. STRATIOMYS CONFERTISSIMA, n. s. Foem. Nigra, subtus ferruginea, capite fulvo, antennis
basi fulvis, thorace vittis quatuor subauratis, scutelli margine fulvo, ventre piceo basi testaceo,
pedibus fulvis nigro fasciatis; alis subcinereis, venis stigmateque nigris, halteribus testaceis.

Female. Black, ferruginous beneath. Head, antennæ at the base, border of the scutellum, and
legs tawny; antennæ a little shorter than the breadth of the head; thorax with four slightly
gilded stripes; abdomen beneath piceous, testaceous at the base; femora and tibiæ with broad
black bands; wings greyish, stigma and veins black; halteres testaceous. Length of the body
4 lines; of the wings 7-1/2 lines.

11. STRATIOMYS NEXURA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Nigra, antennis basi fulvis, capite transverso brevioribus,
abdominis lateribus, ventre, tibiis, tarsis halteribusque fulvis, alis limpidis, venis testaceis.
Mas. Thorace atro piloso. Foem. Thorace nigro-æneo angustiore.

Male and female. Black. Head rather prominent; antennæ tawny towards the base, shorter than
the breadth of the head; spines of the scutellum, abdomen beneath, tibiæ, tarsi, and halteres
tawny; wings limpid, veins testaceous. Male. Thorax deep black, pilose; abdomen tawny along
each side. Female. Head shining; thorax æneous black, narrower than that of the male; abdomen
with the tawny stripes much narrower than those of the male. Length of the body 3-1/2 lines;
of the wings 6-1/2 lines.

Gen. CLITELLARIA, Meigen.

12. Clitellaria bivittata, Fabr. See Vol. I. p. 7.

Gen. GABAZA, n. g.

Foem. Corpus breve, latum. Caput transversum, thorace paullo angustius; facies valde obliqua.
Antennæ capite transverso breviores; articuli breves, transversi; arista longa, gracilis, filiformis.
Scutellum prominens, spinis duabus minutis. Abdomen transversum, thorace multo latius. Pedes
graciles, breviusculi. Alæ sat angustæ; venæ tenues.

Female. Body short, broad. Head transverse, a little narrower than the thorax; face very oblique.
Antennæ shorter than the breadth of the head; joints short, transverse; arista slender, filiform,
longer than the preceding part, which is lanceolate. Scutellum prominent, armed with two minute
spines. Abdomen transverse, much broader than the thorax. Legs slender, somewhat short. Wings
rather narrow; veins feeble, in structure like those of Stratiomys.

13. GABAZA ARGENTEA, n. s. Foem. Nigra, antennis fulvis, arista alba, thorace abdomineque argenteo-tomentosis,
tarsis albido-testaceis, alis limpidis, venis pallidis.

Female. Coal-black. Antennæ tawny, arista white; thorax and abdomen with bright silvery tomentum;
tarsi whitish testaceous; wings limpid, veins pale. Length of the body 2 lines; of the wings
3-1/2 lines.

Gen. SARGUS, Fabr.

14. Sargus metallinus, Fabr. See Vol. I. p. 110.

15. SARGUS COMPLENS, n. s. Foem. Rufescente-fulvus, capitis vertice nigro, antennis testaceis,
abdomine fasciis latis abbreviatis piceis, tarsis posticis basi tibiisque posticis nigris,
alis cinereis, basi subluridis, apud costam exteriorem nigro-fuscis.

Female. Reddish tawny. Head black above, testaceous beneath; antennæ testaceous; abdomen with
four broad abbreviated piceous bands; legs tawny, hind tibiæ black with a tawny apical mark,
hind tarsi black towards the base; wings greyish, slightly lurid towards the base, blackish-brown
about the exterior part of the costa, veins black, tawny towards the base; halteres testaceous,
tawny towards the tips. Length of the body 6 lines; of the wings 14 lines.

16. SARGUS ROGANS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Capitis vertice nigro, antennis pedibusque testaceis,
tibiis tarsisque posticis nigris, alis subcinereis apice obscurioribus. Mas. Luteo-testaceus.
Foem. Ferrugineus.

Male and Female. Head black above; antennæ and legs testaceous; hind tibiæ and hind tarsi black;
wings greyish, darker towards their tips; veins black, tawny towards the base. Male. Lutescent
testaceous. Female. Ferruginous; wings darker than those of the male. Length of the body 5
lines; of the wings 10 lines.

Gen. NERUA, n. g.

Foem. Corpus longiusculum, sublineare. Caput transversum, thorace non latius. Antennæ breves;
articulus tertius rotundus; arista apicalis, longa, tenuis, setiformis. Thorax productus. Scutellum
spinis quatuor longiusculis. Abdomen depressum, sublineare, thorace vix latius, non longius.
Pedes graciles, non longi. Alæ angustæ; venæ bene determinatæ.

Female. Body rather long, nearly linear. Head transverse, not broader than the thorax. Antennæ
short; third joint round; arista apical, long, slender, setiform. Thorax long. Abdomen flat,
thin, nearly linear, hardly broader and not longer than the thorax. Legs slender, not long.
Wings narrow; veins distinctly marked, in structure like those of Clitellaria.

This genus may be distinguished from Culcua by the shape of the abdomen.

17. NERUA SCENOPINOÏDES, n. s. Foem. Atra, nitens, antennis fulvis, scutelli spinis pedibusque
albis, alis nigro-cinereis, postice pallidioribus, venis nigris, halteribus testaceis.

Female. Coal-black, shining; antennæ tawny; thorax slightly tomentose; spines of the scutellum
and legs white; wings blackish grey, paler towards the hind border, veins black; halteres testaceous.
Length of the body 3 lines; of the wings 5 lines.

Gen. ADRAGA, n. g.

Mas. Corpus sublineare. Caput thorace non latius. Oculi connexi. Antennæ brevissimæ; articulus
tertius rotundus; arista apicalis, gracilis, setiformis. Thorax sutura transversa bene determinata.
Scutellum prominens, trigonum, marginatum. Abdomen thorace paullo brevius, non latius. Pedes
breviusculi, validi, non dilatati. Alæ mediocres.

Male. Body nearly linear, rather thick. Head not broader than the thorax. Eyes connected. Scutellum
prominent, triangular, with a border. Abdomen a little shorter and not broader than the thorax.
Legs stout, rather short, not dilated. Wings moderately broad; veins in structure like those
of Clitellaria.

18. ADRAGA UNIVITTA, n. s. Mas. Nigra, subtilissime punctata, antennis piceis, thorace vitta
cinerea, tarsis posterioribus albis, alis nigricantibus.

Male. Coal-black, hardly shining; antennæ piceous; thorax and abdomen very minutely punctured;
thorax with a stripe of cinereous tomentum; posterior tarsi white; wings blackish, veins black.
Corpus breve, latum, crassum, convexum. Caput transversum, thorace angustius. Abdomen transversum,
thorace paullo latius, valde brevius. Pedes breviusculi, validi; antici subdilatati. Alæ mediocres.

Female. Body short, broad, thick, convex. Head transverse, narrower than the thorax. Antennæ
short; third joint round; arista apical, slender, setiform. Thorax with the transverse suture
very distinct. Scutellum large, prominent, with a marginal suture. Abdomen transverse, a little
broader than the thorax, and not more than half its length. Legs stout, rather short, the fore
pair slightly dilated. Wings moderately broad, veins rather irregular; discal areolet large,
quadrilateral; externo-medial veins, subanal vein, and anal vein very slight; subanal vein
and anal vein united at some distance from the border.

19. OBRAPA PERILAMPOÏDES, n. s. Foem. Atra, nitens, subtilissime punctata, capite glabro, antennis
piceis, tarsis posterioribus albidis, alis limpidis, venis albidis basi nigris, halteribus niveis.

Female. Deep black, shining, very minutely punctured; head smooth; antennæ piceous; posterior
tarsi whitish, with black tips; wings limpid, veins whitish, black towards the base; halteres
snow-white. Length of the body 2-1/2 lines; of the wings 5 lines.

20.

Female. Deep black, very minutely punctured. Head smooth; antennæ piceous; tarsi whitish; wings
blackish cinereous, veins black; halteres snow-white. Length of the body 2 lines; of the wings
4 lines.

Fam. TABANIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. TABANUS, Linn.

21. TABANUS RECUSANS, n. s. Foem. Piceus, cinereo-subtomentosus, callo nigro angusto, antennis
rufis apice nigris, humeris rufescentibus, abdomine basi glaucescente, tibiis obscure ferrugineis,
alis nigro-fuscis, apice margineque postico cinereis.

Female. Piceous, slightly covered with cinereous tomentum. Callus of the head black, long,
slender, entire; antennæ red, black towards the tips, angle of the third joint very small;
thorax reddish on each side in front of the forewings; abdomen with glaucous tomentum towards
the base; tibiæ mostly dark ferruginous; wings blackish-brown, cinereous towards the tips and
along the hind border; veins black; forebranch of the cubital vein simple, very slightly undulating,
its tip, like that of the radial vein, clouded with blackish-brown. Length of the body 6-1/2
lines; of the wings 12 lines.

Fam. ASILIDÆ, Leach.

Subfam. DASYPOGONITES, Walk.

Gen. DASYPOGON, Fabr.

22. DASYPOGON INOPINUS, n. s. Foem. Piceus, facie aurata, mystace parvo albo, antennis ferrugineis,
apices versus nigris, capite transverso longioribus, articulo tertio lineari, pectore fasciis
tribus canis, abdominis segmentis ferrugineo fasciatis, alis luridis, apud costam nigro-fuscis,
halteribus testaceis.

Female. Piceous. Face flat, brightly gilded; epistoma not prominent; mystax with a few white
bristles; mouth black; antennæ ferruginous, black towards the tips, longer than the breadth
of the head; third joint linear, longer than the first and the second together; pectus with
three hoary bands; abdomen subclavate, nearly twice the length of the thorax; a ferruginous
band on the hind border of each segment; legs mostly ferruginous; wings lurid, blackish-brown
towards the costa, veins black; halteres testaceous. Length of the body 8 lines; of the wings
14 lines.

23. DASYPOGON HONESTUS, n. s. Lutescente-fulvus, capite, antennis, pedibus alisque nigris,
thorace vitta schistacea nigro marginata vittisque duabus lateralibus cinereis, pectore postico
nigro, abdomine ----?, tibiis tarsisque posticis fulvis.

Luteous-tawny. Head, antennæ, hind part of the pectus, and legs black, shining; mystax with
very few bristles; antennæ almost as long as the breadth of the head, third joint long, slender,
linear; thorax with a slate-coloured blackish-bordered stripe, a short slate-coloured stripe
on each side; abdomen wanting; hind tibiæ and tarsi tawny; wings blackish, veins black. Length
of the body 4? lines; of the wings 7 lines.

Subfam. LAPHRITES, Walk.

Gen. LAPHRIA, Fabr.

24. Laphria scapularis, Wied. Auss. Zweifl. 1. 516. 29. Inhabits also Java.

25. Laphria aurifacies, Macq. See Vol. I. p. 10.

26. LAPHRIA GLORIOSA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Aurata, capite pectoreque albis, abdomine purpureo,
guttis lateralibus albis, basi viridi, lateribus pedibusque cyaneis, alis fuscis basi cinereis,
halteribus testaceis.

Male and Female. Head and pectus with white tomentum and hairs; mystax with a few black bristles;
mouth and antennæ black; third joint of the latter linear, conical at the tip, longer than
the first and the second together; thorax with cupreous-gilded tomentum; abdomen purple, green
at the base, blue and with a row of white dots along each side; legs blue; wings brown, cinereous
towards the base, veins black; halteres testaceous. Male. Legs very thick and pilose. Length
of the body 9 lines; of the wings 16 lines.

27. LAPHRIA SOCIA, n. s. Foem. Cyaneo-viridis, capite aurato, antennarum articulo tertio longissimo
subfusiformi, thoracis tomento subaurato, vitta media nuda, pectore argenteo, abdomine purpureo-cyaneo
basi viridi maculis lateralibus argenteis, alis nigro-cinereis basi cinereis.

Female. Bluish-green. Head brightly gilded, hind part silvery; mystax with six long black bristles;
third joint of the antennæ very elongate subfusiform; thorax with slightly gilded tomentum,
excepting a broad bare middle stripe; pectus with silvery tomentum; abdomen purplish-blue,
green towards the base, with spots of silvery tomentum along each side; hind borders of the
ventral segments white; wings grey, blackish-grey for almost half the length from the tips
and along three-fourths of the length of the hind border, veins black; halteres ferruginous.
Length of the body 8-1/2 lines; of the wings 16 lines.

28. LAPHRIA CONSOBRINA, n. s. Foem. Purpurea, capite aurato, pectore argenteo, abdomine viridi-cyaneo,
maculis lateralibus argenteis, alis nigricantibus basi cinereis.

Female. Purple. Length of the body 7-1/2 lines; of the wings 14 lines.

This species much resembles L. socia, but may be distinguished by the difference of colour,
and more especially by the more undulating first branch vein, by the much less oblique third
externo-medial vein, and by the subanal vein, which is united to the anal vein much nearer
the border.

29. LAPHRIA SODALIS, n. s. Mas. Cyanea, capite aurato, antennarum articulo tertio fusiformi,
thoracis lateribus purpureo-viridibus, pectore ventreque argenteis, abdomine maculis lateralibus
argenteis, alis cinereis, apice posticeque nigricantibus.

Male. Blue. Length of the body 7 lines; of the wings 13 lines.

The veins of this species are hardly different from those of L. consobrina in structure, excepting
the third externo-medial, which is united to the fourth nearer the border.

30. LAPHRIA COMES, n. s. Mas et Foem. Viridi-cyanea, capite aurato, antennarum articulo tertio
fusiformi, pectore ventrisque lateribus argenteis, abdomine viridi (mas) aut purpureo-cyaneo
(foem.) maculis lateralibus argenteis, alis nigricantibus basi cinereis.

Male and Female. Greenish blue. Length of the body 6--6-1/2 lines; of the wings 11-12 lines.

This may be only a small variety of L. consobrina; but the wings are not darker towards the
costa as in that species, and the first branch-vein is much more straight.

31. LAPHRIA CONSORS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Green (male) or blue (female).

The straight and not oblique third externo-medial vein distinguishes this species from all
the preceding Laphriæ.

32. LAPHRIA GERMANA, n. s. Foem. Cyanea, facie aurata, antennarum articulo tertio longissime
subfusiformi, abdominis maculis lateralibus pectoreque argenteis, alis cinereis, basi subcinereis,
halteribus albis.

Female. Blue. Length of the body 3-1/2 lines; of the wings 7 lines.

33. LAPHRIA FLAGRANTISSIMA, n. s. Mas. Rufescente-cervina, capite aurato, antennis pedibusque
rufescentibus, thorace vittis tribus latissimis (lateralibus abbreviatis) pectoreque nigricantibus,
alis lutescentibus, plaga postica interiore fasciaque latissima exteriore nigricantibus.

Male. Reddish fawn colour. Head gilded; mystax with numerous gilded bristles; mouth lanceolate,
very stout; antennæ reddish, third joint long, lanceolate, abruptly acuminated at the tip;
thorax with three very broad blackish stripes; disk of the pectus black; abdomen with the segments
darker towards the base, underside black towards the tip; legs reddish, stout; tarsi with black
bands beneath; wings somewhat luteous, with a large blackish patch on the hind border near
the base, and with a very broad blackish band near the tip; halteres testaceous. Length of
the body 11 lines; of the wings 22 lines.

34. LAPHRIA JUSTA, n. s. Mas. Lutea, capite aurato, ore, antennis apice, thoracis maculis duabus
posticis, pectore, abdominis fasciis latis femoribusque nigris, alis cinereis, apud costam luridis.

Male. Luteous.

35. LAPHRIA MANIFESTA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Fulva, capite argenteo (mas) aut pallide aurato (foem.),
antennis apice nigris, thoracis disco et abdominis maculis subtrigonis subæneo-ferrugineis,
scutello quadrisetoso, alis subcinereis.

Male and Female. Tawny. Head silvery in the male, pale-gilded in the female; mystax with several
slender bristles; mouth lanceolate; third joint of the antennæ very elongate-subfusiform, black
towards the tip; disk of the thorax and nearly triangular dorsal spots of the abdomen ferruginous
with a slight æneous tinge; pectus testaceous, slightly silvery; wings slightly greyish; veins
black, testaceous at the base, where the wings also have a testaceous tinge; halteres testaceous.

36. LAPHRIA APERTA, n. s. Foem. Testacea, capite subargenteo, antennis abdominisque apice nigris,
alis nigricantibus basi limpidis, halteribus albidis.

Female. Testaceous. Head with whitish slightly silvery tomentum; mystax with very few bristles;
antennæ black, third joint long, linear, conical at the tip; thorax with a very indistinct
darker stripe; abdomen black towards the tip; wings blackish, limpid towards the base; veins
black, testaceous at the base; halteres whitish. Length of the body 4 lines; of the wings 7 lines.

37. LAPHRIA DECLARATA, n. s. Mas. Fulva, capite albo, facie argentea micante, antennis tibiisque
posticis nigris, thorace atro, alis cinereis, venis nigris, halteribus testaceis.

Male. Tawny, slender. Head white, face brilliant silvery; mystax with four bristles; mouth
black, short, slender; eyes flat in front; antennæ black, almost as long as the breadth of
the head; third joint long, slender, lanceolate; thorax deep black; scutellum reddish tawny;
hind tibiæ black, with tawny tips; wings greyish, veins black; discal veinlet and third externo-medial
vein forming one straight line, as in the genus Atomosia; halteres testaceous.

Subfam. ASILITES, Walk.

Gen. TRUPANEA, Macq.

38. TRUPANEA CONTRADICENS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Nigricans, cinereo-subtomentosa, thoracis vittis
pectoreque cano-tomentosis, pedibus nigris, tibiis rufis apice nigris, alis fusco-cinereis,
areola radiali schistaceo vittata. Mas. Capite subaurato, barba testaceo-albida, abdominis
segmentis lutescente marginatis. Foem. Capite barbaque albidis, abdomine stylato, segmentis
cano marginatis.

Male and Female. Blackish. Antennæ and legs black; thorax slightly covered with cinereous tomentum;
stripes, pectus, and underside of the abdomen hoary; tibiæ red, with black tips; wings brownish
grey; radial areolet with a slate-coloured stripe. Male. Head slightly gilded; mystax with
a few black bristles and many gilded bristles; beard testaceous-whitish; sides of the abdomen
and hind borders of the segments lutescent. Female. Head and beard whitish; mystax with many
black bristles and a few white bristles; abdomen with an apical style, more than one-third
of the length of the preceding part, sides and hind borders of the segments hoary. Length of
the body 12-14 lines; of the wings 14-18 lines.

Gen. ASILUS, Linn.

39. Asilus longistylus, Wied. Auss. Zweifl. 1. 433. 13. Inhabits also Java.

Gen. OMMATIUS, Illiger.

40. OMMATIUS NOCTIFER, n. s. Mas. Niger, capite aurato, thoracis incisuris, scutello, pectore,
segmentorum abdominalium marginibus ventreque canis, tibiis fulvis apice nigris, alis cinereis
costa apiceque nigricantibus, halteribus ferrugineis.

Male. Black. Head gilded; mystax with a few black and several gilded bristles; sutures of the
thorax, scutellum, sides, pectus, hind borders of the abdominal segments, and underside hoary;
tibiæ tawny, with black tips; wings cinereous, blackish along the costa and towards the tips,
veins black; halteres ferruginous.

41. OMMATIUS LUCIFER, n. s. Mas. Æneo-niger, capite argenteo, pectore albido, abdominis segmentis
ferrugineo marginatis, pedibus testaceis, femoribus nigro-vittatis, tarsis nigris, alis limpidis
apice nigricantibus costa atra apud medium incrassata, halteribus testaceis.

Male. Bronze-black.

42. OMMATIUS RETRAHENS, n. s. Foem. Cinereo-niger, facie argentea, pectore albido, pedibus
testaceis, tarsis, femoribus tibiisque apice femoribusque posticis nigris, alis limpidis apice
subcinereis, halteribus testaceis.

Female. Cinereous-black.

Gen. LEPTOGASTER, Meigen.

43. LEPTOGASTER FERRUGINEUS, n. s. Mas. Ferrugineus, pectore albo, abdomine nigro, segmentorum
marginibus ventreque testaceis, pedibus fulvis, femoribus apice nigris, tibiis piceo vittatis,
tibiis posticis tarsisque nigris basi testaceis, alis sublimpidis, halteribus testaceis apice
piceis.

Male. Ferruginous. Head pale, gilded in front, hind side and pectus white; mouth and antennæ
tawny, the latter blackish towards the tips; abdomen black; hind borders of the segments and
under side testaceous; legs tawny; anterior femora with a testaceous band before the tips,
which are black; hind femora and anterior tibiæ striped with piceous, the latter black towards
the tips; tarsi and hind tibiæ black, testaceous at the base; wings very slightly greyish,
veins black; halteres testaceous, piceous towards the tips. Length of the body 7 lines; of
the wings 10 lines.

44. LEPTOGASTER LONGIPES, n. s. Mas. Ferrugineus, pectore albido, abdomine piceo, segmentis
apice fulvescentibus, pedibus anterioribus fulvescentibus, posticis piceis longissimis, femoribus
posticis basi testaceis, alis subcinereis basi obscurioribus costa venisque nigris, halteribus
testaceis apice nigris.

Male. Ferruginous. Head testaceous in front; mouth and antennæ black; pectus whitish; abdomen
piceous, hind borders of the segments somewhat tawny; legs somewhat tawny; hind legs piceous,
very long, their femora testaceous at the base; wings slightly greyish, darker towards the
base, costa and veins black; halteres testaceous, with black knobs. Length of the body 4 lines;
of the wings 8 lines.

45. LEPTOGASTER ALBIMANUS, n. s. Mas. Niger, capite antico pectoreque albis, antennis basi
ferrugineis, abdominis segmentis cano fasciatis, femoribus, tibiis tarsisque basi albis, femoribus
posticis luteo fasciatis, alis limpidis, halteribus albidis apice piceis.

Male. Black. Head in front and the pectus white; antennæ ferruginous at the base; abdomen long,
a hoary band on the hind border of each segment; femora, tibiæ, and tarsi white at the base;
hind legs long, rather stout; hind femora with a luteous band; wings limpid, veins black; halteres
whitish, with piceous knobs. Length of the body 5 lines; of the wings 7 lines.

Fam. LEPTIDÆ, Westw.

Gen. LEPTIS, Fabr.

46. Leptis ferruginosa, Wied. See Vol. I. p. 118.

Gen. CHRYSOPILA, Macq.

47. CHRYSOPILA VACILLANS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Lutescens, capite nigro, thorace subvittato, abdominis
segmentis nigro fasciatis, alis sublimpidis apud costam flavescentibus, venis fusco latissime
marginatis, stigmate nigro-fusco.

Male and Female. Lutescent. Head of the female black, shining; thorax with two brown bands
which are paler and indistinct hindward; abdomen with a broad black band on each segment; tarsi
blackish towards the tips; wings nearly limpid, yellowish along the costa, veins exteriorly
with very broad brownish borders, stigma blackish brown.

Fam. BOMBYLIDÆ, Leach.

Subfam. THEREVITES, Walk.

48. THEREVA CONGRUA, n. s. Mas. Nigra, glaucescente albo tomentosa, albo pilosa, capite argenteo,
thorace trivittato et bilineato, pedibus nigris, femoribus albis, alis cinereis stigmate elongato
venisque nigris.

Male. Black, with glaucous-white tomentum and with white hairs. Head silvery in front; thorax
with three blackish brown stripes, the middle one with a dark stripe on each side, broader
and more distinct than the lateral pair; abdomen beneath and legs black, femora white; wings
grey, with an elongated black stigma and black veins; halteres black. Length of the body 5
lines; of the wings 8 lines.

Subfam. BOMBYLITES, Walk.

Gen. ANTHRAX, Fabr.

49. ANTHRAX PELOPS, n. s. Mas. Ferruginea, thoracis margine rufo piloso, pectore abdomineque
nigris, abdomine fasciis duabus, maculis duabus apicalibus, plagaque ventrali subtrigona argenteis,
alis cinereis, basi costaque nigris.

Male. Closely allied to A. Tantalus. Dark ferruginous. Head above, antennæ, pectus, abdomen,
and legs black; thorax bordered with red hairs; pectus with a silvery dot on each side; abdomen
with red hairs on each side at the base, with two silvery bands, with two silvery apical spots,
and with a ventral, nearly triangular, silvery patch; wings cinereous, black at the base and
along five-sixths of the length of the costa, veins and halteres black. Length of the body
8 lines; of the wings 18 lines.

50. Anthrax semiscita, Walk. See Vol. I. p. 118.

51. Anthrax degenera, Walk. See Vol. I. p. 15.

Gen. GERON, Meigen.

52. GERON SIMPLEX, n. s. Mas. Ater, antennis pedibusque nigris, alis subcinereis, halteribus
fulvis.

Male. Deep black. Eyes bright red; proboscis a little longer than the thorax; antennæ and legs
black; wings slightly greyish, veins black; halteres tawny.

Fam. EMPIDOÆ, Leach.

Gen. HYBOS, Fabr.

53. HYBOS BICOLOR, n. s. Mas. Fulvus, ore antennisque testaceis, abdomine, femoribus posticis
apice tibiisque anticis piceis, tarsis anterioribus ferrugineis, alis obscure cinereis.

Male. Tawny. Mouth and antennæ testaceous; abdomen, hind femora at the tips, and fore tibiæ
piceous, anterior tarsi ferruginous; wings dark grey, veins black.

Fam. DOLICHOPIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. Psilopus, Meigen.

54. Psilopus æneus, Fabr. Syst. Antl. 268. 9.

Inhabits also Java.

55. PSILOPUS BENEDICTUS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Aureo-viridis, facie pectoreque argenteis, antennis
testaceis apice nigris, thorace vittis tribus cupreis, abdomine fasciis cupreo-purpureis, maculis
lateralibus albidis, pedibus testaceis tibiis posticis tarsisque nigris, alis subcinereis,
costam versus et apud venas transversas nigro-fuscis, halteribus testaceis. Foem. Vertice cyaneo-purpureo,
abdomine fasciis cyaneis.

Male and Female. Golden green. Face silvery; antennæ testaceous, black towards the tips, arista
full as long as the thorax; thorax with three cupreous stripes; pectus silvery; abdomen with
cupreous purple bands and with whitish spots along each side; legs testaceous, tarsi and hind
tibiæ black; wings slightly greyish, blackish brown along the costa and about the transverse
veins, veins black, fore branch of the præbrachial vein curved inward, discal transverse vein
undulating; halteres testaceous. Female. Vertex bluish purple; abdomen with blue bands. Length
of the body 4--4-1/2 lines; of the wings 7-8 lines.

56. PSILOPUS LUCIGENA, n. s. Mas. Aureo-viridis, facie pectoreque argenteis, antennis tarsisque
nigris, thorace vittis tribus rufo-cupreis, abdomine fasciis cupreo-purpureis, femoribus lutescentibus,
tibiis piceis, femoribus anticis apice nigricantibus, alis nigris apice albis, halteribus fulvis
apice nigris.

Male. Golden green. Face and pectus silvery; antennæ black, arista longer than the thorax;
thorax with three broad reddish cupreous stripes; abdomen with broad cupreous purple bands;
femora lutescent, tibiæ piceous, fore femora blackish towards the tips, tarsi black; wings
black, tips snow-white, fore branch of the præbrachial vein slightly curved inward, discal
transverse vein much curved outward; halteres tawny, with black tips. Length of the body 4-1/2
lines; of the wings 9 lines.

57. Psilopus flavicornis, Wied. Auss. Zweifl. 11. 227. 31.

Inhabits also Sumatra.

58. PSILOPUS TERMINIFER, n. s. Mas. Aureo-viridis, vertice cyaneo-purpureo, facie pectoreque
argenteis, antennis, pedibus halteribusque testaceis, abdomine apicem versus atro fasciis duabus
cupreis, alis subcinereis apice nigris.

Male. Golden-green, slender. Length of the body 3 lines; of the wings 5 lines.

59. PSILOPUS ORCIFER, n. s. Foem. Purpureus, facie pectoreque subcinereis, antennis, pedibus
halteribusque nigris, abdomine cyaneo-viridi segmentorum marginibus posticis purpureis, alis
nigricantibus margine postico cinereo. Var. Viridis, vertice cyaneo, abdominis segmentis basi
nigris.

Female. Purple, rather stout. Face and pectus slightly cinereous; antennæ, legs, and halteres
black; abdomen bluish-green, hind borders of the segments purple; wings blackish, cinereous
along the hind border, fore branch of the præbrachial vein forming an obtuse angle, discal
transverse vein very undulating. Var. Green. Vertex blue; abdominal segments black at the base.

60. PSILOPUS EGENS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Purpureus, facie pectoreque cyaneo-viridi cinereo subtomentosis,
antennis, pedibus halteribusque nigris, metathorace viridi, abdomine cyaneo, suturis nigris,
alis cinereis.

Male and Female. Purple.

Gen. DOLICHOPUS, Latr.

61. DOLICHOPUS TRIGONIFER, n. s. Foem. Cupreo-viridis, facie argentea, antennis, pedibus halteribusque
testaceis, pectore, ventre abdominisque maculis lateralibus trigonis albidis, abdomine purpureo
marginibus posticis nigris, tarsis posterioribus nigricantibus, alis cinereis.

Female. Cupreous green. Face silvery; antennæ, legs, and halteres testaceous; pectus, abdomen
beneath, and triangular spots on each side whitish; abdomen purple, hind borders of the segments
black; posterior tarsi blackish; wings grey, veins black, præbrachial vein forming a right
angle at its flexure, between which and the border it is much curved inward, discal transverse
vein very slightly curved outwards. Length of the body 3 lines; of the wings 5 lines.

This species resembles the Psilopi in the structure of the præbrachial vein.

Gen. DIAPHORUS, Meigen.

62. DIAPHORUS RESUMENS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Obscure viridis (mas) aut niger (foem.), facie pectoreque
albidis, antennis piceis, abdomine nigro-cupreo basi obscure testaceo, pedibus anterioribus
tibiisque posticis basi obscure testaceis, pedibus posticis nigris, alis nigricantibus apud
marginem posticum pallidioribus, halteribus testaceis.

Male and Female. Dark green (male) or black (female). Face and pectus whitish; antennæ piceous;
abdomen cupreous-black, dull testaceous towards the base; hind legs black, hind tibiæ towards
the base and anterior legs dull testaceous; wings blackish, paler along the hind border, veins
black, præbrachial vein and discal transverse vein straight; halteres testaceous.

Fam. SYRPHIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. CERIA, Fabr.

63. CERIA SMARAGDINA, n. s. Foem. Saturate metallico-viridis, subtilissime punctata, faciei
lateribus cupreis, antennis nigris, arista nivea, thorace bivittato, abdomine æneo-viridi,
tarsis nigris, alis dimidio costali nigro, halteribus testaceis.

Female. Deep metallic green, very finely punctured. Head blue in front, sides of the face cupreous-purple;
mouth, antennæ, and tarsi black; arista snow-white; thorax with two almost contiguous darker
stripes; abdomen æneous green, with the exception of the petiole, which is very thick; wings
slightly greyish, costal half black; halteres testaceous. Length of the body 7 lines; of the
wings 14 lines.

64. CERIA RELICTA, n. s. Mas. Nigra, faciei lateribus, thoracis maculis quatuor humeralibus,
pectoris fasciis duabus lateralibus, scutello, abdominis maculis duabus basalibus fasciisque
duabus flavis, tibiis flavescentibus apice piceis, alis apud costam nigris, halteribus testaceis.

Male. Black.

65. CERIA RELICTA, n. s. Foem. Nigra, faciei lateribus abdominisque fasciis duabus flavis,
antennis ferrugineo variis, pedibus fulvis, alis cinereis costam versus nigris, halteribus
stramineis.

Female. Length of the body 6 lines; of the wings 11 lines.

This may prove to be the female of C. relictura, notwithstanding its great difference from
that species in the marks of the thorax and of the abdomen, and in the colour of the legs.

Gen. MICRODON, Meig.

66. MICRODON FULVICORNIS, n. s. Mas. Niger, aureo-subpubescens, antennis, abdomine, pedibus
halteribusque fulvis, femoribus nigris, tibiis nigro vittatis, alis fuscis postice cinereis.

Male. Black. Head with gilded pubescence, cinereous behind and beneath; antennæ tawny, second
joint above towards the tip and third joint piceous; thorax slightly covered with gilded tomentum;
pectus with cinereous tomentum; abdomen with gilded tomentum towards the tip; legs tawny, femora
mostly black, tibiæ with black stripes; wings cinereous, dark-brown about the costa, veinlet
which bisects the subapical areolet incomplete, as it is also in the following species; halteres
tawny. Length of the body 6 lines; of the wings 12 lines.

67. MICRODON APICALIS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Niger, aureo-pubescens, thorace abdomineque fasciatis,
pedibus halteribusque fulvis, alis nigro-fuscis postice obscure cinereis.

Male and Female. Black, with gilded tomentum, which forms two bands on the thorax, and one
on each side of the pectus; abdomen with three gilded tomentose bands, the third subapical,
first segment ferruginous beneath; legs tawny, femora at the base and coxæ black; wings blackish-brown,
dark cinereous hindward; halteres tawny.

68. GRAPTOMYZA TIBIALIS, n. s. Mas. Testacea, vertice pectorisque fasciis duabus piceis, antennis
supra nigris, abdominis lateribus fasciis duabus subtrigonis apiceque nigris, alis cinereis.

Male. Testaceous. Vertex and mouth piceous; epistoma with a piceous line on each side; third
joint of the antennæ black above; abdomen black along each side and at the tip, and with two
black bands which are angular in front; wings cinereous.

Gen. ERISTALIS, Latr.

69. Eristalis splendens, Leguillon, Voy. aut. du Monde; Macq. Dipt. Exot. 11. 2. 49. 28.

Inhabits also Solomon's Islands.

70. ERISTALIS RESOLUTUS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Niger, capite antice albo, thorace vittis duabus
fasciaque pectorisque disco cinereis, scutello fulvo, abdomine fasciis interruptis æneo-viridibus,
tibiis basi fulvescentibus, alis fuscis (mas) aut obscure fuscis (foem.) basi cinereis, halteribus
testaceis.

Male and Female. Black.

71. ERISTALIS CONDUCTUS, n. s. Foem. Niger, faciei lateribus albis, antennis, scutello, abdominis
fasciis pedibusque testaceis, thorace antico albido, alis subcinereis apice obscurioribus.

72. ERISTALIS SUAVISSIMUS, n. s. Foem. Fulvus, capite testaceo vertice nigro, thorace vittis
quinque testaceis, abdomine nigro maculis sex lutescentibus, segmentorum marginibus posticis
æneis, pedibus nigris testaceo fasciatis, alis sublimpidis punctis duobus costalibus nigris.

Female. Tawny. Head with testaceous tomentum, vertex black, shining; antennæ testaceous, arista
simple; thorax with five testaceous stripes; pectus with two oblique testaceous bands on each
side; abdomen black, with six somewhat luteous spots, the basal pair larger and darker than
the middle pair, which are larger than the hind pair, apical segment with two testaceous points,
hind borders of the segments æneous above, testaceous beneath; legs black, tibiæ at the base
and tarsi testaceous; wings nearly limpid, costa with two black points; halteres testaceous.
Length of the body 5-1/2 lines; of the wings 10 lines.

73. ERISTALIS MUSCOÏDES, n. s. Mas. Cyaneo-viridis subchalybeus, capitis callo antennisque
fulvis, faciei lateribus albo tomentosis, thorace subvittato, abdomine nigro maculis æneo-viridibus,
pedibus nigris, alis subcinereis, halteribus albis.

Male. Bluish-green, with a slight chalybeous tinge. Face with white tomentum along each side,
middle callus tawny, shining; antennæ pale tawny, arista plumose; thorax with three indistinct
black stripes, the lateral pair oblique, callus on each side beneath pale tawny; abdomen black,
second segment with a broad interrupted bluish green band, third segment with four æneous-green
streaks, fourth segment also with four streaks which are united on the hind border, ventral
segments whitish on each side; legs black; femora bluish black towards the base; wings slightly
cinereous; halteres white. Length of the body 4 lines; of the wings 8 lines.

Gen. HELOPHILUS, Meigen.

74. Helophilus quadrivittatus, Wied. Auss. Zweifl. 11. 168. 22. (Eristalis).

Inhabits also Hindostan.

75. HELOPHILUS MESOLEUCUS, n. s. Foem. Niger, faciei lateribus niveo tomentosis, thorace vittis
quatuor canis, scutello, abdominis fascia antica latissima interrupta basique lutescentibus,
alis cinereis, venis basi halteribusque fulvis.

Female. Black. Face with snow-white tomentum on each side; thorax with four hoary stripes;
pectus with a cinereous disk; scutellum pale luteous; abdomen pale luteous at the base, and
with a broad interrupted pale luteous band on the second segment, third and fourth segments
somewhat chalybeous, the former livid along the fore border, under side with two lateral abbreviated
pale luteous stripes; hind femora thick; wings grey, veins towards the base, and halteres, tawny.

Gen. XYLOTA, Meigen.

76. XYLOTA VENTRALIS, n. s. Foem. Nigro-chalybea, capite albido tomentoso, scutello fulvo,
vittis duabus ventralibus latis abbreviatis testaceis, pedibus piceo et testaceo variis, alis
fuscis basi cinereis, halteribus testaceis.

Female. Blackish chalybeous.

77. ORTHONEURA BASALIS, n. s. Foem. Chalybeo-nigra, nitens, cano-subtomentosa, antennis ferrugineis
basi fulvis articulo tertio elongato, tarsis posterioribus piceis, tarsis anticis tibiisque
anterioribus fulvis, his nigro fasciatis, alis subcinereis fusco fasciatis, halteribus testaceis.

Female. Chalybeous-black, very shining, partly and slightly covered with hoary tomentum; antennæ
tawny, third joint ferruginous, long, linear, tawny at the base; anterior tibiæ tawny with
a black band, fore tarsi tawny, hinder tarsi piceous; wings greyish, with a subapical brown
band which is abbreviated hindward, veins towards the base and halteres testaceous; alulæ whitish.

78. Syrphus ægrotus, Fabr. See Vol. I. p. 124.

79. Syrphus ericetorum, Fabr. Ent. Syst. iv. 287. 34. Inhabits also Sierra Leone, Hindostan,
and Java.

Fam. MUSCIDÆ, Latr.

Subfam. TACHINIDES, Walk.

Gen. MASICERA, Macq.

80. MASICERA NOTABILIS, n. s. Mas. Nigra, longiuscula, capite abdominisque fasciis albis, frontalibus
atris, pectore cano, scutelli margine postico abdominisque lateribus ferrugineis, alis cinereis,
venis fusco marginatis.

Male. Black, rather long, with long stout bristles; head white, silvery, with white hairs behind
and beneath, frontalia deep black, widening slightly to the face, facialia without bristles,
epistoma not prominent; eyes bare; palpi ferruginous at the tips; antennæ extending to the
epistoma, third joint slightly widening towards the tip, nearly four times the length of the
second, arista slender, very much longer than the third joint; pectus and sides of the thorax
hoary, hind border of the scutellum ferruginous; abdomen fusiform, much longer than the thorax,
with a broad slightly interrupted white band on the fore border of each segment, sides of the
second and third segments slightly ferruginous; wings grey, veins black bordered with brown,
præbrachial vein forming a slightly acute angle at its flexure, near which it is much curved
inward, and is thence straight to its tip, discal transverse vein curved inward, parted by
less than its length from the border, and by rather more than half its length from the flexure
of the præbrachial; alulæ white; halteres testaceous. Length of the body 6 lines; of the wings
12 lines.

81. MASICERA? TENTATA, n. s. Nigra, cinereo-tomentosa, capite argenteo frontalibus atris, antennarum
articulo tertio basi rufo, thorace quadrivittato, abdomine?, pedibus longiusculis, alis nigricantibus
postice cinereis.

Black, with cinereous tomentum and with moderately stout bristles. Head silvery with white
hairs behind and beneath, frontalia deep black, slightly widening towards the face, facialia
without bristles, epistoma not prominent; antennæ extending nearly to the epistoma; third joint
cinereous, slender, linear, red towards the base, rounded at the tip, more than four times
the length of the second; arista slender, much longer than the third joint; thorax with four
slender black stripes; scutellum not cinereous; abdomen wanting; legs rather long and slender;
wings blackish, cinereous hindward and at the tips, veins black, præbrachial vein forming a
very obtuse angle at its flexure, from whence it is almost straight to its tip, discal transverse
vein slightly undulating, parted by much less than its length from the border, and by a little
less than its length from the flexure of the præbrachial; alulæ large, yellowish white; halteres
piceous. Length of the body 4? lines; of the wings 7 lines.

82. MASICERA SOLENNIS, n. s. Foem. Nigra, breviuscula, cinereo-tomentosa, capite albo, frontalibus
atris, thorace quadrivittato, scutelli margine postico ferrugineo, abdomine subtessellato,
alis cinereis.

Female. Black, rather short, with cinereous tomentum. Length of the body 3 lines; of the wings
5 lines.

83. MASICERA SIMPLEX, n. s. Foem. Nigra, capite albo, frontalibus atris, thorace cinereo-tomentoso
quadrivittato, abdomine fasciis cinereis late interruptis, alis cinereis.

Female. Black, with stout bristles.

84. MASICERA GUTTATA, n. s. Foem. Nigra, capite albo, frontalibus atris, thoracis vittis tribus
pectoreque cinereis, abdomine guttis lateralibus albis, alis cinereis.

Female. Black, with short slight bristles. Length of the body 2-1/2 lines; of the wings 4 lines.

Gen. EURYGASTER, Macq.

85. EURYGASTER TENTANS, n. s. Foem.

Female.

86. EURYGASTER DECIPIENS, n. s. Foem. Nigra, aureo-tomentosa, capite antico argenteo frontalibus
atris, antennis ferrugineis, thorace vittis quatuor nigris, abdomine fulvo subtessellato vitta
basali nigra, pedibus fulvis, alis cinereis.

Female. Black, stout, with gilded tomentum. Head silvery white in front and beneath, frontalia
deep black, widening slightly towards the upright face, the bristles on each side hardly extending
to the facialia, epistoma not prominent; eyes bare; antennæ ferruginous, extending to the epistoma,
third joint linear, somewhat truncated at the tip, more than four times the length of the second
joint, arista slender, much longer than the third joint; thorax with numerous long bristles,
with four slight black stripes; pectus cinereous; abdomen tawny, conical, not longer than the
thorax, with short stout bristles, and with three broad, slightly gilded, somewhat interrupted
bands, a short black stripe at the base; legs tawny, stout, tibiæ darker than the femora, tarsi
piceous; wings grey, somewhat darker in front, veins black, præbrachial vein forming a right
angle at its flexure, near which it is much curved inward, discal transverse vein nearly straight,
parted by more than half its length from the border, and by a little less than its length from
the flexure of the præbrachial; alulæ slightly cinereous. Length of the body 4 lines; of the
wings 7 lines.

87. EURYGASTER PHASIOÏDES, n. s. Mas. Nigra, cano-tomentosa, capite albo frontalibus atris,
antennis, scutello, abdomine femoribusque fulvis, abdomine fasciis duabus posticis albidis
vittaque nigra, alis cinereis basi albis, costa plagaque nigricantibus.

Male. Black, with hoary tomentum. DEXIDES, Walk.

Gen. RUTILIA, Desv.

88. Rutilia plumicornis, Guérin, Macq. Dipt. Exot. 11. 3. 82. 3. Pl. 9. f. 8.

Inhabits also Offak, New Guinea.

89. RUTILIA ANGUSTIPENNIS, n. s. Foem. Nigro-viridis, capite cinereo frontalibus atris, thoracis
lateribus subpurpurascentibus, scutello purpureo, abdomine viridi basi purpureo, tibiis ferrugineis,
alis angustis lanceolatis obscure fuscis basi nigris.

Female. Blackish-green. Length of the body 8 lines; of the wings 16 lines.

Gen. DEXIA, Meigen.

90. DEXIA PECTORALIS, n. s. Foem. Testacea, capite pectoreque albis frontalibus atris, antennis
fulvis, thorace cinereo vittis quatuor nigris, abdomine fulvo apicem versus spinoso fasciis
duabus nigris, pedibus longis tibiis tarsisque nigris, alis cinereis venis subfusco late marginatis.

Female. Testaceous.

Gen. PROSENA, St.-Farg.

91. PROSENA ARGENTATA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Testacea (mas) aut nigra (foem.), capite thoraceque
argenteis, antennis fulvis, abdomine longo fasciis vittaque nigris (mas) aut breviore fasciis
cinereis lateribusque basi testaceis (foem.), pedibus nigris femoribus testaceis, alis subfuscescentibus
(mas) aut cinereis (foem.).

Male and Female. Head and thorax with bright silvery tomentum, facialia without bristles, epistoma
slightly prominent; eyes bare; mouth black, testaceous towards the base, full as long as the
thorax; antennæ tawny, not reaching the epistoma, arista plumose; legs black, coxæ and femora
testaceous; wings grey, veins black. Male. Testaceous. Length of the body 5 lines; of the wings
10 lines. Female. Black. Pectus silvery; scutellum deep black; abdomen conical, with broad
cinereous bands, first and second segments with broad interrupted testaceous bands, a testaceous
mark on each side of the third segment at the base; legs rather long, femora with black tips;
præbrachial vein forming a right angle at its flexure, curved inward from thence to its tip,
discal transverse vein curved inward near its hind end, parted by less than its length from
the border and from the flexure of the præbrachial.

Subfam. SARCOPHAGIDES, Walk.

Gen. SARCOPHAGA, Meigen.

92. SARCOPHAGA COMPTA, n. s. Foem. Nigra, cinereo-tomentosa, capite aurato subtus fulvo piloso,
thorace vittis tribus nigris, abdomine tessellato, alis obscure cinereis.

Female. Black, with cinereous tomentum. Length of the body 5 lines; of the wings 10 lines.

93. SARCOPHAGA INVARIA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Nigra, cinereo-tomentosa, capite maris albo, thorace
vittis quinque nigris, abdomine tessellato, alis cinereis.

Male and Female. Black, with cinereous tomentum. Male. Head silvery white, frontalia deep black,
linear; tomentum of the thorax and of the abdomen more whitish than that of the female. Female.
Frontalia slightly widening towards the face.

Subfam. MUSCIDES, Walk.

Gen. IDIA, Meigen.

94. Idia australis, Walk. Cat. Dipt. pt. 4. 809.

Inhabits also Australia.

95. IDIA ÆQUALIS, n. s. Foem. Ænea, capite subtuberculato, thoracis lateribus pectoreque albido-testaceis
lineis duabus lateralibus æneis, abdomine fulvo fasciis tribus æneis, pedibus testaccis tibiis
apice femoribusque æneis, alis cinereis apice nigricantibus.

Female. Æneous-whitish, testaceous beneath.

96. MUSCA GLORIOSA, n. s. (genus Silbomyia, Macq.) Foem. Cyaneo-viridis, capite lætissime aurato
frontalibus atris, antennis pedibusque nigris, thorace vittis quatuor cupreis, pectore maculis
quatuor albis, abdomine viridi-cyaneo, vitta tenui purpurea, alis cinereis apud costam nigris,
alulis albis.

Female. Golden green. Length of the body 6 lines; of the wings 12 lines.

97. MUSCA OPULENTA, N. S. (genus Silbomyia, Macq.) Foem.

98. MUSCA MACULARIS, n. s. (genus Chrysomyia? Desv.) Mas et Foem.

Male and Female. Golden green. Female. Head with a silvery white vertex, frontalia deep black,
linear. Length of the body 56 lines; of the wings 10-12 lines.

99. MUSCA MARGINIFERA, n. s. (genus Lucilia, Desv.) Foem. Viridi-cyanea, capite albido frontalibus
atris, antennis pedibusque nigris, abdominis segmentis purpureo marginatis, alis cinereis basi
subnigricantibus, alulis cinereis.

Female. Greenish-blue.

100. MUSCA BENEDICTA, n. s. (genus Pyrellia, Desv.) Mas. Aureo-viridis, capite albo, antennis
pedibusque nigris, alis cinereis basi subluridis venis basi fulvis, alulis testaceo-cinereis.
Var.? Abdominis apice purpureo.

Male. Golden green. Var.? or a distinct species: darker; abdomen purple at the tip. Length
of the body 3 lines; of the wings 6 lines.

101. MUSCA OBTRUSA, n. s. (genus Pyrellia, Desv.) Mas et Foem. Purpureo-cyanea, antennis pedibusque
nigris, alis cinereis, alulis obscurioribus.

Very nearly allied to M. refixa and to M. perfixa, but differing slightly in the veins of the
wings. Male and Female. Blue, more or less mingled with purple. Length of the body 2-1/2--3
lines; of the wings 5-6 lines.

102. Musca domestica, Linn. See Vol. I. p. 128.

103. MUSCA OBSCURATA, n. s. Foem. Nigra, subcinerascens, capite postico albo, thorace vittis
quatuor angustis nigris, abdomine tessellato, alis obscure cinereis apud costam nigricantibus,
alulis testaceo-cinereis.

Female. Black, slightly covered with cinereous tomentum.

104. MUSCA PATIENS, n. s. Foem. Nigra, cinereo-tomentosa, frontalibus antennisque piceis, thorace
vittis quatuor tenuissimis nigris, abdomine tessellato, alis cinereis.

Female. Black, with cinereous tomentum. Length of the body 3 lines; of the wings 6 lines.

105. MUSCA ERISTALOÏDES, n. s. (genus Pollenia? Desv.) Mas et Foem. Aureo tomentosa, crassa,
subtus testacea, capite antico albo frontalibus antice rufis, antennis piceis basi rufis, thorace
vittis tribus abbreviatis fulvis, scutello cyaneo, abdomine cyaneo basi fasciisque duabus albis,
pedibus fulvis, tibiis tarsisque nigris, alis cinereis apud costam fuscescentibus. Var. mas.
Minor, thorace vittis tribus nigris.

Male and Female. Var. Male. Smaller; thorax with three black stripes; abdomen with only one
white band, which is on the 4th segment. Length of the body 4-5 lines; of the wings 8-10 lines.

Gen. BENGALIA, Desv.

106. BENGALIA SPISSA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Fulva, capite nigro antice albo, antennis testaceis,
pectore fasciis duabus obliquis albidis, pedibus nigris femoribus basi coxisque fulvis, alis
cinereis.

Male and Female. Tawny. ANTHOMYIDES, Walk.

Gen. ARICIA, Macq.

107. ARICIA SIGNIFICANS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Fulva, subtus testacea, capite nigro argenteo-tomentoso,
antennis testaceis, thorace vittis tribus albidis, abdominis apice piceo, alis cinereis.

Male and Female. Tawny, testaceous beneath. Head black, with silvery tomentum, vertex much
broader in the female than in the male; palpi tawny; antennæ testaceous; thorax with three
whitish stripes in the disk, and with one on each side; abdomen piceous at the tip; tarsi blackish
towards the tips; wings cinereous, veins black, tawny towards the base, discal transverse vein
hardly undulating, parted by more than its length from the præbrachial transverse, and by less
than its length from the border; alulæ pale cinereous, with testaceous borders. Length of the
body 4 lines; of the wings 7 lines.

108. ARICIA CANIVITTA, n. s. Foem. Fulva, subtus testacea, capite nigro, facie argentea, palpis
antennisque testaceis, thoracis disco, abdominis plagis duabus trigonis pedibusque nigris,
thorace vitta cana, alis cinereis.

Female. Tawny, testaceous beneath. Head black, face silvery; palpi and antennæ testaceous;
disk of the thorax blackish, with a broad hoary stripe; disk of the scutellum piceous; second
and third segments of the abdomen with triangular black bands; legs black, coxæ and trochanters
testaceous; wings grey, veins black, discal transverse vein hardly curved inward, parted by
more than half its length from the border, and by a little less than its length from the præbrachial
transverse; alulæ pale cinereous, with testaceous borders.

Gen. ANTHOMYIA, Meigen.

109. ANTHOMYIA PROCELLARIA, n. s. Mas. Nigra, subtus albida, capite argenteo, thorace fasciis
duabus (prima interrupta) albis, abdomine vitta tenui fasciisque interruptis albidis, alis
cinereis, halteribus testaceis.

Nearly allied to A. pluvialis and to A. tonitrui. Male. Black, whitish beneath. Length of the
body 3 lines; of the wings 6 lines.

Gen. CÆNOSIA, Meigen.

110. CÆNOSIA LUTEICORNIS, n. s. Mas. Cana, capite antennisque pallide luteis, abdomine basi
testaceo maculis octo nigris, pedibus halteribusque testaceis, alis sublimpidis apice nigris.

Male. Hoary.

Subfam. HELOMYZIDES, Fallen.

Gen. COELOPA, Meigen.

111. COELOPA INCONSPICUA, n. s. Foem. Cinerea, antennis piceis, pectore antico, abdomine pedibusque
fulvis, his nigro variis, alis cinereis, halteribus testaceis.

Female. Cinereous, flat.

112. Xarnuta leucotelus, Walk. See Vol. I. p. 28.

Gen. HELOMYZA, Fallen.

113. HELOMYZA PICIPES, n. s. Foem. Fulva, capite, antennis femoribusque nigris, abdominis segmentis
nigro marginatis, tibiis tarsisque piceis, alis cinereis apud costam luridis vena discali transversa
fusco subnebulosa, halteribus testaceis. Var. Thoracis vitta lata abdomineque piceis.

Female. Tawny. Head and antennæ black, arista plumose; thorax with two slender, darker, almost
obsolete stripes; hind borders of the abdominal segments black; legs piceous, femora black,
coxæ tawny; wings grey, with a lurid tinge towards the costa, discal transverse vein straight,
slightly clouded with brown, parted by about half its length from the border, and by more than
twice its length from the præbrachial transverse; halteres testaceous. Var. Thorax with a broad
piceous stripe; abdomen piceous. Length of the body 3 lines; of the wings 6 lines.

114. HELOMYZA ATRIPENNIS, n. s. Mas. Fulva, scutello nigro, pectore piceo, abdomine ferrugineo,
alis nigris postice cinereis.

Male. Tawny. Antennæ pale tawny, arista plumose; thorax with two slender, darker, almost obsolete
stripes; scutellum black; pectus piceous; abdomen ferruginous; wings black, cinereous along
the hind border for more than half its length from the base, veins as in the preceding species.

115. HELOMYZA RESTITUTA, n. s. Foem. Testacea, abdomine punctis sex nigris, alis cinereis apice
nigricantibus venis transversis nigricante nebulosis.

Female. Testaceous. Third, fourth, and fifth segments of the abdomen with two black points
on each fore border; wings grey, with a slight lurid tinge towards the costa, blackish at the
tips, transverse veins clouded with blackish, veins with the usual structure.

Gen. DRYOMYZA, Fallen.

116. DRYOMYZA SEMICYANEA, n. s. Foem. Ferruginea, vertice piceo, antennis fulvis, thorace cyanescente,
abdomine cyaneo basi ferrugineo, pedibus testaceis, alis subcinereis apud costam luridis.

Female. Ferruginous. Length of the body 3-1/2--4-1/2 lines; of the wings 7-9 lines.

Gen. SEPEDON, Latr.

117. SEPEDON COSTALIS, n. s. Mas. Cinerea, capite testaceo guttis quatuor nigris, antennis
nigris basi testaceis arista alba, abdomine pedibusque fulvis femoribus posticis denticulatis,
alis fuscescenti-cinereis, costa testacea.

Male. Cinereous. LAUXANIDES, Walk.

Gen. LAUXANIA, Latr.

118. LAUXANIA DUPLICANS, n. s. Foem. Nigro-cyanea, antennis piceis, articulo tertio longissimo,
tarsis basi albidis, tibiis intermediis sordide albidis, alis limpidis.

Female. Blackish-blue, shining. Antennæ piceous, third joint very long, reddish beneath, arista
bare; legs black, tarsi whitish towards the base, middle tibiæ dingy whitish; wings limpid,
veins pale, discal transverse vein white, parted by a little less than its length from the
border and by nearly twice its length from the præbrachial transverse; halteres white. Length
of the body 2--2-1/2 lines; of the wings 3-4 lines.

119. LAUXANIA MINUENS, n. s. Foem. Nigra, nitens, antennis longis arista nuda, tarsis albidis,
alis sublimpidis, halteribus albis.

Female. Black, shining. Third joint of the antennæ long, arista bare; tarsi whitish; wings
very slightly greyish, veins pale, of the usual structure; halteres white. Length of the body
1-1/4 line; of the wings 2-1/2 lines.

Gen. LONCHÆA, Fallen.

120. LONCHÆA? INOPS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Nigra, nitens, antennis piceis arista plumosa, scutello
ferrugineo, tibiis, tarsis halteribusque fulvis, alis subcinereis.

Male and Female. Black, shining. Antennæ piceous, third joint short, arista plumose; scutellum
somewhat ferruginous; tibiæ;, tarsi, and halteres tawny; wings slightly greyish, veins pale,
discal transverse vein parted by much less than its length from the border and by nearly twice
its length from the flexure of the præbrachial. Length of the body 1-1/2 line; of the wings
3 lines.

Subfam. ORTALIDES, Haliday.

Gen. LAMPROGASTER, Macq.

121. LAMPROGASTER QUADRILINEA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Cyaneo-viridis; capite pedibusque nigris;
antennis piceis, basi rufis; thorace vittis quatuor albidis; abdomine purpureo-cyaneo; alis
limpidis, litura basali, fasciis duabus (prima abbreviata, secunda interrupta) strigaque costali
apicali nigris.

Male and Female. Bluish green. Head black; proboscis red at the tip; antennæ piceous, red at
the base; thorax with two whitish stripes on each side; abdomen purplish blue; legs black,
tarsi with pale tomentum towards the base; wings limpid, two black streaks, one basal including
a limpid dot, the other apical, first band oblique, extending from the costa to the disk, second
widely interrupted in the middle, its hind part occupying the discal transverse vein; veins
black, testaceous along the costa; præbrachial vein forming a slight angle at its junction
with the discal transverse, the latter parted by not more than one-fourth of its length from
the border, and by more than its length from the præbrachial transverse.

122. LAMPROGASTER MARGINIFERA, n. s. Foem. Testacea; capite maculis duabus fasciaque nigro-æneis;
thoracis disco nigro-æneo, vittis tribus testaceis, vittis duabus lateralibus albidis, scutelli
margine testaceo; abdominis dorso nigro-æneo; alis limpidis, fasciis plurimis fuscis.

Female. Testaceous. Head with two blackish æneous spots on the vertex, and with a blackish
æneous band in front; mouth and antennæ tawny; disk of the thorax blackish æneous, with three
testaceous stripes which are united in front, the middle one slender, the lateral pair united
on the border of the scutellum, a whitish stripe on each side; abdomen blackish æneous above;
wings limpid, with eight or nine irregular brown bands; veins black, testaceous along the costa;
discal transverse vein parted by much less than its length from the border, and by about its
length from the præbrachial transverse. Length of the body 4 lines; of the wings 9 lines.

123. LAMPROGASTER DELECTANS, n. s. Foem. Ferruginea; capite testaceo, postice albido, vertice
luteo fasciis duabus nigris, vittis quatuor anticis antennisque nigris; thorace vittis septem
et metathoracis fascia albidis; abdomine cyaneo-viridi, basi discoque fulvis; pedibus nigricantibus,
femoribus testaceis apice nigris; alis sublimpidis, costa, striga obliqua subcostali guttaque
marginali nigricantibus.

Female. Ferruginous. Head testaceous, whitish behind; vertex luteous, blackish in front and
behind; fore part with four blackish stripes; antennæ blackish; thorax with seven whitish stripes,
the middle one broad, the inner pair very slender, the second pair broad, the third pair lateral;
abdomen bluish green, slightly varied with purple, base and fore part of the disk tawny; legs
blackish; femora testaceous, with black tips; wings nearly limpid, with a slight lurid tinge
in the discal areolet, blackish along the costa, and with a blackish oblique streak which extends
from the costa along the præbrachial transverse vein; a blackish dot on the hind end of the
discal transverse vein; veins black, discal transverse vein parted by about one-fourth of its
length from the border, and by a little more than its length from the præbrachial transverse
which is very oblique; alulæ white; halteres testaceous, with black knobs. Length of the body
5 lines; of the wings 9 lines.

124. LAMPROGASTER SCUTELLARIS, n. s. Mas. Subcinereo-nigra; oculis albido submarginatis; thorace
vittis tribus cinereis, vittis duabus lateralibus, scutelli subquadrati margine, tibiis intermediis
tarsisque albidis; alis nigricantibus, fasciis duabus integris duabusque macularibus incompletis
albidis.

Male.

This species has some resemblance to the genus Platystoma, and differs rather from the characters
of Lamprogaster; it and the two following species, which are still more aberrant, will probably
be considered as three new genera.

125. LAMPROGASTER CELYPHOÏDES, n. s. Mas et Foem. Atra, nitens, brevis, lata; capite, antennis
pedibusque testaceis; abdomine nigro-cyaneo; alis limpidis, strigis transversis subcostalibus
fuscescentibus.

Male and Female. Deep black, shining, short, broad.

126. LAMPROGASTER TETYROÏDES, n. s. Mas. Atra, nitens, brevissima, latissima; capite transverso,
subruguloso; thorace scitissime punctato; abdomine cyaneo; tarsis flavis; alis nigris albido
punctatis apud marginem posticum obscure cinereis.

Male. Deep black, shining, very short and broad.

127. PLATYSTOMA FUSIFACIES, n. s. Mas et Foem. Cinerea; capite postice et apud oculos albo;
vertice pallide luteo (mas) aut rufo (foem.); facie plana, fusiformi, subargentea; antennis
piceis; thoracis vittis tribus pectoreque canis; abdomine conico punctis albis; alis limpidis,
guttis transversis interioribus fasciisque exterioribus nigricantibus.

Male and Female. Cinereous. Length of the body 3-1/2-5 lines; of the wings 8-10 lines.

128. PLATYSTOMA MULTIVITTA, n. s. Mas. Cinerea; capite postice et apud oculos albo, vertice
luteo, facie et antennis fulvis; thoracis vittis octo pectoreque canis; abdominis segmentis
cano fasciatis; ventre ferrugineo; pedibus nigris; alis limpidis, fasciis quatuor strigisque
interioribus nigricantibus.

Male. Cinereous.

129. DACUS EXPANDENS, n. s. Foem. Fulvus, latiusculus; antennarum articulo tertio piceo angusto
lineari longissimo; abdomine vitta tenui nigricante; alis limpidis, costa vittaque postica
fuscescentibus.

Female.

130. DACUS PECTORALIS, n. s. Foem. Cinereo-niger; capite fulvo, facie guttis duabus nigris;
antennarum articulo tertio piceo angusto lineari longissimo; callis duabus humeralibus, fasciis
duabus obliquis pectoralibus lateralibus, scutello tarsisque testaceis; thoracis vittis tribus
abdominisque una canis; pedibus fulvis piceo cinctis; alis limpidis, costa vittaque postica
fuscescentibus.

Female. Black, slightly covered with cinereous tomentum.

131. DACUS LATIFASCIA, n. s. Foem. Niger; capite postice et apud oculos albido; antennarum
articulo tertio vix longo; thoracis fascia, metathorace pectorisque fasciis duabus obliquis
canis; abdomine cyaneo; femoribus albidis apice nigris; alis albo-limpidis, costa atra, fasciis
duabus latissimis nigris; halteribus testaceis.

Female. Black.

132. DACUS MUTILLOÏDES, n. s. Foem. Rufescens; capite nigro, postice et apud oculos albo; antennarum
articulo tertio angusto lineari longissimo; thoracis vittis tribus, pectoris fasciis duabus
obliquis lateralibus abdominisque fasciis duabus (secunda interrupta) albis, abdominis dimidio
postico nigro-æneo; pedibus piceis; alis sublimpidis, costæ apice venisque transversis nigro
nebulosis; halteribus albidis.

Female. Reddish.

133. DACUS LONGIVITTA, n. s. Mas. Æneo-viridis, subpubescens, subtilissime punctatus; capite
nigro apud oculos albido, epistomate ferrugineo, antennarum articulo tertio longo lineari;
thorace subvittato; pedibus nigris, femoribus ferrugineis; alis subcinereis, costa vittaque
apud venam præbrachialem nigris; halteribus piceis.

Male. Æneous green, with slight hoary tomentum, very finely punctured. Length of the body 4-6
lines; of the wings 5-7 lines.

134. DACUS LATIVENTRIS, n. s. Foem.

Female. Blackish green, very minutely punctured.

135. DACUS OBTRUDENS, n. s. Mas. Nigro-viridis, subtilissime punctatus; capite nigro apud oculos
albido; antennis piceis basi rufescentibus, articulo tertio lineari longissimo; abdomine lineari
maculis duabus lateralibus testaceis; pedibus nigris, femoribus apice tarsisque posticis basi
fulvis; alis subcinereis, costa, apice maculaque apud venam transversam discalem nigricantibus;
halteribus albis.

Male. Dark green, very minutely punctured.

136. DACUS POMPILOIDES, n. s. Mas. Niger; capite albido, epistomate ferrugineo; antennis piceis
basi rufis, articulo tertio longo lineari; abdomine nigro-cyaneo; pedibus piceis; alis subcinereis,
striga costali basali, fascia tenui postice abbreviata et triente apicali strigam subcineream
includente nigricantibus; halteribus albis.

Male. Black. Facies lata. Antennæ breves; articulus tertius longiconicus; arista nuda. Femora
intermedia incrassata, denticulata.

Allied to Platystoma. Face broad; antennæ short, third joint elongate-conical; arista bare;
middle femora incrassated, denticulated beneath.

137. BREA DISCALIS, n. s. Mas. Nigra; capite testaceo apud oculos albido, fronte ochracea;
antennis piceis basi rufescentibus; thorace vitta lata cana; abdomine fulvo, disco nigro cupreo;
pedibus fulvis, femoribus anticis apice tibiisque anticis basi nigris; alis sublimpidis, fascia
media lata postice abbreviata guttam limpidam subcostalem includente lineaque transversa exteriore
nigricantibus; halteribus testaceis.

Male. Black.

138. BREA CONTRARIA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Nigra; capite fulvo apud oculos albido, fronte ochracea;
antennis rufescentibus; thorace vitta cana; abdomine purpureo apice cyaneo; pedibus nigris,
femoribus anticis tarsisque testaceis; alis sublimpidis, fascia lata media postice abbreviata,
guttis interioribus lineaque transversa exteriore nigricantibus.

Male and Female. Black.

Gen. ADRAMA, n. g.

Mas. Corpus longiusculum. Caput thorace vix latius, setis duabus posticis erectis. Antennæ
sat longæ; articulus tertius linearis, apice conicus; arista pubescens. Abdomen sublineare,
thorace longius et angustius. Pedes mediocres; femora posteriora spinis minutis armata. Alæ
sat longæ.

Male. Body rather long. Head transverse, hardly broader than the thorax, with two erect setæ
on the hind part of the vertex; face vertical; epistoma slightly prominent. Antennæ nearly
reaching the epistoma; third joint long, linear, conical at the tip; arista pubescent. Abdomen
almost linear, longer and narrower than the thorax. Legs moderately long and slender; posterior
femora with minute spines beneath.

139. ADRAMA SELECTA, n. s. Mas. Testacea; capite guttis tribus nigris; thorace disco antico
vittisque duabus posterioribus nigris; tibiis tarsisque anticis piceis, tibiis posticis subpiceis;
alis subfuscescentibus, fascia lata limpida nigricante marginata postice abbreviata.

Male. Testaceous.

140. ORTALIS PROMPTA, n. s. Foem. Nigro-viridis; capite piceo apud oculos albido; antennis
rufescentibus; thorace vitta abdomineque fasciis cinereis; pedibus nigris; alis limpidis, vittis
tribus nigris, prima postice abbreviata, secunda tertiaque latis; halteribus albidis.

Female. Blackish green.

141. ORTALIS COMPLENS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Nigro-viridis; capite antennisque testaceis, articulo
tertio brevi, arista plumosa; abdomine atro; pedibus testaceis, femoribus nigris; alis albo
limpidis, strigis duabus apiceque nigro-cinereis, fasciis tribus satis nigricantibus; halteribus
albis. Mas. Vertice luteo postice nigro, femoribus apice testaceis, alarum fasciis subconnexis.
Foem. Vertice nigro, tibiis nigris, posticis basi testaceis.

Male and Female. Blackish green. Male. Vertex luteous, black hindward; femora with testaceous
tips; bands of the wings partly connected. Female. Vertex black; tibiæ black, the hind pair
testaceous towards the base. Length of the body 1-1/2--2 lines; of the wings 3-4 lines.

Gen. TRYPETA, Meigen.

142. TRYPETA MULTISTRIGA, n. s. Foem. Testacea; thorace pectoreque nigro-strigatis; abdomine
maculis quatuor lateralibus anterioribus fascia lata apiceque nigris; femoribus posterioribus
nigro vittatis; alis nigricantibus basi marginali maculis guttisque albis.

Female. Testaceous.

143. TRYPETA DORSIGUTTA, n. s. Mas. Atra; capite piceo vitta testacea, subtus albo; antennis
testaceis; thorace cinereo punctis lateralibus albis, pectore albido; abdominis segmentis testaceo
marginatis; tibiis albido fasciatis, tarsis albidis; alis albo-limpidis, strigis basalibus
fasciisque duabus latis nigricantibus, prima antice furcata; halteribus albis.

Male. Deep black.

144. TRYPETA BASALIS, n. s. Mas. Nigra, nitens; capite antennisque fulvis, vertice maculis
duabus piceis; abdomine basi pedibusque testaceis; alis limpidis, striga basali, fasciis tribus
costaque apicali nigricantibus; halteribus testaceis.

Male. Black, slender, shining.

145. TRYPETA IMPLETA, n. s. Foem. Cinerea; capite albido; antennarum articulo tertio albido
apice nigro; thorace vitta fusca, scutello albido, abdomine nigro; pedibus albidis nigro fasciatis;
alis albis, maculis plurimis nigricantibus ex parte confluentibus; halteribus albidis.

Female. Cinereous.

146. TRYPETA SUBOCELLIFERA, n. s. Mas. Cana; antennis albidis; thorace guttis fuscis, scutelli
margine albido; abdomine fusco apicem versus cano maculis fuscis; pedibus albidis fusco fasciatis;
alis limpidis, maculis nigricantibus pallido signatis ex parte confluentibus.

Male. Hoary. ACHIIDES, Walk.

Gen. ACHIAS, Fabr.

147. ACHIAS LONGIVIDENS, n. s. Mas et Foem. Viridi-cinerea; capite testaceo fasciis duabus
vittisque tribus anticis nigris; antennis nigris; thorace vittis quatuor purpureo-nigris, pectore
ferrugineo; abdomine viridi-fulvo; pedibus piceis; alis limpidis, costa lurido-nigricante,
vena transversa discali fusco nebulosa; halteribus testaceis apice nigris. Mas. Oculis longissime
petiolatis, scutello viridi, femoribus basi fulvis. Foem. Oculis subpetiolatis, scutello nigro-purpureo.

Male and Female. Greenish cinereous. Head with two black bands on the vertex and with four
black stripes in front; antennæ black, third joint linear, very long, arista plumose; thorax
with four purplish black stripes, middle pair abbreviated hindward and having behind them a
spot of the same hue, lateral pair interrupted; pectus ferruginous; abdomen tawny, with bright
green reflections, testaceous beneath; legs piceous; wings limpid, blackish, and with a lurid
tinge along the costa, whence a short oblique blackish streak proceeds by the præbrachial transverse
vein; discal transverse vein clouded with brown, hardly curved, parted by less than one-third
of its length from the border, and by much more than its length from the præbrachial transverse,
which is very oblique; halteres testaceous, with black tips. Male. Head with the fore black
band interrupted; eyes with very long petioles, the latter about three-fourths of the length
of the body; scutellum green; femora tawny towards the base. Female. Eyes with short petioles,
extending a little beyond the sides of the thorax; scutellum blackish purple. Length of the
body 5-6 lines; of the wings 12-13 lines.

148. ACHIAS LATIVIDENS, n. s. Foem.

Female. Greenish cinereous. Head testaceous, with three black stripes on the face; eyes very
slightly petiolated; antennæ black; thorax with four purplish black stripes; scutellum blue,
green at the base; pectus tawny; abdomen tawny, with bright green reflections; legs black;
femora luteous towards the base; tibiæ with indistinct luteous bands; wings slightly greenish,
with a blackish interrupted costal stripe containing luteous streaks; discal transverse vein
clouded with brown; veins in structure like those of the preceding species; halteres testaceous,
with black tips. Length of the body 6 lines; of the 13 lines.

This species at first sight seems like a variety of the preceding one, but the petioles of
the eyes are shorter and thicker, the costal stripes of the wings are interrupted, and the
shade on the discal transverse vein is more diffuse.

149. ACHIAS AMPLIVIDENS, n. s. Foem. Fulva, subtus testacea; oculis extantibus non petiolatis;
thorace submetallico, vittis quinque cinereis; abdomine purpureo basi testaceo, tibiis tarsisque
nigris; alis subcinereis, costa nigro-fusca, venis transversis nigro-fusco nebulosis.

Female. Tawny, testaceous beneath.

Subfam.----?

Gen. POLYARA, n. g.

Mas. Corpus longiusculum. Caput transversum; facies lata, plana, non obliqua. Palpi lati. Antennæ
parvæ; articulus tertius longiconicus; arista plumosa. Thorax oblongo-subquadratus. Abdomen
sublineare, thorace multo longinus et angustius. Pedes breves, tenues. Alæ latiusculæ; venæ
optime determinatæ; venæ duæ transversæ inter venas radialem et cubitalem; vena præbrachialis
apicem versus valde flexa.

Male. Body rather long. Head transverse, a little broader than the thorax; face broad, flat,
vertical. Palpi broad. Antennæ small; third joint elongate-conical, not extending more than
half the length to the epistoma; arista plumose. Thorax oblong-subquadrate. Abdomen nearly
linear, much longer and more slender than the thorax. Legs short, rather slender; fore femora
somewhat setose beneath. Wings rather broad, flat in repose; veins very strongly marked; a
transverse vein between the cubital and mediastinal veins; two transverse veins between the
radial and cubital veins; cubital vein slightly angular between the præbrachial transverse
vein and the tip of the wing; præbrachial vein much curved towards its tip.

The structure of the wing veins in this genus is very peculiar, and it does not agree well
with any of the established subfamilies of Muscidæ.

150. POLYARA INSOLITA, n. s. Mas. Testacea; faciei sulcis albidis; abdomine lutescente fulvo;
alis subcinereis, nigricante-fusco submarginatis et subfasciatis.

Male. Testaceous, paler beneath.

Subfam. SEPSIDES, Walk.

Gen. ANGITULA, n. g.

Foem. Corpus convexum, glaberrimum, nitidissimum. Caput subrotundum; epistoma valde prominens.
Antennæ epistoma non attingentes; articulus tertius longiusculus, linearis, apice conicus;
arista subpubescens. Thorax anticus valde productus et attenuatus; scutellum bispinosum; metathorax
magnus, declivis. Abdomen longi-subfusiforme; segmentum primum gibbosum. Pedes longi, graciles;
coxæ anticæ longissimæ. Alæ longæ, angustæ; alulæ obsoletæ.

Female. Body convex, very smooth and shining. Head nearly round; front subquadrate; face short;
epistoma very prominent. Mouth short. Antennæ not reaching the epistoma; third joint linear,
rather long, conical at the tip; arista somewhat pubescent. Thorax much produced and attenuated
in front; scutellum armed with two spines; metathorax slanting, well developed. Abdomen elongate-subfusiform,
longer and much more slender than the thorax; first segment gibbous above. Legs long, slender,
without bristles; fore coxæ very long.

151. ANGITULA LONGICOLLIS, n. s. Foem. Nigro-ænea; capite subtus albido, frontis disco rufescente,
fascia albida; antennis piceis basi rufis; pedibus nigris, femoribus basi coxisque anticis
albidis; alis limpidis, costa nigra.

Female. Æneous black. Head whitish beneath, front with a reddish disk, face whitish.

Gen. SEPSIS, Fallen.

152. SEPSIS BASIFERA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Nigra; thorace nigro-æneo; tarsis, femoribus basi
pedibusque anticis testaceis; alis limpidis, costa basi nigra. Mas. Metatarsis intermediis
dilatatis, alis apice vix nigricantibus. Foem. Alis apice nigris.

Male and Female. Black, shining. Thorax æneous black; pectus cinereous; tarsi, femora at the
base, and fore legs, pale testaceous; wings limpid; costa at the base and veins black. Male.
Basal joint of the intermediate tarsi dilated; wings hardly blackish at the tips. Female. Wings
black at the tips.

Gen. CALOBATA, Fabr.

153. Calobata albitarsis, Wied. Auss. Zweifl. 71. 544. 22. Inhabits also Java and Australia.

154. Calobata indica, Desv. Ess. Myod. 737. 4. (Nerius). Inhabits also Hindostan.

155. Calobata Abana, Walk. Cat. Dipt. pt. 4. 1054.

156. CALOBATA SEPSOIDES, n. s. Foem. Nigra; antennis ferrugineis, articulo tertio conico brevi,
arista nuda; pedibus testaceis nigricante subnotatis, femoribus anticis nigris basi testaceis,
tibiis anticis nigris, tarsis anticis niveis, posticis albidis; alis subcinereis, fasciis duabus
indistinctis fuscescentibus.

Female. Black, shining. Antennæ ferruginous, third joint short, conical, arista bare; pectus
slightly covered with cinereous tomentum; legs testaceous, with a few very indistinct blackish
marks; fore femora black, testaceous towards the base; fore tibiæ black; fore tarsi snow-white,
black at the base; hind tarsi whitish; wings greyish, with two almost obsolete brownish bands;
discal transverse vein parted by less than its length from the border and by about four times
its length from the præbrachial transverse. Length of the body 5 lines; of the wings 7 lines.

Gen. CARDIACEPHALA, Macq.

157. CARDIACEPHALA DEBILIS, n. s. Foem. Testacea, gracilis; thorace linea transversa interrupta
nigra; pedibus anticis parvis, posterioribus longis, tarsis albis brevissimis, tibiis anterioribus
piceis; alis limpidis apice cinereis, fascia lata pallide lutea.

Female. Testaceous, slender.

Subfam. PSILIDES, Walk.

Gen. LISSA, Meigen.

158. LISSA CYLINDRICA, n. s. Mas. Cyanea, gracilis, cylindrica; antennis piceis basi albidis,
arista plumosa; abdomine piceo basi apiceque cyaneis; pedibus albidis, femoribus posterioribus
nigris apice albidis, femoribus posticis subtus spinosis, tibiis posticis nigris; alis subcinereis
apice subfuscis; halteribus albidis apice nigris.

Male. Blue, slender, cylindrical. Head broader than the thorax; antennæ whitish, third joint
piceous, arista plumose; abdomen piceous, slightly increasing in breadth to the tip, blue at
the base and at the tip, hind borders of the first and second segments whitish; legs whitish,
posterior femora black, whitish at the base and towards the tips, hind femora spinose beneath,
hind tibiæ black; wings slightly greyish, brownish towards the tips; veins black, præbrachial
and perbrachial very near together for more than half their length, discal transverse vein
straight, parted by more than its length, and by about four times its length from the præbrachial
transverse; halteres whitish, with black tips.

Gen. NERIUS, Fabr.

159. Nerius duplicatus, Wied. Auss. Zweifl. 11. 553. 8. Inhabits also Java.

Subfam. OSCINIDES, Haliday.

Gen. OSCINIS, Fabr.

160. OSCINIS LINEIPLENA, n. s. Mas. Fusca; capite subtus testaceo apud oculos albo, vitta frontali
alba; thorace pectoreque lineis sex albidis; abdomine sordide testaceo, pedibus albidis, tibiis
tarsisque apice femoribusque anticis nigris; alis subcinereis, halteribus albidis.

Male. Brown.

161. OSCINIS NOCTILUX, n. s. Mas. Atra; capite pallide flavo subtus albo; antennis luteis,
arista nuda; scutello, maculis duabus pectoralibus abdominisque apice albis; tibiis tarsisque
intermediis testaceis; alis nigricantibus postice cinereis, halteribus niveis.

Male. Black. Head pale yellow, black hindward, white beneath; antennæ pale luteous, third joint
very short, arista bare; scutellum white; pectus with a white spot on each side; abdomen white
at the tip; middle legs with testaceous tibiæ and tarsi; hind wings blackish, cinereous hindward;
halteres snow-white. Length of the body 3/4 line; of the wings 1-1/2 line.

Subfam. GEOMYZIDES, Fallen.

Gen. DROSOPHILA, Fallen.

162. DROSOPHILA? FINIGUTTA, n. s. Mas. Fulva; capite antice testaceo, antennis testaceis, articulo
tertio conico; abdomine maculis quatuor apicalibus nigris, tarsis nigris; alis cinereis venis
nigris.

Male. Tawny.

163. DROSOPHILA? MELANOSPILA. Foem. Testacea; antennarum articulo tertio conico, arista plumosa;
thoracis disco abdominisque guttis duabus apicalibus atris; tarsis piceis; alis subcinereis.

Female. Testaceous. Length of the body 1 line; of the wings 2 lines.

164. DROSOPHILA? IMPARATA. Foem. Pallide testacea; pedibus pallidioribus; alis subcinereis,
venis pallidis.

Female. Pale testaceous, with a few bristles. HYDROMYZIDES, Haliday.

Gen. EPHYDRA, Fallen.

165. EPHYDRA? TACITURNA, n. s. Foem. Atra, nitens, antennis nigris, arista plumosa, abdomine
nigro-cupreo, pedibus nigro-piceis, alis nigricantibus, venis nigris.

Female. Deep black, shining.

Fam. PHORIDÆ, Haliday.

Gen. PALLURA, n. g.

Mas. Corpus latiusculum, pubescens. Os retractum. Oculi pubescentes. Antennæ brevissimæ; arista
longissima. Scutellum magnum, conicum. Abdomen subellipticum, thorace non longius. Pedes latiusculi,
pubescentes, non setosi. Alæ amplæ, venis æqualibus.

Male. Body rather broad, pubescent. Proboscis small, withdrawn; eyes pubescent; antennæ very
short, arista very long; scutellum large, conical, very prominent, extending beyond the base
of the abdomen; abdomen nearly elliptical, not longer than the thorax; legs rather broad, pubescent,
without bristles; wings rather long and broad; veins of equal size, costal vein ending at rather
before half the length of the wing, radial ending at somewhat in front of the tip of the wing,
cubital ending at hardly in front of the tip, præbrachial ending at a little behind the tip,
pobrachial ending on the hind border at half the length of the wing, discal transverse vein
straight, parted by more than twice its length from the border and from the præbrachial transverse.

166. PALLURA INVARIA. Mas. Lutea, immaculata, alis cinereis basi luteis, apice nigricantibus,
venis nigris robustis.

Male. Luteous, of one colour. Wings grey, luteous at the base, blackish towards the tips; veins
black, robust. Length of the body 3 lines; of the wings 6 lines.

Fam. HIPPOBOSCIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. ORNITHOMYIA, Leach.

167. Ornithomyia parva?, Macq. Hist. Nat. Dipt. 11. 2. 279. 3.

KEY ISLAND.

Fam. ASILIDÆ, Leach.

Subfam. LAPHRITES, Walk.

Gen. LAPHRIA, Fabr.

1. LAPHRIA PARADISIACA, n. s. Mas. Cuprea, aureo pilosa, capite pectoreque argenteis albo pilosis,
mystace subaurato setis nonnullis nigris, abdomine apice purpureo subtus albido piloso, pedibus
cyaneo-purpureis albido pilosis, femoribus cyaneo-viridibus, alis nigricantibus basi cinereis,
halteribus albidis nigro notatis.

Male. Cupreous, with gilded hairs. Head and pectus silvery, with white hairs; mystax slightly
gilded, with a few long black bristles; antennæ and mouth black; abdomen purple at the tip,
underside clothed with long whitish hairs, silvery white at the base, the following segments
bordered with silvery white; legs blue and purple, thickly clothed with long whitish hairs,
femora bluish-green, fore tibiæ with pale gilded down beneath, hind tibiæ with a black bristly
apical tuft beneath; wings blackish, grey towards the base; halteres whitish, marked with black.
Length of the body 11 lines; of the wings 20 lines.

2. LAPHRIA PLACENS, n. s. Mas. Cyanea, capite aurato, mystace setis paucis longis nigris; antennis
nigris, articulo tertio fusiformi; pectore albido, abdomine angusto, femoribus intus tibiisque
purpureis; alis nigricantibus basi cinereis, halteribus piceis.

Male. Blue. Head gilded in front, whitish behind; mystax with a few long black bristles; proboscis
and antennæ black, third joint of the latter fusiform; pectus whitish; abdomen cylindrical,
much narrower than the thorax, and about twice its length; femora on the inner side and tibiæ
purple, tarsi black; wings blackish, cinereous towards the base; halteres piceous. ASILITES, Walk.

Gen. ASILUS, Linn.

3. ASILUS SUPERVENIENS, n. s. Mas. Cinereous, capite subaurato, mystace aurato setis paucis
nigris, thorace vittis tribus latissimis nigris, abdomine fulvescenti-cinereo, pedibus rufescentibus,
femoribus nigro vittatis, tarsis nigris, alis cinereis apice nigricantibus, halteribus testaceis.

Male. Cinereous.

Gen. OMMATIUS, Illiger.

4. Ommatius noctifer, Walk. See page 88.

Fam. EMPIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. HYBOS, Fabr.

5. HYBOS DEFICIENS, n. s. Mas. Niger, thorace fulvo globoso macula dorsali nigra, abdomine
basi fulvo, pedibus anterioribus testaceis, femoribus posticis subtus spinosis, alis cinereis
apice obscurioribus, stigmate venisque nigris, halteribus testaceis, apice piceis.

Male. Black. SYRPHIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. ERISTALIS, Latr.

6. Eristalis resolutus, Walk. See p. 95.

Gen. BACCHA, Fabr.

7. BACCHA PURPURICOLA, n. s. Foem. Purpureo-fulva; capite chalybeo; antennis rufis; pedibus
fulvis; tibiis posticis apice tarsisque posticis basi piceis; alis nigricantibus, apud costam
obscurioribus, spatio apicali subcostali cinereo; halteribus testaceis.

Female. Tawny, tinged with purple.

Fam. MUSCIDÆ, Latr.

Subfam. SARCOPHAGIDES, Walk.

Gen. SARCOPHAGA, Meigen.

8. SARCOPHAGA BASALIS, n. s. Mas. Nigra, subaureo tomentosa; capite aurato; thorace vittis
tribus nigris; abdomine albido tessellato; alis cinereis; venis lurido marginatis; alulis testaceis.

Male. Black, with slightly gilded tomentum.

Subfam. MUSCIDES, Walk.

Gen. IDIA, Meigen.

9. Idia xanthogaster, Wied. Auss. Zweifl. 11. 349. 2. Inhabits also Hindostan and Java.

10. Idia testacea, Macq. Hist. Nat. Dipt. 77. 246. 3. Inhabits also Mauritius.

Gen. MUSCA, Linn.

11. Musca obtrusa, Walk. See p. 105.

Subfam. ANTHOMYIDES, Walk.

Gen. ARICIA, Macq.

12. ARICIA VICARIA, n. s. Foem. Fulva, subtus testacea; capite nigro, apud oculos albo; antennis
testaceis; alis cinereis, apud costam luridis.

Female. Tawny, testaceous beneath.

13. ARICIA SQUALENS, n. s. Foem. Nigra, cinereo tomentosa; facie argentea; antennis testaceis;
thorace vittis nigris vittisque duabus lateralibus latis testaceis; abdomine obscure testaceo;
pedibus piceis; femoribus nigris; tibiis anticis testaceis; alis cinereis; apud costam subluridis;
venis halteribusque testaceis.

Female. Black, with cinereous tomentum.

Subfam. ORTALIDES, Haliday.

Gen. LAMPROGASTER, Macq.

14. LAMPROGASTER VENTRALIS, n. s. Foem. Testaceo-cinerea; capite apud oculos albo, vertice
luteo, facie pallide fulva; thorace lineis septem indistinctis nigricantibus; abdomine fusco
maculis dorsalibus canis, subtus cavo lateribus ferrugineis; pedibus nigris, tibiis ferrugineo
fasciatis; alis limpidis basi subtestaceis, fasciis incompletis guttisque fuscis apud costam
nigricantibus.

Female. Cinereous, with a testaceous tinge.

15. TRYPETA RORIPENNIS, n. s. Foem. Fusca; capite nigro, facie alba; antennis nigris rufo-fasciatis;
thorace vittis quatuor canis; abdominis segmentis testaceo marginatis; pedibus nigris, tarsis
halteribusque testaceis; alis nigris, punctis plurimis albis.

Female. Brown.

Catalogue of Hymenopterous Insects collected by Mr. A. R. WALLACE at the Islands of Aru and
Key. In the Aru, Key, and neighbouring islands, we meet with the extreme range of the Australian
insect-fauna; and as might be expected, it is found amongst the Vespidious Group, and in one
or two instances in the Formicidæ. The latter, being frequently conveyed from one island to
another, can perhaps scarcely be considered indicative of natural geographical distribution.
Of the forty-six species of the Formicidous Group, only six were previously known to science.
Of the genus Podomyrma here established, one species only, from Adelaide, was previously known;
it is one of the most distinct and remarkable genera in the family. The Pompilidæ are species
of great beauty, some closely resembling those of Australia in the banding and maculation of
their wings; amongst the Vespidæ will be found some of the most elegant and beautiful forms
in the whole of that protean family of Hymenoptera.

Fam. ANDRENIDÆ.

Gen. PROSOPIS.

1. PROSOPIS MALACHISIS. P. nigro-cæruleo-viridis, nitida et delicatulè punctata; alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 4-1/2 lines. Deep blue-green, with tints of purple in certain lights, particularly
on the head, the clypeus with a central longitudinal ridge, its anterior margin slightly emarginate;
the flagellum rufo-piceous beneath, the ocelli white. Thorax: the wings hyaline and brilliantly
iridescent; the legs dark rufo-piceous with a bright purple tinge. Abdomen delicately punctured,
the head and thorax more strongly so; the latter with a semicircular enclosed space at its
base, which is smooth and shining.

Hab. Key Island.

Gen. NOMIA.

1. NOMIA CINCTA. N. nigra, capite thoraceque punctatis, pedibus ferrugineis; segmentis abdominis
apice fulvo-testaceo late fasciatis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black: the two basal joints of the flagellum, the apical margin of
the clypeus, the labrum, mandibles, and legs ferruginous; the wings fulvo-hyaline, the nervures
ferruginous, the tegulæ more or less rufo-testaceous; the sides of the metathorax with tufts
of pale fulvous pubescence and the floccus on the posterior femora of the same colour, the
tibiæ and tarsi with short ferruginous pubescence. Abdomen shining, the apical margins of the
segments broadly fulvo-testaceous, very bright, having a golden lustre.

Hab. Key Island.

2. NOMIA LONGICORNIS. N. nigra, lucida et delicatulè punctata, facie pube brevi griseâ tectâ,
femorum posticorum flocco pallido, tibiis externè fusco-pubescentibus; maris antennis, capite
thoraceque longioribus.

Male. Length 4 lines. Brassy, with tints of green on the clypeus, metathorax, and thorax beneath;
the head and thorax very closely and finely punctured; the clypeus produced and highly polished;
the mandibles rufo-testaceous, the antennæ as long as the head and thorax. Thorax: the wings
hyaline and splendidly iridescent, the tegulæ and the tarsi rufo-testaceous. Abdomen closely
punctured, the apical margins of the segments smooth and shining; the head and thorax above
with a pale fulvous pubescence, that on the sides of the metathorax and legs pale and glittering;
the abdomen has a pale scattered glittering pubescence.

Hab. Aru.

3. NOMIA DENTATA. N. nigra et punctata, facie metathoracisque lateribus cinereo-pubescentibus,
postscutello medio unidentato. Mas. antennis filiformibus longitudine thoracis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black; head and thorax rather finely punctured; the face covered with
short cinereous pubescence; the clypeus naked and much produced, the anterior margin and the
tips of the mandibles ferruginous; the cheek with long whitish pubescence. Thorax: the sides
of the metathorax, the floccus on the posterior femora and the postscutellum with whitish pubescence,
the latter produced in the middle into a blunt tooth; the legs fusco-ferruginous, with the
anterior tibiæ and apical joints of the tarsi brighter; wings hyaline and iridescent. Abdomen
shining and punctured, the apical margins of the two basal segments broadly depressed, and
more finely and closely punctured than the rest; the apical margins of the second, third, and
fourth segments pale testaceous; the apical margins of the two basal segments narrowly fringed
with white pubescence, usually more or less interrupted in the middle.

Male. Resembles the female very closely, but has the face much more pubescent; the antennæ
filiform and longer than the head and thorax; the scutellum armed at its posterior lateral
angles with an acute tooth; the metathorax truncate and slightly concave, its base with short
longitudinal grooves, the lateral margins fringed with long pubescence.

Hab. Aru.

Subfam. DASYGASTRÆ.

Gen. MEGACHILE, Latr.

1. MEGACHILE LATERITIA. M. nigra, abdomine pube ferrugineâ vestito, alis fuscis.

Female. Length 8 lines. Black; head and thorax very closely and finely punctured; the mandibles
with a single blunt tooth at their apex; the anterior margin of the clypeus transverse. Thorax:
the wings brown, the posterior pair palest, their base subhyaline. Abdomen clothed with bright
brick-red pubescence above and beneath; the basal segment with bright yellow pubescence above.

Hab. Aru.

2. MEGACHILE SCABROSA. M. nigra, metathorace anticè rudè scabrato, abdomine subtùs nigro-pubescente.

Female. Length 5-1/2 lines. Black; the clypeus, mesothorax anteriorly, and the posterior tibiæ
outside coarsely rugose, the roughness on the thorax consisting of transverse little elevated
points; the face with a thin griseous pubescence; the anterior margin of the clypeus fringed
with fulvous hairs; the cheeks have a long pale fulvous pubescence. Thorax: the wings hyaline,
the nervures black. Abdomen smooth and shining, with black pubescence beneath; beneath, the
apical margins of the segments with a fringe of very short white pubescence.

Hab. Aru.

3. MEGACHILE INSULARIS. M. nigra, nitida, delicatulè punctata, facie pube pallidè fulvâ vestitâ,
abdomine subtùs pube lætè ferrugineâ vestito, alis hyalinis. Thorax: the wings subhyaline with
a slight cloud at their apex; the basal joint of the posterior tarsi with a dense dark ferruginous
pubescence within. Abdomen: the four basal segments with transverse impressed lines in the
middle; beneath, clothed with bright ferruginous pubescence; the abdomen has an obscure æneous
tinge above.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. CROCISA, Jurine.

1. Crocisa nitidula, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 386. 2.

Hab. Aru; Key Island; Australia; Amboyna.

Gen. ALLODAPE, St.-Farg.

1. ALLODAPE NITIDA. A. nitida nigra, clypeo flavo, alis hyalinis, abdomine ad apicem punctato.

Female. Length 3 lines. Black and shining; the clypeus yellow, produced in front; the sides
of the face depressed; the ocelli prominent and reddish. Thorax very smooth and shining; the
wings colourless and iridescent, their extreme base yellowish, the nervures and stigma brown,
the tegulæ pale testaceous-yellow; the posterior tibiæ with a scopa of glittering white hairs,
the tarsi ferruginous and with glittering hairs. Abdomen, from the third segment to the apex,
gradually more and more strongly and closely punctured.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. XYLOCOPA, Latr.

1. Xylocopa æstuans, Linn. Syst. Nat. i. p. 961. 53 [Symbol: female]; St.-Farg. Hym. ii. p.
193. 36 [Symbol: male] [Symbol: female].

Hab. Aru; India; Singapore; Celebes.

Gen. SAROPODA, Latr.

1. Saropoda bombiformis, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. p. 2. p. 318. 6.

Hab. Aru; Australia (Richmond River).

Hab. Aru Island; Celebes; Ceylon; India; Borneo; Hong-Kong; Shanghai; Philippine Islands.

2. ANTHOPHORA ELEGANS. A. nigra, pube capitis thoracisque nigrâ, abdomine fasciis quatuor lætè
cæruleis ornato; tibiis posticis ferrugineo-pubescentibus.

Female. Length 6 lines. Black; the labrum, a narrow line down the middle and another on each
side of the clypeus, a minute spot above it, and the scape in front testaceous yellow, the
base of the mandibles of a paler colour; the flagellum fulvous beneath. Thorax: the pubescence
black; wings subhyaline, the nervures dark rufo-fuscous, tegulæ obscurely testaceous. Abdomen
with four fasciæ of brilliant blue, which is changeable, with pearly tints in different lights;
the posterior tibiæ densely clothed outside with fulvo-ferruginous pubescence; the pubescence
inside is black.

Hab. Key Island.

Gen. TRIGONA, Jurine.

1. Trigona læviceps, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins., Journ. Proc. Linn. Soc. ii. p. 51. 8.

Hab. Aru; Singapore; India.

Fam. FORMICIDÆ.

Gen. FORMICA.

1. Formica virescens, Fabr. Ent. Syst. ii. p. 355. 23 [Symbol: male] [Symbol: female] [Symbol:
Mercury].--Lasius virescens, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 417. 8.

2. 13 [Symbol: Mercury].

3. FORMICA FRAGILIS. F. pallidè testacea, elongata et gracilis, capite posticè angustato; thorace
medio compresso, pedibus elongatis; squamâ incrassatâ triangulatâ.

Worker. Length 3-1/2 lines. Pale rufo-testaceous, smooth and slightly shining; antennæ elongate,
longer than the body, the flagellum slender and filiform, the scape nearly as long as the head
and thorax; head oblong, narrowed behind the eyes into a kind of neck, the sides parallel before
the eyes, which are black and round, the clypeus slightly emarginate anteriorly, the mandibles
finely serrated on their inner margin and terminating in a bent acute tooth. Thorax elongate,
narrowest in the middle, the prothorax forming a neck anteriorly; legs elongate and very slender.
Abdomen ovate, the node of the petiole incrassate, and viewed sideways is triangular or wedge-shaped.

Hab. Aru.

This is one of those remarkable forms which recede so greatly from the normal type of Formica
as apparently to indicate a generic distinction; but in those exotic species of which we have
obtained all the forms, we find many which approach closely to the present insect, which is
probably only the small worker of some already described species. No one would venture, without
the authority of the personal observation of some competent naturalist, to unite all the forms
of any exotic species of Formica.

4. FORMICA FLAVITARSUS. F. nigra, elongata et gracilis; thorace posticè compresso, pedibus
elongatis, tarsis flavis.

Worker. Length 4 lines. Black and subopake; head elongate, narrowed behind, the clypeus truncate
anteriorly, the mandibles pale ferruginous; antennæ elongate and slender, the flagellum filiform
and pale rufo-testaceous; the thorax and legs elongate, the latter slender with their tarsi
pale rufo-testaceous. Abdomen ovate, the scale of the petiole incrassate and slightly notched
above.

Hab. Aru.

5. FORMICA COXALIS. F. nigra, nitida; flagello, coxis et abdomine subtùs pallidè testaceis.

Worker major. Length 5 lines. Black and very delicately roughened with a fine transverse waved
striation only perceptible under a good magnifying power. Head large, much wider than the thorax,
oblong-ovate with a deep emargination behind; the clypeus slightly produced and truncate anteriorly,
the angles of the truncation rounded, and with a central shining carina; the flagellum, except
the tarsal joint, pale rufo-testaceous.

6. FORMICA CORDATA. F. pallidè rufa; abdomine fusco, capite cordato.

Worker. Length 2 lines. Pale rufo-testaceous; the head heart-shaped; the eyes black, the flagellum
fusco-ferruginous with the basal joints pale; the mandibles ferruginous. Thorax narrow, deeply
strangulated at the base of the metathorax. Abdomen more or less fuscous, the node of the petiole
narrow and pointed above; the entire insect is smooth and shining.

Hab. Aru.

The worker minor is rather smaller and has the abdomen darker, in all the specimens received,
but in other respects agrees with the above.

7. FORMICA OCULATA. F. pallidè ferruginea; capite oblongo, oculis magnis, thorace compresso.

Worker. Length 2-1/2 lines. Pale ferruginous, with the vertex and apex of the abdomen black;
the head oblong, the sides nearly parallel, with the anterior margin truncate; the mandibles
with fine acute teeth on their inner margin; the antennæ inserted wide apart about the middle
of the head; the eyes very large and ovate, placed backwards on the sides of the head, reaching
to the posterior margin of the vertex, forming as it were its posterior lateral angles. The
thorax narrow and compressed behind; abdomen ovate, entirely smooth and shining.

Hab. Aru.

8. FORMICA MUTILATA. F. nigra; capite oblongo, truncato anticè et sanguineo, antennis tarsisque
rufo-testaceis.

Worker. Length 2-3/4 lines. Black and shining; the head truncate anteriorly, the antennæ inserted
wide apart, about the middle, the face blood-red before their insertion and deeply striated
longitudinally, behind the antennæ the head is black, smooth, and shining; the eyes ovate and
placed backwards on the sides of the head. Thorax rounded in front and strangulated between
the meso- and metathorax, the latter obliquely truncate; legs rather short and stout, the femora
compressed, the anterior pair broadly dilated, the base and apex of the femora, the tibiæ,
and tarsi rufo-testaceous, the tibiæ with a darker stain behind. Abdomen oblong-ovate, the
apical margins of the segments narrowly pale testaceous; the scale of the petiole compressed,
with its superior margin rounded.

Hab. Aru.

This is a very singular insect in many respects, and closely resembles in form the Formica
truncata of Spinola.

9. FORMICA QUADRICEPS. F. nigra, nitida; capite anticè obliquè truncato, thorace posticè compresso.

Worker. Length 3-1/2 lines. Shining black; head oblong-quadrate, slightly narrowed anteriorly,
with the sides nearly straight, the posterior angles rounded, and very slightly emarginate
behind; the head obliquely truncate from the base of the clypeus; the truncation as well as
the mandibles obscurely ferruginous; the apex of the flagellum and the apical joints of the
tarsi pale rufo-testaceous. Thorax rounded anteriorly, compressed behind, with the metathorax
abruptly truncate. The scale of the petiole narrow, incrassate, its anterior margin slightly
curved, its posterior margin straight; the abdomen ovate.

Worker minor. About 3 lines long, very like the larger worker, the head being truncate in front;
but it is, in proportion to the thorax, narrower; the latter is compressed and abruptly truncate;
in other respects it agrees with the worker major.

Hab. Aru.

10. FORMICA LÆVISSIMA. F. nigra nitida lævissima, sparsè pilosa; squamâ oblongâ subdepressâ.

Worker. Length 4 lines. Jet-black, very smooth and shining; head wider than the thorax, slightly
emarginate behind, the sides slightly rounded; the anterior margin of the clypeus rounded,
the mandibles striated and obscurely ferruginous; the scape with a few glittering silvery-white
hairs. Thorax not quite so wide as the head anteriorly, narrowed behind, with the disk somewhat
flattened, slightly convex, a deep strangulation between the meso- and metathorax, the latter
obliquely rounded; the legs and abdomen sprinkled with glittering white hairs. The node of
the petiole incrassate, very slightly elevated; viewed sideways, broadly wedge-shaped; the
abdomen ovate.

Hab. Aru.

11. FORMICA NITIDA. F. capite abdomineque nigris, antennis thoraceque pedibusque rufo-testaceis
lævissimis et lucidis.

Worker. Length 4 lines. Head and abdomen shining black; the flagellum, thorax, legs, and scale
of the petiole rufo-testaceous; the legs palest; the scape fuscous, with its base pale; the
head large, wider than the abdomen, and emarginate behind; the clypeus and mandibles obscurely
ferruginous. Thorax compressed, not strangulated in the middle. The scale of the petiole narrow,
with its margin rounded above; abdomen ovate, and sprinkled with a few erect pale hairs.

Hab. Aru.

12. FORMICA SCRUTATOR. F. nigerrima, mandibulis tarsorumque articulo apicali pallidè ferrugineis,
thorace medio profundè coarctato.

Worker. Length 1-1/2--2 lines. Shining black; the mandibles pale, ferruginous, with their inner
margins finely denticulate; the eyes placed rather forwards on the sides of the head, the latter
emarginate behind. Thorax deeply strangulated in the middle; the metathorax elevated and obliquely
truncate behind. Abdomen ovate; the scale of the petiole sub-incrassate, with its margin rounded
above; the insect very thinly covered with a fine cinereous pile.

Hab. Aru.

13. FORMICA ANGULATA. F. nigra nitida; flagello capite anticè pedibusque obscurè ferrugineis,
metathorace angulato.

Worker. Length 3 lines. Shining black; head of moderate size; the clypeus and mandibles obscure
ferruginous; the flagellum fusco-ferruginous, with the tip pale testaceous. Thorax rounded
anteriorly and compressed behind; the scutellum prominent, forming a small tubercle; the metathorax
obliquely truncate, the margin of the truncation elevated, so that when viewed sideways the
metathorax forms an obtuse angular shape. Abdomen ovate, the node of the peduncle elevated,
incrassate, rounded anteriorly, and flat behind.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. POLYRHACHIS, Smith.

1. Formica sericata, Guér. Voy. Coq. Zool. ii. 203; Atlas Ins. pl. 8. f. 2, 2 a, b, c, d, [Symbol:
Mercury]. (Polyrhachis sericata, Smith, Append. Cat. Form. p. 200.)

Hab. Aru; New Hebrides.

2. Formica sexspinosa, Latr. Hist. Nat. Fourm. p. 126, pl. iv. f. 21 [Symbol: Mercury]. (Polyrhachis
sexspinosa, Smith, Cat. Form. p. 56. 3.)

Hab. Aru; India; Philippine Islands.

3. POLYRHACHIS MARGINATUS. P. niger; antennis, palpis pedibusque ferrugineis; thoracis marginibus
recurvis, metathorace petiolique squamulâ bidentatis.

Worker. Length 2-1/2 lines. Black; the antennæ and legs ferruginous; the head and thorax rugose;
the prothorax transverse, its anterior margin slightly curved, with the lateral angles produced
forwards and very acute; the thorax narrowed to the metathorax, which is armed with two divergent
acute spines. Abdomen velvety black and globose; the scale of the petiole produced laterally
into long, bent, acute spines, which curve backwards to the shape of the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

4. POLYRHACHIS HOSTILIS. P. niger, longitudinaliter striatus, thoracis marginibus expansis,
metathorace squamulâque petioli spinis duabus crassis acutis curvatis.

Worker. Length 3 lines. Black; the head and thorax longitudinally striated, the abdomen very
finely and evenly so; the prothorax transverse, wider than the head, the anterior and lateral
margins recurved, the latter acute at their anterior angles, and rounded at the posterior ones;
the lateral margins of the mesothorax recurved, a deep notch between the meso- and metathorax;
the latter with a long, stout, curved, acute spine on each side. The scale of the petiole produced
above on each side, into a long, curved, stout, acute spine, which curves backwards round the
sides of the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

5. POLYRHACHIS LONGIPES. P. niger; flagelli dimidio apicali tibiisque anticis pallidè ferrugineis,
prothorace petiolique squamulâ bidentatis.

Worker. Length 3 lines. Black; the head and thorax finely rugose; the antennæ elongate, longer
than the insect; the apical half of the flagellum pale ferruginous. Thorax rounded above, the
sides not margined; two spines on the thorax anteriorly, two on the metathorax, and two on
the scale of the petiole; the legs elongate, with the anterior tibiæ ferruginous. Abdomen globose,
sometimes rufo-fuscous, or the base obscurely rufous.

Hab. Aru.

6. POLYRHACHIS SERRATUS. P. niger; capite thoraceque rugosis, abdomine densè punctato, squamâ
petioli transversâ, margine superno serratâ.

Worker. Length 2 lines. Black, with the antennæ and legs ferruginous. Thorax oblong-quadrate
or very slightly narrowed towards the metathorax, slightly convex above, not margined at the
sides, the divisions not perceptible; the head and thorax rugose and pubescent. Abdomen globose,
shining, and closely punctured; the scale of the petiole transverse above, produced into an
acute spine on each side, the upper margin finely serrated, the lateral margins narrowed to
their base, and having two or three small sharp spines.

Hab. Aru.

7. POLYRHACHIS SCUTULATUS. P. niger, fortiter politus et lucidus, metathorace petiolique squamulâ
dente longo curvato acuto in latere utroque, pedibus nigro-ferrugineis.

Worker. Length 2-3/4 lines. Black and very smooth and shining; the legs dark ferruginous. Thorax:
the disk expanded, slightly convex above, with the margins acute and curving upwards; the anterior
margin transverse, rather wider than the head, with the lateral angles slightly curved forwards,
and very acute; the lateral margins of the prothorax curved backwards and inwards; the margins
of the mesothorax are rounded; the pro- and mesothorax highly polished above, forming an escutcheon-shaped
disk; the metathorax opake, and sprinkled with a few short glittering hairs, armed posteriorly
with two long very acute spines, divergent and directed backwards. Abdomen globose; the scale
of the petiole with two long curved acute spines, directed backwards to the curve of the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

8. POLYRHACHIS MUCRONATUS. P. lævis, nitidus, niger; thorace spinis duabus crassis compressis
acutis posticè armato.

Worker. Length 2-1/2 lines. Black, smooth, and shining, very delicately and indistinctly aciculate;
the antennæ beneath and the tibiæ and femora obscurely ferruginous, the anterior and intermediate
tibiæ brightest; the apex of the mandibles ferruginous. Thorax transverse in front, or very
slightly curved, with the lateral angles acute; the thorax is rounded above, and not margined
at the sides; the metathorax armed with two long, stout, acute compressed spines; the spines
divergent, as well as two on the scale of the petiole, which are long and very acute. Abdomen
globose.

Hab. Aru.

9. POLYRHACHIS GEOMETRICUS. P. niger; antennarum apice, tibiis tarsorumque apice ferrugineis,
thorace circulariter striato.

Worker. Length 2 lines. Black; the apical joints of the flagellum, the anterior legs, the anterior
and intermediate tibiæ, and the apical joints of the tarsi pale ferruginous; the extreme base
of the anterior tarsi black. Thorax rounded above, not margined, gradually narrowed posteriorly;
the prothorax of the same width as the head, its lateral angles toothed; the disk with a circular
striation. Abdomen globose and pubescent; the scale of the petiole compressed, its superior
margin rounded, and with four minute teeth.

Hab. Aru.

10. POLYRHACHIS IRRITABILIS. P. niger, pube pallidè aureâ vestitus; thorace quadridentato,
petioli squamulâ bidentatâ.

Female. Length 6-1/2 lines. Black, and densely clothed with short pale golden pubescence; all
parts of the insect sprinkled with erect cinereous hairs; the mandibles shining black, the
palpi pale testaceous; the head elongate, the eyes placed high on the sides of the head, ferruginous
and very prominent. Thorax elongate-ovate; the prothorax with a short, stout, acute tooth on
each side, slightly curved and directed forwards; the metathorax with a similar tooth on each
side directed backwards; the wings subhyaline, the nervures fuscous; the legs fusco-ferruginous,
the femora and coxæ brightest. Abdomen ovate; the scale incrassate, armed above with two stout
acute teeth.

Hab. Aru.

This is probably the female of P. sexspinosus.

11. POLYRHACHIS LÆVISSIMUS. The thorax not flattened above, or margined at the sides; the division
between the pro- and mesothorax distinct, that between the meso- and metathorax not discernible,
the latter with two erect acute spines; the scale of the petiole with four short acute spines.
Abdomen globose.

Hab. Aru.

This species is very like P. mucronatus; on close examination, however, it is seen to be very
distinct: it may be at once distinguished by its larger head, which is wider than the thorax,
rounded behind the eyes, and widely emarginate behind.

12. POLYRHACHIS BELLICOSUS. P. capite abdomineque nigris, thorace femoribusque rufis, thorace
quadrispinoso, petioli squamulâ bihamatâ.

Worker. Length 3-1/2 lines. Black, with the scale of the petiole, thorax, coxæ, and femora
blood-red. Thorax: the lateral margins raised above, with two slightly curved divergent spines
in front, and two stout, acute, long curved spines in the middle, directed backwards; the scale
of the petiole forming a long erect pedestal, which terminates above in two much bent acute
hooks, directed backwards, and being as high as the basal segment of the abdomen; the spines
and hooks black at the apex. Abdomen ovate.

Hab. Aru.

13. POLYRHACHIS HECTOR. P. niger et vestitus pube pallidè aureâ; prothorace petiolique squamulâ
bispinosis, pedibus ferrugineis.

Worker. Length 3 lines. Black; the apex of the scape and the legs ferruginous; the extreme
base of the tibiæ and the tarsi black; a stout acute spine on each side of the prothorax, directed
forwards; the thorax flattened above, its lateral margins raised; the divisions of the segments
very distinctly impressed; the pale golden pubescence on the abdomen thinner than on the head
and thorax. The scale of the petiole angled at the sides towards its summit, the angles dentate,
the upper margin straight, and at each lateral angle an acute spine, directed backwards, and
curved to the shape of the abdomen; the spines parallel.

Hab. Aru.

14. POLYRHACHIS RUFOFEMORATUS. P. niger, lævis, nitidus; femoribus abdominisque squamulâ ferrugineis.

Worker. Length 3-1/2 lines. Black; head oblong; the eyes placed high at the sides near the
vertex, the front very prominent, with two elevated carinæ in the middle, at the outside of
which the antennæ are inserted. Thorax: the divisions strongly marked, flattened above with
the sides elevated; the prothorax with an acute spine on each side anteriorly; the coxæ and
femora ferruginous, with the apex of the latter more or less fuscous. Abdomen: the base and
the scale ferruginous, the latter angled at the sides and emarginate above.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. PONERA, Latr.

1. Ponera rugosa, Smith, Cat. Hym. Ins. Proc. Linn. Soc. ii. 66. 5.

Hab. Aru. Borneo.

2. PONERA SCULPTURATA. P. nitida nigra; capite, thorace abdominisque segmentis primo et secundo
profundè striatis, nodo spinis duabus acutis armato; pedibus abdomineque apice ferrugineis.

Worker. Length 5 lines. Black and shiny, the legs obscurely ferruginous as well as the mandibles;
the head strongly and evenly striated longitudinally. The prothorax with a circular striation
above; behind, the thorax is compressed, the sides being obliquely striated, the striæ uniting
and crossing the central ridge of the thorax. The node of the petiole and basal segment of
the abdomen with a curved striation, the second segment longitudinally striated and depressed
at its base, which is smooth and shining; the basal half of the third segment is longitudinally
striated.

Hab. Aru.

This species is at first sight very like the P. geometrica from Singapore; but the striation
of the abdomen alone will serve to distinguish it.

3. PONERA PARALLELA. P. nigra, opaca; antennis, mandibulis, pedibus abdominisque apice ferrugineis.

Worker. Length 3-1/4 lines. Opake black; the antennæ thick and scarcely as long as the thorax,
their apex and the mandibles bright ferruginous; the legs somewhat obscure ferruginous, with
the articulations much brighter; the head a little wider than the thorax and subovate; the
thorax, node of the petiole, and the abdomen of nearly equal width, the abdomen being slightly
the widest; the node of the petiole nearly quadrate; the apical margin of the first segment
and base of the second slightly depressed.

Hab. Aru.

4. PONERA QUADRIDENTATA. P. atro-fusca; antennis, facie anticè, antennis, mandibulis, tibiis
tarsisque ferrugineis; alis subhyalinis.

Female. Length 3-1/2 lines. Nigro-fuscous; the antennæ with a carina between their base, the
face anteriorly, the mandibles, the legs, and the abdomen at its apex and beneath, ferruginous;
the femora and coxæ above, fuscous; the head subquadrate with the angles rounded; the eyes
small and placed forwards on the sides of the head towards the base of the mandibles, the latter
with four strong teeth on their inner margin. Thorax oblong-ovate with the metathorax truncate;
the wings fusco-hyaline, the stigma large and black. Abdomen: the second segment slightly narrowed
at its base, the node of the petiole incrassate and compressed, its upper margin rounded. The
insect entirely covered with a short downy cinereous pile, the abdomen having also a number
of scattered erect glittering hairs.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. ECTATOMMA, Smith.

1. ECTATOMMA RUGOSA. E. fusco-brunnea; capite, thorace, nodoque rugosis; abdomine delicatulè
aciculato.

Worker. Length 4 lines. Obscure fusco-ferruginous, the antennæ and legs bright ferruginous;
the head, thorax, and node of the petiole coarsely rugose; the eyes very prominent and glassy;
the mandibles longitudinally but very delicately striated, their inner margin edentate; the
thorax slightly narrowed behind. Abdomen very delicately aciculate.

Male. Length 3-1/2 lines. Of the same colour, and sculptured like the worker; the head rounded
behind the eyes and narrowed before them; the eyes very large, prominent and ovate; the ocelli
very bright and prominent; antennæ elongate and slender, the scape short, not longer than the
second joint of the flagellum. Thorax: the scutellum prominent, forming a rounded tubercle,
the metathorax elongate and oblique. Abdomen aciculate as in the worker, but much more deeply
strangulated between the first and second segments; the petiole rugose and clavate.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. ODONTOMACHUS, Latr.

1. Odontomachus simillimus, Smith, Cat. Form. p. 80. 11 [Symbol: female].

Hab. Aru. Ceylon.

2. ODONTOMACHUS TYRANNICUS. O. capite thoraceque nigris, antennis abdomineque ferrugineis,
margine interno mandibulorum serratulo.

Worker. Length 7 lines. Head oblong, narrowed behind, posteriorly deeply emarginate; the mandibles
rufo-piceous, brightest at their apex, which is armed with two long teeth which are bent abruptly
inwards, their tips black; the anterior portion of the head striated obliquely from the centre;
the head, behind the anterior sulcation, very smooth and shining and having a deep longitudinal
central depression. Thorax transversely striated, the articulations of the legs and the tarsi
ferruginous. Abdomen smooth, shining, and ferruginous; the node of the petiole incrassate,
cylindric, and tapering upwards into a very acute spine.

Hab. Aru.

3. ODONTOMACHUS MALIGNUS. O. ferrugineus; capite suprà obliquè striato; margine interno mandibulorum
confertim serrato; metathorace transversim striato; squamâ unispinosâ; abdomine lævissimo.

Worker. Length 7 lines. Ferruginous; the flagellum and legs palest; head much narrowed behind,
the posterior margin deeply emarginate; mandibles smooth and shining, their inner margin strongly
serrated, their apex abruptly bent or elbowed, and armed with two stout teeth; the face anteriorly
evenly striated obliquely; the head behind the anterior sulcation very delicately striated
obliquely. The prothorax smooth and shining, the meso- and metathorax transversely striated.
Abdomen very smooth and shining; the node of the petiole incrassate and tapering upwards into
an acute spine.

Hab. Aru.

This species most closely resembles O. maxillaris from Brazil; but its smooth polished prothorax
alone would distinguish it; its head is much broader anteriorly, and less elongate.

Gen. PSEUDOMYRMA, Guér.

1. PSEUDOMYRMA LÆVICEPS. P. nigra, lævis et nitida; antennis, mandibulis, tibiis anterioribus,
tarsisque rufo-fulvis.

Worker. Length 2-1/4 lines. Black and shining; head very smooth and slightly emarginate behind,
the eyes large and ovate; the mandibles and antennæ rufo-fulvous. Thorax with the sides flattened,
the disk slightly convex; a deep strangulation between the meso- and metathorax, the latter
rounded above and oblique behind; the trochanters, articulations of the legs, and the tarsi
rufo-fulvous. Abdomen thinly covered with a fine cinereous pile; the first node of the petiole
somewhat oblong-ovate, the second subglobose, the petiole of the first node short.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. PODOMYRMA, Smith.

Head oblong in the female, rather wider than the thorax; in the worker subovate and much wider;
eyes small, ovate and placed about the middle at the sides of the head; antennæ geniculated,
the scape about two thirds of the length of the flagellum which is clavate, the club three-jointed;
the mandibles stout and dentate; the labial palpi 3-jointed; the maxillary palpi 4-jointed.
Thorax, oblong-ovate in the female, in the worker transverse in front and narrowed behind with
the metathorax bidentate; the anterior wings with one elongate marginal cell and two submarginal
cells, the second extending to the apex of the wing; the legs stout, the femora incrassate;
abdomen ovate, the peduncle with two nodes.

The insects included in this genus are undoubtedly most nearly allied to those belonging to
the genus Myrmecina; but, excepting that they agree in having the same number of joints in
the palpi, they have little resemblance to each other. With the exception of the genus Myrmecia,
these are the largest insects in the subfamily Myrmicidæ; and all the species are distinguished
by their remarkably thickened femora and margined thorax: we are unacquainted with the males.

1. PODOMYRMA FEMORATA. P. ferruginea; capite oblongo, obliquè striato, thorace abdomineque
lævibus nitidis; alis subhyalinis fusco-nebulosis; femoribus valdè incrassatis, basi tenuissimis,
femoribus posticis infrà compressis.

Female. Length 8 lines. Rufo-testaceous; the mandibles and anterior margin of the face black,
the inner margin of the mandibles rufo-piceous and armed with six short stout teeth, the apical
tooth largest. The head oblong, slightly narrowed posteriorly and emarginate behind, longitudinally
striated, the striæ diverging from the centre at the anterior ocellus; at half the distance
between the posterior ocelli and the margin of the vertex the striæ are transverse. Thorax
smooth and shining, with scattered fulvous hairs; the wings fusco-hyaline, with a dark fuscous
stain occupying the marginal cell and traversing the course of all the nervures; the legs with
the femora much incrassated, the posterior pair compressed beneath into a flattened process
or keel. Abdomen ovate, smooth, shining, and with a scattered fulvous pubescence; the first
node of the petiole rounded in front, narrowed and truncate behind, with a large compressed
tooth beneath; the second node subglobose.

Worker major. Length 4 lines. Ferruginous, entirely smooth and shining; the thorax, legs, and
abdomen more or less obscure, the femora being usually rufo-piceous; the mandibles striated
with their margins black. Thorax nearly flat above, very slightly convex with the sides margined,
the anterior margin slightly rounded, the lateral angles produced into small acute spines;
a deep strangulation at the base of the metathorax, a little before which the lateral margins
are produced into an angular tooth, the metathorax with two short acute spines; the femora
thickly incrassate. Abdomen ovate.

Hab. Aru.

2. PODOMYRMA STRIATA. P. ferruginea; capite thoraceque longitudinaliter striatis, femoribus
valdè incrassatis, basi tenuissimis.

Worker. Length 3 lines. Rufo-ferruginous with the abdomen obscure, becoming blackish at the
apex, the head coarsely striated, with a central portion from the insertion of the antennæ
to the hinder margin of the vertex delicately so; the mandibles striated, with the teeth on
their inner margin black. Thorax rugose-striate, the anterior lateral angles dentate, the metathorax
without spines; the femora thickly incrassate and greatly attenuated at their base. Abdomen
ovate, smooth and shining; the nodes of the petiole rugose.

Hab. Aru.

This species resembles P. femorata, but is easily distinguished by its striated head and thorax;
the latter is similarly flattened above and margined at the sides; the femora are also thickened
precisely as in that species.

3. PODOMYRMA LÆVIFRONS. P. obscurè ferruginea; capite abdomineque lævissimis lucidisque; thorace
longitudinaliter striato; femoribus medio valdè incrassatis, basi tenuissimis.

Worker. Length 2-1/2 lines. Head and abdomen smooth, shining black, in some examples fusco-ferruginous;
the antennæ, legs, and thorax ferruginous, the latter longitudinally striated; the thorax margined
at the sides, the disk slightly convex, the anterior margin slightly rounded, with the lateral
angles armed with short acute spines, the thorax deeply strangulated posteriorly, the metathorax
not spined; the femora thickly swollen in the middle and very slender at their base and apex.
Abdomen ovate, the first node of the petiole oblong, the second globose.

Hab. Aru.

There is considerable variation in intensity of colouring in examples of this species, the
thorax and legs being sometimes pale ferruginous; in the specimen described they are dark;
every shade of gradation occurs in different individuals.

4. PODOMYRMA BASALIS. P. fusco-ferruginea; abdominis basi pallidè testacea; femoribus medio
incrassatis, basi tenuibus.

Worker. Length 3 lines. Obscurely ferruginous, the scape of the antennæ, the base of the femora
and the tibiæ pale ferruginous; the base of the abdomen pale testaceous; the head and thorax
with deep coarse longitudinal furrows; the flagellum blackish-brown towards its apex, with
the extreme tip pale. Thorax: the anterior margin slightly rounded with the lateral angles
very acute; the femora very thickly incrassate in the middle; the apex of the tibiæ ferruginous.
Abdomen smooth and shining; the basal half pale testaceous, the apical half and the following
segments black; the nodes of the petiole rugose; the first node elongate, with a short acute
tooth at the base above, and a blunt one beneath.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. MYRMICA, Latr.

1. MYRMICA PARALLELA. M. rufo-fulva; antennis pedibusque pallidè testaceis; abdomine fusco-ferrugineo;
capite thoraceque longitudinaliter striatis.

Worker. Length 1 line. Head and thorax ferruginous and longitudinally and evenly striated;
antennæ and legs pale rufo-testaceous.

Hab. Aru.

2. MYRMICA SCABROSA. M. nigra; capite thoraceque scabrosis, metathorace bispinoso, abdomine
ovato lævi.

Worker. Length 1 line. Black; the head, thorax, and nodes of the petiole roughened; the mandibles,
flagellum and tarsi rufo-testaceous; the lateral angles of the prothorax acute, the sides narrowed
slightly to the base of the metathorax, the spines on the latter acute; nodes of the petiole
globose. Abdomen ovate, smooth and shining; club of the antennæ 3-jointed.

Hab. Aru.

3. MYRMICA THORACICA. M. capite abdomineque nigris; antennis, mandibulis thorace pedibusque flavis.

Worker. Length 3/4 line. Head and abdomen jet-black; the antennæ, thorax, and legs of a clear
honey-yellow; the mandibles of a more obscure yellow; the anterior margin of the thorax transverse,
the lateral angles acute, narrowed from thence to the base of the mesothorax, the disk anteriorly
slightly convex; the metathorax armed with two acute spines. Abdomen nearly round, and very
smooth and shining; the first node of the petiole vertical anteriorly, and gradually rounded
behind, the second node transverse, its anterior margin straight, the angles rounded, the sides
narrowed towards the abdomen; the club of the antennæ 3-jointed.

Hab. Aru.

The singular form of the thorax of this species, as well as the construction of the nodes of
the petiole, appear to indicate an uncharacterized division of the genus Myrmica.

4. MYRMICA SUSPICIOSA. M. rufo-testacea, lævis, tota nitidissima nuda; mandibulis, antennis,
pedum articulationibus tarsisque palles-centibus; metathoracis spinis minutissimis.

Worker. Length 1 line. Rufo-testaceous and very smooth and shining; the antennæ as long as
the insect; the flagellum, mandibles, tarsi, and articulations of the legs pale testaceous.
The thorax narrowed anteriorly into a short neck, behind which it is dilated, the sides being
rounded, the meso- and metathorax narrower and of nearly equal width, the spines of the metathorax
minute and slender.

I can detect no specific difference between this and Myrmica lævigata, taken by myself in the
neighbourhood of London; but it is not uncommonly met with in hothouses, near to which I captured
my specimen. I believe M. lævigata is identical with OEcophthora pusilla, the House-Ant of Madeira.

5. MYRMICA MELLEA. M. capite thoraceque flavis; abdomine pallidè fusco.

Worker. Length 1-3/4 line. Head, antennæ, thorax, and legs honey-yellow and very smooth and
shining; thorax strangulated at the base of the metathorax, which is not spined; the first
node of the abdomen is oblique anteriorly, and vertical behind, the second node subglobose.
Abdomen: the base honey-yellow, the apical margin of the first segment, and the following segments
entirely, pale fuscous; the club of the antennæ 2-jointed.

Hab. Aru.

6. MYRMICA CARINATA. M. obscurè fusco-ferruginea; thorace rufo-fulvo; capite thoraceque carinis
irregularibus; metathorace spinis duabus longis armato.

Worker. Length 1-1/4 lines.

Gen. CREMATOGASTER, Lund.

1. 76. 4 [Symbol: Mercury].

Hab. Aru; Borneo.

2. CREMATOGASTER ELEGANS. C. pallidè rufo-testaceus; abdomine nigerrimo nitido; thorace bispinoso.

Worker. Length 3/4 line. Entirely pale rufo-testaceous, excepting the eyes and abdomen which
are jet black; the nodes of the petiole pale, smooth, and shining. Head about the same width
as the abdomen. The lateral angles of the anterior margin of the prothorax acute, the metathorax
armed with two long acute spines. Abdomen heart-shaped, its apex acute.

Hab. Aru.

3. CREMATOGASTER INSULARIS. C. niger, lævis et nitidus; antennis tarsisque pallidè testaceis;
thorace spinis duabus acutis armato.

Worker. Length 1-1/4 line. Black, smooth and shining; the vertex, thorax and nodes of the peduncle
with an obscure ferruginous tinge; the antennæ, tarsi, and articulations of the legs pale rufo-testaceous;
the spines which arm the metathorax stout, elongate, and acute, with their apex pale testaceous.
Abdomen heart-shaped and very acute at the apex.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. SOLENOPSIS, Westw.

1. SOLENOPSIS CEPHALOTES. S. pallidè ferruginea; capite maximè in medio sulcato, abdomine apice
fusco.

Worker major. Length 2-1/2 lines. Pale ferruginous, with the anterior part of the face darker,
the mandibles incrassate and very dark fusco-ferruginous; head very large and divided by a
deep longitudinal channel, emarginate behind, nearly quadrate; the eyes small and placed forwards
on the sides of the head. The metathorax truncate, not spined. Abdomen ovate, truncate at the
base, its apex fuscous; the first node of the petiole compressed, its margin rounded above,
the second node incrassate and subglobose; club of the antennæ 2-jointed.

Worker minor. Length 1-1/2 line. Of the same colour as the worker major, but with the head
of the ordinary size and slightly narrowed behind, the mandibles of the same colour as the
head; the legs and antennæ longer, as well as the petiole of the abdomen; the body is very
smooth and shining, the club of the antennæ 2-jointed.

Hab. Aru.

Subfam. CRYPTOCERIDÆ, Smith.

Gen. MERANOPLUS, Smith.

1. MERANOPLUS SPINOSUS. M. castaneo-rufus; abdomine nigro, thorace sexspinoso; abdomine ovato.

Worker. Length 1-1/2 line. Head and thorax rugose; the antennæ and tarsi rufo-testaceous; the
eyes rather prominent, the groove above them at the sides of the head extending backwards to
the vertex. Thorax: the anterior margin curved forwards, the lateral angles produced into a
bifurcate process on each side, behind the processes, slightly narrowed to the base of a long
curved tooth; the posterior margin emarginate with a long sharp spine at each angle of the
emargination; the node of the petiole globose. Abdomen black, smooth and shining.

Hab. Aru.

Fam. MUTILLIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. MUTILLA, Linn.

1. Mutilla Sibylla, Smith, Proc. Linn. Soc. ii. 86. 11 [Symbol: female].

Hab. Aru; Borneo; Celebes.

2. MUTILLA MANIFESTA. M. capite abdomineque nigris, thorace sanguineo-rubro, maris alis nigro-fuscis.

Female. Length 4-3/4 lines. Head black and rugose. The thorax blood-red and coarsely rugose,
its anterior margin widest and straight, the sides gradually narrowed to the apex in a slight
curve; the lateral margins have two teeth not wide apart. Abdomen black, rugose, and slightly
shining, with black pubescence above; on the under surface it is glittering silvery-white;
the legs and sides of the thorax have a similar pubescence.

Male. The same size as the female, and the same colour; the eyes notched. The thorax oblong-quadrate,
the posterior lateral angles acute; the tegulæ large and red; the wings dark brown, with their
extreme base hyaline. Abdomen shining black, the first and second segments strongly punctured,
the rest much more finely and not very closely so.

Hab. Aru.

3. MUTILLA CARINATA. M. capite thoraceque metallico-purpureis viridi tinctis, pedibus ferrugineis,
abdomine nigro, basi pallido fasciatâ, segmento secundo ad apicem fasciâ bilobatâ ornato.

Female. Length 4-1/4 lines. The head and thorax of a metallic purple tint with shades of green
and copper; the scape of the antennæ, the mandibles, palpi, and legs ferruginous; the head
and thorax closely and strongly punctured. The abdomen velvety black; the base truncate, the
truncation smooth and shining; its margin carinate; the upper surface of the basal segment
yellowish-white, a broad bilobed fascia of the same colour at the apical margin of the second
segment; the apex ferruginous. Male. The head and thorax metallic green, strongly and closely
punctured; abdomen black and shining, much more finely punctured than the thorax; wings light
brown, with their base and extreme apex hyaline; the legs ferruginous.

Hab. Aru.

4. MUTILLA NIGRA. M. nigra et punctata, abdomine lævi et nitido, delicatulè punctato, alis
fuscis, basi hyalinis.

Male. Length 6-1/2 lines. Black; head and thorax closely and strongly punctured; the eyes slightly
notched; the face with silvery-white pubescence, the mandibles shining, the palpi black. Thorax:
the metathorax densely clothed with yellowish-white pubescence; the legs with glittering white
hairs, the calcaria white; wings brown with their base hyaline. Abdomen smooth and shining,
delicately and sparingly punctured, with a few silvery hairs at the sides.

Hab. Aru.

5. MUTILLA EXILIS. M. nigra et punctata; abdomine lævigato, nitido; alis subhyalinis; facie
et metathorace pube argentatâ vestitis. Thorax: the metathorax densely clothed with silvery
pubescence, beneath, at the sides, and also the legs with scattered silvery hairs, the calcaria
white; the tegulæ shining; the wings subhyaline with the nervures dark fuscous. Abdomen shining
black, smooth, and very delicately and sparingly punctured, the apical margins of the segments
very thinly fringed with glittering silvery hairs.

Hab. Aru.

Tribe FOSSORES, Latr.

Fam. SCOLIADÆ, Leach.

Gen. MYZINE.

1. MYZINE TENUICORNIS. M. nigra, alis hyalinis, abdomine nitido flavoque variegato.

Male. Thorax: the posterior margin of the prothorax, a spot beneath the wings, the tegulæ,
and the postscutellum yellow; the anterior and intermediate tibiæ ferruginous and more or less
dusky above, the posterior pair ferruginous beneath. Abdomen shining, the margins of the segments
deeply depressed; a small ovate spot on each side of the first segment, the second and three
following segments with a narrow stripe on each side in the middle, yellow; the yellow markings
obscure; the apical segment coarsely rugose; beneath, the segments are closely and strongly
punctured.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. SCOLIA, Fabr.

Division I. The anterior wings with two submarginal cells and two recurrent nervures.

1. Scolia grossa, Burm. Abh. Nat. Ges. Halle, i. p. 23. (Tiphia grossa, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p.
232. 4.)

Hab. Aru; Java.

The specimens of this species received from Aru are only 9 lines in length; I have examined
others from Celebes, Borneo, India, and Java, showing every difference between 9 lines and
18 lines.

Division II. Anterior wings with two submarginal cells and one recurrent nervure.

2. SCOLIA NITIDA. S. nitida, aterrima; alis æneo et violaceo splendidè micantibus.

Female. Length 11 lines. Shining jet-black, the abdomen with prismatic tints. The flagellum
fusco-ferruginous beneath, the mandibles ferruginous at their apex; the wings dark brown with
a splendid lustre of coppery and golden tints mixed with shades of violet. The head with a
few punctures behind the ocelli; the thorax with scattered punctures; the metathorax finely
but not closely punctured; the disk of the mesothorax impunctate; the abdomen with fine scattered
punctures; the apical segment opake, rugose, and with its apical margin pale testaceous; the
abdomen beneath with strong distant punctures.

Hab. Aru.

3. SCOLIA FULGIDIPENNIS. S. nitida, nigra; abdomine prismatico, alis fuscis viride et violaceo
micantibus.

Female. Length 12-13 lines. Jet-black, shining; head very smooth, the hinder margin of the
vertex finely punctured, the face with a few fine scattered punctures; the flagellum obscurely
rufo-fuscous. Thorax finely punctured, the disk of the mesothorax impunctate; wings dark brown
with a splendid green iridescence, with violet tints towards their base; the legs thickly spinose
and pubescent; the calcaria simple. Abdomen with scattered fine punctures; the apical segment
densely clothed with black pubescence; beneath, with strong scattered punctures.

Male. Rather smaller than the female, much more closely punctured, and not so shining and smooth;
the face with a transverse arched carina above the insertion of the antennæ, which enters the
emargination of the eyes; the clypeus strongly punctured; in other respects resembling the female.

Hab. Aru.

This species belongs to Guérin's division Liacos, of which S. dimidiata is the type; the third
discoidal cell is petiolated, the petiole entering the second submarginal about the middle.

4. SCOLIA INSULARIS. S. nitida nigra; abdomine prismatico, alis obscurè fuscis cupreo submicantibus.

Male. Length 7-9 lines. Shining black; head punctured, the vertex most finely and distinctly
so. Thorax punctured, the disk of the mesothorax impunctate, the punctures wide apart on the
scutellum and metathorax; the wings dark brown with a coppery iridescence, which has a remarkable
dimness as if breathed upon. The basal segment of the abdomen strongly and closely punctured;
the following segments more finely and distantly punctured, particularly the second and third
segments.

Hab. Key Island.

5. SCOLIA QUADRICEPS. S. nitida nigra; foeminæ capite magno subquadrato, alis fuscis cupreo
iridescentibus.

Female. Length 6-8 lines. Black and shining; head subquadrate, smooth and shining, as wide
as the thorax, with a few punctures at the sides of the face and between the antennæ. Abdomen
with a fine prismatic lustre, closely and strongly punctured towards the apex and at the extreme
base, the second segment and the middle of the third with only a few very fine scattered punctures.

Hab. Aru.

This species also belongs to the division Liacos; the petiolated cell is small and oblong-quadrate;
the male exactly resembles the female, except that its head is smaller and narrower than the
thorax; the abdomen is rather more strongly punctured.

Gen. POMPILUS, Fabr.

1. POMPILUS DUBIUS. P. niger, pilis mutabili-sericeis tectus; alis subhyalinis, apice nebuloso.

Female. Length 4-1/4 lines. Black and covered with a thin changeable silvery pile, which is
most dense on the sides of the metathorax and base of the segments of the abdomen. The vertex
emarginate behind, the eyes very large, their inner orbits emarginate, reaching high on the
sides of the head nearly to the margin of the vertex; the clypeus emarginate in front, the
labrum produced. Thorax: the prothorax subelongate, narrowed anteriorly; the wings subhyaline,
their apex clouded; the intermediate and posterior tibiæ with a double row of spines; all the
tarsi simple; the calcaria stout and elongate. Abdomen shining, with the margins of the segments
slightly depressed.

Hab. Aru.

Subgen. AGENIA, Schiödte.

1. Agenia blanda, Guér. Voy. Coq. Zool. pt. 2. ii. p. 260.

Hab. Celebes; India; Singapore; Malacca; Borneo; Key Island.

2. AGENIA CALLISTO. A. nigra, pilis sericeis vestita; facie thoraceque subtùs pube argentato-albâ
densè: vestitis; alis fasciis duabus angustis.

Female. Length 8 lines. Black; the face, clypeus, and cheeks with a dense silvery-white pile;
the tips of the mandibles obscurely ferruginous, the palpi black. Thorax with a brilliant silvery-white
pile on the sides, beneath, and on the coxæ; the metathorax transversely rugose; the wings
hyaline; the anterior pair with a narrow fuscous fascia at the apex of the externo-medial cell,
and a second rather broader at the base of the marginal cell, which does not quite cross the
wing; the apex of the wing fuscous. Abdomen petiolated, smooth and shining, with a beautiful
glossy pile, which is most dense at the sides; the apical segment longitudinally subcarinated
in the middle above.

Hab. Aru.

3. AGENIA JUCUNDA. Thorax: the wings hyaline and iridescent, the nervures very slender and
pale rufo-testaceous, the stigma fuscous; the metathorax rounded behind, transversely rugose,
and covered with silvery-white pile. Abdomen petiolated; the apical margins of the second and
following segments ferruginous, the apical segment entirely so; the ferruginous band on each
segment produced in the middle into an angular shape; on the abdomen beneath they are similarly
produced; the basal segment entirely ferruginous, with a black spot on each side.

Hab. Aru.

4. AGENIA ALTHEA. A. nigra; facie pube argentato-albâ vestitâ, thorace abdomineque sericeo
pubescentibus; alis hyalinis, venis nigris.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black; the face silvery; the anterior margin of the clypeus rounded
and narrowly smooth and shining; tips of the mandibles ferruginous; the mandibles elongate
and pale rufo-testaceous. Thorax: the metathorax finely transversely rugose, the sides with
bright silvery-white pubescence; the coxæ, the thorax beneath and on the sides, with fine silky
sericeous pile; the anterior tibiæ and tarsi, and all the femora at their apex beneath, ferruginous;
wings hyaline and iridescent, nervures black; the outer margin of the tegulæ testaceous. Abdomen
shining, and with a fine silvery sericeous pile; the apical margins of the segments narrowly
rufo-piceous; the terminal segment with an elongate, smooth, shining space, which extends to
the apex, which is testaceous.

Hab. Aru.

5. AGENIA ALCYONE. A. nigra, pilis sericeis cinereis vestita; antennis pedibusque ferrugineis,
alis hyalinis; abdomine petiolato; marginibus apicalibus segmentorum flavis.

Male. Length 7 lines. Black; the antennæ, tips of the mandibles, and the legs ferruginous;
the scape in front, a narrow line on the inner orbit of the eyes, and the anterior portion
of the clypeus yellow; the antennæ fuscous above towards their base. Thorax: the femora beneath
towards their base, the trochanters and coxæ, except their apex, black; the apical joints of
the intermediate and posterior tarsi fuscous; wings hyaline, the nervures fusco-ferruginous,
the tegulæ reddish-yellow. Abdomen petiolated; the apical margins of the segments with reddish-yellow
fasciæ; beneath, the margins of the segments are rufo-piceous, not fasciated.

Hab. Aru.

6. AGENIA AMALTHEA. A. nigra, pilis tenuibus cinereis sericeis vestita; antennis anticè pedibusque
anticis et intermediis anticè ferrugineis; abdomine petiolato; alis hyalinis bifasciatis.

Female. Length 6 lines. Black; the face densely covered with silvery pile; the antennæ in front,
the anterior margin of the clypeus and the tips of the mandibles ferruginous; palpi elongate
and pale rufo-testaceous. Thorax: the posterior margin of the prothorax narrowly, the tegulæ,
the anterior and intermediate femora in front, the posterior pair towards their apex beneath,
the anterior tibiæ and tarsi, the intermediate and posterior tibiæ more or less beneath, and
their tarsi, ferruginous; the tarsi sometimes dusky above; the wings hyaline, a narrow fuscous
fascia at the apex of the externo-medial cell, and a broad one crossing at, and being the width
of, the second and third submarginal cells; tips of the wings milky-white; the metathorax rounded
posteriorly, transversely finely rugose and densely covered with short silvery-white pubescence
at the sides and apex. Abdomen petiolated, smooth and shining, with the apex and the margins
of the segments narrowly rufo-piceous.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. PRIOCNEMIS, Schiödte.

1. PRIOCNEMIS PULCHERRIMUS. P. lætè ruber; alis flavo-hyalinis, apice latè fusco, abdominis
lateribus nigris.

Female. Length 7-1/2 lines. Bright red; the anterior margin of the clypeus with a minute tooth
in the centre; the tips of the mandibles fuscous. The metathorax slightly striated transversely,
and with a central as well as a lateral longitudinal groove; the wings flavo-hyaline, their
apex with a fuscous cloud, which commences at the base of the first discoidal cell, the extreme
tips pale; the tibiæ and tarsi with short slender spines; the extreme apex of the joints of
the posterior tarsi black. Abdomen: the short petiole of the basal segment, and the sides of
the second, third, and fourth segments black, leaving a red line down the middle of each; beneath,
the second, third, and base of the fourth segments black.

Hab. Aru.

2. PRIOCNEMIS FERVIDUS. P. capite, antennis, thorace pedibusque ferrugineis; abdomine nigro;
alis fuscis basi subhyalinis.

Female. Length 9 lines. Ferruginous, with the abdomen black; the anterior margin of the clypeus
rounded. The metathorax transversely rugose; the pectus, and coxæ at their base within, black;
wings brown, with a violet iridescence, their base rufo-hyaline; the intermediate and posterior
tibiæ with a double row of spines, all the tarsi spinose. Abdomen shining black, with the extreme
apex slightly ferruginous.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. MACROMERIS, St.-Farg.

1. MACROMERIS IRIDIPENNIS. M. cæruleo-nigra; abdomine iridescente, alis cæruleo-violaceoque
splendidè micantibus; pedibus mutieis, simplicibus.

Female. Length 12 lines. Blue-black; abdomen with a changeable iridescent pile; head and thorax
with a black velvety pubescence; the metathorax very finely rugose and opake; the legs simple;
the posterior tibiæ villose within; the wings very dark brown, with a splendid violet and blue
iridescence.

Male. Very closely resembling the female, but rather smaller; the anterior and intermediate
femora more incrassate, and all the femora with a simple row of teeth or serrations on their
inferior margins.

Hab. Aru.

Although this species of Macromeris is very similar in colour to the M. violacea of St.-Fargeau,
the femora are not so thick as in that species, not in fact much more so than in the female;
and the row of teeth beneath is a strong specific character.

Gen. SALIUS, Fabr.

1. SALIUS MALIGNUS. S. niger, pube cinereâ sericeâ vestitus; alis fuscis, albo fasciatis.

Female. Length 9 lines. Black, and covered with a fine thin ashy pile; the scape in front,
and the anterior margin of the clypeus narrowly, obscure yellow; the mandibles ferruginous
at their apex, which has a single notch; the palpi pale rufo-testaceous. Thorax: the prothorax
with a slightly interrupted narrow fascia a little before its posterior margin, and the scutellum,
yellow; the anterior femora broadly dilated, and, as well as the anterior tibiæ, ferruginous
within; the intermediate tibiæ ferruginous at their apex in front, and the posterior pair with
a yellowish-white spot at their base outside; the calcaria pale testaceous, the claws ferruginous,
the anterior tarsi entirely so, but more or less obscure; the posterior tibiæ slightly spinose;
the anterior wings brown, with a white fascia crossing at the first discoidal cell, and a second
at the apex of the third submarginal, the extreme base and the anterior margin of the externo-medial
cell hyaline. Abdomen: the apical margins of the segments with a little bright silvery pile.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. MYGNIMIA, Smith.

1. MYGNIMIA ASPASIA. M. cæruleo-nigra; capite thoraceque pube holosericeâ vestitis; alis fulvo-hyalinis;
abdomine pilis iridescentibus vestito.

Female. Length 14 lines. Black, with shades of blue in certain lights; the abdomen with bright
tints of blue and violet, caused by fine iridescent changeable pile; the legs have a similar
pile, very bright on the femora within; the head and thorax with a short black velvety pubescence;
the wings flavo-hyaline; the nervures pale ferruginous; the extreme base of the wings blackish,
their apical margins with a narrow fuscous border. The legs spinose; the posterior tibiæ with
a double row of strong serrations.

Gen. SPHEX, Fabr.

1. SPHEX ARGENTATA, Dahlb. Hym. Eur. i. 25. 1.

Hab. Aru; Celebes; Sumatra; India; Greece; Africa; East Florida.

2. SPHEX SERICEA, Fabr. Syst. Piez. 211. 19.

Hab. Aru; Malacca; Borneo; Java; Philippine Islands.

3. SPHEX AURIFRONS. S. niger; facie pube aureâ vestitâ, alis flavo-hyalinis apice fuscis, abdomine
pilis sericeo-aureis vestito.

Female. Black; the face densely clothed with golden pubescence, the head having a number of
scattered long golden-yellow hairs. Thorax thinly covered with long yellow pubescence, which
is most dense at the sides of the metathorax; the tibiæ, tarsi, and posterior femora ferruginous;
the claw-joint of the tarsi black; the tibiæ and tarsi with black spines; the wings fulvo-hyaline,
their apex with a narrow fuscous border, the nervures ferruginous. Abdomen covered with a fine,
thin, golden-reflecting pile; the apical margins of the segments rufo-testaceous, the testaceous
margin produced in the middle into a triangular shape, most conspicuously so on the segments
beneath.

Hab. Aru.

4. SPHEX NITIDIVENTRIS. S. niger; abdomine nigro-cæruleo, lævigato, nitido; alis fuscis.

Female. Length 12 lines. Black; the face with silvery pubescence, and thinly covered with long
black hairs; the clypeus with a central longitudinal carina at the base, which terminates at
the middle, from whence to the anterior margin is a broad, smooth, shining space. Thorax shining
and finely punctured; the metathorax opake and covered with long, loose, black pubescence;
the legs shining, the posterior tibiæ with shining grey pile within; wings brown, darkest at
their base. Abdomen blue, and very smooth and shining, oblong-ovate; the apical segment vertical.

Hab. Aru.

5. SPHEX SEPICOLA. S. niger; facie pube aureâ vestitâ; alis subhyalinis apice fuscis; abdomine
nitido.

Female. Length 9 lines. Black; the face densely clothed with golden pubescence, the cheeks
with iridescent pile, with a long, loose, scattered pale yellow pubescence on the head and
thorax; the mandibles smooth, shining black. The disk of the thorax with an obscure chalybeous
tint, shining and finely punctured; the metathorax opake and finely rugose; the wings subhyaline,
their apical margins fuscous, the nervures fusco-ferruginous. Abdomen with a slender subelongate
petiole, and with a thin, silky, grey pile; the apical margins of the segments narrowly and
obscurely rufo-piceous.

Male. Rather smaller than the female, more slender and more pubescent, the pubescence on the
face paler.

Hab. Aru.

6. SPHEX GRATIOSA. S. capite thoraceque nigris, abdomine cæruleo, alis fusco-hyalinis.

Male. Length 10 lines. Head and thorax black; the face densely clothed with pale golden pubescence;
the labrum and mandibles highly polished, very smooth and shining; a thin pale pubescence is
scattered over the head, pro- and mesothorax, the latter obscurely chalybeous above, shining,
and finely and closely punctured, with an abbreviated, deeply impressed line in the middle
anteriorly; the posterior margin of the prothorax covered with shining silvery pubescence;
the metathorax opake, and clothed with black pubescence; wings fusco-hyaline, the anterior
pair darkest towards their base, the nervures dark fusco-ferruginous, nearly black. Abdomen
smooth, shining dark blue; beneath, the margins of the segments have a bright, glittering,
pale-golden pile.

Gen. PELOPOEUS, Latr.

1. PELOPOEUS LABORIOSUS. P. niger; scapo anticè, pedibus petioloque rufescenti-flavis, alis
hyalinis fulvo tinctis.

Female. Length 12 lines. Black, with black pubescence on the head and thorax; the face with
a fine cinereous pile; the scape yellow in front; the mandibles smooth and shining. Thorax:
the legs pale ferruginous, the posterior femora darkest; the coxæ, the anterior and intermediate
trochanters, and base of the femora black; wings fulvo-hyaline, the nervures ferruginous; the
metathorax obliquely striated. Abdomen slightly shining at the base, with the petiole reddish-yellow.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. LARRADA, Smith.

1. LARRADA MODESTA. L. nigra; abdomine pilis argentatis fasciato; alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 6-1/2 lines. Black; the face covered with silvery down; the mandibles smooth,
shining, black, and fringed beneath with fulvous hairs, the cheeks silvery. Thorax slightly
shining, closely and delicately punctured; the metathorax opake and transversely striated;
wings subhyaline, with a fuscous border at their apex, the nervures black. Abdomen slightly
shining; the apical margins of the first, second, and third segments with fascia of silvery
pile, which is very brilliant in certain lights.

Male closely resembles the female, but has an additional fascia on the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. LARRA, Fabr.

1. LARRA SIMILLIMA. L. nigra, pulchre prismatica, maculis fasciisque variis flavis ornata.

Female. Length 6-1/2 lines. Black; the abdomen with tints of blue violet; the thorax slightly
prismatic; the labrum, clypeus, an angular scape above, an abbreviated line on the inner orbits
of the eyes, the scape in front, and the antennæ beneath, yellow; the cheeks with a silvery
reflexion. The thorax beneath, and the metathorax, with a shining white silvery pile; the anterior
and intermediate femora and tibiæ beneath yellow; the tarsi pale ferruginous, and more or less
fuscous above; wings subhyaline, the nervures fuscous; a spot on the lateral posterior angles
of the metathorax, two ovate spots on the scutellum, and a line on the postscutellum yellow.
Abdomen: the basal segment with a broadly interrupted fascia a little before its apical margin;
the second and fourth segments with a narrow yellow fascia at their apical margins, which is
widened laterally; beneath, the second and third segments with a yellow spot on each side.

The Male differs from the female in having a large quadrate black spot on the clypeus, and
a spot at the base of the labrum; there is also a narrow yellow line on the posterior margin
of the prothorax; and the third segment of the abdomen has a yellow fascia: it is also rather
smaller.

Hab. Aru.

This insect very closely resembles Larra prismatica, from Borneo, Malacca, and Celebes, of
which it may be a variety.

Gen. BEMBEX, Fabr.

1. Bembex melancholieca, Smith, Cat. Hym. pt. iv. p. 328; Proc. Linn. Soc. ii. p. 105.

Hab. Aru; Sumatra; Borneo.

Many of the specimens from Aru are less highly coloured than those of Sumatra or Borneo: the
yellow markings on the abdomen are frequently much obliterated in the females; others are as
highly coloured as any examples I have seen.

Gen. PISON, Spin.

1. PISON NITIDUS. P. nitidus, niger, distinctè punctatus; alis subhyalinis, venis fuscis; segmentis
abdominalibus apice depressis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black and shining; the head and thorax strongly punctured; the face
beneath, the antennæ, the clypeus, cheeks, and the sides of the segments of the abdomen covered
with a silvery down; the palpi pale testaceous; the mandibles obscurely ferruginous at their
apex. The metathorax transversely striated behind, with a central longitudinal impressed line
above, which is transversely striated, and terminates in a deep fovea just beyond the verge
of the posterior inclined truncation; the wings subhyaline; the nervures dark fuscous; the
first recurrent nervure received at the apex of the first submarginal cell, and the second
at the base of the third submarginal. Abdomen shining, and more delicately punctured than the
thorax; the margins of the segments deeply depressed.

Hab. Aru, Key Island.

Gen. GORYTES, Latr.

1. GORYTES CONSTRICTUS. G. niger; clypei lateribus flavis; collari, tuberculis postscutelloque
flavis; segmentorum abdominis marginibus apicalibus flavis constrictis, pedibusque flavo variegatis.

Female. Length 6 lines. Black; the head and thorax very closely punctured and opake, the head
slightly shining on the vertex; the antennæ beneath and the apical half of the mandibles ferruginous,
the latter black at their tips; the clypeus yellow at the sides, and coarsely rugose in front.
Thorax: the metathorax coarsely longitudinally rugose, with cinereous pubescence at the sides;
the antennæ and intermediate tibiæ, the tarsi, and articulations of the legs reddish-yellow;
wings subhyaline, with a fuscous cloud in the marginal cell, which passes beyond to the apex
of the wings; the nervures fusco-ferruginous; the tegulæ ferruginous. Abdomen shining, covered
with a thin, fine, cinereous pile, and with the margins of the segments constricted; the apical
margins of the segments with narrow yellow fasciæ, that on the fourth abbreviated on each side,
on the fifth it is obsolete; beneath, the second segment is opake, finely punctured, and pilose;
the following segments smooth, shining, and with five scattered punctures.

The Male strongly resembles the female, but is smaller and less variegated with yellow; the
face covered with silvery down; the scape and base of the flagellum ferruginous beneath; the
clypeus yellow, except its extreme base. The thorax black, with the legs rufo-piceous; the
tibiæ and tarsi pale ferruginous, variegated with yellow; the sides of the thorax beneath the
wings longitudinally striated in both sexes, most conspicuously so in the male. The abdomen
with three narrow interrupted fasciæ.

Hab. Aru.

2. GORYTES VAGUS. G. niger; clypeo maculis duabus flavis notato; postscutello et segmentis
primo et secundo fasciâ apicali flavis, fasciâ in segmento primo subinterrupto.

Female. Length 6 lines. Black; the head finely punctured and shining; the anterior margin of
the clypeus emarginate in the middle, and more deeply so on each side; on each side of the
clypeus, at its base, is an oblique yellow spot, and anteriorly it is roughly punctured; the
mandibles roughened at their base, their apical half smooth, shining, and ferruginous, with
their apex black. Thorax subopake, very closely punctured, and slightly shining; the metathorax
coarsely longitudinally rugose-striate; the postscutellum yellow; wings subhyaline and iridescent,
the nervures fusco-ferruginous; a dark fuscous cloud occupies the marginal cell. Abdomen smooth
and shining, with a slightly interrupted fascia a little before the apical margin of the basal
segment; the second segment has a fascia at its apical margin; both are yellowish white; the
first is gradually widened towards the sides of the segment, the second abruptly widened, with
the angle of the widened portion pointed inwards; beneath the abdomen is glossy, with the basal
segment closely punctured and subopake; the margins of abdominal segments slightly constricted.

Hab. Key Island.

Gen. TRYPOXYLON, Latr.

1. TRYPOXYLON EXIMIUM. T. nigrum; clypeo argentato-pubescente; abdominis segmentis secundo
tertio quartoque basi rubris; alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 8-1/2 lines. Black, smooth, and shining; the head and thorax very delicately
punctured; the face and clypeus below the insertion of the antennæ densely covered with silvery-white
pubescence; the anterior margin of the clypeus rounded and much produced, with a slight curving
upwards at its margin; the mandibles yellow, with their apex ferruginous; the palpi pale testaceous;
the inner orbits of the eyes very deeply notched. Thorax: the metathorax, the sides, and beneath
with a thin silvery-white pubescence, most dense on the former; the metathorax not distinctly
enclosed at its base, but with two shallow impressed lines, which mark the form of the usual
enclosed space; a central longitudinal channel extends from its base to the apex, slightly
subinterrupted in the middle; the wings hyaline and iridescent, the nervures dark fuscous;
the anterior and intermediate tibiæ in front, their tarsi, the apical joints of the posterior
pair, and the base of the tibiæ very pale ferruginous; the claw-joint of the intermediate and
posterior tarsi fuscous above; the calcaria pale testaceous. Abdomen, the second, third, and
base of the fourth segment more or less ferruginous; the apex of the basal petiolated joint
ferruginous beneath.

Hab. Aru and Key Island.

Gen. CRABRO, Fabr.

1. CRABRO SOLITARIUS. C. niger; abdomine petiolato; scapo flagellique articulo ultimo, collari,
tuberculis, postscutelli maculis duabus flavis; pedibus petioloque basi ferrugineis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black and opake; the head large, quadrate, and wider than the thorax;
the ocelli in a curve on the vertex; the clypeus covered with silvery pubescence, carinated
in the middle, and slightly produced; the scape and basal joint of the flagellum pale yellow.
Thorax: an interrupted line on the collar, the tubercles, a spot beneath the wings, and two
minute ones on the postscutellum yellow; the disk of the thorax longitudinally delicately rugose;
the metathorax oliquely striated, with an enclosed space at its base, and having a central
longitudinal channel, the side covered with thin silvery pubescence; the wings hyaline and
iridescent, the nervures fuscous; the legs ferruginous, variegated with yellow. Abdomen: the
basal petiolated segment ferruginous, with its apical half black above; the apical segment
with an angular shape at its base, which is smooth and shining, with its lateral margins carinate,
the extreme apex ferruginous; beneath smooth and shining, with the apical margins rufo-piceous.

Hab. Aru.

This species would, according to the views of some Hymenopterists, belong to the genus Rhopalum
of Kirby.

Group SOLITARY WASPS.

Fam. EUMENIDÆ, Westw.

Gen. EUMENES, Latr.

1. Eumenes arcuata, Fabr. Syst. Piez. 287. 11.

Hab. Key Island; coast of New Guinea (Triton Bay); Australia.

Gen. PACHYMENES, Sauss.

1. PACHYMENES VIRIDIS. P. lætè viridis; facie pube argentato-albâ tectâ; alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 8 lines. Bright green; the head, thorax, and basal segment of the abdomen rugose,
the rest of the abdomen finely and very closely punctured; the clypeus thinly covered with
a fine silvery-white pubescence, its apex produced and truncate. Thorax: the metathorax rounded
behind, a deep longitudinal impressed line in the middle, and with fine silvery down at the
sides and behind; the wings subhyaline, with a fuscous stain along the anterior margin of the
superior pair; the legs rufo-piceous; the coxæ, femora, and tibiæ more or less tinged with green.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. RHYNCHIUM, Spin.

1. Rhynchium mirabile, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Sol. 106. 6, t. 14. f. 5 [Symbol: female].

Hab. Aru; Tasmania.

The Male of this fine species closely resembles the female; it is black, with a transverse
spot above the insertion of the antennæ, an abbreviated narrow line behind the eyes, another
on the lower margin of their emargination; the scape in front and the clypeus yellow, the latter
notched at its apex; a minute yellow spot at the base of the mandibles; the antennæ, tibiæ,
apex of the femora, and the tarsi ferruginous; the basal joint of the intermediate and posterior
tarsi dusky; the intermediate femora deeply excavated or hollowed beneath; the prothorax yellow
above; the metathorax truncate, transversely striated with several minute teeth on the lateral
margins; the wings hyaline, tinted with yellow, their apical margins slightly clouded; the
apical margins of all the segments of the abdomen bordered with yellow, that on the first segment
narrowest. The only particulars in which the female apparently differs from Saussure's description,
is that the second fascia on the abdomen is widest at the sides, and there are three little
teeth on each side of the margins of the metathorax.

The Female is also in the Paris Museum.

2. Rhynchium superbum, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Sol. p. 113. 18.

Hab. Aru: New Holland.

Our example of this species slightly differs in coloration from the description of Saussure.
He says, "black, with the vertex, the front, the prothorax, and the border of all the segments
of the abdomen, except the first, yellow; the wings yellow;" in the Aru specimen, the sinus
of the eyes, a spot above the clypeus, a reversed crescent-shaped spot crossing the ocelli,
two oblique spots behind them, and a broad elongate stripe behind the eyes yellow. These slight
differences cannot characterize more than a variety; in every other particular they exactly
correspond.

Gen. ODYNERUS, Latr.

1. ODYNERUS PETIOLATUS. O. niger; clypeo apiculato; capite, thorace abdomineque flavo variis;
abdomine petiolato; alis subhyalinis.

Female. Thorax: an interrupted line on the collar, a spot beneath the wings, the outer margin
of the tegulæ, two spots on the scutellum, two longitudinal curved lines on the metathorax,
extending from the base to the apex, yellow; the yellow lines on the metathorax curving inwards.
The tibiæ, tarsi, and apex of the femora ferruginous; the intermediate and posterior tibiæ
with a fuscous line outside, a spot on the coxæ outside, a stripe at the apex of the anterior
femora beneath, another on the intermediate pair, and a line on the anterior tibiæ, behind,
yellow; wings subhyaline, their margins fuscous. Abdomen petiolated; a fascia on the apical
margins of all the segments, and the petiole, yellow; the third and following fasciæ narrowest;
all the fasciæ continued beneath the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

2. ODYNERUS AGILIS. O. niger; capite thoraceque distinctè, abdomine delicatulè punctatis; pedibus
ferrugineis; abdominis segmentis duobus basalibus flavo fasciatis; alis subhyalinis.

Male. Length 6 lines. Black; the scape in front, a line on the inner margin of the eyes, terminating
in their emargination, an abbreviated line behind them, and the clypeus yellow; the latter
deeply emarginate, forming two teeth. Thorax: a line in the middle of the anterior margin of
the prothorax, two spots on the verge of the emargination of the metathorax, and a fascia on
the apical margins of the first and second segments of the abdomen yellow; the legs ferruginous;
the wings subhyaline, the anterior margin of the superior pair fuscous; the outer margin of
the tegulæ yellowish.

Hab. Aru.

3. ODYNERUS MULTIPICTUS. O. niger, flavo maculatus et punctatus; pedibus flavis, alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 4 lines. Black; the head and thorax strongly punctured, the abdomen finely and
distantly so; the clypeus, a spot above it, the inner and outer orbits of the eyes, and the
scape in front yellow; the clypeus deeply emarginate in front; the mandibles ferruginous, with
a yellow spot at their base. Thorax: the prothorax in front, the tegulæ and two spots beneath
the wings, the scutellum, and sides of the metathorax yellow; the legs yellow, with ferruginous
stains; the femora with a black or dark stain above; wings hyaline, with a fuscous stain along
the anterior border of the superior pair. Abdomen: a yellow fascia on the apical margins of
the two basal segments; the three following segments with very narrow yellow borders, and the
apical segment entirely reddish-yellow.

Hab. Aru.

4. ODYNERUS MODESTUS. O. niger; abdominis segmentis duobus basalibus flavo fasciatis; tibiis
tarsisque femigineis; alis hyalinis; abdominis segmento primo basi transversim bicarinato.

Female. Length 4 lines. Black; head and thorax coarsely punctured; the vertex swollen; the
scape of the antennæ, a spot between them, and the clypeus yellow; the latter with a transverse
black spot in the middle, deeply notched in front, and having a carina on each side, in a line
with the angle or tooth of the emargination; the flagellum ferruginous towards the apex beneath;
wings hyaline, with a fuscous cloud in the marginal cell; the tibiæ and tarsi ferruginous.
Abdomen: the base truncate, with an oblique space above the truncation, the margin of both
defined by an elevated ridge or carina; a narrow fascia on the apical margin of the basal segment,
and a broader one on the second; the latter continued beneath the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

This species is undoubtedly allied to O. Sichellii of Saussure; but, beside differing in the
colour of its legs, and of the bands of the abdomen, it wants the strong tubercle at the base
of the second segment of the latter.

Gen. ALASTOR, St.-Farg.

1. ALASTOR UNIFASCIATUS. A. niger; maculâ inter antennas, abdominisque margine apicali et segmento
secundo flavis; alis fuscis.

Female. Abdomen finely and closely punctured; the third segment strongly so; a broad yellow
fascia on the apical margin of the second segment.

Hab. Aru.

2. ALASTOR APICATUS. A. niger; abdominis segmentis primo et secundo aurantiaco-rubris; alis fuscis.

Male. Abdomen bright orange-red, with the third and following segments black; the base rugose,
the second segment finely punctured, the rest much more strongly so.

Hab. Aru.

Group SOCIAL WASPS.

Fam. VESPIDÆ, Steph.

1. ISCHNOGASTER IRIDIPENNIS. I. rufescenti-fuscus flavo varius; vertice et metathorace nigris,
alis subhyalinis et pulcherrimè iridescentibus.

Male. Length 7-1/4 lines. Head yellow, above the insertion of the antennæ black; antennæ black,
with the scape, basal joint of the antennæ, and the mandibles ferruginous; the flagellum obscurely
ferruginous beneath; the clypeus produced at the apex into an acute tooth. Thorax pale ferruginous;
the metathorax black, with a ferruginous spot on each side in front; the scutellum with a reddish-brown
spot in the middle, the postscutellum yellow and subinterrupted in the middle; the sides of
the thorax yellow anteriorly, the yellow portion with two black spots; the legs slightly variegated
with yellow; wings subhyaline and brilliantly iridescent, the marginal cell with a fuscous
cloud. Abdomen brown; the petiole pale testaceous at its apex and ferruginous beneath, longer
than the head and thorax; the second segment has a yellow macula on each side, and, beneath,
a smaller spot on each side in a line with the side spots; the first segment has its basal
portion yellow beneath, and a blackish spot in the centre rather behind the middle.

Hab. Aru.

This species in many particulars agrees with the I. nitidipennis of Saussure, but differs in
too many, I think, to be considered the same species; the second recurrent nervure is straight
at the upper extremity, then curved towards the margin of the wing, and again straight at its
lower extremity; the third submarginal cell is much wider than the fourth.

Gen. ICARIA, Sauss.

1. Icaria maculiventris, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Soc. p. 23. 1.--Rhopalidia maculiventris, Guér.
Voy. Coq. Zool. ii. pt. 2. Ins. p. 267, pl. 9. fig. 8.

Hab. Aru; New Guinea.

2. ICARIA NIGRA. I. nigra; clypeo anticè angulato; metathorace concavo et transversim striato;
alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 6 lines. Black, punctured and opake; the clypeus terminating in a sharp-pointed
angle; the base and apex of the mandibles rufo-piceous; the scape ferruginous in front; the
face with a thin, fine, griseous pubescence. Thorax slightly margined in front; an obscure
testaceous spot on each side of the postscutellum, the metathorax concave and transversely
striated; wings hyaline. Abdomen with a short petiole to the basal segment, which is very short
and campanulate; at its posterior margin are two minute, obscure, pale spots; beneath, the
margins of the apical segments are rufo-piceous.

Hab. Aru.

3. ICARIA FASCIATA. I. nigra; clypei margine antico, maculis duabus postscutelli flavis; segmentis
abdominis ad apicem flavo angustè fasciatis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black; the clypeus angular in front, its anterior margin and a spot
on the mandibles yellow; the antennæ rufo-testaceous beneath. Thorax: the anterior margin of
the prothorax slightly rebordered; the anterior coxæ with a spot in front and two spots on
the postscutellum yellow; the anterior and intermediate tibiæ beneath, the tarsi beneath and
the claw-joint entirely, ferruginous; wings hyaline with a fuscous stain along the anterior
margin of the superior pair; the metathorax oblique and slightly concave, with an acute stout
tooth on each side. Abdomen: the basal segment campanulate, the petiole short; a narrow yellow
fascia on the apical margin of all the segments.

Hab. Aru.

4. ICARIA BRUNNEA. I. rufescenti-fusca; coxis femoribusque obscuris; alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 3-1/2 lines. Reddish-brown; head and thorax punctured, the abdomen finely rugose;
the clypeus and mandibles pale ferruginous, the former with a darker spot in the middle, the
anterior margin angular. The anterior margin of the prothorax slightly rebordered; the wings
hyaline and iridescent, with a fuscous stain along the anterior margin of the superior pair;
the metathorax abruptly truncate. Abdomen: the basal margin of the third and following segments
black.

Hab. Aru.

5. ICARIA GRACILIS. I. nigra flavo variegata; abdominis segmento basali elongato, gracili et
petiolato; alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 7 lines. Black; the scape in front, the sides and apical margin of the clypeus,
and a spot at the base of the mandibles yellow; the cheeks reddish-yellow; the antennæ ferruginous;
the head covered with short griseous pubescence. Abdomen: a yellow fascia on the apical margin
of the first and second segments; that on the following segments rufo-testaceous.

Hab. Aru.

6. ICARIA UNICOLOR. I. rufescenti-fusca, tenuiter cinereo-pubescens.

Female. Length 5 lines. Reddish-brown, covered with a thin cinereous pubescence; the clypeus
acutely angular anteriorly; the metathorax oblique and delicately striated transversely; wings
fusco-hyaline; the petiole of the abdomen long, the segment campanulated and narrow.

Hab. Key Island.

Gen. POLISTES, Latr.

1. Polistes tepidus, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 271. 7.

Hab. Aru; Key Island; Solomon Islands; New Guinea; Australia.

2. Polistes diabolicus, Sauss. Mon. Guêpes Soc. 68. 26, t. 6. f. 7.

Hab. Aru; Java; Timor.

3. Aru; Celebes; Ceram; India.

Var. The specimens from Aru differ from the typical ones in wanting the two longitudinal yellow
lines on the metathorax, which is entirely black. Saussure has a variety with the metathorax
black between the lines; of two examples from Celebes, one has the yellow lines entire, the
other has them abbreviated at half their length.

4. POLISTES NIGRIFRONS. P. capite thoraceque nigris, flavo et ferrugineo variegatis; abdomine
ferrugineo, segmentis basi nigris, marginibus apicalibus flavis.

Female. Length 8 lines. Head and thorax black; the anterior margin of the clypeus angular and
narrowly rufo-testaceous; the mandibles, palpi, and antennæ ferruginous; the scape, and flagellum
above, except the basal joint, fuscous; the outer orbits of the eyes with a narrow yellow line.
The anterior margin of the prothorax slightly rebordered, the posterior margin ferruginous;
the outer margin of the tegulæ reddish-yellow; wings subhyaline with a fusco-ferruginous stain
along the anterior margins of the superior pair; the metathorax finely striated transversely,
and with two yellow stripes running upwards halfway from the base, the posterior margin of
the pectus, tips of the coxæ, the femora at their base and apex, the tibiæ and tarsi beneath,
ferruginous; tips of the femora, and tibiæ above, yellowish. Abdomen ferruginous, with the
base of the second and following segments black; the first and three following segments with
a yellow fascia on their apical margins; beneath, the two basal segments entirely ferruginous.

Hab. Aru.

This species is closely allied to the P. fastidiosus of Saussure, and, notwithstanding the
difference in colouring, may possibly, I think, be an extreme variety of that species.

5. POLISTES ELEGANS. P. ferrugineus; capite thoraceque flavo variis; segmentis abdominis flavo
marginatis.

Female. Length 8 lines. Ferruginous; the clypeus, mandibles, cheeks, and the face, as high
as the middle of the emargination of the eyes, yellow. Thorax: the margins of the prothorax,
two longitudinal stripes on the mesothorax, the scutellum, postscutellum, and sides of the
metathorax broadly, yellow; the legs beneath, the coxæ and the sides of the thorax spotted
with yellow; the intermediate and posterior coxæ spotted with ferruginous or fusco-ferruginous;
the metathorax finely striated transversely; the wings hyaline with the nervures ferruginous.
Abdomen: the first and three following segments with yellow marginal fasciæ, that on the fourth
usually more or less obliterated.

Hab. Aru; Key Island.

Fam. EVANIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. FOENUS, Fabr.

1. FOENUS GRACILIS. F. niger, facie lateribusque thoracis argenteo pilosis; pedibus anticis
et intermediis pallidè rufo-testaceis, tibiis posticis basi tarsisque albis; abdomine subtùs
rufo-testaceo.

Female. Length 6 lines. Black; subopake; the face, sides of the thorax and beneath with silvery
pubescence; the mandibles, palpi, and scape in front rufo-testaceous. Thorax: the anterior
and intermediate legs rufo-testaceous, the femora having a darker stain above; the posterior
legs black, with the base of the tibiæ and the tarsi white. Abdomen rufo-testaceous beneath;
the ovipositor white at its apex.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. STENOPHASMUS.

Head globose; antennæ longer than the body, and very slender and setaceous; the prothorax forming
a slender neck; the anterior wings with one marginal and three submarginal cells; the femora
slightly incrassate, not denticulate; the tarsi 5-jointed. Abdomen petiolated, the petiole
as long as the abdomen; the ovipositor as long as the petiole and abdomen united.

This genus is founded on the examination of a single individual, which in general appearance
exactly resembles the smaller species of the genus Megischus; on examination, however, it will
be found that it differs from that genus in the neuration of the anterior wings; its femora
are not denticulate, in which character it differs from both Megischus and Stephanus; with
the latter genus it agrees in having 5-jointed tarsi.

1. STENOPHASMUS RUFICEPS. S. niger; capite et antennarum basi rufis; ovipositore tarsisque
pallidè testaceis; petiolo abdominis cylindrico; alis subhyalinis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black, slightly shining; head globose, red and sprinkled with white
hairs, and delicately striated transversely. Thorax sprinkled with white pubescence above,
the sides more thickly clothed with the same; above, the thorax is transversely rugose, on
the metathorax becoming more regularly striate; the metathorax has a central longitudinal carina
and also one on each side; the legs sprinkled with erect white hairs; the tarsi pale rufo-testaceous
with the claw-joint black; wings subhyaline, with a broad light-fuscous stain along the centre
of the anterior pair; a hyaline streak crosses them at the base of the stigma. Abdomen: the
petiole as long as the thorax, narrowest at the base of the abdomen; it is rugose at the base;
the ovipositor pale testaceous.

Hab. Aru.

Fam. ICHNEUMONIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. ICHNEUMON.

1. ICHNEUMON INSULARIS. I. niger; capite thoraceque albo variegatis; abdominis segmentorum
primo, secundo tertioque albo maculatis.

Length 7-1/2 lines. Black; the orbits of the eyes, the face before the antennæ, the mandibles
and palpi yellowish-white; the flagellum with the joints from the 14th to 25th white. Thorax:
a line on each side before the tegulæ, a spot beneath the wings, two at the sides of the pectus,
the anterior coxæ in front, and a narrow line on each side of the scutellum yellowish-white;
the anterior and intermediate legs and a spot beneath the posterior tibiæ rufo-testaceous;
the wings hyaline, the nervures black. Abdomen: a minute spot at the lateral apical margins
of the three basal segments, and a large central one on the two apical segments, white.

Hab. Key Island.

Gen. CRYPTUS, Fabr.

1. CRYPTUS SCUTELLATUS. C. ferrugineus; tibiis posticis tarsisque albo annulatis; scutello
tuberculato.

Female. Length 5 lines. Ferruginous; the face testaceous-yellow, an elongate black spot on
the vertex enclosing the ocelli and extending to the insertion of the antennæ; the latter black,
with the scape ferruginous in front. Thorax: the scutellum elevated, forming a compressed tubercle,
its side view wedge-shaped; the wings hyaline the nervures black, the base of the wings yellowish;
the apical joints of the intermediate tarsi, the tips of the posterior femora, the extreme
base of the tibiæ, their apical half, and the tarsi black; the intermediate portion of the
tibiæ yellow; the apical segment of the abdomen black.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. MESOSTENUS, Grav.

1. MESOSTENUS PICTUS. M. niger; capite thoraceque flavo striatis et punctatis; pedibus flavis
nigro et ferrugineo lavatis; segmentis abdominalibus flavo marginatis; alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 8 lines. Black; a large ovate spot on the cheeks touching the mandibles, the
labrum, palpi, inner orbits of the eyes, and from the 7th to the 10th joints of the antennæ
yellowish-white. Thorax: an ovate spot in the middle of the disk of the mesothorax, the tegulæ,
a spot beneath them, two larger spots beneath the wings, the scutellum, a spot on the postscutellum
uniting with another at the base of the metathorax, a trilobed spot at its apex, and a subovate
one on each side yellowish-white; the coxæ white with black stains on the intermediate and
posterior pairs; the femora white beneath, the anterior and intermediate pairs with a black
line above, the posterior pair ferruginous above; the tibiæ and tarsi whitish beneath, stained
more or less fusco-ferruginous above; wings hyaline. Abdomen: all the segments with yellowish-white
fasciæ on their apical margins, the fasciæ continued beneath; the ovipositor about the length
of the abdomen, the valves broadest at their apex.

Hab. Aru.

2. MESOSTENUS AGILIS. M. niger; antennis medio albis; thorace pedibusque albo variegatis; abdominis
marginibus fasciis albis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black; the joints of the antennæ, from the 6th to 13th, white, the
vertex also white. Thorax: a spot in the middle of the disk of the mesothorax, the scutellum,
a spot on the postscutellum, two beneath the wings, the apex of the metathorax, and a spot
on each side white; the legs white, the anterior pair slightly fuscous above; the intermediate
femora and tibiæ beneath, and the tarsi above, black; the posterior femora above and beneath
the tibiæ, except their extreme base and the base and apex of the tarsi, black; wings hyaline,
the nervures black. Abdomen: the apical margins of the segments, excepting the fourth and fifth,
with white fasciæ, the second and third fasciæ attenuated in the middle.

Hab. Aru.

3. MESOSTENUS ALBOPICTUS. M. niger, albo varius; alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 7 lines. Black; the clypeus, mandibles, palpi, the joints of the antennæ from
the sixth to the thirteenth, and a broad stripe at the inner orbits of the eyes white. Thorax:
an ovate spot on each side of the prothorax above, a similar spot in the middle of the mesothorax,
the tegulæ, scutellum and postscutellum, a T-shaped spot reversed on the metathorax, a large
quadrate one on its sides, three irregular-shaped maculæ beneath the wings, and the anterior
and intermediate legs white, the legs with a black line above; the posterior legs have a large
spot on the coxæ behind, the trochanters, the tibiæ, and tarsi white, the tibiæ black at their
apex, and the femora palish at their base outside; the wings hyaline and iridescent, with the
nervures black. The abdomen beneath, and the apical margins of the segments above, white.

Male. Rather smaller than the female, but only differs otherwise in the colour of the legs,
the anterior and intermediate pairs being entirely yellowish-white, excepting the intermediate
tibiæ and tarsi, which are slightly fuscous above; the posterior femora are ferruginous, the
tibiæ and tarsi white, with the base and apex of the two former black as well as the apical
joint of the tarsi.

Hab. Key Island.

Gen. PIMPLA, Fabr.

1. PIMPLA OCHRACEA. P. ochracea; antennis ferrugineis; facie luteâ; alis hyalinis, apice fuscis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Entirely ochraceous, with the face and scape in front yellow; the body
beneath is pale ochraceous; the antennæ ferruginous, above dusky; the eyes emarginate within;
the tarsi have the tips of the claws black; the wings flavo-hyaline, with the apex of the anterior
pair fuscous, the nervures black, becoming yellow at the base of the wings. The head, thorax,
legs and base of the abdomen smooth and shining; the abdomen, except at the base, finely punctured;
a transverse impressed row of punctures a little before the apical margin of each segment,
and the space between impunctate.

Hab. Aru.

2. PIMPLA BRACONOIDES. P. rufo-flava; antennis tarsisque et abdominis dimidio posteriori nigris;
alis fuscis, dimidio basali flavis.

Female. Length 6 lines. Ferruginous; the posterior tarsi and the fourth and following segments
of the abdomen black; the head is reddish yellow, the eyes brown; the scape and two or three
of the basal joints of the flagellum ferruginous, the rest fuscous; the basal half of the wings
flavo-hyaline, the apical half fuscous; the stigma yellow, with a subhyaline macula beneath,
and two other similar irregular-shaped spots. The abdomen with two longitudinal carinæ on the
basal segment, and a transverse curved impressed line on the other segments.

Hab. Key Island.

This species might at first sight be mistaken for a species of the genus Bracon. The male only
differs from the female in having the abdomen black, with only the basal segment yellow; the
wings are only very slightly yellow at their base; it is also rather smaller.

3. PIMPLA PENETRANS. P. flavo-ferruginea; flagello fusco; alis flavo-hyalinis, apice fuscis.

Female. Length 4-1/4 lines. Reddish yellow, smooth, and shining; the face testaceous, with
slight fuscous stains; the scape and two or three of the basal joints of the flagellum yellow
in front; the wings hyaline, with a yellowish tinge; the nervures black, except the costal
nervure, which is ferruginous towards the base, the apex of the wings slightly clouded; the
posterior tibiæ fuscous above. Abdomen: the segments with slightly impressed oblique depressions,
the ovipositor shorter than the abdomen, and black.

The Male only differs in having the abdomen rather more slender.

Hab. Aru.

4. PIMPLA FERRUGINEA. Ferruginous, with the head and thorax beneath yellow-testaceous; the
coxæ also are of the same colour; the flagellum slightly fuscous above; the wings flavo-hyaline,
the nervures black; the two basal segments of the abdomen shining, the third and the following
segments subopake; the ovipositor as long as the abdomen.

Hab. Key Island.

5. PIMPLA PLAGIATA. P. flavo-rufa; antennis strigisque tribus mesothoracis nigris; alis hyalinis,
apice cellulæ marginalis fusco unimaculato.

Female. Length 5-1/2 lines. Yellow, the legs with ferruginous stains; the antennæ black, with
the scape yellow in front; the head with a large ovate black spot behind the ocelli. Thorax
finely punctured on the disk of metathorax, which has three longitudinal broad black stripes,
a narrow black line on the posterior margin of both the scutellum and postscutellum; wings
hyaline, the nervures black, with a dark fuscous spot at the apex of the marginal cell. Abdomen
reddish-yellow, with the apical margins of the segments yellow; the ovipositor black, and shorter
than the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. RHYSSA, Grav.

1. RHYSSA MACULIPENNIS. R. rufescenti-flava; antennis et vertice nigris; alis hyalinis, plaga
nigro-fusca.

Male. Length 9 lines. Ferruginous; the head of a yellow testaceous, with the vertex and antennæ
black; the scape ferruginous in front; the mandibles black. Thorax: the mesothorax and scutellum
transversely rugose, the former with two deeply impressed lines in front, which converge inwards,
and meet in the middle of the disk; wings hyaline, with a yellow tinge on the anterior pair,
the nervures black; a black stripe crosses the middle of the marginal cell, and terminates
at the inferior margin of the discoidal cell; the legs ferruginous, with the posterior tarsi
black. Abdomen smooth, shining, ferruginous.

Hab. Aru.

2. RHYSSA VESTIGATOR. R. ferruginea; antennis, mesothorace, metathoracisque basi nigris; abdomine
lineari, nitido et lævi; alis hyalinis, apice subfuscato.

Male. Length 9 lines. Head testaceous-yellow, with the vertex ferruginous; the antennæ fusco-ferruginous.
Thorax black, with the prothorax, a large oblique spot beneath the wings, the scutellum, and
metathorax yellow, the base of the latter black; the mesothorax and scutellum rugose; the metathorax
smooth and shining; the legs ferruginous, with the anterior coxæ in front and the posterior
pair behind yellow; the posterior coxæ black beneath; wings hyaline, faintly clouded at their
apical margins. Abdomen elongate, linear, glossy, smooth, and shining, ferruginous, with the
base and lateral margins blackish.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. BRACON, Fabr.

1. BRACON BASALIS. B. capite, thorace, pedibus anticis et intermediis, femoribus posticis ferrugineis;
tibiis tarsisque et abdomine nigris, segmento basali flavo; alis fusco-hyalinis.

Female. Length 4-1/4 lines. The head, scape in front, thorax, anterior and intermediate legs,
the posterior coxæ, trochanters, and femora, and the first segment of the abdomen, and a semicircular
spot in the middle of the base of the second, yellow-ferruginous; the antennæ, the posterior
tibiæ and tarsi, fuscous; abdomen shining black; the thorax smooth and shining; the wings fusco-hyaline.
The basal segment of the abdomen with a longitudinal impressed line on each side, the second
segment with an oblique depression, the third with an impressed line, curved forwards and extending
to the lateral margins; the base of the segment has a row of short, deeply impressed striæ;
the ovipositor shorter than the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

2. BRACON ALBO-MARGINATUS. B. capite, thorace pedibusque ferrugineis; abdomine nigris annulis
albo-marginatis; alis fusco-hyalinis.

Female. Length 4-1/2 lines. Head, thorax, and legs ferruginous, smooth, and shining; antennæ
and abdomen black, the latter smooth and shining, the posterior margins of the third and following
segments with a narrow bluish-white fascia; the posterior tarsi slightly fuscous; the wings
fusco-hyaline; the ovipositor a little longer than the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

3. BRACON NIGRIPENNIS.

Female. Length 9 lines. Head testaceous, the antennæ black. Abdomen longitudinally aciculate,
a central carina at the base of the first segment, the second segment with an oblique impressed
line running from the lateral angles of its basal margin, and meeting in the centre of its
posterior margin; the margins of all the segments constricted; the ovipositor shorter than
the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

4. BRACON EXOLETUS. B. niger; capite, thorace, pedibus anterioribus et intermediis ferrugineis;
alis subhyalinis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Head, scape of the antennæ, thorax, anterior and intermediate legs,
ferruginous; flagellum and tips of the mandibles black. Thorax smooth and shining; wings fusco-hyaline,
the nervures dark brown; the posterior legs fusco-ferruginous. Abdomen rugose and subopake;
the basal segment black in the middle, with the base and lateral margins ferruginous, the sides
deeply channeled; the second segment with an arrow-headed shining space in the middle of its
base; the ovipositor shorter than the abdomen.

Hab. Aru.

5. BRACON ABDOMINALIS. B. rufo-flavus; antennis fuscis; alis subhyalinis; abdomine ovato.

Female. Length 3 lines. Reddish yellow; head and thorax smooth and shining; the head narrower
than the thorax; wings fusco-hyaline; abdomen ovate, broader than the thorax, the first and
second segments rugose, with deep sculptured impressions; the second segment has an ovate shining
space in the middle at its basal margin; the third segment is deeply depressed and sculptured
at the base, leaving a transverse arched space at its apex, the width of the entire segment;
the following segments have their margins very deeply depressed.

Hab. Aru.

6. BRACON NITIDUS. B. niger; capite, thorace pedibusque et abdominis segmento primo ferrugineis,
totis nitidissimis.

Female. Length 4 lines. Ferruginous, with the flagellum, second and following segments shining
black; the thorax smooth and shining, with the scutellum prominent; the wings subhyaline, their
apical margins clouded, their extreme base yellowish, the nervures dark brown, the stigma black.
Abdomen: the second and third segments with deeply impressed oblique lines on each side, and
the basal margins of the following segments depressed.

Hab. Aru.

7. BRACON PALLIFRONS. B. niger; thorace pedibusque anticis et intermediis ferrugineis; alis fuscis.

Female. Length 6 lines. Head obscure, testaceous yellow; the eyes brown; the antennæ black.
Thorax and the anterior and intermediate legs ferruginous; an ovate black spot on the metathorax;
and the posterior legs black, with the articulations obscurely ferruginous; wings dark fuscous,
with the nervures and stigma black, the base of the latter yellowish, and a hyaline streak
beneath it, which crosses the first submarginal cell. Abdomen black and shining; the first
segment with some coarse striae at the apex; the second with a central forked carina and an
oblique one on each side running inwards to the apex of the segment; between the carinæ are
a number of deep grooves; the lateral margins of the three basal segments carinated; the third
segment has a row of short deep striæ at its base; the ovipositor longer than the body.

Hab. Aru.

8. BRACON INTRUDENS. B. niger; thorace, pedibus anticis intermediisque et abdominis segmento
basali ferrugineis; alis hyalinis.

Female. Length 5 lines. Black; the thorax, anterior and intermediate legs, the articulations
of the posterior pair, and the base of the abdomen ferruginous, entirely smooth and shining;
the wings subhyaline, the nervures fusco-ferruginous, an irregular fuscous stain at the base
of the first submarginal cell, extending beyond it. Abdomen: the basal segment margined at
the sides; the second segment with an oblique deeply impressed line running inwards, not quite
meeting or extending to the apical margin.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. AGATHIS, Latr.

1. AGATHIS FUMIPENNIS. A. ferruginea; capite, abdominis apice tarsisque posticis nigris; alis
obscurè fuscis.

Female. Length 4 lines. Reddish-yellow; the head, apical joint of the intermediate tarsi, the
apex of the posterior tibiæ, and the third and following segments of the abdomen black; the
thorax and legs with a thin, short, pale fulvous pubescence; the head and abdomen smooth and
shining; the head produced before the eyes into a kind of beak, rufo-piceous anteriorly. Thorax
narrowed before the wings, which are dark fuscous, with a hyaline irregular mark below the
stigma, crossing the submarginal cell; the anterior margin of the anterior wings pubescent;
the metathorax broad, margined laterally, with a central forked carina, and a crooked one on
each side; the posterior legs incrassate. Abdomen with the sides of the upper surface carinated.

Hab. Aru.

Fam. CHRYSIDIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. STILBUM, Spin.

1. Stilbum splendidum, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 170. 1.

Hab. Aru; Senegal; Java; Bengal.

2. Stilbum amethystinum, Fabr. Syst. Piez. p. 176. 32.

Hab. Aru; Australia.

Fabricius includes this insect in the genus Chrysis; the typical specimen, however, proves
that it belongs to the more modern genus Stilbum: it is very distinct from S. splendidum, being
much more strongly and coarsely punctured; and the teeth which arm the apical segment are differently
disposed on the margin.

Fam. TENTHREDINIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. ORYSSUS, Fabr.

1. ORYSSUS MACULIPENNIS. O. niger, punctatus; pedibus ferrugineis; alis fuscis fasciâ hyalinâ
ante cellulam marginalem sitâ. Thorax coarsely punctured; the mesothorax with a central longitudinal
smooth elevation; wings fuscous, with a broad transverse hyaline fascia before the base of
the marginal cell, the tips of the wings hyaline; the legs ferruginous, with the coxæ and trochanters
black; the posterior tibiæ with a double row of serrations outside. Abdomen shining and closely
punctured; the base and apex coarsely so.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. XYPHIDRIA, Latr.

1. XYPHIDRIA RUFIPES. X. nigra; mandibulis, antennarum scapo, pedibusque ferrugineis; alis
hyalinis et iridescentibus.

Female. Length 4 lines. Black and shining; the vertex highly polished; the front from the posterior
ocelli forwards closely punctured and opake; the mandibles, scape, and basal joint of the flagellum
ferruginous. The thorax anteriorly punctured and opake, posteriorly shining, and with a few
punctures at the base of the scutellum; wings hyaline and iridescent, the nervures black, the
extreme base of the wings and the tegulæ pale testaceous; the legs pale ferruginous, with the
claws of the tarsi darker. Abdomen: the base of the segments depressed and very delicately
and closely punctured, subopake; the apical half highly polished and shining; beneath obscurely
rufo-piceous.

Hab. Aru.

Gen. TREMEX, Jurine.

1. TREMEX INSIGNIS. T. nigro-purpureus; abdominis fasciis basalibus albis; alis nigris cupreo
nitentibus.

Female. Length 11 lines. Obscure steel-blue, with shades of green, purple and violet; the head
and thorax punctured; the prothorax with an oblique smooth shining space on each side; the
wings very dark brown, with a brilliant coppery effulgence. The base of the abdomen opake,
velvety, purple-black; the first segment with a transverse cream-coloured fascia in the middle,
the second very slightly whitish at its base; the rest of the abdomen is highly polished, and
has a scattered, short, black pubescence.

Hab. Aru.

Note on Two Insect-products from Persia. By DANIEL HANBURY, Esq., F.L.S.

[Read December 16th, 1858.]

In the month of June last, my friend Professor Guibourt, of Paris, laid before the Académie
des Sciences[G] some account of a remarkable substance called Tréhala, the cocoon of a Curculionidous
insect found in Persia, where, as well as in other parts of the East, it enjoys some celebrity
as the basis of a mucilaginous drink administered to the sick.

Specimens of this substance, as well as of another insect-product of Persia, together with
the insects themselves, were presented a few years ago to the British Museum by W. K. Loftus,
Esq., who obtained them while engaged by the British Government on the question of the Turco-Persian
boundaries.

The precise determination of the species of these insects being a matter of doubt, they have
at my request been lately examined by M. Jekel, of Paris, an entomologist with whom the family
of Curculionidæ has long been an especial study. One of these insects M. Jekel has identified
with a species of wide distribution; the other proving undescribed, he has drawn up a description
of it, which, accompanied by a figure, I have the honour to lay before the Linnean Society.
To this, I venture to add a few observations upon the productions to which I have alluded.

The first of these is Tréhala or Tricala, under which name it formed part of the Collection
of Materia Medica sent by M. Della Sudda, of Constantinople, to the Paris Exhibition of 1855,
and since deposited in the Ecole de Pharmacie in Paris.

Tréhala (fig. 2) consists of cocoons of an ovoid or globular form, about 3/4 of an inch in
length; their inner surface is composed of a smooth, hard, dusky layer, external to which is
a thick, rough, tuberculated coating of a greyish-white colour and earthy appearance. Some
of the cocoons have attached to them the remains of the tomentose stalk of the plant upon which
they were formed; others have portions of a tomentose spiny leaf built into them; and, more
rarely, one finds portions of the flowering heads of the plant, a species of Echinops, similarly
enclosed. Many of the cocoons are open at one end and empty; others have a longitudinal aperture,
originally closed by the stalk of the plant, and still contain the insect; a few are entirely
closed. Specimens of this insect, extracted from the cocoons sent to Paris, were examined in
1856 by my friend Mr. W. Wilson Saunders, who pronounced them to be Larinus maculatus of Faldermann,--a
determination also arrived at by M. Jekel from specimens presented by Mr. Loftus to the British
Museum. Respecting these latter, one of which is represented in fig. 1, M. Jekel makes the
following remarks:--

    "LARINUS MACULATUS, Faldermann, Faun. Transcauc. ii. p. 228, 449,
    tab. 6. f. 10, et iii. p. 198.--Schönh. Gen. et Sp. Curcul. iii.
    p. 112 et vii. 2. p. 7.--Hochhuth, Bull. Moscou, 1847, No. 2. p.
    538 (var. [Greek: gamma]).

    "Var. [Greek: gamma]. Larin. Onopordinis, Sch. loc. cit. iii. p.
    111 (excl. synon.).

    "Of this species, Mr. Loftus captured several specimens, all of
    small size: from some of them the pollinosity had been rubbed off,
    as is represented in the figure by Mr. Ford (vide fig. 1), which
    shows only a part of the inferior layer of tomentum and the greyish
    ground of the dorsal and lateral maculæ; the latter, being the most
    densely coloured in fresh specimens, are always the most persistent.
    These belong to Schönherr's var. [Greek: gamma], which that author
    formerly regarded as the Larinus Onopordinis, Fabr. Others of Mr.
    Loftus's specimens, which are very fresh, belong to var. [Greek:
    beta]; none to the typical variety, which is often larger in size.

    "This species has a very extended habitat: I have received it from
    European Turkey (Frivaldski), Beyrouth, Caucasus, Persia (Dupont),
    &c. &c.; and it is recorded by Schönherr as also found in Barbary
    and Portugal.

    "This is the insect which proceeds from the rough chalky-looking
    nidus figured by Mr. Ford. (Vide fig. 2.)"

The entomological question being so far disposed of, I may be permitted a few remarks upon
the properties which have obtained for Tréhala a place among drugs and dietetic substances.

The first author who gives any account of the substance is Father Ange, who, in his 'Pharmacopoea
Persica[H],' describes it in the following terms:--"Est autem istud medicamentum veluti tragea
ex nucleo pistacii integro confecta; nam revera saccharum istud exterius corrugatum et agglomeratum
adhæret cuidam nucleo, in quo non fructus, sed vermiculus quidam nigricans Persice C-hezoukek
bombycis instar reconditur et moritur."

Father Ange also states that the substance is called in Persian Schakar tigal ([Persian script]),
literally Sugar of nests; but his Arabic names, Schakar el ma-ascher ([Arabic script]) and
Saccar el aschaar, apply to an entirely different substance, namely to a saccharine matter
exuded, after the punctures of an insect, from the stems of Calotropis procera, R. Br.[I],
of which plant he gives a quaint but tolerably characteristic description.

Mr. Loftus, who obtained the specimens which he presented to the British Museum, at Kirrind
in Persia, in September, 1851, gives as the Persian name of the cocoons Shek roukeh--a term,
probably, the same as the "C-hezoukek" (a misprint?) of Father Ange, but the signification
of which I have not been able to discover.

Another notice of the same substance, with a figure, is briefly given in Dr. Honigberger's
'Thirty-five Years in the East' (Lond. 1852, vol. ii. pp. 305-6), where we read that Manna
teeghul or Shukure teeghal, which are certain insect-nests of a hard texture, rough on the
outside, smooth within, about half an inch in length, and of a whitish colour, are imported
into Lahore from Hindostan.

M. Bourlier published in 1857 an interesting note on the same substance[J], which has been
followed by M. Guibourt's communication to the Académie des Sciences, and still later by a
memoir on the chemical history of Tréhala, by M. Marcellin Berthelot, also presented to the
Academy[K].

From the investigations of M. Guibourt, it appears that the cocoons are composed of a large
proportion of starch (identical with that found in the stem of the Echinops, upon which the
insect forms its nest), of gum, a peculiar saccharine matter, a bitter principle, besides earthy
and alkaline salts.

The saccharine principle, which has been especially examined by M. Berthelot, and named by
him Tréhalose, is a body analogous to cane-sugar, but possessing distinctive properties, which
separate it from that and all other varieties of sugar.

M. Bourlier states that Tréhala, which is abundant in the shops of the Jew drug-dealers of
Constantinople, is frequently used by the Arab and Turkish physicians in the form of a decoction,
which is regarded by them as of peculiar efficacy in diseases of the respiratory organs.

The second insect-product to which I would draw attention, is a saccharine substance resembling
dark honey. Mr. Loftus, who obtained it near Kirrind, 13th July, 1851, and whose specimen is
in the British Museum, states that it is exuded from a species of thistle when pierced by a
Rhynchophorous insect; but he fails to inform us for what purposes it is used by the inhabitants.

Mr. Loftus having also presented the Museum with excellent specimens both of the plant and
insect, I am able to state that the former is Echinops persicus, Fisch., and the latter a new
species of Larinus, to which M. Jekel has applied the name Larinus mellificus, and of which
he has drawn up the following description:--

    "LARINUS MELLIFICUS, Jekel (fig. 3). Breviter ovatus, convexus,
    niger, nitidus; infra subtiliter, lateribus thoracis margineque
    elytrorum intus medio versus angulariter ampliata, apicem occupante
    griseo-cinerascenti tomentosis; rostro leviter punctato, basi
    utrinque bicanaliculato cum elevatione media lata subcariniformi;
    thorace subconico antice tubulato, supra confertim sat rude
    punctato, lateribus subrugoso; elytris striato-punctatis,
    interstitiis latis, planis, transversim subtilissime rugulosis, cum
    abdomine tenuissime alutaceis, punctis majoribus remotioribus
    impressis; pectore, lateribus, pedibusque rugoso-punctatis,
    femoribus infra fortiter oblique costato-rugosis; tibiis intus,
    anticis fortius crenulatis. Long. (rostr. excl.) 16-18, lat. elytr.
    8-9 mill.

    "Patria--Persia, prope Kirrind, ubi Echinopsidis speciem
    frequentat, cujus plantæ caules ab hoc insecto puncti materiam
    quamdam saccharinam sudant." W. K. Loftus, Mus. Brit.

Very similar to L. Onopordinis, but proportionably more elongate and less convex; rostrum and
thorax longer; pilosity of the body underneath much thinner and shorter; thighs thicker, more
clavate, the anterior evidently costate-rugose underneath; without whitish marks on the elytra,
and without that layer of light-brown earth-like pollinose transudation which is often wanting
in rubbed specimens of Larinus Onopordinis. The freshest specimens have the griseous margin
of the elytra, which parts from the base under the shoulder, obliquely and angularly ampliate
interiorly towards the middle, where it reaches the second stria. This griseous pilosity fills
all the tips of the elytra, leaving bare only the sutures, an angular notch behind the middle
(which forms with that apical part of the suture a kind of hook on each elytron), and two round
spots, one submarginal fronting the tip of the notch, the other larger, discoidal, behind the
foot of the notch, much above the tip.

FOOTNOTES:

[G] Comptes Rendus, 21 Juin, 1858, p. 1213.

[H] Pharmacopoea Persica ex idiomate Persico in Latinum conversa. Lutet. Paris., 1681, p. 361.

[I] This saccharine substance is noticed by Avicenna as Zuccarum alhusar (Lib. ii. Tract. ii.
cap. 756, ed. Valgr. Venet. 1564), and also by Matthiolus (Comm. in Lib. ii. Diosc. cap. 75).
It is likewise referred to by Endlicher (Enchiridion Botanicum, p. 300), Royle (Illustr. of
the Bot. of the Himalayan Mountains, vol. i. p. 275), Merat and De Lens (Dict. de Matière Médicale,
l. i. p. 467), &c.

[J] Revue Pharmaceutique de 1856, par Dorvault, p. 37.

[K] Comptes Rendus, 28 Juin 1858, p. 1276.

Catalogue of the Heterocerous Lepidoptera collected at Singapore by Mr. A. R. WALLACE, with
Descriptions of New Species. By FRANCIS WALKER, Esq., F.L.S.

[Read Feb. 17, 1859.]

Fam. URANIIDÆ, Westwood.

Gen. NYCTALEMON, Dalman.

1. Nyctalemon Hector, White, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. vii. 1771.

Inhabits also Borneo.

Fam. AGARISTIDÆ, Swainson.

Gen. EUSEMIA, Dalman.

2. Eusemia maculatrix, Westwood, Cat. Orient. Ent. 67, pl. 33. f. 1.

Inhabits also Hindostan and Java.

3. Eusemia mollis, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. vii. 1774.

Inhabits also Hindostan.

Fam. ZYGÆNIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. SYNTOMIS, Illiger.

4. SYNTOMIS ANNOSA, n. s. Foem. Cinereo-fusca; capite, antennis apice, humeris abdominisque
maculis lateralibus albis; alis maculis quatuor vitreis.

Female. Cinereous brown. Head white. Antennæ serrated, white towards the tips. Thorax with
a large white spot on each side in front. Abdomen somewhat compressed towards the base, with
white spots along each side. Wings long, with the discal areolets from the base to beyond the
middle mostly vitreous, but having the veins bordered with brown. Length of the body 9 lines;
of the wings 22 lines.

5. SYNTOMIS CHLOROLEUCA, n. s. Foem. Nigro-viridis; fronte, antennis apice, humeris abdominisque
fasciis duabus dorsalibus fasciisque ventralibus albis; alis purpureo-nigris, anticis maculis
quatuor vitreis, posticis macula una vitrea.

Female. Blackish-green. Front, antennæ towards the tips, and two humeral spots white. Antennæ
simple. Abdomen with a white band at the base, and with another on the fifth segment, and with
white ventral bands. Wings purplish-black; fore wings with four vitreous spots; the fore one
of the interior pair not one-third of the size of the hind one, which is very long; the fore
one of the exterior pair much narrower than the hind one, and accompanied at its inner end
by an elongated vitreous point; hind wings with an elongated vitreous spot. Length of the body
4-1/2 lines; of the wings 12 lines.

6. SYNTOMIS XANTHOMELA, n. s. Mas. Nigra; fronte, thoracis margine antico abdominisque fasciis
ochraceis; antennis apice albis, abdominis fasciculo pallide cinereo; alis anticis maculis
quinque vitreis, posticis maculis duabus vitreis.

Male. Black. Front, fore borders of the thorax and hind borders of the abdominal segments ochraceous;
dorsal tuft pale cinereous, rather large. Antennæ simple, white towards the tips. Fore wings
with five vitreous spots, of which the basal one is small and round, and the other four large
and elongated; the exterior pair intersected by the black veins. Hind wings with two vitreous
spots, of which one is basal and the other discal. Length of the body 4 lines; of the wings
9 lines.

Fam. LITHOSIIDÆ.

Gen. NYCTEMERA, Hübner.

7. NYCTEMERA MUNDIPICTA, n. s. Mas et Foem. Fusca; capite thoraceque albo vittatis; abdomine
albo guttis dorsalibus fuscis; alis anticis basi albo venosis, fascia exteriore obliqua postice
abbreviata alba, posticis albis fusco marginatis. Foem. Thorace fascia postica lutea, abdomine
fusco fasciis albis; alis anticis fascia latiore vix abbreviata.

Male. Brown. Head and thorax with white lines. Antennæ moderately pectinated. Pectus with black
spots, luteous on each side. Abdomen white, with brown dorsal dots; tip luteous. Legs white.
Fore wings with white veins towards the base, and with an exterior oblique white band, which
is narrower hindward, and ends at some distance from the interior border. Hind wings white,
with a broad brown border. Female? Larger. Antennæ slightly pectinated. Thorax with a slight
luteous band in front, and another hindward. Abdomen brown, with a white band on the hind border
of each segment; under side white, with brown spots along each side. Fore wings with the band
much broader, hardly straightened hindward, and ending very near the interior border. Length
of the body 5-6 lines; of the wings 16-20 lines.

Gen. CYCLOSIA, Hübner.

8. CYCLOSIA SUBMACULANS, n. s. Mas. Nigra, velutina, squamis nonnullis cyaneis, subtus albo
cyaneoque fasciata; alis anticis purpureo-nigris, punctis paucis exterioribus, alis posticis
fuscis, punctis submarginalibus albis; alis quatuor subtus fuscis, guttis exterioribus et submarginalibus
albis.

Male. Black, with a few metallic blue specks, and with metallic bluish-white pectoral spots
and ventral bands. Antennæ slightly pectinated. Wings velvety, rather long, brown beneath,
with an exterior and a submarginal row of white dots; fore wings purplish-black, with a few
exterior and submarginal white points; hind wings brown, with submargiual white points. Length
of the body 9 lines; of the wings 28 lines.

9. CYCLOSIA NIVIPETENS, n. s. Mas. Cinereo-nigra; antennis cyaneo-nigris subpectinatis; alis
anticis fascia lata submarginali alba.

Male. Cinereous-black. Antennæ bluish-black. Fore wings with a broad, submarginal, upright,
white band, which is much narrower hindward, and is intersected by the black veins. Length
of the body 7 lines; of the wings 22 lines.

Gen. PIDORUS, Walk.

10. PIDORUS CONSTRICTUS, n. s. Mas. Cyaneo-niger, subtus testaceus; antennis pectinatis corpore
vix brevioribus; thoracis margine antico coccineo; alis angustis, anticis fascia exteriore
subrecta subobliqua flavo-alba, posticis cinereo-nigris.

Male. Bluish-black, testaceous beneath. Antennæ moderately pectinated, hardly shorter than
the body. Thorax crimson along the fore border. Wings narrow, somewhat testaceous beneath towards
the base; fore wings with a slightly oblique, hardly curved, yellowish-white exterior band;
hind wings cinereous-black. Length of the body 5 lines; of the wings 16 lines.

Gen. HYPSA, Hübner.

11. Hypsa silvandra, Cram. Pap. Exot. iv. 155, pl. 369. f. D (Phalæna).

Inhabits also Hindostan, China, and Australia.

12. Hypsa egens, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. 11. 453. 12.

Inhabits also Hindostan and Java.

Gen. SETINA, Schranck.

13. SETINA BIPUNCTATA, n. s. Mas. Flava; alis anticis punctis duobus basalibus guttaque discali
nigris.

Male. Yellow, closely allied to S. apicalis (Cat. Lep. Het. 521). Fore wings black along the
costa towards the base, where there are two black points; a small black dot at the tip of the
discal areolet. Hind wings a little paler than the fore wings. Length of the body 3 lines;
of the wings 8 lines.

Gen. BIZONE, Walk.

14. Bizone hamata, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. 88. 5493.

Inhabits also China.

Gen. DEIOPEIA, Stephens.

15. DEIOPEIA DETRACTA, n. s. Foem. Pallide lutea; thorace guttis nigris; alis sat angustis
nigro guttatis, fimbria pallida nitente; alis anticis nigro transverse quadristrigatis.

Female. Pale luteous. Thorax with six black dots. Wings narrower than in the other species
of this genus, with black dots, of which the most part are towards the exterior border, where
they form two irregular lines, and are somewhat confluent on the under side; fringe whitish,
shining. Fore wings with four short transverse various black streaks, of which the first and
the second form an interrupted line. Length of the body 5 lines; of the wings 14 lines.

Gen. DARANTASIA, n. g.

Foem. Corpus sat robustum. Proboscis distincta. Palpi porrecti, breves, caput non superantes;
articulus tertius longiconicus, acutus, secundi dimidio non longior. Antennæ setaceæ, simplices,
gracillimæ. Abdomen subconicum, alas posticas superans; sexualia sat magna. Pedes breves, nudi,
sat validi, calcaribus robustis sat longis. Alæ breviusculæ, sat angustæ; anticæ apud costam
convexæ, apice rotundatæ, margine exteriore perobliquo.

Allied to Lemyra (Cat. Lep. Het. vii. 1690).

Female. Body rather stout. Proboscis moderately long. Palpi porrect, short, not extending beyond
the head; third joint elongate-conical, acute, about half the length of the second. Antennæ
setaceous, simple, very slender, full half the length of the body. Abdomen nearly conical,
extending somewhat beyond the hind wings; anal appendages rather large. Legs short, bare, rather
stout; spurs stout, rather long. Wings rather short and narrow; fore wings convex along the
costa, rounded at the tips, extremely oblique along the exterior border.

16. DARANTASIA CUNEIPLENA, n. s. Mas. Nigra; corpore subtus, capite, thoracis fasciis duabus
anticis maculaque postica abdominisque fasciis posticis luteis; pedibus luteis, tibiis supra
nigris; alis anticis luteo octo-strigatis, posticis luteo strigatis.

Male. Black, mostly luteous beneath. Head luteous. Thorax with two luteous bands in front,
and with a luteous spot hindward. Abdomen with luteous bands hindward. Legs luteous; tibiæ
black above. Fore wings with eight wedge-shaped luteous streaks, of which three are near the
base, two subcostal, two hindward, and one submarginal and transverse. Hind wings with three
luteous streaks, of which the first and second are connected exteriorly, and the third is short,
broad, and submarginal. Length of the body 3-1/2 lines; of the wings 8 lines.

Fam. LIPARIDÆ, Boisduval.

Gen. ARTAXA, Walk.

17. ARTAXA VARIANS, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. iv. 796.

Inhabits also West Africa, Hindostan, and China.

Gen. PANTANA, Walk.

18. PANTANA BICOLOR, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. iv. 820.

Note.--P. dispar, a native of Hindostan, and P. ampla, a native of China, may be varieties
of this species.

Fam. NOTODONTIDÆ, Stephens.

Gen. DARABITTA, n. g.

Foem. Corpus vix robustum. Proboscis brevis. Palpi longiusculi, oblique ascendentes, non pilosi.
Antennæ validæ, subcompressæ, breviusculæ, simplices. Abdomen conicum, alas posticas non superans.
Pedes squamosi, læves, brevinusculi, sat graciles, calcaribus longis. Alæ latiusculæ, non longæ;
anticæ apud costam rectæ, apice subrotundatæ, margine exteriore vix convexo.

This genus hardly belongs to the Notodontidæ; but its precise situation seems to be uncertain.
Female. Body hardly stout. Proboscis short. Palpi rather long and slender, not pilose, obliquely
ascending, rising a little higher than the vertex; third joint elongate-conical, less than
half the length of the second. Antennæ stout, bare, slightly compressed, little longer than
the thorax; joints few. Abdomen conical, not extending beyond the hind wings. Legs squamous,
smooth, rather short and slender; spurs long. Wings rather broad, not long; fore wings straight
along the costa, slightly rounded at the tips; exterior border hardly convex, very slightly
oblique.

19. DARABITTA STRIGICOSTA, n. s. Foem. Rufa, vix cinerascens; alis anticis linea submarginali
e punctis nigris, lineolis tribus costalibus obliquis albis, prima angulata, secunda tertiaque
connexis.

Female. Red, with a slight cinereous tinge, more cinereous beneath. Antennæ pale. Fore wings
with three white oblique costal streaks; first streak forming an outward angle; second connected
in the disk with the third, which is oblique in the contrary direction; a row of submarginal
black points. Length of the body 3 lines; of the wings 8 lines.

Fam. LIMACODIDÆ, Duponchel.

Gen. MIRESA, Walk.

20. MIRESA CURVIFERA, n. s. Mas. Rufa, crassa, brevis; antennis late pectinatis; alis anticis
linea exteriore arcuata nivea, spatio contiguo exteriore obscuriore.

Male. Red, thick, short. Palpi porrect, extending a little beyond the head. Antennæ shorter
than the thorax, broadly pectinated except towards the tips. Abdomen short, obtuse, not extending
beyond the hind wings. Legs short. Wings not broad. Fore wings straight along the costa, rounded
at the tips, darker on the exterior side of a curved transverse bright white line, which is
somewhat beyond the middle; exterior border rather oblique. Hind wings a little paler than
the fore wings.

Fam. SATURNIIDÆ, Walk.

Gen. ATTACUS, Linn.

21. ATTACUS ATLAS, Linn. Syst. Nat. 808.

Inhabits also Hindostan, Ceylon, China, and Borneo.

Fam. BOMBYCIDÆ.

Gen. BOMBYX, Linn.

22. BOMBYX SUBNOTATA. Mas. Ferruginea, crassa; antennis late pectinatis; abdominis apice laminis
lateralibus fimbriatis; alis anticis margine exteriore subundulato subexciso, macula subtus
costali subapicali flava.

Male. Ferruginous, thick, pilose. Mouth obsolete. Antennæ broadly pectinated. Abdomen much
more slender than the thorax, not extending beyond the hind wings; anal lateral appendages
fringed. Legs short, stout. Fore wings rounded at the tips, extremely oblique along the exterior
border, which is slightly angular in the middle and slightly excavated on each side; under
side with a yellow costal spot near the tip. Hind wings with the interior border densely fringed
towards the tip. Length of the body 7 lines; of the wings 16 lines.

Fam. LEUCANIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. MYTHIMNA, Hübner.

23. MYTHIMNA INDUCENS, n. s. Foem. Lateritio-rufa, subtus albida; palporum articulo tertio
brevissimo; abdomine rufescenti-cano; alarum anticarum puncto discali nigro, lineis duabus
nigricantibus subarcuatis indistinctis, alis posticis rufescenti-canis.

Female. Brick-red colour, mostly whitish beneath. Palpi obliquely ascending, not rising to
the height of the vertex; third joint extremely small, less than one-sixth of the length of
the second. Abdomen reddish-hoary, extending but little beyond the hind wings. Legs stout,
squamous; spurs moderately long. Fore wings very slightly convex along the costa, rectangular
at the tips; exterior border slightly oblique, nearly straight; two slender, indistinct, slightly
curved, blackish lines, having between them a more distinct black discal point. Hind wings
reddish-hoary, the reddish tinge most prevalent towards the exterior border. Length of the
body 7 lines; of the wings 18 lines.

Fam. GONOPTERIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. ANOMIS, Hübner.

24. ANOMIS MUTILATA, n. s. Mas. Rufa, robusta, subtus rufescenti-cinerea; palpis longis subascendentibus;
abdomine latiusculo; alarum anticarum lineis tribus indistinctis angulosis nigricantibus, orbiculari
alba punctiformi, margine exteriore postico perobliquo subexcavato.

Male. Red, stout, reddish cinereous beneath. Palpi long, obliquely ascending; third joint slender,
linear, obtuse at the tip, a little shorter than the second. Antennæ stout, with extremely
short setæ. Abdomen rather broad, extending a little beyond the hind wings. Fore wings with
three blackish, indistinct, slightly diffuse, zigzag lines, which are slightly bordered hindward
with pale yellow; orbicular mark white, punctiform; exterior border slightly angular, hardly
oblique, and slightly truncated on the fore half, extremely oblique and with two slight excavations
on the hind half; fringe partly white. Hind wings not paler than the fore wings. Length of
the body 7 lines; of the wings 18 lines.

Gen. THALATTA, Walk.

25. Thalatta aurigutta, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xv. 1793.

Fam. HYPOGRAMMIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. BRIARDA, Walk.

26. BRIARDA PLAGIFERA, n. s. Mas. Ferrugineo-cinerea; capite thoraceque antico nigricantibus;
tibiis ciliatis; alis sat angustis subdenticulatis, anticarum fascia basali, macula discali
maculaque costali exteriore nigricantibus, lineis exteriore et submarginali fuscis duplicatis
denticulatis subnebulosis; alis posticis pallide cinereis, semihyalinis, fusco latissime marginatis.

Male. Cinereous, tinged with ferruginous. Head and fore part of the thorax blackish. Palpi
obliquely ascending; third joint linear, conical at the tip, about half the length of the second.
Antennæ hardly setose. Abdomen extending a little beyond the hind wings. Legs rather stout;
tibiæ fringed; spurs very long. Wings rather narrow, slightly denticulated. Fore wings slightly
rounded at the tips, very oblique along the exterior border; a blackish band near the base,
abbreviated hindward; a large blackish spot on the reniform mark, and a diffuse blackish spot
near the tip of the costa; exterior and submarginal lines brown, double, denticulated, with
the space along their borders somewhat clouded. Hind wings pale cinereous, semihyaline, with
very broad brown borders. Length of the body 9 lines; of the wings 22 lines.

Fam. CATEPHIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. STEIRIA, Walk.

27. STEIRIA PHRYGANEOIDES, n. s. Mas. Pallide cinerea, rufescente conspersa; palpis longis
vix ascendentibus; alis sat angustis denticulatis; alarum anticarum squamis nonnullis nigris
fuscisque, marginibus exteriore et interiore non conspersis, reniformi magna; alis posticis
pallide cinereis, fusco late marginatis.

Male. Pale cinereous, thickly speckled with ferruginous red. Palpi long, hardly ascending,
almost straight; third joint linear, obtuse at the tip, rather shorter than the second. Antennæ
bare. Abdomen conical, extending rather beyond the hind wings; apical tuft small. Legs rather
long and slender, almost bare; spurs very long. Wings rather narrow; exterior border denticulated.
Fore wings with the speckles mostly confluent in the disk, mostly wanting along the interior
and exterior borders; several black and brown speckles, some of which border the large reniform
mark. Hind wings pale cinereous, with a broad brown border. Length of the body 8 lines; of
the wings 20 lines.

Fam. OPHIDERIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. OPHIDERES, Boisduval.

28. Ophideres Salaminia, Cram. Pap. Exot. 71. 117, pl. 174. fig. A.

Inhabits also Hindostan, Ceylon, Java, and China.

29. Ophideres discrepans, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xiii. 1227.

30. Ophideres smaragdipicta, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xiii. 1229.

Fam. PHYLLODIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. LYGNIODES, Guénée.

31. Lygniodes endoleuca, Guén. Noct. iii. 124.

Inhabits also Java.

Fam. EREBIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. SYPNA, Guénée.

32. Sypna subsignata, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xiv. 1261.

Fam. OMMATOPHORIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. PATULA, Guénée.

33. Patula macrops, Linn. Syst. Nat. 225 (Noctua).

Inhabits also West and South Africa, Madagascar, Hindostan, and Ceylon.

Gen. ARGIVA, Hübner.

34. Argiva hieroglyphica, Drury, Ins. Exot. 11. 3, pl. 2. f. 1 (Noctua).

Inhabits also Madagascar, Hindostan, and Ceylon.

Fam. OPHIUSIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. CÆCILA, Walk.

35. Cæcila complexa, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xv. 1825.

Gen. OPHISMA, Guénée.

36. Ophisma Umminia, Cram. Pap. Exot. 111. 137, pl. 267. f. 7 (Noctua).

Inhabits also Java and Sumatra.

Gen. ACHÆA, Hübner.

37. Achæa mercatoria, Fabr. Ent. Syst. 111. 2, 62. 175. (Noctua).

Inhabits also Hindostan and Java.

Fam. THERMESIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. THERMESIA, Hübner.

38. THERMESIA? RECUSATA, n. s. Mas. Rufescenti-cinerea, robusta, nigricante conspersa, capite
thoraceque antico fuscis; palpis longissimis ascendentibus subarcuatis; antennis subsetosis,
alis linea exteriore recta obliqua nigricante extus diffusa, linea interiore tenui subarcuata
nigricante, linea submarginali e punctis lineaque marginali nigris.

Male. Reddish cinereous, stout, with blackish speckles. Head and fore part of the thorax brown.
Frontal tuft acute. Palpi very long, slightly curved, nearly vertical; third joint linear,
acute, shorter than the second. Antennæ slightly setose. Abdomen hardly extending beyond the
hind wings. Wings with the speckles here and there confluent; lines blackish; interior line
slender, slightly curved; exterior line straight, oblique, diffuse on the outer side, extending
almost to the tips of the fore wings; submarginal line represented by points; marginal line
slightly undulating. Fore wings rectangular at the tips; exterior border slightly bent; its
fore part not oblique; orbicular and reniform marks indistinct. Length of the body 6 lines;
of the wings 16 lines.

Gen. HYPERNARIA, Guénée.

39. HYPERNARIA DIFFUNDENS, n. s. Foem. Cinerea, robusta, fusco conspersa; palporum articulo
secundo extus fusco, tertio aciculari longissimo, alarum lineis interiore et exteriore vagis
dentatis lineaque media recta sat obliqua squamis fuscis, punctis marginalibus atris, alis
anticis acutis, orbiculari punctiformi atra, litura reniformi angusta fusco marginata extus
excavata.

Female. Cinereous, stout, speckled with brown. Palpi very slightly curved; second joint brown
on the outer side; third acicular, a little shorter than the second. Antennæ minutely setose.
Abdomen not extending beyond the hind wings. Wings with the interior and exterior lines angulose,
diffuse, composed of brown speckles; middle line more oblique, straight, slender, double, obsolete
towards the costa of the fore wings, bordered with diffuse angular streaks of brown speckles;
marginal points deep black. Fore wings acute; orbicular mark black, punctiform; reniform narrow,
brown, bordered, excavated on the outer side; exterior border slightly convex. Length of the
body 10 lines; of the wings 22 lines.

Gen. UGIA, Walk.

40. Ugia disjungens, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xv. 1860.

Fam. PLATYDIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. MASCA, Walk.

41. Masca abactalis, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xvi. 9.

Fam. HYPENIDÆ, Herr.-Schæffer.

Gen. HYPENA, Schranck.

42. Hypena ruralis, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xvi. 65.

Inhabits also Ceylon.

Gen. MACNA, Walk.

43. Macna pomalis, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xvi. 78.

Fam. MARGARODIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. MARGARODES, Guénée.

44. Margarodes Amphitritalis, Guén. Delt. et Pyral. 307, 327.

Inhabits also Hindostan.

Gen. NEURINA, Guénée.

45. Neurina Procopialis, Cram. Pap. Exot. iv. 152, pl. 368. f. E. (Phalæna Pyralis Procopia.)

Inhabits also Hindostan and Java.

Fam. ENNOMIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. BULONGA, n. g.

Corpus gracile. Proboscis brevissima. Palpi breves, porrecti, angulati. Antennæ simplices.
Abdomen conicum. Pedes graciles, nudi, calcaribus non longis, tibiis anticis brevissimis. Alæ
sat latæ; anticæ acutæ, margine exteriore sat obliquo; posticæ abdomen superantes.

Body slender. Proboscis very short. Palpi as long as the breadth of the head; second joint
obliquely ascending; third porrect, rather shorter than the second, with which it forms an
obtuse angle. Antennæ simply filiform. Abdomen conical. Legs slender, bare; spurs rather short;
fore tibiæ very short. Wings rather broad; fore wings rectangular at the tips; costa hardly
convex; exterior border rather oblique. Hind wings with the interior angle prominent, acute.

46. BULONGA SCHISTACEARIA, n. s. Foem. Glauco-cinerea, alis nitentibus, linea marginali nigra
fimbria interlineata, anticis fusco quadrilineatis, posticis trilineatis.

Female. Glaucous-cinereous, paler beneath. Head and palpi reddish. Wings shining; marginal
line black; fringe pale cinereous, including a darker line. Fore wings with four straight oblique
brown lines; second line broader than the first, apparent also on the hind wings; third narrower
and darker than the others, blackish, and still more distinct on the hind wings, where it is
bordered with whitish on the outer side; fourth more indistinct than the others, still more
indistinct on the hind wings. Length of the body 6 lines; of the wings 16 lines.

Fam. AMPHIDASYDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. DARISTANE, n. g.

Mas. Corpus robustum. Proboscis brevissima. Palpi validi, breves obtusi, oblique ascendentes;
articulus tertius minimus. Antennæ setaceæ, simplices. Abdomen conicum, alas posticas non superans.
Pedes validi, breviusculi; tibiæ anticæ brevissimæ, posteriores latissimae, calcaribus longis.
Alæ breviusculæ, sat latæ; anticæ acutæ.

Male. Body robust. Proboscis very short. Palpi short, stout, obtuse, obliquely ascending; third
joint very small. Antennæ setaceous, simple. Abdomen conical, not extending beyond the hind
wings. Legs stout, rather short; tibiæ pilose; fore tibiæ very short; posterior tibiæ very
broad, especially the middle pair. Wings rather short, moderately broad. Fore wings straight
along the costa, acutely rectangular at the tips; exterior border rather oblique.

47. DARISTANE TIBIARIA, n. s. Mas. Cinerea, nitens, alis nigro conspersis, fascia media rufescente
non bene determinata, anticis costa albida nigro punctata.

Male. Cinereous, shining, a little paler beneath. Wings speckled with black; an indistinct
oblique reddish middle band; costa of the fore wings whitish, with black points. Length of
the body 5 lines; of the wings 12 lines.

Fam. PALYADÆ, Guénée.

Gen. EUMELEA, Duncan.

48.

Fam. EPHYRIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. EPHYRA, Duponchel.

49. EPHYRA QUADRISTRIARIA, n. s. Foem. Rufescens, subtus flava, alis flavis rufescente conspersis,
fascia exteriore perobliqua rufescente, anticis acutis, lituris duabus costalibus obliquis fuscis.

Female. Reddish, yellow beneath. Proboscis short. Palpi short, slightly ascending; third joint
linear, obtuse, a little shorter than the second. Antennæ short, stout, setaceous. Abdomen
not extending beyond the hind wings. Legs bare, rather long and slender; spurs long. Wings
yellow, with reddish speckles, and with a straight reddish band, which extends from beyond
the middle of the interior border of the hind wings to the tips of the fore wings. Fore wings
acute, with two oblique brown costal marks; exterior border rather oblique. Length of the body
4 lines; of the wings 12 lines.

Gen. ANISODES, Guénée.

50. ANISODES EXPUNCTARIA, n. s. Foem. Luteo-cervina, palpis longis angulatis, antennis breviusculis,
alis ferrugineo subconspersis, linea media fusca undulata valde indistincta, lineis interiore
et exteriore e punctis nigris, punctis marginalibus nigris.

Female. Pale luteous fawn colour. Proboscis short. Palpi long, slightly decumbent; third joint
a little shorter than the second, with which it forms an obtuse angle. Antennæ simple, short.
Wings minutely and indistinctly sprinkled with ferruginous; a brown, diffuse, undulating, very
indistinct middle line, which is obsolete in the hind wings; interior and exterior lines indicated
by widely separated black points; marginal points black. Fore wings rectangular at the tips;
exterior border slightly oblique. Length of the body 6 lines; of the wings 8 lines.

Fam. ACIDALIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. SYNEGIA, Guénée.

51. Synegia botydaria, Guén. Uran. et Phal. i. 423. 694.

Inhabits also Borneo.

Gen. DRAPETODES, Guénée.

52. Drapetodes mitaria, Guén. Uran. et Phal. i. 424. 695.

Inhabits also Hindostan.

Gen. TIMANDRA, Duponchel.

53. TIMANDRA AJAIA, n. s. Mas. Glaucescenti-cinerea; antennis setosis, alis linea perobliqua
fusca antice abbreviata, linea marginali nigra, anticis valde acutis, reniformi tenui fusca.

Male. Cinereous, with a glaucous tinge. Proboscis short. Palpi very short, obliquely ascending;
third joint extremely small. Antennæ setose, somewhat shorter than the body. Wings with a straight,
very oblique, brown line, which extends from the middle of the interior border of the hind
wings towards the tip of the fore wings, on approaching which it is obsolete; marginal line
black. Fore wings very acute; exterior border extremely oblique; reniform mark brown, very
slender. Hind wings extending beyond the abdomen. Length of the body 6 lines; of the wings
17 lines.

Gen. ZANCLOPTERYX, Herr.-Schæffer.

54. Zanclopteryx saponaria, Herr.-Schæffer, Guén. Uran. et Phal. 11. 16, 915.

Inhabits also Ceylon.

Fam. MICRONIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. MICRONIA, Guénée.

55. Micronia rectinervata, Guén. Uran. et Phal. 11. 27, 933.

Fam. ZERENIDÆ.

Gen. STALAGMIA, Guénée.

56. Stalagmia guttaria, Guér. Icon. Regn. Anim. Ins. pl. 90 (Phalæna).

Catalogue of the Heterocerous Lepidopterous Insects collected at Malacca by Mr. A. R. WALLACE,
with Descriptions of New Species. By FRANCIS WALKER.

Fam. SPHINGIDÆ, Leach.

Gen. MACROGLOSSA, Ochsenheimer.

1. Macroglossa Passalus, Drury, Exot. Ins. ii. 52, pl. 29. f. 2 (Sphinx).

Inhabits also Hindostan and Java.

2. Macroglossa corythus, Boisd. MSS.; Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. viii. 92. 14.

Inhabits also Hindostan, Ceylon, and Java.

Fam. AGARISTIDÆ, Swainson.

Gen. EUSEMIA, Dalman.

3. Eusemia maculatrix, Westw. (See Singapore Sp. No. 2.)

4. Eusemia mollis, Walk. (See Singapore Sp. No. 3.)

5. EUSEMIA SUBDIVES, n. s. Mas. Atra, antennis subpectinatis, abdomine fasciis luteis, alis
anticis fascia exteriore recta non obliqua testacea; posticis ochraceis atro marginatis.

Male. Deep black. Antennæ slightly pectinated, slightly hooked at the tips. Abdomen with a
luteous band on the hind border of each segment. Fore wings with an upright, straight, testaceous
exterior band, which does not extend to the interior border. Hind wings bright ochraceous,
with a deep black border, which is irregular on the inner side and is joined in front to a
black spot, the latter, on the under side, containing a white curved line. Length of the body
9 lines; of the wings 28 lines.

Fam. LITHOSIIDÆ, Stephens.

Gen. NYCTEMERA, Hübner.

6. Nyctemera tripunctaria, Linn. Syst. Nat. 864. 226 (Geometra).

Inhabits also Hindostan and China.

Gen. EUSCHEMA, Hübner.

7. Euschema subrepleta, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xi. 406. 3.

Inhabits also Ceylon and Borneo.

Fam. LIPARIDÆ, Boisduval.

Gen. PANTANA.

8. Pantana bicolor, Walk. (See Singapore Sp. No. 17.)

Fam. ORTHOSIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. CAREA, Walk.

9. Carea varipes, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. x. 475.

Fam. HYBLÆIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. HYBLÆA, Fabr.

10. Hyblæa tortricoides, Guén. Noct. ii. 391.

Inhabits also Borneo.

11. Hyblæa erycinoides, Walk. Cat. Lep. Het. xv. 1792.

Fam. PHYLLODIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. LYGNIODES, Guénée.

12. Lygniodes endoleuca, Guén. (See Singapore Sp. No. 30.)

Fam. OPHIUSIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. OPHIUSA, Ochsenheimer.

13. Ophiusa fulvotænia, Guén. Noct. iii. 272. 1710.

Inhabits also Hindostan, Ceylon, Java, and Sumatra.

Fam. THERMESIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. COTUZA, Walk.

14. COTUZA CONFIRMATA, n. s. Mas. Cinereo-ferruginea, robusta, dense vestita, subtus alba;
palpis latis compressis oblique ascendentibus; articulo tertio minimo, antennis plus dimidio
basali subpectinatis, alis linea, media recta perobliqua nigro-fusca antice angulosa et retracta,
linea exteriore e denticulis nigro-fuscis albido terminatis, fimbria apice alba, alis anticis
subhamatis, linea interiore nigro-fusca undulata orbiculari nigra punctiformi, reniformi et
litura costali albis nigro marginatis.

Male. Cinereous-ferruginous, stout, densely pilose, white beneath. Palpi broad, compressed,
obliquely ascending, not rising higher than the head; third joint obtuse, extremely short.
Antennæ slightly pectinated to nearly two-thirds of the length, bare from thence to the tips.
Abdomen not extending beyond the hind wings. Legs white; tibiæ ferruginous above. Wings ample;
a blackish brown, straight, very oblique line, which is zigzag, and retracted towards the costa
of the fore wings; exterior line composed of blackish-brown, very acute, whitish-pointed angles;
fringe white exteriorly. Fore wings slightly hooked, with an interior undulating blackish-brown
line; orbicular mark black, punctiform; reniform white, black-bordered, forming a triangular
spot and an anterior point; a small exterior white costa, with mark. Length of the body 11
lines; of the wings 28 lines.

Fam. ACIDALIDÆ, Guénée.

Gen. ZANCLOPTERYX, Herr.-Schæff.

15. Zanclopteryx saponaria, Herr.-Schæff. (See Singapore Species, No. 54.)

INDEX.

                          Page

Achæa mercatoria, Fabr.  191

Achias longividens, Walk.  121
  latividens, Walk.  121
  amplividens, Walk.  122

Achiides, Walk.  121

Acidalidæ, Guénée  195, 198

Adraga, Walk.  82
  univitta, Walk.  82

Adrama, Walk.  117
  selecta, Walk.  118

Agaristidæ, Swainson  183, 196

Agathis fumipennis, Sm.  176
  modesta, Sm.  25
  nitida, Sm.  26
  sculpturalis, Sm.  25

Agenia, Alcyone, Sm.  155
  Althea, Sm.  154
  Amalthea, Sm.  155
  bimaculata, Sm.  13
  blanda, Guér.  13, 154
  Callisto, Sm.  154
  jucunda, Sm.  154

Alastor apicatus, Sm.  166
  unifasciatus, Sm.  165

Allodape nitida, Sm.  134

Ammophila insolata, Sm.  14

Amorphopus, Bell  27
  cylindraceus, Bell  27

Amphidasydæ, Guénée  193

Anas punctata, Cuvier  33

Andrenidæ, Leach  5, 132

Angitula, Walk.  123
  longicollis, Walk.  123

Anisodes expunctaria, Walk.  194

Anomis mutilata, Walk.  189

Anthomyia procellaria, Walk.  108

Anthomyides, Walk.  107, 130

Anthophora elegans, Sm.  135
  zonata, Linn.  8, 135

Anthrax degenera, Walk.  90
  pelops, Walk.  90
  semiscita, Walk.  90

Apis zonata, Sm.  8

Argiva hieroglyphica, Drury  191

Argonauta tuberculosa  34

Aricia canivitta, Walk.  107

Aricia significans, Walk.  107
  squalens, Walk.  130
  vicaria, Walk.  130

Artaxa varians, Walk.  189

Asilidæ, Leach  83, 128

Asilites, Walk.  87

Asilus longistylus, Wied.  88
  superveniens, Walk.  128

Attacus Atlas, Linn.  188

Baccha purpuricola, Walk.  129

Bee, death of the Common Hive Bee occasioned by a parasitic fungus  29

Bembex melancholica, Sm.  160
  trepanda, Dahlb.  15

Bembicidæ, Westw.  15

Bengalia spissa, Walk.  107

Bibionidæ, Haliday  77

Bizone hamata, Walk.  186

Bombilidæ, Leach  90

Bombyx subnotata, Walk.  188

Bombycidæ  188

Bombylites, Walk.  90

Bracon abdominalis, Sm.  175
  albo-marginatus, Sm.   174
  basalis, Sm.  174
  exoletus, Sm.  175
  insinuator, Sm.  24
  intrudens, Sm.  24, 176
  nigripennis, Sm.  175
  nitidus, Sm.  175
  pallifrons, Sm.  176

Braconidæ  24

Brea, Walk.  117
  contraria, Walk.  117
  discalis, Walk.  117

Briarda plagifera, Walk.  189

Bulonga, Walk.  193
  schistacearia, Walk.  193

Coelyoxys fulvifrons, Sm.  7

Calobata Abana, Walk.  124
  albitarsis, Wied.  124
  indica, Desv.  124
  sepsoides, Walk.  124

Cardiacephala debilis, Walk.  124

Carea varipes, Walk.  197 Catephidæ, Guénée  190

Ceratina hieroglyphica, Sm.  7
  viridis, Guér.  7

Cerceris fuliginosa, Sm.  19
  instabilis, Sm.  18
  unifasciata, Sm.  19
  varipes, Sm.  19

Cereopsis Novæ Hollandiæ  33

Cerea relicta, Walk.  93, 94
  smaragdina, Walk.  93

Cetacea, R. Knox on the Anatomy and Natural History of the  63

Chrysididæ  26, 177

Chrysis insularis, Sm.  26
  purpurea, Sm.  26
  sumptuosa, Sm.  27

Chrysopila vacillans, Walk.  89

Clitellaria bivittata, Fabr.  80

Cæcila complexa, Walk.  191

Cælopa inconspicua, Walk.  108

Cænosia luteicornis, Walk.  108

Coturnix pectoralis, Gould  33

Cotuza confirmata, Walk.  197

Crabro (Rhopalum) agilis, Sm.  18
  solitarius, Sm.  162

Crabronidæ  18

Crematogaster elegans, Sm.  149
  insularis, Sm.  149
  obscura, Sm.  149

Crocisa nitidula, Fabr.  134

Cryptoceridæ, Sm.  150

Cryptus scutellatus, Sm.  170

Culex scutellaris, Walk.  77

Culicidæ, Haliday  185

Cyclosia nivipetens, Walk.  185
  submaculans, Walk.  185

Dacus expandens, Walk.  114
  latifascia, Walk.  114
  lativentris, Walk.  115
  longivitta, Walk.  115
  mutilloides, Walk.  115
  obtrudens, Walk.  116
  pectoralis, Walk.  114
  pompiloides, Walk.  116

Darabitta, Walk.  187
  strigicosta, Walk.  187

Darantasia, Walk.  186
  cuneiplena, Walk.  186

Daristane, Walk.  193
  tibiaria, Walk.  194

Dasygastræ, Sm.  6, 134

Dasypogon inopinus, Walk.  83
  honestus, Walk.  83

Dasypogonites, Walk.  83

Deiopeia detracta, Walk.  186

Denudata  7

Dexia pectoralis, Walk.  101

Dexides, Walk.  101

Diaphorus resumens, Walk.  93

Diodon  76

Dolichopidæ, Leach  91

Dolichopus trigonifer, Walk.  92

Delphinis  63

Drapetodes mitaria, Guér.  195

Drosophila? finigutta, Walk.  126
  ? imperata, Walk.  126
  ? melanospila, Walk.  126

Dryomyza semicyanea, Walk.  109

Ectatomma rugosa, Sm.  143

Empidæ, Leach  91, 129

Ennomidæ, Guén.  193

Ephydra? taciturna, Walk.  127

Ephyra quadristriaria, Walk.  194

Ephyridæ, Guénée  194

Erebidæ, Guéneé  191

Eristalis conductus, Walk.  95
  muscoïdes, Walk.  96
  resolutus, Walk.  95, 129
  splendens, Leguillon  95
  suavissimus, Walk.  95

Evanidæ, Leach  169

Eumelea Rosaliata, Cram.  194

Eumenes architectus, Sm.  20
  arcuata, Fabr.  163
  circinalis, Fabr.  20
  floralis, Sm.  20
  fulvipennis, Sm.  20
  vindex, Sm.  20

Eumenidæ, Westw.  19, 163

Eurygaster decipiens, Walk.  100
  phasioïdes, Walk.  100
  tentans, Walk.  99

Euschema subrepleta, Walk.  196

Eusemia maculatrix, Westw.  183, 196
  mollis, Walk.  183, 196
  subdives, Walk.  196

Foenus gracilis, Sm.  169

Formica angulata, Sm.  139
  cordata, Sm.  137
  coxalis, Sm.  136
  flavitarsus, Sm.  136
  fragilis, Sm.  136
  gracilipes, Sm.  136
  lævissima, Sm.  138
  mutilata, Sm.  137
  nitida, Sm.  138
  oculata, Sm.  137
  quadriceps, Sm.  137
  scrutator, Sm.  138
  sericata, Guér.  139
  sexspinosa, Latr.  139
  virescens, Fabr.  135

Formicidæ  135

Gabaza, Walk.  80
  argentea, Walk.  80

Galathea Andrewsii, Sp. Bate  3
  depressa, Sp. Bate  3
  dispersa, Sp. Bate  3
  nexa  3
  squamifera, Sp. Bate  3
  strigosa  2

Gammarus affinis, M.-Ed.  3
  Kröyii, Rathke  3
  Locusta, Leach  3
  Olivii, M.-Ed.  3

Geomyzides, Fallen  126

Geron simplex, Walk.  90

Gonopteridæ, Guénée  189

Gorytes constrictus, Latr.  160
  vagus, Sm.  161

Graptomyza tibialis, Walk.  95

Gynoplistia jurgiosa, Walk.  78

Hæmatophis fuliginosus  33

Halmaturus Billardierii  32

Hedychrum flammulatum, Sm.  26

Helomyza atripennis, Walk.  109
  picipes, Walk.  109
  restituta, Walk.  109

Helomyzides, Fallen  108

Helophilus mesoleucus, Walk.  96
  quadrivittatus, Wied.  96

Hiaticula bicincta  33

Hippoboscidæ, Leach  127

Hybos bicolor, Walk.  91
  deficiens, Walk.  129

Hyblæa tortricoïdes, Guén.  197

Hyblæidæ, Guéneé  197

Hydromyzides, Haliday  127

Hypena ruralis, Walk.  192

Hypenidæ, Herr Schæff.  192

Hypernaria diffundens, Guén.  192

Hypogrammidæ, Guénée  189

Hypsa egens, Walk.  185
  silvandra, Cram.  185

Icaria brunnea, Sm.  167
  fasciata, Sm.  167
  ferruginea, Sauss.  22
  gracilis, Sm.  167
  maculiventris, Sm.  167
  nigra, Sm.  16
  pilosa, Sm.  22
  unicolor, Sm.  168

Ichneumon insularis, Sm.  170

Ichneumonidæ, Leach  23, 170

Idia æqualis, Walk.  103
  australis, Walk.  103
  testacea, Macq.  130
  xanthogaster, Wied.  130

Ischnogaster iridipennis, Sm.  166

Lamprogaster celyphoïdes, Walk.  112
  delectans, Walk.  111
  marginifera, Walk.  111
  quadrilinea, Walk.  111
  scutellaris, Walk.  112
  tetyroïdes, Walk.  112
  ventralis, Walk.  131

Laphria aperta, Walk.  87
  aurifacies, Macq.   84
  comes, Walk.  85
  consobrina, Walk.  84
  consors, Walk.  85
  declarata, Walk.  87
  flagrantissima, Walk.  86
  germana, Walk.  86
  gloriosa, Walk.  84
  justa, Walk.  86
  manifesta, Walk.  87
  paradisiaca, Walk.  128
  placens, Walk.  128
  scapularis, Wied.  84
  socia, Walk.  84
  sodalis, Walk.  85

Laphrites, Walk.  128

Larinus maculatus, Falderm.  179
  mellificus, Jekel  181

Larra prismatica, Sm.  16
  simillima, Sm.  159

Larrada ædilis, Sm.  16
  aurifrons, Sm.  16
  aurulenta, Sm.  16
  exilipes, Sm.  16
  festinans, Sm.  17
  personata, Sm.  16
  modesta, Sm.  159
  rufipes, Sm.  17

Larridæ  16

Larus pacificus  33

Lauxania duplicans, Walk.  110
  minuens, Walk.  110

Lauxanides, Walk.  110

Lepidosiren  76

Leptidæ, Westw.  89

Leptis ferruginosa, Wied.  89

Leptogaster albimanus, Walk.  89
  ferrugineus, Walk.  89
  longipes, Walk.  89

Leucanidæ, Guénée  188

Limacodidæ, Duponchel  188

Liparidæ, Boisduval  187, 197

Lissa cylindrica, Walk.  125

Lithosiidæ, Stephens  184, 196

Lonchæa inops, Walk.  110

Lygnioides endoleuca, Guén.  190, 197

Macna pomalis, Walk.  192

Macroglossa corythus, Boisd.  196
  Passalus, Drury  196

Macromeris iridipennis, Sm.  156
  splendida, St. Farg.  13

Malopteruris  76

Margarodes amphitritalis, Guén.  193

Margarodidæ, Guéneé  193

Masca abactalis, Walk.  192

Masicera guttata, Walk.  99
  notabilis, Walk.  97
  simplex, Walk.  99
  solennis, Walk.  98
  tentata, Walk.  98

Massicyta cerioïdes, Walk.  78
  inflata, Walk.  78

Megachile fulvifrons, Sm.  6
  incisa, Sm.  6
  insularis  134
  lateritia  134
  scabrosa  134
  terminalis, Sm.  7

Megischus indicus, Westw.  23

Megistocera tuscana, Wied.  78

Meranoplus spinosus, Sm.  150

Mesostenus agilis, Sm.  171
  albopictus, Sm.  172
  albo-spinosus, Sm.  23
  pictus, Sm.  171

Microdon apicalis, Walk.  94
  fulvicornis, Walk.  94

Micronia rectinervata, Guén.  195

Micronidæ, Guénée  195

Miresa curvifera, Walk.  188

Montezumia indica, Sauss.  19

Morphota formosa, Sm.  17

Musca benedicta, Walk.  105
  domestica, Linn.  105
  eristaloïdes, Walk.  106
  gloriosa, Walk.  104
  macularis, Walk.  104
  marginifera, Walk.  105
  obscurata, Walk.  105
  obtrusa, Walk.  105, 130
  opulenta, Walk.  104
  patiens, Walk.  106

Muscidæ, Latr.  97, 129

Muscides, Walk.  103, 130

Mutilla carinata, Sm.  150
  exilis, Sm.  151
  manifesta, Sm.  150
  nigra, Sm.  151
  rufogastra, Sm.   9
  sexmaculata, Swed. N. A. Holm.   9
  Sibylla, Sm.   150
  unifasciata, Sm.   9
  volatilis, Sm.   9

Mutillidæ, Leach    9, 150

Mycetophilidæ, Haliday   77

Mygnimia aspasia, Sm.   157
  fumipennis, Sm.   13
  iridipennis, Sm.   13

Myrmica carinata, Sm.   148
  mellea, Sm.   148
  parallela, Sm.   147
  scabrosa, Sm.   147
  suspiciosa, Sm.   148
  thoracica, Sm.    148

Mysticetus   70

Mythymna inducens, Walk.   188

Myzine tenuicornis, Sm.   151

Nautilus pompilius, T. H. Huxley on the anatomy of   36

Nerius duplicatus, Wied.   125

Nerua, Walk.   81
  scenopinoïdes, Walk.   8

Neurina procopialis, Cram.   193

Nomia cincta, Sm.   132
  dentata, Sm.   133
  flavipes, Sm.   5
  formosa, Sm.    5
  haliotoïdes, Sm.   6
  longicornis, Sm.   133
  punctata, Sm.   5

Notodontidæ, Stephens   187

Nyctalemon Hector, White   183

Nyctemera mundipicta, Walk.   184
  tripunctaria, Linn.   196

Obrapa, Walk.   82
  celyphoïdes, Walk.   83
  perilampoïdes, Walk.   82

Odontomachus malignus, Sm.   144
  simillimus, Sm.   144
  tyrannicus, Sm.   144

Odynerus agilis, Sm.   164
  (Ancistrocerus) clavicornis, Sm.   21
  fulvipennis, Sm.   22
  (Leionotus) insularis, Sm.   21
  modestus, Sm.   165
  multipictus, Sm.   165
  petiolatus, Sm.   164

Ommatius lucifer, Walk.   88
  noctifer, Walk.   88, 129
  retrahens, Walk.   88

Ommatophoridæ, Guénée   191

Ophideres discrepans, Walk.   190
  Salaminia, Cram.   190
  smaragdipicta, Walk.   190

Ophideridæ, Guénée   190

Ophisma Umminia, Cram.   191

Ophiusa fulvotænia, Guén.   197

Ophiusidæ, Guénée   191, 197

Ornithomyia parva, Macq.   127

Ortalides, Haliday   111-131

Ortalis prompta, Walk.   118
  complens, Walk.   118

Orthoneura basalis, Walk.   97

Orthosidæ, Guénée   197

Oscinides, Haliday    125

Oscinis lineiplena, Walk.   125
  noctilux, Walk.   126

Oxybelus agilis, Sm.   18

Oxyssus maculipennis, Sm.   177

Pachymenes viridis, Sm.   163

Pallura, Walk.   127
  invaria, Walk.   127

Palyadæ, Guénée   194

Pantana bicolor, Walk.   187, 197

Patula macrops, Linn.   191

Pelopæus bengalensis, Dahlb.   14
  flavo-fasciatus, Sm.   15
  intrudens, Sm.   15
  laboriosus, Sm.   154
  madraspatanus, Fabr.   14

Phaps elegans   33

Phoridæ, Haliday   127

Phyllodidæ, Guénée   190, 197

Pidorus constrictus, Walk.  185

Pimpla braconoïdes, Sm.  172
  ferruginea, Sm.  173
  ochracea, Sm.  172
  penetrans, Sm.  173
  plagiata, Sm.  173
  trimaculata, Sm.  24

Pinnotheridæ, M. Ed.  27

Pison nitidus, Sm.  160

Platydidæ, Guénée  192

Platystoma fusifacies, Walk.  113
  multivitta, Walk.  113

Plecia dorsalis, Walk.  77

Podomyrma, Sm.  145
  basalis, Sm.  147
  lævifrons, Sm.  146
  femorata, Sm.  145
  striata  146

Polistes diabolicus, Sauss.  168
  elegans, Sm.  169
  fastidiosus, Sauss.  22
  nigrifrons, Sm.  168
  philippinensis, Sauss.  22
  Picteti, Sauss.  22
  sagittarius, Sauss.  22
  stigma, Sauss.  22
  tepidus, Fabr.  168

Polyara, Walk.  122
  insolita, Walk.  123

Polypterus  76

Polyrhachis bellicosus, Sm.  142
  geometricus, Sm.  141
  Hector, Sm.  142
  irritabilis, Sm.  141
  lævissimus, Sm.  141
  longipes, Sm.  140
  marginatus, Sm.  139
  mucronatus, Sm.  140
  hostilis, Sm.  139
  rufofemoratus, Sm.  142
  scutulatus, Sm.  140
  serratus, Sm.  140

Pompilidæ, Leach  11

Pompilus analis, Fabr.  11
  contortus, Sm.  12
  deceptor, Sm.  12
  dubius, Sm.  153
  pilifrons, Sm.  12
  saltitans, Sm.  11

Ponera parallela, Sm.  143
  quadridentata, Sm.  143
  rugosa, Sm.  142
  sculpturata, Sm.  142

Priocnemis fervidus, Sm.  156
  pulcherrimus, Sm.  156
  rufifrons, Sm.  120

Prosena argentata, Walk.  102

Prosopis malachisis, Sm.  132

Pseudomyrma læviceps, Sm.  145

Psilides, Walk.  125

Psilopus æneus, Fabr.  91
  benedictus, Walk.  91
  egens, Walk.  92
  lucigena, Walk.  91
  orcifer, Walk.  92
  planicornis, Wied.  92
  terminifer, Walk.  92

Ptilocera quadridentata, Walk.  78

Puffinus brevicaudus, Brandt  33

Rhynchium argentatum, Sauss.  19
  atrum, Sauss.  19
  hæmorrhoidale, Sauss.  19
  mirabile, Sauss.  163
  parentissimum, Sauss.  19
  superbum, Sauss.  163

Rhyssa maculipennis, Sm.  173
  vestigator, Sm.  174

Rutilia angustipennis, Walk.  101
  plumicornis, Guérin  101

Salduba, Walk.  79
  diphysoïdes, Walk.  79

Salius malignus, Sm.  157

Sarcophaga basalis, Walk.  129
  compta, Walk.  102
  invaria, Walk.  103

Sarcophagides, Walk.  102

Sargus complens, Walk.  81
  metallinus, Fabr.  80
  vagans, Walk.  11

Saropoda bombiformis, Sm.  135

Saturniidæ, Walk.  188

Sciara selecta, Walk.  77

Scolia agilis, Sm.  10
  Alecto, Sm.  10
  aurenta, Sm.  9
  erratica, Sm.  9
  fulgidipennis, Sm.  152
  fulvipennis, Sm.  10
  grossa, Burm.  152
  insularis, Sm.  153
  minuta, Sm.  11
  nitida, Sm.  152
  quadriceps, Sm.  153
  terminata, Sm.  10

Scoliadæ, Leach  151

Scopulipedes, Sm.  8

Sepedon costalis, Walk.  110

Sepsides, Walk.  123

Sepsis basifera, Walk.  124

Setina bipunctata, Walk.  185

Siluridæ  76

Solenopsis cephalotes, Sm.  149

Sphegidæ  14

Spheniscus minor, Temminck  33

Sphex argentata, Dahl.  157
  aurifrons, Sm.  157
  gratiosa, Sm.  158
  nitidiventris, Sm.  158
  prædator, Sm.  14
  sepicola, Sm.  158
  sericea, Fabr.  157

Sphingidæ, Leach  196

Stalagmia guttaria, Guérin  196

Steiria phryganeoïdes, Walk.   190

Stelis abdominalis, Sm.  7

Stenophasmus, Sm.  169
  ruficeps, Sm.  170

Stilbum amethystinum, Fabr.  177
  splendidum, Fabr.  177

Stratiomidæ, Haliday  78

Stratiomys confertissima, Walk.  79
  nexura, Walk.  80

Sulu australis, Gould  33

Synegia botydaria, Guénée  195

Syntomis annosa, Walk.  183
  chloroleuca, Walk.  183
  xanthomela, Walk.  184

Sypna subsignata, Walk.  191

Syrphidæ, Leach  93, 129

Syrphus ægrotus, Fabr.  99
  ericetorum, Fabr.  99

Tabanidæ, Leach  83

Tabanus recusans, Walk.  83

Tachinides, Walk.  97

Tachytes morosus, Sm.  18

Tenthredinidæ  23, 177

Tenthredo (Allantus) purpurata, Sm.  23

Thalatta aurigutta, Walk.  189

Thereva congrua, Walk.  90

Therevites, Walk.  90

Thermesia? recusata, Walk.  191

Thermesidæ, Guénée  191, 197

Timandra Ajaia, Walk.  195

Tipulidæ  78

Tréhala  178

Tremex insignis, Sm.  178

Trigona læviceps, Sm.  135

Trupanea contradicens, Walk.  87

Trypeta basalis, Walk.  120
  dorsigutta, Walk.  119
  impleta, Walk.  120
  multistriga, Walk.  119
  roripennis, Walk.  131
  subocellifera, Walk.  120

Trypoxylon eximium, Sm.  161

Vespa affinis, Fabr.  23
  fervida, Sm.  23

Vespidæ, Stephens  19, 166

Ugia disjungens, Walk.  192

Uraniidæ, Walk.  183

Urothoe elegans  3
  inostratus, Dana  3

Worm-tracks, notice of in London Clay  31

Xarnuta leucotelus, Walk.  108

Xema Jamesonii  33

Xylocopa æstuans, Linn.  8, 135
  collaris, St. Farg.  8
  Dejeanii, St. Farg.  8
  fenestrata, Fabr.  8
  nobilis, Sm.  8

Xylota ventralis, Walk.  96

Xyphidria rufipes, Sm.  177

Zanclopteryx saponaria, H. Schæff.  195, 198

Zerenidæ  196

Zethus cyanopterus, Sauss.

1. Chrysophila changed to Chrysopila in the index to match the text referred to. 2. Stenophasimis
changed to Stenophasmus in the index to match the text refered to. 3. A number of words occur
throughout the book in accented and non-accented forms. These were left as in the original text.

