For the most part, there was no recognition of human life in the night, no human breathing
was heard, only the breathing of the wind.  As we sat up, kept awake by the novelty of our
situation, we heard at intervals foxes stepping about over the dead leaves, and brushing the
dewy grass close to our tent, and once a musquash fumbling among the potatoes and melons in
our boat, but when we hastened to the shore we could detect only a ripple in the water ruffling
the disk of a star.  At intervals we were serenaded by the song of a dreaming sparrow or the
throttled cry of an owl, but after each sound which near at hand broke the stillness of the
night, each crackling of the twigs, or rustling among the leaves, there was a sudden pause,
and deeper and more conscious silence, as if the intruder were aware that no life was rightfully
abroad at that hour.  There was a fire in Lowell, as we judged, this night, and we saw the
horizon blazing, and heard the distant alarm-bells, as it were a faint tinkling music borne
to these woods.  But the most constant and memorable sound of a summer's night, which we did
not fail to hear every night afterward, though at no time so incessantly and so favorably as
now, was the barking of the house-dogs, from the loudest and hoarsest bark to the faintest
aerial palpitation under the eaves of heaven, from the patient but anxious mastiff to the timid
and wakeful terrier, at first loud and rapid, then faint and slow, to be imitated only in a
whisper; wow-wow-wow-wow--wo--wo--w--w. Even in a retired and uninhabited district like this,
it was a sufficiency of sound for the ear of night, and more impressive than any music.  I
have heard the voice of a hound, just before daylight, while the stars were shining, from over
the woods and river, far in the horizon, when it sounded as sweet and melodious as an instrument.
The hounding of a dog pursuing a fox or other animal in the horizon, may have first suggested
the notes of the hunting-horn to alternate with and relieve the lungs of the dog. This natural
bugle long resounded in the woods of the ancient world before the horn was invented.  The very
dogs that sullenly bay the moon from farm-yards in these nights excite more heroism in our
breasts than all the civil exhortations or war sermons of the age.  "I would rather be a dog,
and bay the moon," than many a Roman that I know.  The night is equally indebted to the clarion
of the cock, with wakeful hope, from the very setting of the sun, prematurely ushering in the
dawn.  All these sounds, the crowing of cocks, the baying of dogs, and the hum of insects at
noon, are the evidence of nature's health or sound state.  Such is the never-failing beauty
and accuracy of language, the most perfect art in the world; the chisel of a thousand years
retouches it.

At length the antepenultimate and drowsy hours drew on, and all sounds were denied entrance
to our ears.

     Who sleeps by day and walks by night,
     Will meet no spirit but some sprite.

[page]

                         SUNDAY.

           "The river calmly flows,
        Through shining banks, through lonely glen,
     Where the owl shrieks, though ne'er the cheer of men
           Has stirred its mute repose,
     Still if you should walk there, you would go there again."
                                          ^CHANNING.^

[page]

   "The Indians tell us of a beautiful River lying far to the south,
which they call Merrimack."

              ^Sieur de Monts^, Relations of the jesuits, 1604.

[page]

                        SUNDAY.

                        --*--

In the morning the river and adjacent country were covered with a dense fog, through which
the smoke of our fire curled up like a still subtiler mist; but before we had rowed many rods,
the sun arose and the fog rapidly dispersed, leaving a slight steam only to curl along the
surface of the water.  It was a quiet Sunday morning, with more of the auroral rosy and white
than of the yellow light in it, as if it dated from earlier than the fall of man, and still
preserved a heathenish integrity:--

     An early unconverted Saint,
     Free from noontide or evening taint,
     Heathen without reproach,
     That did upon the civil day encroach,
     And ever since its birth
     Had trod the outskirts of the earth.

But the impressions which the morning makes vanish with its dews, and not even the most "persevering
mortal" can preserve the memory of its freshness to mid-day.  As we passed the various islands,
or what were islands in the spring, rowing with our backs down stream, we gave names to them.
The one on which we had camped we called Fox Island, and one fine densely wooded island surrounded
by deep water and overrun by grape-vines, which looked like a mass of verdure and of flowers
cast upon the waves, we named Grape Island.  From Ball's Hill to Billerica meeting-house, the
river was still twice as broad as in Concord, a deep, dark, and dead stream, flowing between
gentle hills and sometimes cliffs, and well wooded all the way.  It was a long woodland lake
bordered with willows.  For long reaches we could see neither house nor cultivated field, nor
any sign of the vicinity of man.  Now we coasted along some shallow shore by the edge of a
dense palisade of bulrushes, which straightly bounded the water as if clipt by art, reminding
us of the reed forts of the East-Indians, of which we had read; and now the bank slightly raised
was overhung with graceful grasses and various species of brake, whose downy stems stood closely
grouped and naked as in a vase, while their heads spread several feet on either side.  The
dead limbs of the willow were rounded and adorned by the climbing mikania, Mikania scandens,
which filled every crevice in the leafy bank, contrasting agreeably with the gray bark of its
supporter and the balls of the button-bush.  The water willow, Salix Purshiana, when it is
of large size and entire, is the most graceful and ethereal of our trees.  Its masses of light
green foliage, piled one upon another to the height of twenty or thirty feet, seemed to float
on the surface of the water, while the slight gray stems and the shore were hardly visible
between them.  No tree is so wedded to the water, and harmonizes so well with still streams.
It is even more graceful than the weeping willow, or any pendulous trees, which dip their branches
in the stream instead of being buoyed up by it.  Its limbs curved outward over the surface
as if attracted by it.  It had not a New England but an Oriental character, reminding us of
trim Persian gardens, of Haroun Alraschid, and the artificial lakes of the East.

As we thus dipped our way along between fresh masses of foliage overrun with the grape and
smaller flowering vines, the surface was so calm, and both air and water so transparent, that
the flight of a kingfisher or robin over the river was as distinctly seen reflected in the
water below as in the air above.  The birds seemed to flit through submerged groves, alighting
on the yielding sprays, and their clear notes to come up from below.  We were uncertain whether
the water floated the land, or the land held the water in its bosom.  It was such a season,
in short, as that in which one of our Concord poets sailed on its stream, and sung its quiet
glories.

   "There is an inward voice, that in the stream
   Sends forth its spirit to the listening ear,
   And in a calm content it floweth on,
   Like wisdom, welcome with its own respect.
   Clear in its breast lie all these beauteous thoughts,
   It doth receive the green and graceful trees,
   And the gray rocks smile in its peaceful arms."

And more he sung, but too serious for our page.  For every oak and birch too growing on the
hill-top, as well as for these elms and willows, we knew that there was a graceful ethereal
and ideal tree making down from the roots, and sometimes Nature in high tides brings her mirror
to its foot and makes it visible.  The stillness was intense and almost conscious, as if it
were a natural Sabbath, and we fancied that the morning was the evening of a celestial day.
The air was so elastic and crystalline that it had the same effect on the landscape that a
glass has on a picture, to give it an ideal remoteness and perfection.  The landscape was clothed
in a mild and quiet light, in which the woods and fences checkered and partitioned it with
new regularity, and rough and uneven fields stretched away with lawn-like smoothness to the
horizon, and the clouds, finely distinct and picturesque, seemed a fit drapery to hang over
fairy-land.  The world seemed decked for some holiday or prouder pageantry, with silken streamers
flying, and the course of our lives to wind on before us like a green lane into a country maze,
at the season when fruit-trees are in blossom.

Why should not our whole life and its scenery be actually thus fair and distinct?  All our
lives want a suitable background.  They should at least, like the life of the anchorite, be
as impressive to behold as objects in the desert, a broken shaft or crumbling mound against
a limitless horizon.  Character always secures for itself this advantage, and is thus distinct
and unrelated to near or trivial objects, whether things or persons.  On this same stream a
maiden once sailed in my boat, thus unattended but by invisible guardians, and as she sat in
the prow there was nothing but herself between the steersman and the sky.  I could then say
with the poet,--

         "Sweet falls the summer air
      Over her frame who sails with me;
      Her way like that is beautifully free,
         Her nature far more rare,
   And is her constant heart of virgin purity."

At evening still the very stars seem but this maiden's emissaries and reporters of her progress.

   Low in the eastern sky
   Is set thy glancing eye;
   And though its gracious light
   Ne'er riseth to my sight,
   Yet every star that climbs
   Above the gnarled limbs
       Of yonder hill,
   Conveys thy gentle will.

   Believe I knew thy thought,
   And that the zephyrs brought
   Thy kindest wishes through,
   As mine they bear to you,
   That some attentive cloud
   Did pause amid the crowd
       Over my head,
   While gentle things were said.

   Believe the thrushes sung,
   And that the flower-bells rung,
   That herbs exhaled their scent,
   And beasts knew what was meant,
   The trees a welcome waved,
   And lakes their margins laved,
       When thy free mind
   To my retreat did wind.

   It was a summer eve,
   The air did gently heave
   While yet a low-hung cloud
   Thy eastern skies did shroud;
   The lightning's silent gleam,
   Startling my drowsy dream,
       Seemed like the flash
   Under thy dark eyelash.

   Still will I strive to be
   As if thou wert with me;
   Whatever path I take,
   It shall be for thy sake,
   Of gentle slope and wide,
   As thou wert by my side,
       Without a root
   To trip thy gentle foot.

   I 'll walk with gentle pace,
   And choose the smoothest place
   And careful dip the oar,
   And shun the winding shore,
   And gently steer my boat
   Where water-lilies float,
       And cardinal flowers
   Stand in their sylvan bowers.

It required some rudeness to disturb with our boat the mirror-like surface of the water, in
which every twig and blade of grass was so faithfully reflected; too faithfully indeed for
art to imitate, for only Nature may exaggerate herself.  The shallowest still water is unfathomable.
Wherever the trees and skies are reflected, there is more than Atlantic depth, and no danger
of fancy running aground.  We notice that it required a separate intention of the eye, a more
free and abstracted vision, to see the reflected trees and the sky, than to see the river bottom
merely; and so are there manifold visions in the direction of every object, and even the most
opaque reflect the heavens from their surface.  Some men have their eyes naturally intended
to the one and some to the other object.

         "A man that looks on glass,
            On it may stay his eye,
          Or, if he pleaseth, through it pass,
            And the heavens espy."

Two men in a skiff, whom we passed hereabouts, floating buoyantly amid the reflections of the
trees, like a feather in mid-air, or a leaf which is wafted gently from its twig to the water
without turning over, seemed still in their element, and to have very delicately availed themselves
of the natural laws.  Their floating there was a beautiful and successful experiment in natural
philosophy, and it served to ennoble in our eyes the art of navigation; for as birds fly and
fishes swim, so these men sailed.  It reminded us how much fairer and nobler all the actions
of man might be, and that our life in its whole economy might be as beautiful as the fairest
works of art or nature.

The sun lodged on the old gray cliffs, and glanced from every pad; the bulrushes and flags
seemed to rejoice in the delicious light and air; the meadows were a-drinking at their leisure;
the frogs sat meditating, all sabbath thoughts, summing up their week, with one eye out on
the golden sun, and one toe upon a reed, eying the wondrous universe in which they act their
part; the fishes swam more staid and soberly, as maidens go to church; shoals of golden and
silver minnows rose to the surface to behold the heavens, and then sheered off into more sombre
aisles; they swept by as if moved by one mind, continually gliding past each other, and yet
preserving the form of their battalion unchanged, as if they were still embraced by the transparent
membrane which held the spawn; a young band of brethren and sisters trying their new fins;
now they wheeled, now shot ahead, and when we drove them to the shore and cut them off, they
dexterously tacked and passed underneath the boat.  Over the old wooden bridges no traveller
crossed, and neither the river nor the fishes avoided to glide between the abutments.

Here was a village not far off behind the woods, Billerica, settled not long ago, and the children
still bear the names of the first settlers in this late "howling wilderness"; yet to all intents
and purposes it is as old as Fernay or as Mantua, an old gray town where men grow old and sleep
already under moss-grown monuments,--outgrow their usefulness.  This is ancient Billerica,
(Villarica?) now in its dotage, named from the English Billericay, and whose Indian name was
Shawshine.  I never heard that it was young.  See, is not nature here gone to decay, farms
all run out, meeting-house grown gray and racked with age?  If you would know of its early
youth, ask those old gray rocks in the pasture.  It has a bell that sounds sometimes as far
as Concord woods; I have heard that,--ay, hear it now.  No wonder that such a sound startled
the dreaming Indian, and frightened his game, when the first bells were swung on trees, and
sounded through the forest beyond the plantations of the white man.  But to-day I like best
the echo amid these cliffs and woods.  It is no feeble imitation, but rather its original,
or as if some rural Orpheus played over the strain again to show how it should sound.

   Dong, sounds the brass in the east,
   As if to a funeral feast,
   But I like that sound the best
   Out of the fluttering west.

   The steeple ringeth a knell,
   But the fairies' silvery bell
   Is the voice of that gentle folk,
   Or else the horizon that spoke.

