Louis, whose impetuosity was not to be restrained by the caution of old Jacob, had cleared
the log-fence at a bound, had hastily embraced his cousins Kenneth and Donald, and in five
minutes more had rushed into his father's cottage, and wept his joy in the arms of father,
mother, and sisters by turns, before old Jacob had introduced the impatient Hector and Catharine
to their father.

"But while joy is in our little dwelling, who is this that sits apart upon that stone by the
log-fence, her face bent sadly down upon her knees, her long raven hair shading her features
as with a veil?" asked the Highlander Maxwell, pointing as he spoke to the spot where, unnoticed
and unsharing in the joyful recognition, sat the poor Indian girl. There was no paternal embrace
for her, no tender mother's kiss imprinted on that dusky cheek and pensive brow; she was alone
and desolate in the midst of that scene of gladness.

"It is my Indian sister," said Catharine; "she also must be your child."

Hector hurried to Indiana, and taking her by the hand led her to his parents, and bade them
be kind to and cherish the young stranger, to whom they all owed so much.

Time passes on--years, long years have gone by since the return of the lost children to their
homes, and many changes have those years effected. The log-houses have fallen to decay--a growth
of young pines, a waste of emerald turf with the charred logs that once formed part of the
enclosure, now scarcely serve to mark out the old settlement; no trace or record remains of
the first breakers of the bush--another race occupy the ground. The traveller as he passes
along on that smooth turnpike road that leads from Coburg to Cold Springs, and from thence
to Gore's Landing, may notice a green waste by the roadside on either hand, and fancy that
thereabouts our Canadian Crusoes' home once stood: he sees the lofty wood-crowned hill, and
in spring time--for in summer it is hidden by the luxuriant foliage--the little forest creek;
and he may, if thirsty, taste of the pure, fresh, icy water, as it still wells out from a spring
in the steep bank, rippling through the little cedar-trough that Louis Perron placed there
for the better speed of his mother when filling her water jug. All else is gone. And what wrought
the change a few words will suffice to tell. Some travelling fur merchants brought the news
to Donald Maxwell that a party of Highlanders had made a settlement above Montreal, and among
them were some of his kindred. The old soldier resolved to join them, and it was not hard to
prevail upon his brother-in-law to accompany him, for they were all now weary of living so
far from their fellow-men; and bidding farewell to the little log-houses at Cold Springs, they
now journeyed downwards to the new settlement, where they were gladly received, their long
experience of the country making their company a most valuable acquisition to the new-come
colonists.

Not long after, the Maxwells took possession of a grant of land, and cleared and built for
themselves and their family. Hector, now a fine industrious young man, presented at the baptismal
font, as a candidate for baptism, the Indian girl, and then received at the altar his newly-baptized
bride. Catharine and Louis were married on the same day as Hector and Indiana. They lived happy
and prosperous lives; and often, by their firesides, would delight their children by recounting
the history of their wanderings on the Rice Lake Plains.

THE END.

[About this edition: Lost in the Woods was originally published in 1852 under the title The
Canadian Crusoes: A Tale of the Rice Lake Plains. After several editions, it was republished
in 1882 under its present title, as Lost in the Backwoods.]