We are indebted to Professor C. J. Galpin, now in charge of the Farm Life Studies of the United
States Department of Agriculture, for first developing a method for the location of the rural
community. Professor Galpin[1] holds that the trading area tributary to any village is usually
the chief factor in determining the community area. He determines the community area by starting
from a business center and marking on a map those farm homes which trade mostly at that center.
By drawing a line connecting those farm homes farthest from the center on all the roads radiating
from it, the boundary of the trade area is described. In the same way the areas tributary to
the church, the school, the bank, the milk station, the grange, etc., may be determined and
mapped. The boundaries of these areas will be found to be by no means coincident, but it will
usually be found that most of them center in one village or hamlet, and that the trade area
is the most significant in determining the area tributary to this center. When the areas served
by the chief institutions of adjacent centers are mapped, it is usually found that a composite
line of the different boundary lines separating these centers will approximate the boundaries
of the communities. A line which divides adjacent community areas so that most of the families
either side of this line go most frequently to, or their chief interests are at, the center
within that boundary, will be the boundary between the adjacent communities. Thus, from the
standpoint of location, a community is the local area tributary to the center of the common
interests of its people.[2]

As indicated above the business center may usually be taken as the base point or community
center, from which to determine the boundaries of the community. However, in the older parts
of the country or in hilly or mountainous regions, the trade or business center is not always
the same as the center of the chief social activities of the people, and may not be the chief
factor in determining the community center. Not infrequently a church, school and grange hall
located close together may form the nucleus of a community which does its business at a railroad
station village some distance away, possibly over a range of hills. The chief trading points
cannot, therefore, be arbitrarily assumed as the base points for determining community areas,
but those points at which the more important of the common interests of the people find expression
should be considered as community centers. It is not simply a question of where the people
go most often, but of where their chief interests focus.

With this concept of a community it is obvious that the "center" of a community must be the
base point for determining its area. It would seem that the community center is essential to
the individuality of any community: The community "center" need not necessarily be at the geographical
center of the community; indeed in many cases it is at or close to one of its boundaries, though
in an open level country it will tend to approximate the center.

The term "community center" is here used in a literal sense of being the center of the activities
of the community. It should be distinguished from the "community-center idea" which refers
to a building, whether it be a community house, school, church, or grange hall, as a "community
center." Such a building in which the activities of the community are largely centered may
be a community center in a very real sense, but in most cases these activities will be divided
between church, school, grange hall, etc. No one of them can then be a center for the whole
community, but taken together they constitute the center in which the chief interests of the
community focus. Every community must necessarily have a more or less well defined community
center; it may or may not have some one building in which the chief activities of the community
have their headquarters. Such buildings, of whatever nature, may well be called community houses
or social centers.

Although attention has been directed to the area of the community, the community consists not
of land or houses but of the people of this area. Its boundary merely gives a community identity,
as does the roll of a company or the charter of a city. The community consists of the people
within a local area; the land they occupy is but the physical basis of the community. The nature
of the community will depend very largely upon whether its people live close together or at
a distance. In the Rocky Mountain States many communities are but sparsely settled and may
have a radius of forty or fifty miles and yet be true communities, while on the Atlantic seaboard
a definite community with as many people may have a radius of not over a mile or two.

Nor is the community a mere aggregation or association of the people of a given area. It is
rather a corporate state of mind of those living in a local area, giving rise to their collective
behavior. There cannot be a true community unless the people think and act together.

The term "neighborhood" is very frequently used as synonymous with "community," and should
be definitely distinguished. In the sense in which these terms are now coming to be technically
employed, the neighborhood consists of but a group of houses fairly near each other. Frequently
a neighborhood grew up around some one center, as a school, store, church, mill, or blacksmith
shop, which in the course of time may have been abandoned, but the homes remained clustered
together. Or the neighborhood may be merely six to a dozen homes near together on the same
road or near a corner. The school district of the one-room country school is commonly a neighborhood,
but as there are no other interests which bind the people together it cannot be considered
a community. Likewise people associate in churches, granges, etc., but church parishes overlap,
and the constituency of any one of these associations is not necessarily a community. Only
when several of the chief human interests find satisfaction in the organizations and institutions
which serve a fairly definite common local area tributary to them, do we have a true community.
In many cases the neighborhood, particularly the school district, forms a desirable unit for
certain purposes of social organization, and, indeed, in many cases it may be necessary to
develop the neighborhood as a social unit before its people will actively associate themselves
in community activities, but the neighborhood cannot function in the same way as the larger
community which brings people together in several of their chief interests. The community can
support institutions impossible in the neighborhood, such as a grange, lodge, library, various
stores, etc. The community is more or less self-sufficing. A community may include a variable
number of neighborhoods. The community is the smallest geographical unit of organized association
of the chief human activities.

Bringing together these various considerations concerning the nature of the rural community
we may say that a rural community consists of the people in a local area tributary to the center
of their common interests.

Obviously the community thus defined has nothing to do with political areas or boundaries,
for very commonly a community may lie in two or three townships or counties. That rural areas
are actually divided into such communities and that the community is the primary unit of their
social organization may best be tested by taking any given county or township and attempting
to map its area into communities on the basis above described. In most of the northern and
western states and throughout much of the South, most of the territory may be quite readily
divided into communities. This has been demonstrated by the rural surveys of the Interchurch
World Movement[3] and by the community maps made by County Farm Bureaus.

A very large part of the South, however, has no natural community centers and in such sections
it will be found very difficult if not impossible to define community areas. The store may
be at the railroad station, the church in the open country, and the district or consolidated
school at still another point. Some people go to one store or church and others to another.
Under such conditions, no real community exists. Usually, any form of social organization is
more or less difficult under such conditions, for the people are divided into different groups
for different purposes and there is nothing which makes united activities possible. It seems
probable that only to the extent that certain centers of social and economic life come to be
recognized by the people, and community life is developed around them, will the most effective
and satisfying social organization be possible.

Recognition of the community as the primary unit for purposes of rural organization has now
become quite general. Several mid-western states have passed legislation permitting school
districts to combine into community districts for the support of consolidated schools or high
schools, irrespective of township or county boundaries. The present tendency in the centralization
of rural schools seems to be in the direction of locating them at the natural community centers.
Rural churches are coming into a new sense of responsibility to the community and the community
church is increasingly advocated. The American Red Cross in planning its peace-time program
is recognizing the importance of the rural community as the local unit for its work. The County
Farm Bureaus, working in coöperation with the state colleges of agriculture and the United
States Department of Agriculture, very soon discovered the value of the community as the local
unit of their organization, and carry on their work through community committees or community
clubs. Possibly no other one movement has done so much to bring about the definite location
of rural communities and their appreciation by rural people. A conference of national organizations
engaged in social work in rural communities held in 1919 summed up the experience of a group
of representative rural leaders in the statement: "In rural organization it is recognized that
the local community constitutes the functional unit and the county or district the supervisory
unit." In other words, it is the rural community which really "carries on," whatever the executive
organization of the county or district may be.

The strength of the rural community as a social group lies in two facts. First, it is not so
large but that most of its people know each other. The size of the community in this regard
does not depend so much upon the actual number of square miles involved as upon the number
of its population. People may all be acquainted in a sparsely settled community covering a
ten-mile radius, and there may be less acquaintance in a small community with a dense population.
Secondly, the great majority of the people in the average rural community are dependent upon
agriculture for their income, either directly or once-removed. These two facts make possible
common interests and a social control through public opinion which is not possible in larger
social units such as the county or city. Sir Horace Plunkett appreciates this when he says:

      "Our ancient Irish records show little clans with a common
      ownership of land hardly larger than a parish, but with all
      the patriotic feeling of larger nations held with an
      intensity rare in modern states. The history of these clans
      and of very small nations like the ancient Greek states
      shows that the social feeling assumes its most binding and
      powerful character where the community is large enough to
      allow free play to the various interests of human life, but
      is not so large that it becomes an abstraction to the
      imagination."[4]

This inherent social strength of the rural community, the fact that the community is relatively
permanent, and the appreciation that only through community effort may rural people realize
their natural desire to enjoy some of the advantages of cities, force the conviction that the
community must be the primary unit for the organization of rural progress. It is from this
point of view that we shall discuss the community aspects of the various human interests of
the farmer and the consequent relations of "The Farmer and His Community."

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Galpin, C. J., "The Social Anatomy of an Agricultural Community." Research Bulletin 54,
Agricultural Experiment Station of the University of Wisconsin, May, 1915; and also in his
"Rural Life," Century Co., New York, 1920.

[2] The following four pages are revised from the author's bulletin, "Locating the Rural Community,"
Cornell Reading Course for the Farm, Lesson 158.

[3] See Reports of the Town and Country Department, Committee on Social and Religious Surveys,
111 Fifth Ave., New York, or Geo. H. Doran, New York.

[4] "Rural Life Problem in the United States," p. 129. Italics mine.

CHAPTER II

THE FARM HOME AND THE COMMUNITY

The American farmer thinks first of his own home; only recently has he commenced to appreciate
that his and other homes form a community. In the "age of homespun" the pioneer subdued his
new lands and built his home; the farm and the home were his and for them he lived. He bought
but little and had but little to sell. Farms were largely self-supporting. Neighbors helped
each other in numerous ways and as the country became more thickly settled neighborhood life
grew apace. But there was little sense of relation to the larger community. Roads were bad
and people were too widely scattered to come together except on special occasions. The family
was the fundamental social unit and social life revolved around the family, or in the immediate
neighborhood.

But "times have changed." The farm is no longer largely self-supporting. It is now but a primary
unit in a world-wide economic system, conducted with money as the basis of exchange and dominated
by the interests of capital. Farm products are sold for cash and their value is determined
by distant or world markets with which the farmer has no personal contact and of which he often
has but little knowledge. Most of the goods consumed on the farm must be purchased. The marketing
of his products and the purchasing of goods have given the farmer increasing contacts with
the village and town centers and a broader knowledge of the world at large.

During the past century modern ideas of transportation and the development of industries due
to inventions and scientific discoveries have resulted in an enormous growth of city populations.
The social life of the cities is increasingly dominated by the interests of the individual
rather than those of the family, until the breaking down of urban family life has become a
world-wide problem. The family is no longer the social unit of the city as it is in the country.

Now farm people are by no means as isolated from town and city as is often imagined. Their
brothers and sisters, sons and daughters have gone to make up the increasing urban populations.
Through correspondence and visiting back and forth, through frequent trips to town, through
the daily city newspapers, and through the general reading of magazines, farm people are in
more or less close contact with the life and manners of the cities. Inasmuch as slightly over
half of our people now live in towns or cities and only one-third live on farms, it is not
surprising that urban ideals and values and the urban point of view tend more and more to dominate
those of the countryside. There has been a natural tendency, therefore, for the association
of country people to center in the country town and village, in the community center.

Better transportation and the inability to maintain satisfactory institutions in the open country
have made this process inevitable and it will do much to abolish the evils of rural isolation.
The increasing difficulty of maintaining successful churches in the open country and the growth
of the village church, the dissatisfaction with the one-room district school and the desire
for consolidated schools and community high schools, are evidences of this tendency.

The smaller size of the farm family has made it less self-sufficient socially than formerly,
and the fact that fewer near relations live nearby and farms change hands more often has resulted
in fewer neighborhood gatherings. The different members of the family tend to get together
more with groups of their own age and sex coming from all parts of the community, and definite
effort is made for the organization of such groups according to their various interests.

Attention is directed to these tendencies because in our present emphasis on the relation of
the farmer to his community and on community values, we must not lose sight of the fact that
the family must ever be recognized as the primary social institution of rural life. Indeed,
it may not be too much to claim that the largest value in the agricultural industry is in the
possibility of the most satisfactory type of home life. The millionaire farmer is so rare as
to be negligible, and although farmers as a class doubtless have as wholesome and satisfactory
a living as they would in other pursuits, yet no one engages in farming as a means of easily
acquiring large wealth. The highest rural values cannot be bought or sold.

The mere fact that farming is practically the only remaining industry conducted on a family
basis--which seems likely to continue--and that all members of the family have more or less
of a share in the conduct and success of the farm, creates a family bond which does not ordinarily
exist where the business or employment of the father and of other members of the family is
dissociated from the home. Although the burden of the farm business on the home is often decried
and there is obvious need of lightening the mother's work for the farm as much as possible,
yet under the best of conditions there is on the farm a constant and intimate contact between
the father and mother and children which is rarely found under other conditions.

Primitive woman discovered the art of agriculture. At first, the men assisted the women in
what time they could spare from hunting; but as game became scarce and the food supply grown
from the soil was found to be more certain, agriculture became man's vocation. Permanent home
life commenced with the development of agriculture. As he became a farmer, primitive man stayed
at home with his wife and shared with her the nurture of the children. Before then the family
had been hers, now it was theirs. The mere fact that the home and the business are both on
the farm, that father is in the house several times a day and that the whole family are acquainted
with his farm operations, will always give the farm home a superior solidarity, so long as
the family lives on the farm. Though but few farm homes are ideal and some of them have but
little that is attractive, yet nowhere are conditions so favorable for the enjoyment of all
that is most precious in family life as in the better American farm homes.

If this be true, that the chief value in agriculture is in the possibility of the most satisfactory
home life, then community development should be considered primarily from the standpoint of
its effect on the farm home, for the social strength of the country will be more largely determined
by its homes than by its other social institutions. We should endeavor, therefore, to build
up that type of community life which makes for better homes and stronger families. While seeking
to afford superior advantages to individuals, all effort toward community improvement should
recognize that the strength of the community is in its home life.

The need of this point of view with regard to rural community organization has been very forcibly
indicated by Mr. John R. Boardman, one of our keenest observers and interpreters of country
life in his "Community Leadership." He says:

      "At the heart of the rural situation is the rural family.
      The social problems involved in home life in the rural
      village and on the farm are of two kinds,--developmental and
      protective. The social unit in the city is the individual.
      Urban conditions have rapidly disintegrated the family as a
      social unit. Grave dangers have resulted from this
      interference with the unity of domestic life. The rural
      family is in danger of meeting the same fate. It is now the
      social unit in the rural social structure. Every effort must
      be put forth to make this situation permanent. The major
      problem is one of home conservation. Protection of the rural
      family against social exploitation will demand increasing
      attention. The development of social organization along
      lines which interfere with the unity and solidarity of rural
      family life must be approached with extreme caution and
      tolerated only as they may be absolutely necessary. So far
      as possible social organization must be built around the
      rural family and give it every possible opportunity to act
      as a family in the scheme of organization and activity. The
      home as a social center must receive increased attention.
      There is great danger, in the new interest which is being
      aroused in rural social life, that the matter of social
      organization be greatly overdone. The rural family will be
      the one to suffer first and most severely as a result of
      this craze for social organization."

In support of this point of view it is interesting to note that the strongest rural institutions,
the church, the grange, and the recently organized Farm Bureaus, are all organizations which
have an interest for the whole family or for most of its members. With an increasing sense
of social needs and responsibilities on the part of rural people, new organizations will be
formed and various community activities must be undertaken, but if country people will remain
true to their traditions and, with clear view of changing conditions, will seek to organize
their community life as an association of farm and village families, they will create the most
satisfying and enduring type of society. The community buildings now becoming so popular in
rural communities are a good example of a family institution organized to furnish better recreation
and social facilities for the whole family.

Inasmuch as the home is its primary social institution, the rural community must give its first
consideration to its relations to the home and how the home life may be strengthened, if the
rural family is to withstand the influence of the disintegrating home life of the city. For
the farm home is in a process of readjustment to modern conditions and the recognition of ideals
and objectives of home-life by the community will be a powerful factor in their maintenance.

