I passed on to the next cage, Marny watching me but saying nothing. The scout was in this one,
the "type" in Marny's sketch. There were three of them--tall, hickory-sapling sort of young
fellows, with straight legs, flat stomachs, and thin necks, like that of a race-horse. One
had the look of an eagle, with his beak-nose and deep-set, uncowed eyes. Another wore his yellow
hair long on his neck, Custer-fashion. The third sat on the iron floor, his knees level with
his chin, his head in his hand. He had a sweetheart, perhaps, who loved him, or an old mother
who was wringing her hands at home. This one, I learned afterward, had come with the last batch
and was not yet accustomed to his surroundings; the others had been awaiting trial for months.
All of them wore homespun clothes--not the ready-made clothes sold at the stores, but those
that some woman at home had cut, basted, and sewn.

Marny asked them what they were up for. Their answers differed slightly from that of the old
man, but the crime and its penalty were the same.

"Makin'," they severally replied.

There was no lowering of the eyelids when they confessed; no hangdog look about the mouth.
They would do it again when they got out, and they intended to, only they would shoot the quicker
next time. The earth was theirs and the fulness thereof, that part of it which they owned.
Their grandfathers before them had turned their corn into whiskey and no man had said nay,
and so would they. Not the corn that they had stolen, but the corn that they had ploughed and
shucked. It was their corn, not the Government's. Men who live in the wilderness, and feed
and clothe themselves on the things they raise with their own hands, have no fine-spun theories
about the laws that provide revenue for a Government they never saw, don't want to see, and
couldn't understand if they did.

Marny and I stood before the grating, looking each man over separately. Strange to say, the
artistic possibilities of my visit faded out of my mind. The picturesqueness of their attire,
the browns and grays accentuated here and there by a dash of red around a hat-band or shirt-collar--all
material for my own or my friend's brush--made not the slightest impression upon me. It was
the close smell, the dim, horrible light, the quick gleam of a pair of eyes looking out from
under shocks of matted hair--the eyes of a panther watching his prey; the dull stare of some
boyish face with all hope crushed out of it; these were the things that possessed me.

As I stood there absorbed in the terrors before me, I was startled by the click of the catch
and the clink of keys, followed by the noiseless swing of the steel door as it closed again.

I turned and looked down the corridor.

Into the gloom of this inferno, this foul-smelling cavern, this assemblage of beasts, stepped
a girl of twenty. A baby wrapped about with a coarse shawl lay in her arms.

She passed me with eyes averted, and stood before the gate of the last steel cage--the woman's
end of the prison--the turnkey following slowly. Cries of "Howdy, gal! What did ye git?" wore
hurled after her, but she made no answer. The ominous sound of drawn bolts and the click of
a key, and the girl and baby were inside the bars of the cage. These bars, foreshortened from
where I stood, looked like a row of gun-barrels in an armory rack.

"That girl a prisoner?" I asked the Warden.

I didn't believe it. I knew, of course, that it couldn't be. I instantly divined that she had
come to comfort some brother or father, or lover, perhaps, and had brought the baby with her
because there was no place to leave it at home. I only asked the question of the Warden so
he could deny it, and deny it, too, with some show of feeling--this man with the sliced ear
and the gorilla hands.

"Yes, she's been here some time. Judge suspended sentence a while ago. She's gone after her
things."

There was no joy over her release in his tones, nor pity for her condition.

He spoke exactly, it seemed to me, as he would have done had he been in charge of the iron-barred
gate of the Colosseum two thousand years ago. All that had saved the girl then from the jaws
of his hungriest lion was the twist of Nero's thumb. All that saved her now was the nod of
the Judge's head--both had the giving of life and death.

A thin mist swam before my eyes, and a great lump started from my heart and stuck fast in my
throat, but I did not answer him; it would have done no good--might have enraged him, in fact.
I walked straight to the gate through which she had entered and peered in. I could see between
the gun-barrels now.

It was like the other cages, with barred walls and sheet-iron floors. Built in one corner of
the far end was a strong box of steel, six feet by four by the height of the ceiling, fitted
with a low door. This box was lined with a row of bunks, one above the other. From one was
thrust a small foot covered with a stocking and part of a skirt; some woman prisoner was ill,
perhaps. Against the wall of this main cage sat two negro women; one, I learned afterward,
had stabbed a man the week before; the other was charged with theft. The older--the murderess--came
forward when she caught sight of me, thrust out her hands between the bars, and begged for tobacco.

In the corner of the same cage was another steel box. I saw the stooping figure of the young
girl come out of it as a dog comes out of a kennel. She walked toward the centre of the cage--she
still had the baby in her arms--laid the child on the sheet-iron floor, where the light from
the grimy windows fell the clearer, and returned to the steel box. The child wore but one garment--a
short red-flannel shirt that held the stomach tight and left the shrivelled legs and arms bare.
It lay flat on its back, its eyes gazing up at the ceiling, its pinched face in high light
against the dull background. Now and then it would fight the air with its little fists or kick
its toes above its head.

The girl took from the kennel a broken paper box and, returning with it, knelt beside the child
and began arranging its wardrobe, the two negresses watching her listlessly. Not much of a
wardrobe--only a ragged shawl, some socks, a worsted cap, a pair of tiny shoes, and a Canton-flannel
wrapper, once white. This last had little arms and a short waist. The skirt was long enough
to tuck around her baby's feet when she carried it.

I steadied myself by one of the musket-barrels, watched her while she folded the few pitiful
garments, waited until she had guided the shrunken arms into the sleeves of the soiled wrapper
and had buttoned it over the baby's chest. Then, when the lump in my throat was about to stop
my breathing, I said:

"Will you come here, please, to the grating? I want to speak to you."

She raised her head slowly, looked at me in a tired, hopeless way, laid her baby back on the
sheet-iron floor, and walked toward me. As she came into the glow of the overhead light, I
saw that she was even younger than I had first supposed--nearer seventeen than twenty--a girl
with something of the curious look of a young heifer in a face drawn and lined but with anxiety.
Parted over a low forehead, and tucked behind her ears, streamed two braids of straight yellow
hair in two unkempt strands over her shoulders. Across her bosom and about her slender figure
was hooked a yellow-brown dress made in one piece. The hooks and eyes showed wherever the strain
came, disclosing the coarse chemise and the brown of the neck beneath. This strain, the strain
of an ill-fitting garment, accentuated all the clearer, in the wrinkles about the shoulders
and around the hips, the fulness of her delicately modelled lines; quite as would a jacket
buttoned over the Milo. On the third finger of one hand was a flat silver ring, such as is
sold by the country peddlers.

She stood quite close to the bars, patiently awaiting my next question. She had obeyed my summons
like a dog who remembered a former discipline. No curiosity, not the slightest interest; nothing
but blind obedience. The tightened grasp of these four walls had taught her this.

"Where do you come from?" I asked.

I had to begin in some way.

"From Pineyville." The voice was that of a child, with a hard, dry note in it.

"How old is the baby?"

"Three months and ten days." She had counted the child's age. She had thought enough for that.

"How far is Pineyville?"

"I doan' know. It took mos' all night to git here." There was no change in the listless monotone.

"Are you going out now?"

"Yes, soon's I kin git ready."

"How are you going to get home?"

"Walk, I reckon." There was no complaint in her tone, no sudden exhibition of any suffering.
She was only stating facts.

"Have you no money?"

"No." Same bald statement, and in the same hopeless tone. She had not moved--not even to look
at the child.

"What's the fare?"

"Six dollars and sixty-five cents." This was stated with great exactness. It was the amount
of this appalling sum that had, no doubt, crushed out her last ray of hope.

"Did you sell any whiskey?"

"Yes, I tol' the Judge so." Still no break in her voice. It was only another statement.

"Oh! you kept a saloon?"

"No."

"How did you sell it, then?"

"Jest out of a kag--in a cup."

"Had you ever sold any before?"

"No."

"Why did you sell it, then?"

She had been looking into my face all this time, one thin, begrimed hand--the one with the
ring on it--tight around the steel bar of the gate that divided us. With the question, her
eyes dropped until they seemed to rest on this hand. The answer came slowly:

"The baby come, and the store wouldn't chalk nothin' for us no more." Then she added, quickly,
as if in defence of the humiliating position, "Our corn-crib was sot afire last fall and we
got behind."

For a brief instant she leaned heavily against the bars as if for support, then her eyes sought
her child. I waited until she had reassured herself of its safety, and continued my questions,
my finger-nails sinking deeper all the time into the palms of my hands.

"Did you make the whiskey?"

"No, it was Martin Young's whiskey. My husband works for him. Martin sent the kag down one
day, and I sold it to the men. I give the money all to Martin 'cept the dollar he was to gimme
for sellin' it."

"How came you to be arrested?"

"One o' the men tol' on me 'cause I wouldn't trust him. Martin tol' me not to let 'em have
it 'thout they paid."

"How long have you been here?"

"Three months next Tuesday."

"That baby only two weeks old when they arrested you?" My blood ran hot and cold, and my collar
seemed five sizes too small, but I still held on to myself.

"Yes." The answer was given in the same monotonous, listless voice--not a trace of indignation
over the outrage. Women with suckling babies had no rights that anybody was bound to respect--not
up in Pineyville; certainly not the gentlemen with brass shields under the lapels of their
coats and Uncle Sam's commissions in their pockets. It was the law of the land--why find fault
with it?

I leaned closer so that I could touch her hand if need be.

"What's your name?"

"Samanthy North."

"What's your husband's name?"

"His name's North." There was a trace of surprise now in the general monotone Then she added,
as if to leave no doubt in my mind, "Leslie North."

"Where is he?" I determined now to round up every fact.

"He's home. We've got another child, and he's takin' care of it till I git back. He'd be to
the railroad for me if he knowed I was coming; but I couldn't tell him when to start 'cause
I didn't know how long they'd keep me."

"Is your home near the railroad?"

"No, it's thirty-six miles furder."

"How will you get from the railroad?"

"Ain't no way 'cept walkin'."

I had it now, the whole damnable, pitiful story, every fact clear-cut to the bone. I could
see it all: the look of terror when the deputy woke her from her sleep and laid his hand upon
her; the parting with the other child; the fright of the helpless husband; the midnight ride,
she hardly able to stand, the pitiful scrap of her own flesh and blood tight in her arms; the
procession to the jail, the men in front chained together, she bringing up the rear, walking
beside the last guard; the first horrible night in jail, the walls falling upon her, the darkness
overwhelming her, the puny infant resting on her breast; the staring, brutal faces when the
dawn came, followed by the coarse jest. No wonder that she hung limp and hopeless to the bars
of her cage, all the spring and buoyancy, all the youth and lightness, crushed out of her.

I put my hand through the bars and laid it on her wrist.

"No, you won't walk; not if I can help it." This outburst got past the lump slowly, one word
at a time, each syllable exploding hot like balls from a Roman candle. "You get your things
together quick as you can, and wait here until I come back," and I turned abruptly and motioned
to the turnkey to open the gate.

In the office of the Chief of Police outside I found Marny talking to Sergeant Cram. He was
waiting until I finished. It was all an old story with Marny--every month a new batch came
to Covington jail.

"What about that girl, Sergeant--the one with the baby?" I demanded, in a tone that made them
both turn quickly.

"Oh, she's all right. She told the Judge a straight story this morning, and he let her go on
'spended sentence. They tried to make her plead 'Not guilty,' but she wouldn't lie about it,
she said. She can go when she gets ready. What are you drivin' at? Are you goin' to put up
for her?"--and a curious look overspread his face.

"I'm going to get her a ticket and give her some money to get home. Locking up a seventeen-year-old
girl, two hundred miles from home, in a den like that, with a baby two weeks old, may be justice,
but I call it brutality! Our Government can pay its expenses without that kind of revenue."
The whole bundle of Roman candles was popping now. Inconsequent, wholly illogical, utterly
indefensible explosions. But only my heart was working.

The Sergeant looked at Marny, relaxed the scowl about his eyebrows, and smiled; such "softies"
seemed rare to him.

"Well, if you're stuck on her--and I'm damned if I don't believe you are--let me give you a
piece of advice. Don't give her no money till she gets on the train, and whatever you do, don't
leave her here over night. There's a gang around here"--and he jerked his thumb in the direction
of the door--"that might--" and he winked knowingly.

"You don't mean--" A cold chill suddenly developed near the roots of my hair and trickled to
my spine.

"Well, she's too good-lookin' to be wanderin' round huntin' for a boardin'-house. You see her
on the train, that's all. Starts at eight to-night. That's the one they all go by--those who
git out and can raise the money. She ought to leave now, 'cordin' to the regulations, but as
long as you're a friend of Mr. Marny's I'll keep her here in the office till I go home at seven
o'clock. Then you'd better have someone to look after her. No, you needn't go back and see
her"--this in answer to a movement I made toward the prison door. "I'll fix everything. Mr.
Marny knows me."

I thanked the Sergeant, and we started for the air outside--something we could breathe, something
with a sky overhead and the dear earth underfoot, something the sun warmed and the free wind
cooled.

Only one thing troubled me now. I could not take the girl to the train myself, neither could
Marny, for I had promised to lecture that same night for the Art Club at eight o'clock, and
Marny was to introduce me. The railroad station was three miles away.

"I've got it!" cried Marny, when we touched the sidewalk, elbowing our way among the crowd
of loafers who always swarm about a place of this kind. (He was as much absorbed in the girl's
future, when he heard her story, as I was.) "Aunt Chloe lives within two blocks of us--let's
hunt her up. She ought to be at home by this time."

The old woman was just entering her street door when she heard Marny's voice, her basket on
her arm, a rabbit-skin tippet about her neck.

"Dat I will, honey," she answered, positively, when the case was laid before her. "Dat I will;
'deed an' double I will."

She stepped into the house, left her basket, joined us again on the sidewalk, and walked with
us back to the Sheriff's office.

"All right," said the Sergeant, when we brought her in. "Yes, I know the old woman; the gal
will be ready for her when she comes, but I guess I'd better send one of my men along with
'em both far as the depot. Ain't no use takin' no chances."

The dear old woman followed us again until we found a clerk in a branch ticket-office, who
picked out a long green slip from a library of tickets, punched it with the greatest care with
a pair of steel nippers, and slipped it into an official envelope labelled: "K.C. Pineyville,
Ky. 8 P.M."

With this tightly grasped in her wrinkled brown hand, together with another package of Marny's
many times in excess of the stage fare of thirty-six miles and which she slipped into her capacious
bosom, Aunt Chloe "made her manners" with the slightest dip of a courtesy and left us with
the remark:

"Sha'n't nothin' tech her, honey; gwinter stick right close to her till de steam-cars git to
movin', I'll be over early in de mawnin' an' let ye know. Doan' worry, honey; ain't nothin'
gwinter happen to her arter I gits my han's on her."

When I came down to breakfast, Aunt Chloe was waiting for me in the hall. She looked like the
old woman in the fairy-tale in her short black dress that came to her shoe-tops, snow-white
apron and headkerchief, covered by a close-fitting nun-like hood--only the edge of the handkerchief
showed--making her seem the old black saint that she was. It not being one of her cleaning-days,
she had "kind o' spruced herself up a li'l mite," she said. She carried her basket, covered
now with a white starched napkin instead of the red-and-yellow bandanna of work-days. No one
ever knew what this basket contained. "Her luncheon," some of the art-students said; but if
it did, no one had ever seen her eat it. "Someone else's luncheon," Marny added; "some sick
body whom she looks after. There are dozens of them."

"Larrovers fur meddlins," Aunt Chloe invariably answered those whose curiosity got the better
of their discretion--an explanation which only deepened the mystery, no one being able to translate
it.

"She's safe, honey!" Aunt Chloe cried, when she caught sight of me. "I toted de baby, an' she
toted de box. Po' li'l chinkapin! Mos' break a body's heart to see it! 'Clar to goodness, dat
chile's leg warn't bigger'n a drumstick picked to de bone. De man de Sheriff sent wid us didn't
go no furder dan de gate, an' when he lef us dey all sneaked in an' did dere bes' ter git her
from me. Wuss-lookin' harum-scarums you ever see. Kep' a-tellin' her de ticket was good for
ten days an' dey'd go wid her back to town; an' dat if she'd stay dey'd take her 'cross de
ribber to see de city. I seed she wanted ter git home to her husban', an' she tol' 'em so.
Den dey tried to make her believe he was comin' for her, an' dey pestered her so an' got her
so mixed up wid deir lies dat I was feared she was gwine to give in, arter all. She warn't
nothin' but a po' weak thing noways. Den I riz up an' tol' 'em dat I'd call a pleeceman an'
take dat ticket from her an' de money I gin her beside, if she didn't stay on dat car. I didn't
give her de 'velope; I had dat in my han' to show de conductor when he come, so he could see
whar she was ter git off. Here it is"--and she handed me the ticket-seller's envelope. "Warn't
nothin' else saved me but dat. When dey see'd it, dey knowed den somebody was a-lookin' arter
her an' dey give in. Po' critter! I reckon she's purty nigh home by dis time!"

The story is told. It is all true, every sickening detail. Other stories just like it, some
of them infinitely more pitiful, can be written daily by anyone who will peer into the cages
of Covington jail. There is nothing to be done; nothing can be done.

It is the law of the land--the just, holy, beneficent law, which is no respecter of persons.

II

BUD TILDEN, MAIL-THIEF

"That's Bud Tilden, the worst of the bunch," said the jail Warden--the warden with the sliced
ear and the gorilla hands. "Reminds me of a cat'mount I tried to tame once, only he's twice
as ugly."

As he spoke, he pointed to a prisoner in a slouch hat clinging half-way up the steel bars of
his cage, his head thrust through as far as his cheeks would permit, his legs spread apart
like the letter A.

"What's he here for?" I asked.

"Bobbin' the U-nited States mail."

"Where?"

"Up in the Kentucky mountains, back o' Bug Holler. Laid for the carrier one night, held him
up with a gun, pulled him off his horse, slashed the bottom out o' the mail-bag with his knife,
took what letters he wanted, and lit off in the woods, cool as a chunk o' ice. Oh! I tell ye,
he's no sardine; you kin see that without my tellin' ye. They'll railroad him, sure."

"When was he arrested?"

"Last month--come down in the November batch. The dep'ties had a circus 'fore they got the
irons on him. Caught him in a clearin' 'bout two miles back o' the Holler. He was up in a corn-crib
with a Winchester when they opened on him. Nobody was hurted, but they would a-been if they'd
showed the top o' their heads, for he's strong as a bull and kin scalp a squirrel at fifty
yards. They never would a-got him if they hadn't waited till dark and smoked him out, so one
on 'em told me." He spoke as if the prisoner had been a rattlesnake or a sheep-stealing wolf.

The mail-thief evidently overheard, for he dropped, with a cat-like movement, to the steel
floor and stood looking at us through the bars from under his knit eyebrows, his eyes watching
our every movement.

There was no question about his strength. As he stood in the glare of the overhead light I
could trace the muscles through his rough homespun--for he was a mountaineer, pure and simple,
and not a city-bred thief in ready-made clothes. I saw that the bulging muscles of his calves
had driven the wrinkles of his butternut trousers close up under the knee-joint and that those
of his thighs had rounded out the coarse cloth from the knee to the hip. The spread of his
shoulders had performed a like service for his shirt, which was stretched out of shape over
the chest and back. This was crossed by but one suspender, and was open at the throat--a tree-trunk
of a throat, with all the cords supporting the head firmly planted in the shoulders. The arms
were long and had the curved movement of the tentacles of a devil-fish. The hands were big
and bony, the fingers knotted together with knuckles of iron. He wore no collar nor any coat;
nor did he bring one with him, so the Warden said.

I had begun my inventory at his feet as he stood gazing sullenly at us, his great red hands
tightly clasped around the bars. When in my inspection I passed from his open collar up his
tree-trunk of a throat to his chin, and then to his face, half-shaded by a big slouch hat,
which rested on his flaring ears, and at last looked into his eyes, a slight shock of surprise
went through me. I had been examining this wild beast with my judgment already warped by the
Warden; that's why I began at his feet and worked up. If I had started in on an unknown subject,
prepared to rely entirely upon my own judgment, I would have begun at his eyes and worked down.
My shock of surprise was the result of this upward process of inspection. An awakening of this
kind, the awakening to an injustice done a man we have half-understood, often comes after years
of such prejudice and misunderstanding. With me this awakening came with my first glimpse of
his eyes.

There was nothing of the Warden's estimate in these eyes; nothing of cruelty nor deceit nor
greed. Those I looked into were a light blue--a washed-out china blue; eyes that shone out
of a good heart rather than out of a bad brain; not very deep eyes; not very expressive eyes;
dull, perhaps, but kindly. The features were none the less attractive; the mouth was large,
well-shaped, and filled with big white teeth, not one missing; the nose straight, with wide,
well-turned nostrils; the brow low, but not cunning nor revengeful; the chin strong and well-modelled,
the cheeks full and of good color. A boy of twenty I should have said--perhaps twenty-five;
abnormally strong, a big animal with small brain-power, perfect digestion, and with every function
of his body working like a clock. Photograph his head and come upon it suddenly in a collection
of others, and you would have said: "A big country bumpkin who ploughs all day and milks the
cows at night." He might be the bloodthirsty ruffian, the human wild beast, the Warden had
described, but he certainly did not look it. I would like to have had just such a man on any
one of my gangs with old Captain Joe over him. He would have fought the sea with the best of
them and made the work of the surf-men twice as easy if he had taken a hand at the watch-tackles.

I turned to the Warden again. My own summing up differed materially from his estimate, but
I did not thrust mine upon him. He had had, of course, a much wider experience among criminals--I,
in fact, had had none at all--and could not be deceived by outward appearances.

"You say they are going to try him to-day?" I asked.

"Yes, at two o'clock. Nearly that now," and he glanced at his watch. "All the witnesses are
down, I hear. They claim there's something else mixed up in it besides robbing the mail, but
I don't remember what. So many of these cases comin' and goin' all the time! His old father
was in to see him yesterday, and a girl. Some o' the men said she was his sweetheart, but he
don't look like that kind. You oughter seen his father, though. Greatest jay you ever see.
Looked like a fly-up-the-creek. Girl warn't much better lookin'. They make 'em out o' brick-clay
and ham fat up in them mountains. Ain't human, half on 'em. Better go over and see the trial."

I waited in the Warden's office until the deputies came for the prisoner. When they had formed
in line on the sidewalk I followed behind the posse, crossing the street with them to the Court-house.
The prisoner walked ahead, handcuffed to a deputy who was a head shorter than he and half his
size. A second officer walked behind; I kept close to this rear deputy and could see every
movement he made. I noticed that his fingers never left his hip pocket and that his eye never
wavered from the slouch hat on the prisoner's head. He evidently intended to take no chances
with a man who could have made mince-meat of both of them had his hands been free.

We parted at the main entrance, the prisoner, with head erect and a certain fearless, uncowed
look on his boyish face, preceding the deputies down a short flight of stone steps, closely
followed by the officer.

The trial, I could see, had evidently excited unusual interest. When I mounted the main flight
to the corridor opening into the trial chamber and entered the great hallway, it was crowded
with mountaineers--wild, shaggy, unkempt-looking fellows, most of them. All were dressed in
the garb of their locality: coarse, rawhide shoes, deerskin waistcoats, rough, butternut-dyed
trousers and coats, and a coon-skin or army slouch hat worn over one eye. Many of them had
their saddle-bags with them. There being no benches, those who were not standing were squatting
on their haunches, their shoulders against the bare wall. Others were huddled close to the
radiators. The smell of escaping steam from these radiators, mingling with the fumes of tobacco
and the effluvia from so many closely packed human bodies, made the air stifling.

I edged my way through the crowd and pushed through the court-room door. The Judge was just
taking his seat--a dull, heavy-looking man with a bald head, a pair of flabby, clean-shaven
cheeks, and two small eyes that looked from under white eyebrows. Half-way up his forehead
rested a pair of gold spectacles. The jury had evidently been out for luncheon, for they were
picking their teeth and settling themselves comfortably in their chairs.

The court-room--a new one--outraged, as usual, in its construction every known law of proportion,
the ceiling being twice too high for the walls, and the big, uncurtained windows (they were
all on one side) letting in a glare of light that made silhouettes of every object seen against
it. Only by the closest attention could one hear or see in a room like this.

The seating of the Judge was the signal for the admission of the crowd in the corridor, who
filed in through the door, some forgetting to remove their hats, others passing the doorkeeper
in a defiant way. Each man, as soon as his eyes became accustomed to the glare from the windows,
looked furtively toward the prisoners' box. Bud Tilden was already in his seat between the
two deputies, his hands unshackled, his blue eyes searching the Judge's face, his big slouch
hat on the floor at his feet. What was yet in store for him would drop from the lips of this face.

The crier of the court, a young negro, made his announcements.

I found a seat between the prisoner and the bench, so that I could hear and see the better.
The Government prosecutor occupied a seat at a table to my right, between me and the three
staring Gothic windows. When he rose from his chair his body came in silhouette against their
light. With his goat-beard, beak-nose, heavy eyebrows, long, black hair resting on the back
of his coat-collar, bent body, loose-jointed arms, his coat-tails swaying about his thin legs,
he looked (I did not see him in any other light) like a hungry buzzard flapping his wings before
taking flight.

He opened the case with a statement of facts. He would prove, he said, that this mountain-ruffian
was the terror of the neighborhood, in which life was none too safe; that although this was
the first time he had been arrested, there were many other crimes which could be laid at his
door, had his neighbors not been afraid to inform upon him.

Warming up to the subject, flapping his arms aloft like a pair of wings, he recounted, with
some dramatic fervor, what he called the "lonely ride of the tried servant of the Government
over the rude passes of the mountains," recounting the risks which these faithful men ran;
then he referred to the sanctity of the United States mails, reminding the jury and the audience--particularly
the audience--of the chaos which would ensue if these sacred mail-bags were tampered with;
"the stricken, tear-stained face of the mother," for instance, who had been waiting for days
and weeks for news of her dying son, or "the anxious merchant brought to ruin for want of a
remittance which was to tide him over some financial distress," neither of them knowing that
at that very moment some highwayman like the prisoner "was fattening off the result of his
theft." This last was uttered with a slapping of both hands on his thighs, his coat-tails swaying
in unison. He then went on in a graver tone to recount the heavy penalties the Government imposed
for violations of the laws made to protect this service and its agents, and wound up by assuring
the jury of his entire confidence in their intelligence and integrity, knowing, as he did,
how just would be their verdict, irrespective of the sympathy they might feel for one who had
preferred "the hidden walks of crime to the broad open highway of an honest life." Altering
his tone again and speaking in measured accents, he admitted that, although the Government's
witnesses had not been able to identify the prisoner by his face, he having concealed himself
in the bushes while the rifling of the pouch was in progress, yet so full a view was gotten
of his enormous back and shoulders as to leave no doubt in his mind that the prisoner before
them had committed the assault, since it would not be possible to find two such men, even in
the mountains of Kentucky. As his first witness he would call the mail-carrier.

Bud had sat perfectly stolid during the harangue. Once he reached down with one long arm and
scratched his bare ankle with his forefinger, his eyes, with the gentle light in them that
had first attracted me, glancing aimlessly about the room; then he settled back again in his
chair, its back creaking to the strain of his shoulders. Whenever he looked at the speaker,
which was seldom, a slight curl, expressing more contempt than anxiety, crept along his lips.
He was, no doubt, comparing his own muscles to those of the buzzard and wondering what he would
do to him if he ever caught him out alone. Men of enormous strength generally measure the abilities
of others by their own standards.

"Mr. Bowditch will take the chair!" cried the prosecutor.

At the summons, a thin, wizen-faced, stubbly-bearded man of fifty, his shirt-front stained
with tobacco-juice, rose from his seat and took the stand. The struggle for possession of the
bag must have been a brief one, for he was but a dwarf compared to the prisoner. In a low,
constrained voice--the awful hush of the court-room had evidently impressed him--and in plain,
simple words, in strong contrast to the flowery opening of the prosecutor, he recounted the
facts as he knew them. He told of the sudden command to halt; of the attack in the rear and
the quick jerking of the mail-bags from beneath his saddle, upsetting him into the road; of
the disappearance of the robber in the bushes, his head and shoulders only outlined against
the dim light of the stars; of the flight of the robber, and of his finding the bag a few yards
away from the place of assault with the bottom cut. None of the letters was found opened; which
ones were missing tie couldn't say. Of one thing he was sure--none were left behind by him
on the ground, when he refilled the bag.

The bag, with a slash in the bottom as big as its mouth, was then passed around the jury-box,
each juror in his inspection of the cut seeming to be more interested in the way in which the
bag was manufactured (some of them, I should judge, had never examined one before) than in
the way in which it was mutilated. The bag was then put in evidence and hung over the back
of a chair, mouth down, the gash in its bottom in full view of the jury. This gash, from where
I sat, looked like one inflicted on an old-fashioned rubber football by a high kicker.

Hank Halliday, in a deerskin waistcoat and dust-stained slouch hat, which he crumpled up in
his hand and held under his chin, was the next witness.

In a jerky, strained voice he told of his mailing a letter, from a village within a short distance
of Bug Hollow, to a girl friend of his on the afternoon of the night of the robbery. He swore
positively that this letter was in this same mail-bag, because he had handed it to the carrier
himself before he got on his horse, and added, with equal positiveness, that it had never reached
its destination. The value or purpose of this last testimony, the non-receipt of the letter,
was not clear to me, except upon the theory that the charge of robbery might fail if it could
be proved by the defence that no letter was missing.

Bud fastened his eyes on Halliday and smiled as he made this last statement about the undelivered
letter, the first smile I had seen across his face, but gave no other sign indicating that
Halliday's testimony affected his chances in any way.

Then followed the usual bad-character witnesses--both friends of Halliday, I could see; two
this time--one charging Bud with all the crimes in the decalogue, and the other, under the
lead of the prosecutor, launching forth into an account of a turkey-shoot in which Bud had
wrongfully claimed the turkey--an account which was at last cut short by the Judge in the midst
of its most interesting part, as having no particular bearing on the case.

Up to this time no one had appeared for the accused, nor had any objection been made to any
part of the testimony except by the Judge. Neither had any one of the prosecutor's witnesses
been asked a single question in rebuttal.

With the resting of the Government's case a dead silence fell upon the room.

The Judge waited a few moments, the tap of his lead-pencil sounding through the stillness,
and then asked if the attorney for the defence was ready.

No one answered. Again the Judge put the question, this time with some impatience.

Then he addressed the prisoner.

"Is your lawyer present?"

Bud bent forward in his chair, put his hands on his knees, and answered slowly, without a tremor
in his voice:

"I ain't got none. One come yisterday to the jail, but he didn't like what I tol' him and he
ain't showed up since."

A spectator sitting by the door, between an old man and a young girl, both evidently from the
mountains, rose to his feet and walked briskly to the open space before the Judge. He had sharp,
restless eyes, wore gloves, and carried a silk hat in one hand.

"In the absence of the prisoner's counsel, your Honor," he said, "I am willing to go on with
this case. I was here when it opened and have heard all the testimony. I have also conferred
with some of the witnesses for the defence."

"Did I not appoint counsel in this case yesterday?" said the Judge, turning to the clerk.

There was a hurried conference between the two, the Judge listening wearily, cupping his ear
with his hand and the clerk rising on his toes so that he could reach his Honor's hearing the
easier.

"It seems," said the Judge, resuming his position, and addressing the room at large, "that
the counsel already appointed has been called out of town on urgent business. If the prisoner
has no objection, and if you, sir--" looking straight at the would-be attorney--"have heard
all the testimony so far offered, the Court sees no objection to your acting in his place."

The deputy on the right side of the prisoner leaned over, whispered something to Tilden, who
stared at the Judge and shook his head. It was evident that Bud had no objection to this nor
to anything else, for that matter. Of all the men in the room he seemed the least interested.

I turned in my seat and touched the arm of my neighbor.

"Who is that man who wants to go on with the case?"

"Oh, that's Bill Cartwright, one of the cheap, shyster lawyers always hanging around here looking
for a job. His boast is he never lost a suit. Guess the other fellow skipped because he thought
he had a better scoop somewhere else. These poor devils from the mountains never have any money
to pay a lawyer. Court appoints 'em."

