"My sister been seamstress in de house--her name Rachel--I do de pointing I can work at anything--after
supper, before dark come, do cutting out for next days work."

"I cut out a suit for my master," she said proudly--"pants, and a waistcoat--you know?" Then
she remembered suddenly that she could spin--card the cotton and spin it into yarn--"'I glad
I can remember things I do in those days--.'"

Her farewell benediction was: ="I trust de Lord will carry you whereever you want to go!"=

  =Source:= Jane Hollins, age 97, the Lane at 50 Ashe St, Charleston, S.C.

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S.C.

  CORNELIUS HOLMES
  EX-SLAVE 82 YEARS OLD.

Cornelius Holmes lives with his wife, Nancy, in a two-room annex to the house that his son,
David, occupies. It is on the old Harden place, nine miles northwest of Winnsboro, S.C. The
land and the house belong to Mr. John Means Harden, a resident of Winnsboro. Cornelius is intelligent,
courteous in manner, tidy in appearance, and polite. His occupation is that of basket-making,
in which he is an adept. He picks up a little money by repairing chairs and putting split-bottoms
in them.

"I was born in de town of Edgefield, South Carolina, November 29th, 1855, 'cordin' to de Bible,
and was a slave of Marse Preston Brooks. Dat name seem to make you set up and take notice of me.

"How come I a slave of Marse Preston? Well, it was dis way. My grands b'long to de Means family
of Fairfield County, 'round old Buckhead section. My grandpap, Wash, tell me Marse Preston
come dere visitin' de Harpers, 'nother buckra family dat live further toward de Broad River
side of de county. When he git up dere, it come over his 'membrance dat de Meanses was some
punkins too, as well as him and de Harpers. Maybe he done heard 'bout Miss Martha, how her
could ride a horse and dance a cotillion in Columbia, when Marse John Hugh was de governor.
Well, de part goes, he comes over dere but didn't do lak they does now, bust right in and 'clare
his 'fections to de gal. Him fust, solemn lak, ask to see de marster and ask him if he object
to him pursuing Miss Martha, in de light of becomin' his son-in-law? Then, when dat was settled,
Marse Preston and Miss Martha gallop and race all 'round de country but de hosses was always
neck and neck. Dat fall, dat race ended in a tie. Dat what Grandpap Wash tell me.

"After they marry, my mother, Scylla, was give to Miss Martha and 'company her to Edgefield.
Dere she marry de carriage driver, Hillard, who was my pappy. I was born in a room 'joinin'
de kitchen and a part of de big kitchen. De plantation was out in de country. I never was dere,
so I can't tell you nothin' 'bout dat. De fact is, I was just a small boy and most I know,
comes from mother and grandpap. They 'low Marse Preston was in Washington most of de time.
One day he marched right in de Senate, wid his gold head cane, and beat a Senator 'til him
fainted, 'bout sumpin' dat Senator say 'bout him old kinsman, Senator Butler. Dat turn de world
up side down. Talk 'bout 'peachin' Marse Preston. Marse Preston resign and come home. De town
of Edgefield, de county of Edgefield, de state of South Carolina, and Miss Martha, rise to
vindicate Marse Preston and 'lect him back to Washington.

"Marse Preston go back and stay dere 'til he die, in 1859. His body was brought back to Edgefield.
De nex' year de war come on. I's too young to 'member much 'bout it but my pappy die while
it was goin' on. Him have three chillun by mother: Me, Audie, and Nancy. They is dead now but
I 'members them crawlin' 'round on de plank floor in de winter time and in de sand in de summer
time.

"I never worked in slavery time. Us eat from de dairy and de kitchen, just what mistress and
her chillun eat. One thing I lak then was 'matoes. They wasn't big 'matoes lak they is now.
They was 'bout de size of marbles. Us cooked them wid sugar and they was mighty good dat way.

"My mistress had chillun by Marse Preston. Sho' I recollect them. Dere was Preston; de last
I hear of him, him livin' in Tennessee. Then dere was Miss Mary; her marry Mr. George Addison
of Edgefield. Miss Carrie; her marry Marse Capers Byrd. De youngest, Miss Martha, marry Col.
McBee of Greenville, S.C.

"Does I 'members 'bout de Yankees? Not much. I 'members more 'bout Wheeler's men. They come
and take nearly everything, wid de excuse dat de Yankees was not far behind and when they come,
they would take all, so they just as well take most of what was in sight.

"When freedom come, my pappy was dead. Mother brought me back to Fairfield County and give
me to my grandpap, Washington Holmes. Us live on 'Possum Branch; now own by Mr. Jim Young.
I stay dere 'til I 'come twenty-one. Then I marry Maggie Gladden, 'cause I love her. Us had
four chillun, in de twenty years her live. Henry is in Philadephia. David, de oldest, is fifty
years old, livin' out in de county from Winnsboro. Lula died, unmarried. Carrie lives here,
in Winnsboro; her husband is Arthur Rosboro, dat you white folks all know so well. When Maggie
die, I marry Nancy Holmes, a widow. Us have had no chillun.

"Now you is finished wid me and you wants me to relax, you say, and talk to you freely 'bout
de past and slavery, de present and social conditions, and de risin' generation and de future?
Well, dat is a heap of territory. Now let's think. You see I got a heap a white blood in me,
and a heap of de Negro too. Slavery did de white race a whole lot a good but it wasn't lastin'
good. It did de Negro good, dat will be lastin' good forever. De Negro women protected de pure
white woman from enticement and seduction of de white man in slavery time. My grandpap say
he never heard of a bad white woman befo' freedom. I leave it wid you if dere's any dese times?
Dat was worth more to de South, my grandpap say, dis santification of de white women, than
all de cotton and corn dat de Negroes ever makes, in all de years of slavery times.

"Now it was de finest thing could have happen for de Negro, to have been snatched out of Africa
and brought here in touch wid civilization and Christianity. It will work out untold benefit
to de race. 'Bout social conditions? De Bible say, 'De poor you will have wid you always.'
Tho' de slave question am settled, de race question will be wid us always, 'til Jesus come
de second time. It's in our politics, in our justice courts, on our highways, on our side walks,
in our manners, in our 'ligion, and in our thoughts, all de day and every day.

"De good Marster pity both sides. In de end, will it be settle by hate or by de policy of,
love your neighbor, as you do yourself? Who knows? Dere's not much promise at de 'mediate moment
of de risin' generation, of either side, and I means no disrespect to you. My grandpap say
no race can rise higher than its women. De future of de Negro race, depends on its mothers.
I leave you to answer de last half of de question." Formerly almost inaccessible, the new Coastal
Highway has put Uncle Ben and Aunt Stella in the world. The rural electricity program has current
right at their door. Aunt Stella was asked 'Why don't you have lights, Aunt Stella?' and she
replied, 'White folks run me if I do that!' So you see the old couple still live with many
old and odd beliefs one being that the white man only is entitled to the good things--the better
things. Like most old ex-slaves in South Carolina low country, they love and revere the names
and memories of their old masters.)

"Right now, I oldest one from Longwood to Prospect--see dere? (Pointing to forest wall--great
pines and live-oaks in front of the cabin)--Look! I know when he cleared and plant! Josh Ward
have potato there. I have manure and plant tater. I been here, daughter!" (He pronounces it
'Dater' with a short 'a')

(Aside: "Stella, mind now! Don't quarrel me to-night! What you do?"

Aunt Stella: The second wife--some years his junior--probably 65--"I do nuff!")

"Got to go up there and cook supper to the Schoolfield house." (This was Uncle Ben's announcement
as he crawled into the car with a bucket in which were his shoes. He was walking down the Coastal
Highway and not staying where he belonged--on the shoulder!) "Got to cook crab and ister (oyster).
Ain't got much to cook. They don't eat much. Got a gal there to fry fish. They give me recommend
for cook. Been get the sea foods for 'em for five year. Iron oven the way we raise." (Aside
to his wife) "Stella, if that man come there, see that sack there? Tell that man I put fire
there. Gie 'em fork and knife. Tell 'em eat all he want!" (Uncle Ben arranges oyster roasts.)

"That man to Schoolfield house want me to stay and sleep wid 'em. All women gone. Tell me keep
the man and lock up the house when he gone. I tell 'em too much o' tief!"

     Lillie: "Aunt Stella, ain't you fraid when Uncle Ben stay out all
     night?"

     Uncle Ben: "Stella keep pot o' water boil and tief come she trow
     'em!"

     Visitor: "Uncle Ben tell Lillie bout your father and the whiskey
     jug."

Uncle Ben: "You see, to Brookgreen we nuster plant rice and my fadder had the barn key. He
kinder boss man. He nuster (used to) take me and go out woods night time." (Aside to mother
of child at pump--"Take care dat child!")

"Fadder take me out woods night time (What you say, Primus?) and I hold storch (torch) for
him see for trash (thrash) out rice what he take out the barn. Rice been money dem time you
know. And he take he rice and gone on down to town for get he liquor. And he come from town
wid whiskey. Boss find it out. Five or six chillun and always give us rations. Broke that jug
and when they call his name (put rations in pile you know--pile for every one been in fambly)
when they call my fadder name but a piece o' broken jug there is discourage him from whiskey--.
He come from town and been drop the jug and it break up. And Boss know. Far as I can remember
he keep give 'em that broken jug bout a year. You see he sponsible for key. Seem like I member
right where we go beat that rice. Pine tree saw off and chip out make as good a mortar as that
one I got. Dan'l, Summer, Define! Define the oldest brother my fadder have. Young Missus Bess,
Florence, Georgia, Alice. Those boys the musicianer--go round play for the girl."

Aunt Stella: Interrupting, "You orter be carry money with you. Get the meat. I ain't going
no whey (where)."

     Lillie: To Primus who has walked up. "Handful back yet?" (Handful
     his wife's basket name.)

     Primus: "No. This man bacco barn burn up."

     Lillie: "What?"

     Primus: "Mr. Len barn. Must'er been asleep!"

     Lillie: "Rich most cure all his'n. Taint mine! Rich tease me. He
     say, 'MY bacco; YOUR kitchen!'"

     Lillie: "What you all think bout that tale the Elder tell Sunday
     bout his Great Uncle and the snakes!"

     Stella: (To Uncle Ben) "What you tink bout it? You tink a man truss
     to go in cypress hollow wid rattle-snake?"

     Uncle Ben: "Let me see how was it!" (Deep thought as he rubbed his
     face in his palm; smile as recollection came) "On Rutledge
     Plantation a man wouldn't take no beating. Found a large hollow
     cypress tree been rotten out long years. Gone in. Lie down sleep.
     Fore day wake up! Feel something crawl over him. Nother one crow
     like game chicken!" (Negroes all say rattlers crow!) "Smell him.
     Crawl over him. Crawl out. Get out."

     Stella: "Revents had it wuz a man in a cypress tree and seven--how
     much wuz it? Twelve? These twelve monster snake crawl over him. If
     you move, he strike."

     Uncle Ben: "Right there where Dr. Ward stay had a big old
     stable--see these two hole in my jaw. Had a stable high as that
     tree. Big Jersey bull gone in there eating that straw like we
     thrashing. Big rattle-snake pop 'um. Fell dead."

"How does we mark shoat? Under-bit; upper-bit. Swallow fork in the right year! And a square
crop in the left!

"How much been task? A quarter (acre) if you mashing ground. Ten compass digging ground. Cutting
rice one half acre a day." (awful job.)

     Stella: "Plow; harrow 'em."

     Ben: "Ain't you mash 'em?"

     Stella: "Mash a bed a day three task deep."

     Ben: "Mashing raw ground half acre--some quarter. Mash 'em--take
     hoe full up them hole, level dem, chop dem big sod!"

     Stella: (age 65) "You got a mis-sheen (machine). Ox pull dat
     mis-sheen!"

     Ben: "Dat mis-sheen come in YOU day, darling! My day I trenching
     hoe trench dat! I done dat, Stella. You come on sow in trench lak
     (like) dey sow turnip. YOU day got mis-sheen! Ox pull 'em. Great I
     AM! Missus, fifteen to old islant (island), twenty silver islant,
     (I been Silver Islant. Cross old islant go Silver islant.) Josh
     Ward one some four or five hundred acre. Something been here,
     darling! Something been here! Left Brookgreen go Watsaw; left
     Watsaw gone Longwood. Plant ALL DEM plantation. I work there. Cut
     rice there. Cutting rice task been half acre a day.

     "Squirrel creek? Cedar tree and cypress hang low. Squirrel love dem
     ball. Tree work up wid dem. Good place for go shoot squirrel. Give
     'em name Squirrel Creek.

     "Bury live? I did hear some talk o' that. I didn't know whether
     they bury 'em to scay 'em (scare 'em) or what. I DID hear tell bout
     it. I most know that man name. Some these white people that day
     something! They either manage you or kill you."

     Lillie: (To Primus who was a listener to Uncle Ben standing propped
     by a post of the porch where Uncle Ben, Aunt Stella, and the white
     visitor sat)

     "Prime! Why you keep that church door lock Sunday and not let the
     Missus out?"

     Primus: (Grinning--and he hadn't grinned Sunday but steadfastly
     shook his head when, after a three hour service, guests thought it
     time to go) "Second man next to me, Asham, Secretary, tell me keep
     door shet through sacrament.

     Ben: (Who is quite deaf--ignoring interruption--when asked about
     Oregon Plantation which was owned by a family who, from all
     accounts, had a cruel overseer.)

"I didn't have to much to do to Oregon in them dark days. If I go from Brookgreen, I go Cap'n
Josh git my mittment. Anybody bother me I say, 'I not a run-way nigger! I got mittment!'

"Very FUSS girl--FUSS one I go with name wuz Teena. How many girl? Great God! I tell you! FUSS
one Teena; next Candis. Candis best looking but Teena duh largest! Go there every Sunday after
school. (Oatland Plantation--blong to Marse Benjamine Allston.) Stay till sunset. Got to have
paper. Got to carry you paper. Dem patroller put you cross a log! Beat you to death. I see
them beat Ben Sharp. Beat 'em till Ben kin hardly git cross fence. Jump over fence give 'em
last chop! Patroll jess like road men now! (Stella! That man ain't coming! I got to go! Got
to cook my supper. Cook dem crab--) Blood! Christ! Yes, man. Listen me. Lemme tell you what
I see wid my eye now! (here he pried both eyes wide with his ten fingers) If I much of age
reckon they have to kill me! I see gash SO LONG (measuring on fore-finger) in my Mama--my own
Mama! (aside to Lillie) I shame fore Miss Jinny! If one them driver want you (want big frame
gal like you Lillie!) they give you task you CAN'T DO. You getting this beating not for you
task--for you flesh!"

Lillie: "That why nation get mix up so!" (Races)

