One day last week, after a struggle for life, Her Majesty's Theatre was shut up, five hundred
persons, so it was stated, lost employment, and the Cinderella family, proud sisters and all,
nay, even the gallant Prince himself, were turned adrift. Smiling, at the helm of the Drury
Lane Ship, stands AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS, who sees, not unmoved, the wreck of "Her Majesty's
Opposition," and murmurs to himself as Jack and the Beanstalk continues its successful course,
"This is, indeed, the survival of the fittest," and, charitably, DRURIOLANUS sends out a life-boat
entitled "Benefit Performance" to the rescue of the shipwrecked crew. Ave Cæsar!

From this disaster there results a moral, "which, when found," it would be as well to "make
a note of." It is this: as evidently London will not, or cannot, support two Pantomimes, several
Circuses, and a Show like BARNUM'S, all through one winter, why try the experiment? especially
when the luxe of Pantomime, fostered by DRURIOLANUS, is so enormous, that any competitor must
be forced into ruinous and even reckless extravagance, in order to enter into anything like
rivalry with The Imperator who "holds the field" for Pantomime, just as he holds "The Garden"
for Opera, against all comers.

These rival establishments only do harm to one another, spoil the public by indulging their
taste for magnificent spectacle, increasing in gorgeousness every year, until true Pantomime
will be overlaid with jewelled armour, crushed under velvet and gold, and be lying helpless
under the weight of its own gorgeosity. We should question whether the Olympian BARNUM has
done much good for himself, seeing how gigantic the expenses must be; and certainly he can't
have done good to the theatres. As to Shows, "The more the merrier" does not hold good. "The
fewer the better" is nearer the mark in every sense, and perhaps the experience of this season
may suggest even to DRURIOLANUS to give the public still more fun for their money (and there
is plenty of genuine fun in Jack and the Beanstalk), with less show, in less time, and at consequently
less expense to himself, and with, therefore, bigger profits. We shall see.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FINISHING TOUCH;

OR, PREPARING FOR MR. SPEAKER'S PARTY.

Anxious Old (Legal) Nurses loquitur:--

  Ah! he's ready now, thanks be!
  But a plaguier child than he
  I am sure we Nusses three
                      Never dressed.
  But at last we have got through;
  Well-curled hair, and sash of blue!
  Yes, we rather think he'll do,
                      Heaven be blessed!

  Ah! the awful time it took!
  Never mind; by hook or crook
  We have togged him trimly. Look!
                      There he stands!
  His long wailings nearly hushed,
  Buttoned, pinned, oiled, combed and brushed,
  And his tight glove-fingers crushed
                      On his hands.

  Does us credit, don't you think?
  How the chit would writhe and shrink,
  Get his garments in a kink
                      Every way!
  Awful handful, hot and heady,
  Shuffling round, ne'er standing steady,
  Feared we'd never get him ready
                      For the day.

  Mr. SPEAKER'S Party,--yes!
  Hope he'll be a great success;
  His clean face and natty dress
                        Ought to please.
  But there'll be no end of eyes
  On his buttons, hooks, and ties;
  Prompt to chaff and criticise,
                      Tear and tease.

  There'll be many an Irish boy
  Who will find it his chief joy
  To upset and to annoy
                      The young Turk;
  And, with no particular call,
  Try to make him squeal and squall,
  Disarrange him, after all
                      Our hard work.

  Not to mention other lads,
  Regular rowdy little Rads,
  Full of ill-conditioned fads,
                      And mean spite;
  Who will pinch and pull the hair
  Of our charge who's standing there,
  After all our patient care
                      Right and tight.

  For we know they don't like us,
  And they're sure to scold and cuss
  The tired three, and raise a fuss
                      And a pother
  About Hopeful here. Heigho!
  But he's ready, dears, to go.
  Ah! they little little know
                      All our bother!

  On our hands heaven knows how long
  We have had him. 'Twould be wrong
  To indulge in language strong;
                      But how hearty
  Is our joy that we have done!
  There now, REPPY, off you run!
  Only hope you'll have good fun
                      At the Party!

       *       *       *       *       *

TO AN OLD FRIEND WITH A NEW WIG.

Delighted to hear that our friend CHARLES HALL, A.D.C., Trin. Coll. Cam., and Q.C., is likely
to be made a Judge. Where will he sit? Admiralty, Probate, and Divorce Court, where wreckage
cases of ships and married lives are heard? Health to the Judge that shall be, with a song
and chorus, if you please, Gentlemen, to the ancient air of "Samuel Hall," revived for this
occasion only:--

  His name it is CHARLES HALL,
                    A.D.C. and Q.C.,
  His name it is CHARLES HALL.
  In cases great and small
  He's shone out since his call,
                    All agree.

  In Court of Admiraltee
                    Did he drudge, (bis)
  In Court of Admiraltee,
  'Bout lights and wrecks,--will he
  Henceforth be less at sea
                    As a Judge?

Chorus.

(To quite another tune, i.e., the refrain of GEORGE GROSSMITH'S song, "How I became an Actor.")

  And each of his friends makes this remark,
        (Retort he may with "Fudge!")
  "Now wasn't I the first to say, you're sure
        Some day to be a Judge!"

It will be a touching spectacle, as, indeed, it always is to the reflective mind, to see the
new Judge sitting among the wrecks, like "Marius among the Ruins." Fine subject for Sir FREDERICK,
P.R.A., in the next Academy Exhibition.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

KICKED!

(By the Foot of Clara Groomley.)

IN FOUR CHAPTERS.--III.

Nothing done! The whole Detective force of London, having nothing better to do, were placed
at my disposal, and, after three weeks' search, they found a girl called SMITH; but it was
the wrong one. My darling is blonde, and this was a dark, almost a black, SMITH. I came back
to Ryde in a passion and a third-class carriage. I find from Mademoiselle that Miss SMITH has
not yet returned.

JAMES seemed pleased to see me, but he noticed that in my anxiety and preoccupation I had forgotten
to have my hat ironed. The hotel is quite full, and I am to sleep in the Haunted Room to-night.

       * * *

I am not a hysterical man, and this is not a neurotic story. It is, as a matter of fact, the
same old rot to which the shilling shockers have made us accustomed. I cannot account in any
way for my experiences last night in the Haunted Room, but they certainly were not due to nervousness.
I had not been asleep long before I had a most curious and vivid dream. I felt that I was not
in the hotel, and that at the same time I was not out of it. I had a curious sense of being
everywhere in general, and nowhere in particular.

I saw before me a gorgeously furnished room. On the tiger-skin rug before the fire was a basket
with a crewel-worked chair-back spread over it. What was in the basket? Again and again I asked
myself that question. I felt like a long-division sum, and a cold shiver went down my quotient.

In one corner of the room stood a man of about thirty, with a handsome, wicked face. One hand
rested on the drawer of a writing-table. Slowly he drew from it a folded paper, and read, in
a harsh, raucous voice:--

"'To cleaning and repairing one----' No, that's not it."

He selected another paper. Ah, it was the right one this time!

"'Memorandum of Aunt JANE'S Will.' 'All property to go to ALICE SMITH, unless Aunt JANE'S poodle,
Tommy Atkins, dies before ALICE SMITH comes of age. In which case, it all goes to me.' I remember
making that note when the will was read. And now"--he glanced at the covered basket--"Tommy's
kicked the bucket. Well, he stood in my way. Who's to know? But there must be no post-mortem,
no 'vet' fetched in. Happy thought--I'll have the brute stuffed." He knelt down by the side
of the basket, and slowly drew back the covering. "Ah!" he said--"it's cruel work."

Did he refer to the chair-back? or did he refer to the way in which, for the sake of gain,
an honest dog had been MURDERED? For there before my eyes lay the dead poodle, Tommy Atkins!

"ALICE loses all her money," he continued, "but that doesn't matter. She tells me that she's
picked up no end of a swell down at Ryde, and he may marry her. The question is--will he?"
Once more I felt like a division sum. I yearned to call out loudly, and answer with a decided
negative; but no words came. My strength was gone. I was utterly worked out, and there was
no remainder.

When I came to myself, I found JAMES, the waiter, standing by my bedside with a gentleman whom
I did not know. JAMES introduced him to me as a Mr. ALKALOID, a photographer who was stopping
in the hotel. Mr. ALKALOID had been woken up by a wild shriek for a decided negative, and had
rushed down to see if he could do a little business. "Take you by the electric light," he said;
"just as you are,"--I was in my night-dress and the old, old hat, the rim of which had been
slightly sprained,--"perfectly painless process, and money returned if not satisfactory." I
thanked him warmly, and apologised for having disturbed him.

I went to London on the following day. I felt it my positive duty to explain that I should
always regard ALICE SMITH as a sister, but nothing more.

I had quite forgotten that I did not know the house where ALICE SMITH lived, and the poodle
dog lay dead.

(Here ends the Narrative of CYRIL MUSH.)

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"SWEET-MARJORIE!"

Take it all in all, Marjorie at the Prince of Wales' is a very satisfactory production. The
subject is English, the music is English, and the "book" is English too. So when we applaud
the new Opera, we have the satisfaction of knowing that our cheers are given in the cause of
native talent triumphant. This is appropriate to the "time" of the play (the commencement of
the thirteenth century), which is the very epoch when the Saxons were beginning to hold their
own in the teeth of their Norman conquerors. But leaving patriotism out of the question (a
matter which, it is to be feared, is not likely to influence Stalls, Pit, and Gallery materially
for a very lengthened period), the Opera quâ Opera is a very good one. The company is strong--so
strong, that it hears the loss of an accomplished songstress like Miss HUNTINGTON without severely
suffering. It is true that an excellent substitute for the lady has been found in that tenor
with the cheerful name, Mr. MARK TAPLEY, whose notes are certainly worth their weight in gold;
but leaving the representatives of Wilfred "outside the competition," the remainder of the
Dramatis Personæ are excellent. They work well together, and consequently the ensemble is in
the highest degree pleasing.

Assistance of rather a graver character than usually associated with comic opera is naturally
afforded by Mr. HAYDYN COFFIN. Miss PHYLLIS BROUGHTON is introduced not only to sing but to
dance, and performs the latter accomplishment with a grace not to be surpassed, and only to
be equalled by Miss KATE VAUGHAN. Mr. ASHLEY, now happily returned to the melodious paths from
which he strayed to play in pieces of the calibre of Pink Dominoes, seems quite at home in
the character of Sir Simon--not "the Cellarer," but rather, "the sold one." Mr. MONKHOUSE,
whose name and personality go to prove that a cowl does not preclude its occasional occupation
by a wag, is most amusing as Gosric. Mr. ALBERT JAMES is a lively jester, whose quips and cranks
might have been of considerable value to Mr. JOSEPH MILLER when that literary droll was engaged
in compiling his comic classic. Miss D'ARVILLE and Madame AMADI both work with a will, and
find a way to public favour. The dresses are in excellent taste, and the scenery capital.

That the mise en scène is perfect, goes without saying, as this Opera has been produced by
that past master of stage-direction, the one and only AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS. The dialogue is
sufficiently pointed--not too pointed, but pointed enough. It does not require a knowledge
of the niceties of the law, the regulations of the British army, or a keen appreciation of
the subtlest subtleties of logic to fully understand it. It is amusing, and provocative of
innocent laughter, which, after all, seems to be a sufficient recommendation for words spoken
within the walls of a play-house. The music is full of melody--"quite killing," as a young
lady wittily observed, on noticing that the name of the Composer was SLAUGHTER. So Marjorie
may be fairly said not only to have deserved success, but (it is satisfactory to be able to
add) also to have attained it.

  ONE WHO HAS PRACTISED AT THE MUSICAL BAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

STATESMEN AT HOME.

DCXLIII. THE RIGHT HON. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P., AT HAWARDEN.

As you approach the historic home of the great English Statesman who is to be your host to-day,
you become conscious of the fact that there are two Hawarden Castles. Moreover, as young HERBERT
pleasantly remarks a little later in the day, "You must draw a Hawarden-fast line between the
two." One, standing on a hill dominating a far-reaching tract of level country, was already
so old in the time of EDWARD THE FIRST that it was found necessary to rebuild it. Looking through
your Domesday Book (which you always carry with you on these excursions), you find the mansion
referred to under the style of Haordine. This, antiquarians assume, is the Saxonised form of
the earlier British Y Garthddin, which, being translated, means "The hill-fort on the projecting
ridge."

When WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR came over, bringing with him a following the numerical proportions
of which increase as the years roll by, he found the Fort on the Hill held by EDWARD of Mercia,
and deemed it convenient to leave it in his possession. The Castle played its part in English
history down to the time, now 130 years gone by, when it came into the hands of Sir JOHN GLYNN,
and thence through long descent became an inheritance of the gracious lady who, with cambric
cap-strings streaming in the free air of the Marches, joins your host in welcoming you.

It is, however, not on the steps of the old castle of which Prince LLEWELLYN was once lord
that you are thus received. By the side of the old ruin has grown up another Hawarden Castle,
a roomy mansion, statelily stuccoed, with sham turrets run up, buttresses, embrasures, portholes,
and portcullises, putting to shame the rugged, looped and windowless ruin that still stands
on the projecting ridge. This dates only from the beginning of the century, and, looking upon
it, your face glows with honest pride, as you think how much better the generation near your
own made for itself dwelling-houses compared with the earlier English.

