I question whether the Little Wonder in real life would have so ill-treated any creature; but
things are different in dreams; and, as he slept, a smile seemed to come into the shaggy face
of this little Irish terrier.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In a fierce game at Ilfracombe yesterday morning several
    houses were partially unroofed, and an arcade blown
    in."--Scotsman.

Where was the referee?

       *       *       *       *       *

RECORD RISKS.

(A Sequel to "Narrow Escapes.")

The report that M. PADEREWSKI has been hunted by Nihilists out of Denver has suggested to the
Editor of The Musical Mirror the happy thought of circularising a number of prominent musicians
with a view to ascertaining the most dangerous experiences they have ever undergone.

Sir FREDERICK BRIDGE writes to say that the worst quarter of a minute he ever spent was while
tarpon fishing off the coast of Florida, when a gigantic tarpon, weighing some 400 lbs., leaped
into the boat with its mouth wide open. With great presence of mind the famous organist thrust
into the monster's gaping jaws a full score of STRAUSS'S Elektra, which he was studying between
the casts, and the tarpon at once leaped out of the boat and was never seen or heard of again.

Madame MELBA'S most perilous experience was on a tour in the Far East, when the liner in which
she was travelling was caught by a tidal wave and hurled with enormous velocity towards the
rocky coast of Sumatra. Noticing that a large whale was following the vessel, and remembering
the peculiar susceptibility of these giant mammals to musical sounds, Madame MELBA sang the
scena, "Ocean, thou mighty monster," with such persuasive force that the whale allowed itself
to be made fast with a hawser and then towed the liner back safely into the open sea.

Mr. Bamborough (formerly M. Bamberger) recounted the episode, already alluded to in these columns,
when he was partially eaten by cannibals in the Solomon Islands; but the details are too harrowing
for reproduction, even in a condensed form. It is interesting to learn, however, that a punitive
expedition was despatched by the British Government to avenge the insult, as a result of which
Mr. Bamborough was awarded an indemnity of 1,000 bales of copra, 20 tons of sandalwood, and
£3,000 worth of tortoiseshell.

Sir FREDERICK COWEN, in reply to the circular, states that the closest call he ever had was
when adjudicating at a Welsh Eisteddfod. In consequence of an unpopular award he was besieged
in his hotel by an infuriated crowd and only escaped by changing clothes with a policeman.

Professor Quantock de Banville relates how, while obtaining local colour for his new Choral
Symphony, he was attacked by a gorilla in Central Africa, but tamed the mighty simian by the
power of his eye.

In conclusion we may note that the only disappointing answer was received from Signor Crinuto,
the famous pianist, who replied, "I have never had a close shave, and never intend to have one."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A Christmas Tree Entertainment will be held in Pelican
    Lake schoolhouse on Tuesday, Dec. 23. Everybody welcome, no
    admission."--Vermilion Standard (Alberta. No relation to
    The Sporting Times).

You are at perfect liberty to hang about outside.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "No one can deny that it is essential London should have a
    thoroughly equipped shin hospital."--Advt. in "Sphere."

No footballer, anyhow.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM A GENERAL KNOWLEDGE (SIC) EXAMINATION.

The Cat and Mouse Act is an Act by which a cat may not kill a mouse unless when necessary.

The Apocalypse is an ailment one has apolcalyptic fits.

Sea-legs are when you don't have legs but a tail.

The All Red Route is the human throat or swallow.

Ten instruments for an orchestra are banjo, pianola, concertina, mandoline, psalteries, shawms,
bagpipes, bells to clash with, violins, and bassinette.

To die in harness means to die married.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"THE POOR LITTLE RICH GIRL."

EMERSON says somewhere that there are great ways of borrowing; that, if you can contrive to
transmute base metal into fine, nobody will worry as to where you got your base metal from.
But, when it is the other way about, I think you must not be surprised if people ask you where
you lifted your gold. And the answer, in the case of Miss ELEANOR GATES, is that the nuggets
were the property of LEWIS CARROLL. She has taken the sprightly and fantastic humour of Alice
in Wonderland, passed it through the alembic (if that is the word) of her American imagination,
and the result is something that hardly lets you smile at all. It is not a typical product
of native industry, but even that does not make it much easier for us to grasp the secret of
its success over there. It would seem that nearly all Transatlantic humour, indigenous or adoptive,
is apt, like certain wines, to suffer in the process of sea-transit.

Her "Poor Little Rich Girl" is poor because her parents are too rich. Her father is too busy
with finance and her mother with social climbing to spare time for their daughter's company,
so they leave her to the care of governesses and menials. Her nurse, anxious for an evening
out at a picture-palace, gives the child an overdose of sleeping-mixture, with the result that
she nearly dies of it. In the course of delirious dreams she finds herself in the "Tell-Tale
Forest" (which threatens to recall The Palace of Truth), and here all the picturesque phrases
which she has been in the childish habit of misinterpreting in their literal sense--"a bee
in the bonnet," to "ride hobbies," "to play ducks and drakes," "to pay the piper," and so forth--are
realised in human or animal form. With these are mixed the familiar figures of her waking life,
all of them exposed in their true characters so that you can distinguish the devotion of the
doctor (who now appears in pink because he likes riding hobbies) and the affection of the teddy-bear
(now expanded to human proportions) from the serpentine nature of the governess and the double-faced
dealings of the nurse. Her father, who is a stranger to her, comes on dressed in banknotes
and chained to a safe; her mother, also a stranger, wears a society bee which buzzes in the
place where her bonnet would have been; and five samples of the fashionable world, where, as
you know, everybody thinks the same thing at the same time, let off recitatives from time to
time in unison. And there was much talk about "Robin Hood's Barn," a thing I was never told
about at an age when I am sure it would have given me sincere pleasure.

Here and there the symbolism was obvious to the point of crudity; but you searched in vain
for a consistent scheme. The father in his banknotes lashed to a ponderous safe was an easy
personification of the slavery of wealth, and the pantomime ducks and drakes were simple to
understand as symbolizing the career of a spendthrift (though the father was never that); but
why, you asked, did the double-faced nurse exhaust all her spare moments and our patience pirouetting
about the stage? Did she represent the levity of the dual life? Not at all; her actions bore
no moral significance: she was just giving a literal illustration of a phrase--"to dance attendance."

I don't know how the children in the audience appreciated all this, but I confess that some
of it left me wondering whether my intelligence was too raw or too ripe for the fancies of
this Wonder-Zoo-Land.

