The next morning Lizzie arose with the early dawn, and came down stairs. She went into the
room where Jack lay, and gently opened the door. Miss Cooper was dozing in her chair. Lizzie
crossed the threshold, and stole up to the bed. Poor Ford lay peacefully sleeping. There was
his old face, after all,--his strong, honest features refined, but not weakened, by pain. Lizzie
softly drew up a low chair, and sat down beside him. She gazed into his face,--the dear and
honored face into which she had so often gazed in health. It was strangely handsomer: body
stood for less. It seemed to Lizzie, that, as the fabric of her lover's soul was more clearly
revealed,--the veil of the temple rent wellnigh in twain,--she could read the justification
of all her old worship. One of Jack's hands lay outside the sheets,--those strong, supple fingers,
once so cunning in workmanship, so frank in friendship, now thinner and whiter than her own.
After looking at it for some time, Lizzie gently grasped it. Jack slowly opened his eyes. Lizzie's
heart began to throb; it was as if the stillness of the sanctuary had given a sign. At first
there was no recognition in the young man's gaze. Then the dull pupils began visibly to brighten.
There came to his lips the commencement of that strange moribund smile which seems so ineffably
satirical of the things of this world. O imposing spectacle of death! O blessed soul, marked
for promotion! What earthly favor is like thine? Lizzie sank down on her knees, and, still
clasping John's hand, bent closer over him.

"Jack,--dear, dear Jack," she whispered, "do you know me?"

The smile grew more intense. The poor fellow drew out his other hand, and slowly, feebly placed
it on Lizzie's head, stroking down her hair with his fingers.

"Yes, yes," she murmured; "you know me, don't you? I am Lizzie, Jack. Don't you remember Lizzie?"

Ford moved his lips inaudibly, and went on patting her head.

"This is home, you know," said Lizzie; "this is Glenham. You haven't forgotten Glenham? You
are with your mother and me and your friends. Dear, darling Jack!"

Still he went on, stroking her head; and his feeble lips tried to emit some sound. Lizzie laid
her head down on the pillow beside his own, and still his hand lingered caressingly on her hair.

"Yes, you know me," she pursued; "you are with your friends now forever,--with those who will
love and take care of you, oh, forever!"

"I'm very badly wounded," murmured Jack, close to her ear.

"Yes, yes, my dear boy, but your wounds are healing. I will love you and nurse you forever."

"Yes, Lizzie, our old promise," said Jack: and his hand fell upon her neck, and with its feeble
pressure he drew her closer, and she wet his face with her tears.

Then Miss Cooper, awakening, rose and drew Lizzie away.

"I am sure you excite him, my dear. It is best he should have none of his family near him,--persons
with whom he has associations, you know."

Here the Doctor was heard gently tapping on the window, and Lizzie went round to the door to
admit him.

She did not see Jack again all day. Two or three times she ventured into the room, but she
was banished by a frown, or a finger raised to the lips. She waylaid the Doctor frequently.
He was blithe and cheerful, certain of Jack's recovery. This good man used to exhibit as much
moral elation at the prospect of a cure as an orthodox believer at that of a new convert: it
was one more body gained from the Devil. He assured Lizzie that the change of scene and climate
had already begun to tell: the fever was lessening, the worst symptoms disappearing. He answered
Lizzie's reiterated desire to do something by directions to keep the house quiet and the sick-room
empty.

Soon after breakfast, Miss Dawes, a neighbor, came in to relieve Miss Cooper, and this indefatigable
lady transferred her attention to Mrs. Ford. Action was forbidden her. Miss Cooper was delighted
for once to be able to lay down the law to her vigorous neighbor, of whose fine judgment she
had always stood in awe. Having bullied Mrs. Ford into taking her breakfast in the little sitting-room,
she closed the doors, and prepared for "a good long talk." Lizzie was careful not to break
in upon this interview. She had bidden her patroness good morning, asked after her health,
and received one of her temperate osculations. As she passed the invalid's door, Doctor Cooper
came out and asked her to go and look for a certain roll of bandages, in Mr. John's trunk,
which had been carried into another room. Lizzie hastened to perform this task. In fumbling
through the contents of the trunk, she came across a packet of letters in a well-known feminine
handwriting. She pocketed it, and, after disposing of the bandages, went to her own room, locked
the door, and sat down to examine the letters. Between reading and thinking and sighing and
(in spite of herself) smiling, this process took the whole morning. As she came down to dinner,
she encountered Mrs. Ford and Miss Cooper, emerging from the sitting-room, the good long talk
being only just concluded.

"How do you feel, Ma'am?" she asked of the elder lady,--"rested?"

For all answer Mrs. Ford gave a look--I had almost said a scowl--so hard, so cold, so reproachful,
that Lizzie was transfixed. But suddenly its sickening meaning was revealed to her. She turned
to Miss Cooper, who stood pale and fluttering beside the mistress, her everlasting smile glazed
over with a piteous, deprecating glance; and I fear her eyes flashed out the same message of
angry scorn they had just received. These telegraphic operations are very rapid. The ladies
hardly halted: the next moment found them seated at the dinner-table with Miss Cooper scrutinizing
her napkin-mark and Mrs. Ford saying grace.

Dinner was eaten in silence. When it was over, Lizzie returned to her own room. Miss Cooper
went home, and Mrs. Ford went to her son. Lizzie heard the firm low click of the lock as she
closed the door. Why did she lock it? There was something fatal in the silence that followed.
The plot of her little tragedy thickened. Be it so: she would act her part with the rest. For
the second time in her experience, her mind was lightened by the intervention of Mrs. Ford.
Before the scorn of her own conscience, (which never came,) before Jack's deepest reproach,
she was ready to bow down,--but not before that long-faced Nemesis in black silk. The leaven
of resentment began to work. She leaned back in her chair, and folded her arms, brave to await
results. But before long she fell asleep. She was aroused by a knock at her chamber-door. The
afternoon was far gone. Miss Dawes stood without.

"Elizabeth, Mr. John wants very much to see you, with his love. Come down very gently: his
mother is lying down. Will you sit with him while I take my dinner?--Better? Yes, ever so much."

Lizzie betook herself with trembling haste to Jack's bedside.

He was propped up with pillows. His pale cheeks were slightly flushed. His eyes were bright.
He raised himself, and, for such feeble arms, gave Lizzie a long, strong embrace.

"I've not seen you all day, Lizzie," said he. "Where have you been?"

"Dear Jack, they wouldn't let me come near you. I begged and prayed. And I wanted so to go
to you in the army; but I couldn't. I wish, I wish I had!"

"You wouldn't have liked it, Lizzie. I'm glad you didn't. It's a bad, bad place."

He lay quietly, holding her hands and gazing at her.

"Can I do anything for you, dear?" asked the young girl. "I would work my life out. I'm so
glad you're better!"

It was some time before Jack answered,--

"Lizzie," said he, at last, "I sent for you to look at you.--You are more wondrously beautiful
than ever. Your hair is brown,--like--like nothing; your eyes are blue; your neck is white.
Well, well!"

He lay perfectly motionless, but for his eyes. They wandered over her with a kind of peaceful
glee, like sunbeams playing on a statue. Poor Ford lay, indeed, not unlike an old wounded Greek,
who at falling dusk has crawled into a temple to die, steeping the last dull interval in idle
admiration of sculptured Artemis.

"Ah, Lizzie, this is already heaven!" he murmured.

"It will be heaven when you get well," whispered Lizzie.

He smiled into her eyes:--

"You say more than you mean. There should be perfect truth between us. Dear Lizzie, I am not
going to get well. They are all very much mistaken, I am going to die. I've done my work, Death
makes up for everything. My great pain is in leaving you. But you, too, will die one of these
days; remember that. In all pain and sorrow, remember that."

Lizzie was able to reply only by the tightening grasp of her hands.

"But there is something more," pursued Jack. "Life is as good as death. Your heart has found
its true keeper; so we shall all three be happy. Tell him I bless him and honor him. Tell him
God, too, blesses him. Shake hands with him for me," said Jack, feebly moving his pale fingers.
"My mother," he went on,--"be very kind to her. She will have great grief, but she will not
die of it. She'll live to great age. Now, Lizzie, I can't talk any more; I wanted to say farewell.
You'll keep me farewell,--you'll stay with me awhile,--won't you? I'll look at you till the
last. For a little while you'll be mine, holding my hands--so--until death parts us."

Jack kept his promise. His eyes were fixed in a firm gaze long after the sense had left them.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the early dawn of the next day, Elizabeth left her sleepless bed, opened the window, and
looked out on the wide prospect, still cool and dim with departing night. It offered freshness
and peace to her hot head and restless heart. She dressed herself hastily, crept down stairs,
passed the death-chamber, and stole out of the quiet house. She turned away from the still
sleeping village and walked towards the open country. She went a long way without knowing it.
The sun had risen high when she bethought herself to turn. As she came back along the brightening
highway, and drew near home, she saw a tall figure standing beneath the budding trees of the
garden, hesitating, apparently, whether to open the gate. Lizzie came upon him almost before
he had seen her. Bruce's first movement was to put out his hands, as any lover might; but as
Lizzie raised her veil, he dropped them.

"Yes, Mr. Bruce," said Lizzie, "I'll give you my hand once more,--in farewell."

"Elizabeth!" cried Bruce, half stupefied, "in God's name, what do you mean by these crazy speeches?"

"I mean well. I mean kindly and humanely to you. And I mean justice to my old--old love."

She went to him, took his listless hand, without looking into his wild, smitten face, shook
it passionately, and then, wrenching her own from his grasp, opened the gate and let it swing
behind her.

"No! no! no!" she almost shrieked, turning about in the path. "I forbid you to follow me!"

But for all that, he went in.

THE FROZEN HARBOR.

    When Winter encamps on our borders,
        And dips his white beard in the rills,
    And lays his shield over highway, and field,
        And pitches his tents on the hills,--
    In the wan light I wake, and see on the lake,
        Like a glove by the night-winds blown,
    With fingers that crook up creek and brook,
        His shining gauntlet thrown.

    Then over the lonely harbor,
        In the quiet and deadly cold
    Of a single night, when only the bright,
        Cold constellations behold,
    Without trestle or beam, without mortise or seam,
        It swiftly and silently spread
    A bridge as of steel, which a Titan's heel
        In the early light might tread.

    Where Morning over the waters
        Her web of splendor spun,
    Till the wave, all a-twinkle with ripple and wrinkle,
        Hung shimmering in the sun,--
    Where the liquid lip at the breast of the ship
        Whispered and laughed and kissed,
    And the long, dark streamer of smoke from the steamer
        Trailed off in the rose-tinted mist,--

    Now all is gray desolation,
        As up from the hoary coast,
    Over snow-fields and islands her white arms in silence
        Outspreading like a ghost,
    Her feet in shroud, her forehead in cloud,
        Pale walks the sheeted Dawn:
    The sea's blue rim lies shorn and dim,
        In the purple East withdrawn.

    Where floated the fleets of commerce,
        With proud breasts cleaving the tide,--
    Like emmet or bug with its burden, the tug
        Hither and thither plied,--
    Where the quick paddles flashed, where the dropped anchor plashed,
        And rattled the running chain,
    Where the merchantman swung in the current, where sung
        The sailors their far refrain,--

    Behold! when ruddy Aurora
        Peeps from her opening door,
    Faint gleams of the sun like fairies run
        And sport on a crystal floor;
    Upon the river's bright panoply quivers
        The noon's resplendent lance;
    And by night through the narrows the moon's slanted arrows
        Icily sparkle and glance.

    Flown are the flocks of commerce,
        Like wild swans hurrying south;
    The lighter, belated, is frozen, full-freighted,
        Within the harbor's mouth;
    The brigantine, homeward bringing
        Sweet spices from afar,
    All night must wait with her fragrant freight
        Below the lighthouse star.

    The ships at their anchors are frozen,
       From rudder to sloping chain:
    Rock-like they rise: the low sloop lies
        An oasis in the plain.
    Like reeds here and there, the tall masts bare
        Upspring: as on the edge
    Of a lawn smooth-shaven, around the haven
        The shipping grows like sedge.

    Here, weaving the union of cities,
        With hoar wakes belting the blue,
    From slip to slip, past schooner and ship,
        The ferry's shuttles flew:--
    Now, loosed from its stall, on the yielding wall
        The steamboat paws and rears;
    The citizens pass on a pavement of glass,
        And climb the frosted piers.

    Where, in the November twilight,
        To the ribs of the skeleton bark
    That stranded lay in the bend of the bay,
        Motionless, low, and dark,
    Came ever three shags, like three lone hags,
        And sat o'er the troubled water,
    Each nursing apart her shrivelled heart,
        With her mantle wrapped about her,--

    Now over the ancient timbers
        Is built a magic deck;
    Children run out with laughter and shout
        And dance around the wreck;
    The fisherman near his long eel-spear
        Thrusts in through the ice, or stands
    With fingers on lips, and now and then whips
        His sides with mittened hands.

    Alone and pensive I wander
        Far out from the city-wharf
    To the buoy below in its cap of snow,
        Low stooping like a dwarf;
    In the fading ray of the dull, brief day
        I wander and muse apart,--
    For this frozen sea is a symbol to me
        Of many a human heart.

    I think of the hopes deep sunken
        Like anchors under the ice,--
    Of souls that wait for Love's sweet freight
        And the spices of Paradise:
    Far off their barks are tossing
        On the billows of unrest,
    And enter not in, for the hardness and sin
        That close the secret breast.

    I linger, until, at evening,
       The town-roofs, towering high,
    Uprear in the dimness their tall, dark chimneys,
       Indenting the sunset sky,
    And the pendent spear on the edge of the pier
       Signals my homeward way,
    As it gleams through the dusk like a walrus's tusk
       On the floes of a polar bay.

    Then I think of the desolate households
       On which the day shuts down,--
    What misery hides in the darkened tides
       Of life in yonder town!
    I think of the lonely poet
       In his hours of coldness and pain,
    His fancies full-freighted, like lighters belated,
       All frozen within his brain.

    And I hearken to the moanings
       That come from the burdened bay:
    As a camel, that kneels for his lading, reels,
       And cannot bear it away,
    The mighty load is slowly
       Upheaved with struggle and pain
    From centre to side, then the groaning tide
       Sinks heavily down again.

    So day and night you may hear it
       Panting beneath its pack,
    Till sailor and saw, till south wind and thaw,
       Unbind it from its back.
    O Sun! will thy beam ever gladden the stream
       And bid its burden depart?
    O Life! all in vain do we strive with the chain
       That fetters and chills the heart?

    Already in vision prophetic
       On yonder height I stand:
    The gulls are gay upon the bay,
       The swallows on the land;--
    'Tis spring-time now; like an aspen-bough
       Shaken across the sky,
    In the silvery light with twinkling flight
       The rustling plovers fly.

    Aloft in the sunlit cordage
       Behold the climbing tar,
    With his shadow beside on the sail white and wide,
       Climbing a shadow-spar!
    Up the glassy stream with issuing steam
       The cutter crawls again,
    All winged with cloud and buzzing loud,
       Like a bee upon the pane.

    The brigantine is bringing
        Her cargo to the quay,
    The sloop flits by like a butterfly,
        The schooner skims the sea.
    O young heart's trust, beneath the crust
        Of a chilling world congealed!
    O love, whose flow the winter of woe
        With its icy hand hath sealed!

    Learn patience from the lesson!
        Though the night be drear and long,
    To the darkest sorrow there comes a morrow,
        A right to every wrong.
    And as, when, having run his low course, the red Sun
        Comes charging gayly up here,
    The white shield of Winter shall shiver and splinter
        At the touch of his golden spear,--

    Then rushing under the bridges,
        And crushing among the piles,
    In gray mottled masses the drift-ice passes,
        Like seaward-floating isles;--
    So Life shall return from its solstice, and burn
        In trappings of gold and blue,
    The world shall pass like a shattered glass,
        And the Heaven of Love shine through.

AT ANDERSONVILLE.

Drake Talcott, a Union prisoner, marched with other prisoners seventy-five miles to Danville,
on thirteen crackers. They travelled from there to Andersonville, six days by rail, on four
crackers a day, and, as a consequence of the rations, came in due course of time to a general
sense of emptiness, and an incorrigible tendency to think of roast beef, boiled chicken, fried
oysters, and other like dainties; and many of the prisoners, after battling awhile with the
emptiness and the mental tendency, fell down exhausted, and were stowed away in the wagons
following on in the rear of the train. But Talcott, though with youth and the brawn and muscle
and lusty craving vitality of an athlete against him in the cracker point of view, possessed
likewise a mighty will, and a stubborn, tenacious endurance, nowise weakened by the discipline
of two years of camp and battle; and not only marched with courage and elasticity, but actually
set himself, out of the abundance of his resources, to spur the flagging spirits of his comrades,
as they huddled in disconsolate confusion about the little station at Andersonville.

"Boys," said our orator, "the Rebels keep their best generals for their Home Guard. Lee and
Early, and the rest of the crew, are lambs and sucking doves to Generals Starvation, Wear-'em-out,
and Grumble,--especially that last-named fellow, who is the worst of the three, because he
comes under our own colors, and we feel shy about firing on our own men. I believe we are all
too apt to think that muscles are the vital forces, and that man lives by beef; but, boys,
muscles are only hammers, and it takes a thought to raise them; and though beef is good eating,
and we should all like a slice uncommonly, let me tell you, when it isn't to be had, that backbone
is the next thing to it, and it is surprising how long a man can live on it. For it is the
brain that is the commander-in-chief, and does the strategy and the planning for this precious
life that we all set such store by,--the brain, that I used to think a lazy bummer, that lived
at the stomach's expense; and when the quartermaster--that's the stomach--telegraphs up that
he's fairly cleaned out, not a half-ration left, says our little commander, cool and calm,
'Serve out grit and backbone to the troops, and send out the senses on a scout.' And, men,
if you've got the grit, and keep on the sharp look-out, you are likely to get on; but shut
down on grumbling,--that's a luxury for fellows that get three meals a day; for while you are
busy about that, Starvation and Wear-'em-out will sail in at you, and once you get weak in
the knees, and limp in the back, and dizzy in the head, you're played out. Remember, we aren't
going to Belle Isle. I don't know anything about Andersonville, but it can't be so bad as that
hole."

The men cheered. Up came an officer on the double-quick.

"What's the row about now? You Yankees are always chattering like crows."

"So you scarecrows come to look after us," retorted Drake, quick as light: at which poor piece
of wit the soldiers were pleased to laugh vociferously,--the irritating laugh that assumes
your defeat, without granting you a hearing,--before which the man in authority, not having
the art of looking like a fool with propriety, retreated, reddening and snarling, but turned
on the platform of the cars, and flung back this Parthian arrow at the laughing Yankees:--

"You're a bad lot of men, saucy as the Devil; but I reckon you'll get the impudence taken out
of you here, d----d quick!"

"It is all you have left them to take, anyhow," said a voice,--and "That's so," chorused the
crowd; and the whistle sounding, the Captain, whose reign was over, departed, hard-hit and
growling, but left, so to speak, his sting behind him: for the last of his speech had one terrible
merit,--it was true.

The prisoners, over a thousand strong, were formed in line and ordered to march. As they tramped
along the dusty road, they strained their eyes, eagerly, but furtively, for the first show
of their prison. Seeing tents on the left, there was a little stir among them, but that proved
to be a Rebel camp; then some one spied heights topped with cannon, and "Now," said they, "we
are close upon it," and then stopped short for wonder, for here the road ended, ran butt against
the wall of a huge roofless inclosure, made of squared pines set perpendicularly and close
together in the ground.

"Is it a pen?" asked one, doubtfully.

"Yes, yours," retorted one of the guard, with a grin,--"the Stockade Prison."

The word ran down the line like a shiver, and the men stood mute, eying each other doubtfully.
And now, if I could, I would get at your hearts, you who read this, and you should not read
mistily, and hold the story at loose ends as it were, but feel by the answering throb within
yourselves what thoughts gnawed at the hearts of these men under their brave show of indifference:
for though these be facts, facts written are disembodied, and, like spirits, have no power
to speak to you, unless you give them the voice of your sympathy; and without that, I question
which touches you most deeply, a thousand rats following the Pied Piper of Hamelin, and wondering,
as he neared the wharves, where the Deuse they were going, or the thousand Union soldiers standing
stunned before a gate from which should have wailed forth, as they filed through, "Leave all
hope behind!"

They were hardly in, when there was a scramble, and a cry of "Rations!" and came lumbering
a train of wagons, bringing the day's supplies. There were at this time under torture twenty-eight
thousand prisoners,--more than the population of Hartford; and as the Southern Confederacy,
a Christian association, and conducting itself with many appeals to Christian principle, believes
the wind is tempered to the shorn lamb, and so shears the Yankees as close as possible, these
men had all been formally fleeced of such worldly gear as blankets, money, and extra clothing.
Some further shearing there had been also, but irregular, depending chiefly on the temper of
the captors,--stripping them sometimes to shirt and drawers, leaving them occasionally jacket
and shoes; so now most were barefooted, most in rags, and some had not even rags. They had
lain on the bare earth, sodden with damp or calcined into dust, and borne storm and heat helplessly,
without even the shelter of a board, till they were burned and wasted to the likeness of haggard
ghosts; most had forgotten hope, many decency; some were dying, and crawled over the ground
with a woful persistency that it would have broken your heart to see; they were all fasting,
for the day's rations, tossed to them the afternoon before, had been devoured, as was the custom,
at a single meal, and proved scant at that; and they crowded wolfishly about the wagons, the
most miserable, pitiable mob that ever had mothers, wives, and sisters at home to pray for them.

The new comers looked on amazed, and "How about Belle Isle now?" they said bitterly to Drake.
He, poor fellow, was having his first despondent chill, and sneering at himself for having
it, after all his fine talk about "backbone"; and finding reasons for despair thicken, the
harder he tried to make elbow-room for hope, till altogether confounded at the muddle, he flung
up thought, with "Brain's full and stomach's empty, and it's ill talking between a full man
and a fasting," and set about cooking his rations. "But first catch your hare," cries Mrs.
Glass. Drake had his hare, such as it was, but found something quite as important lacking,--wood.

"I say, my friend, where do we find fuel?" he asked of a man sitting quietly on the ground.

"Where the Israelites found the straw for their bricks," was the answer. "There is no special
provision made, unless it be an occasional permit to forage outside, under----Hold off there!--don't
touch that, man, unless you want to be cooked yourself for supper!--that's the 'dead line'!"

Drake drew back from a light railing running parallel with the inclosure, on which he had nearly
laid his hand.

"What the Deuse is the dead line?"

"The new way to pay old debts, and put a Yankee out of the world cheap. Show so much as your
little finger outside of that, and the guard nails you with a bullet; and as they like that
sort of thing, they blaze away whenever they get a chance,--which is once or twice a day,--for
our men expose themselves voluntarily. When Satan said, 'Skin for skin, yea, all that a man
hath will he give for his life,' he hadn't invented the Stockade Prison."

The man who said these things, in a quiet, unexcited way, as if discussing some abstraction
of the schools, not murder, was too wan and wasted, too shrunken and despairing, to afford
a guess as to what manner of man he might have been, and too unkempt and ragged for any inference
concerning his rank, having neither jacket, cap, nor shoes, matted hair and beard, torn shirt
and ragged trousers: but his look of resolved patience, and an occasional smile while he talked,
sadder than tears, made Drake's stout heart twinge with pain. "A strong soul in a feeble body,"
he said to himself, as he walked on; and furthermore, "The man that can smile here like that
is near heaven, and fit for it."

Presently he came on a farmer selling wood by the stick, price in proportion to its size, and
as many times its value as the Rebel, by his own showing, exceeds the Yankee. Drake had money,
spite of shearing and searching. He had hidden it----But I forbear to tell of what ingenious
shift he had availed himself, for I remember, that, spite of its well-known loyalty, the "Atlantic
Monthly" runs the blockade. First he passed the man, prudence pulling him by the sleeve, and
searched lynx-eyed for chips or twigs, over ground scoured daily, in such faint hope as his,
by thousands; but he might as well have dragged a brook for the wreck of a seventy-four among
its pebbles. Having wasted a precious half-hour of fading daylight, he came back to the dealer
to find his stock on the rise; for the influx of new comers had produced an upward tendency
in a market sensitive as that of Wall Street. Lest it should swell quite beyond the compass
of his pocket, he made haste to buy,--scores of meagre wretches looking anxiously on. That
pitiful sight made his heart sore again; and he hardly persuaded himself to take his wood and
be off, till he remembered the poor fellow whom he had left resigned and hopeless, sitting
quietly on the ground while all was eager stir about him, and hurried back to the spot where
he had seen him to find him gone. He had crawled away, and was lost in that great throng.

Not to be balked entirely, Drake shared his firing with those around him; and Virtue, in place
of her usual promissory note, gave him his reward instantly, in the shape of a tin cup belonging
to one of the party, and their sole cooking-utensil,--for the prison authorities furnish none.
His rations--a day's rations, remember--were eight ounces of Indian meal, cob and kernel ground
together, (as with us for pigs,) and sour, (a common occurrence,) and two ounces of condemned
pork (not to appear again in our pages, as it proved too strong even for poor Drake's hunger).
He brought water in the cup from a ditch that traversed the inclosure, and filtered it through
a bit of cloth torn from his shirt; and the meal being mixed with this water, (salt was not
even hinted at, the market price of that article being four dollars a pound at Andersonville,)
it was placed on a strip of wood before the fire, to bake up to the half-raw point, that being
the highest perfection attainable in Drake's kitchen: for a range and a steady heat find the
baking of meal, so mixed, no easy matter. Eight ounces of meal make a cake six inches long,
five broad, and half an inch thick: that is to say, Drake's dinner and supper for that day,
and his breakfast and dinner for the next day, were in the mass six inches long, five inches
broad, and half an inch thick. Give the figures an Indian-meal consistency, you who are not
of that order of Stoics that endures its neighbor's sufferings without a groan. Try the experiment
in your own kitchen. One baking will carry conviction farther than batches of statistics. Drake
being famished chose to take four meals in one,--improvident man! That done, he went to bed:
quite an elaborate arrangement, as practised among us, what with taking off of clothes, and
possibly washing and combing, and pulling up of sheets and coverlets, and fitting of pillows
to neck and shoulders; but nothing can be more simple than the way they do it there. You just
lie down wherever you are,--and sleep, if you can. Drake could and did sleep most soundly.

This was our hero's first taste of prison-life. But a little reading and much talk about camp-fires
and behind earth-works--when there was a lull in the storm of shot and shell--had etched out
for him certain crude theories, for which he was as ready to do battle as any other hot-headed
lad of twenty-three. "Starvation is the masked battery that plays the Deuse with us all," he
insisted; "and we must take that, or be taken out--feet foremost. As for your 'how,' good Incredulity
and Unbelief, where there is an end, and the will to reach it, the means are tolerably sure
to be lying around loose somewhere." But examinations for candidates, and the hundred-pound
hail, and the sharp beak of the ram for the untried monitor, are facts for theories; and without
the proof of these, none of the three have the positive value of a skillet that has been tried.
We have Drake's theory. Here are the facts.

No cooking-utensils were allowed the prisoner; no blankets were allowed the prisoner; no shelter
of any sort was allowed the prisoner; no tools or materials to construct a shelter were allowed
the prisoner; no means of living as a civilized man were allowed the prisoner; no way of helping
himself as a savage was allowed the prisoner. The rations were at all times insufficient, and
frequently so foul that starvation itself could not swallow them: consequence, stomach and
body weakened by a perpetual hunger, and in many cases utter inability to retain food, good
or bad. More than that, the sluggish water-course that served as their reservoir crept across
their pen foul and thick with the débris of the Rebel camp above, and in the centre filtered
through the spongy ground, and creamed and mantled and spread out loathsomely into a hateful
swamp; and the fierce sun, beating down on its slimy surface, drew from its festering pools
and mounds of refuse a vapor of death, and the prisoners breathed it; and the reek of unwashed
and diseased bodies crowding close on each other, and the sickening, pestilential odor of a
huge camp without sewerage or system of policing, made the air a horror, and the prisoners
breathed it.

Drake woke, stifling with the heat and horrible steam, and turning and throwing out his arm,
only yet half awake, struck on something cold and stiff: the corpse of some poor fellow who
had died there in the night beside him. Drake, in a two years' campaign, had grown familiar
with death, but could not yet receive him as a bed-fellow, and scrambled up in sickening horror
to a day in which there was no breakfast to eat, no arms to clean, no shoes to black, no dress
to change, no work of any sort to do, no letters to write or hope for, no books to read, no
dinner to prepare, at least till four P.M., when they served out rations,--nothing to fix the
eye, or offer subject of thought, but the general and utter wretchedness. Nor could Drake and
his fellows take refuge in that unconscious self-gratulation with which we see the miseries
of our neighbors; for the future here threw shadows backward. That skeleton, (I use the word
not in the exaggerated sense in which we are apt to apply it, but advisedly; and I mean a living
human being, whose skin is literally drawn over hideously projecting bones, and who, having
actually lost all rounding-out and filling of flesh, has grown transparent, so that by holding
an arm in the light you may see the blood-vessels and the inner edges of the bones,)--this
skeleton lying there was, perhaps, what Drake should be two months hence; those men quarrelling,
hyena-like, for the "job" of burying their dead comrades, that scarred old man moaning for
a compass, because he had lost his way and could not find the North, were not lower or more
pitiful than Drake might yet be: for stout heart and brave blood and quick brain have no charm
against famine, pestilence, and a steady pressure of misery in all possible forms.

The majority of his comrades sank helplessly into this quaking bog. Out of fifty captured of
his regiment, Williams, a delicate lad, sickened at once; Dean, a stout old Scotchman, was
close on idiocy in a month; Allan, the color-bearer, was shot by the guard,--he had slipped
near the dead line, and fallen with his head outside; fourteen were dead of disease; twelve
more sank in rayless, hopeless apathy; and Drake--was busy on "A History of the Stockade Prison."
The way in which he got the idea and his stationery is worth telling.

There had fallen upon him a dread of motion,--a sombre endurance,--a discouraged sense of thirty
thousand hopeless men dragging him down to despair,--a dark cloud that shut out God and home
and help,--an inability to compose and fix his drowsy, reeling thought, that spun off dizzily
to times at school, and love and laughter at home, and lapsed itself in forgetfulness, and
ceased to be even dreamy speculation. Drake, in short, was going to the bottom with his theory
about his neck, when a "Providence,"--the modern way of dodging an acknowledgment to God, whom,
by the by, our poor boy had quite omitted in his little theory of self-preservation,--in the
curious shape of an official blunder, stepped in to his rescue. A cook-house was in erection
without the limits of their pen, and, though no carpenter, Drake was set with others to work
under guard. The first glimpse of the open country, stretching away to meet the low horizon,
brought back the half-forgotten thought of Freedom; and the very trail of her robe is so glorious,
that even this poor savage liberty of rock and clod roused in him anew wit to devise and courage
to endure. He worked then so merrily and with such good heart, that an admiring inspector more
than hinted "at the pity it was to see a decent young fellow like him shut up in the pen yonder."

"So I think," returned Drake, calmly, cutting away at his board.

The official edged a little closer.

"Why don't you come over to us, then? The Confederacy gives good wages. Our Government knows
how to pay its men."

"Right there!" retorted Drake. "The Confederacy pays its servants in death and ruin, which,
as you say, are the just wages of a traitor. As for me, I want no more of Georgia soil than
will make me a grave. That is as much as a man can own here now and be honest."

It was then, from some occult connection of ideas too subtile for searching out, that he imagined,
first, a history of the Stockade Prison. He secured a number of long, thin boards, and planed
them smooth, for foolscap, pointed bits of wood for pens, manufactured his ink from the rust
of some old nails, and made himself a knife by grinding two pieces of iron hoop one upon the
other, and, his work on the cook-house at an end, set bravely about his history, when Fate
nipped it, as she has done many a more promising one before it; for even when on the final
flourish of his title, he heard a sound between a groan and a sigh, and, turning, saw Corny
Keegan, a strapping Irishman, and sergeant in his regiment, lying near him. Drake put the tail
on his n, and then some uneasy consciousness would have him look again over the edge of his
board at the sergeant; for, though there were scores of men lying within view on the ground,
there was something in the "give" and laxity of Corny's posture that augured ill for him in
Drake's experienced eyes, and, laying the history aside, he went over and kneeled down beside
him. The man's eyes were closed, and a dull, yellowish pallor had taken the place of the usual
brick tint of his face. Drake essayed to lift his heavy head and shoulders; but Corny settled
back again with a groan.

"Och! wurra! Musther Talcott, lave me alone. It's dead I am, kilt intirely, wid the wakeness.
Divil's the bit of wood I've had these two days, and not a cint or a frind to the fore, and
I'm jist afther mixin' the male here with wather, thinkin' to ate it that way, but it stuck
in me throat, and I'm all on a thrimble, and it's a gone man is Corny Keegan; though it's not
fur meself that I'd make moan, sence it's aisier dyin' than livin', only the ould mother and
Mary that'll fret and----Holy Mother! there comes the sickness, bad scran to it!"

You see now how it happened unto the History of the Stockade Prison to vanish in smoke; for
Drake, having neither wood nor the money to buy it, made a fire with his precious boards, and
baked Corny's raw meal in a cake, which the poor fellow devoured with a half-starved avidity
that made Drake ashamed of the reluctance with which he had offered up his sacrifice. A little
corner of his cake Corny left untouched, saying,--

"That's fur the poor crathur over beyant."

"What poor creature?" asked Drake; but Corny's eyes were fixed on the pens and ink, and the
sorry remains of his foolscap,--a half-strip of board.

"Och! murther! Musther Talcott, and wuz it thim bits of board ye's writin' on? and ye's burned
thim fur me, afther all the throuble ye took wid thim? and to think of the thick head of me,
to ate up all that illigant histhry, when I'd heerd the boys talkin' on it, by the same token,
and bad scran to me! The Lord be good to ye fur your kindness, Musther Talcott, and make your
bed as soft as your heart is, and give ye a line in the Book of Life fur the one I've ate, and"----

"But the poor creature, Corny."

"Thrue for you; and I'm a baste fur forgettin' him, and him starvin' the while. It's jist Cap'n
Ireland, if ye chance to mind him. He was the illigant officer and the kind-hearted man; and
to see him now! If ye'll come away, Musther Talcott, I'm quite done wid the wakeness, and it's
jist over here beyant that he's lyin', poor jontleman, that'll not be long lyin' anywhere out
of his grave."

Corny pointed, as he spoke, to a man, or, rather, a bundle of rags having some faint outlines
of humanity, on the ground before them,--limbs out helplessly, face set and ghastly, hardly
a stir among his tatters to assure them that he yet breathed; and Drake recognized with a thrill
of horror, though more wan, more woful, more shadow-like, if possible, the man who had so moved
his compassion on the night of his arrival. Keegan knelt beside him, and put his corner of
cake to the sufferer's mouth, saying, "Ate a bit, Cap'n dear; thry now"; and then, seeing that
the food rested on white and quiet lips,--"Cap'n, don't ye hear me? It's Corny, that spoke
wid ye a while back. Saints be merciful to us, he's gone!"

"He is not so happy," said Drake, savagely; "he has only fainted. He has days of such torture
as this before him. It would be a mercy to him, and I'm not sure but good religion, to put
him outside of the dead line. I wonder why they don't tie us to the cannon's mouth at once.
Here! you! guard, there! holla!"

This last was addressed to a soldier in the Rebel gray, who was proceeding leisurely past,
but who, on hearing himself so unceremoniously summoned, turned and came slowly towards them.

"Here is a man," said Drake, passionately, "who is dying, not because it pleases God to take
him, but because it pleases you to starve him. We have no wood to make a fire, no food to give
him, unless it is this scrap of meal that he cannot swallow; but you can save him, and will,
if you are a man, and have a man's heart under that dress."

The soldier stared, but, being a phlegmatic animal, heard him quietly to the end, and opened
his jaws to answer with due deliberation.

"If you don't like our rules, you shouldn't have come here, you know. And we haven't any orders
about wood: you are to look out for yourselves. As for the man, if he's sick, why don't you
take him to the stockade yonder, where the doctor is examining for admittance to the hospital?--though
I don't see the use: he's too far gone."

Drake and Corny lifted the poor wasted frame, that seemed all too frail to hold the nickering,
struggling breath, and carried it to a small stockade crowded with men desirous to enter the
hospital. The first assistant to whom they applied was a nervous porcupine, fretted with overwork,
and repulsed them roughly.

"What is the use of bringing a dead man here? We have enough living ones on hand."

"Och, and that's no raison, sence it's aisy to see thim's the kind you like best," muttered
Corny; but Drake silenced him hastily.

"Keep a civil tongue, Corny. They're the masters here; and it will only be the worse for poor
Ireland, if you anger them. Here's another; we'll try him."

But Number Two was Sir Imperturbability, and, without even looking towards them, answered,
in a hard, even tone, "Our number is filled; you are too late," and, without lifting an eyelash,
went on with his work.

Drake grew white to the lips. The great veins started out on his forehead, and his fingers
worked nervously; but it was Corny's turn to interfere.

"Musther Talcott, sure and ye'll not mind what that spalpeen's saying; and there's the docthor
himself beyant, and a kind and pleasant jontleman he is. Jist lift the Cap'n, aisy now, and
we'll see what the docthor'll say to him."

For the third time, then, Drake made his appeal in behalf of the poor fellow at his feet. The
doctor heard him kindly, but answered, as his assistant had done, that their number was full
for the day, and was moving on, when Talcott caught him by the arm.

"Doctor," he said, sternly, "one of your assistants refuses my comrade because he is a dying
man; another tells me, as you have done, that your number is full for the day. Your own eyes
can tell you, that, if not dying now, he will be before to-morrow, of want and exposure. I
know nothing of your rules; but I do know, that, if my comrade's life is to be saved, it is
to be saved now, and that you have the means, if means there are, for its salvation; and let
the awful guilt of the cruelty that brought him here weigh down whose neck it will, as there
is a God above us, I do not see how you can write yourself free of murder, or think your hands
clean from blood, if you send him back to die."

"God forbid! God forbid!" answered the doctor, shrinking from Drake's vehemence. "You are unjust,
young man; it is not my will, but my power to help, that is limited. However, he shall not
be sent back; we will do for him what we can, if I have to lodge him in my own house."

"And didn't I tell ye the docthor was the kind jontleman?" cried Corny, joyfully. "Though the
hospital is no sich great matther: jist a few tints; but thin he'll be gettin' a bed there,
and belike a dhrap of whiskey or a sup of porridge: and if he gits on, it's you he has to thank
for it; fur if it hadn't been fur your prachement, my sowl, the docthor would have turned him
off, too; and long life to you, says Corny Keegan, and may you niver be needin' anybody's tongue
to do the like fur you!"

Drake made no answer; after the fever comes the chill, and he was thinking drearily of the
smouldering "History," and of the intolerable leaden hours stretching out before him; but it
was not in Corny's nature to remain silent.

"It's the ould jontleman wid the scythe that takes us down, afther all, Musther Talcott; the
hours and hours that we sit mopin', wid our fingers as limp as a lady's, and our stomachs clatterin'
like an impty can, and sorra a thing to think of but the poor crathurs that's dead, rest their
souls! and whin our turn's comin; and it's wishin' I am that it was in the days of the fairies,
and that the quane of thim ud jist give us a call, till I'd ask her if she'd iver a pipe and
its full of tobacky about her,--or, failin' that, if she'd hoppen to have a knife in her pocket,
till I cut out the ould divil Jeff on the gallows, and give him what he'd git, if we iver put
our hands on him."

"A knife," repeated Drake, starting from his abstraction, and fumbling in his pocket, from
which he drew an old bit of iron. "I am not the queen of the fairies; but with this you can
hang Jeff and his cabinet in effigy, if you choose, and can find the material to carve."

"Arrah, and that's aisy, wid illigant bones like these, that chips off like marble or wud itself;
but I'm misdoubtin' I'm robbin' ye, Musther Talcott."

"I have another," said Drake, producing it; and as he did so, there breathed upon him, like
a breeze from home, a recollection of the dim light shining in an old library down on a broad-leaved
volume resting on a carved rack,--of a brown-tressed girl who stood with him before it, her
head just at his shoulder, looking at the cathedral on its page,--of the chance touch of a
little hand on his,--of the brush of a perfumed sleeve,--of the flitting color in her clear
cheek,--of a subtile magic, interweaving blush, perfume, picture, and thought of Alice. Dainty
pinnacle and massive arch and carved buttress were photographed on his brain, and arch and
pinnacle and buttress could be notched out in bone by his poor skill,--and if he died, some
kindly comrade should carry it to Alice, and it should tell her what he had left unsaid,--and
if he lived, he would take it to her himself, and it should serve him for the text of his story.
That the carving of a design so intricate, on so minute a scale, must prove tedious argued
in its favor; and putting off mourning weeds for his history, he took to this new love with
a complacency that excited Corny's special admiration.

"Sure, and it's a beautiful thing is religion; and the Divil fly away wid me, if I don't be
afther gittin' it meself! Here's Musther Talcott: if he was fur carving a fort or a big gun,
the eyes and the face of him would be little but scowls and puckers; and there he sits, though
it's only the dumb likeness of a church that he's at, by the same token that it's no bigger
than me thumb, and, by the howly piper, you'd think the light that flings away from the big
colored windy down the church was stramin' in his face, he looks so paceful-like; and he no
betther than a heretic nayther, though he's the heart of a good Catholic, as no one knows betther
than meself."

Indeed, Corny's gratitude never grew cold. Few sentences of his that did not end, like the
one just quoted, in eulogiums on "Musther Talcott." If Drake was busy with his cathedral, there
sat Corny, a few paces distant, hacking at Jeff Davis. If Drake, who had resolved himself into
a sort of duo-decimo edition of the Sanitary Commission, was about his work of mercy, there
was Corny, a shadow at his heels, bringing water, lifting the poor groaning wretches, and adding
his word of comfort. "Cheer up, honey, and do jist as Musther Talcott says; for it's nixt to
iverything that he knows, and thim things that he don't know isn't worth a body's attintion."
And when Drake himself was ailing, it was Corny who tended him with terrified solicitude, foraged
for his wood, and cooked his rations. "When Drake was ailing!"--that was often. His courage
was undaunted, his hope perhaps higher, but he had grown perceptibly weak and languid; and
there were days--many, alas!--when he lay quietly on the ground, giving an occasional lazy
touch to his cathedral, while Corny, as he laughingly said, ruled in his stead.

It was on one of these days that there arose a sudden stir and commotion throughout the camp,
a deep and joyful hum, that went from mouth to mouth; and men were seen running hastily from
all quarters, the rush setting towards the gate, and drawing in even the sick, who crawled
and hobbled along with the stream, at the risk of being trampled by the excited throng, struggling
and crowding on pellmell. While Drake looked on in surprise, Corny made his appearance, his
eyes sparkling with pleasure.

"News, Musther Talcott dear! an ye wuz dyin', here's news to put the strength in yer legs!
Letthers from home, and they say there's five thousand on 'em; and there's an officer chap,
wid a mouth like a thrap, countin' 'em as if he was a machine, for all the wuruld, and bad
'cess to him! wid the poor boys crowdin', and heart-famished for only a look at thim, the crumpled
things, for it's batthered they is! and he, the spalpeen, won't let one of 'em touch 'em, and
no more feelin' with him than if he was a gun, instead of the son of one; and I'm cock-sure
I read yer name, Musther Talcott, and there's mine too on the back of a letther, and that's
from Mary, hurra! and God bless her! and come, Musther Talcott, fur they'll be dalin' out the
letthers or iver we get there."

Drake rose at once; but a description of his sensations, as he hastily made his way towards
the throng that surged about the imperturbable official like a sea, is beyond the power of
words. The overwhelming surprise and joy of a man who in that evil den had almost forgotten
home and the possibility of hearing from it, and his agonizing uncertainty, could be fathomed
only by the poor wretches suffering like him, who anxiously pressed on the Rebel officer, and
clutched at the letters, and fell back sick with impatience and suspense at his formal delay.
At last he opened his grim jaws. The men listened breathlessly.

"All right. Men, there is ten cents postage due on each letter."

An instant's stunned pause, and then half a dozen voices speaking together: "Why, man, you
must have had ten cents on each of these letters, before they crossed the lines"; and "How
can we pay postage?" "He knows we have no money"; "What good will the bits of paper do him
at all, at all?" But the man kept on like an automaton.

"My orders are to collect ten cents on each letter; and I am here to obey orders, not to argue."

Meanwhile those in the rear ranks had heard indistinctly or not at all, and pressed on those
in front to know the meaning of the sudden recoil,--for the men had instinctively given back,--and
being told, buzzed it on to those behind them; and there began in the crowd a low, deep hum,
growing louder, as muttering rose to curses,--growing fiercer, for there is nothing half so
savage as despair that has been fooled with a hope,--swelling into a wave of indignation that
swept and swayed the whole throng with it, and seemed an instant to threaten and topple over
the officer in their midst. But it came to nought. The prudent nudged their neighbors, "With
the cannon, boys, they can rake us on all sides"; and the angrier ones fell apart in little
groups, and talked in whispers, and glared menacingly at the guard, but made no further demonstration.
Those who were happy enough to possess the money received their letters: the feebler ones crawled
away with tears furrowing their wan cheeks; and the unmoved official thrust the remaining letters
of mother, father, wife, and children of these men into the bags before their longing eyes;
and even while the miserable men flung themselves before him, and with outstretched hands tried
to hold him back, the gate clanged after him.

Drake, who long ago had spent his little hoard, had received this terrible blow in entire silence,
and turned to go without comment or answer to Corny's vociferations. But eyes were dim, or
head was reeling; for a few paces on he stumbled, and would have fallen over a soldier lying
in his path, but for Corny, who was close behind him, and who at once assailed the man over
whom Drake had tripped, and who still lay quietly, without even a stir or motion of his head.

"Ye lazy spalpeen! what the Divil are ye stretched out there for, to break dacent folk's necks
over the length of ye? Stir yourself, or I'll"----Then with a sudden and total change of tone,
as he looked more closely into the quiet face, "The Saints pity us! it's Cap'n Ireland; and
in the name of Hiven, how came yer Honor here on the----Och! Lord forgive me! Talking to a
dead corpse! Och! wurra! wurra! Musther Talcott, it's dead he is, sure! kilt this time intirely!"

"You may well say killed," said a soldier who had joined them. "If ever a man committed murder,
then that man did that kicked him out of the hospital to die."

"What is that?" demanded Drake, who had seemed in a sort of stupor, but roused out of it fiercely
at the man's last words. "Do you know what you are saying?"

"I think I ought," returned the soldier. "I was in the hospital at the time; I'm only just
out; and I saw it myself. The assistant surgeon stops at his bed, where he laid only just breathing
like, and says he, 'What man is this? I've seen him before'; and says some one, 'His name is
Ireland'; and says the surgeon, like a flash, 'Ireland? Ireland of the --th? Do you know what
that is? It is a colored regiment, and this Abolition scoundrel is the captain of it. I knew
I had seen him. Here! put him out; let him go and herd with the rest'; and when some one said
he was dying any way, said the surgeon, with a string of oaths, 'Put him out, I tell you; the
bed is too good for him'; and then, Sir, when the poor young gentleman, who was dizzy-like,
and didn't understand, fell down beside the door, from weakness, that--that infernal brute
kicked him, and swore at him, as vermin that cumbered the ground; and the men brought him away
here, Sir, it's two days back, and he's just passed away"; and kneeling beside the body, and
lifting the poor wasted hands, "I swear, if ever I get back, to revenge his death, and never
to let sword or pistol drop while this cursed Rebellion is going on."

"Amin!" said Corny, solemnly, and "Amen" formed itself on Drake's white lips; but by some curious
mental process his thoughts would wander away from the stiffening body before him to a vision
of home, and Sabbaths when sweet-toned bells called quiet families to church, and little children
playing about the doorsteps, and peaceful women in sunny houses, and gay girls waving on men
to battle through glittering streets, and prayers, and looks of love, and songs, and flowers,
and Alice; and in on this rolled suddenly a sense of what was actually around him, as under
a calm sky and out of a still sea swoops sometimes suddenly some huge wave in on the quiet
beach. He saw about him rags, filth, men sick, men dying, men dead, men groaning, men cursing,
men gibbering. There rose up before him the grim succession of days of hunger, pain, sorrow,
and loneliness, already past; there came upon him a terrible threatening of days to come, yet
worse,--without hope or relief, unless at the dead line. He rose, staggering, and with a wild
and desperate look that startled Corny.

"Fur the Lord's sake, wud ye desthroy yerself?" cried the faithful fellow, throwing his arms
about him to hold him fast. "Och, honey! ye're a heretic, and the good Lord's a Catholic; but
thin He made us all, and He has pity on the poor crathurs that's sufferin' here, or His heart's
harder nor Corny's: the Saints forgive me fur such a spache! Pray, Musther Talcott, pray"----

"Pray!" exclaimed Drake; "is there a God looking down here?"--and dropping on his knees, he
gasped out,--

"O God! if Thou dost yet hear, save me--from going mad!" and fell forward at Corny's feet,
senseless.

He was carried to the hospital, and lay there weeks, lost in the delirium of a fever; and every
morning there peered in at the inner door of the stockade a huge shock of hair, and a red,
anxious face, with,--

"The top of the mornin' to ye, docthor, and it's ashamed I am to be afther throublin' ye so
often; but will yer Honor plase to tell me how Musther Talcott is the day?"--and having received
the desired information, Corny would take himself off with blessings "on his Honor, that had
consideration for the feelings of the poor Irishman."

One morning there was a change in the programme.

"I have good news for you, Corny," said the kindly doctor. "Talcott is out of danger."

"Hurray! and the Saints be praised fur that!" shouted Corny, cutting a caper.

"But I have better news yet," continued the doctor, watching Corny closely. "His name is on
the list of exchanged prisoners, and he will be sent home on Thursday next."

Corny's face fell.

"Is he, yer Honor?" very hesitatingly; and then, suddenly clearing up, "and hurra fur that,
too! and I'm an ongrateful baste to be sorry that he's to be clear of this hole,--bad scran
to it!--and long life till him, and a blessin' go wid him! and if"--choking--"we don't mate
on earth, sure the Lord won't kape him foriver in purgatory, and he so kind and feelin' for
the sick."

The doctor could not suppress a laugh at this limited hope.

"But, Corny, what if you are to be sent home too?"

"Me?--and was it me yer Honor was sayin'? Och, Hivin bless ye fur that word!--and it's not
laughin' at me is yer Honor? Sure ye'd niver have the heart to chate a poor boy like that.
All the Saints be praised! I'm a man agin, and not a starvin' machine; and I shall see ye,
Mary, mavourneen! but, och, the poor boys that we're lavin'! Hurra! how iver will I ate three
males a day, and slape under a blanket, and think of thim on the ground and starvin' by inches!"

During the remainder of his stay, Corny balanced between joy and his selfishness in being joyful,
in a manner sufficiently ludicrous,--breaking out one moment in the most extravagant demonstration,
to be twitched from it the next by a penitential spasm. As for Drake, hardly yet clear of the
shadows that haunted his fever, he but mistily comprehended the change that was before him;
and it will need weeks and perhaps months of home-nursing and watching before body and mind
can win back their former strength and tone.

Meanwhile, people of the North, what of the poor boys left behind at Andersonville, starving,
as Corny said, by inches, with the winter before them, and their numbers swelled by the hundreds
that a late Rebel paper gleefully announces to be on their way from more Northern prisons?

DOCTOR JOHNS.

VII.

It was not easy in that day to bring together the opinions of a Connecticut parish that had
been jostled apart by a parochial quarrel, and where old grievances were festering. Indeed,
it is never easy to do this, and unite opinions upon a new comer, unless he have some rare
gift of eloquence, which so dazes the good people that they can no longer remember their petty
griefs, or unless he manage with rare tact to pass lightly over the sore points, and to anoint
them by a careful hand with such healing salves as he can concoct out of his pastoral charities.
Mr. Johns had neither art nor eloquence, as commonly understood; yet he effected a blending
of all interests by the simple, earnest gravity of his character. He ignored all angry disputation;
he ignored its results. He came as a shepherd to a deserted sheepfold; he came to preach the
Bible doctrines in their literalness. He had no reproofs, save for those who refused the offers
of God's mercy,--no commendation, save for those who sought His grace whose favor is life everlasting.
There were no metaphysical niceties in his discourses, athwart which keen disputants might
poise themselves for close and angry conflict; he recognized no necessities but the great ones
of repentance and faith; and all the mysteries of the Will he was accustomed to solve by grand
utterance of that text which he loved above all others,--however much it may have troubled
him in his discussion of Election,--"whosoever will, let him come and drink of the water of
life freely."

Inheriting as he did all the religious affinities of his mother, these were compacted and made
sensitive by years of silent protest against the proud worldly sufficiency of his father, the
Major. Such qualities and experience found repose in the unyielding dogmas of the Westminster
divines. At thirty the clergyman was as aged as most men of forty-five,--seared by the severity
of his opinions, and the unshaken tenacity with which he held them. He was by nature a quiet,
almost a timid man; but over the old white desk and crimson cushion, with the choir of singers
in his front and the Bible under his hand, he grew into wonderful boldness. He cherished an
exalted idea of the dignity of his office,--a dignity which he determined to maintain to the
utmost of his power; but in the pulpit only did the full measure of this exaltation come over
him. Thence he looked down serenely upon the flock of which he was the appointed guide, and
among whom his duty lay. The shepherd leading his sheep was no figure of speech for him; he
was commissioned to their care, and was conducting them--old men and maidens, boys and gray-haired
women--athwart the dangers of the world, toward the great fold. On one side always the fires
of hell were gaping; and on the other were blazing the great candlesticks around the throne.

But when, on some occasion, he had, under the full weight of his office, inveighed against
a damning evil, and, as he fondly hoped by the stillness in the old meeting-house, wrought
upon sinners effectually, it was disheartening to be met by some hoary member of his flock,
whom perhaps he had borne particularly in mind, and to be greeted cheerfully with, "Capital
sermon, Mr. Johns! those are the sort that do the business! I like those, parson!" The poor
man, humiliated, would bow his thanks. He lacked the art (if it be an art) to press the matter
home, when he met one of his parishioners thus. Indeed, his sense of the importance of his
calling and his extreme conscientiousness gave him an air of timidity outside the pulpit, which
offered great contrast to that which he wore in the heat of his sermonizing. Not that he forgot
the dignity of his position for a moment, but he wore it too trenchantly; he could never unbend
to the free play of side-talk. Hence he could not look upon the familiar spirit of badinage
in which some of his brethren of the profession indulged, without serious doubts of their complete
submission to the Heavenly King. Always the weight of his solemn duties pressed sorely on him;
always amid pitfalls he was conducting his little flock toward the glories of the Great Court.
There is many a man narrowed and sharpened by metaphysical inquiry to such a degree as to count
the indirection and freedom of kindly chat irksome, and the occasion of a needless blunting
of that quick mental edger with which he must scathe all he touches. But the stiffness of Mr.
Johns was not that of constant mental strain; he did not refine upon his dogmas; but he gave
them such hearty entertainment, and so inwrapped his spirit with their ponderous gravity, that
he could not disrobe in a moment, or uncover to every chance comer.

It is quite possible that by reason of this grave taciturnity the clergyman won more surely
upon the respect of his people. "He is engrossed," said they, "with greater matters; and in
all secular affairs he recognizes our superior discernment." Thus his inaptitude in current
speech was construed by them into a delicate flattery. They greatly relished his didactic,
argumentative sermonizing, since theirs was a religion not so much of the sensibilities as
of the intellect. They agonized toward the truth, if not by intense thinking, yet by what many
good people are apt to mistake for it,--immense endurance of the prolix thought of others.

If the idea of universal depravity had been ignored,--as it sometimes is in these latitudinarian
days,--or the notion of any available or worthy Christian culture, as distinct from a direct
and clearly defined agency, both as to time and force, of the Spirit, had been entertained,
he would have lost half of the elements by which his arguments gained logical sequence. But,
laboring his way from stake to stake of the old dogmas of the Westminster divines, he fastened
to them stoutly, and swept round from each as a centre a great scathing circle of deductions,
that beat wofully upon the heads of unbelievers. And if a preacher attack only unbelievers,
he has the world with him, now as then; it is only he who has the bad taste to meddle with
the caprices of believers who gets the raps and the orders of dismissal.

Thus it happened that good Mr. Johns came to win the good-will of all the parish of Ashfield,
while he challenged their respect by his uniform gravity. It is even possible that a consciousness
of a certain stateliness and stiffness of manner became in some measure a source of pride to
him, and that he enjoyed, in his subdued way, the disposition of the lads of the town to give
him a wide pass, instead of brushing brusquely against him, as if he were some other than the
parson.

In those days he wrote to his sister Eliza,--

     "We are fairly settled in a pleasant home upon the main street.
     The meeting-house, which you will remember, is near by; and I
     have, by the blessing of God, a full attendance every Lord's
     day. They listen to my poor sermons with commendable
     earnestness; and I trust they may prove to them 'a savor of
     life unto life.' We also find the people of the town neighborly
     and kind. Squire Elderkin has proved particularly so, and is a
     very energetic man in all matters relating to the parish. I
     fear greatly, however, that he still lacks the intimate favor
     of God, and has not humbled himself to entire submission. Yet
     he is constant in his observance of nearly all the outward
     forms of devotion and of worship; and we hear of his charities
     in every house we enter. Strange mystery of Providence, that he
     should not long since have been broken down by grace, and
     become in all things a devout follower of the Master! I hope
     yet to see him brought a humble suppliant into the fold. His
     wife is a most excellent person, lowly in her faith, and
     zealous of good works. The same may also be said of their
     worthy maiden sister, Miss Joanna Meacham, who is, of a truth,
     a matron in Israel. Rachel and myself frequently take tea at
     their house; and she is much interested in the little family of
     Elderkins, who, I am glad to say, enjoy excellent advantages,
     and such of them as are of proper age are duly taught in the
     Shorter Westminster Catechism.

     "Deacon Tourtelot, another of our neighbors, is a devout man;
     and Dame Tourtelot (as she is commonly called) is a woman of
     quite extraordinary zeal and capacity. Their daughter Almira is
     untiring in attendance, and aids the services by singing
     treble. Deacon Simmons, who lives at quite a distance from us,
     is represented to be a man of large means and earnest in the
     faith. He has a large farm, and also a distillery, both of
     which are said to be managed with great foresight and prudence.
     I trust that the reports which I hear occasionally of his
     penuriousness are not wholly true, and that in due time his
     hand will be opened by divine grace to a more effectual showing
     forth of the deeds of charity. I do not allow myself to
     entertain any of the scandals which unfortunately belong more
     or less to every parish, and which so interrupt the growth of
     that Christian love which is the parent of all virtues; and I
     trust that these good people may come in time to see that it is
     better to live together in harmony than to foment those
     bickerings which have led so recently to the dismissal of my
     poor brother in the Gospel. Our home affairs are, I believe,
     managed prudently,--the two servants being most excellent
     persons, and my little Rachel a very sunbeam in the house."

And the little sunbeam writes to Mrs. Handby at about the same date,--we will say from six
to eight months after their entry,--

     "Everything goes on delightfully, dear mamma. Esther is a
     good creature, and helps me wonderfully. You would laugh to see
     me fingering the raw meats at the butcher's cart to choose nice
     pieces, which I really can do now; and it is fortunate I can,
     for the goodman Benjamin knows positively nothing of such
     things, and I am sure wouldn't be able to tell mutton from
     beef.

     "The little parlor is nicely furnished; there is an elegant
     hair sofa, and over the mantel is the portrait of Major Johns;
     and then the goodman has insisted upon hanging under the
     looking-glass my old sampler in crewel, with a gilt frame
     around it; on the table is the illustrated 'Pilgrim's Progress'
     papa gave me, and a volume of 'Calmet's Dictionary' I have
     taken out of the study--it is full of such beautiful
     pictures,--and 'Mrs. Hannah More' in full gilt. The big Bible
     you gave us, the goodman says, is too large for easy handling;
     so it is kept on a stand in the corner, with the great
     fly-brush of peacock's feathers hanging over it. I have put
     charming blue chintz curtains in the spare chamber, and
     arranged everything there very nicely; so that, before a
     certain event, you must be sure to come and take possession.

     "Last night we took tea again with the Elderkins, and Mrs.
     Elderkin was as kind to me as ever, and Miss Meacham is an
     excellent woman, and the little ones are loves of children; and
     I wish you could see them. But you will, you know, quite
     soon. Sometimes I fall to crying, when I think of it all; and
     then the goodman comes and puts his hand on my head, and
     says,--'Rachel! Rachel, my dear! is this your gratitude for all
     God's mercies?' And then I jump up, and kiss his grave face,
     and laugh through my tears. He is a dear good man. This is all
     very foolish, I suppose; but, mamma, isn't it the way with all
     women?

     "Dame Tourtelot is a great storm of a creature, and she comes
     down upon us every now and then, and advises me about the
     housekeeping and the table, and the servants, and
     Benjamin,--giving me a great many good hints, I suppose; but in
     such a way, and calling me 'my child,' as makes me feel good
     for nothing, and as if I were not fit to be mistress. Miss
     Almira is a quiet thing, and has a piano. She dresses very
     queerly, and, I have been told, written poetry for the
     'Hartford Courant,' over two stars--* *. She seems a good
     creature, though, and comes to see us often. The chaise is a
     great comfort, and our old horse Dobbins is a good, sober
     horse. Benjamin often takes me with him in his drives to see
     the parishioners who live out of town. He tells me about the
     trees and the flowers, and a thousand matters I never heard of.
     Indeed, he is a good man, and he knows a world of things."

The tender-hearted, kind soul makes her way into the best graces of the people of Ashfield:
the older ones charmed with that blithe spirit of hers, and all the younger ones mating easily
with her simple, outspoken naturalness. She goes freely everywhere; she is not stiffened by
any ceremony, nor does she carry any stately notions of the dignity of her office,--some few
there may be who wish that she had a keener sense of the importance of her position; she even
bursts unannounced into the little glazed corner of the Tew partners, where she prattles away
with the sedate Mistress Tew in good, kindly fashion, winning that stiff old lady's heart,
and moving her to declare to all customers that the parson's wife has no pride about her, and
is "a dear little thing, to be sure!"

On summer evenings, Dobbins is to be seen, two or three times in the week, jogging along before
the square-topped chaise, upon some highway that leads into the town, with the parson seated
within, with slackened rein, and in thoughtful mood, from which he rouses himself from time
to time with a testy twitch and noisy chirrup that urge the poor beast into a faster gait.
All the while the little wife sits beside him, as if a twittering sparrow had nestled itself
upon the same perch with some grave owl, and sat with him side by side, watching for the big
eyes to turn upon her, and chirping some pretty response for every solemn utterance of the
wise old bird beside her.

VIII.

On the return from one of these parochial drives, not long after their establishment at Ashfield,
it happened that the good parson and his wife were not a little startled at sight of a stranger
lounging familiarly at their door. A little roof jutted out over the entrance to the parsonage,
without any apparent support, and flanking the door were two plank seats, with their ends toward
the street, cut away into the shape of those "settles" which used to be seen in country taverns,
and which here seemed to invite a quiet out-of-door gossip. But the grave manner of the parson
had never invited to a very familiar use of this loitering-place, even by the most devoted
of the parishioners; and the appearance of a stranger of some two-and-thirty years, with something
in his manner, as much as in his dress, which told of large familiarity with the world, lounging
upon this little porch, had amazed the passers-by, as much as it now did the couple who drove
up slowly in the square-topped chaise.

"Who can it be, Benjamin?" says Rachel.

"I really can't say," returns the parson.

"He seems very much at home, my dear,"--as indeed he does, with his feet stretched out upon
the bench, and eyeing curiously the approaching vehicle.

As it draws near, his observation being apparently satisfactory, he walks briskly down to the
gate, and greets the parson with,--

"My dear Johns, I'm delighted to see you!"

At this the parson knew him, and greets him,--

"Maverick, upon my word!" and offers his hand.

"And this is Mrs. Johns, I suppose," says the stranger, bowing graciously, "Allow me, Madam";
and he assists her to alight. "Your husband and myself were old college-friends, partners of
the same bench, and I've used no ceremony, you see, in finding him out."

Rachel, eyeing him furtively, with a little rustic courtesy, "is glad to see any of her husband's
old friends."

The parson--upon his feet now--shakes the stranger's hand heartily again.

"I am very glad to see you, Maverick; but I thought you were out of the country."

"So I have been, Johns; am home only upon a visit, and hearing by accident that you had become
a clergyman--as I always thought you would--and were settled hereabout, I determined to run
down and see you before sailing again."

"You must stop with me. Rachel, dear, will you have the spare room made ready for Mr. Maverick?"

"My dear Madam, don't give yourself the least trouble; I am an old traveller, and can make
myself quite comfortable at the tavern yonder; but if it's altogether convenient, I shall be
delighted to pass the night under the roof of my old friend. I shall be off to-morrow noon,"
continued he, turning to the parson, "and until then I want you to put off your sermons and
make me one of your parishioners."

So they all went into the parsonage together.

Frank Maverick, as he had said, had shared the same bench with Johns in college; and between
them, unlike as they were in character, there had grown up a strong friendship,--one of those
singular intimacies which bind the gravest men to the most cheery and reckless. Maverick was
forever running into scrapes and consulting the cool head of Johns to help him out of them.
There was never a tutor's windows to be broken in, or a callithumpian frolic, (which were in
vogue in those days,) but Maverick bore a hand in both; and somehow, by a marvellous address
that belonged to him, always managed to escape, or at most to receive only some grave admonition
from the academic authorities. Johns advised with him, (giving as serious advice then as he
could give now,) and added from time to time such assistance in his studies as a plodding man
can always lend to one of quick brain, who makes no reckoning of time.

Upon a certain occasion Maverick had gone over with Johns to his home, and the Major had taken
an immense fancy to the buoyant young fellow, so full of spirits, and so charmingly frank.
"If your characters could only be welded together," he used to say to his son, "you would both
be the better for it; he a little of your gravity, and you something of his rollicking carelessness."
This bound Johns to his friend more closely than ever. There was, moreover, great honesty and
conscientiousness in the lad's composition: he could beat in a tutor's window for the frolic
of the thing, and by way of paying off some old grudge for a black mark; but there was a strong
spice of humanity at the bottom even of his frolics. It happened one day, that his friend Ben
Johns told him that one of the bats which had done terrible execution on the tutor's windows
had also played havoc on his table, breaking a bottle of ink, and deluging some half-dozen
of the tutor's books; "and do you know," said Johns, "the poor man who has made such a loss
is saving up all his pay here for a mother and two or three fatherless children?"

"The Deuse he is!" said Maverick, and his hand went to his pocket, which was always pretty
full. "I say, Johns, don't peach on me, but I think I must have thrown that bat, (which Johns
knew to be hardly possible, for he had only come up at the end of the row,) and I want you
to get this money to him, to make those books good again. Will you do it, old fellow?"

This was the sort of character to win upon the quiet son of the Major. "If he were only more
earnest," he used to say,--"if he could give up his trifling,--if he would only buckle down
to serious study, as some of us do, what great things he might accomplish!" A common enough
fancy among those of riper years,--as if all the outlets of a man's nerve-power could be dammed
into what shape the possessor would!

Maverick was altogether his old self this night at the parsonage. Rachel listened admiringly,
as he told of his travel and of his foreign experiences. He was the son of a merchant of an
Eastern seaport who had been long engaged in the Mediterranean trade with a branch house at
Marseilles; and thither Frank had gone two or three years after leaving college, to fill some
subordinate post, and finally to work his way into a partnership, which he now held. Of course
he had not lived there those seven or eight years last past without his visit to Paris; and
his easy, careless way of describing what he had seen there in Napoleon's day--the fêtes, the
processions, the display--was a kind of talk not often heard in a New England village, and
which took a strong hold upon the imagination of Rachel.

"And to think," says the parson, "that such a people are wholly infidel!"

"Well, well, I don't know," says Maverick; "I think I have seen a good deal of faith in the
Popish churches."

"Faith in images; faith in the Virgin; faith in mummery," says Johns, with a sigh. "'Tis always
the scarlet woman of Babylon!"

"I know," says Maverick, smiling, "these things are not much to your taste; but we have our
Protestant chapels, too."

"Not much better, I fear," says Johns. "They are sadly impregnated with the Genevese Socinianism."

This was about the time that the orthodox Louis Empaytaz was suffering the rebuke of the Swiss
church authorities for his "Considerations upon the Divinity of Jesus Christ." Aside from this,
all the parson's notions of French religion and of French philosophy were of the most aggravated
degree of bitterness. That set of Voltaire, which the Major, his father, had once purchased,
had not been without its fruit,--not legitimate, indeed, but most decided. The books so cautiously
put out of sight--like all such--had caught the attention of the son; whereupon his mother
had given him so terrible an account of French infidelity, and such a fearful story of Voltaire's
dying remorse,--current in orthodox circles,--as had caught strong hold upon the mind of the
boy. All Frenchmen he had learned to look upon as the children of Satan, and their language
as the language of hell. With these sentiments very sincerely entertained, he regarded his
poor friend as one living at the very door-posts of Pandemonium, and hoped, by God's mercy,
to throw around him even now a little of the protecting grace which should keep him from utter
destruction. But though this was uppermost in his mind, it did not forbid a grateful outflow
of his old sympathies and expressions of interest in all that concerned his friend. It seemed
to him that his easy refinement of manner, in such contrast with the ceremonious stiffness
of the New England customs of speech, was but the sliming over of the Serpent's tongue, preparatory
to a dreadful swallowing of soul and body; and the careless grace of talk, which so charmed
the innocent Rachel, appeared to the exacting Puritan a token of the enslavement of his old
friend to sense and the guile of this world.

Nine o'clock was the time for evening prayers at the parsonage, which under no circumstances
were ever omitted; and as the little clock in the dining-room chimed the hour, Mr. Johns rose
to lead the way from his study, where they had passed the evening.

"It's our hour for family prayer," says Johns; "will you come with us?"

"Most certainly," says Maverick, rising. "I should be sorry not to have this little scene of
New England life to take back with me: it will recall home pleasantly."

The servants were summoned, and the parson read in his wonted way a chapter,--not selected,
but designated by the old book-mark, which was carried forward from day to day throughout the
sacred volume. In his prayer the parson asked specially for Divine Grace to overshadow all
those journeying from their homes,--to protect them,--to keep alive in their hearts the teachings
of their youth,--to shield them from the insidious influences of sin and of the world, and
to bring them in God's own good time into the fold of the elect.

Shortly after prayers Rachel retired for the night. The parson and his old friend talked for
an hour or more in the study, but always as men whose thoughts were unlike; Maverick filled
and exuberant with the prospects of this life; and the parson, by a settled purpose, which
seemed like instinct, making all his observations bear upon futurity.

"The poor man has grown very narrow," thought Maverick.

And yet Johns entered with friendly interest into the schemes of his companion.

"So you count upon spending your life there?" says the parson.

"It is quite probable," says Maverick. "I am doing exceedingly well; the climate, bating some
harsh winds in winter, is enjoyable. Why shouldn't I?"

"It's a question to put to your conscience," says Johns, "not to me. A man can but do his duty,
as well there as here perhaps. A little graft of New Englandism may possibly work good. Do
you mean to marry in France, Maverick?"

A shade passed over the face of his friend; but recovering himself, with a little musical laugh,
he said,--

"I really can't say: there are very charming women there, Johns."

"I am afraid so," uttered the parson, dryly.

"By the way," said Maverick,--"you will excuse me,--but you will be having a family by and
by,"--at which the parson fairly blushed,--"you must let me send over some little gift for
your first boy; it sha'n't be one that will harm him, though it comes from our heathen side
of the world."

"There's a gift you might bestow, Maverick, that I should value beyond price."

"Pray what is it?"

"Live such a life, my friend, that I could say to any boy of mine, 'Follow the example of that
man.'"

"Ah," said Maverick, with his easy, infectious laugh, "that's more than I can promise. To tell
the truth, Johns, I don't believe I could by any possibility fall into the prim, stiff ways
which make a man commendable hereabout. Even if I were religiously disposed, or should ever
think of adopting your profession, I fancy I should take to the gown and liturgy, as giving
a little freer movement to my taste. You don't like to think of that, I'll wager."

"You might do worse things," said the parson, sadly.

"I know I might," said Maverick, thoughtfully; "I greatly fear I shall. Yet it's not altogether
a bad life I'm looking forward to, Johns: we'll say ten or fifteen more years of business on
the other side; marrying sometime in the interval,--certainly not until I have a good revenue;
then, possibly, I may come over among you again, establish a pretty home in the neighborhood
of one of your towns; look after a girl and boy or two, who may have come into the family;
get the title of Squire; give fairly to the missionary societies; take my place in a good big
family-pew; dabble in politics, perhaps, so that people shall dub me 'Honorable': isn't that
a fair show, Johns?"

There was a thief in the candle, which the parson removed with the snuffers.

"As for yourself," continued Maverick, "they'll give you the title of Doctor after a few years!"--The
parson raised his hand, as if to put away the thought.--"I know," continued his friend, "you
don't seek worldly honors: but they will drift upon you; they'll all love you hereabout, in
spite of your seriousness (the parson smiled); you'll have your house full of children; you'll
be putting a wing here and a wing there; and when I come back, twenty years hence, if I live,
I shall find you comfortably gray, and your pretty wife in spectacles, knitting mittens for
the youngest boy, and the oldest at college, and your girls grown into tall village belles;--but,
Johns, don't, I beg, be too strict with them; you can't make a merry young creature the better
by insisting upon seriousness; you can't crowd goodness into a body by pounding upon it. What
are you thinking of, Johns?"

The parson was sitting with his eyes bent upon a certain figure in the green and red Scotch carpet.

"Thinking, Maverick, that in twenty years' time, if alive, we may be less fit for heaven than
we are to-day."

There was a pitying kindliness in the tone of the minister, as he said this, which touched
Maverick.

"There's no doubt on your score, Johns, God bless you! But we must paddle our own boats: I
dare say you'll come out a long way before me; you always did, you know. Every man to his path."

"There's but one," said Johns, solemnly, "that leadeth to eternal rest."

"Yes, I know," says Maverick, with a gay smile upon his face, which the parson remembered long
after, "we are the goats; but you must have a little pity on us, for all that."

With these words they parted for the night.

Next morning, before the minister was astir, Maverick was strolling about the garden and the
village street, and at breakfast appeared with a little bunch of violets he had gathered from
Rachel's flower-patch, and laid them by her plate. (It was a graceful attention, that not even
the clergyman had ever paid to her.) And he further delighted her with a description of some
floral fête which he had witnessed at Marseilles, in the year of the Restoration.

"They welcomed their old masters, then?" said the parson.

"Perhaps so; one can never say. The French express their joy with flowers, and they bury their
grief with flowers. I like them for it; I think there's a ripe philosophy in it."

"A heathen philosophy," said the minister.

At noon Maverick left upon the old swaying stage-coach,--looking out, as he passed, upon the
parsonage, with its quaintly panelled door, and its diamond lights, of which he long kept the
image in his mind. That brazen knocker he seemed to hear in later years, beating,--beating
as if his brain lay under it.

"I think Mr. Frank Maverick is a most charming man," said the pretty Mrs. Johns to her husband.

"He is, Rachel, and generous and open-hearted,--and yet, in the sight of Heaven, I fear, a
miserable sinner."

"But, Benjamin, my dear, we are all sinners."

"All,--all, Rachel, God help us!"

IX.

In December of the year 1820 came about a certain event of which hint has been already given
by the party chiefly concerned; and Mrs. Johns presented her husband with a fine boy, who was
in due time christened--Reuben.

Mrs. Handby was present at this eventful period, occupying the guest-chamber, and delighting
in all the little adornments that had been prepared by the loving hands of her daughter; and
upon the following Sabbath, Mr. Johns, for the first time since his entrance upon the pastoral
duties of Ashfield, ventured to repeat an old sermon. Dame Tourtelot had been present on the
momentous occasion, with such a tempest of suggestions in regard to the wrappings and feeding
of the new comer, that the poor mother had quietly begged the good clergyman to decoy her,
on her next visit, into his study. This he did, and succeeded in fastening her with a discussion
upon the import of the word baptize, in which he was in a fair way of being carried by storm,
if he had not retreated under cover of his Greek Lexicon.

Mrs. Elderkin had been zealous in neighborly offices, and had brought, in addition to a great
basket of needed appliances, a silver porringer, which, with wonderful foresight, had been
ordered from a Hartford jeweller in advance. The out-of-door man, Larkin, took a well-meaning
pride in this accession to the family,--walking up and down the street with a broad grin upon
his face. He also became the bearer, in behalf of the Tew partners, of a certain artful contrivance
of tin ware for the speedy stewing of pap, which, considering that the donors were childless
people, was esteemed a very great mark of respect for the minister.

Would it be strange, if the father felt a new ambition stirring in him, as he listened from
his study to that cry of a child in the house? He does feel it, and struggles against it. Are
not all his flock his spiritual children? and is he not appointed of Heaven to lead them toward
the rest which is promised? Should that babe be more to him than a hundred others who are struggling
through life's snares wearily? It may touch him, indeed, cruelly to think it; but is not the
soul of the most worthless person of his parish as large in the eye of the Master as this of
his first-born? Shall these human ties supplant the spiritual ones by which we are all coheirs
of eternal death or of eternal life? And in this way the minister schools himself against too
demonstrative a joy or love, and prays God silently that His gift may not be a temptation.

For all this, however, there is many a walk which would have been taken of old under the orchard
trees now transferred to the chamber, where he paces back and forth with the babe in his arms,
soothing its outcry, as he thinks out his discourse for the following Sabbath.

In due time Mrs. Handby returns to her home. The little child pushes through its first month
of venturesome encounter with the rough world it has entered upon bravely; and the household
is restored to its uniform placidity. The affairs of the parish follow their accustomed course.
From time to time there are meetings of the "Consociation," or other ministerial assemblages,
in the town, when the parsonage is overflowing, and Rachel, with a simple grace, is compelled
to do the honors to a corps of the Congregational brotherhood. As for the parson, he was like
a child in all household matters. Over and over he would invite his brethren flocking in from
the neighboring villages to pass the night with him, when Rachel would decoy him into a corner,
and declare, with a most pitiable look of distress, that not a bed was unoccupied in the house.
Whereupon the goodman would quietly take his hat, and trudge away to Squire Elderkin's, or,
on rarer occasions, to Deacon Tourtelot's, and ask the favor of lodging with them one of his
clerical brethren.

At other times, before some such occasion of clerical entertainment, the little housewife,
supported by Esther with broom and a great array of mops, would wait upon the parson in his
study and order him away to his walk in the orchard,--an order which the poor man never ventured
to resist; but, taking perhaps a pocket volume of Doddridge, or of Cowper,--the only poet he
habitually read,--he would sally out with hat and cane,--this latter a gift of an admiring
parishioner, which it pleased Rachel he should use, and which she always brought to him at
such times, with a little childish mime of half-entreaty and half-command that it was not in
his heart to resist, and which on rare occasions (that were subject of self-accusation afterward)
provoked him to an answering kiss. At which Rachel:--

"Now go and leave us, please; there's a good man! And mind," (shaking her forefinger at him,)
"dinner at half past twelve: Larkin will blow the shell."

The parson, as he paced back and forth under the apple-trees, out of sight, and feeling the
need of more vigorous exercise than his usual meditative gait afforded, would on occasions
brandish his cane and assume a military air and stride, (he remembered the Major's only too
well,) getting in a glow with the unusual movement, and in the heat of it thanking God for
all the blessings that had befallen him: a pleasant home; a loving wife; a little boy to bear
the name, in which, with all his spiritual tendencies, he yet took a very human pride; health,--and
he whisked his cane as vigorously as ever the Major had done his cumbrous sword,--the world's
comforts; a congregation that met him kindly, that listened kindly. Was he not leading them
in the path of salvation, and rejoicing in the leadership?

And then, to himself,--"Be careful, careful, Benjamin Johns, that you take not too great a
pride in this work and home of yours. You are but an instrument in greater hands; He doeth
with you what seemeth Him best. Let not the enticements of the world be too near your thought."
In this way it was that the minister pruned down all the shoots of his natural affections,
lest they might prove a decoy to him, and wrapped himself ever more closely in the rigors of
his chosen theology.

As the boy Reuben grows, and gains a firmer footing, he sometimes totters beside the clergyman
in these orchard walks, clinging blindly to his hand, and lifting his uncertain feet with great
effort over the interrupting tufts of grass, unheeded by the minister, who is pondering some
late editorial of the "Boston Recorder." But far oftener the boy is with the mother, burying
his face in that dear lap of hers,--lifting the wet face to have tears kissed away and forgotten.
And as he thrives and takes the strength of three or four years, he walks beside her under
the trees of the village street, clad in such humble finery as the Handby grandparents may
have bestowed; and he happens oftenest, on these strolls with Rachel, into the hospitable home
of the Elderkins, where there are little ones to romp with the boy. Most noticeable of all,
just now, one Philip Elderkin, (of whom more will have to be said as this story progresses,)
only a year the senior of Reuben, but of far stouter frame, who looks admiringly on the minister's
child, and as he grows warm in play frights him with some show of threat, which makes the little
Reuben run for cover to the arms of Rachel. Whereat the mother kisses him into boldness, and
tells him that Phil is a good boy and means no harm to him.

Often, too, in the square-topped chaise, the child is seated on a little stool between the
parson and his wife, as they drive away upon their visits to the outskirts of the parish,--puzzling
them with those strange questions which come from a boy just exploring his way into the world
of talk.

"Benjamin," says Rachel, as they were nearing home upon one of these drives, "Reuben is quite
a large boy now, you know; have you ever written to your friend, Mr. Maverick? You remember
he promised a gift for him."

"Never," said the minister, whose goodness rarely took the shape of letter-writing,--least
of all where the task would seem to remind of a promised favor.

"You've not forgotten it? You've not forgotten Mr. Maverick?"

"Not forgotten, Rachel,--not forgotten to pray for him."

"I would write, Benjamin; it might be something that would be of service to Reuben. Please
don't forget it, Benjamin."

And the minister promised.

In the autumn of 1824,--the minister of Ashfield being still in good favor with nearly all
his parishioners, and his wife Rachel being still greatly beloved,--a rumor ran through the
town, one day, that there was serious illness at the parsonage, the Doctor's horse and saddle-bags
being observed in waiting at the front gate for two hours together. Following close upon this,
the Tew partners reported--having received undoubted information from Larkin, who still kept
in his old service--that a daughter was born to the minister, but so feeble that there were
grave doubts if the young Rachel could survive. The report was well founded; and after three
or four days of desperate struggle with life, the poor child dropped away. Thus death came
into the parsonage with so faint and shadowy a tread, it hardly startled one. The babe had
been christened in the midst of its short struggle, and in this the father found such comfort
as he could; yet reckoning the poor, fluttering little soul as a sinner in Adam, through whom
all men fell, he confided it with a great sigh to God.

It would have been well, if his grief had rested there. But two days thereafter there was a
rumor on the village street,--flying like the wind, as such rumors do, from house to house,--"The
minister's wife is dead!"

"I want to know!" said Mrs. Tew, lifting herself from her task of assorting the mail, and removing
her spectacles in nervous haste. "Do tell! It a'n't possible! Miss Johns dead?"

"Yes," says Larkin, "as true as I live, she's dead"; and his voice broke as he said it,--the
kind little woman had so won upon him.

Squire Elderkin, like a good Christian, came hurrying to the parsonage to know what this strange
report could mean. The study was unoccupied. With the familiarity of an old friend he made
his way up the cramped stairs. The chamber-door was flung wide open: there was no reason why
the whole parish might not come in. The nurse, sobbing in a corner, was swaying back and forth,
her hands folded across her lap. Reuben, clinging to the coverlet, was feeling his way along
the bed, if by chance his mother's hand might catch hold upon his; and the minister standing
with a chair before him, his eyes turned to heaven (the same calm attitude which he took at
his evening prayer-meeting) was entreating God to "be over his house, to strengthen him, to
pour down his Spirit on him, to bind up the bruised hearts,--to spare,--spare"----

Even the stout Squire Elderkin withdraws outside the door, that he may the better conceal his
emotion.

The death happened on a Friday. The Squire, after a few faltering expressions of sympathy,
asked regarding the burial. "Should it not be on Sunday?"

"Not on Sunday," says Mr. Johns; "God help me, Squire,--but this is not a work of necessity
or mercy. Let it be on Monday."

"On Monday, then," said Elderkin,--"and let me take the arrangement of it all off your thought;
and we will provide some one to preach for you on the Sabbath."

"No, Mr. Elderkin, no; I am always myself in the pulpit. I shall find courage there."

And he did. A stranger would not have suspected that the preacher's wife lay dead at home;
the same unction and earnestness that had always characterized him; the same unyielding rigidity
of doctrine: "Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish."

Once only--it was in the reading of the last hymn in the afternoon service--his voice broke,
and he sat down half through. But as the song rose under the old roof of the meeting-house,
his courage rose with it. He seemed ashamed of the transitory weakness. What right had he to
bring private griefs to such a place? What right had the leader to faint, when the army were
pressing forward to the triumph God had promised to the faithful? So it was in a kind of ecstasy
that he rose, and joined with a firm, loud voice in the final doxology.

One or two of the good old ladies, with a sad misconception of the force that was in him, and
of the divine aid which seemed vouchsafed to him during the service, came to him, as he passed
out, to give him greeting and a word of condolence. For that time only he passed them by, as
if they had been wooden images. His spirit had been strained to its uttermost, and would bear
no more. He made his way home with an ungainly, swift gait,--home to the dear bedside,--down
upon his knees,--struggling with his weakness,--praying.

At the tea-hour Esther knocked; but in vain. An hour after, his boy came,--came at the old
woman's suggestion, (who had now the care of him,) and knelt by his side.

"Reuben,--my boy!"

"She's in heaven, isn't she, father?"

"God only knows, my son. He hath mercy on whom He will have mercy."

Small as he was, the boy flushed at this:--

"I think it's a bad God, if she isn't in heaven.'

"Nay, Reuben, little one, blaspheme not: His ways are not as our ways. Kiss her now, and we
will sit down to our supper."

And so they passed out together to their lonely repast. It had been a cheerful meal in days
gone, this Sunday's supper. For the dinner, owing to the scruples of the parson, was but a
cold lunch always; and in the excited state in which the preacher found himself between services,
there was little of speech; even Reuben's prattle, if he ventured upon it, caught a quick "Hist!"
from the mamma. But with the return of Esther from the afternoon Bible-class, there was a big
fire lighted in the kitchen, and some warm dishes served, such as diffused an appetizing odor
through the house. The clergyman, too, wore an air of relief, having preached his two sermons,
and showing a capital appetite, like most men who have acquitted themselves of a fatiguing
duty. Besides which, the parson guarded that old New England custom of beginning his Sabbath
at sundown on Saturday,--so that, by the time the supper of Sunday was fairly over, Reuben
could be counting it no sin, if he should steal a run into the orchard. Nay, it is quite probable
that the poor little woman who was dead had always welcomed cheerily the opened door of Sunday
evening, and the relaxing gravity, as night fell, of her husband's starched look.

What wonder, if she had loved, even as much as the congregational singing, the music of the
birds at the dusk of a summer's day? It was hard measure which many of the old divines meted
out, in excluding from their ideas of worship all alliance with the charms of Nature, or indeed
with any beauties save those which were purely spiritual. It is certain that the poor woman
had enjoyed immensely those Sabbath-evening strolls through the garden and orchard, hand in
hand with Reuben and the minister,--with such keen and exhilarating sense of God's goodness,
of trust in Him, of hope, as was not invariably wakened by the sermons of her Benjamin.

On the evening of which we speak, the father and son walked down the orchard alone. The birds
sang their merriest as day closed in; and as they turned upon their walk, and the good man
saw through the vista of garden and orchard a bright light flitting across an upper window
of his house, the mad hope flashed upon him for an instant (such baseless fancies will sometimes
possess the calmest minds) that she had waked,--his Rachel,--and was there to meet him. The
next moment the light and the hope were gone. His fingers gave such a convulsive grip upon
the hand of his little boy that Reuben cried out with pain, "Papa, papa, you hurt me!"

The parson bent down and kissed him.

ANCIENT MINING ON THE SHORES OF LAKE SUPERIOR.

In the month of March, 1848, Samuel O. Knapp and J.B. Townsend discovered, from tracks in the
snow, that a hedgehog had taken up his winter-quarters in a cavity of a ledge of rocks, about
twelve miles from Ontonagon, Lake Superior, in the neighborhood of the Minnesota Copper Mine.
In order to capture their game, they procured a pick and shovel, and commenced an excavation
by removing the vegetable mould and rubbish that had accumulated about the mouth of what proved
to be a small cavern in the rock. At the depth of a few feet they discovered numerous stone
hammers or mauls; and they saw that the cavern was not a natural one, but had been worked out
by human agency, and that the stone implements, found in great profusion in and about it, were
the tools used in making the excavation. Further examination developed a well-defined vein
of native copper running through the rock; and it was evidently with a view of getting this
metal that this extensive opening had been made.

This was the first instance where "ancient diggings"--as they are familiarly called in the
Lake Superior region--were ever recognized as such; and this artificial cavern presents the
most conclusive proofs that a people in the remote past worked those mines. Upon the discovery
of this mine, attention was at once directed to numerous other cavities and depressions in
the surface of the earth at this and other points, and the result was that nearly a hundred
ancient pits were found, and in all of them mining-tools of various kinds. These ancient mines
or pits are not restricted to one locality, but extend over the entire length of the copper
region, from the eastern extremity of Keweenaw Point to the Porcupine Mountains, a distance
of nearly one hundred miles.

In some of the ancient diggings, the stone hammers have the marks of hard usage, fractured
or battered faces, and a large proportion of them are broken and unfit for use; but in other
pits the hammers are all sound, and many of them have the appearance of never having been used.
These hammers, or mauls, which are of various sizes, and not uniform in shape, are water-worn
stones, of great hardness, similar in all respects to those that are found in abundance on
the shore of the Lake, or in the gravel-banks of that region. They are generally trap-rock,
embracing the varieties of gray, porphyritic, hornblendic, sienitic, and amygdaloidal trap,
and appear to have had no labor expended upon them except the chiselling of a groove around
the middle for the purpose of attaching a withe to serve as a handle. In a few instances, I
have noticed small hammers, usually egg-shaped, without a groove; and the battered or worn
appearance at one end was all that induced the belief that they were ever used for hammering.

These hammers are usually from six to eight inches in length, and from eight to twelve inches
in circumference, and weigh from four to eight pounds; but I have measured specimens that were
twenty-four inches in circumference at the groove, and would weigh thirty pounds. It seems
hardly probable that one man could wield so ponderous a tool; and from the fact that some of
the large mauls have two grooves around them, it is presumed that two men were employed in
using them.

Stone hammers are found in all the ancient diggings, and in some instances the number is almost
incredible. From the pits near the Minnesota mines it is estimated that ten cart-loads have
been removed; I was informed that a well there was entirely stoned up with them, and from the
great number still remaining I am inclined to believe the report. A still greater number are
said to have been found at the Mesnard and Pontiac Mines, in the Portage Lake district. Farther
east, in the vicinity of the Cliff and Central Mines, they are also abundant; and it would
seem, from the circumstance of their being invariably found in the pits, that the law among
the ancient miners was similar to the one adopted by the adventurers in California a few years
since, who established their claims by leaving their tools upon the land or in the pits where
they were digging for gold.

In addition to the stone implements, copper chisels, wedges, or "gads," are often found in
the abandoned mines; and in the vicinity, as well as in places more remote, other copper relics
are found, consisting of knives, spear-points, and rings, like the bracelets of the present
day. In a collection at the Douglas House, in Houghton, Portage Lake, are ornaments of this
kind, and also some spear-heads, nicely wrought and similar in shape and size to the blade
of a spontoon. But I have never seen a copper relic that had the appearance of having been
melted. They invariably appear to have been cut and hammered into shape from a mass of native
copper.

Colonel Charles Whittlesey, of Cleveland, Ohio, who has examined these "ancient diggings,"
has several interesting relics, some of which he has figured and described in the thirteenth
volume of the "Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge." In the Vermont State Cabinet is a spear-head
of native copper, about six inches long, which was found in Williston, Vermont, in 1843.

It may be proper here to remark, that the copper in these relics is tougher than that which
has been fused, and so is the native copper of Lake Superior; and occasionally in these copper
relics blotches and grains of native silver are found. These circumstances serve to establish
the fact, that the material of which the implements were made was obtained at Lake Superior;
for there, and nowhere else in America, is native silver found in grains, and sometimes in
considerable masses, imbedded in a matrix of native copper. I well remember, when a boy, reading
an article relating to the "Lost Arts," in which the fact was stated, that a piece of metal
consisting of pure copper and silver had been found in Hamilton County, Ohio, and that a copper
knife had been found in one of the ancient mounds at Marietta, which had distinct blotches
of pure silver in it. The writer of the article claimed that the people who manufactured that
knife were in the possession of an art, now lost, by which copper and silver could be melted
and indiscriminately mixed, but upon cooling would separate and remain distinct and pure, instead
of forming an alloy. The discovery of native copper and silver similarly associated in the
Lake Superior mines has not only destroyed this theory, but has established beyond a doubt
the locality whence that copper knife, and other relics found in the ancient mounds and elsewhere,
were obtained.

Billets of wood that bear the marks of a tolerably sharp-cutting tool are often found in the
old mines where water has been suffered to remain since their abandonment. In the Waterbury
Mine wooden shovels were found about three and one half feet long, some of which were much
worn upon the blade, and appeared as though they had been used for scraping together and throwing
out the refuse rock and dirt from the mine.[A] At the same locality a wooden bowl was found,
the side being so worn as to show conclusively that it had been used for baling water from
the mine. Similar implements have been found at the mines in the Portage Lake and Ontonagon
districts. When first found, these wooden implements appear sound, and being thoroughly saturated
with water are heavy and can be handled without breaking; but when dried they often crack and
warp so as to retain little of their original form and appearance. It is to be regretted that
but few of these wooden relics were saved and properly preserved by those who found them. In
a few instances the wooden withe or handle has been found attached to the hammers, but upon
being dried they usually fall to pieces.

At the Hilton Mine in the Ontonagon district, in October, 1863, as the men were removing the
vegetable mould that had accumulated in one of the old pits, they found at the depth of about
nine feet a leather bag, which was eleven inches long and seven inches wide. It was lying upon
a mass of native copper which the ancient miners had unsuccessfully attempted to remove from
its parent vein. The bag was in a remarkable state of preservation, the leather being quite
pliable and as tough as sheepskin. It was made up with the hair inside, was sewed across the
bottom and up one side with a leather string, and near the top holes were cut and a leather
string inserted to close the mouth by drawing it together. The bag was empty, but from its
appearance I judged that it had been used for transporting copper or other mineral,--the leather
in places showing marks of much service, and the hair being almost entirely worn off. I was
unable to determine what kind of skin it was, but inclined to the belief that it was from the
walrus, as the short, stubby hairs more closely resembled those of that animal than of any
other with which I am acquainted. At the time I saw the bag,--the day after it was discovered,--it
was in the possession of C. M. Sanderson, Esq., the agent of the Knowlton Mine; but I hear
it has since been taken to Boston and sold.

In several of the ancient mines considerable masses of pure copper detached from the main lode
have been found, which were left there by those who mined it. At the Central Mine, not far
from Eagle Harbor, a mass of copper was found in one of these old pits that weighed forty-six
tons. Every portion of the surface was smooth, and appeared as though it had been hammered
by those who detached it from its original vein. In the Mesnard Mine, in the Portage Lake district,
a detached mass of copper was found that weighed eighteen tons, hammered smooth like the mass
before named.

But the most interesting specimen was found in an old pit near the Minnesota Mine. In removing
the accumulated leaves and vegetable mould, the workmen, at the depth of eighteen feet, discovered
a mass of copper ten feet long, three feet wide, and more than a foot thick, weighing six tons.
On removing the earth around the mass, it was found to rest upon skids, or timbers, piled up
to the height of about five feet. These timbers, having been constantly covered with water,
were in a good state of preservation, and at the ends showed plainly the marks of the tool
used in cutting them. It was thought by those who saw the billets when they were plump, that
they were a species of oak; but the few remaining pieces which I have seen were so cracked
and shrivelled that I have been unable to form an opinion as to the kind of wood. This mass
of copper, like all others found in those ancient pits, was divested of all its ragged points,
and hammered perfectly smooth. There was nothing in its appearance to show that it had ever
been cut from another mass; but upon clearing out the rubbish from the bottom of the mine,
which was about twenty-six feet below the surface, a vein of pure metal was found from which
this had evidently been taken.

A few unfinished jobs have been found in these ancient pits, which throw some light upon the
manner in which the work was carried on. In two instances there were projecting masses somewhat
resembling urns, or inverted short-necked bottles, and completely smoothed by hammering, especially
at the thinner portion or neck. It appears that the ancient miners first removed the rock from
around the veins of copper. This was done by building fires upon or about it, and, when heated,
crumbling it by throwing on water. By means of stone mauls the fragments were broken up and
removed. When the vein was sufficiently exposed on all sides, a point was selected where the
copper was thinner or narrower than the average of the vein. Here they commenced cutting off
a mass, and by patient and long-continued hammering severed the two portions of the vein. In
all the ancient mines which I have visited there is abundant evidence that fire was extensively
used in the removal of rock; for not only do the rocks give proof of having been heated, but
charcoal and ashes are invariably found at the bottom of all the rock excavations.

In general, the mining was done by surface openings along the line of the outcrop of the vein;
but occasionally adits are driven into the rock, similar to the one first discovered at the
Minnesota Mine before alluded to.

The surface mines are usually nearly filled with leaves and vegetable mould that have accumulated
during the centuries that have elapsed since their abandonment, and till within a few years
a heavy growth of timber covered the land; hence the numerous slight depressions that occurred
along the line of the vein excited no suspicion that they were artificial excavations. By the
closest observers they were regarded as natural depressions, caused either by the disintegration
of the underlying rock or the peculiar manner in which the overlying drift was deposited. In
many of these depressions, which have proved to be abandoned mines, trees of enormous size
are found growing, some of which are ascertained, by counting their concentric rings, to be
four hundred years old. At the Hilton Mine, directly over the leather bag before alluded to,
there was a hemlock-tree about three feet in diameter. I noticed the stump of a tree nearly
four feet in diameter in a gap near the Rockland Mine, where a hill had been actually cut asunder
by these ancient miners, and a deep valley formed by the removal of the rock. Until very recently
this valley was not recognized as an ancient mine; for, being ten rods in width, and cutting
nearly at right angles across the strata of the rock that formed the hill, it was considered
too extensive to have been made by human hands, and was supposed to be the result of natural
causes. But about two years since, during a very dry time, a destructive fire swept through
the woods, and so completely burned up all the vegetable matter accumulated there as to expose
the underlying rock, and reveal its true character. After the fire had done its work, it was
found that copper veins, which had been worked, ran through the rock in the gap, and that the
great bank upon the south side of the hill, which was supposed to be a terraced gravel bank,
proved to be a vast accumulation of "attle," or refuse stone, that had been taken from the
artificial gap and deposited there. The stones forming this immense pile are generally small,
and appear to have been broken up by heating to facilitate their removal from the mine, and
possibly may have been again broken, with the hope of finding copper in them. In the midst
of the pile I noticed several stone hammers, or mauls, some of them measuring twenty inches
in girth around their grooves, and one I brought away weighing thirty pounds.

When examining this locality, I was struck with a significant fact, tending to show the long
time that must have elapsed since the abandonment of these mines. I noticed in many instances
that the artificial groove around the hammers was nearly obliterated upon the upper side, while
upon the lower side, less exposed to the abrading agency of the atmosphere and rains, the groove
presented a comparatively fresh appearance, and even the slight markings made by the tool that
cut them were quite distinct. When I removed the overlying rock, and found a grooved maul in
a protected spot, the groove was generally as fresh as though it had been made but a few months
before. The compact nature of the stone of which these hammers are made, and their ability
to resist the action of weather and moisture, prove conclusively that much time has been required
to disintegrate their surface so as to obliterate the artificial work which has been expended
upon them.

I feel unwilling to leave this subject without instituting an inquiry relative to the time
when these mines were wrought, and the people who worked them. Many who have been taught to
regard the present roving tribes of Indians as instinctively wise in matters of medicine and
mining are ready to award to that race the credit of having worked these mines; but, inasmuch
as even a traditional knowledge of their existence was unknown to the Indians at the time the
Jesuit missionaries visited that region in the sixteenth century, we incline to the opinion
that an other and distinct race worked them. I am unable to see why the descendants of a people
residing in the same country, and subject to the same wants, should abandon the half-worked
mines which their ancestors had opened, and even fail to hand down to their posterity a tradition
of their existence. If copper was in such demand that the ancestors of the present race of
Chippeways were induced to work so perseveringly to obtain it, why did not the children continue
to work, at least enough to finish the jobs already commenced by their progenitors? We cannot
consistently attribute the Herculean labor expended on these mines to the ancestors of the
indolent race of North American Indians. We incline, rather, to the opinion that the miners
were the mound-builders, who resided south of the mines, and ultimately found a home in Mexico.
The condition in which the mines were left favors this theory; for in many instances unfinished
jobs are found,--as in the case of the mass of copper upon skids at the Minnesota Mine, and
the half-severed veins in other mines. May we not reasonably suppose that the miners came from
the South and worked during the summer months, returning to their homes in winter? The circumstance
that no traces of their habitations or burial-places have ever been discovered in the immediate
vicinity of the mines leads to the inference that they came from a distance; and the fact that
copper rings, chisels, and knives, and occasionally stone hammers, are found in the ancient
mounds that extend in an unbroken line from Ohio to Mexico, induces the belief that the ancient
miners and the ancient mound-builders were the same people.

It is said that artificial mounds are found in British America; and I was informed of one upon
the banks of the Ontonagon River, about six miles from its mouth, but was unable to visit the
spot. It is well known that they are quite abundant in Wisconsin, and extend the entire length
of the Mississippi Valley.

It is a noticeable fact that as we proceed south we find the mounds generally larger and more
symmetrical than those in more northern latitudes. It would seem that the people who constructed
those in British America, in moving southward, (for we strongly suspect that this people originally
crossed Behring's Strait from Asia,) improved in their style of building, and, on arriving
at the Ohio River, had so far improved as to be able to construct those interesting works at
Marietta, Moundville, and other points in that region. It was not till about the time they
reached the Ohio Valley that they manufactured pottery. In that valley, and thence to Mexico,
fragments of earthen ware are very common; and in the mounds entire vessels are not unfrequently
found. Upon reaching Mexico, the mounds are seen to be still further improved in size and form,
and specimens of ancient pottery are more abundant. The great mound or pyramid at Cholula,
which is a fair type of the mounds in Mexico, is fourteen hundred and twenty-three feet square
at the base, and one hundred and seventy-seven feet high, being larger than the celebrated
pyramids of Egypt. This immense structure is said to have been built by the Toltecs, a people
who, according to tradition, as communicated to the Spaniards, entered Mexico from the North
in the year A.D. 648, and established their capital on the northern confines of the great valley
of Mexico, at Tula, the remains of which city were visible, and a record made of them, at the
time of the Conquest by Cortés.

This people were said to have possessed a good knowledge of agriculture, and were well instructed
in many useful mechanic arts. They mixed gold and copper, and were experts in working these
metals. For a period of four hundred years they occupied the territory of Mexico or Anahuac;
but secession, and the attendant evils of war, pestilence, and famine, greatly reduced their
numbers, and the race disappeared from the land to give place to their successors, the Aztecs,
who also emigrated from the North. Remnants of the Toltec race are said to have migrated still
farther south, and to have spread over Central America; and the remarkable correspondence of
dates inclines us to the belief that the famous Manco Capac, whom the Peruvians worshipped
as the founder of their empire, may have been a wanderer from that once happy, but then unfortunate
people. The useful arts, which he made known to the semi-barbarous people among whom he settled,
instead of originating in the great luminary of the day, and being brought to earth by a "child
of the Sun," as they were taught, are far more likely to have been cultivated by the Toltecs
in the days of their prosperity, and, on the dissolution of their government, transmitted by
those who, fearing the result, had fled and taken refuge with the credulous Peruvians. Whether
the stupendous ruins of temples found at Mitla, Palenque, and Uxmal were the work of the Toltecs
or the Aztecs, is immaterial. It is sufficient for the purposes of this paper to show that
a people inhabited Mexico prior to and at the time of the Conquest, who were far in advance
of the roving tribes of Indians that subsisted in the more northern and eastern portions of
North America.

At the time of the conquests of Mexico and Peru, numerous cities were found in those countries,
and magnificent temples and palaces abounded, some of which were richly decorated with massive
images of solid gold, others ornamented with fantastic and sometimes hideous figures carved
out of the solid rock. But what is remarkable, no iron implements were used, nor did the inhabitants
have the least knowledge of its use, notwithstanding iron ore was plentifully distributed through
the country in which they lives. Not a trace of iron has ever been found in those grand ruins
of Yucatan visited by Stephens and Catherwood; nor do the ruins of the holy city, Cuzco, give
evidence that implements of iron were used in its construction. But the people of these countries
were acquainted with many of the metals, and the Spanish invaders found numerous silver, tin,
and copper mines that had been worked by them. All the deep, winding galleries of these mines
were driven without the aid of iron, steel, or gunpowder. It is said that an alloy of tin and
copper was used for their edge-tools; and with the aid of a silicious sand or dust, they were
enabled to cut and polish amethysts, emeralds, porphyry, and other hard substances. With these
implements the elaborate carving in the stone temples of Palenque and the other ruined cities
of Central America was executed. The great calendar-stone, which in 1790 was disinterred in
the city of Mexico, was nicely wrought out of a block of dark porphyry, that is estimated to
have weighed fifty tons, and must have been transported several leagues; for the nearest point
where porphyry of that character is found is upon the shores of Lake Chalco, many miles distant
from the city of Mexico. In the absence of iron, some tough metal would be in requisition for
the tools and machinery necessary in the execution and removal of such a gigantic and elaborate
work. In many abandoned quarries in Mexico and Central America unfinished blocks of granite
and porphyry are found, which are supposed to have been the work of the Toltecs, and abandoned
by them at the time of the invasion of the fierce Aztec. Assuming this to be the fact, we can
readily conceive why the half-raised mass of copper in the Minnesota Mine should also be abandoned;
for a people suddenly scattered as the Toltecs were--so suddenly as to leave temples half finished,
and blocks of stone half hewn--would have no further use for copper tools; and hence the raw
material would no longer have a value. In the abandoned quarries near Mitla, amid fragments
of pillars and architraves and half-finished blocks of granite, copper axes, chisels, and wedges
were found in abundance; but the same inordinate love of money that prompted adventurers to
flock to Chiriqui, a few years since, to rob the ancient burying-grounds of their golden idols,
induced others to search the old quarries and mines of Mexico and Central America, and take
from them any relics that were intrinsically valuable.

In Mexico, the mounds were built so that their summits were visible from every portion of the
surrounding city, in order that the inhabitants might continually have in view the sacred fires
that were ever kept burning on each side of the sacrificial altar. The same is strikingly true
of the mounds at the West; for they are invariably placed so that their summits occupy a commanding
position,--a circumstance that has induced many to suppose them to have been built for military
purposes, and to have served as watch-towers. But when we reflect that the attacks of savage
or half-civilized peoples are usually made in the night-time, we shall hardly suppose these
structures were raised for any such purpose. The Pyramid of Cholula is composed of alternate
layers of brick and clay, or possibly of burnt and unburnt brick; and others in Mexico are
built of unburnt brick. Many of the mounds in the West are of clay,--perhaps of unburnt brick,--in
situations where clay is not so abundant as other earths.

I recollect visiting Circleville, Ohio, when it was really a Circle-ville. An octagonal court-house
stood upon an ancient mound, and the dwellings and stores were built upon an ancient circular
wall of earth that encompassed an area around the mound. South of this circular inclosure,
and joining it, was a square inclosure of several acres, surrounded by a wall about ten feet
high. What is remarkable, this square wall--and we presume the same is true also of the mound
and circular wall--was built of clay, perhaps of unburnt brick, that must have been transported
a considerable distance; for no clay exists upon that alluvial bottom, and the nearest point
where it is found is three fourths of a mile distant, across a considerable creek. On a subsequent
visit to this place, I found the people using the clay from the wall of the square inclosure
for making brick, and streets had been cut across the circular inclosure, so that the city
is no longer entitled to the name of Circleville. In many instances, the ruined cities of Central
America have inclosures resembling those at Circleville, surrounding the Teocallis, or sacred
temples, which almost invariably stand upon mounds, or, as they are commonly called, pyramids.

With these many points of resemblance, the conclusion is irresistible, that the mounds of the
West were but the germs of the more symmetrical pyramids of Mexico and Central America, and
that the people who constructed them were, in intelligence and civilization, far in advance
of the roving tribes of North American Indians who inhabited the country at the time of its
discovery.

If it be true, as tradition informs us, that the Toltecs were a cultivated race, even more
advanced than the Aztecs who occupied Mexico at the time of the Conquest, we may reasonably
suppose that a metal so valuable to them as copper would be in great demand, and that mines
of it, even at a remote distance, would be worked by a people, the construction of whose religious
temples and royal palaces, and, it would seem, their nationality even, depended upon its possession.

Other evidence might be adduced to show that the extensive mining-pits on the shores of Lake
Superior were not the work of the indolent and untutored race of Indians who now inhabit that
region, nor of their ancestors, but of a people comparatively well acquainted with the mechanic
arts. Our article, however, has already extended beyond the limits contemplated. I therefore
leave the subject, with the hope that the few hints here thrown out may awaken other and abler
minds to its investigation.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] See Col. Whittlesey's Report, Vol. XIII. Smithsonian Contributions.

TO A POET ON HIS BIRTHDAY,

FEBRUARY 27.

    O singer, musical and strong,
      Why should a faint and faltering line
    Seek through the happy realms of song
      To celebrate thy voice divine?

    The tribute bears its own reply,
      And speaks for many a voiceless one,
    Of hearts disburdened of a sigh
      Wherever thy brave accents run;

    And blessing brings for youthful hours,
      When maidens dreamed their early dreams,
    And boys awakened, crowned with flowers,
      Plucked walking by thy sunlit streams;

    For all of Nature's pictured calm,
      The children's hour, the fireside scene,
    For our frail lives' undying psalm,
      And wandering sweet Evangeline;

    Praises for all; yet first for thee,
      O lover with the kindling eye!
    Quick to discern the minstrelsy
      Where planets sway and star-fires die.

    O prophet of a nobler world!
      Thy song shall cheer the hill and plain,
    Till sunset's glowing wings are furled
      On faded joys and vanished pain.

My experience as a seamstress thus far subjected me to mere trials of temper, or mortifications
of personal pride, but never to the calamities which sometimes fall so heavily on others in
a like position. Hence, while spared the latter, I was too much disposed to magnify the former:
for, let our trials be few and light as they may, we are generally prone to consider them the
greatest that could befall. The griefs of others, their losses, their calamities, as has often
been well said, we can all bear with surprising fortitude: it is only our own that we are disposed
to regard as unendurable. But in this time of discouragement there were cases brought to my
notice, the severity of which fairly humbled me in the dust, filling my heart with thankfulness
at the exemption extended to us, and showing me that afflictions are really great or insignificant
only by comparison.

One sleety wintry night the low wail of a new-born infant was heard issuing from a bundle of
ragged clothing which some poor creature had laid down on the doorstep of a house in a small
by-street not many squares from our own. The house was occupied in part by a man named Varick,
who had a wife and several children. This man had been an industrious mechanic, but had for
two years been pursuing the downward path to ruin, a confirmed victim of the bottle. He had
been forced by the destitution thus brought upon himself to abandon a snug abode in a decent
street for the squalor of a rickety shell in a mean locality, and was now prostrate on his
bed, dying of rapid consumption. By what mysterious providence a new-born babe should thus
be sent to such a man's door is beyond my comprehension. But the wife of Varick, softer of
heart than its mother, took in the shivering waif, adopted it in place of one only a few weeks
older, which she had buried two days previous, and resisted all urgency of the few friends
she had to send it to the almshouse.

My mother had long known Mrs. Varick. She regarded her with great interest, and had frequently
visited the family, watching the progress of her husband's decline, and sympathizing with her
in her incessant labor as a seamstress. Varick did nothing but drink,--she did nothing but
work. The trials, the sufferings, the absolute privations which she underwent for two years,
it would be difficult to describe. Her domestic labors, with the care of a sick husband, watching
him by night as well as by day, left her little time or energy to devote to the needle. Yet
she toiled unceasingly for the shops. Scanty indeed were their prices, scantier were her earnings,
and scantier still the daily fare which the poor needle-woman was able to set before her children.
Many times they cried themselves to sleep with hunger. I doubt not that the dying husband shared
in these privations, as well as suffered for want of many comforts which his situation demanded.
Strangely enough, in the midst of this accumulated misery, the woman's heart went out with
an unconquerable sympathy for the foundling so unexpectedly left at her door. So far from proving
an additional incumbrance, it seemed to be a positive comfort.

Hearing of the circumstance, my mother went immediately to see the family, taking me with her.
They were quartered in a single large room of an old frame-house which was crowded with tenants
of all descriptions. We found Varick on his bed, evidently very near his end. But, alas! the
unhappy man, expressed the utmost horror of dying. He made no request for spiritual aid or
counsel,--no mention of religion, no reference to eternity. The Saviour's name, or any allusion
to the salvation which came by him, never passed his lips. Every thought was of the earth,--how
to live, not how to die. I shuddered as I saw and heard him. At intervals he reached out his
hand impatiently for a vial of medicine, then inquired when the doctor would come. His whole
dependence was on the arm of flesh. Neither wife nor visitor ventured to direct his attention
to the fact of his rapidly approaching end; for he was stubborn and repulsive. The door seemed
to be shut, no more to be opened,--we could do nothing for him.

Yet while this horrible scene was passing before us, there were loud noises in the next room,
penetrating the thin board partition at the head of Varick's bed. A drunken brawl was going
on, with oaths and imprecations that alarmed all but the sick man and his wife, with now and
then a sharp pounding on the partition, as if some one's head were being violently beaten against
it. Overhead another similar disturbance occurred. Then there was a crowd of squalid faces
peering in at the windows at us; for decent visitors were rare in the depraved locality of
that forlorn tenant-house. Altogether, the scene sickened and almost frightened me.

My mother gave Mrs. Varick a basket filled with simple comforts she had brought with her; and
we were about taking our leave, when the door opened, and a religious-looking man, dressed
in black, entered the room, bowed to us, spoke familiarly to Mrs. Varick, and approached the
bedside of the dying man. Presently he sank upon his knees, and in language most appropriate
to the spiritual hardness and destitution of poor Varick, invoked the Throne of Grace in his
behalf. Though the outcries and turmoil around and above were continued, yet I lost no word
of this deeply affecting prayer. It touched my heart and heightened the solemnity of the occasion.
My own supplications went up in silence to the mercy-seat on behalf of the dying man. I knew
that my mother's would be equally fervent; and from the reverential responses of the sobbing
wife, it was clear to me that hers were not withheld.

She was standing very near to me when the minister rose to his feet. Turning to her, he said
in a low voice,--

"Madam, I perceive that you are to have a funeral here very shortly. I am an undertaker, and
shall be glad to take charge of furnishing the coffin and whatever else may be needed."

He put a card into her hand, and left us. I cannot describe the revulsion of feeling which
this uncouth and abrupt transition from spiritual to carnal things occasioned in my mind. The
shock was so violent as to dissipate at once the solemn impression which the man's excellent
prayer had made. The heart-stricken wife could make no reply, except by tears. It was well
that the dying man was unable to catch the mercenary drift of the religious exercises he had heard.

That night he died. When we reached there the next morning, several of the low crowd who herded
in other apartments of this great tenement-house were already offering to bargain with the
widow for her husband's clothes. The thing was so inexpressibly shocking that my mother interposed
and compelled them to desist and leave us alone. By degrees we learned more of the actual condition
of the family. It appeared that Varick had in better days become a member of a beneficial society
which allowed forty dollars to a widow for the funeral expenses of her husband. The harpies
of the tenement-house had become acquainted with this circumstance, and while one set was seeking
to obtain possession of the dead man's clothes, another was practising every art to steal from
the widow the little beneficiary fund with which he was to be buried. Through all her difficulties
the poor needle-woman had managed to pay the society's dues, foreseeing what the end would
be, and she was now entitled to draw the forty dollars. My mother immediately obtained from
her an order for the money, drew it, kept it from the rapacious set who watched for it, and
made it an efficient means of immediate comfort.

The ministerial undertaker was of course present at the funeral. He was evidently as keen after
business as he was powerful in prayer. When the hour for moving from the house had arrived,
he approached the widow and whispered to her that he could not think of letting the coffin
leave the premises until some one had become surety for the payment of his bill! My mother
and myself both sat near the widow, and heard this extraordinary and ill-timed demand. I was
amazed and disgusted at the indecency of the man in not urging it at the proper time, and pressing
it at so improper a one. But my mother told him to proceed, and that she would pay the bill.

All these enormities were new things to me. I had seen nothing, I had imagined nothing, so
every way terrible as came within my notice under the squalid roof of this poor needle-woman.
But my mother had long been in the habit of penetrating into the abodes of the sick and destitute;
and though shocked by the new combination of religion and trade which she here witnessed, yet
she regarded it only as a fresh development of the selfishness and hypocrisy of human nature.
This poor woman and her family must live. How, thought I, is she to do so in this season of
declining prices of the only work she is able to perform? If she could survive such a crisis
so uncomplainingly, and be willing to take to her bosom the helpless foundling left upon her
doorstep, what cause was there for me to complain? Sorrows gathered all round her pathway,
while only blessings clustered about mine. I learned a lesson of thankfulness that has never
been forgotten.

If there had been need of such exhibitions of positive distress as teachers of contentment,
others were not wanting within my little circle. One of my cousins, a girl of my own age, ambitious
to support herself, had been successful in obtaining a situation as saleswoman in a highly
fashionable shop, where the most costly goods were sold in large quantities, and to which,
of course, the most dashing customers resorted. I always thought her a truly beautiful girl.
She was tall and eminently graceful, her face expressing the virtue and intelligence of her
mind: for I cannot understand that true beauty can exist without these corresponding mental
harmonies, any more than a shadow without the substance.

My taste in such matters may be defective, because it lacks the cultivation which fashion gives.
Such as I possess is altogether natural. To my primitive apprehension, therefore, the attractions
of a finely formed neck or arm receive no addition from being encircled by chains of gold or
bracelets of pearls. When charmed with the appearance of a beautiful woman in simple robes,
who is there, if told that the profuse expenditure that would have been required to cover her
with brilliants had been employed in charity,--that she had used it as a fund to relieve the
wants of the needy, to minister to the sick, to comfort the widow, to support and educate the
destitute orphan,--who is there that would not feel the loftier emotions of his nature mingling
with his admiration?

At home my cousin had been seated at her needle, but in her new employment she found herself
compelled to stand. There was neither bench nor chair nor stool behind the counter, on which
she could for a moment rest a body which had never been accustomed to so long-continued and
unnatural a strain upon its powers. It was the peremptory order of the wealthy proprietor that
no girl employed in the shop should on any occasion sit down. There were soft stools for the
repose of customers who had money to spend, but not even a block for the weary saleswoman who
had money to earn. The rich lady, who had promenaded the street until fatigued by the exertion
of displaying her new bonnet over miles of pavement, came in and rested herself while pricing
goods she did not intend to buy. There was a seat for all such. The unoccupied saleswoman had
been seeking relief from the strain upon her muscles by leaning back against the shelves, but
on the entrance of a customer she must be all obsequiousness. While she might have rested,
she was unfeelingly forbidden to do so. Now the customer must be waited on, no matter how completely
she may be overcome by fatigue or prostrated by lassitude. Either was sufficient to destroy
her spirits; the combination of the two, springing from a fixed cause, was sure to undermine
her health.

My cousin suffered keenly from this almost unexampled cruelty. She came home at night worn
out by the strain upon her muscular system. Her spine was the seat of a chronic uneasiness.
All day she was upon her feet, being allowed no other rest than such as she might get by leaning
against the shelving. At the week's end she was fairly overcome. Sunday was hardly a day of
recreation, because she was rarely free from pain induced by this unintermitted standing. All
this was suffered for the sum of four dollars a week. It is true that she had earned less at
her needle, but then her health had been remarkable for its robustness. Her increased earnings
now were the price of that health.

Nor were others among the saleswomen less dangerously affected than herself. Some, of feeble
organization, quickly broke down, under this unnatural discipline, and abandoned the shop,
sometimes rendered temporary invalids, sometimes permanently disabled, while but few returned
to fill their thankless places. Reading, while in the shop, whether employed or not, was out
of the question, as that also was strictly prohibited. There was therefore no recreation either
of body or mind, even when it might have been harmlessly permitted. It was either work or absolute
idleness, but in no case rest or relaxation.

Under this monstrous system of torture my cousin at length broke down so completely that she,
too, was compelled to leave the establishment. Her resolute spirit led her to endure it too
long. When she did give up, it was in the hope that entire rest would bring relief. But it
never came. Her physical organization, strong as it was by nature, had been so deranged that
recuperation was impossible. Medicine could do nothing for her. A curvature of the spine had
been established,--she soon became unable to sit up,--and at this writing she lies comparatively
helpless in her bed, still beautiful in her helplessness. Her health was permanently ruined
by the barbarism of a man so destitute of sympathy for a working-girl as to deny her the cheap
privilege of sitting down when she could do him no good by standing up. Yet the great establishment
is still continued, with all its gorgeous display of plate-glass windows, its polished counters,
its wealth of costly goods, and its long array of tortured saleswomen.

These instances of complicated affliction among needle-women by no means embrace all that came
under my notice. They were so numerous that it was impossible for me to avoid seeing and feeling
that no such grief had been permitted to come over me. I trust that my heart was sufficiently
grateful for this immunity,--for I became satisfied, that, if we were to thank God for all
His blessings, we should have little time to complain of misfortunes. I know that I endeavored
to be so. I labored to take a cheering view of what we then considered a very gloomy prospect.
And this disposition to contrast our condition with that of others, while it taught me wisdom,
brought with it a world of consolation. I saw that there was a bright side to everything,--that
the sky was oftener blue than black; and my floral experiences in the garden taught me that
it was the sunshine, and not the cloud, that makes the flower. It became my study to look only
on the bright side of things, convinced, that, if the present were a little overcast, there
was a future for us that would be all delightful. I was full of hope; and the eye of hope can
discover a star in the thickest darkness, a rainbow even in the blackest cloud.

Hence I went cheerfully to learn the art of operating a sewing-machine, in which I soon became
so expert as to prove a profitable pupil. There were from a dozen to twenty learners beside
myself, some few of whom were educated and agreeable girls, the daughters of families moving
in genteel circles, who had come there with a sensible ambition to acquire a thorough knowledge
of the art. With these I formed a very pleasant acquaintance, so that my apprenticeship of
a few weeks, instead of being a dull and lifeless probation, calculated to depress my spirits,
was really an agreeable episode in my quiet career, cheering by its new associations, and invigorating
by reason of the unmistakable evidences occurring almost daily that a sewing-girl was probably
the last machine whose labor was to become obsolete.

The fame of these schools for female operatives went all over the country, and attracted crowds
of visitors. Some of these were fine ladies of superficial minds, who came from mere curiosity,
so as to be able to say that they had seen a sewing-machine. I was often struck with the shallow,
unmeaning questions which these butterflies of fashion propounded to us. Some of them made
the supercilious, but disreputable boast, that they had never taken a stitch in the whole course
of their lives. But the great throng of inquirers consisted of women who had families dependent
on their needles, and of young girls like myself, obliged also to depend upon the labor of
their fingers. All such were deeply interested in the new art, and their inquiries were practical
and to the point. They expressed the same astonishment, on seeing the rapidity with which the
machine performed its work, that I had felt when first beholding it.

With so great a throng continually around us, asking questions, stopping the machines to examine
the sewing, and begging for scraps with a row of stitches made in them, which they might take
away to inspect at leisure, as well as to exhibit to others, there were days when the pupils
were able to produce only a very small amount of work. But we soon discovered that this deficiency
made but little difference to our teacher. The school was in reality a mere show-shop, a place
of exhibition established by the machine-makers, in which to display and advertise their wares
more thoroughly to the public. We pupils were the unconscious mouthpieces of the manufacturers.
We paid the teacher for the privilege of learning to work the machines, and the manufacturers
paid her a commission for all that she disposed of. Between the two sets of contributors to
her purse she must have done a profitable business. She was at no expense except for rent,
as the manufacturers loaned her the machines, while we did all the work. She had more orders
for the latter than we could get through with, as the demand from the tailors was so urgent
as to show very plainly that the great proportion of all the future sewing was to be done by
the machine instead of by hand.

When I first went into this schoolroom I noticed a number of unemployed machines arranged in
one part of it. After a week's apprenticeship, I observed some of them leaving the room every
day, while new ones came in to occupy the vacant places. The first had been sold, the last
were also to be disposed of, and this active sale continued as long as I remained. The fact
was very apparent, that this public exhibition of the capacity of the new machine was operating
on the community as the most efficient mode of advertising that could have been adopted. The
machines went everywhere, over city and country, even at the monstrous prices demanded for
them. Many fashionable ladies became purchasers, thinking, no doubt, that clothing could be
made up by merely cutting it out and placing it before the machine.

Thus the most ingeniously potent agencies were invoked to bring the new invention rapidly and
extensively into use. Its real merit happened to be such that it fulfilled all the promises
with which it had been presented to the public. Hence it became a fixture in every great establishment
where sewing-women were usually employed. As the latter acquired a knowledge of the machine,
each of these establishments became a school in which new hands were converted into skilful
operatives, until the primary schools, like that where I had been instructed, were abandoned
from lack of pupils.

But I picked up a great many useful ideas at the school, besides acquiring, as already remarked,
a new and assured confidence in the future prospects of the sewing-woman. It seemed clear to
my mind, that, under the new order of things, the needle was still to be plied by her; whatever
work it was to do would be superintended and directed by her. It was in reality only a new
turn given to an old employment. Moreover, it struck me that more of it would be called for
than ever, because I had noticed that the speed of the machine in making stitches had already
led to putting treble and quadruple the usual number into some garments. Having achieved the
useful, it was quickly applied to the ornamental. Clothing was not to be made up, in the future,
as plainly as it had been in the past. Hence the prospect of more work being required involved
the probability of a greater demand for female labor. But whether it was to be more remunerative,--whether
the sewing-girl who might turn out ten times as much in a day as she formerly did would receive
an increase of wages in any degree proportioned to the increase of work performed, was a problem
which the future alone could solve. I did not believe that any such measure of justice would
be accorded to her. It would be to the men, but not to the women. Yet I was willing to take
the future on trust, for it now looked infinitely brighter than ever.

Among the pupils of this school was a young lady of twenty, whose affable and sociable disposition
won strongly on my admiration, while her robust good sense commanded my utmost respect. The
machines we operated were close to each other, so that I had the good fortune to have constant
opportunities of conversing with her. Her name was Effie Logan, and she was one of three daughters
of a merchant who had acquired an ample competency. In company with his wife, he came once
or twice a week to visit the school and see his daughter at work. With great consideration
for me, Miss Effie introduced me to her parents, at the same time adding some highly complimentary
explanations as to who I was, and how attentive I had been in teaching her to use the machine.
This adoption of me as her friend established a sort of good feeling in the parents toward
me, so that at each visit to the school they greeted me in a way so cordial as greatly to attach
me to them. It was an unexpected kindness from an entirely new quarter, and increased my affection
for Miss Effie.

Her parents, it appeared, were having all their children taught an art or profession of some
kind. One of the daughters, having a talent for drawing, was learning the art of engraving
on wood. The youngest, being passionately fond of flowers, and possessed of great artistic
genius, was a regular apprentice in an artificial-flower manufactory. Miss Effie, the eldest,
had had her musical talent so cultivated under a competent master, that she was now qualified
to act as organist in a church, or to teach a class of pupils at the piano; but not satisfied
with this, she had insisted on being instructed in the use of the sewing-machine. Both she
and her parents seemed so wholly free from the false pride which wealth so frequently engenders
in the American mind, that she came, without the least hesitation, to a public school, and
sat down as a learner beside the very humblest of us. When her parents came to inspect her
work, I am certain they were gratified with all they saw of what she was doing.

I confess that the whole conduct of this family was as great a surprise to me as it was a comfort
and encouragement. Mrs. Logan always made the kindest inquiries about my parents, but in the
politest way imaginable,--no impertinent questions, but such as showed that she felt some interest
in me. I think that Effie must have spoken very favorably of me to her parents when at home,
but I could not understand why, as I was not near so affable and pleasant in my manners as
she was. But an intimacy had grown up between us; she had won my whole confidence; and as confidence
usually begets confidence, so she probably took to me from the force of that harmony of thought
and feeling which comes spontaneously from communion of congenial souls.

One day the teacher of the school had been called out on other business, leaving me to attend
to visitors and customers. The throng that morning was so great that it was full two o'clock
before I found time to sit down, hungry enough, to the slight dinner I had brought with me
in a little basket. I had taken only the first mouthful, when Miss Effie came in from dining
at home. She drew her chair close up to me, her sweet face blooming with the roses of perfect
health, and her bright eyes sparkling with animation and intelligence. Much as I admired and
loved her, I thought she had never before looked so perfectly beautiful.

"Lizzie," she said, taking in her hand a spool of cotton to adjust on her machine, "how I like
this work! Pa intends to buy me a machine as soon as I have completed my apprenticeship here.
He don't believe there is any real gentility in the idleness of a girl who, because she happens
to be rich, or to have great expectations, chooses to do nothing but fritter away her time
on company and parties and dress and trifles unworthy of a sensible woman. He has brought us
all up to think as he does. He tells us that every woman should be so educated, that, if at
any time compelled by reverse of fortune to support herself, she would be able to do so. Why,
he made us all learn the old story of the Basket-Maker before we were ten years old. It was
only last week that he said there was no knowing what might happen to us girls,--you know,
Lizzie, there are three of us,--that some day we might possibly be married."

I am sure that the faintest of all innocent blushes rose up from the half-conscious heart of
the truly lovely speaker as she uttered the word, giving to her cheeks a tinge of crimson that
added new beauty to the soft expression which her countenance habitually wore.

"Possibly, did you say, Miss Effie?" I interposed. "You might have said probably,--but would
have been nearer the truth, if you had said certainly."

"Oh, Lizzie, how you talk!" she rejoined; and there was an unmistakable deepening of her blushes.
But in a moment she resumed:--

"Pa remembers how his mother was left a widow with five young children, but with neither trade
nor money, and how both she and he had to struggle for a mere subsistence, she at keeping boarders,
and he as apprentice to a mean man, who gave him only the smallest weekly pittance. He says
that we shall never go out into the world as destitute of resources as his mother was, and
so we all have what may really be called trades. My brother is in the counting-house, keeping
the books, and is provided for. But you don't know how we have all been laughed at by our acquaintances,
and sneered at by impudent people, who, though not at all acquainted with us, undertake to
prescribe what we should and what we should not do. They call us work-women! With them, work
of any kind is regarded as degrading, especially if done by a woman, and more especially if
she is to be paid for it."

"Ah, Miss Effie, you have touched the weak spot of our national character," I responded.

"Yes," she resumed, "it is the misfortune of American women to entertain the idea that working
for a living is dishonorable, and never to be done, unless one be driven to it by actual want.
Why, even when positively suffering for want of food and fuel, I have known some to conceal
or disguise the fact of their working for others by all sorts of artifice. To suffer in secret
was genteel enough, but to work openly was disgraceful! A girl of my acquaintance was accidentally
discovered to be selling her work at a public depository, and forthwith went to apologizing
for doing so, as if she had been guilty of a crime, instead of having nobly striven to earn
a living. The ridiculous pride of another seduced her into a falsehood: she declared that the
work she had been selling for her own support was for the benefit of a church. This senseless
pride exists in all classes. From the sham gentility it spreads to the daughters of workingmen.
They are educated to consider work as a disgrace, and hence the idle lives so many of them
lead. It is the strangest thing imaginable, that parents who rose from poverty to independence
by the hardest kind of bodily labor should thus bring up their children. No such teaching was
ever given to me. I can sit here at my machine, and look the finest lady of my acquaintance
in the face. She may some day wish that she had been my fellow-apprentice."

"Where do our girls learn this notion of its being disgraceful for a woman to support herself?"
I inquired.

"Learn it? It is taught them everywhere," she responded. "I sometimes think it is born with
them. They drink it in with their mother's milk. They grow up with it as a daily lesson,--the
lesson of avoiding work, and of considering it delicate and genteel and refined to say that
they never cooked a meal, or swept the parlor, or took a stitch with the needle, actually priding
themselves upon the amount of ignorance of useful things that they can exhibit. They make the
grand mistake of assuming that sensible men will admire them for this display of folly. So
they drag on until there occurs a prospect of marriage, when they suddenly wake up to a consciousness
of their utter unfitness to become the head of a family. Why, I know at this moment a young
lady of this description, who expects in a few months to become a wife, and whose cultivated
ignorance of household duties is now the ridicule of her mother's cook and chambermaid. The
prospect of marriage alarmed her for her total ignorance of domestic duties. She had never
made her own bed, or dusted the furniture; and as to getting up a dinner, she knew even less
than a squaw. She is now vainly seeking to acquire, within a few months, those branches of
domestic knowledge which she has been a whole life neglecting and despising. She hated work:
it was not genteel. Yet she is eagerly plunging into marriage with the first man who has offered
himself, foolish enough, no doubt, to suppose that in her new position she will have even less
to look after. Formerly, she did nothing: now, she expects to do even less.

"But what," continued Miss Effie, "is this poor creature to do, if death or poverty or vice
should overtake her husband, and she should be thrown on her own slender resources? She is
driven, to seek employment of some kind,--to attend in a shop, (for somehow that is considered
rather more genteel than, most other occupations,) or to sew, or to fold books, or do something
else. But she knows nothing of these several arts; and employers want skilled labor, not novices.
She once boasted that she had never been obliged to work, and now she realizes how much such
absurd boasting is worth. What then? Why, greater privation and suffering, because of her total
unfitness for any station in which she might otherwise, obtain a living,--the extremity of
this destitution being sometimes such that she is driven to the last shame to which female
virtue can be made to submit."

"You say, Miss Effie, that these foolish lessons are taught by the mothers; but do the fathers
inculcate no wiser ones? Have they nothing to say as to the proper training of their daughters?"
I inquired, deeply interested in all she said. She knew a great deal more than I did. And why
should she not know more? Was she not full two years older?

"The fathers do, in many cases, teach better lessons than these; but their good effects are
too commonly neutralized by the persistent vanity and pride of the mothers. Even the fathers
are too neglectful of the future welfare of their daughters. The sons are suitably cared for,
because of the generally accepted understanding that every man must support himself. They are
therefore trained to a profession, or to some useful branch of business. But the daughters
are expected to be supported by their future husbands, hence are taught to wait and do nothing
until the husbands come along. If these conveniences should offer within a reasonable time,
and do well and prosper, the result is agreeable enough. But no sort of provision is made for
the husband's not showing himself, or, if he does, for his subsequent loss by death, or for
his turning out either unfortunate or a vagabond. Even the daughter's natural gifts, often
very brilliant ones, are left uncultivated. If she has a talent for music, she receives only
a superficial knowledge of the piano, instead of such an education as would qualify her to
teach. No one expects her to work, it is true; but why not fit her for it, nevertheless? Another
develops a talent for nursing, the rare and priceless qualification of being efficient in the
sick-room. Why not cultivate this talent, and enlarge its value by the study of medicine? The
parents are rich enough to give to these talents the fullest development. They do so with those
of their sons; why refuse in the case of their daughters? Our sex renders us comparatively
helpless, excluding us from many avenues to profitable employment where we should be at all
times welcome, if the unaccountable pride of parents did not shut us out by refusing to have
us so taught that we could enter them. The prejudice against female labor begins with parents;
and the unreflecting vanity and rashness of youth give it a fatal hold on us. My parents have
never entertained it. They have taught us that there is more to be proud of in being dependent
solely on our own exertions than in living idle lives on either their means or those of any
husband who may happen to have enough of his own."

"It is very odd, Miss Effie," I replied, "for you to entertain these opinions, they are so
different from those of rich people; and it is very encouraging to me to hear you express them.
But I should have expected nothing less noble from you, you are so good and generous."

"Why, Lizzie, what do you mean?" she exclaimed. "It is not goodness, but merely common sense.
What brought me here to be a pupil in this school? Not the desire to do good to others, but
to improve myself,--a little selfishness, after all."

"But," I inquired, "will this unnatural prejudice against the respectability of female labor
ever die out? You know that I am to be a sewing-girl, not from choice, like you, but from necessity.
You learn the use of a machine only as a prop to lean upon in a very remote contingency; I,
to make it the staff for all my future life. You will continue to be a lady,--indeed, Miss
Effie, you never can be anything else,--but I shall be only a sewing-girl. The prejudice will
never attach to you, but it will always cling to me. How cruel it seems that the world should
consider as ladies all who can afford to be idle, and all working-women as belonging to a lower
class, because God compels them to labor for the life He has given them!"

"Dear Lizzie," she exclaimed, in tones so modulated to extreme softness as to show that her
feelings had been deeply touched both by the matter and the manner of my inquiry, "you must
banish all such thoughts from your mind. For His own wise purposes, God has placed you in a
position in which you have a mission of some kind to fulfil. That position is an honorable
one, because it requires you to labor, and it is none the less honorable because others are
not required to do so. They also have their several missions, which we cannot understand. If
it be regarded as mean for women to work, it is in the pride of man that so false a standard
of respectability has been set up, not in the word or wisdom of God. To which shall we pay
the most respect? The former, we know, brings constant bitterness; the latter, we know equally
well, is unchangeably good. As it is our duty to submit to it here, so, through the Saviour,
is it our only trust hereafter. It is not labor that degrades us, but temper, behavior, character.
If all these be vicious, can mere money or exemption from labor make them respectable? You
know it cannot.

"You," she continued, in a tone so impressive, that, even amid the clatter of twenty machines
around me, not a word was lost,--"you may be sure that this prejudice against women working
for their own support will never die out. It is one of those excrescences of the human mind
that cannot be extirpated. It is a distortion of the reasoning faculty itself, unworthy of
a sensible person, and is generally exhibited only by those who, while boasting of exemption
for themselves, have really little or nothing else to boast of. It is the infirmity of small
minds, not a peculiarity of great ones. Prejudices are like household vermin, and the human
mind is like the traps we set for them. They get in with the greatest facility, but find it
impossible to get out. Beware of entertaining them yourself, Lizzie. Shun everything like repining
at what you call your position as a sewing-girl. Take care of your conscience, for it will
be your crown. Labor for contented thoughts and aspirations, for they will bring you rest.
Your heart can be made happy in itself, if you so choose, and your best happiness will always
be found within your own bosom."

"Do not misunderstand me, Miss Effie," I replied; "I was not repining, but merely asking an
explanation. My mother has sought to teach me not only contentment, but thankfulness for for
my condition."

"Indeed," she responded, "both you and I have abundant cause for thankfulness to God for the
multitude of mercies He is extending to us. You know how this poor girl behind us, Lucy Anderson,
is situated," raising her hand and pointing over her shoulder toward a thin, pale girl of seventeen,
who was working a machine.

"I do not know her history," I answered.

"Well," said Miss Effie, "that girl's mother was a washerwoman." She did the heavy washing
for a very rich man's family. They put her into an open shed, on a cold, damp pavement. This
work she had been doing for them for several years, in the same bleak place, and in all weathers.
While warm and comfortable herself, the pampered mistress of the family gave no thought to
the dangerous exposure to which she subjected this slave of the washtub. Thus working all day,
in thin shoes, on damp bricks, and while a penetrating easterly rain was falling, the poor
woman was next morning laid up with the worst form of rheumatism. Medicine and nursing were
of no avail. She became bedridden,--the disease attacked all the joints of her frame, ossification
succeeded, and in the end she was unable to move either her body or limbs. Every joint was
stiff and rigid. The vital organs alone were spared. For twelve years she has been in that
condition,--she is so now,--my mother saw her only yesterday. Can you imagine anything more
terrible? Poor, dependent on her daily earnings, with young children around her, and a widow,
only think of her agonies of mind and body! Yet, among the vital powers still left to this
afflicted woman, was the power to approach the Throne of Grace in prayer so acceptable that
the answer was that peace which passeth all understanding. The body had been disabled; but
the mind had been quickened to a new and saving activity, she had drawn nearer to God."

What could I do but listen in mute attention to this heart-awakening recital? I looked round
at Lucy Anderson in lively sympathy with what I had heard. How little did her appearance give
token of the deep domestic grief that must have settled upon her young heart! How deceptive
is the human countenance! Though pale and fragile, yet her face sparkled with cheerfulness.

Miss Effie went on with her story; she was mistress of the art of conversation; and conversation
is sometimes a serious matter; for there are persons with whom an hour's talk would weaken
one more than a day's fasting, but not so with Miss Effie. She resumed by saying,

"Would you believe that the rich family in whose service this poor washerwoman destroyed her
health have never called, nor even sent, to know how she was getting on? When she first failed
to take her usual two-days' stand at the washtub, they inquired the reason of her absence,
but there all concern ended. They sought out a new drudge; the gap was filled to their liking,
and the world moved on as gayly as aforetime. They gave up no personal ease or comfort that
they might see or minister to the suffering woman ; they denied themselves no luxury for her
sake. Yet the money they spent in giving a single party would have kept this family for a twelvemonth.
The cost of their ostentatious greenhouse would have paid for a nurse, and educated the two
orphan boys until able to go to trades. They had seen these twin boys tied to the washtub in
their own bleak shed, that the mother might pursue her labor without interruption; yet as they
gave no thought to the widow, so the orphans never intruded on their recreations. Now, Lizzie,
such people are unprofitable servants in the sight of God. And if the ostrich were to strip
off their feathers, the silkworm their dresses, the kid their gloves, and the marten demand
his furs, what would be their state in the sight of man? Bare unto nakedness! This unlawful
love for lawful things is one of the besetting snares of the great enemy of souls."

If I had ever been addicted to repining, or had had no lessons to teach me how wrong the habit
was, here was a new one to induce contentment. But I had been preserved from all such temptations.
The strong good sense displayed by Miss Logan in our frequent conversations not only informed
my understanding on a variety of subjects, but gave my thoughts a new turn, and powerfully
encouraged me to perseverance. She infused into me new life and cheerfulness. Such women are
the jewels of society. Their strong minds, regulated by a judicious education at the hands
of sensible parents, become brilliant as well as trustworthy guides to all who may be fortunate
enough to come within the circle which they illuminate. It is such women that have been, and
must continue to be, the mothers of great men. Mind must be transmissible by inheritance, and
chiefly from the mother; else the histories of statesmen, heroes, and distinguished men in
the various walks of life, would not so uniformly record the virtues of the women from whose
maternal teachings their eminence was to be traced.

The company of sewing-girls collected together in this school-room was of course a very miscellaneous
one. The faces were changing almost daily, some by expiration of their apprenticeship, and
some by being sent away as troublesome, incompetent, or vicious. All who left us had their
places immediately filled from a list of candidates which the teacher had in a book, so that,
while one throng of learners was departing, another was entering. If one could have gone into
the domestic history of all the girls who came and went even during my short stay, he would
have found some experiences to surpass anything that has ever occurred to me. I do not know
how it happened, but most of these girls were quite desirous of making my acquaintance, and
of their own motion became extremely sociable. I was sociable in return, from an instinct of
my nature. I never lost anything by thus meeting them halfway in the endeavor to be polite
and affable, but on the contrary learned much, gained much, and secured invaluable friends.
Nor did I ever repel the amicable approaches even of the most humble, as I very early discovered
that none were so ignorant as not to be able to communicate some little item of knowledge to
which I had been a stranger.

There was a lady among these pupils who was in many respects very different from all the others.
I think her age must have been at least thirty-five. I did not ask if it were so; and as she
never mentioned it herself, that circumstance was hint enough for me to remain silent. I never
could understand why so many women are so amusingly anxious to conceal their age, sometimes
becoming quite affronted when even a conjecture is hazarded on the subject. This lady was unmarried;
perhaps that may have been one reason for her unwillingness to speak of her age. But was not
I unmarried, and what repugnance have I ever felt to avowing mine?

However, Miss Hawley was extremely sociable with me, though certainly old enough to be my mother,
and made me the depositary of many incidents in her life. She was the eldest of three sisters,
all orphans, all unmarried, all dependent on themselves for a living, and all, at one time,
so absurdly proud, that, in the struggle to keep up appearances, and conceal from their acquaintances
the fact that they were doing this or that thing for a maintenance, they subjected themselves
to privations which embarrassed much of their efforts, while they failed to secure the concealment
they sought. Though women of undoubted sense and excellent education, yet they acted as foolishly
as the ostrich, which, when hunted to cover, thrusts his head into a bush, and is weak enough
to think that his whole body is concealed, when it stands out not only a target, but a fixed
one, for the hunter's rifle. So these women took it for granted, that, if they ran to the cover
of a chamber from which all visitors should be excluded, their acquaintances would be ignorant
of how they occupied their time, or by what means they lived.

Yet they could not fail to be aware that everybody who knew anything of them knew their history
also,--that it was notorious that their father, a merchant, had died not worth a cent, and
that they had been compelled to abandon the fine house in which he had kept up a style so expensive
as greatly to increase the hardship of their subsequent destitution. Like a thousand others,
he had lived up to the limit of his income. No doubt, all of them might have been well married,
but for the lavish habits as to fashion and expenditure in which they indulged themselves.
These might be afforded by their father so long as his annual gains continued large. But the
many worthy young men who visited and admired them refused to entertain the idea of marriage
with girls whose mere personal outfit cost a sum equal to the year's salary of a first-class
clerk, or the annual profits of one who had just commenced business for himself. They held
that the girl whose habits were so expensive should bring with her a fortune large enough to
support them, or remain as she was, taking the sure consequences on her own shoulders, and
not throwing them on theirs. They were in fact afraid of girls who manifestly had no prudence,
no economy, and who appeared to be wholly unconscious that the only admiration worth securing
is that of the good and wise.

But the vices of the old mode of living clung to them in their new and humbler abode, keeping
them slaves to a new set of appearances. They had never done any work of consequence, hardly
their own sewing. What was even worse, they had been brought up to consider work, for a lady,
disgraceful. Women might work, but not ladies; or when the latter undertook it, they ceased
to be such, and certainly so, if working for a living. No pride could have been more tyrannous
or absurd than this. For a whole year after their father's death, it ruled them with despotic
supremacy. They prided themselves on doing nothing, and subsisted on the sale of trinkets,
jewelry, and books, which they had acquired in palmier days. The circle of acquaintances for
whose good opinion they submitted to these humiliating sacrifices knew all the while that the
life they were living was a sham; but they themselves seemed wholly unconscious of it, as well
as of the light in which it was regarded by those about them.

Why should such a woman come to a school like this, where a willingness to work was a condition
of admission, and that work to be done in public? What could bring about so strange a reversal
of thought and habit? One of her sisters had recently died, after a protracted illness, during
which her heart had been mercifully smitten with a conviction of the hollowness and sinfulness
of her previous life. Its idle, trifling, aimless tendency had been set before her in all its
emptiness. She saw that she had been living without God, bound up in the love of temporal things,
and so effectually ensnared by worldly pride that her whole fear had been of man, instead of
her Creator. Thus in mercy called to judgment, that grace, of whose saving efficacy we have
the divine assurance, brought repentance of sin, and led her to the Saviour, and, abasing herself
at his cross, the heavy burden was lifted from her heart. Her condemnation of the frivolous
lives that she and her sisters had been leading was so earnest and impressive, that, aided
by the continual prayers of a truly contrite heart for pardon for herself and awakened consciences
for them, they also were brought to Christ. This mighty transformation accomplished, her mission
seemed to be fulfilled, and she passed into the unseen world in peaceful assurance of forgiveness
and acceptance. Thus, though our lots are cast in places seemingly diverse and barren, each
has his own specific duty to perform, some appointed mission to fulfil, though exactly what
it is may not be apparent to us. As fellow-workers in the world, if we make it our chief study
to do the Master's will, that which is thus required of us will in His own time so unfold itself
to our spiritual understanding that we cannot be deceived respecting it.

I am satisfied that between the functions of life, as developed in the material and moral world,
there is an analogy as instructive as it is beautiful. It overcomes external circumstances
by the power of an invisible law. Philosophers have discovered that the human body maintains
a uniform temperature, whether it shiver in the snow-hut of the Esquimaux, or drip with perspiration
in the cane-fields of the tropics. But let life depart, and it falls to that of the surrounding
objects. Decay immediately begins. So, when religious vitality is maintained in the heart,
the corrupting influences of the world remain inoperative. This vitality having been infused
into the heart of Miss Hawley, the fervor of her spirit rose to a higher temperature than that
of all surrounding objects. She could no longer assimilate with them.

If her strong personal pride, her obsequious deference to appearances and the opinion of the
world, were henceforth overcome or kept in subjection, it was only as she took up the cross
in obedience to the convictions of duty. She told me it was the hardest trial of her life to
come to this public school; it was the greatest cross to her natural affections she had ever
experienced. But the bitterness of the cup had now measurably passed away from her. Strength
came with animating promptitude as the answer to prayer. Her spiritual life became more healthy
and vigorous as her approaches to the mercy-seat were humble and frequent. Cheerfulness became
an ever-present attendant. She had put all pride behind her, and because of her abasement had
risen above the world. Henceforth she was to support herself by her own acknowledged labor.
She had been so changed by the grace of God in her heart, that she regarded with astonishment
the secret insincerities she had formerly been guilty of in seeking to conceal the extent of
the necessity to which she had been reduced. I have never seen nor heard of her since I left
the school; but the remembrance of her subdued and patient spirit cannot soon be effaced.

How true it is, as some one has beautifully said, that infinite toil would not enable us to
sweep away a mist, but that by ascending a little we may often look over it altogether,--and
that so it is with our moral improvement! We wrestle fiercely with vicious habits that would
have no hold on us, if we ascended to a higher moral atmosphere. Another has declared that
at five years of age the father begins to rub the mother out of his child; that at ten the
schoolmaster rubs out the father; that at twenty a trade or a profession rubs out the schoolmaster;
that at twenty-five the world rubs out all its predecessors, and gives a new education, till
we are old enough and wise enough to take religion and common sense for our pastors, when we
employ the rest of our lives in unlearning what we have previously learned.

The contrast between the two ladies with whom I was thus fortunate enough to become intimately
acquainted was so remarkable that it could not fail to make an impression on me. It was evident
that education, the training which each had received at the parental fireside, had led them
into widely divergent paths of thought and conduct. Both were possessed of sterling good sense;
both had lived in affluence; both, so far as mere school-learning was concerned, had been thoroughly
educated. Had Miss Logan received the same training as Miss Hawley, it may be fairly assumed
that she would have fallen a victim to the same pride and folly; and had the latter been trained
at home as carefully and as sensibly as the former, who can doubt, that, with the same substratum
of good sense, she would have proved as great a comfort to herself and as shining an example
to others? I am sure it was a lesson to me, convincing me anew, that, where faith and works
do not go together, both are wanting, and that, if they once part company, each of them must die.

When, at the termination of my brief apprenticeship, the time came for me to leave the school
and to part from Miss Effie,--she to go to her elegant home, I to the little old brick house
in the fields, and with prospects so entirely different from hers,--I am sure it was the hardest
trial I had yet been called upon to bear. I should never see her again. I had no longings for
the life she led; for as yet I had harbored no other thought than that of perfect contentment
with my own. But her society was so delightful, the tone of her mind so lofty, her condescension
so grateful, her whole manners so captivating, that I looked upon her as my guide, philosopher,
and friend, and I cried bitterly when I left her.

MEMORIES OF AUTHORS.

A SERIES OF PORTRAITS FROM PERSONAL ACQUAINTANCE.

MISS LANDON.

With unmingled pain I write the name of Lætitia Elizabeth Landon,--the L. E. L., whose poems
were for so long a period the delight of all readers, old and young.

We were among the few friends who knew her intimately. But it was not in her nature to open
her heart to any one; her large organ of "secretiveness" was her bane; she knew it and deplored
it; it was the origin of that misconception which embittered her whole life, the mainspring
of that calumny which made fame a mockery and glory a deceit. But I may say, that, when slander
was busiest with her reputation, we had the best means to confute it,--and did. For some years
there was not a single week during which, on some day or other, morning or evening, she was
not a guest at our house; yet this blight in her spring-time undoubtedly led to the fatal marriage
which eventuated in her mournful and mysterious death.

The calumny was of that kind which most deeply wounds a woman. How it originated, it was at
the time, and is of course now, impossible to say. Probably its source was nothing more than
a sneer, but it bore Dead-Sea fruit. A slander more utterly groundless never was propagated.
It broke off an engagement that promised much happiness with a gentleman, then eminent, and
since famous, as an author: not that he at any time gave credence to the foul and wicked rumor;
but to her "inquiry" was a sufficient blight, and by her the contract was annulled.

The utter impossibility of its being other than false could have been proved, not only by us,
but by a dozen of her intimate friends, whose evidence would have been without question and
conclusive. She was living in a school for young ladies: seen daily by the ladies who kept
that school, and by the pupils. In one of her letters to Mrs. Hall, she writes, "I have lived
nearly all my life, since childhood, with the same people. The Misses Lance were strict, scrupulous,
and particular,--moreover, from having kept a school so long, with habits of minute observation.
The affection they feel for me can hardly be undeserved. I would desire nothing more than to
refer to their opinion." Dr. Thomson, her constant medical friend and adviser, testified long
afterwards to her "estimable qualities, generous feelings, and exalted virtues." It would,
indeed, have been easy to obtain proof abundant; but in such cases the very effort to lessen
the evil augments it; there was no way of fighting with a shadow; it was found impossible to
trace the rumor to any actual source. Few then, and perhaps none now, can tell how deeply the
poisoned arrow entered her heart. If ever woman was, Lætitia Landon was, "done to death by
slanderous tongues."

I have touched upon this theme reluctantly,--perhaps it might have been omitted altogether,--but
it seems to me absolutely necessary, in order to comprehend the character of the poet towards
her close of life, and the secret of her marriage, which so "unequally yoked" her to one utterly
unworthy.

Here is a passage from one of her letters to Mrs. Hall,--without a date,--but it must have
been written in 1837, when she was suffering terribly under the blight of evil tongues:--

"I have long since discovered that I must be prepared for enmity I have never provoked, and
unkindness I have little deserved. God knows, that, if, when I do go into society, I meet with
more homage and attention than most, it is dearly bought. What is my life? One day of drudgery
after another; difficulties incurred for others, which have ever pressed upon me; health, which
every year, by one severe illness after another, shows is taxed beyond its strength; envy,
malice, and all uncharitableness: these are the fruits of a successful literary career for
a woman."

She was slow to believe that false and bitter words could harm her. At first they seemed but
to inspire her with a dangerous bravery in her innocence, and to increase a practice we always
deplored, of saying things for effect in which she did not believe. It was no use telling her
this; she would argue that a conversation of facts would be as dull as a work on algebra, and
that all she did was to put her poetry into practice. In these moods you might as well attempt
to imprison a sunbeam as keep her to matter-of-fact; and the misery was, that gradually the
number of detractors increased, who caught up these "effective" scraps, and set them in circulation.

She was not more than fifteen years old when the letters "L. E. L."--appended to some verses
in the "Literary Gazette"--riveted public attention; and when it became known that the author
was scarcely in her teens, a full gush of popularity burst upon her that might have turned
older heads and steadier dispositions. She became a "lion," courted and flattered and fêted;
yet never was she misled by the notion that popularity is happiness, or lip-service the true
homage of the heart.

She was residing at Old Brompton, when her first poem appeared in the "Literary Gazette," which
Mr. Jerdan had not long previously established. It would be difficult to conceive the enthusiasm
excited by the magical three letters appended to the poems, whenever they appeared. Mr. Jerdan
was a near neighbor of the Landons, and he thus refers to their residence at Old Brompton:--

"My cottage overlooked the mansion and grounds of Mr. Landon, the father of 'L. E. L.,' at
Old Brompton, a narrow lane only dividing our residences. My first recollection of the future
poetess is that of a plump girl, grown enough to be almost mistaken for a woman, bowling a
hoop round the walks, with a hoop-stick in one hand and a book in the other, reading as she
ran, and as well as she could managing both exercise and instruction at the same time."

She was born on the 14th of August, 1802, at Hans Place, Chelsea, where her father, a junior
partner in the prosperous house of Adair, army-agents, then resided. And in that locality,
with few brief intervals, the whole of her life was passed.

When we first knew her, in 1825, she lived with her grandmother in Sloane Street; subsequently
she was a boarder in the school-establishment of the Misses Lance, at No. 22, Hans Place, the
house in which she had been a pupil when but six years old; and here she was residing up to
within a few months of her marriage, when, in consequence of the retirement of the Misses Lance,
she became an inmate in the family of Mrs. Sheddon.

Her grandmother's grave was, if I recollect rightly, the third that was made in the graveyard
of Holy Trinity, Brompton. Her lines on this "new" churchyard will be remembered. I attended
the old lady's funeral, Mrs. Hall having received from Miss Landon this letter:--

"I have had time to recover the first shock,--and it was great weakness to feel so sorry, though
even now I do not like to think of her very sudden death. I am thankful for its giving her
so little confinement or pain; she had never known illness, and would have borne it impatiently,--a
great addition to suffering. I am so very grateful to Mr. Hall, for I really did not know what
to do. Her funeral is fixed for Friday; the hour will be arranged to his and Mr. Jerdan's convenience."

Mrs. Hall supplies me with the following particulars concerning her early acquaintance and
intercourse with Miss Landon.

"I forget how it came about, but my husband was introduced to a certain little Miss Spence,
who, on the strength of having written something about the Highlands, was most decidedly BLUE,
when blue was by no means so general a color as it is at present. She had a lodging of two
rooms in Great Quebec Street, and 'patronized' young littérateurs, inviting them to her 'humble
abode,' where tea was made in the bedroom, and where it was whispered the butter was kept cool
in the wash-handbasin! There were 'lots' of such-like small scandals about poor Miss Spence's
'humble abode'; still people liked to go; and my husband was invited, with a sort of apology
to poor me, who, never having published anything at that time, was considered ineligible; it
was 'a rule,' and Miss Spence, in her 'humble abode,' lived by rule.

"Of course I had an account of the party when Mr. Hall came home. I coveted to know who was
there, and what everybody wore and said. I was told that Lady Caroline Lamb was there, enveloped
in the folds of an ermine cloak, which she called a 'cat-skin,' and that she talked a great
deal about a periodical she wished to get up, to be called 'Tabby's Magazine'; and with her
was an exceedingly haughty, brilliant, and beautiful girl, Rosina Wheeler,--since well known
as Lady Bulwer Lytton,--and who sat rather impatiently at the feet of her eccentric 'Gamaliel.'
Miss Emma Roberts was one of the favored ladies, and Miss Spence (who, like all 'Leo-hunters,'
delighted in novelty) had just caught the author of 'The Mummy,' Jane Webb, who was as gentle
and unpretending then as she was in after-years, when, laying aside romance for reality, she
became a great helper of her husband, Mr. London, in his laborious and valuable works. When
I heard Miss Benger was there, in her historic turban, I thought how fortunate that I had remained
at home! I had always a terror of tall, commanding women, who blink down upon you, and have
the unmistakable air about them of 'Behold me! have I not pronounced sentence upon Queen Elizabeth,
and set my mark on the Queen of Scots?' Still, I quite appreciated the delight of meeting under
the same roof so many celebrities, and was cross-questioning my husband, when he said, 'But
there was one lady there whom I promised you should call on to-morrow.'

"Imagine my mingled delight and dismay!--delight at the bare idea of seeing her, who must be
wellnigh suffocated with the perfume of her own 'Golden Violet,' the idol of my imagination,--dismay!
for what should I say to her? what would she say to me?

"And now I must look back,--back to the 'long ago.'

"And yet I can hardly realize the sweep of years that have gone over so many who have since
become near and dear to us. At that first visit, I saw Lætitia Landon in her grandmamma's modest
lodging in Sloane Street,--a bright-eyed, sparkling, restless little girl, in a pink gingham
frock,--grafting clever things on commonplace nothings, frolicking from subject to subject
with the playfulness of a spoiled child,--her dark hair put back from her low, but sphere-like
forehead, only a little above the most beautiful eyebrows that a painter could imagine, and
falling in curls around her slender throat. We were nearly of the same age, but I had been
almost a year married, and if I had not supported myself on my dignity as a married woman,
should have been more than nervous, on my first introduction to a 'living poet,' though the
poet was so different from what I had imagined. Her movements were as rapid as those of a squirrel.
I wondered how anyone so quick could be so graceful. She had been making a cap for grandmamma,
and would insist upon the old lady's putting it on, that I might see 'how pretty it was.' To
this grandmamma (Mrs. Bishop) objected,--she 'couldn't' and she 'wouldn't' try it on,--'how
could Lætitia be so silly?'--and then Lætitia put the great beflowered, beribboned thing on
her own dainty little head, with a grave look, like a cloud on a rose, and folding her pretty
little hands over her pink frock, made what she called a 'Sir Roger de Coverley' curtsy, skipping
backwards into the bedroom, and rushing in again, having deposited out of sight the cap she
was so proud of constructing, took my hands in hers, and asked me 'if we should be friends.'

"'Friends!' I do not think that during the long intimacy that followed that child-like meeting,
extending from the year '26 to her leaving England in '38, during which time I saw her frequently
every day, and certainly every week,--I do not think she ever loved me as I loved her,--how
could she?--but I was proud of the confidence and regard she did accord me, and would have
given half my own happiness to shelter her from the envy and evil that embittered the spring
and summer-time of her blighted life. It always seemed to me impossible not to love her, not
to cherish her. Perhaps the greatest magic she exercised was, that, after the first rush of
remembrance of all that wonderful young woman had written had subsided, she rendered you completely
oblivious of what she had done by the irresistible charm of what she was. You forgot all about
her books,--you only felt the intense delight of life with her; she was penetrating and sympathetic,
and entered into your feelings so entirely that you wondered how 'the little witch' could read
you so readily and so rightly,--and if, now and then, you were startled, perhaps dismayed,
by her wit, it was but the prick of a diamond arrow. Words and thoughts that she flung hither
and thither, without design or intent beyond the amusement of the moment, come to me still
with a mingled thrill of pleasure and pain that I cannot describe, and that my most friendly
readers, not having known her, could not understand.

"When I knew her first, she certainly looked much younger than she was. When we talked of ages,
which we did the first day, I found it difficult to believe she was more than seventeen,--she
was so slight, so fragile, so girlish in her gestures and manners. In after-days I often wondered
what made her so graceful. Her neck was short, her shoulders high. You saw these defects at
the first glance, just as you did that her nose was retroussé, and that she was underhung,
which ought to have spoiled the expression of her mouth,--but it did not; you saw all this
at once, but you never thought about it after the first five minutes. Her complexion was clear,
her hair dark and silken, and the lashes that sheltered her gray eyes long and slightly upturned.
Her voice was inexpressibly sweet and modulated, but there was a melancholy cadence in it,--a
fall so full of sorrow that I often looked to see if tears were coming: no, the smile and eyes
were beaming in perfect harmony, but it was next to impossible to believe in her happiness,
with the memory of that cadence still in the ear.

"Like all workers I have known intimately, she had a double existence, an inner and an outer
life. Many times, when I have witnessed her suffering, either from those spasmodic attacks
that sapped the foundation of her life, or from the necessity for work to provide for the comforts
and luxuries of those who never spared her, I have seen her enter the long, narrow room that
opened on the garden at Hans Place, and flash upon a morning visitor as if she had not a pain
or a care in the world, dazzling the senses and captivating the affections of some new acquaintance,
as she had done mine, and sending them away in the firm belief of her individual happiness,
and the conviction that the melancholy which breathes through her poems was assumed, and that
her real nature was buoyant and joyous as that of a lark singing between earth and heaven!
If they could but have seen how the cloud settled down on that beaming face, if they had heard
the deep-drawn sigh of relief that the little play was played out, and noted the languid step
with which she mounted to her attic, and gathered her young limbs on the common seat, opposite
the common table, whereon she worked, they would have arrived at a directly opposite and a
too true conclusion, that the melancholy was real, the mirth assumed.

"My next visit to her was after she left her grandmamma's, and went to reside at 22, Hans Place.
Miss Emma Roberts and her sister at that time boarded in Miss Lance's school, and Miss Landon
found there a room at the top of the house, where she could have the quiet and seclusion her
labor required, and which her kind-natured, but restless grandmother prevented. She never could
understand how 'speaking one word to Letty, just one word, and not keeping her five minutes
away from that desk, where she would certainly grow humped or crooked,' could interfere with
her work! She was one of those stolid persons who are the bane of authors, who think nothing
of the lost idea, and the unravelling of the web, when a train of thought is broken by the
'only one word,' 'only a moment,' which scatters thoughts to the wind,--thoughts that can no
more be gathered home than the thistledown that is scattered by a passing breeze.

"She continued to reside in that unostentatious home, obedient to the rules of the school as
the youngest pupil, dining with the children at their early hour, and returning to her sanctuary,
whence she sent forth rapidly and continuously what won for her the adoration of the young
and the admiration of the old. But though she ceased to reside with her grandmother, she was
most devoted in her attentions to her aged relative, and trimmed her caps and bonnets and quilled
her frills as usual. I have seen the old lady's borders and ribbons mingled with pages of manuscript,
and known her to put aside a poem to 'settle up' grandmamma's cap for Sunday. These were the
minor duties in which she indulged; but her grandmother owed the greater part, if not the entire,
of her comfort to the generous and unselfish nature of that gifted girl. Her mother I never
saw: morally right in all her arrangements, she was mentally wrong,--and the darling poet of
the public had no loving sympathy, no tender care from her. L. E. L. had passed through the
sufferings of a neglected childhood, and but for the love of her grandmother she would have
known next to nothing of the love of motherhood. Thus she was left alone with her genius: for
admiration, however grateful to a woman's senses, never yet filled a woman's heart.

"When I first knew her, and for some time after, she was childishly untidy and negligent in
her dress: her frocks were tossed on, as if buttons and strings were unnecessary incumbrances,--one
sleeve off the shoulder, the other on,--and her soft, silky hair brushed 'any how': but Miss
Emma Roberts, whose dress was always in good taste, determined on her reformation, and gradually
the young poet, as she expressed it, 'did not know herself.' I use the epithet 'young,' because
she was wonderfully youthful in appearance, and positively as she grew older looked younger,--her
delicate complexion, the transparent tenderness of her skin, and the playful expression of
her child-like features adding to the deception.

"I was one day suddenly summoned to Hans Place, and drawn into a consultation on the important
subject of a fancy-ball, which Miss Landon and Miss Emma Roberts had 'talked over' Miss Lance
to let them give to their friends. They wished me to appear as the 'wild Irish girl,' or the
genius of Erin, with an Irish harp, to which I was to sing snatches of the melodies. Miss Spence
was there in consultation, as she 'knew everybody.' She congratulated me on my début as an
authoress, (I had recently published my first book, 'Sketches of Irish Character,') and politely
added, 'Now you are one of us, I shall be happy to receive you at my humble abode.'

"I begged to decline the proposal concerning the wild Irish girl and the Irish harp, but agreed
to carry a basket of flowers. Certainly the fête-givers worked 'with a will,' turned the great
house 'out of windows,' converting the two school-rooms, big and little, into a ball-room,
and decorating it richly with green leaves and roses, real and artificial. I congratulated
them on the prospect. 'Yes,' said Miss Landon, 'the mechanical getting-up is all very well;
I wish all that is termed "dashing" did not lie in the tomb of the Duchess of Gordon. A quadrille
is but still life put into motion. Our faces, like our summers, want sunshine. Old Froissart
complained in his day, that the English, after their fashion, "s'amusent moult tristement."
A ball-room is merely "Arithmetic and the use of figures taught here." A young lady in a quadrille
might answer,--"I am too busy to laugh,--I am making my calculations." And yet ours is not
a marrying age; the men have discovered that servants and wives are so expensive,--still a
young lady's delight in a ball, if not raisonnable, has always--quelque raison! and I am determined,
if I die in the cause, that ours shall be a success!' Her conversation was always epigrammatic.

"It seems absurd that a ball should be the first great event of my literary life. There I saw
for the first time many persons who became in after-years intimate friends, and whose names
are now parts of the history of the literature of their country. 'Mr.' Edward Bulwer, then
on the threshold of fame, 'came out' in military uniform. L. E. L. assured me he was very clever,
had written a novel, and 'piles of poetry,' and would be wonderful soon, but that he was much
too handsome for an author; at which opinion, little Miss Spence, in a plum-pudding sort of
turban, with a bird-of-paradise bobbing over the front, and a fan even larger than poor Lady
Morgan's, agitated her sultana's dress, and assured me that 'nothing elevated the expression
of beauty so much as literature,' and that 'young things, like many of the present company,
would not look as well in ten years!' Mr. Bulwer was certainly pronounced by the ladies the
handsomest youth in the room. The gentlemen endeavored to put him down as 'effeminate,' but
all in vain. They called him 'a fair, delicate, very, very young man,'--'a boy,' in fact. I
remember wondering at the searching expression of his large, wandering, bluish eyes, that seemed
looking in and out at everybody and at everything. The lady of his love was there, and she
ought to have been dressed as the Sultana poor Miss Spence burlesqued. Nature had bestowed
on her an Oriental style of beauty, and she would have come out well in Oriental costume; but
she chose the dress of a Swiss peasant, which, being more juvenile, brought her nearer to her
lover's age. She certainly was radiantly beautiful. She had a mouth like 'chiselled coral,'
and eyes fierce as an eagle's or tender as a dove's, as passion moved her. Her uncle, Sir John
Milly Doyle, then an old man of mark in the military world, was naturally proud of his beautiful
charge, and companioned her that evening.

"Miss Benger's turban was a formidable rival to that of Miss Spence. The historian was long
and lanky, according to the most approved historical fashion; consequently her turban was above
the crowd, while poor Miss Spence's was nearly crushed by it, and was all too frequently shoved
on one side by the whirling dancers. At last, in despair, she donned a handkerchief, tying
it under her chin, and wherever she went she wished the gentle-hearted Miss Webb to follow,
appealing after this fashion to the merry crowd:--'Please let me pass; I am Miss Spence, and
this lady is Miss Webb, author of "The Mummy,"--"The Mummy," Sir.' But Miss Webb effected her
escape; and the last time I saw little Miss Spence that evening, she had scrambled up into
one of those so-called 'education-chairs,' in which poor girls were compelled to sit bolt upright
for several hours of the day, by way of keeping their shoulders flat and strengthening their spine.

"I remember 'Father Prout of Watergrass Hill' that evening,--then a smooth-faced, rosy-cheeked
young man. Jane and Anna Maria Porter joined the party late in the evening. They came from
Esher, and, though not in direct fancy-dresses, added to the effect of the gathering. Jane
was dressed in black, which was only relieved by a diamond sparkling on her throat. Her sweet,
melancholy features and calm beauty contrasted well with the bright sunshine of her sister's
round, girlish face. She was dressed in white, soft blue gauze floating round her like a haze.
L. E. L. (who personated a flower-girl in a white chip hat) called the sisters 'the Evening
and Morning Stars.' I was so proud of a compliment Jane paid me on my new dignity of authorship,--a
compliment from the author of the 'Scottish Chiefs,'--the book that in childhood I had read
stealthily by moonlight, coiled up in my nursery-window, just near enough to the sea to hear
its music, while the fate of Sir William Wallace made my heart pant and my tears flow!

"I saw there for the first time Julia Pardoe. She had just returned from Portugal, and was
escorted by her little, round father, the Major. She was then in her dawn of life and literature,
having published two volumes about Portugal,--a pretty little fairy of a girl, with a wealth
of flaxen hair, a complexion made up of lilies and roses, with tiny feet in white satin bottines
with scarlet heels, and a long, sweeping veil of blue gauze spangled with silver stars. I think
she dressed as some Portuguese or Spanish character; for I remember a high comb in her hair.
I can only now recall her floating about under the blue gauze veil.

"I remember one group of Quakers among the glittering throng, who looked sufficiently quaint
to attract attention, while the matron of the party said clever, caustic things, differing
in quality as well as quantity from the sparkling, playful jests and repartees, that, as the
evening passed, were flung about by Mr. Jerdan, the popular editor of the 'Literary Gazette,'
the oracle of that time, and stammered forth by Dr. Maginn. "The Doctor" and Mr. Jerdan and
Theodore Hook entered together, three men of mark, from whom much was expected--after supper.

"The Quaker matron was Mrs. Trollope, a portly lady, of any age between thirty and forty, staid
and sedate, as became her character, and attentive to her 'thees' and 'thous,' which lent their
cloak for plain speaking, of which she was not chary. She frequently admonished her daughters--perhaps
adopted for the evening--against the vanities by which they were encompassed on every side,--satirizing
and striking home, but never exhibiting ill-temper or actual bitterness. The character was
well sustained throughout the evening, and occasioned quite as much fear as fun. When Theodore
Hook asked her, according to the fashion of those days, to take wine with him, she answered,
'Friend, I think thou hast had enough already, and so have I.' There was nothing particularly
wise or witty in the words; but their truth was so evident, and the manner in which they were
spoken so clear and calm, that they were followed by a roar of laughter that for a little time
upset the mighty humorist, though, in the extempore song in which he rallied, he did not forget
that

    'He had just received a wallop
    From the would-be Quaker Trollope.'

"We enjoyed most thoroughly the intercourse commenced thus early in our married life with the
spirits of our time; and I remember entering into grave debate with L. E. L. whether it would
be possible for us to give a party that might be, as it were, the shadow of hers. A fancy-ball
was out of the question. We proposed a conversazione, with first-rate music; but in that Miss
Landon could not sympathize. 'It was all very well,' she said; 'I had a talent for listening;
she had not; and if I must have music, let there be a room where the talkers could congregate,
and neither disturb others nor be themselves disturbed.' The only thing she disliked in dancing
was the trial of keeping time; and to do this, she was obliged to count.

"The conversazione was determined on, and the invitations issued; and then my husband and I
began to count the cost. Of course, if done, it must be well done. The method was not clear;
it was very cloudy; and there was only one way to make it clear. We were but 'children of a
larger growth,' and we had a 'money-box,'--not one of those pretty cedar inventions, with a
lock and key and a slit in the cover, that we now use at bazaars, but a big, shapeless, roundabout
thing of earthen-ware, with a slit in the middle. We had intended its contents should gratify
another fancy, but now it would be the very thing to sacrifice; so we locked ourselves into
the drawing-room, placed the box on the hearth-rug, and in a moment the brown roundabout was
smashed,--and there was quite a heap of silver, and a little brightening of gold! We had never
put in any gold. We were astonished, and counted our treasure with great delight. My husband
accused me of conveying the gold by some cunning art into the box; and I was indignant that
he should have done so without my knowledge. A quarrel was imminent, when we thought perhaps
it was the hand of the dear mother that had dropped in the gold. Yes, that was her ruse; and
we would have it that the party cost us nothing, because the contents of the money-box never
had been counted on: it was a treasure-trove,--nothing more. We were particularly anxious to
be thought prudent; and, in our triumph, (for the party, every one said, was a brilliant success,)
we communicated the fact to L. E. L. that the party had cost nothing! She laughed, and determined
to set up a money-box, on her own account; but, poor girl, her money was anticipated by her
dependants before she received it.

"I remember once meeting her coming out of Youngman's shop, in Sloane Street, and walking home
with her. 'I have been,' she said, 'to buy a pair of gloves,--the only money spent on myself
out of the three hundred pounds I received for "Romance and Reality."' That same day she spoke
of having lived in Sloane Street when a child. Her mother's ménage must have been curiously
conducted; for I remember her saying, 'On Sundays my brother and myself were often left alone
in the house with one servant, who always went out, locking us in; and we two children used
to sit at the open parlor-window to catch the smell of the one-o'clock dinners that went past
from the bake-house, well knowing that no dinner awaited us.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

In the zenith of her fame, and towards her terrible close of life, the personal appearance
of Miss Landon was highly attractive. Though small of stature, her form was remarkably graceful;
and in society she paid special attention to dress. She would have been of perfect symmetry,
were it not that her shoulders were rather high.

There were few portraits of Miss Landon painted, although she was acquainted with many artists,
and had intense love of Art. Her friend Maclise painted her three or four times; but I know
of no other portraits of her, except that by Mr. Pickersgill, which I always thought the most
to resemble her, albeit the likeness is not flattering.

She first met the Ettrick Shepherd at our house. When Hogg was presented to her, he looked
earnestly down at her, for perhaps half a minute, and then exclaimed, in a rich, manly, Scottish
voice, "Eh, I did na think ye'd been sae bonnie. I've said mony hard things aboot ye. I'll
do sae na mair. I did na think ye'd been sae bonnie."

Mrs. Opie, who also met her at our dwelling, paid her a questionable compliment,--that she
was "the prettiest butterfly she had ever seen": and I remember the staid Quaker shaking her
finger at the young poetess, and remarking, "What thou art saying thou dost not mean."

Miss Jewsbury, (the elder sister of the accomplished authoress, Geraldine,) whose fate somewhat
resembled her own, said of her, "She was a gay and gifted thing"; but Miss Jewsbury knew her
only "in the throng."

In short, I have rarely known a woman so entirely fascinating as Miss Landon; and this arose
mainly from her large sympathy. She was playful with the young, sedate with the old, and considerate
and reflective with the middle-aged. She could be tender and she could be severe, prosaic or
practical, and essentially of and with whatever party she happened to be among. I remember
this faculty once receiving an illustration. She was taking lessons in riding, and had so much
pleased the riding-master that at parting he complimented her by saying,--"Well, Madam, we
are all born with a genius for something, and yours is for horsemanship."

One of the many writers who mourned her wrote,--"Apart from her literary abilities and literary
labors, she was, in every domestic relation of life, honorable, generous, dutiful, self-denying,--zealous,
disinterested, and untiring in her friendship."

Her industry was wonderful. She was perpetually at work, although often--nay, generally--with
little of physical strength, and sometimes utterly prostrated by illness. Yet the work must
be done, as her poems and prose were usually for periodical publications, and a given day of
the month it was impossible to postpone.

Poetry she wrote with great ease and rapidity. In one of her letters to Mrs. Hall she says,--"I
write poetry with far more ease than I do prose. In prose, I often stop and hesitate for a
word; in poetry, never. Poetry always carries me out of myself. I forget everything in the
world but the subject that has interested my imagination. It is the most subtile and insinuating
of pleasures; but, like all pleasures, it is dearly bought. It is always succeeded by extreme
depression of spirits, and an overpowering sense of bodily fatigue." And in one of her letters
to me, she observes,--"Writing poetry is like writing one's own native language, and writing
prose is like writing in a strange tongue." In fact, she could have improvised admirable verses
without hesitation or difficulty.

She married Mr. Maclean, then Governor of the Gold Coast[B],--a man who neither knew, felt,
nor estimated her value. He wedded her, I am convinced, only because he was vain of her celebrity;
and she married him only because he enabled her to change her name, and to remove from that
society in which just then the old and infamous slander had been revived. There was in this
case no love, no esteem, no respect,--and there could have been no discharge of duty that was
not thankless and irksome.

They were married a fortnight, at least, before the wedding was announced, even to friends.
A sad story was some time afterwards circulated,--the truth of which I have no means of knowing,--that
Mr. Maclean had been engaged to a lady in Scotland, which engagement he had withdrawn, and
that she was in the act of sealing a letter to him when her dress caught fire, and she was
burnt to death.

The last time I saw L. E. L. was in Upper Berkeley Street, Connaught Square, on the 27th of
June, 1838, soon after her marriage, when she was on the eve of her fatal voyage. A farewell
party was given to some of her friends by Mrs. Sheddon, with whom she then boarded,--the Misses
Lance having resigned their school. When the proper time arrived, there was a whisper round
the table, and, as I was the oldest of her friends present, it fell to my lot to propose her
health. I did so with the warmth I felt. The chances were that we should never meet again;
and I considered myself free to speak of her in terms such as could not but have gratified
any husband,--except the husband she had chosen,--and sought to convey to Maclean's mind the
high respect, as well as affection, with which we all regarded her. The reader may imagine
the chill that came over the party when Maclean rose to return thanks. He merely said, "If
Mrs. Maclean has as many friends as Mr. Hall says she has, I only wonder they allowed her to
leave them." One by one the guests rose and departed, with a brief and mournful farewell. Probably
not one of them all ever saw her again.

She sailed with her husband for Africa on the 5th of July, 1838. On the 15th of August she
landed, and on the 15th of October she was dead!--dying, according to a coroner's jury, "of
having incautiously taken a dose of prussic acid."

The circumstances of her death will be forever a mystery; for her husband has since "died and
made no sign"; but no one ever heard of her having had this horrible medicine in her possession.
Dr. Thomson, who made up her medicine-chest, and who had been her attendant for many years,
declared he never prescribed it for her; and it was next to impossible she could have possessed
it. To the various rumors that arose out of her death I do not allude. I do not believe she
committed suicide; nay, I am sure she did not, although I know she was most wretched in her
mournful banishment, most miserable in her changed condition, and that, if her past years had
been gloomy, her future was very dark; but I believe that poison in some shape--not from the
small vial which it was said was found in her hand--was administered by the African woman who
is known to have been her predecessor,--one of those

          "Children of the South
    With whom revenge is virtue."

The following letter from L. E. L. was received by Mrs. Hall on the 3d of January, 1839. It
is without a date. On the 1st we had heard of her death. It was a "ship-letter," but the mark
of the place at which it was posted is indistinct.

     "MY DEAR MRS. HALL,--I must send you one of my earliest
     epistles from the tropics; and as a ship is just sailing, I
     will write, though it can only be a few hurried lines. I can
     tell you my whole voyage in three words,--six weeks'
     sea-sickness; but I am now as well as possible, and have been
     ever since I landed. The castle is a very noble building, and
     all the rooms large and cool, while some would be pretty even
     in England. That where I am writing is painted a deep blue,
     with some splendid engravings; indeed, fine prints seem quite a
     passion with the gentlemen here. Mr. Maclean's library is
     filled up with bookcases of African mahogany, and portraits of
     distinguished authors. I, however, never approach it without
     due preparation and humility, so crowded is it with scientific
     instruments, telescopes, chronometers, barometers, gasometers,
     etc., none of which may be touched by hands profane. On three
     sides, the batteries are dashed against by the waves; on the
     fourth is a splendid land view. The hills are covered to the
     top with what we should call wood, but is here called bush.
     This dense mass of green is varied by some large, handsome,
     white houses belonging to different gentlemen, and on two of
     the heights are small forts built by Mr. Maclean. The
     cocoa-trees with their long fan-like leaves are very beautiful.
     The natives seem to be obliging and intelligent, and look very
     picturesque with their fine dark figures, with pieces of the
     country cloth flung round them. They seem to have an excellent
     ear for music: the band plays all the old popular airs, which
     they have caught from some chance hearing. The servants are
     very tolerable, but they take so many to work. The prisoners do
     the scouring, and fancy three or four men cleaning a room that
     an old woman in England would do in an hour,--besides the
     soldier who stands by, his bayonet drawn in his hand. All my
     troubles have been of a housekeeping kind, and no one could
     begin on a more plentiful stock of ignorance than myself.
     However, like Sindbad the Sailor in the cavern, I begin to see
     daylight. I have numbered and labelled my keys, (their name is
     Legion,) and every morning I take my way to the store, give out
     flour, sugar, butter, etc., and am learning to scold, if I see
     any dust or miss customary polish on the tables. I am actually
     getting the steward of the ship, who is my right hand, to teach
     me how to make pastry. I will report progress in the next. We
     live almost entirely on ducks and chickens; if a sheep be
     killed, it must be eaten the same day. The bread is very good,
     palm wine being used for yeast; and yams are an excellent
     substitute for potatoes. The fruit generally is too sweet for
     my liking; but the oranges and pine-apples are delicious. You
     cannot think the complete seclusion in which I live; but I have
     a great resource in writing, and I am very well and very happy.
     But I think even more than I expected, if that be possible, of
     my English friends."

    Your truly affectionate

    L. E. MACLEAN.

She had signed her name "L. E. Landon," but had erased "Landon," and written in "Maclean,"
adding, "How difficult it is to leave off an old custom!"

Poor girl! She thus fulfilled her own mournful prediction, though speaking of another:--

    Where my father's bones are lying,
      There my bones will never lie!

       *   *   *   *

    Mine shall be a lonelier ending,
      Mine shall be a wilder grave,
    Where the shout and shriek are blending,
      Where the tempest meets the wave:
    Or perhaps a fate more lonely,
      In some drear and distant ward,
    Where my weary eyes meet only
      Hired nurse and sullen guard.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] She was married on the 7th of June, 1838, to Mr. Maclean, at St. Mary's, Bryanston Square,--her
brother, the Rev. Whittington Landon, officiating. The bride was given away by her long and
attached friend, Sir Bulwer Lytton.

OUR OLDEST FRIEND.

EDWARD EVERETT.

At the funeral of Mr. Everett, on the 19th of January, the persons who acted as pall-bearers,
and accompanied the body to the grave, had been appointed to that service by the government
of the city of Boston.

They represented respectively the Commonwealth, the City, the Supreme Bench, the University,
the American Academy, the Historical Society, the Public Library, the Union Club, and the United
States Army and Navy. The officers of the Army and Navy highest in rank on this station represented
these services; the other organizations were represented, in each case, by their highest officers.

The Governor received at the same time the following despatch:--

"It is impracticable for the President and the Cabinet to leave the capital to attend the funeral.

"The President of the United States and the heads of departments tender to the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts their condolence on the lamented death of Edward Everett, who was worthy to
be enrolled among the noblest of the nation's benefactors."

Why do you call that man a private citizen, to whom every officer in the Nation, in the Commonwealth,
and in the City, unites in paying homage? Why do you select the leading man in every class
of service to be present to represent you at his open grave?

The true answer to these questions, and the true explanation of the universal feeling expressed
in public and in private when he died, are not found without reference to some traits of moral
constitution, to which it is well, I believe, to call attention now. To those traits of character,--as
shown through life,--rather than to specific gifts of intellectual power, is Mr. Everett's
singularly varied success to be ascribed. You may say, if you please, that it requires a very
rare mental genius and even very rare physical endowment to carry out the behests of such resolution
as I am to describe. This, of course, is true. But unless you have the moral determination
which compels your vivid mind to plan, and your well-built machine to work for you, you get
no such life. The secret--if it is to be called such--of this wonderful life, is the determination
to do the special thing which at the moment is to be done. Mr. Everett was no admirer of Carlyle.
But long before Carlyle began to tell men "to do the thing that came next them," Mr. Everett
had been doing it, with a steady confidence that he could do it. Now the things that come next
men in America are very various. That is the reason why he has been doing very various things.
That is the reason why President and Cabinet, Navy and Army, University, Bench, and Academy,
City and Commonwealth, meet, by their first representatives, at his grave, in recognition of
specific service of the most eminent character which he has rendered to each of them, and which
it would be a shame for them to fail to own.

In a little sketch of his college life, which he once sent me, there is an estimate--made at
the age of sixty-one--of his own standing when he was a Sophomore, in comparison with some
of his classmates. Some of those he names have passed on before him; two of them remain with
us, to be honored always for the fruits of that scholarship which he observed so young. I think
there can be nothing wrong in publishing a recollection, which, by accident, gives a hint as
to the method of his own after-life to which I have alluded.

"I was considered, I believe, as taking rank among the few best scholars of the [Sophomore]
class, although there was no branch in which I was not equalled--and in several I was excelled--by
some of my classmates, except perhaps Metaphysics. Thus, I was surpassed by Cooper in Latin,
but he was wholly deficient in Mathematics, and regarded with pity, not altogether unmixed
with contempt, all who had a taste for that study. Story, a brother of Mr. Justice Story, excelled
me in Greek, but he neglected everything else, and seemed to get at the Greek rather by intuition
than study. Fuller, Gray, and Hunt were my superiors in Mathematics; but in other studies I
was the rival of Fuller, and Hunt made no pretensions to general scholarship;--for the branch
in which he excelled he had a decided genius. Gilman was a more practised writer than I; so
was Damon; and Frothingham greatly excelled me in speaking, and was in everything a highly
accomplished scholar. If I had any strong point, it was that of neglecting no branch and doing
about equally well in all."

He had occasion enough to show in all life that it is a very strong point, this "of neglecting
no branch, and doing equally well in all." And in his estimates of other men, I think,--though
he was more charitable in his judgments than any man I have ever known,--he always had latent
the feeling that men could do almost anything they really resolved to do. You could never persuade
him that a public speaker could not learn to speak well. He did not pretend that all men could
speak equally well, but he really thought that it was the duty of a man, who meant to speak
in public, to train himself, in voice, in intonation, in emphasis, so as to speak simply, and
without attracting attention to any failure. He thought any man could do this as truly as any
man could acquire a good handwriting. And any one who knew him knows that he considered this
art as easily attained as the arts by which we clean our faces or our hands.[C]

Starting upon life with this principle, that he would do what had to be done,--if nobody else
appeared to do it,--and that he could do it, too,--he soon found himself with work enough on
his hands. English's flippant attack on the New Testament Scriptures appeared while Mr. Everett
was minister of Brattle-Street Church. Because it appeared, he considered it his place to defend
the New Testament against that specific attack; and he did it. The "Defence of Christianity,"
which he then published, is of value, chiefly as a piece of controversy belonging to the history
of opinion in this neighborhood at that moment. Controversy has long since taken other grounds.
For that purpose, at that moment, the book did its work completely. It exhausted the points
which Mr. English raised, and exhausted them in a way which required very patient study. Mr.
Everett once said that to compile the chapter on the quotations of the Old Testament by the
New Testament writers, he went through the whole of the Mischna in the edition of Surenhusius,
in six volumes folio. This chapter, I may say in passing, is the chapter of most permanent
value in the "Defence." Now this "Defence," the work of a boy of twenty years of age, was written
in the midst of the demands made upon the popular preacher in one of the largest parishes in
Boston, in a few months' time,--sent to the printer chapter by chapter. And Mr. Everett said
of it, in after-life, that, if it did not seem like affectation, he would say that it was relaxation
from the work he was doing in the pulpit. I have no doubt it was. I have no thought that he
was specially fitted for that work. It illustrates rather his moral force of determination.
He thought that particular charge of Mr. English's ought to be answered. Nobody else answered
it. And therefore he did it himself. He knew he could do it, if it must be done. If he had
not prepared for it, he must prepare for it then.

But the reader will observe, I hope, that he does not in the "Defence" attempt anything else
than the task he had assigned. Here is no general Apology. It is no discussion of the Evidences.
It is a specific duty,--which he had assigned to himself,--cleanly, neatly, and thoroughly
done. He knew what he was going to do, when he began; and he knew, when he had finished what
he could do. His victories, his life through, will all be found, I think, to illustrate that
sort of steady, but determined resolution,--determined, in the sense that, before he began,
the bounds were established for the work which was to be done.

When he went to Congress, for instance, in 1824, he had been widely known, in this part of
the country at least, as a scholar who had travelled in Europe, and as one of the leaders in
the movement in favor of the Greeks. Very naturally, Mr. Taylor appointed him on the Committee
on Foreign Relations, and in that capacity he served all the time he was in the House. "I devoted
myself," he said of that part of his life, "mainly to the discharge of that part of the public
business which was intrusted to me"; that is, to the foreign relations. There were enough other
interests in those years to which he might have devoted himself. But this was the sub-department
which had been assigned to him, and therefore he devoted himself to it. If it had been Indian
Affairs, or the Militia, he would have devoted himself to either of those; and I think he would
have distinguished himself in either of them as much as he did in the other.

In this connection, it is to be observed, that, though few men worked as rapidly or as easily
as he, this same moral determination appeared in the resoluteness with which he refused to
do anything till he was satisfied with his own preparation. The thing might not require any,
and then he made none. But if it was an occasion which he thought deserved preparation, no
haste nor pressure nor other excuse availed to induce him to attempt what he had not made the
fit preparation for. I think nothing really made him so indignant with us who were his juniors,
as that we would half do things, instead of taking time to do them as well as we could. Yet,
when the necessity came, he could achieve things that no other man would have dreamed of on
such short notice. There are stories of his feats in this way which need not be repeated here.

I have heard people speak of his political life, especially of late years, as if it were a
great riddle; and, in eulogies on him since his death, I find men speaking as if he underwent
some great revulsion of character when Fort Sumter was attacked in 1861. I think there is no
such mystery about it. The secret--if secret it is to be called--of his politics was blazoned
in almost every speech he ever made, if people could only train themselves to think that a
public man really believes what he says. It was this, that at heart he believed in the people.
He believed they had virtue enough and good sense enough to carry them through any difficulty
they would ever get into. He did not believe in total depravity. He did not, therefore, believe
in theirs. And when he had any appeal to make to the people, he appealed to their supposed
virtue, and not to their supposed vices,--he spoke to their good sense, and not to their folly.
Mr. Emerson says somewhere, that he gave people no new thoughts. I do not think this is true.
It is, however, very certain that he gave them no buncombe. He believed in them, in their good
sense, and in their average virtue. He knew that everything depended on them. He was eager
to educate the people, therefore, and all the people. He did not believe it possible to educate
any of them too well. And if you had asked him, the day he died, what had been the central
idea of his life, he would have said it was the education of the people. His life was full
of it. His speeches were full of it. Nothing so provoked him as any snobbism which wanted to
hinder it. When he was President of the College,--I think in 1848,--there was a black boy in
the High School at Cambridge, fitting for college. Some gentlemen in Alabama, who had sons
there, or on their way there, wrote to Mr. Everett to remonstrate against the boy's entering.
He replied, that the College was endowed to educate all comers; that, if the black boy could
pass his examination, as he hoped he could, he would be admitted; and that, if, as they seemed
to suppose, all the white students withdrew, the College would then be conducted on its endowments
for the black boy alone. And that was no exceptional reply. It was his way of looking at such
things.

Now it is very true that a man like that makes no demagogue appeals to the people. He will
not be apt to ally himself with any specially radical party. He will never say that an unwashed
man has as good chance for godliness as a washed man, because he will not believe it. He will
never say that an ignorant man's vote is as good as a sensible man's, because he will not believe
that. But in any question where the rights of men are on one side and the rights of classes
on the other, he will pronounce for the rights of men. Accordingly, his verdict was stiffly
against the Missouri Compromise in 1820 and 1821. He said it was unwise and unjust. When, in
1836, it came time, under that Compromise, to admit the State of Arkansas,--the next Slave
State after Missouri,--he said that we were not bound to admit her with slavery, that the Compromise
was not binding, and never could be made binding; it was unwise and unjust. Because he had
said so, he considered himself estopped from saying that it was binding, and sacred, and inviolable,
and all that, in 1854, when the rest of us made it into a new-found palladium of liberty. He
would not argue the Nebraska question on the Compromise, but on the original principles of
the popular rights involved. It is the same confidence in the people which shines through the
letter to Baron Hülsemann, which he wrote at the request of Mr. Webster, and through his answer
to the proposal of the Three Powers that we should guaranty Cuba to Spain. It may be necessary
for popular freedom that Spain shall not have Cuba. The same thing is in all his reviews of
the Basil Halls and other travellers. I do not suppose he liked a dirty table-cloth better
than Mrs. Trollope did. I do not suppose he liked a Virginia fence better than Cobbett did.
But he knew that table-cloths could be washed, and Virginia fences changed in time for hedges
and walls. And he was willing to wait for such changes,--even with all the elegance people
talk of,--if he were sure that the education of the people was going forward, and the lines
of promotion were kept open.

When, therefore, the issue of 1861 came, there was no question, to anybody who knew him well,
where he would stand. He would stand with the democratic side against the aristocratic side.
And the issue of this war is the issue between democracy and oligarchy. Persons who did not
believe in the people did not stand on the democratic side. Persons who thought a republican
government had been forced on us by misfortune, and that we must simply make the best of it,
did not stand there. They did not believe that this time the people could get through. So they
thought it best to stop before beginning. He knew the people could go through anything. So
he thought it best to hold firm to the end.

Some of the most amusing of the details of his early life, which, with his wonderful memory,
he was rather fond of relating, belong to his experiences in education.

Here is his account of his first attendance at the central town-school of Dorchester, after
he had left a dame-school.

"In this school, on first entering it, I was placed at the bottom of the lowest class; but
even that was a position beyond my previous attainments. Unable to spell the words which formed
the lesson, I used, when they came down to me from the boy above, to say just what he did,
not being far enough advanced to insinuate a blunder of my own. But in the course of a few
months I made great progress. In writing I was rather forward. I can remember writing 1799
at the bottom of the page in my copybook; and this is the oldest date which as a date I can
recollect. I was then five years old.[D] My father having, as a reward for my improvement,
promised me a boughten 'writing-book,' as it was called, instead of a sheet of paper folded
at home, with which children usually began, the brilliant prospect melted me almost to tears.

"Each boy in those days provided his own 'ink-horn,' as it was called. Mine was a ponderous
article of lead, cast by myself at the kitchen fire, with a good deal of aid from the hired
man who was employed in the summer to work the little farm. For pens we bought two goose-quills
fresh from the wing, for a cent; older boys paid that sum for a single 'Dutch quill.'...

"In the year 1802, a new district school-house was built near our residence, to which I was
transferred from the school on the meeting-house hill. It was kept by Mr. Wilkes Allen, afterwards
a respectable clergyman at Chelmsford. I was now between eight and nine years old. My eldest
brother had left school, and was in a counting-room in Boston; my second brother had entered
college; and as we were, almost all of us little folks at Mr. Allen's, I was among the most
advanced. I began the study of arithmetic at this time, using Pike as the text-book. I recollect
proceeding to the extraction of the cube-root, without the slightest comprehension of the principle
of that or any of the simplest arithmetical operations. I could have comprehended them, had
they been judiciously explained, but I could not penetrate them without aid. At length I caught
a glimpse of the principle of decimals. I thought I had made a discovery as confidently as
Pythagoras did when he demonstrated the forty-seventh proposition of the first book of Euclid.
I was proportionately annoyed when I afterwards discovered that I had been anticipated in finding
out that 'a decimal is a fraction whose denominator is a unit with as many ciphers annexed
as the numerator has places,' or rather in finding out precisely what this meant."

He entered college in 1807, and thus describes his first experiences there.

"I was thirteen years old in April, and entered a Freshman the following August, being the
youngest member of my class. I lived the first year with my classmate, Charles P. Curtis, in
a wooden building standing at the corner of the Main and Church Streets. It was officially
known as the 'College House,' but known by the students as 'Wiswall's Den,' or, more concisely,
'The Den,'--whether from its comfortless character as a habitation or from some worse cause
I do not know. There was a tradition that it had been the scene of a horrid domestic tragedy,
and that it was haunted by the ghosts of the Wiswalls; but I cannot say that during the twelvemonth
I lived in 'The Den' this tale was confirmed by my own experience.

"We occupied the southwest corner-chamber, up two flights of stairs,--a room about fourteen
feet square, in which were contained two beds and the rest of our furniture, and our fuel,
which was wood, and was kept under the beds. Two very small closets afforded a little additional
space; but the accommodations were certainly far from brilliant. A good many young men who
go to college are idlers; some, worse than idlers. I suppose my class in this respect was like
other classes; but there was a fair proportion of faithful, studious students, and of well-conducted
young men. I was protected in part, perhaps, by my youth, from the grosser temptations. I went
through the prescribed studies of the year--which were principally a few books of Livy and
Horace for the Latin, and 'Collectanea Græca Majora' for the Greek--about as well as most of
the class; but the manner in which the ancient languages were then studied was deplorably superficial.
It was confined to the most cursory reading of the text. Besides the Latin and Greek languages,
we had a weekly recitation in Lowth's English Grammar, and in the Hebrew Grammar, without points;
also in Arithmetic and History, the last from Millot's Compend as a text-book. In all these
branches there was an entire want of apparatus; and the standard, compared with that which
now exists, was extremely low. And yet, in all respects, I imagine a great improvement had
taken place, in reference to college education, on the state of things which existed in the
previous generation. The intense political excitement of the Revolutionary period seems to
have unsettled the minds of men from the quiet pursuits of life."

Reminiscences like these of his own lead one to speak of his memory, which was of all kinds,
and wonderful in all. His memory for things was as remarkable as that for words,--a parallel
I have known in very few men. In this double memory lay his power, which often excited the
surprise of other speakers, of introducing into a discourse which he had written out, and,
as men said, committed to memory, a passage purely extempore, so precisely that no patch could
be observed at the junctures. The truth is, that it was not a matter of much account with him
whether he had written out a statement of a fact or not. He was sure of the fact. And in simple
narrative he was as willing to use extempore language as language prepared. Mr. Emerson says,
in some not very flattering criticisms on him,--"It was remarked, for a man who threw out so
many facts, he was seldom convicted of a blunder." I do not think he had any system of training
memory, beyond that of using it and calling on it pitilessly, which is, I believe, the central
rule regarding it.

Here is a curious story of a feat of memory, in his sketch of his Sophomore year.

"I have mentioned Metaphysics as a study in which I succeeded. I mean, of course, only that
I prepared myself thoroughly in the text-books. Watts's Logic was the first book studied in
this branch,--not a very inviting treatise, compared with that of Archbishop Whately, but easily
comprehended, and not repulsive. The account of the syllogistic method amused me; and the barbarous
stanza describing the various syllogistic modes and figures dwelt for a long time in my memory,
and has not wholly faded away. Locke's 'Essay concerning Human Understanding' came next. This
was more difficult. We recited from it three times a day, the four first days of the week,
the recitation of Thursday afternoon being a review of the rest. We were expected to give the
substance of the author's remarks, but were at liberty to condense them, and to use our own
words. Although the style of Mr. Locke is not remarkably compact, it required a greater maturity
of mind than is possessed by many boys of fourteen to abridge his paragraphs, or state his
principles or their illustrations more concisely than he does himself. I had at that time a
memory which recoiled from nothing; and I soon found that the shortest process was to learn
the text by heart nearly verbatim. I recollect particularly, on one occasion of the review
on Thursday afternoon, that I was called upon to recite early, and, commencing with the portion
of the week's study which came next, I went on repeating word for word and paragraph after
paragraph, and finally, not being stopped by our pleased tutor,[E] page after page, till I
finally went through in that way the greater part of the eleven recitations of the week. The
celebrated passage on the Memory happened to be included. A portion of it, after the lapse
of forty-seven years, remains in my recollection as distinctly as it did the day after I learned
it. There is no resemblance between what befalls the ideas and the children of our youth; and
supposing there were such a resemblance, there is not the slightest analogy between the premature
decease of the ideas and the children of our youth and the disappearance of monumental inscriptions
and imagery from the brass and marble of tombs. But I feel ashamed of this attempt to pick
flaws in this beautiful passage."

But I must not dwell on these reminiscences. I am tempted to refer any reader interested in
his work in the education of the people to an article on that subject in the seventh volume
of Mr. Barnard's "Journal of Education."

I once heard him say that the mental faculty which had been of most use to him and had given
him most pleasure was his facility in acquiring language. He said this on occasion of a visit
to a county prison, where they had taken him to the cell of a person whom no one could understand.
I think he had been called a Greek; but he proved to be an Italian. Mr. Everett was then Governor
of the Commonwealth, and this was an official visit. It was a pretty illustration of republican
institutions, that this poor prisoner in his solitude should first hear his own language from
the chief magistrate. Mr. Everett addressed him first in the language of his supposed country,--I
think in Greek,--and changed to Italian, when the prisoner spoke to him. He spoke French, German,
Italian, and the Romaic with ease. He read the whole Hebrew Testament in his youth, and in
Germany made considerable progress in Arabic; but I do not think that he kept up his Oriental
languages in later years. He was fond of exercising himself in the other languages named, and
almost always had some stated correspondence on his hands in each of them.

Unless he really loved correspondence, as some men do, I believe, I cannot conceive that even
so conscientious a man as he should have kept his correspondence in such perfect order, answered
letters of every kind so faithfully, so fully, and so agreeably. The last day of his life,
a sick man as he was, he seems to have written a dozen letters. Everybody had an answer, and
a kind one. He was, I think, the last man living who courteously acknowledged printed documents.
Certainly there is no one left to do so among men whose habits I have heard of. But he would
not fail in any kindness or courtesy. At times his correspondence rose into a position of real
dignity. Thus, after Fort Sumter, while we still carried the Rebels' mails for them, he wrote
steadily through all his working-hours of every day to his Southern correspondents, who were
sending him all sorts of Billingsgate. And he wrote them the truth. "It is the only way they
see a word of truth," he said. "Look at that newspaper, and that, and that." Till the mails
stopped, they had not to blame him, if they were benighted. I wish that series of letters might,
even now, be published separately.

In such duties, coming next his hand, he spent a busy life. Every life has a dream, a plan,
of what we are going to do, when we can do what we will. I think his was the preparation of
his work on International Law. As I have said, it became his duty to study this as early as
1825. I remember hearing him speak of his plans regarding it in 1839. He set his work aside,
most unwillingly, when, in face of his own first determination and the advice of his best friends,
he became President of Harvard College. As soon as he was released from that position he turned
to it again. During this last winter he had hoped to deliver at the Law School a course of
lectures on the subject; and a part of these are certainly in form ready for delivery. But
from this thread, or this dream, the demands of present duty have constantly called him away.
He has done, from day to day, what had to be done, rather than what he wanted to do. A better
record this, though men forget him to-morrow, than the fame of any Grotius even, if Grotius
had not deserved like praise, better than the fame of any book-man of them all.

The brave man,--and he was a brave man, though in personal intercourse he was really shy,--the
brave man, who, with all his might, and all God's strength assisting, will lend body and mind
to such daily duty for other men, earns his laurels, when he wins them, in more fields than
one or two. It is because Mr. Everett so lived, that in his death his memory receives such
varied honors. He had served the Navy; the last interruption to his favorite study had been
the devotion of the autumn months to the great charity which builds the Sailors' Home. He had
served the Army, not merely by sending a son into it,--by "personal representatives," I know
not how many, whose bounties he had paid,--but by the steady effort in all the charities for
the wounded, and by the counsel, private as often as public, for which every department of
the State turned to him. He had served the Union, all men know how. He had served the Bench,
not simply as a student of the branch of law which he had chosen to illustrate, but in the
steady training of the people to the sacredness of law. He had insisted on the higher education
of the people; and so had fairly won the honors of the Academy, in those early days when men
believed that there were Moral Sciences, and did not debase the name of Science by confining
it to the mere chaff of things weighed and measured. His studies of History are remembered,
for some special cause, in almost every Historical Society in the land. He had served the University
in every station known to her constitution. He was in the service of the City in that Public
Library of which he was, more than any man, the founder, which completes her system of universal
education. He had served the State as her chief magistrate. And in every work of life he served
the Nation as her first citizen. These varied lines of duty--in which "he neglected no branch,
but did about equally well in all"--were fitly called to men's memories, as they saw the circle
of distinguished friends and fellow-laborers who met around his grave.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] "For if one has anything worth writing, it is really worth while to write it so it can
be read."--Address at Barre.

[D] In another scrap of his reminiscences, he says: "The oldest political event of which I
have any recollection is that of the quasi French War of 1798. This I remember only in connection
with the family talk of the price of flour, which it was said would cost twenty dollars a barrel.
As we used principally brown bread, this was of less consequence; although the price of Indian
corn and meal was probably increased also."

[E] Mr. Hedge, with whom this was a favorite passage.

NOTES OF A PIANIST.

II.

Written without method, dotted down carelessly and currente calamo on the leaves of my pocket-book,
the notes I now publish were never intended to be read by any one but myself. A wanderer for
many long years, I have contracted the habit of making daily memoranda of the fleeting, evanescent
impressions of my travels, and thus giving them a more tangible form. These notes, drawn up
hastily and for myself alone, have no literary merit whatever, but they most unequivocally
tell the truth. Is this an adequate compensation for the numerous negligences of style which
criticism may discover in them? You answer my question affirmatively, my dear M----. Be that
as it may, these reminiscences of travel have often solaced the ennui and fatigue of my erratic
life. In writing of the present, the bitterness of the past vanished; and again, if the present
were tedious or fraught with care, I reverted to the sunny pages of the time that is no more,
and revived the sweet emotions of the long-forgotten past.

Under your patronage I now place these poor leaves. They have been the partners of my joys
and my griefs, of my toils and my leisure, during the last three years that have whirled me
relentlessly in that most monotonous, yet agitated circle, yclept "a life of concerts." Should
you find evidence too flagrant, even for your prepossessed eyes, of the inexperience of my
pen, bear in mind, I pray you, that I am but a musician, and only a pianist at that.

       *       *       *       *       *

January, 1862. Once more in New York, after an absence of six years!--Six years madly squandered,
scattered to the winds, as if life were infinite, and youth--eternal! Six years, in the space
of which I have wandered at random beneath the blue skies of the tropics, yielding myself up
indolently to the caprice of Fortune, giving a concert wherever I happened to find a piano,
sleeping wherever night overtook me, on the green grass of the savanna, or under the palm-leafed
roof of a veguero, who shared with me his corn-tortilla, coffee, and bananas, and thought himself
amply renumerated, when, at dawn, I took my departure with a "Dios se lo pague á V." (May God
reward you!) to which he responded by a "Vaya V. con Dios!" (God be with you!)--these two formulæ
constituting, in such unsophisticated countries, the entire operation, so ingeniously perfected
by civilized nations, which generally is known by the name of "settling the hotel-bill." And
when at last I became weary of the same horizon, I crossed an arm of the sea, and landed on
some neighboring isle, or on the Spanish Main.

Moralists, I am aware, condemn this life of inaction and mere pleasure; and they are right.
But poetry is often in antagonism with virtuous purposes; and now that I am shivering under
the icy wind and dull sky of the North,--that I must needs listen to discussions on Erie, Prairie
du Chien, Harlem, and Cumberland,--that I read in the papers the lists of the killed and wounded,--that
havoc and conflagration, violence and murder, are perpetrated all around me,--I find myself
excusing the half-civilized inhabitant of the savanna, who prefers his poetical barbarism to
our barbarous progress.

Unexpectedly brought back to the stern realities of life by a great affliction, I wished to
destroy every link that connected me with the six years I had thrown away. It was at this period
that Strakosch wrote to me, offering an engagement for a tour of concerts through the United
States. I hesitated an instant; one sad look was cast upon the vanished days, I breathed a
regret, and--signed. The dream was over; I was saved; but who could say, if, in the rescue,
youth and poetry had not perished? Poetry and youth are of a volatile mood,--they are butterflies.
Shut them up in a cage, and they will dash their delicate wings to pieces against its bars.
Endeavor to direct them as they soar, and you cramp their flight, you deprive them of their
audacity,--two qualities which are often to be met with in inexperience, and the loss of which--am
I wrong in saying so?--is not always compensated by maturity of talent.

THE CHIMNEY-CORNER.

III.

LITTLE FOXES.--PART II.

It was that Christmas-day that did it; I'm quite convinced of that; and the way it was is what
I am going to tell you.

You see, among the various family customs of us Crowfields, the observance of all sorts of
fêtes and festivals has always been a matter of prime regard; and among all the festivals of
the round ripe year, none is so joyous and honored among us as Christmas.

Let no one upon this, prick up the ears of Archaeology, and tell us that by the latest calculations
of chronologists our ivy-grown and holly-mantled Christmas is all a hum,--that it has been
demonstrated, by all sorts of signs and tables, that the august event it celebrates did not
take place on the 25th of December. Supposing it be so, what have we to do with that? If so
awful, so joyous an event ever took place on our earth, it is surely worth commemoration. It
is the event we celebrate, not the time. And if all Christians for eighteen hundred years,
while warring and wrangling on a thousand other points, have agreed to give this one 25th of
December to peace and good-will, who is he that shall gainsay them, and for an historic scruple
turn his back on the friendly greetings of all Christendom? Such a man is capable of rewriting
Milton's Christmas Hymn in the style of Sternhold and Hopkins.

In our house, however, Christmas has always been a high day, a day whose expectation has held
waking all the little eyes in our bird's nest, when as yet there were only little ones there,
each sleeping with one eye open, hoping to be the happy first to wish the merry Christmas and
grasp the wonderful stocking.

This year our whole family train of married girls and boys, with the various toddling tribes
thereto belonging, held high festival around a wonderful Christmas-tree, the getting-up and
adorning of which had kept my wife and Jennie and myself busy for a week beforehand. If the
little folks think these trees grow up in a night, without labor, they know as little about
them as they do about most of the other blessings which rain down on their dear little thoughtless
heads. Such scrambling and clambering and fussing and tying and untying, such alterations and
rearrangements, such agilities in getting up and down and everywhere to tie on tapers and gold
balls and glittering things innumerable, to hang airy dolls in graceful positions, to make
branches bear stiffly up under loads of pretty things which threaten to make the tapers turn
bottom upward! Part and parcel of all this was I, Christopher, most reckless of rheumatism,
most careless of dignity, the round, bald top of my head to be seen emerging everywhere from
the thick boughs of the spruce, now devising an airy settlement for some gossamer-robed doll,
now adjusting far back on a stiff branch Tom's new little skates, now balancing bags of sugar-plums
and candy, and now combating desperately with some contumacious taper that would turn slantwise
or crosswise, or anywise but upward as a Christian taper should,--regardless of Mrs. Crowfield's
gentle admonitions and suggestions, sitting up to most dissipated hours, springing out of bed
suddenly to change some arrangement in the middle of the night, and up long before the lazy
sun at dawn to execute still other arrangements. If that Christmas-tree had been a fort to
be taken, or a campaign to be planned, I could not have spent more time and strength on it.
My zeal so far outran even that of sprightly Miss Jennie, that she could account for it only
by saucily suggesting that papa must be fast getting into second childhood.

But didn't we have a splendid lighting-up? Didn't I and my youngest grandson, little Tom, head
the procession magnificent in paper soldier-caps, blowing tin trumpets and beating drums, as
we marched round the twinkling glories of our Christmas-tree, all glittering with red and blue
and green tapers, and with a splendid angel on top with great gold wings, the cutting-out and
adjusting of which had held my eyes waking for nights before? I had had oceans of trouble with
that angel, owing to an unlucky sprain in his left wing, which had required constant surgical
attention through the week, and which I feared might fall loose again at the important and
blissful moment of exhibition: but no, the Fates were in our favor; the angel behaved beautifully,
and kept his wings as crisp as possible, and the tapers all burned splendidly, and the little
folks were as crazy with delight as my most ardent hopes could have desired; and then we romped
and played and frolicked as long as little eyes could keep open, and long after; and so passed
away our Christmas.

I had forgotten to speak of the Christmas-dinner, that solid feast of fat things, on which
we also luxuriated. Mrs. Crowfield outdid all household traditions in that feast: the turkey
and the chickens, the jellies and the sauces, the pies and the pudding, behold, are they not
written in the tablets of Memory which remain to this day?

The holidays passed away hilariously, and at New-Year's I, according to time-honored custom,
went forth to make my calls and see my fair friends, while my wife and daughters stayed at
home to dispense the hospitalities of the day to their gentlemen friends. All was merry, cheerful,
and it was agreed on all hands that a more joyous holiday season had never flown over us.

But, somehow, the week after, I began to be sensible of a running-down in the wheels. I had
an article to write for the "Atlantic," but felt mopish and could not write. My dinner had
not its usual relish, and I had an indefinite sense everywhere of something going wrong. My
coal bill came in, and I felt sure we were being extravagant, and that our John Furnace wasted
the coal. My grandsons and granddaughters came to see us, and I discovered that they had high-pitched
voices, and burst in without wiping their shoes, and it suddenly occurred powerfully to my
mind that they were not being well brought up,--evidently, they were growing up rude and noisy.
I discovered several tumblers and plates with the edges chipped, and made bitter reflections
on the carelessness of Irish servants; our crockery was going to destruction, along with the
rest. Then, on opening one of my paper-drawers, I found that Jennie's one drawer of worsted
had overflowed into two or three; Jennie was growing careless; besides, worsted is dear, and
girls knit away small fortunes, without knowing it, on little duds that do nobody any good.
Moreover, Maggie had three times put my slippers into the hall-closet, instead of leaving them
where I wanted, under my study-table. Mrs. Crowfield ought to look after things more; every
servant, from end to end of the house, was getting out of the traces; it was strange she did
not see it.

All this I vented, from time to time, in short, crusty sayings and doings, as freely as if
I hadn't just written an article on "Little Foxes" in the last "Atlantic," till at length my
eyes were opened on my own state and condition.

It was evening, and I had just laid up the fire in the most approved style of architecture,
and, projecting my feet into my slippers, sat spitefully cutting the leaves of a caustic review.

Mrs. Crowfield took the tongs and altered the disposition of a stick.

"My dear," I said, "I do wish you'd let the fire alone,--you always put it out."

"I was merely admitting a little air between the sticks," said my wife.

"You always make matters worse, when you touch the fire."

As if in contradiction, a bright tongue of flame darted up between the sticks, and the fire
began chattering and snapping defiance at me. Now, if there's anything which would provoke
a saint, it is to be jeered and snapped at in that way by a man's own fire. It's an unbearable
impertinence. I threw out my leg impatiently, and hit Rover, who yelped a yelp that finished
the upset of my nerves. I gave him a hearty kick, that he might have something to yelp for,
and in the movement upset Jennie's embroidery-basket.

"Oh, papa!"

"Confound your baskets and balls! they are everywhere, so that a man can't move; useless, wasteful
things, too."

"Wasteful?" said Jennie, coloring indignantly; for if there's anything Jennie piques herself
upon, it's economy.

"Yes, wasteful,--wasting time and money both. Here are hundreds of shivering poor to be clothed,
and Christian females sit and do nothing but crochet worsted into useless knicknacks. If they
would be working for the poor, there would be some sense in it. But it's all just alike, no
real Christianity in the world,--nothing but organized selfishness and self-indulgence."

"My dear," said Mrs. Crowfield, "you are not well to-night. Things are not quite so desperate
as they appear. You haven't got over Christmas-week."

"I am well. Never was better. But I can see, I hope, what's before my eyes; and the fact is,
Mrs. Crowfield, things must not go on as they are going. There must be more care, more attention
to details. There's Maggie,--that girl never does what she is told. You are too slack with
her, Ma'am. She will light the fire with the last paper, and she won't put my slippers in the
right place; and I can't have my study made the general catch-all and menagerie for Rover and
Jennie, and her baskets and balls, and for all the family litter."

Just at this moment I overheard a sort of aside from Jennie, who was swelling with repressed
indignation at my attack on her worsted. She sat with her back to me, knitting energetically,
and said, in a low, but very decisive tone, as she twitched her yarn,--

"Now if I should talk in that way, people would call me cross,--and that's the whole of it."

I pretended to be looking into the fire in an absent-minded state; but Jennie's words had started
a new idea. Was that it? Was that the whole matter? Was it, then, a fact, that the house, the
servants, Jennie and her worsteds, Rover and Mrs. Crowfield, were all going on pretty much
as usual, and that the only difficulty was that I was cross? How many times had I encouraged
Rover to lie just where he was lying when I kicked him! How many times, in better moods, had
I complimented Jennie on her neat little fancy-works, and declared that I liked the social
companionship of ladies' work-baskets among my papers! Yes, it was clear. After all, things
were much as they had been; only I was cross.

Cross. I put it to myself in that simple, old-fashioned word, instead of saying that I was
out of spirits, or nervous, or using any of the other smooth phrases with which we good Christians
cover up our little sins of temper. "Here you are, Christopher," said I to myself, "a literary
man, with a somewhat delicate nervous organization and a sensitive stomach, and you have been
eating like a sailor or a ploughman; you have been gallivanting and merry-making and playing
the boy for two weeks; up at all sorts of irregular hours, and into all sorts of boyish performances;
and the consequence is, that, like a thoughtless young scapegrace, you have used up in ten
days the capital of nervous energy that was meant to last you ten weeks. You can't eat your
cake and have it too, Christopher. When the nervous-fluid source of cheerfulness, giver of
pleasant sensations and pleasant views, is all spent, you can't feel cheerful; things cannot
look as they did when you were full of life and vigor. When the tide is out, there is nothing
but unsightly, ill-smelling tide-mud, and you can't help it; but you can keep your senses,--you
can know what is the matter with you,--you can keep from visiting your overdose of Christmas
mince-pies and candies and jocularities on the heads of Mrs. Crowfield, Rover, and Jennie,
whether in the form of virulent morality, pungent criticisms, or a free kick, such as you just
gave the poor brute."

"Come here, Rover, poor dog!" said I, extending my hand to Rover, who cowered at the farther
corner of the room, eying me wistfully,--"come here, you poor doggie, and make up with your
master. There, there! Was his master cross? Well, he knows it. We must forgive and forget,
old boy, mustn't we?" And Rover nearly broke his own back and tore me to pieces with his tumultuous
tail-waggings.

"As for you, puss," I said to Jennie, "I am much obliged to you for your free suggestion. You
must take my cynical moralities for what they are worth, and put your little traps into as
many of my drawers as you like."

In short, I made it up handsomely all around,--even apologizing to Mrs. Crowfield, who, by
the bye, has summered and wintered me so many years, and knows all my airs and cuts and crinkles
so well, that she took my irritable unreasonable spirit as tranquilly as if I had been a baby
cutting a new tooth.

"Of course, Chris, I knew what the matter was; don't disturb yourself," she said, as I began
my apology; "we understand each other. But there is one thing I have to say; and that is, that
your article ought to be ready."

"Ah, well, then," said I, "like other great writers, I shall make capital of my own sins, and
treat of the second little family fox; and his name is--"

IRRITABILITY.

Irritability is, more than most unlovely states, a sin of the flesh. It is not, like envy,
malice, spite, revenge, a vice which we may suppose to belong equally to an embodied or a disembodied
spirit. In fact, it comes nearer to being physical depravity than anything I know of. There
are some bodily states, some conditions of the nerves, such that we could not conceive of even
an angelic spirit confined in a body thus disordered as being able to do any more than simply
endure. It is a state of nervous torture; and the attacks which the wretched victim makes on
others are as much a result of disease as the snapping and biting of a patient convulsed with
hydrophobia.

Then, again, there are other people who go through life loving and beloved, desired in every
circle, held up in the church as examples of the power of religion, who, after all, deserve
no credit for these things. Their spirits are lodged in an animal nature so tranquil, so cheerful,
all the sensations which come to them are so fresh and vigorous and pleasant, that they cannot
help viewing the world charitably and seeing everything through a glorified medium. The ill-temper
of others does not provoke them; perplexing business never sets their nerves to vibrating;
and all their lives long they walk in the serene sunshine of perfect animal health.

Look at Rover there. He is never nervous, never cross, never snaps or snarls, and is ready,
the moment after the grossest affront, to wag the tail of forgiveness,--all because kind Nature
has put his dog's body together so that it always works harmoniously. If every person in the
world were gifted with a stomach and nerves like his, it would be a far better and happier
world, no doubt. The man said a good thing who made the remark that the foundation of all intellectual
and moral worth must be laid in a good healthy animal.

Now I think it is undeniable that the peace and happiness of the home-circle are very generally
much invaded by the recurrence in its members of these states of bodily irritability. Every
person, if he thinks the matter over, will see that his condition in life, the character of
his friends, his estimate of their virtues and failings, his hopes and expectations, are all
very much modified by these things. Cannot we all remember going to bed as very ill-used, persecuted
individuals, all whose friends were unreasonable, whose life was full of trials and crosses,
and waking up on a bright bird-singing morning to find all these illusions gone with the fogs
of the night? Our friends are nice people, after all; the little things that annoyed us look
ridiculous by bright sunshine; and we are fortunate individuals.

The philosophy of life, then, as far as this matter is concerned, must consist of two things:
first, to keep ourselves out of irritable bodily states; and, second, to understand and control
these states, when we cannot ward them off.

Of course, the first of these is the most important; and yet, of all things, it seems to be
least looked into and understood. We find abundant rules for the government of the tongue and
temper; it is a slough into which, John Bunyan hath it, cart-loads of wholesome instructions
have been thrown; but how to get and keep that healthy state of brain, stomach, and nerves
which takes away the temptation to ill-temper and anger is a subject which moral and religious
teachers seem scarcely to touch upon.

Now, without running into technical, physiological language, it is evident, as regards us human
beings, that there is a power by which we live and move and have our being,--by which the brain
thinks and wills, the stomach digests, the blood circulates, and all the different provinces
of the little man-kingdom do their work. This something--call it nervous fluid, nervous power,
vital energy, life-force, or anything else that you will--is a perfectly understood, if not
a definable thing. It is plain, too, that people possess this force in very different degrees:
some generating it as a high-pressure engine does steam, and using it constantly, with an apparently
inexhaustible flow; and others who have little, and spend it quickly. We have a common saying,
that this or that person is soon used up. Now most nervous, irritable states of temper are
the mere physical result of a used-up condition. The person has overspent his nervous energy,--like
a man who should eat up on Monday the whole food which was to keep him for a week, and go growling
and faint through the other days; or the quantity of nervous force which was wanted to carry
on the whole system in all its parts is seized on by some one monopolizing portion, and used
up to the loss and detriment of the rest, Thus, with men of letters, an exorbitant brain expends
on its own workings what belongs to the other offices of the body: the stomach has nothing
to carry on digestion; the secretions are badly made; and the imperfectly assimilated nourishment,
that is conveyed to every little nerve and tissue, carries with it an acrid, irritating quality,
producing general restlessness and discomfort. So men and women go struggling on through their
three-score and ten years, scarcely one in a thousand knowing through life that perfect balance
of parts, that appropriate harmony of energies, that make a healthy, kindly animal condition,
predisposing to cheerfulness and good-will.

We Americans are, to begin with, a nervous, excitable people. Multitudes of children, probably
the great majority in the upper walks of life, are born into the world with weaknesses of the
nervous organization, or of the brain or stomach, which make them incapable of any strong excitement
or prolonged exertion without some lesion or derangement; so that they are continually being
checked, laid up, and invalided in the midst of their drugs. Life here in America is so fervid,
so fast, our climate is so stimulating, with its clear, bright skies, its rapid and sudden
changes of temperature, that the tendencies to nervous disease are constantly aggravated.

Under these circumstances, unless men and women make a conscience, a religion, of saving and
sparing something of themselves expressly for home-life and home-consumption, it must follow
that home will often be merely a sort of refuge for us to creep into when we are used up and
irritable.

Papa is up and off, after a hasty breakfast, and drives all day in his business, putting into
it all there is in him, letting it drink up brain and nerve and body and soul, and coming home
jaded and exhausted, so that he cannot bear the cry of the baby, and the frolics and pattering
of the nursery seem horrid and needless confusion. The little ones say, in their plain vernacular,
"Papa is cross."

Mamma goes out to a party that keeps her up till one or two in the morning, breathes bad air,
eats indigestible food, and the next day is so nervous that every straw and thread in her domestic
path is insufferable.

Papas that pursue business thus day after day, and mammas that go into company, as it is called,
night after night, what is there left in or of them to make an agreeable fireside with, to
brighten their home and inspire their children?

True, the man says he cannot help himself,--business requires it. But what is the need of rolling
up money at the rate at which he is seeking to do it? Why not have less, and take some time
to enjoy his home, and cheer up his wife, and form the minds of his children? Why spend himself
down to the last drop on the world, and give to the dearest friends he has only the bitter dregs?

Much of the preaching which the pulpit and the Church have levelled at fashionable amusements
has failed of any effect at all, because wrongly put. A cannonade has been opened upon dancing,
for example, and all for reasons that will not, in the least, bear looking into. It is vain
to talk of dancing as a sin because practised in a dying world where souls are passing into
eternity. If dancing is a sin for this reason, so is playing marbles, or frolicking with one's
children, or enjoying a good dinner, or doing fifty other things which nobody ever dreamed
of objecting to.

If the preacher were to say that anything is a sin which uses up the strength we need for daily
duties, and leaves us fagged out and irritable at just those times and in just those places
when and where we need most to be healthy, cheerful, and self-possessed, he would say a thing
that none of his hearers would dispute. If he should add, that dancing-parties, beginning at
ten o'clock at night and ending at four o'clock in the morning, do use up the strength, weaken
the nerves, and leave a person wholly unfit for any home duty, he would also be saying what
very few people would deny; and then his case would be made out. If he should say that it is
wrong to breathe bad air and fill the stomach with unwholesome dainties, so as to make one
restless, ill-natured, and irritable for days after, he would also say what few would deny,
and his preaching might have some hope of success.

The true manner of judging of the worth of amusements is to try them by their effects on the
nerves and spirits the day after. True amusement ought to be, as the word indicates, recreation,--something
that refreshes, turns us out anew, rests the mind and body by change, and gives cheerfulness
and alacrity to our return to duty.

The true objection to all stimulants, alcoholic and narcotic, consists simply in this,--that
they are a form of overdraft on the nervous energy, which helps us to use up in one hour the
strength of whole days.

A man uses up all the fair, legal interest of nervous power by too much business, too much
care, or too much amusement. He has now a demand to meet. He has a complicate account to make
up, an essay or a sermon to write, and he primes himself by a cup of coffee, a cigar, a glass
of spirits. This is exactly the procedure of a man who, having used the interest of his money,
begins to dip into the principal. The strength a man gets in this way is just so much taken
out of his life-blood; it is borrowing of a merciless creditor, who will exact, in time, the
pound of flesh nearest his heart.

Much of the irritability which spoils home happiness is the letting-down from the over-excitement
of stimulus. Some will drink coffee, when they own every day that it makes them nervous; some
will drug themselves with tobacco, and some with alcohol, and, for a few hours of extra brightness,
give themselves and their friends many hours when amiability or agreeableness is quite out
of the question. There are people calling themselves Christians who live in miserable thraldom,
forever in debt to Nature, forever overdrawing on their just resources, and using up their
patrimony, because they have not the moral courage to break away from a miserable appetite.

The same may be said of numberless indulgences of the palate, which tax the stomach beyond
its power, and bring on all the horrors of indigestion. It is almost impossible for a confirmed
dyspeptic to act like a good Christian; but a good Christian ought not to become a confirmed
dyspeptic. Reasonable self-control, abstaining from all unseasonable indulgence, may prevent
or put an end to dyspepsia, and many suffer and make their friends suffer only because they
will persist in eating what they know is hurtful to them.

But it is not merely in worldly business, or fashionable amusements, or the gratification of
appetite, that people are tempted to overdraw and use up in advance their life-force. It is
done in ways more insidious, because connected with our moral and religious faculties. There
are religious exaltations beyond the regular pulse and beatings of ordinary nature, that quite
as surely gravitate downward into the mire of irritability. The ascent to the third heaven
lets even the Apostle down to a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet him.

It is the temptation of natures in which the moral faculties predominate to overdo in the outward
expression and activities of religion till they are used up and irritable, and have no strength
left to set a good example in domestic life.

The Reverend Mr. X. in the pulpit to-day appears with the face of an angel; he soars away into
those regions of exalted devotion where his people can but faintly gaze after him; he tells
them of the victory that overcometh the world, of an unmoved faith that fears no evil, of a
serenity of love that no outward event can ruffle; and all look after him and wonder, and wish
they could so soar.

Alas! the exaltation which inspires these sublime conceptions, these celestial ecstasies, is
a double and treble draft on Nature,--and poor Mrs. X. knows, when she hears him preaching,
that days of miserable reaction are before her. He has been a fortnight driving before a gale
of strong excitement, doing all the time twice or thrice as much as in his ordinary state he
could, and sustaining himself by the stimulus of strong coffee. He has preached or exhorted
every night, and conversed with religious inquirers every day, seeming to himself to become
stronger and stronger, because every day more and more excitable and excited. To his hearers,
with his flushed sunken cheek and his glittering eye, he looks like some spiritual being just
trembling on his flight for upper worlds; but to poor Mrs. X., whose husband he is, things
wear a very different aspect. Her woman and mother instincts tell her that he is drawing on
his life-capital with both hands, and that the hours of a terrible settlement must come, and
the days of darkness will be many. He who spoke so beautifully of the peace of a soul made
perfect will not be able to bear the cry of his baby or the pattering feet of any of the poor
little Xs., who must be sent

    "Anywhere, anywhere,
    Out of his sight";

he who discoursed so devoutly of perfect trust in God will be nervous about the butcher's bill,
sure of going to ruin because both ends of the salary don't meet; and he who could so admiringly
tell of the silence of Jesus under provocation will but too often speak unadvisedly with his
lips. Poor Mr. X. will be morally insane for days or weeks, and absolutely incapable of preaching
Christ in the way that is the most effective, by setting Him forth in his own daily example.

What then? must we not do the work of the Lord?

Yes, certainly; but the first work of the Lord, that for which provision is to be made in the
first place, is to set a good example as a Christian man. Better labor for years steadily,
diligently, doing every day only what the night's rest can repair, avoiding those cheating
stimulants that overtax Nature, and illustrating the sayings of the pulpit by the daily life
in the family, than to pass life in exaltations and depressions.

The same principles apply to hearers as to preachers. Religious services must be judged of
like amusements, by their effect on the life. If an overdose of prayers, hymns, and sermons
leaves us tired, nervous, and cross, it is only not quite as bad as an overdose of fashionable
folly.

It could be wished that in every neighborhood there might be one or two calm, sweet, daily
services which should morning and evening unite for a few solemn moments the hearts of all
as in one family, and feed with a constant, unnoticed daily supply the lamp of faith and love.
Such are some of the daily prayer-meetings which for eight or ten years past have held their
even tenor in some of our New England cities, and such the morning and evening services which
we are glad to see obtaining in the Episcopal churches. Everything which brings religion into
habitual contact with life, and makes it part of a healthy, cheerful average living, we hail
as a sign of a better day. Nothing is so good for health as daily devotion. It is the best
soother of the nerves, the best antidote to care; and we trust erelong that all Christian people
will be of one mind in this, and that neighborhoods will be families gathering daily around
one altar, praying not for themselves merely, but for each other.

The conclusion of the whole matter is this: Set apart some provision to make merry with at
home, and guard that reserve as religiously as the priests guarded the shew-bread in the temple.
However great you are, however good, however wide the general interests that you may control,
you gain nothing by neglecting home-duties. You must leave enough of yourself to be able to
bear and forbear, give and forgive, and be a source of life and cheerfulness around the hearthstone.

Thus much on avoiding unhealthy, irritable states.

But it still remains that a large number of people will be subject to them unavoidably for
these reasons.

First. The use of tobacco, alcohol, and other kindred stimulants, for so many generations,
has vitiated the brain and nervous system, so that it is not what it was in former times. Michelet
treats of this subject quite at large in some of his late works; and we have to face the fact
of a generation born with an impaired nervous organization, who will need constant care and
wisdom to avoid unhealthy, morbid irritation.

There is a temperament called the HYPOCHONDRIAC, to which many persons, some of them the brightest,
the most interesting, the most gifted, are born heirs,--a want of balance of the nervous powers,
which tends constantly to periods of high excitement and of consequent depression,--an unfortunate
inheritance for the possessor, though accompanied often with the greatest talents. Sometimes,
too, it is the unfortunate lot of those who have not talents, who bear its burdens and its
anguish without its rewards.

People of this temperament are subject to fits of gloom and despondency, of nervous irritability
and suffering, which darken the aspect of the whole world to them, which present lying reports
of their friends, of themselves, of the circumstances of their life, and of all with which
they have to do.

Now the highest philosophy for persons thus afflicted is to understand themselves and their
tendencies, to know that these fits of gloom and depression are just as much a form of disease
as a fever or a toothache, to know that it is the peculiarity of the disease to fill the mind
with wretched illusions, to make them seem miserable and unlovely to themselves, to make their
nearest friends seem unjust and unkind, to make all events appear to be going wrong and tending
to destruction and ruin.

The evils and burdens of such a temperament are half removed when a man once knows that he
has it and recognizes it for a disease, when he does not trust himself to speak and act in
those bitter hours as if there were any truth in what he thinks and feels and sees. He who
has not attained to this wisdom overwhelms his friends and his family with the waters of bitterness;
he stings with unjust accusations, and makes his fireside dreadful with fancies which are real
to him, but false as the ravings of fever.

A sensible person, thus diseased, who has found out what ails him, will shut his mouth resolutely,
not to give utterance to the dark thoughts that infest his soul.

A lady of great brilliancy and wit, who was subject to these periods, once said to me, "My
dear Sir, there are times when I know I am possessed of the Devil, and then I never let myself
speak." And so this wise woman carried her burden about with her in a determined, cheerful
reticence, leaving always the impression of a cheery, kindly temper, when, if she had spoken
out a tithe of what she thought and felt in her morbid hours, she would have driven all her
friends from her, and made others as miserable as she was herself. She was a sunbeam, a life-giving
presence in every family, by the power of self-knowledge and self-control.

Such victories as this are the victories of real saints.

But if the victim of these glooms is once tempted to lift their heavy load by the use of any
stimulus whatever, he or she is a lost man or woman. It is from this sad class more than any
other that the vast army of drunkards and opium-eaters is recruited. The hypochondriacs belong
to the class so well described by that brilliant specimen of them, Dr. Johnson,--those who
can practise ABSTINENCE, but not TEMPERANCE. They cannot, they will not be moderate. Whatever
stimulant they take for relief will create an uncontrollable appetite, a burning passion. The
temperament itself lies in the direction of insanity. It needs the most healthful, careful,
even regime and management to keep it within the bounds of soundness; but the introduction
of stimulants deepens its gloom almost to madness.

All parents, in the education of their children, should look out for and understand the signs
of this temperament. It appears in early childhood; and a child inclined to fits of depression
should be marked as a subject of the most thoughtful, painstaking physical and moral training.
All over-excitement and stimulus should be carefully avoided, whether in the way of study,
amusement, or diet. Judicious education may do much to mitigate the unavoidable pains and penalties
of this most undesirable inheritance.

The second class of persons who need wisdom in the control of their moods is that large class
whose unfortunate circumstances make it impossible for them to avoid constantly overdoing and
overdrawing upon their nervous energies, and who therefore are always exhausted and worn out.
Poor souls, who labor daily under a burden too heavy for them, and whose fretfulness and impatience
are looked upon with sorrow, not anger, by pitying angels. Poor mothers, with families of little
children clinging round them, and a baby that never lets them sleep; hard-working men, whose
utmost toil, day and night, scarcely keeps the wolf from the door; and all the hard-laboring,
heavy-laden, on whom the burdens of life press far beyond their strength.

There are but two things we know of for these,--two only remedies for the irritation that comes
of these exhaustions: the habit of silence towards men, and of speech towards God. The heart
must utter itself or burst; but let it learn to commune constantly and intimately with One
always present and always sympathizing. This is the great, the only safeguard against fretfulness
and complaint. Thus and thus only can peace spring out of confusion, and the breaking chords
of an overtaxed nature be strung anew to a celestial harmony.

THE POPULAR LECTURE.

The popular lecture, in the Northern States of America, has become, in Yankee parlance, "an
institution"; and it has attained such prevalence and power that it deserves more attention
and more respect from those who assume the control of the motive influences of society than
it has hitherto received. It has been the habit of certain literary men, (more particularly
of such as do not possess a gift for public speech,) and of certain literary magazines, (managed
by persons of delicate habit and weak lungs,) to regard and to treat the popular lecture with
a measure of contempt. For the last fifteen years the downfall of what has been popularly denominated
"The Lecture System" has been confidently predicted by those who, granting them the wisdom
which they assume, should have been so well acquainted with its nature and its adaptation to
a permanent popular want as to see that it must live and thrive until something more practicable
can be contrived to take its place. If anything more interesting, cheaper, simpler, or more
portable can be found than a vigorous man, with a pleasant manner, good voice, and something
to say, then the popular lecture will certainly be superseded; but the man who will invent
this substitute is at present engaged on a new order of architecture and the problem of perpetual
motion, with such prospect of full employment for the present as will give "the lecture system"
sufficient time to die gracefully. An institution which can maintain its foothold in the popular
regard throughout such a war as has challenged the interest and taxed the energies of this
nation during the last three years is one which will not easily die; and the history of the
popular lecture proves, that, wherever it has been once established, it retains its place through
all changes of social material and all phases of political and religious influence. Circumstances
there may be which will bring intermissions in its yearly operations; but no instance can be
found of its permanent relinquishment by a community which has once enjoyed its privileges,
and acquired a taste for the food and inspiration which it furnishes.

An exposition of the character of the popular lecture, the machinery by which it is supported,
and the results which it aims at and accomplishes, cannot be without interest to thoughtful
readers.

What is the popular lecture in America? It will not help us in this inquest to refer to a dictionary;
for it is not necessary that the performance which Americans call a lecture should be an instructive
discourse at all. A lecture before the Young Men's Associations and lecture organizations of
the country is any characteristic utterance of any man who speaks in their employment. The
word "lecture" covers generally generically all the orations, declamations, dissertations,
exhortations, recitations, humorous extravaganzas, narratives of travel, harangues, sermons,
semi-sermons, demi-semi-sermons, and lectures proper, which can be crowded into what is called
"a course," but which might be more properly called a bundle, the bundle depending for its
size upon the depth of the managerial purse. Ten or twelve lectures are the usual number, although
in some of the larger cities, beginning early in "the lecture season," and ending late, the
number given may reach twenty.

The machinery for the management and support of these lectures is as simple as possible, the
lecturers themselves having nothing to do with it. There are library associations or lyceum
associations, composed principally of young men, in all the cities and large villages, which
institute and manage courses of lectures every winter, for the double purpose of interesting
and instructing the public and replenishing their treasury. The latter object, it must be confessed,
occupies the principal place, although, as it depends for its attainment on the success of
the former, the public is as well served as if its entertainment were alone consulted. In the
smaller towns there are usually temporary associations, organized for the simple purpose of
obtaining lecturers and managing the business incident to a course. Not unfrequently, ten,
twenty, or thirty men pledge themselves to make up any deficiency there may be in the funds
required for the season's entertainments, and place the management in the hands of a committee.
Sometimes two or three persons call themselves a lecture-committee, and employ lecturers, themselves
risking the possible loss, and dividing among themselves any profits which their course may
produce. The opposition or independent courses in the larger cities are often instituted by
such organizations,--sometimes, indeed, by a single person, who has a natural turn for this
sort of enterprise. The invitations to lecturers are usually sent out months in advance, though
very few courses are definitely provided for and arranged before the first of November. The
fees of lecturers range from fifty to a hundred dollars. A few uniformly command the latter
sum, and lecture-committees find it for their interest to employ them. It is to be presumed
that the universal rise of prices will change these figures somewhat.

The popular lecture is the most purely democratic of all our democratic institutions. The people
hear a second time only those who interest them. If a lecturer cannot engage the interest of
his audience, his fame or greatness or learning will pass for nothing. A lecture-audience will
forgive extravagance, but never dulness. They will give a man one chance to interest them,
and if he fails, that is the last of him. The lecture-committees understand this, and gauge
the public taste or the public humor as delicately as the most accomplished theatrical manager.
The man who receives their invitation may generally be certain that the public wish either
to see or hear him. Popularity is the test. Only popularity after trial, or notoriety before,
can draw houses. Only popularity and notoriety can pay expenses and swell the balance of profit.
Notoriety in the various walks of life and the personal influence of friends and admirers can
usually secure a single hearing, but no outside influence can keep a lecturer permanently in
the field. If the people "love to hear" him, he can lecture from Maine to California six months
in the year; if not, he cannot get so much as a second invitation.

One of the noticeable features of the public humor in this matter is the aversion to professional
lecturers,--to those who make lecturing a business, with no higher aim than that of getting
a living. No calling or profession can possibly be more legitimate than that of the lecturer;
there is nothing immodest or otherwise improper in the advertisement of a man's literary wares;
yet it is true, beyond dispute, that the public do not regard with favor those who make lecturing
their business, particularly if they present themselves uninvited. So well is this understood
by this class of lecturers that a part of their machinery consists of invitations numerously
signed, which invitations are written and circulated by themselves, their interested friends,
or their authorized agents, and published as their apology for appearing. A man who has no
other place in the world than that which he makes for himself on the platform is never a popular
favorite, unless he uses the platform for the advocacy of some great philanthropic movement
or reform, into which he throws unselfishly the leading efforts of his life. Referring to the
history of the last twenty years, it will readily be seen that those who have undertaken to
make lecturing a business, without side pursuit or superior aim, are either retired from the
field or are very low in the public favor. The public insist, that, in order to be an acceptable
lecturer, a man must be something else, that he must begin and remain something else; and it
will be found to-day that those only who work worthily in other fields have a permanent hold
upon the affections of lecture-going people. It is the public judgment or caprice that the
work of the lecturer shall be incidental to some worthy pursuit, from which that work temporarily
calls him. There seems to be a kind of coquetry in this. The public do not accept of those
who are too openly in the market or who are too easily won. They prefer to entice a man from
his chosen love, and account his favors sweeter because the wedded favorite is deprived of them.

A lecturer's first invitation, in consonance with these facts, is almost always suggested by
his excellence or notoriety in some department of life that may or may not be allied to the
platform. If a man makes a remarkable speech, he is very naturally invited to lecture; but
he is no more certain to be invited than he who wins a battle. A showman gets his first invitation
for the same reason that an author does,--because he is notorious. Nearly all new men in the
lecture-field are introduced through the popular desire to see notorious or famous people.
A man whose name is on the popular tongue is a man whom the popular eye desires to see. Such
a man will always draw one audience; and a single occasion is all that he is engaged for. After
getting a place upon the platform, it is for him to prove his power to hold it. If he does
not lecture as well as he writes, or fights, or walks, or lifts, or leaps, or hunts lions,
or manages an exhibition, or plays a French horn, or does anything which has made him a desirable
man for curious people to see, then he makes way for the next notoriety. Very few courses of
lectures are delivered in the cities and larger villages that do not present at least one new
man, who is invited simply because people are curious to see him. The popular desire is strong
to come in some way into personal contact with those who do remarkable things. They cannot
be chased in the street; they can be seen only to a limited extent in the drawing-room; but
it is easy to pay twenty-five cents to hear them lecture, with the privilege of looking at
them for an hour and criticizing them for a week.

It is a noteworthy fact, in this connection, that, while there are thousands of cultivated
men who would esteem it a privilege to lecture for the lecturer's usual fee, there are hardly
more than twenty-five in the country whom the public considers it a privilege worth paying
for to hear. It is astonishing, that, in a country so fertile as this in the production of
gifted and cultivated men, so few find it possible to establish themselves upon the platform
as popular favorites. If the accepted ones were in a number of obvious particulars alike, there
could be some intelligent generalizing upon the subject; but men possessing fewer points of
resemblance, or presenting stronger contrasts, in style of person and performance, than the
established favorites of lecture-going people, cannot be found in the world; and if any generalization
be attempted, it must relate to matters below the surface and beyond the common apprehension.
It is certain that not always the greatest or the most brilliant or the most accomplished men
are to be found among the popular lecturers. A man may make a great, even a brilliant speech
on an important public question, and be utterly dreary in the lecture-room. There are multitudes
of eloquent clergymen who in their pulpits command the attention of immense congregations,
yet who meet with no acknowledgment of power upon the platform.

In a survey of those who are the established favorites, it will be found that there are no
slaves among them. The people will not accept those who are creed-bound, or those who bow to
any authority but God and themselves. They insist that those who address them shall be absolutely
free, and that they shall speak only for themselves. Party and sectarian spokesmen find no
permanent place upon the platform. It is only when a lecturer cuts loose from all his conventional
belongings, and speaks with thought and tongue unfettered, that he finds his way to the popular
heart. This freedom has sometimes been considered dangerous by the more conservative members
of society; and they have not unfrequently managed to get the lectures into their own hands,
or to organize courses representing more moderate views in matters of society, politics, and
religion; but their efforts have uniformly proved failures. The people have always refused
to support lectures which brought before them the bondmen of creeds and parties. Year after
year men have been invited to address audiences three fourths of whom disagreed utterly with
the sentiments and opinions which it was well understood such men would present, simply because
they were free men, with minds of their own and tongues that would speak those minds or be
dumb. Names could be mentioned of those who for the last fifteen years have been established
favorites in communities which listened to them respectfully, nay, applauded them warmly, and
then abused them for the remainder of the year.

It is not enough, however, that a lecturer be free. He must have something fresh to say, or
a fresh and attractive way of saying that which is not altogether new. Individuality, and a
certain personal quality which, for lack of a better name, is called magnetism, are also essential
to the popular lecturer. People desire to be moved, to be acted upon by a strong and positive
nature. They like to be furnished with fresh ideas, or with old ideas put into a fresh and
practical form, so that they can be readily apprehended and appropriated.

And here comes the grand difficulty which every lecturer encounters, and over which so many
stumble into failure,--that of interesting and refreshing men and women of education and culture,
and, at the same time, of pleasing, moving, and instructing those of feebler acquirements or
no acquirements at all. Most men of fine powers fail before a popular audience, because they
do not fully apprehend the thing to be done. They almost invariably write above the level of
one half of their audience, and below the level of the other half. In either event, they fail,
and have the mortification of seeing others of inferior gifts succeed through a nicer adaptation
of their literary wares to the wants of the market. Much depends upon the choice of a subject.
If that be selected from those which touch universal interests and address common motives,
half the work is done. A clear, simple, direct style of composition, apt illustration, (and
the power of this is marvellous,) and a distinct and pleasant delivery, will do much to complete
the success.

It is about equally painful and amusing to witness the efforts which some men make to write
down to the supposed capacity of a popular audience. The puerilities and buffooneries that
are sometimes undertaken by these men, for the purpose of conciliating the crowd, certainly
amuse the crowd, and so answer their end, though not in a way to bring reputation to the actors.
No greater mistake can possibly be made than that of regarding an American lecture-going audience
with contempt. There is no literary tribunal in this country that can more readily and justly
decide whether a man has anything to say, and can say it well, than a lecture-audience in one
of the smaller cities and larger villages of the Northern States. It is quite common to suppose
that a Western audience demands a lower grade of literary effort, and a rougher style of speech,
than an Eastern audience. Indeed, there are those who suppose that a lecture which would fully
meet the demands of an average Eastern audience would be beyond the comprehension of an average
Western audience; but the lecturer who shall accept any such assumption as this will find himself
very unpleasantly mistaken. At the West, the lecture is both popular and fashionable, and the
best people attend it. A lecturer may always be certain, then, that the best he can do will
be thoroughly appreciated. The West is not particularly tolerant of dull men; but if a man
be alive, he will find a market there for the best thought he produces.

In the larger cities of the East, the opera, the play, the frequent concert, the exhibition,
the club-house, the social assembly, and a variety of public gatherings and public excitements,
take from the lecture-audiences the class that furnishes the best material in the smaller cities;
so that a lecturer rarely or never sees his best audiences in New York, or Boston, or Philadelphia.

Another requisite to popularity upon the platform is earnestness. Those who imagine that a
permanent hold upon the people can be obtained by amusing them are widely mistaken. The popular
lecture has fallen into disrepute with many worthy persons in consequence of the admission
of buffoons and triflers to the lecturer's platform; and it is an evil which ought to be remedied.
It is an evil, indeed, which is slowly working its own remedy. It is a disgraceful fact, that,
in order to draw together crowds of people, men have been admitted to the platform whose notoriety
was won by the grossest of literary charlatanism,--men whose only hold upon the public was
gained by extravagances of thought and expression which would compromise the dignity and destroy
the self-respect of any man of character and common sense. It is not enough that these persons
quickly disgust their audiences, and have a brief life upon the list. They ought never to be
introduced to the public as lecturers; and any momentary augmentation of receipts that may
be secured from the rabble by the patronage of such mountebanks is more than lost by the disgrace
they bring and the damage they do to what is called "The Lecture System." It is an insult to
any lyceum-audience to suppose that it can have a strong and permanent interest in a trifler;
and it is a gross injustice to every respectable lecturer in the field to introduce into his
guild men who have no better motive and no higher mission than the stage-clown and the negro-minstrel.

But the career of triflers is always short. Only he who feels that he has something to do in
making the world wiser and better, and who, in a bold and manly way, tries persistently to
do it, is always welcome; and this fact--an incontrovertible one--is a sufficient vindication
of the popular lecture from all the aspersions that have been cast upon it by disappointed
aspirants for its honors, and shallow observers of its tendencies and results.

The choice of a subject has already been spoken of as a matter of importance, and a word should
be said touching its manner of treatment. This introduces a discussion of the kind of lecture
which at the present time is mainly in demand. Many wise and good men have questioned the character
of the popular lecture. In their view, it does not add sufficiently to the stock of popular
knowledge. The results are not solid and tangible. They would prefer scientific, or historical,
or philosophical discourses. This conviction is so strong with these men, and the men themselves
are so much respected, that the people are inclined to coincide with them in the matter of
theory, while at the same time they refuse to give their theory practical entertainment. One
reason why scientific and historical lectures are not popular is to be found in the difficulty
of obtaining lecturers who have sufficient ingenuity and enthusiasm to make such lectures interesting.
The number of men in the United States who can make such lectures attractive to popular audiences
can be counted on the fingers of a single hand. We have had but one universally popular lecturer
on astronomy in twenty years, and he is now numbered among the precious sacrifices of the war.
There is only one entirely acceptable popular lecturer on the natural sciences in New England;
and what is he among so many?

But this class of lectures has not been widely successful, even under the most favorable circumstances,
and with the very best lecturers; and it is to be observed, that they grow less successful
with the increasing intelligence of the people. In this fact is to be found an entirely rational
and competent explanation of their failure. The schools have done so much toward popularizing
science, and the circulating-library has rendered so familiar the prominent facts of history,
that men and women do not go to the lecture to learn, and, as far as any appreciably practical
benefit is concerned, do not need to go. It is only when some eminent enthusiast in these walks
of learning consents to address them that they come out, and then it is rather to place themselves
under the influence of his personality than to acquire the knowledge which he dispenses. Facts,
if they are identified in any special way with the experience and life of the lecturer, are
always acceptable; but facts which are recorded in books find a poor market in the popular
lecture-room. Thus, while purely historical and scientific lectures are entirely neglected,
narratives of personal travel, which, combine much of historical and scientific interest, have
been quite popular, and, indeed, have been the specialties of more than one of the most popular
of American lecturers, whose names will be suggested at once by this statement.

Twenty years ago the first popular lectures on anatomy and physiology were given, and a corps
of lecturers came up and swept over the whole country, with much of interest and instruction
to the people and no small profit to themselves. These lectures called the attention of educators
to these sciences. Text-books for schools and colleges were prepared, and anatomy and physiology
became common studies for the young. In various ways, through school-books and magazines and
newspapers, there has accumulated a stock of popular knowledge of these sciences, and an apprehension
of the limit of their practical usefulness, which have quite destroyed the demand for lectures
upon them. Though a new generation has risen since the lecture on anatomy and physiology was
the rage, no leaner field could possibly be found than that which the country now presents
to the popular lecturer on these sciences. These facts are interesting in themselves, and they
serve to illustrate the truth of that which has been stated touching lectures upon general
historical and scientific subjects.

For facts alone the modern American public does not go hungry. American life is crowded with
facts, to which the newspaper gives daily record and diffusion. Ideas, motives, thoughts, these
are always in demand. Men wish for nothing more than to know how to classify their facts, what
to do with them, how to govern them, and how far to be governed by them; and the man who takes
the facts with which the popular life has come into contact and association, and draws from
them their nutritive and motive power, and points out their relations to individual and universal
good, and organizes around them the popular thought, and uses them to give direction to the
popular life, and does all this with masterly skill, is the man whose houses are never large
enough to contain those who throng to hear him. This is the popular lecturer, par excellence.
The people have an earnest desire to know what a strong, independent, free man has to say about
those facts which touch the experience, the direction, and the duty of their daily life; and
the lecturer who with a hearty human sympathy addresses himself to this desire, and enters
upon the service with genuine enthusiasm, wins the highest reward there is to be won in his
field of effort.

The more ill-natured critics of the popular lecturer have reflected with ridicule upon his
habit of repetition, A lecturer in full employment will deliver the same discourse perhaps
fifty or a hundred times in a single season. There are probably half a dozen favorite lectures
which have been delivered from two hundred to five hundred times within the last fifteen years.
It does, indeed, at first glance, seem ridiculous for a man to stand, night after night, and
deliver the same words, with the original enthusiasm apparently at its full height; and some
lecturers, with an extra spice of mirthfulness in their composition, have given public record
of their impressions in this respect. There are, however, certain facts to be considered which
at least relieve him from the charge of literary sterility. A lecture often becomes famous,
and is demanded by each succeeding audience, whatever the lecturer's preferences may be. There
are lectures called for every year by audiences and committees which the lecturer would be
glad never to see again, and which he never would see again, if he were to consult his own
judgment alone. Then the popular lecturer, as has been already intimated, is usually engaged
during two thirds of the year in some business or profession whose duties forbid the worthy
preparation of more than one discourse for winter use. Then, if he has numerous engagements,
he has neither time nor strength to do more than his nightly work; for, among all the pursuits
in which literary men engage, none is more exhaustive in its demands upon the nervous energy
than that of constant lecturing. The fulfilment of from seventy-five to ninety engagements
involves, in round numbers, ten thousand miles of railroad-travel, much of it in the night,
and all of it during the most unpleasant season of the year. There is probably nothing short
of a military campaign that is attended by so many discomforts and genuine hardships as a season
of active lecturing. Unless a man be young and endowed with an extraordinary amount of vital
power, he becomes entirely unfitted by his nightly work, and the dissipation consequent upon
constant change of scene, for consecutive thought and elaborate composition.

It is fortunate for the lecturer that there is no necessity for variety. The oft-repeated lecture
is new to each new audience, and, being thoroughly in hand, and entirely familiar, is delivered
with better effect than if the speaker were frequently choosing from a well-furnished repertory.
It is popularly supposed that a lecturer loses all interest in a performance which he repeats
so many times. This supposition is correct, in certain aspects of the matter, but not in any
sense which detracts from his power to make it interesting to others. It is the general experience
of lecturers, that, until they have delivered a discourse from ten to twenty times, they are
themselves unable to measure its power; so that a performance which is offered at first timidly
and with many doubts comes at length to be delivered confidently, and with measurable certainty
of acceptance and success. The grand interest of a lecturer is in his new audience, in his
experiment on an assembly of fresh minds. The lecture itself is regarded only as an instrument
by which a desirable and important result is to be achieved; and familiarity with it, and steady
use in its elocutionary handling, are conditions of the best success. Having selected the subject
which, at the time, and for the times, he considers freshest and most fruitful, and with thorough
care written out all he has to say upon it, there is no call for recurrence to minor themes,
either as regards the credit of the lecturer or the best interests of those whom he addresses.

What good has the popular lecture accomplished? Its most enthusiastic advocates will not assert
that it has added greatly to the stock of popular knowledge, in science or art, in history,
philosophy, or literature; yet the most modest of them may claim that it has bestowed upon
American society a permanent good of incalculable value. The relentless foe of all bigotry
in politics and religion, the constant opponent of every form of bondage to party and sect,
the practical teacher of the broadest toleration of individual opinion, it has had more to
do with the steady melioration of the prejudices growing out of denominational interests in
Church and State than any other agency whatever. The platform of the lecture-hall has been
common ground for the representatives of all our social, political, and religious organizations.
It is there that orthodox and heterodox, progressive and conservative, have won respect for
themselves and toleration for their opinions by the demonstration of their own manhood, and
the recognition of the common human brotherhood; for one has only to prove himself a true man,
and to show a universal sympathy with men, to secure popular toleration for any opinion he
may hold. Hardly a decade has passed away since, in nearly every Northern State, men suffered
social depreciation in consequence of their political and religious opinions. Party and sectarian
names have been freely used as reproachful and even as disgraceful epithets. To call a man
by the name which he had chosen as the representative of his political or religious opinions
was considered equivalent to calling him a knave or a fool; and if it happened that he was
in the minority, his name alone was regarded as the stamp of social degradation. Now, thanks
to the influence of the popular lecture mainly, men have made, and are rapidly making, room
for each other. A man may be in the minority now without consequently being in personal disgrace.
Men of liberal and even latitudinarian views are generously received in orthodox communities,
and those of orthodox faith are gladly welcomed by men who subscribe to a shorter creed and
bear a broader charter of life and liberty. There certainly has never been a time in the history
of America when there was such generous and general toleration of all men and all opinions
as now; and as the popular lecture has been universal, with a determined aim and a manifest
influence toward this end, it is but fair to claim for it a prominent agency in the result.

Another good which may be counted among the fruits of the popular lecture is the education
of the public taste in intellectual amusements. The end which the lecture-goer seeks is not
always improvement, in any respect. Multitudes of men and women have attended the lecture to
be interested, and to be interested intellectually is to be intellectually amused. Lecturers
who have appealed simply to the emotional nature, without attempting to engage the intellect,
have ceased to be popular favorites. So far as the popular lecture has taken hold of the affections
of a community, and secured its constant support, it has destroyed the desire for all amusements
of a lower grade; and it will be found, that, generally, those who attend the lecture rarely
or never give their patronage and presence to the buffooneries of the day. They have found
something better,--something with more of flavor in the eating, with more of nutriment in the
digestion. How great a good this is those only can judge who realize that men will have amusements
of some sort, and that, if they cannot obtain such as will elevate them, they will indulge
in such as are frivolous and dissipating. The lecture does quite as much for elevated amusement
out of the hall as in it. The quickening social influence of an excellent lecture, particularly
in a community where life flows sluggishly and all are absorbed in manual labor, is as remarkable
as it is beneficent. The lecture and the lecturer are the common topics of discussion for a
week, and the conversation which is so apt to cling to health and the weather is raised above
the level of commonplace.

Notwithstanding the fact that a moiety, or a majority, of the popular lecturers are clergymen,
the lecture has not always received the favor of the cloth. Indeed, there has often been private
and sometimes public complaint on the part of preachers, that the finished productions of the
lecturer, the results of long and patient elaboration, rendered doubly attractive by a style
of delivery to be won only by frequent repetition of the same discourse, have brought the hastily
prepared and plainly presented Sunday sermon into an unjust and damaging comparison. The complaint
is a strange one, particularly as no one has ever claimed that the highest style of eloquence
or the most remarkable models of rhetoric are to be found in the lecture-hall. There has, at
least, been no general conviction that a standard of excellence in English and its utterance
has been maintained there too high for the comfort and credit of the pulpit. It is possible,
therefore, that the pulpit betrays its weak point, and needs the comparison which it deprecates.
A man of brains will gratefully receive suggestions from any quarter. That impulses to a more
familiar and direct style of sermonizing, a brighter and better elocution, and a bolder utterance
of personal convictions, have come to the pulpit from the platform, there is no question. This
feeling on the part of preachers is by no means universal, however; for some of them have long
regarded the lecture with contempt, and have sometimes resented it as an impertinence. And
it may be (for there shall be no quarrel in the matter) that lecturers are quacks, and that
lectures, like homoeopathic remedies, are very contemptible things; but they have pleasantly
modified the doses of the old practice, however slow the doctors are to confess it; and so
much, at least, may be counted among the beneficent results of the system under discussion.

Last in the brief enumeration of the benefits of the popular lecture, it has been the devoted,
consistent, never tiring champion of universal liberty. If the popular lecturer has not been
a power in this nation for the overthrow of American Slavery,--for its overthrow in the conscientious
convictions and the legal and conventional fastnesses of the nation,--then have the friends
of oppression grossly lied; for none have received their malicious and angry objurgations more
unsparingly than our plain-speaking gentleman who makes his yearly circuit among the lyceums.
No champion of slavery, no advocate of privilege, no apologist for systematized and legalized
wrong has ever been able to establish himself as a popular lecturer. The people may listen
respectfully to such a man once; but, having heard him, they drop him forever. In truth, a
man cannot be a popular lecturer who does not plant himself upon the eternal principles of
justice. He must be a democrat, a believer in and an advocate of the equal rights of men. A
slavery-loving, slavery-upholding lecturer would be just as much of an anomaly as a slavery-loving
and slavery-singing poet. The taint so vitiates the whole æsthetic nature, so poisons the moral
sense, so palsies the finer powers, so destroys all true sympathy with universal humanity,
that the composition of an acceptable lecture becomes impossible to the man who bears it. The
popular lecture, as it has been described in this article, has never existed at the South,
and could not be tolerated there. Until within three years it has never found opportunity for
utterance in the capital of the nation; but where liberty goes, it makes its way, and helps
to break the way for liberty everywhere.

It is a noteworthy fact, that the popular lecturer, though the devoted advocate of freedom
to the slave, has rarely been regarded as either a trustworthy or an important man in the party
which has represented his principles in this country. He has always been too free to be a partisan,
too radical and intractable for a party seeking power or striving to preserve it. No party
of any considerable magnitude has ever regarded him as its expositor. A thousand times have
party-speakers and party-organs, professing principles identical with his own, washed their
hands of all responsibility for his utterances. Even now, when the sound of falling shackles
is in the air, and the smoke of the torment of the oppressor fills the sky, old partisans of
freedom cannot quite forget their stupid and hackneyed animosities, but still bemoan the baleful
influence of this fiery itinerant. Representative of none but himself, disowned or hated by
all parties, acknowledging responsibility to God and his own conscience only, he has done his
work, and done it well,--done it amid careful questionings and careless curses,--done it, and
been royally paid for it, when speakers who fairly represented the political and religious
prejudices of the people could not have called around them a baker's dozen, with tickets at
half-price or at no price at all.

When the cloud which now envelops the country shall gather up its sulphurous folds and roll
away, tinted in its retiring by the smile of God beaming from a calm sky upon a nation redeemed
to freedom and justice, and the historian, in the light of that smile, shall trace home to
their fountains the streams of influence and power which will then join to form the river of
the national life, he will find one, starting far inland among the mountains, longer than the
rest and mightier than most, and will recognize it as the confluent outpouring of living, Christian
speech, from ten thousand lecture-platforms, on which free men stood and vindicated the right
of man to freedom.

THE HOUR OF VICTORY.

    Meridian moments! grandly given
    To cheer the warrior's soul from heaven!
    God's ancient boon, vouchsafed to those
    Who battle long with Freedom's foes,--
    Oh, what in life can claim the power
    To match with that divinest hour?

    I see the avenging angel wave
    His banner o'er the embattled brave;
    I hear above Hate's trumpet-blare
    The shout that rends the smoking air,
    And then I know at whose command
    The victor sweeps the Rebel land!

    Enduring Valor lifts his head
    To count the flying and the dead;
    Returning Virtue still maintains
    The right to break unhallowed chains;
    While sacred Justice, born of God,
    Walks regnant o'er the bleeding sod.

THE CAUSES OF FOREIGN ENMITY TO THE UNITED STATES.

The hostility of foreign governments to the United States is due as much at least to dread
of their growing power as dislike of their democracy; and accordingly the theory of the Secessionists
as to the character of our Union has been as acceptable to the understandings of our foreign
enemies as the acts of the Rebels against its government have been pleasing to their sympathies.
They well know that a union of States whose government recognized the right of Secession would
be as weak as an ordinary league between independent sovereignties; and as the rapid growth
of the States in population, wealth, and power is certain, they naturally desire, that, if
united, these States shall be an aggregation of forces, neutralizing each other, rather than
a fusion of forces, which, for general purposes, would make them a giant nationality. Accordingly,
centralized France reads to us edifying homilies on the advantages of disintegration; and England,
rich with the spoils of suppressed insurrections, adjures us most plaintively to respect the
sacred rights of rebellion. The simple explanation of this hypocrisy or irony is, that both
France and England are anxious that the strength of the United States shall not correspond
to their bulk. The looser the tie of union, the greater the number of confederacies into which
the nation should split, the safer they would feel. The doctrine of the inherent and undivided
sovereignty of the States will therefore find resolute champions abroad as long as it has the
most inconsiderable faction to support it at home.

The European nations are kept in order by what is called the Balance of Power, and this policy
they would delight to see established on this continent. Should the different States of the
American Union be occupied, like the European states, in checking each other, they could not
act as a unit, and their terrific rate of growth in wealth and population, as compared with
that of the nations across the Atlantic, would not excite in the latter such irritation and
alarm. The magic which has changed English abolitionists into partisans of slaveholders, and
French imperialists into champions of insurrection, came from the figures of the Census Reports.
It is calculated that the United States, if the rate of growth which obtained between 1850
and 1860 is continued, will have, forty years hence, a hundred millions of inhabitants, and
four hundred and twenty thousand millions of dollars of taxable wealth,--over three times the
present population, and over ten times the present wealth, of the richest of European nations.
It is probable that this concrete fact exerts more influence on the long-headed statesmen of
Europe than any abstract dislike of democracy. The only union which they could bring against
such a power would be a league, a confederacy, a continuous and subsisting treaty, between
sovereign powers. Is it surprising that they should wish our union to be of the same character?
Is it surprising that the contemplation of a government, whether despotic or democratic, which
could act directly on a hundred millions of people, with the supreme right of taxing property
to the amount of four hundred and twenty billions of dollars, should fill them with dismay?

The inherent weakness of a league, even when its general object is such as to influence the
passions of the nations which compose it, is well known to all European statesmen. The various
alliances against France show the insuperable difficulties in the way of giving to confederacies
of sovereign states a unity and efficiency corresponding to their aggregate strength, and the
necessity which the leaders of such alliances are always under of expending half their skill
and energy in preventing the loosely compacted league from falling to pieces. The alliance
under the lead of William III. barely sustained itself against Louis XIV., though William was
the ablest statesman in Europe, and had been trained in the tactics of confederacies from his
cradle. The alliance under the lead of Marlborough owed its measure of success to his infinite
address and miraculous patience as much as to his consummate military genius; and the ignominious
"secession" of England, in the treaty of Utrecht, ended in making it one of the most conspicuous
examples of the weakness of such combinations. When the exceptional military genius, as in
the case of Frederick and Napoleon, has been on the side of the single power assailed, the
results have been all the more remarkable. The coalition against Frederick, the ruler of five
millions of people, was composed of sovereigns who ruled a hundred millions; and at the end
of seven years of war they had not succeeded in wringing permanently from his grasp a square
mile of territory. The first coalitions against Napoleon resulted only in making him the master
of Europe; and he was crushed at last merely by the dead weight of the nations which the senselessness
of his political passions brought down upon his empire. Indeed, the trouble with all leagues
is, that they are commanded, more or less, by debating-societies; and a debating-society is
weak before a man. The Southern Confederacy is a confederacy only in name; for no despotism
in Europe or Asia has more relentless unity of purpose, and in none does debate exercise less
control over executive affairs. All the powers of the government are practically absorbed in
Jefferson Davis, and a rebellion in the name of State Rights has ended in a military autocracy,
in which all rights, personal and State, are suspended.

Now, as it is impossible for European governments to combine efficiently against such a colossal
power as the United States promise within a few generations to be, provided the unity of the
nation is preserved with its growth, they naturally favor every element of disintegration which
will reduce the separate States to the condition of European states. Earl Russell's famous
saying, that "the North is fighting for power, the South for independence," is to be interpreted
in this sense. What he overlooked was the striking fact which distinguishes the States of the
American Republic from the states of Europe. The latter are generally separated by race and
nationality, or, where composed of heterogeneous materials, are held together by military power.
The people of the United States are homogeneous, and rapidly assimilate into American citizens
the foreigners they so cordially welcome. No man has lifted his hand against the government
as an Irishman, a Frenchman, a German, an Italian, a Dane, but only as a slaveholder, or as
a citizen of a State controlled by slaveholders. The insurrection was started in the interest
of an institution, and not of a race. To compare such a rebellion with European rebellions
is to confuse things essentially distinct. The American government is so constituted that nobody
has an interest in overturning it, unless his interest is opposed to that of the mass of the
citizens with whom he is place on an equality; and hence his treason is necessarily a revolt
against the principle of equal rights. In Europe, it is needless to say, every rebellion with
which an American can sympathise is a rebellion in favor of the principle against which the
slaveholders' rebellion is an armed protest. An insurrection in Russia to restore serfdom,
an insurrection in Italy to restore the dethroned despots, an insurrection in England to restore
the Stuart system of kingly government, an insurrection anywhere to restore what the progress
of civilization had made contemptible or accursed, would be the only fit parallel to the insurrection
of the Southern Confederates. The North is fighting for power which is its due, because it
is just and right; the South is fighting for independence, in order to remove all checks on
its purpose to oppress and enslave. The fact that the power for which the North fights is a
very different thing from the power which a European monarchy struggles to preserve and extend,
the fact that it is the kind of power which oppressed nationalities seek in their efforts for
independence, only makes our foreign critics more apprehensive of its effects. It is a dangerous
power to them, because, founded in the consent of the people, there is no limit to its possible
extension, except in the madness or guilt of that portion of the people who are restive under
the restraints of justice and impatient under the rule of freedom.

It would be doing cruel wrong to Earl Russell's intelligence to suppose that he really believed
what he said, when he drew a parallel between the American Revolution and the Rebellion of
the Confederate States, and asserted that the right of the Southern States to secede from the
American Union was identical with the right of the Colonies to sever their connection with
Great Britain. We believe the Colonies were right in their revolt. But if the circumstances
had been different,--if since the reign of William III. they had nominated or controlled almost
every Prime Minister, had shaped the policy of the British Empire, had enjoyed not only a representation
in Parliament, but in the basis of representation had been favored with a special discrimination
in their favor against Kent and Yorkshire,--if both in the House of Lords and the House of
Commons they had not only been dominant, but had treated the Bentincks, Cavendishes, and Russells,
the Montagus, Walpoles, and Pitts, with overbearing insolence,--and if, after wielding power
so long and so arrogantly, they had rebelled at the first turn in political affairs which seemed
to indicate that they were to be reduced from a position of superiority to one of equality,--if
our forefathers had acted after this wild fashion, we should not only think that the Revolution
they achieved was altogether unjustifiable, but we should blush at the thought of being descended
from such despot-demagogues. This is a very feeble statement of the case which would connect
the Revolt of the American Colonies with the Revolt of the American Liberticides; and Earl
Russell is too well-informed a statesman not to know that his parallel fails in every essential
particular. He threw it out, as he threw out his sounding antithesis about "power" and "independence,"
to catch ears not specially blessed with brains between them.

But European statesmen, in order to promote the causes of American dissensions, are willing
not only to hazard fallacies which do not impose on their own understandings, but to give aid
and comfort to iniquities which in Europe have long been antiquated. They thus tolerate chattel
slavery, not because they sympathize with it, but because it is an element of disturbance in
the growth of American power. Though it has for centuries been outgrown by the nations of Western
Europe, and is repugnant to all their ideas and sentiments, they are willing to give it their
moral support, provided it will break up the union of the people of the States, or remain as
a constantly operating cause of enmity between the sections of a reconstructed Union. They
would tolerate Mormonism or Atheism or Diabolism, if they thought it would have a similar effect;
but at the same time they would not themselves legalize polygamy, or deny the existence of
God, or inaugurate the worship of the Devil. Indeed, while giving slavery a politic sanction,
they despise in their hearts the people who are so barbarous as to maintain such an institution;
and the Southern rebel or Northern demagogue who thinks his championship of slavery really
earns him any European respect is under that kind of delusion which it is always for the interest
of the plotter to cultivate in the tool. It was common, a few years ago, to represent the Abolitionist
as the dupe or agent of the aristocracies of Europe. It certainly might be supposed that persons
who made this foolish charge were competent at least to see that the present enemy of the unity
of the American people is the pro-slavery fanatic, and that it is on his knavery or stupidity
that the ill-wishers to American unity now chiefly rely.

For the war has compelled these ill-wishers to modify their most cherished theory of democracy
in the United States. They thought that the marvellous energy for military combination, developed
by a democracy suddenly emancipated from oppression, such as was presented by the French people
in the Revolution of 1789, was not the characteristic of a democracy which had grown up under
democratic institutions. The first was anarchy plus the dictator; the second was merely "anarchy
plus the constable." They had an obstinate prepossession, that, in a settled democracy like
ours, the selfishness of the individual was so stimulated that he became incapable of self-sacrifice
for the public good. The ease with which the government of the United States has raised men
by the million and money by the billion has overturned this theory, and shown that a republic,
of which individual liberty and general equality form the animating principles, can still rapidly
avail itself of the property and personal service of all the individuals who compose it, and
that self-seeking is not more characteristic of a democracy in time of peace than self-sacrifice
is characteristic of the same democracy in time of war. The overwhelming and apparently unlimited
power of a government thus of the people and for the people is what the war has demonstrated,
and it very naturally excites the fear and jealousy of governments which are based on less
firm foundations in the popular mind and heart and will.

It is doubtless true that many candid foreign thinkers favor the disintegration of the American
Union because they believe that the consolidation of its power would make it the meddlesome
tyrant of the world. They admit that the enterprise, skill, and labor of the people, applied
to the unbounded undeveloped resources of the country, will enable them to create wealth very
much faster than other nations, and that the population, fed by continual streams of immigration,
will also increase with a corresponding rapidity. They admit, that, if kept united, a few generations
will be sufficient to make them the richest, largest, and most powerful nation in the world.
But they also fear that this nation will be an armed and aggressive democracy, deficient in
public reason and public conscience, disposed to push unjust claims with insolent pertinacity,
and impelled by a spirit of propagandism which will continually disturb the peace of Europe.
It is curious that this impression is derived from the actions of the government while it was
controlled by the traitors now in rebellion against it, and from the professions of those Northern
demagogues who are most in sympathy with European opinion concerning the justice and policy
of the war. Mr. Fernando Wood, the most resolute of all the Northern advocates of peace, recommended
from his seat in Congress but a month ago, that a compromise be patched up with the Rebels
on the principle of sacrificing the negro, and then that both sections unite to seize Canada,
Cuba, and Mexico. The kind of "democracy" which Mr. Jefferson Davis and Mr. Fernando Wood represent
is the kind of democracy which has always been the great disturber of our foreign relations,
and it is a democracy which will be rendered powerless by the triumph of the national arms.
The United States of 1900, with their population of a hundred millions, and their wealth of
four hundred and twenty billions, will, we believe, be a power for good, and not for evil.
They will be strong enough to make their rights respected everywhere; but they will not force
their ideas on other nations at the point of the bayonet; they will not waste their energies
in playing the part of the armed propagandist of democratic opinions in Europe; and the contagion
of their principles will only be the natural result of the example of peace, prosperity, freedom,
and justice, which they will present to the world. In Europe, where power commonly exists only
to be abused, this statement would be received with an incredulous smile; but we have no reason
to doubt, that, among the earnest patriots who are urging on the present war for Liberty and
Union to a victorious conclusion, it would be considered the most commonplace of truths.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

     The Seer, or Commonplaces Refreshed. By LEIGH HUNT. In Two
     Volumes. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Among the books most prized, in our modest private book-room, are some which bear the delicate
and graceful autograph of Leigh Hunt, having floated from his deserted library to these American
shores. There is the Apollonius from which came the text of his poem of "The Panther";--this
is his mark against the legend, on page sixty-nine; and here is the old engraving of Apollonius,
which he no doubt inserted as a frontispiece to the book. Here again is his copy of Rousseau's
"Confessions," Holyoake's translation, annotated through and through with Hunt's humane and
penetrating criticisms on nature with which his own had much in common, though purer and sweeter.
This volume of Milton's "Minor Poems" was his also, with the rich and varied notes of Warton,
the edition of whose literary charms he somewhere speaks with such delight. Here also is Forster's
"Perennial Calendar," a book of rural gossip, such as Leigh Hunt thoroughly enjoyed; and this
copy of Aubrey de Vere's Poems was a present from the author. Above all, perhaps, one dwells
with interest on a volume of Hennell's "Christianity and Infidelity," riddled through and through
by pen-and-ink underscorings, extending sometimes to every line upon a page. The book ends
with a generous paragraph in assertion of the comfort and sufficiency of Natural Religion;
and after it comes, written originally in pencil, then in ink again, always with the same firm
and elegant handwriting, the indorsement, "Amen. So be it. L. H. July 14th, 1857." This was
written in his seventy-third year, two years before his death, and this must have been about
the time of Hawthorne's visit to him. Read the "Amen" in the light of that beautiful description
of patient and frugal old age, and it is a touching and noble memorial.

Americans often fancied that they noticed something American in Leigh Hunt's physique and manners,
without knowing how near he came to owning a Cisatlantic birth. His mother was a Philadelphian;
and his father, a West-Indian, resided in this country until within a few years of his death.
It is fitting, therefore, that our publishers should keep his writings in the market, and this
is well done in this handsome edition of "The Seer." These charming essays will bear preservation;
none are more saturated with cultivated taste and literary allusion, and in none are more graceful
pictures painted on a slighter canvas. If there is an occasional impression of fragility and
superficiality, it is yet wholly in character, and seems not to interfere with the peculiar
charm. Hunt, for instance, writes a delightful paper on the theme of "Cricket," without ten
allusions to the game, or one indication of ever having stopped to watch it. He discourses
deliciously upon Anacreon's "Tettix,"--the modern Cicada,--and then calls it a beetle. There
is apt, indeed, to be a pervading trace of that kind of conscious effort which is technically
called "book-making," and one certainly finds the entertainment a little frothy, at times,
compared with the elder essayists. Nevertheless, Leigh Hunt's roses always bloom, his breezes
are always "redolent of joy and youth," and his sunny spirit pervades even a rainy day. Chaucer
and Keats never yet have found a more delicate or discriminating critic; and his paper on Wordsworth,
beside the fine touches, has solider qualities that command one's admiration. The personal
memorials of the author's literary friends have a peculiar charm to us in this land and generation,
for whom Hazlitt and Keats are names almost as shadowy and romantic as Amadis or Lancelot;
but best of all is his noble tribute to Shelley. After speaking (Vol. II. p. 38) of the deep
philanthropy which lay beneath the apparent cynicism of Hazlitt, he thus continues:--"But only
imagine a man who should feel this interest too, and be deeply amiable, and have great sufferings,
bodily and mental, and know his own errors, and waive the claim of his own virtues, and manifest
an unceasing considerateness of the comforts of those about him, in the very least as well
as greatest things,--surviving, in the pure life of his heart, all mistake, all misconception,
all exasperation, and ever having a soft word in his extremity, not only for those who consoled,
but for those who distressed him; and imagine how we must have loved him. It was Mr. Shelley."

Such an epitaph writes the character not only of him who receives the tribute, but of him who
pays it. And if there ever lived a literary man who might fitly claim for his funeral stone
the inscription, "Lord, keep my memory green," it was the sweet-tempered, flower-loving Leigh Hunt.

Christ and his Salvation. In sermons variously related thereto. By HORACE BUSHNELL. New York:
Charles Scribner.

These sermons are distinguished from the ordinary discourses of the pulpit by being the product
not merely of religious faith and feeling, but of religious genius. They embody the thought
and experience of a life, and the ideas they inculcate are not so much the dogmas of a sect
as the divinations of an individual. "This is Christianity as it has been verified in my consciousness,"
might be taken as the motto of the volume. The result is, that the collection is an addition
to religious literature, and will be read with satisfaction for its stimulating effect on the
religious sense by hundreds who may disagree with its direct teachings.

The two most striking and characteristic sermons in the volume are the first and the last,
respectively entitled, "Christ waiting to find Room," a masterly analysis of the worldliness
of the so-called Christian world, and "Heaven Opened," a plea equally masterly for the existence
in man of a supernatural sense to discern supernatural things. Between these come the sermons
entitled, "The Gentleness of God," "The Insight of Love," "Salvation for the Lost Condition,"
"The Bad Mind makes a Bad Element," and "The Wrath of the Lamb," which illustrate so well the
union in Dr. Bushnell's mind of practical sagacity and force of thought with keenness and reach
of spiritual vision, that we select them from the rest as particularly worthy of the reader's
attention. Indeed, to have written these discourses is to have done the work of a ministry.

The peculiarity of the whole volume, and a singular peculiarity in a collection of sermons,
is the absence of commonplace. The writer's method is to bring his mind into close contact
with things instead of phrases,--to think round his subject, and think into his subject, and,
if possible, think through his subject to the law on which it depends; and thus, when his thinking
results in no novelty of view, it is still the indorsement of an accepted truth by a fresh
perception of it. Truths in such a process never put on the character of truisms, but are as
vital to the last observer as to the first. There is hardly a page in the volume which is not
original, in the sense of recording original impressions of objects, individually seen, grasped,
and examined. There are numerous originalities of a different kind, which may not be so pleasing
to some classes of Christians,--as when he aims to show that an accredited spiritual form does
not express a corresponding spiritual fact, or as when he splits some shell of creed which
imprisons rather than embodies the kernel of faith, and lets the oppressed truth go free.

This power of penetrating thought, so determined as at times to wear a look of doggedness,--this
analysis which shrinks from no problems, which is provoked by obstacles into intenser effort,
and which is almost fanatical in its desire to get at the idea and reason of everything it
probes,--is relieved by a richly sympathetic and imaginative nature,--indeed, is so welded
with it, that insight and analysis serve each other, and cool reason gives solidity to ecstatic
experience. Perhaps as a seer Dr. Bushnell may be more certain of recognition than as a reasoner.
Whatever may be thought of the orthodoxy of the doctrines he has rationalized, there can be
no doubt as to the reality of the spiritual states he has described. His intellectual method
may be wrong or incomplete, but it in some way enables him to reach the substance of Christian
life and light and love and joy. There are passages in the volume which are all aglow with
the sacred fire of that rapture which rewards only those souls that soar into the regions where
the objects that kindle it abide; and this elevation which touches ecstasy, this effluence
from the spiritual mood of the writer, is not limited to special bursts of eloquence, but gleams
along the lines of many a clinching argument, and flashes out from many an uncadenced period.

The style of the book is what might be expected from the character of the author and the processes
of his thinking. The mental state dictates the form of the sentence and the selection of the
words. Thought and expression, so to speak, breed in and in. There is a certain roughness in
the strength of the man, which is ever asserting itself through his cultured vigor; and in
the diction, rustic plainness of speech alternates with the nomenclature of metaphysics, rugged
sense with lifting raptures, and curt, blunt, homely expression with vivid, whatever may be
his form of words, he always loads them with meaning, and with his own meaning. He is not a
fluent writer, but his resources of expression ever correspond to his richness of thought.
And if his style cannot be said to bend gracefully to the variations of his subject, it still
bends and does not break. In felicity and originality of epithet, the usual sign of a writer's
genuineness of perception, he is excelled by no theologian of the time. He also has that power
of pithy and pointed language which so condenses a statement of a fact or principle that it
gives forth the diamond sparkle of epigram. The effect of wit is produced while the purpose
is the gravest possible: as when he tells some brother religionists, who base their creeds
on the hyperboles of Scripture, that they mistake interjections for propositions,--or as when
he reproves those pretenders to grace who count it apparently "a kind of merit that they live
loosely enough to make salvation by merit impossible."

The animating spirit of the volume is a desire to bring men's minds into contact with what
is vital in religion, and this leads to many a sharp comment both on the dogmatism of sects
and the rationalism of critics. Dr. Bushnell always seeks that in religion which not merely
illumines the mind, but invigorates the will. It is not the form of a doctrine, but the force
in the believer, which engages his attention. In pursuing this method he displays alternately
the qualities of an interpreter and of an iconoclast; but his object is the same, whether he
evolves unexpected meanings from an accredited dogma, or assails the sense in which it is generally
received. And so tenacious is his hold on the life of Christianity, and so vivid his mode of
presenting it, that both dogmatist and rationalist must feel, in reading his volume, that he
has given its proper prominence to much in Christianity which their methods tempt them to overlook.

     The Morrisons, a Story of Domestic Life. By MRS. MARGARET
     HOSMER. New York: John Bradburn.

Full of improbabilities, and becoming lurid with domestic tragedies at the end, this story
has yet a sincerity and earnestness of style that may entitle it to be called respectable,
among the mass of American stories. Novels are being sold by the five thousand which have far
less ability in characterization or in grouping. The persons remain in one's memory as real
individuals, which is saying a good deal; the dialogue, though excessive in quantity, is neither
tame nor flippant; and there is an attractive compactness in the plot, which is all comprised
within one house in an unknown city. But this plot soon gets beyond the author's grasp, nevertheless;
she creates individualities, and can do nothing with them but kill them. The defects, however,
are those of inexperience, the merits are the author's own. The value of her next book will
probably be in inverse ratio to the success of this: should this fail, she may come to something;
should this succeed, there is small hope for her.

     Studies for Stories. By JEAN INGELOW. Boston: Roberts
     Brothers.

These narratives are probably called "Studies for Stories," as the catalogue of the Boston
Public Library is called an "Index to a Catalogue": this being a profession of humility, implying
that a proper story, like a regular catalogue, should be a much more elaborate affair. Nevertheless,
a story, even if christened a study, must be criticized by the laws of stories and no other.

Tried by this standard, we must admit that Miss Ingelow's prose, though possessing many merits,
has not quite the charm of her verses. With a good deal of skill in depicting character, and
with a style that is not unpleasing, though rather formal and old-fashioned, she has no serious
drawback except a very prominent and unpleasant moral tendency, which is, indeed, made so conspicuous
that one rather resents it, and feels a slight reaction in favor of vice. One is disposed to
apply to so oppressively didactic an author the cautious criticism of Talleyrand on his female
friend,--"She is insufferable, but that is her only fault." For this demonstrativeness of ethics
renders it necessary for her to paint her typical sinners in colors of total blackness, and
one seldom finds, even among mature offenders, such unmitigated scoundrels as she exhibits
in their teens. They do not move or talk like human beings, but like lay figures into which
certain specified sins have been poured. This is an artistic as well as ethical error. As Porson
finely said to Rogers, "In drawing a villain, we should always furnish him with something that
may seem to justify him to himself"; and Schiller, in his æsthetic writings, lays down the
same rule. Yet this censurable habit does not seem to proceed from anything cynical in the
author's own nature, but rather from inexperience, and from a personal directness which moves
only in straight lines. It seems as if she were so single-minded in her good intents as to
assume all bad people equally single-minded in evil; but they are not.

Thus, in "The Cumberers," the fault to be assailed is selfishness, and, in honest zeal to show
it in its most formidable light, she builds up her typical "Cumberer" into such a complicated
monster, so stupendous in her self-absorption, as to be infinitely less beneficial to the reader
than a merely ordinary inconsistent human being would have been. The most selfish younger sister
reading this story would become a Pharisee, and thank God, that, whatever her peccadilloes,
she was not so bad as this Amelia. "My Great-Aunt's Picture" does the same for the vice of
envy; "Dr. Deane's Governess" for discontent, and so on; only that this last story is so oddly
mixed up with English class-distinctions and conventionalisms that one hardly knows when the
young lady is supposed to be doing right and when doing wrong. The same puzzle occurs in the
closing story, "Emily's Ambition," where the censurable point of the aspiration consists in
being dissatisfied with the humbler vocation of school-teaching, and in pining after the loftier
career of milliner, which in this community would seem like turning social gradations upside-down.

By far the ablest of the five "studies," at least in its opening, is the school-story of "The
Stolen Treasure," which, with a high-flown name, and a most melodramatic and commonplace ending,
shows yet great power in the delineation and grouping of characters. The young school-girls
are as real as those of Charlotte Bronté; and although the typical maidenly desperado is present,--lying
and cheating with such hopeless obviousness that it seems as if they must all have had to look
very hard the other way to avoid finding her out,--yet there is certainly much promise and
power in the narrative. Let us hope that the modesty of the title of this volume really indicates
a lofty purpose in its author, and that she will learn to avoid exaggeration of character as
she avoids exaggeration of style.

     Collection De Vries. German Series. Vols. I.-X. Boston: De
     Vries, Ibarra, & Co.

The present high price of imported books, which is stimulating our publishers to rival their
English compeers in typographical triumphs, is also creating an important class of German reprints,
to which attention should certainly be called. Until lately the chief business in this line
has been done by Philadelphia houses, but we now have editions from Boston publishers which
surpass all predecessors in accuracy and beauty. Indeed, the average issues of the German press
abroad do not equal these in execution; and though the books issued are thus far small, yet
the taste shown in the selection gives them a peculiar value.

First comes Hans Andersen's ever-charming "Picture-Book without Pictures,"--tales told by the
Moon, as she looks in at the window of a poor student. There is also a separate edition of
this little work, issued by the same house, with English notes for students, by Professor Simonson
of Trinity College.

Next comes "Prinzessin Ilse," a graceful little story by Von Ploennies, almost as charming
as "Undine,"--with its scene laid in the Hartz Forest, by the legend-haunted Ilsenstein. Then
follows a similar wreath of fancies, called "Was sich der Wald erzählt," by Gustav zu Putlitz,
in which fir-trees and foxgloves tell their tales, and there are sermons in stones and all
the rest of it. Why is it that no language but the German can possibly construct a Mährchen,
so that Englishmen and Americans grow dull, and Frenchmen insufferable, whenever they attempt
that delicious mingling of the ideal and the real?

