  And yet whales are beaten--by narwhals and men,
  And other mere pigmies. 'Tis said, now and then,
    E'en sword-fish can compass their ruin,
  By stabbing together--in Cassius's way
  With Cæsar. Leviathan, dead, is a prey
    To dog-fish, and sea-birds, or Bruin.

  There he blows! There he goes! Would an amateur Whaler,
  Like WILHELM, that fine blend of Statesman and Sailor,
    Incline to the chase and the capture
  Of such a huge, wandering, wallopping whale,
  To whom "Troubling the waters" with blow-holes and tail
    Seems a source of such riotous rapture?

       *       *       *       *       *

DUST AND HASHES.

SIR,--When I first took my present house, I was advised to get a Sanitary Dust-bin, instead
of the old brick one which existed in my back-yard. One of the blessings predicted for my Sanitary
Dust-bin, was, that it was "easily removable." I find this to be the case. It has already been
removed by some area-sneak, and as I have got rid of the old brick dust-bin, the Vestry threaten
to prosecute me for creating a nuisance, because my dust is now placed in a corner under my
front steps. What am I to do?

AGGRIEVED HOUSEHOLDER.

SIR,--I find that the law recently passed against tips to Dustmen is quite unknown--at all
events, to the Dustmen themselves. My servants, I find, go on freely bribing these functionaries,
to remove bones and vegetable refuse. Their rate of tipping, as far as I can make out, is about
a halfpenny per bone. If I were now to enforce the law and forbid tips, I foresee that the
Dustcarts would have pressing business elsewhere, and would visit me about once a month. Then
would follow a régime of "big, big, D.s"--in the window--which would be intolerable. I prefer
tipping to typhoid.

Yours long sufferingly, VICTIM OF THE VESTRIES.

SIR,--The Vestry is quite right to insist on every house burning up its own odds and ends.
The true domestic motto is--"Every kitchen its own crematorium." I do this habitually, out
of public spirit. It is true that a sickening odour permeates the house for an hour or two
of every day, created by the combustion of dinner remnants; also that most of my family suffer
from bad sore throats, which they attribute to this cause. What of that? The truly good Citizen
will prefer to poison himself rather than his neighbours.

A CLERKENWELL CATO.

SIR,--I recently purchased Dodger's Digest of Dustbin Law, and recommend it to the perusal
of every householder. In the case of The Vestry of Shoreditch v. Grimes, Lord Justice SLUSH
remarks--"The Vestry complains that the Defendant's bin was improperly covered; that, in fact,
it was not under coverture. To this the Defendant replies that his bin was void ab initio,
as there was nothing in it. Then the question arises whether the Defendant's Cook was justified
in tipping the Dustman into the empty bin, considering that the Legislature has distinctly
forbidden tips of all kinds to Dustmen. I am of opinion that the Cook was the Defendant's agent,
and that the rule of qui facit per alium facit per se applies here. The Cook's proceeding was
undoubtedly tortious; it was not a criminal action, though it certainly cannot be called a
civil one. I agree with my brother CHIPPY that the ratio decidendi must be, whether the Dustman,
in coming to clean out an empty dust-bin, had a malus animus or no. On all these points I hold
that judgment must be for the Vestry." Your readers will see the importance of such clear obiter
dicta.

Yours, AMATEUR LAWYER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CRY OF THE CHILDREN.

  Soon on Piccadilly's pavement solitude once more will reign;
  Soon the Park will be a desert, for the Season's on the wane;
  In Belgravia's lordly mansions nearly all the blinds are down,
  For "the Family is gone, Sir,"--not a soul is left in Town.

  South to Switzerland they hurry, to explore each snowy fell;
  North to Scotland's moors and forests, where the grouse and
          red-deer dwell;
  Carlsbad, Homburg, Trouville, Norway, soon their jaded eyes will
          view;
  For Society is speeding "to fresh woods and pastures new."

  Everyone is gone or going,--everyone, that is, one knows,--
  And the "Great Elections'" Season fast is drawing to its close.
  Never surely was a poorer; such dull dinners, so few balls,
  Such an Epsom, such an Ascot, or so many empty stalls.

  Gone the Season, with its dances, with its concerts and its fêtes,
  With its weddings and divorces, with its dinners and debates;
  Gone are all its vapid pleasures, all its easy charities,
  Gone its causes célèbres and scandals, gone its tears and
          tragedies.

  Weary legislators envy still more weary chaperons;--
  Much they know the truth who deem them of Society the drones;--
  All the maidens are ennuyées, vow they "can't do anymore,"
  All the gilded youth are yawning--everything's a horrid bore.

  Hearken then, ye youths and maidens, favoured Children of the West,
  East and South and North are children, who are hungering for rest.
  They have never seen the country, never heard the streamlet flow:
  London pavements, London darkness, London squalor,--these they know.

  Not for them to range the moorland, or to climb the mountain-side;
  They must linger on in London, till the grave their sorrows hide.
  From year's end to dreary year's end they must pace the noisy
          street.
  Do you hear the ceaseless echo of their weary, weary feet?

  Just one day without your wine, Sir! Madam, just one ribbon less,
  And one wearied child in London from afar your name will bless.
  Think, ere now you seek your boredom in fresh pleasure-draughts to
          drown,
  Three or four benighted Millions still are left behind in Town!

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL OPINION ON APPOINTMENT OF NEW CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF INLAND REVENUE.--"MILNER's Safe."

       *       *       *       *       *

CANVASSERS AND CANVASSED.

(AN ELECTIONEERING REMINISCENCE.)

    SCENE--A narrow South London Street of two-storeyed houses,
    with a Rag-and-Bone Shop at one end and a Public House at the
    other. Time, about four o'clock on a warm Saturday afternoon.
    Enter Mr. CARLTON-JERMYN, a middle-aged gentleman, in
    faultless get-up, who, in a moment of weakness, has undertaken
    to canvass the district for his friend, the Conservative
    Candidate.

Mr. C.-J. (to himself, as he regards his surroundings with dismay, and tries to arrange his
canvassing-cards). I suppose this is Little Anna Maria Street? I didn't understand at the Committee
Rooms that it was quite such a--however, I must do my best for dear old TILNEY. Who's the first
man I must see and "use my best endeavours to persuade him into promising his vote?" Ah, Mr.
J. SPLURGE, No. 1. (He picks his way delicately along, attempting to make out the numbers on
the doors, which are all thrown back; female residents watch him from doorsteps and windows
with amused interest.) No. 5; No. 3; the next is No. 1. (It is; but the entrance is blocked
by a small infant with a very dirty face, who is slung in a baby-chair between the door-posts.)
Very embarrassing, really! Can't ask such a child as this if Mr. SPLURGE is at home! I'll knock.
(Stretches for the knocker across the child, who, misinterpreting his intentions, sets up a
howl.) My good child, I assure you ... for Heaven's sake, don't!... I--I wonder whether I ought
to kiss it--some fellows would!

Female Voice (from side-window). You leave that pore child alone, will yer--or I'll come out
and tork to you, d'y'ear?

Mr. C.-J. (to himself). That's Mrs. SPLURGE! I think, perhaps, I'd better not wait. (With an
inspiration.) I'll leave a card. (Drops one of his visiting-cards in the child's lap--to its
exceeding terror--and retreats.) I'm afraid I haven't produced a very favourable impression,
so far, I'll try No. 2, across the street. (He approaches a doorstep upon which two stout and
dishevelled Women are seated.) Er--I beg your pardon, but could you kindly inform me if Mr.--er--(consulting
card)--GUFFIN is at home?

First Woman (with sarcasm). Now do yer think he's nothink else to do but set indoors in a arm-cheer
all day?

Mr. C.-J. I--I thought--I hoped--that, it being Saturday, I might be--er--fortunate enough--have
I the pleasure of addressing Mrs. GUFFIN? [Both Women are convulsed with uncontrollable mirth.

Second Woman (on recovering--calling down the passage). 'Ere, Mrs. GUFFIN, yer wanted. 'Ere's
a gentleman come to see yer!

Mrs. Guffin (appearing from the basement, and standing at the further end of the passage).
Well, what does he want?

Mr. C.-J. (raising his hat, and sending his voice down the passage to her). I ventured to call,
Mrs. GUFFIN, in the hope of finding your husband at home, and ascertaining his--er--political
sympathies, in view of the Election.

Mrs. Guffin. Oh, it's about the voting, is it? Are you for a Conservatory?

Mr. C.-J. For a--? Oh, to be sure, yes. I came to ask Mr. GUFFIN to support Sir TILNEY BRUTON,
the Conservative Candidate. Perhaps if I called again, I might--?

Mrs. Guffin (in a matter-of-fact tone). I don't expect my 'usband 'ome till late, and then
he'll be drunk.

Mr. C.-J. Just so. But I trust, Mrs. GUFFIN, your husband feels the importance of maintaining
the Union--?

Mrs. Guffin. He did belong, I know, but I think his branch broke up, or somethink.

Mr. C.-J. (puzzled). Ah, but I mean in--er--politics--I hope he is opposed to granting Home
Rule to Ireland?

Mrs. G. He don't tell me nothing about his politics, but I've 'eard him say he was Radikil.

Mr. C.-J. (diplomatically, as Mrs. G. slowly edges towards the door). Might I suggest, Mrs.
GUFFIN, that you should use the--er--influence which every woman possesses, to--er--induce
your husband--(here he suddenly becomes aware that Mrs. GUFFIN has a very pronounced black
eye); but perhaps I ought not to ask you.

Mrs. G. Well, my opinion is--if you want someone to tork over my 'usband to your side, you'd
better come and do it yourself; because I ain't goin' to. So there! [She retires to the basement
again.

First Dish. W. If you toffs can't do nothink better than come 'ere makin' mischief between
a man and his wife, you'd better stop at 'ome, that you 'ad!

Mr. C.-J. (to himself). Upon my word, I believe she's right! But I never noticed the poor woman's
eye before. I wish I could find one of the men in, and have a talk with him--much more satisfactory!
(Knocks at No. 4) Is Mr. BULCHER at home?

Mr. B. (lurching out of a room on the ground-floor). Qui' c'rect, Guv'nor--thash me!

Mr. C.-J. I wanted to see you, Mr. BULCHER, to ask if we may count upon your support for the
Conservative Candidate at the Election. I need hardly point out to you the--er--vital importance
of--

Mr. B. (slouching against the passage-wall, opposite Mr. C.-J.). 'Old on, Guv'nor, lemme ashk
you thish question, 'fore we go any furrer. Wharriwanter 'ear from you is--'Ow 'm I goin' git
little bit o' good outer thesh 'lections for myshelf. You unnershtand me? What good Conshervative
gov'men' ever done er workin' man--d' yer shee? Why, never--not in all their born daysh! You
take that shtraight from me.

Mr. C.-J. But surely--er--it was a Conservative Government that gave you Free Education?

Mr. B. (knowingly). No, it washn't, Guv'nor. There yer wrong, d'yer see? It wash er Radicals
give us Free Education. And whatsh Free Education er me? Wouldn' say Thank yer f'rall Free
Education in er wide world!

Mr. C.-J. (recognising that he must strike a stronger chord). Well, at all events you will
admit that, during the last six years, you have been--er--peaceful and prosperous?

Mr. B. (beerily). I've been peashful and proshperous ever sinsh I was born. No, look 'ere,
Guv'nr, I'm torken to you 'bout wharri unnershtan', d'yer see? Jes' you lishen er wharri'm
goin tell you. (Here he punctuates his remarks by poking Mr. C.-J.'s ribs with a clay pipe.)
Workin' man's gettin' more and more 'telligent every day--he'sh qui' capable lookin' after
his own interests. What he wantch is, One Man One Vote, Redooced Hours o' Labour, 'Ome Rule
for London, an' the Control of the Liquor Traffic! What did Misher GLADSHTONE say? Educated
and 'telligent clashes alwaysh wrong--mashes always ri'! An' hain't I 'telligent an' educated?
Very well, then. There you 'ave it.

Mr. C.-J. But--er--don't you see, my friend, that, according to Mr. GLADSTONE, the more intelligent
and educated you are, the more you're wrong?

Mr. B. Nothing of--er--kind. Don' you make any mishtake. I ain't wrong. I gommy 'pinions--my
p'litical 'pinions, and the prinshiples I go 'pon are--Down with--er--Tories!

Mr. C.-J. In that case, Mr. BULCHER, I need not occupy your time any longer, so I'll say--

Mr. B. (buttonholing him). Don' you go 'way, Guv'nor, 'fore I've finished torkin. I've lishened
all you gorrer say--now itsh my turn talk, and I tell you er Conshervative Gov'men ish a downri'--&c.,
&c.

Mr. C.-J. (escaping, after ten minutes' incoherence). I'm afraid he was not quite in a condition
to be argued with, but perhaps I shall do better with Mr. MOLESKIN, next door. (To a small
boy in passage.) Mr. MOLESKIN in, my lad?

The Boy. Father--e's in. Go right up the stairs, and you'll find 'im.

    [Mr. C.-J. flounders up the narrow stairs, and is met at the
    top by a very burly and surly mechanic.

Mr. Moleskin. Now, then, what do you want 'ere? (Mr. C.-J. explains his object, in some confusion.)
Oh, that's it, is it? And what right ha' you got comin' up my stairs as if they belonged to
you? Jest you tell me that!

Mr. C.-J. (meekly). I'm really very sorry--but I was--er--shown up.

Mr. M. It's 'igh time you and the likes o' you were shown up, in my opinion. 'Ow would you
like to 'ave me comin' bustin' up your stairs, eh?

Mr. C.-J. (thinking that he wouldn't like it at all). I assure you I quite feel that this is
an unwarrantable intrusion on my part--I must ask you to accept my best apologies--but I should
be very glad to know that we might count on your--er--support at such a national crisis.

Mr. M. I dessay yer would. But what I ask you is--where does the secresy of the Ballot come
in, if I'm to tell you which way I'm goin' to give my vote?

Mr. C.-J. (in distress). Pray believe that I should not dream of--er--forcing any confidence
from you, or dictating to you in any way! I merely--

Mr. M. (mollified). Well, I don't mind tellin' yer this much:--I've made up my mind long ago,
and, when the time comes, I shall vote to please myself and nobody else; and that's as much
as you've got any right to know!

Mr. C.-J. (with a feeling that he would give much the same answer himself under similar circumstances).
Then I'm afraid it would be of no use if I said any more?

Mr. M. Not a bit o' use! [He goes into his room again.

Mrs. Moleskin (coming out and addressing her son from landing). 'Ere, JIMMY, you come in orf
o' that doorstep, and don't you go showin' any more folks up, or you don't know oo' you may
let in next!

Mr. C.-J. (sadly, to himself, as he descends). I'd no idea canvassing was such exhausting work.
I--I really think I've done enough for one afternoon! [Leaves Little Anna Maria Street--for ever!

       *       *       *       *       *

"BEAR WITH US."--In the case reported in the papers last week of "an infuriated bear shot at
Croydon," Inspector ORMONDE said that "when the ring had been removed from its lip, the animal
was so much relieved that it immediately turned a somersault." A picture of this interesting
incident should be at once painted and hung up in the Divorce Court. The husband, who has become
quite a bear in consequence of his better half having rendered herself quite unbearable, would
naturally turn head-over-heels with joy on getting quit of the ring. But alas! mark the end
of the poor bear. He got more and more excited; he had to be looked up in a stable. Here the
joy and novelty of the situation overcame him; his mighty brain gave way; he became mad as
a hatter--(Alice in Wonderland might have asked, "Then why didn't they send for a hatter, who
would have brought a chimney-pot, or some sort of a tile for his bear-head?")--and subsequently
the veterinary Mr. THRALE (whose ancestral namesake had considerable experience in dealing
with that learned bear. Dr. JOHNSON) procured a gun, and potted the bear. Awkward in his life,
but grease-ful in his death. I have often heard Lord ARTHUR declare he was "as dry as a limekiln,"
and always thought it an absurd expression; and now I know it is!--for anything more wet than
the Limekilns at Newmarket this week I never saw!--it's a mystery to me how the poor horses
and men avoid catching cold, cantering about there without galoshes--though, by the way, Mr.
HAMMOND had one "Galoche" which, of course, was not much use!

Owing to the smallness (that's a good word) of the attendance, we were "pinched" a little in
the prices, and of course the pinch came where one least expected it, which was somewhat disconcerting--but
as most of the "good things" came off all right--(especially those we took with us from BENOIST
and FORTNUM's)--it did not matter so much. Ladies of course were chiefly conspicuous by their
absence, but my sweet friend Lady NEWMAN GATESHEAD was quite the Belle of the gathering, and
attracted nearly as much attention as the Queen of Navarre, who naturally won her race in royal
style!

My selection for the Chesterfield Stakes, Meddler, was successful after a short struggle with
the Duke of PORTLAND's Kilmarnock to whom he had to give five pounds (I hope this does not
mean that the noble owner is in want of money!); but I am told the latter was not "fit" and
"will do better with time!" though I don't quite see how that can be, as surely "time" travels
faster than Meddler, so that, unless they take time with him, the handicap will be difficult
to frame! By the way, when the handicaps are framed, where do they hang them up? and is it
one of the "perks" of the Handicapper to supply the frames?

Those who waited in the rain for the last race on Wednesday were rewarded with a splendid exhibition
of horsemanship, given by WEBB on St. Angelo; who appears to be somewhat of a "handful" (St.
Angelo I mean, not WEBB, who is very slight), and evinces a strong desire to run in any direction
but the one desired of him! I think Mr. MILNER should have him trained on a zigzag method,
when his natural wilfulness would cause him to run straight when racing! This is an excellent
idea, and I have others equally good (applicable to all styles of horses), which I intend to
suggest to different trainers on my next visit to Newmarket!

We were all relieved when the "curtain rang down" on Thursday--(this is not, at first sight,
a racing expression, but is largely used by sporting writers, as demonstrating the diversified
nature of their knowledge!), in time for us to catch the early special for Liverpool Street;
which, special, might really, from the major portion of its patrons, have been thought to be
starting for Jerusalem!

Friday was a glorious day for the Eclipse, which was only visible from the Observatory at Esher--the
best account appears to have been given by Professor Orme, who recovered from his recent severe
illness just in time to be present.

Just a word in conclusion on the big race of next week--a paradox--be "wide awake" and go "nap"
on my tip, from information privately given to

Yours devotedly, LADY GAY.

LIVERPOOL CUP SELECTION.

  Some owners win, although their gee
  In temper be a "villen;"
  As that is not the sort for me,
  I favour "Enniskillen."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POLITICAL JOHNNY GILPIN.

THE FINISH.

(Further-discovered Fragments of the Grand Old Ballad, giving the Sequel of the strange story
begun in "Punch," No. 2660, July 2, p. 318.)

       *       *       *       *       *

  So fair and softly! JOHNNY cried,
  But JOHNNY cried in vain;
  That trot became a gallop soon,
  In spite of curb and rein.

  So, stooping down, as needs he must
  Who cannot sit upright,
  He grasped the mane with both his hands,
  And eke with all his might.

  The wind did blow, the cloak did fly
  Like streamer long and gay,
  Till people thought, and JOHN half feared,
  That it might fly away.

  Then might all gazers well discern
  The bottles he had slung;
  A bottle swinging at each side,
  As hath been said or sung.

  Away went GILPIN--who but he?
  His fame soon spread around;
  "He carries weight! He rides a race!"
  "He'll win it, we'll be bound!"

         *       *       *       *       *

  Then all through merry London Town,
  These gambols he did play;
  Until he came to rural parts,
  Where rustics lined the way.

  There labourers shouted, women screamed,
  Up flew the felt-hats all;
  And every yokel yelled, "Well done!"
  As loud as he could bawl.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Away went GILPIN, out of breath,
  And fearing much a "spill;"
  But knowing till his race was run
  His horse would not stand still.

  His hat was gone, his W(h)ig also,
  His cloak he had to clutch.
  Could he hold on? A mile or two
  Would put it to the touch.

  A church-bell clanging, scared his steed,
  Pigs dashed betwixt its feet;
  And on his own beloved North Road,
  JOHN almost lost his seat.

  On the North Road, his sometime friends,
  Their sometime favourite spied,
  Well-nigh dismounted, wondering much,
  To see how he did ride.

  "Ride straight, JOHN GILPIN--for the House!"
  JOHN's Liberal Dame did cry.
  "The Party waits, and we feel tired."
  Said GILPIN--"So do I!"

  But yet his horse was not a whit
  Inclined due North to stay;
  For why?--his stables at the House
  Were out Westminster way.

  So like an arrow swift he flew
  Back southward through the throng,
  Who shouted loud, "He yet will win!
  JOHN GILPIN's going strong!"

         *       *       *       *       *

  And now Town's traffic once again
  For horse and man made space,
  The drivers thinking, as before,
  That GILPIN rode a race.

  And so he did--and won it, too,
  For he got first to Town;
  And, stiff and sore, at the House door,
  Bare winner, he got down.

  Now let us sing, Long live the QUEEN,
  And GILPIN, long live he!
  And when he next doth ride due North,
  May we be there to see!

       *       *       *       *       *

A GOOD STAYER.--From the Times of Tuesday, the 12th, we cull this:--

    IN ANY CAPACITY of TRUST.--Seven years in first-class Turkish
    Bath. Patience and perseverance. Good invalid attendant.
    Active and attentive.

"Seven years in a Turkish Bath!" As Mr. WILSON BARRETT would exclaim, "How long! How long!"
What better example of patience and perseverance, which, as all know, are "good for the gout,"
could possibly be given? That after this long stay in the Turkish Bath, he should be "a good
invalid attendant," goes without saying. And not only is he "attentive," which is a great point
in an "attendant," but he is also active--and this after so long a stay in a Turkish Bath,
of which, however, he does not mention the temperature.

