+On the 27th of January+ it was 150 years since Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was born. A grandmaster
of music, a magician who leads the soul from the depths of life to its sunary heights. Mozart
transposed life into music, Wagner and his pupils transposed problems of life. Wagner questions
and receives no answer. Mozart affirms life. His "Don Juan" liberates, "Tannhäuser" leads into
the labyrinth of bothersome renunciation.

The study of Mozart's biography may be recommended to those who believe that the artistic individuality
has freer scope to-day than it would have with communism. Mozart was always forced to look
about for patrons of his art, for he lacked the means to put his works before the public.

A biographer says of him: "Mozart's life makes us feel the tragedy of an artist's life most
painfully. In his youth he was fondled and idealized as a wonder child, but his circumstances
deteriorated as he matured in his art and the more accomplished the works of his fantasy grew.
When he died he left a wife and children behind in great poverty. There was not enough money
on hand to bury him. The corpse was placed in the potters' field. When his wife, who had been
sick at the time of the burial, wanted to look up the grave, it could not be exactly designated."
The genius of the artist, however, permeates the world on waves of light.

       *       *       *       *       *

+The Czar knows+ his mission. He addressed a deputation of peasants from the Province of Kursk
thus:

"My brothers, I am most glad to see you. You must know very well that every right of property
is sacred to the State. The owner has the same right to his land as you peasants have to yours.
Communicate this to your fellows in the villages. In my solicitude for the country I do not
forget the peasants, whose needs are dear to me, and I will look after them continually as
did my late father. The National Assembly will soon assemble and in co-operation with me discuss
the best measures for your relief. Have confidence in me, I will assist you. But I repeat,
remember always that right of property is holy and inviolable."

The commentaries to this fatherly address are furnished by the czaristic Cossacks who hasten
to the peasants' aid with the knout, sword and incendiarism.

LITERARY NOTES

     "Letters of Henrik Ibsen," published by Fox Duffield & Co., New
     York. Price, $2.50.

These letters do not belong among those of great men which prove to be disappointments. In
reading them one is not inclined to ask as of Schopenhauer's letters, why a philosophic genius
of such depth should be laden with thousands of philistine trivialities.

Ibsen reaches far beyond his surroundings in his letters. What he writes is a continual protest
against shallowness and mediocrity. The misery of petty state affairs, of patriotism with a
board on the forehead bothered him greatly. This is shown on every page. Whatever he expresses,
he always aims at expanding the horizon; as he himself once remarked: the revolutionizing of
brains. His sentiments are European, and he must often hear that even the wish for combining
the Scandinavian countries borders on treason. Thus he becomes a "solitary soul." He has even
nothing in common with the radicals; he not only hates the state, the enemy of individuality,
but he is averse to all attempts which aim at the drilling of the masses. He loves Björnson
as a poet, but he wants to have nothing to do with him as a politician. I mean that man is
right who has allied himself most closely with the future."

       *       *       *       *       *

