PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

December 20, 1890.

VOCES POPULI.

THE RIDING-CLASS.

    SCENE--A Riding-school, on a raw chilly afternoon. The gas is
    lighted, but does not lend much cheerfulness to the interior,
    which is bare and bleak, and pervaded by a bluish haze.
    Members of the Class discovered standing about on the tan,
    waiting for their horses to be brought in. At the further end
    is an alcove, with a small balcony, in which Mrs. BILBOW-KAY,
    the Mother of one of the Equestrians, is seated with a young
    female Friend.

Mrs. Bilbow-Kay. Oh, ROBERT used to ride very nicely indeed when he was a boy; but he has been
out of practice lately, and so, as the Doctor ordered him horse-exercise, I thought it would
be wiser for him to take a few lessons. Such an excellent change for any one with sedentary
pursuits!

The Friend. But isn't riding a sedentary pursuit, too?

Mrs. B.-K. ROBERT says he doesn't find it so.

    [Enter the Riding Master.

Riding Master (saluting with cane). Evenin', Gentlemen--your 'orses will be in directly; 'ope
we shall see some ridin' this time. (Clatter without; enter Stablemen with horses.) Let me
see--Mr. BILBOW-KAY, Sir, you'd better ride the Shar; he ain't been out all day, so he'll want
some 'andling. (Mr. B.-K., with a sickly smile, accepts a tall and lively horse.) No, Mr. TONGS,
that ain't your 'orse to-day--you've got beyond 'im, Sir. We'll put you up on Lady Loo; she's
a bit rough till you get on terms with her, but you'll be all right on her after a bit. Yes,
Mr. JOGGLES, Sir, you take Kangaroo, please. Mr. BUMPAS, I've 'ad the Artful Dodger out for
you; and mind he don't get rid of you so easy as he did Mr. GRIPPER last time. Got a nice 'orse
for you, Mr. 'ARRY SNIGGERS, Sir--Frar Diavolo. You mustn't take no notice of his bucking a
bit at starting--he'll soon leave it off.

Mr. Sniggers (who conceals his qualms under a forced facetiousness). Soon leave me off, you mean!

R.M. (after distributing the remaining horses). Now then--bring your 'orses up into line, and
stand by, ready to mount at the word of command, reins taken up in the left 'and with the second
and little fingers, and a lock of the 'orse's mane twisted round the first. Mount! That 'orse
ain't a bicycle, Mr. SNIGGERS. [Mr. S. (in an undertone.) No--worse luck!] Number off! Walk!
I shall give the word to trot directly, so now's the time to improve your seats--that back
a bit straighter, Mr. 'OOPER. No. 4, just fall out, and we'll let them stirrup-leathers down
another 'ole or two for yer. (No. 4, who has just been congratulating himself that his stirrups
were conveniently high, has to see them let down to a distance where he can just touch them
by stretching.) Now you're all comfortable. ["Oh, are we?" from Mr. S.] Trot! Mr. TONGS, Sir,
'old that 'orse in--he's gettin' away with you already. Very bad, Mr. JOGGLES, Sir--keep those
'eels down! Lost your stirrup, Mr. JELLY? Never mind that--feel for it, Sir. I want you to
be independent of the irons. I'm going to make you ride without 'em presently. (Mr. JELLY shivers
in his saddle.) Captin' CROPPER, Sir; if that Volunteer ridgment as you're goin' to be the
Major of sees you like you are now, on a field-day--they'll 'ave to fall out to larf, Sir!
(Mr. CROPPER devoutly wishes he had been less ingenuous as to his motive for practising his
riding.) Now, Mr. SNIGGERS, make that 'orse learn 'oo's the master! [Mr. S. "He knows, the brute!"]

Mrs. B.-K. He's very rude to all the Class, except dear ROBERT--but then ROBERT has such a
nice easy seat.

The R.M. Mr. BILBOW-KAY, Sir, try and set a bit closer. Why, you ain't no more 'old on that
saddle than a stamp with the gum licked off! Can-ter! You're all right, Mr. JOGGLES--it's on'y
his play; set down on your saddle, Sir!... I didn't say on the ground!

Mrs. B.-K. (anxiously to her Son, as he passes). BOB, are you quite sure you're safe? (To Friend.)
His horse is snorting so dreadfully!

R.M. 'Alt! Every Gentleman take his feet out of the stirrups, and cross them on the saddle
in front of him. Not your feet, Mr. SNIGGERS, we ain't Turks 'ere!

Mr. S. (sotto voce). "There's one bloomin' Turk 'ere, anyway!"

R.M. Now then,--Walk!... Trot! Set back, Gentlemen, set back all--'old on by your knees, not
the pommels. I see you, Mr. JELLY, kitchin' 'old o' the mane--I shall 'ave to give you a 'ogged
'orse next time you come. Quicken up a bit--this is a ride, not a funeral. Why, I could roll
faster than you're trotting! Lor, you're like a row o' Guy Foxes on 'orseback, you are! Ah,
I thought I'd see one o' you orf! Goa-ron, all o' you, you don't come 'ere to play at ridin'--I'll
make you ride afore I've done with you! 'Ullo, Mr. JOGGLES, nearly gone that time, Sir! There,
that'll do--or we'll 'ave all your saddles to let unfurnished. Wa-alk! Mr. BILBOW-KAY, when
your 'orse changes his pace sudden, it don't look well for you to be found settin' 'arf way
up his neck, and it gives him a bad opinion of yer, Sir. Uncross sterrups! Trot on! It ain't
no mortal use your clucking to that mare, Mr. TONGS, Sir, because she don't understand the
langwidge--touch her with your 'eel in the ribs. Mr. SNIGGERS, that 'orse is doin' jest what
he likes with you. 'It 'im, Sir; he's no friends and few relations!

Mr. S. (with spirit). I ain't going to 'it 'im. If you want him 'it, get up and do it yourself!

R.M. When I say "Circle Right"--odd numbers'll wheel round and fall in be'ind even ones. Circle
Right!... Well, if ever I--I didn't tell yer to fall off be'ind. Ketch your 'orses and stick
to 'em next time. Right In-cline! O' course, Mr. JOGGLES, if you prefer takin' that animal
for a little ride all by himself, we'll let you out in the streets--otherwise p'raps you'll
kindly follow yer leader. Captin CROPPER, Sir, if you let that curb out a bit more, Reindeer
wouldn't be 'arf so narsty with yer ... Ah, now you 'ave done it. You want your reins painted
different colours and labelled, Sir, you do. 'Alt, the rest of you.... Now, seein' you're shook
down in your saddles a bit--["Shook up's more like it!" from Mr. S.]--we'll 'ave the 'urdles
in and show you a bit o' Donnybrook! (The Class endeavours to assume an air of delighted anticipation
at this pleasing prospect.) (To Assistant R.M., who has entered and said something in an undertone.)
Eh, Captin 'EDSTALL here, and wants to try the grey cob over 'urdles? Ask him if he'll come
in now--we're just going to do some jumping.

Assist. R.M. This lot don't look much like going over 'urdles--'cept in front o' the 'orse,
but I'll tell the Captin.

    [The hurdles are brought in and propped up. Enter a
    well-turned-out Stranger, on a grey cob.

Mr. Sniggers (to him.) You ain't lost nothing by coming late, I can tell yer. We've bin having
a gay old time in 'ere--made us ride without sterrups, he did!

Capt. Headstall. Haw, really? Didn't pet grassed, did you?

Mr. S. Well, me and my 'orse separated by mutual consent. I ain't what you call a fancy 'orseman.
We've got to go at that 'urdle in a minute. How do you like the ideer, eh? It's no good funking
it--it's got to be done!

R.M. Now, Captin--not you, Captin CROPPER--Captin 'EDSTALL, I mean, will you show them the
way over, please?

    [Captain H. rides at it; the cob jumps too short, and knocks
    the hurdle down--to his rider's intense disgust.

Mr. S. I say, Guv'nor, that was a near thing. I wonder you weren't off.

Capt. H. I--ah--don't often come off.

Mr. S. You won't say that when you've been 'ere a few times. You see, they've put you on a
quiet animal this journey. I shall try to get him myself next time. He be'aves like a gentleman,
he does!

Capt. H. You won't mount him, if you take my advice--he has rather a delicate mouth.

Mr. S. Oh, I don't mind that--I should ride him on the curb, o' course. [The Class ride at
the hurdle, one by one.

R.M. Now, Mr. SNIGGERS, give 'im more of 'is 'ed than that, Sir--or he'll take it.... Oh, Lor,
well, it's soft falling luckily! Mr. JOGGLES, Sir, keep him back till you're in a line with
it.... Better, Sir; you come down true on your saddle afterwards, anyway!... Mr. PARABOLE!...
Ah, would you? Told you he was tricky, Sir! Try him at it again.... Now--over!... Yes, and
it is over, and no mistake!

Mrs. B.-K. Now it's ROBERT's turn. I'm afraid he's been overtiring himself, he looks so pale.
BOB, you won't let him jump too high, will you?-- Oh, I daren't look. Tell me, my love,--is
he safe?

Her Friend. Perfectly--they're just brushing him down.

AFTERWARDS.

Mrs. B.-K. (to her Son). Oh, BOB, you must never think of jumping again--it is such a dangerous
amusement!

Robert (who has been cursing the hour in which he informed his parent of the exact whereabouts
of the school.) It's all right with a horse that knows how to jump. Mine didn't.

The Friend. I thought you seemed to jump a good deal higher than the horse did. They ought
to be trained to keep close under you, oughtn't they? [ROBERT wonders if she is as guileless
as she looks.

Capt. Cropper (to the R.M.). Oh, takes about eight months, with a lesson every day, to make
a man efficient in the Cavalry, does it? But, look here--I suppose four more lessons will put
me all right, eh? I've had eight, y'know.

R.M. Well, Sir, if you arsk me, I dunno as another arf dozen'll do you any 'arm--but, o'course,
that's just as you feel about it.

    [Captain CROPPER endeavours to extract encouragement from
    this Delphic response.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TIT-WILLOW.

(A NEW VERSION.)

    ["Last year I fed the tomtits with a cocoanut, suspended on a
    stick outside my window, and they came greedily. This year I
    forgot all about it, but, hearing a clamour in a fuchsia-bush
    outside my study window ... I found myself besieged by an
    army of tomtits ... Was it memory, or association of ideas, or
    both?"--Rev. F.G. Montague Powell, in the "Spectator."]

  On a bush in a garden a little Tomtit
    Sang "Willow, Tit-willow, Tit-willow!"
  And I said to him, "Dicky-bird, why do you sit
    Singing 'Willow, Tit-willow, Tit-willow'?"
  "I've had nothing to eat for three days," he replied,
  "Though in searching for berries I've gone far and wide,
  And I feel a pain here in my little inside,
        O Willow, Tit-willow, Tit-willow!"

  Now his poor little cheeks had grown haggard and thin,
    O Willow, Tit-willow, Tit-willow!
  And his self was a shadow of what it had been,
    O Willow, Tit-willow, Tit-willow!
  "By the kind Mr. Powell last year was I fed
  With a cocoanut stuck on a stick," so he said,
  "And without this again I shall shortly be dead,
        O Willow, Tit-willow, Tit-willow!"

  So he gathered an army who twittered all day
    "O Willow, Tit-willow, Tit-willow!"
  But a cocoanut soon made them all cease to say
    "O Willow, Tit-willow, Tit-willow!"
  And the truth of my story you must not assail,
  For the dear old Spectator has published the tale.
  Though those who will read it can scarcely well fail
        To say "Willow, Tit-willow, Tit-willow!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Passing of Arthur."--After Ivanhoe, Sir Arthur Sullivan's new Opera, has appeared at Mr.
D'OYLY CARTE's new theatre, the Knightly and Daily Composer will rest his musical brain for
a year, and will place his Savoy throne at the disposal of Prince Edward Solomon, direct descendant
of the wisest monarch ever known save for one amiable weakness. The successor to King Arthur
has plenty of "Savoy Faire," and a good choice has been made. The Carte will now be drawn along
merrily enough, and, no doubt, it will be a brilliant time when Sol, in all his glory, comes
out and shines at the Savoy.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW IRISH POLITICAL PARTY NAME.--For the followers of Mr. PARNELL, the best name in future
would be "The Faux-Par-nellites."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A PORTIA À LA RUSSE.

    ["I repeat that a great military Power, having at her
    disposal an army of two millions of well-disciplined and
    drilled soldiers, whom no European country dares to attack
    single-handed, can face calmly, and even good-humouredly,
    both the wild attacks of unscrupulous publicists, and
    mistaken protests of philanthropic meetings, though these
    be as imposing and brilliant as the Lord Mayor's Show
    itself."--Madame Novikoff's Letter to the "Times," on
    "The Jews in Russia."]

  The quality of mercy is o'erstrained,
  It droppeth twaddle-like from Lord Mayor's lips
  Upon a Russian ear: strength is twice scornful,
  Scornful of him it smites, and him who prates
  Of mercy for the smitten: force becomes
  The thronéd monarch better than chopped logic;
  His argument's--two millions of armed men,
  Which strike with awe and with timidity
  Prating philanthropy that pecks at kings.
  But Mercy is beneath the Sceptre's care,
  It is a bugbear to the hearts of Czars.
  Force is the attribute of the "God of Battles";
  And earthly power does then show likest heaven's
  When Justice mocks at Mercy. Therefore, Jew,
  Though mercy be thy prayer, consider this,
  That in the course of mercy few of us,
  Muscovite Czars, or she-diplomatists.
  Should hold our places as imperious Slavs
  Against humanitarian Englishmen,
  And Jews gregarious. These do pray for Mercy,
  Whose ancient Books instruct us all to render
  Eye for eye justice! Most impertinent!
  Romanist Marquis, Presbyterian Duke,
  And Anglican Archbishop, mustered up
  With Tabernacular Tubthumper, gowned Taffy,
  And broad-burred Boanerges from the North,
  Mingled with Pantheist bards, Agnostic Peers,
  And lawyers latitudinarian,--
  Lord Mayor's Show of Paul Pry pageantry,
  All to play Mentor to the Muscovite!
  Master of many millions! Oh, most monstrous!
  Are we Turk dogs that they should do this thing?
  In name of Mercy!!!

            I have writ so much,
  As ADLER says, with "dainty keen-edged dagger,"
  To mitigate humanity's indignation.
  With airy epigram, and show old friends,
  GLADSTONE, and WESTMINSTER, MACCOLL and STEAD,
  That OLGA NOVIKOFF is still O.K.
  A Portia--à la Russe! Have I not proved it?

       *       *       *       *       *

DIAMONDS ARE TRUMPS!

    [The ladies, who are learning Whist in New York, do not, says
    the Daily News, worry much about the rules, but rather use
    the old-fashioned game as an opportunity for exhibiting their
    diamond rings, &c.]

  I played the other day at Whist,
    My partner was a comely maiden,
  Her eyes so blue, her pretty wrist
    With bracelets and with bangles laden,
  She wore about ten thousand pounds,
    Each finger had its priceless jewel,
  She was, in fact, ablaze--but zounds!
    Her play, indeed, was "something cruel."

  I called for trumps, and called in vain,
    At intervals I dared to mention
  How much her conduct caused me pain,
    Yet paid she not the least attention.
  I very nearly tore my hair,
    I begged of her to play discreetly,
  But no--the tricks I planned with care
    Without exception failed completely.

  Jewels, I have no doubt, are grand,
    But even they are sometimes cloying.
  I found at length her splendid hand
    (Of shapely fingers) most annoying.
  When next I'm playing, I confess
    I'd like a girl (and may I get her!)
  Who shows her hands a little less,
    And plays her cards a little better.

       *       *       *       *       *

A LAY OF LONDON.

  Oh, London is a pleasant place to live the whole year through,
  I love it 'neath November's pall, or Summer's rarest blue,
  When leafy planes to city courts still tell the tale of June,
  Or when the homely fog brings out the lamplighter at noon.

  I thought to go away this year, and yet in town I am.
  I have not been to Hampstead Heath, much less to Amsterdam;
  And now December's here again I do not feel the loss,
  Though all the summer I've not been four miles from Charing Cross.

  'Twas pleasant in the office when we'd gather in a bunch,
  A social, dreamy sort of day, with lots of time for lunch.
  How commerce flagged September through, at 90, Pinching Lane,
  Till bronzed and bluff the chief returned, and trade revived again.

  Why talk of Andalusia's bulls, of Rocky-Mountain bears,
  Of Tyrolean alpenstocks--though not of Alpen shares;
  Of seaside haunts where fashion drives with coronetted panels,
  Or briny nooks, when all you need is pipes, and books, and flannels.

  Of orange-groves, and cloister'd courts, of fountains, and of pines,
  Black shadows at whose edge the sun intolerably shines,
  Of tumbled mountain heights, like waves on some Titanic sea,
  Caught by an age of ice at once, and fix'd eternally.

  Of quiet river-villages, which woods and waters frame,
  Lull'd in the lap of loveliness to the music of their name;
  Of fallow-fields, of sheltered farms, of moorland and of mere:
  Let others roam--I stay at home, and find their beauties here.

  Not when the sun on London town incongruously smiles,
  On the news-boys, and the traffic, and the advertisers' wiles;
  But when the solar orb has ceased to mark the flight of time,
  And three yards off is nothingness--indefinite, sublime,--

  Then in the City's teeming streets each soul can get its share,
  Its concentrated essence of the high romance of air,
  Whose cloudy symbols KEATS beheld, and yearn'd to jot them down,
  But anybody nowadays can swallow them in town.

  There are, who, fain to dry the tear, and soothe the choking throat,
  Would burn those tokens of the hearth that fondly o'er us float;
  They cannot trace amid the gloom each dainty spire and whorl,
  But smoke, to the true poet's eye, is never out of curl.

  The sardine in his oily den, his little house of tin,
  Headless and heedless there he lies, no move of tail or fin,
  Yet full as beauteous, I ween, that press'd and prison'd fish,
  As when in sunny seas he swam unbroken to the dish.

  A unit in the vasty world of waters far away,
  We could nor taste his toothsome form, nor watch his merry play,
  But, prison'd thus, to fancy's eye, he brings his native seas,
  The olive-groves of Southern France--perchance the Pyrenees.

  The brown sails of the fishing-boats, the lithe sea-season'd crew,
  The spray that shakes the sunlight off beneath the breezy blue,
  The netted horde that shames the light with their refulgent sheen--
  Such charm the gods who dwell on high have given the chill sardine.

  So when we find long leagues of smoke compacted in the air,
  'Tis not the philosophic part to murmur or to swear,
  But patiently unravelling, the threads will soon appear,
  In cottage hearths, and burning weeds, and misty woodland sere.

  The day is fading, all the West with sunset's glow is bright,
  And island clouds of crimson float in depths of emerald light,
  Like circles on a rippled lake the tints spread up the sky,
  Till, mingling with the purple shade, they touch night's shore, and die.

  Down where the beech-trees, nearly bare, spread o'er the red-leaf'd hill,
  Where yet late-lingerers patter down, altho' the wind is still,
  The cottage smoke climbs thinly up, and shades the black-boled trees,
  And hangs upon the misty air as blue as summer seas.

  'Tis this, in other guise, that wraps the town in sombre pall,
  While like two endless funerals the lines of traffic crawl,
  And from the abysmal vagueness where flows the turbid stream
  Like madden'd nightmares neighing, the steamers hoarsely scream.

  The Arab yearns for deserts free, the mariner for grog,
  The hielan' laddie treads the heath, the croppy trots the bog;
  The Switzer boasts his avalanche, the Eskimo his dog,
  But only London in the world, can show a London fog.

       *       *       *       *       *

A WONDERFUL SHILLINGSWORTH.

My Dear Mr. Punch,--Fresh from the country (which has been my perpetual residence for the last
twenty years), I came to London, a few days ago, to visit an establishment which seemed to
me to represent that delight of my childhood, the Polytechnic Institution, in the time of Professor
PEPPER's Ghost, and glass-blowing by machinery. I need scarcely say that the Royal Aquarium
was the attraction, where a shilling entrance fee I imagined would procure for me almost endless
enjoyment.

I had seen the appetising programme--how the doors were opened at 10 A.M., to close a good
thirteen hours later--after a round of novelties full of interest to a provincial sight-seer,
to say nothing of a Londoner. I entered and found the Variety Entertainment was "on." I was
about to walk into an enclosure, and seat myself in a first-rate position for witnessing the
gambols of some talented wolves, when I was informed that I could not do this without extra
payment. Unwilling to "bang" an extra sixpence (two had already been expended) I tried to find
a gratuitous coign of vantage, but (I am sorry to add) unsuccessfully. But I was not to be
disheartened. Could I not see "KENNEDY, King Laughter-Maker of the World," or "a Grand Billiard
Match," or (more interesting still) "the Performing Fleas"? Yes, indeed I could, but only by
expending a shilling on the Mesmerist, a like sum for the Billiard Match. and sixpence on the
carefully-trained hoppers. Seeing that "the Wonderful and Beautiful Mystic MURIEL" was in the
building, I attempted to interview her, but was stopped at the door by a demand for the fifth
of half-a-crown. A like sum stood as a barrier between me and an entertainment that I was told
was "described by Mr. RIDER HAGGARD in his well-known romance, called She." Passing by a small
bower-like canvas erection, I was attracted by the declaration of its custodian that it was
"the most wonderful sight in the world," a statement he made, he said, "without fear of contradiction."
But "Eve's Garden" (as the small bower-like canvas erection was called) was inaccessible to
those who did not expend the grudgingly-produced but necessary sixpence. Foiled in this direction,
I fain would have visited the celebrated Beckwith Family performances, but was prevented by
finding that a shilling was the only passport to admission, unless I happened to be a child,
when the modified charge of sixpence would be deemed sufficient. There was, however, one entertainment
almost free (only a penny was charged), an automatic sight-tester, which pleased me greatly.
By putting a copper in the slot, pressing a pedal, and turning a handle, I learned that anyone
could discover, literally at a glance, the condition of his eyes. Had I not made up my mind
to disburse nothing further than the bare shilling I had already expended, I should certainly
have ascertained if the time had arrived for my regretful assumption of a pinch-nose or a pair
of spectacles.

