Let us return to our packing-cases, and see where they go. To watch the gradual dispersal of
a congregation to their several places of abode is always interesting. Especially is it so
when those places of retreat bear the names and fly the flags of the several nations of the
globe. This stout cube of deal, triple-bound with iron, disappears under the asp and winged
sphere of the Pharaohs. That other, big with rich velvets and broideries, seeks the tricolor
of France. Yonder, a wealth of silks and lacquer finds a resting-place in the carved black-walnut
étagères of Japan. Here go, cased in the spoils of the fjelds, toward a pavilion seventy-five
paces long and twenty wide, the bulky contributions of the Norsemen. Swedish carpentry in perfection
offers to a deposit separate from that of the sister-kingdom a distinct receptacle. Close at
hand stand the antipodes in the pavilion of Chili, that opens its graceful portal to bales
sprinkled mayhap with the ashes of Aconcagua. There "crashes a sturdy box of stout John Bull;"
and Russia, Tunis and Canada roll into close neighborhood with him and each other. A queer
and not, let us hope, altogether transitory show of international comity is this. Many a high-sounding,
much-heralded and more-debating Peace Congress has been held with less effect than that conducted
by these humble porters, carpenters and decorators. This one has solidity. Its elements are
palpable. The peoples not only bring their choicest possessions, but they also set up around
them their local habitations. It is a cosmopolitan town that has sprung into being beneath
the great roof and glitters in the rays of our republican sun. In its rectangularly-planned
streets, alleys and plazas every style of architecture is represented--domestic, state and
ecclesiastical, ancient, mediæval and modern. The spirit and taste of most of the races and
climes find expression, giving thus the Sydenham and the Hyde Park palaces in one. The reproductions
at the former place were the work of English hands: those before us are executed, for the most
part, by workmen to whom the originals are native and familiar. In this feature of the interior
of the Main Building we are amply compensated for the breaking up of the coup d'oeil by a multiplicity
of discordant forms. The space is still so vast as to maintain the effect of unity; and this
notwithstanding the considerable height of some of the national stalls, that of Spain, for
example, sending aloft its trophy of Moorish shields and its effigy of the world-seeking Genoese
to an elevation of forty-six feet. The Moorish colonnade of the Brazilian pavilion lifts its
head in graceful rivalry of the lofty front reared by the other branch of the Iberian race.
In so vast an expanse this friendly competition of Spaniards and Portuguese becomes, to the
eye, a union of their pretensions; and a single family of thirty-three millions in Europe and
America combines to present us with two of the handsomest structures in the hall.

