LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE OF POPULAR LITERATURE AND SCIENCE

February, 1875

Vol. XV, No. 86

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

   FOLLOWING THE TIBER.
     CONCLUDING PAPER.

   SIX MONTHS AMONG CANNIBALS.

   AN AMERICAN GIRL AND HER LOVERS. by Mary E. Blair.

   A JAPANESE MARRIAGE IN HIGH LIFE. by W.E. Griffis.

   THE LOST BABY. by Clara G. Dolliver.

   THREE FEATHERS. by William Black.
     CHAPTER XXIII.  SOME OLD SONGS.
     CHAPTER XXIV.   THE CUT DIRECT.
     CHAPTER XXV.    NOT THE LAST WORD.

   FEVER. by H.C. Wood, Jr., M.D.

   SONNET. by Charlotte F. Bates.

   SOME RECOLLECTIONS OF HIRAM POWERS. by T. Adolphus Trollope.

   CORN. by Sidney Lanier.

   GENTLEMAN DICK. by W. Mackay Laffan.

   A SINGULAR FAMILY. by Clelia Lega Weeks.
     PROLOGUE.
     CHAPTER I.
     CHAPTER II.

   THE STRANGER WITHIN THE GATES OF PARIS. by Lucy H. Hooper.

   OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.
     GYPSY MUSIC IN HUNGARY. by E.C.R.
     THE "GIORNO DEI MORTI." by T.A.T.
     MR. MILL'S MOTHER.

   NOTES.

   LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

   Books Received.

   FOOTNOTES

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

   TEMPLE OF THE CLITUMNUS.
   THE FALLS OF TERNI.
   ORVIETO.
   CIVITÀ BAGNOREA.
   THE TIBER, FROM ORTE.
   BORGHETTO.
   ST. PETER'S AND THE VATICAN, FROM THE FALLS OF THE TIBER.
   THE CASTLE OF ST. ANGELO.
   ISLAND OF THE TIBER.
   CUPOLA OF ST. PETER'S.
   THE PINCIO, FROM THE VILLA BORGHESE.
   SORACTE.
   VEII, FROM THE CAMPAGNA.
   TIVOLI.
   CASTLE AT OSTIA.
   HEAD OF THE TRAJAN CANAL, NEAR OSTIA.

FOLLOWING THE TIBER.

CONCLUDING PAPER.

One branch of the little river which encompasses Assisi is the Clitumnus, the delight of philosophers
and poets in the Augustan age. Near its source stands a beautiful little temple to the divinity
of the stream. Although the ancients resorted hither for the loveliness of the spot, they did
not bathe in the springs, a gentle superstition holding it sacrilege for the human body to
lave itself in a stream near its source.

They came by the Via Flaminia, the old high-road from Rome to Florence, which crosses the modern
railroad hard by. Following its course, which takes a more direct line than the devious Tiber,
past Spoleto on its woody castellated height, the traveler reaches Terni on the tumultuous
Nar, the wildest and most rebellious of all the tributaries. It was to save the surrounding
country from its outbreaks that the channel was made by the Romans B.C. 271, the first of several
experiments which resulted in these cascades, which have been more sung and oftener painted
than any other in the world. The beauty of Terni is so hackneyed that enthusiasm over it becomes
cockney, yet the beauty of hackneyed things is as eternal as the verity of truisms, and no
more loses its charm than the other its point. But one must not talk about it. The foaming
torrent rages along between its rocky walls until spanned by the bridge of Augustus at Narni,
a magnificent viaduct sixty feet high, thrown from ridge to ridge across the ravine for the
passage of the Flaminian Way--a wreck now, for two of the arches have fallen, but through the
last there is a glimpse of the rugged hillsides with their thick forests and the turbulent
waters rushing through the chasm. Higher still is Narni, looking over her embattled walls.
It is one of the most striking positions on the way from Florence to Rome, and the next half
hour, through savage gorges and black tunnels, ever beside the tormented waters of the Nar
until they meet the Tiber, swollen by the tributes of the Paglia and Chiana, is singularly fine.

Where the Paglia and Chiana flow together, at the issue of the charming Val di Chiana, stands
Orvieto on its steep and sudden rock, crowned with one of the triumphs of Italian Gothic, the
glorious cathedral. After toiling up the ladder-like paths which lead from the plain to the
summit of the bluff, and passing through the grand mediæval gateway along the slanting streets,
where even the peasants dismount and walk beside their donkeys, seeing nothing within the whole
small compass of the walls save what speaks of the narrowest and humblest life in the most
remote of hill-fastnesses, a few deserted and dilapidated palaces alone telling of a period
of importance long past, nothing can describe the effect of coming out of this indigence and
insignificance upon the silent, solitary piazza where the incomparable cathedral rears its
front, covered from base to pinnacle with the richest sculpture and most brilliant mosaic.
The volcanic mass on which the town is built is over seven hundred feet high, and nearly half
as much in circumference: it would be a fitting pedestal for this gorgeous duomo if it stood
there alone. But it is almost wedged in among the crooked streets, a few paces of grass-grown
stones allowing less than space enough to embrace the whole result of proportion and color:
one cannot go far enough off to escape details. An account of those details would require a
volume, and one has already been written which leaves no more to be said;[1] yet fain would
we take the reader with us into that noble nave, where the "glorious company of the apostles"
stands colossal in marble beside the pillars whose sculptured capitals are like leafy branches
blown by the wind; where the light comes rich and mellow through stained glass and semilucent
alabaster, like Indian-summer sunshine in autumn woods; where Fra Angelico's and Benozzo Gozzoli's
angelic host smile upon us with ineffable mildness from above the struggle and strife of Luca
Signorelli's "Last Judgment," the great forerunner of Michael Angelo's. It added greatly to
the impressiveness that there was never a single human being in the cathedral: except one afternoon
at vespers we had it all to ourselves. There is little else to see in the place, although it
is highly picturesque and the inhabitants wear a more complete costume than any other I saw
in Italy--the women, bright bodices, striped skirts and red stockings; the men, jaunty jackets
and breeches, peaked hats and splendid sashes.

The discomfort of Perugia was luxury to what we found at Orvieto, and it was no longer May
but December, when it is nearly as cold north of Rome as with us; and Rome was drawing us with
her mighty magnet. So, one wintry morning, soon after daybreak, we set out in a close carriage
with four horses, wrapped as if we were going in a sleigh, with a scaldino (or little brazier)
under our feet, for the nearest railway station on our route, a nine hours' drive. Our way
lay through the snow-covered hills and their leafless forest, and long after we had left Orvieto
behind again and again a rise in the road would bring it full in sight on its base of tufa,
girt by its walls, the Gothic lines of the cathedral sharp against the clear, brightening sky.
At our last look the sun was not up, but broad shafts of light, such as painters throw before
the chariot of Phoebus, refracted against the pure æther, spread like a halo round the threefold
pinnacles: a moment more and Orvieto was hidden behind a higher hill, not to be seen again.
All day we drove among the snow-bound hills and woods, past the Lake of Bolsena in its forbidding
beauty; past small valleys full of naked fruit trees and shivering olives, which must be nooks
of loveliness in spring; past defiant little towns aloft on their islands of tufa, like Bagnorea
with its single slender bell-tower; past Montefiascone with its good old story about Cardinal
Fugger and the native wine.

We stopped to lunch at Viterbo, a town more closely connected with the history of the Papacy
than any except Rome itself, and full of legends and romantic associations: it is dirty and
dilapidated, and has great need of all its memories. Being but eight miles from Montefiascone,
we called for a bottle of the fatal Est, which we had tasted once at Augsburg, where the host
of the Three Moors has it in his cellar, in honor perhaps of the departed Fugger family, whose
palace has become his hotel: there we had found it delicious--a wine as sweet as cordial, with
a soul of fire and a penetrating but delicate flavor of its own--how different from the thin,
sour stuff they brought us in the long-necked, straw-covered flask, nothing to attest its relationship
to the generous juice at the Three Moors except the singular, unique flavor! After this little
disappointment we left Viterbo, and drove on through the same sort of scenery, which seemed
to grow more and more beautiful in the rosy light of the sinking sun. But it is hard to tell,
for nothing makes a journey so beautiful as to know that Rome is the goal. As the last rays
were flushing the hill-tops we came in sight of Orte, with its irregular lines of building
clinging to the sides of its precipitous cliff in such eyrie-wise that it is difficult to say
what is house and what is rock, and whether the arched passages with which it is pierced are
masonry or natural grottoes; and there was the Tiber--already the yellow Tiber--winding through
the valley as far as eye could follow. Here we waited for the train, which was ten minutes
late, and tried to make up for lost time by leaving our luggage, all duly marked and ready,
standing on the track. We soon began to greet familiar sites as we flitted by: the last we
made out plainly was Borghetto, a handful of houses, with a ruined castle keeping watch on
a hill hard by: then twilight gathered, and we strained our eyes in vain for the earliest glimpse
of Mount Soracte, and night came down before we could descry the first landmarks of the Agro
Romano, the outposts of our excursions, the farm-towers we knew by name, the farthest fragments
of the aqueducts. But it was not so obscure that we could not discern the Tiber between his
low banks showing us the way, the lights quivering in the Anio as the train rushed over the
bridge; and when at length we saw against the clear night-sky a great dark barrier stretching
right and left, we knew that the walls of Rome were once more before us: in a moment we had
glided through with slackening speed, and her embrace enfolded us again.

The Tiber, winding as it does like a great artery through the heart of Rome, is seldom long
either out of sight or mind. One constantly comes upon it in the most unexpected manner, for
there is no river front to the city. There is a wide open space on the Ripetta--a street which
runs from the Piazza del Popolo, at the head of the foreign quarter, to remoter parts--where
a broad flight of marble steps descends to the level of the flood, and a ferry crosses to the
opposite bank: looking over at the trees and fields, it is like the open country, yet beyond
are St. Peter's and the Vatican, and the whole of what is known as the Leonine City. But one
cannot follow the Tiber through the streets of Rome as one may the Seine in Paris: in the thickly-built
quarters the houses back upon the stream and its yellow waves wash their foundations, working
wrath and woe from time to time, as those who were there in the winter of 1870 will recollect.
Sometimes it is lost to sight for half a mile together, unless one catches a glimpse of it
through the carriage-way of a palace. From the wharf of the Ripetta it disappears until you
come upon it again at the bridge of St. Angelo, the Ælian bridge of ancient Rome, which is
the most direct passage from the fashionable and foreign quarter to the Trastevere. It must
be confessed that the idle sense of mere pleasure generally supersedes recollection and association
after one's first astonishment to find one's self among the historic places subsides; yet how
often, as our horses' hoofs rang on the slippery stones, my thoughts went suddenly back to
the scene when Saint Gregory passed over, chanting litanies, at the head of the whole populace,
who formed one vast penitential procession, and saw the avenging angel alight on the mausoleum
of Adrian and sheath his sword in sign that the plague was stayed; or to that terrible day
when the ferocious mercenaries of the Constable de Bourbon and the wretched inhabitants given
over to sack and slaughter swarmed across together, butchering and butchered, while the troops
in the castle hurled down what was left of its classic statues upon the heads of friend and
foe, and the Tiber was turned to blood!

From the bridge of St. Angelo the river is lost again for a long distance, although one can
make one's way to it at various points--where at low water the submerged piers of the Pons
Triumphalis are to be seen, where the Ponte Sisto leads to the foot of the Janiculum Hill,
and on the opposite bank the orange-groves of the Farnesina palace hang their golden fruit
and dusky foliage over the long garden-wall upon the river--until we come to the Ponte Quatro
Capi (Bridge of the Four Heads) and the island of the Tiber. This is said to have been formed
in the kingly period by the accumulation of a harvest cast into the stream a little way above,
which the current could not sweep away: it made a nucleus for alluvial deposit, and the island
gradually arose. Several hundred years afterward it was built into the form of a ship, as bridges
and wharves are built, with a temple in the midst, and a tall obelisk set up in guise of its
mast. In mediæval days a church replaced the heathen fane, and now it stands between its two
bridges, a huddle of houses, terraces and gardens, whence one looks down on the fine mass of
the Ponte Rotto (Broken Bridge), whose shattered arches pause in mid-stream, and across to
the low arch of the Cloaca Maxima and the exquisite little circular temple of Vesta. From here
down, the river is in full view from either side until it passes beyond the walls near the
Monte Testaccio--on one side the Ripa Grande (Great Bank or Wharf), a long series of quays,
on the other the Marmorata or marble landing, where the ships from the quarries unload. Here,
on each side, all sorts of small craft lie moored, not betokening a very extensive commerce
from their size and shape, but quaint and oddly rigged, making a very good fore-or back-ground,
according as one looks at the picture. The Marmorata is at the foot of the Aventine, the most
lonely and unvisited of the Seven Hills. From among the vegetable-gardens and cypress-groves
which clothe its long flank rise large, formless piles, whose foundations are as old as the
Eternal City, and whose superstructures are the wreck of temples of the kingly and republican
periods, and palaces and villas of imperial times, and haughty feudal abodes, only to be distinguished
from one another by the antiquary amid their indiscriminate ruin and the tangle of wild-briers
and fern, ivy and trailers with which they are overgrown. On the summit no trace of ancient
Rome is to be seen. There are no dwellings of men on this deserted ground: a few small and
very early Christian churches have replaced the temples which once stood here, to be in their
turn neglected and forsaken: they stand forlornly apart, separated by vineyards and high blank
walls. On the brow of the hill is the esplanade of a modern fort, and within its quiet precincts
are the church and priory of the Knights of Malta--nothing but a chapel and small villa as
abandoned as the rest. After toiling up a steep and narrow lane between two walls, our carriage
stopped at a solid wooden gateway, and the coachman told us to get out and look through the
keyhole. We were aghast, but he insisted, laughing and nodding; so we pocketed our pride and
peeped. Through an overarching vista of dark foliage was seen, white and golden in a blaze
of sunshine, the cupola of St. Peter's, which is at the farthest end of the city, two miles
at the least as the crow flies. When the gate was opened we entered a sweet little garden full
of violets, traversed by an alley of old ilex trees, through which appeared the noble dome,
and which led from the gate to a terrace overhanging the Tiber--I will not venture to guess
how far below--more like two than one hundred feet; perhaps still farther. On the edge of the
terrace was an arbor, and here we sank down enchanted, to drink in the view of the city, which
spread out under our eyes as we had never seen it from any other point. But the custodino's
wife urged us to come into the Priorato and see the view from the upper story. We followed
her, reluctant to leave the sunshine and soft air, up a stiff winding staircase, through large,
dark, chilly, long-closed apartments, until we reached the top, where there was a great square
room occupying the whole floor. She flung open the windows, and never did such a panorama meet
my eyes. There were windows on every side: to the north, one looked across the city to St.
Peter's, the Vatican, the Castle of St. Angelo, the Tiber with its great bends and many bridges,
and to lonely, far-away Soracte; westward, on the other side of the river, rose the Janiculum
with its close-wedged houses, grade on grade, and on its summit the church of San Pietro in
Montorio and the flashing cataract of the Acqua Paola fountain, the stone-pines of the Villa
Dolia cresting the ridge above; eastward, the Palatine, a world of ruins in a world of gardens,
lay between us and the Coliseum, and over them and the wall, the aqueducts, the plain, the
eye ranged to the snow-capped Sabine Hills, on whose many-colored declivities tiny white towns
were dotted like browsing sheep; southward, we gazed down upon the Pyramid of Cestius, upon
the beautiful Protestant cemetery with its white monuments and dark cypresses where lie Shelley
and Keats, upon the stately Porta San Paolo, a great mediæval gateway flanked with towers,
and beyond, the Campagna, purple, violet, ultramarine, oceanic, rolling out toward the Alban
Hills, which glittered with snow, rising sharply like island-peaks and sloping down like promontories
into the plain; and over all the sun and sky and shadows of Italy.

The prospect from the Priorato surpasses anything in Rome--even the wonderful view from the
Janiculum, even the enchanting outlook from the Pincian Hill. But the last was at our very
doors: we could go thither in the morning to watch the white mist curl up from the valleys
and hang about the mountain-brows, and at noon, when even in January the cool avenues and splashing
fountains were grateful, and at sunset, when the city lay before us steeped in splendor. That
was the view of our daily walks--the beloved view of which one thinks most often and fondly
in remembering Rome.

But it is in riding that one grows to feel most familiar with the Tiber and all his Roman children,
whether it be strolling somewhat sulkily in a line with his banks by the Via Flaminia or the
Via Cassia, impatient to get away from their stones and dust to the soft, springing turf; or
hailing him from afar as a guide after losing one's self in the endless undulations of the
open country; or cantering over daffodil-sheeted meadows beside the Anio at the foot of the
grassy heights on which Antemnæ stood; or threading one's way doubtfully among the ravines
which intersect the course of the little Cremera as one goes to Veii. The last is a most beautiful
and interesting expedition, for, what with the distance--more than twelve miles--and the difficulty
of finding the way, it is quite an enterprise. As one turns his horse's head away from the
river, off the high-road, to the high grassy flats, the whole Campagna seems to lie before
one like a vast table-land, with nothing between one's self and Soracte as he lifts his heavy
shoulder from the plain--not half hidden by intervening mountains, as from some points of view,
but majestic and isolated, thirty miles away to the north. But here, as in every other part
of the Campagna, one cannot go far without finding hillocks and hollows, long steep slopes
and sudden little dells, and, stranger still, unsuspected tracts of woodland, for the general
effect of the Roman landscape is quite treeless. So there is a few miles' gallop across the
trackless turf, sometimes asking the way of a solitary shepherd, who looms up against the sky
like a tower, sometimes following it by faint landmarks, few and far between, of which we have
been told, and hard to find in that waste, until we pass a curious little patriarchal abode
shaped like a wigwam, where, in the midst of these wide pastures dwells a herdsman surrounded
by his family, his cattle, his dogs, his goats and his fowls--the beautiful animals of the
Campagna, long-haired, soft-eyed, rich-colored, like the human children of the soil. Then we
strike the Cremera, and exploring begins among its rocky gullies, up and down which the spirited,
sure-footed horses scramble like chamois. Thick woods of cork-oak clothe their sides, and copses
of a deciduous tree which I never saw in its summer dress of green, but which keeps its dead
leaves all through the winter, a full suit of soft, pale brown contrasting with the dark evergreens.
Among these woods grow all the wild-flowers of the long Roman spring from January to May--flowers
that I never saw in bloom at the same time anywhere else. On banks overcanopied by faded boughs
nodded myriads of snowdrops; farther on we held our horses' heads well up as they slipped,
almost sitting, down the damp rocky clefts of a gorge whose sides were purple with violets,
mingling their delicious odor, the sweetest and most sentimental of perfumes, with the fresh,
geranium-like scent of the cyclamen, which here and there flung back its delicate pinkish petals
like one amazed: then came acres of anemones--not our pale wind-shaken flower, but brave asters
of half a dozen superb kinds. Up and down these passes we forced our way through interlacing
branches, which drooped too low, until we had crossed the ridges on either side the Cremera,
and gained the valley at the head of which is Isola Farnese, the rock-fortress supposed to
occupy the site of the citadel of Etruscan Veii. It is not really an island, in spite of its
name; only a bold peninsula, round whose base two rivulets flow and nearly meet. It is called
a village, and so it is, with quite a population, but the great courtyard of the fifteenth-century
castle contains them all, and the huts, pig-pens, kennels and coops which they seem to inhabit
indiscriminately. Except where the bluff overlooks the valley, everything is closed and shut
in by rocks and gorges, through one of which a lovely waterfall drips from a covert of boughs
and shrubbery and wreathing ferns and creepers into a little stream, which with musical clamor
rushes at a picturesque old mill: through another the road from the castle passes through a
narrow issue to the outer world. And this stranded and shipwrecked fortress in the midst of
so wild a scene is all that exists to mark where Veii stood, the powerful city which kept Rome
at bay for ten years, and fell at length by stratagem! Its site was forgotten for nearly two
thousand years, but in this century the discovery of some tombs revealed the secret.

The scenery differs entirely on different sides of Rome. Here there is not a ruin, not a vestige,
except a few low heaps of stone-or brickwork hidden by weeds: on the other, toward Tivoli,
much of the beauty is due to the work of man--the stately remnants of ancient aqueduct, temple
and tomb; the tall square towers of feudal barons, round which cluster low farm-buildings scarcely
less old and solid; the vast, gloomy grottoes of Cerbara, which look like the underground palace
of a bygone race, but which are the tufa-quarries of classic times; the ruined baths of Zenobia,
where the rushing milky waters of the Aquæ Albulæ fill the air with sulphurous fumes; and,
as a climax, the Villa of Hadrian, less a country-place than a whole region, a town-in-country,
with palace, temples, circus, theatres, baths amidst a tract of garden and pleasure-ground
ten miles in circumference. Even when one is familiar with the enormous height and bulk of
the Coliseum or the Baths of Caracalla, the extent of the ruins of Hadrian's Villa is overwhelming.
Numerous fragments are still standing, graceful and elegant, but a vast many more are buried
deep under turf and violets and fern: large cypresses and ilexes have struck root among their
stones, and they form artificial hills and vales and great wide plateaus covered with herbage
and shrubbery, hardly to be distinguished from the natural accidents of the land. The solitude
is as immense as the space. After leaving our carriage we wandered about for hours, sometimes
lying in the sunshine at the edge of a great grassy terrace which commands the Campagna and
the Agro Romano--beyond whose limits we had come--to where, like a little bell, St. Peter's
dome hung faint and blue upon the horizon; sometimes exploring the innumerable porticoes and
galleries, and replacing in fancy the Venus de Medici, the Dancing Faun, and all the other
shapes of beauty which once occupied these ravished pedestals and niches; sometimes rambling
about the flowery fields, and up and down among the hillocks and dells, meeting no one, until
at length, when completely bewildered and lost, we fell in with a rustic belonging to the estate,
who guided us back. We left the place with the sense of having been in a separate realm, another
country, belonging to another age. The whole of that visit to Tivoli was like a dream. The
sun was sinking when we left the precincts of the villa, and twilight stole upon us, wrapping
all the landscape on which we looked back in softer folds of shade, and resolving its features
into large, calm masses, as the horses labored up the narrow, stony road into a mysterious
wood of gigantic olives, gnarled, twisted and rent as no other tree could be and live. The
scene was wild and weird in the dying light, and it grew almost savage as we wound upward among
the robber-haunted hills. Night had fallen before we reached the mountain-town. Our coachman
dashed through the dark slits of streets, where it seemed as if our wheels must strike the
houses on each side, cracking his whip and jingling the bells of the harness. Under black archways
sat groups of peasants, their swart visages lit up from below by the glow of a brazier, while
a flaring torch stuck through a ring overhead threw fierce lights and shadows across the scene.
Sharp cries and shouts like maledictions rose as we passed, and as we turned into the little
square on which the inn stands we wondered in what sort of den we should have to lodge. We
followed our host of the little Albergo della Regnia up the steep stone staircase with many
misgivings: he flung open a door, and we beheld a carpeted room, all furnished and hung with
pink chintz covered with cupids and garlands. There were sofas, low arm-chairs, a writing-table
with appurtenances, a tea-table with snowy linen and a hissing brass tea-kettle. Opening from
this were two little white nests of bed-rooms, with tin bath-tubs and an abundance of towels.
We could not believe our eyes: here were English comfort and French taste. Were we in May Fair
or the Rue de Rivoli? Or was it a fairy-tale?

The fairy-tale went on next day, when, after wending our way through the dirty, crooked little
streets, we crossed a courtyard and descended a long subterranean stairway to emerge on a magnificent
terrace with a heavy marble balustrade, whence flights of steps led down to lower grades, amid
statues, urns, vases, fountains, reservoirs, camellias in bloom mingled with laurel and myrtle
and laurustinums covered with creamy flowers, cypresses tall as cathedral spires, ilex avenues,
and broad straight walks between huge walls of box: the whole space was filled with the song
of nightingales, the tinkle of falling water, with whiffs of aromatic shrubs and the breath
of hidden roses and violets;--a princely garden, a royal pleasaunce, but in exquisite disorder
and neglect; the shrubbery too thick and straggling, the flowers straying beyond their rightful
boundaries, the statues stained and moss-grown, the balusters entangled in clinging luxuriance,
the fountains dripping through fern and maiden-hair--Nature supreme, as one always sees her
in this land of Art. It was the Villa d'Este, famous these three hundred years for its fountains
and cypresses. Nor did the wonder cease when we forsook this enchanting spot for the mountain-road
which overhangs the great ravine. Opposite, backed by mountains, rose the crags topped by the
clustering town and all its towers, arches, niches, battlements, bridges, long lines of classic
ruins, and on the edge of the abyss the perfect little temple of the Sibyl; rushing down from
everywhere the waterfalls, one great column plunging at the head of the gorge, and countless
frolic streams, the cascatelle, leaping and dancing from rock to rock through mist and rainbow
and extravagance of emerald moss and herbage, down among sea-green, silvery olives, finally
sliding away, between softer foliage and verdure, through the valley into the plain--the immense
azure plain, with its grand symphonic harmonies of form and color. O land of dreams fulfilled,
of satisfied longing! when across these thousands of miles I recall your entrancing charm,
your unimaginable beauty, I sometimes wonder if you were not a dream, if you have any place
in this real existence, this lower earth: are you still delighting other eyes with the rapture
of your loveliness, or were you only an illusion, a vision, which vanishes like the glow of
sunset or "golden exhalations of the dawn "?

The Campagna has one more aspect, different from all the rest, where the Tiber, weary with
his long wanderings, rolls lazily to the sea. It is a dreary waste of swamp and sandhill and
scrub growth, but with a forlorn beauty of its own, and the beauty of color, never absent in
Italy. The tall, coarse grass and reeds pass through a series of vivid tones, culminating in
tawny gold and deep orange, against which the silver-fretted violet blue-green of the Mediterranean
assumes a magical splendor. Small, shaggy buffaloes with ferocious eyes, and sometimes a peasant
as wild-looking as they, are the only inhabitants of this wilderness. The machicolated towers
of Castel Fusano among its grand stone-pines stand up from the marshes, and farther seaward
another castle with a single pine; but they only enhance the surrounding loneliness. Ostia,
the ancient port, which sea and river have both deserted, is now a city of the dead, a Pompeii
above ground, whose avenues of tombs lead to streets of human dwellings more desolate still.
It is no longer by Ostia, nor even by the Tiber, that one can reach the sea: the way was choked
by sand and silt seventeen centuries ago, and Trajan caused the canal to be made which bears
his name; and this is still the outlet from Rome to the Mediterranean, while the river expires
among the pestilential marshes.

SIX MONTHS AMONG CANNIBALS.

Perhaps as good an illustration of the purely absurd (according to civilized notions) as can
be imagined is a congregation of cannibals in a missionary church weeping bitterly over the
story of Calvary. Fresh from their revolting feasts upon the flesh of their conquered enemies,
these gentle savages weep over the sufferings of One separated from them by race, by distance,
by almost every conceivable lack of the conditions for natural sympathy, and by over eighteen
hundred years of time! Surely there must be hope for people who manifest such sensibility,
and we may fairly question whether cannibalism be necessarily the sign of the lowest human
degradation. A good deal of light is thrown upon the subject by the writings of the young engineer,
Jules Garnier, who was lately charged by the French minister of the interior with a mission
of exploration in New Caledonia, the Pacific island discovered by Captain Cook just one hundred
years ago, and ceded to the French in 1853.

It is about three hundred and sixty miles from Sydney to New Caledonia, a long, narrow island
lying just north of the Tropic of Capricorn, and completely surrounded by belts of coral reef
crenellated here and there, and forming channels or passes where ships may enter. Navigation
through these channels is, however, exceedingly hazardous in any but calm weather; and it was
formerly thought that the island was on this account practically valueless for colonization.
Once inside them, however, vessels may anchor safely anywhere, for there is in effect a continuous
roadstead all around the island. The passage through the narrow pass of Dumbea, just outside
of Noumea, affords a striking spectacle. On each side of the ship is a wall of foam, and the
reverberating thunder of the waves dashing and breaking upon the jagged reefs keeps the mind
in breathless suspense.

The site of Noumea seems to be the most unfortunate that could be chosen. It is a barren, rocky
spot, divested of all luxuriance of vegetation, and the nearest water, a brook called Pont
des Français, is ten miles away. The appearance of the town, which fronts the harbor in the
form of an amphitheatre, the houses and gardens rising higher and higher as they recede from
the sea, tended somewhat to reassure the explorer, who had been wondering that human stupidity
should have been equal to selecting in a tropical country, and in one of the best-watered islands
of the world, such a situation for its capital. Wells are of little account, for the water
thus obtained is at the level of the sea, and always salt. The population has to depend upon
the rain that falls on roofs, and as the cleanliness of these is of prime importance, domesticating
pigeons is strictly forbidden. This might not be much of a deprivation in most places, but
in New Caledonia, of all the world, there is a kind of giant pigeon as large as a common hen!
This is the noton, (sic) the Carpophage Goliath of the naturalist.

The hotel at Noumea was a kind of barracks, with partitions so slight that every guest was
forced to hear every sound in his neighbors' rooms. M. Garnier, to escape this inconvenience,
purchased a garden-plot, had a cottage built in a few days, and so became a proprietor in Oceanica.
Before setting out on his exploring expedition into the interior he tried to interest the government
in a plan for cisterns to supply the city with water--a project easy of execution from the
natural conformation of the locality. But his scheme received no encouragement from the old-fogyish
authorities. They were at that moment entertaining one which for simplicity reminded Garnier
of the egg problem of Columbus. This was to distill the sea-water. He made a calculation of
the cost of thus supplying each of the sixteen hundred inhabitants with five quarts of water
a day, which showed that the proposition was impracticable under the circumstances.

From the showing of official accounts, this French colony of New Caledonia must be one of the
most absurd that exists. The military and naval force far exceeds in number the whole civil
population; and this, too, when the natives are quiet and submissive, few in number, and fast
dying out through the inordinate use of the worst kind of tobacco, pulmonary consumption and
other concomitants of civilization not necessary to enumerate. Contrast this with the rich
and populous province of Victoria, which has only three hundred and fifty soldiers; with Brisbane,
which has only sixteen to a population of one hundred thousand; and finally Tasmania, which
has only seven soldiers for two hundred thousand colonists!

It was believed formerly that New Caledonia was rich in gold-mines, and the principal object
of the expedition of M. Garnier was to discover these. After one or two short excursions in
the neighborhood of Noumea he set out on an eight months' journey through the entire eastern
portion of the island. The plan which he adopted was to double the southern extremity of the
island, sail up the eastern coast between the reefs and the mainland, as is the custom, stopping
at the principal stations and making long excursions into the interior, accompanied by a guard
of seven men. This plan he carried out, though some parts of the country to be explored were
inhabited by tribes that had seldom or never seen a European. His testimony as to the almost
unexceptionable kindness of the natives, cannibals though they are, must be gratifying to those
who accept the doctrine of the brotherhood of man. Of the natives near Balarde he says: "The
moment you land all offer to guide your steps, and in every way they can to satisfy your needs.
Do you wish to hunt? A native is ever ready to show you the marsh where ducks most abound.
Are you hungry or thirsty? They fly to the cocoanut plantation with the agility of monkeys.
If a swamp or a brook stops your course, the shoulders of the first comer are ever ready to
carry you across. If it rains, they run to bring banana-leaves or make you a shelter of bark.
When night comes they light your way with resinous torches, and finally, when you leave them,
you read in their faces signs of sincere regret."

Captain Cook, in his eulogies of these gentle savages, probably never dreamed that they were
anthropophagi, and if he had known the fact, his kindly nature would have found some extenuation
for them. Cannibals, as a rule--certainly those of New Caledonia--do not eat each other indiscriminately.
For example, they dispose of their dead with tender care, though they despatch with their clubs
even their best friends when dying; but this is with them a religious duty. They only eat their
enemies when they have killed them in battle. This also, in their code of morals, appears to
be a duty. Toussenel, in his Zoölogie Passionelle, has a kind word even for these savages:
"Let us pity the cannibal, and not blame him too severely. We who boast of our refined Christian
civilization murder men by tens of thousands from motives less excusable than hunger. The crime
lies not in roasting our dead enemy, but in killing him when he wishes to live."

During M. Garnier's expedition he met the chief Onime, once the head of a powerful tribe, now
old and dispossessed of his power through the revolt of his tribe some years previous. At that
time a price had been put upon his head, and he took refuge in the mountains. There was no
sign of discouragement or cruelty in his manners, but his face expressed a bitter and profound
sorrow. There was not a pig or a chicken on his place--for he would have nothing imported by
the papalés, or Europeans--but he gave his guests a large quantity of yams, for which he would
accept no return except a little tobacco. When, however, Garnier tied a pretty crimson handkerchief
about the head of Onime's child, who danced for joy at the possession of such a treasure, the
old chief was visibly moved, and gave his hand to the stranger. Two years later this old man,
being suspected of complicity in the assassination of a colonist, was arrested, bound in chains
and thrown into a dungeon. Three times he broke his chains and escaped, and each time was recaptured.
He was then transported to Noumea. M. Garnier happened to be on the same ship. The condition
of the old man was pitiful. Deep wounds, exposing the bones, were worn into his wrists and
ankles in his attempts to free himself from his chains. Three days later he died, and on a
subsequent examination of facts M. Garnier became convinced that Onime was innocent of the
crime charged against him. On the ship he recognized Garnier, and accepted from him a little
tobacco. Tobacco is more coveted by these people than anything else in the world, and the stronger
it is the better. The child almost as soon as he can walk will smoke in an old pipe the poisonous
tobacco furnished specially for the natives, which is so strong that it makes the most inveterate
European smoker ill. "Gin and brandy have been introduced successfully," but the natives as
a rule make horrible grimaces in drinking them, and invariably drink two or three cups of water
immediately to put out the fire, as they say.

These natives speak a kind of "pigeon English." It would be pigeon French, doubtless, had their
first relations been with the French instead of the English. The government has now stopped
the sale of spirituous liquors to the natives, and recommended the chiefs to forbid their subjects
smoking until a certain age, but no precautions yet taken have had much influence upon their
physical condition. They are rapidly dying out. The most prevalent disease is pulmonary consumption,
which they declare has been given them by the Europeans. Fewer and fewer children are born
every year, and in the tribes about Poöbo and some others these are almost all males. Here
is a curious fact for scientists. Is not the cause to be found in the deteriorated physical
condition of the women? Mary Trist, in her careful and extensive experimentation with butterfly
grubs, has shown that by generous feeding these all develop into females, while by starving
males only appear.

M. Garnier believes that the principal cause of the deterioration and decay of the natives
in New Caledonia is the terrible tobacco that is furnished to them. "Everybody pays for any
service from the natives in this poison." A missionary once asked a native convert why he had
not attended mass. "Because you don't give me any tobacco," replied this hopeful Christian.
To him, as to many others, says M. Garnier, going to church means working for the missionary,
just as much as digging in his garden, and he therefore expects remuneration. The young girls
in regions where there are missions established all wear chaplets, for they are good Catholics
after a fashion, and generally refuse to marry pagans. This operates to bring the young men
under the religious yoke. Self-interest is their strong motive generally. The missionary makes
them understand the value of his counsel in their tribes. It means their raising cocoanuts
for their oil, flocks of chickens and droves of hogs, for all of which they can obtain pipes,
quantities of tobacco, a gun, and gaudy-colored cottons. When the chiefs find that their power
is gradually passing from them into the hands of the missionaries, they only smoke more poisonous
tobacco, expose themselves all the more to the weather through the cheap fragmentary dress
they have adopted, and so the ravages of consumption are accelerated. Pious Christian women,
who have always given freely of their store to missionary causes, begin to see that the results
are not commensurate with their sacrifices--that their charity, even their personal work among
heathens, teaching them to read and write and study the catechism, to cover their bodies with
dress and to love the arts of civilization, can avail little against the rum, tobacco and nameless
maladies legally or illegally introduced with Christianity.

During one of M. Garnier's excursions into the interior he came across one of the sacred groves
where the natives bury their dead, if hanging them up in trees can be so designated. His guides
all refused to accompany him, fearing to excite the anger of the manes of their ancestors.
He therefore entered the high grove alone. Numerous corpses, enveloped in carefully-woven mats
and then bound in a kind of basket, were suspended from the branches of the trees. Some of
these were falling in pieces, and the ground was strewn with whitened bones. It seems strange
that this form of burial should be chosen in a country where at least once a year there occurs
a terrible cyclone that destroys crops, unroofs houses, uproots trees, and often sends these
basket-caskets flying with the cocoanuts through the air.

In New Caledonia there are no ferocious beasts, and the largest animal is a very rare bird
which the natives call the kagon. When, therefore, they saw the English eating the meat from
beef bones they inferred that these were the bones of giants, and naïvely inquired how they
were captured and what weapons of war they used. The confidence and admiration of these children
of Nature are easily gained, and under such circumstances they talk freely and delight in imparting
all the information they possess. Among one of the tribes near Balarde, M. Garnier noticed
a young woman of superior beauty, and made inquiries about her. This was Iarat, daughter of
the chief Oundo. The hornlike protuberances on her head were two "scarlet flowers, which were
very becoming in her dark hair."

This poor little woman had a history. It is told in a few words: her father sold her to the
captain of a trading-vessel for a cask of brandy. The "extenuating circumstances" in this case
are that Oundo had been invited on board the captain's ship, plied with brandy, and when nearly
drunk assented to the shameless bargain. When Oundo became sober he repented of his act, and
the more bitterly because the young girl was betrothed to the young chief of a neighboring
tribe. But he had given his word, and was as great a moral coward as many of his betters are,
who think that honor may be preserved by dishonor. Nearly every coaster has a native woman
on board--some poor girl of low extraction, or some orphan left to the mercy of her chief and
sold for a hatchet or a few yards of tawdry calico; but the daughters of chiefs are not thus
delivered over to the lusts of Europeans. The case of Iarat was an exception. These coasters'
wives, if such they may be called, are said to be very devoted mothers and faithful servants.
All day long they may be seen managing the rudder or cooking in the narrow kitchen on deck.

The vessel in the service of M. Garnier left him at Balarde, near the north-eastern extremity
of the island, but, having determined to explore farther north, he applied to Oundo, who furnished
him with a native boat or canoe and two men for the expedition. In this boat were stowed the
camping and exploring apparatus and cooking utensils, and three of his men, who were too fatigued
by late excursions to follow Garnier on foot. The canoe was not very large, and this freight
sunk it very low in the water; yet as the sea was perfectly calm, no danger was apprehended
until, a slight breeze springing up, a sail was hoisted. The shore-party continued their course,
exploring, digging, breaking minerals, etc., generally in sight of the canoe, which M. Garnier
watched with some anxiety. Suddenly, Poulone, his faithful native guide, exclaimed, "Captain,
the pirogue sinks!" There was no time to be lost, for one of the men could not swim at all,
and the other two but indifferently. Fortunately, the trunk of a tree was found near the water,
some paddles were improvised, and this primitive kind of boat was quickly afloat, with the
captain and Poulone on board. The canoe was some rods from the shore, but the three men were
picked up, having been supported meanwhile by their dark companions. The latter did not swim
ashore, but the moment they were relieved from their charges, and without a word, set about
getting the canoe afloat. As to the cargo, it was all in plain sight, but more than twenty
feet under the limpid water. This was a great misfortune. Some of the instruments were valuable,
and could not be replaced. If not recovered, the expedition to the north of the island must
be abandoned. In this strait Garnier despatched a messenger back to Oundo, asking the old chief
to come to the rescue with all his tribe. "I did not count in vain," says he, "upon the generosity
of this man, for very soon I saw him approach, followed by the young people of his tribe."
He listened to the recital of the misfortune with every sign of sympathy.

"Oundo," said M. Garnier, "I expect that you will once more show your well-tried friendship
for the French people by rendering me a great service. Do you think you can recover these things
for me?"

"Oundo will try," replied the chief simply. He then addressed his people and gave his commands.
In a moment, and with a loud cry of approbation and good-will, they dashed into the water and
swam out to the scene of disaster.

It is a fine sight to see these natives of Oceanica, the best swimmers in the world, darting
under the water like bronze tritons. They generally swim beneath the surface, coming up from
time to time to breathe, and shaking the water from their thick curly hair. M. Garnier followed
the natives on the log that had served as a lifeboat, and to encourage them by example undressed
and threw himself into the water. The work commenced. Twenty or thirty feet is not much of
a dive for a South Sea Islander. Every minute the divers brought up some object with a shout
of triumph. They were in their element, and so spiritedly did they undertake the task that
women, and even the children, dived to the bottom and constantly brought up some small object.
The three guns of the men, their trappings, the heavy box of zoological specimens, all the
instruments, were brought up in succession. Even the sole cooking-pot of the expedition and
the tin plates were recovered. The work occupied some six hours. M. Garnier thanked the chief
and his brave people, who when the work was finished returned to their huts as quietly as they
came. And this chief was the man who had sold his daughter for a keg of brandy!

Another chief, named Bourarte, the head of a great tribe near Hienguène, deserves a few words.
He was a chief of very superior experience and intelligence. He had studied civilization diligently,
enjoyed the society of Europeans and knew that his people were barbarians. His story is a most
touching one. He said: "I always loved the English. They treated me as a chief, and paid me
honestly for all they received. One day I consented to go with them to their great city of
Sydney. It was there that I learned the weakness of my people. I was well received everywhere,
but I longed to return. It was with pleasure that I saw again our mountains and heard the joyful
cries of welcome from my tribe. About that time your people came. I paid little attention to
them at first, but because one of my men killed a Kanacka who was a protégé of the missionaries
there came a great ship (the Styx) into my port. The captain sent for me. I went on board without
fear, but my confidence was betrayed. I was made a prisoner and transported to Tahiti. It was
six years before I saw my tribe again: they had already mourned me as dead. I will tell you
what happened in my absence. My people prepared for vengeance: the French were apprised of
the fact. They came again. And as my people, filled with curiosity, flocked to the shore, the
French fired their cannon into the crowd. My people were frightened and fled into the woods.
Your soldiers landed, and for three days they burned our huts, destroyed our plantations and
cut down our cocoa trees. And all this time," added the old chief with a heavy sigh, "I was
a prisoner at Tahiti, braiding baskets to gain a little food, and the grief that I suffered
whitened my head before the time."

After a long pause, during which the old Bourarte seemed lost in thought, he said, "It is true
that my people revenged themselves. They killed a good many, and among them one of your chiefs.
What is most strange about this war is, that three English colonists, who lived peacefully
among us by their commerce and fishing, were taken by the French and shot. Another Englishman,
Captain Paddon, to whom I had sold many a cargo of sandal-wood, on learning the fate of his
compatriots, fled on board a little boat with one Kanacka and a few provisions, got out to
sea, and, as I have been told, actually gained the port of Sydney." This, it seems, is a historical
fact. It was a boat without a deck, and the distance is three hundred and sixty marine miles!

The result of the exploring mission of M. Garnier was not a discovery of gold-mines, as so
many had hoped. He is of the opinion that gold deposits are scarce in the island. His report
of the natives is on the whole favorable, and confirms the testimony of missionaries and others,
that they are superior savages, easily civilized and Christianized, but from some cause or
combination of causes fast dying out before the advance of civilization. In some respects they
are less rude than other South Sea Islanders, but they treat their women in much the same way.
M. Garnier gives us a photograph of a New Caledonia family on the road, the head of the family,
a big, stolid brute apparently, burdened only with his club, while his wife staggers along
under the combined load of sugar-canes, yams, dried fishes and other provisions.

A more revolting, but also, happily, a far rarer sight, was that of a cannibal banquet, of
which M. Garnier was a concealed witness. The scene was a thicket in the wildest portion of
the country, and only the chiefs of the tribe, which had just gained a victory over its enemies,
took part in the feast. A blazing fire threw its bright glare on a dozen figures seated around
huge banana-leaves, on which were spread the smoking viands of the diabolical repast. A disgusting
odor was wafted toward the spot where our Frenchman and his companions lay perdu, enchained
by a horrible fascination which produced the sensation of nightmare. Directly in front of them
was an old chief with long white beard and wrinkled skin, who gnawed a head still covered with
the singed hair. Thrusting a pointed stick into the eye-sockets, he contrived to extract a
portion of the brain, afterward placing the skull in the hottest part of the fire, and thus
separating the bones to obtain a wider aperture. The click of a trigger close to his ear recalled
M. Garnier to his senses, and arresting the arm of his sergeant, who, excited to indignation,
had brought his musket to his shoulder, he hurried from a scene calculated, beyond all others,
to thrill the nerves and curdle the blood of a civilized spectator.

AN AMERICAN GIRL AND HER LOVERS.

In the spring of 1869 I was induced, for the sake of rest and recreation, to take charge of
a young American girl during a tour in Europe. This young girl was Miss Helen St. Clair of
Detroit, Michigan. We two were by no means strangers. She had been my pupil since the time
when she was the prettiest little creature that ever wore a scarlet hood. I have a little picture,
scarlet hood and all, that I would not exchange for the most beautiful one that Greuze ever
painted. Not that her face bore any resemblance to the pictures of Greuze. It had neither the
sweet simplicity of the girl in "The Broken Pitcher," nor the sentimental graces which he bestows
on his court beauties. It was an exceedingly piquant, animated face, never at rest, always
kindling, flashing, gleaming, whether with sunlight or lightning. Her movements were quick
and darting, like those of a humming-bird. Her enunciation, though perfectly distinct, was
marvelously rapid. The same quickness characterized her mental operations. Her conclusions,
right or wrong, were always instantaneous. Her prompt decisiveness, her talent for mimicry
and her witchery of grace and beauty won her a devoted following of school-girls, to whom her
tastes and opinions were as authoritative as ever were those of Eugénie to the ladies of her
court. School-girls, like college-boys, are very apt in nicknames, and Helen's was the "Little
Princess," which her pretty, imperious ways made peculiarly appropriate.

I do not know how her parents dared trust her to me for a year beyond the sea, but they did.
We set off in high enthusiasm, and Helen was full of mirth and laughter till we were fairly
on board the steamer in New York harbor, when she threw herself on her father's breast with
a gesture of utter abandonment that would have made the fortune of a débutante on any stage
in the world. It was so unlooked-for that we all broke down, and Mr. St. Clair was strongly
inclined to take her home with him. But so sudden was she in all her moods that his foot had
scarcely touched the shore before she was again radiant with anticipation.

I will not linger on the pleasant summer travel, the Rhine majesty, the Alpine glory. September
saw us established in the city of cities--Paris. Everywhere we had met throngs of Americans.
Neighbors from over the way in our own city greeted us warmly in most unexpected places. But
we had not crossed the ocean merely to see our own countrymen. In Paris we were determined
to eschew hotels and pensions and to become the inmates of a French home. Everybody told us
this would be impossible, but I find nothing so stimulating as the assertion that a thing can't
be done. Two weeks of eager inquiry, and we were received into a family which could not have
been more to our wish if it had been created expressly for us. It was that of Monsieur Le Fort,
a professor in the Medical College, a handsome elderly man with the bit of red ribbon coveted
by Frenchmen in his buttonhole. Madame Le Fort, a charming, graceful woman midway between thirty
and forty, and a pretty daughter of seventeen, completed the family. With great satisfaction
we took possession of the pretty rooms, all white and gold, that overlooked the Rond Point
des Champs Élysées.

My little princess had found a prince in her own country, and, considering the laws of attraction,
his sudden appearance in Paris ought not to have been a surprise to her. But, to his discomfiture,
and even anger, Helen refused to see him. She had bidden him good-bye at home, she said; they
would not be married for three years, if they ever were: she was going to devote herself to
her music; and she did not wish to see him here. When he had completed his studies and their
engagement was announced (it was only a mutual understanding now) there would be time enough
to see each other at home. Excellent reasoning! but a fortnight later a tiny hand slipped between
my eyes and the Figaro a little note on which I read:

"DEAR FRED: I think I should like to say good-bye again.

"Yours, HELEN."

The dark eyes looked half shyly, half coaxingly into mine.

"Well," said I, "Katrine will mail it for you."

The next day I saw for the first time Mr. Frederic Denham. He was tall and slender; with a
sallow complexion, rather dull gray eyes and black hair, by no means handsome, but sufficiently
well-looking to please a friendly eye. In his manners there was a coldness and reserve which
passed for haughtiness. He was said to possess great talents and ambition, and Helen had the
fullest belief in his genius and success. Not Goethe himself was a greater man in her eyes.

I had frequent opportunities of seeing them together, for, according to French ideas, nothing
is more improper than to leave a young man and woman a moment by themselves. Was it my fancy
that he seemed too much absorbed in himself, too little sensible of the rare good-fortune which
made him the favored lover of the beautiful Miss St. Clair? It might be so, but others shared it.

"What ails the American?" asked Madame Le Fort. "Is it possible that he is not in love with
that fascinating young creature? Or are all your countrymen so cold and inanimate? Elle est
ravissante, adorable! I cannot comprehend it."

"Probably," I replied, "he has too much reserve and delicacy to make a display of his feelings
in the presence strangers."

But I was not satisfied. The more I watched them, the more I perceived a lack of deference
to her opinions and respect for her judgment--an irritating assumption of superior wisdom,
as if he had worn the visible inscription, "I will accept homage, but not suggestions. Offer
incense and be content." Would the little princess be content? I saw symptoms of rebellion.

"Do you think I am a little fool, Madame Fleming?" she asked with heightened color and impetuous
tone, turning suddenly to me while they were conversing apart one evening.

November came, and we were launched on the full tide of Parisian society. Mr. Denham had gone
to Germany to complete certain scientific studies, and he left his fair betrothed with a parting
injunction not to dance with any foreigner. As well shut her up in a cell! Nowhere is there
such a furore for dancing as in Paris. Every family has its weekly reception, and every card
of invitation bears in the corner, "On dansera." These receptions are the freest and gayest
imaginable. Any person who has the entrée of the house comes when he feels inclined. Introductions
are not indispensable as with us: any gentleman may ask a lady to dance with him, whether he
has been formally presented or not, and it would be an affront to decline except for a previous
engagement. The company assemble about ten, and often dance till three or four in the morning.
In any one house we see nearly the same people once a week for the whole winter, and such frequent
companionship gives a feeling of intimacy. It is surprising how many French men and French
women have some special artistic talent, dramatic or musical, and with what ready good-humor
each contributes to the entertainment of the rest. In every assembly, with all its sparkle
of youth and gayety, there is a background of mature age; but though a card-room is generally
open, it never seems to draw many from the salons de danse.

In these salons the little princess entered, at once upon her royalty. Her dancing was the
poetry of motion. She sang, and the most brilliant men hung over her enraptured. "She was like
Adelina Patti," they said, "but of a more perfect and delicate type of beauty. What wonderful
eyes, with the long thick lashes veiling Oriental depths of liquid light! How the music trickled
from her fingers, and poured from her small throat like the delicious warble of a nightingale!
What a loss to art that her position precluded her from singing in the opera! Not Malibran
or Grisi ever had triumphs that would equal hers." Eminent painters wished to make a study
of her face. Authors who had received the prizes of the Academy for grave historical works
sent her adulatory verses. "May I--flirtation--wid you--loavely meess?" asked one of "the immortal
forty," displaying his English.

It grew rather annoying. I was importuned with questions, such as "Will you receive proposals
of marriage for Miss St. Clair?" "What is her dowry?" "Are you entrusted to find a husband
for her abroad?" I was tired of answering, "Miss St. Clair will probably marry in her own country."
"Her parents would be very reluctant to consent to any foreign marriage." "I cannot tell what
Mr. St. Clair will give his daughter. It is not the custom to give dowries with us, as with you."

One evening we saw at Madame Le Fort's reception a young man so distinguished in appearance
that he was known as "le beau Vergniaud." He was six feet in height and well made, with abundant
chestnut hair, dark hazel eyes, clearly-cut, regular features, and a complexion needlessly
fine for a man. From that time he was invariably present, not only at Madame Le Fort's, but
wherever we went.

One day Helen said to me, "I made a silly speech last evening. I was dancing with M. Vergniaud,
and we were talking of that charming Madame de Launay. I said, 'I should think she might be
happy, having an elegant house in Paris, a château in the country, and such a handsome husband
so devoted to her.' And he rejoined instantly, very low, 'My dear Miss St. Clair, can I not
give you all this?' It was not fair to take advantage of me in that way."

"What did you say?"

"Oh, I laughed it off. I did not think he was in earnest, but he spoke to me again before he
went away."

That afternoon Madame Le Fort came into my room with the look of one who has something important
to communicate. "I have been wishing to see you," she said. "M. Vergniaud has taken me into
his confidence. He has formed a serious attachment to Miss St. Clair, and wishes to make her
his wife. It is a splendid alliance," she continued, warming with her theme: "if he had asked
for my daughter I would give her to him blindfold. He belongs to one of our old families. You
should see his house on the Avenue de Montaigne. Have you never seen him driving with his superb
horses in the Bois de Boulogne? He has an estate with a fine old château in Touraine, a family
inheritance. His character and habits are unexceptionable too," she added by way of parenthesis.
"It is not often that you find all that in a man of twenty-six. So handsome besides!"

"True," said I, "but you forget Mr. Denham."

"On the contrary, I remember him too well to conceive the possibility of his being a rival
to René Vergniaud."

"But did you mention him to M. Vergniaud?"

"Yes, and he was greatly disturbed at first, but when I told him that he had no expectation
of marrying for two or three years to come, he laughed and said it was of no importance. M.
Vergniaud would like to be married in a few weeks, as is the custom with us, but I suppose
it will take longer to adjust the preliminaries on account of her parents being across the
Atlantic. What dowry has my little jewel?" (The inevitable question, always put with as much
simplicity and directness as if one were asking the time of day.)

"I do not know," I replied. "It is so contrary to all our notions. I do not think there is
a man in America who in asking a father for the hand of his daughter would inquire how much
money he was to have with her. It would be considered an insult."

"Perhaps Mr. St. Clair would prefer to settle an annuity on his daughter. Is that the way the
thing is managed in your country?"

"It is not managed at all. A man gives his daughter what he likes, or he gives her nothing
but her bridal outfit. It is never a condition of the marriage."

"How strange all that is! One can hardly believe it in France. We set by a sum of money for
Clarice's dowry almost as soon as she was born, and it would be a hard necessity that could
compel us to diminish it by a single sou. If you would like it, in a couple of days I can give
you an exact inventory of all M. Vergniaud's property and possessions. I could guarantee that
it will not vary twenty napoleons from the fact. We do everything so systematically here."

"Thanks! I think it will hardly be necessary. I do not know that Helen likes him particularly."

"Nobody admires that little paragon more than I--I should be frantically in love with her if
I were a man--but she had better think twice before rejecting such a parti as René Vergniaud,
especially if she has no dowry. You will surely not permit her to do so without communicating
with her father? He will understand her interests better."

"In this case I shall let her do just as she pleases, as her father would if he were here."

Madame Le Fort's look of amazed incredulity was truly comical. What ought I to do? I queried.
On the whole, I decided to do the easiest thing--wait.

The next day I was honored with a call from M. Vergniaud. He believed that Madame Le Fort had
spoken to me of his profound attachment to the lovely Miss St. Clair--the most passionate,
the most devoted. Might he hope for my influence with her father and mother? The matter of
dowry was indifferent to him: his income was sufficiently large, and, alas! he had no parents
to consult. Would I favor him with Mr. St. Clair's address and a few words of introduction
to him? He should be under everlasting obligations to me, and if there was anything he could
do to show his gratitude, his appreciation--

I interrupted these protestations: "I doubt if Mr. St. Clair would consent to any marriage
which would separate him from his daughter, however advantageous it might be in other respects."

"My dear madame, who asks it? I have no business or profession: we could easily spend a part
of every year in America if it were desirable."

"That would certainly make it easier, but it will be better to defer writing till we have some
intimation of Miss St. Clair's sentiments. Her father will be guided chiefly by her inclination."

"It is a nice country for young girls, America," said he with a smile. "I shall do all that
is possible to win Miss St. Clair's favor, for life would be worthless without her." And he
bowed himself gracefully out.

Is it possible that Helen will be indifferent to this young Antinous? thought I. Poor Mr. Denham
would have small chance with me if I were in her place.

An hour later the concierge sent up to me an exquisite bouquet of violets and white camellias,
with the card of René Vergniaud and a folded note: "If Madame Fleming does not think it improper,
will she be so kind as to give these flowers to my beautiful queen?"

M. Vergniaud had asked Madame Le Fort's permission to call on Miss St. Clair. "Certainly not,"
she replied. "I am astounded at such presumption! But you may call to see me. To-morrow evening
we go to the opera, and Wednesday to Madame Perier's, and Thursday is my reception, and Friday
we have tickets to Phèdre at the Français. Saturday, then: it is the first evening we have free."

We were all assembled in the salon as usual after dinner when M. Vergniaud was announced. The
little princess was radiant. She had never been merrier in a school-girl frolic or more ready
with gibe and jest and laughter. She sang her best songs, putting her whole soul into them--"Si
tu savais comme je l'aime." René Vergniaud was so dazed that he came near bidding farewell
to his senses for ever. He evidently thought that all this brilliancy was for him, and was
in such a rapture of delight that he never noticed Madame Le Fort's repeated glances at the
clock, and was only roused by the polite invitation to come again. He was not too disconcerted
to make a charming apology, like a true Parisian, and tore himself away.

Late as it was, as soon as we were in our own little parlor I could not forbear saying, "I
was surprised at you to-night, Helen. How could you run on so? Madame Le Turc there, too! and
you know the young French girls never open their lips to say more than 'Oui, monsieur'--'Non,
monsieur,' to a gentleman. What will M. Vergniaud think?"

"I don't care what he thinks," flinging herself down on an ottoman with her head in my lap;
"but I do care what you think, Madame Fleming. Did I behave so very badly? I didn't mean to,
but I was resolved he should not get a chance to talk any nonsense to-night; and he did, after
all. I hate being made love to before a whole room full. I had to laugh or else cry." And the
little fairy dissolved in a shower of tears, like another Undine.

Another week went by. On Saturday afternoon Helen asked, "Will you be so kind as to take me
to the little Protestant church beyond the Arc d'Étoile this evening, Madame Fleming? I should
like so much to hear that good M. Bercier."

"So should I. But you have not forgotten that M. Vergniaud will be here."

"I am under no obligation to entertain Madame Le Fort's callers."

"But you know, Helen, that he comes for your sake. It is well for you to consider that the
future Madame Vergniaud will have in some respects a more brilliant position than perhaps any
man in our country could offer you."

"I know all that, and I don't pretend to say that I should not like it. I am ashamed of being
so worldly, but to have a superb establishment and all this charming Parisian society, and
give a grand ball whenever I liked, would be just paradise. And to have it all in my grasp,
and not be able to take it, is too aggravating. It is so vexatious that the right man never
has the right things."

We went to church. M. Vergniaud called, but recollected an engagement which took him away early.
Monday evening he dropped in again just after dinner: "Do not let me derange you in the least,
je vous en prie, madame. I come early because I am engaged to three balls to-night."

Miss St. Clair could hardly have been more mute and statue-like if she had been born and bred
in France, where in the presence of gentlemen young girls silently adhere to their brilliant
mothers, whose wit and grace and social tact make the charm of the Parisian salons. Apparently,
the French consider that the combined attractions of youthful faces and sprightly conversation
would be too much for any man, and mercifully divide the two. And this leaves them helpless
before a little American girl, laughing, talking, jesting, teasing, till, bewildered by such
a phenomenon, they are swept down so easily that one is reminded of Attila's taunt to the Romans,
"The thicker the grass, the quicker it is mowed."

This social etiquette was very irksome to my little firefly, who seemed always opening and
shutting her wings. In the course of the evening M. Vergniaud slipped into her hand, unperceived
by any of us, a closed envelope with the whisper, "Put it in your pocket. Do not let any one
see you."

She opened it deliberately: "M. Vergniaud is so kind as to give me his photograph, Madame Fleming.
Do you think it a good likeness?"

The mystery which French people are fond of attaching to harmless trifles is inconceivable.
One evening, in the earlier part of our stay in Paris, a cousin of Miss St. Clair's, who was
in the same hotel with Mr. Denham, called on us, and when he was taking leave she held out
an unsealed note: "Will you give this to Fred? Don't forget it."

Madame Le Fort was thunderstruck: "Is it possible? Send a note to a young gentleman right before
Madame Fleming and all of us!"

"Why," said I, "do young people never write notes to each other in France?"  "Not openly like
that--little three-cornered notes to slip into the hand while dancing."

"This is the way to fold them," said Clarice, taking up a small sheet of paper. "You see that
will just fit into the hollow of the hand, and nobody could ever see it."

"I like our way much better. What is done openly is not half so mischievous."

"Nor half so interesting," rejoined Clarice.

The nimble hours danced on, as they had a trick of doing in Madame Le Fort's salon. "I am afraid
you forget the three balls, M. Vergniaud."

"How can you be so cruel, mademoiselle? I shall only make my compliments to the hostess and
dance one set at each. I never do more except when I come here."

A few days later I asked Helen, "Have you made up your mind what answer to give M. Vergniaud?
He intends to write to your father. He was speaking to me about it again to-day."

"I won't have him writing to my father," she replied with her wonted impetuosity. "I will not
have my father worried about nothing. It would be a month before I could set it right."

"He seems to be very much in love with you. He says he shall be in despair, wretched for ever,
if you reject him."

"So they all say. I don't believe a word of it, and I can't help it if they are. I can't marry
more than one of them, and I don't believe I shall ever marry anybody. I won't be persecuted
to death."

The little princess was irritated. Something had evidently gone wrong. It soon came out: "I
had a letter from Fred this morning--a very disagreeable letter."

"Indeed! You have not yet answered it, I suppose."

"No: he will have to write differently from that before he gets any answer from me. I am not
going to be lessoned and scolded as if I were a little girl. Father never does it, and I will
not submit to it from him" After a pause: "He is not so much to blame. It is that odious Mr.
Wilkins, who keeps writing to him how much attention I receive, and all that. As if I could
help it! Poor old Fred! We have known each other ever since we were children."

That explains it, I thought. "Helen, if you have decided to say no to M. Vergniaud, the sooner
you say it the better."

"I have said it, and he doesn't mind it in the least. I wish you would tell him: you always
speak so that people know you are in earnest and can't help believing you."

"Very well, Helen. I will ask Madame Le Fort to tell him that his suit is hopeless, and that
he must not annoy you by persisting in it."

Early in February the Belgian ambassador, M. le comte de Beyens, and Madame la comtesse, kindly
took charge of Miss St. Clair to the imperial ball at the Tuileries. She had never looked more
charming than in the exquisite costume of pale rose-colored faille, with a floating mist of
white tulle, caught here and there by rosebuds that might have grown in Chrimhild's garden.
The airy figure, so graceful in every motion, the well-poised head with its flutter of shining
curls, the wonderful dark eyes, the perfect eyebrows, the delicious little mouth where love
seemed to nestle--when she had vanished "it seemed like the ceasing of exquisite music." Madame
la comtesse congratulated me on her appearance, and afterward on her success. The emperor had
distinguished her in a very flattering manner, and Eugénie, looking earnestly at her, said
to the comtesse, "Nothing is so beautiful as youth," perhaps beginning to regret her own. No
one had made so decided a sensation.

At Madame Le Fort's next reception there was a sudden influx of new guests--a young Belgian
baron of old historic name, slim and stiff as a poker; a brisk French viscount, who told me
that he had been connected with the embassy at Washington, and had quite fallen in love with
our institutions; an Italian chevalier, a Russian prince.

Ugliness has its compensations, thought I. Nobody makes such a fuss over a pretty girl at home
(they are not so uncommon), and I will never bring one to Paris again. Thank Heaven! we are
going to Italy soon.

       *       *       *       *       *

The piercing Tramontane came down upon us in the Bay of Naples with so fierce a blast that
we doubted if we were not in Iceland, and were glad to make our escape to Rome, where we found
an asylum in the Hôtel de Minerve, not far from the Pantheon. Many of the old palaces and convents
of Italy have been transformed into hotels. This was the ancient palace of the princes of Conti.
I was so captivated by the superb dining-room that the quality of the dinners made but a faint
impression. What! eat in the presence of all those marble goddesses, looking down upon us,
serene and cold, as if from their thrones on the starry Olympus! Or if I turned my eyes resolutely
away from Juno, Ceres and Minerva, they were sure to be snared by the dancing-girls of Pompeii
stepping out from the frescoed walls, or inextricably entangled in the lovely garlands of fruit
and flowers that wound their mazy way along the borders.

One evening, while we were waiting for one of the endless courses of a table-d'hôte dinner,
my wandering eyes were caught by the most perfect human head I had ever seen. It seemed that
of the youthful Lord Byron, so well known in busts and engravings--the same small head with
high forehead and clustering dark-brown curls, the perfectly-moulded chin, the full, ripe beauty
of the lips. The eyes were a deep blue, but I thought them black at first, they were so darkly
shaded by the thick black lashes. I am convinced that Byron must have had just such eyes, for
some of his biographers describe them as black and others as blue. When he rose from the table
I saw a slight, well-knit figure of exquisite proportions, like the Greek god of love. (Not
Cupid with his vulgar arrows, but the true heavenly Eros. I saw him once in the Museum at Naples,
and again in the Vatican. Is it Love, or Death, or Immortality? I queried, and then I knew
it was the three in one.) I soon learned that the youth whose ideal beauty had impressed me
so strongly was the Count Francisco de Alvala of Toledo in Spain. I fancy that his eyes were
as easily attracted to beauty as mine, for the next day he was my vis-à-vis at table; not for
the sake of looking at me, I was well aware, but on account of my beautiful neighbor. However,
he sought my acquaintance with the grave courtesy becoming a grandee of Spain, and naturally
gained that of Miss St. Clair also.

It is the most natural thing in the world to make acquaintances in Rome. People talk together
of the things they have seen or wish to see: they go to the same places by day, and in the
evening they meet in the ladies' parlor to compare their impressions. The young count never
failed to join us in the evening. He had always something to show us--prints of his home in
Spain, articles of virtù that he had bought, sketches that he had made, for he was a good amateur
artist.

A group of young people of different nations generally collected on these occasions, and the
conversation often turned on the usages peculiar to their respective countries.

"In Spain I could not greet a lady with a simple good-evening," said the count. "I should say,
'Permit the humblest of your servants to lay himself at your feet,' or something like that."

"Why do you not say it to us?" asked a bright-eyed Canadian girl.

"Well, it might be a little awkward if you should happen to take it literally. In Spain it
is the merest commonplace."

"If such exaggerated phrases are frittered into commonplaces, and the most impassioned words
grow meaningless, what can a Spanish gentleman find to say when his heart is really touched?"
I inquired.

"I fancy we should find some very simple words to say it in," said the boy, flushing like a
girl. "But I do not know--I have never learned."

"Talk some more," commanded the little princess.

"If a pretty young lady is walking in our streets a mantle is often flung suddenly in her way,
and proud and happy is its owner if she deigns to set her dainty foot upon it."

"What do they do that for? Because the streets are so muddy?" inquired an obtuse young woman.
But nobody volunteered to enlighten her.

"Cannot we go to Spain?" asked Miss St. Clair. "I should like to see a modern Sir Walter Raleigh."

"If the señorita should appear in our streets they would be strewn with mantles," said the
young count gallantly.

"Would you throw down yours for me to step upon?"

"Surely, señorita."

"I'll come, then. It must be of velvet, mind."

"Yes, studded with jewels."

I loved the beautiful youth. His presence was like a poem in my life, and if it ever occurred
to me that the familiar intercourse of the young people might not be altogether prudent, I
dismissed it with the thought, He is only a boy.

There was to be an illumination of the Coliseum. We were going of course, and Count Alvala
begged that I would honor him by making use of his carriage on this occasion. "Thank you, but
I have already spoken to Piero to come for us."

"Oh, but we can send him away. You will find my carriage more comfortable, and it will be in
every way pleasanter," he urged beseechingly; but my negative was peremptory.

Eight o'clock came. Miss St. Clair and I descended to the court of the hotel, but where was
Piero? "It is singular. He was never late before, but I am confident that he will be here presently.
We have only to wait a little."

The minutes went by, and they were long minutes. It was awkward waiting in so public a place.
The count had joined us with his friend, an Italian marquis some thirty years of age, with
whom we had a slight acquaintance. The count's handsome equipage was drawn up near us. There
was no Piero.

"I really think you had better accept my young friend's carriage. It would be a pity to miss
so grand a spectacle," said the marquis.

We entered the carriage. The count wrapped us in a magnificent feather robe, such as the Montezumas
wore, for the April nights in Rome are chill, however hot the sunshine. It was strange to see
the Forum, ordinarily solitary and desolate, now thronged with an eager multitude on foot and
with numerous open carriages, in which were seated ladies in full dress as at the opera with
us. Arriving at the Coliseum, we left the carriage and passed through the huge portal. The
gloomy arches were obscurely seen in the dusky Roman twilight, when suddenly, as if by magic,
every arch and crevice of the gigantic ruin glowed, incarnadined, as if dyed with the blood
of the martyrs that had drenched its soil. There were salvos of artillery, bursts of military
music and a few vivas from the multitude. A brilliant spectacle, but the tender beauty of moonlight
harmonizes better with the solemnity of ruins.

Rapt in the memories that the scene awakened, I paid little attention to the monologue of my
Italian friend, when I was suddenly roused by the question, "Did you ever see a prettier couple?"

"Who?" I asked absently.

"There," he rejoined, pointing to the count and Miss St. Clair, who preceded us.

"He is too young," I replied, but the question was asked so significantly that it disturbed
me a little, and I resolved to be more cautious than heretofore.

The next morning Piero appeared with his carriage to take us to the Baths of Caracalla. He
hoped madame did not lose the illumination. He was wretched to disappoint madame: he begged
a thousand pardons. His little boy was taken violently ill: he was forced to go for the doctor;
madame was so good.

The truth flashed upon me: "Piero, how much did the count give you to stay away last night?"

A gleam of humor twinkled in his black eyes, but it was speedily quenched: "I do not understand
what madame wishes to say."

It happened that a friend and country-woman at our hotel was taken ill with typhoid fever,
and amid the anxieties of her sick room the incipient love-affair was almost forgotten. I no
longer spent the evenings in the parlor. One day Miss St. Clair showed me a tiny satin bag
beautifully embroidered, with a soft silken chain to pass around the neck. "What can it be
for?" she asked.

"Why, Helen, it is an amulet. Where did you get it?"

"The count gave it to me. He had the loveliest set of Byzantine mosaics and pearls which he
wished to give me; and when I would not accept them he seemed so hurt that I did not like to
refuse this trifle. What do you suppose is in it."

"A relic of some saint, without doubt. He thinks it will protect you from fever perhaps."

Like most Americans, we were desirous of seeing the pope, and Count Alvala obtained for us
the necessary permission. We were to be received on a Saturday at eleven. We went in the prescribed
costume, black silk, with the picturesque Roman veil thrown over the head. From the foot of
the Scala Regia, (Royal Staircase) one of the papal guard, in a motley suit which seemed one
glare of black and yellow, escorted us to the door of a long corridor, known as the Loggia
of Raphael, where we were received by a higher official in rich array of crimson velvet. About
seventy persons were seated in rows, facing each other, along this gallery, nearly all laden
with rosaries to be blessed by the Holy Father. We waited till my neck ached with looking up
at the exquisite frescoes, fresh and tender in coloring as if new from the hand of the master,
when the pope appeared, attended by a cardinal on each hand. We fell on our knees instantly,
but not till I had seen an old man's face so sweet and venerable as to make this act of etiquette
a spontaneous homage. He passed slowly down the line, saying a word or two to each, and extending
his hand, white and soft like a woman's, to be kissed.

Pausing by the young count, who was kneeling beside me, he said impressively, "Courage and
faith have always been attributes of the house of Alvala. Your fathers were good children of
the Church, and you, my son, will not be wanting in any of the qualities of your race."

When he had passed us we rose from our knees, and I could observe him more closely. He wore
a close-fitting white cap on his finely-shaped head; a long robe of white woolen cloth buttoned
up in front, with a small cape of the same material; a white sash, gold-embroidered at the
end; a long gold chain around his neck, to which was attached a large golden cross; a seal
ring on the third finger of his right hand; and red slippers. Soft snowy locks fell from under
the white skull-cap over a noble forehead, which years and trials had left unwrinkled. Black
eyebrows and the soft dark eyes made a pleasant contrast to the whiteness of hair and brow,
and his smile was so sweet and winning that I scarcely wondered to see two Catholic ladies
prostrate themselves and kiss his feet and the hem of his white garment with a rapture of devotion
from which his attendants with difficulty rescued him. He lingered longest by a pretty boy
four or five years old, and there was a pathos in the caressing, clinging touch of his hand
as it rested on the child's head that called to mind an old love-story of the handsome Count
Mastai Ferretti when he wore the uniform of an officer of the guards, and had not yet thought
of priestly robe or papal crown. I wonder if he remembers the fair English girl now?

Having completed the round, he made a brief address, the purport of which was that he was about
to give us his blessing, and he wished that it might be diffused to all our families and friends,
and be not for the present moment only, but extend through our whole lives and abide with us
in the hour of death; "But remember," said he with a kind of paternal benignity, "that the
gates of paradise open rarely to any who are without the communion of the Holy Catholic Church.
Sometimes perhaps--sometimes--but with great difficulty." He extended his hands. We dropped
on our knees and received the blessing of this benign old man, whom the larger part of Christendom
revere as the earthly head of the Church.  As we were making our way through the stately columns
of the colonnade which forms the approach to the Vatican I saw the count glance at the amulet
which Helen wore. "What is in it?" I asked.

"A relic of the blessed Saint Francis, my patron," he replied.

"It will lose its efficacy on the neck of a little heretic like Miss St. Clair," said I with
a purpose.

"It will do her no harm," said he coldly.

Monday I was at the table d'hôte the first time for a week. I found the count seated next to
Miss St. Clair. It was very simple, she explained to me afterward. A lady occupied his seat
one day, and he came round to the only vacant one, which happened to be next hers. I am a very
guileless person, but I think Vincenzo had an excellent reason for letting it happen. Helen
was on my left hand as usual, and the Italian marquis on my right.

"I am sorry for that boy," said he to me: "he is very unhappy."

"The young count? What is the matter?"

"Don't you see? He is madly in love with your bewitching little American. It is his first impression,
and he takes it hard. Well, he will have to learn like the rest of us."

"I hope you are mistaken;" and I glanced uneasily at my young neighbors, who were too much
absorbed in their own conversation to heed that between the marquis and myself.

"That is impossible. He raves to me about her. It is very pretty too--a perfect idyl, all poetry
and romance--eternal, unchangeable, and all that boyish nonsense. We older men know better.
But monsignore will be here soon, and he will look after him."

"Who is monsignore?"

"The archbishop of Toledo, his guardian. He has been here, but some diocesan matter called
him home. He will be back anon, and then the count will dine at home. As to that, he does now,
and delicious dinners they are, too. He only makes a pretence of eating here, just to have
a chance to see his little divinity."

"He was here when we came."

"True, but only for a day or two while his house was put in order. The house is well worth
seeing--one of the finest on the Corso. It is not open to strangers, but if you would like
to see it--"

"Certainly not," I interrupted, a little irritably, the more so from the consciousness of having
been a somewhat careless chaperone. I was coming sharply up to the line of duty now, at all events.

"Helen," said I when we rose from the dinner-table, "do not go into the parlor now. Come into
my room a little while, please.--Well, Helen," I resumed when we were seated by the pleasant
window, "I have seen so little of you for a week past that you must have a great deal to tell me."

"I do not know," she replied. "I have been out every day with the Glenns, just as you arranged
for me, and I have been in the parlor in the evenings, and sometimes I sang, and one night
there was a French gentleman--"

"How about the young count? The Italian says he is very much in love with you. Do you know it?"

"He has told me so often enough, if that is knowing it," with a quick, impatient toss of the
small, graceful head.

"Oh, Helen!" I cried in real distress, "and what did you say to him?"

"Why, what could I say in that great parlor, with everybody looking on? I just hushed him up
as well as I could. There is the tall English girl and that sharp-eyed Miss Donaldson, who
are watching us the whole time. It is real mean in them," excitedly. "And the count doesn't
mind letting everybody know how much he admires me. In fact, he is proud of it, like one of
the old knights, who used to wear their ladies' favors as openly and proudly as they bore their
knightly banners."

"This will never do, Helen. Don't you see that this boy is not like the gay Frenchman that
you danced with last winter? René Vergniaud was a man of the world: he could take care of himself.
But this beautiful boy, with his intensity of feeling, his ideal passionate love--You must
not play with him," I exclaimed vehemently.

"I am not playing with him: I never do anything to make him like me. He comes and talks to
me, and I just make myself as agreeable to him as I can, that is all."

That is all, is it, you little mischief? thought I. As if that were not the very refinement
of coquetry! But I prudently refrained from saying it, for a tempest of hot tears began to
fall, and she sobbed, "Oh, Madame Fleming, I did not think I was going to forfeit your good
opinion. What can I do? I can't help his liking me. I like him too, and that makes me feel
so badly."

"Do you like him better than Mr. Denham?"

"Better than Fred?" in a tone of surprise. "Why no, of course not: I have known Fred always."

"The best thing will be to tell him of Mr. Denham."

"Oh no, I never can."

"I will, then."

"Don't, I beseech you. We shall go away soon, and that will be the end of it. Promise me you
will not. I would rather tell him myself if I ever have a chance."

I looked in to see my invalid friend, and then descended to the parlor, where I found the young
count almost alone. He looked up eagerly as I entered: "I thought Miss St. Clair was with you.
I have been waiting for her all the evening."

"Indeed!"

"I told her at table that I wished to see her particularly this evening."

"Perhaps she did not understand you."

"Oh yes, she did. You would not let her come?" with a sudden lighting up of the expressive face.

"I did not forbid her coming: I did not know that you were waiting for her."

Then with sudden boyish candor and a happy smile on his animated countenance "I thought you
might have observed that I come here so often because I like to talk with Miss St. Clair. But
you never can know how dearly I love her."

"I am sorry."

"Why?" with a naïve surprise.

"She is older than you."

"How old is she?"

"She will be twenty in May."

"And I am nineteen this very week. What is one poor little year?--not a year," gleefully.

"But the difference in religion?"

"An obstacle, I grant, but not an insuperable one. My uncle married an English lady, a Protestant,
and they have been very happy together."

"But I think there is another man," I stammered, surprised at finding my outposts carried so
easily.

"You do not mean to say that she is compromised with any man?" almost fiercely.

"I do not know what meaning you attach to that word," for the count's imperfect French was
not always intelligible. "There is a young man, the son of a neighbor, who has admired her
a long time."

"Oh, he admires her?" with a curl of the exquisite lips, as if to say, "Who does not?"

"But I think she may like him a little."

"Why do you torture me so? Tell me at once that they are betrothed," cried he, pale with concentrated
anger.

He thought she had trifled with him, I knew instantly, but quietly said, "I cannot tell you
exactly in what relation they stand to each other, but I think Miss St. Clair would if she
found an opportunity to speak with you."

"You do not know how I have tried to make opportunities. I go everywhere, hoping to see you,
and I have never met you--not once. Won't you ask her to come down to-night?" coaxingly, like
a child.

"Not to-night: it is too late."

"I must see Miss St. Clair to-night."

"Impossible."

"I must see Miss St. Clair. Find out for me when I can see her. I will go with you," in a white
heat of passion. (We had been alone for some little time.)

I took the arm which he held out, not a little agitated by the excess of emotion which thrilled
and quivered through his youthful frame, as he hurried me up the broad stone staircase and
along the wide corridors that led to our rooms. What business had I to meddle? How should an
old fogy like me know anything of the love-affairs of this generation? The girl would have
managed more wisely than I, I reflected, by no means jubilant over the result.

"Wait here;" and I walked on to Miss St. Clair's door, opened it, and there sat Helen in her
pretty white wrapper, bathed in the moonlight, serene as a star, as if there were no passionate
young heart breaking in waves of anguish at her feet. "Helen, the count is in the corridor,
and he will not go till I have told him when you will see him."

"How can I? You must think for me."

A hasty consultation. The count was standing where I had left him: "We shall be at the Sistine
Chapel to-morrow at two o'clock."

He bowed and was gone.

I did not sleep well that night. A pretty person I am to take charge of a young girl! I wonder
what Mr. St. Clair would think if he knew I had made an appointment for his daughter to meet
a young Spaniard? On the way, however, I admonished Helen, as if no misgiving of my own wisdom
had ever crossed my mind: "You must be firm with him. Tell him so decidedly that he cannot
doubt you really mean it."

"Yes," said she, "but I do dread it so. I can't bear his thinking that I encouraged him."

"Then you did?"

"I didn't mean to, but I do like him; and I didn't think of his taking it so to heart. Men
are so strange! You think you have a charming friend, and then they will go on just so, boys
and all, and you have to take them or lose them; and you can't take them. It is too bad!"

We were at the door. The keeper opened it, and there stood the count waiting for us. It was
not the first time we had been in the wonderful chapel. Fortunately, there were very few persons
there on this afternoon--none that we knew. I sat down to look at the grand frescoes: Helen
and the count walked on to the farthest corner. I looked at the Cumæan Sibyl, the impersonation
of age and wisdom, and wished, as I glanced at the youthful figures talking so earnestly in
the distance, but not a murmur of whose voices reached my ear, that she would impart to me
her far-reaching vision of futurity. I gazed on the image of the Eternal Father sweeping in
majestic flight through the air, bearing the angels on His floating garment as He divides the
light from the darkness. I saw Adam, glad with new life, rising from the earth, because the
outstretched finger of his Creator gave him a conscious strength. I looked at "The Last Judgment,"
grown dim with years, till every figure started out in intensity of life, and it seemed as
if the faces would haunt me for ever.

And yonder still progressed the old, ever-new drama of love and anguish, with its two actors,
who seemed scarcely to have changed their position or taken their eyes from each other. At
length they walked slowly toward me with more serenity of aspect than I had dared to hope.

"Shall we go into the picture-gallery?" asked the count.

"I think we may have time to walk through it," I answered. "It is half-past three."

"Is it possible that we have kept you waiting so long?" they asked simultaneously.

"An hour and a half is a short time in a place like the Sistine Chapel," I remarked sententiously.

As soon as we were alone I drew Helen to the confessional: "Did you tell him about Mr. Denham?"

"Yes, everything, and he was so noble. I am so sorry. The tears stood in his eyes, and he said,
'I suffer, but I am a man. I can bear it.' Then he thanked me for dealing so openly with him.
He never once hinted a reproach. And I deserved it," she said with unwonted humility. "I never
felt before how wicked it is to flirt just a little. He is not selfish, like some people that
I know;" and my thought followed hers. "I don't know but I am a little goose to let him go
so. If he were only twenty-three years old, and I were free--"

The next day we saw nothing of the count, but early Thursday morning Vincenzo knocked at my
door with a note, in which Count Alvala informed me that he was my son, and begged earnestly
to see the beautiful Miss St. Clair once more: he would never trouble me again. It was the
only day on which we could see the Palace of the Cæsars, and would I be so good as to permit
him to meet us there? I hastily penciled a few words: "I am waiting for Dr. Valery. I shall
probably stay with my sick friend to-day, and Miss St. Clair will not go out without me," and
sent the line by Vincenzo, happy to be rid of the importunate boy for this time.

Two hours later, when the doctor had pronounced my friend better, and I had promised Helen
a walk amid the ruins of the Palatine, which I did not like to leave Rome without seeing, I
went down to the roll, coffee and eggs which constitute an Italian breakfast, and there sat
the count as vigilant as a sentinel. "You will go?" said he with a smile.

"I think we may," curtly.

"I shall perhaps meet you there."

When we reached the Farnese gate he was waiting there, which made the "perhaps" superfluous.
We had a long ramble over the lonely hill, stretching out like a green New England pasture,
but where from time to time we came unexpectedly upon flights of steps which led to massive
substructures of stone, foundations of ancient palaces, and to excavated halls paved with mosaics
and lined with frescoes more beautiful than those of Pompeii. There were many statues, more
or less mutilated, and stately brick arches laden with a wealth of flowering shrubs, and here
and there thickets of tall dark cypress trees, harmonious with ruins. My young companions were
rather silent, but I fancy their thoughts were not engrossed with old historic lore. I made
a conscientious effort to force mine into the ruts of association which I had supposed to be
inevitable in such a spot, but the bright sunshine, the delicate blue of the distant Campagna,
the living gladness of earth and air were too strong for me, and I inwardly applauded a lively
American girl who interrupted her droning guide with the incisive "I don't care a snap for Cæsar."

On reaching the gate after our three hours' ramble I consigned Miss St. Clair to some friends
who were waiting for her, and stepped into the count's carriage. He seemed to feel bound in
honor not to speak of love to Miss St. Clair since the revelation of the Sistine Chapel, but
he must have a little solace in talking to me about it. "It would be easy," said he, "if she
were not fiancée, but that makes it difficult--very difficult indeed. I am glad it is not going
to be for three years: that is a long time, a very long time." Then, with a sudden illumination
of face and a delicious intonation of the musical voice, "Perhaps they will never marry: perhaps
it will be another man--I." (Blessed infatuation of youth, with its wonderful perhapses, which
never come to maturer years!)

"One of these years I shall hope to hear that you are married to a beautiful lady of your own
country and your own religion."

"You never will."

"Oh yes, you will be astonished to find how easy it is to forget."

"I come of a constant race," said he proudly. "My father loved my mother, and they sent him
all over the world to forget her, but he came home in five years and married her."

"Even if it were otherwise possible (which it is not), the difference in religion ought to
prevent it. How could so good a Catholic as you distress your family by marrying a heretic?"

"Perhaps she would be a Catholic." (I noticed that he did not say, "Perhaps I shall become
a Protestant.") "Don't you think her father would let her marry a Catholic?"

"No," I replied stoically.

He was silent and dejected.

"You must forget her," said I kindly. "It is only a little while since you first saw her."

"A little while! It is my whole life!" "Only a few weeks," I continued. "We shall soon be across
the ocean, and you will see other ladies."

"There is only one Miss St. Clair."

"I beg your pardon--there are three of them." But the boy was too miserable to notice this
poor little sally.

We were approaching the hotel. "I shall not see you again at present," said he. "Monsignore
will arrive this evening, and I must be at home to receive him. But I shall be in Paris by
the middle of May, and I shall see you there: farewell till then."

The next morning Miss St. Clair and I were on our way to Florence. A week later, on our return
from the convent of San Marco, where we had seen the cell of Savonarola and many lovely but
faded frescoes of Fra Angelico and Fra Bartolommeo, whom should we find waiting for us in our
temporary home on the Via Pandolfini but Count Alvala? I felt annoyed, and my face must have
revealed it, for he said deprecatingly, "You ought to be glad to see your boy, Madame Fleming,
for I have come this long journey only for a day, expressly to see you."

"Well," said I, "you took me so by surprise that I had not my welcome ready. I did not expect
the pleasure of seeing you till after our arrival in Paris."

"That is why I am here. I shall not be able to go to Paris. I am bitterly disappointed, but
monsignore has made other plans for me. I am to go to Vienna to visit my aunt, whose husband
is our ambassador there. The tour to Paris is postponed till the autumn."

Evidently monsignore had heard of the little heretic maiden, and he was going to remove his
ward from temptation. I was infinitely obliged to him.

A desultory conversation followed, carried on principally by the young people, and then the
count said, "Miss St. Clair tells me that you have visited the Uffizi and Pitti galleries.
May I not go with you somewhere to-morrow?--to La Certose or San Miniato, for instance?"

"Thank you," I replied: "we are so exhausted with sight-seeing, Miss St. Clair and I, that
we shall stay in all day to-morrow, and we shall be happy to see you once in the afternoon
or evening, as may be most convenient for you."

I did not like to be hard and cross to the dear boy whom my heart yearned over, but I felt
as much bound to "make an effort" as if I had been a veritable Dombey.

The call lasted afternoon and evening: it was only the change of a particle. I could not reproduce
the innocent talk, half gay, half sad, of this long interview, but before he went away the
count drew me aside: "Will you give this to Miss St. Clair when I am gone?"

I unfolded the package: it contained a photograph of himself and a small painting which he
had executed of the Coliseum on the night of the illumination. "Yes."

"And will you send me her photograph from Paris? I will have it copied by the best miniature-painter
in Rome and put in a locket set with diamonds," said the boy enthusiastically.

"I cannot promise."

"Do you think I could be of any use to her father? Not to win his favor, you understand, but
I should be so happy to do anything to serve her or her friends. Can't you tell me now?"

"No. Mr. St. Clair does not need assistance in any way that I know."

In spite of the boy's earnestness, the idea of his offering patronage to the mature and independent
American struck me as irresistibly ludicrous.

"But you will tell him all about me."

"Yes."

"I shall learn to speak English--I have begun already--and in a year I shall be in America.
Will you write your address for me on this card?"

I did so.

"If you ever come to Spain, remember that my house and all that is in it are yours."

"I shall never go to Spain."

"Perhaps you will one day to see Miss St. Clair," looking up in my face with a bright smile
of inextinguishable hope. "Good-bye for a year."

A few more days in Florence, a week in Venice, a day or two in Milan, and we bade adieu to
Italy. Land of beauty and mystery! when I recall thy many forms of loveliness, the glorious
shapes of gods and heroes, serene and passionless in their white majesty of marble, the blessed
sweetness of saints and Madonnas shining down into my soul, I seem to have been once in heaven
and afterward shut out.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were once more at home. Almost the first news that came to us from abroad was of the terrible
war between France and Germany. During the protracted siege of Paris we were full of anxieties,
but at its close we received long letters from Madame Le Fort, giving many details of the sufferings
and privations of the siege, sorrowful enough for the most part, but enlivened here and there
with touches of the gay French humor that nothing can subdue. There was a lively sketch of
a Christmas dinner ingeniously got up of several courses of donkey-meat. At New Year's the
choicest gift that a gentleman could make a lady was a piece of wheaten bread. Afterward there
was nothing in the house but rice and chocolate bonbons, which they chewed sparingly, a little
at a time. But they kept up their courage--they were even gay. Hardships were nothing, but
that Paris should be surrendered at last--that was a humiliation which nothing could compensate.
Many of the gay dancers whom we had known had fallen in battle, among them, René Vergniaud.
He was shot in the heart in an engagement with the Prussians in the environs of Paris.

I spent my next summer vacation with Miss St. Clair in Detroit.

"When is Mr. Denham coming home?" I asked one evening when we were alone together.

"I do not know: he does not speak of coming home. I am a little puzzled about Fred. He has
written me a great deal lately about a certain Fräulein Teresa, the daughter of one of his
professors, who takes such excellent care of her younger brothers and sisters, and who is such
a wonderfully economical, housewifely little body--just a new edition of Werther's Charlotte.
I do not think that he really likes her," she continued after musing a little: "he just holds
her up as a model for me to copy. I shouldn't wonder if she was only imaginary, to make me
feel how far I come short of his ideal. Fred says that he worships the very ground I tread
on--slightly hyperbolical and very original, you perceive," with a satirical curve of her pretty
lips--"but he never seems half satisfied with me. He ought to know by this time that I must
be just my own little self, and not a second-hand imitation of somebody else."

The next day came a letter with a German postmark, which was so eloquent on the subject of
Fräulein Teresa that it elicited the following reply:

    "DETROIT, August 5, 1871.

    "DEAR FRED: I despair of emulating Fräulein Teresa's many
    excellencies. You know what a useless little thing I am. Happily, it
    is not too late to make another choice. Thinking it may please you,
    I hereby release you from all your promises to me. We may never be
    anything more to each other perhaps, but I hope that we shall always
    be dear friends. I shall never forget that we grew up together, and
    I wish you all possible happiness.

    "Your little friend, HELEN."

In due time this answer came:

     "HEIDELBERG, August 27, 1871.

     "MISS ST. CLAIR: Your somewhat singular letter of August 5th was
     duly received. If I believed that you had written it, or ever could
     or would do anything, with proper deliberation, I should accept
     your decision at once. But as I have good reason to know your habit
     of acting from sudden impulses which you afterward regret, I give
     you three months to reconsider this hasty step.

     "I have the honor to be your obedient servant,

     "F. A. DENHAM."

Helen held to me the open sheet, with kindling eyes and glowing cheeks: "Three months! I don't
need three minutes: I wouldn't change in three centuries. I am so glad to be free!" she cried,
sobbing and laughing at the same moment. "He has worried me so--a poor little thing like me!"

The next morning I started on my return to Boston.

Early in October a servant handed me a card bearing the name Francisco Alvala. I had ceased
to think of the boy, not having heard a word from him; but here he was, looking very manly,
browned with the sun and sea, and beautiful as Endymion when Diana stooped to kiss him and
all the green leaves in the white moonshine were tremulous with sympathy.

After the first greeting he asked, "How is Miss St. Clair? and when did you see her last?"

I told him of my recent visit.

"She is not married, then?"

"On the contrary, she is free. The engagement with Mr. Denham has been broken."

"What did I tell you? Did I not say it would be I?" in a burst of triumph.

As a good Boston woman I am chagrined to record that Bunker Hill and all the local lions, which
I was at some pains to impress on his memory, did not prove so attractive as the earliest Western
train.

Why make a long story of what every one foresees? In the course of the autumn and winter the
count made flying visits to Washington, Philadelphia, New Orleans, and even San Francisco,
but it was noticeable that the way to all these places lay through Detroit. He spoke English
marvelously well now, and so won upon the hearts of Mr. and Mrs. St. Clair that on the 23d
of April, being his twenty-first birthday, the marriage of the conde de Alvala and Helen St.
Clair was duly celebrated. I could not leave my school to be present at the wedding, but the
young couple came to Boston to take leave of me before sailing for Europe. They were radiant
with happiness, and I could hardly tell which I loved best, my boy or my girl; but if the Italian
had been there to ask if I ever saw a more beautiful couple, I should have answered no with
great emphasis.

I will copy Helen's first letter in order to prove that a château en Espagne is not always
a castle in the air:

     "ALVALA, near Toledo, June 20, 1872.

     "DEAR MADAME FLEMING: You have heard from mother of our voyage and
     safe arrival. We are now at home, Francisco and I, if I can ever
     learn to feel at home in such a grand place, where I can hardly
     find my way round. It is like one of the old palaces at Rome, the
     Borghese or Colonna, that we used to admire so much, with vast
     halls opening into one another, hangings of tapestry and Cordovan
     leather, marble statues and old paintings--family portraits by
     Titian and Velasquez, one or two Murillos, and--but I cannot write
     a catalogue. You must come to see us and the pictures. I am not
     sure which you will like the best. Francisco is very good to me,
     and so are all his friends. His sister and her husband were here to
     welcome us.

     "One of the first things we did was to go down the rose-tree walk,
     along the banks of the Tagus, for more than a mile--white and
     delicate pink and deep-red roses blossoming above our heads and
     dropping their petals at our feet all the way. Francisco said he
     would make my life like that walk among the roses, all sweetness
     and beauty, but that he cannot tell.

     "There is the old cathedral, with a wonderful head of Saint Francis
     and a whole forest of columns; and when you come we will bribe the
     sacristan not to lock you in, as they did at St. Roch. I shall
     never be a Roman Catholic, but I go to mass sometimes, for there is
     no Protestant service here, and one cannot be quite a heathen where
     everybody is so devout. What I dislike most is to have a chaplain
     in the house, walking about in his black petticoat, but of course I
     never say a word to Francisco.

     "By and by we are going to our house in Madrid. Our house in
     Madrid! does not that sound very strange? It all seems so unreal
     that I am afraid of waking up and finding it a dream.

     "Do, dear Madame Fleming, give up slaving in that old school and
     come and live with Francisco and me. He says he wishes you would,
     and it would make everything seem more real if I had you here.
     Think of it, now. You will, won't you? As ever, your dear child,

     "HELEN ALVALA."

This true story suggests a little sermon in two heads: 1st. To all possible and probable lovers:
It was not the count's rank or wealth, but the fervor and constancy of ideal love and his whole-souled,
exclusive devotion, that won the heart of the American girl. 2d. To all sensible American parents:
Do not permit your pretty young daughters to make a tour in Europe unless you are willing to
leave them there.

       MARY E. BLAIR.

A JAPANESE MARRIAGE IN HIGH LIFE.

In describing a Japanese marriage in high life we do not intend to soar too high. It is not
for our alien pen to portray the splendors of such a marriage as that of the princess of Satsuma
to Iyesada, the thirteenth Shô-gun of the Tokugawa dynasty, when all Yedo was festal and illuminated
for a week. Neither shall we describe that of the imperial princess Kazu, the younger sister
of the Mikado, who came up from Kioto to wed the young Shô-gun Iyemochi, and thus to unite
the sacred blood of twenty-five centuries of imperial succession with that of the Tokugawas,
the proud family that ruled Japan, and dictated even to her emperors, for two hundred and fifty
years. We leave the description of those royal nuptials to other pens. Ours aspires only to
describe a marriage such as has happened in old Yedo for the thousandth time in the samurai
class--the gentry of Japan.

Were you with us in Tokio (the new name of the capital of Japan) we should take you, were you
inclined to go, to the place where once stood the mansion of Yamashiro Kan, a high retainer
of the prince of Echizen, and a lineal descendant of the great Iyeyasu, the founder of the
dynasty of the Shô-guns. Were you to seek for Yamashiro's mansion now, you would not find it,
but instead several very vulgar evidences of the Western civilization which is now changing
the Land of the Gods into a paradise of beef, bread, butter, milk and machinery. We walked
past the old mansion-grounds a few days ago, and lo! we saw a milk-shop and dairy, a butcher's
stall, a sewing-machine store, a printing-office, a school in which Japanese boys were learning
A, B, C's, a photographer's "studio," a barber-shop with an English sign, and a score or more
Japanese shops of all kinds. This is of to-day. Five years ago a long wall of diamond-shaped
tiles laid in white cement extended round the spacious grounds of the homestead of the Yamashiro
family. Inside were fish-ponds, mimic hills, miniature mountain-scenery, dense flower-bushes,
dwarfed arboreal wonders, solemn shade trees and a garden laid out according to the very best
Japanese style. The fine old yashiki of Yamashiro, with its porter's lodge, stone path, entrance-porch,
vestibule and the family homestead, was within. No wonder, then, that the aged man, who firmly
believes that Japan is going to the dogs, the devil or the foreigners--he does not know which--shakes
his head as he now passes by the milk-and butcher-shops, around which the lazy dogs sleep or
wait for bones, and sighs as he remembers the grand old mansion.

About two miles farther north, in the great rus urba of Yedo, was another house of humbler
pretensions, and yet one with a gate and garden of dimensions betokening the residence of a
man of rank. It was the home of Nakayama, one of the eighty thousand hatamoto (vassals) of
the Shô-gun, a studious gentleman whose greatest pride was in his two sons and his only daughter.
The former were not only manly and expert in the use of the sword and spear, but had the best
education that the classics of Confucius and the Chinese college and literati in Yedo could
give them. Next to them in his love was his only daughter Kiku, seventeen years old, and as
fair as the fairest of Yedo's many fair daughters. No vain doll was Kiku, but, inheriting her
mother's beauty, she added to it the inner grace of a meek and dutiful spirit. Besides being
deft at household duties, her memory was well stored with the knowledge of Japanese history
and the Chinese classics. She had committed to memory the entire books of the Woman's Great
Learning, and had read carefully five other works on etiquette and morals which her father
had presented to her on successive birthdays. Kiku was a remarkably well-educated maiden, and
would have been a prize for the richest daimio in the empire.

Faithfully following Japanese etiquette, Kiku had been carefully kept from the company of any
of the male sex since her eighth year. She never talked with any young man except her brothers.
Occasionally at family parties she was addressed by her uncles or cousins. Sometimes, when
gentlemen called to see her father, Kiku would bring tea to the guest, and was thus made the
subject of compliments; but as to "receiving" male company, she never did it. Kiku never went
out unless accompanied by her mother or the maid, who was like her shadow.

The gods of Japan meet together at the great temples in Ise during the eleventh month and tie
all the nuptial knots for the following year. Kiku's marriage-knot had been tied by the gods
six months before she even suspected the strings had been crossed. How happened it?

In Japan only the people in the lower classes are acquainted with and see each other frequently
before marriage. The business of selection, betrothal and marriage is attended to by the parents
or friends of the pair, who carry on negotiations by means of a third factor, a middleman or
go-between. Children are often betrothed at birth or when on their nurses' backs (there are
no cradles in Japan). Of course the natural results, mutual dislike and severance of the engagement
at mature age, or love and happy marriage, or marriage, mutual dislike and subsequent divorce,
happen, as the case may be. In general, when the parents make the betrothal of grown-up children,
it is not probable that the feelings of son or daughter are outraged, or that marriages are
forced against the consent of either, though this does sometimes take place. In Asiatic countries,
where obedience to parents is the first and last duty, and in which no higher religion than
filial obedience exists, the betrothal and marriage of children is not looked upon as anything
strange. The prevalence of concubinage as a recognized institution in Japan makes it of no
serious importance whether the husband loves his wife or not.

To tell an ordinary Japanese that in America people often marry against their parents' consent
is to puzzle him, and make him believe Carlyle's saying about Americans without having heard
it. If a man who marries against his parents' wish is not a triple-dyed ingrate, he must be
a downright fool. Beyond this idea the normal Japanese cannot go; and you might as well try
to make a blind man understand that "celestial rosy red" was "Love's proper hue" as to convince
him that a good man ever marries against his parents' wishes. Such ideas and practices are
convincing evidences to him of the vast moral inferiority of Western nations when compared
with that of the people descended from the gods.

Resuming our narrative, we must mention that Kiku's father had once had an offer from one Matsui,
a wealthy retainer of the Wakasa clan, through that young nobleman's middleman or agent, which
he refused, to the disgust of both middleman and suitor. The latter had seen Kiku walking with
her mother while going to the temple at Shiba, and, being struck with her beauty, inquired
who she was. Having come of age and wishing a wife, he had sued for Kiku to her father, who,
for reasons of his own, refused the request, on the ground that Kiku was too young, being then
but fifteen years old. The truth was, that the Wakasa samurai was a wild young fellow, and
bore a reputation for riotous living that did not promise to make him a proper life-companion
for Nakayama's refined and cultured daughter. Between Nakayama, Kiku's father, and Yamashiro,
the retainer of the Echizen clan, whose home we spoke of in the opening of our sketch, had
long existed a warm friendship and a mutual high regard. Yamashiro, though more fond of society
and good living than Nakayama, was nevertheless, like him, a high-spirited and well-read man.
He had four children, two sons and two daughters. The oldest son, named Taro, was now twenty
years old, of manly figure, diligent in study, and had lately acted as a high page, attending
daily upon the person of Hitotsu-bashi, the then reigning Shô-gun, and the last of his line
that held or will hold regal power in Japan. Taro, being the oldest son of his father, was
the heir to his house, office, rank and revenue. Taro wanted a wife. He wished to taste the
sweets of love and wedded joy. He had long thought of Kiku. Of course he asked his father,
and his father "was willing." He told Taro to go to Nakayama's house. Taro went. He talked
to Nakayama, and hinted faint compliments of his daughter. It was enough. Nakayama was keen
of scent, and he also "was willing." Clapping his hands, the maid-servant appeared and falling
down and bowing her head to the floor, listened: "Make some tea, and tell Miss Kiku to serve it."

Had you been in the back rooms of that house, you would have seen Kiku blush as the maid told
her who was in the front room and what her father had said. Her heart beat furiously, and the
carnation of health upon her cheeks was lost in the hot blushes that mantled her face and beautiful
neck when her mother, reproving her, said, "Why, dear child, don't be excited: perhaps he has
come only on some every-day business, after all. Be composed, and get ready to take in the tea."

Nevertheless, Kiku took out her metal mirror while the maid made the tea, smoothed a pretended
stray hair, powdered her neck slightly, drew her robe more tightly around her waist, adjusted
her girdle, which did not need any adjusting, and then, taking up the tray, containing a tiny
tea-pot, a half dozen upturned cups, and as many brass sockets for them, hastened into the
front room, bowed with her face on her hands to the floor, and then handed cups of tea to her
parent and his guest. This done, she returned to her mother. Whether Taro looked at Kiku's
cheeks or into her glittering black eyes we leave even a foreign reader to judge.

Let it not be thought, however, that a single word relating to marriage in the concrete passed
between the two men: no such breach of etiquette was committed. The visit over, the two friends
parted as friends, and nothing more, either in fact or in visible prospect.

But, to be brief, not long afterward, Taro, having selected a trusty friend, sent him as a
go-between to ask of Nakayama the hand of his daughter in marriage. The proposal was accepted,
and when the go-between came the second time to Kiku's home it was in company with two servants
bearing bundles. These, being opened, were found to contain a splendidly embroidered girdle,
such as Japanese ladies wear, about twelve feet long and a foot wide when doubled; a robe of
the finest white silk from the famous looms of Kanazawa; five or six pieces of silk not made
up; several kegs of saké or rice-beer; dried fish, soy, etc. These were for the bride-elect.
For her father was a sword with a richly mounted hilt and lacquered scabbard, hung with silken
cords. The blade alone of the sword was worth (it isn't polite to speak of the cost of presents,
but we will let you into the secret, good reader) one hundred dollars, and had been made in
Sagami from the finest native steel. Kiku's mother was presented with a rich robe, which she
recognized at once as being woven of the famous Derva silk. The ceremonious reception of these
presents by the parents signified that the betrothal was solemnly ratified, and that the engagement
could not be broken. Nakayama, the intended father-in-law, afterward sent to Taro a present
of a jar of the finest tea from his own plantation in Shimosa, a pair of swords, and a piece
of satin, such as that of which the hakama or trousers which indicate the rank of the samurai
are made.

The betrothal was now published in both families, and in both houses there were festivities,
rejoicing and congratulation. The marriage-day, a fortunate or good-omened one, was fixed upon
as the twenty-seventh from the day of betrothal.

Was Kiku happy? Nay, you should ask, Can that word express her feelings? She had obeyed her
parents: she could do nothing higher or more fraught with happiness. She was to be a wife--woman's
highest honor and a Japanese woman's only aim. She was to marry a noble by name, nature and
achievement, with health, family, wealth and honor. Kiku lived in a new world of anticipation
and of vision, the gate of which the Japanese call iro, and we love. At times, as she tried
on for the twentieth time her white silk robe and costly girdle, she fell into a reverie, half
sad and half joyful. She thought of leaving her mother alone with no daughter, and then Kiku's
bright eyes dimmed and her bosom heaved. Then she thought of living in a new home, in a new
house, with new faces. What if her mother-in-law should be severe or jealous? Kiku's cheek
paled. What if Taro should achieve some great exploit, and she share his joy as did the honorable
women of old? What if his former position of beloved page to the Shô-gun should give her occasional
access to the highest ladies in the land, the female courtiers of the castle? Her eyes flashed.

The wedding-night came, seeming to descend out of the starry heavens from the gods. Marriages
rarely take place in the daytime in Japan. The solemn and joyful hour of evening, usually about
nine o'clock, is the time for marriage--as it often is for burial--in Japan. In the starlight
of a June evening the bride set forth on her journey to her intended husband's home, as is
the invariable custom. Her toilet finished, she stepped out of her childhood's home to take
her place in the norimono or palanquin which, borne on the shoulders of four men, was to convey
her to her future home.

Just as Kiku stands in the vestibule of her father's house let us photograph her for you. A
slender maiden of seventeen, with cheeks of carnation; eyes that shine under lids not so broadly
open as the Caucasian maiden's, but black and sparkling; very small hands with tapering fingers,
and very small feet encased in white mitten-socks; her black hair glossy as polished jet, dressed
in the style betokening virginity, and decked with a garland of blossoms. Her robe of pure
white silk folds over her bosom from right to left, and is bound at the waist by the gold-embroidered
girdle, which is supported by a lesser band of scarlet silken crape, and is tied into huge
loops behind. The skirt of the dress sweeps in a trail. Her under-dress is of the finest and
softest white silk. In her hands she carries a half-moon-shaped cap or veil of floss silk.
Its use we shall see hereafter. She salutes her cousin, who, clad in ceremonial dress with
his ever-present two swords, is waiting to accompany her in addition to her family servants
and bearers, and steps into the norimono.

The four bearers, the servants and the samurai pass down along the beautiful Kanda River, whose
waters mirror the stars, and whose depths of shade re-echo to the gurgling of sculls, the rolling
of ripples and the songs of revelers. The cortége enters one of the gate-towers of the old
city-walls, passes beneath the shade of its ponderous copper-clad portals, and soon arrives
at the main entrance of the Yamashiro yashiki. Here they find the street in front and the stone
walk covered with matting, and a friend of Taro's, in full dress, waiting to receive the cortége.
Of course the gazers of the neighborhood are waiting respectfully in crowds to catch a glimpse
of the coming bride.

The go-between and a few friends of the bridegroom come out to receive the bride and deliver
her to her own servant and two of her own young maiden friends, who had gone before to the
Yamashiro mansion. The room in which the families of the bride and groom and their immediate
friends are waiting, though guiltless of "furniture," as all Japanese rooms are, is yet resplendent
with gilt-paper screens, bronzes, tiny lacquered tables and the Japanese nuptial emblems. On
the wall hang three pictured scrolls of the gods of Long Life, of Wealth and of Happiness.
On a little low table stands a dwarf pine tree, bifurcated, and beneath it are an old man and
an old woman. Long life, a green old age, changeless constancy of love and the union of two
hearts are symbolized by this evergreen. In the tokonoma (or large raised recess) of the room
are the preparations for the feast, the wine-service consisting of kettles, decanters and cups.
On two other tables are a pair of white storks and a fringed tortoise. All through the rooms
gorgeously painted wax candles burn. The air of the apartment is heavy with perfume from the
censer, a representation in bronze of an ancient hero riding upon a bullock. All the guests
are seated à la Japonaise--upon the floor. Two or three young ladies, the bridesmaids, go out
to meet the bride and lead her to her dressing-room. Here she finds her own property, which
has been brought to her future home during the day. Toilet-stands and cabinets and the ceremonial
towel-rack are prominently displayed. On a tall clothes-horse of gilt lacquer are hung her
silk robes and the other articles of her wardrobe, which are bridal gifts. Over the doorway,
in a gilt rack, glitters the long spear or halberd to the dexterous use of which all Japanese
ladies of good family are trained. In a box of finest wood, shining with lacquer and adorned
with her family crest, are the silk sleeping-dresses and coverlets, which are to be spread,
as all Japanese beds are, on the floor. The articles above mentioned constitute the trousseau
of a Japanese bride.

Here Kiku rearranges her dress, retouches her lower lip with golden paint and puts on her hood
of floss silk. This is of a half-moon shape, completely covering her face. She does not lift
it until she has drunk the sacramental marriage-cup. Many a Japanese maiden has seen her lord
for the first time as she lifted her silken hood. Kiku is all ready, and she and the groom
are led into the room where the ceremony is to be performed, and assigned their positions.

With a Japanese marriage neither religion nor the Church has anything to do. At the wedding
no robed priest appears officially among the guests. The marriage is simply a civil and social
contract. In place of our bans is the acceptance of the suitor's presents by the family of
the sought, the announced betrothal and intimation of the marriage to the police of the ward.
In place of our answer, "Yes," is the sacramental drinking of wine. We may say "wine," because
we are talking of high life, and must use high words. Saké, the universal spirituous beverage
of Japan, is made from fermented rice, and hence is properly rice-beer. It looks like pale
sherry, and has a taste which is peculiarly its own. Sweet saké is very delicious, and it may
be bought in all the degrees of strength and of all flavors and prices. As the Japanese always
drink their wine hot, a copper kettle for heating saké is a necessity in every household. On
ceremonial occasions, such as marriages, the saké-kettles are of the costliest and handsomest
kind, being beautifully lacquered. Bride and groom being ready, the wine-kettles, cups and
two bottles are handed down. Two pretty servant-maids now bring in a hot kettle of wine and
fill the bottles. To one bottle is fastened by a silken cord a male butterfly, and to the other
a female. The two girls also are called "male" and "female" butterflies. The girl having the
female butterfly pours out some saké in the kettle, into which the girl with the male butterfly
also pours the contents of her bottle, so that the wine from both bottles thus flows together.
Then the saké is poured again into another gilt-and-lacquered bottle of different shape.

Now the real ceremony begins. On a little stand three cups, each slightly concave and having
an under-rest or foot about half an inch high, are set one upon another, like a pagoda. The
stand with this three-storied arrangement is handed to the bride. Holding it in both hands
while the saké is poured into it by the male butterfly, the bride lifts the cup, sips from
it three times, and the tower of cups is then passed to the bridegroom and refilled. He likewise
drinks three times, and puts the empty cup under the third. The bride again sips thrice from
the upper cup. The groom does the same, and places the empty cup beneath the second. Again
the bride sips three times, and the bridegroom does the same, and they are man and wife: they
are married. This ceremony is called san-san-ku-do, or "three times three are nine."

Like a wedding at once auspicious and distingué, the nuptials of Kiku and Taro passed off without
one misstep or incident of ill omen. In the dressing-room and in the hall of ceremony Kiku's
self-possessed demeanor was admired by all. After drinking the sacramental wine she lifted
her silken hood, not too swiftly or nervously, and smiled blushingly on her lord. The marriage
ceremony over, both bride and groom retired to their respective dressing-rooms. Kiku exchanged
her white dress for one of more elaborate design and of a lavender color. The groom, removing
his stiffly-starched ceremonial robes, appeared in ordinary dress. Meanwhile refreshments had
been served to all the bridesmaids and, maid-servants. Husband and wife now took their seats
again, and the whole company joined in the supper, during which apparently innumerable courses
were served. Neither ices, oranges nor black-cake appeared on the table at Kiku's wedding.
The bill of fare contained many decidedly recherché items which it requires a Japanese palate
thoroughly to appreciate. Let us enumerate a few. There were salmon from Hakodate, tea from
Uji, young rice from Higo, pheasants' eggs, fried cuttle-fish, tai, koi, maguro and many another
sort of toothsome fish from the market at Nihon Bashi. There were sea-weed of various sorts
and from many coasts, bean-curd, many kinds of fish-soups, condiments of various flavors, eggs
in every style and shellfish of every shape. A huge maguro-fish, thinly sliced, but perfectly
raw, was the pièce de résistance of the feast. Sweetmeats, candies of the sort known to the
Japanese confectioners and castera (sponge-cake) crowned the courses.

Now, having briefly described Kiku's wedding, perhaps we should stop here. Although fairly
married, however, Kiku was not through the ceremonies of the night. Before her own parents
left the house she was taken by the attendant ladies before her parents-in-law, and with them
drank cups of wine and exchanged gifts. All the bridal presents were displayed during the evening
in her dressing-room, and the whole of her trousseau was open to the inspection of all the
ladies present. Feasting and dancing were the order of the hours until midnight, and then Kiku's
parents bade her farewell, and she was left a bride in a new home.

"Where did the young couple go?" "What was the route of their bridal-tour?" "Perhaps they made
a late wedding-journey?" "Of course Japan has many fine watering-places to which married couples
resort?" These are American questions. The fashion of making bridal-tours is not Japanese.
Many a lovely spot might serve for such a purpose in everywhere beautiful Japan. The lake and
mountains of Hakone; the peerless scenery, trees, waterfalls and tombs of Nikko, where sleeps
the mighty Iyeyasu, the founder of the Tokugawa line; the spas of Atami,--all these are spots
which if in America would be thronged with bridal-parties. Caucasians in Japan even make Fusiyama's
summit the goal of their wedded steps, but our Kiku and Taro went nowhere.

"At home" for three days is the general rule in Japan. All their friends came to see them,
and presents were showered on the happy pair. The great Shô-gun, remembering his former page,
sent Taro a present of a flawless ball of pure rock-crystal five inches in diameter. Prince
Echizen, his feudal lord, presented him with a splendid saddle with gilt flaps and a pair of
steel stirrups inlaid with gold and silver and bronze, with the crest of the Echizen clan glittering
in silver upon it. From his own father he received a jet-black horse brought from the province
of Nambu, and an equine descendant of the Arab sire presented by the viceroy of India to the
Japanese embassy to the pope in 1589. On the delightful wonders of the gifts to Kiku our masculine
pen shrinks from expatiating. On the third day after her marriage Kiku visited her parents,
and after that spent many days in returning the visits of all who had called on her.

Now, like the "goosie gander" of nursery memory, we must wander again into the lady's chamber.
Were you to wander to such a place after a Japanese maiden became a wife, you would see, as
we have often seen, how the outward form of a Japanese maiden assumes that of a Japanese matron.
First, then, the maiden wears a high coiffure that always serves as a sacred symbol of her
virginity. It is not easy to describe its form, but even foreigners think it very beautiful,
and will regret the day when the Japanese musume wears her hair like her sisters across the
ocean. Indeed, it would be no strange thing were Queen Fashion to ordain that American maidens
should adopt the style of dressing the hair now in universal vogue in Japan. The shimada or
virginal coiffure, however, is changed after marriage, and Kiku, like the rest of her wedded
friends, now wore the maru-mage, or half-moon-shaped chignon, which is wound round an ivory,
tortoise-shell or coral-tipped bar, and is the distinguishing mark of a Japanese wife. So far,
however, the transition from loveliness to ugliness has not been very startling: Kiku still
looked pretty. The second process, however, robbed her of her eyebrows, and left her without
those dark arches that had helped to make the radiant sun of her once maidenly beauty. With
tweezers and razor the fell work, after many a wince, was done. With denuded brows and changed
coiffure surely the Japanese Hymen demands no more sacrifices at his shrine? Surely Kiku can
still keep the treasures of a set of teeth that seem like a casket of pearls with borders of
coral? Not so. The fashion of all good society from remotest antiquity demands that the teeth
of a wife must be dyed black. Kiku joyfully applied the galls and iron, and by patience and
dint of polishing soon had a set of teeth as black as jet and as polished as the best Whitby.
Not strange to tell to a Japanese, either, the smile of her husband Taro was a rich reward
for her trouble and the surrender of her maiden charms. Japanese husbands never kiss their
wives: kissing is an art unknown in Japan. It is even doubtful whether the language has a word
signifying a kiss. No wonder Young Japan wishes to change his language for the English! Henceforth
in public or private, alone or in company, Kiku's personal and social safety was as secure
as if clothed in armor of proof and attended by an army. The black teeth, maru-mage and shaven
eyebrows constitute a talisman of safety in a land which foreigners so like to believe licentious
and corrupt beyond the bounds of conception.

Now that we have Kiku married, we must leave her to glide into the cool, sequestered paths
of a Japanese married lady's life. Only one thing we regret, and that is that her marriage
could not have happened in the year of our Lord 1874 and of "Enlightened Peace the seventh,
and of the era of Jimmu, the first Mikado, the two thousand five hundred and thirty-fourth."
Had she been married during the present year, her coiffure would need no alteration, her eyebrows
would still knit with care or arch with mirth, and her teeth would still keep their virgin
whiteness, unsoiled by astringent galls or abhorred vitriol.

The leader of feminine fashion in Japan, the young empress Haruko, has set her subjects the
example by for ever banishing the galls and iron, appearing even in public with her teeth as
Nature made them. Kiku and Taro, though once proud to own allegiance to the Shô-gun, are now
among the staunch supporters of the lord of the Shô-gun, the Mikado, the only true sovereign
of the Sunrise Kingdom.

     W.E. GRIFFIS.

THE LOST BABY.

She wandered off one dismal day; No one was by to bid her stay: The earth was white, the sky
was gray, When the poor little baby wandered away.

The sun went down with crimson crown Behind the clouds and the tree-tops brown: The cold road
stared with a colder frown When the poor little feet went wandering down.

Her mother lived up in the shining sky, Thought poor little baby, wondering why, As hours and
days and weeks went by, She never came down at her baby's cry.

If the crimson wave in the west led true, The skyward road she surely knew: She heeded not
that the sharp winds blew, Or her cold little feet sore tired grew.

She hummed some broken baby song, And talked to herself as she trudged along: She feared no
failure, recked no wrong, But she thought that the way was lone and long.

Tired and cold, she lingered to rest Under a snow-drift's treacherous crest: She cuddled herself
in a tiny nest, White and cold as her mother's breast.

They found her there on the snowy ground, Her silky hair with snowflakes crowned. She made
no sign, she breathed no sound, But the skyward road she had surely found.

     CLARA G. DOLLIVER.

THREE FEATHERS.

BY WILLIAM BLACK, AUTHOR OF "A PRINCESS OF THULE."

CHAPTER XXIII.

SOME OLD SONGS.

"Are you dreaming again, child?" said Mrs. Rosewarne to her daughter. "You are not a fit companion
for a sick woman, who is herself dull enough. Why do you always look so sad when you look at
the sea, Wenna?"

The wan-faced, beautiful-eyed woman lay on a sofa, a book beside her. She had been chatting
in a bright, rapid, desultory fashion about the book and a dozen other things--amusing herself
really by a continual stream of playful talk--until she perceived that the girl's fancies were
far away. Then she stopped suddenly, with this expression of petulant but good-natured disappointment.

"Oh, I beg your pardon, mother," said Wenna, who was seated at an open window fronting the
bay. "What did you say? Why does the sea make one sad? I don't know. One feels less at home
here than out on the rocks at Eglosilyan: perhaps that is it. Or the place is so beautiful
that it almost makes you cry. I don't know."

And indeed Penzance Bay on this still, clear morning was beautiful enough to attract wistful
eyes and call up vague and distant fancies. The cloudless sky was intensely dark in its blue:
one had a notion that the unseen sun was overhead and shining vertically down. The still plain
of water--so clear that the shingle could be seen through it a long way out--had no decisive
color, but the fishing smacks lying out there were jet-black points in the bewildering glare.
The sunlight did not seem to be in the sky, in the air or on the sea; but when you turned to
the southern arm of the bay, where the low line of green hills ran out into the water, there
you could see the strong clear light shining--shining on the green fields and on the sharp
black lines of hedges, on that bit of gray old town with its cottage-gardens and its sea-wall,
and on the line of dark rock that formed the point of the promontory. On the other side of
the bay the eye followed the curve of the level shores until it caught sight of St. Michael's
Mount rising palely from the water, its sunlit grays and purple shadows softened by the cool
distance. Then beyond that again, on the verge of the far horizon, lay the long and narrow
line of the Lizard, half lost in a silver haze. For the rest, a cool wind went this way and
that through Mrs. Rosewarne's room, stirring the curtains. There was an odor of the sea in
the air. It was a day for dreaming perhaps, but not for the gloom begotten of languor and an
indolent pulse.

"Oh, mother! oh, mother!" Wenna cried suddenly, with a quick flush of color to her cheeks,
"do you know who is coming along? Can you see? It is Mr. Trelyon, and he is looking at all
the houses: I know he is looking for us."

"Child! child!" said the mother. "How should Mr. Trelyon know we are here?"

"Because I told him," Wenna said simply and hurriedly. "Mother, may I wave a handkerchief to
him? Won't you come and see him? he seems so much more manly in this strange place; and how
brave and handsome he looks!"

"Wenna!" her mother said severely.

The girl did not wave a handkerchief, it is true, but she knelt down at the open bay-window,
so that he must needs see her; and sure enough he did. Off went his hat in a minute, a bright
look of recognition leapt to his eyes, and he crossed the street.

Then Wenna turned, all in a flutter of delight, and quite unconscious of the color in her face:
"Are you vexed, mother? Mayn't I be glad to see him? Why, when I know that he will brighten
up your spirits better than a dozen doctors? One feels quite happy and hopeful whenever he
comes into the room. Mother, you won't have to complain of dullness if Mr. Trelyon comes to
see you. And why doesn't the girl send him up at once?"

Wenna was standing at the open door to receive him when he came up stairs: she had wholly forgotten
the embarrassment of their last parting.

"I thought I should find you out," he said when he came into the room, and it was clear that
there was little embarrassment about him; "and I know how your mother likes to be teased and
worried. You've got a nice place here, Mrs. Rosewarne; and what splendid weather you've brought
with you!"

"Yes," said Wenna, her whole face lit up with a shy gladness, "haven't we? And did you ever
see the bay looking more beautiful? It is enough to make you laugh and clap your hands out
of mere delight to see everything so lovely and fresh."

"A few minutes ago I thought you were nearly crying over it," said the mother with a smile,
but Miss Wenna took no heed of the reproof. She would have Mr. Trelyon help himself to a tumbler
of claret and water. She fetched out from some mysterious lodging-house recess an ornamented
tin can of biscuits. She accused herself of being the dullest companion in the world, and indirectly
hinted that he might have pity on her mamma and stay to luncheon with them.

"Well, it's very odd," he said, telling a lie with great simplicity of purpose, "but I had
arranged to drive to the Land's End for luncheon--to the inn there, you know. I suppose it
wouldn't--Do you think, Mrs. Rosewarne--would it be convenient for you to come for a drive so far?"

"Oh, it would be the very best thing in the world for her--nothing could be better," said Wenna;
and then she added meekly, "if it is not giving you too much trouble, Mr. Trelyon."

He laughed: "Trouble! I'm glad to be of use to anybody; and in this case I shall have all the
pleasure on my side. Well, I'm off now to see about the horses. If I come for you in half an
hour, will that do?"

As soon as he had left Mrs. Rosewarne turned to her daughter and said to her, gravely enough,
"Wenna, one has seldom to talk to you about the proprieties, but really this seems just a little
doubtful. Mr. Trelyon may make a friend of you--that is all very well, for you are going to
marry a friend of his--but you ought not to expect him to associate with me."

"Mother," said Wenna with hot cheeks, "I wonder how you can suspect him of thinking of such
foolish and wicked things. Why, he is the very last man in all the world to do anything that
is mean and unkind, or to think about it."

"My dear child, I suspect him of nothing," Mrs. Rosewarne said; "but look at the simple facts
of the case. Mr. Trelyon is a very rich gentleman; his family is an old one, greatly honored
about here; and if he is so recklessly kind as to offer his acquaintanceship to persons who
are altogether in a different sphere of life, we should take care not to abuse his kindness
or to let people have occasion to wonder at him. Looking at your marriage and future station,
it is perhaps more permissible with you; but as regards myself, I don't very much care, Wenna,
to have Mr. Trelyon coming about the house."

"Why, mother, I--I am surprised at you!" Wenna said warmly. "You judge of him by the contemptible
things that other people might say of him. Do you think he would care for that? Mr. Trelyon
is a man, and like a man he has the courage to choose such friends as he likes; and it is no
more to him what money they have or what their position is than the--than the shape of their
pocket-handkerchiefs is. Perhaps that is his folly, recklessness--the recklessness of a young
man. Perhaps it is. I am not old enough to know how people alter, but I hope I shall never
see Mr. Trelyon alter in this respect--never, if he were to live for a hundred years. And--and
I am surprised to hear you, of all people, mother, suggest such things of him. What has he
done that you should think so meanly of him?"

Wenna was very indignant and hurt. She would have continued further, but that a tremulous movement
of her under lip caused her to turn away her head.

"Well, Wenna, you needn't cry about it," her mother said gently. "It is of no great consequence.
Of course every one must please himself in choosing his friends; and I quite admit that Mr.
Trelyon is not likely to be hindered by anything that any person may say. Don't take it so
much to heart, child: go and get on your things, and get back some of the cheerfulness you
had while he was here. I will say this for the young man, that he has an extraordinary power
of raising your spirits."

"You are a good mother, after all," said Wenna penitently; "and if you come and let me dress
you prettily, I shall promise not to scold you again--not till the next time you deserve it."

By the time they drove away from Penzance the forenoon had softened into more beautiful colors.
There was a paler blue in the sky and on the sea, and millions of yellow stars twinkled on
the ripples. A faint haze had fallen over the bright green hills lying on the south of the bay.

"Life looks worth having on such a day as this," Trelyon said: "doesn't it, Miss Wenna?"

She certainly seemed pleased enough. She drank in the sweet fresh air; she called attention
to the pure rare colors of the sea and the green uplands, the coolness of the woods through
which they drove, the profuse abundance of wild flowers along the banks; all things around
her seemed to have conspired to yield her delight, and a great happiness shone in her eyes.
Mr. Trelyon talked mostly to Mrs. Rosewarne, but his eyes rarely wandered away for long from
Wenna's pleased and radiant face; and again and again he said to himself, "And if a simple
drive on a spring morning can give this child so great a delight, it is not the last that she
and I shall have together."

"Mrs. Rosewarne," said he, "I think your daughter has as much need of a holiday as anybody.
I don't believe there's a woman or girl in the county works as hard as she does."

"I don't know whether she needs it," said Miss Wenna of herself, "but I know that she enjoys it."

"I know what you'd enjoy a good deal better than merely getting out of sight of your own door
for a week or two," said he. "Wouldn't you like to get clear away from England for six months,
and go wandering about in all sorts of fine places? Why, I could take such a trip in that time!
I should like to see what you'd say to some of the old Dutch towns and their churches, and
all that; then Cologne, you know, and a sail up the Rhine to Mainz; then you'd go on to Bâle
and Geneva, and we'd get you a fine big carriage, with the horses decorated with foxes' and
pheasants' tails, to drive you to Chamounix. Then, when you had gone tremulously over the Mer
de Glace, and kept your wits about you going down the Mauvais Pas, I don't think you could
do better than go on to the Italian lakes--you never saw anything like them, I'll be bound--and
Naples and Florence. Would you come back by the Tyrol, and have a turn at Zurich and Lucerne,
with a long ramble through the Black Forest in a trap resembling a ramshackle landau?"

"Thank you," said Wenna very cheerfully. "The sketch is delightful, but I am pretty comfortable
where I am."

"But this can't last," said he.

"And neither can my holidays," she answered.

"Oh, but they ought to," he retorted vehemently. "You have not half enough amusement in your
life: that's my opinion. You slave too much for all those folks about Eglosilyan and their
dozens of children. Why, you don't get anything out of life as you ought to. What have you
to look forward to? Only the same ceaseless round of working for other people. Don't you think
you might let some one else have a turn at that useful but monotonous occupation?"

"But Wenna has something else to look forward to now," her mother reminded him gently; and
after that he did not speak for some while.

Fair and blue was the sea that shone all around the land when they got out on the rough moorland
near the coast. They drove to the solitary little inn perched over the steep cliffs, and here
the horses were put up and luncheon ordered. Would Mrs. Rosewarne venture down to the great
rocks at the promontory? No, she would rather stay indoors till the young people returned;
and so these two went along the grassy path themselves.

They clambered down the slopes, and went out among the huge blocks of weather-worn granite,
many of which were brilliant with gray, green and orange lichens. There was a low and thunderous
noise in the air: far below them, calm and fine as the day was, the summer sea dashed and roared
into gigantic caverns, while the white foam floated out again on the troubled waves. Could
anything have been more magical than the colors of the sea--its luminous greens, its rich purples,
its brilliant blues, lying in long swaths on the apparently motionless surface? It was only
the seething white beneath their feet and the hoarse thunder along the coast that told of the
force of this summer-like sea; and for the rest the picture was light and calm and beautiful;
but there the black rocks basked in the sunlight, the big skarts standing here and there on
their ledges, not moving a feather. A small steamer was slowly making for the island farther
out, where a lighthouse stood. And far away beyond these, on the remote horizon, the Scilly
Isles lay like a low bank of yellow fog under the pale-blue skies.

They were very much by themselves out here at the end of the world, and yet they did not seem
inclined to talk much. Wenna sat down on the warm grass; her companion perched himself on one
of the blocks of granite; they watched the great undulations of the blue water come rolling
on to the black rocks and then fall backward seething in foam.

"And what are you thinking about?" said Trelyon to her gently, so that she should not be startled.

"Of nothing at all: I am quite happy," Wenna said frankly. Then she added, "I suppose the worst
of a day like this is that a long time after you look back upon it, and it seems so beautiful
and far away that it makes you miserable. You think how happy you were once. That is the unfortunate
side of being happy."

"Well," said he, "I must say you don't look forward to the future with any great hope if you
think the recollection of one bright day will make you wretched."

He came down from his perch and stood beside her. "Why, Wenna," said he, "do you know what
you really need? Some one to take you in hand thoroughly, and give you such an abundance of
cheerful and pleasant days that you would never think of singling out any one of them. Why
shouldn't you have weeks and months of happy idling in bright weather, such as lots of people
have who don't deserve them a bit? There's something wrong in your position. You want some
one to become your master and compel you to make yourself happy. You won't of yourself study
your own comfort: some one else ought to make you."

"And who do you think would care to take so much trouble about me?" she said with a smile,
for she attached no serious meaning to this random talk.

Her companion's face flushed somewhat--not with embarrassment, but with the courage of what
he was going to say. "I would," he said boldly. "You will say it is none of my business, but
I tell you I would give twenty thousand pounds to-morrow if I were allowed to--to get you a
whole summer of pleasant holidays."

There was something about the plain-spoken honesty of this avowal that touched her keenly.
Wild and impossible as the suggestion was, it told her at least what one person in the world
thought of her. She said to him, with her eyes cast down, "I like to hear you speak like that--not
for my own sake, but I know there is nothing generous and kindly that you wouldn't do at a
mere moment's impulse. But I hope you don't think I have been grumbling over my lot on such
a day as this? Oh no: I see too much of other people's way of living to complain of my own.
I have every reason to be contented and happy."

"Yes, you're a deal too contented and happy," said he with an impatient shrug. "You want somebody
to alter all that, and see that you get more to be contented and happy about."

She rose: he gave her his hand to help her up. But he did not surrender her hand then, for
the path up the slope was a deep and difficult one, and she could fairly rely on his strength
and sureness of foot.

"But you are not content, Mr. Trelyon," she said. "I always notice that whenever you get to
a dangerous place you are never satisfied unless you are putting your life in peril. Wouldn't
you like to ride your black horse down the face of this precipice? or wouldn't you like to
clamber down blindfold? Why does a man generally seem to be anxious to get rid of his life?"

"Perhaps it ain't of much use to him," he said coolly.

"You ought not to say that," she answered in a low voice.

"Well," he said, "I don't mean to break my neck yet a while; but if I did, who would miss me?
I suppose my mother would play half a dozen a day more operas or oratorios, or stuff of that
sort, and there would be twenty parsons in the house for one there is at present. And some
of the brats about the place would miss an occasional sixpence; which would be better for their
health. And Dick--I suppose they'd sell him to some fool of a Londoner, who would pound his
knees out in the Park--he would miss me too."

"And these are all," she said, "who would miss you? You are kind to your friends."

"Why, would you?" he said with a stare of surprise; and then, seeing she would not speak, he
continued with a laugh, "I like the notion of my making an object of general compassion of
myself. Did the poor dear tumble off a rock into the sea? And where was its mother's apron-string?
I'm not going to break my neck yet a while, Miss Wenna; so don't you think I'm going to let
you off your promise to pay me back for those sewing-machines."

"I have told you, Mr. Trelyon," she said with some dignity, "that we shall pay you back every
farthing of the price of them."

He began to whistle in an impertinent manner. He clearly placed no great faith in the financial
prospects of that sewing club.

They had some light luncheon in the remote little inn, and Mrs. Rosewarne was pleased to see
her ordinarily demure and preoccupied daughter in such high and careless spirits. It was not
a splendid banquet. The chamber was not a gorgeous one, for the absence of ornament and the
enormous thickness of the walls told of the house being shut up in the winter months and abandoned
to the fury of the western gales, when the wild sea came hurling up the face of these steep
cliffs and blowing over the land. But they paid little attention to any lack of luxury. There
was a beautiful blue sea shining in the distance. The sunlight was falling hotly on the green
sward of the rocks outside, but all the same a fresh, cool breeze came blowing in at the open
window. They let the time pass easily, with pleasant talk and laughter.

Then they drove leisurely back in the afternoon. They passed along the moorland ways, through
rude little villages built of stone and by the outskirts of level and cheerless farms, until
they got into the beautiful woods and avenues lying around Penzance. When they came in sight
of the broad bay they found that the world had changed its colors since the morning. The sea
was of a cold purplish gray, but all around it, on the eastern horizon, there was a band of
pale pink in the sky. On the west again, behind Penzance, the warm hues of the sunset were
shining behind the black stems of the trees. The broad thoroughfare was mostly in shadow, and
the sea was so still that one could hear the footsteps and the voices of the people walking
up and down the Parade.

"I suppose I must go now," said the young gentleman when he had seen them safely seated in
the small parlor overlooking the bay. But he did not seem anxious to go.

"But why?" Wenna said, rather timidly. "You have no engagement, Mr. Trelyon. Would you care
to stay and have dinner with us--such a dinner as we can give you?"

"Well, to tell you the truth, I should like it very much," he said.

Mrs. Rosewarne, a little surprised, and yet glad to see Wenna enjoying herself, regarded the
whole affair with a gentle resignation. Wenna had the gas lit and the blinds let down: then,
as the evening was rather cool, she had soon a bright fire burning in the grate. She helped
to lay the table. She produced such wines as they had. She made sundry visits to the kitchen,
and at length the banquet was ready.

What ailed the young man? He seemed beside himself with careless and audacious mirth, and he
made Mrs. Rosewarne laugh as she had not laughed for years. It was in vain that Wenna assumed
airs to rebuke his rudeness. Nothing was sacred from his impertinence--not even the offended
majesty of her face. And at last she gave in too, and could only revenge herself by saying
things of him which, the more severe they were, the more he seemed to enjoy. But after dinner
she went to the small piano, while her mother took a big easy-chair near the fire, and he sat
by the table, looking over some books. There was no more reckless laughter then.

In ancient times--that is to say, in the half-forgotten days of our youth--a species of song
existed which exists no more. It was not as the mournful ballads of these days, which seem
to record the gloomy utterances of a strange young woman who has wandered into the magic scene
in Der Freischütz, and who mixes up the moanings of her passion with descriptions of the sights,
and sounds she there finds around her. It was of quite another stamp. It dealt with a phraseology
of sentiment peculiar to itself--a "patter," as it were, which came to be universally recognized
in drawing-rooms. It spoke of maidens plighting their troth, of Phyllis enchanting her lover
with her varied moods, of marble halls in which true love still remained the same. It apostrophized
the shells of ocean; it tenderly described the three great crises of a particular heroine's
life by mentioning her head-dress; it told of how the lover of Pretty Jane would have her meet
him in the evening. Well, all the world was content to accept this conventional phraseology,
and behind the paraphernalia of "enchanted moon-beams" and "fondest glances" and "adoring sighs"
perceived and loved the sentiment that could find no simpler utterance. Some of us, hearing
the half-forgotten songs again, suddenly forget the odd language, and the old pathos springs
up again, as fresh as in the days when our first love had just come home from her boarding-school;
while others, who have no old-standing acquaintance with these memorable songs, have somehow
got attracted to them by the mere quaintness of their speech and the simplicity of their airs.
Master Harry Trelyon was no great critic of music. When Wenna Rosewarne sang that night "She
wore a wreath of roses," he fancied he had never listened to anything so pathetic. When she
sang "Meet me by moonlight alone," he was delighted with the spirit and half-humorous, half-tender
grace of the composition. As she sang "When other lips and other hearts," it seemed to him
that there were no songs like the old-fashioned songs, and that the people who wrote those
ballads were more frank and simple and touching in their speech than writers now-a-days. Somehow,
he began to think of the drawing-rooms of a former generation, and of the pictures of herself
his grandmother had drawn for him many a time. Had she a high waist to that white silk dress
in which she ran away to Gretna? and did she have ostrich feathers on her head? Anyhow, he
entirely believed what she had told him of the men of that generation. They were capable of
doing daring things for the sake of a sweetheart. Of course his grandfather had done boldly
and well in whirling the girl off to the Scottish borders, for who could tell what might have
befallen her among ill-natured relatives and persecuted suitors?

Wenna Rosewarne was singing "We met, 'twas in a crowd, and I thought he would shun me." It
is the song of a girl (must one explain so much in these later days?) who is in love with one
man, and is induced to marry another: she meets the former, and her heart is filled with shame
and anguish and remorse. As Wenna sang the song it seemed to this young man that there was
an unusual pathos in her voice; and he was so carried away by the earnestness of her singing
that his heart swelled and rose up within him, and he felt himself ready to declare that such
should not be her fate. This man who was coming back to marry her--was there no one ready to
meet him and challenge his atrocious claim? Then the song ended, and with a sudden disappointment
Trelyon recollected that he at least had no business to interfere. What right had he to think
of saving her?

He had been idly turning over some volumes on the table. At last he came to a Prayer-book of
considerable size and elegance of binding. Carelessly looking at the fly-leaf, he saw that
it was a present to Wenna Rosewarne, "with the very dearest love of her sister Mabyn." He passed
his hand over the leaves, not noticing what he was doing. Suddenly he saw something which did
effectually startle him into attention.

It was a sheet of paper with two slits cut into it at top and bottom. In these a carefully-pressed
piece of None-so-pretty had been placed, and just underneath the flower was written in pencil,
"From H.T. to W.R., May 2, 18--." He shut the book quickly, as if his fingers had been burned,
and then he sat quite silent, with his heart beating fast.

So she had kept the flower he had put in the basket of primroses! It had carried its message,
and she still remained his friend!

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE CUT DIRECT.

"Well, mother," Miss Wenna said deliberately after he had gone, "I never did see you so thoroughly
enjoy a whole day."

"I was thinking the same about you, Wenna," the mother answered with an amused look.

"That is true enough, mother," the girl confessed in her simple way. "He is so good-natured,
so full of spirits and careless, that one gets quite as careless and happy as himself. It is
a great comfort, mother, to be with anybody who doesn't watch the meaning of every expression
you use: don't you think so? And I hope I wasn't rude: do you think I was rude?"

"Why, child, I don't think you could be rude to a fox that was eating your chickens. You would
ask him to take a chair and not hurry himself."

"Well, I must write to Mabyn now," Wenna said with a business-like air, "and thank her for
posting me this Prayer-book. I suppose she didn't know I had my small one with me."

She took up the book, for she was sitting on the chair that Harry Trelyon had just vacated.
She had no sooner done so than she caught sight of the sheet of paper with the dried flower
and the inscription in Mabyn's handwriting. She stared, with something of a look of fear on
her face. "Mother," she said in quite an altered voice, "did you notice if Mr. Trelyon was
looking at this Prayer-book?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," Mrs. Rosewarne said. "I should think he went over every book on the
table."

The girl said nothing, but she took the book in her hand and carried it up to her own room.
She stood for a moment irresolute: then she took the sheet of paper with the flowers on it,
and tore it in a hundred pieces and threw them into the empty grate. Then she cried a little,
as a girl must; and finally went down again and wrote a letter to Mabyn which rather astonished
that young lady.

     "MY DEAR MABYN" (so the letter ran): I am exceedingly angry with
     you. I did not think you were capable of such folly: I might call
     it by a worse name if I thought you really meant what you seem to
     mean. I have just torn up the worthless scrap of flower you so
     carefully preserved for me into a thousand pieces; but you will be
     glad to know that in all probability Mr. Trelyon saw it on the
     paper, and the initials too which you put there. I cannot tell you
     how pained and angry I am. If he did place that flower
     intentionally among the primroses, it was most impertinent of him;
     but he is often impertinent in joking. What must he think of me
     that I should seem to have taken this seriously, and treasured up
     that miserable and horrid piece of weed, and put his initials below
     it, and the important date? You put thoughts into my head that
     cover me with shame. I should not be fit to live if I were what you
     take me to be. If I thought there was another human being in the
     world who could imagine or suspect what you apparently desire, I
     would resolve this moment never to see Mr. Trelyon again; and much
     harm that would do either him or me! But I am too proud to think
     that any one could imagine such a thing. Nor did I expect that to
     come from my own sister, who ought to know what my true relations
     are with regard to Mr. Trelyon. I like him very much, as I told him
     to his face two days before we left Eglosilyan; and that will
     show you what our relations are. I think he is a very frank,
     generous and good young man, and a clever and cheerful companion;
     and my mother has to-day to thank him for about the pleasantest
     little trip she has ever enjoyed. But as for your wishing me to
     preserve a flower that he sent, or that you think he sent to me,
     why, I feel my face burning at the thought of what you suggest. And
     what can I say to him now, supposing he has seen it? Can I tell him
     that my own sister thought such things of me? Perhaps, after all,
     the simplest way to set matters right will be for me to break off
     the acquaintance altogether; and that will show him whether I was
     likely to have treasured up a scrap of London pride in my
     Prayer-book.

     "I am your loving sister,

     "WENNA ROSEWARNE."

Meanwhile, Harry Trelyon was walking up and down the almost empty thoroughfare by the side
of the sea, the stars overhead shining clearly in the dark night, the dimly-seen waves falling
monotonously on the shelving beach. "To keep a flower, that is nothing," he was saying to himself.
"All girls do that, no matter who gives it to them. I suppose she has lots more, all with the
proper initials and date attached."

It was not an agreeable reflection; he turned to other matters: "If she were to care for me
a little bit, would it be mean of me to try to carry her off from that man? Is it possible
that he has the same feeling for her that I have? In that case it would be mean. Now, when
I think of her, the whole world seems filled with her presence somehow, and everything is changed.
When I hear the sea in the morning I think of her, and wonder where she is; when I see a fine
day I hope she is enjoying it somewhere; the whole of Penzance has become magical. It is no
longer the same town. I used to come to it and never see it in the old days, when one was busy
about stables and the pilchard fishing and the reports of the quarries. Now the whole of Penzance
has got a sort of charm in it since Wenna Rosewarne has come to it. I look at the houses, and
wonder if the people inside know anybody fit to compare with her; and one becomes grateful
to the good weather for shining round about her and making her happy. I suppose the weather
knows what she deserves."

Then he began to argue the question as to whether it would be fair and honorable to seek to
take away from another man the woman who had pledged herself to marry him; and of course an
easy and definite decision is sure to be arrived at when counsel on both sides and jury and
judges sitting in banco are all one person, who conducts and closes the case as it suits himself.
He began by assuming such facts as suited his arguments, and ended by selecting and confirming
such arguments as suited himself. Wenna Rosewarne cared nothing for Mr. Roscorla. She would
be miserable if she married him: her own sister was continually hinting as much. Mr. Roscorla
cared nothing for her except in so far as she might prove a pretty housewife for him. The selfishness
that would sacrifice for its own purposes a girl's happiness was of a peculiarly despicable
sort which ought to be combated, and deserved no mercy. Therefore, and because of all these
things, Harry Trelyon was justified in trying to win Wenna Rosewarne's love.

One by one the people who had been strolling up and down the dark thoroughfare left it: he
was almost alone now. He walked along to the house in which the Rosewarnes were. There was
no light in any of the windows. But might she not be sitting up there by herself, looking out
on the starlit heavens and listening to the waves? He wished to be able to say good-night to
her once more.

How soon might she be up and out on the morrow? Early in the morning, when the young day was
rising over the gray sea, and the sea-winds coming freshly in as if they were returning from
the cold night? If he could but see her at daybreak, with all the world asleep around them,
and with only themselves to watch the growing wonders of the dawn, might not he say something
to her then that she would not be vexed to hear, and persuade her that a new sort of life lay
before her if she would only enter it along with him? That was the notion that he continually
dwelt on for self-justification when he happened to take the trouble to justify himself. The
crisis of this girl's life was approaching. Other errors might be retrieved--that one, once
committed, never. If he could only see her now, this is what he would say: "We can only live
but once, Wenna; and this for us two would be life--our only chance of it. Whatever else may
happen, that is no matter: let us make sure of this one chance, and face the future together--you
full of sweetness and trust, I having plenty of courage for both. We will treat objectors and
objections as they may arise--afterward: perhaps they will be prudent and keep out of our way."
And indeed he convinced himself that this, and this only, was Wenna Rosewarne's chance of securing
happiness for her life, assuming, in a way, that he had love as well as courage sufficient
for both.

He was early up next morning and down on the promenade, but the day was not likely to tempt
Wenna to come out just then. A gray fog hung over land and sea, the sea itself being a dull,
leaden plain. Trelyon walked about, however, talking to everybody, as was his custom; and everybody
said the fog would clear and a fine day follow. This, in fact, happened, and still Wenna did
not make her appearance. The fog over the sea seemed to separate itself into clouds: there
was a dim, yellow light in the breaks. These breaks widened: there was a glimmer of blue. Then
on the leaden plain a glare of white light fell, twinkling in innumerable stars on the water.
Everything promised a clear, bright day.

As a last resource he thought he would go and get Juliott Penaluna, and persuade that young
lady to come and be introduced to the Rosewarnes. At first Miss Penaluna refused point-blank.
She asked him how he could expect her to do such a thing. But then her cousin Harry happened
to be civil, and indeed kind, in his manner to her, and when he was in one of those moods there
was nothing she could refuse him. She went and got ready with an air of resignation on her
comely face.

"Mind, Harry, I am not responsible," she said when she came back. "I am afraid I shall get
into awful trouble about it."

"And who will interfere?" said the young man, just as if he were looking about for some one
anxious to be thrown from the top of the tower on St. Michael's Mount.

"I shall be accused of conniving with you, you know; and I think I am very good-natured to
do so much for you, Harry."

"I think you are, Jue: you are a thoroughly good sort of girl when you like to be--that's a
fact. And now you will see whether what I have said about Miss Rosewarne is all gammon or not."

"My poor boy, I wouldn't say a word against her for the world. Do I want my head wrenched off?
But if any one says anything to me about what I may do to-day, I shall have to tell the truth;
and do you know what that is, Harry? I do really believe you are in love with that girl, past
all argument; and there never was one of your family who would listen to reason. I know quite
well what you will do. If she cares ever so little for you, you will marry her in spite of
everybody, and probably against her own wish: if she doesn't care for you, you will revenge
yourself on the happy man of her choice, and probably murder him. Well, it isn't my fault.
I know what your mother will say."

"Ah, you don't know, Jue, what my mother thinks of her," he said confidently.

"Oh yes, mothers think very well of a girl until they discover that she is going to marry their
son."

"Oh, stuff! why the inconsistency--"

"It is the privilege of women to be inconsistent, Harry. Your mother will detest that girl
if you try to marry her."

"I don't care."

"Of course not. No man of your family cares for anything that interferes with his own wishes.
I suppose there's no use in my trying to show you what a fearful amount of annoyance and trouble
you are preparing for yourself?"

"None. I'll take it as it comes: I'm not afraid."

They got down to the promenade; the forenoon was now bright and cheerful; a good many folks
had come out to enjoy the sunlight and the cool sea-breeze. Miss Juliott was not at all disinclined
to walk there with her handsome cousin, though he had forgotten his gloves and was clearly
not paying her very special attention.

"Jue," he said suddenly, "I can see Miss Rosewarne right at the end of this road: can't you?"

"I haven't got the eyes of a hawk, you stupid boy!" his cousin said.

"Oh, but I can recognize her dress a dozen times as far away. These are her pet colors at present--a
soft cream-color and black, with bits of dark red. Can you see now?"

"I never saw you pay the least attention before to a lady's dress."

"Because you don't know how she dresses," he said proudly.

She was coming along the Parade all alone.

"Well, it is a pretty dress," Miss Juliott said, "and I like the look of her face, Harry. You
can't expect one girl to say any more than that of another girl, can you?"

"This is a very nice way of being able to introduce you," he said. "I suppose you will be able
to chaperon each other afterward, when her mother isn't able to go out?"

Wenna was coming quietly along, apparently rather preoccupied. Sometimes she looked out, with
her dark, earnest and yet wistful eyes, at the great plain of water quivering in the sunshine:
she paid little heed to the people who went by. When at length she did see Harry Trelyon, she
was quite near him, and she had just time to glance for a moment at his companion. The next
moment--he could not tell how it all happened--she passed him with a slight bow of recognition,
courteous enough, but nothing more. There was no especial look of friendliness in her eyes.

He stood there rather bewildered.

"That is about as good as the cut direct, Harry," his cousin said. "Come along--don't stand there."

"Oh, but there's some mistake, Jue," he said.

"A girl never does a thing of that sort by mistake. Either she is vexed with you for walking
with me--and that is improbable, for I doubt whether she saw me--or she thinks the ardor of
your acquaintance should be moderated; and there I should agree with her. You don't seem so
vexed as one might have expected, Harry."

"Vexed!" he said. "Why, can't you tell by that girl's face that she could do nothing capricious
or unkind? Of course she has a reason; and I will find it out."

CHAPTER XXV.

NOT THE LAST WORD.

As soon as he could decently leave his cousin at home, he did; and then he walked hastily down
to the house in which Mrs. Rosewarne had taken rooms. Miss Rosewarne was not at home, the small
maid-servant said. Was Mrs. Rosewarne? Yes; so he would see her.

He went up stairs, never thinking how his deep trouble about so insignificant an incident would
strike a third person.

"Mrs. Rosewarne," he said right out, "I want you to tell me if Wenna wishes our acquaintance
to end. Has she been speaking to you? Just now she passed me in the street as if she did not
wish to see me again."

"Probably," said Mrs. Rosewarne, amused as well as surprised by the young man's impetuosity,
"she did not see you then. Wenna often passes people so. Most likely she was thinking about
other things, for she had another letter from Jamaica just before she went out."

"Oh, she has had another letter from Jamaica this morning?" Trelyon said, with an angry light
appearing in his eyes. "That is it, is it?"

"I don't understand you," Mrs. Rosewarne was saying, when both of them heard Wenna enter below.

"Mrs. Rosewarne," he said with a sudden entreaty in his voice, "would you mind letting me see
Wenna alone for a couple of minutes? I want to ask her if she is offended with me: you won't
mind, will you?"

"Not in the least," she said, good-naturedly; and then she added, at the door, "Mind, Mr. Trelyon,
Wenna is easily hurt. You must speak gently to her."

About a minute afterward Wenna, having laid her hat and shawl aside, came into the room. When
she found Trelyon there alone, she almost shrank back, and her face paled somewhat: then she
forced herself to go forward and shake hands with him, though her face still wore a frightened
and constrained look.

"Wenna," he said, "don't go away: I want to speak to you for a minute. You are offended with
me about something, and I want you to tell me why. If you wish our friendship to cease, say
so, and I will obey you; but you must tell me why first."

"I am not offended with you, Mr. Trelyon," she said in a low and nervous voice. "Do not think
that. But--but I think it will be better if you will let our friendship cease, as you say."

"Oh no," he said, "I will not in this fashion. You've got to tell me what is the matter first.
Now remember this. Not very long ago you chose to quarrel with me about nothing--absolutely
about nothing. You know quite well that I meant no harm to you by lending Mr. Roscorla that
money, yet you must needs flare up and give it me as hot as you could, all for nothing. What
could I do? Why, only wait until you saw what a mistake you had made."

"It was very wrong of me," she said: "I ask your forgiveness. But now it is quite different:
I am not angry with you at all. I should like to remain your friend, and yet I think it better
not. I--I cannot explain to you, Mr. Trelyon, and I am sure you won't ask me when I say so."

He looked at her for a moment, and then he said, gently and yet firmly, "Look here, Wenna.
You think I am only a boy--that may or may not be--but I am going to talk reasonably to you
for once. Come over to this chair by the window and sit down."

She followed him in passive obedience. She took the one chair, he the other.

"Perhaps I am only a boy," he said, "but I have knocked about a good deal, and I have kept
my eyes as wide open as most folks. I suppose ill-natured people might say that as I had nothing
to do at Eglosilyan, I wanted to have a flirtation with the only girl who was handy. I know
better. Year after year I saw more and more of you, bit by bit, and that after I had been abroad
or living in other places in England from time to time. I got to believe that I had never seen
anywhere any girl or woman who was so honest as you are, and good in a dozen secret ways that
needed a deal of discovering. I found out far more about you than you imagined. I heard of
you in cottages that you never knew I was in; and everything I heard made me respect you more
and more. Mind this, too. I had no sort of personal liking for the sort of thing you were doing.
I don't admire beastly little rooms and poverty and sick people as appealing to a fine sentiment.
There never was anything of the parson or the benevolent old lady about me. I would rather
give half a crown to an impertinent little boy who had just whopped another boy bigger than
himself than give a halfpenny tract to a sickly child in its mother's arms: that's original
sin in me, I suppose. But all that squalid sort of work you were in only made the jewel shine
the more. I used to think I should like to marry a very grand woman, who could be presented
at court without a tremor, who would come into a drawing-room as if she was conferring a favor
on the world at large; and I certainly never thought I should find the best and finest woman
I had ever seen in back kitchens sewing pinafores for children. And then when I found her there,
wasn't it natural I should put some store by her friendship? I suppose you didn't know what
I thought of you, Wenna, because I kept chaffing you and Mabyn? I have told you something of
it now; and now I want you to say whether you have a right to shunt me off like this, without
a word of explanation."

She sat still, silent and nervous. The rude and impetuous eloquence of his speech, broken by
many a hesitating stammer, had touched her. There was more thoughtfulness and tenderness in
this wild lad than she had supposed.

"How can I explain?" she burst out suddenly. "I should cover myself with shame!"

"And what have you to be ashamed of?" he said with a stare. The distress she was obviously
suffering was so great that he had almost a mind to take her at her word and leave the house
without further ado.

Just at this moment, when he was considering what would be the most generous thing to do, she
seemed to nerve herself to speak to him, and in a low and measured voice she said, "Yes, I
will tell you. I have had a letter this morning from Mr. Roscorla. He asks me if it is true
that you are paying me such attention that people notice it; and he asks me if that is how
I keep my promise to him."

Something like a quiver of rage passed through the young man at this moment, but his teeth
were kept firmly together. She did not look up to his face.

"That is not all. I must tell you that I was deeply shocked and grieved by this letter; but
on looking back over the past six weeks I think a suspicious person might have been justified
in complaining to Mr. Roscorla. And--and--and, Mr. Trelyon, did you see that dried flower in
my Prayer-book last night?"

Her resolution was fast ebbing away: he could see that her hands were clasped piteously together.

"Yes, I did," he said boldly.

"And oh what could you have thought of me?" she cried in her distress. "Indeed, Mr. Trelyon,
it was all a mistake. I did not keep the flower--I did not, indeed. And when I thought you
had seen it I could have died for shame."

"And why?" he said in a way that made her lift up her startled eyes to his face. There was
a strange look there, as of a man who had suddenly resolved to dare his fate, and yet was imploringly
anxious as to the result. "For you have been frank with me, and so will I be with you. Why
should you not have kept that flower? Yes, I sent it to you, and with all the purpose that
such a thing could carry. Yes, you may be as angry as you please; only listen, Wenna. You don't
love that man whom you are engaged to marry; you know in your heart that you do not believe
in his love for you; and are you surprised that people should wish to have you break off an
engagement that will only bring you misery?"

"Mr. Trelyon!"

"Wenna, one minute: you must hear me. Do with my offer what you like--only here it is: give
me the power to break off this engagement, and I will. Give me the right to do that. Don't
mind me in the matter. It is true I love you--there, I will say it again: there is nothing
I think of from morning till night but my love for you--and if you would say that some time
I might ask you to be my wife, you would give me more happiness than you could dream of. But
I don't wish that now. I will remain your friend if you like, Wenna; only let me do this thing
for you, and when you are free you can then say yes or no."

She rose, not proud and indignant, but weeping bitterly. "I have deserved this," she said,
apparently overwhelmed with mortification and self-reproach. "I have earned this shame, and
I must bear it. I do not blame you, Mr. Trelyon: it is I who have done this. How many weeks
is it since the man left England to whom I promised to be faithful? and already--But this I
can do, Mr. Trelyon: I will bid you good-bye now, and I will never see you again."

Her face was quite pale. She held out her hand.

"No," he said firmly. "We don't part like that, Wenna. First, let me say that you have nothing
to accuse yourself of. You have done nothing and said nothing of which any man, however mean
and suspicious, could complain. Perhaps I was too hasty in speaking of my love for you. In
that case I've got to pay for my folly."

"And it is folly, Mr. Trelyon," she said passionately, and yet with nothing but tenderness
in her face. "How could you have thought of marrying me? Why, the future that ought to lie
before you is far more than you can imagine yet; and you would go and hamper it by marrying
an innkeeper's daughter! It is folly indeed, and you will see that very soon. But--but I am
very sorry all this has occurred: it is another grief to me that I have troubled you. I think
I was born to bring grief to all my friends."

He was anxiously debating what he should do; and he needed all his wits at that moment, for
his own feelings were strong within him, and clamoring for expression. Should he insist? Should
he bear down all opposition? Happily, quieter counsels prevailed, for there was no mistake
as to the absolute truthfulness of what the girl had said.

"Well, Wenna," he said, "I will do anything you like, only to remain your friend. Is that possible?
Will you forgive all that I have said if I make you a promise not to repeat it, and never again
to mention your engagement to Mr. Roscorla?"

"No, we must part now altogether," she said slowly. Then by haphazard she glanced up at his
face for a moment, and there was a great sadness in her eyes. "It is a hard thing to part.
Perhaps it will not be necessary that you should never come to see me. But we must not be friends
as we have been, for I have my duty to do toward him."

"Then I may come to see you sometimes?"

She hesitated: "You may come to see my mother sometimes. And I will always think of you as
a dear friend, whether I see you or not."

He went outside, and drew a long breath. "I had to keep a tight grip on the reins that time,"
he was thinking to himself--"a precious tight grip; but I did it."

He thought of the look there was in her eyes when she finally bid him goodbye. His face grew
the happier as he thought of it. He was clearly not at all down-hearted about his rejection:
on the contrary, he went and told his cousin Juliott that the little affair of the morning
had been quite satisfactorily arranged, that Miss Wenna and he were very good friends again,
and that it was quite a mistake to imagine that she was already married to Mr. Roscorla.

"Harry," said his cousin, "I strictly forbid you to mention that gentleman's name."

"Why, Jue?" he said.

"Because I will not listen to the bad language you invariably use whenever you speak of him;
and you ought to remember that you are in a clergyman's house. I wonder Miss Rosewarne is not
ashamed to have your acquaintance, but I dare say you amend your ways when you are in her presence.
She'll have plenty to reform if ever she takes you for a husband."

"That's true enough, Jue," the young man said penitently. "I believe I'm a bad lot, but then
look at the brilliant contrast which the future will present. You know that my old grandmother
is always saying to me, 'Harry, you were born with as many manners as most folks, and you've
used none; so you'll have a rare stock to come and go on when you begin.'"

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

FEVER.

At present all branches of Science possess an intrinsic interest for every intelligent man,
but such elementary knowledge as enables its possessor to understand the explanations of the
medical attendant has a double value. Over and over again I have heard the remark when some
bold successful treatment was being discussed, "But you would not have dared to do that in
private practice." The days of medical mystification are not yet entirely passed, but year
by year the profession is assuredly losing that peculiar virtue of office which it formerly
possessed in so eminent a degree. The doctor is no longer a dignified personage with gold-headed
cane and powdered wig, mounting the mansion steps with stately tread, but a busy man in various
garb, hurrying from house to house, studying the multitudinous problems of disease, and applying
the fruits of such study to the relief of individual cases. No longer able to awe his patients
into obedience, he must rely upon his moral and intellectual powers in controlling them. To
enable any one to understand the explanations of physicians, and to protect himself, by discovery,
against the impudent assumptions of quacks, some knowledge of medical truths and of the drift
of modern medical thought is necessary. Every successful physician, no matter how independent
he may be by nature, is necessarily more or less cramped by the prejudices of patients--prejudices
which often a little primary instruction would have done away with.

Of all the diseased processes fever is one of the most frequent and one of the most serious
in their results. A discussion, therefore, of its nature, the method of its production and
of its relief, will, it may be hoped, engage the attention of the general reader.

If the hand be laid upon the skin of a person in a high fever the attention is at once attracted
by the great heat, and if the bulb of a thermometer be placed under the tongue or in the armpit
of the patient the mercury may indicate a temperature of 107°, 108°, 109°, or even 110° Fahrenheit,
instead of 98° to 99° Fahrenheit, the normal temperature of the human body. It is a common
belief that the skin in fever is always dry as well as hot, but this is a mistake, as intense
fever may coexist with a reeking perspiration. During the fever the pulse is greatly increased
in frequency, the head aches and throbs, and if the attack be very severe restlessness, sudden
startings, irregular muscular twitchings, or even violent epileptiform convulsions and stupor,
delirium or coma, indicate the disturbance of the nervous system.

These various symptoms are simply results of the excess of caloric, which excites universal
irritation, and, if prolonged, destroys the tissues. This fact I have verified by three series
of experiments, by the first of which it was shown that the general application of external
heat so as to raise the bodily temperature produces all the phenomena of fever; by the second,
that the local application of heat to the brain and to the heart causes the nervous and circulatory
disturbances so universally seen in fever; and by the third that the abstraction of heat in
fever is followed by immediate subsidence of the other symptoms.

If a small animal, such as a dog, cat or rabbit, be placed in a chamber heated by means of
the sun's rays falling upon a slanting glass roof or by some artificial method to a temperature
of considerably over one hundred degrees, a very constant series of phenomena is developed.
The breathing becomes hurried and the pulse greatly quickened, whilst the restless movements
of the body indicate nervous distress. After a time, if the exposure be continued, the symptoms
are intensified, and restlessness passes into the weakness of partial paralysis; then suddenly
or gradually, with or without convulsions, stupor sets in, deepening into coma, and death from
arrested respiration is the final result. If the temperature of the animal be tested from time
to time during the exposure, it will be found to rise steadily, and the severity of the symptoms
will be directly, and in any one species constantly, proportional to the intensity of the bodily
heat.

The nervous system of man apparently resists the action of heat, but in reality it does not
do so. Man, it is true, is the only animal that can thrive almost equally amidst arctic snows
and in tropical jungles. This is not, however, because his nervous system lacks sensitiveness,
but because he has the power of heating or cooling his body in such a manner that its temperature
is comparatively unaffected by that of the surrounding air. Man might be well defined as the
naked sweating animal. In the north he strips the bear and the fox of their coat to keep him
warm; in the south his own skin acts as a refrigerator. The dog has a few sweat-glands about
the mouth--man has two millions densely covering his body. In the horse exposed to heat the
hair soon becomes wet and matted, interfering very greatly with evaporation; in man the bare
skin offers an excellent surface, from which the perspiration passes off almost as fast as
formed. Evaporation, conversion of a liquid into a vapor, means a steady conversion of sensible
heat into what was formerly called latent heat, but what we now know to be repulsive force:
the heat-energy of the body is lost in driving the particles of sweat asunder in the form of vapor.

It is possible, however, to have a temperature which even a Hindoo cannot resist. When a man
is exposed to such a heat his bodily temperature rises, and as it rises the symptoms of fever
develop precisely as they do in the lower animals--sometimes slowly, sometimes suddenly--with
disturbances of the respiration, circulation and innervation precisely similar to those already
noticed as occurring in the dog, the cat and the rabbit. Sunstroke, or thermic fever, is generally
believed to be instantaneous in its onset, but the wide experience of the English in India
has shown that whilst in some cases it is thus sudden in its development, in others it is a
slow process, and probably in almost all cases close observation would have revealed the existence
of premonitions.

External heat, by producing an internal rise of temperature, may thus cause all the phenomena
of fever. Of these phenomena the most prominent is disturbance of the nervous system and of
the circulation. In order to determine whether the heat itself directly causes the nervous
disturbance, or whether it produces it indirectly by causing changes in the blood, I applied
caloric directly to the brains of animals. This was done by fitting a hog's bladder like a
bonnet over the head and allowing hot water to run through it. It was found that stupor, coma,
convulsions, and finally death from arrest of the respiration, were produced, sometimes gradually,
sometimes suddenly, precisely as in the case of exposure of the animal in a hot chamber. Moreover,
on opening the skull and plunging a thermometer into the cerebrum immediately after death or
the supervention of unconsciousness, it was found that these phenomena were developed at the
same brain-temperature when the heat was locally applied as when the animal was exposed in
the hot box. Thus, if any given species in the hot box became unconscious when the temperature
reached 110° Fahrenheit, this species also became unconscious when the locally-heated brain
attained a temperature of 110°; or if death occurred by arrest of the respiration in the hot
box at 114°, so did it when the locally-heated brain reached that point.

Dr. Lauder Brunton of England has performed a series of experiments upon the circulation parallel
to those just narrated. Anæsthetizing animals and exposing the heart, he has found that the
action of that organ is accelerated and weakened by the local application of heat, precisely
as occurs in fever.

In order to test the effect of the withdrawal of heat, I have taken a rabbit out of the hot
chamber, in which it lay upon its side totally unconscious, and plunged it into a bucket of
cold water. The temperature of the water rose rapidly, whilst that of the rabbit fell even
more rapidly. As soon as the bodily heat approached its normal intensity consciousness returned,
and in a few moments the animal, which had just before been at the point of death, was running
about the grass.

Some months since I had an opportunity of repeating this experiment upon a human being.

In acute inflammatory rheumatism it sometimes happens that the swelling and pain of the joints
suddenly disappear, and the patient becomes comatose or wildly delirious. It has been customary
to explain these symptoms as the result of the rheumatism leaving the joints and attacking
the brain. Evidently, this being the case, the proper thing to do was to irritate the joints
so as to draw the rheumatism back to them. This method was formerly practiced, and the almost
invariable result was death in a few hours.

In most if not all of these frightful cases of sudden accession of severe nervous symptoms
in rheumatism the temperature will be found, on testing it, to be exceedingly high--108°, 109°
or even 110° Fahrenheit. If the views advocated in this paper be correct, it is not the rheumatism,
but the intense bodily heat, which causes the severe symptoms, and finally death. The joints
lose their sensitiveness, not because the disease has left them, but because the heat so overpowers
the brain that it has lost its power of perception: the patient's leg might be cut off without
his feeling it. In such a case the proper treatment is to take away the heat by plunging the
patient into a cold bath. But can there be anything more shocking to the universal belief and
prejudices than to put a patient dying of acute rheumatism into an almost ice-cold bath?

Last spring there was in my ward in the Philadelphia Hospital a stout young Irishman who had
passed through an acute attack of inflammatory rheumatism, and was suffering from a sharp relapse.
Entering the ward one day, I saw at once that the man was unconscious, and turning to the resident
physician asked, "What is the matter with James?" "Nothing," was the reply: "I saw him an hour
and a half ago, and he was doing very well, except that the fever was very high." "He is dying
now, at any rate," was my rejoinder. On going to the bedside the patient was found perfectly
unconscious, the skin dry and intensely hot, the affected joints pale and devoid of sensibility,
the breathing irregular and jerking, the pulse 170 and scarcely perceptible, every muscle relaxed
as in death, every power of perception abolished. A thermometer placed in the armpit registered
108-4/5° Fahrenheit.

Believing that the symptoms were due simply to this excessive temperature, I ordered the man
to be at once stripped and put in a full bath drawn from the cold-water spigot. The temperature
of this bath was found to be 60° Fahrenheit. In one minute and a half after the patient had
been placed in the tub he recovered consciousness sufficiently to put out his tongue when told
to do so in a loud, commanding tone. In three minutes he began to struggle to get out and to
complain of the cold. In six minutes and a half he had become quite rational. He was now taken
out, only partially wiped, laid upon an India-rubber blanket and covered with a single sheet,
the temperature of the room being between 65° and 70°. Three minutes after this the temperature
in the armpit was 94°, in the mouth 105-3/5°; five minutes later the mouth-thermometer marked
103°, and the pain and tenderness had reappeared in the affected joints. It would be out of
place here to give further details as to his treatment. It is enough to state that, although
owing to a misunderstanding of my orders, the man was left in a cool room for twelve hours
upon the gum blanket, wet and covered only with a sheet--or possibly because he was so left--he
recovered without a relapse or any bad symptoms.

The first case in which the cold-water treatment was practiced in the Philadelphia Hospital
was that of a woman suffering from a desperate relapse of typhoid fever. She was semi-comatose,
with a pulse of 150 and a temperature of 107° Fahrenheit: death was seemingly inevitable and
imminent. As the bath-tubs were not convenient, the order was given that the woman be laid
upon an India-rubber cloth, and be wrapped simply in a sheet constantly wet with water at a
temperature as near 32° as practicable. The nurses, aghast, refused at first to carry out the
order, but the physician's power being despotic, obedience was enforced. About three pints
of whisky were given in the twenty-four hours, besides drugs, the whole treatment being successful.

It has been shown that excessive bodily heat is capable of producing the various symptoms of
fever, and that its withdrawal is followed by the immediate relief of these symptoms; and since
excessive heat is always present in fever, it is a logical deduction that it is the cause of
fever symptoms; or, in other words, that it is the essential part of fever.

It must be borne in mind, however, that the term fever is here used in an abstract sense, to
express a general diseased process, a bodily condition. A fever is a very different thing from
fever. We may have a fever, such as typhoid, without the existence of fever. In a fever, the
fever--i.e., the elevation of temperature--is only part of the disease, and great judgment
and experience are often required to decide how much of the general symptoms is caused by the
fever, and how much by the disease which is the cause of the fever.

The importance of high temperature having been recognized, it becomes a matter of the gravest
scientific and practical interest to determine the method in which it is produced.

There are only two systems which bind the body together--namely, the circulation and the nervous
system. As fever is usually a universal phenomenon, occurring simultaneously in every part
of the body, it must be produced either through the nervous system or by a poison in the blood
acting simultaneously on every tissue. Every physician knows, however, that there are cases
of fever in which there has been no introduction of a poison into the blood: hence it follows
that at least sometimes fever must be produced by the nervous system.

This being so, the study of the influence of the nervous system upon animal heat is naturally
the next step in our investigation. Before making this step it may be well to call to mind
the fact that chemical processes are usually accompanied either by the giving out or the withdrawal
of heat. Thus, the chemical actions which result when ice and salt are mixed cause a withdrawal
of heat, and a "freezing mixture" is formed. When a candle is burnt, the oxidation of its constituents,
a chemical process, evolves heat. Oxidation is the great source of artificial heat, and animal
heat is chiefly generated by the same process; in other words, animal heat is always the product
of the chemical movements of the body, and these movements are almost exclusively of the character
of oxidation. In the animal tissues a lessened oxidation is equivalent to a lessened heat-production,
and vise versâ.

If a large nerve be exposed in one of the lower animals, and a galvanic current be sent through
it for half a minute or more, the temperature of the animal falls very decidedly; and if the
irritation be repeated several times at intervals, the diminution of the animal heat may amount
to several degrees. Galvanization of a nerve affects very powerfully the circulation, and it
has been believed that this derangement was the cause of the lessened chemical movements. But
the alteration of the circulation is immediate, and ceases almost at once when the current
is broken, whereas the fall of temperature comes on only after several minutes, then progressively
increases, and persists for many minutes--it may be hours. The two phenomena being thus differently
developed, it is impossible that they should have the relation of cause and effect, and the
fall of temperature must be traced to a direct influence of the nervous system upon the chemical
processes of the body.

This lowering of temperature under the influence of a powerful irritation of a nerve-trunk
or of its minute branches, which everywhere pervade the tissues and spread out in the skin,
is common to all species of mammals. If a rabbit be merely tied down tightly upon a table,
the fall is perceptible, and if it be severely wounded, the temperature diminishes very greatly.
It has long been known that severe burns are followed by a very great depression of the animal
heat. Redard, a French physician, made during the late siege of Paris a most interesting series
of observations upon the influence of severe gunshot wounds. He found that, entirely independent
of any hæmorrhage which might have occurred, the temperature fell enormously, and in direct
proportion to the gravity of the wound; so that by the aid of the thermometer he was able to
predict whether a fatal issue would or would not occur in the course of a few hours.

We have found that both in man and the lower animals the nervous system is able to check the
chemical movements of the body, but before we can decide how it does so facts not yet noticed
must be looked at.

If the spinal cord of an animal be cut just below the origin of the nerves of respiration,
an immediate fall of temperature occurs, and, if the animal be left in a cool room, persists
until death ensues. If, however, the victim be put in a warm place, after a time the temperature
begins to rise, and finally a most intense fever is developed. Parallel phenomena follow division
of the spinal cord in man. Indeed, Sir Benjamin Brodie was first led to experiment upon animals
by observing in 1837 an excessive fever follow in a patient a wound of the spinal cord.

I have already explained, in a former number of this Magazine,[2] the nature of the so-called
vaso-motor nerves, which preside over the little circular muscles that run round and round
in the coats of the blood-vessels. When they are excited, these muscles contract and the size
of the arteries is diminished: when they are paralyzed, the arterial inner muscles relax and
the vessels dilate. The vaso-motor nerves have their governing centre in that upper portion
of the spinal cord which is within the skull, the so-called medulla oblongata. When the spinal
cord is divided, the vessels are cut off from the influence of this vaso-motor centre, and
at once dilate, profoundly affecting the blood-current by doing so.

The first fall of temperature which follows division of the cord is believed by most physiologists
to be due to this dilatation of the vessels. Very probably the blood-stream, flowing sluggishly,
does not give the normal amount of stimulus to the tissues, so that at first their chemical
actions are lessened, and consequently less caloric than usual is generated in the body. Further,
the blood moving slowly through the dilated vessels of the lungs and of the surface of the
body, is cooled more completely than it should be; hence, unless the body is protected by being
surrounded with warm air, no excessive accumulation of heat in it can occur, and therefore
no fever can appear.

Assuming that this explanation of the primary lowering of the temperature after division of
the cord be correct--and no better one has as yet been offered--what is the cause of the fever
which afterward develops itself? As it occurs only when the animal is exposed to a somewhat
elevated temperature, it has been thought by some to be due to the absorption of this external
heat. This, however, is certainly not true, as is shown, to omit less decisive proofs, by the
experiments of Naunyn and Quincke, who exposed animals for two days to a temperature of 90°,
and at the end of that time, their bodily temperature not having risen, cut their spinal cords,
after which intense fever was developed in a few hours without any change of atmosphere.

Section of the cord must therefore give rise to an increased chemical movement and heat-production
in the body. As already stated, this section affects very greatly the circulation, but the
fever is independent of such action. The upper end of the medulla oblongata is continuous with
a nervous mass which joins the two brain hemispheres together, and hence is known as the pons
or bridge. If, instead of cutting the spinal cord, we separate the medulla oblongata from the
pons, an immediate rise of temperature occurs, and continues until death, whether the operation
be performed in a cold or heated room.[3]

Cutting the medulla at its junction with the pons causes, then, an immediate and direct elevation
of temperature, without disturbance of the circulation. What can this mean? Evidently, only
one thing--namely, that by the division of the medulla there has been separated from the general
tissues of the body a repressive force--a something which normally controls their chemical
activity and the production in them of animal heat.

The existence of nerves whose function is to repress action is no new discovery in physiology.
Readers of Lippincott's Magazine may remember my description of the pneumogastrics or brake-nerves
of the heart, whose duty it is to control the action of that viscus. Nerves which repress or
inhibit action are spoken of in modern physiology as inhibitory. The experiments which have
been adduced prove that there are nerves whose function it is to control the general vital
chemical actions, and that the governing centre of these nerves is situated above the medulla
oblongata. To this centre, whose exact location is unknown, the name of the inhibitory heat-centre
has been given.

The way in which galvanization of a nerve, violent injuries and excessive pain depress the
temperature, independently of any action upon the circulation, is now evident. An impulse simply
passes up the irritated or wounded nerve, and excites this inhibitory heat-centre to increased
action, and the temperature falls because the chemical movements of the body are repressed.

The method in which fever is produced also becomes very evident when once the existence of
an inhibitory heat-centre has been established. Any poison having the power to depress, and
finally paralyze, this centre must, if it find entrance to the blood, produce fever. If the
poison, from its inherent properties, or from its being in very small quantity, only diminishes
the activity of the inhibitory heat-centre, the controlling influence is not entirely removed
from the chemical movements of the body, and only slight fever results; but if the poison actually
paralyzes the inhibitory nerves, a very great rise of temperature must rapidly follow the complete
removal of the brake-power.

As an illustration we may consider the intense rheumatic fever, or the so-called "cerebral
rheumatism," such as affected the young Irishman whose case has been narrated in the present
article. Without any apparent reason the poison of rheumatism habitually attacks one joint
on one day, and another joint on another day, and with as little apparent reason it occasionally
falls of a sudden upon the inhibitory heat-centre, and actually paralyzes it. In a few minutes
intense fever is developed, and the bodily temperature rapidly approaches nearer and nearer
that line on the other side of which is death.

In many cases of fever, however, there is no poison in the blood; thus, the local irritation
of a boil or other inflammation may cause what is well termed "irritative fever." The way in
which this is produced is by an indirect, and not a direct, action upon the inhibitory heat-centre.

The casualties of the late war proved but too abundantly that a man may be wounded in one part
of the body and suffer from paralysis of voluntary motion in another part. Thus, a soldier
struck in the neck fell unconscious, and on awaking was astonished to find his right arm powerless
at his side. This is the so-called "reflex paralysis." Very commonly the irritation of a nerve
will give rise to an impulse which will travel up the nerve to a motor-centre, and so excite
it that it shall send in turn an impulse down a second nerve to a distant muscle, and a spasm
result. Sometimes, however, the impulse which travels to the nerve-centre is of such a character
that, instead of exciting it to action, it deprives it of the power of action. In the former
instance reflex motion, in the latter reflex paralysis, results.

We have seen that galvanization of a nerve may excite the inhibitory centre to activity, and
the peculiar persistent irritation of a local inflammation may deprive the same centre of its
power of action: in the one instance a reflex inhibitory heat-centre spasm--i.e., lowering
of temperature--is produced, and in the other a reflex inhibitory heat-centre paralysis--i.e.,
fever--results.

It would be going too far at present to assert that all fever is produced in the way spoken
of. There are certain drugs which lower the temperature in the fever that follows division
of the cord and consequent paralysis of the heat-centre, and which must therefore act either
upon the blood, or universally upon the tissues so as to diminish their-chemical movements.
It is most probable, although not yet absolutely proved, that there are other substances which
act directly upon the blood and tissues in such a way as to increase their chemical activities,
and thereby cause fever.

The practical considerations in regard to the treatment of disease which naturally flow from
the recent investigations of fever are very important and very obvious. This is especially
true since it has been shown in Germany that under the influence of a continuous high bodily
temperature, not intense enough at any time to compromise life, all the muscular tissues of
the body undergo a peculiar granular degeneration. Many a typhoid-fever patient has undoubtedly
died from the heart-muscle having undergone this change, when, if by artificial cooling the
temperature of the body had been kept down, the alteration of the heart-structure would have
been prevented, and death averted. It is obvious, also, that the old plan of thwarting the
intentions of Nature, and depriving the fever-patient of the free use of cooling drinks, was
practically a baneful cruelty. As the body is burning up in fever, it is also evident that
to deprive it of sustenance is to aid in the production of fatal exhaustion. The burning will
go on, whether food is given or not, so long as the tissues can serve as fuel. Of course no
more food should be taken than the patient can digest, but every grain of digested food is
so much added to the resources of the system, which is engaged, it may be, in a close and doubtful
conflict with disease.

If it were possible, of course the best treatment for fever would be that which lessened the
production of heat. Fortunately, we have some drugs--notably, quinine and alcohol--which do
exert a decided influence upon the vital chemical movements, but, unfortunately, their power
is limited. As we are therefore often unable to control heat-production, the best we can do
is to abstract the caloric from the body whenever it becomes so excessive as to threaten serious
results. To do this, all that is necessary is to put the patient in a cold bath, or wrap him
in a sheet wet with ice-cold water, or lay him upon an ice-mattress, or surround him with coils
of tubing through which cold water runs, or use some similar efficacious device. I do not wish
to be misunderstood. External cold is not to be lightly employed: it is a powerful two-edged
weapon, capable of cutting both ways--a weapon as injurious and destructive in the hands of
the ignorant and inexperienced as it is efficient in the hands of those to whom study and experience
have taught its skillful use.

To illustrate what cold water may effect when employed by intelligent and skillful physicians,
I may be permitted to cite a few hospital statistics from Germany and Switzerland, the only
countries where the so-called antipyretic treatment of continued fever has been efficiently
carried out on a large scale. From 1850 to 1861 there were treated without cold water, at the
hospital at Kiel, 330 cases of typhoid fever, with 51 deaths--a mortality of about 15-1/2 per
cent.; from 1863 to 1866, 160 cases were treated with cold baths, with 5 deaths--a mortality
of only 3-1/10 per cent. In the hospital of Bâle, from 1843 to 1864, there were 1718 cases
without antipyretic treatment, with 469 deaths--a mortality of about 27-1/2 per cent; from
September, 1866, to 1873, 1121 cases were treated antipyretically, with 92 deaths--a mortality
of a little over 8 per cent. Assuredly, we may claim that this water-treatment in typhoid fever
is one of the greatest gains of modern medicine since the discovery of anæsthesia.

Some of my readers may here say to themselves, "Why, this is hydropathy!" Not so. It is the
legitimate, not the illegitimate, use of cold water. It is the use of it as a single weapon,
not as the only weapon of the armory. It is the employment of it in a single affection, not
as a cure for all diseases.

Perhaps, in concluding this essay, I may be pardoned one word of counsel to my lay audience.
Any physician who proclaims himself a follower of any special doctrine, be he a hydropath,
an electropath, an allopath, a homoeopath, or any other path, should be viewed with suspicion.
Water, cold, heat, electricity, drugs, are all agents capable of being used advantageously
in the treatment of disease. Above all men, the physician ought to have that teachable spirit
which is the offspring of true humility. Knowing the grave responsibilities which he assumes,
living almost beneath the shadow of that past whose life-imperiling mistakes are so plainly
visible in the light of the present, he, of all men, should be ever seeking for new knowledge,
gathering with equal zest the seeds of healing in the waste as well as in the cultivated places,
amongst the lowest and most ignorant of the populace, as well as in far-famed schools of medicine.

     H.C. WOOD, JR., M.D.

SONNET.

Young bride, that findest not a single star
  Shining to-night with longed for prophecy,
Though snowy drifts are swelling near and far,
  They need not chill thy happy hope and thee.
If blue had overarched the earth all day,
  And heaven were brilliant with its stars to-night,
"A happy omen!" many a guest would say,
  And think that Fortune blessed the sacred rite.
Be superstition far from thee, sweet soul:
  This snowy robe, in unison with thine,
Nature will doff to-morrow, and the whole
  Of this white waste in spring-like freshness shine.
If love be strong, then all adversity
Will melt like snow, and life the greener be.

     CHARLOTTE F. BATES.

SOME RECOLLECTIONS OF HIRAM POWERS.

There are--or were--many at Florence whose recollections of Hiram Powers stretch over the best
part of a quarter of a century; and there are few men of whom it could with equal truth and
accuracy be said that such recollections are wholly pleasant in their character to the survivors
and honorable to the subject of them. He was in truth universally respected by people of all
classes, and by Americans and English, as well as Italians, in the city of his adoption, and
personally liked and esteemed by all who had the good fortune to be among his friends. Recollections
such as these are, I say, the property of very many at Florence. But there is no one in that
city--there was during his life no one in that city, not even she who during a long life was
a companion, friend, partner and helpmeet in every sense admirable for him--whose recollections
went back to so early a period as mine did.

When I came to Florence with my mother in 1841, intending to make a home there for a few years,
we found, with some surprise and much pleasure, Hiram Powers, with a wife and children, settled
there as a sculptor. It was long since, in the course of the changes and chances of life, we
had lost sight of him, but the meeting was none the less pleasurable to, I think I may say,
both parties. It was at Cincinnati in 1829 that my mother and myself first knew him. My mother,
who had long been an acquaintance of General La Fayette, became thus the intimate friend of
his ward, Frances Wright. Fascinated by the talent, the brilliancy and the singular eloquence
of that remarkable and highly-gifted woman, and at the same time anxious to find a career for
one of her sons (not the well-known author of the present day, but another brother, long since
dead), whose wishes and proclivities adapted him for a life of more activity and adventure
than that of one of our home-abiding professions, my mother was persuaded by her to join her
in a scheme which at that time was engaging all her singularly large powers of energy and enthusiasm,
the object of which was to found at New Harmony--I think, though I am not sure whether Frances
Wright's colony was not another, separate from that of New Harmony--an establishment which
was in some way or other to contribute to the emancipation of the slaves, mainly, I imagine,
by showing that under proper management they were not unfitted for freedom. The fate of that
philanthropic scheme is too well known to make it necessary for me to rehearse the story of
it here, imperfectly known to me as it is. The upshot was, that my mother and brother were
induced to go to Cincinnati and attempt other plans, the final result of which was also a failure.
I had had no share in these Transatlantic projects, being at the time a scholar at Winchester
in the college of William of Wykeham. But between quitting Winchester, at the age of eighteen,
and going to Oxford, I had a period of liberty of nearly a twelvemonth, the greater part of
which I devoted to accompanying my father on a visit to Cincinnati. And there I became acquainted
with Powers, a very few years only my senior, whom I found already the valued friend of my
mother and brother.

He was at that time--I well remember the look of him--a tall, lanky, but remarkably handsome
lad, somewhat awkward in person, but with a calm but at the same time intellectually expressive
beauty of feature which marked him as one of Nature's noblemen. His eyes were the most noticeable
point about him. They were magnificent--large, clear, well-opened, and expressive of calm thought
and the working of the intellect rather than of shrewdness or passion. His manner, I remember,
was marked by an exceeding simpleness, and a sort of innocent and dignified straightforwardness
which much impressed me. Altogether, my acquaintance with him was a contribution of a new sort
to the education of my mind. I had passed eight years in the acquisition of those things which
an English "gentleman's education" is supposed to offer. These things (in the year 1829) consisted
in a very fair knowledge of Latin and Greek. Unquestionably, the eight years which I had spent
in learning those languages had brought with them other advantages and other teachings of an
altogether priceless sort. But what they professedly had taught me, what I then considered
as the net result of my eight years at school, was a competent knowledge of Latin and Greek,
and nothing else. Now, here was a young man of my own age, or little more, about whose idiosyncrasy
there was something especially simpatico to me, as the Italians say--who knew nothing whatever
of the only things which I knew, but knew a whole world of things of which I was profoundly
ignorant. I was (of course) full of prejudices also--ecclesiastical prejudices, class prejudices,
political prejudices, caste prejudices--all of which were as unintelligible to my new friend
as they would have been to a red Indian. He was singularly free from prejudice of any kind--a
sort of original, blank-paper mind, on which nothing had been written save what he had consciously
written there himself as the result of his own observations of life. I knew other young Americans,
and perceived and could have pointed out characteristics which distinguished them. But Powers
was not like them. He seemed to me a sort of Adam, a fresh, new and original man, unclassable
and unjudgable by any of the formulas or prejudices which served me as means of appreciating
men. Despite all this--perhaps because of all this--we soon became great friends. I very shortly
discovered that he was wholly and entirely truthful. His "yes" was yes, his "no" was no; and
not only that, but what is much rarer still, his "five" or "six" was not five and a quarter
or six and a half, but five or six. I remember in him then what I recognized after many, many
years in later life, and what is often so amusing a characteristic in simple, upright and truthful
minds--the notion that on occasion he could be deep enough to outwit the cunning of the unscrupulous,
whereas his loyal unsuspiciousness of evil was such that he might have been cheated by the
first shallow rogue who chose to exercise his vulpine craft against him.

When I reached Cincinnati I found him intimate with my brother, and a favorite with my mother,
who had formed a high opinion both of his character and of his talents. The latter had already
very markedly manifested themselves in that direction which finally decided his career in life.
Yet there was little of that dreamy and enthusiastic worship for the abstract beautiful which
is generally supposed to be the marking characteristic of the artistic temperament. But he
had a wonderful faculty of executing with his hands whatever his mind had conceived, and a
mind singularly active in invention and in devising means for the execution of a mechanical
end. Had circumstances not made him a sculptor, he might have been--probably would have been--a
successful inventor, mechanician or engineer. Throughout life he was an eminently and specially
practical man--a man whose tendency was not to dream, but to do. That artistic temperament,
as it is generally called, which so often manifests itself in exactly the opposite direction--in
a tendency to dream rather than to do, and to allow the pleasures of the ideal to incapacitate
those who indulge in them for real work--was so little his that I have never known a more industrious
and conscientious worker with his hands. And there was nothing to which he could not turn them,
and that with a degree of skill that would often put to shame the attempts of members of the
craft which he might be essaying for the first time.

At that time Hiram Powers was, as the saying is, living upon his wits; and they, being such
as I have described them, were not likely to fail in producing the wherewithal to do so. There
was at that period a little Frenchman named Dorfeuille at Cincinnati--not a bad sort of little
man, I believe, and with some amount of literary and other talent. But he also being engaged
in the operation of living on his wits, or mainly so, and not finding them so abundantly sufficient
for the purpose as those of my young friend, thought that he too might in part live on the
wits of the latter; and during the time of my stay at Cincinnati he did so to the satisfaction
of both parties. This Dorfeuille was the proprietor of a museum, the main and most attractive
portion of which was a number of wax figures. But the Cincinnati public was not large enough
in those days to supply a constant stream of fresh spectators, and, though there was little
in the way of public amusement to compete with M. Dorfeuille's museum, the Cincinnati people
soon got tired of looking at the same show; and but for the happy chance which brought him
into contact with Hiram Powers, M. Dorfeuille must have packed up his museum and sought "fresh
woods and pastures new." But with the advent of young Powers, and the contents of the museum
given over to his creating brain and clever fingers, a period of halcyon days and new prosperity
commenced for the little Frenchman and his show. With the materials at his disposition all
things were possible to the young artist, to whom such a chance gave the first clear consciousness
of his own powers. New combinations, new names, new costuming, alterations of figures, etc.
etc. were adopted to produce fine effects and amuse the public with constant novelties. For
the invention of these Powers often used to consult my mother, whose suggestions he never failed
to carry into effect, to the great amusement of both parties. On one occasion an idea struck
her, which, when she communicated it to him, fired the imagination of Powers and turned out
a great success. This was nothing less than to give a representation of some of the more striking
scenes of Dante's Divina Commedia. The idea was a sufficiently audacious one. But "audaces
Fortuna juvat." Powers scouted the notion of difficulty. My mother was to draw up the programme,
and he undertook, with the materials furnished him by the museum, and with the help of some
of his own handiwork, to give scenic reality to her suggestions. The result, as I have said,
was a brilliant success. I have a copy of the "bill" that was issued to the public inviting
them to the exhibition in question, which is a curiosity in its way, and which I must give
the reader. It is drawn up in high sensational style, with lines of different lengths and boldness,
and printed in all the different sorts of capitals which the printer's case afforded. I cannot
occupy space with any imitation of these typographical magnificences, but will simply copy
the language of the bill. It must have been my mother's composition, and Powers had to work
up to it, which he did to the letter:

     "The World to come, as described by Dante, and comprising, Hell,
     Purgatory, and Paradise, will be exhibited in a room adjoining the
     Western Museum on the 4th of July, and days following. Admittance,
     twenty-five cents. In the centre is seen a grand colossal figure of
     Minos, the Judge of Hell. He is seated at the entrance of the
     INFERNAL REGIONS [enormous capitals]. His right hand is raised as
     in the act to pronounce sentence, his left holding a two-pronged
     sceptre. Above his head is a scroll on which are written the
     concluding words of Dante's celebrated inscription, 'Abandon hope,
     all ye who enter here!' To the right of this figure the foreground
     presents a frozen lake, on the surface of which are seen the heads
     of those who have been doomed to this species of punishment. Among
     these is the head of Ugolino, whom Dante describes as eternally
     gnawing the head of his enemy, who, after placing him and his three
     sons in the upper chamber of a strong tower near Florence, threw
     the key of it into the moat and left them to perish with hunger.
     Grinning in mockery of these ice-bound sufferers, A BLACK IMP
     [biggest extra black capitals] is seated on a rock, dandling a
     young monster. On the edge of the opposite side of the frozen lake
     stands a spirit, who is just about to endure the frozen torment;
     and his attitude and countenance express the agony of extreme cold.
     Behind him opens the fiery gulf, the reflection of whose lurid
     glare is seen on his half-frozen body. At his feet a female head,
     fixed in the ice, looks up to the flames, as longing for their
     warmth; while a little way within the lake of fire another head is
     seen gazing with longing eyes upon the ice. A brilliant fountain of
     flame is in the midst of the lake, and around it crowds of
     condemned spirits in all varieties of suffering. In one corner a
     fiend is proclaiming their infamy by the aid of a trumpet through
     all the depths of Hell. Birds and animals of hideous form and evil
     omen are fluttering over the heads and tormenting the sufferers.
     Large icicles hang from the rocks that form the Gate of Hell, and
     reflect on their bright surface the red glare of the fires within.
     On the left of Minos is seen a Skeleton ascending a column of
     Icicles and holding a standard bearing these lines:

        "'To this grim form our cherished limbs have come,
        And thus lie mouldering in their earthly home.
        In turf-bound hillock or in sculptured shrine
        The worms alike their cold caresses twine.
        So far we all are equal; but once left
        Our mortal weeds, of vital spark bereft,
        Asunder farther than the poles we're driven--
        Some sunk to deepest Hell, some raised to highest Heaven.'

     "Still farther on the left of Minos, and melting into distance
     behind him, is seen the shadowy region of Purgatory. Four bright
     stars--the Cardinal Virtues--give a delicate and cheering light
     amid the gloom. A group of figures loaded with the burthen of their
     sins are about to plunge into the lake of purgatorial waters, in
     the hope of depositing them there. A boat wafted by the wings of an
     Angel is bearing departed, souls toward Heaven; and near it is a
     column of pale light to direct its course. In the distance is the
     mountain that divides Purgatory from Heaven; and Beatrice, the
     departed mistress of Dante, is standing on its summit, encouraging
     him to proceed with her to Heaven, where his former guide, Virgil,
     cannot be admitted (being a Pagan). Groups of Pilgrims who have
     passed through Purgatory are ascending the mountain. Still farther
     to the left, and opening in unbroken splendor above the head of
     Beatrice, is seen the Heaven of Heavens. The golden light pours
     down on the heads of the Pilgrims, and angels are seen floating in
     the air and encouraging their efforts. The foreground of this part
     of the scene presents various objects to cheer the spirit of the
     Pilgrims in their passage through Purgatory. The entrance indeed is
     rocky, but shrubs and flowers adorn it, and the Dove, the bird of
     Hope, is bearing the olive-branch before them."

If all that was packed into "a room adjoining the Western Museum," the sight of it must, I
think, be admitted to have been a cheap twenty-five cents' worth. The Cincinnati world of hard
upon half a century ago judged it to be so, and flocked to the exhibition in crowds. But very
soon the versatile and indefatigable artist devised new means of still further stimulating
the curiosity and excitement of his public. A bar ran across the exhibition-room, dividing
the space allotted to the spectators from that occupied by the scenery and objects provided
for their amusement. But since the available space was, as may easily be imagined, somewhat
limited, it came to pass that the foremost spectators, being often of that class of persons
who see with the ends of their fingers, would stretch out their arms and audaciously touch
"the Black Imp," or "the Skeleton," or Minos himself, or any other of the dramatis personæ
they could reach, to the damage of those somewhat perishable properties. A notice was therefore
placarded in the room, written in flame-colored letters and couched in the choicest bugaboo
phraseology, warning all such indiscreet persons that the denizens of the Infernal Regions
could not be touched by mortal hands with impunity, and that immediate punishment would visit
transgressors. Of course it was foreseen that such threats would not avail to restrain, but
would rather stimulate the curiosity of the disciples of Saint Thomas. But, sure enough, the
threatened punishment, by no means "pede claudo" followed in every case--very accurately with
the speed of lightning--on the transgression; for Powers had cunningly contrived, preparing
it all with his own hand, that a sharp electric shock should be communicated to each audacious
hand that braved the prohibition. The astonishment, the terror, and subsequently the fun, produced
by this ingenious device may easily be imagined. The sufferers, like the fox who had lost his
tail, brought their friends, and enjoyed the fun of leading them into the same scrape. The
"room adjoining the Western Museum" was more thronged than ever, and little Dorfeuille reaped
a golden harvest. How large a share of it found its way into the pockets of the ingenious artist
I know not--probably a much smaller one than fair play would have assigned him.

In the long after years at Florence, Powers and I had many a laugh together over his reminiscences
of the scenes that occurred in that exhibition-room, all of which he remembered as well as
if the incidents had happened but a year before, and would chuckle over with as much enjoyment
as he did at the time of their occurrence. My copy of the hand-bill which I have given above--doubtless
the only one now in existence--was matter of much amusement to us, and served to recall every
portion and every figure of the early work of his hands.

From the time I left America to go to Oxford, in the spring of 1829, till our meeting at Florence
in 1841, I saw no more of Powers. But, as may be easily imagined, we lost no time in renewing
our old friendship. He was then, and for many years afterward, living in the Via Romana, not
far from the city gate of that name. The house stood back from the street, and was approached
only by a passage through another tenement, from which it was divided by a little garden; a
situation which, though not in all respects convenient, had at least the advantage of securing
quietude. The young sculptor, with his already numerous and rapidly increasing family, occupied
the first and second floors, while the ground floor was exclusively devoted to workshops and
show-rooms. The premises were large and the accommodations ample. Already few Americans came
to Florence without paying a visit to the "Studio Powers," but they were in those days but
few in comparison to the number which, partly as residents and partly as merely passing tourists,
throng every winter the fair "City of Flowers." Up to the revolution of 1848 the English at
Florence were very far more numerous than the citizens of the other English-speaking nation.
That unsuccessful movement drove many English, very unnecessarily, from their moorings. The
English colony was very much reduced even after those who returned on the return of the grand
duke had resumed their old places. And from that time forward I think that America has been
more numerously represented on the banks of the Arno than England. Powers had at that time
produced various successful busts, but had not as yet made himself known as an imaginative
sculptor. Nevertheless, the former works had sufficed to give him an amount of reputation in
the United States that ensured constant visits of his countrymen to the studio in the Via Romana.

Some twelve years had elapsed when I first saw Powers in Florence since the old days in Cincinnati.
In such a space of time, especially at that period of life which turns a lad into a man, most
men change much. But the change in Powers's face was but small: I should have known him if
I had met him in the street anywhere. But in person he was much changed: he had become stout
and what is called personable, not fat--he never was that to the end of his life--but neither
was he lanky, as he had been as a youth. He had filled out, as the phrase is, and might be
considered in all respects a decidedly handsome man. There was something specially, and more
than commonly, upright in the carriage of his person and of his head, which seemed the expression
of the uprightness of the man's moral and intellectual nature and character. He always looked
straight at you with those large, placid and generally grave eyes of his under their large
and bushy brows. They seemed to continue grave, or at least thoughtful, those eyes, even when
there was a pleasant genial smile on the mouth. And there was this specialty about his smile--a
specialty which may be often observed in subjective natures habituated to original thought
and to live in the inner life: it seemed generally to be produced more by the movement of his
own inward feelings and thoughts than by what was said by others. Like most dark-haired men,
he began to become gray early in life, and for some few years before his death his appearance
was venerable in no ordinary degree. He then wore his hair, which had become perfectly white,
very long, and a shallow, very broad-brimmed white hat on the top of it. The latter, indeed,
was, I think, at all times his universal wear. I do not think that I ever saw him in Florence
in that detestable article of apparel called "a chimney-pot hat." But this is anticipating.

Very shortly after our arrival in Florence and the renewal of our friendship with Powers--I
think not more than a year--there arrived in Florence, bringing a letter of introduction to
my mother, an English gentleman of fortune, Mr. Grant. He was a noted lover and patron of art,
and my mother proposed to him a visit to the Studio Powers. The sculptor had then just completed
his first imaginative work, the "Greek Slave," which numerous replicas have since made so well
known on both sides of the Atlantic. This work had greatly excited my mother's admiration,
and it was that he might have an opportunity of seeing the "Greek Slave" that my mother was
desirous of taking Mr. Grant to the sculptor's studio. But it was not altogether easy to induce
Mr. Grant to accept the proposal. "If there is anything very good, that is the very reason
why I must not go there. Lead me not into temptation! I have been spending all my money, and
more than I meant to spend, on sculpture in Rome. Don't show me any more statues, for I cannot
buy any more." But this confession of fearing temptation was calculated to produce a stronger
determination to expose him to it. Mr. Grant was persuaded to visit the studio in the Via Romana:
he was as much charmed with the beauty of the conception of the statue as with the conscientious
perfection of its execution, and he became the purchaser of it. And it speedily acquired a
reputation which led to the execution of as many, I think, as four or five replicas at the
request of other lovers of art; and the sculptor's reputation was made.

The practice of the greatest sculptors as regards the degree in which it has seemed desirable
to them to take part in that mechanical portion of the business of producing a statue which
consists in the manipulation of the marble, has always been very different. Some have subjected
the marble to the touching of their own hands more, some less. The work of reproducing a copy
of the clay model in marble is a purely mechanical one, and may or may not be in the artist's
judgment best brought to perfection by the labor of his own hands. It will readily be believed,
however, from what has been already said of the tendencies of Powers's talent and idiosyncrasy,
that he was among those who have contributed most of their personal labor to the perfecting
of their works. Powers was one of those men whose hands have faculty in them. He was a master
in the use of them, and accordingly he loved to use them. It was his practice to go over with
his own hand the surface of the marble of every work which left his studio. But he was not
contented to do this in the manner and with the tools which had been used by so many generations
of sculptors before him. That decided bent of his genius to mechanical invention which has
been mentioned at the beginning of this paper led him to perceive that an improvement might
be made in this respect. For giving the last finish to the marble, for removing from the surface
a quantity so small that no chisel could be trusted to do the work, it is obvious enough to
suggest the use of a file. And no doubt files are used for the purpose, but they are liable
to a special and very troublesome source of inefficiency. They become clogged with the excessively
fine dust of the marble in a very few minutes to such an extent as to be rendered useless,
especially as the file must be of an exceedingly fine description. Powers therefore set his
mind to the problem of inventing some means or some instrument by which this source of trouble
could be avoided; and after considerable vexation, not so much in perfecting his own conception
of the thing needed as in getting careless and not very competent workmen to execute his orders,
he perfected a file of the necessary fineness upon the principle of a nutmeg-grater. His studio
was at all times full of little ingenious contrivances of all sorts--contrivances for readily
and conveniently modifying the light in the exact degree desirable; contrivances for the due
collocation and distribution of artificial light; contrivances for the more ready moving of
marbles, etc. etc.

It is the fashion in Florence and in Rome for artists to open their studios to all visitors.
It is a custom which adds much to the amusement of visitors who are really lovers of art; but
it must bring with it, one would think, consequences which must sometimes be not a little trying
to the painter's or sculptor's temper and patience. Criticism from those who have some little
pretension to the right to criticise is not always pleasant when volunteered, but criticism
from such Philistines of the Philistines as often haunt the studios must be hard indeed to
bear with common courtesy. Powers invariably received such with the most perfect suavity and
good-temper, but I have sometimes seen him, to my great amusement, inflict a punishment on
the talkers of nonsense which made them wish they had held their tongues. This consisted simply
of defending his own practice by entering on a lecture upon the principles which ought to regulate
the matter in question. He was, I fancy, rather fond of lecturing, and would rather have liked
the work of a professor of the fine arts. I have seen people writhe under his patient and lengthy
expositions, which they were as capable of understanding as so many bullocks, and which they
had brought down on themselves by some absolutely absurd remark on the work before them. I
have seen such delinquents use every sort of effort to put a stop to or escape from the punishment
they had brought upon themselves. In vain: the lecture would continue with a placid uninterruptibility
which it was amusing to witness.

It was in 1854, I think, or thereabouts (for I have not at hand the means of verifying the
date with accuracy, and it is of no consequence), that Mr. Hume, the since well-known medium,
came to Florence. He came to my house on the pressing invitation of my mother, my then wife
and myself. We had seen accounts of extraordinary things said to have taken place some months
previously at the house of a Mr. Rymer, a solicitor living at Ealing near London, and our curiosity
and interest had been so much excited that the hope of being able to witness some of these
marvels was not the least among the motives of a journey that summer to England. We obtained
an introduction to Mr. Rymer, were present at sundry séances at his house at Ealing, made acquaintance
with Mr. Hume, and invited him to stay for a while in my house in Florence. He came accompanied
by his friend, a son of Mr. Rymer; and both the young men were resident under my roof for about
a month, leaving it to accept an invitation from Mr. Powers to make his house their home for
a while. The manifestations of phenomena produced, or supposed to be produced, by what has
become known to the world as "Spiritualism," were then only beginning to attract in Europe
the very general attention which they have since that time attracted. The thing was then new
to most people. During the month that Mr. Hume and his friend were in my house we had séances
almost every evening, with the "assistance," as the French say, of a rather numerous and very
varied circle. For, as may easily be supposed, all our friends were anxious to witness the
new marvels, and we, desirous only of as many eyes and as many minds as might be for the better
watching and discussion of the phenomena, welcomed all comers to the extent of the capacity
of our room and table. I have no intention of troubling my present readers with any detailed
rehearsal of the phenomena which presented themselves. The testimony which my observations
during this period enabled me to offer has already more than once been given to the world in
print, and the catalogue of similar and yet more extraordinary experiences has become too long,
and the witnesses to them too numerous and too well known to the public, for such details to
have any further interest at the present day. I feel bound, however, to state that no amount
of suspicious watching which I was able to exercise in my house, and which Powers was able
to exercise in his, enabled us to discover any smallest degree of imposture, or fair grounds
for suspecting imposture, as regards the physical or material phenomena which were witnessed.
Such is my testimony, and such was that of Powers, who, by his aptitude for inventing and understanding
mechanical contrivances of all kinds, was a man specially well fitted for the task of watching
the performance of such wonders. I have spoken here, it will be observed, altogether of the
material and physical phenomena witnessed. As to what are called the spiritual manifestations,
Powers was perhaps not an entirely unbiased estimator of these. He was an eminently sincere,
earnest and zealous Swedenborgian, and several of the leading tenets and dogmas of the Swedenborgian
faith are calculated to make such communications with the world of spirits as Spiritualists
claim to experience much less startling, less strange to the mind and more acceptable, than
they usually appear to other people. To a Swedenborgian who is perfectly convinced that the
spirits of the departed are ever around him and interested in his welfare, it does not seem
a very strange or extraordinary thing that these visitors should under certain circumstances
be able to express the interest which they always feel. Powers regarded all the professed manifestations
of spiritual communications from that stand-point, and was enabled to accept them therefore
somewhat more easily than another person might have done. Yet, despite such predisposing proclivities,
and though he was disposed to think a great variety of professed communications from the world
of spirits to have been genuinely what they purported to be, the habitual uprightness and truthfulness
of Powers's mind led him, as I believe I am justified in saying, to the conclusion that in
the case which I am about to mention, at least, there was ground for very strong suspicion
of the honesty of the medium. The circumstances of the case were as follows:

