THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. X, NO. 272.] SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUBLIN POST OFFICE.

The general post-office, Dublin, was at first held in a small building on the site of the Commercial
Buildings, and was afterwards removed to a larger house opposite the bank on College Green
(since converted into the Royal Arcade;) and on January 6, 1818, the new post-office in Sackville-street
was opened for business.

The foundation-stone of this magnificent building, which is built after a design of Francis
Johnson, Esq., was laid by his excellency Charles, Earl of Whitworth, August 12, 1814, and
the structure was completed in the short space of three years, for the sum of 50,000l.

The front, which extends 220 feet, has a magnificent portico (80 feet wide), of six fluted
Ionic columns, 4 feet 6 inches in diameter. The frieze of the entablature is highly enriched,
and in the tympanum of the pediment are the royal arms. On the acroteria of the pediment are
three statues by John Smyth, viz.--Mercury on the right, with his Caduceus and purse; On the
left Fidelity, with her finger on her lip, and a key in her hand; and in the centre Hibernia,
resting on her spear, and holding her shield. The entablature, with the exception of the architrave,
is continued along the rest of the front; the frieze, however, is not decorated over the portico.
A handsome balustrade surmounts the cornice of the building, which is 50 feet from the ground.
With the exception of the portico, which is of Portland stone, the whole is of mountain granite.
The elevation has three stories, of which the lower or basement is rusticated, and in this
respect it resembles the India House of London, where a rusticated basement is introduced,
although the portico occupies the entire height of the structure.

Over the centre of the building is seen a cupola, containing the chimes and bell on which the
clock-hammer strikes. The bell is so loud, that it is heard in every part of the city.

The interior is particularly remarkable for the convenience of its arrangement, and the number
of its communicating apartments. The board-room is a very handsome apartment, furnished with
two seats, which are for the postmasters-general. Over the chimney-piece, protected by a curtain
of green silk, is a bust of Earl Whitworth, in white marble, by John Smyth.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOPOGRAPHER.

No. XXIV.

       *       *       *       *       *

HIGH CROSS.

A Roman Station--the Camp of Claudius--Manners, Customs, and Dialects of the people of the
District.

About two miles to the west of Little Claybrook, in the hundred of Luthlaxton, in Leicestershire,
is a place called High Cross, which, according to some antiquarians, was the Benonce or Vennones
of the Romans. Dr. Stukely describes this station as situated at the intersection of the two
great Roman roads, "which traverse the kingdom obliquely, and seem to be the centre, as well
as the highest ground in England; for from hence rivers run every way. The foss road went on
the backside of an inn standing here, and so towards Bath. The ground hereabout is very rich,
and much ebulus (a herb much sought after for the cure of dropsies,) grows here. Claybrooklane
has a piece of quickset hedge left across it, betokening one side of the Foss; which road in
this place bears exactly north-east and south-west as it does upon the moor on this side of
Lincoln. In the garden before the inn abovementioned, a tumulus was removed about the year
1720, under which the body of a man was found upon the plain surface; as likewise hath been
under several others hereabout; and foundations of buildings have been frequently dug up along
the street here, all the way to Cleycestre, through which went the great street-way, called
Watling-street; for on both sides of the way have been ploughed and dug up many ancient coins,
great square stones and bricks, and other rubbish, of that ancient Roman building, not far
from a beacon, standing upon the way now called High Cross, of a cross which stood there some
time, upon the meeting of another great way."

At the intersection of the roads is the pedestal, &c. of a cross which was erected here in
the year 1712; on which are the two following Latin inscriptions. On one side is--

  Vicinarum provinciarum, Vervicensis scilicet et Leicestrensis,
  ornamenta, proceres patritiique, auspiciis, illustrissimi Basili
  Comitis de Denbeigh, hanc columnam statuendam curaverunt, in gratam
  pariter et perpetuam memoriam Jani tandem a Serenissima Anna clausi
  A.D. MDCCXII.

The inscription on the other side runs thus--

  Si Veterum Romanorum vestigia quaeras, hic cernas viator. Hic enim
  celeberrimae illorum viae militares sese mutuo secantes ad extremes
  usque Britanniae limites procurent: hic stativa sua habuerunt Vennones;
  et ad primum ad hinc lapidem castra sua ad Stratam, et ad Fossam
  tumulum, Claudius quidam cohortis praefectus habuisse videtur.

The ground here is so high, and the surrounding country so low and flat, that it is said, fifty-seven
churches may be seen from this spot by the help of a glass.

The following judicious remarks on the customs, mariners, and dialects of the common people
of this district by Mr. Macauley, who published a history of Claybrook, may be amusing to many
readers.--The people here are much attached to wakes; and among the farmers and cottagers these
annual festivals are celebrated with music, dancing, feasting, and much inoffensive sport;
but in the neighbouring villages the return of the wake never fails to produce at least a week
of idleness, intoxication, and riot. These and other abuses by which those festivals are grossly
perverted, render it highly desirable to all the friends of order and decency that they were
totally suppressed. On Plow Monday is annually displayed a set of morice dancers; and the custom
of ringing the curfew is still continued here, as well as the pancake bell on Shrove Tuesday.
The dialect of the common people is broad, and partakes of the Anglo-Saxon sounds and terms.
The letter h comes in almost on every occasion where it ought not, and it is frequently omitted
where it ought to come in. The words fire, mire, and such like, are pronounced as if spelt
foire, moire; and place, face, and other similar words, as if spelt pleace, feace; and in the
plural you sometimes hear pleacen, closen, for closes, and many other words in the same style
of Saxon termination. The words there, and where, are generally pronounced theere and wheere;
the words mercy, deserve, thus, marcy, desarve. The following peculiarities are also observable:
uz, strongly aspirated for us; war for was; meed for maid; faither for father; e'ery for every;
brig for bridge; thurrough for furrow; hawf for half; cart rit for cart rut; malefactory for
manufactory; inactions for anxious. The words mysen and himsen, are sometimes used for myself
and himself; the word shoek is used to denote an idle worthless vagabond; and the word ripe
for one who is very profane. The following phrases are common, "a power of people," "a hantle
of money," "I can't awhile as yet." The words like and such frequently occur as expletives
in conversation, "I won't stay here haggling all day and such." "If you don't give me my price
like." The monosyllable as is generally substituted for that; "the last time as I called,"
"I reckon as I an't one," "I imagine as I am not singular." Public characters are stigmatized
by saying, "that they set poor lights." The substantive right often supplies the place of ought,
as "farmer A has a right to pay his tax." Next ways, and clever through, are in common use,
as "I shall go clever through Ullesthorpe." "Nigh hand" for probably, as he will nigh hand
call on us. Duable, convenient or proper: thus "the church is not served at duable hours."
Wives of farmers often call their husbands "our master," and the husbands call their wives
mamy, whilst a labourer will often distinguish his wife by calling her the "o'man." People
now living remember when Goody and Dame, Gaffer and Gammer, were in vogue among the peasantry
of Leicestershire; but they are now almost universally discarded and supplanted by Mr. and
Mrs. which are indiscriminately applied to all ranks, from the squire and his lady down to
Mr. and Mrs. Pauper, who flaunt in rags and drink tea twice a day."

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG.

TUNE,--"Love was once a Little Boy."

(For the Mirror.)

  Beauty once was but a girl--
                                Heigho! heigho!
  Coral lips and teeth of pearl;
                                Heigho! heigho!
  Then 'twas hers, her arms to twine
  Round my neck, as at Love's shrine,
  Soft I zoned her waist with mine,
                                Heigho! heigho!
  Beauty's grown a woman now,
                                Heigho! heigho!
  Haughty mein and haughty brow,
                                Heigho! heigho!
  Tossing high her head in air,
  As if she deems her charms so rare,
  Will ever be what once they were,
                                Heigho! heigho!
  Beauty's charms will quickly fade,
                                Heigho! heigho!
  Beauty's self, erelong, be dead,
                                Heigho! heigho!
  And should Beauty haply die,
  Shall we only sit and sigh?
  No, Bacchus, no--thy charms we'll try!
                                Heigho! heigho!

H.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINS AND INVENTIONS.

No. XXIX.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOING SNACKS.

During the period of the great plague the office of searcher, which is continued to the present
day, was a very important one; and a noted body-searcher, whose name was Snacks, finding his
business increase so fast that he could not compass it, offered to any person who should join
him in his hazardous practice, half the profits; thus those who joined him were said to go
with Snacks. Hence "going snacks," or dividing the spoil.[1]

ANTIPHONANT CHANTING.

St. Ambrose is considered as the first who introduced the antiphonant method of chanting, or
one side of the choir alternately responding to the other; from whence that particular mode
obtained the name of the "Ambrosian chant," while the plain song, introduced by St. Gregory,
still practised in the Romish service, is called the "Gregorian," or "Romish chant." The works
of St. Ambrose continue to be held in much respect, particularly the hymn of Te Deum, which
he is said to have composed when he baptised St. Augustine, his celebrated convert.

    [1] Mems., Maxims, and Memoirs. By W. Wadd, Esq.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST

No. CIX.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I HAVE DONE MY DUTY."

A Tale of the Sea.[2]

              She would sit and weep
  At what a sailor suffers; fancy, too,
  Delusive most where warmest wishes are,
  Would oft anticipate his glad return.

  COWPER.

Look at yon poor remnant of the tempest, probably reduced to the hard necessity of becoming
a wanderer, without a home to shelter him, or one kind commiserating smile to shed a ray of
sunshine on the dreary winter of his life. I can remember, when a child, I had an uncle who
loved me very tenderly, and my attachment to him was almost that of a daughter; indeed he was
the pride and admiration of our village; for every one esteemed him for his kind and cheerful
disposition. But untoward events cast a gloom upon his mind; he hastened away to sea, and we
never saw him more."

By this time the weather-beaten, care-worn seaman had advanced toward the house, and cast a
wistful glance aloft; it was full of honest pride that disdained to beg, yet his appearance
was so marked with every emblem of poverty and hunger, that, as the conflicting feelings worked
within his breast, his countenance betrayed involuntarily the struggles of his heart. There
was a manly firmness in his deportment, that bespoke no ordinary mind; and a placid serenity
in his eye, that beamed with benevolence, and seemed only to regret that he could no longer
be a friend to the poor and destitute, or share his hard-earned pittance with a messmate in
distress. A few scattered grey locks peeped from beneath an old straw hat; and one sleeve of
his jacket hung unoccupied by his side--the arm was gone. "I should like to know his history,"
said the amiable lady; "let us send for him in." To express a wish, and have it gratified,
were the same thing to Mrs. D----, and in a few minutes the veteran tar stood before them.
"Would you wish to hear a tale of woe?" cried the old man, in answer to her request. "Ah, no!
why should your tender heart be wounded by another's griefs? I have been buffeted by the storms
of affliction--I have struggled against the billows of adversity--every wave of sorrow has
rolled over me; but," added he, while a glow of conscious integrity suffused his furrowed cheek,
"I have always done my duty; and that conviction has buoyed me up when nearly overwhelmed in
the ocean of distress. Yet, lady, it was not always thus: I have been happy--was esteemed,
and, as I thought, beloved. I had a friend, in whom I reposed the highest confidence, and my
affections were devoted to one;--but, she is gone--she is gone! and I--Yes! we shall meet again:"--here
he paused, dashed a tear from his eye, and then proceeded:--"My friend was faithless; he robbed
me of the dearest treasure of my heart, and blasted every hope of future happiness. I left
my native land to serve my country; have fought her battles, and bled in her defence. On the
29th of May, and glorious 1st of June, 1794, I served on board the Queen Charlotte, under gallant
Howe, and was severely wounded in the breast--but I did my duty. On that memorable occasion,
a circumstance occured which added to my bitterness and melancholy. The decks were cleared--the
guns cast loose, and every man stood in eager expectation at his quarters. It is an awful moment,
lady, and various conflicting emotions agitate the breast when, in the calm stillness that
reigns fore and aft, the mind looks back upon the past, and contemplates the future. Home,
wife, children, and every tender remembrance rush upon the soul. It is different in the heat
of action: then every faculty is employed for conquest, that each man may have to say, 'I have
done my duty.' But when bearing down to engage, and silence is so profound that every whisper
may be heard, then their state of mind--it cannot be described. Sailors know what it is, and
conquering it by cool determination and undaunted bravery, nobly do their duty. I was stationed
at the starboard side of the quarter deck, and looked around me with feelings incident to human
nature, yet wishing for and courting death. The admiral, with calm composure, surrounded by
his captains and signal officers, stood upon the beak of the poop, while brave Bowen, the master,
occupied the ladder, and gave directions to the quarter-master at the helm. They opened their
fire, and the captains of the guns stood ready with their matches in their hand, waiting for
the word. The work of destruction commenced, and many of our shipmates lay bleeding on the
deck, but not a shot had we returned." "Stand by there, upon the main deck," cried the first
lieutenant.