Frontispiece
    Tony's tonsils need attention                                    17
    Either doctor or nurse visits every school every day             20
    Cleveland's dispensaries are well equipped                       25
    The equipment of the Marion School dental clinic cost about $700 28
    The eye clinic is advertised by its loving friends               31
    Vaccinated children at Hodge School--50,000 more are
        unvaccinated                                                 39
    Shower baths installed in an old building in a crowded section   44

                            DIAGRAMS

    Number of children given physical examinations each year for
        five school years and number found to have physical defects  26

    Per cent of physical defects corrected each year for five
        school years                                                 36

HEALTH WORK IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Cleveland employs 16 physicians, one oculist, and 27 nurses to take charge of the health of
her school children. The city spends $36,000 a year on salaries and supplies for these people.
There are 86 school dispensaries and clinics. Cleveland is making this heavy investment because
she finds it pays.

THE ARGUMENT FOR MEDICAL INSPECTION

Medical inspection is an extension of the activities of the school in which the educator and
the physician join hands to insure for each child such conditions of health and vitality as
will best enable him to take full advantage of the free education offered by the state. Its
object is to better health conditions among school children, safeguard them from disease, and
render them healthier, happier, and more vigorous. It is founded upon a recognition of the
intimate relationship between the physical and mental conditions of the children, and the consequent
dependence of education on health conditions.

In Cleveland, the value of medical inspection was recognized while the movement was still in
its infancy in America. Here, as elsewhere, this sudden recognition of the imperative necessity
for safeguarding the physical welfare of school children grew out of the discovery that compulsory
education under modern city conditions meant compulsory disease.

The state, to provide for its own protection, has decreed that all children must attend school,
and has put in motion the all-powerful but indiscriminating agency of compulsory education,
which gathers in the rich and the poor, the bright and the dull, the healthy and the sick.
The object was to insure that these children should have sound minds. One of the unforeseen
results was to insure that they should have unsound bodies. Medical inspection is the device
created to remedy this condition. Its object is prevention and cure.

Ever since its establishment the good results of medical inspection have been evident. Epidemics
have been checked or avoided. Improvements have been noted in the cleanliness and neatness
of the children. Teachers and parents have come to know that under the new system it is safe
for children to continue in school in times of threatened or actual epidemic.

HEALTH AND SCHOOL PROGRESS

But medical inspection does not confine itself to dealing with contagious disease. Its aid
has been invoked to help the child who is backward in his school studies. With the recent extensions
in the length of the school term and the increase in the number of years of schooling demanded
of the child, has come a great advance in the standards of the work required. When the standards
were low, the work was not beyond the capacity of even the weaker children; but with close
grading, fuller courses, higher standards, and constantly more insistent demands for intellectual
attainment, conditions have changed. Pupils have been unable to keep up with their classes.
The terms "backward," "retarded," and "exceptional," as applied to school children, have been
added to the vocabularies of educators.

School men discovered that the drag-net of compulsory education was bringing into school hundreds
of children who were unable to keep step with their companions, and because this interfered
with the orderly administration of the school system, they began to ask why the children were
backward.

The school physicians helped to find the answer when they showed that hundreds of these children
were backward simply because of removable physical defects. And then came the next great forward
step, the realization that children are not dullards through the will of an inscrutable Providence,
but rather through the law of cause and effect.

EXAMINATIONS FOR PHYSICAL DEFECTS

This led to an extension of the scope of medical inspection to include the physical examination
of school children with the aim of discovering whether or not they were suffering from such
defects as would handicap their educational progress and prevent them from receiving the full
benefit of the free education furnished by the state. This work was in its infancy five years
ago, but today Cleveland has a thorough and comprehensive system of physical examination of
its school children.

Surprising numbers of children have been found who, through defective eyesight, have been seriously
handicapped in their school work. Many are found to have defective hearing. Other conditions
are found which have a great and formerly unrecognized influence on the welfare, happiness,
and mental vigor of the child. Attention has been directed to the real significance of adenoids
and enlarged tonsils, of swollen glands and carious teeth.

Teachers and parents have come to realize that the problem of the pupil with defective eyesight
may be quite as important to the community as that of the pupil who has some contagious disease.
If a child who is unable to see distinctly is placed in a school where physical defects are
unrecognized and disregarded, headaches, eyestrain, and failure follow all his efforts at study.
He cannot see the blackboards and charts; printed books are indistinct or are seen only with
much effort, everything is blurred. Neither he nor his teacher knows what is the matter, but
he soon finds it impossible to keep pace with his companions, and, becoming discouraged, he
falls behind in the unequal race.

In no better plight is the child suffering from enlarged tonsils and adenoids, which prevent
proper nasal breathing and compel him to keep his mouth open in order to breathe. Perhaps one
of his troubles is deafness. He is soon considered stupid. This impression is strengthened
by his poor progress in school. Through no fault of his own he is doomed to failure. He neglects
his studies, hates his school, leaves long before he has completed the course, and is well
started on the road to an inefficient and despondent life.

Public schools are a public trust. When the parent delivers his child to their care he has
a right to insist that the child under the supervision of the school authorities shall be safe
from harm and shall be handed back to him in at least as good condition as when it entered
school. Even if the parent does not insist upon it, the child himself has a right to claim
protection. The child has a claim upon the state and the state a claim upon the child which
demands recognition. Education without health is useless. It would be better to sacrifice the
education if, in order to attain it, the child must lay down his good health as a price. Education
must comprehend the whole man and the whole man is built fundamentally on what he is physically.

OBJECTIONS TO MEDICAL INSPECTION

