May Pearcey and she were both learners at a small dressmaker's shop in a street off Holloway
Road. They used to walk together along Grove Road in the mornings, and at dinner-time, and
in the evenings. But the boys all looked at May, who was a big girl with rosy cheeks and eyes
that were bold with many conquests. Sally only got the soppy ones. That was her luck. Sally
wondered why a good-looking boy so often had a soppy one with him. She wasn't soppy herself.
The boys thought she was; they never looked at her. But May picked up the good-looking ones,
and Sally had to take what was left. She hated to see her boy always looking on at the others,
at May, and never at herself; she hated to know that her boy didn't like the look of her, and
that he couldn't think of anything to say to her; and didn't take the trouble to think very
hard. It made Sally snap her teeth. One day, she reassured herself, it would be different.
One day, they'd know.

Slowly she stretched, with her arms high above her head and her mouth stretched sideways in
a yawn. Was mother asleep? She felt cramped and tired, and as she turned round to the light
her eyes blinked at the contrast with the outer darkness.

ii

"Oo!" groaned Sally. "Tired!"

She yawned again, a yawn that ended in a breathless gasp. Mrs. Minto looked across the room at her.

"D'you want any supper?" she asked.

"Wotcher got? Peaches and cream, and a glass of champagne?"

Mrs. Minto wriggled her skinny shoulders and fingered her chin.

"Don't you be saucy to me, my gel. There's a bit of dry bread on the plate there. And half
a glass of stout. You might think yourself lucky to get that."

"Well, I s'pose I might. But somehow I don't. Dry bread! It's Saturday, ain't it? What I mean,
pay-day."

There was a sour glance. Mrs. Minto sighed, and looked at the clock, frowning and wriggling
her shoulders. It was a form of constant drill or shudder that affected her.

"Yes," she said. "And your father not home. Pubs are closed. Wonder where he is. Come on, Sally.
Get your supper and get to bed. Sharp, now."

Sally rose to her feet and walked across the room. She cut a hunk of bread, and stood about
munching it, little crumbs gathering upon her lips. You could see how thin she was when her
arm was raised. Yet she made a few little dancing steps as she ate, and her face was not without
a comical air of mischief. She was an urchin, and she looked it. She was unscrupulous, and
a liar; but she knew a great deal for her years, and she never shrank from knowledge, because
she was athirst for it. Knowledge which could be turned to account was her preoccupation. She
stood looking at her mother, weighing her up, and in the midst of her daughterly contempt she
had room for a little admiration also. They were not altogether unlike; but Mrs. Minto had
taken the wrong turning. She had married a drinker, and was a slave. Well, Sally had benefited
by knowledge of that. She might marry a fool--probably would have to do so, as the wily ones
took what they could get and went off on their own; but she would never marry so incautiously
as her mother had done. Why should she? If one generation does not react to the follies of
the earlier generation, and seek an exactly contrary evil, what becomes of progress? Sally
had her wits. She thought they would never fail her.

As she sat down near her mother, they both heard a sudden slamming of the front door, two flights
of stairs below. Their eyes flew in an exchanged glance that held trepidation. It was probably
dad, and at this time on a Saturday night dad was usually the worse for wear. Both listened.
There was a heavy step. Then the sound of voices--a woman's raised voice, and dad's. It was
evidently a row. Sally ran to the door, and they listened to what was passing. Down the half-lighted
stairway they could just discern two figures, faintly outlined in the wavering flutter of gas.
Obviously dad was drunk, for he was haranguing a rather hysterical Mrs. Clancy, who stood at
the foot of the stairs and shouted after him. She said that he was drunk, that he ought not
to come in at that time of night stumbling about like an ostrich, that decent people liked
a little quiet, if he pleased. Mr. Minto said he would come in when he chose, and in what state
he preferred. He was not obliged to consult such an indiscriminate mother as Mrs. Clancy, and
he would not do it. Far from it. Far from it. He stood for liberty. He had as good a right
to the staircase as anybody else in the house. More right, in fact. Let her bring out Mr. Clancy
if she wanted a fight.... He then proceeded to the top of the first flight of stairs. He climbed
with difficulty, missing a stair once in a while, and breathing hard. He was pursued by an
outcry. A third voice was heard--that of Mr. Clancy. It was directed at first entirely to the
woman, and begged her to come back into the kitchen. They could see her arm caught by Mr. Clancy,
from whom she freed herself by a blow. There was a pause. But Mrs. Clancy broke out afresh.
She was beyond control, passionately shrill, and quite wildly resentful of what had been said
and done in her despite.

"Oh dear, oh dear!" cried Mrs. Minto, with inadequate petulance. She stepped out on to the
landing, fingering her mouth. Sally tiptoed after, hardly moved, but intensely curious. She
was grinning, but nervously and with contempt of the row. "Joe!" called Mrs. Minto. "Joe! Come
upstairs. Don't get quarrelling like that. Ought to be ashamed of yourself. Come upstairs!"
She looked over the rails at her husband, like a sparrow on a twig. He was a flight below.
"Come up here!"

There was a fresh outburst from Mrs. Clancy.

"You put your 'usband to bed, Mrs. Minto. Pore woman! Pore soul! Fancy 'aving a thing like
that for a 'usband! 'Usband, indeed! A great noisy drunkard, a great beastly elephant, boozing
all his money away. Drunken fool, stamping about...."

"You shut your mouth!" bawled dad, thickly. "You shut your mouth. See? When I want.... You
shut your bloody jaw. See?"

"Joe!" called Mrs. Minto, urgently, a mean little slip peering over the bannisters.

"Joe!" mimicked Mrs. Clancy. "You take him to bed, Mrs. Minto. Take his boots off. He's not
safe. He's a danger, that's what he is. I shall tell the police, Mr. Minto. It's got to come.
You got to stop it. I shall tell the police. I will, I swear it...."

Mr. Minto retorted. His retort provoked Mrs. Clancy to rebuke. The quarrel was suddenly intensified.
It became rougher. Even Sally was excited, and her hands were clasped together. Mr. Minto lost
his temper. He became mad. A fierce brutality seized him in its unmanageable grip. They heard
him give a kind of frenzied cry of passion, saw him raise his hands, heard a hurried scuffle
at the foot of the stairs, where the Clancys, both alarmed, drew back towards their room. And
then the rattle of an arm against a rail, a slither, a bumping, and a low thud. Dad, overbalancing
in his rage, had pitched and fallen headlong down the stairs. Mrs. Minto and Sally set up a
thin screaming. The gas flickered and burned steadily again. A shriek came from Mrs. Clancy.
It was repeated. Mr. Minto lay quite still in a confused heap in the lower passage.

iii

Dad was dead. It was the end of that stage in Sally's life. After the funeral, Sally and her
mother were quite without money. Everything was so wretched and unforeseen that the two were
lost in this miserable new aspect of poverty and improvidence. For a time Mrs. Perce was good
to them, and Mrs. Clancy would have been the same if Mrs. Minto had not stared through her
as through a pane of glass. But when that was done, and the funeral was over, they had nothing.
Together they sat in their bare room above the noisy traffic of Hornsey Road, not speaking
much, but all the time turning and turning in their heads all possible ways of making money.
In another two or three years Sally might have earned more; but she was not now much above
sixteen, and at sixteen, in the dressmaking, one does not earn a living. And while at first
they thought that Mrs. Minto might get needlework to do, with which Sally could help, they
found this out of the question. Mrs. Minto's eyes were weak, and she could not keep her seams
straight. The machine they had was ricketty. Sewing, for her, was impossible. For a few days
she was stunned with the new demand for which she was unprepared. She was nerveless. It made
Sally sick to watch her mother and to realise from the vacancy which so soon appeared upon
her face that memory and a kind of futile pondering had robbed her brains of activity. With
a bitter sense of grudge against life, a tightening of lips already thin, and a narrowing of
eyes already discomfitingly merciless, Sally savagely told herself that she had to do everything
alone. It was she who must save the situation. The arrogant grasp of this fact made a great
impression upon her mind and her character. Henceforward she no longer dreamed about men, but
was alert in her intention to make everything her tool, and everybody. From a young girl she
had been converted into an unscrupulous taker from all. The death of her father was a blow
which had suddenly drawn together all those vague determinations which had lain concealed.
There was nothing except dangerous theft from which her mind shrank. Looking afresh at her
mother, she felt stirred by a new impatience, and a succeeding indifferent contempt. Love had
been killed, and from now onwards she would play for her own hand. Small teeth met with a snap.
Her thin lips were drawn back. Mrs. Minto shrank from the strange venomous snarl which she
saw disfiguring Sally's face.

It was as though Sally felt trapped. Everything had been spoilt by this unexpected happening,
and Sally's unconscious helplessness revealed. It was a blow to her vanity, a douche to her
crude romanticism. She had felt cramped and irritable before; but now she was made to realise
how little she had with which to fight against calamity and the encroachments of others. Compared
with this new danger, of starvation or slavery, all old discomforts were shown to have been
trivial, because they had been accidents in a life which, however rough and ugly had been at
least absorbed in plans for enjoyment. Now plans for enjoyment gave place to expedients for
protection. Sally was indeed fierce and resentful. It was with animosity that she put together
the few sticks of rubbish which remained to them and helped her mother to rearrange these things
in a single room which they had taken on the other side of Holloway Road. No more for them
the delights of Hornsey Road and three rooms; but the confined space surrounded by these four
dingy walls. What wonder that Sally was desperate for fresh air, for escape, and ran out of
doors as soon as she could wriggle free! What wonder that she walked quickly about the dark
streets! Tears came to her eyes, and with clenched fists she secretly whimpered in this new
angry despair. Of what avail? She was alone, and the streets were dark; and behind her lay
that one room, gloomy and wretched, with a speechless ruminating mother for solitary welcome;
and no hope ... no hope.

The roads she now so wildly trod were familiar ground to Sally. They were all gravelled roads,
upon which in the evenings boys and girls cycled and flirted, and in which on Saturdays and
after school hours children bowled their hoops and played together. As the darkness grew, the
roads were more deserted, for the children were in bed, and the boys and girls were not allowed
out. Then appeared young men and girls of slightly greater age and of a different class, the
girls walking two by two, the young men likewise. The young men cleared their throats, the
girls peeped and a little raised their voices, a relation was established, and still the pairs
continued to promenade, safe in couples, and relishing the thought that they were enjoying
stolen acquaintance. Sally knew the whole thing through and through. She had walked so with
May. She had tried to talk to the boys and found them soppy, and herself soppy, and everything
soppy. She had wanted more and more excitement, and all this strolling and holding hands in
the dark, and snatching them away, and running, and being caught, was tame to her eager longing
for greater adventure. And now she walked rapidly about the roads, her eyes full of despair,
her heart heavy, her brain active and contemptuous. She knew her own cleverness. She knew it
too well. And it was smarting now at being proved such an ignominiously valueless possession.
She might be clever, she might have brains enough to despise May Pearcey; but she had not the
power to make a living. She must still pinch and starve beside her mother. Trapped! Trapped!

It was a matter of weeks, this mood of indignant despair, of baffled powerlessness in face
of reality. And each night, after such a lonely walk, in such a vehement mood, Sally would
return to the miserable room in which for the present she was to spend her life. It was at
the back of the house, on the second floor, and there was another floor above. The room had
a stained ceiling and a wallpaper that had discoloured in streaks. The original pattern had
been of small flowers on a pseudo-primrose background. Now all was merged in a general stagnation
of Cambridge blue and coffee colour. Mrs. Minto had carefully put the washstand beneath a patch
that had been washed nearly white by splashes; and Sally had insisted that it should stand
in another part of the room. "But that's where a washstand's stood before," wailed Mrs. Minto.
"That's why," explained Sally, brutally. "Put the chest-of-drawers there. I don't want to splash
exactly where other people have splashed. Not likely! The place ought to have been papered new."

When their bed and the washstand and a table and the chairs and chest-of-drawers were in there
was not much to arrange. Nor was there room for very much, because the bed took up about a
quarter of the space. The Mintos had no pictures. They thus anticipated the best modern taste.
But the consequence was that if Sally happened to be irritable she saw the wallpaper, and the
wallpaper drove her crazy. It was a constant exasperation to her. Her extremely good taste
was beginning to bud, and wallpaper is as vital an æsthetic test as any other. She had not
yet the power or the knowledge to dress effectively, but she was already learning intuitively
such things as harmony and colour-values. She gave an eye to neatness and cleanliness, and
knew how to riddle the costumes of girls of her own class, beginning with May Pearcey. She
also was becoming aware of all Miss Jubb's deficiencies. Higher than her own class she could
not well go, because she never had opportunities for seeing well-dressed women. It was so much
the Minto habit to rise late on Sundays, to sit about during the afternoon, and to go out only
when other people were generally indoors, that Sundays were wasted days. Moreover, Sally had
not in the past thought much of other girls. She had thought only of boys. Even her new spruceness
was a comparatively recent manifestation. She was growing.

She was growing so fast that her old knowledges had been undermined. She felt raw. She felt
merely exasperated with the past, so that she desired only to forget it. All she had seemed
to know and to relish had become insipid to Sally. She was chafing at her new position, and
was unconsciously looking round and round her, bewildered, for a new path to follow. She could
no longer take the old silly pleasure in hearing of May's fresh conquests, which gave May such
monotonous delight. She abandoned "boys," and was rewarded for her emancipation by May's indignant
sniffs at her loss of spirit. May was driven to take a new comrade, a girl prettier than Sally,
and therefore more of a rival. So May was equally dissatisfied with the present position. She
had lost ground, and some of her victories were invented. Nellie Cavendish had a sharp tongue,
and that helped May; but Nellie was less coarsely confident than May, and annexed the boys
by means of her demureness in face of double meanings. May could not refrain from turning away
to hide a burst of laughter. That gave Nellie an advantage, and May secretly longed to hunt
once more with Sally. When the old times could not be recaptured, May sneered in self-defence.
The two girls did not chatter over their work now when they were left alone. They became hostile,
each aggrieved, and both mutually contemptuous. Sally kept to her stitching, and glowered.
May thought to herself. Sally abruptly announced the soppiness of May's continued exploits.
When asked by her mother if she were not going out with May, Sally returned the cold answer
that May was soft, and continued to walk alone, much disturbed, and privately indignant that
her mother should be so blind as to ignore the alteration that had come about. She was lonely
and wretched, spoiling for any mischief that might offer.

Material for the use of such desperation never lacks. It arose naturally. Toby came into her life.

Toby was a young man of about twenty years of age, who lived in the house. She caught sight
of him one night as she returned home, for he was running down the stairs as she went up them.
He was of middle height, very dark and rather stoutly built; and he wore a cap. That was all
she noticed at their first encounter, since the stairs were dark: that, and the fact that he
did not draw to one side as they met. The contact filled her mind with sudden interest. She
thought about him as she munched her supper, and wondered what he was really like. She wreathed
around Toby quite a host of guesses--not very deep or vivid, but sufficiently so to make her
think of him still as she undressed and slipped into bed beside her mother. Her last thought
before sleep came was a faint enjoyment of the knowledge that a young man lived in the same
house. It was the faintest of thoughts, due solely to her restlessness; but in the gloom she
was conscious of him and of the conviction that they would meet again upon the stairs. For
that time this was as far as speculation could carry her. Sally did not think of herself at
all--only that there was a young man, and that she should see him again. The rest of her attention
was absorbed in the endeavour to remember all she had noticed of his appearance in that hasty
meeting. She had seen enough to be sure of recognising him again with the house as associative
background. That was all. Knowing it, she feel asleep, and dreamed of a sudden gift of beauty
and attractiveness.

iv

For several days Sally did not see the young man, and so she half forgot him, lost him in the
mixture of her more pressing preoccupations. Every morning she rose at eight o'clock, after
her mother had left the house for her first situation, and then, breakfasting slowly, she had
just time to reach Miss Jubb's by nine. She did not like Miss Jubb, who was a thin-faced and
fussy person who always wore a grey pinafore and felt that her untidy grey hair looked as though
it might hint a sorrow rather than betray advancing years. Miss Jubb was full of the futile
vanity of the elderly spinster, her mouth full of pins, and her head full of paper patterns.
She lived with her mother on two floors of an old house, and one of the downstairs rooms was
used on Sundays for sitting in and during the week for trying on. The work she did never suggested
anything of the enormous pains Miss Jubb took in fitting, in fastening pins and cutting out.
She was incurably a bad dressmaker; but she gave her clients the impression that she knew her
business. This was because she was so careful, and because they knew no better than she did
what women may and may not wear with propriety. The backs of all skirts coming from Miss Jubb
drooped lower than the fronts. Her bodices always went wrong upon the shoulders. She was great
on tucks. But she was cheap, and she was Sybil-like in her mysterious assurance. So she supported
herself and her mother; while May and Sally did the rough basting and all sorts of odd jobs
in the room behind the parlour. Here were the big cutting-out table, the treadled sewing machine,
three or four chairs, many fragments of material, several half-made garments, and, upon the
walls, a number of coloured prints from fashion papers. In such surroundings Sally spent her
days. She ate her lunch at twelve o'clock, and had her tea at four. And as her fingers worked,
or her feet occasionally by special permission propelled the sewing machine, she thought of
the future and planned to get into the West End.

It was the West End that now lured her. If only she could get into the West End all her troubles
would be wiped away at once, she felt. She could possibly make more money there; but even if
she did not succeed in that aim she would still be in the running for better work. That she
could do better work she never doubted. And she knew that as long as she was with Miss Jubb
she would never do anything at all. Some instinct told her that. She knew it. She knew it as
clearly as if she had surveyed the future from above. It was not that she was suddenly wise;
but only that ambition had come into her consciousness. The blow she had received by her father's
death had struck deep into her character. She had now to make something of her life, or starve.
With a quick circle of thought she imagined her mother dead. What would happen then? What chance
had she? Only vaguely did Sally glimpse the possibilities. She knew she could not keep herself.
She had one aunt--her mother's sister--with two boy children who were both younger than Sally;
but Aunt Emmy had a rough time herself, and could hardly be a help. Sally saw clearly enough
that she had to fight alone. Very well, if she had to fight alone she would do it, and fight
hard. As she scowled, it became evident that Sally would in this fight unscrupulously use every
weapon that she could seize. She would not shrink from anything that put opportunity into her
head. She was already hardened--a kind of hardening on the surface, or in strata, which left
curious soft places in her nature, streaks of good and layers and patches of armour and grit
and callous cruelty. Above all, she was determined upon having money. Money was the essential
thing. Money meant safety. And safety, when starvation threatens, becomes the one imperious
if ignominious ideal. Once one has known physical hunger, no act is inconceivable as a means
of averting the risk of a similar experience.

Thus Sally's thoughts ran, not coherently or explicitly, but in vehement revolts and resolves.
Thus she ruminated, while Miss Jubb was out of the room or had her attention so distracted
that she could not observe an idle apprentice. When Miss Jubb came back to the room or to supervision
work had a little to be hurried, so that she might not find occasion for complaint. For Miss
Jubb had a sharp tongue, and although she took the pins out of her mouth before she talked
she showed that they had left their influence upon her tongue, which was sharp to a fault.
And there, across the room, was the rosy-cheeked May Pearcey, so silly, so incapable of more
than momentary resentment, that she was always forgetting that Sally and she no longer spoke,
but was always trying to encourage Sally into a return to their former relation. Sometimes
Sally would glower across at May, bitterly hating her and riddling her plumpness and folly
with the keen eye of malice. May, unconscious of the scrutiny, would go on with her work, self-satisfied,
much coarser and more physical in her appetites than Sally, still in spite of all the rebuffs
she had received grinning about her boys and what they had said and what they had meant....

"Oo, he is awful!" she would burst out to Sally. "The things he said. I dint half blush."

May had enjoyed his boldness, it seemed. She told Sally what he had said. She told her things
and things in the irresistible splurge of the silly girl whose mind is full of adolescent impurity.
Well, Sally knew all that. She knew all the things that boys said; and a few more things she
had noticed and thought for herself. She was not a prude. May didn't know anything that Sally
did not know; but she talked about it. Sally did not talk. Her sexual knowledges, so far as
they went, were as close and searching as a small-tooth comb, and collected as much that was
undesirable. She despised May. May was a fool. She was soppy, talking about all these things
as if they were new marvels, when they were as old as the hills and as old as the crude coquetries
of boys and girls. May was the soppiest girl in Holloway. Yet the boys liked her for her plump
face and arms and legs, and her red cheeks, and her self-conscious laugh, and her eyes that
held guilt and evil and general silliness and vanity. The boys liked May. They did not like
Sally. She was too small and sandy; too obviously critical and contemptuous in face of their
small stock of talk, and too greedy of their poor and pompously-displayed schemes for economical
entertainment. Sally's teeth showed like the teeth of a cat, very small and sharp, emblems
of her nature. Conceit took firmer root in her heart because of her contempt for May and her
inevitable suppressions of pain and resentment in face of neglect, as well as her suppressions
of knowledge gained by a mental process so quick that May could never have had the smallest
notion of it. Sally became secret, and her determination was made more emphatic. She began
to study her face, and her body. One day her mother found her naked in front of a mirror, twisting
herself so that she could see the poise of her figure. It was a pretty figure, if underdeveloped,
and from that time of thorough examination onwards Sally never had the smallest doubt of her
own attractiveness and its principal constituents. Only her face was wrong, she felt with bitter
chagrin; her face and her hair. If her face were fatter and less freckled, and if her hair
were not so sandy and pale, she would be pretty. Really pretty. Pretty enough to make a man
go silly. Well, such things could be cured, couldn't they? Or, if not cured, then at least
improved.... That was a notion that dwelt constantly in Sally's thoughts.

v

The point was, that she must have actual experience in rousing men. It was not that she had
determined upon marriage as a way out of her present difficulties. At the back of her mind,
perhaps, was always the knowledge that she must get a man to work for her; but this never became
an obsession. She was simply a growing girl, hungry for experience, and at the outset hampered
by circumstance. Unless something happened to her, Sally was doomed to poverty and suffering.
Therefore, full of raw confidence, she was determined that she should be the heroine of her
own romance. Her impulse was not to give, but to take. She did not long to be the loving help
of a good man, but was ever craftily bent upon exploiting the weaker sides of those she met
for the furtherance of her own ends.

It was several days before she met Toby again; but she waited with a kind of patience wholly
in keeping with the rest of her nature. She always expected to meet him upon the stairs, and
never did so. In the streets she looked for him. Nights, however, were dark and Toby apparently
elusive. But one evening she was running down the three steps at the front door just as he
arrived home. With a quick breath she ventured a "good evening." When he answered, she was
filled with a pleasure which she would have found it hard to explain. "Evening," said Toby,
surlily, and passed on. Sally gave a small grimace, a faint jerk of the head. That was done.
A few more days passed. Still in the darkness she saw him a third time, now as she closed the
door of the room, while Toby hurried to the floor above. By questions, she had found out that
he lived exactly over them, and that his aunt had the room next to his, in the front of the
house. This aunt she never saw, as she was very exclusive, and did not associate at all with
her neighbours. Toby's surname she could not learn; but his aunt was called Mrs. Tapping. The
aunt had an annuity. Toby worked somewhere in the neighbourhood; and Sally soon discovered
the time of his departure and return. She knew these so well that she could have told you to
the minute when his foot might be expected upon the stairs. If he happened to be late she could
have remarked upon it to her mother if she had been in the habit of telling her mother anything
at all.

Later, when they had been in the house about three weeks, she had a triumph. She was going
out one evening and was barely down the first two or three stairs when she heard him running
behind her. He was forced to pull up, and, from a peep, she saw that he was still half a flight
above. Their progress from that instant coincided. They reached the front door almost at the
same time. She left it open, and as Toby came out she turned and smiled "good evening." He
replied. Sally followed with "Beautiful, isn't it!" and then went slowly towards Tollington
Park. Would he follow? She was almost breathless, her eyes downcast, her ears strained. He
did not follow. Sally frowned. A sneer came to her lips. Then a pensiveness succeeded, and
resolve became fixed. All right; he did not follow. He was a man. All the more worthy of her
address.

Moreover, she had noticed him more clearly than ever before, because the gas in the hall had
lighted his face as she turned upon the threshold. He was strong, and she adored strength.
He was broad and muscular and dark. He had dark eyes under heavy brows. His age she supposed
to be about twenty or slightly above. As she recollected these details Sally's face became
inscrutable. All the same, her walk had lost its savour, and she returned home earlier than
usual. How miserable it was that she had no other girl of her own age to go about with. Boys
always went in twos. So did girls. The one gave the other courage. Yet Sally was done with
May. May was soppy. She did not, in thinking this, do anything but envy May; but all the same
she knew that Toby's solitariness matched her own. It was an augury. She lay awake until he
came home, listening to her mother breathing; and then, in a few minutes, heard eleven o'clock
strike.

vi

The next time this happened, and they met so definitely, Toby looked sharply at her. Sally
did nothing, but paused an instant. He followed her with his eyes. Then, he stepped to her
side. It was the moment and Sally stopped sharply, shrinking a little from him.

"Going out alone?" Toby said. "Mind if I come too?" He walked beside her. "I mean ... live
in the same house."

Oh, he had plenty of assurance.

"All right; you can come," Sally vouchsafed. She was not going to show eagerness; but she was
thrilling with excitement. She moistened her lips, her nostrils pinched and her eyes suddenly
shrewd. She felt her heart beating terribly in her breast, and was half the calculating victor
and half a genuinely shrinking young girl engaged in her first serious exploit.

For a few moments both Toby and Sally were silent. Everything depended upon the establishment
of some instant connection between them, for otherwise the nerve of both might fail, and a
fiasco result. Toby's step hesitated, as though he was beset by an impulse to leave her. Sally
shot a quick glance. He was wavering, and must be held.

"Nice night, isn't it?" she remarked, in a ladylike way.

The inclination to fly was checked. Toby remained by her side. They walked together about the
streets for an hour, he smoking cigarette after cheap cigarette, and every now and then saying
something that was nothing. He was not a good talker. He could not express himself, but said
"er" between words, and moved his hands. Partly it was nervousness. Sally often grinned at
knowledge of this and of his bad way of speaking, which made him sometimes appear almost loutish.
But behind every roughness there lay a hidden strength that she was ready to worship. She walked
beside him with steps quicker than his own, but a good swing; exulting in their power to walk
in unison, a thin little figure beside his stoutness, her large black straw hat hiding her
every expression except when she tilted up her head and in the light of a street lamp showed
a tiny white face. Toby slouched along, one hand sometimes in a trouser pocket, but more often
with both hands in restless motion. She could hear him: "I mean to say ... these yobs go about
... penn'orth of chocolates and a drink at the fountain. That's all the dinner they get. Wear
a tiddy little bowler hat and never brush their boots.... Office boys, they are; and call 'emselves
junior clurks. And what's it come to? I mean to say.... I'd rather work with my hands, like
a man.... What's the matter with a little dirt? Comes off, doesn't it?"

"Oo ... yes ..." sighed Sally, admiringly.

At last, pursuing this theme, Toby told her an anecdote about one of the other fellows at his
work. Sally listened with a breathless interest that was only half-feigned. She wanted him
to think she understood. She wanted him to like her. She even wanted to sympathise. It was
such a mixture of feelings she had--some good, some mischievous and deliberate. All her vanities
were involved. Her nerves were taut with the strain of such a show of absorption, while her
mind ran on at top speed. She asked pseudo-timid questions, just to show her interest and her
cleverness, and to encourage Toby to keep on telling her things that threw light upon himself
and his likes and dislikes. She walked delicately, stifled yawns, interjected "fancy" and "there"
as if she understood all he said. She beguiled him. And all the time, under the design, her
heart was soft towards him, soft and admiring.

They walked along the darkened streets at a slow pace, and the passers were few. Once or twice
they encountered hushed couples, sometimes laughing groups. Always Sally glanced stealthily,
and summed up those whom they saw; and had a tail glance for Toby. He appeared to ignore everything,
and slouched along at her side, as he must have done when alone, with his head lowered. She
could not make him out. In some ways he was so self-confident, in others so much as though
he had never looked at a girl before. Did he know girls? Did he know what they were like? What
a mystery--a delicious mystery! He wasn't soppy, yet he hardly looked at her. Funny ... funny!
So she mused; continuing to give his talk quite half her attention.

At last ten o'clock struck, and, although both wanted to stay out longer, Sally was prudent
and firm. She said "mother would wonder what had happened," and laughed a little in her excitement,
at the innuendo, and in encouraging flattery. "Must go," she added, lingering. So Toby took
her back to the corner of their road, it being a strict unspoken covenant that they should
not enter the house together, in case they should be seen. There was no handshake; but Sally
had the satisfaction of seeing Toby awkwardly move the peak of his cap in parting. That was
ever so good, she thought. Her hard scrutiny of his manner found as yet no cause for suspicion,
but only for a renewal of her curiosity concerning him. Toby showed no sign of any feeling
beyond satisfaction with her, and this was an irresistible flattery. She ran in, full of excitement.

vii

What was the truth about him? Sally's thoughts bit into her observation with intense gusto.
She turned and twisted all her impressions during a couple of wakeful hours; and she remained
full of glee. What a piece of luck. Toby! Toby, Toby, Toby! How quickly her mind worked! It
was like acid, testing and comparing; and yet its action was soft and caressing when she remembered
his figure and his voice--some of the little gestures, some turns of speech, his sturdy contempt
for what he called "yobs," which she discovered to be the word "boys" spelt in an unfamiliar
way. Those were the things she loved. The rest she had exploited. The mixture of pleasure and
tactics filled her with delicious dread and hunger.

When the following evening came, Sally deliberately waited until she heard Toby go out. Only
after a delay of five minutes did she put on her hat and coat in opposition to her mother's
command. What was mother? There was a faint flush on Sally's cheeks, and a new sparkle in her
eyes. She was engaged upon an adventure. She dallied as she went down the stairs. At the door
she checked herself once more. What if he were not there? To herself she said that she would
not mind; but that was a lie which she told to her wits. Her heart gave a different message.

How dark it was! At first Sally could see nothing. The moon, if there was one, hid itself behind
black clouds. Only specks of light came from street lamps and between the slats of Venetian
blinds. A wind hustled about, blowing up for rain, and uncomfortably draughty. As Sally stood
on the step the door slammed behind her, and she heard a rattling run all through the house,
a banging of other doors and trembling of window-panes. And then, as she lowered her head to
meet the dusty breeze, she felt Toby beside her, at her elbow, expectant. Sally gave a start
and a cry, for he had been so silent in the midst of all these alarms as to come unexpectedly.

"How you startled me!" she exclaimed coquettishly. "Thought you'd gone out long ago!"

Toby gave a sort of half-confused laughing grunt.

"Hours ago I went out," he said, very close to her, deliciously bold.

"Didn't think you'd remember.... I didn't say I'd come.... Have you been waiting?" Sally sounded
very nearly affected in her unplanned speech. Toby answered with a sort of off-hand nonchalance.

"Only a minute. That's all right. I was afraid you weren't coming." Afraid! What a lovely word!
He continued, with his hand quickly at her elbow: "Shall we go round Fairmead?"

When he spoke as he was doing now, Toby's rough voice dropped to a low note that he believed
to be gentle. It was in fact still vibrant; but Sally liked everything about his tone and his
manner. It made her feel that he was a man; and manliness was everything to her. She longed
while she was with him to meet May ... to show her.... It would have given Sally fierce joy.
For the rest, she was content. He was by her side. Their arms touched from time to time. When
the wind blew extra strong, she clutched him, and they stood together to resist the onset.
And at every touch Sally had fresh sense of strength and adventure.

