Despenser, abler and more restless than the others, and confident in the royal favour, was
the first to take the aggressive. He wished to base his future greatness upon a compact marcher
principality in south Wales, and to that end not only laid his hands upon the outlying possessions
of the Clares but coveted the lands of all his weaker neighbours. He took advantage of a family
arrangement for the succession to Gower, to strike the first blow. The English-speaking peninsula
of Gower, with the castle of Swansea, was still held by a junior branch of the decaying house
of Braose, whose main marcher lordships had been divided a century earlier between the Bohuns
and the Mortimers. Its spendthrift ruler, William of Braose, was the last male of his race.
He strove to make what profit he could for himself out of his succession, and had for some
time been treating with Humphrey of Hereford. Gower was immediately to the south-west of Hereford's
lordship of Brecon. Its acquisition would extend the Bohun lands to the sea, and make Earl
Humphrey the greatest lord in south Wales. At the last moment, however, Braose broke off with
him and sought to sell Gower to John of Mowbray, the husband of his daughter and heiress. When
Braose died in 1320, Mowbray took possession of Gower in accordance with the "custom of the
march". The royal assent had not been asked, either for licence to alienate, or for permission
to enter upon the estate. Despenser coveted Gower for himself. He had already got Newport,
had he Swansea also he would rule the south coast from the Lloughor to the Usk. Accordingly,
he declared that the custom of the march trenched upon the royal prerogative, and managed that
Gower should be seized by the king's officers, as a first step towards getting it for himself.

Despenser's action provoked extreme indignation among all the marcher lords. They denounced
the apostate from the cause of his class for upsetting the balance of power in the march, and
declared that in treating a lordship beyond the Wye like a landed estate in England, Hugh had,
like Edward I., "despised the laws and customs of the march". It was easy to form a coalition
of all the marcher lords against him. The leaders of it were Humphrey of Hereford, Roger Mortimer
of Chirk, justice of Wales, and his nephew, Roger Mortimer of Wigmore, the head of the house,
who had overthrown Edward Bruce's monarchy of Ireland. As Braose co-heirs their position was
unassailable. But every other baron had his grievance. John of Mowbray resented the loss of
Gower; Henry of Lancaster feared for Monmouth and Kidwelly; Audley wished to win back Newport,
and Amory, Usk. Behind the confederates was Thomas of Lancaster himself, eager to regain his
lost position of leadership. The league at once began to wage war against Despenser in south
Wales, and approached the court with a demand that he should be banished as a traitor.

Edward made his way to Gloucester in March, 1321, and strove to protect Despenser and to calm
the wild spirits of the marchers. But private war had already broken out after the marcher
fashion, and the king retired without effecting his purpose. Left to themselves the marcher
allies easily overran the Despenser lands, inherited or usurped. Neither Cardiff nor Caerphilly
held out long against them: the Welsh husbandmen, like the English knights and barons of Glamorgan,
were hostile to the Despensers. The king could do nothing to help his friends. In May, Lancaster
formed a league of northern barons in the chapter-house of the priory at Pontefract. In June,
another northern gathering was held in the Norman nave of the parish church of Sherburn-in-Elmet,
a few miles to the north of Pontefract. This was attended by the Archbishop of York and two
of his suffragans, and a great number of clergy, secular and regular, as well as by many barons
and knights. It was in fact an informal parliament of the Lancastrian party. A long list of
complaints were drawn up which, under fair words, demanded the removal of bad ministers, and
among them the chamberlain. The clerical members of the conference met separately at the rectory,
where they showed more circumspection, but an equally partisan bias.[1]

    [1] Bp. Stubbs works all this out, Chron. Ed. I. and II.,
    ii., pref., lxxxvi.-xc.

The conferences at Pontefract and Sherburn showed that Lancaster and the northerners were in
full sympathy with the men of the west. The middle party again made common cause with the followers
of Lancaster. Amory's interests were sufficiently involved to make him an eager enemy of Despenser,
and Badlesmere was almost as keen. Though Pembroke still professed to mediate, it was generally
believed that he was delighted to get rid of the Despensers. Even Warenne took sides against
them, though the discredited earl was fast becoming of no account. Such being the drift of
opinion, the fate of the favourites was settled when the estates assembled in London in July.
Edward had delayed a meeting of parliament as long as he could, and was helpless in its hands.
Great pains were taken this time to prevent the repetition of the informalities which had attended
the attack on Gaveston. There was an unprecedented gathering of magnates, who came to the parliament
with a large armed following, encamped like an army in all the villages to the north of the
city. The commons were fully represented, and the clerical estate was expressly summoned. Articles
were at once drawn up against the Despensers. They had aspired to royal power; had turned the
heart of the king from his subjects; had excited civil war, and had taught that obedience was
due to the crown rather than to the king. This last charge came strangely from those who had
urged that doctrine as a pretext for withdrawing support from Gaveston. It is a good illustration
of the tendency of the Despensers to cloak their personal ambitions with loud-sounding constitutional
phrases.

The peers pronounced sentence of banishment and forfeiture against both the elder and the younger
Hugh. They were not to be recalled save by consent of the peers in parliament assembled. The
easy revolution was completed by the issuing of pardons to nearly five hundred members of the
triumphant coalition. The elder Despenser at once withdrew to the continent. The younger Hugh
found friends among the mariners of the Cinque Ports. These at first protected him in England,
and then put at his disposal a little fleet of vessels with which, when driven from the land,
he took to piracy in the narrow seas.

The fall of the Despensers was brought about very much after the same fashion as the first
exile of Gaveston. Like Gaveston, they speedily returned, and in circumstances which suggest
an even closer parallel with the events that led to the recall of the Gascon. The triumphant
coalition in each case fell to pieces as soon as it had done its immediate work. Once more
the loss of his friend and comrade stirred up Edward to an energy and perseverance such as
he never displayed on other occasions. But the second triumph of the king assumed a more complete
character than his earlier snatched victory. Accident favoured Edward's design of bringing
back his favourites, and throwing off once more the baronial thraldom. On October 13, 1321,
Queen Isabella, on her way to Canterbury, claimed hospitality at Leeds castle, situated between
Maidstone and the archiepiscopal city. The castle belonged to Badlesmere, whose wife was then
residing there, with his kinsman, Bartholomew Burghersh, and a competent garrison. Lady Badlesmere
refused to admit the queen, declaring that, without her lord's orders, she could not venture
to entertain any one. Bitterly indignant at the insult, the queen took up her quarters in the
neighbouring priory and attempted to force an entrance. The castle, however, was not to be
taken by the hasty attack of a small company. Six of Isabella's followers were slain, and the
attempt was abandoned. Isabella called upon her husband to avenge her; and the king at once
resolved to capture Leeds castle at any cost, and prepared to undertake the enterprise in person.
He offered high wages to all crossbowmen, archers, knights, and squires who would follow him
to Leeds, and summoned the levies of horse and foot from the towns and shires of the south-east.
His trust in the loyalty of his subjects met with an unexpectedly favourable response. In a
few days a large army gathered round the king under the walls of Leeds. Among the many magnates
who appeared among the royal following were six earls: Pembroke, Badlesmere's own associate;
the king's two brothers, Norfolk and Kent; Warenne, Richmond, and Arundel, who as Despenser's
kinsman felt himself bound to fight on his side. On October 23 the castle was closely besieged
by this overwhelming force, and on October 31 was forced to surrender. Burghersh was shut up
in the Tower and Lady Badlesmere in Dover castle. Thirteen of the garrison, "stout men and
valiant," were hanged by the angry king.

During the siege of Leeds, the magnates of the march, headed by Hereford and Roger Mortimer,
collected a force at Kingston-on-Thames, where they were joined by Badlesmere. But they dared
not advance towards the relief of the Kentish castle, and, after a fortnight they dispersed
to their own homes. Lancaster hated Badlesmere so bitterly that he made no move against the
king, and sullenly bided his time in the north. His inaction paralysed the barons as effectively
as in earlier days it had hindered the plans of the king. Flushed with his victory, Edward
gradually unfolded his designs. His tool, Archbishop Reynolds, summoned a convocation of the
southern province for December 1 at St. Paul's, and obtained from the assembled clergy the
opinion that the proceedings against the Despensers were invalid. On January 1, 1322, Reynolds
solemnly declared this sentence in St. Paul's. Edward did not wait for the archbishop. Attended
by many of the warriors who had fought at Leeds, he marched to the west, occupying on his journey
the lands and castles of his enemies. He kept his Christmas court at Cirencester, and thence
advanced towards the Severn. As the inaction of Lancaster kept the northern barons quiet, Edward's
sole task was to wreak his revenge on the marcher lords. They were unprepared for resistance,
and waited in vain for Lancaster to come to their help. Without a leader, they made feeble
and ill-devised efforts to oppose the king's advance. Their command of the few bridges over
the Severn prevented the king from crossing the river, and leading his troops directly into
the march. Foiled at Gloucester, Worcester, and Bridgnorth, Edward made his way up the stream
to Shrewsbury. The two Mortimers, who held the town and the passage of the river, could have
stopped him if they had chosen. But they feared to undertake strong measures while Lancaster's
action remained uncertain. They suffered Edward to cross the stream and surrendered to him.
The collapse of the fiercest of the marcher lords frightened the rest into surrender. Edward
wandered back through the middle and southern marches, occupying without resistance the main
strongholds of his enemies. At Hereford, he sharply rebuked the bishop for upholding the barons
against their natural lord. At Berkeley, he received from Maurice of Berkeley the keys of the
stately fortress which was so soon to be the place of his last humiliation. Early in February,
he was back at Gloucester, where, on February 11, he recalled the Despensers.

Humphrey of Hereford, Roger of Amory, and a few other marchers managed to escape the king's
pursuit, and rode northwards to join Thomas of Lancaster. Thomas had long been ready at Pontefract
with his followers in arms. But he let the time for effective action slip, and was only goaded
into doing anything when the fugitives from the march impressed him with the critical state
of affairs. The quarrel of king and barons was not the only trouble besetting England. The
two years' truce with Scotland had expired, and Robert Bruce was once more devastating the
northern counties. But neither Edward nor Lancaster cared anything for this. Andrew Harclay,
the governor of Carlisle, strongly urged the king to defend his subjects from the Scots rather
than make war against them. Edward answered that rebels must be put down before foreign enemies
could be encountered, and pressed northwards with his victorious troops.

Lancaster was then besieging Tickhill, a royal castle in southern Yorkshire. After wasting
three weeks before its walls, he led his force south to Burton-on-Trent, which he occupied
on March 10. Edward soon approached the Trent on his northward march. The barons thereupon
lost courage, and, abandoning the defence of the passage over the river, fled northwards to
Pontefract, the centre of Lancaster's power in Yorkshire. Edward advanced against them, taking
on his road Lancaster's castle of Tutbury, where Roger of Amory was captured, mortally wounded.
The Lancastrians were panic-stricken. They fled from Pontefract as they had fled from Burton,
retreating northwards, probably simply to avoid the king, possibly to join hands with Robert
Bruce. On March 16 the fugitives reached Boroughbridge, on the south bank of the Ure, where
a long narrow bridge, hardly wide enough for horsemen in martial array, crossed the stream.
The north bank of the river, and the approaches to the bridge, were held in force by the levies
of Cumberland and Westmoreland which Barclay had summoned at the king's request, in order to
prevent a junction between the Lancastrians and the Scots. Barclay was a brave and capable
commander and had well learnt the lessons of Scottish warfare.[1] He dismounted all his knights
and men-at-arms, and arranged them on the northern side of the river, along with some of his
pikemen. The rest of the pikemen he ordered to form a "schiltron" after the Scottish fashion,
so that their close formation might resist the cavalry of which the Lancastrian force consisted.
He bade his archers shoot swiftly and continually at the enemy.

    [1] For the tactics of Boroughbridge see Engl. Hist. Review,
    xix. (1904), 711-13.

Seeing this disposition of the hostile force, the Lancastrian army divided. One band, under
Hereford and Roger Clifford, dismounted and made for the bridge, which was defended by the
schiltron of pikemen. The rest of the men-at-arms remained on horseback and followed Lancaster,
to a ford near the bridge, whence, by crossing the water, they could take the schiltron in
flank. Neither movement succeeded. Hereford and Clifford advanced, each with one attendant,
to the bridge. No sooner had the earl entered upon the wooden structure than he was slain by
a Welsh spearman, who had hidden himself under it, and aimed a blow at Humphrey through the
planking. Clifford was severely wounded, and escaped with difficulty. Discouraged by the loss
of their leaders, the rest of the troops made only a feeble effort to force the passage. The
same evil fortune attended the division that followed Lancaster. The archers of Harclay obeyed
his orders so well that the Lancastrian cavalry scarcely dared enter the water. Lancaster lost
his nerve, and besought Harclay for a truce until the next morning. His request was granted,
but during the night all the followers of Hereford dispersed, thinking that there was no need
for them to remain after the death of their lord. Lancaster's own troops were likewise thinned
by desertions. The sheriff of York came up early in the morning with an armed force from the
south, joined Harclay, and cut off the last hope of retreat. Further resistance being useless,
Lancaster, Audley, Clifford, Mowbray, and the other leaders surrendered in a body.

Edward was then at Pontefract in the chief castle of his deadliest enemy. Thither the prisoners
of Boroughbridge were sent for their trial, and there they were hastily condemned by a body
of seven earls and numerous barons, presided over by the king himself. Lancaster, not allowed
to say a word in his defence, was at once sentenced to death as a rebel and a traitor. In consideration
of his exalted rank, the grosser penalties of treason were commuted, as in the case of Gaveston,
to simple decapitation. On the morning of March 22 Thomas was led out of his castle, clad in
the garb of a penitent and mounted on a sorry steed. He was conducted to a little hill outside
the walls. The crowd mocked at his sufferings and in scorn called him "King Arthur". In two
or three blows of the axe, his head was struck off from his body. Nor was he the only victim.
Audley, spared his life by reason of his marriage to the king's niece, was, like the two Mortimers,
consigned to prison. Clifford and Mowbray were hanged at York, and Badlesmere at Canterbury.
In all, more than twenty knights and barons paid the penalty of death.

It is hard to waste much pity on Lancaster. He was the victim of his own fierce passions and,
still more, of his own utter incompetence. His attitude all through the crisis had been inept
in the extreme, and the poor fight that he made for his life at Boroughbridge was a fitting
conclusion to a feeble career. But with all his faults he remained popular to the end, especially
with the clergy and commons. He was hailed as a martyr to freedom and sound government. Pilgrimages
were made to the scene of his death, and miracles were wrought with his relics. A chapel arose
on the little hill dedicated to his worship, and a loud cry arose for his canonisation. The
abuse made by his enemies of their victory only strengthened his reputation among the people.
The tragedy of his fall appealed to the rude sympathies of the north-countrymen, and the merit
of the cause atoned in their minds for the weakness of the man.

A parliament met at York on May 2, where the triumph of the king received its consummation.
The Despensers had more advanced constitutional ideas than Lancaster, and pains were taken
that this parliament should completely represent the three estates. It was a novel feature
that twelve representatives of the commons of north Wales and twelve of the commons of south
Wales attended, on this occasion, to speak on behalf of the region where the troubles had first
begun. With the full approval of the estates, the ordinances were solemnly revoked, as infringing
the rights of the crown. The important principle was laid down that "matters which are to be
established for the estate of the king and for the estate of the realm shall be treated, accorded,
and established in parliament by the king and by the council of the prelates, earls, and barons,
and the commonalty of the realm". Thus, while the repeal of the ordinances seemed based upon
their infringement of the royal prerogative, it was at least implied that they were also invalid
because they were the work of a council of barons only, and not of a full parliament of the
estates. This declaration of the necessity of popular co-operation in valid legislation is
the most important constitutional advance of the reign of Edward II. It is a significant comment
on the limitations of the baronial opposition that the ordinances should be the last great
English law in the passing of which the commons were not consulted, and that a royalist triumph
should be the occasion of the declaration of a vital principle.

The king's friends then received their rewards. Harclay was made Earl of Carlisle and the elder
Despenser became Earl of Winchester. Fear of the marcher lords, even in their prison, withheld
from the younger Hugh the title, though hardly the authority, of Earl of Gloucester. In other
ways also the Despensers were anxious to prevent their victory suggesting too much of a reaction.
Before parliament separated, it adopted a new series of ordinances confirming the Great Charter
and re-enacting in more constitutional fashion some portions of the laws of 1312, which aimed
at protecting the subject and strengthening the administration. Grants of men and money were
made to fight the Scots, and once more the new customs were allowed to swell the royal revenue.
Thus the revolution was completed. Edward, Gaveston, Lancaster, and Pembroke had each in their
turn been tried and found wanting. Thanks to the jealousies of the barons, his own spasmodic
energy, and the acuteness of the Despensers, Edward was still to have another chance, under
the guidance of his new friends. We shall see how the restored rule of the Despensers was blighted
by the same incompetence and selfishness which had ruined their predecessors in power. The
triumph of the Despensers proved but the first act in the tragic fall of Edward II.

During the deliberations of the parliament of York, the truce with Bruce expired, and forthwith
came the news that the Scots had once more crossed the border. On this occasion Bruce raided
the country from Carlisle to Preston, burning every open town on his way, though sparing most
of the religious houses. At Cartmel, Lancaster, and Preston, favoured monastic buildings alone
stood entire amidst the desolation wrought by the Scots. No effective opposition was offered
to them, and after a three weeks' foray, they recrossed the Solway.

As in 1314 and 1318, the restoration of order was followed by an attempt to put down Bruce.
In August, 1322, Edward assembled his forces at Newcastle and invaded Scotland. Berwick was
unsuccessfully besieged and the Lothians laid waste. The Scots still had the prudence to withdraw
beyond the Forth, and avoid battle in the open field. By the beginning of September, pestilence
and famine had done their work on the invaders. Unable to find support in the desolate fields
of Lothian, the, English returned to their own land, having accomplished nothing. The Scots
followed on their tracks, but with such secrecy that they penetrated into the heart of Yorkshire
before Edward was aware of their presence. In October they suddenly swooped down on the king,
when he was staying at Byland abbey. Some troops which accompanied him were encamped on a hill
between Byland and Rievaux. They were attacked by the Scots and defeated; their leader, John
of Brittany, was taken prisoner, and Edward only avoided capture by a precipitate flight from
Byland to Bridlington. All Yorkshire was reduced to abject terror, and Edward's hosts, the
canons of Bridlington, removed with all their valuables to Lincolnshire, and sent one of their
number to Bruce at Malton to purchase immunity for their estates. After a month the Scots went
home, leaving famine, pestilence, and misery in their train. The Despensers thus proved themselves
not less incompetent to defend England than Thomas of Lancaster.

As the state afforded no protection, each private person had to make the best terms he could
for himself. Even the king's favourite, Louis of Beaumont, the illiterate Bishop of Durham,
entered into negotiations with the Scots, while the Archbishop of York issued formal permission
to religious houses of his diocese to treat with the excommunicated followers of Bruce. Not
only timid ecclesiastics, but well-tried soldiers found in private dealings with the Scots
the only remedy for their troubles. After the Byland surprise, Harclay, the new Earl of Carlisle,
the victor of Boroughbridge, and the warden of the marches, dismissed his troops, sought out
Bruce at Lochmaben, and made an arrangement with him, by which it was resolved that a committee
of six English and six Scottish magnates should be empowered to conclude peace between the
two countries on the basis of recognising him as King of Scots. There was great alarm at court
when Harclay's treason was known. A Cumberland baron, Anthony Lucy, was instructed to apprehend
the culprit, and forcing his way into Carlisle castle by a stratagem, captured the earl with
little difficulty. In March, 1323, Harclay suffered the terrible doom of treason. He justified
his action to the last, declaring that his only motive was a desire to procure peace, and convincing
many of the north-countrymen of the innocence of his motives. To such a pass had England been
reduced that those who honestly desired that the farmers of 'Cumberland should once more till
their fields in peace, saw no other means of gaining their end than by communication with the
enemies of their country.

The disgrace of Byland and the tragedy of Carlisle showed that it was idle to pretend to fight
the Scots any longer. Negotiations for peace were entered upon; Pembroke and the younger Despenser
being the chief English commissioners. Peace was found impossible, as English pride still refused
to recognise the royal title of King Robert, but a thirteen years' truce was arranged without
any difficulty. This treaty of 1323 practically concluded the Scottish war of independence.
Bruce then easily obtained papal recognition of his title, though English ill-will long stood
in the way of the remission of his sentence of excommunication. His martial career, however,
was past, and he could devote his declining years to the consolidation of his kingdom and the
restoration of its material prosperity. He reorganised the national army, built up a new nobility
by distributing among his faithful followers the estates of the obstinate friends of England,
and first called upon the royal burghs of Scotland to send representatives to the Scottish
parliament. He had made Scotland a nation, and nobly redeemed the tergiversation and violence
of his earlier career.

Among Harclay's motives for treating with the Scots had been his distrust of the Despensers.
As generals against the Scots and as administrators of England, they manifested an equal incapacity.
Their greed and insolence revived the old enmities, and they proved strangely lacking in resolution
to grapple with emergencies. Nevertheless they ruled over England for nearly five years in
comparative peace. This period, unmarked by striking events, is, however, evidence of the exhaustion
of the country rather than of the capacity of the Earl of Winchester and the lord of Glamorgan.
The details of the history bear witness to the relaxation of the reins of government, the prevalence
of riot and petty rebellion, the sordid personal struggles for place and power, the weakness
which could neither collect the taxes, enforce obedience to the law, nor even save from humiliation
the most trusted agents of the government.

The Despensers' continuance in power rested more on the absence of rivals than on their own
capacity. The strongest of the royalist earls, Aymer of Pembroke, died in 1324. As he left
no issue, his earldom swelled the alarmingly long roll of lapsed dignities. None of the few
remaining earls could step into his place, nor give Edward the wise counsel which the creator
of the middle party had always provided. Warenne was brutal, profligate, unstable, and distrusted;
Arundel had no great influence; Richmond was a foreigner, and of little personal weight, and
the successors of Humphrey of Hereford and Guy of Warwick were minors, suspected by reason
of their fathers' treasons. The only new earl was Henry of Lancaster, who in 1324 obtained
a partial restitution of his brother's estates and the title of Earl of Leicester. Prudent,
moderate, and high-minded, Henry stood in strong contrast to his more famous brother. But the
tragedy of Pontefract and his unsatisfied claim on the Lancaster earldom stood between Henry
and the government, and the imprudence of the Despensers soon utterly estranged him from the
king, though he was the last man to indulge in indiscriminate opposition, and Edward dared
not push his powerful cousin to extremities. In these circumstances, the king had no wise or
strong advisers whose influence might counteract the Despensers. His loneliness and isolation
made him increasingly dependent upon the favourites.

The older nobles were already alienated, when the Despensers provoked a quarrel with the queen.
Isabella was a woman of strong character and violent passions, with the lack of morals and
scruples which might have been expected from a girlhood passed amidst the domestic scandals
of her father's household. She resented her want of influence over her husband, and hated the
Despensers because of their superior power with him. The favourites met her hostility by an
open declaration of warfare. In 1324 the king deprived her of her separate estate, drove her
favourite servants from court, and put her on an allowance of a pound a day. The wife of the
younger Hugh, her husband's niece, was deputed to watch her, and she could not even write a
letter without the Lady Despenser's knowledge. Isabella bitterly chafed under her humiliation.
She was, she declared, treated like a maidservant and made the hireling of the Despensers.
Finding, however, that nothing was to be gained by complaints, she prudently dissembled her
wrath and waited patiently for revenge.

The Despensers' chief helpers were among the clergy. Conspicuous among them were Walter Stapledon,
Bishop of Exeter, the treasurer, and Robert Baldock, the chancellor. The records of Stapledon's
magnificence survive in the nave of his cathedral church, and in Exeter College, Oxford; but
the great builder and pious founder was a worldly, greedy, and corrupt public minister. So
unpopular was he that, in 1325, it was thought wise to remove him from office. Thereupon another
building prelate, William Melton, Archbishop of York, whose piety and charity long intercourse
with courtiers had not extinguished, abandoned his northern flock for London and the treasury.
But the best of officials could do little to help the unthrifty king. Edward was so poorly
respected that he could not even obtain a bishopric for his chancellor. On two occasions the
envoys sent to Avignon, to urge Baldock's claims on vacant sees, secured for themselves the
mitre destined for the minister. In this way John Stratford became Bishop of Winchester and
William Ayermine, Bishop of Norwich. Edward had not even the spirit to show manifest disfavour
to these self-seeking prelates, but his inaction was so clearly the result of weakness that
it involved no gratitude, and the two bishops secretly hated the ruling clique, as likely to
do them an evil turn if it dared. Nor were the older prelates better contented or more loyal.
The primate Reynolds was deeply irritated by Melton's appointment as treasurer. Burghersh,
the Bishop of Lincoln, was a nephew of Badlesmere, and anxious to avenge his uncle. Adam Orleton,
Bishop of Hereford, was a dependant of the Mortimers, who took his surname from one of their
Herefordshire manors. Forgiven for his share in the revolt of 1322, he cleverly contrived in
1324 the escape of his patron, Roger Mortimer of Wigmore, from the Tower. The marcher made
his way to France, but his ally felt the full force of the king's wrath. He was deprived of
his temporalities, and, when the Church spread her ægis over him, the court procured the verdict
of a Herefordshire jury against him. Thus the impolicy of the crown combined the selfish worldling
with the zealot for the Church in a common opposition. Like Isabella, Orleton bided his time,
and Edward feared to complete his disgrace.

In such ways the king and the Despensers proclaimed their incapacity to the world. The Scottish
truce, the wrongs of Henry of Lancaster, the humiliation of the queen, the alienation of the
old nobles, the fears of greedy prelates,--each of these was remembered against them. Gradually
every order of the community became disgusted. The feeble efforts of Edward to conciliate the
Londoners met with little response. Weak rule and the insecurity of life and property turned
away the heart of the commons from the king. It was no wonder that men went on pilgrimage to
the little hill outside Pontefract, where Earl Thomas had met his doom, or that rumours spread
that the king was a changeling and no true son of the great Edward. But though the power of
the king and the Despensers was thoroughly undermined, the absence of leaders and the general
want of public spirit still delayed the day of reckoning. At last, the threatening outlook
beyond the Channel indirectly precipitated the crisis.

The relations of France and England remained uneasy, despite the marriage of two English kings
in succession to ladies of the Capetian house. The union of Edward I. and Margaret of France
had not done much to help the settlement of the disputed points in the interpretation of the
treaty of Paris of 1303, and the match between Edward II and his stepmother's niece had been
equally ineffective. The restoration of Gascony in 1303 had never been completed, and in the
very year of the treaty a decree of the parliament of Paris had withdrawn the homage of the
county of Bigorre from the English duke. Within the ceded districts, the conflict of the jurisdictions
of king and duke became increasingly accentuated. Having failed to hold Gascony by force of
arms, Philip the Fair aspired to conquer it by the old process of stealthily undermining the
traditional authority of the duke. Appeals to Paris became more and more numerous. The agents
of the king wandered at will through Edward's Gascon possessions, and punished all loyalty
to the lawful duke by dragging the culprits before their master's courts. The ineptitude which
characterised all Edward's subordinates was particularly conspicuous among his Gascon seneschals
and their subordinates. While the English king's servants drifted on from day to day, timid,
without policy, and without direction, the agents of France, well trained, energetic, and determined,
knew their own minds and gradually brought about the end which they had clearly set before
themselves. In vain did bitter complaints arise of the aggressions of the officers of Philip.
It was to no purpose that conferences were held, protocols drawn up, and much time and ink
wasted in discussing trivialities. Neither Edward nor Philip wished to push matters to extremities.
To the former the policy of drift was always congenial. The latter was content to wait until
the pear was ripe. It seemed that in a few more years Gascony would become as thoroughly subject
to the French crown as Champagne or Normandy.

Philip the Fair died in 1314, and was followed in rapid succession by his three sons. The first
of these, Louis X., had, like Edward II., to contend against an aristocratic reaction, and
died in 1316, before he could even receive the homage of his brother-in-law. A king of more
energy than Edward might have profited by the difficult situation which followed Louis' death.
For a time there was neither pope, nor emperor, nor King of France. But Philip V. mounted the
French throne when his brother's widow had given birth to a daughter, and continued the policy
of his predecessors with regard to Gascony. Again the disputes between Norman and Gascon sailors
threatened, as in 1293, to bring about a rupture. The ever-increasing aggressions of the suzerain
culminated in summoning Edward's own seneschal of Saintonge to appear before the French king's
court. Edward neglected to do homage, alleging his preoccupation in the Scottish war and similar
excuses. But the threatened danger soon passed away, for again the interests and fears of both
parties postponed the conflict. In avoiding any alliance with the Scots, the French king showed
a self-restraint for which Edward could not but be grateful. In 1320 Edward performed in person
his long-delayed homage at Amiens, though his grievances against his brother-in-law still remained
unredressed. In 1322 the death of Philip V. renewed the troublesome homage question in a more
acute form.[1]

    [1] For the relations of Edward II. and Philip V. see Lehugeur,
    Hist. de Philippe le Long, pp. 240-66 (1897).

The obligation of performing homage to a rival prince weighed with increasing severity on the
English kings at each rapid change of occupants of the throne of France. The same pretexts
were again brought forward, as sufficient reasons for postponing or evading the unpleasant
duly. But before the question was settled a new source of trouble arose in the affair of Saint-Sardos,
which soon plunged the two countries into open war. The lord of Montpezat, a vassal of the
Duke of Gascony, built a bastide at Saint-Sardos upon a site which he declared was held by
himself of the duke, but which the French officials claimed as belonging to Charles IV. The
dispute was taken before the parliament of Paris, which decided that the new town belonged
to the King of France. Thereupon a royal force promptly took possession of it. Irritated at
this high-handed action, the lord of Montpezat invoked the aid of Edward's seneschal of Gascony,
who attacked and destroyed the bastide and massacred the French garrison.[1] The answer of
Charles the Fair to this aggression was decisive. Gascony was pronounced sequestrated and Charles
of Valois, the veteran uncle of the king, was ordered to enforce the sentence at the head of
an imposing army.

    [1] See for this affair Bréquigny, Mémoire sur les différends
    entre la France et l'Angleterre sous Charles le Bel, in Mém. de
    l'Acad. des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres, xli. (1780), pp.
    641-92. M. Déprez is about to publish a Chancery Roll of Edward
    II. which includes all the official acts relating to it.

