INTERNATIONAL WEEKLY MISCELLANY

Of Literature, Art, and Science.

       *       *       *       *       *

Vol. I. NEW YORK, AUGUST 26, 1850. No. 9.

       *       *       *       *       *

NUMISMATIC ARCHÆOLOGY.

A magnificent work[1] upon this subject has just been completed in Paris, where it was commenced
fifteen years ago. It was begun under the auspices of M. Paul Delaroche and M.C. Lenormand,
member of the Institute, and well known already as one of the first authorities in the numismatic
branch of archæology. Some faint idea of the greatness of the task may be given by stating
that it embraces the whole range of art, from the regal coins of Syracuse and of the Ptolemies,
down to those of our day; that such a stupendous scheme should ever have been carried into
execution is not solely due to the admirable ease and fidelity, with which the "Collas machine"
renders the smallest and the largest gems of the antique: but to him who first felt, appreciated,
and afterward promoted its capabilities in this labor of love, M.A. Lachevardiere. Comparisons
and contrasts, which are the life of art, though generally confined to the mental vision, are
not the least of the recommendations of this vast work. For the first time have the minor treasures
of each country been brought together, and not the least conspicuous portion are those from
the British Museum and the Bank of England.

[Footnote 1: Trésor de Numismatique et de Glyptique; ou, Recueil Général de Médailles, Monnaies,
Pierres Gravées, Sceaux, Bas-reliefs, Ornements, &c. Paris, 1850.]

Whether we consider the selection of these monumental relics, the explanatory letterpress,
or the engravings which reproduce them, we are struck by the admirable taste, science, and
fidelity with which the largest as well as the smallest gems have each and every one been made
to tally in size with the originals.

The collection of the "Trésor de Numismatique et Glyptique," consisting of twenty volumes in
folio, and containing a thousand engraved plates in folio, reproduces upward of 15,000 specimens,
and is divided into three classes--1st. The coins, medals, cameos, &c. of antiquity; 2d. Those
of the middle ages; lastly, those of modern times. The details of this immense mass of artistic
wealth would be endless; but these three classes seem to be arranged according to the latest
classification of numismatists.

In the first class may be noticed--1. The regal coins of Greece, which contains, beside the
portraits of the Greek Kings, to be found in Visconti's "Iconographie," copied from medals
and engraved gems, all the coins bearing the Greek name of either a king, a prince, or a tyrant,
and every variety of these types, whether they bear the effigy of a prince, or only reproduce
his name. To the medals of each sovereign are joined the most authentic and celebrated engraved
gems of European cabinets. Next come the series of portraits of the Roman emperors and their
families, with all the important varieties of Roman numismatics, amongst which will be found
the most celebrated coins of France, Vienna, Dresden, Munich, Florence, Naples, St. Petersburg,
Weimar, &c.; and, moreover, those medallions which perpetuate great events. These two volumes
contain eight-fold more matter than the great work of Visconti.

In the second class, containing the works of the middle ages, and showing the uninterrupted
progress of the numismatic art down to modern times, and forming alone fourteen volumes, we
find the source which the French artists and men of letters have studied with such predilection.
First in order are the Italian medals of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, chiefly by
the famous Victor Pisano, a Veronese, whom Nasari has so much lauded. The scholars and imitators
of Pisano also produced works as interesting as historical documents as they are admirable
in workmanship. Here also will be found the French and English seals, in which the balance
of skill in design and execution is acknowledged to be in our favor.

Less barbarous, and indeed perfect works of art, in character of costume and visage, are the
medals struck in Germany during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, when the influence
of Albert Durer and his school was strongly felt. And finally, relics of ornamental art of
different nations and epochs.

In the third class, two parts only are devoted to contemporary art; the medals illustrative
of the French revolution of 1789; those of the "Empire" and of the Emperor "Napoleon;" generally
smacking of the florid and corrupt taste of that period, they are nevertheless curious as being
often the sole evidence of the facts commemorated. There is, however, a manifest improvement
in the late ones, and in them may be traced the transition from the independent ideas of the
revolution to the subsequent submission to one man: and not less striking is the transition
from a slip-shod style of art to a pedantic imitation of the antique. The "Trésor de Numismatique
et de Glyptique" is the most scientific and important work of art which has been executed and
achieved of late years in France. Our great public libraries may be proud of possessing so
rich, so valuable, and so curious a collection,

Most lovers of art have their favorite periods and well-beloved masters, but in this varied
range of excellence it is difficult which to select for preference and admiration. The cameos
have a beauty and finesse which far surpass that of busts and statues; they evince the skill
of grouping, which, with rare exceptions, such as the Niobe and Laocoon, is seldom aimed at
in the more important pieces of sculpture. Cameos, moreover, let us, as it were, into the secrets
of indoor life. To these considerations we may add that these gems have had an immense influence
on French modern art. The "Apotheosis of Augustus" especially, known to antiquarians as the
"Agate of Tiberius," the largest cameo in the world, and beautifully engraved the size of the
original in this collection, may be traced in more than one of their late compositions.

It is said that large medallions are a sign of taste either in the medalist or the monarch
he is supposed to honor; if so, Dupré and Varin have drawn a thick vail over the effulgence
of Louis XIV. We would not, however, lose their wigs and smiles for a world of historiettes.

But it is to be remembered that the more names are blazoned on works of art, the more art becomes
deteriorated. In this respect the present collection shows the rapidly progressive march of
this evil through twenty-five centuries--a most instructive subject of contemplation.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CSIKOS OF HUNGARY.

Of the chivalry, the gallantry, the splendor, the hospitality, the courage, and the love of
liberty of the Hungarian noble or gentleman, no one doubts. Of his ideas of true constitutional
freedom, or the zeal with which that or Hungarian independence has been maintained first through
Turkish, and then German domination for some hundred years past, doubts may be entertained.
Neither do the Hungarian peasantry or people reflect high credit on their "natural superiors."
Something should be deducted for the forced vivacity and straining after effect of the littérateur;
but this sketch of a large class of peasantry from Max Schlesinger's "War in Hungary," just
published in London, must have some foundation in truth--and very like the Red Indians or half-breeds
of Spanish America the people look.

"The Csikos is a man who from his birth, somehow or other, finds himself seated upon a foal.
Instinctively the boy remains fixed upon the animal's back, and grows up in his seat as other
children do in the cradle.

"The boy grows by degrees to a big horse-herd. To earn his livelihood, he enters the service
of some nobleman, or of the Government, who possess in Hungary immense herds of wild horses.
These herds range over a tract of many German square miles, for the most part some level plain,
with wood, marsh, heath, and moorland; they rove about where they please, multiply, and enjoy
freedom of existence. Nevertheless, it is a common error to imagine that these horses, like
a pack of wolves in the mountains, are left to themselves and nature, without any care or thought
of man. Wild horses, in the proper sense of the term, are in Europe at the present day only
met with in Bessarabia; whereas the so-called wild herds in Hungary may rather be compared
to the animals ranging in our large parks, which are attended to and watched. The deer are
left to the illusion that they enjoy the most unbounded freedom; and the deer-stalker, when
in pursuit of his game, readily gives in to the same illusion. Or, to take another simile,
the reader has only to picture to himself a well-constituted free state, whether a republic
or a monarchy is all one.

"The Csikos has the difficult task of keeping a watchful eye upon these herds. He knows their
strength, their habits, the spots they frequent; he knows the birthday of every foal, and when
the animal, fit for training, should be taken out of the herd. He has then a hard task upon
his hands, compared with which a Grand-Ducal wild-boar hunt is child's play; for the horse
has not only to be taken alive from the midst of the herd, but of course safe and sound in
wind and limb. For this purpose, the celebrated whip of the Csikos serves him; probably at
some future time a few splendid specimens of this instrument will be exhibited in the Imperial
Arsenal at Vienna, beside the sword of Scanderberg and the Swiss 'morning-stars.'

"This whip has a stout handle from one and a half to two feet long, and a cord which measures
not less than from eighteen to twenty-four feet in length. The cord is attached to a short
iron chain, fixed to the top of the handle by an iron ring. A large leaden button is fastened
to the end of the cord, and similar smaller buttons are distributed along it at distances,
according to certain rules derived from experience, of which we are ignorant. Armed with this
weapon, which the Csikos carries in his belt, together with a short grappling-iron or hook,
he sets out on his horse-chase. Thus mounted and equipped without saddle or stirrup, he flies
like the storm-wind over the heath, with such velocity that the grass scarcely bends under
the horse's hoof; the step of his horse is not heard, and the whirling cloud of dust above
his head alone marks his approach and disappearance. Although familiar with the use of a bridle,
he despises such a troublesome article of luxury, and guides his horse with his voice, hands,
and feet--nay, it almost seems as if he directed it by the mere exercise of the will, as we
move our feet to the right or left, backward or forward, without its ever coming into our head
to regulate our movements by a leather strap.

"In this manner for hours he chases the flying herd, until at length he succeeds in approaching
the animal which he is bent on catching. He then swings his whip round in immense circles,
and throws the cord with such dexterity and precision that it twines around the neck of his
victim. The leaden button at the end, and the knots along the cord, form a noose, which draws
closer and tighter the faster the horse hastens on.

"See how he flies along with outstretched legs, his mane whistling in the wind, his eye darting
fire, his mouth covered with foam, and the dust whirling aloft on all sides! But the noble
animal breathes shorter, his eye grows wild and staring, his nostrils are reddened with blood,
the veins of his neck are distended like cords, his legs refuse longer service--he sinks exhausted
and powerless, a picture of death. But at the same instant the pursuing steed likewise stands
still and fixed as if turned to stone. An instant, and the Csikos has flung himself off his
horse upon the ground, and inclining his body backward, to keep the noose tight, he seizes
the cord alternately with the right and left hand, shorter and shorter, drawing himself by
it nearer and nearer to the panting and prostrate animal, till at last coming up to it he flings
his legs across its back. He now begins to slacken the noose gently, allowing the creature
to recover breath: but hardly does the horse feel this relief, before he leaps up, and darts
off again in a wild course, as if still able to escape from his enemy. But the man is already
bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh; he sits fixed upon his neck as if grown to it, and
makes the horse feel his power at will, by tightening or slackening the cord. A second time
the hunted animal sinks upon the ground; again he rises, and again breaks down, until at length,
overpowered with exhaustion, he can no longer stir a limb....

"The foot-soldier who has discharged his musket is lost when opposed to the Csikos. His bayonet,
with which he can defend himself against the Uhlans and Hussars, is here of no use to him;
all his practiced maneuvers and skill are unavailing against the long whip of his enemy, which
drags him to the ground, or beats him to death with his leaden buttons; nay, even if he had
still a charge in his musket, he could sooner hit a bird on the wing than the Csikos, who,
riding round and round him in wild bounds, dashes with his steed first to one side then to
another, with the speed of lightning, so as to frustrate any aim. The horse-soldier, armed
in the usual manner, fares not much better; and wo to him if he meets a Csikos singly! better
to fall in with a pack of ravenous wolves."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRESENT RELIGION OF PERSIA.

An account of the Expedition for the survey of the rivers Euphrates and Tigris, carried on
by order of the British Government, in the years 1835, 1836, and 1837; preceded by geographical
and historical notices of the regions situated between the Nile and the Indus, with fourteen
maps and charts, and ninety-seven plates, besides numerous woodcuts, has just appeared in London,
in four large volumes, from the pen of Lieutenant-Colonel Chesney, R.A., F.R.S., &c., commander
of the Expedition. It is too comprehensive a work ever to be reprinted here, or to be much
read, even in England, but it is undoubtedly very valuable as an authority. The following paragraphs
from it describe the present state of religion in Persia:

"The title of Múlla is conferred on a candidate by some member of the order, after the requisite
examination in theology and law; and the person is then intrusted with the education of youth,
as well as the administration of justice, and the practice of law. The Múllas sometimes possess
sufficient power not only to influence the people at large, but even the King himself.

"Of this class of priests, those who have been successful in life are either placed in mosques
or private families, waiting for advancement; but a greater number are nominally attached to
colleges, and live by the practice of astrology, fortune-telling, the sale of charms, talismans,
&c. They who are not possessed of the requisite ingenuity to subsist by the credulity of others,
take charge of an inferior school, or write letters, and draw up marriage and other engagements,
for those who are unequal to the task. They mix at the same time largely in the domestic concerns
of families. But in addition to these and other vocations, a considerable number of the lowest
priests derive a scanty support from that charity which no one denies to the true believer.
These men wander as fakirs from place to place, carrying news, and repeating poems, tales,
&c., mixed with verses from the Koran. The heterodox religions are very numerous; nor is Irián
without her free-thinkers, as the Kamúrs and Mu'tazelís, (Mitaulis,) who deny everything which
they cannot prove by natural reason. A third sect, the Mahadelis, or Molochadis, still maintain
the Magian belief that the stars and the planets govern all things. Another, the Ehl el Tabkwid,
(men of truth,) hold that there is no God except the four elements, and no rational soul or
life after this one. They maintain also, that all living bodies, being mixtures of the elements,
will after death return to their first principles. They also affirm that paradise and hell
belong to this world, into which every man returns in the form of a beast, a plant, or again
as a man; and that in this second state, he is great, powerful, and happy, or poor, despicable,
and unhappy, according to his former merits or demerits. In practice they inculcate kindness
to and respect for each other, with implicit obedience to their chiefs, who are called Pir,
(old men,) and are furnished with all kinds of provisions for their subsistence. This sect
is found in the provinces of Irák and Fárs.

"The Táríkh Zenádikah (way of the covetous) are directly opposed to the last on the subject
of transmigration; and they believe that God is in all places, and performs all things. They
likewise maintain that the whole visible universe is only a manifestation of the Supreme Being;
the soul itself being a portion of the Divine essence. Therefore, they consider, that whatever
appears to the eye is God, and that all religious rites should be comprised in the contemplation
of God's goodness and greatness.

"On these various creeds the different branches of Suffeeism seem to have been founded. One
of the most extraordinary of these sects is the Rasháníyah; the followers of which believe
in the transmigration of souls, and the manifestation of the Divinity in the persons of holy
men. They maintain likewise, that all men who do not join their sect are to be considered as
dead, and that their goods belong, in consequence, to the true believers, as the only survivors."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "OLD DUKE OF QUEENSBURY."

Mr. Burke gives in his gossiping book about the English aristocracy, the following anecdotes
of this once famous person:

"Few men occupied a more conspicuous place about the court and town for nearly seventy years,
during the reigns of the Second and Third Georges. Like Wilmot Earl of Rochester, he pursued
pleasure under every shape, and with as much ardor at fourscore as he had done at twenty. At
the decease of his father, in 1731, he became Earl of March; and he subsequently, in 1748,
inherited his mother's earldom of Ruglen, together with the family's estates in the counties
of Edinburgh and Linlithgow. These rich endowments of fortune, and a handsome person, of which
he was especially careful, combined to invest the youthful Earl with no ordinary attractions,
and the ascendency they acquired he retained for a longer period than any one of his contemporaries;
from his first appearance in the fashionable world in the year 1746, to the year he left it
forever, in 1810, at the age of eighty-five, he was always an object of comparative notoriety.
There was no interregnum in the public course of his existence. His first distinction he achieved
on the turf; his knowledge of which, both in theory and practice, equaled that of the most
accomplished adepts of Newmarket. In all his principal matches he rode himself, and in that
branch of equitation rivaled the most professional jockeys. Properly accoutered in his velvet
cap, red silken jacket, buckskin breeches, and long spurs, his Lordship bore away the prize
on many a well-contested field. His famous match with the Duke of Hamilton was long remembered
in sporting annals. Both noblemen rode their own horses, and each was supported by numerous
partisans. The contest took place on the race-ground at Newmarket, and attracted all the fashionables
of the period. Lord March, thin, agile, and admirably qualified for exertion, was the victor.
Still more celebrated was his Lordship's wager with the famous Count O'Taafe. During a conversation
at a convivial meeting on the subject of 'running against time,' it was suggested by Lord March,
that it was possible for a carriage to be drawn with a degree of celerity previously unexampled,
and believed to be impossible. Being desired to name his maximum, he undertook, provided choice
of ground were given him and a certain period for training, to draw a carriage with four wheels
not less than nineteen miles within the space of sixty minutes. The accomplishment of such
rapidity staggered the belief of his hearers; and a heavy wager was the consequence. Success
mainly depending on the lightness of the carriage, Wright of Long Acre, the most ingenious
coach-builder of the day, devoted the whole resources of his skill to its construction, and
produced a vehicle formed partly of wood and partly of whale-bone, with silk harness, that
came up to the wishes of his employer. Four blood horses of approved speed were then selected,
and the course at Newmarket chosen as the ground of contest. On the day appointed, 29th of
August, 1750, noble and ignoble gamesters journeyed from far and near to witness the wonderful
experiment; excitement reached the highest point, and bets to an enormous amount were made.
At length the jockeys mounted; the carriage was put in motion, and rushing on with a velocity
marvelous in those times of coach traveling, but easily conceived by us railway travelers of
the nineteenth century, gained within the stipulated hour the goal of victory."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DECAY OF GREAT FAMILIES.

Not the least valuable parts of Burke's just published "Anecdotes of the Aristocracy," are
a species of essay on the fortunes of families. The following is from a chapter on their decadence:

"It has often occurred to us that a very interesting paper might be written on the rise and
fall of English families. Truly does Dr. Borlase remark that 'the most lasting houses have
only their seasons, more or less, of a certain constitutional strength. They have their spring
and summer sunshine glare, their wane, decline, and death.' Take, for example, the Plantagenets,
the Staffords, and the Nevills, the three most illustrious names on the roll of England's nobility.
What race in Europe surpassed in royal position, in personal achievement, our Henries and our
Edwards? and yet we find the great-great-grandson of Margaret Plantagenet, daughter and heiress
of George Duke of Clarence, following the craft of a cobbler at the little town of Newport
in Shropshire, in the year 1637. Beside, if we were to investigate the fortunes of many of
the inheritors of the royal arms, it would soon be discovered that

    'The aspiring blood of Lancaster'

had sunk into the ground. The princely stream at the present time flows through very humble
veins. Among the lineal descendants of Edmund of Woodstock, Earl of Kent, sixth son of Edward
I., King of England, entitled to quarter the Royal arms, occur Mr. Joseph Smart, of Hales Owen,
butcher, and Mr. George Wilmot, keeper of the turnpike-gate at Cooper's Bank, near Dudley;
and among the descendants of Thomas Plantagenet, Duke of Gloucester, fifth son of Edward III.,
we may mention Mr. Stephen James Penny, the late sexton at St. George's, Hanover Square.

"The story of the Gargraves is a melancholy chapter in the romance of real life. For full two
centuries, or more, scarcely a family in Yorkshire enjoyed a higher position. Its chiefs earned
distinction in peace and war; one died in France, Master of the Ordnance to King Henry V.;
another, a soldier, too, fell with Salisbury, at the siege of Orleans; and a third filled the
Speaker's chair of the House of Commons. What an awful contrast to this fair picture does the
sequel offer. Thomas Gargrave, the Speaker's eldest son, was hung at York, for murder; and
his half-brother, Sir Richard, endured a fate only less miserable. The splendid estate he inherited
he wasted by the most wanton extravagance, and at length reduced himself to abject want. 'His
excesses,' says Mr. Hunter, in his 'History of Doncaster,' 'are still, at the expiration of
two centuries, the subject of village tradition; and his attachment to gaming is commemorated
in an old painting, long preserved in the neighboring mansion of Badsworth, in which he is
represented as playing at the old game of put, the right hand against the left, for the stake
of a cup of ale.

"The close of Sir Richard's story is as lamentable as its course. An utter bankrupt in means
and reputation, he is stated to have been reduced to travel with the pack-horses to London,
and was at last found dead in an old hostelry! He had married Catherine, sister of Lord Danvers,
and by her left three daughters. Of the descendants of his brothers few particulars can be
ascertained. Not many years since, a Mr. Gargrave, believed to be one of them, filled the mean
employment of parish-clerk of Kippax.

"A similar melancholy narrative applies to another great Yorkshire house. Sir William Reresby,
Bart., son and heir of the celebrated author, succeeded, at the death of his father, in 1689,
to the beautiful estate of Thrybergh, in Yorkshire, where his ancestors had been seated uninterruptedly
from the time of the Conquest; and he lived to see himself denuded of every acre of his broad
lands. Le Neve states, in his MSS. preserved in the Heralds' College, that he became a tapster
in the King's Bench Prison, and was tried and imprisoned for cheating in 1711. He was alive
in 1727, when Wootton's account of the Baronets was published. In that work he is said to be
reduced to a low condition. At length he died in great obscurity, a melancholy instance how
low pursuits and base pleasures may sully the noblest name, and waste an estate gathered with
labor and preserved by the care of a race of distinguished progenitors. Gaming was amongst
Sir William's follies--particularly that lowest specimen of the folly, the fights of game-cocks.
The tradition at Thrybergh is (for his name is not quite forgotten) that the fine estate of
Dennaby was staked and lost on a single main. Sir William Reresby was not the only baronet
who disgraced his order at that period. In 1722, Sir Charles Burton was tried at the Old Bailey
for stealing a seal; pleaded poverty, but was found guilty, and sentenced to transportation;
which sentence was afterward commuted for a milder punishment."

       *       *       *       *       *

MADRID AND THE SPANISH SENATE.

Gazpacho; or, Summer Months in Spain, is the title of a new book by W. George Clark, published
in London. Gazpacho, it seems, is the name of a dish peculiar to Spain, but of universal use
there, a sort of cold soup, made up of familiars and handy things, as bread, pot-herbs, oil,
and water. "My Gazpacho," says the author, "has been prepared after a similar receipt. I know
not how it will please the more refined and fastidious palates to which it will be submitted;
indeed, amid the multitude of dainties wherewith the table is loaded, it may well remain untasted."
It at least deserves a better fate than that. The volume relates, in a pleasant, intelligent,
and gossiping way, a summer's ramble through Spain, describing with considerable force the
peculiarities of its people, and the romantic features by which it is marked. The clever painter
could not have better materials. The party-colored costumes of the peasants, like dahlias at
a Chiswick show; the somber garments of the priests, the fine old churches, the queer rambling
houses, looking centuries old, the dull, gloomy streets of Madrid, the life and activity of
the market-place. Such are the objects upon which the eye rests, and of which Mr. Clark was
too observant to neglect any. The following passages will give an idea of the materials of
which the Gazpacho is made up:--

MADRID.

"I left, I suppose, scarcely a street in Madrid which I did not traverse, or a church which
I did not enter. The result is hardly worth the trouble. One street and church are exactly
like another street and church. In the latter, one always finds the same profusion of wooden
Christs, and Madonnas in real petticoats, on the walls, and the same scanty sprinkling of worshipers,
also in petticoats, on the floor. The images outnumber the devotees here, as in all other Roman
Catholic countries (except Ireland, which is an exception to every rule.) To a stranger, the
markets are always the most interesting haunts. A Spaniard, he or she, talks more while making
the daily bargain than in all the rest of the twenty-four hours. The fruit and vegetable market
was my especial lounge. There is such a fresh, sweet smell of the country, and the groups throw
themselves, or are thrown, into such pretty tableaux after the Rubens and Snyders fashion.
The shambles one avoids instinctively, and fish-market there is none, for Madrid is fifty hours'
journey from the nearest sea, and the Manzanares has every requisite for a fine trout stream,
but water.

"Madrid has one peculiarity which conduces very much to the visitor's comfort, namely, that
there are very few inevitable 'sights' to be gone through. The armory said to be the finest
in the world; the palace, ditto (which people who are addicted to upholstering may go and see,
if they don't mind breaking the tenth commandment); the museum of natural history, where is
the largest loadstone in active operation between this and Medina; and the Academia, nearly
complete the list. Everybody should devote a morning to the last-named, were it only for the
sake of the Murillos. The famous picture of 'St. Isabel giving alms to the sick' has been arrested
at Madrid on its return from Paris to Seville. As the Sevilians have instituted a 'process'
for its recovery, it is likely to stay there for some time longer. 'The Patrician's Dream'
is quite cheering to look upon, so rich and glowing it is. Shut your eyes to the semi-ludicrous
effect of husband, wife, and dog, in a decreasing series, like the three genders in Lindley
Murray, all asleep.

"The gardens of the queen, sunk in a deep hollow below the palace, deserve a visit. The head-gardener,
of course a Frenchman, struggles gallantly against all kinds of difficulties of soil, climate,
and lack of water. By a series of ingenious artifices he has concocted a plot of grass, some
ten feet square, to the great astonishment of all natives."

NARVAEZ IN THE SENATE.

"One day my kind friend Colonel S. took me to hear a debate in the Senado, the Spanish Chamber
of Peers, which holds its sittings in the chapel of a suppressed convent, near the palace.
By dint of paint, gilding, and carpets, the room has been divested of its sanctified aspect,
and made to look like a handsome modern room. They have not thought it necessary that a place
in which a hundred gentlemen in surtouts meet to discuss secular matters in this nineteenth
century, should be made to resemble a chapel of the fifteenth. Antiquity is here represented
in the person of two halberdiers, who stand to guard the door, dressed in extravagant costume,
like beefeaters in full bloom. Rows of raised seats extend on each side of the room; in the
center, facing the beef-eaters, are the chair and desk of the president, and on each side a
little tribune, from which the clerks read out documents from time to time. The spectators
are accommodated in niches round the walls. Each member speaks from his place, and the voting
is by ballot. First a footman hands round a tray of beans, and then each advances, when his
name is called, to a table in the center, where he drops his bean into the box. The beans are
then counted, and the result proclaimed by the president. On the right of the chair, in the
front, is the bench assigned to the ministers; and there I had the good luck to see Narvaez,
otherwise called Duke of Valencia, and a great many fine names besides, and, in reality, master
of all the Spains. His face wears a fixed expression of inflexible resolve, very effective,
and garnished with a fierce dyed mustache, and a somewhat palpable wig to match. His style
of dress was what, in an inferior man, one would have called 'dandified.' An unexceptionable
surtout, opened to display a white waistcoat with sundry chains, and the extremities terminated,
respectively, in patent leather and primrose kid. During the discussion he alternately fondled
a neat riding-whip and aired a snowy pocket-handkerchief. Those who know him give him credit
for good intentions and great courage, but do not expect that he will ever set the Thames on
fire, whatever he may do to the Manzanares. He is a mixture, they say, of the chivalric and
the asinine: a kind of moral mule. His personal weakness is a wish to be thought young, and
hence he was naturally angry when Lord Palmerston wanted to give him a 'wrinkle.' I saw, likewise,
Mon, the Minister of Finance, smiling complacently, like a shopkeeper on his customers; and
the venerable Castanos, Duke of Bailen, who, as he tottered in, stooping under the weight of
ninety years, was affectionately greeted by Narvaez and others. On the whole, the debate seemed
to be languid, and to be listened to with little interest; but that is the general fate of
debates in July."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KANASZ.

Of the Servian swineherd we have heard something of late, both in history and romance; because
this was the vocation of Kara George, the Servian Liberator. In Hungary the swine-keeper does
not seem to be so respectable a person. Here is a sketch of him from Max Schlesinger's new
book on the Hungarian war:

"The Kanasz is a swineherd, whose occupation, everywhere unpoetical and dirty, is doubly troublesome
and dirty in Hungary. Large droves of pigs migrate annually into the latter country from Serbia,
where they still live in a half-wild state. In Hungary they fatten in the extensive oak-forests,
and are sent to market in the large towns, even to Vienna, and still further....

"It is a true enjoyment to live in these shady forests. The oak attains a finer and more luxuriant
growth on the Hungarian soil than in any part of Germany. The hogs find food in profusion,
and commonly stuff themselves to such a degree that they lose all desire for roving about:
so that dog, master, and ass, lead a comparatively easy life, and are left to the quiet enjoyment
of nature. But the lot of the Kanasz is a pitiable one when, at the close of summer, he has
to drive his swine to market. From Debreczin, nay even from the Serbian frontier, he has to
make a journey on foot more toilsome than was ever undertaken by the most adventurous traveler,
pacing slowly over the interminable heaths in rain, storm, or under a burning sun, behind his
pigs, which drive into his face hot clouds of dust. Every now and then a hog has stuffed itself
so full as to be unable to stir from the spot; and there it lies on the road without moving,
whilst the whole caravan is obliged to wait for half a day or longer, until the glutted animal
can get on his legs again; and when at length this feat is accomplished, frequently his neighbor
begins the same trick. There is truly not a more toilsome business in the wide world than that
of a Kanasz.... The fokos is a hatchet, with a long handle, which the Kanasz hurls with great
dexterity. Whenever he desires to pick out and slaughter one of his hogs, either for his own
use or for sale, the attempt would be attended with danger, in the half-savage state of these
animals, without such a weapon. The fokos here assists him; which he flings with such force
and precision, that the sharp iron strikes exactly into the center of the frontal bone of the
animal he has marked out; the victim sinks on the earth without uttering a sound, and the drove
quietly proceeds on its way. That he can strike down a man with equal precision at eighty to
a hundred paces, is proved by the gallows at the entrance of the forest--the three-legged monument
of his dexterity. During recent events, too, the surgeons of the Austrian army will readily
furnish the Kanasz and Csikos with certificates of their ability and skill."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "WILD HUSSAR" OF HUNGARY.

France, Russia, Prussia, and other countries, have introduced the Hussars into their armies;
but these soldiers are merely Russian, French, and Prussian cavalry, dressed in the Hungarian
laced jacket: they want the spirit, the horse, and--the 'Magyar Isten.' For this reason, the
Hungarian Hussar will not acknowledge them as brethren; and whenever he comes in contact with
foreign Hussars, he lets them feel in battle the full force of his contempt. A story is told,
that during a campaign against the French in the war with Napoleon, the bivouacs of the Prussian
and Hungarian Hussars were near to one another. A Prussian came over to his neighbors in a
familiar way with a glass of wine, and drank it to the health of his 'brother hussar.' But
the Hungarian gently pushed the glass back, and stroked his beard, saying, 'What brother?--no
brother--I hussar--you jack-pudding.'

This expression is not to be mistaken for a brag. The Hungarian hussar is no fanfaron like
the French chasseur, but he is conscious of his own powers, like a Grenadier of the Old Imperial
Guard. The dolmany, the csako, and the csizma, have grown to his body; they form his holyday
dress even when off duty--the national costume transferred into the army; and as he is aware
that this is not the case in other countries, the foreign Hussar's dress is in his eyes a mere
servant's livery; and logically the man is not altogether wrong.

The Hussar, like the Magyars in general, is naturally good-tempered. The finest man in the
service, he is at the same time the most jovial companion in the tavern, and will not sit by
and empty his glass by himself when a Bohemian or German comrade at his side has spent all
his money. There is only one biped under the sun who is in his eyes more contemptible and hateful
than any animal of marsh or forest. This is the Banderial Hussar--that half-breed between Croat
and Magyar, that caricature of the true Hussar, who serves in the cavalry, as the Croat in
the infantry, of the Military Frontier. Never was an Hungarian Hussar known to drink with a
Banderial Hussar; never will he sit at the same table: if he meets a snake he crushes it under
foot--a wolf he will hunt in the mountains--with a buffalo he will fight on the open heath--with
a miserable horse-stealer he will wrestle for a halter; but as for the Banderial Hussar, he
spits in his face wherever he meets him.

It was at Hatvan, or at Tapjo-Bicske, that Hungarian and Banderial Hussars were for the first
time in this war--the first time perhaps in the recollection of man--opposed to one another
in battle. If looks could slay, there would have been no need of a conflict, for the eyes of
the Magyars shot death and contempt at their unworthy adversaries. The signal of attack sounded;
and at the same instant, as if seized by one common thought, the Hungarian Hussars clattered
their heavy sabres back into the scabbard, and with a fearful imprecation, such as no German
tongue could echo, charged weaponless and at full speed their mimic caricatures whom fate had
thrown in their way. The shock was so irresistible, that the poor Croats could make no use
of their sabers against the furious onset of their unarmed foe: they were beaten down from
their saddles with the fist, and dragged off their horses by their dolmanys; those who could
save themselves fled. The Hussars disdained to pursue them; but they complained to their Colonel
at having been opposed to 'such a rabble.'--Schlesinger.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINAL POETRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

A HOROSCOPE.

BY ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH.

"Quorum pars magna fui."

  Oh! loveliest of the stars of Heaven,
    Thus did ye walk the crystal dome,
  When to the earth a child was given,
    Within a love-lit, northern home;
  Thus leading up the starry train,
    With aspect still benign,
  Ye move in your fair orbs again
    As on that birth long syne.

  Within her curtained room apart,
    The pale young mother faintly smiled;
  While warmly to a father's heart
    With love and prayer was pressed the child;
  And, softly to the lattice led,
    In whispers grandams show
  How those presaging stars have shed
    Around the child a glow.

  Born in the glowing summer prime,
    With planets thus conjoined in space
  As if they watched the natal time,
    And came to bless the infant face;
  Oh! there was gladness in that bower,
    And beauty in the sky;
  And Hope and Love foretold a dower
    Of brightest destiny.

  Unconscious child! that smiling lay
    Where love's fond eyes, and bright stars gleamed,
  How long and toilsome grew the way
    O'er which those brilliant orbs had beamed;
  How oft the faltering step drew back
    In terror of the path,
  When giddy steep, and wildering track
    Seemed fraught with only wrath!

  How oft recoiled the woman foot,
    With tears that shamed the path she trod.
  To find a canker at the root
    Of every hope, save that in God!
  And long, oh! long, and weary long,
    Ere she had learned to feel
  That Love, unselfish, deep, and strong,
    Repays its own wild zeal.

  Bright Hesperus! who on the eyes
    Of Milton poured thy brightest ray!
  Effulgent dweller of the skies,
    Take not from me thy light away--
  I look on thee, and I recall
    The dreams of by-gone years--
  O'er many a hope I lay the pall
    With its becoming tears;

  Yet turn to thee with thy full beam,
    And bless thee, Oh love-giving star!
  For life's sweet, sad, illusive dream
    Fruition, though in Heaven afar--
  "A silver lining" hath the cloud
    Through dark and stormiest night,
  And there are eyes to pierce the shroud
    And see the hidden light.

  Thou movest side by side with Jove,
    And, 'tis a quaint conceit, perchance--
  Thou seem'st in humid light to move
    As tears concealed thy burning glance--
  Such Virgil saw thee, when thine eyes,
    More lovely through their glow,[2]
  Won from the Thunderer of the skies
    An accent soft and low.

  And Mars is there with his red beams,
    Tumultuous, earnest, unsubdued--
  And silver-footed Dian gleams
    Faint as when she, on Latmos stood--
  God help the child! such night brought forth
    When Love to Power appeals,
  And strong-willed Mars at frozen north
    Beside Diana steals.

BROOKLYN, August, 1850.

[Footnote 2: "Lachrymis oculos effusa nitentes."]

       *       *       *       *       *

FRIENDSHIP.

  How oft the burdened heart would sink
    In fathomless despair
  But for an angel on the brink--
    In mercy standing there:
  An angel bright with heavenly light--
    And born of loftiest skies,
  Who shows her face to mortal race,
    In Friendship's holy guise.

  Upon the brink of dark despair,
    With smiling face she stands;
  And to the victim shrinking there,
    Outspreads her eager hands:
  In accents low that sweetly flow
    To his awakening ear,
  She woos him back--his deathward track.
    Toward Hope's effulgent sphere.

  Sweet Friendship! let me daily give
    Thanks to my God for thee!
  Without thy smiles t'were death to live,
    And joy to cease to be:
  Oh, bitterest drop in woe's full cup--
    To have no friend in need!
  To struggle on, with grief alone--
    Were agony indeed!

August. WILLIAM C. RICHARDS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BALANCE OF LIFE.

  All daring sympathy--clear-sighted love--
    Is, from its source, a ray of endless bliss;
  Self has no place in the pure world above,
    Its shadows vanish in the strife of this.

  The toil--the tumult--the sharp struggle o'er,--
    The casket breaks;--men say, "A martyr dies!"
  The death--the martyrdom--has past before:
    The soul, transfigured, finds its native skies.

  The good--the ill--we vainly strive to weigh
    With Reason's scales, hung in the mists of Time:
  Yet child-like Faith the balance doth survey,
    Held high in ether, by a hand sublime.

May, 1850. HERMA.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCIENCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

The SPANISH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES have announced the following subject for competition: "An experimental
investigation and explanation of the theory of nitrification, the causes which most influence
the production of this phenomenon, and the means most conducive in Spain to natural nitrification."
The prize, to be awarded in May 1851, is to be a gold medal and 6000 copper reals--about seventy
pounds sterling; and a second similar medal will be given to the second best paper. The papers,
written in Spanish or Latin, are to be sent in before the 1st May, with, as usual, the author's
name under seal.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPROVEMENTS IN THE TELEGRAPH.--The Presse gives some account of experiments made at the house
of M. de Girardin, in Paris, with a new telegraphic dictionary, the invention of M. Gonon.
Dispatches in French, English, Portuguese, Russian, and Latin, including proper names of men
and places, and also figures, were transmitted and translated, says this account, with a rapidity
and fidelity alike marvelous, by an officer who knew nothing of any one of the languages used
except his own. Dots, commas, accents, and breaks were all in their places. This dictionary
of M. Gonon is applicable alike to electric and aerial telegraphy, to transmissions by night
and by day, to maritime and to military telegraphing. The same paper speaks of the great interest
excited in the European capitals by the approaching experiment of submarine telegraphic communication
between England and France. The wires, it says, on the English side are deposited and ready
for laying down. It is probable that in a very few days the experiment will be complete.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORS AND BOOKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW ORLEANS AS SEEN BY A GERMAN PRINCE is very naturally not quite the same city as in the
opinion of her own pleasure-loving citizens, nor can the republic whose South-western metropolis
is condemned with the rigidity of a merciless judge and the jaundice of an unfriendly traveler,
hope to get clear of censure from the same super-royal pen. It seems that his serenest highness
Major-General Duke Paul William, of Wirtemburg, is traveling in America, and that the Ausland,
a weekly paper, of Stuttgart, is from time to time favored with the results of his experience
on the way. From some recent portions of his correspondence The International translates the
subjoined morceau, which, however, despite its great exaggeration, is not altogether devoid
of truth: "It is not necessary here to mention how much New Orleans has altered, increased,
and deteriorated, for it is an established thing that cities which grow to such gigantic proportions
gain nothing in respect to the morals of their inhabitants. Here drunkenness and gambling,
two vices of which the Americans were ignorant in the time of the founders of their great federation,
have taken very deep root. The decrease of the inflexible spirit of religion, and the increase
of vice and luxury, gnaw the powerful tree, and are fearful enemies, which cannot be resisted
by a structure that might resist with scorn all foreign foes, and would have played a mighty
part in the world's history had the spirit of Washington and Franklin remained with it. The
annexation of Texas, the war with Mexico, and now the gold of California, have transformed
the United States. A people which makes conquests, loses inward power in proportion to the
aggrandizement of its volume, and the increase of its external enemies."

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ARABIAN NEWSPAPER, with the title Mobacher. has lately been commenced in Algiers, at the
expense of the French Government. It is edited in the cabinet of the Governor-General, issued
weekly, and lithographed, as less expensive than printing, which in Arabic types would be quite
costly. It contains political news from Europe and Africa, the latest advices from Constantinople,
all those laws and decrees of the Government which in any way concern the Arabs, and descriptions
of such new discoveries and inventions as can be made intelligible to the readers for whom
it is designed. A thousand copies are printed weekly and sent to the chiefs and headmen of
all the tribes that are under French rule or influence. At first it was not read much, but
now the vanity of the Arabs has been excited by it as a mark of special attention from the
Governor-General, so that they take it as an honor, and a degree of curiosity has been excited
to obtain news from other parts of the world.

Within a short time, also, an additional importance has been given to the paper by the publication
in it of the amount of the tribute which each tribe is required to pay to France. Formerly
this was known only to the chiefs who would accordingly exact from their people whatever amount
they deemed best, under the pretense that it was for the government, while the greater part
was retained by themselves. These tribes have profited greatly by the French conquest; it is
estimated that of the eighty millions of francs which the army in Algeria costs yearly, from
twenty to twenty-five millions remain in the hands of the Arabs. The Arab sells his corn, dates,
horses, sheep, the baskets he weaves, &c., to the European population, but never buys anything
from them in turn, except it be arms and powder. The rest of his money he carries home and
buries where no one knows but himself, so that, if he dies suddenly, it is lost. Only the chiefs
of the tribe know how to extort anything of these hidden sums. According to the most moderate
estimates the tribes must have from two to three hundred millions of French money. The gains
which the chiefs draw from this wealth is considerable; some of them have from a hundred to
a hundred and fifty thousand francs income. They are beginning to build large houses, and cultivate
gardens around them, a disposition which the government favors, because it is easier to keep
tribes in order that are settled and have dwellings to lose which they cannot take with them.
The publication of the tribute in the Mobacher, is, under these circumstances, of great value
for the Arabs, because it enables them, as it were, to supervise their chiefs, and to refuse
to pay exorbitant taxes laid under pretense of a high tribute. This has increased the respect
generally felt for the paper, though it has not rendered it more a favorite with the chiefs.
The power of these leaders is very great in the various tribes, having been in most cases hereditary,
at least since the tenth century, and although not always inherited in direct line, the tribes
have never suffered it to pass into the hands of new families. Hitherto nothing has diminished
it; the war rather gave it new strength, and it is only by means of the chiefs that the French
can keep Algiers quiet. It would be a remarkable fact if the dissolving power of publicity
through the press should be manifested here as elsewhere, and begin the overthrow of the long
standing influence exercised by the great Arabian families.

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. M. ST. LEON LOUD, of Philadelphia, has in the press of Ticknor, Reed & Fields, of Boston,
a collection of her poems, entitled, "Wayside Flowers." Mrs. Loud is a writer of much grace
and elegance, and occasionally of a rich and delicate fancy. The late Mr. Poe was accustomed
to praise her works very highly, and was to have edited this edition of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITERATURE OF SOCIALISM occupies the press in France. The subject is warmly debated, pro
and con. In a pamphlet called Despotisme ou Socialisme, M. Pompery rapidly sketches the alternative
which, he says, lies open to those who rise against despotism. There are but two religious
doctrines according to him: the one absolutist, represented by De Maistre, and the Catholic
school, which is, logically enough, desirous of reestablishing the Inquisition; the other professed
by all the illustrious teachers of mankind, by Pythagoras, Jesus, Socrates, Pascal, &c., which,
believing in the goodness of the Creator and the perfectibility of man, endeavors to found
upon earth the reign of justice, fraternity, and equality. A more important work on Socialism
is that of Dr. Guepin, of Nantes, Philosophie du Socialisme; and M. Lecouturier announces a
Science du Socialisme.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. G.P.R. JAMES has taken a cottage at Jamaica, Long Island, and is domiciliated as an American--we
hope for a long time. He has made troops of friends since his arrival here, and is likely to
be as popular in society as he has long been in literature. We are sure we communicate a very
pleasing fact when we state that it is his intention to give in two or three of our principal
cities, during the autumn and fall, a series of lectures--probably upon the chivalric ages,
with which no one is more profoundly familiar, and of which no one can discourse more wisely
or agreeably. His abilities, his reputation, and the almost universal acquaintance with his
works, insure for him the largest success. We are indebted to no other living author for so
much enjoyment, and by his proposed lectures he will not only add to our obligations, but furnish
an opportunity to repair in some degree the wrong he has suffered from the imperfection and
injustice of our copyright system.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE LIFE, CHARACTER, AND GENIUS OF EBENEZER ELLIOTT," is a volume by January Searle, author
of Leaves from Sherwood Forest, &c., who knew the corn-law rhymer well, and has been enabled
to give very characteristic sketches, original descriptions, correspondence, &c. There are
in it many judiciously selected specimens of Elliott's poems, prose productions, and lectures.
Mr. Searle observes of him, that "he was cradled into poetry by human wrong and misery; and
was emphatically the bard of poverty--singing of the poor man's loves and sorrows, and denouncing
his oppressors." Again: "He has one central idea--terrible and awful in its aspect, although
beautiful and beneficent in spirit--before which he tries all causes, and men, and things.
It is the Eternal Idea of Right; his synonyme of God. And this idea is perpetually present
in his mind, pervades all his thoughts, will not be shuffled nor cheated, but demands a full
satisfaction from all violators of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LATE MRS. OSGOOD was in a very remarkable degree respected and beloved by those who were
admitted to her acquaintance. Without envy or jealousy, or any of the immoralities of the intellect
which most commonly beset writers of her sex, she occasioned no enmities and was a party to
none, but was regarded, especially by the literary women of this country, with a feeling of
tenderness and devotion probably unparalleled in the annals of literature or of society. Immediately
after her death, therefore, a desire was manifested to illustrate the common regard for her
by some suitable testimonial, and upon consultation, it was decided to publish a splendid souvenir,
to consist of the gratuitous contributions of her friends, and with the profits accruing from
its sale to erect a monument to her memory in the cemetery of Mount Auburn. This gift book,
edited by Mrs. Osgood's most intimate friend, Mary E. Hewitt, will be published by Mr. Putnam,
on the first of October, under the title of The Cairn, and it will contain original articles
by George Aubrey, Lord Bishop of Jamaica: the Right Rev. George W. Doane, the Right Rev. Alonzo
Potter, the Hon. R.H. Walworth, the Hon. J. Leander Starr, the Rev. C.S. Henry, D.D., G.P.R.
James, Esq., N.P. Willis, Esq., W. Gilmore Simms, Esq., Bayard Taylor, Esq., J.H. Boker, Esq.,
Alfred B. Street, Esq., R. H. Stoddard, Esq., Miss Fredrika Bremer, Mrs. Sigourney, Mrs. Oakes
Smith, Mrs. Embury, Mrs. Lewis, Mrs. Neal, Mrs. Willard, Mrs. Whitman, Miss Lynch, Miss Hunter,
Miss Cheesebro', and indeed nearly all the writers of her sex who have attained any eminence
in our literary world. The volume will be illustrated with nine engravings on steel, by Cheney
and other eminent artists.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REV. WALTER COLTON has just published through A.S. Barnes & Co. "Three Years in California,"
a journal of experiences and observations in the gold region, from the period when it first
attracted the attention of the Atlantic cities. Mr. Colton was some time alcade of Monterey,
and he had in every way abundant opportunity to acquire whatever facts are deserving of preservation
in history. His "Ship and Shore," "Constantinople and Athens," "Deck and Port," and other works,
have illustrated his genial temper, shrewdness, and skill in description and character writing;
and this book will increase his reputation for these qualities. It contains portraits of Capt.
Sutter, Col. Fremont, Mr. Gwin, Mr. Wright, Mr. Larkin, and Mr. Snyder, a map of the valley
of the Sacramento, and several other engravings, very spirited in design and execution.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. GEORGE STEPHENS, author of the "Manuscripts of Erdely," has been struck by ill health and
reduced to poverty, and an amateur play has been prepared for his benefit at the Soho Theater.
He wrote "The Vampire," "Montezuma," and "Martinuzzi."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Gallery of Illustrious Americans, conducted by Mr. Lester, continues with every number
to increase in interest. The work is designed to embrace folio portraits, engraved by Davignon,
from daguerreotypes by Brady, of twenty-four of the most eminent American citizens who have
lived since the time of Washington. The portraits thus far have been admirable for truthfulness
and artistic effect. It may be said that the only published pictures we have, deserving to
be called portraits, of the historian Prescott, or Mr. Calhoun, or Colonel Fremont, are in
this Gallery. The great artist, naturalist, and man of letters, Audubon, is reflected here
as he appears at the close of the battle, receiving the reverence of nations and ages. In the
biographical department Mr. Lester has evinced very eminent abilities for this kind of writing.
He seizes the prominent events of history and the strong points of character, and presents
them with such force and fullness, and happy combination, as to make the letter-press as interesting
and valuable as the engraved portion of the work. We are pleased to learn that the Gallery
is remarkably successful. No publication of equal splendor and expensiveness has ever before
been so well received in this country. The cost of it is but one dollar per number, or twenty
dollars for the series of twenty-four numbers. It is now half completed.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. Max Schlesinger, author of "The War in Hungary, in 1848-9,"--a work which, from what we
read of it in the foreign journals, is much the most striking and attractive of all that have
appeared upon its subject in English,--is described in the Athenæum, as by birth a Hungarian,
by the accidents of fortune a German. For some time a resident in Prague, and more recently
settled in Berlin, he has had excellent opportunities of seeing the men and studying the questions
connected both in the literary and political sense with the present movement of ideas and races
in Eastern Europe. His acquaintance with the aspects of nature in his native land--his knowledge
of the peculiar character of its inhabitants, their manners, modes of thought and habits of
life--his familiarity with past history--his right conception of the leading men in the recent
struggle--are all vouched for as "essentially accurate" by no less an authority than Count
Pulszky. It would be an injustice merely to say that M. Schlesinger has given in an original
and picturesque way a general view of the course of events in the late war, more complete and
connected than is afforded in any account hitherto presented to the public. He has done more:
he has enabled the German and English reader to understand the miracle of a nation of four
or five millions of men rising up at the command of a great statesman, and doing successful
battle with the elaborately organized power of a first-class European state, shaking it to
its very foundations, and contending, not without hope, against two mighty military empires,--until
the treachery from within paralyzed its power of resistance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Mayo's new novel, "The Berber, or the Mountaineer of the Atlas," published by Putnam, promises
to be scarcely less popular than his "Kaloolah." The Evening Post says of it: "Kaloolah was
a sprightly narrative of the wanderings of a Yankee, who seemed to combine in his person the
characteristics of Robinson Crusoe with those of Baron Munchausen; but the Berber professes
to be nothing more than a novel; or, as the author says in his preface, his principal object
has been to tell an agreeable story in an agreeable way. In doing so, however, an eye has been
had to the illustration of Moorish manners, customs, history, and geography; to the exemplification
of Moorish life as it actually is in Barbary in the present day, and not as it usually appears
in the vague and poetic glamour of the common Moorish romance. It has also been an object to
introduce to the acquaintance of the reader a people who have played a most important part
in the world's history, but of whom very few educated people know anything more than the name.
As Dr. Mayo has traveled extensively over the regions he describes, we presume that his descriptions
may be taken as true. His account of the Berbers, a tribe of ancient Asiatic origin, who inhabit
a range of the Atlas, and who live a semi-savage life like the Arabs, is minute, and to the
intelligent reader quite as interesting as the more narrative parts of the work. It is, perhaps,
the best evidence of the merits of the book, that the whole first edition was exhausted by
orders from the country before the first number had appeared in the city."

       *       *       *       *       *

Col. Forbes, who was in Italy during the revolution, and many years previous, and who was himself,
both in a military and civic capacity, one of the actors in that event, the Evening Post informs
us, is about to give public lectures on the subject of Italy in the various cities and towns
of the United States. Col. Forbes was intimately connected with the revolutionary chiefs during
the brief existence of the Roman Republic, and was directly and confidently employed by Mazzini.
His knowledge of the country, its people, its politics, and its recent history, will supply
him with materials for making his lectures highly interesting and instructive.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Gem of the Western World, edited by Mrs. Hewitt, and published by Cornish & Co., Fulton
street, is a very beautiful gift-book, and in its literary character is deserving of a place
with the most splendid and; tasteful annuals of the season. Mrs. Hewitt's own contributions
to it embrace some of her finest compositions, and are of course among its most brilliant contents.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH PERIODICALS.--A Parisian correspondent of the London Literary Gazette observes, that
if we exclude the Revue des Deux Mondes--a, sort of cross between the English Quarterly and
the monthlies,--if we exclude also a few dry scientific periodicals, and one or two theatrical
or musical newspapers, we shall seek in vain for any Quarterly, or Blackwood, or Art Union,
or Literary Gazette; and that even the periodicals and journals which make the nearest approach
to the weekly, monthly, or quarterly publications of England, are either wretched compilations,
or abominably ill-written and ill-printed. The feuilleton system of the newspapers is no doubt
the principal cause of the periodical literature being in such an extremely low condition.
But though literary and scientific periodicals be, generally speaking, vile in quality, they
can at least boast of quantity. There are, it seems, not fewer than 300 of one kind or another
published in Paris alone. Among them are 44 devoted to medicine, chemistry, natural science,
&c.; 42, trade, commerce, railways, advertisements; 34, fashions; 30, law; 22, administration,
public works, roads, bridges, mines; 19, archæology, history, biography, geography, numismatics;
19, public instruction and education; 15, agriculture and horticulture; 8, bibliography and
typography; 10, army and navy; 7, literary; the rest theatrical, musical, or of a character
too hybrid to be classified.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ILLUSTRATED DOMESTIC BIBLE, edited by the Rev. Ingram Cobbin, seems to us decidedly the
best family Bible ever offered to the trade in this country. It is printed with remarkable
correctness and beauty; illustrated with a very large number of maps and engravings on wood;
and its notes, written with much condensation and perspicuity, are such as are necessary for
the understanding of the text. Indeed, all that is added to the letter of the Bible is legitimate
and necessary illustration. It is being published in a series of twenty-five numbers, at twenty-five
cents each, by S. Hueston, publisher of The Knickerbocker, Nassau-street.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VIENNA UNIVERSITY, long one of the best in Europe, has not been reopened since the insurrection
of November, 1848, its principal edifice having been occupied as barracks for a regiment of
soldiers. It is now proposed to restore it to its proper use, but great difficulty is experienced
in finding professors. The old ones are scattered, some as exiles in foreign countries, on
account of democratic opinions,--some in prison for the same reason, others employed elsewhere.
Wackernagel, the eminent professor of the German Language and Literature at Basle, Switzerland,
tempted by liberal offers, had promised to come to Vienna, and lend the aid of his reputation
and talents to the restoration of the University, but being lately at Milan, on a wedding tour,
as he and his wife were passing through the Piazza d'Armi, their ears were saluted by cries
of pain, which on inquiry they found to proceed from sundry rebellious Italians, of both sexes,
who were receiving each from twenty-five to fifty blows of the military baton, or cane, employed
by the Austrians in flogging soldiers. Madame Wackernagel at once declared that she would never
willingly inhabit a country whose laws and habits suffered women to be so brutally punished
for patriotism, and her husband could only agree with her. He has accordingly broken off the
engagement, and the Government cannot hope to supply his place.

       *       *       *       *       *

HINCKS ON LITERARY LARCENY.--A Canadian friend sends us the following extract from a speech
by Francis Hincks, a leading member of the Canadian Ministry, touching the International Copyright
question:

    "The American publisher steals the works of British authors,
    because he is immoral enough to do it, because he is scoundrel
    enough, and the nation is scoundrel enough to permit it.
    (Ironical cheers.) Yes, because the nation is scoundrel enough
    to permit it."

Our unknown friend who sends us this wants us to give Hincks a thorough roasting for it, and
evidently expects every hair on our head to bristle with indignation. Now we have not the least
objection to roasting the Minister aforesaid, and will do it when a fair chance presents itself,
but we don't consider this such a chance. In fact, though we think Francis has drawn rather
a strong draught from "the well of English undefiled," yet essentially we regard his observations
above quoted as rather more than half right. It is rascally to steal a man's book, print it,
sell it, read it, and refuse him any pay for the labor of writing it; and we don't see that
his being an Englishman makes any material difference. There may be a cheaper way to get the
proceeds of another man's toil than by paying for it, but we don't think there is any other
strictly honest way.--Tribune.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERR SCHUMANN's opera, "Généviève," was produced at Leipsic on the 28th ultimo. "This work,"
says the Gazette Musicale, "after having been much recommended beforehand, does not seem to
have satisfied public expectation, being concert music, without any dramatic force." For the
verdict which will finally be passed on "Généviève" every one must be curious who has at all
followed the journals of Young Germany in the recent crusades which they nave made, not so
much to establish Schumann as a great composer, as to prove him greater than Mendelssohn.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GRAND LITERARY TRADE SALES are now in progress in New York: and the catalogues of the rival
houses are the largest ever printed. Cooley & Keese at their splendid hall in Broadway present
this year a richer and more extensive series of invoices than has ever before been sold in America.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bavaria is a sort of artists' paradise, both the late King Louis and the present Maximilian
being determined to leave behind them the glory of munificent patrons of art. In this they
have so far succeeded, that Munich, which before their time was by no means among German cities
the most worthy a traveler's attention, may now dispute the palm even with Dresden, notwithstanding
the unrivaled gallery of paintings, possessed by the latter. For students of modern art, and
especially of the German schools, Munich is incomparable, while its collection of ancient sculptures
cannot be equaled out of Italy. We now learn that King Maximilian has conceived the plan of
a grand series of pictures to comprehend the prominent epochs and events of history. The most
eminent German and foreign artists are to be invited to assist in carrying out this immense
undertaking; so that thus the series will not only represent the great experiences of mankind,
but will, it is hoped, contain specimens of all the great schools of modern painting.

       *       *       *       *       *

An exhibition of indisputable works by the old painters is now open at Valenciennes, in France.
It consists of pictures belonging to the family of the Belgian general Rottiers. They are for
sale, either single or together. Among them is a St. Denis, bearing his Head, by Rubens, said
to have been painted by order of Pope Urban VIII. It was deposited in the Convent of the Annunciades,
at Antioch; in 1747, Louis XV. offered 100,000 francs for it, but was refused, the convent
having no right to dispose of it. Afterward, on the suppression of the convent, it fell into
the hands of the family to which it now belongs. The exhibition also contains a landscape by
Salvator Rosa, representing a scene in the Appenines; a Magdalen kneeling in a Cavern, by Kneller;
two Allegories, by Giulio Romano; several portraits by Rubens and Van Dyke, besides other works
of less value.

       *       *       *       *       *

Darley's "Sleepy Hollow."--The London Art Journal, for July, has the following notice of Mr.
Darley's illustrations of Irving's "Legends of Sleepy Hollow," published by the American Art
Union: "The charmingly quaint original legend told with so much quiet humor by Washington Irving,
is here illustrated by a native artist in a congenial spirit, and his scenes realized in a
manner which must give its author satisfaction, and redound to the credit of the designer.
We have before noticed the great ability exhibited by Mr. Darley for the mode of illustration
he adopts, which we may add is that rendered famous by Retzsh. The series we are now noticing
are quite as meritorious as that designed by the same artist to Rip Van Winkle; but the subject
matter is not equally capable of such broad contrasts in drollery as that legend presents.
Nevertheless, Mr. Darley has executed his task in the truest appreciation of his author; and
his hero is the veritable Ichabod Crane of Irving; his love-making scene with "the peerless
daughter of Van Tassel" is exquisite in its quiet humor; so also is the merry-making in the
Dutch Farmer's home. Altogether, the series is extremely good, and does the greatest credit
to the designer. American literature thus illustrated by American artists cannot fail to achieve
honor to that country in the old world as well as the new. We believe Mr. Darley, in his line,
to be as great as any American artist whose works have fallen under our notice."

       *       *       *       *       *

Chaucer's Monument.--The Athenæum says, "One of the objections formerly urged against taking
steps to restore the perishing memorial of the Father of English Poetry in Poet's Corner was,
that it was not really his tomb, but a monument erected to do honor to his memory a century
and a half after his death. An examination, however, of the tomb itself, by competent authorities,
has proved this objection to be unfounded--inasmuch as there can exist no doubt, we hear, from
the difference of workmanship, material, &c., that the altar tomb is the original tomb of Geoffrey
Chaucer,--and that instead of Nicholas Brigham having erected an entirely new monument, he
only added to that which then existed the overhanging canopy, &c. So that the sympathy of Chaucer's
admirers is now invited to the restoration of what till now was really not known to exist--the
original tomb of the Poet--as well as to the additions made to it by the affectionate remembrance
of Nicholas Brigham."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lessing's new picture.--A letter from Düsseldorf under date of 9th July, in the Courier and
Enquirer, says that Lessing's great painting, "The Martyrdom of Huss," Sad just been finished
and had been exhibited for the last few days at the Academy of Fine Arts, where it was visited
by thousands. When it became known that orders for its immediate shipment had arrived from
New York, the desire to obtain a last view of this truly great work became so intense that
it was found necessary to put the Police in requisition to keep back the throng, and the gates
of the Academy had to be closed. It causes general regret that it is to be sent out of the
country. The Cologne Gazette calls this picture the most sublime production of the great artist,
and expresses the conviction that a speedy fortune might be realized by its exhibition in Europe.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. George Flagg has just completed a portrait of Mrs. E. Oakes Smith, which will be ranked
among the first productions of his pencil. We know of scarce a picture as beautiful or a portrait
as truthful. It is to be engraved, we believe, by Cheney.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mlle. Rachel.--The wonderful accuracy of the death-scene in "Adrienne Lecouvreur" has been
the object of universal praise in London, not merely from the thrilled and thralled public,
but from men of art and science. A physician, it is said, was complimenting Mademoiselle on
her amazing truth to the symptoms of mortal agony: "You must have studied death closely," said
he. "Yes, I have," was the quiet reply; "my maid's. I went up to her--I stayed with her--she
recommended her mother to me!--I was studying my part." This is probably merely one of those
cynical stories with which the sharp people of Paris love to environ and encircle every one
who stands a dangerous chance of becoming too popular. But smaller artists than Mademoiselle
Rachel have sometimes had recourse to curious expedients to give their dramatic personations
a show at reality. The French prima donna, who not very long ago appeared in M. Clapisson's
poor opera, "Jeanne la Folle," is said to have shut herself up in the Salpêtrière, by way of
studying her part, and to have been rewarded for her zealous curiosity by receiving a basin
of scalding soup dashed in her face by one of the poor miserable objects of her examination.

       *       *       *       *       *

The death of SIR ROBERT PEEL, says the Literary Gazette, has awakened a busy competing spirit
for the production of articles relating to him, and especially in connection with Literature
and the Arta. In the one, Memoirs, Speeches, Recollections, Anecdotes, &c., have been abundantly
supplied; and in the other, every printshop window in London displays its Peels of every style
and every degree, but mostly very indifferent, absolutely bad, or utter caricature.

       *       *       *       *       *

Goupil, Vibert & Co. have published a series of portraits of eminent Americans which is deserving
of the largest approval and sale. The head of Mr. Bryant is the best ever published of that
poet; it presents his fine features and striking phrenology with great force and with pleasing
as well as just effect. A portrait of Mr. Willis is wonderfully truthful, in detail, and is
in an eminent degree characteristic. The admirers of that author who have not seen him will
find in it their ideal, and all his acquaintances will see in it as distinctly the real man
who sits in the congress of editors as the representative of the polite world. The head of
the artist Mount, after Elliott, is not by any means less successful. Among the other portraits
are those of Gen. Scott, President Fillmore, Robert Fulton, J.Q. Adams, Mr. Clay, Mr. Webster,
and President Taylor. They are all on imperial sheets, and are sold at $1 each.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Paris papers tell a story of a young actor, who finding no engagement in that city, came
to America to try his fortune. From New Orleans he went to California, was lucky as a digger,
embarked in business and got immensely rich. He is now building in the Champs Elysées a magnificent
hotel for his mother. All actors are not so fortunate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Expected arrivals from Nineveh.--The Great Bull, and upward of one hundred tons of sculpture,
excavated by Dr. Layard, are now on their way to England, and may be expected in the course
of September. In addition-to the Elgin, Phigalian, Lycian, and Boodroun marbles, the British
Museum will soon be enriched with a magnificent series of Assyrian sculptures.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Burt has nearly finished the "Anne Page and Slender" of Leslie, which is to be the annual
engraving of the Art Union. It will be an admirable picture, but we cannot but regret that
the managers selected for this purpose a work so familiar.

       *       *       *       *       *

The French Minister of the Interior has decided that marble busts of M. Gay-Lussac and of M.
Blainville shall be executed at the expense of the government, and placed in the Institute.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Powell, who is living in Paris, engaged upon his picture for the capital, has been in ill
health nearly all the summer.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT DEATHS.

       *       *       *       *       *

The French papers report the death, at Paris, of M. MORA, the Mexican Minister Plenipotentiary
at the Court of St. James. M. Mora was the author of a History of Mexico and its Revolutions
since the establishment of its independence, and editor-in-chief of several journals in Mexico.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM GRAHAM'S MAGAZINE.]

ON A PORTRAIT OF CROMWELL.

BY JAMES T. FIELD.

  "Paint me as I am," said Cromwell,
    Rough with age, and gashed with wars--
  "Show my visage as you find it--
    Less than truth my soul abhors!"

  This was he whose mustering phalanx
    Swept the foe at Marston Moor;
  This was he whose arm uplifted
    From the dust the fainting poor.

  God had made his face uncomely--
    "Paint me as I am," he said.
  So he lives upon the canvas
    Whom they chronicled as dead!

  Simple justice he requested
    At the artist's glowing hands,
  "Simple justice!" from his ashes
    Cries a voice that still commands.

  And, behold! the page of History,
    Centuries dark with Cromwell's name,
  Shines to-day with thrilling luster
    From the light of Cromwell's fame!

We have already adverted to the fact that this Prelude was but the overture to a grander song
which the poet has left, in a great measure, unsung. Reverting to this consideration an important
fact seems to force itself upon our notice. The creative power of Wordsworth would appear to
have been paralyzed after the publication of his Excursion. All his most finished works precede
that period. His later writings generally lack the strength and freshness which we find in
those of an earlier date. Some may attribute this to his want of the stimulus which the necessity
of writing for a livelihood imparts, and in part they may be right; but this is not the whole
secret. That his isolation from the stirring contact of competition, that his utter disregard
of contemporary events, allowed his mind, which for perfect health's sake requires constantly-renewed
impulses from without, to subside into comparative hebetude, there can be no doubt whatever.
But the main secret of the freezing up of his fountain of poetical inspiration, we really take
to have been his change of politics. Wordsworth's muse was essentially liberal--one may say,
Jacobinical. That he was unconscious of any sordid motive for his change, we sincerely believe;
but as certainly his conforming was the result less of reasonable conviction than of willfulness.
It was by a determined effort of his will that he brought himself, to believe in the Church-and-State
notions which he latterly promulgated. Hence the want of definite views, and of a living interest,
which characterizes all his writings subsequent to that change, when compared with those of
an earlier time. It was Wordsworth's wayward fate to be patronized and puffed into notice by
the champions of old abuses, by the advocates of the pedantry of Oxford, and by the maintainers
of the despotism not even of Pitt but of Castlereagh. It is already felt, however, that the
poet whom these men were mainly instrumental in bringing into notice, will live in men's memories
by exactly those of his writings most powerful to undermine and overthrow their dull and faded
bigotries. Despite his own efforts, Wordsworth (as has been said of Napoleon) is the child
and champion of Jacobinism. Though clothed in ecclesiastical formulas, his religion is little
more than the simple worship of nature; his noblest moral flights are struggles to emancipate
himself from conventional usage; and the strong ground of his thoughts, as of his style, is
nature stripped of the gauds with which the pupils of courts and circles would bedeck and be-ribbon
it. Even in the ranks of our opponents Wordsworth has been laboring in our behalf.

It is in the record of his extra-academic life that the poet soars his freest flight, in passages
where we have a very echo of the emotions of an emancipated worshiper of nature flying back
to his loved resorts. Apart from its poetic value, the book is a graphical and interesting
portraiture of the struggles of an ingenuous and impetuous mind to arrive at a clear insight
into its own interior constitution and external relations, and to secure the composure of self-knowledge
and of equally adjusted aspirations. As a poem it is likely to lay fast and enduring hold on
pure and aspiring intellects, and to strengthen the claim of Wordsworth to endure with his
land's language.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MONUMENT TO SIR ROBERT PEEL.

A LETTER FROM WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR,

TO THE EDITOR OF THE 'EXAMINER.'

Now the fever hath somewhat subsided which came over the people from the grave of Sir Robert
Peel, there is room for a few observations on his decease and on its consequences. All public
writers, I believe, have expatiated on his character, comparing him with others who, within
our times, have occupied the same position. My own opinion has invariably been that he was
the wisest of all our statesmen; and certainly, though he found reason to change his sentiments
and his measures, he changed them honestly, well weighed, always from conviction, and always
for the better. He has been compared, and seemingly in no spirit of hostility or derision,
with a Castlereagh, a Perceval, an Addington. a Canning. Only one of these is worthy of notice,
namely Canning, whose brilliancy made his shallowness less visible, and whose graces, of style
and elocution threw a vail over his unsoundness and lubricity. Sir Robert Peel was no satirist
or epigrammatist: he was only a statesman in public life: only a virtuous and friendly man
in private. Par negotiis, nee supra. Walpole alone possessed his talents for business. But
neither Peel nor his family was enriched from the spoils of his country; Walpole spent in building
and pictures more than double the value of his hereditary estate, and left the quadruple to
his descendants.

Dissimilar from Walpole, and from commoner and coarser men who occupied the same office, Peel
forbade that a name which he had made illustrious should be degraded and stigmatized by any
title of nobility. For he knew that all those titles had their origin and nomenclature from
military services, and belong to military men, like their epaulets and spurs and chargers.
They sound well enough against the sword and helmet, but strangely in law-courts and cathedrals:
but, reformer as he was, he could not reform all this; he could only keep clear of it in his
own person.

I now come to the main object of my letter.

Subscriptions are advertised for the purpose of raising monuments to Sir Robert Peel; and a
motion has been made in Parliament for one in Westminster Abbey at the public expense, Whatever
may be the precedents, surely the house of God should contain no object but such as may remind
us of His presence and our duty to Him. Long ago I proposed that ranges of statues and busts
should commemorate the great worthies of our country. All the lower part of our National Gallery
might be laid open for this purpose. Even the best monuments in Westminster Abbey and St. Paul's
are deformities to the edifice. Let us not continue this disgrace. Deficient as we are in architects,
we have many good statuaries, and we might well employ them on the statues of illustrious commanders,
and the busts of illustrious statesmen and writers. Meanwhile our cities, and especially the
commercial, would, I am convinced, act more wisely, and more satisfactorily to the relict of
the deceased, if, instead of statues, they erected schools and almshouses, with an inscription
to his memory.

We glory in about sixty whose busts and statues may occupy what are now the "deep solitudes
and awful cells" in our national gallery. Our literary men of eminence are happily more numerous
than the political or the warlike, or both together. There is only one class of them which
might be advantageously excluded, namely, the theological; and my reasons are these. First,
their great talents were chiefly employed on controversy; secondly, and consequently, their
images would excite dogmatical discord. Every sect of the Anglican Church, and every class
of dissenters, complaining of undue preferences. Painture and sculpture lived in the midst
of corruption, lived throughout it, and seemed indeed to draw vitality from it, as flowers
the most delicate from noxious air; but they collapsed at the searching breath of free inquiry,
and could not abide persecution. The torch of Philosophy never kindled the suffocating fagot,
under whose smoke Theology was mistaken for Religion. Theology had, until now, been speculative
and quiescent: she abandoned to Philosophy these humbler qualities: instead of allaying and
dissipating, as Philosophy had always done, she excited and she directed animosities. Oriental
in her parentage, and keeping up her wide connections in that country, she acquired there all
the artifices most necessary to the furtherance of her designs: among the rest was ventriloquism,
which she quite perfected, making her words seem to sound from above and from below and from
every side around. Ultimately, when men had fallen on their faces at this miracle, she assumed
the supreme power. Kings were her lackeys, and nations the dust under her palfrey's hoof. By
her sentence Truth was gagged, scourged, branded, cast down on the earth in manacles; and Fortitude,
who had stood at Truth's side, was fastened with nails and pulleys to the stake. I would not
revive by any images, in the abode of the graceful and the gentle Arts, these sorrowful reminiscences.
The vicissitudes of the world appear to be bringing round again the spectral Past. Let us place
great men between it and ourselves: they all are tutelar: not the warrior and the statesman
only; not only the philosopher; but also the historian who follows them step by step, and the
poet who secures us from peril and dejection by his counter-charm. Philosophers in most places
are unwelcome: but there is no better reason why Shaftesbury and Hobbes should be excluded
from our gallery, than why Epicurus should have been from Cicero's or Zeno from Lucullus's.
Of our sovereigns, I think Alfred, Cromwell, and William III alone are eligible; and they,
because they opposed successfully the subverters of the laws. Three viceroys of Ireland will
deservedly be placed in the same receptacle; Sir John Perrot, Lord Chesterfield, and (in due
time) the last Lord-Deputy. One Speaker, one only, of the Parliament; he without whom no Parliament
would be now existing; he who declared to Henry IV. that until all public grievances were removed,
no subsidy should be granted. The name of this Speaker may be found in Rapin; English historians
talk about facts, forgetting men.

Admirals and generals are numerous and conspicuous. Drake, Blake, Rodney, Jervis, Nelson, Collingwood;
the subduer of Algiers beaten down for the French to occupy: and the defender of Acre, the
first who defeated, discomfited, routed, broke, and threw into shameful flight, Bonaparte.
Our generals are Marlborough, Peterborough, Wellington, and that successor to his fame in India,
who established the empire that was falling from us, who achieved in a few days two arduous
victories, who never failed in any enterprise, who accomplished the most difficult with the
smallest expenditure of blood, who corrected the disorders of the military, who gave the soldier
an example of temperance, the civilian of simplicity and frugality, and whose sole (but exceedingly
great) reward, was the approbation of our greatest man.

With these come the statesmen of the Commonwealth, the students of Bacon, the readers of Philip
Sidney, the companions of Algernon, the precursors of Locke and Newton. Opposite to them are
Chaucer, Spenser, Shakspeare, Milton; lower in dignity, Dryden, Pope, Gray, Goldsmith, Cowper,
Scott, Burns, Shelley, Southey, Byron, Wordsworth; the author of Hohenlinden and the Battle
of the Baltic; and the glorious woman who equaled these, two animated works in her Ivan and
Casabianca. Historians have but recently risen up among us: and long be it before, by command
of Parliament, the chisel grates on the brow of a Napier, a Grote, and Macaulay!

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM THE SPECTATOR.]

JURISPRUDENCE OF THE MOGULS: THE PANDECTS OF AURUNGZEBE.[4]

THE Government of British India have not neglected to countenance the study of the indigenous
and other systems of law which they found established on acquiring possession of the country.
Warren Hastings was the first to recognize the value of such knowledge; and to his encouragement,
if not to his incitement, we are indebted for the compilation of Hindoo law translated by Halbed,
Jones, Colebrooke, Macnaghten, Hamilton, and a pretty numerous body of accomplished men, of
whom Mr. Baillie is the most recently enrolled laborer in the vineyard, have carried on the
good work. More comprehensive and accurate views of Hindoo law have gradually been developed,
and the more advanced and more influential system of Mahometan jurisprudence has also shared
in the attention of European students. There is, however, still much to be done in this field
of inquiry; as a few remarks on the nature of the present publication, and the source whence
its materials are derived, will show.

[Footnote 4: The Moohummadan Law of Sale, according to the Hunefeea Code: from the Futawa Alumgeeree,
a Digest of the whole Law, prepared by command of the Emperor Aurungzebe Alumgeer. Selected
and translated from the original Arabic, with an Introduction and explanatory Notes, by Neil
B.E. Baillie, Author of "The Moohummadan Law of inheritance." Published by Smith and Elder.]

The law of Mahometan jurists is for India pretty much what the Roman law is for Scotland and
the Continental nations of Europe. Savigny has shown how, throughout all the territories formerly
included within the limits of the Roman Empire, a large amount of Roman legal doctrines and
forms of procedure continued to be operative after the Empire's subversion. The revival of
the study of the Roman law, as embodied in the compilations of Justinian, by the doctors of
the school of Bologna, augmented and systematized these remnants of Roman jurisprudence, and
extended their application to countries which (like great part of Germany) had never been subjected
to the sway of Rome. In like manner, throughout that part of India which was permanently subdued
and organized by the Mogul dynasty, and also those parts in which minor Islamitic states were
established, the organization of the courts of justice, and the legal opinions of the individuals
who officiated in them, necessarily introduced a large amount of Mahometan jurisprudence. This
element of the law of India was augmented and systematized by the writings of private jurists,
and by compilations undertaken by command of princes. As with the Roman jurisprudence in Europe,
so with Mahometan jurisprudence in India, only so much of its doctrines and forms could at
any time be considered to possess legal force as had been reenacted by the local sovereigns,
or introduced by judges in the form of decisions. A systematic knowledge of the whole body
of Mahometan law was important to the Indian lawyer, as enabling him more thoroughly to understand
the system, and its various isolated doctrines; but the whole body of that law was at no time
binding in India. Since the establishment of British sway, only so much of the Mahometan law
as has kept its ground in the practice of the courts, or has been reenacted by the "regulations"
or "ordinances" of the Anglo-Indian Government, is law; the rest is only valuable as the "antiquities
of the law," which help to trace the origin of what survives, and thereby throw light upon
what in it is obscure or doubtful.

Among the most valuable, if not indeed the most valuable of the compilations from which we
may obtain a knowledge of Mahometan jurisprudence, is the "Futawa Alumgeeree," mentioned in
Mr. Baillie's title-page. Its value is not confined to the purposes of those who would make
themselves acquainted with Mahometan jurisprudence in the peculiar form it assumed in India.
It is highly esteemed throughout Islam, and is quoted even by the doctors of Mecca as the Futawa-i-hind,
or the Indian responsa prudentum. It was compiled by the orders of the Emperor Aurungzebe.
It is a digest of the "Futawa" of the most celebrated jurists of the Hanifeh (or, as Mr. Baillie
spells it, Hunefeeah) sect or school. Mr. Baillie informs us in his preface, that "futawa is
the plural form of futwa, a term in common use in Mahometan countries to signify an exposition
of law by a public officer called the mooftee, or a case submitted to him by the kazee or judge."
The "futwa," therefore, seems to correspond not so much with our English "decisions" or "precedents"
as with the "responsa prudentum," that fertile source of doctrines in the Roman law. The "Futawa
Alumgeeree" consequently resembles the Pandects of Justinian in being a systematical arrangement
of selections from juridical authorities--compiled by Imperial authority; but differs from
it in this, that the selections are made exclusively from the "responsa prudentum," and a few
legal treatises, whereas Justinian's digest combined with those excerpts from judicial decisions,
prætorian edicts, &c. With this distinction, we may regard the "Futawa Alumgeeree" as the Pandects
or Digest of Mahometan Law. As in the Roman work of that name, to each extract is appended
the name of the original work from which it is taken; and the whole of them are so arranged
as to form a complete digest of Mahometan law.

A work of this kind is invaluable to the student who would make himself master of Mahometan
jurisprudence as a system. But great care must be taken not to misapprehend the exact nature
of the knowledge to be obtained from it. The "Futawa Alumgeeree" is a systematic exposition
of the principles of Mahometan law; it assuredly does not enable us to ascertain what doctrines
of that law are now of legal force in India, or even what doctrines have at any time had force
in India. It does not appear to have been Aurungzebe's intention to promulgate it as a code,
but to present it to lawyers as a complete text-book. Even if he did by ordinance attribute
to it the power of law, such ordinance was only effectual at any time in the provinces of the
Mogul Empire; and since the disruption of that empire, it has been superseded and modified
by laws and the practice of law-courts in the various independent states erected on its ruins.

Again the general scholar must be on his guard against the delusion that he will find in this
digest materials illustrative of the social condition of India under the Mogul dynasty. The
juridical works excerpted in it are almost all foreign to Hindostan; the special cases illustrative
of abstract doctrines are taken from other countries, and many of them from ages antecedent
to the invasion of India by the Moguls.

Though Persian was the court language of the Mogul dynasty, there is scarcely any Persian element
in Aurungzebe's legal compilation. The Shiite views of jurisprudence, as of theology, prevailed
in Persia; the "Futawa Alumgeeree" is strictly Sunnite. It is not difficult to account for
this.--The Mahometan conquerors of India were mainly of Turkish or Tartar race; they came from
Turan, a region which from time immemorial has stood in antagonistic relations to Iran or Persia.
This may account for the fact that the races of Turan which have embraced Mahometanism have
uniformly adhered to the Sunnite sect--the sect most hostile to the Persian Shias--not only
when they settled in the countries where the Sunnite sect originated, but when they remained
in their native regions. The views of the Sunnites were first promulgated and have prevailed
most extensively in those regions of Islam which were once part of the Roman empire, which
nominally at least was Christian; those of the Shiites, in the countries where, under the Sassanides
and Arsacidæ, the doctrines of Zoroaster predominated. The Euphrates forms pretty nearly the
line of demarkation between them.

The Caliphs dominated over both countries and over both sects. Under their orthodox protection
the Sunnite doctrines were able to strike root in Balkh and Samarkand--the ancient Turan, and
therefore hostile to Iran and Persia. When Islam was reorganized after the anarchy which ensued
upon the overthrow of the Caliphs, Persia became the appanage of the Sophis or Shiite dynasty;
the regions to the West of the Euphrates--the ci-devant Roman Empire--acknowledged the rule
of the Turkish dynasties, which were Sunnite. On the Oxus and further East--the old Turan--the
Sunnite sect was sufficiently strong to defy the efforts of the Shiite sovereigns of Persia
to eradicate it. The doctors of Samarkand and Bokhara continued (and continue) as orthodox
Sunnites as those of Kufah, Mecca, and Stamboul.

Accordingly, we find the authorities excerpted in the "Futawa Alumgeeree" consist almost exclusively
of two classes; they are either the immediate disciples of Hanifa at Kufah and Bagdad, or the
jurists of Samarkand and Bokhara. The law-cases they expounded are such as had originated,
or might have originated, in those countries--in Babylonia or Turan. And they are for the most
part taken from a state of society, and illustrative of social relations, which prevailed in
these countries at a period long antecedent to that of Aurunzebe. To attempt to illustrate
the civil and social condition of India, under that Emperor by their aid, would be as preposterous
as to attempt to illustrate the civil and social condition of those parts of Germany where
the Roman law still possesses authority from cases recorded in the Pandects of Justinian.

The real use and value of the "Futawa Alumgeeree" may be briefly explained. In every country
in Europe where the Roman law is still recognized as more or less authoritative--and indeed
in every country where the common law has borrowed more or less from the Roman--an acquaintance
with the system of Roman jurisprudence as it is embodied in the law-books of Justinian has
its value for the scientific lawyer. In like manner a knowledge of Mahometan jurisprudence
as embodied in the "Futawa Alumgeeree" cannot fail to be instructive for the lawyers of all
the countries of Islam, and the lawyers of India, where so much of the existing practical law
has been derived from that source. To the general scholar who wishes to master the civil history
of Arabia and Babylonia, in which the Sunnite sect, and more particularly the Hanifite subdivision
of it, originated, or to familiarize himself with the moral theories which regulate the judgments
and actions of the modern Turks, Turcomans, Arabians, and Egyptians, the digest of Aurungzeebee
is also a valuable repertory of facts and illustrations.

For this reason we incline to be of opinion that Mr. Baillie is mistaken in thinking that a
selection from the two books of the "Futawa Alumgeeree," which embrace the subject of "sale"
can have much utility for Indian practitioners. It does not follow, because a legal doctrine
is declared sound in this work, that it is or ever has been practically applicable in India.
As an authoritative declaration of legal doctrines, the book is as likely to mislead as to
guide aright. On the other hand, as an exposition of the general principles of Mahometan law,
even with regard to sale, it is necessarily imperfect. The work from which it is taken is a
collection of legal opinions, which had in their day the force of judicial decisions--of something
equivalent to the "responsa prudentum" of Roman jurisprudence. Each is expounded on its own
merits; and all the special doctrines involved in it are laid down. Hence it comes, that much
that is calculated to throw light on the principles of the law of sale must be sought under
other heads; and that much included in the chapters ostensibly treating of sale refers to other
topics. As part of an entire digest of the law compiled on the same principle as that of Justinian,
the two books relating to sale are sufficient; but for an isolated treatise on "sale," they
contain at once too much and too little.

Nevertheless, we welcome Mr. Baillie's publication as a valuable addition to juridical and
even to general literature. The translation, though not by any means free from defects, is
the best specimen of a really good Mahometan law-book that has yet been published. The defects
to which we allude are twofold. In the first place, though Mr. Baillie mentions that in the
original the name of the treatise from which it is taken is appended to every excerpt, he has
not in his translation given those references. His work is not therefore what the original
is, a Chrestomathia of the best Arabian jurists--a succedaneum for their complete works--an
illustration of Arabic legal literature. Again, he is often loose and vacillating in the use
of the English words he has selected as corresponding to the technical phraseology of the Arabian
jurists, and sometimes infelicitous in the selection of his English terms. It has occurred
to us that he would have succeeded better in rendering the exact meaning of his originals,
had he availed himself more of technical phrases of the Roman law which are familiar to all
European jurists. Is does not occur to us that he would by doing so have been in danger of
Romanizing the Mahometan to an extent that might mislead. Mill, in his History of British India,
has noticed how closely the classification of the Mahometan approaches to that of the Roman
jurists. An attentive perusal of Mr. Baillie's volume has convinced us that the analogy in
the substance is quite as strong as in the arrangements. This fact seems susceptible of being
accounted for on historical grounds. Mahometanism is in fact a sect or heresy of Christianity.
The views and sentiments, the aggregate of which make up the body of Christian opinion, are
not all of Jewish or Christian origin. They are the moral creed of societies whose opinions
and civilization have been derived in part from other sources. The philosophy of Greece and
the law of Rome have contributed in nearly equal proportions to the theosophy of the Hebrews.
The jurisprudence of all Christian nations is mainly referable to Rome for its origin, and
the same is the case with at least the Sunnite Mahometans. The nations of Islam took only their
religious creed from their Prophet; the jurists of Kufah retained and expounded the civil law
which prevailed among them before his time. That law was the law of the Greek Empire, developed
in the same way as that of the Western Empire under the judicial and legislative auspices of
Roman Prætors and Pro-Consuls, aided by Roman jurists. Theophilus, one of the jurists employed
by Justinian for his compilations, lectured in Greek on the Institutions; and the substance
of his lectures still survives under the name of the Paraphrase of Theophilus. The Greek edicts
and novels of Justinian's successors are mainly Roman law. Throughout the Byzantine Empire
(within which Kufah and the region where Bagdad now stands were included) Roman law was paramount,
and Roman jurists were numerous. The arrangement, the subdivisions, and the substance of Mahometan
jurisprudence, show that it has been principally derived from this source. Some of its doctrines
are doubtless aboriginal engrafted on the law of the Empire; and it has been modified in some
respects to reconcile it to the religious dictates of Islam, just as the law of Pagan Rome
was modified after Christianity became the religion of the Empire. But still Mahometan jurisprudence
retains undeniably the lineaments of its parentage.

This consideration places in a strong light the importance of the study of Mahometan law. The
increasing intimacy of our relations with independent Mahometan states makes it of the utmost
consequence that we should entertain correct views of their opinions and institutions; and
no better key to the knowledge of both can be found than in the historical study of their law.
Again, we are called upon to legislate and supply judges for British India, a large proportion
of the inhabitants of which are Mahometans. Even the Hindoos of the former Mogul Empire have
adopted many legal forms and doctrines from their conquerors. A minute and accurate acquaintance
with Mahometan jurisprudence is an indispensable preliminary to judicious legislation for British
India. For these reasons, it could be wished that Mr. Baillie, or some other equally accomplished
laborer in that field, would set himself to do for the "Futawa Alumgeeree" what Heineccius
and other modern civilians have done for the law-books of Justinian--present the European public
with an elegant and exact abstract of its contents.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following, from Southey's "Gridiron," now first published in his Memoirs, ought to be set
to music for the Beef-Steak Club:--

  "Now the perfect Steak prepare!
  Now the appointed rites begin!
  Cut it from the pinguid rump.
  Not too thick and not too thin;
  Somewhat to the thick inclining,
  Yet the thick and thin between,
  That the gods, when they are dining,
  May comment the golden mean.
  Ne'er till now have they been blest
  With a beef-steak daily drest:
  Ne'er till this auspicious morn
  When the Gridiron was born."

       *       *       *       *       *

The most ignorant of the world's fools are those called "knowing ones," a phrase satirical
with the very glee of irony.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MYSTERIOUS COMPACT.

A FREE TRANSLATION FROM THE GERMAN. So far, however, I agree with you.

       *       *       *       *       *

Paris has been again emptied of its citizens to see M. Poitevin make his second ascent on horseback
from the Champ de Mars. To show that he was not fastened to his saddle, the idiot, when some
hundred yards up in the air, stood upright on his horse, and saluted the multitude below with
both his hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

PEASANT LIFE IN GERMANY.

We copy the following interesting paragraph from a work just issued in London on "The Social
Condition and Education of the People of England and Europe," by Joseph Kay, of Cambridge University.

    "As I have already said, the moral, intellectual and physical
    condition of the peasants and operatives of Prussia, Saxony
    and other parts of Germany, of Holland, and of the Protestant
    cantons of Switzerland, and the social condition of the
    peasants in the greater part of France, is very much higher
    and happier, and very much more satisfactory, than that of
    the peasants and operatives of England; the condition of the
    poor in the North German, Swiss and Dutch towns, is as
    remarkable a contrast to that of the poor of the English
    towns as can well be imagined; and that the condition of the
    poorer classes of Germany, Switzerland, Holland and France
    is rapidly improving. The great superiority of the
    preparation for life which a poor man receives in those
    countries I have mentioned, to that which a peasant or
    operative receives in England, and the difference of the
    social position of a poor man in those countries to that of
    a peasant or operative in England, seem sufficient to explain
    the difference which exists between the moral and social
    condition of the poor of our own country and of the other
    countries I have named. In Germany, Holland, and Switzerland,
    a child begins its life in the society of parents who have
    been educated and brought up for years in the company of
    learned and gentlemanly professors, and in the society and
    under the direction of a father who has been exercised in
    military arts, and who has acquired the bearing, the clean and
    orderly habits, and the taste for respectable attire, which
    characterize the soldier. The children of these countries
    spend the first six years of their lives in homes which
    are well regulated. They are during this time accustomed to
    orderly habits, to neat and clean clothes, and to ideas of the
    value of instruction, of the respect due to the teachers,
    and of the excellence of the schools, by parents who have, by
    their training in early life, acquired such tastes and ideas
    themselves. Each child at the age of six begins to attend a
    school, which is perfectly clean, well ventilated, directed by
    an able and well-educated gentleman, and superintended by the
    religious ministers and by the inspectors of the Government.
    Until the completion of its fourteenth year, each child
    continues regular daily attendance at one of these schools,
    daily strengthening its habits of cleanliness and order,
    learning the rudiments of useful knowledge, receiving the
    principles of religion and morality, and gaining confirmed
    health and physical energy by the exercise and drill of the
    school playground. No children are left idle in the streets
    of the towns; no children are allowed to grovel in the
    gutters; no children are allowed to make their appearance
    at the schools dirty, or in ragged clothes; and the local
    authorities are obliged to clothe all whose parents cannot
    afford to clothe them. The children of the poor of
    Germany, Holland and Switzerland acquire stronger habits of
    cleanliness, neatness and industry at the primary schools,
    than the children of the small shopkeeping classes of
    England do at the private schools of England; and they
    leave the primary schools of these countries much better
    instructed than those who leave our middle class private
    schools. After having learnt reading, writing, arithmetic,
    singing, geography, history and the Scriptures, the children
    leave the schools, carrying with them into life habits of
    cleanliness, neatness, order and industry, and awakened
    intellect, capable of collecting truths and reasoning upon
    them."

R.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

True genius is perpetual youth, health, serenity, and strength. The eye is bright with a fine
fire that is undimmed by time, and the mind, not sharing the body's decline from the prime
of middle age, continues on with illimitable accession of spiritual power.

Our convictions should be based on conceptions got from insight of principles, and not upon
opinions spawned of authority and expediency. Every man shall influence me, no man can decide
for me.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM THE SPIRIT OF THE TIMES]

REMINISCENCES OF SARGENT S. PRENTISS, OF MISSISSIPPI.

BY T.B. THORPE.

AUTHOR OF "TOM OWEN, THE BEE HUNTER."

The death of Sargeant S. Prentiss has called forth an universal feeling of sorrow; the consciousness
that "a great man has fallen" is depicted upon the faces of the multitude.

The eloquent offerings to his virtues and to his genius that everywhere follow the news of
his demise, are but slight tokens of that sorrow that fills the heart of all who knew the gifted
Prentiss. Having known him long, and having had frequent occasions to witness exhibitions of
his great mental powers, I cannot refrain from paying an imperfect tribute to his memory.

I first met Mr. Prentiss when he was in the full maturity of his power, but I have the pleasure
of knowing hundreds who were well acquainted with his early history and early triumphs. Volumes
of interest might be written upon the life of Mr. Prentiss. And then his high sense of honor,
his brave spirit, his nobleness of soul, his intense but commendable pride, his classical attainments,
and his deep knowledge of the law, can scarcely be illustrated, so universal and superior were
his accomplishments and acquirements.

In his early career, I consider Mr. Prentiss both fortunate and unfortunate. I have often imagined
the shrinking but proud boy, living unnoticed and unknown among the wealthiest citizens of
the south. Buried in the obscurity of his humble school, he looked out upon the busy world,
and measured the mighty capacities of his own soul with those whom society had placed above
him. I think I see him brooding over his position, and longing to be free, as the suffocating
man longs for the boundless air of heaven. His hour of triumph came, and surpassed, perhaps,
his own aspirations. From the schoolroom he entered that of the court--a chance offered--a
position gained--the law his theme, he at once not only equaled, but soared even beyond the
aim of the most favored of his compeers.

The era was one of extravagance. The virgin soil of Mississippi was pouring into the laps of
her generous sons untold abundance. There were thousands of her citizens, full of health and
talent, who adorned excesses of living by the tasteful procurements of wealth, and the highest
accomplishments of mind. Into this world Prentiss entered, heralded by naught save his own
genius. The heirs of princely fortunes, the descendants of heroes, men of power and place,
of family pride, of national associations, were not more proud, more gallant, than was Prentiss,
for "he was reckoned among the noblest Romans of them all."

Each step in his new fortune seemed only to elicit new qualities for admiration. At the forum
he dazzled--the jury and the judge were confounded--the crowd carried him to the stump, and
the multitude listened as to one inspired. Fair ladies vied with each other in waving tiny
hands in token of admiration--the stolid judges of the Supreme Court wondered at the mind of
the apparent boy--even the walls of Congress echoed forth pæans to his praise. His course was
as rapid and brilliant as that of the meteor that suddenly springs athwart the heavens, but
he was human and accomplished his task, herculean as he was, at the price of an injured constitution.

In personal appearance Prentiss was eminently handsome, and yet eminently manly. Although of
medium height, there was that in the carriage of his head that was astonishingly impressive.
I shall never forget him on one occasion, "in '44," when he rose at a public meeting to reply
to an antagonist worthy of his steel. His whole soul was roused, his high smooth forehead fairly
coruscated. He remained silent for some seconds, and only looked. The bald eagle never glanced
so fiercely from his eyry. It seemed as if his deep blue eye would distend until it swallowed
up the thousands of his audience. For an instant the effect was painful; he saw it and smiled,
when a cheer burst from the admiring multitude that fairly shook the earth.

His voice was clear and sweet, and could be heard at an immense distance, and yet, to be all
like Demosthenes, he had a perceptible impediment in his speech. As a reader he had no superior.
His narration was clear and unadorned, proper sentences were subduedly humorous, but the impressive
parts were delivered with an effect that reminded me of the elder Kean.

His imagination was unsurpassed, and the rich stores of his mind supplied him with never-ending
material, quoted and original. The slightest allusion to anything gave him the key to all its
peculiarities if he had occasion to allude to the diamond, its bed in the Golconda, its discovery
by some poor native, its being associated with commerce, its polish by the lapidary, its adorning
the neck of beauty, its rays brilliant and serene, its birth, its life, its history, all flashed
upon him. So with every idea in the vast storehouse of his mind. He seemed to know all things,
in mass and in particulars, never confused, never at a loss--the hearer listened, wondered,
and dreamed. Thoughts of moment came forth as demanded, but ten thousand other thoughts rare
and beautiful, continued to bubble up, after all effort ceased.

No man had a more delicate or subtle wit than Prentiss, or a more Falstaffian humor when it
suited his purpose. Who will ever forget the spending of a social dinner hour with him, when
his health was high and his mind at ease? Who so lovely?--who so refined? What delight was
exhibited by sweet ladies who listened to his words! Who could so eloquently discourse of roses
and buds, of lilies and pearls, of eyes and graces, of robes and angels, and yet never offend
the most sensitive of the sex, or call other than the blush of pleasure and joy to the cheek?
Who could, on the "public day," ascend so gracefully from the associations of tariffs, and
banks, and cotton, and sugar, to greet the fair ladies that honored him with their presence?
How he would lean toward them, as he dwelt upon "the blessed of all God's handiwork," compared
their bright eyes to "day-stars" that lit up the dark recesses of his own clouded imagination;
and how he would revel, like another Puck, among the rays and beams of smiles called forth
by his own happy compliments--and how he would change from all this, and in an instant seemingly
arm himself with the thunderbolts of Jove, which he would dash with appalling sound among his
antagonists, or at principles he opposed, and yet with such a charm, with such a manner, that
these very daughters of the sunny South who had listened to his syren-song so admiringly, would
now stare, and wonder, and pallor, and yet listen, even as one gazes over the precipice, and
is fascinated at the very nearness to destruction.

Prentiss had originally a constitution of iron; his frame was so perfect in its organization,
that, in spite of the most extraordinary negligence of health, his muscles had all the compactness,
glossiness, and distinctiveness of one who had specially trained by diet and exercise. It was
this constitution that enabled him to accomplish so much in so short a time. He could almost
wholly discard sleep for weeks, with apparent impunity; he could eat or starve; do anything
that would kill ordinary men, yet never feel a twinge of pain. I saw him once amidst a tremendous
political excitement; he had been talking, arguing, dining, visiting, and traveling, without
rest for three whole days. His companions would steal away at times for sleep, but Prentiss
was like an ever-busy spirit, here, and there, and everywhere. The morning of the fourth day
came, and he was to appear before an audience familiar with his fame, but one that had never
heard him speak; an audience critical in the last degree, he desired to succeed, for more was
depending than he had ever before had cause to stake upon such an occasion. Many felt a fear
that he would be unprepared. I mingled in the expecting crowd: I saw ladies who had never honored
the stump with their presence struggling for seats, counselors, statesmen, and professional
men, the elite of a great city, were gathered together. An hour before I had seen Prentiss,
still apparently ignorant of his engagement.

The time of trial came, and the remarkable man presented himself, the very picture of buoyant
health, of unbroken rest. All this had been done by the unyielding resolve of his will--his
triumph was complete; high-wrought expectations were more than realized, prejudice was demolished,
professional jealousy silenced, and he descended from the rostrum, freely accorded his proper
place among the orators and statesmen of the "Southern Metropolis."

Mr. Clay visited the South in the fall of '44, and, as he was then candidate for the Presidency,
he attracted in New Orleans, if possible, more than usual notice. His hotel was the St. Charles;
toward noon he reached that magnificent palace. The streets presented a vast ocean of heads,
and every building commanding a view was literally covered with human beings. The great "Statesman
of the West" presented himself to the multitude between the tall columns of the finest portico
in the world. The scene was beyond description, and of vast interest. As the crowd swayed to
and fro, a universal shout was raised for Mr. Clay to speak; he uttered a sentence or two,
waved his hand in adieu, and escaped amidst the prevailing confusion. Prentiss meanwhile was
at a side window, evidently unconscious of being himself noticed, gazing upon what was passing
with all the delight of the humblest spectator. Suddenly his name was announced. He attempted
to withdraw from public gaze, but his friends pushed him forward. Again his name was shouted,
hats and caps were thrown in the air, and he was finally compelled to show himself on the portico.
With remarkable delicacy, he chose a less prominent place than that previously occupied by
Mr. Clay, although perfectly visible. He thanked his friends for their kindness by repeated
bows, and by such smiles as he alone could give. "A speech! A speech!" thundered a thousand
voices. Prentiss lifted his hand; in an instant everything was still--then pointing to the
group that surrounded Mr. Clay, he said, "Fellow-citizens, when the eagle is soaring in the
sky, the owls and the bats retire to their holes." And long before the shout that followed
this remark had ceased, Prentiss had disappeared amid the multitude.

But the most extraordinary exhibition of Prentiss' powers of mind and endurance of body, was
shown while he was running for Congress. He had the whole State to canvass, and the magnitude
of the work was just what he desired. From what I have learned from anecdotes, that canvass
must have presented some scenes combining the highest mental and physical exertion that was
ever witnessed in the world. Prentiss was in perfect health, and in the first blush of success,
and it cannot be doubted but that his best efforts of oratory were then made, and now live
recorded only in the fading memories of his hearers. An incident illustrative of the time is
remembered, that may hear repeating.

The whole state of Mississippi was alive with excitement; for the moment, she felt that her
sovereign dignity had been trifled with, and that her reputation demanded the return of Prentiss
to Congress. Crowds followed him from place to place, making a gala time of weeks together.
Among the shrewd worldlings who take advantage of such times "to coin money," was the proprietor
of a traveling menagerie, and he soon found out that the multitude followed Prentiss. Getting
the list of that remarkable man's "appointments," he filled up his own, and it was soon noticed
as a remarkable coincidence, that the orator always "arrived along with the other 'lions.'"
The reason of this meeting was discovered, and the "boys" decided that Prentiss should "next
time" speak from the top of the lion's cage. Never was the menagerie more crowded. At the proper
time, the candidate gratified his constituents, and mounted his singular rostrum. I was told
by a person, who professed to be an eye witness, that the whole affair presented a singular
mixture of the terrible and the comical. Prentiss was, as usual, eloquent, and, as if ignorant
of the novel circumstances with which he was surrounded, went deeply into the matter in hand,
his election. For a while the audience and the animals were quiet, the former listening, the
latter eyeing the speaker with grave intensity. The first burst of applause electrified the
menagerie; the elephant threw his trunk into the air and echoed back the noise, while the tigers
and bears significantly growled. On went Prentiss, and as each peculiar animal vented his rage
or approbation, he most ingeniously wrought in its habits, as a facsimile of some man or passion.
In the meanwhile, the stately king of beasts, who had been quietly treading the mazes of his
prison, became alarmed at the footsteps over his head, and placing his mouth upon the floor
of his cage, made everything shake by his terrible roar. This, joined with the already excited
feelings of the audience, caused the ladies to shriek, and a fearful commotion for a moment
followed. Prentiss, equal to every occasion, changed his tone and manner; he commenced a playful
strain, and introduced the fox, the jackal, and hyena, and capped the climax by likening some
well known political opponent to a grave baboon that presided over the "cage with monkeys";
the resemblance was instantly recognized, and bursts of laughter followed, that literally set
many into convulsions. The baboon, all unconscious of the attention he was attracting, suddenly
assumed a grimace, and then a serious face, when Prentiss exclaimed--"I see, my fine fellow,
that your feelings are hurt by my unjust comparison, and I humbly beg your pardon." The effect
of all this may be vaguely imagined, but it cannot be described.

Of Prentiss' power before a jury too much cannot be said. Innumerable illustrations might be
gathered up, showing that he far surpassed any living advocate. "The trial of the Wilkinsons"
might be cited, although it was far from being one of his best efforts. Two young men, only
sons, and deeply attached as friends, quarreled, and in the mad excitement of the moment, one
of them was killed. Upon the trial, the testimony of the mother of the deceased was so direct,
that it seemed to render "the clearing of the prisoner" hopeless. Prentiss spoke to the witness
in the blandest manner and most courtly style. The mother, arrayed in weeds, and bowed down
with sorrow, turned toward Prentiss, and answered his inquiries with all the dignity of a perfectly
accomplished lady--she calmly uttered the truth, and every word she spoke rendered the defense
apparently more hopeless.

"Would you punish that young man with death?" said Prentiss, pointing to the prisoner.

The questioned looked, and answered--"He has made me childless, let the law take its course."

"And would wringing his mother's heart and hurrying her gray hairs with sorrow into the grave,
by rendering her childless, assuage your grief?"

All present were dissolved in tears--even convulsive sobbing was heard in the courtroom.

"No!" said the witness, with all the gushing tenderness of a mother--"No! I would not add a
sorrow to her heart, nor that of her son!"

Admissions in the evidence followed, and hopes were uttered for the prisoner's acquittal, that
changed the whole character of the testimony. What was a few moments before so dark, grew light,
and without the slightest act that might be construed into an unfair advantage, in the hands
of Prentiss, the witness pleaded for the accused.

Soon after Mr. Prentiss settled in New Orleans, a meeting was held to raise funds for the erection
of a suitable monument to Franklin. On that occasion, the lamented Wilde and the accomplished
McCaleb delivered ornate and chaste addresses upon the value of art, and the policy of enriching
New Orleans with its exhibition. At the close of the meeting, as the audience rose to depart,
some one discovered Prentiss, and calling his name, it was echoed from all sides--he tried
to escape, but was literally carried on the stand.

As a rich specimen of off-hand eloquence, I think the address he delivered on that occasion
was unequaled. Unlike any other speech, he had the arts to deal with, and of course the associations
were of surpassing splendor. I knew that he was ignorant of the technicalities of art, and
had paid but little attention to their study, and my surprise was unbounded to see him, thus
unexpectedly called upon, instantly arrange in his mind ideas, and expressing facts and illustrations
that would have done honor to Burke, when dwelling upon the sublime and beautiful. Had he been
bred to the easel, or confined to the sculptor's room, he could not have been more familiar
with the details of the studio--he painted with all the brilliancy of Titian, and with the
correctness of Raphael, while his images in marble combined the softness of Praxiteles, and
the nervous energy of Michael Angelo. All this with Prentiss was intuition--I believe that
the whole was the spontaneous thought of the moment, the crude outlines that floated through
his mind being filled up by the intuitive teachings of his surpassing genius. His conclusion
was gorgeous--he passed Napoleon to the summit of the Alps--his hearers saw him and his steel
clad warriors threading the snows of Mount St. Bernard, and having gained the dizzy height,
Prentiss represented "the man of destiny" looking down upon the sunny plains of Italy, and
then with a mighty swoop, descending from the clouds and making the grasp of Empire secondary
to that of Art.

I had the melancholy pleasure of hearing his last, and, it would seem to me, his greatest speech.
Toward the close of the last Presidential campaign, I found him in the interior of the State,
endeavoring to recruit his declining health. He had been obliged to avoid all public speaking,
and had gone far into the country to get away from excitement. But there was a "gathering"
near by his temporary home, and he consented to be present. It was late in the evening when
he ascended the "stand," which was supported by the trunks of two magnificent forest trees,
through which the setting sun poured with picturesque effect. The ravages of ill health were
apparent upon his face, and his high massive forehead was paler, and seemingly more transparent
than usual. His audience, some three or four hundred, was composed in a large degree of his
old and early friends. He seemed to feel deeply, and as there was nothing to oppose, he assumed
the style of the mild and beautiful--he casually alluded to the days of his early coming among
his Southern friends--of hours of pleasure he had massed, and of the hopes of the future. In
a few moments the bustle and confusion natural to a fatiguing day of political wrangling ceased--one
straggler after another suspended his noisy demonstration, and gathered near the speaker. Soon
a mass of silent but heart-heaving humanity was crowded compactly before him. Had Prentiss,
on that occasion, held the very heart-strings of his auditors in his hand, he could not have
had them more in his power. For an hour he continued, rising from one important subject to
another, until the breath was fairly suspended in the excitement. An uninterested spectator
would have supposed that he had used sorcery in thus transfixing his auditors. While all others
forgot, he noticed the day was drawing to a close, he turned and looked toward the setting
sun, and apostrophized its fading glory--then in his most touching voice and manner, concluded
as follows:--

"Friends--That glorious orb reminds me that the day is spent, and that I too must close. Ere
we part, let me hope that it may be our good fortune to end our days in the same splendor,
and that when the evening of life comes, we may sink to rest with the clouds that close in
on our departure, gold-tipped with the glorious effulgence of a well-spent life!"

In conclusion, I would ask, will some historian, who can sympathize with the noble dead, gather
up the now fleeting memorials that still live in memory, and combine them together, that future
generations may know something of the mighty mind of Prentiss.

The remains of the orator must ever be imperfect--the tone of voice--the flashing eye--the
occasion, and the mighty shout of the multitude, cannot be impressed; but still Prentiss has
left enough in his brilliant career, if treasured up, to show posterity that he was every inch
a man. Let his fragmentary printed speeches--let the reminiscences of his friends that treat
of his power as an orator, be brought together, and unsatisfactory as they may be, there will
be found left intrinsic value enough to accomplish the object. There will be in the fluted
column, though shattered and defaced, an Ionian beauty that will tell unerringly of the magnificent
temple that it once adorned.

BATON ROUGE, July 9, 1850. There's one on the mantel-shelf. Let me light it.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM A REVIEW OF GRISWOLD'S PROSE WRITERS OF AMERICA, IN THE SOUTHERN LITERARY MESSENGER.]

DANIEL WEBSTER,

AS A STATESMAN, AND AS A MAN OF LETTERS.

Mr. Webster is properly selected as the representative of the best sense, and highest wisdom,
and most consummate dignity, of the politics and oratory of the present times, because his
great intelligence has continued to be so finely sensitive to all the influences that stir
the action and speculation of the country.

With elements of reason, definite, absolute, and emphatic; with principles settled, strenuous,
deep and unchangeable as his being; his wisdom is yet exquisitely practical: with subtlest
sagacity it apprehends every change in the circumstances in which it is to act, and can accommodate
its action without loss of vigor, or alteration of its general purpose. Its theories always
"lean and hearken" to the actual. By a sympathy of the mind, almost transcendental in its delicacy,
its speculations are attracted into a parallelism with the logic of life and nature. In most
men, that intellectual susceptibility by which they are capable of being reacted upon by the
outer world, and having their principles and views expanded, modified or quickened, does not
outlast the first period of life; from that time they remain fixed and rigid in their policy,
temper and characteristics; if a new phase of society is developed, it must find its exponent
in other men. But in Webster this fresh suggestive sensibility of the judgment has been carried
on into the matured and determined wisdom of manhood. His perceptions, feelings, reasonings,
tone, are always up to the level of the hour, or in advance of it; sometimes far, very far
in advance, as in the views thrown out in his speech at Baltimore, on an international commercial
system, in which he showed that he then foresaw both the fate of the tariff and the fallacy
of free-trade. No man has ever been able to say, or now can say, that he is before Webster.
The youngest men in the nation look to him, not as representing the past, but as leading in
the future.

This practicalness and readiness of adaptation are instinctive, not voluntary and designed.
They are united with the most decided preference for certain opinions and the most earnest
averseness to others. Nothing can be less like Talleyrand's system of waiting for events. He
has never, in view of a change which he saw to be inevitable, held himself in reserve and uncommitted.
What Webster is at any time, that he is strenuously, entirely, openly. He has first opposed,
with every energy of his mind and temper, that which, when it has actually come, he is ready
to accept, and make the best of. He never surrenders in advance a position which knows will
be carried; he takes his place, and delivers battle; he fights as one who is fighting the last
battle of his country's hopes; he fires the last shot. When the smoke and tumult are cleared
off, where is Webster! Look around for the nearest rallying point which the view presents;
there he stands, with his hand upon his heart, in grim composure; calm, dignified, resolute;
neither disheartened nor surprised by defeat. "Leaving the things that are behind," is now
the trumpet-sound by which he rallies his friends to a new confidence, and stimulates them
to fresh efforts. It is obvious that Webster, when contending with all his force for or against
some particular measure, has not been contemplating the probability of being compelled to oppose
or defend a different policy, and, so, choosing his words warily, in reference to future possibilities
of a personal kind: yet when the time has come that he has been obliged to fight with his face
in another direction, it has always been found that no one principle had been asserted, no
one sentiment displayed, incompatible with his new positions. This union of consistency with
practicability has arisen naturally from the extent and comprehensiveness of his views, from
the breadth and generality with which the analytical power of his understanding has always
led him to state his principles and define his position. From the particular scheme or special
maxim which his party was insisting upon, his mind rose to a higher and more general formula
of truth.

Owing to the same superior penetration and reach of thought, the gloom of successive repulses
has never been able to paralyze the power which it has saddened. The constitution has been
so often invaded and trampled upon, that to a common eye it might well seem to have lost all
the resentments of vitality. But Webster has distinguished between the constitution and its
administration. He has seen that the constitution, though in bondage, is not killed; that the
channels of its life-giving wisdom are stuffed up with rubbish, but not obliterated. He has
been determined that if the rulers of the country will deny the truth, they shall not debauch
it; if they depart from the constitution, they shall not deprave it. He has been resolved,
that when this tyranny of corruption shall be overpast, and the constitution draws again its
own free breath of virtue, truth and wisdom, it shall be found perfect of limb and feature,
prepared to rise like a giant refreshed by sleep.

Mr. Griswold, we suppose, is quite right in suggesting that the only name in modern times to
which reference can with any fitness be made for purposes of analogy or comparison with Webster
is that of Burke. In many respects there is a correspondence between their characters; in some
others they differ widely. As a prophet of the truth of political morals, as a revealer of
those essential elements in the constitution of life, upon which, or of which, society is constructed
and government evolved, Burke had no peer. In that department he rises into the distance and
grandeur of inspiration; nil mortote sonans. Nor do we doubt that the Providence of God had
raised him up for the purposes of public safety and guidance, any more than we doubt the mission
of Jeremiah or Elisha, or any other of the school of the Lord's prophets. But leaving Burke
unapproached in this region of the nature and philosophy of government, and looking at him,
in his general career, as a man of intellect and action, we might indicate an analogy of this
kind, that the character, temper and reason of Burke seem to be almost an image of the English
constitution, and Webster's of the American. To get the key to Burke's somewhat irregular and
startling career, it is necessary, to study the idea of the old whig constitution of the English
monarchy: viewing his course from that point of view, we comprehend his almost countenancing
and encouraging rebellion in the case of the American colonies; his intense hostility to Warren
Hastings' imperial system; his unchastised earnestness in opposition to French maxims in the
decline of his life. The constitution of the United States, that most wonderful of the emanations
of providential wisdom, seems to be not only the home of Webster's affections and seat of his
proudest hopes, but the very type of his understanding and fountain of his intellectual strength:

    ----"hic illius arma;----
         Hic currus."

The genius of Burke, like the one, was inexhaustible in resources, so composite and so averse
from theory as to appear incongruous, but justified in the result; not formal, not always entirely
perspicuous. Webster's mind, like the other, is eminently logical, reduced into principles,
orderly, distinct, reconciling abstraction with convenience, various in manifestation, yet
pervaded by an unity of character.

Mr. Webster has not merely illustrated a great range of mental powers and accomplishments,
but has filled, in the eye of the nation, on a great scale, and to the farthest reach of their
exigency, a diversity of intellectual characters; while the manner in which Burke's wisdom
displayed itself was usually the same. We cannot suppose that Burke could have been a great
lawyer. Webster possesses a consummate legal judgment and prodigious powers of legal logic,
and is felt to be the highest authority on a great question of law in this country. The demonstrative
faculty; the capacity to analyze and open any proposition so as to identify its separate elements
with the very consciousness of the reader's or hearer's mind; this, which is the lawyer's peculiar
power, had not been particularly developed in Burke, but exists in Webster in greater expansion
and force than in any one since Doctor Johnson, who, it always appeared to us, had he been
educated for the bar, would have made the greatest lawyer that ever led the decisions of Westminster-Hall.
We should hardly be justified in saying that Burke would have made a great First Lord of the
Treasury. Mr. Webster, as Secretary of State, proved himself to be a practical statesman of
the highest; finest, promptest sagacity and foresight that this or any nation ever witnessed.
Who now doubts the surpassing wisdom, who now but reverences the exalted patriotism, of the
advice and the example which he gave, but gave in vain, to the Whig party at the beginning
of Mr. Tyler's administration? His official correspondence would be lowered by a comparison
with any state papers since the secretaryship of John Marshall. Does the public generally know
what has become of that portentous difficulty about the Right of Search, upon which England
and America, five years ago, were on the point of being "lento collisæ duello." Mr. Webster
settled it by mere force of mind: he dissipated the Question, by seeing through it, and by
compelling others to see a fallacy in its terms which before had imposed upon the understanding
of two nations. In the essential and universal philosophy of politics, Webster is second only
to Burke. After Burke, there is no statesman whose writings might be read with greater advantage
by foreign nations, or would have been studied with so much respect by antiquity, as Webster's.

In a merely literary point of view, this perhaps may be said of Mr. Webster, that he is the
only powerful and fervid orator, since the glorious days of Greece, whose style is so disciplined
that any of his great public harangues might be used as models of composition. His language
is beautifully pure, and his combinations of it exhibit more knowledge of the genius, spirit,
and classic vigor of the English tongue, than it has entered the mind of any professor of rhetoric
to apprehend. As the most impetuous sweeps of passion in him are pervaded and informed and
guided by intellect, so the most earnest struggles of intellect seem to be calmed and made
gentle in their vehemence, by a more essential rationality of taste. That imperious mind, which
seems fit to defy the universe, is ever subordinate, by a kind of fascination, to the perfect
law of grace. In the highest of his intellectual flights--and who can follow the winged rush
of that eagle mind?--in the widest of his mental ranges-and who shall measure their extent?--he
is ever moving within the severest line of beauty. No one would think of saying that Mr. Webster's
speeches are thrown off with ease, and cost him but little effort; they are clearly the result
of the intensest stress of mental energy; yet the manner is never discomposed; the decency
and propriety of the display never interfered with; he is always greater than his genius; you
see "the depth out not the tumult" of the mind. Whether, with extended arm, he strangles the
"reluctantes dracones" of democracy, or with every faculty called home, concentrates the light
and heat of his being in developing into principles those great sentiments and great instincts
which are his inspiration; in all, the orator stands forth with the majesty and chastened grace
of Pericles himself. In the fiercest of encounters with the deadliest of foes, the mind, which
is enraged, is never perturbed; the style, which leaps like the fire of heaven, is never disordered.
As in Guido's picture of St. Michael piercing the dragon, while the gnarled muscles of the
arms and hands attest the utmost strain of the strength, the countenance remains placid, serene,
and undisturbed. In this great quality of mental dignity, Mr. Webster's speeches have become
more and more eminent. The glow and luster which set his earlier speeches a-blaze with splendor,
is in his later discourses rarely let forth; but they have gained more, in the increase of
dignity, than they have parted with in the diminution of brilliancy. We regard his speech before
the shop-keepers, calling themselves merchants, of Philadelphia, as one of the most weighty
and admirable of the intellectual efforts of his life. The range of profound and piercing wisdom;
the exquisite and faultless taste; but above all, the august and indefectible dignity, that
are illustrated from the beginning to the end of that great display of matured and finished
strength, leave us in mingled wonder and reverence. There is one sentence there which seems
to us almost to reach the intellectual sublime; and while it stirs within us the depths of
sympathy and admiration, we could heartily wish that the young men of America would inhale
the almost supra-mortal spirit which it breathes: "I would not with any idolatrous admiration
regard the Constitution of the United States, nor any other work of man; but this side of idolatry,
I hold it in profound respect. I believe that no human working on such a subject, no human
ability exerted for such an end, has ever produced so much happiness, or holds out now to so
many millions of people the prospect, through such a succession of ages and ages, of so much
happiness, as the Constitution of the United States. We who are here for one generation, for
a single life, and yet in our several stations and relations in society intrusted in some degree
with its protection and support, what duty does it devolve, what duty does it not devolve,
upon us!" In the name of distant ages, and a remote posterity, we hail the author of this and
similar orations, as Webster the Olympian.

But we leave a subject which we have incidentally touched, sincerely disclaiming any attempt
to estimate the character or define the greatness of Webster. In reference to him we feel,
as Cicero said to Cæsar, "Nil vulgare te dignum videri possit."

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM THE ATHENÆUM.]

THE NEW PROPHET IN THE EAST.[5]

The vicissitudes of the war in the Caucasus of late have been surprising enough to awaken the
interest of Western Europe, even amidst her own nearer anxieties. Last year it was said that
the conquest of Achulgo, the stronghold of the redoubtable Schamyl, had effectually broken
the power of that daring leader. In direct contradiction to such reports, later accounts from
Daghestan tell of the reappearance of the notable partisan amidst the lines of the Russians,
and of a defeat of the latter, the most severe, if the details of the event be true, that they
have yet suffered in the Caucasus. In any case, these exciting changes of fortune would be
in favor of a book professing to describe this interesting region, and to add to our knowledge
of its brave inhabitants. The main interest of Herr Bodenstedt's work will now be enhanced
by its undertaking to give a more precise account than had previously appeared of the priest-warrior
of Daghestan. and of the new sect as the prophet of which he succeeded in arraying the independent
mountain clans against their common enemy with a kind of combination unknown in earlier periods
of the struggle.

[Footnote 5: The people of the Caucasus, and their Struggle for Liberty with the Russians--(Die
Volker des Caucasus, &c.) By Friedrich Bodenstedt. Second Edition. Frankfurt am Main, Lizius;
London, Nutt.]

The author has evidently lived for some time in the region which he describes, or in the bordering
districts along the Caspian, both in Georgia and in North Daghestan, His acquaintance with
Asiatic and Russian languages and customs appears to have been gained both by study and from
intercourse with the natives of the south-eastern frontier. He is not ignorant of Oriental
writings that refer to his subject; and his Russian statistics prove an access to official
authorities which are not to be found in print. These, however obtained, can scarcely have
been imparted to him as one of those writers whom the Court of St. Petersburg hires to promote
its views through the press of Western Europe. His sympathies are declared against Russian
usurpation; and the tendency of his essay is to prove how little real progress it has yet made
in subduing the Caucasus, the enormous waste of money and life with which its fluctuating successes
have been bought, and the fallacy of expecting a better result hereafter.

What it has cost in life on the Russian side to attack-hitherto with no lasting effect--the
handful of Caucasian mountaineers, may be guessed from a single note, dated 1847: "The present
Russian force in the Caucasus"--including of course, the armed Cossacks of the Kuban and Terek--"amounts
to two hundred thousand." Taking into account the numbers yearly cut off by disease, more fatal
even than the mountain war, every step of which must be won by the most reckless waste of life,--the
"Russian Officer" may perhaps truly affirm that the annual expenditure of life by Russia, in
her warfare with Schamyl, has for many years past exceeded the whole number of the population
at any one time directly under the rule of that chieftain.

We have said that the most instructive part of Herr Bodenstedt's essay is his sketch of that
politico-religious scheme which made Schamyl formidable to the Russians. This system, it is
to be observed, arose and has since been fully developed only in the Eastern Caucasus, where
of late the main stress of the war has been. The western tribes (our "Circassians") who took
the lead at an earlier stage of the contest, were not then, nor have they since been, inspired
by the fanatic zeal which united the tribes of Daghestan. They fought from a mere love of independence,
each little republic by itself; and their efforts, however heroic, being without concert, gradually
declined before the vast force of the invader. In the region looking westward from the Georgian
frontier on the Euxine, on the one side of the Caucasian range, and along the lower Kuban on
the other, the Russian posts are now seldom threatened but by small predatory bands; the natives,
retired to their mountain villages, have for some time made but few more formidable incursions.
The war is transferred to the region spreading eastward from the Elbrus to the Caspian; where
the strife for free existence is animated not less by the hatred of Russian slavery than by
a fresh outbreak of Mohammedan zeal against infidel invasion,--a revival, in fact, of that
war-like fanaticism which made the Moslem name terrible from the eighth to the sixteenth century.

It dates from the years 1823-4; at which period a "new doctrine" began to be preached, secretly
at first, to the select Uléma, afterward to greater numbers, in word and writing, by one Mullah
Mohammed, a famous teacher and a judge (or kadi) of Jarach, in the Kurin district of Daghestan.
He professed to have learnt it from Hadis-Ismail, an Alim of Kurdomir, highly famed for wisdom
and sanctity. It laid bare the degradation into which his countrymen had sunk by irreligion
and by the jealousy of sect; their danger, in consequence, from enemies of the true faith;
and urged the necessity of reform in creed and practice, in order to regain the invincible
character promised by the Prophet to believers. The theoretical part of the reformed doctrine
seems to be a kind of Sufism,--the general character of which mode of Islam, long prevalent
in the adjacent kingdom of Persia, has been described by our own orientalists. Disputed questions
as to its origin, whether in Brahmin philosophy or in the reveries of Moslem mystics, cannot
be discussed here; it must suffice to indicate those points which appear to connect it with
the hieratic policy that has given a new aspect to the war in the Caucasus.

Proceeding nominally on the basis of the Koran, it inculcates or expounds a kind of spiritual
transcendentalism; in which the adept is raised above the necessity of formal laws, which are
only requisite for those who are not capable of rising to a full intelligence of the supreme
power. To gain this height, by devout contemplation, must be the personal work and endeavor
of each individual. The revelation of divine truth, once attained, supersedes specific moral
injunctions; ceremonies and systems, even, of religion, become indifferent to the mind illuminated
by the sacred idea. A higher degree is the perfect conception or ecstatic vision of the Deity;--the
highest-reserved only for the prophetic few--a real immediate union with his essence. Here,
it will be seen, are four steps or stages, each of which has its sacred manual or appropriate
system of teaching. In the hieratic system, of which Schamyl is the head, the divisions seem
to correspond pretty nearly with this arrangement, as follows:--

The first includes the mass of the armed people; whose zeal it promotes by strict religious
and moral injunctions enjoining purity of life, exact regard to the ritual of the Koran, teaching
pilgrimages, fasting, ablutions; the duty of implacable war against the Infidel, the sin of
enduring his tyranny.

The second is composed of those, who, in virtue of striving upward to a higher Divine intelligence,
are elevated above ceremonial religion. Of these the Murids (seekers or strugglers,) are formed:
a body of religious warriors attached to the Imam, whose courage in battle, raised to a kind
of frenzy, despises numbers and laughs at death. To accept quarter, or to fly from the Infidel,
is forbidden to this class.

The third includes the more perfect acolytes, who are presumed to have risen to the ecstatic
view of the Deity. These are the elect, whom the Imam makes Naibs or vice-regents,--invested
with nearly absolute power in his absence.

The fourth, or highest, implying entire union with the Divine essence, is held by Schamyl alone.
In virtue of this elevation and spiritual endowment, the Imam, as an immediate organ of the
Supreme Will, is himself the source of all law to his followers, unerring, impeccable; to question
or disobey his behests is a sin against religion, as well as a political crime. It may be seen
what advantage this system must have given to Schamyl in his conflict with the Russians. The
doctrine of the indifference of sects and forms enabled him to unite the divided followers
of Omar and of Ali, in a region where both abound, and where the schism had formerly been one
of the most effectual instruments of the enemy. The belief in a Divine mission and spiritual
powers sustains his adherents in all reverses; while it invites to defection from the Russian
side those of the Mohammedan tribes who have submitted to the invader. Among these, however,
Schamyl, like his predecessors in the same priestly office, by no means confides the progress
of his sect to spiritual influences only. The work of conversion, where exhortation fails,
is carried on remorselessly by fire and sword; and the Imam is as terrible to those of his
countrymen whom fear or interest retains in alliance with Russia, as to the soldiers of the
Czar. With a character in which extreme daring is allied with coolness, cunning, and military
genius, with a good fortune which has hitherto preserved his life in many circumstances where
escape seemed impossible,--it may be seen that the belief in his supernatural gifts and privileges,
once created, must always tend to increase in intensity and effect among the imaginative and
credulous Mohammedans of the Caucasus; and that this apt combination of the warrior with the
politician and prophet accounts for his success in combining against the Russians a force of
the once discordant tribes of Daghestan, possessing more of the character of a national resistance
than had been ever known before in the Caucasus,--and compelling the invaders to purchase every
one of their few, trifling, and dubious advances by the terrible sacrifice of life already noticed.

In this formidable movement the highlander's natural freedom is fanned into a blaze by a religious
zeal like that which once led the armies of Islam over one half of Asia and Europe. Although
it reached its highest energy and a more consummate development under Schamyl, it was begun
by his predecessors. Of the Mullah Mohammed, who first preached the duty of casting off the
yoke of the Giaour, and the necessity of a religious reform and union of rival sects, as a
means to that end, we have already spoken. This founder of the new system, an aged man, untrained
in arms, never himself drew the sword in the cause; but was active in diffusing its principles
and preparing a warlike rising by exhortations and letters circulated through all Daghestan.
Suspected of these designs, he was seized, in 1826, by the orders of Jermoloff; and although
be escaped,--by the connivance, it is said, of the native prince employed to capture him,--he
afterward lived, in a kind of concealment, for some years. The post of Imam was thereupon assumed
by a priest who was able to fight for the new doctrine as well as to preach it. The first armed
outbreak took place under Kasi-Mullah, about the year 1829; from which time, until his death
in a battle at Himry, in 1831, he waged a terrible, and, although often defeated, a virtually
successful warfare, against the Russians, while he prosecuted the work of conversion among
the tribes of Islam who delayed to acknowledge his mission, and to join in his enmity to the
Russians, by the extremities of bloodshed and rapine. His death, after an heroic resistance,
was hailed as a triumph by the Russians. They counted on the extinction of the new sect in
the defeat of its leader, whose dead body they carried about the country to prove the imposture
of his pretensions. This piece of barbarism produced an effect the reverse of what they expected.
The venerable face of the Imam, the attitude in which he had expired, with one hand pointed
as if to heaven, was more impressive to those who crowded round the body than his fearless
enthusiasm had been,--and thousands who till then had held aloof, now joined his followers
in venerating him as a prophet. Of this first warrior-priest of Daghestan, Schamyl was the
favorite disciple and the most trusted soldier. Kasi-Mullah was not killed until Schamyl had
already fallen as it seemed, under several deadly wounds:--his reappearance after this bloody
scene was but the first of many similar escapes, the report of which sounds like a fable. He
did not, however, at once succeed to the dignity of Imam: the office was usurped for more than
a year by Hamsad Beg (Bey), whose rapacious and savage treatment of some of the princely families
of Daghestan nearly caused a fatal reaction against the new sect, and the destruction of its
main support, the Murids. Hamsad Beg performed no action of consequence against the Russians;
but expended his rage upon the natives allied with them, or reluctant to obey his mandates.
He was assassinated in 1834, by some kinsmen of a princely house whose territories he had usurped
after a massacre of its princes. In the affray which took place on this occasion, there perished
with him many of the fanatic Murids, who had become odious as instruments of the cruelties
of their Imam. On his death, Schamyl was raised to the dignity,--but it was some time before
the mischief done by his predecessor was so far repaired as to allow him to act with energy
as the prophet of the new doctrine. One of the ill effects of Hamsad Beg's iniquities had been
the defection to the Russians of n notable partisan--Hadjii Murad--for many years a fatal thorn
in the side of the independent party.[6] This and other difficulties, among which was the unpopularity
of the Murids under Hamsad Beg, were removed by new alliances and precautions, while all that
eloquence and skill could perform was applied to restore the credit of the religious system,
before Schamyl could hazard a direct attack of the Russian enemy, who meanwhile had taken advantage
of the delay and disunion to gain ground in many parts of Daghestan. From the year 1839, however,
the tide rapidly turned; and the result, from that date until the period at which the account
closes (1845)--when Woronzow was appointed to command in the Caucasus, with nearly unlimited
powers,--has been, that the Russians, in spite of tremendous sacrifices, were constantly losing
ground and influence, while Schamyl gained both in equal proportion. The details of the campaigns
during this interval are highly interesting; and we regret that conditions of space forbid
us to translate some of the exciting episodes recorded by Herr Bodenstedt.

Will Russian arms prevail in the end? The following is Herr Bodenstedt's answer; after noticing
the arrival of Woronzow, and the expectations raised by his talents, by the immense resources
at his command, as well as by such events as the storm of Schamyl's stronghold of Cargo:--

"He who believes that the issue of this contest hangs on the destruction of stone fortresses,
on the devastation of tracts of forest, has not yet conceived the essential nature of the war
in the Caucasus. This is not merely a war of men against men--it is a strife between the mountain
and the steppe. The population of the Caucasus may be changed; the air of liberty wafted from
its heights will ever remain the same. Invigorated by this atmosphere, even Russian hirelings
would grow into men eager for freedom: and among their descendants a new race of heroes would
arise, to point their weapons against that servile constitution, to extend which their fathers
had once fought, as blind, unquestioning slaves."

To this answer of Herr Bodenstedt's we will add nothing of our own. We are weary with waiting
for the events of history such as we would have them.

       *       *       *       *       *

COOLING A BURNING SPIRIT.

An incident which occurred soon after the accession of the present Sultan, shows that, in some
respects, at least, he is not indisposed to follow up the strong traditions of his race. At
the beginning of his reign, the Ulema was resolved, if possible, to prevent the new Sultan
from carrying on those reforms which had ever been so distasteful to the Turks, grating at
once against their religious associations and their pride of race, and which recent events
had certainly proved not to be productive of those good results anticipated by Sultan Mamoud.
To attain this object, the Muftis adopted the expedient of working on the religious fears of
the youthful prince. One day as he was praying, according to his custom, at his father's tomb,
he heard a voice from beneath reiterating, in a stifled tone, the words, "I burn." The next
time that he prayed there the same words assailed his ears. "I burn" was repeated again and
again, and no word beside. He applied to the chief of the Imams to know what this prodigy might
mean; and was informed in reply, that his father, though a great man, had also been, unfortunately,
a great reformer, and that as such it was too much to be feared that he had a terrible penance
to undergo in the other world. The Sultan sent for his brother-in-law to pray at the same place,
and afterward several others of his household; and on each occasion the same portentous words
were heard. One day he announced his intention of going in state to his father's tomb, and
was attended thither by a splendid retinue, including the chief doctors of the Mahometan law.
Again, during his devotions, were heard the words, "I burn," and all except the Sultan trembled.
Rising from his prayer-carpet, he called in his guards, and commanded them to dig up the pavement
and remove the tomb. It was in vain that the Muftis interposed, reprobating so great a profanation,
and uttering warnings as to its consequences. The Sultan persisted, the foundations of the
tomb were laid bare, and in a cavity skillfully left among them was found--not a burning Sultan,
but a Dervise. The young monarch regarded him for a time fixedly and in silence, and then said,
without any further remark or the slightest expression of anger, "You burn?--We must cool you
in the Bosphorus." In a few minutes more the dervise was in a bag, and the bag immediately
after was in the Bosphorus.--De Vere's Sketches.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM HOUSEHOLD WORDS.]

AN OLD HAUNT.

  The rippling water, with its drowsy tone,--
    The tall elms, tow 'ring in their stately pride,--
  And--sorrow's type--the willow sad and lone,
    Kissing in graceful woe the murmuring tide;--

  The grey church-tower,--and dimly seen beyond,
    The faint hills gilded by the parting sun,--
  All were the same, and seem'd with greeting fond
    To welcome me as they of old had done.

  And for a while I stood as in a trance,
    On that loved spot, forgetting toil and pain;--
  Buoyant my limbs, and keen and bright my glance,
    For that brief space I was a boy again!

  Again with giddy mates I careless play'd,
    Or plied the quiv'ring oar, on conquest bent:--
  Again, beneath the tall elms' silent shade,
    I woo'd the fair, and won the sweet consent.

  But brief, alas! the spell,--for suddenly
    Peal'd from the tower the old familiar chimes,
  And with their clear, heart-thrilling melody,
    Awaked the spectral forms of darker times

  And I remember'd all that years had wrought--
    How bow'd my care-worn frame, how dimm'd my eye,
  How poor the gauds by Youth so keenly sought,
    How quench'd and dull Youth's aspirations high!

  And in half mournful, half upbraiding host,
    Duties neglected--high resolves unkept--
  And many a heart by death or falsehood lost,
    In lightning current o'er my bosom swept.

  Then bow'd the stubborn knees, as backward sped
    The self-accusing thoughts in dread array,
  And, slowly, from their long-congealed bed,
    Forced the remorseful tears their silent way.

  Bitter yet healing drops in mercy sent,
    Like soft dews tailing on a thirsty plain,--
  And ere those chimes their last faint notes had spent,
    Strengthen'd and calm'd, I stood erect again.

  Strengthen'd, the tasks allotted to fulfill;--
    Calm'd the thick-coming sorrows to endure;
  Fearful of nought but of my own frail will,--
    In His Almighty strength and aid secure.

  For a sweet voice had whisper'd hope to me,--
    Had through my darkness shed a kindly ray;--
  It said: "The past is fix'd immutably,
    Yet is there comfort in the coming day!"

       *       *       *       *       *

KILLING A GIRAFFE.

At every stride I gained upon the giraffes, and, after a short burst at a swingeing gallop,
I was in the middle of them, and turned the finest cow out of the herd. On finding herself
driven from her comrades and hotly pursued, she increased her pace, and cantered along with
tremendous strides, clearing an amazing extent of ground at every bound; while her neck and
breast, coming in contact with the dead old branches of the trees, were continually strewing
them in my path. In a few minutes I was riding within five yards of her stern, and, firing
at a gallop, I sent a bullet into her back. Increasing my pace, I next rode alongside, and,
placing the muzzle of my rifle within a few feet of her, I fired my second shot behind the
shoulder; the ball, however, seemed to have little effect. I then placed myself directly in
front, when she came to a walk. Dismounting, I hastily loaded both barrels, putting in double
charges of powder. Before this was accomplished, she was off at a canter. In a short time I
brought her to a stand in the dry bed of a watercourse, where I fired at fifteen yards, aiming
where I thought the heart lay, upon which she again made off. Having loaded, I followed, and
had very nearly lost her; she had turned abruptly to the left, and was far out of sight among
the trees. Once more I brought her to a stand, and dismounted from my horse. There we stood
together alone in the wild wood. I gazed in wonder at her extreme beauty, while her soft dark
eye, with its silky fringe, looked down imploringly at me, and I really felt a pang of sorrow
in this moment of triumph for the blood I was shedding. Pointing my rifle toward the skies,
I sent a bullet through her neck. On receiving it she reared high on her hind legs and fell
back with a heavy crash, making the earth shake around her. A thick stream of dark blood spouted
out from the wound, her colossal limbs quivered for a moment, and she expired.--Cummings' Adventures.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VETERAN KOLOMBESKI.

Several journals have spoken of the entry into the Hotel des Invalides of a soldier, stated
to be 126 years of age. This is not quite correct. The following are some precise details respecting
this extraordinary man, who arrived at the Hotel on the 21st inst.:--Jean Kolombeski, born
at Astrona (Poland), on the 1st of March, 1730, entered the service of France, as a volunteer
in the Bourbon regiment of infantry, in 1774, at the age of forty-four. He was made corporal
in 1790, at the age of sixty. He made all the campaigns of the Revolution and of the Empire,
in different regiments of infantry, and was incorporated, in 1808, in the 3d regiment of the
Vistula. He was wounded in 1814, and entered the hospital at Poitiers, which he soon afterward
left to be placed en subsistence in the 2d regiment of light infantry. On the 11th of October
of the same year he was admitted into the 1st company of sous-officiers sedentaires, and, in
1846, into the 5th company of Veteran Sub-Officers. The last three of these companies having
just been suppressed by the Minister of War, Kolombeski was placed en subsistence in the 61st
regiment of the line, received a retiring pension by decree of May 17, 1850, and the Minister
authorized his admission into the Invalides. Kolombeski is, therefore, more than 120 years
of age; he reckons seventy-five and a half years of service, and twenty-nine campaigns. He
enjoys good health, is strong and well made, and does not appear to be more than seventy or
eighty. He performed every duty with big comrades of the 5th company of Veterans, When King
Louis Philippe visited Dreus, Kolombeski was presented to him, who, taking the decoration from
his breast, presented it to the veteran soldier. This is the most astonishing instance of longevity
that has, perhaps, been ever known in the army. The Marshal Governor of the Invalides ordered
that Kolombeski should be brought to him on his arrival; but, as the old soldier was fatigued,
he was taken to the infirmary, and the Governor, informed of it, went to his bedside with General
Petit, the commandant of the hotel, and addressed the veteran in the kindest manner. The Governor
has issued an order that, for the future, all centenarian soldiers admitted into the hospital
shall mess with the officers, in order to show his respect for their age, and for the long
services they have rendered to the state.--Galignani's Messenger.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTE OF LORD BROUGHAM.

The "Life of the Rev. Dr. Hugh Heugh" has a description of an interview which a deputation
of Scotch dissenters had some years ago with Lord Brougham. The Scotsman adds, from its private
knowledge, some odd incidents of the affair.

His lordship, on coming out of the court to meet the deputation, immediately on being informed
of their object, burst out in a volley of exclamations to the effect that, but for dissent,
there would be "No vital religion--no vital religion, gentlemen, no vital religion." While
pouring forth this in a most solemn tone, he was all the while shaking violently the locked
doors of a lobby full of committee rooms, into one of which he wished to find entrance, and
calling for an absent official not only in passionate tones, but in phraseology which the reverend
deputation, at first unwilling to trust their own ears, were at last forced to believe was
nothing better than profane swearing. At last, he suddenly drew himself up to the wall opposite
a locked door, and with a tremendous kick, smashed the lock, and entered (exclaiming, first
in a vehement and then in a solemn tone, but without pause) "--that fellow! where the ----
does he always go to! No vital religion, gentlemen, no vital religion--no, no, no."

       *       *       *       *       *

