I received my (pounds)100, in advance, with profound delight. It was a positive and most welcome
increase to my income, and might probably be regarded as a first real step on the road to substantial
success. I am well aware that there are many who think that an author in his authorship should
not regard money,--nor a painter, or sculptor, or composer in his art.  I do not know that
this unnatural sacrifice is supposed to extend itself further. A barrister, a clergyman, a
doctor, an engineer, and even actors and architects, may without disgrace follow the bent of
human nature, and endeavour to fill their bellies and clothe their backs, and also those of
their wives and children, as comfortably as they can by the exercise of their abilities and
their crafts. They may be as rationally realistic, as may the butchers and the bakers; but
the artist and the author forget the high glories of their calling if they condescend to make
a money return a first object. They who preach this doctrine will be much offended by my theory,
and by this book of mine, if my theory and my book come beneath their notice. They require
the practice of a so-called virtue which is contrary to nature, and which, in my eyes, would
be no virtue if it were practised. They are like clergymen who preach sermons against the love
of money, but who know that the love of money is so distinctive a characteristic of humanity
that such sermons are mere platitudes called for by customary but unintelligent piety. All
material progress has come from man's desire to do the best he can for himself and those about
him, and civilisation and Christianity itself have been made possible by such progress.  Though
we do not all of us argue this matter out within our breasts, we do all feel it; and we know
that the more a man earns the more useful he is to his fellow-men. The most useful lawyers,
as a rule, have been those who have made the greatest incomes,--and it is the same with the
doctors. It would be the same in the Church if they who have the choosing of bishops always
chose the best man. And it has in truth been so too in art and authorship. Did Titian or Rubens
disregard their pecuniary rewards? As far as we know, Shakespeare worked always for money,
giving the best of his intellect to support his trade as an actor. In our own century what
literary names stand higher than those of Byron, Tennyson, Scott, Dickens, Macaulay, and Carlyle?
And I think I may say that none of those great men neglected the pecuniary result of their
labours. Now and then a man may arise among us who in any calling, whether it be in law, in
physic, in religious teaching, in art, or literature, may in his professional enthusiasm utterly
disregard money.  All will honour his enthusiasm, and if he be wifeless and childless, his
disregard of the great object of men's work will be blameless. But it is a mistake to suppose
that a man is a better man because he despises money. Few do so, and those few in doing so
suffer a defeat. Who does not desire to be hospitable to his friends, generous to the poor,
liberal to all, munificent to his children, and to be himself free from the casking fear which
poverty creates? The subject will not stand an argument;--and yet authors are told that they
should disregard payment for their work, and be content to devote their unbought brains to
the welfare of the public. Brains that are unbought will never serve the public much. Take
away from English authors their copyrights, and you would very soon take away from England
her authors.

I say this here, because it is my purpose as I go on to state what to me has been the result
of my profession in the ordinary way in which professions are regarded, so that by my example
may be seen what prospect there is that a man devoting himself to literature with industry,
perseverance, certain necessary aptitudes, and fair average talents, may succeed in gaining
a livelihood, as another man does in another profession. The result with me has been comfortable
but not splendid, as I think was to have been expected from the combination of such gifts.

I have certainly always had also before my eyes the charms of reputation. Over and above the
money view of the question, I wished from the beginning to be something more than a clerk in
the Post Office. To be known as somebody,--to be Anthony Trollope if it be no more,--is to
me much. The feeling is a very general one, and I think beneficent. It is that which has been
called the "last infirmity of noble mind." The infirmity is so human that the man who lacks
it is either above or below humanity. I own to the infirmity. But I confess that my first object
in taking to literature as a profession was that which is common to the barrister when he goes
to the Bar, and to the baker when he sets up his oven. I wished to make an income on which
I and those belonging to me might live in comfort.

If indeed a man writes his books badly, or paints his pictures badly, because he can make his
money faster in that fashion than by doing them well, and at the same time proclaims them to
be the best he can do,--if in fact he sells shoddy for broadcloth,--he is dishonest, as is
any other fraudulent dealer. So may be the barrister who takes money that he does not earn,
or the clergyman who is content to live on a sinecure. No doubt the artist or the author may
have a difficulty which will not occur to the seller of cloth, in settling within himself what
is good work and what is bad,--when labour enough has been given, and when the task has been
scamped. It is a danger as to which he is bound to be severe with himself--in which he should
feel that his conscience should be set fairly in the balance against the natural bias of his
interest. If he do not do so, sooner or later his dishonesty will be discovered, and will be
estimated accordingly. But in this he is to be governed only by the plain rules of honesty
which should govern us all. Having said so much, I shall not scruple as I go on to attribute
to the pecuniary result of my labours all the importance which I felt them to have at the time.

Barchester Towers, for which I had received (pounds)100 in advance, sold well enough to bring
me further payments--moderate payments--from the publishers.  From that day up to this very
time in which I am writing, that book and The Warden together have given me almost every year
some small income. I get the accounts very regularly, and I find that I have received (pounds)727
11S. 3d. for the two. It is more than I got for the three or four works that came afterwards,
but the payments have been spread over twenty years.

When I went to Mr. Longman with my next novel, The Three Clerks, in my hand, I could not induce
him to understand that a lump sum down was more pleasant than a deferred annuity. I wished
him to buy it from me at a price which he might think to be a fair value, and I argued with
him that as soon as an author has put himself into a position which insures a sufficient sale
of his works to give a profit, the publisher is not entitled to expect the half of such proceeds.
While there is a pecuniary risk, the whole of which must be borne by the publisher, such division
is fair enough; but such a demand on the part of the publisher is monstrous as soon as the
article produced is known to be a marketable commodity. I thought that I had now reached that
point, but Mr. Longman did not agree with me. And he endeavoured to convince me that I might
lose more than I gained, even though I should get more money by going elsewhere. "It is for
you," said he, "to think whether our names on your title-page are not worth more to you than
the increased payment." This seemed to me to savour of that high-flown doctrine of the contempt
of money which I have never admired. I did think much of Messrs. Longman's name, but I liked
it best at the bottom of a cheque.

I was also scared from the august columns of Paternoster Row by a remark made to myself by
one of the firm, which seemed to imply that they did not much care for works of fiction. Speaking
of a fertile writer of tales who was not then dead, he declared that ---- (naming the author
in question) had spawned upon them (the publishers) three novels a year! Such language is perhaps
justifiable in regard to a man who shows so much of the fecundity of the herring; but I did
not know how fruitful might be my own muse, and I thought that I had better go elsewhere.

I had then written The Three Clerks, which, when I could not sell it to Messrs. Longman, I
took in the first instance to Messrs. Hurst & Blackett, who had become successors to Mr. Colburn.
I had made an appointment with one of the firm, which, however, that gentleman was unable to
keep. I was on my way from Ireland to Italy, and had but one day in London in which to dispose
of my manuscript. I sat for an hour in Great Marlborough Street, expecting the return of the
peccant publisher who had broken his tryst, and I was about to depart with my bundle under
my arm when the foreman of the house came to me.  He seemed to think it a pity that I should
go, and wished me to leave my work with him. This, however, I would not do, unless he would
undertake to buy it then and there. Perhaps he lacked authority.  Perhaps his judgment was
against such purchase. But while we debated the matter, he gave me some advice.  "I hope it's
not historical, Mr. Trollope?" he said.  "Whatever you do, don't be historical; your historical
novel is not worth a damn." Thence I took The Three Clerks to Mr. Bentley; and on the same
afternoon succeeded in selling it to him for (pounds)250. His son still possesses it, and the
firm has, I believe, done very well with the purchase. It was certainly the best novel I had
as yet written. The plot is not so good as that of the Macdermots; nor are there any characters
in the book equal to those of Mrs. Proudie and the Warden; but the work has a more continued
interest, and contains the first well-described love-scene that I ever wrote. The passage in
which Kate Woodward, thinking that she will die, tries to take leave of the lad she loves,
still brings tears to my eyes when I read it. I had not the heart to kill her. I never could
do that. And I do not doubt but that they are living happily together to this day.

The lawyer Chaffanbrass made his first appearance in this novel, and I do not think that I
have cause to be ashamed of him. But this novel now is chiefly noticeable to me from the fact
that in it I introduced a character under the name of Sir Gregory Hardlines, by which I intended
to lean very heavily on that much loathed scheme of competitive examination, of which at that
time Sir Charles Trevelyan was the great apostle. Sir Gregory Hardlines was intended for Sir
Charles Trevelyan,--as any one at the time would know who had taken an interest in the Civil
Service.  "We always call him Sir Gregory," Lady Trevelyan said to me afterwards, when I came
to know her and her husband. I never learned to love competitive examination; but I became,
and am, very fond of Sir Charles Trevelyan. Sir Stafford Northcote, who is now Chancellor of
the Exchequer, was then leagued with his friend Sir Charles, and he too appears in The Three
Clerks under the feebly facetious name of Sir Warwick West End.

But for all that The Three Clerks was a good novel.

When that sale was made I was on my way to Italy with my wife, paying a third visit there to
my mother and brother. This was in 1857, and she had then given up her pen. It was the first
year in which she had not written, and she expressed to me her delight that her labours should
be at an end, and that mine should be beginning in the same field. In truth they had already
been continued for a dozen years, but a man's career will generally be held to date itself
from the commencement of his success. On those foreign tours I always encountered adventures,
which, as I look back upon them now, tempt me almost to write a little book of my long past
Continental travels. On this occasion, as we made our way slowly through Switzerland and over
the Alps, we encountered again and again a poor forlorn Englishman, who had no friend and no
aptitude for travelling. He was always losing his way, and finding himself with no seat in
the coaches and no bed at the inns. On one occasion I found him at Coire seated at 5 A. M.
in the coupe of a diligence which was intended to start at noon for the Engadine, while it
was his purpose to go over the Alps in another which was to leave at 5.30, and which was already
crowded with passengers. "Ah!" he said, "I am in time now, and nobody shall turn me out of
this seat," alluding to former little misfortunes of which I had been a witness. When I explained
to him his position, he was as one to whom life was too bitter to be borne.  But he made his
way into Italy, and encountered me again at the Pitti Palace in Florence. "Can you tell me
something?" he said to me in a whisper, having touched my shoulder. "The people are so ill-natured
I don't like to ask them. Where is it they keep the Medical Venus?" I sent him to the Uffizzi,
but I fear he was disappointed.

We ourselves, however, on entering Milan had been in quite as much distress as any that he
suffered. We had not written for beds, and on driving up to a hotel at ten in the evening found
it full. Thence we went from one hotel to another, finding them all full. The misery is one
well known to travellers, but I never heard of another case in which a man and his wife were
told at midnight to get out of the conveyance into the middle of the street because the horse
could not be made to go any further. Such was our condition. I induced the driver, however,
to go again to the hotel which was nearest to him, and which was kept by a German. Then I bribed
the porter to get the master to come down to me; and, though my French is ordinarily very defective,
I spoke with such eloquence to that German innkeeper that he, throwing his arms round my neck
in a transport of compassion, swore that he would never leave me nor my wife till he had put
us to bed. And he did so; but, ah! there were so many in those beds! It is such an experience
as this which teaches a travelling foreigner how different on the Continent is the accommodation
provided for him, from that which is supplied for the inhabitants of the country.

It was on a previous visit to Milan, when the telegraph-wires were only just opened to the
public by the Austrian authorities, that we had decided one day at dinner that we would go
to Verona that night.  There was a train at six, reaching Verona at midnight, and we asked
some servant of the hotel to telegraph for us, ordering supper and beds. The demand seemed
to create some surprise; but we persisted, and were only mildly grieved when we found ourselves
charged twenty zwanzigers for the message. Telegraphy was new at Milan, and the prices were
intended to be almost prohibitory. We paid our twenty zwanzigers and went on, consoling ourselves
with the thought of our ready supper and our assured beds.  When we reached Verona, there arose
a great cry along the platform for Signor Trollope. I put out my head and declared my identity,
when I was waited upon by a glorious personage dressed like a beau for a ball, with half-a-dozen
others almost as glorious behind him, who informed me, with his hat in his hand, that he was
the landlord of the "Due Torre." It was a heating moment, but it became more hot when he asked
after my people,--"mes gens." I could only turn round, and point to my wife and brother-in-law.
I had no other "people." There were three carriages provided for us, each with a pair of grey
horses. When we reached the house it was all lit up. We were not allowed to move without an
attendant with a lighted candle. It was only gradually that the mistake came to be understood.
On us there was still the horror of the bill, the extent of which could not be known till the
hour of departure had come. The landlord, however, had acknowledged to himself that his inductions
had been ill-founded, and he treated us with clemency. He had never before received a telegram.

I apologise for these tales, which are certainly outside my purpose, and will endeavour to
tell no more that shall not have a closer relation to my story.  I had finished The Three Clerks
just before I left England, and when in Florence was cudgelling my brain for a new plot. Being
then with my brother, I asked him to sketch me a plot, and he drew out that of my next novel,
called Doctor Thorne. I mention this particularly, because it was the only occasion in which
I have had recourse to some other source than my own brains for the thread of a story. How
far I may unconsciously have adopted incidents from what I have read,--either from history
or from works of imagination,--I do not know. It is beyond question that a man employed as
I have been must do so. But when doing it I have not been aware that I have done it. I have
never taken another man's work, and deliberately framed my work upon it. I am far from censuring
this practice in others. Our greatest masters in works of imagination have obtained such aid
for themselves. Shakespeare dug out of such quarries whenever he could find them. Ben Jonson,
with heavier hand, built up his structures on his studies of the classics, not thinking it
beneath him to give, without direct acknowledgment, whole pieces translated both from poets
and historians. But in those days no such acknowledgment was usual. Plagiary existed, and was
very common, but was not known as a sin. It is different now; and I think that an author, when
he uses either the words or the plot of another, should own as much, demanding to be credited
with no more of the work than he has himself produced. I may say also that I have never printed
as my own a word that has been written by others. [Footnote: I must make one exception to this
declaration. The legal opinion as to heirlooms in The Eustace Diamonds was written for me by
Charles Merewether, the present Member for Northampton.  I am told that it has become the ruling
authority on the subject.] It might probably have been better for my readers had I done so,
as I am informed that Doctor Thorne, the novel of which I am now speaking, has a larger sale
than any other book of mine.

Early in 1858, while I was writing Doctor Thorne, I was asked by the great men at the General
Post Office to go to Egypt to make a treaty with the Pasha for the conveyance of our mails
through that country by railway. There was a treaty in existence, but that had reference to
the carriage of bags and boxes by camels from Alexandria to Suez. Since its date the railway
had grown, and was now nearly completed, and a new treaty was wanted. So I came over from Dublin
to London, on my road, and again went to work among the publishers. The other novel was not
finished; but I thought I had now progressed far enough to arrange a sale while the work was
still on the stocks. I went to Mr. Bentley and demanded (pounds)400,--for the copyright. He
acceded, but came to me the next morning at the General Post Office to say that it could not
be. He had gone to work at his figures after I had left him, and had found that (pounds)300
would be the outside value of the novel. I was intent upon the larger sum; and in furious haste,--for
I had but an hour at my disposal,--I rushed to Chapman & Hall in Piccadilly, and said what
I had to say to Mr. Edward Chapman in a quick torrent of words. They were the first of a great
many words which have since been spoken by me in that back-shop. Looking at me as he might
have done at a highway robber who had stopped him on Hounslow Heath, he said that he supposed
he might as well do as I desired. I considered this to be a sale, and it was a sale. I remember
that he held the poker in his hand all the time that I was with him;--but in truth, even though
he had declined to buy the book, there would have been no danger.

CHAPTER VII

"DOCTOR THORNE"--"THE BERTRAMS"--"THE WEST INDIES" AND "THE SPANISH MAIN"

As I journeyed across France to Marseilles, and made thence a terribly rough voyage to Alexandria,
I wrote my allotted number of pages every day. On this occasion more than once I left my paper
on the cabin table, rushing away to be sick in the privacy of my state room. It was February,
and the weather was miserable; but still I did my work. Labor omnia vincit improbus. I do not
say that to all men has been given physical strength sufficient for such exertion as this,
but I do believe that real exertion will enable most men to work at almost any season. I had
previously to this arranged a system of task-work for myself, which I would strongly recommend
to those who feel as I have felt, that labour, when not made absolutely obligatory by the circumstances
of the hour, should never be allowed to become spasmodic. There was no day on which it was
my positive duty to write for the publishers, as it was my duty to write reports for the Post
Office. I was free to be idle if I pleased.  But as I had made up my mind to undertake this
second profession, I found it to be expedient to bind myself by certain self-imposed laws.
When I have commenced a new book, I have always prepared a diary, divided into weeks, and carried
it on for the period which I have allowed myself for the completion of the work. In this I
have entered, day by day, the number of pages I have written, so that if at any time I have
slipped into idleness for a day or two, the record of that idleness has been there, staring
me in the face, and demanding of me increased labour, so that the deficiency might be supplied.
According to the circumstances of the time,--whether my other business might be then heavy
or light, or whether the book which I was writing was or was not wanted with speed,--I have
allotted myself so many pages a week. The average number has been about 40. It has been placed
as low as 20, and has risen to 112. And as a page is an ambiguous term, my page has been made
to contain 250 words; and as words, if not watched, will have a tendency to straggle, I have
had every word counted as I went. In the bargains I have made with publishers I have,--not,
of course, with their knowledge, but in my own mind,--undertaken always to supply them with
so many words, and I have never put a book out of hand short of the number by a single word.
I may also say that the excess has been very small. I have prided myself on completing my work
exactly within the proposed dimensions. But I have prided myself especially in completing it
within the proposed time,--and I have always done so. There has ever been the record before
me, and a week passed with an insufficient number of pages has been a blister to my eye, and
a month so disgraced would have been a sorrow to my heart.

I have been told that such appliances are beneath the notice of a man of genius. I have never
fancied myself to be a man of genius, but had I been so I think I might well have subjected
myself to these trammels. Nothing surely is so potent as a law that may not be disobeyed. It
has the force of the water drop that hollows the stone. A small daily task, If it be really
daily, will beat the labours of a spasmodic Hercules. It is the tortoise which always catches
the hare. The hare has no chance. He loses more time in glorifying himself for a quick spurt
than suffices for the tortoise to make half his journey.

I have known authors whose lives have always been troublesome and painful because their tasks
have never been done in time. They have ever been as boys struggling to learn their lessons
as they entered the school gates. Publishers have distrusted them, and they have failed to
write their best because they have seldom written at ease. I have done double their work--though
burdened with another profession,--and have done it almost without an effort. I have not once,
through all my literary career, felt myself even in danger of being late with my task. I have
known no anxiety as to "copy." The needed pages far ahead--very far ahead--have almost always
been in the drawer beside me. And that little diary, with its dates and ruled spaces, its record
that must be seen, its daily, weekly demand upon my industry, has done all that for me.

There are those who would be ashamed to subject themselves to such a taskmaster, and who think
that the man who works with his imagination should allow himself to wait till--inspiration
moves him. When I have heard such doctrine preached, I have hardly been able to repress my
scorn. To me it would not be more absurd if the shoemaker were to wait for inspiration, or
the tallow-chandler for the divine moment of melting. If the man whose business it is to write
has eaten too many good things, or has drunk too much, or smoked too many cigars,--as men who
write sometimes will do,--then his condition may be unfavourable for work; but so will be the
condition of a shoemaker who has been similarly imprudent. I have sometimes thought that the
inspiration wanted has been the remedy which time will give to the evil results of such imprudence.--Mens
sana in corpore sano. The author wants that as does every other workman,--that and a habit
of industry. I was once told that the surest aid to the writing of a book was a piece of cobbler's
wax on my chair. I certainly believe in the cobbler's wax much more than the inspiration.

It will be said, perhaps, that a man whose work has risen to no higher pitch than mine has
attained, has no right to speak of the strains and impulses to which real genius is exposed.
I am ready to admit the great variations in brain power which are exhibited by the products
of different men, and am not disposed to rank my own very high; but my own experience tells
me that a man can always do the work for which his brain is fitted if he will give himself
the habit of regarding his work as a normal condition of his life.  I therefore venture to
advise young men who look forward to authorship as the business of their lives, even when they
propose that that authorship be of the highest class known, to avoid enthusiastic rushes with
their pens, and to seat themselves at their desks day by day as though they were lawyers' clerks;--and
so let them sit until the allotted task shall be accomplished.

While I was in Egypt, I finished Doctor Thorne, and on the following day began The Bertrams.
I was moved now by a determination to excel, if not in quality, at any rate in quantity. An
ignoble ambition for an author, my readers will no doubt say. But not, I think, altogether
ignoble, if an author can bring himself to look at his work as does any other workman.  This
had become my task, this was the furrow in which my plough was set, this was the thing the
doing of which had fallen into my hands, and I was minded to work at it with a will. It is
not on my conscience that I have ever scamped my work. My novels, whether good or bad, have
been as good as I could make them. Had I taken three months of idleness between each they would
have been no better. Feeling convinced of that, I finished Doctor Thorne on one day, and began
The Bertrams on the next.

I had then been nearly two months in Egypt, and had at last succeeded in settling the terms
of a postal treaty. Nearly twenty years have passed since that time, and other years may yet
run on before these pages are printed. I trust I may commit no official sin by describing here
the nature of the difficulty which met me. I found, on my arrival, that I was to communicate
with an officer of the Pasha, who was then called Nubar Bey. I presume him to have been the
gentleman who has lately dealt with our Government as to the Suez Canal shares, and who is
now well known to the political world as Nubar Pasha. I found him a most courteous gentlemen,
an Armenian. I never went to his office, nor do I know that he had an office. Every other day
he would come to me at my hotel, and bring with him servants, and pipes, and coffee. I enjoyed
his coming greatly; but there was one point on which we could not agree. As to money and other
details, it seemed as though he could hardly accede fast enough to the wishes of the Postmaster-General;
but on one point he was firmly opposed to me. I was desirous that the mails should be carried
through Egypt in twenty-four hours, and he thought that forty-eight hours should be allowed.
I was obstinate, and he was obstinate; and for a long time we could come to no agreement. At
last his oriental tranquillity seemed to desert him, and he took upon himself to assure me,
with almost more than British energy, that, if I insisted on the quick transit, a terrible
responsibility would rest on my head. I made this mistake, he said,--that I supposed that a
rate of travelling which would be easy and secure in England could be attained with safety
in Egypt. "The Pasha, his master, would," he said, "no doubt accede to any terms demanded by
the British Post Office, so great was his reverence for everything British. In that case he,
Nubar, would at once resign his position, and retire into obscurity. He would be ruined; but
the loss of life and bloodshed which would certainly follow so rash an attempt should not be
on his head." I smoked my pipe, or rather his, and drank his coffee, with oriental quiescence
but British firmness.  Every now and again, through three or four visits, I renewed the expression
of my opinion that the transit could easily be made in twenty-four hours. At last he gave way,--and
astonished me by the cordiality of his greeting. There was no longer any question of bloodshed
or of resignation of office, and he assured me, with energetic complaisance, that it should
be his care to see that the time was punctually kept. It was punctually kept, and, I believe,
is so still. I must confess, however, that my persistency was not the result of any courage
specially personal to myself. While the matter was being debated, it had been whispered to
me that the Peninsular and Oriental Steamship Company had conceived that forty-eight hours
would suit the purposes of their traffic better than twenty-four, and that, as they were the
great paymasters on the railway, the Minister of the Egyptian State, who managed the railway,
might probably wish to accommodate them. I often wondered who originated that frightful picture
of blood and desolation. That it came from an English heart and an English hand I was always sure.

From Egypt I visited the Holy Land, and on my way inspected the Post Offices at Malta and Gibraltar.
I could fill a volume with true tales of my adventures.  The Tales of All Countries have, most
of them, some foundation in such occurrences. There is one called John Bull on the Guadalquivir,
the chief incident in which occurred to me and a friend of mine on our way up that river to
Seville. We both of us handled the gold ornaments of a man whom we believed to be a bull-fighter,
but who turned out to be a duke,--and a duke, too, who could speak English! How gracious he
was to us, and yet how thoroughly he covered us with ridicule!

On my return home I received (pounds)400 from Messrs.  Chapman & Hall for Doctor Thorne, and
agreed to sell them The Bertrams for the same sum. This latter novel was written under very
vagrant circumstances,--at Alexandria, Malta, Gibraltar, Glasgow, then at sea, and at last
finished in Jamaica. Of my journey to the West Indies I will say a few words presently, but
I may as well speak of these two novels here.  Doctor Thorne has, I believe, been the most
popular book that I have written,--if I may take the sale as a proof of comparative popularity.
The Bertrams has had quite an opposite fortune. I do not know that I have ever heard it well
spoken of even by my friends, and I cannot remember that there is any character in it that
has dwelt in the minds of novel-readers. I myself think that they are of about equal merit,
but that neither of them is good. They fall away very much from The Three Clerks, both in pathos
and humour. There is no personage in either of them comparable to Chaffanbrass the lawyer.
The plot of Doctor Thorne is good, and I am led therefore to suppose that a good plot,--which,
to my own feeling, is the most insignificant part of a tale,--is that which will most raise
it or most condemn it in the public judgment. The plots of Tom Jones and of Ivanhoe are almost
perfect, and they are probably the most popular novels of the schools of the last and of this
century; but to me the delicacy of Amelia, and the rugged strength of Burley and Meg Merrilies,
say more for the power of those great novelists than the gift of construction shown in the
two works I have named. A novel should give a picture of common life enlivened by humour and
sweetened by pathos. To make that picture worthy of attention, the canvas should be crowded
with real portraits, not of individuals known to the world or to the author, but of created
personages impregnated with traits of character which are known. To my thinking, the plot is
but the vehicle for all this; and when you have the vehicle without the passengers, a story
of mystery in which the agents never spring to life, you have but a wooden show. There must,
however, be a story. You must provide a vehicle of some sort. That of The Bertrams was more
than ordinarily bad; and as the book was relieved by no special character, it failed.  Its
failure never surprised me; but I have been surprised by the success of Doctor Thorne.

At this time there was nothing in the success of the one or the failure of the other to affect
me very greatly.  The immediate sale, and the notices elicited from the critics, and the feeling
which had now come to me of a confident standing with the publishers, all made me know that
I had achieved my object. If I wrote a novel, I could certainly sell it. And if I could publish
three in two years,--confining myself to half the fecundity of that terrible author of whom
the publisher in Paternoster Row had complained to me,--I might add (pounds)600 a year to my
official income. I was still living in Ireland, and could keep a good house over my head, insure
my life, educate my two boys, and hunt perhaps twice a week, on (pounds)1400 a year. If more
should come, it would be well;--but (pounds)600 a year I was prepared to reckon as success.
It had been slow in coming, but was very pleasant when it came.

On my return from Egypt I was sent down to Scotland to revise the Glasgow Post Office. I almost
forget now what it was that I had to do there, but I know that I walked all over the city with
the letter-carriers, going up to the top flats of the houses, as the men would have declared
me incompetent to judge the extent of their labours had I not trudged every step with them.
It was midsummer, and wearier work I never performed. The men would grumble, and then I would
think how it would be with them if they had to go home afterwards and write a love-scene. But
the love-scenes written in Glasgow, all belonging to The Bertrams, are not good.

Then in the autumn of that year, 1858, I was asked to go to the West Indies, and cleanse the
Augean stables of our Post Office system there. Up to that time, and at that time, our Colonial
Post Offices generally were managed from home, and were subject to the British Postmaster-General.
Gentlemen were sent out from England to be postmasters, surveyors, and what not; and as our
West Indian islands have never been regarded as being of themselves happily situated for residence,
the gentlemen so sent were sometimes more conspicuous for want of income than for official
zeal and ability. Hence the stables had become Augean. I was also instructed to carry out in
some of the islands a plan for giving up this postal authority to the island Governor, and
in others to propose some such plan. I was then to go on to Cuba, to make a postal treaty with
the Spanish authorities, and to Panama for the same purpose with the Government of New Grenada.
All this work I performed to my satisfaction, and I hope to that of my masters in St.  Martin's
le Grand.

But the trip is at the present moment of importance to my subject, as having enabled me to
write that which, on the whole, I regard as the best book that has come from my pen. It is
short, and, I think I may venture to say, amusing, useful, and true. As soon as I had learned
from the secretary at the General Post Office that this journey would be required, I proposed
the book to Messrs. Chapman & Hall, demanding (pounds)250 for a single volume. The contract
was made without any difficulty, and when I returned home the work was complete in my desk.
I began it on board the ship in which I left Kingston, Jamaica, for Cuba,--and from week to
week I carried it on as I went.  From Cuba I made my way to St. Thomas, and through the island
down to Demerara, then back to St. Thomas,--which is the starting-point for all places in that
part of the globe,--to Santa Martha, Carthagena, Aspinwall, over the Isthmus to Panama, up
the Pacific to a little harbour on the coast of Costa Rica, thence across Central America,
through Costa Rica, and down the Nicaragua river to the Mosquito coast, and after that home
by Bermuda and New York. Should any one want further details of the voyage, are they not written
in my book? The fact memorable to me now is that I never made a single note while writing or
preparing it. Preparation, indeed, there was none.  The descriptions and opinions came hot
on to the paper from their causes. I will not say that this is the best way of writing a book
intended to give accurate information. But it is the best way of producing to the eye of the
reader, and to his ear, that which the eye of the writer has seen and his ear heard. There
are two kinds of confidence which a reader may have in his author,--which two kinds the reader
who wishes to use his reading well should carefully discriminate.  There is a confidence in
facts and a confidence in vision.  The one man tells you accurately what has been. The other
suggests to you what may, or perhaps what must have been, or what ought to have been. The former
require simple faith. The latter calls upon you to judge for yourself, and form your own conclusions.
The former does not intend to be prescient, nor the latter accurate. Research is the weapon
used by the former; observation by the latter. Either may be false,--wilfully false; as also
may either be steadfastly true. As to that, the reader must judge for himself. But the man
who writes currente calamo, who works with a rapidity which will not admit of accuracy, may
be as true, and in one sense as trustworthy, as he who bases every word upon a rock of facts.
I have written very much as I have, travelled about; and though I have been very inaccurate,
I have always written the exact truth as I saw it ;--and I have, I think, drawn my pictures
correctly.

The view I took of the relative position in the West Indies of black men and white men was
the view of the Times newspaper at that period; and there appeared three articles in that journal,
one closely after another, which made the fortune of the book.  Had it been very bad, I suppose
its fortune could not have been made for it even by the Times newspaper.  I afterwards became
acquainted with the writer of those articles, the contributor himself informing me that he
had written them. I told him that he had done me a greater service than can often be done by
one man to another, but that I was under no obligation to him. I do not think that he saw the
matter quite in the same light.

I am aware that by that criticism I was much raised in my position as an author. Whether such
lifting up by such means is good or bad for literature is a question which I hope to discuss
in a future chapter. But the result was immediate to me, for I at once went to Chapman & Hall
and successfully demanded (pounds)600 for my next novel.

CHAPTER VIII

THE "CORNHILL MAGAZINE" AND "FRAMLEY PARSONAGE"

Soon after my return from the West Indies I was enabled to change my district in Ireland for
one in England. For some time past my official work had been of a special nature, taking me
out of my own district; but through all that, Dublin had been my home, and there my wife and
children had lived. I had often sighed to return to England,--with a silly longing. My life
in England for twenty-six years from the time of my birth to the day on which I left it, had
been wretched. I had been poor, friendless, and joyless. In Ireland it had constantly been
happy. I had achieved the respect of all with whom I was concerned, I had made for myself a
comfortable home, and I had enjoyed many pleasures. Hunting itself was a great delight to me;
and now, as I contemplated a move to England, and a house in the neighbourhood of London, I
felt that hunting must be abandoned. [Footnote: It was not abandoned till sixteen more years
had passed away.] Nevertheless I thought that a man who could write books ought not to live
in Ireland,--ought to live within the reach of the publishers, the clubs, and the dinner-parties
of the metropolis. So I made my request at headquarters, and with some little difficulty got
myself appointed to the Eastern District of England,--which comprised Essex, Suffolk, Norfolk,
Cambridgeshire, Huntingdonshire, and the greater part of Hertfordshire.

At this time I did not stand very well with the dominant interest at the General Post Office.
My old friend Colonel Maberly had been, some time since, squeezed into, and his place was filled
by Mr. Rowland Hill, the originator of the penny post. With him I never had any sympathy, nor
he with me. In figures and facts he was most accurate, but I never came across any one who
so little understood the ways of men,--unless it was his brother Frederic. To the two brothers
the servants of the Post Office,--men numerous enough to have formed a large army in old days,--were
so many machines who could be counted on for their exact work without deviation, as wheels
may be counted on, which are kept going always at the same pace and always by the same power.
Rowland Hill was an industrious public servant, anxious for the good of his country; but he
was a hard taskmaster, and one who would, I think, have put the great department with which
he was concerned altogether out of gear by his hardness, had he not been at last controlled.
He was the Chief Secretary, my brother-in-law--who afterwards succeeded him--came next to him,
and Mr. Hill's brother was the Junior Secretary.  In the natural course of things, I had not,
from my position, anything to do with the management of affairs;--but from time to time I found
myself more or less mixed up in it. I was known to be a thoroughly efficient public servant;
I am sure I may say so much of myself without fear of contradiction from any one who has known
the Post Office;--I was very fond of the department, and when matters came to be considered,
I generally had an opinion of my own.  I have no doubt that I often made myself very disagreeable.
I know that I sometimes tried to do so.  But I could hold my own because I knew my business
and was useful. I had given official offence by the publication of The Three Clerks. I afterwards
gave greater offence by a lecture on The Civil Service which I delivered in one of the large
rooms at the General Post Office to the clerks there. On this occasion, the Postmaster-General,
with whom personally I enjoyed friendly terms, sent for me and told me that Mr. Hill had told
him that I ought to be dismissed. When I asked his lordship whether he was prepared to dismiss
me, he only laughed. The threat was no threat to me, as I knew myself to be too good to be
treated in that fashion. The lecture had been permitted, and I had disobeyed no order. In the
lecture which I delivered, there was nothing to bring me to shame,--but it advocated the doctrine
that a civil servant is only a servant as far as his contract goes, and that he is beyond that
entitled to be as free a man in politics, as free in his general pursuits, and as free in opinion,
as those who are in open professions and open trades.  All this is very nearly admitted now,
but it certainly was not admitted then. At that time no one in the Post Office could even vote
for a Member of Parliament.

Through my whole official life I did my best to improve the style of official writing. I have
written, I should think, some thousands of reports,--many of them necessarily very long; some
of them dealing with subjects so absurd as to allow a touch of burlesque; some few in which
a spark of indignation or a slight glow of pathos might find an entrance. I have taken infinite
pains with these reports, habituating myself always to write them in the form in which they
should be sent,--without a copy. It is by writing thus that a man can throw on to his paper
the exact feeling with which his mind is impressed at the moment. A rough copy, or that which
is called a draft, is written in order that it may be touched and altered and put upon stilts.
The waste of time, moreover, in such an operation, is terrible. If a man knows his craft with
his pen, he will have learned to write without the necessity of changing his words or the form
of his sentences. I had learned so to write my reports that they who read them should know
what it was that I meant them to understand. But I do not think that they were regarded with
favour. I have heard horror expressed because the old forms were disregarded and language used
which had no savour of red-tape. During the whole of this work in the Post Office it was my
principle always to obey authority in everything instantly, but never to allow my mouth to
be closed as to the expression of my opinion. They who had the ordering of me very often did
not know the work as I knew it,--could not tell as I could what would be the effect of this
or that change. When carrying out instructions which I knew should not have been given, I never
scrupled to point out the fatuity of the improper order in the strongest language that I could
decently employ. I have revelled in these official correspondences, and look back to some of
them as the greatest delights of my life. But I am not sure that they were so delightful to others.

I succeeded, however, in getting the English district,--which could hardly have been refused
to me,--and prepared to change our residence towards the end of 1859. At the time I was writing
Castle Richmond, the novel which I had sold to Messrs. Chapman & Hall for (pounds)600. But
there arose at this time a certain literary project which probably had a great effect upon
my career. Whilst travelling on postal service abroad or riding over the rural districts in
England, or arranging the mails in Ireland,--and such for the last eighteen years had now been
my life,--I had no opportunity of becoming acquainted with the literary life in London. It
was probably some feeling of this which had made me anxious to move my penates back to England.
But even in Ireland, where I was still living in October, 1859, I had heard of the Cornhill
Magazine, which was to come out on the 1st of January, 1860, under the editorship of Thackeray.

I had at this time written from time to time certain short stories, which had been published
in different periodicals, and which in due time were republished under the name of Tales of
All Countries. On the 23d of October, 1859, I wrote to Thackeray, whom I had, I think, never
then seen, offering to send him for the magazine certain of these stories. In reply to this
I received two letters,--one from Messrs. Smith & Elder, the proprietors of the Cornhill, dated
26th of October, and the other from the editor, written two days later. That from Mr. Thackeray
was as follows:--

                         "36 ONSLOW SQUARE, S. W.
                               October 28th.

"MY DEAR MR. TROLLOPE,--Smith & Elder have sent you their proposals; and the business part
done, let me come to the pleasure, and say how very glad indeed I shall be to have you as a
co-operator in our new magazine. And looking over the annexed programme, you will see whether
you can't help us in many other ways besides tale-telling. Whatever a man knows about life
and its doings, that let us hear about. You must have tossed a good deal about the world, and
have countless sketches in your memory and your portfolio.  Please to think if you can furbish
up any of these besides a novel. When events occur, and you have a good lively tale, bear us
in mind. One of our chief objects in this magazine is the getting out of novel spinning, and
back into the world. Don't understand me to disparage our craft, especially YOUR wares.  I
often say I am like the pastrycook, and don't care for tarts, but prefer bread and cheese;
but the public love the tarts (luckily for us), and we must bake and sell them. There was quite
an excitement in my family one evening when Paterfamilias (who goes to sleep on a novel almost
always when he tries it after dinner) came up-stairs into the drawing-room wide awake and calling
for the second volume of The Three Clerks. I hope the Cornhill Magazine will have as pleasant
a story. And the Chapmans, if they are the honest men I take them to be, I've no doubt have
told you with what sincere liking your works have been read by yours very faithfully,

  "W. M. THACKERAY."

This was very pleasant, and so was the letter from Smith & Elder offering me (pounds)1000 for
the copyright of a three-volume novel, to come out in the new magazine,--on condition that
the first portion of it should be in their hands by December 12th. There was much in all this
that astonished me;--in the first place the price, which was more than double what I had yet
received, and nearly double that which I was about to receive from Messrs. Chapman & Hall.
Then there was the suddenness of the call. It was already the end of October, and a portion
of the work was required to be in the printer's hands within six weeks. Castle Richmond was
indeed half written, but that was sold to Chapman. And it had already been a principle with
me in my art, that no part of a novel should be published till the entire story was completed.
I knew, from what I read from month to month, that this hurried publication of incompleted
work was frequently, I might perhaps say always, adopted by the leading novelists of the day.
That such has been the case, is proved by the fact that Dickens, Thackeray, and Mrs. Gaskell
died with unfinished novels, of which portions had been already published. I had not yet entered
upon the system of publishing novels in parts, and therefore had never been tempted. But I
was aware that an artist should keep in his hand the power of fitting the beginning of his
work to the end. No doubt it is his first duty to fit the end to the beginning, and he will
endeavour to do so. But he should still keep in his hands the power of remedying any defect
in this respect.

                         "Servetur ad imum
            Qualis ab incepto processerit,"

should be kept in view as to every character and every string of action. Your Achilles should
all through, from beginning to end, be "impatient, fiery, ruthless, keen." Your Achilles, such
as he is, will probably keep up his character. But your Davus also should be always Davus,
and that is more difficult. The rustic driving his pigs to market cannot always make them travel
by the exact path which he has intended for them. When some young lady at the end of a story
cannot be made quite perfect in her conduct, that vivid description of angelic purity with
which you laid the first lines of her portrait should be slightly toned down.  I had felt that
the rushing mode of publication to which the system of serial stories had given rise, and by
which small parts as they were written were sent hot to the press, was injurious to the work
done. If I now complied with the proposition made to me, I must act against my own principle.
But such a principle becomes a tyrant if it cannot be superseded on a just occasion. If the
reason be "tanti," the principle should for the occasion be put in abeyance. I sat as judge,
and decreed that the present reason was "tanti." On this my first attempt at a serial story,
I thought it fit to break my own rule. I can say, however, that I have never broken it since.

But what astonished me most was the fact that at so late a day this new Cornhill Magazine should
be in want of a novel. Perhaps some of my future readers will he able to remember the great
expectations which were raised as to this periodical. Thackeray's was a good name with which
to conjure. The proprietors, Messrs. Smith & Elder, were most liberal in their manner of initiating
the work, and were able to make an expectant world of readers believe that something was to
be given them for a shilling very much in excess of anything they had ever received for that
or double the money. Whether these hopes were or were not fulfilled it is not for me to say,
as, for the first few years of the magazine's existence, I wrote for it more than any other
one person. But such was certainly the prospect;--and how had it come to pass that, with such
promises made, the editor and the proprietors were, at the end of October, without anything
fixed as to what must be regarded as the chief dish in the banquet to be provided?

I fear that the answer to this question must be found in the habits of procrastination which
had at that time grown upon the editor. He had, I imagine, undertaken the work himself, and
had postponed its commencement till there was left to him no time for commencing. There was
still, it may be said, as much time for him as for me. I think there was,--for though he had
his magazine to look after, I had the Post Office. But he thought, when unable to trust his
own energy, that he might rely upon that of a new recruit. He was but four years my senior
in life but he was at the top of the tree, while I was still at the bottom.

Having made up my mind to break my principle, I started at once from Dublin to London. I arrived
there on the morning of Thursday, 3d of November, and left it on the evening of Friday. In
the meantime I had made my agreement with Messrs. Smith & Elder, and had arranged my plot.
But when in London, I first went to Edward Chapman, at 193 Piccadilly.  If the novel I was
then writing for him would suit the Cornhill, might I consider my arrangement with him to be
at an end? Yes; I might. But if that story would not suit the Cornhill, was I to consider my
arrangement with him as still standing,--that agreement requiring that my MS. should be in
his hands in the following March? As to that, I might do as I pleased. In our dealings together
Mr. Edward Chapman always acceded to every suggestion made to him. He never refused a book,
and never haggled at a price. Then I hurried into the City, and had my first interview with
Mr. George Smith. When he heard that Castle Richmond was an Irish story, he begged that I would
endeavour to frame some other for his magazine. He was sure that an Irish story would not do
for a commencement;--and he suggested the Church, as though it were my peculiar subject.  I
told him that Castle Richmond would have to "come out" while any other novel that I might write
for him would be running through the magazine;--but to that he expressed himself altogether
indifferent. He wanted an English tale, on English life, with a clerical flavour. On these
orders I went to work, and framed what I suppose I must call the plot of Framley Parsonage.

On my journey back to Ireland, in the railway carriage, I wrote the first few pages of that
story.  I had got into my head an idea of what I meant to write,--a morsel of the biography
of an English clergyman who should not be a bad man, but one led into temptation by his own
youth and by the unclerical accidents of the life of those around him. The love of his sister
for the young lord was an adjunct necessary, because there must be love in a novel.  And then
by placing Framley Parsonage near Barchester, I was able to fall back upon my old friends Mrs.
Proudie and the archdeacon. Out of these slight elements I fabricated a hodge-podge in which
the real plot consisted at last simply of a girl refusing to marry the man she loved till the
man's friends agreed to accept her lovingly. Nothing could be less efficient or artistic. But
the characters were so well handled, that the work from the first to the last was popular,--and
was received as it went on with still increasing favour by both editor and proprietor of the
magazine. The story was thoroughly English.  There was a little fox-hunting and a little tuft-hunting,
some Christian virtue and some Christian cant. There was no heroism and no villainy. There
was much Church, but more love-making. And it was downright honest love,--in which there was
no pretence on the part of the lady that she was too ethereal to be fond of a man, no half-and-half
inclination on the part of the man to pay a certain price and no more for a pretty toy. Each
of them longed for the other, and they were not ashamed to say so. Consequently they in England
who were living, or had lived, the same sort of life, liked Framley Parsonage. I think myself
that Lucy Robarts is perhaps the most natural English girl that I ever drew,--the most natural,
at any rate, of those who have been good girls. She was not as dear to me as Kate Woodward
in The Three Clerks, but I think she is more like real human life. Indeed I doubt whether such
a character could be made more lifelike than Lucy Robarts.

And I will say also that in this novel there is no very weak part,--no long succession of dull
pages.  The production of novels in serial form forces upon the author the conviction that
he should not allow himself to be tedious in any single part. I hope no reader will misunderstand
me. In spite of that conviction, the writer of stories in parts will often be tedious. That
I have been so myself is a fault that will lie heavy on my tombstone. But the writer when he
embarks in such a business should feel that he cannot afford to have many pages skipped out
of the few which are to meet the reader's eye at the same time.  Who can imagine the first
half of the first volume of Waverley coming out in shilling numbers? I had realised this when
I was writing Framley Parsonage; and working on the conviction which had thus come home to
me, I fell into no bathos of dulness.

I subsequently came across a piece of criticism which was written on me as a novelist by a
brother novelist very much greater than myself, and whose brilliant intellect and warm imagination
led him to a kind of work the very opposite of mine. This was Nathaniel Hawthorne, the American,
whom I did not then know, but whose works I knew. Though it praises myself highly, I will insert
it here, because it certainly is true in its nature: "It is odd enough," he says, "that my
own individual taste is for quite another class of works than those which I myself am able
to write. If I were to meet with such books as mine by another writer, I don't believe I should
be able to get through them. Have you ever read the novels of Anthony Trollope? And these books
are just as English as a beef-steak. Have they ever been tried in America? It needs an English
residence to make them thoroughly comprehensible; but still I should think that human nature
would give them success anywhere."

This was dated early in 1860, and could have had no reference to Framley Parsonage; but it
was as true of that work as of any that I have written. And the criticism, whether just or
unjust, describes with wonderful accuracy the purport that I have ever had in view in my writing.
I have always desired to "hew out some lump of the earth," and to make men and women walk upon
it just as they do walk here among us,--with not more of excellence, nor with exaggerated baseness,--so
that my readers might recognise human beings like to themselves, and not feel themselves to
be carried away among gods or demons.  If I could do this, then I thought I might succeed in
impregnating the mind of the novel-reader with a feeling that honesty is the best policy; that
truth prevails while falsehood fails; that a girl will be loved as she is pure; and sweet,
and unselfish; that a man will be honoured as he is true, and honest, and brave of heart; that
things meanly done are ugly and odious, and things nobly done beautiful and gracious.  I do
not say that lessons such as these may not be more grandly taught by higher flights than mine.
Such lessons come to us from our greatest poets. But there are so many who will read novels
and understand them, who either do not read the works of our great poets, or reading them miss
the lesson! And even in prose fiction the character whom the fervid imagination of the writer
has lifted somewhat into the clouds, will hardly give so plain an example to the hasty normal
reader as the humbler personage whom that reader unconsciously feels to resemble himself or
herself. I do think that a girl would more probably dress her own mind after Lucy Robarts than
after Flora Macdonald.

There are many who would laugh at the idea of a novelist teaching either virtue or nobility,--those,
for instance, who regard the reading of novels as a sin, and those also who think it to be
simply an idle pastime.  They look upon the tellers of stories as among the tribe of those
who pander to the wicked pleasures of a wicked world. I have regarded my art from so different
a point of view that I have ever thought of myself as a preacher of sermons, and my pulpit
as one which I could make both salutary and agreeable to my audience. I do believe that no
girl has risen from the reading of my pages less modest than she was before, and that some
may have learned from them that modesty is a charm well worth preserving. I think that no youth
has been taught that in falseness and flashness is to be found the road to manliness; but some
may perhaps have learned from me that it is to be found in truth and a high but gentle spirit.
Such are the lessons I have striven to teach; and I have thought it might best be done by representing
to my readers characters like themselves,--or to which they might liken themselves.

Framley Parsonage--or, rather, my connection with the Cornhill--was the means of introducing
me very quickly to that literary world from which I had hitherto been severed by the fact of
my residence in Ireland. In December, 1859, while I was still very hard at work on my novel,
I came over to take charge of the Eastern District, and settled myself at a residence about
twelve miles from London, in Hertfordshire, but on the borders both of Essex and Middlesex,--which
was somewhat too grandly called Waltham House. This I took on lease, and subsequently bought
after I had spent about (pounds)1000 on improvements. From hence I was able to make myself
frequent both in Cornhill and Piccadilly, and to live, when the opportunity came, among men
of my own pursuit.

It was in January, 1860, that Mr. George Smith--to whose enterprise we owe not only the Cornhill
Magazine but the Pall Mall Gazette--gave a sumptuous dinner to his contributors. It was a memorable
banquet in many ways, but chiefly so to me because on that occasion I first met many men who
afterwards became my most intimate associates. It can rarely happen that one such occasion
can be the first starting-point of so many friendships. It was at that table, and on that day,
that I first saw Thackeray, Charles Taylor (Sir)--than whom in latter life I have loved no
man better,--Robert Bell, G. H. Lewes, and John Everett Millais.  With all these men I afterwards
lived on affectionate terms;--but I will here speak specially of the last, because from that
time he was joined with me in so much of the work that I did.

Mr. Millais was engaged to illustrate Framley Parsonage, but this was not the first work he
did for the magazine. In the second number there is a picture of his accompanying Monckton
Milne's Unspoken Dialogue.  The first drawing he did for Framley Parsonage did not appear till
after the dinner of which I have spoken, and I do not think that I knew at the time that he
was engaged on my novel. When I did know it, it made me very proud. He afterwards illustrated
Orley Farm, The Small House of Allington, Rachel Ray, and Phineas Finn. Altogether he drew
from my tales eighty-seven drawings, and I do not think that more conscientious work was ever
done by man. Writers of novels know well--and so ought readers of novels to have learned--that
there are two modes of illustrating, either of which may be adopted equally by a bad and by
a good artist.  To which class Mr. Millais belongs I need not say; but, as a good artist, it
was open to him simply to make a pretty picture, or to study the work of the author from whose
writing he was bound to take his subject.  I have too often found that the former alternative
has been thought to be the better, as it certainly is the easier method. An artist will frequently
dislike to subordinate his ideas to those of an author, and will sometimes be too idle to find
out what those ideas are.  But this artist was neither proud nor idle. In every figure that
he drew it was his object to promote the views of the writer whose work he had undertaken to
illustrate, and he never spared himself any pains in studying that work, so as to enable him
to do so. I have carried on some of those characters from book to book, and have had my own
early ideas impressed indelibly on my memory by the excellence of his delineations. Those illustrations
were commenced fifteen years ago, and from that time up to this day my affection for the man
of whom I am speaking has increased. To see him has always been a pleasure.  His voice has
been a sweet sound in my ears. Behind his back I have never heard him praised without joining
the eulogist; I have never heard a word spoken against him without opposing the censurer. 
These words, should he ever see them, will come to him from the grave, and will tell him of
my regard,--as one living man never tells another.

Sir Charles Taylor, who carried me home in his brougham that evening, and thus commenced an
intimacy which has since been very close, was born to wealth, and was therefore not compelled
by the necessities of a profession to enter the lists as an author.  But he lived much with
those who did so,--and could have done it himself had want or ambition stirred him.  He was
our king at the Garrick Club, to which, however, I did not yet belong. He gave the best dinners
of my time, and was,--happily I may say is, [Footnote: Alas! within a year of the writing of
this he went from us.]--the best giver of dinners. A man rough of tongue, brusque in his manners,
odious to those who dislike him, somewhat inclined to tyranny, he is the prince of friends,
honest as the sun, and as openhanded as Charity itself.

Robert Bell has now been dead nearly ten years. As I look back over the interval and remember
how intimate we were, it seems odd to me that we should have known each other for no more than
six years. He was a man who had lived by his pen from his very youth; and was so far successful
that I do not think that want ever came near him. But he never made that mark which his industry
and talents would have seemed to ensure. He was a man well known to literary men, but not known
to readers. As a journalist he was useful and conscientious, but his plays and novels never
made themselves popular. He wrote a life of Canning, and he brought out an annotated edition
of the British poets; but he achieved no great success. I have known no man better read in
English literature. Hence his conversation had a peculiar charm, but he was not equally happy
with his pen. He will long be remembered at the Literary Fund Committees, of which he was a
staunch and most trusted supporter. I think it was he who first introduced me to that board.
It has often been said that literary men are peculiarly apt to think that they are slighted
and unappreciated. Robert Bell certainly never achieved the position in literature which he
once aspired to fill, and which he was justified in thinking that he could earn for himself.
I have frequently discussed these subjects with him, but I never heard from his mouth a word
of complaint as to his own literary fate. He liked to hear the chimes go at midnight, and he
loved to have ginger hot in his mouth.  On such occasions no sound ever came out of a man's
lips sweeter than his wit and gentle revelry.

George Lewes,--with his wife, whom all the world knows as George Eliot,--has also been and
still is one of my dearest friends. He is, I think, the acutest critic I know,--and the severest.
His severity, however, is a fault. His intention to be honest, even when honesty may give pain,
has caused him to give pain when honesty has not required it. He is essentially a doubter,
and has encouraged himself to doubt till the faculty of trusting has almost left him. I am
not speaking of the personal trust which one man feels in another, but of that confidence in
literary excellence, which is, I think, necessary for the full enjoyment of literature. In
one modern writer he did believe thoroughly. Nothing can be more charming than the unstinted
admiration which he has accorded to everything that comes from the pen of the wonderful woman
to whom his lot has been united. To her name I shall recur again when speaking of the novelists
of the present day.

Of "Billy Russell," as we always used to call him, I may say that I never knew but one man
equal to him in the quickness and continuance of witty speech. That one man was Charles Lever--also
an Irishman--whom I had known from an earlier date, and also with close intimacy. Of the two,
I think that Lever was perhaps the more astounding producer of good things. His manner was
perhaps a little the happier, and his turns more sharp and unexpected. But "Billy" also was
marvellous.  Whether abroad as special correspondent, or at home amidst the flurry of his newspaper
work, he was a charming companion; his ready wit always gave him the last word.

Of Thackeray I will speak again when I record his death.

There were many others whom I met for the first time at George Smith's table. Albert Smith,
for the first, and indeed for the last time, as he died soon after; Higgins, whom all the world
knew as Jacob Omnium, a man I greatly regarded; Dallas, who for a time was literary critic
to the Times, and who certainly in that capacity did better work than has appeared since in
the same department; George Augustus Sala, who, had he given himself fair play, would have
risen to higher eminence than that of being the best writer in his day of sensational leading
articles; and Fitz-James Stephen, a man of very different calibre, who had not yet culminated,
but who, no doubt, will culminate among our judges. There were many others;--but I cannot now
recall their various names as identified with those banquets.

Of Framley Parsonage I need only further say, that as I wrote it I became more closely than
ever acquainted with the new shire which I had added to the English counties. I had it all
in my mind,--its roads and railroads, its towns and parishes, its members of Parliament, and
the different hunts which rode over it.  I knew all the great lords and their castles, the
squires and their parks, the rectors and their churches. This was the fourth novel of which
I had placed the scene in Barsetshire, and as I wrote it I made a map of the dear county. Throughout
these stories there has been no name given to a fictitious site which does not represent to
me a spot of which I know all the accessories, as though I had lived and wandered there.

CHAPTER IX

"CASTLE RICHMOND;" "BROWN, JONES, AND ROBINSON;" "NORTH AMERICA;" "ORLEY FARM"

When I had half-finished Framley Parsonage, I went back to my other story, Castle Richmond,
which I was writing for Messrs. Chapman & Hall, and completed that. I think that this was the
only occasion on which I have had two different novels in my mind at the same time. This, however,
did not create either difficulty or confusion. Many of us live in different circles; and when
we go from our friends in the town to our friends in the country, we do not usually fail to
remember the little details of the one life or the other. The parson at Rusticum, with his
wife and his wife's mother, and all his belongings; and our old friend, the Squire, with his
family history; and Farmer Mudge, who has been cross with us, because we rode so unnecessarily
over his barley; and that rascally poacher, once a gamekeeper, who now traps all the foxes;
and pretty Mary Cann, whose marriage with the wheelwright we did something to expedite;--though
we are alive to them all, do not drive out of our brain the club gossip, or the memories of
last season's dinners, or any incident of our London intimacies. In our lives we are always
weaving novels, and we manage to keep the different tales distinct. A man does, in truth, remember
that which it interests him to remember; and when we hear that memory has gone as age has come
on, we should understand that the capacity for interest in the matter concerned has perished.
A man will be generally very old and feeble before he forgets how much money he has in the
funds. There is a good deal to be learned by any one who wishes to write a novel well; but
when the art has been acquired, I do not see why two or three should not be well written at
the same time. I have never found myself thinking much about the work that I had to do till
I was doing it. I have indeed for many years almost abandoned the effort to think, trusting
myself, with the narrowest thread of a plot, to work the matter out when the pen is in my hand.
But my mind is constantly employing itself on the work I have done. Had I left either Framley
Parsonage or Castle Richmond half-finished fifteen years ago, I think I could complete the
tales now with very little trouble. I have not looked at Castle Richmond since it was published;
and poor as the work is, I remember all the incidents.

Castle Richmond certainly was not a success,--though the plot is a fairly good plot, and is
much more of a plot than I have generally been able to find. The scene is laid in Ireland,
during the famine; and I am well aware now that English readers no longer like Irish stories.
I cannot understand why it should be so, as the Irish character is peculiarly well fitted for
romance. But Irish subjects generally have become distasteful. This novel, however, is of itself
a weak production. The characters do not excite sympathy. The heroine has two lovers, one of
whom is a scamp and the other a prig. As regards the scamp, the girl's mother is her own rival.
Rivalry of the same nature has been admirably depicted by Thackeray in his Esmond; but there
the mother's love seems to be justified by the girl's indifference. In Castle Richmond the
mother strives to rob her daughter of the man's love.  The girl herself has no character; and
the mother, who is strong enough, is almost revolting. The dialogue is often lively, and some
of the incidents are well told; but the story as a whole was a failure. I cannot remember,
however, that it was roughly handled by the critics when it came out; and I much doubt whether
anything so hard was said of it then as that which I have said here.

I was now settled at Waltham Cross, in a house in which I could entertain a few friends modestly,
where we grew our cabbages and strawberries, made our own butter, and killed our own pigs.
I occupied it for twelve years, and they were years to me of great prosperity. In 1861 I became
a member of the Garrick Club, with which institution I have since been much identified. I had
belonged to it about two years, when, on Thackeray's death, I was invited to fill his place
on the Committee, and I have been one of that august body ever since. Having up to that time
lived very little among men, having known hitherto nothing of clubs, having even as a boy been
banished from social gatherings, I enjoyed infinitely at first the gaiety of the Garrick. 
It was a festival to me to dine there--which I did indeed but seldom; and a great delight to
play a rubber in the little room up-stairs of an afternoon.  I am speaking now of the old club
in King Street. This playing of whist before dinner has since that become a habit with me,
so that unless there be something else special to do--unless there be hunting, or I am wanted
to ride in the park by the young tyrant of my household--it is "my custom always in the afternoon."
I have sometimes felt sore with myself for this persistency, feeling that I was making myself
a slave to an amusement which has not after all very much to recommend it. I have often thought
that I would break myself away from it, and "swear off," as Rip Van Winkle says. But my swearing
off has been like that of Rip Van Winkle. And now, as I think of it coolly, I do not know but
that I have been right to cling to it. As a man grows old he wants amusement, more even than
when he is young; and then it becomes so difficult to find amusement. Reading should, no doubt,
be the delight of men's leisure hours. Had I to choose between books and cards, I should no
doubt take the books. But I find that I can seldom read with pleasure for above an hour and
a half at a time, or more than three hours a day. As I write this I am aware that hunting must
soon be abandoned. After sixty it is given but to few men to ride straight across country,
and I cannot bring myself to adopt any other mode of riding. I think that without cards I should
now be much at a loss. When I began to play at the Garrick, I did so simply because I liked
the society of the men who played.

I think that I became popular among those with whom I associated. I have long been aware of
a certain weakness in my own character, which I may call a craving for love. I have ever had
a wish to be liked by those around me,--a wish that during the first half of my life was never
gratified. In my school-days no small part of my misery came from the envy with which I regarded
the popularity of popular boys. They seemed to me to live in a social paradise, while the desolation
of my pandemonium was complete. And afterwards, when I was in London as a young man, I had
but few friends. Among the clerks in the Post Office I held my own fairly for the first two
or three years; but even then I regarded myself as something of a pariah. My Irish life had
been much better. I had had my wife and children, and had been sustained by a feeling of general
respect. But even in Ireland I had in truth lived but little in society. Our means had been
sufficient for our wants, but insufficient for entertaining others. It was not till we had
settled ourselves at Waltham that I really began to live much with others.  The Garrick Club
was the first assemblage of men at which I felt myself to be popular.

I soon became a member of other clubs. There was the Arts Club in Hanover Square, of which
I saw the opening, but from which, after three or four years, I withdrew my name, having found
that during these three or four years I had not once entered the building. Then I was one of
the originators of the Civil Service Club--not from judgment, but instigated to do so by others.
That also I left for the same reason. In 1864 I received the honour of being elected by the
Committee at the Athenaeum. For this I was indebted to the kindness of Lord Stanhope; and I
never was more surprised than when I was informed of the fact. About the same time I became
a member of the Cosmopolitan, a little club that meets twice a week in Charles Street, Berkeley
Square, and supplies to all its members, and its members' friends, tea and brandy and water
without charge! The gatherings there I used to think very delightful.  One met Jacob Omnium,
Monckton Mimes, Tom Hughes, William Stirling, Henry Reeve, Arthur Russell, Tom Taylor, and
such like; and generally a strong political element, thoroughly well mixed, gave a certain
spirit to the place. Lord Ripon, Lord Stanley, William Forster, Lord Enfield, Lord Kimberley,
George Bentinck, Vernon Harcourt, Bromley Davenport, Knatchbull Huguessen, with many others,
used to whisper the secrets of Parliament with free tongues. Afterwards I became a member of
the Turf, which I found to be serviceable--or the reverse--only for the playing of whist at
high points.

In August, 1861, I wrote another novel for the Cornhill Magazine. It was a short story, about
one volume in length, and was called The Struggles of Brown, Jones, and Robinson. In this I
attempted a style for which I certainly was not qualified, and to which I never had again recourse.
It was meant to be funny, was full of slang, and was intended as a satire on the ways of trade.
Still I think that there is some good fun it it, but I have heard no one else express such
an opinion. I do not know that I ever heard any opinion expressed on it, except by the publisher,
who kindly remarked that he did not think it was equal to my usual work. Though he had purchased
the copyright, he did not republish the story in a book form till 1870, and then it passed
into the world of letters sub silentio. I do not know that it was ever criticised or ever read.
I received (pounds)600 for it. From that time to this I have been paid at about that rate for
my work--(pounds)600 for the quantity contained in an ordinary novel volume, or (pounds)3000
for a long tale published in twenty parts, which is equal in length to five such volumes. I
have occasionally, I think, received something more than this, never I think less for any tale,
except when I have published my work anonymously. [Footnote: Since the date at which this was
written I have encountered a diminution in price.] Having said so much, I need not further
specify the prices as I mention the books as they were written. I will, however, when I am
completing this memoir, give a list of all the sums I have received for my literary labours.
I think that Brown, Jones and Robinson was the hardest bargain I ever sold to a publisher.

In 1861 the War of Secession had broken out in America, and from the first I interested myself
much in the question. My mother had thirty years previously written a very popular, but, as
I had thought, a somewhat unjust book about our cousins over the water. She had seen what was
distasteful in the manners of a young people, but had hardly recognised their energy.  I had
entertained for many years an ambition to follow her footsteps there, and to write another
book. I had already paid a short visit to New York City and State on my way home from the West
Indies, but had not seen enough then to justify me in the expression of any opinion. The breaking
out of the war did not make me think that the time was peculiarly fit for such inquiry as I
wished to make, but it did represent itself as an occasion on which a book might be popular.
I consequently consulted the two great powers with whom I was concerned. Messrs. Chapman &
Hall, the publishers, were one power, and I had no difficulty in arranging my affairs with
them. They agreed to publish the book on my terms, and bade me God-speed on my journey. The
other power was the Postmaster-General and Mr. Rowland Hill, the Secretary of the Post Office.
I wanted leave of absence for the unusual period of nine months, and fearing that I should
not get it by the ordinary process of asking the Secretary, I went direct to his lordship.
"Is it on the plea of ill-health?" he asked, looking into my face, which was then that of a
very robust man. His lordship knew the Civil Service as well as any one living, and must have
seen much of falseness and fraudulent pretence, or he could not have asked that question. I
told him that I was very well, but that I wanted to write a book. "Had I any special ground
to go upon in asking for such indulgence?" I had, I said, done my duty well by the service.
There was a good deal of demurring, but I got my leave for nine months,--and I knew that I
had earned it. Mr. Hill attached to the minute granting me the leave an intimation that it
was to be considered as a full equivalent for the special services rendered by me to the department.
I declined, however, to accept the grace with such a stipulation, and it was withdrawn by the
directions of the Postmaster-General. [Footnote: During the period of my service in the Post
Office I did very much special work for which I never asked any remuneration,--and never received
any, though payments for special services were common in the department at that time. But if
there was to be a question of such remuneration, I did not choose that my work should be valued
at the price put upon it by Mr. Hill.]

I started for the States in August and returned in the following May. The war was raging during
the time that I was there, and the country was full of soldiers. A part of the time I spent
in Virginia, Kentucky, and Missouri, among the troops, along the line of attack. I visited
all the States (excepting California) which had not then seceded,--failing to make my way into
the seceding States unless I was prepared to visit them with an amount of discomfort I did
not choose to endure. I worked very hard at the task I had assigned to myself, and did, I think,
see much of the manners and institutions of the people. Nothing struck me more than their persistence
in the ordinary pursuits of life in spite of the war which was around them. Neither industry
nor amusement seemed to meet with any check. Schools, hospitals, and institutes were by no
means neglected because new regiments were daily required. The truth, I take it, is that we,
all of us, soon adapt ourselves to the circumstances around us. Though three parts of London
were in flames I should no doubt expect to have my dinner served to me if I lived in the quarter
which was free from fire.

The book I wrote was very much longer than that on the West Indies, but was also written almost
without a note. It contained much information, and, with many inaccuracies, was a true book.
But it was not well done. It is tedious and confused, and will hardly, I think, be of future
value to those who wish to make themselves acquainted with the United States. It was published
about the middle of the war,--just at the time in which the hopes of those who loved the South
were I most buoyant, and the fears of those who stood by the North were the strongest. But
it expressed an assured confidence--which never quavered in a page or in a line--that the North
would win. This assurance was based on the merits of the Northern cause, on the superior strength
of the Northern party, and on a conviction that England would never recognise the South, and
that France would be guided in her policy by England. I was right in my prophecies, and right,
I think, on the grounds on which they were made. The Southern cause was bad. The South had
provoked the quarrel because its political supremacy was checked by the election of Mr. Lincoln
to the Presidency. It had to fight as a little man against a big man, and fought gallantly.
That gallantry,--and a feeling based on a misconception as to American character that the Southerners
are better gentlemen than their Northern brethren,--did create great sympathy here; but I believe
that the country was too just to be led into political action by a spirit of romance, and I
was warranted in that belief. There was a moment in which the Northern cause was in danger,
and the danger lay certainly in the prospect of British interference. Messrs. Slidell and Mason,--two
men insignificant in themselves,--had been sent to Europe by the Southern party, and had managed
to get on board the British mail steamer called "The Trent," at the Havannah. A most undue
importance was attached to this mission by Mr. Lincoln's government, and efforts were made
to stop them.  A certain Commodore Wilkes, doing duty as policeman on the seas, did stop the
"Trent," and took the men out. They were carried, one to Boston and one to New York, and were
incarcerated, amidst the triumph of the nation. Commodore Wilkes, who had done nothing in which
a brave man could take glory, was made a hero and received a prize sword. England of course
demanded her passengers back, and the States for a while refused to surrender them. But Mr.
Seward was at that time the Secretary of State, and Mr. Seward, with many political faults,
was a wise man. I was at Washington at the time, and it was known there that the contest among
the leading Northerners was very sharp on the matter. Mr. Sumner and Mr. Seward were, under
Mr. Lincoln, the two chiefs of the party.  It was understood that Mr. Sumner was opposed to
the rendition of the men, and Mr. Seward in favour of it.  Mr. Seward's counsels at last prevailed
with the President, and England's declaration of war was prevented.  I dined with Mr. Seward
on the day of the decision, meeting Mr. Sumner at his house, and was told as I left the dining-room
what the decision had been. During the afternoon I and others had received intimation through
the embassy that we might probably have to leave Washington at an hour's notice. This, I think,
was the severest danger that the Northern cause encountered during the war.

But my book, though it was right in its views on this subject,--and wrong in none other as
far as I know,--was not a good book. I can recommend no one to read it now in order that he
may be either instructed or amused,--as I can do that on the West Indies. It served its purpose
at the time, and was well received by the public and by the critics.

Before starting to America I had completed Orley Farm, a novel which appeared in shilling numbers,--after
the manner in which Pickwick, Nicholas Nickleby, and many others had been published. Most of
those among my friends who talk to me now about my novels, and are competent to form an opinion
on the subject, say that this is the best I have written. In this opinion I do not coincide.
I think that the highest merit which a novel can have consists in perfect delineation of character,
rather than in plot, or humour, or pathos, and I shall before long mention a subsequent work
in which I think the main character of the story is so well developed as to justify me in asserting
its claim above the others. The plot of Orley Farm is probably the best I have ever made; but
it has the fault of declaring itself, and thus coming to an end too early in the book. When
Lady Mason tells her ancient lover that she did forge the will, the plot of Orley Farm has
unravelled itself;--and this she does in the middle of the tale.  Independently, however, of
this the novel is good. Sir Peregrine Orme, his grandson, Madeline Stavely, Mr.  Furnival,
Mr. Chaffanbrass, and the commercial gentlemen, are all good. The hunting is good. The lawyer's
talk is good. Mr. Moulder carves his turkey admirably, and Mr. Kantwise sells his tables and
chairs with spirit.  I do not know that there is a dull page in the book.  I am fond of Orley
Farm;--and am especially fond of its illustrations by Millais, which are the best I have seen
in any novel in any language.

I now felt that I had gained my object. In 1862 I had achieved that which I contemplated when
I went to London in 1834, and towards which I made my first attempt when I began the Macdermots
in 1843. I had created for myself a position among literary men, and had secured to myself
an income on which I might live in ease and comfort,--which ease and comfort have been made
to include many luxuries. From this time for a period of twelve years my income averaged (pounds)4500
a year. Of this I spent about two-thirds, and put by one. I ought perhaps to have done better,--to
have spent one-third, and put by two; but I have ever been too well inclined to spend freely
that which has come easily.

This, however, has been so exactly the life which my thoughts and aspirations had marked out,--thoughts
and aspirations which used to cause me to blush with shame because I was so slow in forcing
myself to the work which they demanded,--that I have felt some pride in having attained it.
I have before said how entirely I fail to reach the altitude of those who think that a man
devoted to letters should be indifferent to the pecuniary results for which work is generally
done.  An easy income has always been regarded by me as a great blessing. Not to have to think
of sixpences, or very much of shillings; not to be unhappy because the coals have been burned
too quickly, and the house linen wants renewing; not to be debarred by the rigour of necessity
from opening one's hands, perhaps foolishly, to one's friends;--all this to me has been essential
to the comfort of life. I have enjoyed the comfort for I may almost say the last twenty years,
though no man in his youth had less prospect of doing so, or would have been less likely at
twenty-five to have had such luxuries foretold to him by his friends.

But though the money has been sweet, the respect, the friendships, and the mode of life which
has been achieved, have been much sweeter. In my boyhood, when I would be crawling up to school
with dirty boots and trousers through the muddy lanes, I was always telling myself that the
misery of the hour was not the worst of it, but that the mud and solitude and poverty of the
time would insure me mud and solitude and poverty through my life. Those lads about me would
go into Parliament, or become rectors and deans, or squires of parishes, or advocates thundering
at the Bar.  They would not live with me now,--but neither should I be able to live with them
in after years. Nevertheless I have lived with them. When, at the age in which others go to
the universities, I became a clerk in the Post Office, I felt that my old visions were being
realised. I did not think it a high calling. I did not know then how very much good work may
be done by a member of the Civil Service who will show himself capable of doing it. The Post
Office at last grew upon me and forced itself into my affections. I became intensely anxious
that people should have their letters delivered to them punctually. But my hope to rise had
always been built on the writing of novels, and at last by the writing of novels I had risen.

I do not think that I ever toadied any one, or that I have acquired the character of a tuft-hunter.
But here I do not scruple to say that I prefer the society of distinguished people, and that
even the distinction of wealth confers many advantages. The best education is to be had at
a price as well as the best broadcloth.  The son of a peer is more likely to rub his shoulders
against well-informed men than the son of a tradesman.  The graces come easier to the wife
of him who has had great-grandfathers than they do to her whose husband has been less,--or
more fortunate, as he may think it. The discerning man will recognise the information and the
graces when they are achieved without such assistance, and will honour the owners of them the
more because of the difficulties they have overcome;--but the fact remains that the society
of the well-born and of the wealthy will as a rule be worth seeking. I say this now, because
these are the rules by which I have lived, and these are the causes which have instigated me
to work.

I have heard the question argued--On what terms should a man of inferior rank live with those
who are manifestly superior to him? If a marquis or an earl honour me, who have no rank, with
his intimacy, am I in my intercourse with him to remember our close acquaintance or his high
rank? I have always said that where the difference in position is quite marked, the overtures
to intimacy should always come from the higher rank; but if the intimacy be ever fixed, then
that rank should be held of no account. It seems to me that intimate friendship admits of no
standing but that of equality. I cannot be the Sovereign's friend, nor probably the friend
of many very much beneath the Sovereign, because such equality is impossible.

When I first came to Waltham Cross in the winter of 1859-1860, I had almost made up my mind
that my hunting was over. I could not then count upon an income which would enable me to carry
on an amusement which I should doubtless find much more expensive in England than in Ireland.
I brought with me out of Ireland one mare, but she was too light for me to ride in the hunting-field.
As, however, the money came in, I very quickly fell back into my old habits.  First one horse
was bought, then another, and then a third, till it became established as a fixed rule that
I should not have less than four hunters in the stable.  Sometimes when my boys have been at
home I have had as many as six. Essex was the chief scene of my sport, and gradually I became
known there almost as well as though I had been an Essex squire, to the manner born. Few have
investigated more closely than I have done the depth, and breadth, and water-holding capacities
of an Essex ditch. It will, I think, be accorded to me by Essex men generally that I have ridden
hard. The cause of my delight in the amusement I have never been able to analyse to my own
satisfaction. In the first place, even now, I know very little about hunting,--though I know
very much of the accessories of the field. I am too blind to see hounds turning, and cannot
therefore tell whether the fox has gone this way or that. Indeed all the notice I take of hounds
is not to ride over them. My eyes are so constituted that I can never see the nature of a fence.
I either follow some one, or ride at it with the full conviction that I may be going into a
horse-pond or a gravel-pit. I have jumped into both one and the other.  I am very heavy, and
have never ridden expensive horses. I am also now old for such work, being so stiff that I
cannot get on to my horse without the aid of a block or a bank. But I ride still after the
same fashion, with a boy's energy, determined to get ahead if it may possibly be done, hating
the roads, despising young men who ride them, and with a feeling that life can not, with all
her riches, have given me anything better than when I have gone through a long run to the finish,
keeping a place, not of glory, but of credit, among my juniors.

CHAPTER X

"THE SMALL HOUSE AT ALLINGTON," "CAN YOU FORGIVE HER?" "RACHEL RAY," AND THE "FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW"

During the early months of 1862 Orley Farm was still being brought out in numbers, and at the
same time Brown, Jones and Robinson was appearing in the Cornhill Magazine. In September, 1862,
the Small House at Allington began its career in the same periodical. The work on North America
had also come out in 1862.  In August, 1863, the first number of Can You Forgive Her? was published
as a separate serial, and was continued through 1864. In 1863 a short novel was produced in
the ordinary volume form, called Rachel Ray.  In addition to these I published during the time
two volumes of stories called The Tales of all Countries. In the early spring of 1865 Miss
Mackenzie was issued in the same form as Rachel Ray; and in May of the same year The Belton
Estate was commenced with the commencement of the Fortnightly Review, of which periodical I
will say a few words in this chapter.

I quite admit that I crowded my wares into the market too quickly,--because the reading world
could not want such a quantity of matter from the hands of one author in so short a space of
time. I had not been quite so fertile as the unfortunate gentleman who disgusted the publisher
in Paternoster Row,--in the story of whose productiveness I have always thought there was a
touch of romance,--but I had probably done enough to make both publishers and readers think
that I was coming too often beneath their notice. Of publishers, however, I must speak collectively,
as my sins were, I think, chiefly due to the encouragement which I received from them individually.
What I wrote for the Cornhill Magazine, I always wrote at the instigation of Mr. Smith. My
other works were published by Messrs. Chapman & Hall, in compliance with contracts made by
me with them, and always made with their good-will. Could I have been two separate persons
at one and the same time, of whom one might have been devoted to Cornhill and the other to
the interests of the firm in Piccadilly, it might have been very well;--but as I preserved
my identity in both places, I myself became aware that my name was too frequent on titlepages.

Critics, if they ever trouble themselves with these pages, will, of course, say that in what
I have now said I have ignored altogether the one great evil of rapid production,--namely,
that of inferior work. And of course if the work was inferior because of the too great rapidity
of production, the critics would be right.  Giving to the subject the best of my critical abilities,
and judging of my own work as nearly as possible as I would that of another, I believe that
the work which has been done quickest has been done the best. I have composed better stories--that
is, have created better plots--than those of The Small House at Allington and Can You Forgive
Her? and I have portrayed two or three better characters than are to be found in the pages
of either of them; but taking these books all through, I do not think that I have ever done
better work. Nor would these have been improved by any effort in the art of story telling,
had each of these been the isolated labour of a couple of years. How short is the time devoted
to the manipulation of a plot can be known only to those who have written plays and novels;
I may say also, how very little time the brain is able to devote to such wearing work. There
are usually some hours of agonising doubt, almost of despair,--so at least it has been with
me,--or perhaps some days. And then, with nothing settled in my brain as to the final development
of events, with no capability of settling anything, but with a most distinct conception of
some character or characters, I have rushed at the work as a rider rushes at a fence which
he does not see. Sometimes I have encountered what, in hunting language, we call a cropper.
I had such a fall in two novels of mine, of which I have already spoken--The Bertrams and Castle
Richmond. I shall have to speak of other such troubles. But these failures have not arisen
from over-hurried work. When my work has been quicker done,--and it has sometimes been done
very quickly--the rapidity has been achieved by hot pressure, not in the conception, but in
the telling of the story. Instead of writing eight pages a day, I have written sixteen; instead
of working five days a week, I have worked seven. I have trebled my usual average, and have
done so in circumstances which have enabled me to give up all my thoughts for the time to the
book I have been writing. This has generally been done at some quiet spot among the mountains,--where
there has been no society, no hunting, no whist, no ordinary household duties. And I am sure
that the work so done has had in it the best truth and the highest spirit that I have been
able to produce. At such times I have been able to imbue myself thoroughly with the characters
I have had in hand. I have wandered alone among the rocks and woods, crying at their grief,
laughing at their absurdities, and thoroughly enjoying their joy. I have been impregnated with
my own creations till it has been my only excitement to sit with the pen in my hand, and drive
my team before me at as quick a pace as I could make them travel.

The critics will again say that all this may be very well as to the rough work of the author's
own brain, but it will be very far from well in reference to the style in which that work has
been given to the public.  After all, the vehicle which a writer uses for conveying his thoughts
to the public should not be less important to him than the thoughts themselves. An author can
hardly hope to be popular unless he can use popular language. That is quite true; but then
comes the question of achieving a popular--in other words, I may say, a good and lucid style.
How may an author best acquire a mode of writing which shall be agreeable and easily intelligible
to the reader? He must be correct, because without correctness he can be neither agreeable
nor intelligible. Readers will expect him to obey those rules which they, consciously or unconsciously,
have been taught to regard as binding on language; and unless he does obey them, he will disgust.
Without much labour, no writer will achieve such a style. He has very much to learn; and, when
he has learned that much, he has to acquire the habit of using what he has learned with ease.
But all this must be learned and acquired,--not while he is writing that which shall please,
but long before. His language must come from him as music comes from the rapid touch of the
great performer's fingers; as words come from the mouth of the indignant orator; as letters
fly from the fingers of the trained compositor; as the syllables tinkled out by little bells
form themselves to the ear of the telegraphist. A man who thinks much of his words as he writes
them will generally leave behind him work that smells of oil. I speak here, of course, of prose;
for in poetry we know what care is necessary, and we form our taste accordingly.

Rapid writing will no doubt give rise to inaccuracy,--chiefly because the ear, quick and true
as may be its operation, will occasionally break down under pressure, and, before a sentence
be closed, will forget the nature of the composition with which it was commenced. A singular
nominative will be disgraced by a plural verb, because other pluralities have intervened and
have tempted the ear into plural tendencies. Tautologies will occur, because the ear, in demanding
fresh emphasis, has forgotten that the desired force has been already expressed. I need not
multiply these causes of error, which must have been stumbling-blocks indeed when men wrote
in the long sentences of Gibbon, but which Macaulay, with his multiplicity of divisions, has
done so much to enable us to avoid. A rapid writer will hardly avoid these errors altogether.
Speaking of myself, I am ready to declare that, with much training, I have been unable to avoid
them. But the writer for the press is rarely called upon--a writer of books should never be
called upon--to send his manuscript hot from his hand to the printer. It has been my practice
to read everything four times at least--thrice in manuscript and once in print. Very much of
my work I have read twice in print. In spite of this I know that inaccuracies have crept through,--not
single spies, but in battalions. From this I gather that the supervision has been insufficient,
not that the work itself has been done too fast. I am quite sure that those passages which
have been written with the greatest stress of labour, and consequently with the greatest haste,
have been the most effective and by no means the most inaccurate.

The Small House at Allington redeemed my reputation with the spirited proprietor of the Cornhill,
which must, I should think, have been damaged by Brown, Jones, and Robinson. In it appeared
Lily Dale, one of the characters which readers of my novels have liked the best. In the love
with which she has been greeted I have hardly joined with much enthusiasm, feeling that she
is somewhat of a French prig. She became first engaged to a snob, who jilted her; and then,
though in truth she loved another man who was hardly good enough, she could not extricate herself
sufficiently from the collapse of her first great misfortune to be able to make up her mind
to be the wife of one whom, though she loved him, she did not altogether reverence.  Prig as
she was, she made her way into the hearts of many readers, both young and old; so that, from
that time to this, I have been continually honoured with letters, the purport of which has
always been to beg me to marry Lily Dale to Johnny Eames. Had I done so, however, Lily would
never have so endeared herself to these people as to induce them to write letters to the author
concerning her fate. It was because she could not get over her troubles that they loved her.
Outside Lily Dale and the chief interest of the novel, The Small House at Allington is, I think,
good. The De Courcy family are alive, as is also Sir Raffle Buffle, who is a hero of the Civil
Service. Sir Raffle was intended to represent a type, not a man; but the man for the picture
was soon chosen, and I was often assured that the portrait was very like. I have never seen
the gentleman with whom I am supposed to have taken the liberty. There is also an old squire
down at Allington, whose life as a country gentleman with rather straitened means is, I think,
well described.

Of Can you Forgive Her? I cannot speak with too great affection, though I do not know that
of itself it did very much to increase my reputation. As regards the story, it was formed chiefly
on that of the play which my friend Mr. Bartley had rejected long since, the circumstances
of which the reader may perhaps remember. The play had been called The Noble Jilt; but I was
afraid of the name for a novel, lest the critics might throw a doubt on the nobility. There
was more of tentative humility in that which I at last adopted. The character of the girl is
carried through with considerable strength, but is not attractive. The humorous characters,
which are also taken from the play,--a buxom widow who with her eyes open chooses the most
scampish of two selfish suitors because he is the better looking,--are well done. Mrs. Greenow,
between Captain Bellfield and Mr. Cheeseacre, is very good fun--as far as the fun of novels
is. But that which endears the book to me is the first presentation which I made in it of Plantagenet
Palliser, with his wife, Lady Glencora.

By no amount of description or asseveration could I succeed in making any reader understand
how much these characters with their belongings have been to me in my latter life; or how frequently
I have used them for the expression of my political or social convictions. They have been as
real to me as free trade was to Mr. Cobden, or the dominion of a party to Mr. Disraeli; and
as I have not been able to speak from the benches of the House of Commons, or to thunder from
platforms, or to be efficacious as a lecturer, they have served me as safety-valves by which
to deliver my soul. Mr. Plantagenet Palliser had appeared in The Small House at Allington,
but his birth had not been accompanied by many hopes. In the last pages of that novel he is
made to seek a remedy for a foolish false step in life by marrying the grand heiress of the
day;--but the personage of the great heiress does not appear till she comes on the scene as
a married woman in Can You Forgive Her? He is the nephew and heir to a duke--the Duke of Omnium--who
was first introduced in Doctor Thorne, and afterwards in Framley Parsonage, and who is one
of the belongings of whom I have spoken.  In these personages and their friends, political
and social, I have endeavoured to depict the faults and frailties and vices,--as also the virtues,
the graces, and the strength of our highest classes; and if I have not made the strength and
virtues predominant over the faults and vices, I have not painted the picture as I intended.
Plantagenet Palliser I think to be a very noble gentleman,--such a one as justifies to the
nation the seeming anomaly of an hereditary peerage and of primogeniture. His wife is in all
respects very inferior to him; but she, too, has, or has been intended to have, beneath the
thin stratum of her follies a basis of good principle, which enabled her to live down the conviction
of the original wrong which was done to her, and taught her to endeavour to do her duty in
the position to which she was called.  She had received a great wrong,--having been made, when
little more than a child, to marry a man for whom she cared nothing;--when, however, though
she was little more than a child, her love had been given elsewhere. She had very heavy troubles,
but they did not overcome her.

As to the heaviest of these troubles, I will say a word in vindication of myself and of the
way I handled it in my work. In the pages of Can You Forgive Her? the girl's first love is
introduced,--beautiful, well-born, and utterly worthless. To save a girl from wasting herself,
and an heiress from wasting her property on such a scamp, was certainly the duty of the girl's
friends. But it must ever be wrong to force a girl into a marriage with a man she does not
love,--and certainly the more so when there is another whom she does love. In my endeavour
to teach this lesson I subjected the young wife to the terrible danger of overtures from the
man to whom her heart had been given. I was walking no doubt on ticklish ground, leaving for
a while a doubt on the question whether the lover might or might not succeed.  Then there came
to me a letter from a distinguished dignitary of our Church, a man whom all men honoured, treating
me with severity for what I was doing. It had been one of the innocent joys of his life, said
the clergyman, to have my novels read to him by his daughters. But now I was writing a book
which caused him to bid them close it! Must I also turn away to vicious sensation such as this?
Did I think that a wife contemplating adultery was a character fit for my pages? I asked him
in return, whether from his pulpit, or at any rate from his communion-table, he did not denounce
adultery to his audience; and if so, why should it not be open to me to preach the same doctrine
to mine. I made known nothing which the purest girl could not but have learned, and ought not
to have learned, elsewhere, and I certainly lent no attraction to the sin which I indicated.
His rejoinder was full of grace, and enabled him to avoid the annoyance of argumentation without
abandoning his cause. He said that the subject was so much too long for letters; that he hoped
I would go and stay a week with him in the country,--so that we might have it out. That opportunity,
however, has never yet arrived.

Lady Glencora overcomes that trouble, and is brought, partly by her own sense of right and
wrong, and partly by the genuine nobility of her husband's conduct, to attach herself to him
after a certain fashion.  The romance of her life is gone, but there remains a rich reality
of which she is fully able to taste the flavour. She loves her rank and becomes ambitious,
first of social, and then of political ascendancy. He is thoroughly true to her, after his
thorough nature, and she, after her less perfect nature, is imperfectly true to him.

In conducting these characters from one story to another I realised the necessity, not only
of consistency,--which, had it been maintained by a hard exactitude, would have been untrue
to nature,--but also of those changes which time always produces. There, are, perhaps, but
few of us who, after the lapse of ten years, will be found to have changed our chief characteristics.
The selfish man will still be selfish, and the false man false. But our manner of showing or
of hiding these characteristics will be changed,--as also our power of adding to or diminishing
their intensity.  It was my study that these people, as they grew in years, should encounter
the changes which come upon us all; and I think that I have succeeded. The Duchess of Omnium,
when she is playing the part of Prime Minister's wife, is the same woman as that Lady Glencora
who almost longs to go off with Burgo Fitzgerald, but yet knows that she will never do so;
and the Prime Minister Duke, with his wounded pride and sore spirit, is he who, for his wife's
sake, left power and place when they were first offered to him;--but they have undergone the
changes which a life so stirring as theirs would naturally produce. To do all this thoroughly
was in my heart from first to last; but I do not know that the game has been worth the candle.

To carry out my scheme I have had to spread my picture over so wide a canvas that I cannot
expect that any lover of such art should trouble himself to look at it as a whole. Who will
read Can You Forgive Her? Phineas Finn, Phineas Redux, and The Prime Minister consecutively,
in order that they may understand the characters of the Duke of Omnium, of Plantagenet Palliser,
and of Lady Glencora? Who will ever know that they should be so read? But in the performance
of the work I had much gratification, and was enabled from time to time to have in this way
that fling at the political doings of the day which every man likes to take, if not in one
fashion then in another.  I look upon this string of characters,--carried sometimes into other
novels than those just named,--as the best work of my life. Taking him altogether, I think
that Plantagenet Palliser stands more firmly on the ground than any other personage I have created.

On Christmas day, 1863, we were startled by the news of Thackeray's death. He had then for
many months given up the editorship of the Cornhill Magazine,--a position for which he was
hardly fitted either by his habits or temperament,--but was still employed in writing for its
pages. I had known him only for four years, but had grown into much intimacy with him and his
family. I regard him as one of the most tender-hearted human beings I ever knew, who, with
an exaggerated contempt for the foibles of the world at large, would entertain an almost equally
exaggerated sympathy with the joys and troubles of individuals around him. He had been unfortunate
in early life--unfortunate in regard to money--unfortunate with an afflicted wife--unfortunate
in having his home broken up before his children were fit to be his companions. This threw
him too much upon clubs, and taught him to dislike general society. But it never affected his
heart, or clouded his imagination. He could still revel in the pangs and joys of fictitious
life, and could still feel--as he did to the very last--the duty of showing to his readers
the evil consequences of evil conduct. It was perhaps his chief fault as a writer that he could
never abstain from that dash of satire which he felt to be demanded by the weaknesses which
he saw around him. The satirist who writes nothing but satire should write but little,--or
it will seem that his satire springs rather from his own caustic nature than from the sins
of the world in which he lives. I myself regard Esmond as the greatest novel in the English
language, basing that judgment upon the excellence of its language, on the clear individuality
of the characters, on the truth of its delineations in regard to the tine selected, and on
its great pathos. There are also in it a few scenes so told that even Scott has never equalled
the telling.  Let any one who doubts this read the passage in which Lady Castlewood induces
the Duke of Hamilton to think that his nuptials with Beatrice will be honoured if Colonel Esmond
will give away the bride. When he went from us he left behind living novelists with great names;
but I think that they who best understood the matter felt that the greatest master of fiction
of this age had gone.

Rachel Ray underwent a fate which no other novel of mine has encountered. Some years before
this a periodical called Good Words had been established under the editorship of my friend
Dr. Norman Macleod, a well-known Presbyterian pastor in Glasgow. In 1863 he asked me to write
a novel for his magazine, explaining to me that his principles did not teach him to confine
his matter to religious subjects, and paying me the compliment of saying that he would feel
himself quite safe in my hands. In reply I told him I thought he was wrong in his choice; that
though he might wish to give a novel to the readers of Good Words, a novel from me would hardly
be what he wanted, and that I could not undertake to write either with any specially religious
tendency, or in any fashion different from that which was usual to me. As worldly and--if any
one thought me wicked--as wicked as I had heretofore been, I must still be, should I write
for Good Words.  He persisted in his request, and I came to terms as to a story for the periodical.
I wrote it and sent it to him, and shortly afterwards received it back--a considerable portion
having been printed--with an intimation that it would not do. A letter more full of wailing
and repentance no man ever wrote. It was, he said, all his own fault. He should have taken
my advice. He should have known better. But the story, such as it was, he could not give to
his readers in the pages of Good Words. Would I forgive him? Any pecuniary loss to which his
decision might subject me the owner of the publication would willingly make good. There was
some loss--or rather would have been--and that money I exacted, feeling that the fault had
in truth been with the editor. There is the tale now to speak for itself. It is not brilliant
nor in any way very excellent; but it certainly is not very wicked. There is some dancing in
one of the early chapters, described, no doubt, with that approval of the amusement which I
have always entertained; and it was this to which my friend demurred. It is more true of novels
than perhaps of anything else, that one man's food is another man's poison.

Miss Mackenzie was written with a desire to prove that a novel may be produced without any
love; but even in this attempt it breaks down before the conclusion. In order that I might
be strong in my purpose, I took for my heroine a very unattractive old maid, who was overwhelmed
with money troubles; but even she was in love before the end of the book, and made a romantic
marriage with an old man. There is in this story an attack upon charitable bazaars, made with
a violence which will, I think, convince any reader that such attempts at raising money were
at the time very odious to me. I beg to say that since that I have had no occasion to alter
my opinion. Miss Mackenzie was published in the early spring of 1865.

At the same time I was engaged with others in establishing a periodical Review, in which some
of us trusted much, and from which we expected great things. There was, however, in truth so
little combination of idea among us, that we were not justified in our trust or in our expectations.
And yet we were honest in our purpose, and have, I think, done some good by our honesty. The
matter on which we were all agreed was freedom of speech, combined with personal responsibility.
We would be neither conservative nor liberal, neither religious nor free-thinking, neither
popular nor exclusive;--but we would let any man who had a thing to say, and knew how to say
it, speak freely. But he should always speak with the responsibility of his name attached.
In the very beginning I militated against this impossible negation of principles,--and did
so most irrationally, seeing that I had agreed to the negation of principles,--by declaring
that nothing should appear denying or questioning the divinity of Christ. It was a most preposterous
claim to make for such a publication as we proposed, and it at once drove from us one or two
who had proposed to join us. But we went on, and our company--limited--was formed. We subscribed,
I think, (pounds)1250 each. I at least subscribed that amount, and--having agreed to bring
out our publication every fortnight, after the manner of the well-known French publication,--we
called it The Fortnightly. We secured the services of G. H. Lewes as our editor. We agreed
to manage our finances by a Board, which was to meet once a fortnight, and of which I was the
Chairman. And we determined that the payments for our literature should be made on a liberal
and strictly ready-money system. We carried out our principles till our money was all gone,
and then we sold the copyright to Messrs.  Chapman & Hall for a trifle. But before we parted
with our property we found that a fortnightly issue was not popular with the trade through
whose hands the work must reach the public; and, as our periodical had not become sufficiently
popular itself to bear down such opposition, we succumbed, and brought it out once a month.
Still it was The Fortnightly, and still it is The Fortnightly. Of all the serial publications
of the day, it probably is the most serious, the most earnest, the least devoted to amusement,
the least flippant, the least jocose,--and yet it has the face to show itself month after month
to the world, with so absurd a misnomer! It is, as all who know the laws of modern literature
are aware, a very serious thing to change the name of a periodical. By doing so you begin an
altogether new enterprise. Therefore should the name be well chosen;--whereas this was very
ill chosen, a fault for which I alone was responsible.

That theory of eclecticism was altogether impracticable.  It was as though a gentleman should
go into the House of Commons determined to support no party, but to serve his country by individual
utterances. Such gentlemen have gone into the House of Commons, but they have not served their
country much. Of course the project broke down. Liberalism, freethinking, and open inquiry
will never object to appear in company with their opposites, because they have the conceit
to think that they can quell those opposites; but the opposites will not appear in conjunction
with liberalism, free-thinking, and open inquiry. As a natural consequence, our new publication
became an organ of liberalism, free-thinking, and open inquiry.  The result has been good;
and though there is much in the now established principles of The Fortnightly with which I
do not myself agree, I may safely say that the publication has assured an individuality, and
asserted for itself a position in our periodical literature, which is well understood and highly
respected.

As to myself and my own hopes in the matter,--I was craving after some increase in literary
honesty, which I think is still desirable but which is hardly to be attained by the means which
then recommended themselves to me. In one of the early numbers I wrote a paper advocating the
signature of the authors to periodical writing, admitting that the system should not be extended
to journalistic articles on political subjects. I think that I made the best of my case; but
further consideration has caused me to doubt whether the reasons which induced me to make an
exception in favour of political writing do not extend themselves also to writing on other
subjects. Much of the literary criticism which we now have is very bad indeed;--.  so bad as
to be open to the charge both of dishonesty and incapacity. Books are criticised without being
read,--are criticised by favour,--and are trusted by editors to the criticism of the incompetent.
If the names of the critics were demanded, editors would be more careful. But I fear the effect
would be that we should get but little criticism, and that the public would put but little
trust in that little. An ordinary reader would not care to have his books recommended to him
by Jones; but the recommendation of the great unknown comes to him with all the weight of the
Times, the Spectator, or the Saturday.

Though I admit so much, I am not a recreant from the doctrine I then preached. I think that
the name of the author does tend to honesty, and that the knowledge that it will be inserted
adds much to the author's industry and care. It debars him also from illegitimate license and
dishonest assertions. A man should never be ashamed to acknowledge that which he is not ashamed
to publish. In The Fortnightly everything has been signed, and in this way good has, I think,
been done. Signatures to articles in other periodicals have become much more common since The
Fortnightly was commenced.

After a time Mr. Lewes retired from the editorship, feeling that the work pressed too severely
on his moderate strength. Our loss in him was very great, and there was considerable difficulty
in finding a successor. I must say that the present proprietor has been fortunate in the choice
he did make. Mr. John Morley has done the work with admirable patience, zeal, and capacity.
Of course he has got around him a set of contributors whose modes of thought are what we may
call much advanced; he being "much advanced" himself, would not work with other aids.  The
periodical has a peculiar tone of its own; but it holds its own with ability, and though there
are many who perhaps hate it, there are none who despise it.  When the company sold it, having
spent about (pounds)9000 on it, it was worth little or nothing. Now I believe it to be a good
property.

My own last personal concern with it was on a matter, of fox-hunting. [Footnote: I have written
various articles for it since, especially two on Cicero, to which I devoted great labour.]
There came out in it an article from the pen of Mr. Freeman the historian, condemning the amusement,
which I love, on the grounds of cruelty and general brutality.  Was it possible, asked Mr.
Freeman, quoting from Cicero, that any educated man should find delight in so coarse a pursuit?
Always bearing in mind my own connection with The Fortnightly, I regarded this almost as a
rising of a child against the father.  I felt at any rate bound to answer Mr. Freeman in the
same columns, and I obtained Mr. Morley's permission to do so. I wrote my defence of fox-hunting,
and there it is. In regard to the charge of cruelty, Mr. Freeman seems to assert that nothing
unpleasant should be done to any of God's creatures except f or a useful purpose. The protection
of a lady's shoulders from the cold is a useful purpose; and therefore a dozen fur-bearing
animals may be snared in the snow and left to starve to death in the wires, in order that the
lady may have the tippet,--though a tippet of wool would serve the purpose as well as a tippet
of fur. But the congregation and healthful amusement of one or two hundred persons, on whose
behalf a single fox may or may not be killed, is not a useful purpose. I think that Mr. Freeman
has failed to perceive that amusement is as needful and almost as necessary as food and raiment.
The absurdity of the further charge as to the general brutality of the pursuit, and its consequent
unfitness for an educated man, is to be attributed to Mr. Freeman's ignorance of what is really
done and said in the hunting-field,--perhaps to his misunderstanding of Cicero's words. There
was a rejoinder to my answer, and I asked for space for further remarks. I could have it, the
editor said, if I much wished it; but he preferred that the subject should be closed. Of course
I was silent. His sympathies were all with Mr. Freeman,--and against the foxes, who, but for
fox-hunting, would cease to exist in England. And I felt that The Fortnighty was hardly the
place for the defence of the sport. Afterwards Mr. Freeman kindly suggested to me that he would
be glad to publish my article in a little book to be put out by him condemnatory of fox-hunting
generally. He was to have the last word and the first word, and that power of picking to pieces
which he is known to use in so masterly a manner, without any reply from me! This I was obliged
to decline. If he would give me the last word, as be would have the first, then, I told him,
I should be proud to join him in the book. This offer did not however meet his views.

It had been decided by the Board of Management, somewhat in opposition to my own ideas on the
subject, that the Fortnightly Review should always contain a novel. It was of course natural
that I should write the first novel, and I wrote The Belton Estate. It is similar in its attributes
to Rachel Ray and to Miss Mackenzie.  It is readable, and contains scenes which are true to
life; but it has no peculiar merits, and will add nothing to my reputation as a novelist. I
have not looked at it since it was published; and now turning back to it in my memory, I seem
to remember almost less of it than of any book that I have written.

CHAPTER XI

"THE CLAVERINGS," THE "PALL MALL GAZETTE," "NINA BALATKA," AND "LINDA TRESSEL"

The Claverings, which came out in 1866 and 1867, was the last novel which I wrote for the Cornhill;
and it was for this that I received the highest rate of pay that was ever accorded to me. It
was the same length as Framley Parsonage, and the price was (pounds)2800.  Whether much or
little, it was offered by the proprietor of the magazine, and was paid in a single cheque.

In The Claverings I did not follow the habit which had now become very common to me, of introducing
personages whose names are already known to the readers of novels, and whose characters were
familiar to myself. If I remember rightly, no one appears here who had appeared before or who
has been allowed to appear since. I consider the story as a whole to be good, though I am not
aware that the public has ever corroborated that verdict. The chief character is that of a
young woman who has married manifestly for money and rank,--so manifestly that she does not
herself pretend, even while she is making the marriage, that she has any other reason. The
man is old, disreputable, and a wornout debauchee. Then comes the punishment natural to the
offence. When she is free, the man whom she had loved, and who had loved her, is engaged to
another woman. He vacillates and is weak,--in which weakness is the fault of the book, as he
plays the part of hero. But she is strong--strong in her purpose, strong in her desires, and
strong in her consciousness that the punishment which comes upon her has been deserved.

But the chief merit of The Clarverings is in the genuine fun of some of the scenes. Humour
has not been my forte, but I am inclined to think that the characters of Captain Boodle, Archie
Clavering, and Sophie Gordeloup are humorous. Count Pateroff, the brother of Sophie, is also
good, and disposes of the young hero's interference in a somewhat masterly manner. In The Claverings,
too, there is a wife whose husband is a brute to her, who loses an only child--his heir--and
who is rebuked by her lord because the boy dies. Her sorrow is, I think, pathetic. From beginning
to end the story is well told. But I doubt now whether any one reads The Claverings. When I
remember how many novels I have written, I have no right to expect that above a few of them
shall endure even to the second year beyond publication.  This story closed my connection with
the Cornhill Magazine;--but not with its owner, Mr. George Smith, who subsequently brought
out a further novel of mine in a separate form, and who about this time established the Pall
Mall Gazette, to which paper I was for some years a contributor.

It was in 1865 that the Pall Mall Gazette was commenced, the name having been taken from a
fictitious periodical, which was the offspring of Thackeray's brain. It was set on foot by
the unassisted energy and resources of George Smith, who had succeeded by means of his magazine
and his publishing connection in getting around him a society of literary men who sufficed,
as far as literary ability went, to float the paper at one under favourable auspices. His two
strongest staffs probably were "Jacob Omnium," whom I regard as the most forcible newspaper
writer of my days, and Fitz-James Stephen, the most conscientious and industrious. To them
the Pall Mall Gazette owed very much of its early success,--and to the untiring energy and
general ability of its proprietor. Among its other contributors were George Lewes, Hannay,--who,
I think, came up from Edinburgh for employment on its columns,--Lord Houghton, Lord Strangford,
Charles Merivale, Greenwood the present editor, Greg, myself, and very many others;--so many
others, that I have met at a Pall Mall dinner a crowd of guests who would have filled the House
of Commons more respectably than I have seen it filled even on important occasions. There are
many who now remember--and no doubt when this is published there will be left some to remember--the
great stroke of business which was done by the revelations of a visitor to one of the casual
wards in London. A person had to be selected who would undergo the misery of a night among
the usual occupants of a casual ward in a London poorhouse, and who should at the same time
be able to record what he felt and saw. The choice fell upon Mr. Greenwood's brother, who certainly
possessed the courage and the powers of endurance. The description, which was very well given,
was, I think, chiefly written by the brother of the Casual himself. It had a great effect,
which was increased by secrecy as to the person who encountered all the horrors of that night.
I was more than once assured that Lard Houghton was the man. I heard it asserted also that
I myself had been the hero. At last the unknown one could no longer endure that his honours
should be hidden, and revealed the truth,--in opposition, I fear, to promises to the contrary,
and instigated by a conviction that if known he could turn his honours to account. In the meantime,
however, that record of a night passed in a workhouse had done more to establish the sale of
the journal than all the legal lore of Stephen, or the polemical power of Higgins, or the critical
acumen of Lewes.

My work was various. I wrote much on the subject of the American War, on which my feelings
were at the time very keen,--subscribing, if I remember right, my name to all that I wrote.
I contributed also some sets of sketches, of which those concerning hunting found favour with
the public. They were republished afterwards, and had a considerable sale, and may, I think,
still be recommended to those who are fond of hunting, as being accurate in their description
of the different classes of people who are to be met in the hunting-field. There was also a
set of clerical sketches, which was considered to be of sufficient importance to bring down
upon my head the critical wrath of a great dean of that period. The most ill-natured review
that was ever written upon any work of mine appeared in the Contemporary Review with reference
to these Clerical Sketches. The critic told me that I did not understand Greek. That charge
has been made not unfrequently by those who have felt themselves strong in that pride-producing
language.  It is much to read Greek with ease, but it is not disgraceful to be unable to do
so. To pretend to read it without being able,--that is disgraceful. The critic, however, had
been driven to wrath by my saying that Deans of the Church of England loved to revisit the
glimpses of the metropolitan moon.

I also did some critical work for the Pall Mall,--as I did also for The Fortnightly. It was
not to my taste, but was done in conformity with strict conscientious scruples. I read what
I took in hand, and said what I believed to be true,--always giving to the matter time altogether
incommensurate with the pecuniary result to myself. In doing this for the Pall Mall, I fell
into great sorrow. A gentleman, whose wife was dear to me as if she were my own sister; was
in some trouble as to his conduct in the public service. He had been blamed, as he thought
unjustly, and vindicated himself in a pamphlet. This he handed to me one day, asking me to
read it, and express my opinion about it if I found that I had an opinion. I thought the request
injudicious, and I did not read the pamphlet.  He met me again, and, handing me a second pamphlet,
pressed me very hard. I promised him that I would read it, and that if I found myself able
I would express myself;--but that I must say not what I wished to think, but what I did think.
To this of course he assented. I then went very much out of my way to study the subject,--which
was one requiring study.  I found, or thought that I found, that the conduct of the gentleman
in his office had been indiscreet; but that charges made against himself affecting his honour
were baseless. This I said, emphasising much more strongly than was necessary the opinion which
I had formed of his indiscretion,--as will so often be the case when a man has a pen in his
hand. It is like a club or sledge-hammer,--in using which, either for defence or attack, a
man can hardly measure the strength of the blows he gives. Of course there was offence,--and
a breaking off of intercourse between loving friends,--and a sense of wrong received, and I
must own, too, of wrong done. It certainly was not open to me to whitewash with honesty him
whom I did not find to be white; but there was no duty incumbent on me to declare what was
his colour in my eyes,--no duty even to ascertain. But I had been ruffled by the persistency
of the gentleman's request,--which should not have been made,--and I punished him for his wrong-doing
by doing a wrong myself.  I must add, that before he died his wife succeeded in bringing us
together.

In the early days of the paper, the proprietor, who at that time acted also as chief editor,
asked me to undertake a duty,--of which the agony would indeed at no one moment have been so
sharp as that endured in the casual ward, but might have been prolonged until human nature
sank under it. He suggested to me that I should during an entire season attend the May meetings
in Exeter Hall, and give a graphic and, if possible, amusing description of the proceedings.
I did attend one,--which lasted three hours,--and wrote a paper which I think was called A
Zulu in Search of a Religion. But when the meeting was over I went to that spirited proprietor,
and begged him to impose upon me some task more equal to my strength. Not even on behalf of
the Pall Mall Gazette, which was very dear to me, could I go through a second May meeting,--much
less endure a season of such martyrdom.

I have to acknowledge that I found myself unfit for work on a newspaper. I had not taken to
it early enough in life to learn its ways and bear its trammels.  I was fidgety when any work
was altered in accordance with the judgment of the editor, who, of course, was responsible
for what appeared. I wanted to select my own subjects,--not to have them selected for me; to
write when I pleased,--and not when it suited others.  As a permanent member of the staff I
was of no use, and after two or three years I dropped out of the work.

From the commencement of my success as a writer, which I date from the beginning of the Cornhill
Magazine, I had always felt an injustice in literary affairs which had never afflicted me or
even suggested itself to me while I was unsuccessful. It seemed to me that a name once earned
carried with it too much favour. I indeed had never reached a height to which praise was awarded
as a matter of course; but there were others who sat on higher seats to whom the critics brought
unmeasured incense and adulation, even when they wrote, as they sometimes did write, trash
which from a beginner would not have been thought worthy of the slightest notice. I hope no
one will think that in saying this I am actuated by jealousy of others. Though I never reached
that height, still I had so far progressed that that which I wrote was received with too much
favour. The injustice which struck me did not consist in that which was withheld from me, but
in that which was given to me. I felt that aspirants coming up below me might do work as good
as mine, and probably much better work, and yet fail to have it appreciated. In order to test
this, I determined to be such an aspirant myself, and to begin a course of novels anonymously,
in order that I might see whether I could obtain a second identity,--whether as I had made
one mark by such literary ability as I possessed, I might succeed in doing so again.  In 1865
I began a short tale called Nina Balatka, which in 1866 was published anonymously in Blackwood's
Magazine. In 1867 this was followed by another of the same length, called Linda Tressel. I
will speak of them together, as they are of the same nature and of nearly equal merit. Mr.
Blackwood, who himself read the MS. of Nina Balatka, expressed an opinion that it would not
from its style be discovered to have been written by me;--but it was discovered by Mr.  Hutton
of the Spectator, who found the repeated use of some special phrase which had rested upon his
ear too frequently when reading for the purpose of criticism other works of mine. He declared
in his paper that Nina Balatka was by me, showing I think more sagacity than good nature. I
ought not, however, to complain of him, as of all the critics of my work he has been the most
observant, and generally the most eulogistic. Nina Balatka never rose sufficiently high in
reputation to make its detection a matter of any importance. Once or twice I heard the story
mentioned by readers who did not know me to be the author, and always with praise; but it had
no real success. The same may be said of Linda Tressel. Blackwood, who of course knew the author,
was willing to publish them, trusting that works by an experienced writer would make their
way, even without the writer's name, and he was willing to pay me for them, perhaps half what
they would have fetched with my name. But he did not find the speculation answer, and declined
a third attempt, though a third such tale was written for him.

Nevertheless I am sure that the two stories are good. Perhaps the first is somewhat the better,
as being the less lachrymose. They were both written very quickly, but with a considerable
amount of labour; and both were written immediately after visits to the towns in which the
scenes are laid,--Prague, mainly, and Nuremberg. Of course I had endeavoured to change not
only my manner of language, but my manner of story-telling also; and in this, pace Mr.  Hutton,
I think that I was successful. English life in them there was none. There was more of romance
proper than had been usual with me. And I made an attempt at local colouring, at descriptions
of scenes and places, which has not been usual with me. In all this I am confident that I was
in a measure successful.  In the loves, and fears, and hatreds, both of Nina and of Linda,
there is much that is pathetic.  Prague is Prague, and Nuremberg is Nuremberg. I know that
the stories are good, but they missed the object with which they had been written. Of course
there is not in this any evidence that I might not have succeeded a second time as I succeeded
before, had I gone on with the same dogged perseverance. Mr.  Blackwood, had I still further
reduced my price, would probably have continued the experiment. Another ten years of unpaid
unflagging labour might have built up a second reputation. But this at any rate did seem clear
to me, that with all the increased advantages which practice in my art must have given me,
I could not induce English readers to read what I gave to them, unless I gave it with my name.

I do not wish to have it supposed from this that I quarrel with public judgment in affairs
of literature.  It is a matter of course that in all things the public should trust to established
reputation. It is as natural that a novel reader wanting novels should send to a library for
those by George Eliot or Wilkie Collins, as that a lady when she wants a pie for a picnic should
go to Fortnum & Mason. Fortnum & Mason can only make themselves Fortnum & Mason by dint of
time and good pies combined. If Titian were to send us a portrait from the other world, as
certain dead poets send their poetry by means of a medium, it would be some time before the
art critic of the Times would discover its value. We may sneer at the want of judgment thus
displayed, but such slowness of judgment is human and has always existed. I say all this here
because my thoughts on the matter have forced upon me the conviction that very much consideration
is due to the bitter feelings of disappointed authors.

We who have succeeded are so apt to tell new aspirants not to aspire, because the thing to
be done may probably be beyond their reach. "My dear young lady, had you not better stay at
home and darn your stockings?" "As, sir, you have asked for my candid opinion, I can only counsel
you to try some other work of life which may be better suited to your abilities." What old-established
successful author has not said such words as these to humble aspirants for critical advice,
till they have become almost formulas? No doubt there is cruelty in such answers; but the man
who makes them has considered the matter within himself, and has resolved that such cruelty
is the best mercy. No doubt the chances against literary aspirants are very great. It is so
easy to aspire,--and to begin! A man cannot make a watch or a shoe without a variety of tools
and many materials. He must also have learned much. But any young lady can write a book who
has a sufficiency of pens and paper. It can be done anywhere; in any clothes--which is a great
thing; at any hours--to which happy accident in literature I owe my success. And the success,
when achieved, is so pleasant! The aspirants, of course, are very many; and the experienced
councillor, when asked for his candid judgment as to this or that effort, knows that among
every hundred efforts there will be ninety-nine failures. Then the answer is so ready: "My
dear young lady, do darn your stockings; it will be for the best." Or perhaps, less tenderly,
to the male aspirant: "You must earn some money, you say.  Don't you think that a stool in
a counting-house might be better?" The advice will probably be good advice,--probably, no doubt,
as may be proved by the terrible majority of failures. But who is to be sure that he is not
expelling an angel from the heaven to which, if less roughly treated, he would soar,--that
he is not dooming some Milton to be mute and inglorious, who, but for such cruel ill-judgment,
would become vocal to all ages?

The answer to all this seems to be ready enough.  The judgment, whether cruel or tender, should
not be ill-judgment. He who consents to sit as judge should have capacity for judging. But
in this matter no accuracy of judgment is possible. It may be that the matter subjected to
the critic is so bad or so good as to make an assured answer possible. "You, at any rate, cannot
make this your vocation;" or "You, at any rate, can succeed, if you will try." But cases as
to which such certainty can be expressed are rare.  The critic who wrote the article on the
early verses of Lord Byron, which produced the English Bards and Scotch Reviewers, was justified
in his criticism by the merits of the Hours of Idleness. The lines had nevertheless been written
by that Lord Byron who became our Byron. In a little satire called The Biliad, which, I think,
nobody knows, are the following well-expressed lines:--

   "When Payne Knight's Taste was issued to the town,
    A few Greek verses in the text set down
    Were torn to pieces, mangled into hash,
    Doomed to the flames as execrable trash,--
    In short, were butchered rather than dissected,
    And several false quantities detected,--
    Till, when the smoke had vanished from the cinders,
    'Twas just discovered that--THE LINES WERE PINDAR'S!"

There can be no assurance against cases such as these; and yet we are so free with our advice,
always bidding the young aspirant to desist.

There is perhaps no career or life so charming as that of a successful man of letters. Those
little unthought of advantages which I just now named are in themselves attractive. If you
like the town, live in the town, and do your work there; if you like the country, choose the
country. It may be done on the top of a mountain or in the bottom of a pit. It is compatible
with the rolling of the sea and the motion of a railway. The clergyman, the lawyer, the doctor,
the member of Parliament, the clerk in a public office, the tradesman, and even his assistant
in the shop, must dress in accordance with certain fixed laws; but the author need sacrifice
to no grace, hardly even to Propriety. He is subject to no bonds such as those which bind other
men. Who else is free from all shackle as to hours? The judge must sit at ten, and the attorney-general,
who is making his (pounds)20,000 a year, must be there with his bag. The Prime Minister must
be in his place on that weary front bench shortly after prayers, and must sit there, either
asleep or awake, even though ---- or ---- should be addressing the House. During all that Sunday
which he maintains should be a day of rest, the active clergyman toils like a galley-slave.
The actor, when eight o'clock comes, is bound to his footlights. The Civil Service clerk must
sit there from ten till four,--unless his office be fashionable, when twelve to six is just
as heavy on him. The author may do his work at five in the morning when he is fresh from his
bed, or at three in the morning before he goes there. And the author wants no capital, and
encounters no risks.  When once he is afloat, the publisher finds all that;--and indeed, unless
he be rash, finds it whether he be afloat or not. But it is in the consideration which he enjoys
that the successful author finds his richest reward. He is, if not of equal rank, yet of equal
standing with the highest; and if he be open to the amenities of society, may choose his own
circles. He without money can enter doors which are closed against almost all but him and the
wealthy. I have often heard it said that in this country the man of letters is not recognised.
I believe the meaning of this to be that men of letters are not often invited to be knights
and baronets. I do not think that they wish it;--and if they had it they would, as a body,
lose much more than they would gain. I do not at all desire to have letters put after my name,
or to be called Sir Anthony, but if my friends Tom Hughes and Charles Reade became Sir Thomas
and Sir Charles, I do not know how I might feel,--or how my wife might feel, if we were left
unbedecked. As it is, the man of letters who would be selected for titular honour, if such
bestowal of honours were customary, receives from the general respect of those around him a
much more pleasant recognition of his worth.

If this be so,--if it be true that the career of the successful literary man be thus pleasant--it
is not wonderful that many should attempt to win the prize.  But how is a man to know whether
or not he has within him the qualities necessary for such a career?  He makes an attempt, and
fails; repeats his attempt, and fails again! So many have succeeded at last who have failed
more than once or twice! Who will tell him the truth as to himself? Who has power to find out
that truth? The hard man sends him off without a scruple to that office-stool; the soft man
assures him that there is much merit in his MS.

Oh, my young aspirant,--if ever such a one should read these pages,--be sure that no one can
tell you!  To do so it would be necessary not only to know what there is now within you, but
also to foresee what time will produce there. This, however, I think may be said to you, without
any doubt as to the wisdom of the counsel given, that if it be necessary for you to live by
your work, do not begin by trusting to literature.  Take the stool in the office as recommended
to you by the hard man; and then, in such leisure hours as may belong to you, let the praise
which has come from the lips of that soft man induce you to persevere in your literary attempts.
Should you fail, then your failure will not be fatal,--and what better could you have done
with the leisure hours had you not so failed?  Such double toil, you will say, is severe. Yes,
but if you want this thing, you must submit to severe toil.

Sometime before this I had become one of the Committee appointed for the distribution of the
moneys of the Royal Literary Fund, and in that capacity I heard and saw much of the sufferings
of authors. I may in a future chapter speak further of this Institution, which I regard with
great affection, and in reference to which I should be glad to record certain convictions of
my own; but I allude to it now, because the experience I have acquired in being active in its
cause forbids me to advise any young man or woman to enter boldly on a literary career in search
of bread.  I know how utterly I should have failed myself had my bread not been earned elsewhere
while I was making my efforts. During ten years of work, which I commenced with some aid from
the fact that others of my family were in the same profession, I did not earn enough to buy
me the pens, ink, and paper which I was using; and then when, with all my experience in my
art, I began again as from a new springing point, I should have failed again unless again I
could have given years to the task. Of course there have been many who have done better than
I,--many whose powers have been infinitely greater. But then, too, I have seen the failure
of many who were greater.

The career, when success has been achieved, is certainly very pleasant; but the agonies which
are endured in the search for that success are often terrible.  And the author's poverty is,
I think, harder to be borne than any other poverty. The man, whether rightly or wrongly, feels
that the world is using him with extreme injustice. The more absolutely he fails, the higher,
it is probable, he will reckon his own merits; and the keener will be the sense of injury in
that he whose work is of so high a nature cannot get bread, while they whose tasks are mean
are lapped in luxury.  "I, with my well-filled mind, with my clear intellect, with all my gifts,
cannot earn a poor crown a day, while that fool, who simpers in a little room behind a shop,
makes his thousands every year." The very charity, to which he too often is driven, is bitterer
to him than to others. While he takes it he almost spurns the hand that gives it to him, and
every fibre of his heart within him is bleeding with a sense of injury.

The career, when successful, is pleasant enough certainly; but when unsuccessful, it is of
all careers the most agonising.

CHAPTER XII

ON NOVELS AND THE ART OF WRITING THEM

It is nearly twenty years since I proposed to myself to write a history of English prose fiction.
I shall never do it now, but the subject is so good a one that I recommend it heartily to some
man of letters, who shall at the same time be indefatigable and light-handed. I acknowledge
that I broke down in the task, because I could not endure the labour in addition to the other
labours of my life. Though the book might be charming, the work was very much the reverse.
It came to have a terrible aspect to me, as did that proposition that I should sit out all
the May meetings of a season. According to my plan of such a history it would be necessary
to read an infinity of novels, and not only to read them, but so to read them as to point out
the excellences of those which are most excellent, and to explain the defects of those which,
though defective, had still reached sufficient reputation to make them worthy of notice. I
did read many after this fashion,--and here and there I have the criticisms which I wrote.
In regard to many, they were written on some blank page within the book; I have not, however,
even a list of the books so criticised. I think that the Arcadia was the first, and Ivanhoe
the last.  My plan, as I settled it at last, had been to begin with Robinson Crusoe, which
is the earliest really popular novel which we have in our language, and to continue the review
so as to include the works of all English novelists of reputation, except those who might still
be living when my task should be completed. But when Dickens and Bulwer died, my spirit flagged,
and that which I had already found to be very difficult had become almost impossible to me
at my then period of life.

I began my own studies on the subject with works much earlier than Robinson Crusoe, and made
my way through a variety of novels which were necessary for my purpose, but which in the reading
gave me no pleasure whatever. I never worked harder than at the Arcadia, or read more detestable
trash than the stories written by Mrs. Aphra Behn; but these two were necessary to my purpose,
which was not only to give an estimate of the novels as I found them, but to describe how it
had come to pass that the English novels of the present day have become what they are, to point
out the effects which they have produced, and to inquire whether their great popularity has
on the whole done good or evil to the people who read them.  I still think that the book is
one well worthy to be written.

I intended to write that book to vindicate my own profession as a novelist, and also to vindicate
that public taste in literature which has created and nourished the profession which I follow.
And I was stirred up to make such an attempt by a conviction that there still exists among
us Englishmen a prejudice in respect to novels which might, perhaps, be lessened by such a
work. This prejudice is not against the reading of novels, as is proved by their general acceptance
among us. But it exists strongly in reference to the appreciation in which they are professed
to be held; and it robs them of much of that high character which they may claim to have earned
by their grace, their honesty, and good teaching.

No man can work long at any trade without being brought to consider much, whether that which
he is daily doing tends to evil or to good. I have written many novels, and have known many
writers of novels, and I can assert that such thoughts have been strong with them and with
myself. But in acknowledging that these writers have received from the public a full measure
of credit for such genius, ingenuity, or perseverance as each may have displayed, I feel that
there is still wanting to them a just appreciation of the excellence of their calling, and
a general understanding of the high nature of the work which they perform.

By the common consent of all mankind who have read, poetry takes the highest place in literature.
That nobility of expression, and all but divine grace of words, which she is bound to attain
before she can make her footing good, is not compatible with prose. Indeed it is that which
turns prose into poetry. When that has been in truth achieved, the reader knows that the writer
has soared above the earth, and can teach his lessons somewhat as a god might teach. He who
sits down to write his tale in prose makes no such attempt, nor does he dream that the poet's
honour is within his reach;--but his teaching is of the same nature, and his lessons all tend
to the same end. By either, false sentiments may be fostered; false notions of humanity may
be engendered; false honour, false love, false worship may be created; by either, vice instead
of virtue may be taught. But by each, equally, may true honour, true love; true worship, and
true humanity be inculcated; and that will be the greatest teacher who will spread such truth
the widest. But at present, much as novels, as novels, are bought and read, there exists still
an idea, a feeling which is very prevalent, that novels at their best are but innocent. Young
men and women,--and old men and women too,--read more of them than of poetry, because such
reading is easier than the reading of poetry; but they read them,--as men eat pastry after
dinner,--not without some inward conviction that the taste is vain if not vicious. I take upon
myself to say that it is neither vicious nor vain.

But all writers of fiction who have desired to think well of their own work, will probably
have had doubts on their minds before they have arrived at this conclusion.  Thinking much
of my own daily labour and of its nature, I felt myself at first to be much afflicted and then
to be deeply grieved by the opinion expressed by wise and thinking men as to the work done
by novelists.  But when, by degrees, I dared to examine and sift the sayings of such men, I
found them to be sometimes silly and often arrogant. I began to inquire what had been the nature
of English novels since they first became common in our own language, and to be desirous of
ascertaining whether they had done harm or good. I could well remember that, in my own young
days, they had not taken that undisputed possession of drawing-rooms which they now hold. Fifty
years ago, when George IV. was king, they were not indeed treated as Lydia had been forced
to treat them in the preceding reign, when, on the approach of elders, Peregrine Pickle was
hidden beneath the bolster, and Lord Ainsworth put away under the sofa. But the families in
which an unrestricted permission was given for the reading of novels were very few, and from
many they were altogether banished. The high poetic genius and correct morality of Walter Scott
had not altogether succeeded in making men and women understand that lessons which were good
in poetry could not be bad in prose. I remember that in those days an embargo was laid upon
novel-reading as a pursuit, which was to the novelist a much heavier tax than that want of
full appreciation of which I now complain.

There is, we all know, no such embargo now. May we not say that people of an age to read have
got too much power into their own hands to endure any very complete embargo? Novels are read
right and left, above stairs and below, in town houses and in country parsonages, by young
countesses and by farmers' daughters, by old lawyers and by young students. It has not only
come to pass that a special provision of them has to be made for the godly, but that the provision
so made must now include books which a few years since the godly would have thought to be profane.
It was this necessity which, a few years since, induced the editor of Good Words to apply to
me for a novel,--which, indeed, when supplied was rejected, but which now, probably, owing
to further change in the same direction, would have been accepted.

If such be the case--if the extension of novel-reading be so wide as I have described it--then
very much good or harm must be done by novels. The amusement of the time can hardly be the
only result of any book that is read, and certainly not so with a novel, which appeals especially
to the imagination, and solicits the sympathy of the young. A vast proportion of the teaching
of the day,--greater probably than many of us have acknowledged to ourselves,--comes from these
books, which are in the hands of all readers. It is from them that girls learn what is expected
from them, and what they are to expect when lovers come; and also from them that young men
unconsciously learn what are, or should be, or may be, the charms of love,--though I fancy
that few young men will think so little of their natural instincts and powers as to believe
that I am right in saying so. Many other lessons also are taught.  In these times, when the
desire to be honest is pressed so hard, is so violently assaulted by the ambition to be great;
in which riches are the easiest road to greatness; when the temptations to which men are subjected
dull their eyes to the perfected iniquities of others; when it is so hard for a man to decide
vigorously that the pitch, which so many are handling, will defile him if it be touched;--men's
conduct will be actuated much by that which is from day to day depicted to them as leading
to glorious or inglorious results. The woman who is described as having obtained all that the
world holds to be precious, by lavishing her charms and her caresses unworthily and heartlessly,
will induce other women to do the same with theirs,--as will she who is made interesting by
exhibitions of bold passion teach others to be spuriously passionate. The young man who in
a novel becomes a hero, perhaps a Member of Parliament, and almost a Prime Minister, by trickery,
falsehood, and flash cleverness, will have many followers, whose attempts to rise in the world
ought to lie heavily on the conscience of the novelists who create fictitious Cagliostros.
There are Jack Sheppards other than those who break into houses and out of prisons,--Macheaths,
who deserve the gallows more than Gay's hero.

Thinking of all this, as a novelist surely must do,--as I certainly have done through my whole
career,--it becomes to him a matter of deep conscience how he shall handle those characters
by whose words and doings he hopes to interest his readers. It will very frequently be the
case that he will be tempted to sacrifice something for effect, to say a word or two here,
or to draw a picture there, for which he feels that he has the power, and which when spoken
or drawn would be alluring. The regions of absolute vice are foul and odious. The savour of
them, till custom has hardened the palate and the nose, is disgusting. In these he will hardly
tread. But there are outskirts on these regions, on which sweet-smelling flowers seem to grow;
and grass to be green. It is in these border-lands that the danger lies. The novelist may not
be dull. If he commit that fault he can do neither harm nor good. He must please, and the flowers
and the grass in these neutral territories sometimes seem to give him so easy an opportunity
of pleasing!

The writer of stories must please, or he will be nothing.  And he must teach whether he wish
to teach or no.  How shall he teach lessons of virtue and at the same time make himself a delight
to his readers? That sermons are not in themselves often thought to be agreeable we all know.
Nor are disquisitions on moral philosophy supposed to be pleasant reading for our idle hours.
But the novelist, if he have a conscience, must preach his sermons with the same purpose as
the clergyman, and must have his own system of ethics. If he can do this efficiently, if he
can make virtue alluring and vice ugly, while he charms his readers instead of wearying them,
then I think Mr. Carlyle need not call him distressed, nor talk of that long ear of fiction,
nor question whether he be or not the most foolish of existing mortals.

I think that many have done so; so many that we English novelists may boast as a class that
has been the general result of our own work. Looking back to the past generation, I may say
with certainty that such was the operation of the novels of Miss Edgeworth, Miss Austen, and
Walter Scott. Coming down to my own times, I find such to have been the teaching of Thackeray,
of Dickens, and of George Eliot. Speaking, as I shall speak to any who may read these words,
with that absence of self-personality which the dead may claim, I will boast that such has
been the result of my own writing. Can any one by search through the works of the six great
English novelists I have named, find a scene, a passage, or a word that would teach a girl
to be immodest, or a man to be dishonest? When men in their pages have been described as dishonest
and women as immodest, have they not ever been punished?  It is not for the novelist to say,
baldly and simply: "Because you lied here, or were heartless there, because you Lydia Bennet
forgot the lessons of your honest home, or you Earl Leicester were false through your ambition,
or you Beatrix loved too well the glitter of the world, therefore you shall be scourged with
scourges either in this world or in the next;" but it is for him to show, as he carries on
his tale, that his Lydia, or his Leicester, or his Beatrix, will be dishonoured in the estimation
of all readers by his or her vices. Let a woman be drawn clever, beautiful, attractive,--so
as to make men love her, and women almost envy her,--and let her be made also heartless, unfeminine,
and ambitious of evil grandeur, as was Beatrix, what a danger is there not in such a character!
To the novelist who shall handle it, what peril of doing harm!  But if at last it have been
so handled that every girl who reads of Beatrix shall say: "Oh! not like that;--let me not
be like that!" and that every youth shall say: "Let me not have such a one as that to press
my bosom, anything rather than that!"--then will not the novelist have preached his sermon
as perhaps no clergyman can preach it?

Very much of a novelist's work must appertain to the intercourse between young men and young
women.  It is admitted that a novel can hardly be made interesting or successful without love.
Some few might be named, but even in those the attempt breaks down, and the softness of love
is found to be necessary to complete the story. Pickwick has been named as an exception to
the rule, but even in Pickwick there are three or four sets of lovers, whose little amatory
longings give a softness to the work. I tried it once with Miss Mackenzie, but I had to make
her fall in love at last. In this frequent allusion to the passion which most stirs the imagination
of the young, there must be danger. Of that the writer of fiction is probably well aware. Then
the question has to be asked, whether the danger may not be so averted that good may be the
result,--and to be answered.

respect the necessity of dealing with love is advantageous,--advantageous from the very circumstance
which has made love necessary to all novelists.  It is necessary because the passion is one
which interests or has interested all. Every one feels it, has felt it, or expects to feel
it,--or else rejects it with an eagerness which still perpetuates the interest. If the novelist,
therefore, can so handle the subject as to do good by his handling, as to teach wholesome lessons
in regard to love, the good which he does will be very wide. If I can teach politicians that
they can do their business better by truth than by falsehood, I do a great service; but it
is done to a limited number of persons. But if I can make young men and women believe that
truth in love will make them happy, then, if my writings be popular, I shall have a very large
class of pupils. No doubt the cause for that fear which did exist as to novels arose from an
idea that the matter of love would be treated in an inflammatory and generally unwholesome
manner. Sir Anthony was no doubt right. But he takes it for granted that the longing for the
fruit is an evil. The novelist who writes of love thinks differently, and thinks that the honest
love of an honest man is a treasure which a good girl may fairly hope to win,--and that if
she can be taught to wish only for that, she will have been taught to entertain only wholesome
wishes.

I can easily believe that a girl should be taught to wish to love by reading how Laura Bell
loved Pendennis.  Pendennis was not in truth a very worthy man, nor did he make a very good
husband; but the girl's love was so beautiful, and the wife's love when she became a wife so
womanlike, and at the same time so sweet, so unselfish, so wifely, so worshipful,--in the sense
in which wives are told that they ought to worship their husband,--that I cannot believe that
any girl can be injured, or even not benefited, by reading of Laura's love.

There once used to be many who thought, and probably there still are some, even here in England,
who think that a girl should hear nothing of love till the time come in which she is to be
married. That, no doubt, was the opinion of Sir Anthony Absolute and of Mrs. Malaprop. But
I am hardly disposed to believe that the old system was more favourable than ours to the purity
of manners. Lydia Languish, though she was constrained by fear of her aunt to hide the book,
yet had Peregrine Pickle in her collection. While human nature talks of love so forcibly it
can hardly serve our turn to be silent on the subject. "Naturam expellas furca, tamen usque
recurret." There are countries in which it has been in accordance with the manners of the upper
classes that the girl should be brought to marry the man almost out of the nursery--or rather
perhaps out of the convent--without having enjoyed that freedom of thought which the reading
of novels and of poetry will certainly produce; but I do not know that the marriages so made
have been thought to be happier than our own.

Among English novels of the present day, and among English novelists, a great division is made.
There are sensational novels and anti-sensational, sensational novelists and anti-sensational,
sensational readers and anti-sensational. The novelists who are considered to be anti-sensational
are generally called realistic. I am realistic. My friend Wilkie Collins is generally supposed
to be sensational. The readers who prefer the one are supposed to take delight in the elucidation
of character. Those who hold by the other are charmed by the continuation and gradual development
of a plot.  All this is, I think, a mistake,--which mistake arises from the inability of the
imperfect artist to be at the same time realistic and sensational. A good novel should be both,
and both in the highest degree. If a novel fail in either, there is a failure in art. Let those
readers who believe that they do not like sensational scenes in novels think of some of those
passages from our great novelists which have charmed them most:--of Rebecca in the castle with
Ivanhoe; of Burley in the cave with Morton; of the mad lady tearing the veil of the expectant
bride, in Jane Eyre; of Lady Castlewood as, in her indignation, she explains to the Duke of
Hamilton Henry Esmond's right to be present at the marriage of his Grace with Beatrix;--may
I add of Lady Mason, as she makes her confession at the feet of Sir Peregrine Orme? Will any
one say that the authors of these passages have sinned in being over-sensational?  No doubt,
a string of horrible incidents, bound together without truth in detail, and told as affecting
personages without character,--wooden blocks, who cannot make themselves known to the reader
as men and women, does not instruct or amuse, or even fill the mind with awe. Horrors heaped
upon horrors, and which are horrors only in themselves, and not as touching any recognised
and known person, are not tragic, and soon cease even to horrify. And such would-be tragic
elements of a story may be increased without end, and without difficulty. I may tell you of
a woman murdered,--murdered in the same street with you, in the next house,--that she was a
wife murdered by her husband,--a bride not yet a week a wife. I may add to it for ever. I may
say that the murderer roasted her alive. There is no end to it. I may declare that a former
wife was treated with equal barbarity; and may assert that, as the murderer was led away to
execution, he declared his only sorrow, his only regret to be, that he could not live to treat
a third wife after the same fashion. There is nothing so easy as the creation and the cumulation
of fearful incidents after this fashion. If such creation and cumulation be the beginning and
the end of the novelist's work,--and novels have been written which seem to be without other
attractions,--nothing can be more dull or more useless. But not on that account are we averse
to tragedy in prose fiction.  As in poetry, so in prose, he who can deal adequately with tragic
elements is a greater artist and reaches a higher aim than the writer whose efforts never carry
him above the mild walks of everyday life. The Bride of Lammermoor is a tragedy throughout,
in spite of its comic elements. The life of Lady Castlewood, of whom I have spoken, is a tragedy.
Rochester's wretched thraldom to his mad wife, in Jane Eyre, is a tragedy. But these stories
charm us not simply because they are tragic, but because we feel that men and women with flesh
and blood, creatures with whom we can sympathise, are struggling amidst their woes. It all
lies in that. No novel is anything, for the purposes either of comedy or tragedy, unless the
reader can sympathise with the characters whose names he finds upon the pages. Let an author
so tell his tale as to touch his reader's heart and draw his tears, and he has, so far, done
his work well. Truth let there be,--truth of description, truth of character, human truth as
to men and women. If there be such truth, I do not know that a novel can be too sensational.

I did intend when I meditated that history of English fiction to include within its pages some
rules for the writing of novels;--or I might perhaps say, with more modesty, to offer some
advice on the art to such tyros in it as might be willing to take advantage of the experience
of an old hand. But the matter would, I fear, be too long for this episode, and I am not sure
that I have as yet got the rules quite settled in my own mind. I will, however, say a few words
on one or two points which my own practice has pointed out to me.

I have from the first felt sure that the writer, when he sits down to commence his novel, should
do so, not because he has to tell a story, but because he has a story to tell. The novelist's
first novel will generally have sprung from the right cause. Some series of events, or some
development of character, will have presented itself to his imagination,--and this he feels
so strongly that he thinks he can present his picture in strong and agreeable language to others.
He sits down and tells his story because he has a story to tell; as you, my friend, when you
have heard something which has at once tickled your fancy or moved your pathos, will hurry
to tell it to the first person you meet. But when that first novel has been received graciously
by the public and has made for itself a success, then the writer naturally feeling that the
writing of novels is within his grasp, looks about for something to tell in another. He cudgels
his brains, not always successfully, and sits down to write, not because he has something which
he burns to tell, but because be feels it to be incumbent on him to be telling something. As
you, my friend, if you are very successful in the telling of that first story, will become
ambitious of further storytelling, and will look out for anecdotes,--in the narration of which
you will not improbably sometimes distress your audience.

So it has been with many novelists, who, after some good work, perhaps after very much good
work, have distressed their audience because they have gone on with their work till their work
has become simply a trade with them. Need I make a list of such, seeing that it would contain
the names of those who have been greatest in the art of British novel-writing? They have at
last become weary of that portion of a novelist's work which is of all the most essential to
success. That a man as he grows old should feel the labour of writing to be a fatigue is natural
enough. But a man to whom writing has become a habit may write well though he be fatigued.
But the weary novelist refuses any longer to give his mind to that work of observation and
reception from which has come his power, without which work his power cannot be continued,--which
work should be going on not only when he is at his desk, but in all his walks abroad, in all
his movements through the world, in all his intercourse with his fellow-creatures. He has become
a novelist, as another has become a poet, because he has in those walks abroad, unconsciously
for the most part, been drawing in matter from all that he has seen and heard. But this has
not been done without labour, even when the labour has been unconscious. Then there comes a
time when he shuts his eyes and shuts his ears. When we talk of memory fading as age comes
on, it is such shutting of eyes and ears that we mean. The things around cease to interest
us, and we cannot exercise our minds upon them. To the novelist thus wearied there comes the
demand for further novels. He does not know his own defect, and even if he did he does not
wish to abandon his own profession. He still writes; but he writes because he has to tell a
story, not because he has a story to tell. What reader of novels has not felt the "woodenness"
of this mode of telling? The characters do not live and move, but are cut out of blocks and
are propped against the wall. The incidents are arranged in certain lines--the arrangement
being as palpable to the reader as it has been to the writer--but do not follow each other
as results naturally demanded by previous action. The reader can never feel--as he ought to
feel--that only for that flame of the eye, only for that angry word, only for that moment of
weakness, all might have been different. The course of the tale is one piece of stiff mechanism,
in which there is no room for a doubt.

These, it may be said, are reflections which I, being an old novelist, might make useful to
myself for discontinuing my work, but can hardly be needed by those tyros of whom I have spoken.
That they are applicable to myself I readily admit, but I also find that they apply to many
beginners. Some of us who are old fail at last because we are old.

But many young fail also, because they endeavour to tell stories when they have none to tell.
And this comes from idleness rather than from innate incapacity.  The mind has not been sufficiently
at work when the tale has been commenced, nor is it kept sufficiently at work as the tale is
continued. I have never troubled myself much about the construction of plots, and am not now
insisting specially on thoroughness in a branch of work in which I myself have not been very
thorough.  I am not sure that the construction of a perfected plot has been at any period within
my power. But the novelist has other aims than the elucidation of his plot.  He desires to
make his readers so intimately acquainted with his characters that the creatures of his brain
should be to them speaking, moving, living, human creatures.  This he can never do unless he
know those fictitious personages himself, and he can never know them unless he can live with
them in the full reality of established intimacy. They must be with him as he lies down to
sleep, and as he wakes from his dreams. He must learn to hate them and to love them. He must
argue with them, quarrel with them, forgive them, and even submit to them. He must know of
them whether they be cold-blooded or passionate, whether true or false, and how far true, and
how far false. The depth and the breadth, and the narrowness and the shallowness of each should
be clear to him. And, as here, in our outer world, we know that men and women change,--become
worse or better as temptation or conscience may guide them,--so should these creations of his
change, and every change should be noted by him. On the last day of each month recorded, every
person in his novel should be a month older than on the first. If the would-be novelist have
aptitudes that way, all this will come to him without much struggling;--but if it do not come,
I think he can only make novels of wood.

It is so that I have lived with my characters, and thence has come whatever success I have
obtained.  There is a gallery of them, and of all in that gallery I may say that I know the
tone of the voice, and the colour of the hair, every flame of the eye, and the very clothes
they wear. Of each man I could assert whether he would have said these or the other words;
of every woman, whether she would then have smiled or so have frowned. When I shall feel that
this intimacy ceases, then I shall know that the old horse should be turned out to grass. That
I shall feel it when I ought to feel it, I will by no means say. I do not know that I am at
all wiser than Gil Blas' canon; but I do know that the power indicated is one without which
the teller of tales cannot tell them to any good effect.

The language in which the novelist is to put forth his story, the colours with which he is
to paint his picture, must of course be to him matter of much consideration.  Let him have
all other possible gifts,--imagination, observation, erudition, and industry,--they will avail
him nothing for his purpose, unless he can put forth his work in pleasant words. If he be confused,
tedious, harsh, or unharmonious, readers will certainly reject him. The reading of a volume
of history or on science may represent itself as a duty; and though the duty may by a bad style
be made very disagreeable, the conscientious reader will perhaps perform it. But the novelist
will be assisted by no such feeling. Any reader may reject his work without the burden of a
sin. It is the first necessity of his position that he make himself pleasant. To do this, much
more is necessary than to write correctly. He may indeed be pleasant without being correct,--as
I think can be proved by the works of more than one distinguished novelist. But he must be
intelligible,--intelligible without trouble; and he must be harmonious.

Any writer who has read even a little will know what is meant by the word intelligible. It
is not sufficient that there be a meaning that may be hammered out of the sentence, but that
the language should be so pellucid that the meaning should be rendered without an effort of
the reader;--and not only some proposition of meaning, but the very sense, no more and no less,
which the writer has intended to put into his words.  What Macaulay says should be remembered
by all writers: "How little the all-important art of making meaning pellucid is studied now!
Hardly any popular author except myself thinks of it." The language used should be as ready
and as efficient a conductor of the mind of the writer to the mind of the reader as is the
electric spark which passes from one battery to another battery. In all written matter the
spark should carry everything; but in matters recondite the recipient will search to see that
he misses nothing, and that he takes nothing away too much. The novelist cannot expect that
any such search will be made. A young writer, who will acknowledge the truth of what I am saying,
will often feel himself tempted by the difficulties of language to tell himself that some one
little doubtful passage, some single collocation of words, which is not quite what it ought
to be, will not matter.  I know well what a stumbling-block such a passage may be. But he should
leave none such behind him as he goes on. The habit of writing clearly soon comes to the writer
who is a severe critic to himself.

As to that harmonious expression which I think is required, I shall find it more difficult
to express my meaning. It will be granted, I think, by readers that a style may be rough, and
yet both forcible and intelligible; but it will seldom come to pass that a novel written in
a rough style will be popular,--and less often that a novelist who habitually uses such a style
will become so. The harmony which is required must come from the practice of the ear. There
are few ears naturally so dull that they cannot, if time be allowed to them, decide whether
a sentence, when read, be or be not harmonious. And the sense of such harmony grows on the
ear, when the intelligence has once informed itself as to what is, and what is not harmonious.
The boy, for instance, who learns with accuracy the prosody of a Sapphic stanza, and has received
through his intelligence a knowledge of its parts, will soon tell by his ear whether a Sapphic
stanza be or be not correct.  Take a girl, endowed with gifts of music, well instructed in
her art, with perfect ear, and read to her such a stanza with two words transposed, as, for
instance--

    Mercuri, nam te docilis magistro
    Movit Amphion CANENDO LAPIDES,
    Tuque testudo resonare septem
            Callida nervis--

and she will find no halt in the rhythm. But a schoolboy with none of her musical acquirements
or capacities, who has, however, become familiar with the metres of the poet, will at once
discover the fault. And so will the writer become familiar with what is harmonious in prose.
But in order that familiarity may serve him in his business, he must so train his ear that
he shall be able to weigh the rhythm of every word as it falls from his pen. This, when it
has been done for a time, even for a short time, will become so habitual to him that he will
have appreciated the metrical duration of every syllable before it shall have dared to show
itself upon paper. The art of the orator is the same. He knows beforehand how each sound which
he is about to utter will affect the force of his climax. If a writer will do so he will charm
his readers, though his readers will probably not know how they have been charmed.

In writing a novel the author soon becomes aware that a burden of many pages is before him.
Circumstances require that he should cover a certain and generally not a very confined space.
Short novels are not popular with readers generally. Critics often complain of the ordinary
length of novels,--of the three volumes to which they are subjected; but few novels which have
attained great success in England have been told in fewer pages. The novel-writer who sticks
to novel-writing as his profession will certainly find that this burden of length is incumbent
on him. How shall he carry his burden to the end? How shall he cover his space? Many great
artists have by their practice opposed the doctrine which I now propose to preach;--but they
have succeeded I think in spite of their fault and by dint of their greatness. There should
be no episodes in a novel. Every sentence, every word, through all those pages, should tend
to the telling of the story. Such episodes distract the attention of the reader, and always
do so disagreeably. Who has not felt this to be the case even with The Curious Impertinent
and with the History of the Man of the Hill.  And if it be so with Cervantes and Fielding,
who can hope to succeed? Though the novel which you have to write must be long, let it be all
one. And this exclusion of episodes should be carried down into the smallest details. Every
sentence and every word used should tend to the telling of the story. "But," the young novelist
will say, "with so many pages before me to be filled, how shall I succeed if I thus confine
myself;--how am I to know beforehand what space this story of mine will require? There must
be the three volumes, or the certain number of magazine pages which I have contracted to supply.
If I may not be discursive should occasion require, how shall I complete my task? The painter
suits the size of his canvas to his subject, and must I in my art stretch my subject to my
canas?" This undoubtedly must be done by the novelist; and if he will learn his business, may
be done without injury to his effect. He may not paint different pictures on the same canvas,
which he will do if he allow himself to wander away to matters outside his own story; but by
studying proportion in his work, he may teach himself so to tell his story that it shall naturally
fall into the required length. Though his story should be all one, yet it may have many parts.
Though the plot itself may require but few characters, it may be so enlarged as to find its
full development in many. There may be subsidiary plots, which shall all tend to the elucidation
of the main story, and which will take their places as part of one and the same work,--as there
may be many figures on a canvas which shall not to the spectator seem to form themselves into
separate pictures.

There is no portion of a novelist's work in which this fault of episodes is so common as in
the dialogue. It is so easy to make any two persons talk on any casual subject with which the
writer presumes himself to be conversant! Literature, philosophy, politics, or sport, may thus
be handled in a loosely discursive style; and the writer, while indulging himself and filling
his pages, is apt to think that he is pleasing his reader. I think he can make no greater mistake.
The dialogue is generally the most agreeable part of a novel; but it is only so as long as
it tends in some way to the telling of the main story. It need not seem to be confined to that,
but it should always have a tendency in that direction.  The unconscious critical acumen of
a reader is both just and severe. When a long dialogue on extraneous matter reaches his mind,
he at once feels that he is being cheated into taking something which he did not bargain to
accept when he took up that novel. He does not at that moment require politics or philosophy,
but he wants his story. He will not perhaps be able to say in so many words that at some certain
point the dialogue has deviated from the story; but when it does so he will feel it, and the
feeling will be unpleasant. Let the intending novel-writer, if he doubt this, read one of Bulwer's
novels,--in which there is very much to charm,--and then ask himself whether he has not been
offended by devious conversations.

And the dialogue, on which the modern novelist in consulting the taste of his probable readers
must depend most, has to be constrained also by other rules.  The writer may tell much of his
story in conversations, but he may only do so by putting such words into the mouths of his
personages as persons so situated would probably use. He is not allowed for the sake of his
tale to make his characters give utterance to long speeches, such as are not customarily heard
from men and women. The ordinary talk of ordinary people is carried on in short, sharp, expressive
sentences, which very frequently are never completed,--the language of which even among educated
people is often incorrect. The novel-writer in constructing his dialogue must so steer between
absolute accuracy of language--which would give to his conversation an air of pedantry, and
the slovenly inaccuracy of ordinary talkers, which if closely followed would offend by an appearance
of grimace--as to produce upon the ear of his readers a sense of reality. If he be quite real
he will seem to attempt to be funny. If he be quite correct he will seem to be unreal. And
above all, let the speeches be short. No character should utter much above a dozen words at
a breath,--unless the writer can justify to himself a longer flood of speech by the specialty
of the occasion.

In all this human nature must be the novel-writer's guide. No doubt effective novels have been
written in which human nature has been set at defiance. I might name Caleb Williams as one
and Adam Blair as another.  But the exceptions are not more than enough to prove the rule.
But in following human nature he must remember that he does so with a pen in his hand, and
that the reader who will appreciate human nature will also demand artistic ability and literary
aptitude.

The young novelist will probably ask, or more probably bethink himself how he is to acquire
that knowledge of human nature which will tell him with accuracy what men and women would say
in this or that position.  He must acquire it as the compositor, who is to print his words,
has learned the art of distributing his type--by constant and intelligent practice. Unless
it be given to him to listen and to observe,--so to carry away, as it were, the manners of
people in his memory as to be able to say to himself with assurance that these words might
have been said in a given position, and that those other words could not have been said,--I
do not think that in these days he can succeed as a novelist.

And then let him beware of creating tedium! Who has not felt the charm of a spoken story up
to a certain point, and then suddenly become aware that it has become too long and is the reverse
of charming. It is not only that the entire book may have this fault, but that this fault may
occur in chapters, in passages, in pages, in paragraphs. I know no guard against this so likely
to be effective as the feeling of the writer himself. When once the sense that the thing is
becoming long has grown upon him, he may be sure that it will grow upon his readers. I see
the smile of some who will declare to themselves that the words of a writer will never be tedious
to himself. Of the writer of whom this may be truly said, it may be said with equal truth that
he will always be tedious to his reader.

CHAPTER XIII

ON ENGLISH NOVELISTS OF THE PRESENT DAY

In this chapter I will venture to name a few successful novelists of my own time, with whose
works I am acquainted; and will endeavour to point whence their success has come, and why they
have failed when there has been failure.

I do not hesitate to name Thackeray the first. His knowledge of human nature was supreme, and
his characters stand out as human beings, with a force and a truth which has not, I think,
been within the reach of any other English novelist in any period. I know no character in fiction,
unless it be Don Quixote, with whom the reader becomes so intimately acquainted as with Colonel
Newcombe. How great a thing it is to be a gentleman at all parts! How we admire the man of
whom so much may be said with truth! Is there any one of whom we feel more sure in this respect
than of Colonel Newcombe? It is not because Colonel Newcombe is a perfect gentleman that we
think Thackeray's work to have been so excellent, but because he has had the power to describe
him as such, and to force us to love him, a weak and silly old man, on account of this grace
of character.  It is evident from all Thackeray's best work that he lived with the characters
he was creating. He had always a story to tell until quite late in life; and he shows us that
this was so, not by the interest which be had in his own plots,--for I doubt whether his plots
did occupy much of his mind,--but by convincing us that his characters were alive to himself.
With Becky Sharpe, with Lady Castlewood and her daughter, and with Esmond, with Warrington,
Pendennis, and the Major, with Colonel Newcombe, and with Barry Lynon, he must have lived in
perpetual intercourse. Therefore he has made these personages real to us.

Among all our novelists his style is the purest, as to my ear it is also the most harmonious.
Sometimes it is disfigured by a slight touch of affectation, by little conceits which smell
of the oil;--but the language is always lucid. The reader, without labour, knows what he means,
and knows all that he means. As well as I can remember, he deals with no episodes. I think
that any critic, examining his work minutely, would find that every scene, and every part of
every scene, adds something to the clearness with which the story is told.  Among all his stories
there is not one which does not leave on the mind a feeling of distress that women should ever
be immodest or men dishonest,--and of joy that women should be so devoted and men so honest.
How we hate the idle selfishness of Pendennis, the worldliness of Beatrix, the craft of Becky
Sharpe!--how we love the honesty of Colonel Newcombe, the nobility of Esmond, and the devoted
affection of Mrs.  Pendennis! The hatred of evil and love of good can hardly have come upon
so many readers without doing much good.

Late in Thackeray's life,--he never was an old man, but towards the end of his career,--he
failed in his power of charming, because he allowed his mind to become idle. In the plots which
he conceived, and in the language which he used; I do not know that there is any perceptible
change; but in The Virginians and in Philip the reader is introduced to no character with which
he makes a close and undying acquaintance. And this, I have no doubt, is so because Thackeray
himself had no such intimacy. His mind had come to be weary of that fictitious life which is
always demanding the labour of new creation, and he troubled himself with his two Virginians
and his Philip only when he was seated at his desk.

At the present moment George Eliot is the first of English novelists, and I am disposed to
place her second of those of my time. She is best known to the literary world as a writer of
prose fiction, and not improbably whatever of permanent fame she may acquire will come from
her novels. But the nature of her intellect is very far removed indeed from that which is common
to the tellers of stories. Her imagination is no doubt strong, but it acts in analysing rather
than in creating.  Everything that comes before her is pulled to pieces so that the inside
of it shall be seen, and be seen if possible by her readers as clearly as by herself.  This
searching analysis is carried so far that, in studying her latter writings, one feels oneself
to be in company with some philosopher rather than with a novelist. I doubt whether any young
person can read with pleasure either Felix Holt, Middlemarch, or Daniel Deronda. I know that
they are very difficult to many that are not young.

Her personifications of character have been singularly terse and graphic, and from them has
come her great hold on the public,--though by no means the greatest effect which she has produced.
The lessons which she teaches remain, though it is not for the sake of the lessons that her
pages are read. Seth Bede, Adam Bede, Maggie and Tom Tulliver, old Silas Marner, and, much
above all, Tito, in Romola, are characters which, when once known, can never be forgotten.
I cannot say quite so much for any of those in her later works, because in them the philosopher
so greatly overtops the portrait-painter, that, in the dissection of the mind, the outward
signs seem to have been forgotten. In her, as yet, there is no symptom whatever of that weariness
of mind which, when felt by the reader, induces him to declare that the author has written
himself out. It is not from decadence that we do not have another Mrs. Poyser, but because
the author soars to things which seem to her to be higher than Mrs. Poyser.

It is, I think, the defect of George Eliot that she struggles too hard to do work that shall
be excellent.  She lacks ease. Latterly the signs of this have been conspicuous in her style,
which has always been and is singularly correct, but which has become occasionally obscure
from her too great desire to be pungent. It is impossible not to feel the struggle, and that
feeling begets a flavour of affectation. In Daniel Deronda, of which at this moment only a
portion has been published, there are sentences which I have found myself compelled to read
three times before I have been able to take home to myself all that the writer has intended.
Perhaps I may be permitted here to say, that this gifted woman was among my dearest and most
intimate friends. As I am speaking here of novelists, I will not attempt to speak of George
Eliot's merit as a poet.

There can be no doubt that the most popular novelist of my time--probably the most popular
English novelist of any time--has been Charles Dickens. He has now been dead nearly six years,
and the sale of his books goes on as it did during his life. The certainty with which his novels
are found in every house--the familiarity of his name in all English-speaking countries--the
popularity of such characters as Mrs. Gamp, Micawber, and Pecksniff, and many others whose
names have entered into the English language and become well-known words--the grief of the
country at his death, and the honours paid to him at his funeral,--all testify to his popularity.
Since the last book he wrote himself, I doubt whether any book has been so popular as his biography
by John Forster. There is no withstanding such testimony as this. Such evidence of popular
appreciation should go for very much, almost for everything, in criticism on the work of a
novelist.  The primary object of a novelist is to please; and this man's novels have been found
more pleasant than those of any other writer. It might of course be objected to this, that
though the books have pleased they have been injurious, that their tendency has been immoral
and their teaching vicious; but it is almost needless to say that no such charge has ever been
made against Dickens. His teaching has ever been good. From all which, there arises to the
critic a question whether, with such evidence against him as to the excellence of this writer,
he should not subordinate his own opinion to the collected opinion of the world of readers.
To me it almost seems that I must be wrong to place Dickens after Thackeray and George Eliot,
knowing as I do that so great a majority put him above those authors.

My own peculiar idiosyncrasy in the matter forbids me to do so. I do acknowledge that Mrs.
Gamp, Micawber, Pecksniff, and others have become household words in every house, as though
they were human beings; but to my judgment they are not human beings, nor are any of the characters
human which Dickens has portrayed. It has been the peculiarity and the marvel of this man's
power, that he has invested, his puppets with a charm that has enabled him to dispense with
human nature. There is a drollery about them, in my estimation, very much below the humour
of Thackeray, but which has reached the intellect of all; while Thackeray's humour has escaped
the intellect of many. Nor is the pathos of Dickens human. It is stagey and melodramatic. But
it is so expressed that it touches every heart a little. There is no real life in Smike. His
misery, his idiotcy, his devotion for Nicholas, his love for Kate, are all overdone and incompatible
with each other. But still the reader sheds a tear. Every reader can find a tear for Smike.
Dickens's novels are like Boucicault's plays. He has known how to draw his lines broadly, so
that all should see the colour.

He, too, in his best days, always lived with his characters;--and he, too, as he gradually
ceased to have the power of doing so, ceased to charm. Though they are not human beings, we
all remember Mrs. Gamp and Pickwick. The Boffins and Veneerings do not, I think, dwell in the
minds of so many.

Of Dickens's style it is impossible to speak in praise.  It is jerky, ungrammatical, and created
by himself in defiance of rules--almost as completely as that created by Carlyle. To readers
who have taught themselves to regard language, it must therefore be unpleasant. But the critic
is driven to feel the weakness of his criticism, when he acknowledges to himself--as he is
compelled in all honesty to do--that with the language, such as it is, the writer has satisfied
the great mass of the readers of his country. Both these great writers have satisfied the readers
of their own pages; but both have done infinite harm by creating a school of imitators. No
young novelist should ever dare to imitate the style of Dickens. If such a one wants a model
for his language, let him take Thackeray.

Bulwer, or Lord Lytton,--but I think that he is still better known by his earlier name,--was
a man of very great parts. Better educated than either of those I have named before him, he
was always able to use his erudition, and he thus produced novels from which very much not
only may be but must be learned by his readers. He thoroughly understood the political status
of his own country, a subject on which, I think, Dickens was marvellously ignorant, and which
Thackeray had never studied. He had read extensively, and was always apt to give his readers
the benefit of what he knew.  The result has been that very much more than amusement may be
obtained from Bulwer's novels. There is also a brightness about them--the result rather of
thought than of imagination, of study and of care, than of mere intellect--which has made many
of them excellent in their way. It is perhaps improper to class all his novels together, as
he wrote in varied manners, making in his earlier works, such as Pelham and Ernest Maltravers,
pictures of a fictitious life, and afterwards pictures of life as he believed it to be, as
in My Novel and The Caxtons. But from all of them there comes the same flavour of an effort
to produce effect. The effects are produced, but it would have been better if the flavour had
not been there.

I cannot say of Bulwer as I have of the other novelists whom I have named that he lived with
his characters. He lived with his work, with the doctrines which at the time he wished to preach,
thinking always of the effects which he wished to produce; but I do not think he ever knew
his own personages,--and therefore neither do we know them. Even Pelham and Eugene Aram are
not human beings to us, as are Pickwick, and Colonel Newcombe, and Mrs. Poyser.

In his plots Bulwer has generally been simple, facile, and successful. The reader never feels
with him, as he does with Wilkie Collins, that it is all plot, or, as with George Eliot, that
there is no plot. The story comes naturally without calling for too much attention, and is
thus proof of the completeness of the man's intellect. His language is clear, good, intelligible
English, but it is defaced by mannerism. In all that he did, affectation was his fault.

How shall I speak of my dear old friend Charles Lever, and his rattling, jolly, joyous, swearing
Irishmen. Surely never did a sense of vitality come so constantly from a man's pen, nor from
man's voice, as from his! I knew him well for many years, and whether in sickness or in health,
I have never come across him without finding him to be running over with wit and fun. Of all
the men I have encountered, he was the surest fund of drollery. I have known many witty men,
many who could say good things, many who would sometimes be ready to say them when wanted,
though they would sometimes fail;--but he never failed.  Rouse him in the middle of the night,
and wit would come from him before he was half awake. And yet he never monopolised the talk,
was never a bore. He would take no more than his own share of the words spoken, and would yet
seem to brighten all that was said during the night. His earlier novels--the later I have not
read--are just like his conversation. The fun never flags, and to me, when I read them, they
were never tedious. As to character he can hardly be said to have produced it. Corney Delaney,
the old manservant, may perhaps be named as an exception.

Lever's novels will not live long,--even if they may be said to be alive now,--because it is
so. What was his manner of working I do not know, but I should think it must have been very
quick, and that he never troubled himself on the subject, except when he was seated with a
pen in his hand.

Charlotte Bronte was surely a marvellous woman. If it could be right to judge the work of a
novelist from one small portion of one novel, and to say of an author that he is to be accounted
as strong as he shows himself to be in his strongest morsel of work, I should be inclined to
put Miss Bronte very high indeed. I know no interest more thrilling than that which she has
been able to throw into the characters of Rochester and the governess, in the second volume
of Jane Eyre. She lived with those characters, and felt every fibre of the heart, the longings
of the one and the sufferings of the other. And therefore, though the end of the book is weak,
and the beginning not very good, I venture to predict that Jane Eyre will be read among English
novels when many whose names are now better known shall have been forgotten. Jane Eyre, and
Esmond, and Adam Bede will be in the hands of our grandchildren, when Pickwick, and Pelham,
and Harry Lorrequer are forgotten; because the men and women depicted are human in their aspirations,
human in their sympathies, and human in their actions.

In Vilette, too, and in Shirley, there is to be found human life as natural and as real, though
in circumstances not so full of interest as those told in Jane Eyre. The character of Paul
in the former of the two is a wonderful study. She must herself have been in love with some
Paul when she wrote the book, and have been determined to prove to herself that she was capable
of loving one whose exterior circumstances were mean and in every way unprepossessing.

There is no writer of the present day who has so much puzzled me by his eccentricities, impracticabilities,
and capabilities as Charles Reade. I look upon him as endowed almost with genius, but as one
who has not been gifted by nature with ordinary powers of reasoning.  He can see what is grandly
noble and admire it with all his heart. He can see, too, what is foully vicious and hate it
with equal ardour. But in the common affairs of life he cannot see what is right or wrong;
and as he is altogether unwilling to be guided by the opinion of others, he is constantly making
mistakes in his literary career, and subjecting himself to reproach which he hardly deserves.
He means to be honest. He means to be especially honest,--more honest than other people. He
has written a book called The Eighth Commandment on behalf of honesty in literary transactions,--a
wonderful work, which has I believe been read by a very few. I never saw a copy except that
in my own library, or heard of any one who knew the book.  Nevertheless it is a volume that
must have taken very great labour, and have been written,--as indeed he declares that it was
written,--without the hope of pecuniary reward. He makes an appeal to the British Parliament
and British people on behalf of literary honesty, declaring that should he fail--"I shall have
to go on blushing for the people I was born among." And yet of all the writers of my day he
has seemed to me to understand literary honesty the least. On one occasion, as he tells us
in this book, he bought for a certain sum from a French author the right of using a plot taken
from a play,--which he probably might have used without such purchase, and also without infringing
any international copyright act. The French author not unnaturally praises him for the transaction,
telling him that he is "un vrai gentleman." The plot was used by Reade in a novel; and a critic
discovering the adaptation, made known his discovery to the public.  Whereupon the novelist
became angry, called his critic a pseudonymuncle, and defended himself by stating the fact
of his own purchase. In all this he seems to me to ignore what we all mean when we talk of
literary plagiarism and literary honesty. The sin of which the author is accused is not that
of taking another man's property, but of passing off as his own creation that which he does
not himself create. When an author puts his name to a book he claims to have written all that
there is therein, unless he makes direct signification to the contrary. Some years subsequently
there arose another similar question, in which Mr. Reade's opinion was declared even more plainly,
and certainly very much more publicly. In a tale which he wrote he inserted a dialogue which
he took from Swift, and took without any acknowledgment. As might have been expected, one of
the critics of the day fell foul of him for this barefaced plagiarism. The author, however,
defended himself, with much abuse of the critic, by asserting, that whereas Swift had found
the jewel he had supplied the setting;--an argument in which there was some little wit, and
would have been much excellent truth, had he given the words as belonging to Swift and not
to himself.

The novels of a man possessed of so singular a mind must themselves be very strange,--and they
are strange.  It has generally been his object to write down some abuse with which he has been
particularly struck,--the harshness, for instance, with which paupers or lunatics are treated,
or the wickedness of certain classes,--and he always, I think, leaves upon his readers an idea
of great earnestness of purpose. But he has always left at the same time on my mind so strong
a conviction that he has not really understood his subject, that I have ever found myself taking
the part of those whom he has accused. So good a heart, and so wrong a head, surely no novelist
ever before had combined! In storytelling he has occasionally been almost great. Among his
novels I would especially recommend The Cloister and the Hearth. I do not know that in this
work, or in any, that he has left a character that will remain; but he has written some of
his scenes so brightly that to read them would always be a pleasure.

Of Wilkie Collins it is impossible for a true critic not to speak with admiration, because
he has excelled all his contemporaries in a certain most difficult branch of his art; but as
it is a branch which I have not myself at all cultivated, it is not unnatural that his work
should be very much lost upon me individually. When I sit down to write a novel I do not at
all know, and I do not very much care, how it is to end. Wilkie Collins seems so to construct
his that he not only, before writing, plans everything on, down to the minutest detail, from
the beginning to the end; but then plots it all back again, to see that there is no piece of
necessary dove-tailing which does not dove-tail with absolute accuracy. The construction is
most minute and most wonderful. But I can never lose the taste of the construction. The author
seems always to be warning me to remember that something happened at exactly half-past two
o'clock on Tuesday morning; or that a woman disappeared from the road just fifteen yards beyond
the fourth mile-stone. One is constrained by mysteries and hemmed in by difficulties, knowing,
however, that the mysteries will be made clear, and the difficulties overcome at the end of
the third volume. Such work gives me no pleasure. I am, however, quite prepared to acknowledge
that the want of pleasure comes from fault of my intellect.

There are two ladies of whom I would fain say a word, though I feel that I am making my list
too long, in order that I may declare how much I have admired their work. They are Annie Thackeray
and Rhoda Broughton. I have known them both, and have loved the former almost as though she
belonged to me. No two writers were ever more dissimilar,--except in this that they are both
feminine. Miss Thackeray's characters are sweet, charming, and quite true to human nature.
In her writings she is always endeavouring to prove that good produces good, and evil evil.
There is not a line of which she need be ashamed,--not a sentiment of which she should not
be proud. But she writes like a lazy writer who dislikes her work, and who allows her own want
of energy to show itself in her pages.

Miss Broughton, on the other hand, is full of energy,--though she too, I think, can become
tired over her work. She, however, does take the trouble to make her personages stand upright
on the ground. And she has the gift of making them speak as men and women do speak. "You beast!"
said Nancy, sitting on the wall, to the man who was to be her husband,--thinking that she was
speaking to her brother. Now Nancy, whether right or wrong, was just the girl who would, as
circumstances then were, have called her brother a beast. There is nothing wooden about any
of Miss Broughton's novels; and in these days so many novels are wooden! But they are not sweet-savoured
as are those by Miss Thackeray, and are, therefore, less true to nature. In Miss Broughton's
determination not to be mawkish and missish, she has made her ladies do and say things which
ladies would not do and say.  They throw themselves at men's heads, and when they are not accepted
only think how they may throw themselves again. Miss Broughton is still so young that I hope
she may live to overcome her fault in this direction.

There is one other name, without which the list of the best known English novelists of my own
time would certainly be incomplete, and that is the name of the present Prime Minister of England.
Mr. Disraeli has written so many novels, and has been so popular as a novelist that, whether
for good or for ill, I feel myself compelled to speak of him. He began his career as an author
early in life, publishing Vivian Grey when he was twenty-three years old. He was very young
for such work, though hardly young enough to justify the excuse that he makes in his own preface,
that it is a book written by a boy. Dickens was, I think, younger when he wrote his Sketches
by Boz, and as young when he was writing the Pickwick Papers. It was hardly longer ago than
the other day when Mr. Disraeli brought out Lothair, and between the two there were eight or
ten others. To me they have all had the same flavour of paint and unreality. In whatever he
has written he has affected something which has been intended to strike his readers as uncommon
and therefore grand. Because he has been bright and a man of genius, he has carried his object
as regards the young. He has struck them with astonishment and aroused in their imagination
ideas of a world more glorious, more rich, more witty, more enterprising, than their own. But
the glory has been the glory of pasteboard, and the wealth has been a wealth of tinsel. The
wit has been the wit of hairdressers, and the enterprise has been the enterprise of mountebanks.
An audacious conjurer has generally been his hero,--some youth who, by wonderful cleverness,
can obtain success by every intrigue that comes to his hand.  Through it all there is a feeling
of stage properties, a smell of hair-oil, an aspect of buhl, a remembrance of tailors, and
that pricking of the conscience which must be the general accompaniment of paste diamonds.
I can understand that Mr. Disraeli should by his novels have instigated many a young man and
many a young woman on their way in life, but I cannot understand that he should have instigated
any one to good. Vivian Grey has had probably as many followers as Jack Sheppard, and has led
his followers in the same direction.

Lothair, which is as yet Mr. Disraeli's last work, and, I think, undoubtedly his worst, has
been defended on a plea somewhat similar to that by which he has defended Vivian Grey. As that
was written when he was too young, so was the other when he was too old,--too old for work
of that nature, though not too old to be Prime Minister. If his mind were so occupied with
greater things as to allow him to write such a work, yet his judgment should have sufficed
to induce him to destroy it when written. Here that flavour of hair-oil, that flavour of false
jewels, that remembrance of tailors, comes out stronger than in all the others. Lothair is
falser even than Vivian Grey, and Lady Corisande, the daughter of the Duchess, more inane and
unwomanlike than Venetia or Henrietta Temple. It is the very bathos of story-telling.  I have
often lamented, and have as often excused to myself, that lack of public judgment which enables
readers to put up with bad work because it comes from good or from lofty hands. I never felt
the feeling so strongly, or was so little able to excuse it, as when a portion of the reading
public received Lothair with satisfaction.

CHAPTER XIV

ON CRITICISM

Literary criticism in the present day has become a profession,--but it has ceased to be an
art. Its object is no longer that of proving that certain literary work is good and other literary
work is bad, in accordance with rules which the critic is able to define. English criticism
at present rarely even pretends to go so far as this. It attempts, in the first place, to tell
the public whether a book be or be not worth public attention; and, in the second place, so
to describe the purport of the work as to enable those who have not time or inclination for
reading it to feel that by a short cut they can become acquainted with its contents. Both these
objects, if fairly well carried out, are salutary.  Though the critic may not be a profound
judge himself; though not unfrequently he be a young man making his first literary attempts,
with tastes and judgment still unfixed, yet he probably has a conscience in the matter, and
would not have been selected for that work had he not shown some aptitude for it. Though he
may be not the best possible guide to the undiscerning, he will be better than no guide at
all. Real substantial criticism must, from its nature, be costly, and that which the public
wants should at any rate be cheap. Advice is given to many thousands, which, though it may
not be the best advice possible, is better than no advice at all. Then that description of
the work criticised, that compressing of the much into very little,--which is the work of many
modern critics or reviewers,--does enable many to know something of what is being said, who
without it would know nothing.

I do not think it is incumbent on me at present to name periodicals in which this work is well
done, and to make complaints of others by which it is scamped. I should give offence, and might
probably be unjust. But I think I may certainly say that as some of these periodicals are certainly
entitled to great praise for the manner in which the work is done generally, so are others
open to very severe censure,--and that the praise and that the censure are chiefly due on behalf
of one virtue and its opposite vice. It is not critical ability that we have a right to demand,
or its absence that we are bound to deplore. Critical ability for the price we pay is not attainable.
It is a faculty not peculiar to Englishmen, and when displayed is very frequently not appreciated.
But that critics should be honest we have a right to demand, and critical dishonesty we are
bound to expose. If the writer will tell us what he thinks, though his thoughts be absolutely
vague and useless, we can forgive him; but when he tells us what he does not think, actuated
either by friendship or by animosity, then there should be no pardon for him. This is the sin
in modern English criticism of which there is most reason to complain.

It is a lamentable fact that men and women lend themselves to this practice who are neither
vindictive nor ordinarily dishonest. It has become "the custom of the trade," under the veil
of which excuse so many tradesmen justify their malpractices! When a struggling author learns
that so much has been done for A by the Barsetshire Gazette, so much for B by the Dillsborough
Herald, and, again, so much for C by that powerful metropolitan organ the Evening Pulpit, and
is told also that A and B and C have been favoured through personal interest, he also goes
to work among the editors, or the editors' wives,--or perhaps, if he cannot reach their wives,
with their wives' first or second cousins. When once the feeling has come upon an editor or
a critic that he may allow himself to be influenced by other considerations than the duty h
owes to the public, all sense of critical or of editorial honesty falls from him at once. Facilis
descensus Averni. In a very short time that editorial honesty becomes ridiculous to himself.
It is for other purpose that he wields the power; and when he is told what is his duty, and
what should be his conduct, the preacher of such doctrine seems to him to be quixotic.  "Where
have you lived, my friend, for the last twenty years," he says in spirit, if not in word, "that
you come out now with such stuff as old-fashioned as this?" And thus dishonesty begets dishonesty,
till dishonesty seems to be beautiful. How nice to be good-natured! How glorious to assist
struggling young authors, especially if the young author be also a pretty woman! How gracious
to oblige a friend!  Then the motive, though still pleasing, departs further from the border
of what is good. In what way can the critic better repay the hospitality of his wealthy literary
friend than by good-natured criticism,--or more certainly ensure for himself a continuation
of hospitable favours?

