Jack was a most singular combination. He was born and reared in New York here. He was as delicate
in his feelings, as clean and pure and refined in his feelings as any lovely girl that ever
was, but whenever he expressed a feeling he did it in Bowery slang, and it was a most curious
combination--that delicacy of his and that apparent coarseness. There was no coarseness inside
of Jack at all, and Jack, in the course of seventeen or eighteen years, had acquired a capital
of ignorance that was marvellous--ignorance of various things, not of all things. For instance,
he did not know anything about the Bible. He had never been in Sunday-school. Jack got more
out of the Holy Land than anybody else, because the others knew what they were expecting, but
it was a land of surprises to him.

I said in the book that we found him watching a turtle on a log, stoning that turtle, and he
was stoning that turtle because he had read that "The song of the turtle was heard in the land,"
and this turtle wouldn't sing. It sounded absurd, but it was charged on Jack as a fact, and
as he went along through that country he had a proper foil in an old rebel colonel, who was
superintendent and head engineer in a large Sunday-school in Wheeling, West Virginia. That
man was full of enthusiasm wherever he went, and would stand and deliver himself of speeches,
and Jack would listen to those speeches of the colonel and wonder.

Jack had made a trip as a child almost across this continent in the first overland stage-coach.
That man's name who ran that line of stages--well, I declare that name is gone. Well, names
will go.

Halliday--ah, that's the name--Ben Halliday, your uncle [turning to Mr. Carnegie]. That was
the fellow--Ben Halliday--and Jack was full of admiration at the prodigious speed that that
line of stages made--and it was good speed--one hundred and twenty-five miles a day, going
day and night, and it was the event of Jack's life, and there at the Fords of the Jordan the
colonel was inspired to a speech (he was always making a speech), so he called us up to him.
He called up five sinners and three saints. It has been only lately that Mr. Carnegie beatified
me. And he said: "Here are the Fords of the Jordan--a monumental place. At this very point,
when Moses brought the children of Israel through--he brought the children of Israel from Egypt
through the desert you see them--he guarded them through that desert patiently, patiently during
forty years, and brought them to this spot safe and sound. There you see--there is the scene
of what Moses did."

And Jack said: "Moses who?"

"Oh," he says, "Jack, you ought not to ask that! Moses, the great law-giver! Moses, the great
patriot! Moses, the great warrior! Moses, the great guide, who, as I tell you, brought these
people through these three hundred miles of sand in forty years, and landed there safe and sound."

Jack said: "There's nothin' in that three hundred miles in forty years. Ben Halliday would
have snaked 'em through in thirty--six hours."

Well, I was speaking of Jack's innocence, and it was beautiful. Jack was not ignorant on all
subjects. That boy was a deep student in the history of Anglo-Saxon liberty, and he was a patriot
all the way through to the marrow. There was a subject that interested him all the time. Other
subjects were of no concern to Jack, but that quaint, inscrutable innocence of his I could
not get Williams to put into the picture.

Yes, Williams wanted to do it. He said: "I will make him as innocent as a virgin." He thought
a moment, and then said, "I will make him as innocent as an unborn virgin;" which covered the
ground.

I was reminded of Jack because I came across a letter to-day which is over thirty years old
that Jack wrote. Jack was doomed to consumption. He was very long and slim, poor creature;
and in a year or two after he got back from that excursion, to the Holy Land he went on a ride
on horseback through Colorado, and he did not last but a year or two.

He wrote this letter, not to me, but to a friend of mine; and he said: "I have ridden horseback"--this
was three years after--"I hate ridden horseback four hundred miles through a desert country
where you never see anything but cattle now and then, and now and then a cattle station--ten
miles apart, twenty miles apart. Now you tell Clemens that in all that stretch of four hundred
miles I have seen only two books--the Bible and 'Innocents Abroad'. Tell Clemens the Bible
was in a very good condition."

I say that he had studied, and he had, the real Saxon liberty, the acquirement of our liberty,
and Jack used to repeat some verses--I don't know where they came from, but I thought of them
to-day when I saw that letter--that that boy could have been talking of himself in those quoted
lines from that unknown poet:

               "For he had sat at Sidney's feet
               And walked with him in plain apart,
               And through the centuries heard the beat
               Of Freedom's march through Cromwell's heart."

And he was that kind of a boy. He should have lived, and yet he should not have lived, because
he died at that early age--he couldn't have been more than twenty--he had seen all there was
to see in the world that was worth the trouble of living in it; he had seen all of this world
that is valuable; he had seen all of this world that was illusion, and illusion, is the only
valuable thing in it. He had arrived at that point where presently the illusions would cease
and he would have entered upon the realities of life, and God help the man that has arrived
at that point.

ACCIDENT INSURANCE--ETC.

          DELIVERED IN HARTFORD, AT A DINNER TO CORNELIUS WALFORD,
          OF LONDON

GENTLEMAN,--I am glad, indeed, to assist in welcoming the distinguished guest of this occasion
to a city whose fame as an insurance centre has extended to all lands, and given us the name
of being a quadruple band of brothers working sweetly hand in hand--the Colt's arms company
making the destruction of our race easy and convenient, our life-insurance citizens paying
for the victims when they pass away, Mr. Batterson perpetuating their memory with his stately
monuments, and our fire-insurance comrades taking care of their hereafter. I am glad to assist
in welcoming our guest--first, because he is an Englishman, and I owe a heavy debt of hospitality
to certain of his fellow-countrymen; and secondly, because he is in sympathy with insurance,
and has been the means of making many other men cast their sympathies in the same direction.

Certainly there is no nobler field for human effort than the insurance line of business--especially
accident insurance. Ever since I have been a director in an accident-insurance company I have
felt that I am a better man. Life has seemed more precious. Accidents have assumed a kindlier
aspect. Distressing special providences have lost half their horror. I look upon a cripple
now with affectionate interest--as an advertisement. I do not seem, to care for poetry any
more. I do not care for politics--even agriculture does not excite me. But to me now there
is a charm about a railway collision that is unspeakable.

There is nothing more beneficent than accident insurance. I have seen an entire family lifted
out of poverty and into affluence by the simple boon of a broken leg. I have had people come
to me on crutches, with tears in their eyes, to bless this beneficent institution. In all my
experience of life, I have seen nothing so seraphic as the look that comes into a freshly mutilated
man's face when he feels in his vest pocket with his remaining hand and finds his accident
ticket all right. And I have seen nothing so sad as the look that came into another splintered
customer's face when he found he couldn't collect on a wooden leg.

I will remark here, by way of advertisement, that that noble charity which we have named the
HARTFORD ACCIDENT INSURANCE COMPANY is an institution, which is peculiarly to be depended upon.
A man is bound to prosper who gives it his custom. No man pan take out a policy in it and not
get crippled before the year is out. Now there was one indigent man who had been disappointed
so often with other companies that he had grown disheartened, his appetite left him, he ceased
to smile--said life was but a weariness. Three weeks ago I got him to insure with us, and now
he is the brightest, happiest spirit in this land--has a good steady income and a stylish suit
of new bandages every day, and travels around on a shutter.

I will say in conclusion, that my share of the welcome to our guest is none the less hearty
because I talk so much nonsense, and I know that I curl say the same far the rest of the speakers.

OSTEOPATHY

          On February 27, 1901, Mr. Clemens appeared before the Assembly
          Committee in Albany, New York, in favor of the Seymour bill
          legalizing the practice of osteopathy.

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN,--Dr. Van Fleet is the gentleman who gave me the character. I have
heard my character discussed a thousand times before you were born, sir, and shown the iniquities
in it, and you did not get more than half of them.

I was touched and distressed when they brought that part of a child in here, and proved that
you cannot take a child to pieces in that way. What remarkable names those diseases have! It
makes me envious of the man that has them all. I have had many diseases, and am thankful for
all I have had.

One of the gentlemen spoke of the knowledge of something else found in Sweden, a treatment
which I took. It is, I suppose, a kindred thing. There is apparently no great difference between
them. I was a year and a half in London and Sweden, in the hands of that grand old man, Mr.
Kildren.

I cannot call him a doctor, for he has not the authority to give a certificate if a patient
should die, but fortunately they don't.

The State stands as a mighty Gibraltar clothed with power. It stands between me and my body,
and tells me what kind of a doctor I must employ. When my soul is sick unlimited spiritual
liberty is given me by the State. Now then, it doesn't seem logical that the State shall depart
from this great policy, the health of the soul, and change about and take the other position
in the matter of smaller consequence--the health of the body.

The Bell bill limitations would drive the osteopaths out of the State. Oh, dear me! when you
drive somebody out of the State you create the same condition as prevailed in the Garden of Eden.

You want the thing that you can't have. I didn't care much about the osteopaths, but as soon
as I found they were going to drive them out I got in a state of uneasiness, and I can't sleep
nights now.

I know how Adam felt in the Garden of Eden about the prohibited apple. Adam didn't want the
apple till he found out he couldn't have it, just as he would have wanted osteopathy if he
couldn't have it.

Whose property is my body? Probably mine. I so regard it. If I experiment with it, who must
be answerable? I, not the State. If I choose injudiciously, does the State die? Oh no.

I was the subject of my mother's experiment. She was wise. She made experiments cautiously.
She didn't pick out just any child in the flock. No, she chose judiciously. She chose one she
could spare, and she couldn't spare the others. I was the choice child of the flock; so I had
to take all of the experiments.

In 1844 Kneipp filled the world with the wonder of the water cure. Mother wanted to try it,
but on sober second thought she put me through. A bucket of ice-water was poured over to see
the effect. Then I was rubbed down with flannels, sheet was dipped in the water, and I was
put to bed. I perspired so much that mother put a life-preserver to bed with me.

But this had nothing but a spiritual effect on me, and I didn't care for that. When they took
off the sheet it was yellow from the output of my conscience, the exudation of sin. It purified
me spiritually, and it remains until this day.

I have experimented with osteopathy and allopathy. I took a chance at the latter for old times'
sake, for, three tines, when a boy, mother's new methods got me so near death's door she had
to call in the family physician to pull me out.

The physicians think they are moved by regard for the best interests of the public. Isn't there
a little touch of self-interest back of it all? It seems to me there is, and I don't claim
to have all the virtues--only nine or ten of them.

I was born in the "Banner State," and by "Banner State" I mean Missouri. Osteopathy was born
in the same State, and both of us are getting along reasonably well. At a time during my younger
days my attention was attracted to a picture of a house which bore the inscription, "Christ
Disputing with the Doctors."

I could attach no other meaning to it than that Christ was actually quarreling with the doctors.
So I asked an old slave, who was a sort of a herb doctor in a small way--unlicensed, of course--what
the meaning of the picture was. "What had has done?" I asked. And the colored man replied "Humph,
he ain't got no license."

WATER-SUPPLY

          Mr. Clemens visited Albany on February 21 and 28, 1901. The
          privileges of the floor were granted and he was asked to make a
          short address to the Senate.

MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN,--I do not know how to thank you sufficiently for this high honor
which you are conferring upon me. I have for the second time now enjoyed this kind of prodigal
hospitality--in the other House yesterday, to-day in this one. I am a modest man, and diffident
about appearing before legislative bodies, and yet utterly an entirely appreciative of a courtesy
like this when it is extended to me, and I thank you very much for it.

If I had the privilege, which unfortunately I have not got, of suggesting things to the legislators
in my individual capacity, I would so enjoy the opportunity that I would not charge anything
for it at all. I would do that without a salary. I would give them the benefit of my wisdom
and experience in legislative bodies, and if I could have had the privilege for a few minutes
of giving advice to the other House I should have liked to, but of course I could not undertake
it, as they did not ask me to do it--but if they had only asked me!

Now that the House is considering a measure which is to furnish a water-supply to the city
of New York, why, permit me to say I live in New York myself. I know all about its ways, its
desires, and its residents, and--if I had the privilege--I should have urged them not to weary
themselves over a measure like that to furnish water to the city of New York, for we never
drink it.

But I will not venture to advise this body, as I only venture to advise bodies who are, not
present.

MISTAKEN IDENTITY

ADDRESS AT THE ANNUAL "LADIES' DAY," PAPYRUS CLUB, BOSTON

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--I am perfectly astonished--a-s-t-o-n-i-s-h-e-d--ladies and gentlemen--astonished
at the way history repeats itself. I find myself situated at this moment exactly and precisely
as I was once before, years ago, to a jot, to a tittle--to a very hair. There isn't a shade
of difference. It is the most astonishing coincidence that ever--but wait. I will tell you
the former instance, and then you will see it for yourself. Years ago I arrived one day at
Salamanca, New York, eastward bound; must change cars there and take the sleeper train. There
were crowds of people there, and they were swarming into the long sleeper train and packing
it full, and it was a perfect purgatory of dust and confusion and gritting of teeth and soft,
sweet, and low profanity. I asked the young man in the ticket-office if I could have a sleeping-section,
and he answered "No," with a snarl that shrivelled me up like burned leather. I went off, smarting
under this insult to my dignity, and asked another local official, supplicatingly, if I couldn't
have some poor little corner somewhere in a sleeping-car; but he cut me short with a venomous
"No, you can't; every corner is full. Now, don't bother me any more"; and he turned his back
and walked off. My dignity was in a state now which cannot be described. I was so ruffled that--"well,"
I said to my companion, "If these people knew who I am they--" But my companion cut me short
there--"Don't talk such folly," he said; "if they did know who you are, do you suppose it would
help your high-mightiness to a vacancy in a train which has no vacancies in it?"

This did not improve my condition any to speak of, but just then I observed that the colored
porter of a sleeping-car had his eye on me. I saw his dark countenance light up. He whispered
to the uniformed conductor, punctuating with nods and jerks toward me, and straightway this
conductor came forward, oozing politeness from every pore.

"Can I be of any service to you?" he asked. "Will you have a place in the sleeper?"

"Yes," I said, "and much oblige me, too. Give me anything--anything will answer."

"We have nothing left but the big family state-room," he continued, "with two berths and a
couple of arm-chairs in it, but it is entirely at your disposal. Here, Tom, take these satchels
aboard!"

Then he touched his hat and we and the colored Tom moved along. I was bursting to drop just
one little remark to my companion, but I held in and waited. Tom made us comfortable in that
sumptuous great apartment, and then said, with many bows and a perfect affluence of smiles:

"Now, is dey anything you want, sah? Case you kin have jes' anything you wants. It don't make
no difference what it is."

"Can I have some hot water and a tumbler at nine to-night-blazing hot?" I asked. "You know
about the right temperature for a hot Scotch punch?"

"Yes, sah, dat you kin; you kin pen on it; I'll get it myself."

"Good! Now, that lamp is hung too high. Can I have a big coach candle fixed up just at the
head of my bed, so that I can read comfortably?"

"Yes, sah, you kin; I'll fix her up myself, an' I'll fix her so she'll burn all night. Yes,
sah; an' you can jes' call for anything you want, and dish yer whole railroad'll be turned
wrong end up an' inside out for to get it for you. Dat's so." And he disappeared.

Well, I tilted my head back, hooked my thumbs in my armholes, smiled a smile on my companion,
and said, gently:

"Well, what do you say now?"

My companion was not in the humor to respond, and didn't. The next moment that smiling black
face was thrust in at the crack of the door, and this speech followed:

"Laws bless you, sah, I knowed you in a minute. I told de conductah so. Laws! I knowed you
de minute I sot eyes on you."

"Is that so, my boy?" (Handing him a quadruple fee.) "Who am I?"

"Jenuel McClellan," and he disappeared again.

My companion said, vinegarishly, "Well, well! what do you say now?" Right there comes in the
marvellous coincidence I mentioned a while ago--viz., I was speechless, and that is my condition
now. Perceive it?

CATS AND CANDY

          The following address was delivered at a social meeting of
          literary men in New York in 1874:

When I was fourteen I was living with my parents, who were very poor--and correspondently honest.
We had a youth living with us by the name of Jim Wolfe. He was an excellent fellow, seventeen
years old, and very diffident. He and I slept together--virtuously; and one bitter winter's
night a cousin Mary--she's married now and gone--gave what they call a candy-pulling in those
days in the West, and they took the saucers of hot candy outside of the house into the snow,
under a sort of old bower that came from the eaves--it was a sort of an ell then, all covered
with vines--to cool this hot candy in the snow, and they were all sitting there. In the mean
time we were gone to bed. We were not invited to attend this party; we were too young.

The young ladies and gentlemen were assembled there, and Jim and I were in bed. There was about
four inches of snow on the roof of this ell, and our windows looked out on it; and it was frozen
hard. A couple of tom-cats--it is possible one might have been of the opposite sex--were assembled
on the chimney in the middle of this ell, and they were growling at a fearful rate, and switching
their tails about and going on, and we couldn't sleep at all.

Finally Jim said, "For two cents I'd go out and snake them cats off that chimney." So I said,
"Of course you would." He said, "Well, I would; I have a mighty good notion to do it." Says
I, "Of course you have; certainly you have, you have a great notion to do it." I hoped he might
try it, but I was afraid he wouldn't.

Finally I did get his ambition up, and he raised the window and climbed out on the icy roof,
with nothing on but his socks and a very short shirt. He went climbing along on all fours on
the roof toward the chimney where the cats were. In the mean time these young ladies and gentlemen
were enjoying themselves down under the eaves, and when Jim got almost to that chimney he made
a pass at the cats, and his heels flew up and he shot down and crashed through those vines,
and lit in the midst of the ladies and gentlemen, and sat down in those hot saucers of candy.

There was a stampede, of course, and he came up-stairs dropping pieces of chinaware and candy
all the way up, and when he got up there--now anybody in the world would have gone into profanity
or something calculated to relieve the mind, but he didn't; he scraped the candy off his legs,
nursed his blisters a little, and said, "I could have ketched them cats if I had had on a good
ready."

[Does any reader know what a "ready" was in 1840? D.W.]

OBITUARY POETRY

          ADDRESS AT THE ACTORS' FUND FAIR, PHILADELPHIA, in 1895

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--The--er this--er--welcome occasion gives me an--er--opportunity to make
an--er--explanation that I have long desired to deliver myself of. I rise to the highest honors
before a Philadelphia audience. In the course of my checkered career I have, on divers occasions,
been charged--er--maliciously with a more or less serious offence. It is in reply to one of
the more--er--important of these that I wish to speak. More than once I have been accused of
writing obituary poetry in the Philadelphia Ledger.

I wish right here to deny that dreadful assertion. I will admit that once, when a compositor
in the Ledger establishment, I did set up some of that poetry, but for a worse offence than
that no indictment can be found against me. I did not write that poetry--at least, not all of it.

CIGARS AND TOBACCO

My friends for some years now have remarked that I am an inveterate consumer of tobacco. That
is true, but my habits with regard to tobacco have changed. I have no doubt that you will say,
when I have explained to you what my present purpose is, that my taste has deteriorated, but
I do not so regard it.

Whenever I held a smoking-party at my house, I found that my guests had always just taken the
pledge.

Let me tell you briefly the history of my personal relation to tobacco. It began, I think,
when I was a lad, and took the form of a quid, which I became expert in tucking under my tongue.
Afterward I learned the delights of the pipe, and I suppose there was no other youngster of
my age who could more deftly cut plug tobacco so as to make it available for pipe-smoking.

Well, time ran on, and there came a time when I was able to gratify one of my youthful ambitions--I
could buy the choicest Havana cigars without seriously interfering with my income. I smoked
a good many, changing off from the Havana cigars to the pipe in the course of a day's smoking.

At last it occurred to me that something was lacking in the Havana cigar. It did not quite
fulfil my youthful anticipations. I experimented. I bought what was called a seed-leaf cigar
with a Connecticut wrapper. After a while I became satiated of these, and I searched for something
else, The Pittsburg stogy was recommended to me. It certainly had the merit of cheapness, if
that be a merit in tobacco, and I experimented with the stogy.

Then, once more, I changed off, so that I might acquire the subtler flavor of the Wheeling
toby. Now that palled, and I looked around New York in the hope of finding cigars which would
seem to most people vile, but which, I am sure, would be ambrosial to me. I couldn't find any.
They put into my hands some of those little things that cost ten cents a box, but they are
a delusion.

I said to a friend, "I want to know if you can direct me to an honest tobacco merchant who
will tell me what is the worst cigar in the New York market, excepting those made for Chinese
consumption--I want real tobacco. If you will do this and I find the man is as good as his
word, I will guarantee him a regular market for a fair amount of his cigars."

We found a tobacco dealer who would tell the truth--who, if a cigar was bad, would boldly say
so. He produced what he called the very worst cigars he had ever had in his shop. He let me
experiment with one then and there. The test was satisfactory.

This was, after all, the real thing. I negotiated for a box of them and took them away with
me, so that I might be sure of having them handy when I want them.

I discovered that the "worst cigars," so called, are the best for me, after all.

BILLIARDS

          Mr. Clemens attended a billiard tourney on the evening of April
          24, 1906, and was called on to tell a story.

The game of billiards has destroyed my naturally sweet disposition. Once, when I was an underpaid
reporter in Virginia City, whenever I wished to play billiards I went out to look for an easy
mark. One day a stranger came to town and opened a billiard parlor. I looked him over casually.
When he proposed a game, I answered, "All right."

"Just knock the balls around a little so that I can get your gait," he said; and when I had
done so, he remarked: "I will be perfectly fair with you. I'll play you left-handed." I felt
hurt, for he was cross-eyed, freckled, and had red hair, and I determined to teach him a lesson.
He won first shot, ran out, took my half-dollar, and all I got was the opportunity to chalk my cue.

"If you can play like that with your left hand," I said, "I'd like to see you play with your
right."

"I can't," he said. "I'm left-handed."

THE UNION RIGHT OR WRONG

          REMINISCENCES OF NEVADA

I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that Nevada had lively newspapers in those days.

My great competitor among the reporters was Boggs, of the Union, an excellent reporter.

Once in three or four months he would get a little intoxicated; but, as a general thing, he
was a wary and cautious drinker, although always ready to damp himself a little with the enemy.

He had the advantage of me in one thing: he could get the monthly public-school report and
I could not, because the principal hated my sheet--the 'Enterprise'.

One snowy night, when the report was due, I started out, sadly wondering how I was to get it.

Presently, a few steps up the almost deserted street, I stumbled on Boggs, and asked him where
he was going.

"After the school report."

"I'll go along with you."

"No, Sir. I'll excuse you."

"Have it your own way."

A saloon-keeper's boy passed by with a steaming pitcher of hot punch, and Boggs snuffed the
fragrance gratefully.

He gazed fondly after the boy, and saw him start up the Enterprise stairs.

I said:

"I wish you could help me get that school business, but since you can't, I must run up to the
Union office and see if I can get a proof of it after it's set up, though I don't begin to
suppose I can. Good night."

"Hold on a minute. I don't mind getting the report and sitting around with the boys a little
while you copy it, if you're willing to drop down to the principal's with me."

"Now you talk like a human being. Come along."

We ploughed a couple of blocks through the snow, got the report--a short document--and soon
copied it in our office.

Meantime, Boggs helped himself to the punch.

I gave the manuscript back to him, and we started back to get an inquest.

At four o'clock in the morning, when we had gone to press and were having a relaxing concert
as usual (for some of the printers were good singers and others good performers on the guitar
and on that atrocity the accordion), the proprietor of the Union strode in and asked if anybody
had heard anything of Boggs or the school report.

We stated the case, and all turned out to help hunt for the delinquent.

We found him standing on a table in a saloon, with an old tin lantern in one hand and the school
report in the other, haranguing a gang of "corned" miners on, the iniquity of squandering the
public money on education "when hundreds and hundreds of honest, hard-working men were literally
starving for whiskey."

He had been assisting in a regal spree with those parties for hours.

We dragged him away, and put him into bed.

Of course there was no school report in the Union, and Boggs held me accountable, though I
was innocent of any intention or desire to compass its absence from that paper, and was as
sorry as any one that the misfortune had occurred. But we were perfectly friendly.

The day the next school report was due the proprietor of the Tennessee Mine furnished us a
buggy, and asked us to go down and write something about the property--a very common request,
and one always gladly acceded to when people furnished buggies, for we were as fond of pleasure
excursions as other people.

The "mine" was a hole in the ground ninety feet deep, and no way of getting down into it but
by holding on to a rope and being lowered with a windlass.

The workmen had just gone off somewhere to dinner.

I was not strong enough to lower Boggs's bulk, so I took an unlighted candle in my teeth, made
a loop for my foot in the end of the rope, implored Boggs not to go to sleep or let the windlass
get the start of him, and then swung out over the shaft.

I reached the bottom muddy and bruised about the elbows, but safe.

I lit the candle, made an examination of the rock, selected some specimens, and shouted to
Boggs to hoist away.

No answer.

Presently a head appeared in the circle of daylight away aloft, and a voice came down:

"Are you all set?"

"All set-hoist away!"

"Are you comfortable?"

"Perfectly."

"Could you wait a little?"

"Oh, certainly-no particular hurry."

"Well-good-bye."

"Why, where are you going?"

"After the school report!"

And he did.

I stayed down there an hour, and surprised the workmen when they hauled up and found a man
on the rope instead of a bucket of rock.

I walked home, too--five miles-up-hill.

We had no school report next morning--but the Union had.

AN IDEAL FRENCH ADDRESS

     EXTRACT FROM "PARIS NOTES," IN "TOM SAWYER ABROAD," ETC.

I am told that a French sermon is like a French speech--it never names an historical event,
but only the date of it; if you are not up in dates, you get left. A French speech is something
like this:

