[Clark, August 15, 1806] Thursday August 15th 1806 Continued Mandans Vilg after assembling
the Chiefs and Smokeing one pipe, I informed them that I Still Spoke the Same words which we
had Spoken to them when we first arived in their Country in the fall of 1804. we then envited
them to visit their great father the president of the U. States and to hear his own Councils
and receive his Gifts from his own hands as also See the population of a government which Can
at their pleasure protect and Secur you from all your enimies, and chastize all those who will
Shut their years to his Councils. we now offer to take you at the expense of our Government
and Send you back to your Country again with a considerable present in merchendize which you
will recive of your great Father. I urged the necessity of their going on with us as it would
be the means of hastening those Supples of Merchindize which would be Sent to their Country
and exchanged as before mentioned for a moderate price in Pelteries and furs &c. the great
Chief of the Menetaras Spoke, he Said he wished to go down and See his great father very much,
but that the Scioux were in the road and would most certainly kill him or any others who Should
go down they were bad people and would not listen to any thing which was told them. when he
Saw us last we told him that we had made peace with all the nations below, Since that time
the Seioux had killed 8 of their people and Stole a number of their horses. he Said that he
had opened his ears and followed our Councils, he had made peace with the Chyennes and rocky
mountains indians, and repieted the same objecctions as mentioned. that he went to war against
none and was willing to receive all nations as friends. he Said that the Ricaras had Stolen
from his people a number of horses at different times and his people had killed 2 Ricaras.
if the Sieoux were at peace with them and Could be depended on he as also other Chiefs of the
villages would be glad to go and See their great father, but as they were all afraid of the
Sieoux they Should not go down &c.

The Black Cat Chief of the Mandans Village on the North Side of the Missouri Sent over and
requested me to go over to his village which envertation I axceptd and crossed over to his
village. he had a parcel of Corn about 12 bushuls in a pile in his lodge. he told me that his
people had but little corn part of which they had given me. after takeing a Smoke he informed
me that as the Sieoux were very troublesom and the road to his great father dangerous none
of this village would go down with us. I told the Cheifs and wariers of the village who were
there present that we were anxious that Some of the village Should go and See their great father
and hear his good words & recve his bountifull gifts &c. and told them to pitch on Some Man
on which they could rely on and Send him to See their Great father, they made the Same objections
which the Chief had done before. a young man offered to go down, and they all agreeed for him
to go down the charector of this young man I knew as a bad one and made an objection as to
his age and Chareckter at this time Gibson who was with me informed me that this young man
had Stole his knife and had it then in his possession, this I informed the Chief and directed
him to give up the knife he delivered the knife with a very faint apology for his haveing it
in his possession. I then reproached those people for wishing to Send Such a man to See and
hear the words of So great a man as their great father; they hung their heads and Said nothing
for Some time when the Cheif Spoke and Said that they were afraid to Send any one for fear
of their being killed by the Sieux. after Smoking a pipe and relateing Some passages I recrossed
to our Camp-. being informed by one of our enterpreters that the 2d Chief of the Mandans Comonly
Called the little Crow intended to accompany us down, I took Charbono and walked to the Village
to See this Chief and talk with him on the Subject. he told me he had deturmined to go down,
but wished to have a council first with his people which would be in the after part of the
day. I smoked a pipe with the little Crow and returned to the boat. Colter one of our men expressed
a desire to join Some trappers who offered to become Shearers with and furnish traps &c. the
offer a very advantagious one, to him, his Services Could be dispenced with from this down
and as we were disposed to be of Service to any one of our party who had performed their duty
as well as Colter had done, we agreed to allow him the prvilage provided no one of the party
would ask or expect a Similar permission to which they all agreeed that they wished Colter
every Suckcess and that as we did not wish any of them to Seperate untill we Should arive at
St. Louis they would not apply or expect it &c. The Maharha Chief brought us Some Corn, as
did also the Chief of the little village of the Menetarras on mules of which they have Several.
The evening is Cool and windy. great number of the nativs of the different villages Came to
view us and exchange robes with our men for their Skins- we gave Jo Colter Some Small articles
which we did not want and Some powder & lead. the party also gave him Several articles which
will be usefull to him on his expedittion.- This evening Charbono informed me that our back
was scercely turned before a war party from the two menetarry villages followed on and attacked
and killed the Snake Indians whome we had Seen and in the engagement between them and the Snake
indians they had lost two men one of which was the Son of the principal Chief of the little
village of the menitarras. that they had also went to war from the Menetarras and killed two
Ricaras. he further informed me that a missunderstanding had taken place between the Mandans
& minetarras and had verry nearly come to blows about a woman, the Menitarres at length presented
a pipe and a reconsilliation took place between them

[Clark, August 16, 1806] Friday 16th August 1806 a cool morning. Sent up Sergt. Pryor to the
mandan village, for Some Corn which they offered to give us. he informed that they had more
Corn collected for us than our Canoes Could Carry Six load of which he brought down. I thanked
the Chief for his kindness and informed him that our Canoes would not Carry any more Corn than
we had already brought down. at 10 A. M the Chiefs of the different villages came to See us
and Smoke a pipe &c. as our Swivel Could no longer be Serveceable to us as it could not be
fireed on board the largest Perogue, we Concluded to make a present of it to the Great Chief
of the Menetaras (the One Eye) with a view to ingratiate him more Strongly in our favour I
had the Swivel Charged and Collected the Chiefs in a circle around it and adressed them with
great ceremoney. told them I had listened with much attention to what the One Eye had Said
yesterday and beleived that he was Sincere & Spoke from his heart. I reproached them very Severely
for not attending to what had been Said to them by us in Council in the fall of 1804 and at
different times in the winter of 1804 & 5, and told them our backs were Scercely turned befor
a party followed and killed the pore defenceless snake indians whom we had taken by the hand
& told them not to be afraid that you would never Strike them again &c. also mentioned the
ricers &c. The little Cherry old Chief of the Menetarras Spoke as follows Viz: "Father we wish
to go down with you to See our Great Father, but we know the nations below and are afraid of
the Scioux who will be on the river and will kill us on our return home. The Scioux has Stolen
our horses and killed 8 of our men Since you left us, and the Ricaras have also Struck us.
we Staid at home and listened to what you had told us. we at length went to war against the
Scioux and met with Ricaras and killed two of them, they were on their way to Strike us. We
will attend to your word and not hurt any people all Shall be Welcom and we Shall do as you
direct-." The One Eye Said his ears would always be open to the word of his great father and
Shut against bad Council &c. I then a good deel of Ceremony made a preasent of the Swivel to
the One Eye Chief and told him when he fired this gun to remember the words of his great father
which we had given him. this gun had anounced the words of his great father to all the nations
which we had Seen &c. &c. after the council was over the gun was fired & delivered, they Chief
appeared to be much pleased and conveyed it immediately to his village &c. we Settled with
and discharged Colter. in the evening I walked to the village to See the little Crow and know
when he would be ready, took with me a flag intending to give him to leave at his lodge but
to my astonishment he informed me he had declined going down the reason of which I found was
through a jellousy between himself and the principal Chief he refused a flag & we Sent for
Mr. Jessomme and told him to use his influn to provail on one of the Chiefs to acompany us
and we would employ him. he informed us soon after that the big white Chief would go if we
would take his wife & Son & Jessoms wife & 2 children we wer obliged to agree to do

[Clark, August 17, 1806] Saturday 17th of August 1806 a Cool morning gave some powder & Ball
to Big White Chief Settled with Touisant Chabono for his Services as an enterpreter the pric
of a horse and Lodge purchased of him for public Service in all amounting to 500$ 33 1/3 cents.
derected two of the largest of the Canoes be fastened together with poles tied across them
So as to make them Study for the purpose of Conveying the Indians and enterpreter and their
families

we were visited by all the principal Chiefs of the Menetarras to take their leave of us at
2 oClock we left our encampment after takeing leave of Colter who also Set out up the river
in Company with Messrs. Dickson & Handcock. we also took our leave of T. Chabono, his Snake
Indian wife and their Son Child who had accompanied us on our rout to the pacific Ocean in
the Capacity of interpreter and interpretes. T. Chabono wished much to accompany us in the
Said Capacity if we could have provailed the Menetarre Chiefs to dcend the river with us to
the U. States, but as none of those chiefs of whoes language he was Conversent would accompany
us, his Services were no longer of use to the U States and he was therefore discharged and
paid up. we offered to convey him down to the Illinois if he Chose to go, he declined proceeding
on at present, observing that he had no acquaintance or prospects of makeing a liveing below,
and must continue to live in the way that he had done. I offered to take his little Son a butifull
promising Child who is 19 months old to which they both himself & wife wer willing provided
the Child had been weened. they observed that in one year the boy would be Sufficiently old
to leave his mother & he would then take him to me if I would be so freindly as to raise the
Child for him in Such a manner as I thought proper, to which I agreeed &c.- we droped down
to the Big white Cheifs Mandan Village 1/2 a mile below on the South Side, all the Indians
proceeded on down by land. and I walked to the lodge of the Chief whome I found Sorounded by
his friends the men were Setting in a circle Smokeing and the womin Crying. he Sent his bagage
with his wife & Son, with the Interpreter Jessomme & his wife and 2 children to the Canoes
provided for them. after Smoking one pipe, and distributing Some powder & lead which we had
given him, he informed me that he was ready and we were accompd to the Canoes by all the Village
Maney of them Cried out aloud. as I was about to Shake with the Grand Cheifs of all the Villages
there assembled they requested me to Set one minit longer with them which I readily agreed
to and directed a pipe to be lit. the Cheifs informed that when we first came to their Country
they did not beleive all we Said we then told them. but they were now Convinced that every
thing we had told them were true, that they Should keep in memory every thing which we had
Said to them, and Strictly attend to our advice, that their young men Should Stay at home and
Should no go again to war against any nation, that if any atacted them they Should defend themselves,
that we might depend on what they Said, and requested us to inform their great father. the
also requested me to tell the Ricaras to Come and See them, not to be afraid that no harm Should
be done them, that they were anxious to be in peace with them.

The Seeoux they Said they had no dependance in and Should kill them whenever they Came into
their Country to do them harm &c. I told them that we had always told them to defend themselves,
but not to Strike those nations we had taken by the hand, the Sieoux with whome they were at
war we had never Seen on our return we Should inform their great fathe of their conduct towards
his faithfull red Children and he would take Such Steps as will bring about a lasting peace
between them and his faithfull red children. I informed them that we should inform the ricaras
what they had requested &c. The Grand Chief of the Mineterres Said that the Great Cheif who
was going down with to see their great father was a well as if he went also, and on his return
he would be fully informed of the words of his great father, and requested us to take care
of this Gt. Chief. we then Saluted them with a gun and Set out and proceeded on to Fort Mandan
where I landed and went to view the old works the houses except one in the rear bastion was
burnt by accident, Some pickets were Standing in front next to the river. we proceeded on to
the old Ricara village the S E wind was so hard and the waves So high that we were obliged
to Come too, & Camp on the S W Side near the old Village. (18 mils)

