At length the old woman vanished from the stage, and was succeeded by a knowing, active, capable
damsel, with a temper like a steel-trap, who remained with me just one week, and then went
off in a fit of spite. To her succeeded a rosy, good-natured, merry lass, who broke the crockery,
burned the dinner, tore the clothes in ironing, and knocked down everything that stood in her
way about the house, without at all discomposing herself about the matter. One night she took
the stopper from a barrel of molasses, and came singing off upstairs, while the molasses ran
soberly out into the cellar bottom all night, till by morning it was in a state of universal
emancipation. Having done this, and also dispatched an entire set of tea things by letting
the waiter fall, she one day made her disappearance.

Then, for a wonder, there fell to my lot a tidy, efficient, trained English girl; pretty, and
genteel, and neat, and knowing how to do everything, and with the sweetest temper in the world.
"Now," said I to myself, "I shall rest from my labors." Everything about the house began to
go right, and looked as clean and genteel as Mary's own pretty self. But, alas! this period
of repose was interrupted by the vision of a clever, trim-looking young man, who for some weeks
could be heard scraping his boots at the kitchen door every Sunday night; and at last Miss
Mary, with some smiling and blushing, gave me to understand that she must leave in two weeks.

"Why, Mary," said I, feeling a little mischievous, "don't you like the place?"

"Oh, yes, ma'am."

"Then why do you look for another?"

"I am not going to another place."

"What, Mary, are you going to learn a trade?"

"No, ma'am."

"Why, then, what do you mean to do?"

"I expect to keep house myself, ma'am," said she, laughing and blushing.

"Oh ho!" said I, "that is it;" and so in two weeks I lost the best little girl in the world:
peace to her memory.

After this came an interregnum, which put me in mind of the chapter in Chronicles that I used
to read with great delight when a child, where Basha, and Elah, and Tibni, and Zimri, and Omri,
one after the other, came on to the throne of Israel, all in the compass of half a dozen verses.
We had one old woman, who stayed a week, and went away with the misery in her tooth; one young
woman, who ran away and got married; one cook, who came at night and went off before light
in the morning; one very clever girl, who stayed a month, and then went away because her mother
was sick; another, who stayed six weeks, and was taken with the fever herself; and during all
this time, who can speak the damage and destruction wrought in the domestic paraphernalia by
passing through these multiplied hands?

What shall we do? Shall we give up houses, have no furniture to take care of, keep merely a
bag of meal, a porridge pot, and a pudding stick, and sit in our tent door in real patriarchal
independence? What shall we do?