The inside of the leaves of the willow, next the water, is of a whitish colour, and the reflection
would therefore be "hoary."

[128] Why Pope should say in reference to him, "Or more wise Charron," is not easy to determine.

[129] As an instance of his general power of reasoning, I shall give his chapter entitled One
Man's Profit is Another's Loss, in which he has nearly anticipated Mandeville's celebrated
paradox of private vices being public benefits:--

"Demades, the Athenian, condemned a fellow-citizen, who furnished out funerals, for demanding
too great a price for his goods: and if he got an estate, it must be by the death of a great
many people: but I think it a sentence ill grounded, forasmuch as no profit can be made, but
at the expense of some other person, and that every kind of gain is by that rule liable to
be condemned. The tradesman thrives by the debauchery of youth, and the farmer by the dearness
of corn; the architect by the ruin of buildings, the officers of justice by quarrels and law-suits;
nay, even the honour and functions of divines is owing to our mortality and vices. No physician
takes pleasure in the health even of his best friends, said the ancient Greek comedian, nor
soldier in the peace of his country; and so of the rest. And, what is yet worse, let every
one but examine his own heart, and he will find, that his private wishes spring and grow up
at the expense of some other person. Upon which consideration this thought came into my head,
that nature does not hereby deviate from her general policy; for the naturalists hold, that
the birth, nourishment, and increase of any one thing, is the decay and corruption of another:

  Nam quodcunque suis mutatum finibus exit,
  Continuo hoc mors est illius, quod fuit ante. i.e.

  For what from its own confines chang'd doth pass,
  Is straight the death of what before it was."

  Vol. I, Chap. XXI.

[130] No. 125.

[131] The antithetical style and verbal paradoxes which Burke was so fond of, in which the
epithet is a seeming contradiction to the substantive, such as "proud submission and dignified
obedience," are, I think, first to be found in the Tatler.

[132] It is not to be forgotten that the author of Robinson Crusoe was also an Englishman.
His other works, such as the Life of Colonel Jack, &c., are of the same cast, and leave an
impression on the mind more like that of things than words.

[133] This character was written in a fit of extravagant candour, at a time when I thought
I could do justice, or more than justice, to an enemy, without betraying a cause.

[134] For instance: he produced less effect on the mob that compose the English House of Commons
than Chatham or Fox, or even Pitt.

[135] As in the comparison of the British Constitution to the "proud keep of Windsor," etc.,
the most splendid passage in his works.

[136] Mr. Coleridge named his eldest son (the writer of some beautiful sonnets) after Hartley,
and the second after Berkeley. The third was called Derwent, after the river of that name.
Nothing can be more characteristic of his mind than this circumstance. All his ideas indeed
are like a river, flowing on for ever, and still murmuring as it flows, discharging its waters
and still replenished--

  "And so by many winding nooks it strays,
  With willing sport to the wild ocean!"

[137] The description of the sports in the forest:

  "To see the sun to bed and to arise,
  Like some hot amourist with glowing eyes," etc.

[138] Perhaps the finest scene in all these novels, is that where the Dominie meets his pupil,
Miss Lucy, the morning after her brother's arrival.

[139] This essay was written just before Lord Byron's death.

[140]
  "Don Juan was my Moscow, and Faliero
  My Leipsic, and my Mont St. Jean seems Cain."

  Don Juan, Canto XI.

[141] This censure applies to the first cantos of DON JUAN much more than to the last. It has
been called a TRISTRAM SHANDY in rhyme: it is rather a poem written about itself.

[142] Burke's writings are not poetry, notwithstanding the vividness of the fancy, because
the subject matter is abstruse and dry, not natural, but artificial. The difference between
poetry and eloquence is, that the one is the eloquence of the imagination, and the other of
the understanding. Eloquence tries to persuade the will, and convince the reason: poetry produces
its effects by instantaneous sympathy. Nothing is a subject for poetry that admits of a dispute.
Poets are in general bad prose-writers, because their images, though fine in themselves, are
not to the purpose, and do not carry on the argument. The French poetry wants the forms of
the imagination. It is didactic more than dramatic. And some of our own poetry, which has been
most admired, is only poetry in the rhyme, and in the studied use of poetic diction.

[143] My father was one of those who mistook his talent after all. He used to be very much
dissatisfied that I preferred his Letters to his Sermons. The last were forced and dry; the
first came naturally from him. For ease, half-plays on words, and a supine, monkish, indolent
pleasantry, I have never seen them equalled.

[144] He complained in particular of the presumption of his attempting to establish the future
immortality of man, "without" (as he said) "knowing what Death was or what Life was"--and the
tone in which he pronounced these two words seemed to convey a complete image of both.

[145] He had no idea of pictures, of Claude or Raphael, and at this time I had as little as
he. He sometimes gives a striking account at present of the cartoons at Pisa, by Buffamalco
and others; of one in particular, where Death is seen in the air brandishing his scythe, and
the great and mighty of the earth shudder at his approach, while the beggars and the wretched
kneel to him as their deliverer. He would of course understand so broad and fine a moral as
this at any time.

[146] See Newgate Calendar for 1758.

[147] B---- at this time occupied chambers in Mitre-court, Fleet-street.

[148] Lord Bacon is not included in this list, nor do I know where he should come in. It is
not easy to make room for him and his reputation together. This great and celebrated man in
some of his works recommends it to pour a bottle of claret into the ground of a morning, and
to stand over it, inhaling the perfumes. So he sometimes enriched the dry and barren soil of
speculation with the fine aromatic spirit of his genius. His "Essays" and his "Advancement
of Learning" are works of vast depth and scope of observation. The last, though it contains
no positive discoveries, is a noble chart of the human intellect, and a guide to all future
inquirers.

[149] Nearly the same sentiment was wittily and happily expressed by a friend, who had some
lottery puffs, which he had been employed to write, returned on his hands for their too great
severity of thought and classical terseness of style, and who observed on that occasion, that
"Modest merit never can succeed!"

[150] During the peace of Amiens, a young English officer, of the name of Lovelace, was presented
at Buonaparte's levee. Instead of the usual question, "Where have you served, Sir?" the First
Consul immediately addressed him, "I perceive your name, Sir, is the same as that of the hero
of Richardson's Romance!" Here was a Consul. The young man's uncle, who was called Lovelace,
told me this anecdote while we were stopping together at Calais. I had also been thinking that
his was the same name as that of the hero of Richardson's Romance. This is one of my reasons
for liking Buonaparte.

[151] He is there called "Citizen Lauderdale." Is this the present earl?

NOTES

[The annotations have not necessarily been introduced at the first occurrence of any name,
and no cross-references have been supplied in the notes to names which occur in the text more
than once. Such information as the notes supply can be found with the help of the index.--References,
where no other indication is given, will be understood to be to the work under discussion.
The Shakespeare references are to the one-volume Globe edition.]

THE AGE OF ELIZABETH

This lecture forms the introduction to the series on the "Literature of the Age of Elizabeth."
Hazlitt might have derived hints for it from Schlegel, who speaks of the zeal for the study
of the ancients, the extensive communication with other lands, the interest in the literature
of Italy and Spain, the progress in experimental philosophy represented by Bacon, and contrasts
the achievements of that age, in a vein which must have captured Hazlitt's sympathy, with "the
pretensions of modern enlightenment, as it is called, which looks with such contempt on all
preceding ages." The Elizabethans, he goes on to say, "possessed a fullness of healthy vigour,
which showed itself always with boldness, and sometimes also with petulance. The spirit of
chivalry was not yet wholly extinct, and a queen, who was far more jealous in exacting homage
to her sex than to her throne, and who, with her determination, wisdom, and magnanimity, was
in fact, well qualified to inspire the minds of her subjects with an ardent enthusiasm, inflamed
that spirit to the noblest love of glory and renown. The feudal independence also still survived
in some measure; the nobility vied with each other in the splendour of dress and number of
retinue, and every great lord had a sort of small court of his own. The distinction of ranks
was as yet strongly marked: a state of things ardently to be desired by the dramatic poet."
"Lectures on Dramatic Literature," ed. Bohn, p. 349.

P. 1. Raleigh, Sir Walter (1552-1618), the celebrated courtier, explorer, and man of letters.

Drake, Sir Francis (1545-1595), the famous sailor, hero of the Armada.

Coke, Sir Edward (1552-1634), the great jurist, whose "Institutes," better known as Coke upon
Littleton, became a famous legal text-book.

Hooker, Richard (1553-1600), theologian, author of the "Laws of Ecclesiastical Polity" (1593),
a defense of the Anglican Church against the Puritans and notable also as a masterpiece of
English prose.

P. 2. mere oblivion. "As You Like It," ii, 7, 165.

poor, poor dumb names [mouths]. "Julius Cæsar," iii, 2, 229.

Marston, John (1575-1634). In the third lecture on the "Age of Elizabeth," Hazlitt calls him
"a writer of great merit, who rose to tragedy from the ground of comedy, and whose forte was
not sympathy, either with the stronger or softer emotions, but an impatient scorn and bitter
indignation against the vices and follies of men, which vented itself either in comic irony
or in lofty invective. He was properly a satirist. He was not a favourite with his contemporaries,
nor they with him." Works, V, 224. His chief tragedy is "Antonio and Mellida."

Middleton, Thomas (1570?-1627), and Rowley, William (1585?-1642?). In the second lecture on
the "Age of Elizabeth," Hazlitt associates these two names. "Rowley appears to have excelled
in describing a certain amiable quietness of disposition and disinterested tone of morality,
carried almost to a paradoxical excess, as in his Fair Quarrel, and in the comedy of A Woman
Never Vexed, which is written, in many parts, with a pleasing simplicity and naïveté equal
to the novelty of the conception. Middleton's style was not marked by any peculiar quality
of his own, but was made up, in equal proportions, of the faults and excellences common to
his contemporaries.... He is lamentably deficient in the plot and denouement of the story.
It is like the rough draft of a tragedy with a number of fine things thrown in, and the best
made use of first; but it tends to no fixed goal, and the interest decreases, instead of increasing,
as we read on, for want of previous arrangement and an eye to the whole.... The author's power
is in the subject, not over it; or he is in possession of excellent materials which he husbands
very ill." Works, V, 214-5. For characters of other dramatists see notes to p. 326.

How lov'd. Pope's "Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady."

P. 3. draw the curtain of time. Cf. "we will draw the curtain and show you the picture." "Twelfth
Night," i, 5, 251.

within reasonable bounds. At this point Hazlitt digresses to reprove the age for its affectation
of superiority over other ages and the passage, not being relevant, has been omitted.

less than smallest dwarfs. "Paradise Lost," I, 779.

desiring this man's art. Shakespeare's Sonnets, XXIX.

in shape and gesture. "Paradise Lost," I, 590.

Mr. Wordsworth says. See Sonnet entitled "London, 1802."

P. 4. drew after him. "Paradise Lost," II, 692.

Otway, Thomas (1652-1685), author of "Venice Preserved," the most popular post-Shakespearian
tragedy of the English stage. Hazlitt notes in this play a "power of rivetting breathless attention,
and stirring the deepest yearnings of affection.... The awful suspense of the situations, the
conflict of duties and passions, the intimate bonds that unite the characters together, and
that are violently rent asunder like the parting of soul and body, the solemn march of the
tragical events to the fatal catastrophe that winds up and closes over all, give to this production
of Otway's Muse a charm and power that bind it like a spell on the public mind, and have made
it a proud and inseparable adjunct of the English stage." Works, V, 354-5.

Jonson's learned sock. Milton's "L'Allegro."

P. 6. The translation of the Bible. The first important 16th century translation of the Bible
is William Tyndale's version of the New Testament (1525) and of the Pentateuch (1530). The
complete translations are those of Miles Coverdale (1535), the Great Bible (1539), the Geneva
or Breeches Bible (1557), the Bishop's Bible (1568), and the Rheims-Douay Bible--the New Testament
(1582) and the Old Testament (1609-1610). Finally came the Authorized Version in 1611.

P. 8. penetrable stuff. "Hamlet," iii, 4, 36.

his washing, etc. St. John, xiii.

above all art, etc. Cf. Pope's "Epistle to the Earl of Oxford": "Above all Pain, all Passion,
and all Pride."

My peace. St. John, xiv, 27.

they should love. Ibid., xv, 12.

Woman, behold. Ibid., xix, 26.

his treatment of the woman. Ibid., viii, 1-12.

the woman who poured precious ointment. St. Matthew, xxvi, 6-13; St. Mark, xiv, 3-9.

his discourse with the disciples. St. Luke, xxiv, 13-31.

his Sermon on the Mount. St. Matthew, v-vii.

parable of the Good Samaritan and of the Prodigal Son. St. Luke, x, 25-37; xv, 11-32.

P. 9. Who is our neighbour. Ibid., x, 29.

to the Jews, etc. I Corinthians, i, 23.

P. 10. Soft as sinews. "Hamlet," iii, 3. 71.

The best of men. Dekker, "The Honest Whore," Part I, v, 2, sub fin.

P. 11. Tasso by Fairfax. Torquato Tasso (1544-1595), an Italian poet whose great epic, the
"Gerusalemme Liberata," was finished in 1574. The English translation by Edward Fairfax was
published in 1600 as "Godfrey of Bulloigne, or the Recoverie of Jerusalem."

Ariosto by Harrington. Lodovico Ariosto (1474-1533), whose romantic epic, "Orlando Furioso,"
was first published in 1516, and translated by Sir John Harrington in 1591.

Homer and Hesiod by Chapman. George Chapman (1559?-1634), poet and dramatist, published a complete
translation of the "Iliad" in 1611, of the "Odyssey" in 1614, of Homer's "Battle of Frogs and
Mice" in 1624, and of "The Georgicks of Hesiod" in 1618.

Virgil. A complete English translation of the "Æneid" was made by Gavin Douglas, a Scottish
poet (1474?-1522), and first printed in London in 1553. There was a translation of the second
and fourth books into blank verse by the Earl of Surrey, published in 1557, but the one most
in use was by Thomas Phaer (1510?-1560), which appeared incompletely in 1558 and 1562 and was
completed by Thomas Twyne in 1583.

Ovid. There were a number of translators of Ovid during this period, chief of whom was Arthur
Golding, whose version of the "Metamorphoses" appeared in 1565 and 1567. "The Heroides" were
translated by George Turberville in 1567.

Sir Thomas North's translation of Plutarch. The chief work of Plutarch, a Greek writer of the
first century, is the "Parallel Lives," which was translated into French by Jacques Amyot in
1559. Sir Thomas North's translation of Amyot's version in 1579 was the most popular and influential
of all Elizabethan translations.

P. 12. Boccaccio, Giovanni (1313-1375), Italian poet and novelist. Among the English his best
known work is the "Decameron," a collection of a hundred prose tales. Versions of some of these
stories appeared in various Elizabethan collections, such as the "Tragical Tales" translated
by George Turberville in 1587. The first complete translation was published in 1620 and reprinted
in the Tudor Translations in 1909.

Petrarch (1304-1374), Italian humanist and poet, whose sonnets were widely imitated by French
and Italian poets during the Renaissance.

Dante (1265-1321). The author of the "Divine Comedy" was not very well known to Elizabethan
readers. There was no English translation of his poem attempted till that of Rogers in 1782,
and no version worthy of the name was produced till H. F. Cary's in 1814.

Aretine. The name of Pietro Aretino (1492-1556), an Italian satirist who called himself "the
scourge of princes," was well known in England, but there was no translation of his works.

Machiavel. Nicolo Machiavelli (1468-1527), a Florentine statesman, whose name had an odious
association because of the supposedly diabolical policy of government set forth in his "Prince."
But this work was not translated till 1640. His "Art of War" had been rendered into English
in 1560 and his "Florentine History" in 1595.

Castiglione, Baldassare (1478-1529). "Il Cortegiano," setting forth the idea of a gentleman,
was translated as "The Courtier" by Thomas Hoby in 1561 and was very influential in English life.

Ronsard, Pierre de (1524-1585), the chief French lyric poet of the sixteenth century, whose
sonnets had considerable vogue in England.

Du Bartas, Guillaume de Saluste (1544-1590), author of "La Semaine, ou la Création du Monde"
(1578), "La Seconde Semaine" (1584), translated as the "Divine Weeks and Works" (1592 ff.)
by Joshua Sylvester.

P. 13. Fortunate fields. "Paradise Lost," III, 568.

Prospero's Enchanted Island. Eden's "History of Travayle," 1577, is now given as the probable
source of Setebos, etc.

Right well I wote. "Faërie Queene," II, Introduction, 1-3.

P. 14. Lear is founded. Shakespeare's actual sources were probably Geoffrey of Monmouth's "History
of the Kings of Britain" (c. 1130) and Holinshed's "Chronicle."

Othello on an Italian novel, from the "Hecatommithi" of Giraldi Cinthio (1565).

Hamlet on a Danish, Macbeth on a Scottish tradition. The story of Hamlet is first found in
Saxo Grammaticus, a Danish chronicler of the tenth century. Shakespeare probably drew it from
the "Histoires Tragiques" of Belleforest. "Macbeth" was based on Holinshed's "Chronicle of
Scottish History."

P. 15. those bodiless creations. "Hamlet," iii, 4, 138.

Your face. "Macbeth," i, 5, 63.

Tyrrell and Forrest, persons hired by Richard III to murder the young princes in the Tower.
See "Richard III," iv, 2-3.

thick and slab. "Macbeth," iv, 1, 32.

snatched a [wild and] fearful joy. Gray's "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College."

P. 16. Fletcher the poet. John Fletcher the dramatist died of the plague in 1625.

The course of true love. "Midsummer Night's Dream," i, 1, 34.

The age of chivalry was not then quite gone. Cf. Burke: "Reflections on the French Revolution"
(ed. Bohn, II, 348): "But the age of chivalry is gone. That of sophisters, economists, and
calculators, has succeeded; and the glory of Europe is extinguished forever."

fell a martyr. Sir Philip Sidney (1554-1586), poet, soldier, and statesman, received his mortal
wound in the thigh at the battle of Zutphen because, in emulation of Sir William Pelham, he
threw off his greaves before entering the fight.

the gentle Surrey. Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey (1518?-1547), was distinguished as an innovator
in English poetry as well as for his knightly prowess.

who prized black eyes. "Sessions of the Poets," verse 20.

Like strength reposing. "'Tis might half slumb'ring on its own right arm." Keats's "Sleep and
Poetry," 237.

P. 17. they heard the tumult. "I behold the tumult and am still." Cowper's "Task," IV, 99.

descriptions of hunting and other athletic games. See "Midsummer Night's Dream," iv, 1, 107
ff., and "Two Noble Kinsmen," iii.

An ingenious and agreeable writer. Nathan Drake (1766-1836), author of "Shakespeare and his
Times" (1817). In describing the life of the country squire Drake remarks: "The luxury of eating
and of good cooking were well understood in the days of Elizabeth, and the table of the country-squire
frequently groaned beneath the burden of its dishes; at Christmas and at Easter especially,
the hall became the scene of great festivity." Chap. V. (ed. 1838, p. 37).

Return from Parnassus. Hazlitt gives an account of this play in the "Literature of the Age
of Elizabeth," Lecture V.

P. 18. it snowed. "Canterbury Tales," Prologue, 345.

as Mr. Lamb observes, in a note to Marston's "What You Will" in the "Specimens of Dramatic
Literature" (ed. Lucas, 1, 44): "The blank uniformity to which all professional distinctions
in apparel have been long hastening, is one instance of the decay of Symbols among us, which,
whether it has contributed or not to make us a more intellectual, has certainly made us a less
imaginative people." Cf. Schlegel's remark in the first note.

in act. "Othello," i, I, 62.

description of a mad-house. "Honest Whore," Part 1, v. 2.

A Mad World, My Masters, the title of a comedy by Middleton.

P. 19. Music and painting are not our forte. Cf. Hazlitt's review of the "Life of Reynolds"
(X, 186-87): "Were our ancestors insensible to the charms of nature, to the music of thought,
to deeds of virtue or heroic enterprise? No. But they saw them in their mind's eye: they felt
them at their heart's core, and there only. They did not translate their perceptions into the
language of sense: they did not embody them in visible images, but in breathing words. They
were more taken up with what an object suggested to combine with the infinite stores of fancy
or trains of feeling, than with the single object itself; more intent upon the moral inference,
the tendency and the result, than the appearance of things, however imposing or expressive,
at any given moment of time.... We should say that the eye in warmer climates drinks in greater
pleasure from external sights, is more open and porous to them, as the ear is to sounds; that
the sense of immediate delight is fixed deeper in the beauty of the object; that the greater
life and animation of character gives a greater spirit and intensity of expression to the face,
making finer subjects for history and portrait; and that the circumstances in which a people
are placed in a genial atmosphere, are more favourable to the study of nature and of the human
form."

like birdlime. "Othello," ii, 1, 126.

P. 20. Materiam superabat opus. Ovid's "Metamorphoses," II, 5.

Pan is a God. Lyly's "Midas," iv, 1.

SPENSER

This is the latter half of the lecture on Chaucer and Spenser from the "English Poets."

P. 21. Spenser flourished, etc. Edmund Spenser (1552?-1599), served as secretary to Sir Henry
Sidney in Ireland in 1577, and went again in 1580 as secretary to Lord Grey of Wilton, the
Queen's new deputy to Ireland. He was driven out by a revolt of the Irish in 1598. "A View
of the State of Ireland, written dialogue-wise between Eudoxus and Irenæus ... in 1596" was
first printed in 1633.

description of the bog of Allan. "Faërie Queene," II, ix, 16.

Treatment he received from Burleigh. Hazlitt refers to this treatment specifically in the essay
"On Respectable People" (XI, 435): "Spenser, kept waiting for the hundred pounds which Burleigh
grudged him 'for a song,' might feel the mortification of his situation; but the statesman
never felt any diminution of his sovereign's favour in consequence of it." The facts, as they
are recorded in the "Dictionary of National Biography," are as follows: "The queen gave proof
of her appreciation by bestowing a pension on the poet. According to an anecdote, partly reported
by Manningham, the diarist (Diary, p. 43), and told at length by Fuller, Lord Burghley, in
his capacity of treasurer, protested against the largeness of the sum which the queen suggested,
and was directed by her to give the poet what was reasonable. He received the formal grant
of £50 a year in February 1590-1." Cf. Spenser's lines in "Mother Hubbard's Tale," 895 ff.

Though much later than Chaucer. The rest of this paragraph and most of the points elaborated
in this lecture appeared in Hazlitt's review of Sismondi's "Literature of the South" in 1815
(X, 73 ff.).

Spenser's poetry is all fairyland. In a lecture delivered in February, 1818, three years after
Hazlitt's remarks had appeared in the Edinburgh Review, Coleridge spoke as follows: "You will
take especial note of the marvellous independence and true imaginative absence of all particular
space or time in the Faery Queene. It is in the domains neither of history or geography; it
is ignorant of all artificial boundary, all material obstacles; it is truly in the land of
Faery, that is, of mental space. The poet has placed you in a dream, a charmed sleep, and you
neither wish, nor have the power, to inquire where you are, or how you got there." Works, IV, 250.

P. 22. clap on high. "Faërie Queene," III, xii, 23.

In green vine leaves. I, iv, 22.

Upon the top. I, vii, 32.

P. 23. In reading the Faërie Queene, etc. See III, ix, 10; I, vii; II, vi, 5; III, xii.

and mask. "L'Allegro."

And more to lull. I, i, 41.

honey-heavy dew of slumber. "Julius Cæsar," ii, 1, 230.

Eftsoons they heard. II, xii, 70.

P. 25. House of Pride. I, iv, 4.

Cave of Mammon. II, vii, 28.

Cave of Despair. I, ix, 33.

the account of Memory. II, ix, 54.

description of Belphoebe. II, iii, 21.

story of Florimel. III, vii, 12.

Gardens of Adonis. III, vi, 29.

Bower of Bliss. II, xii, 42.

Mask of Cupid. III, xii.

Colin Clout's Vision. VI, x, 10-27.

P. 26. Poussin, Nicolas (1594-1665), French painter. See Hazlitt's delightful essay in "Table
Talk" "On a Landscape by Nicholas Poussin."

And eke. III, ix, 20.

the cold icicles. III, viii, 35.

That was Arion. IV, xi, 23-24.

Procession of the Passions. I, iv, 16 ff.

P. 28. Yet not more sweet. Southey's "Carmen Nuptiale: Lay of the Laureate." In the "Character
of Milton's Eve" in the "Round Table," Hazlitt remarks that Spenser "has an eye to the consequences,
and steeps everything in pleasure, often not of the purest kind."

