"But I should have to leave my mother, and grandmother, and sister, and all."

"Of course; you would not want to take them with you, would you?"

"But I could not tell them I was going. I should have to steal away without their knowledge."

"You could write to them when you started."

"I might never see them again."

"You are as likely to live and come back as Captain Ryan was."

"But they would feel so much hurt, if I should run away."

Will Manton curled his lip into a sneer, and said, scornfully, "Why, Rodney, I didn't think
you was so much of a baby. You are a more faint-hearted chicken than I thought you."

"Well, Will, the thought of it frightens me. I have a good mother and a good grandmother; and,
though they make me learn a trade I hate, yet I do not think I should dare to run away."

"Well, you poor mouse-heart, stay at home, then, and tie yourself to your mamma's apron-strings!"
was the reply. "Do as you please; but, I tell you,--and I trust the secret to you, and hope
you won't blow it,--I have made up my mind to go to sea."

"Will you run away?"

"Indeed I will."

"When?"

"Why should I tell you, if you will not go with me?"

"Well, I want to be off with you, but how can I?"

"Easy enough. But I will see you to-morrow night, and we will talk it over. It is time to go home."

"I must see Dick Vanderpool, and find out where the text was, so that I can tell the old folks."

CHAPTER II.

REVOLVING AND RESOLVING.

Conversations similar to those recorded in the last chapter, were frequently held between the
two lads, during the next month. Will Manton's determination was fixed, and he was making secret
preparations to start upon his wild journey. Rodney, though equally desirous to escape the
restraints of home, could not yet make up his mind to risk the adventure. He regarded his comrade
as a sort of young hero; and he wished he had the courage to be like him.

One Monday morning, in June, as he was returning from his work, he saw Will Manton's old grandfather
standing before the door, looking up and down the street; and he noticed that he seemed very
uneasy, and much distressed. When he came opposite the house, on the other side of the street,
the old gentleman called him over, and asked him, "Rodney, do you know where Will is?"

The boy's heart beat wildly, and his cheek turned pale; for he at once surmised that his comrade
had carried out his purpose. He stammered out, in reply,

"I have not seen him since last Friday night."

"It is very strange," said the old man. "He has not been at home since last Sunday, at dinner-time.
What has become of him?"

Will Manton was gone!

To the anxious inquiries that were made, his friends discovered that he had left Albany in
the evening boat, on Tuesday, for New York. Though a messenger was immediately sent after him,
no trace of him could be discovered. A few months after, they received a letter from him, written
from Liverpool, where he had gone in a merchant-ship, as a cabin-boy. His friends were very
much grieved and distressed, but hoped that he would soon grow weary of a hard and roving life,
and return to his home.

There was a romantic interest in all this for young Rodney. In his imagination, Will Manton
was a hero. He was scarcely ever out of his thoughts. He would follow him in fancy, bounding
over the broad sea, with all the sails of the majestic ship swelling in the favoring breeze,
now touching at some island, and looking at the strange dresses and customs of a barbarous
people; now meeting a homeward-bound vessel, and exchanging joyful greetings; and now lying
to in a calm, and spearing dolphins and harpooning whales. When the storm raged, he almost
trembled lest he might be wrecked; but, when it was over, he fancied the noble ship, having
weathered the storm, stemming safely the high waves, and careering gracefully on her course.
Or, if he was wrecked, he imagined that he must be cast upon some shore where the hospitable
inhabitants hurried down to the beach to the relief of the crew, bore them safely through the
breakers, and pressed upon them the comforts of their homes. His wild imagination followed
him to other lands, and roved with him along the streets of European cities, among the ruins
of Grecian temples, over the gardens of Spain and the vineyards of Italy, through the pagodas
of India, and the narrow streets of Calcutta and Canton.

"O," thought he, "how delightful must be such a life! How pleasant to be roaming amid scenes
that are always new! And how wretched to be tied to such a life as I lead, following the same
weary round of miserable drudgery every day!"

But it was Rodney's own fancy that painted this enjoyment of a sailor-boy's life. Will Manton
did not find it so pleasant in reality. There was more menial drudgery to the poor cabin-boy
on ship-board, than he had ever known in the carpenter's shop. He was sworn at, and thumped,
and kicked, and driven from one thing to another, by the captain, and mates, and steward, and
crew, all day long. And many a night, when, weary and sore, he crept to his hard, narrow bunk,
he lay and cried himself to sleep, thinking of his kind and pleasant home.

When Fancy pictures before the restless mind distant and unknown scenes, she divests them of
all the rough realities which a nearer view and a tried experience find in them. The mountain-side
looks smooth and pleasant from a distance, but we find it rugged and wearisome when we attempt
to climb it.

One idea had now gained almost sole possession of poor Rodney's mind. He must go to sea! He
thought of it all day, and dreamed of it at night. He did not dare to speak about it to his
mother, for he knew that she would refuse her consent. He must run away! He formed a hundred
different plans, and was forced to abandon them. Now Will Manton was gone, there was no one
with whom he could consult. He was afraid to speak of it, lest it should reach the ears of
his mother. Alone he nursed his resolution, and formed his plans.

He was very unhappy, because he knew that he was purposing wrong. He could not be contented
with his employment, and he knew how it would grieve the hearts of those who loved him, if
he should persist in his design. Yet, when he pictured to himself the freedom from restraint,
the pleasure of roaming from place to place over the world, and the thousand exciting scenes
and adventures which he should meet by becoming a sailor, he determined, at all hazards, to
make the attempt.

Unhappy boy! He was sowing, for his own reaping, the seeds of a bitter harvest of wretchedness
and remorse.

CHAPTER III.

RODNEY IN NEW YORK.

On a beautiful Sabbath morning in July, Rodney stood in the hall of the old Dutch house in
which successive generations of the family had been born, and paused to look the last farewell,
he dare not speak, upon those who loved him, and whom, notwithstanding his waywardness, he
also loved.

There sat his pious and venerable grandmother, with the little round stand before her, upon
which lay the old family Bible, over which she was intently bending, reading and commenting
to herself, as was her custom, in half-audible tones. He had often stood behind her, and listened,
unobserved, as she read verse after verse, and paused after each, to testify of its truth,
or piously apply it to herself and others. And now he thought that, in all probability, he
would never see her again, and he half repented his determination. But his preparations were
all made, and he could not now hesitate, lest his purpose should be discovered.

He looked at his mother, as she was arranging the dress of a younger and only brother, for
the Sabbath-school. As she leaned over him, and smoothed down the collar she had just fastened
round his neck, Rodney, with heart and eye, bade farewell to both.

He stood and gazed for a moment upon his only sister, who sat with her baby in her arms, answering
the little laughing prattler in a language that sounded like its own, and which certainly none
but the two could understand. Some might doubt whether they understood it themselves; but they
both seemed highly interested and delighted by the conversation.

That dear sister, amiable and loving, is long since dead. She greeted death with a cheerful
welcome, for the messenger released her from a life of domestic unhappiness, and introduced
her into that blessed heaven "where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest."

And that prattling infant has become, in his turn, a runaway sailor-boy, flying from an unhappy
home to a more wretched destiny, of whose wanderings or existence nothing has been heard for
many years.

It was one hasty, intense glance which Rodney cast over these groups, and each beloved figure,
as it then appeared, was fixed in his memory forever. He has never forgotten--he never can
forget--that moment, or the emotions that thrilled his heart as he turned away from them.

He had hidden a little trunk, containing his clothing, in the stable, and thither he hastened;
and, throwing his trunk upon his shoulder, he stole out of the back gate, and took his course
through bye streets to the dock, where he went on board a steamboat, and in half an hour was
sailing down the Hudson towards New York.

He had no money with which to pay his passage. He had left home without a single sixpence.
When the captain came to collect the passengers' fare, he told him a wicked, premeditated lie.
He said that, in taking his handkerchief from his pocket, he had accidentally drawn out his
pocket-book with it, and that it had fallen overboard. Thus one sin prepares the way to the
commission of another.

He offered to leave his trunk in pledge for the payment of the passage; and the captain, after
finding it full of clothing, ordered it to be locked up until the money was paid. Rodney expected
to be able to get a situation in some ship immediately, and to receive a part of his wages
in advance, with which he could redeem his clothing.

He slept on board the steamboat, and on Monday morning started in search of a ship that would
take him. He wandered along the wharves, and at first was afraid to speak to any one, lest
he should be questioned and sent home. At last he made up his mind to ask a sailor, whom he
saw sauntering on the dock, if he knew where he could get a place on board a ship.

The sailor looked at him a moment, turned his huge tobacco quid over in his mouth, hitched
up his trowsers, and said:

"Why, you young runaway, do you want to go to sea? What can such a chap as you do on a ship?
Go home, and stick by your mammy for five years more, and then you'll have no trouble in shipping."

Rodney was a good deal frightened at such a reply, and walked on for some time, not venturing
to ask again. Toward noon he went on board a large vessel, and seeing a man, whom he took for
the captain of the ship, asked him if he could give him a place.

"No, my boy," he replied; "we don't sail for three weeks, and we never ship a crew before the
time."

All day he wandered about the wharves, and to all his questions received repelling replies,
mingled oftentimes with oaths, jeers, and insults. No one seemed to feel the least interest
for him.

CHAPTER IV.

RODNEY FINDS A PATRON.

Late in the afternoon Rodney strolled up the East River wharves. He was hungry, for he had
eaten nothing all day. He was very sad, and sat down on a cotton bale, and cried. In what a
position had a single day placed him! He had no place where he could lay his head for the night,
no bread to eat, and he knew nobody whom he dared to ask for a meal; and so, with a sorrowful
heart, he sat down and wept.

He buried his face in his hands, and for a long time sat there motionless. He did not know
that a man was standing before him, watching him, until he was startled by a voice:

"Why, my boy, what is the matter with you?"

He looked up, and saw a tall man in a sailor's dress standing near him.

"I want to get a place on a ship, sir, to go to sea," replied Rodney; "I can't find any place,
and I have no money and no friends here."

The man sat down beside him, and asked him, "Where are your friends?"

"In Albany, sir."

"What did you leave them for?"

"Because I wanted to go to sea."

They talked some time together, and Rodney told him truly all about himself and his friends.
The man seemed to pity him, and told him that he was a sailor, and had lately been discharged
from a United States vessel, where he had served as a marine,--that he had spent almost all
his money, and was looking for another ship. He told Rodney to go with him, and he would try
what could be done for him. They went into a sailors' boarding-house, and got something to eat.

Then the man,--who said his name was Bill Seegor, and that he must call him Bill, and not Mister,
nor sir,--took him with himself into a ball-room. Here he saw a great many sailors and bad
women, who danced together, and laughed, and shouted, and cursed, and drank, until long past
midnight. Rodney had never witnessed such a scene. He had never heard such filthy and blasphemous
language, nor seen such indecent behavior.

"Come, my lad," said a bluff sailor to him; "if you mean to be a man, you must learn to toss
off your glass. Your white face don't look as if you ever tasted anything stronger than tea.
Here is a glass of grog,--down with it!"

And Rodney, who wanted to be a man, drank it with a swaggering air, though it scorched his
throat; and then another, until he became very sick;--and the last he remembered was, that
the sailors and the women all seemed to be swearing and fighting together.

The next morning he was awaked by Bill Seegor, and found himself in a garret, on a miserable
bed, with all his clothes on. How he had ever got there he could not tell. His head ached,
and his limbs were stiff and pained him when he moved. His throat was parched and burning,
and he felt so wretchedly, that, if he had dared, he would have begged permission to stay there
on the bed. But Bill told him that it was time to start and look up a ship, for he had only
money enough to last another day. After breakfast they started, and inquired at every place
which Bill knew, but without success; no men or boys were wanted.

In the afternoon, Rodney was terribly frightened at seeing his brother-in-law walking along
the wharves. He knew in a moment that he had come to New York to search for him; and he darted
round a corner into an alley, and hid himself behind some barrels, till he had passed by. He
afterwards learned that his brother-in-law had been looking for him all day, and that he had
found and taken his trunk, and had been several times at places which he had just left. O!
if he had then abandoned his foolish and wicked course, and gone home with his brother, how
much misery he would have escaped! But he contrived to keep out of his way.

That evening Bill said to him, as they were eating their supper in a cellar--

"Rodney, to-morrow morning we must start for Philadelphia."

"But how shall we get there?"

"We shall have to tramp it."

"How far is it?"

"About a hundred miles."

"How long will it take?"

"Four or five days."

"But how shall we get anything to eat, or any place to sleep on the road?"

"Tell a good story to the farmers, and sleep on the hay-mows."

Rodney began to find out that "the way of the transgressor is hard."

That night they went to the theatre. Bill had given Rodney a dirk, which he carried in his
bosom. They went up into the third tier of boxes, which was filled with the most wicked and
debased men and women. While the rest were laughing, and talking, and cursing, Rodney sat down
on the front seat to see the play; but they made so much confusion behind him that he could
not hear, so he turned round, and said, rather angrily: "I wish you wouldn't make so much noise."

"Who are you talking to?" shouted a rough, bully-looking man behind him, with a terrible oath;
"I'll pitch you into the pit, if you open your head again."

He rushed towards him, but, quick as thought, Rodney snatched the dirk from his breast, drew
his arm back over his head, and told the bully to keep off. The man stopped, and in an instant
the whole theatre was in confusion. The play on the stage ceased; and there, in full view,
leaning over the front of the box, stood the boy, with the weapon in his hand, gleaming in
the eyes of the whole audience.

Bill Seegor rushed to him, pulled him back toward the lobby, and took the dagger from his hand.
The bully then aimed a tremendous blow at the boy's face, which fortunately was warded off
by one of the women. Just then a police-officer came up, and, taking Rodney by the collar,
led him down stairs. Half a dozen men, who were Bill's friends, followed; and when they got
into the street, they dashed against the officer, and broke his hold, when Bill caught Rodney
by the arm and told him to run. They turned quickly through several streets, and escaped pursuit.

Do you think that Rodney was happy amid such scenes? Ah! no; he was alarmed at himself. He
felt degraded and guilty; he felt that he was taking sudden and rapid strides in the path of
debasement and vice. He thought of his home and its sweet influences. He knew how deep would
be the grief of those who loved him, should they hear of his course. His conscience condemned
him, and he thought of what he was becoming with horror. But he seemed to be drawn on by his
wild desires, and felt scarcely a disposition to escape the meshes of the net that was winding
around him.

The sailors praised him, and patted him on the back; told him that he was a brave fellow,--that
he was beginning right, and that there was good stuff in him. And Rodney laughed, tickled by
such praises, and drank what they offered, and tried to stifle his conscience and harden himself
in sin. Yet often, when he was alone, did he shrink from himself, and writhe under the lashings
of conscience; and the remembrance of home, and thoughts of his conduct, rendered him very
wretched.

CHAPTER V.

RODNEY IN PHILADELPHIA.

Young Rodney was prepared for an early start on the following morning; and, in company with
Bill Seegor, he crossed the ferry to Jersey City just as the sun rose, and together they commenced
their journey to Philadelphia. They were soon beyond the pavements of the town, and in the
open country. It was a lovely morning, and the bright summer developed its beauties, and dispensed
its fragrance along their path. The birds sang sweetly, and darted on swift wing around them.
The cattle roamed lazily over the fields, and the busy farmers were everywhere industriously
toiling. All nature seemed joyously reflecting the serene smile of a benevolent God.

Even the wicked hearts of the wanderers seemed lightened by the influence of the glorious morning,
and cheerily, with many a jocund song and homely jest, they pressed on their way. Even guilt
can sometimes forget its baseness, and enjoy the bounties of the kind Creator, for which it
expresses no thankfulness and feels no gratitude.

At noon they stopped at a farmer's house, and Bill told the honest old man that they belonged
to a ship which had sailed round to Philadelphia; that it had left New York unexpectedly, without
their knowledge, and taken their chests and clothes which had been placed on board; and that,
being without money, they were compelled to walk across to Philadelphia to meet it.

The farmer believed the falsehood, and charitably gave them a good dinner. They walked on till
after sunset, and then crossed over a field, and climbed up into a rack filled with hay, where
they slept all night.

In the morning they started forward very hungry, for they had eaten nothing, since the noon
before, except a few green apples. They stopped at the first farm-house on the road, and, by
telling the same falsehood that had procured them a meal the day before, excited the pity of
the farmer and obtained a good breakfast.

Thus did they go on, lying and begging their way along.

On the third day there were heavy showers, accompanied by fierce lightnings and crashing thunders.
They were as thoroughly soaked as if they had been thrown into the river, and at night had
to sleep on a haystack, in the open field, in their wet clothes. Rodney's feet, too, had become
very sore, and he walked in great and constant pain.

In the afternoon of the fourth day they stopped on the banks of the Delaware, five or six miles
from Philadelphia, to wash their clothes, which had become filthy in travelling through the
dust and mud. As they had no clothing but what they wore, there was nothing else to be done
but to strip, wash out their soiled garments, and lay them out on the bank to dry, while they
swam about the river, or waited on the shore, with what patience they could summon.

A little after sunset they reached the suburbs of the great city; and now the sore feet and
wearied limbs of the boy could scarcely sustain him over the hard pavements. Yet Bill urged
him onward with many an impatient oath, on past the ship-yards of Kensington,--on, past the
factories, and markets, and farmers' taverns, and shops of the Northern Liberties,--on, through
the crowded thoroughfares, and by the brilliant stores of the city,--on, into the most degraded
section of Southwark, in Plumb-street, where Bill said a friend of his lived. This friend was
an abandoned woman, who lived in a miserable frame cabin, crowded with wicked and degraded
wretches, who seemed the well-known and fitting companions of Rodney's patron. The woman for
whom he inquired was at a dance in the neighborhood, and there Bill took the boy in search of her.

They went up a dark alley, and were admitted into a large room filled with men and women, black
and white, the dregs and outcasts of society.

A few dripping candles, placed in tin sconces along the bare walls, threw a dim and sickly
glare over the motley throng. A couple of negro men, sitting on barrels at the head of the
room, were drawing discordant notes from a pair of cracked, patched, and greasy fiddles. And
there were men, whose red and bloated faces gave faithful witness of their habitual intemperance;
and men, whose threadbare and ragged garments betokened sloth and poverty; and men, whose vulgar
and ostentatious display of showy clothing, and gaudy chains, and rings and breast-pins, which
they did not know how to wear, indicated dishonest pursuits; and men, whose blue jackets and
bluff, brown faces showed them to be sailors; and men, whose scowling brows and fiendlike countenances
marked them as villains of the blackest and lowest type. And there were women, too, some old--at
least, they looked so--and haggard; some young, but with wretched-looking faces, and dressed
in tawdry garments, yet generally faded, some torn and some patched, and all seeming to be
brought from the pawnbroker's dusty shop for the occasion.

In a little filthy side-room was a bar covered with bottles and glasses, behind which stood
a large, red-faced man, with a big nose, and little ferret, fiery eyes, now grinning like a
satyr, now scowling like a demon, dealing out burning liquors to his miserable customers.

A man fell beastly drunk from a bench upon the floor. "Take him up stairs," said the man at
the bar. Rodney followed the two men who carried him up, and looked into the sleeping apartment.
The floor was covered with dirty straw, where lodgers were accommodated for three cents a night.
Here the poor wretches were huddled together every night, to get what sleep they could in the
only home they had on earth.

Thus does vice humble, and degrade, and scourge those who are taken in its toils. From the
threshold of the house of guilty pleasure there may issue the song and laugh of boisterous
mirth; but those who enter within shall find disgrace and infamy, woe and death.

CHAPTER VI.

THE PUNISHMENT BEGINS.

Bill Seegor found the woman he sought, and soon they returned to her house. Here the bottle
was brought out and passed round; and, after much blasphemous and ribaldrous conversation,
a straw bed was made up on the floor, and Rodney laid down. Before he went to sleep, he heard
Bill tell the woman that he was entirely out of money, and beg her to lend him five dollars
for a few days. After some hesitation she consented, and drew out from under the bed an old
trunk, which she unlocked, and from which she took five dollars in silver and gave it to him.
Bill, looking over her shoulder, saw that she took it from a little pile of silver that lay
in the corner of the trunk.

For a long time Rodney could not sleep. The scenes of the last eventful week were vividly recalled
to his mind, and, in spite of his fatigue, kept him awake. He tried to make himself believe
that it was a glorious life he had begun to lead,--that now he was free from restraint, and
entering upon the flowery paths of independence and enjoyment. Though he had met with some
difficulties at the start, he thought that they were now nearly passed, and that soon he should
be upon the blue water, and in foreign countries, a happy sailor boy.

But conscience would interpose its reproaches and warnings, and remind him of the horrible
company into which he had been cast,--of the scenes of sin which he had witnessed, and in which
he had participated; and he could not but shudder when he thought of the probable termination
of such a life.

But he felt that, having forsaken his home,--and he was not even yet sorry that he had done
so,--he was now in the current, and that there was no way of reaching the shore, even had he
been disposed to try; and that he must continue to float along the stream, leaving his destination
to be determined by circumstances.

It is very easy to find the paths of sin. It is easy, and, for a season, may seem pleasant,
to travel in them. The entrance is inviting, the way is broad, companions are numerous and
gay. But when the disappointed and alarmed traveller, terrified at the thought of its termination,
seeks to escape, and hunts for the narrow path of virtue, he finds obstacles and entanglements
which he cannot climb over nor break. It requires an Omnipotent arm to help him then.

Rodney fell asleep.

How long he had slept he knew not; but he was awakened by a violent shaking and by terrible
oaths. The side-door leading into the yard was open, and three or four wretched-looking women
were scolding and swearing angrily about him. He was confused, bewildered, but soon perceived
that something unusual had happened; and he became very much frightened as he at last learned
the truth from the excited women.

Bill Seegor was gone. He had got up quietly when all were asleep, and, drawing the woman's
trunk from under her bed, had carried it out into the yard, pried open the lock, stolen the
money, and escaped.

The woman was in a terrible passion, and her raving curses were fearful to hear. Rodney pitied
her, though she cursed him. He was indignant at his companion's rascality, and offered to go
with her and try to find him. It was two o'clock in the morning. He looked round for his hat,
collar, and handkerchief; but they were gone. The thief had taken them with him. Taking Bill's
old hat, he went out with the woman, and looked into the oyster-cellars and grog-shops, some
of which they found still open; but they could find no trace of Bill Seegor.

The woman met a watchman, and made inquiries, and told him of the robbery.

"And this boy came with the man last night, did he?" inquired the watchman.

"He did," said the woman.

"Do you know the boy?"

"I never saw him before."

"Well, I guess he knows where he is, or where he can be found to-morrow."

Rodney protested that he knew nothing about him, that his own hat, collar, and handkerchief
had been stolen, and that he had had nothing to do with the robbery. He even told him where
he had met with Bill, and how he came to be in his company.

"All very fine, my lad," said the watchman; "but you must go with me. This must be examined
into to-morrow."

And he took Rodney by the arm, and led him to the watch-house.

CHAPTER VII.

THE WATCH-HOUSE.

For poor Rodney there was no more sleep that night, even had they placed him on a bed of roses.
But they locked him up in a little square room, with an iron-barred window, into which a dim
light struggled from a lamp hung outside in the entry, showing a wooden bench, fastened against
the wall. There were four men in the room.

One, whose clothes looked fine and fashionable, but all covered with dirt, lay on the floor.
A hat, that seemed new, but crushed out of all shape, was under his head for a pillow. His
face was bruised and bloody. He was entirely stupefied, and Rodney saw at a glance that he
was intoxicated.

On the bench, stretched out at full length, was a short, stout negro, fast asleep. On another
part of the bench lay a white man, who seemed about fifty years old, with a sneering, malicious
face, and wrapped up in a shaggy black coat. The remaining occupant of the cell sat in one
corner, with his head down on his knees, and his hat slouched over his face.

Rodney stood for a few moments in the middle of the cell, and, in sickening dismay, looked
round him. Here he was with felons and rioters, locked up in a dungeon! True, he had committed
no crime against the law; but yet he felt that he deserved it all; and the hot tears rolled
from his eyes as he thought of his mother and his home.

Hearing his sobs, the man in the corner raised his head, looked at him for a moment, and said:

"Why, you blubbering boy, what have you been about? Are you the pal of these cracksmen, or
have you been on a lay on your own hook?"

Rodney did not know what he meant, and he said so.

"I mean," said the man, in the same low, thieves' jargon, "have you been helping these fellows
crack a crib?"

"Doing what?" said Rodney.

"Breaking into a house, you dumb-head."

The boy shuddered at the thought of being taken for an accomplice of house-breakers; and told
him he knew nothing about them. He had read that boys are sometimes employed by house-breakers
to climb in through windows or broken pannels, to open the door on the inside; and now he was
thought to be such a one himself.

It was a dismal night for him.

Early in the morning the prisoners were all taken before a magistrate.

The drunkard, who claimed to be a gentleman, and who had been taken to the watch-house for
assaulting the barkeeper of a tavern, was fined five dollars, and dismissed.

The negro and the old white man had been caught in the attempt to break into a house, and were
sent to prison, to await their trial for burglary; and the other white man was also sent to
prison, until he could be tried, for stealing a pocket-book in an auction store.

Rodney was then called forward. The watchman told how and why he had taken him; and the boy
was asked to give an account of himself. He told his story truthfully and tearfully, while
the magistrate looked coldly at him.

