The serpent that tempted Eve was the homologue both of the mother of mankind herself and also
of the tree of paradise. It was the representative of the dragon-protector of pearls and of
other kinds of treasure: it was also the goddess who animated the sacred tree as well as the
protector who attacked all who approached it. It was the evil dragon that tempted Eve to eat
of the forbidden fruit which brought her mortality.

The identification of the Great Mother with the lioness (and the secondary association of her
husband and son with the lion) was responsible for a widespread relationship of these creatures
with the gods and goddesses in Egypt and the Mediterranean, in Western Asia, in Babylonia and
India, in Eastern Asia [tiger] and America [ocelot, and forms borrowed from the conventionalized
lions and tigers of the Old World].

The account of the Great Mother's attributes and associations throws into clear relief certain
aspects of the evolution of the dragon which were left in a somewhat nebulous state in Chapter
II. The earliest form assumed by the power of evil was the serpent or the lion, because these
death-dealing creatures were adopted as symbols of the Great Mother in her rôle as the Destroyer
of Mankind. When Horus was differentiated from the Great Mother and became her locum tenens,
his falcon (or eagle) was blended with Hathor's lioness to make the composite monster which
is represented on Elamite and Babylonian monuments (see p. 79). But when the rôle of water
as the instrument of destruction became prominent, Ea's antelope and fish were blended to make
a monster, usually known as the "goat-fish," which in India and elsewhere assumed a great variety
of forms. Some of the varieties of makara were sufficiently like a crocodile to be confused
or identified with this representative of the followers of Set.

The real dragon was created when all three larval types--serpent, eagle-lion, and antelope-fish--were
blended to form a monster with bird's feet and wings, a lion's forelimbs and head, the fish's
scales, the antelope's horns, and a more or less serpentine form of trunk and tail, and sometimes
also of head. Repeated substitution of parts of other animals, such as the spiral horn of Amen's
ram, a deer's antlers, and the elephant's head, led to endless variation in the dragon's traits.

The essential unity of the motives and incidents of the myths of all peoples and of every age
is a token, not of independent origin or the result of "the similarity of the working of the
human mind," but of their derivation from the same ultimate source.

The question naturally arises: what is a myth? The dragon-myth of the West is the religion
of China. The literature of every religion is saturated with the influence of the myth. In
what respect does religion differ from myth? In Chapter I, I attempted to explain how originally
science and religion were not differentiated. Both were the outcome of man's attempt to peer
into the meaning of natural phenomena, and to extract from such knowledge practical measures
for circumventing fate. His ever-insistent aim was to combat danger to life.

Religion was differentiated from science when the measures for controlling fate became invested
with the assurance of supernatural help, for which the growth of a knowledge of natural phenomena
made it impossible for the mere scientist to be the sponsor. It became a question of faith
rather than knowledge; and man's instinctive struggle against the risk of extinction impelled
him to cling to this larger hope of salvation, and to embellish it with an ethical and moral
significance which at first was lacking in the eternal search for the elixir of life.

If religion can be regarded as archaic science enriched with the belief in supernatural control,
the myth can be regarded as effete religion which has been superseded by the growth of a loftier
ethical purpose. The myth is to religion what alchemy is to chemistry or astrology is to astronomy.
Like these sciences, religion retains much of the material of the cruder phase of thought that
is displayed in myth, alchemy, and astrology, but it has been refined and elaborated. The dross
has been to a large extent eliminated, and the pure metal has been moulded into a more beautiful
and attractive form. In searching for the elixir of life, the makers of religion have discovered
the philosopher's stone, and with its aid have transmuted the base materials of myth into the
gold of religion.

If we seek for the deep motives which have prompted men in all ages so persistently to search
for the elixir of life, for some means of averting the dangers to which their existence is
exposed, it will be found in the instinct of self-preservation, which is the fundamental factor
in the behaviour of all living beings, the means of preservation of the life which is their
distinctive attribute and the very essence of their being.

The dragon was originally a concrete expression of the divine powers of life-giving; but with
the development of a higher conception of religious ideals it became relegated to a baser rôle,
and eventually became the symbol of the powers of evil.

[447: Sethe, "Zur altägyptische Sage von Sonnenaugen das im Fremde war," Untersuchungen zur
Geschichte und Altertumskunde Ægyptens, V, p. 23. ]

[448: See especially the claims put forward by Brinton, which have been accepted by Spinden,
Joyce, and many other recent writers.]

[449: Possibly also the Cerastes. At a relatively late period other snakes were adopted as
surrogates of the cobra and Cerastes.]

[450: See Oldham, "Sun and Serpent," p. 51 inter alia.]

[451: Blackman, however, has recently advanced this claim in reference to Egypt (op. cit.,
Proc. Soc. Bibl. Archæology, 1918, p. 57), as Breasted and others have done before.]

[452: S. Langdon, "A Seal of Nidaba, the Goddess of Vegetation," Proceedings of the Society
of Biblical Archæology, Vol. XXXVI, 1914, p. 281.]

[453: L. W. King, "Babylonian Religion," p. 58.]