Karen, for some silent moments, looked at her guardian, intently and with a touch of alarm.
"No; I don't dream," she said then. "And perhaps that is because you fill my life so, Tante.
If someone came who loved me very much and whom I loved, I should of course be glad to marry;--only
not if it would take me from you; I mean that I should want to be often with you. And when
I look forward at all I always take it for granted that that will come in time--a husband and
children, and a home of my own. But there seems no reason to think of it now. I am quite contented
as I am."

The kindly melancholy of Madame von Marwitz's gaze continued to fix her. "But I am not contented
for you," she observed. "I wish to see you established. Youth passes, all too quickly, and
its opportunities pass, too. I should blame myself if our tie were to cut you off from a wider
life. Good husbands are by no means picked up on every bush. One cannot take these things for
granted. It is of a possible marriage I wish to speak to you this morning, my Karen. We will
talk of it quietly." Madame von Marwitz raised herself in her chair to stretch her hand and
take from the mantelpiece a letter lying there. "This came this morning, my Karen," she said.
"From our good Lise Lippheim."

Frau Lippheim was a warm-hearted, talented, exuberant Jewess who had been a fellow student
of Madame von Marwitz's in girlhood. The eagle-flights of genius had always been beyond her,
yet her pinions were wide and, unburdened by domestic solicitudes, she might have gone far.
As it was, married to a German musician much her inferior, and immersed in the care and support
of a huge family, she ranked only as second or third rate. She gave music-lessons in Leipsig
and from time to time, playing in a quintet made up of herself, her eldest son and three eldest
girls, gave recitals in Germany, France and England. The Lippheim quintet, in its sober way,
held a small but dignified position.

Karen had been deposited by her guardian more than once under the Lippheim's overflowing roof
in Leipsig, and it was a vision of Frau Lippheim that came to her as her guardian unfolded
the letter--of the near-sighted, pale blue eyes, heavy, benignant features, and crinkled, red-brown
hair. So very ugly, almost repulsively so; yet so kind, so valiant, so untiring. The thought
of her was touching, and affectionate solicitude almost effaced Karen's personal anxiety; for
she could not connect Frau Lippheim with any matrimonial project.

Madame von Marwitz, glancing through her letter, looked up from the last sheet. "I have talked
with the good Lise more than once, Karen," she said, "about a hope of hers. She first spoke
of it some two years ago; but I told her then that I would say nothing to you till you were
older. Now, hearing that I am going away, to leave you for so long, she writes of it again.
Did you know that Franz was very much attached to you, Karen?" Franz was Frau Lippheim's eldest
son.

The vision that now flashed, luridly, for Karen, was that of an immense Germanic face with
bright, blinking eyes behind glasses; huge lips; a flattened nose, modelled thickly at the
corners, and an enormous laugh that rolled back the lips and revealed suddenly the Semitic
element and a boundless energy and kindliness. She had always felt fond of Franz until this
moment. Now, amazed, appalled, a violent repulsion went through her. She became pale. "No.
I had not guessed that," she said.

Her eyes were averted. Madame von Marwitz glanced at her and vexation clouded her countenance.
She knew that flinty, unresponsive look. In moments of deep emotion Karen could almost disconcert
her. Her face expressed no hostility; but a sternness, blind and resisting, like that of a
rock. At such moments she did not look young.

Madame von Marwitz, after her glance, also averted her eyes, sighing impatiently. "I see that
you do not care for the poor boy. He had hoped, with his mother to back him, that he might
have some chance of winning you;--though it is not Franz who writes."

She paused; but Karen said nothing. "You know that Franz has talent and is beginning, now,
to make money steadily. Lise tells me that. And I would give you a little dot; enough to assure
your future, and his. I only speak of the material things because it is part of your childishness
never to consider them. Of him I would not have spoken at all, had I not believed that you
felt friendship and affection for him. He is so good, so strong, so loyal that I did not think
it impossible."

After another silence Karen found something to say. "I have friendship for him. That is quite
different."

"Why so, Karen?" Madame von Marwitz inquired. "Since you are not a romantic school-girl, let
us speak soberly. Friendship, true friendship, for a man whose tastes are yours, whose pursuits
you understand, is the soundest basis upon which to build a marriage."

"No. Only as a friend, a friend not too near, do I feel affection for Franz. It is repulsive
to me--the thought of anything else. It makes me hate him," said Karen.

"Tiens!" Madame von Marwitz opened her eyes in genuine surprise. "I could not have imagined
such, decisive feeling. I could not have imagined that you despised the good Franz. I need
not tell you that I do not agree with you there."

"I do not despise him."

"Ah, there is more than mere negation in your look, your voice, my child. It is pride, wounded
pride, that speaks; and it is as if you told me that I had less care for your pride than you
had, and thought less of your claims."

"I do not think of my claims."

"You feel them. You feel Franz your inferior."

"I did not think of such things. I thought of his face, near me, and it made me hate him."

Karen continued to look aside with a sombre gaze. And, after examining her for another moment,
Madame von Marwitz held out her hand. "Come," she said, "come here, child. I have blundered.
I see that I have blundered. Franz shall be sent about his business. Have I hurt you? Do not
think of it again."

The girl got up slowly, as if her stress of feeling made her awkward. Stumbling, she knelt
down beside her guardian and, taking the hand and holding it against her eyes, she said in
a voice heavy with unshed tears: "Am I a burden? Am I an anxiety? Let me go away, then. I can
teach. I can teach music and languages. I can do translations, so many things. You have educated
me so well. You will always be my dear friend and I shall see you from time to time. But it
is as you say, I am a woman now. I would rather go away than have you troubled by me."

Madame von Marwitz's face, as she listened to the heavy voice, that trembled a little over
its careful words, darkened. "It is not well what you say, Karen," she replied. "No. You speak
to me as you have no right to speak, as though you had a grievance against me. What have I
ever done that you should ask me whether you are a burden to me?"

"Only--" said Karen, her voice more noticeably trembling--"only that it seemed to me that I
must be in the way if you could think of Franz as a husband for me. I do not know why I feel
that. But it hurt me so much that it seemed to me to be true."

"It has always been my joy to care for you," said Madame von Marwitz. "I have always loved
you like my own child. I do not admit that to think of Franz as a husband for you was to do
you a wrong. I would not listen to an unfitting suitor for my child. It is you who have hurt
me--deeply hurt me--by so misunderstanding me." Sorrow and reproach grew in her voice.

"Forgive me," said Karen, who still held the hand before her eyes.

Madame von Marwitz drew her hand gently away and raising Karen's head so that she could look
at her, "I forgive you, indeed, Karen," she said. "How could I not forgive you? But, child,
do not hurt me so again. Never speak of leaving me again. You must never leave me except to
go where a fuller happiness beckons. You do not know how they stabbed--those words of yours.
That you could think them, believe them! No, Karen, it was not well. Not only are you dear
to me for yourself; there is another bond. You were dear to him. You were beside me in the
hour of my supreme agony. You desecrate our sacred memories when you allow small suspicions
and fears to enter your thoughts of me. So much has failed me in my life. May I not trust that
my child will never fail me?"

Tragic grief gazed from her eyes and Karen's eyes echoed it.

"Forgive me, Tante, I have hurt you. I have been stupid," she spoke almost dully; but Madame
von Marwitz was looking into the eyes, deep wells of pain and self-reproach.

"Yes, you have hurt me, ma chérie," she replied, leaning now her cheek against Karen's head.
"And it is not loving to forget that when a cup of suffering brims, a drop the more makes it
overflow. You are harsh sometimes, Karen, strangely harsh."

"Forgive me," Karen repeated.

Madame von Marwitz put her arms around her, still leaning her head against hers. "With all
my heart, my child, with all my heart," she said. "But do not hurt me so again. Do not forget
that I live at the edge of a precipice; an inadvertent footstep, and I crash down to the bottom,
to lie mangled. Ah, my child, may life never tear you, burn you, freeze you, as it has torn
and burned and frozen me. Ah, the memories, the cruel memories!" Great sighs lifted her breast.
She murmured, while Karen knelt enfolding her, "His dead face rises before me. The face that
we saw, Karen. And I know to the full again my unutterable woe." It was rare with Madame von
Marwitz to allude thus explicitly to the tragedy of her life, the ambiguous, the dreadful death
of her husband. Karen knelt holding her, pale with the shared memory. They were so for a long
time. Then, sighing softly, "Bon Dieu! bon Dieu!" Madame von Marwitz rose and, gently putting
the girl aside, she went into her bedroom and closed the door.

CHAPTER VII

It was a hard, chill morning and Gregory, sauntering up and down the platform at Euston beside
the open doors of the long steamer-train, felt that the taste and smell of London was, as nowhere
else, concentrated, compressed, and presented to one in tabloid form, as it were, at a London
station on a winter morning. It was a taste and smell that he, personally, rather liked, singularly
compounded as it was, to his fancy, of cold metals and warm sooty surfaces; of the savour of
kippers cooking over innumerable London grates and the aroma of mugs of beer served out over
innumerable London bars; something at once acrid yet genial, suggesting sordidness and unlimited
possibility. The vibration of adventure was in it and the sentiment, oddly intermingled, of
human solidarity and personal detachment.

Gregory, as he strolled and waited for his old friend and whilom Oxford tutor, Professor Blackburn,
whom he had promised to see off, had often to pause or to deviate in his course; for, though
it was still early, and the season not a favourite one for crossing, the platform was quite
sufficiently crowded, and crowded, evidently, with homeward-bound Americans, mostly women.
Gregory tended to think of America and its people with the kindly lightness common to his type.
Their samenesses didn't interest him, and their differences were sometimes vexatious. He had
a vague feeling that they'd really better have been Colonials and be done with it. Professor
Blackburn last night had reproved this insular levity. He was going over with an array of discriminations
that Gregory had likened to an explorer's charts and instruments. He intended to investigate
the most minute and measure the most immense, to lecture continually, to dine out every evening
and to write a book of some real appropriateness when he came home. Gregory said that all that
he asked of America was that it should keep its institutions to itself and share its pretty
girls, and the professor told him that he knew more about the latter than the former. There
were not many pretty girls on the platform this morning, though he remarked one rather pleasing
young person who sat idly on a pile of luggage and fixed large, speculative, innocently assured
eyes upon him when he went by, while near her her mother and a tawny sister disputed bitterly
with a porter. Most of the ladies who hastened to and fro seemed, while very energetic, also
very jaded. They were packed as tightly with experiences as their boxes with contraband clothing,
and they had both, perhaps, rather heavily on their minds, wondering, it was probable, how
they were to get them through. Some of them, strenuous, eye-glassed and scholastic, looked,
however, as they marshalled their pathetically lean luggage, quite innocent of material trophies.

Among these alien and unfamiliar visages, Gregory caught sight suddenly of one that was alien
yet recognizable. He had seen the melancholy, simian features before, and after a moment he
placed the neat, black person, walking beside a truck piled high with enormous boxes, as Louise,
Madame von Marwitz's maid. To recognise Louise was to think of Miss Woodruff. Gregory looked
around the platform with a new interest.

Miss Woodruff was nowhere to be seen, but a new element pervaded the dingy place, and it hardly
needed the presence of four or five richly dressed ladies bearing sheaves of flowers, or that
of two silk-hatted impresario-looking gentlemen with Jewish noses, to lead Gregory to infer
that the element was Madame von Marwitz's, and that he had, inadvertently, fallen upon the
very morning of her departure. Already an awareness and an expectancy was abroad that reminded
him of that in the concert hall. The contagion of celebrity had made itself felt even before
the celebrity herself was visible; but, in another moment, Madame von Marwitz had appeared
upon the platform, surrounded by cohorts of friends. Dressed in a long white cloak and flowing
in sables, a white lace veil drooping about her shoulders, a sumptuous white feather curving
from her brow to her back, she moved amidst the scene like a splendid, dreamy ship entering
some grimy Northern harbour.

Mrs. Forrester, on heels as high as a fairy-godmother's and wearing a strange velvet cloak
and a stranger velvet bonnet, trotted beside her; Sir Alliston was on the other hand, his delicate
Vandyke features nipped with the cold; Mr. Claude Drew walked behind and before went Eleanor
Scrotton, smiling a tight, stricken smile of triumph and responsibility. As the group passed
Gregory, Miss Scrotton caught sight of him.

"We are in plenty of time, I see," she said. "Dear me! it has been a morning! Mercedes is always
late. Could you, I wonder, induce these people to move away. She so detests being stared at."

Eleanor, as usual, roused a mischievous spirit in Gregory. "I'm afraid I'm helpless," he replied.
"We're in a public place, and a cat may look at a king. Besides, who could help looking at
those marvellous clothes."

"It isn't a question of cats but of impertinent human beings," Miss Scrotton returned with
displeasure. "Allow me, Madam," she forged a majestic way through a gazing group.

"Where is Miss Woodruff?" Gregory inquired. He was wondering.

"Tiresome girl," Miss Scrotton said, watching the ladies with the flowers who gathered around
her idol. "She will be late, I'm afraid. She had forgotten Victor."

"Victor? Is Victor the courier? Why does Miss Woodruff have to remember him?"

