Horace E. Scudder           749
  Autocrat of the Breakfast Table, The    Oliver Wendell Holmes       753
  Briefless Barrister, The                John G. Saxe                585
  Cable-Car Preacher, A                   Sam Walter Foss             647
  Cæsar's Quiet Lunch with Cicero         James T. Fields             760
  Cheer for the Consumer                  Nixon Waterman              740
  Comin' Home Thanksgivin'                James Ball Naylor           763
  Complaint of Friends, A                 Gail Hamilton               604
  Coupon Bonds, The                       J.T. Trowbridge             654
  Crankidoxology                          Wallace Irwin               688
  Desolation                              Tom Masson                  686
  Desperate Race, A                       J.F. Kelley                 742
  De Stove Pipe Hole                      William Henry Drummond      774
  Economical Pair, The                    Carolyn Wells               602
  Family Horse, The                       Frederick A. Cozzens        715
  Girl from Mercury, The                  Herman Knickerbocker Vielé  779
  Grand Opera, The                        Billy Baxter                693
  Greco-Trojan Game, The                  Charles F. Johnson          595
  How to Know the Wild Animals            Carolyn Wells               650
  How We Bought a Sewin' Machine
      and Organ                           Josiah Allen's Wife         729
  I Remember, I Remember                  Phoebe Cary                 652
  In a State of Sin                       Owen Wister                 696
  Loafer and the Squire, The              Porte Crayon                767
  Love Sonnets of a Husband, The          Maurice Smiley              725
  Meditations of a Mariner                Wallace Irwin               713
  Modern Advantage, A                     Charlotte Becker            642
  Modern Eclogue, A                       Bliss Carman                645
  My Honey, My Love                       Joel Chandler Harris        691
  Ponchus Pilut                           James Whitcomb Riley        624
  Praise-God Barebones                    Ellen Mackay Hutchinson
                                              Cortissoz               765
  Raggedy Man, The                        James Whitcomb Riley        643
  Shooting-Match, The                     A.B. Longstreet             666
  Sonnet of the Lovable Lass and the
      Plethoric Dad                       J.W. Foley                  723
  Story of the Two Friars                 Eugene Field                588
  Two Husbands, The                       Carolyn Wells               587
  Two Pedestrians, The                    Carolyn Wells               603
  Two Prisoners, The                      Carolyn Wells               641
  Victory                                 Tom Masson                  714
  Wolf at Susan's Door, The               Anne Warner                 626

COMPLETE INDEX AT THE END OF VOLUME X.

THE BRIEFLESS BARRISTER

A Ballad

BY JOHN G. SAXE

    An attorney was taking a turn,
      In shabby habiliments drest;
    His coat it was shockingly worn,
      And the rust had invested his vest.

    His breeches had suffered a breach,
      His linen and worsted were worse;
    He had scarce a whole crown in his hat,
      And not half a crown in his purse.

    And thus as he wandered along,
      A cheerless and comfortless elf,
    He sought for relief in a song,
      Or complainingly talked to himself:--

    "Unfortunate man that I am!
      I've never a client but grief:
    The case is, I've no case at all,
      And in brief, I've ne'er had a brief!

    "I've waited and waited in vain,
      Expecting an 'opening' to find,
    Where an honest young lawyer might gain
      Some reward for toil of his mind.

    "'Tis not that I'm wanting in law,
      Or lack an intelligent face,
    That others have cases to plead,
      While I have to plead for a case.

    "O, how can a modest young man
      E'er hope for the smallest progression,--
    The profession's already so full
      Of lawyers so full of profession!"

    While thus he was strolling around,
      His eye accidentally fell
    On a very deep hole in the ground,
      And he sighed to himself, "It is well!"

    To curb his emotions, he sat
      On the curbstone the space of a minute,
    Then cried, "Here's an opening at last!"
      And in less than a jiffy was in it!

    Next morning twelve citizens came
      ('Twas the coroner bade them attend),
    To the end that it might be determined
      How the man had determined his end!

    "The man was a lawyer, I hear,"
      Quoth the foreman who sat on the corse.
    "A lawyer? Alas!" said another,
      "Undoubtedly died of remorse!"

    A third said, "He knew the deceased,
      An attorney well versed in the laws,
    And as to the cause of his death,
      'Twas no doubt for the want of a cause."

    The jury decided at length,
      After solemnly weighing the matter,
    That the lawyer was drownded, because
      He could not keep his head above water!

THE TWO HUSBANDS

BY CAROLYN WELLS

Once on a Time there were Two Men, each of whom married the Woman of his Choice. One Man devoted
all his Energies to Getting Rich.

He was so absorbed in Acquiring Wealth that he Worked Night and Day to Accomplish his End.

By this Means he lost his Health, he became a Nervous Wreck, and was so Irritable and Irascible
that his Wife Ceased to live with him and Returned to her Parents' House.

The Other Man made no Efforts to Earn Money, and after he had Spent his own and his Wife's
Fortunes, Poverty Stared them in the Face.

Although his Wife had loved him Fondly, she could not Continue her affection toward One who
could not Support her, so she left him and Returned to her Childhood's Home.

MORALS:

This Fable teaches that the Love of Money is the Root of All Evil, and that When Poverty Comes
In At the Door, Loves Flies Out Of the Window.

THE STORY OF THE TWO FRIARS

BY EUGENE FIELD

It befell in the year 1662, in which same year were many witchcrafts and sorceries, such as
never before had been seen and the like of which will never again, by grace of Heaven, afflict
mankind--in this year it befell that the devil came upon earth to tempt an holy friar, named
Friar Gonsol, being strictly minded to win that righteous vessel of piety unto his evil pleasance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now wit you well that this friar had grievously offended the devil, for of all men then on
earth there was none more holier than he nor none surer to speak and to do sweet charity unto
all his fellows in every place. Therefore it was that the devil was sore wroth at the Friar
Gonsol, being mightily plagued not only by his teachings and his preachings, but also by the
pious works which he continually did do. Right truly the devil knew that by no common temptations
was this friar to be moved, for the which reason did the devil seek in dark and troublous cogitations
to bethink him of some new instrument wherewith he might bedazzle the eyes and ensnare the
understanding of the holy man. On a sudden it came unto the fiend that by no corporeal allurement
would he be able to achieve his miserable end, for that by reason of an abstemious life and
a frugal diet the Friar Gonsol had weaned his body from those frailties and lusts to which
human flesh is by nature of the old Adam within it disposed, and by long-continued vigils and
by earnest devotion and by godly contemplations and by divers proper studies had fixed his
mind and his soul with exceeding steadfastness upon things unto his eternal spiritual welfare
appertaining. Therefore it beliked the devil to devise and to compound a certain little booke
of mighty curious craft, wherewith he might be like to please the Friar Gonsol and, in the
end, to ensnare him in his impious toils. Now this was the way of the devil's thinking, to
wit: This friar shall suspect no evil in the booke, since never before hath the devil tempted
mankind with such an instrument, the common things wherewith the devil tempteth man being (as
all histories show and all theologies teach) fruit and women and other like things pleasing
to the gross and perishable senses. Therefore, argueth the devil, when I shall tempt this friar
with a booke he shall be taken off his guard and shall not know it to be a temptation. And
thereat was the devil exceeding merry and he did laugh full merrily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now presently came this thing of evil unto the friar in the guise of another friar and made
a proper low obeisance unto the same. But the Friar Gonsol was not blinded to the craft of
the devil, for from under the cloak and hood that he wore there did issue the smell of sulphur
and of brimstone which alone the devil hath.

"Beshrew me," quoth the Friar Gonsol, "if the odour in my nostrils be spikenard and not the
fumes of the bottomless pit!"

"Nay, sweet friar," spake the devil full courteously, "the fragrance thou perceivest is of
frankincense and myrrh, for I am of holy orders and I have brought thee a righteous booke,
delectable to look upon and profitable unto the reading."

Then were the eyes of that Friar Gonsol full of bright sparklings and his heart rejoiced with
exceeding joy, for he did set most store, next to his spiritual welfare, by bookes wherein
was food to his beneficial devouring.

"I do require thee," quoth the friar, "to shew me that booke that I may know the name thereof
and discover whereof it treateth."

Then shewed the devil the booke unto the friar, and the friar saw it was an uncut unique of
incalculable value; the height of it was half a cubit and the breadth of it the fourth part
of a cubit and the thickness of it five barleycorns lacking the space of three horsehairs.
This booke contained, within its divers picturings, symbols and similitudes wrought with incomparable
craft, the same being such as in human vanity are called proof before letters, and imprinted
upon India paper; also the booke contained written upon its pages, divers names of them that
had possessed it, all these having in their time been mighty and illustrious personages; but
what seemed most delectable unto the friar was an autographic writing wherein 'twas shewn that
the booke sometime had been given by Venus di Medici to Apollos at Rhodes.

When therefore the Friar Gonsol saw the booke how that it was intituled and imprinted and adorned
and bounden, he knew it to be of vast worth and he was mightily moved to possess it; therefore
he required of the other (that was the devil) that he give unto him an option upon the same
for the space of seven days hence or until such a time as he could inquire concerning the booke
in Lowndes and other such like authorities. But the devil, smiling, quoth: "The booke shall
be yours without price provided only you shall bind yourself to do me a service as I shall
hereafter specify and direct."

Now when the Friar Gonsol heard this compact, he knew for a verity that the devil was indeed
the devil, and but that he sorely wanted the booke he would have driven that impious fiend
straightway from his presence. Howbeit, the devil, promising to visit him again that night,
departed, leaving the friar exceeding heavy in spirit, for he was both assotted upon the booke
to comprehend it and assotted upon the devil to do violence unto him.

It befell that in his doubtings he came unto the Friar Francis, another holy man that by continual
fastings and devotions had made himself an ensample of piety unto all men, and to this sanctified
brother did the Friar Gonsol straightway unfold the story of his temptation and speak fully
of the wondrous booke and of its divers many richnesses.

When that he had heard this narration the Friar Francis made answer in this wise: "Of great
subtility surely is the devil that he hath set this snare for thy feet. Have a care, my brother,
that thou fallest not into the pit which he hath digged for thee! Happy art thou to have come
to me with this thing, elsewise a great mischief might have befallen thee. Now listen to my
words and do as I counsel thee. Have no more to do with this devil; send him to me, or appoint
with him another meeting and I will go in thy stead."

"Nay, nay," cried the Friar Gonsol, "the saints forefend from thee the evil temptation provided
for my especial proving! I should have been reckoned a weak and coward vessel were I to send
thee in my stead to bear the mortifications designed for the trying of my virtues."

"But thou art a younger brother than I," reasoned the Friar Francis softly; "and, firm though
thy resolution may be now, thou art more like than I to be wheedled and bedazzled by these
diabolical wiles and artifices. So let me know where this devil abideth with the booke; I burn
to meet him and to wrest his treasure from his impious possession."

But the Friar Gonsol shook his head and would not hear unto this vicarious sacrifice whereon
the good Friar Francis had set his heart.

"Ah, I see that thou hast little faith in my strength to combat the fiend," quoth the Friar
Francis reproachfully. "Thy trust in me should be greater, for I have done thee full many a
kindly office; or, now I do bethink me, thou art assorted on the booke! Unhappy brother, can
it be that thou dost covet this vain toy, this frivolous bauble, that thou wouldst seek the
devil's companionship anon to compound with Beelzelub? I charge thee, Brother Gonsol, open
thine eyes and see in what a slippery place thou standest."

Now by these argumentations was the Friar Gonsol mightily confounded, and he knew not what to do.

"Come, now, hesitate no longer," quoth the Friar Francis, "but tell me where that devil may
be found--I burn to see and to comprehend the booke--not that I care for the booke, but that
I am grievously tormented to do that devil a sore despight!"

"Odds boddikins," quoth the other friar, "me-seemeth that the booke inciteth thee more than
the devil."

"Thou speakest wrongly," cried the Friar Francis. "Thou mistakest pious zeal for sinful selfishness.
Full wroth am I to hear how that this devil walketh to and fro, using a sweet and precious
booke for the temptation of holy men. Shall so righteous an instrument be employed by the prince
of heretics to so unrighteous an end?"

"Thou sayest wisely," quoth the Friar Gonsol, "and thy words convince me that a battaile must
be made with this devil for that booke. So now I shall go to encounter the fiend!"

"Then by the saints I shall go with thee!" cried the Friar Francis, and he gathered his gown
about his loins right briskly.

But when the Friar Gonsol saw this he made great haste to go alone, and he ran out of the door
full swiftly and fared him where the devil had appointed an appointment with him. Now wit you
well that the Friar Francis did follow close upon his heels, for though his legs were not so
long he was a mighty runner and he was right sound of wind. Therefore was it a pleasant sight
to see these holy men vying with one another to do battle with the devil, and much it repenteth
me that there be some ribald heretics that maintain full enviously that these two saintly friars
did so run not for the devil that they might belabor him, but for the booke that they might
possess it.

It fortuned that the devil was already come to the place where he had appointed the appointment,
and in his hand he had the booke aforesaid. Much marveled he when that he beheld the two friars
faring thence.

"I adjure thee, thou devil," said the Friar Gonsol from afar off, "I adjure thee give me that
booke else I will take thee by thy horns and hoofs and drub thy ribs together!"

"Heed him not, thou devil," said the Friar Francis, "for it is I that am coming to wrestle
with thee and to overcome thee for that booke!"

With such words and many more the two holy friars bore down upon the devil; but the devil thinking
verily that he was about to be beset by the whole church militant stayed not for their coming,
but presently departed out of sight and bore the book with him.

Now many people at that time saw the devil fleeing before the two friars, so that, esteeming
it to be a sign of special grace, these people did ever thereafter acknowledge the friars to
be saints, and unto this day you shall hear of St. Gonsol and St. Francis. Unto this day, too,
doth the devil, with that same booke wherewith he tempted the friar of old, beset and ensnare
men of every age and in all places. Against which devil may Heaven fortify us to do battle
speedily and with successful issuance.

THE GRECO-TROJAN GAME

BY CHARLES F. JOHNSON

    First on the ground appeared the god-like Trojan Eleven,
    Shining in purple and black, with tight and well-fitting sweaters,
    Woven by Andromache in the well-ordered palace of Priam.
    After them came, in goodly array, the players of Hellas,
    Skilled in kicking and blocking and tackling and fooling the umpire.
    All advanced on the field, marked off with white alabaster,
    Level and square and true, at the ends two goal posts erected,
    Richly adorned with silver and gold and carved at the corners,
    Bearing a legend which read, "Don't talk back at the umpire"--
    Rule first given by Zeus, for the guidance of voluble mortals.
    All the rules of the game were deeply cut in the crossbars,
    So that the players might know exactly how to evade them.

    On one side of the field were ranged the Trojan spectators,
    Yelling in composite language their ancient Phrygian war-cry;
    "Ho-hay-toe, Tou-tais-ton, Ton-tain-to; Boomerah Boomerah, Trojans!"
    And on the other, the Greeks, fair-haired, and ready to halloo,
    If occasion should offer and Zeus should grant them a touch-down,
    "Breck-ek kek-kek-koax, Anax andron, Agamemnon!"

    First they agreed on an umpire, the silver-tongued Nestor.
    Long years ago he played end-rush on the Argive eleven;
    He was admitted by all to be an excellent umpire
    Save for the habit he had of making public addresses,
    Tedious, long-winded and dull, and full of minute explanations,
    How they used to play in the days when Cadmus was half-back,
    Or how Hermes could dodge, and Ares and Phoebus could tackle;
    Couched in rhythmical language but not one whit to the purpose.
    On his white hair they carefully placed the sacred tiara,
    Worn by the foot-ball umpires of old as a badge of their office,
    Also to save their heads, in case the players should slug them.
    Then they gave him a spear wherewith to enforce his decisions,
    And to stick in the ground to mark the place to line up to.
    He advanced to the thirty-yard line and began an oration:

    "Listen, Trojans and Greeks! For thirty-five seasons,
    I played foot-ball in Greece with Peleus for half-back and captain.
    Those were the days of old when men played the game as they'd orter.
    Once, I remember, Æacus, the god-like son of Poseidon,
    Kicked the ball from a drop, clean over the city of Argos.
    That was the game when Peleus, our captain, lost all his front teeth;
    Little we cared for teeth or eyes when once we were warmed up.
    Why, I remember that Æacus ran so that no one could see him,
    There was just a long hole in the air and a man at the end on't.
    Hercules umpired that game, and I noticed there wasn't much back-talk."

    Him interrupting, sternly addressed the King Agamemnon:
    "Cease, old man; come off your antediluvian boasting;
    Doubtless our grandpas could all play the game as well as they knew
        how.
    They are all dead, and have long lined up in the fields of elysium;
    If they were here we would wipe up the ground with the rusty old
        duffers.
    You call the game, and keep your eye fixed on the helmeted Hector.
    He'll play off-side all the while, if he thinks the umpire don't see
        him!"
    Then the old man threw the lots, but sore was his heart in his bosom.
    "Troy has the kick-off," he said, "the ball is yours, noble Hector."
    Then he gave him the ball, a prolate spheroid of leather,
    Much like the world in its shape, if the world were lengthened, not
        flattened,
    Covered with well-sewed leather, the well-seasoned hide of a bison,
    Killed by Lakon, the hunter, ere bisons were exterminated.
    On it was painted a battle, a market, a piece of the ocean,
    Horses and cows and nymphs and things too many to mention.

    Then the heroes peeled off their sweaters and put on their nose-guards,
    Also the fiendish expressions the great occasion demanded.
    Ajax stood on the right; in the center the great Agamemnon;
    Diomed crouched on the left, the god-like rusher and tackler,
    Crouched as a panther crouches, if sculptors do justice to panthers.
    Crafty Ulysses played back, for none of the Trojans could pass him,
    All the best Greeks were in line, but Podas Okus Achilleus,
    Who though an excellent kicker stayed all day in his section.

    Hector dribbled the ball, then seized it and putting his head down,
    And, as a lion carries a lamb and jumps over fences--
    Dodging this way and that the shepherds who wish to remonstrate--
    So did the son of Priam carry the ball through the rush line,
    Till he was tackled fair by the full-back, the crafty Ulysses.
    Even then he carried the ball and the son of Laertes
    Full five yards till they fell to the ground with a deep indentation
    Where one might hide three men so that no man could see them--
    Men of the present day, degenerate sons of the heroes--

    Now, when Pallas Athene discovered the Greeks would be beaten,
    She slid down from the steep of Olympus upon a toboggan.
    Sudden she came before crafty Ulysses in guise like a maiden;
    Not that she thought to fool him, but since Olympian fashion
    Made the form of a woman good form for a goddess' assumption.
    She then spoke to him quickly, and said, "O son of Laertes,
    Seize thou the ball; I will pass it to thee and trip up the Trojan."
    Her replying, slowly re-worded the son of Laertes--
    "That will I do, O goddess divine, for he can outrun me."
    Then when the ball was in play, she cast thick darkness around it.
    Also around Ulysses she poured invisible darkness.
    Under this cover, taking the ball he passed down the middle,
    Silent and swift, unseen, unnoticed, unblocked, and untackled.
    Meanwhile she piled the Greeks and the Trojans in conglomeration,
    Much like a tangle of pine-trees where lightning has frequently fallen,
    Or like a basket of lobsters and crabs which the provident housewife
    Dumps on the kitchen floor and vainly endeavors to count them,
    So seemed the legs and the arms and the heads of the twenty-one
        players.
    Sudden a shout arose, for under the crossbar, Ulysses,
    Visible, sat on the ball, quietly making a touch-down;
    On the tip of his nose were his thumb and fingers extended,
    Curved and vibrating slow in the sign of the blameless Egyptians.
    Violent language came to the lips of the helmeted Hector,
    Under his breath he murmured a few familiar quotations,
    Scraps of Phrygian folk-lore about the kingdom of Hades;
    Then he called loud as a trumpet, "I claim foul, Mr. Umpire!"
    "Touch-down for Greece," said Hector; "'twixt you and me and the
        goal-post
    I lost sight of the ball in a very singular manner."

    Then they carried the sphere back to the twenty-five yard line,
    Prone on the ground lay a Greek, the leather was poised in his
        fingers--
    Thrice Agamemnon adjusted the sphere with deliberation;
    Then he drew back as a ram draws back for deadly encounter.

THE ECONOMICAL PAIR

BY CAROLYN WELLS

Once on a Time there was a Man and his Wife who had Different Ideas concerning Family Expenditures.

The Man said: "I am Exceedingly Economical; although I spend Small Sums here and there for
Cigars, Wines, Theater Tickets, and Little Dinners, yet I do not buy me a Yacht or a Villa
at Newport."

But even with these Praiseworthy Principles, it soon Came About that the Man was Bankrupt.

Whereupon he Reproached his Wife, who Answered his Accusations with Surprise.

"Me! My dear!" she exclaimed. "Why, I am Exceedingly Economical. True, I Occasionally buy me
a Set of Sables or a Diamond Tiara, but I am Scrupulously Careful about Small Sums; I Diligently
unknot all Strings that come around Parcels, and Save Them, and I use the Backs of old Envelopes
for Scribbling-Paper. Yet, somehow, my Bank-Account is also Exhausted."

MORALS:

This Fable teaches to Takes Care of the Pence and the Pounds will Take Care of Themselves,
and that we Should Not Be Penny-Wise and Pound-Foolish.

THE TWO PEDESTRIANS

BY CAROLYN WELLS

Once on a time there were two Men, one of whom was a Good Man and the other a Rogue.

The Good Man one day saw a Wretched Drunkard endeavoring to find his way Home.

Being most kind-hearted, the Good Man assisted the Wretched Drunkard to his feet and accompanied
him along the Highway toward his Home.

The Good Man held fast the arm of the Wretched Drunkard, and the result of this was that when
the Wretched Drunkard lurched giddily the Good Man perforce lurched too.

Whereupon, as the Passing Populace saw the pair, they said: "Aha! Another good man gone wrong,"
and they Wisely Wagged their Heads.

Now the Bad Man of this tale, being withal of a shrewd and canny Nature, stood often on a street
corner, and engaged in grave conversation with the Magnates of the town.

To be sure, the Magnates shook him as soon as possible, but in no wise discouraged he cheerfully
sauntered up to another Magnate. Thus did he gain a Reputation of being a friend of the Great.

MORALS:

This Fable teaches us that A Man is known by the Company he Keeps, and that We Must not Judge
by Appearances.

A COMPLAINT OF FRIENDS

BY GAIL HAMILTON

If things would not run into each other so, it would be a thousand times easier and a million
times pleasanter to get on in the world. Let the sheepiness be set on one side and the goatiness
on the other, and immediately you know where you are. It is not necessary to ask that there
be any increase of the one or any diminution of the other, but only that each shall preëmpt
its own territory and stay there. Milk is good, and water is good, but don't set the milk-pail
under the pump. Pleasure softens pain, but pain embitters pleasure; and who would not rather
have his happiness concentrated into one memorable day, that shall gleam and glow through a
lifetime, than have it spread out over a dozen comfortable, commonplace, humdrum forenoons
and afternoons, each one as like the others as two peas in a pod? Since the law of compensation
obtains, I suppose it is the best law for us; but if it had been left with me, I should have
made the clever people rich and handsome, and left poverty and ugliness to the stupid people;
because--don't you see?--the stupid people won't know they are ugly, and won't care if they
are poor, but the clever people will be hampered and tortured. I would have given the good
wives to the good husbands, and made drunken men marry drunken women. Then there would have
been one family exquisitely happy instead of two struggling against misery. I would have made
the rose stem downy, and put all the thorns on the thistles. I would have gouged out the jewel
from the toad's head, and given the peacock the nightingale's voice, and not set everything
so at half and half.

But that is the way it is. We find the world made to our hand. The wise men marry the foolish
virgins, and the splendid virgins marry dolts, and matters in general are so mixed up, that
the choice lies between nice things about spoiled, and vile things that are not so bad after
all, and it is hard to tell sometimes which you like the best, or which you loathe least.

I expect to lose every friend I have in the world by the publication of this paper--except
the dunces who are impaled in it. They will never read it, and if they do, will never suspect
I mean them; while the sensible and true friends, who do me good and not evil all the days
of their lives, will think I am driving at their noble hearts, and will at once fall off and
leave me inconsolable. Still I am going to write it. You must open the safety-valve once in
a while, even if the steam does whiz and shriek, or there will be an explosion, which is fatal,
while the whizzing and shrieking are only disagreeable.

Doubtless friendship has its advantages and its pleasures; doubtless hostility has its isolations
and its revenges; still, if called upon to choose once for all between friends and foes, I
think, on the whole, I should cast my vote for the foes. Twenty enemies will not do you the
mischief of one friend. Enemies you always know where to find. They are in fair and square
perpetual hostility, and you keep your armor on and your sentinels posted; but with friends
you are inveigled into a false security, and, before you know it, your honor, your modesty,
your delicacy are scudding before the gales. Moreover, with your friend you can never make
reprisals. If your enemy attacks you, you can always strike back and hit hard. You are expected
to defend yourself against him to the top of your bent. He is your legal opponent in honorable
warfare. You can pour hot-shot into him with murderous vigor; and the more he writhes, the
better you feel. In fact, it is rather refreshing to measure swords once in a while with such
a one. You like to exert your power and keep yourself in practice. You do not rejoice so much
in overcoming your enemy as in overcoming. If a marble statue could show fight you would just
as soon fight it; but as it can not, you take something that can, and something, besides, that
has had the temerity to attack you, and so has made a lawful target of itself. But against
your friend your hands are tied. He has injured you. He has disgusted you. He has infuriated
you. But it was most Christianly done. You can not hurl a thunderbolt, or pull a trigger, or
lisp a syllable against those amiable monsters who, with tenderest fingers, are sticking pins
all over you. So you shut fast the doors of your lips, and inwardly sigh for a good, stout,
brawny, malignant foe, who, under any and every circumstance, will design you harm, and on
whom you can lavish your lusty blows with a hearty will and a clear conscience.

Your enemy keeps clear of you. He neither grants nor claims favors. He awards you your rights,--no
more, no less,--and demands the same from you. Consequently there is no friction. Your friend,
on the contrary, is continually getting himself tangled up with you "because he is your friend."
I have heard that Shelley was never better pleased than when his associates made free with
his coats, boots, and hats for their own use, and that he appropriated their property in the
same way. Shelley was a poet, and perhaps idealized his friends. He saw them, probably, in
a state of pure intellect. I am not a poet; I look at people in the concrete. The most obvious
thing about my friends is their avoirdupois; and I prefer that they should wear their own cloaks
and suffer me to wear mine. There is no neck in the world that I want my collar to span except
my own. It is very exasperating to me to go to my bookcase and miss a book of which I am in
immediate and pressing need, because an intimate friend has carried it off without asking leave,
on the score of his intimacy. I have not, and do not wish to have, any alliance that shall
abrogate the eighth commandment. A great mistake is lying round loose hereabouts,--a mistake
fatal to many friendships that did run well. The common fallacy is that intimacy dispenses
with the necessity of politeness. The truth is just the opposite of this. The more points of
contact there are, the more danger of friction there is, and the more carefully should people
guard against it. If you see a man only once a month, it is not of so vital importance that
you do not trench on his rights, tastes, or whims. He can bear to be crossed or annoyed occasionally.
If he does not have a very high regard for you, it is comparatively unimportant, because your
paths are generally so diverse. But you and the man with whom you dine every day have it in
your power to make each other exceedingly uncomfortable. A very little dropping will wear away
rock, if it only keep at it. The thing that you would not think of, if it occurred only twice
a year, becomes an intolerable burden when it happens twice a day. This is where husbands and
wives run aground. They take too much for granted. If they would but see that they have something
to gain, something to save, as well as something to enjoy, it would be better for them; but
they proceed on the assumption that their love is an inexhaustible tank, and not a fountain
depending for its supply on the stream that trickles into it. So, for every little annoying
habit, or weakness, or fault, they draw on the tank, without being careful to keep the supply
open, till they awake one morning to find the pump dry, and, instead of love, at best, nothing
but a cold habit of complacence. On the contrary, the more intimate friends become, whether
married or unmarried, the more scrupulously should they strive to repress in themselves everything
annoying, and to cherish both in themselves and each other everything pleasing. While each
should draw on his love to neutralize the faults of his friend, it is suicidal to draw on his
friend's love to neutralize his own faults. Love should be cumulative, since it can not be
stationary. If it does not increase, it decreases. Love, like confidence, is a plant of slow
growth, and of most exotic fragility. It must be constantly and tenderly cherished. Every noxious
and foreign element must be carefully removed from it. All sunshine, and sweet airs, and morning
dews, and evening showers must breathe upon it perpetual fragrance, or it dies into a hideous
and repulsive deformity, fit only to be cast out and trodden under foot of men, while, properly
cultivated, it is a Tree of Life.

Your enemy keeps clear of you, not only in business, but in society. If circumstances thrust
him into contact with you, he is curt and centrifugal. But your friend breaks in upon your
"saintly solitude" with perfect equanimity. He never for a moment harbors a suspicion that
he can intrude, "because he is your friend." So he drops in on his way to the office to chat
half an hour over the latest news. The half-hour isn't much in itself. If it were after dinner,
you wouldn't mind it; but after breakfast every moment "runs itself in golden sands," and the
break in your time crashes a worse break in your temper. "Are you busy?" asks the considerate
wretch, adding insult to injury. What can you do? Say yes, and wound his self-love forever?
But he has a wife and family. You respect their feelings, smile and smile, and are villain
enough to be civil with your lips, and hide the poison of asps under your tongue, till you
have a chance to relieve your o'ercharged heart by shaking your fist in impotent wrath at his
retreating form. You will receive the reward of your hypocrisy, as you richly deserve, for
ten to one he will drop in again when he comes back from his office, and arrest you wandering
in Dreamland in the beautiful twilight. Delighted to find that you are neither reading nor
writing,--the absurd dolt! as if a man weren't at work unless he be wielding a sledge-hammer!--he
will preach out, and prose out, and twaddle out another hour of your golden eventide, "because
he is your friend." You don't care whether he is judge or jury,--whether he talks sense or
nonsense; you don't want him to talk at all. You don't want him there anyway. You want to be
alone. If you don't, why are you sitting there in the deepening twilight? If you wanted him,
couldn't you send for him? Why don't you go out into the drawing-room, where are music and
lights, and gay people? What right have I to suppose, that, because you are not using your
eyes, you are not using your brain? What right have I to set myself up as a judge of the value
of your time, and so rob you of perhaps the most delicious hour in all your day, on pretense
that it is of no use to you?--take a pound of flesh clean out of your heart, and trip on my
smiling way as if I had not earned the gallows?

And what in Heaven's name is the good of all this ceaseless talk? To what purpose are you wearied,
exhausted, dragged out and out to the very extreme of tenuity? A sprightly badinage,--a running
fire of nonsense for half an hour,--a tramp over unfamiliar ground with a familiar guide,--a
discussion of something with somebody who knows all about it, or who, not knowing, wants to
learn from you,--a pleasant interchange of commonplaces with a circle of friends around the
fire, at such hours as you give to society: all this is not only tolerable, but agreeable,--often
positively delightful; but to have an indifferent person, on no score but that of friendship,
break into your sacred presence, and suck your blood through indefinite cycles of time, is
an abomination. If he clatters on an indifferent subject, you can do well enough for fifteen
minutes, buoyed up by the hope that he will presently have a fit, or be sent for, or come to
some kind of an end. But when you gradually open to the conviction that vis inertiæ rules the
hour, and the thing which has been is that which shall be, you wax listless; your chariot-wheels
drive heavily; your end of the pole drags in the mud, and you speedily wallow in unmitigated
disgust. If he broaches a subject on which you have a real and deep living interest, you shrink
from unbosoming yourself to him. You feel that it would be sacrilege. He feels nothing of the
sort. He treads over your heart-strings in his cowhide brogans, and does not see that they
are not whip-cords. He pokes his gold-headed cane in among your treasures, blind to the fact
that you are clutching both arms around them, that no gleam of flashing gold may reveal their
whereabouts to him. You draw yourself up in your shell, projecting a monosyllabic claw occasionally
as a sign of continued vitality; but the pachyderm does not withdraw, and you gradually lower
into an indignation,--smothered, fierce, intense.

Why, why, WHY will people inundate their unfortunate victims with such "weak, washy, everlasting
floods?" Why will they haul everything out into the open day? Why will they make the Holy of
Holies common and unclean? Why will they be so ineffably stupid as not to see that there is
that which speech profanes? Why will they lower their drag-nets into the unfathomable waters,
in the vain attempt to bring up your pearls and gems, whose luster would pale to ashes in the
garish light, whose only sparkle is in the deep sea-soundings? Procul, O procul este, profani!

O, the matchless power of silence! There are words that concentrate in themselves the glory
of a lifetime; but there is a silence that is more precious than they. Speech ripples over
the surface of life, but silence sinks into its depths. Airy pleasantnesses bubble up in airy,
pleasant words. Weak sorrows quaver out their shallow being, and are not. When the heart is
cleft to its core, there is no speech nor language.

Do not now, Messrs. Bores, think to retrieve your character by coming into my house and sitting
mute for two hours. Heaven forbid that your blood should be found on my skirts! but I believe
I shall kill you, if you do. The only reason why I have not laid violent hands on you heretofore
is that your vapid talk has operated as a wire to conduct my electricity to the receptive and
kindly earth; but if you intrude upon my magnetisms without any such life-preserver, your future
in this world is not worth a crossed sixpence. Your silence would break the reed that your
talk but bruised. The only people with whom it is a joy to sit silent are the people with whom
it is a joy to talk. Clear out!

Friendship plays the mischief in the false ideas of constancy which are generated and cherished
in its name, if not by its agency. Your enemies are intense, but temporary. Time wears off
the edge of hostility. It is the alembic in which offenses are dissolved into thin air, and
a calm indifference reigns in their stead. But your friends are expected to be a permanent
arrangement. They are not only a sore evil, but of long continuance. Adhesiveness seems to
be the head and front, the bones and the blood, of their creed. It is not the direction of
the quality, but the quality itself, which they swear by. Only stick, it is no matter what
you stick to. Fall out with a man, and you can kiss and be friends as soon as you like; the
recording angel will set it down on the credit side of his books. Fall in, and you are expected
to stay in, ad infinitum, ad nauseam. No matter what combination of laws got you there, there
you are, and there you must stay, for better, for worse, till merciful death you do part,--or
you are--"fickle." You find a man entertaining for an hour, a week, a concert, a journey, and
presto! you are saddled with him forever. What preposterous absurdity! Do but look at it calmly.
You are thrown into contact with a person, and, as in duty bound, you proceed to fathom him:
for every man is a possible revelation. In the deeps of his soul there may lie unknown worlds
for you. Consequently you proceed at once to experiment on him. It takes a little while to
get your tackle in order. Then the line begins to run off rapidly, and your eager soul cries
out, "Ah! what depth! What perpetual calmness must be down below! What rest is here for all
my tumult! What a grand, vast nature is this!" Surely, surely, you are on the high seas. Surely,
you will not float serenely down the eternities! But by and by there is a kink. You find that,
though the line runs off so fast, it does not go down,--it only floats out. A current has caught
it and bears it on horizontally. It does not sink plumb. You have been deceived. Your grand
Pacific Ocean is nothing but a shallow little brook, that you can ford all the year round,
if it does not utterly dry up in the summer heats, when you want it most; or, at best, it is
a fussy little tormenting river, that won't and can't sail a sloop. What are you going to do
about it? You are going to wind up your lead and line, shoulder your birch canoe, as the old
sea-kings used, and thrid the deep forests, and scale the purple hills, till you come to water
again, when you will unroll your lead and line for another essay. Is that fickleness? What
else can you do? Must you launch your bark on the unquiet stream, against whose pebbly bottom
the keel continually grates and rasps your nerves--simply that your reputation suffer no detriment?
Fickleness? There is no fickleness about it. You were trying an experiment which you had every
right to try. As soon as you were satisfied, you stopped. If you had stopped sooner, you would
have been unsatisfied. If you had stopped later, you would have been dissatisfied. It is a
criminal contempt of the magnificent possibilities of life not to lay hold of "God's occasions
floating by." It is an equally criminal perversion of them to cling tenaciously to what was
only the simulacrum of an occasion. A man will toil many days and nights among the mountains
to find an ingot of gold, which, found, he bears home with infinite pains and just rejoicing;
but he would be a fool who should lade his mules with iron-pyrites to justify his labors, however
severe.

Fickleness! what is it, that we make such an ado about it? And what is constancy, that it commands
such usurious interest? The one is a foible only in its relations. The other is only thus a
virtue. "Fickle as the winds" is our death-seal upon a man; but should we like our winds unfickle?
Would a perpetual northeaster lay us open to perpetual gratitude? or is a soft south gale to
be orisoned and vespered forevermore?

I am tired of this eternal prating of devotion and constancy. It is senseless in itself and
harmful in its tendencies. The dictate of reason is to treat men and women as we do oranges.
Suck all the juice out and then let them go. Where is the good of keeping the peel and pulp-cells
till they get old, dry, and mouldy? Let them go, and they will help feed the earth-worms and
bugs and beetles who can hardly find existence a continued banquet, and fertilize the earth,
which will have you give before you receive. Thus they will ultimately spring up in new and
beautiful shapes. Clung to with constancy, they stain your knife and napkin, impart a bad odor
to your dining-room, and degenerate into something that is neither pleasant to the eye nor
good for food. I believe in a rotation of crops, morally and socially, as well as agriculturally.
When you have taken the measure of a man, when you have sounded him and know that you can not
wade in him more than ankle-deep, when you have got out of him all that he has to yield for
your soul's sustenance and strength, what is the next thing to be done? Obviously, pass him
on; and turn you "to fresh woods and pastures new." Do you work him an injury? By no means.
Friends that are simply glued on, and don't grow out of, are little worth. He has nothing more
for you, nor you for him; but he may be rich in juices wherewithal to nourish the heart of
another man, and their two lives, set together, may have an endosmose and exosmose whose result
shall be richness of soil, grandeur of growth, beauty of foliage, and perfectness of fruit,
while you and he would only have languished into aridity and a stunted crab-tree.

For my part, I desire to sweep off my old friends with the old year, and begin the new with
a clean record. It is a measure absolutely necessary. The snake does not put on his new skin
over the old one. He sloughs off the first, before he dons the second. He would be a very clumsy
serpent, if he did not. One can not have successive layers of friendships any more than the
snake has successive layers of skins. One must adopt some system to guard against a congestion
of the heart from plethora of loves. I go in for the much-abused, fair-weather, skin-deep,
April-shower friends,--the friends who will drop off, if let alone,--who must be kept awake
to be kept at all,--who will talk and laugh with you as long as it suits your respective humors
and you are prosperous and happy,--the blessed butterfly-race, who flutter about your June
mornings, and when the clouds lower, and the drops patter, and the rains descend, and the winds
blow, will spread their gay wings and float gracefully away to sunny, southern lands, where
the skies are yet blue and the breezes violet-scented. They are not only agreeable, but deeply
wise. So long as a man keeps his streamer flying, his sails set, and his hull above water,
it is pleasant to paddle alongside; but when the sails split, the yards crack, and the keel
goes staggering down, by all means paddle off. Why should you be submerged in his whirlpool?
Will he drown any more easily because you are drowning with him? Lung is lung. He dies from
want of air, not from want of sympathy. When a poor fellow sits down among the ashes, the best
thing his friends can do is to stand afar off. Job bore the loss of property, children, health,
with equanimity. Satan himself found his match there; and for all his buffeting, Job sinned
not, nor charged God foolishly. But Job's three friends must needs make an appointment together
to come and mourn with him and to comfort him, and after this Job opened his mouth, and cursed
his day,--and no wonder.

Your friends have an intimate knowledge of you that is astonishing to contemplate. It is not
that they know your affairs, which he who runs may read, but they know you. From a bit of bone,
Cuvier could predicate a whole animal, even to the hide and hair. Such moral naturalists are
your dear five hundred friends. It seems to yourself that you are immeasurably reticent. You
know, of a certainty, that you project only the smallest possible fragment of yourself. You
yield your universality to the bond of common brotherhood; but your individualism--what it
is that makes you you--withdraws itself naturally, involuntarily, inevitably into the background,--the
dim distance which their eyes can not penetrate. But, from the fraction which you do project,
they construct another you, call it by your name, and pass it around for the real, the actual
you. You bristle with jest and laughter and wild whims, to keep them at a distance; and they
fancy this to be your every-day equipment. They think your life holds constant carnival. It
is astonishing what ideas spring up in the heads of sensible people. There are those who assume
that a person can never have had any grief, unless somebody has died, or he has been disappointed
in love,--not knowing that every avenue of joy lies open to the tramp of pain. They see the
flashing coronet on the queen's brow, and they infer a diamond woman, not recking of the human
heart that throbs wildly out of sight. They see the foam-crest on the wave, and picture an
Atlantic Ocean of froth, and not the solemn sea that stands below in eternal equipoise. You
turn to them the luminous crescent of your life, and they call it the whole round globe; and
so they love you with a love that is agate, not pearl, because what they love in you is something
infinitely below the highest. They love you level: they have never scaled your heights nor
fathomed your depths. And when they talk of you as familiarly as if they had taken out your
auricles and ventricles, and turned them inside out, and wrung them, and shaken them,--when
they prate of your transparency and openness, the abandonment with which you draw aside the
curtain and reveal the inmost thoughts of your heart,--you, who are to yourself a miracle and
a mystery, you smile inwardly, and are content. They are on the wrong scent, and you may pursue
your plans in peace. They are indiscriminate and satisfied. They do not know the relation of
what appears to what is. If they chance to skirt along the coasts of your Purple Island, it
will be only chance, and they will not know it. You may close your port-holes, lower your drawbridge,
and make merry, for they will never come within gunshot of the "round tower of your heart."

There is no such thing as knowing a man intimately. Every soul is, for the greater part of
its mortal life, isolated from every other. Whether it dwell in the Garden of Eden or the Desert
of Sahara, it dwells alone. Not only do we jostle against the street crowd unknowing and unknown,
but we go out and come in, we lie down and rise up, with strangers. Jupiter and Neptune sweep
the heavens not more unfamiliar to us than the worlds that circle our own hearthstone. Day
after day, and year after year a person moves by your side; he sits at the same table; he reads
the same books; he kneels in the same church. You know every hair of his head, every trick
of his lips, every tone of his voice; you can tell him far off by his gait. Without seeing
him, you recognize his step, his knock, his laugh. "Know him? Yes, I have known him these twenty
years." No, you don't know him. You know his gait, and hair, and voice. You know what preacher
he hears, what ticket he voted, and what were his last year's expenses; but you don't know
him. He sits quietly in his chair, but he is in the temple. You speak to him; his soul comes
out into the vestibule to answer you, and returns,--and the gates are shut; therein you can
not enter. You were discussing the state of the country; but when you ceased, he opened a postern-gate,
went down a bank, and launched on a sea over whose waters you have no boat to sail, no star
to guide. You have loved and reverenced him. He has been your concrete of truth and nobleness.
Unwittingly you touch a secret spring, and a Blue-Beard chamber stands revealed. You give no
sign; you meet and part as usual; but a Dead Sea rolls between you two forevermore.

It must be so. Not even to the nearest and dearest can one unveil the secret place where his
soul abideth, so that there shall be no more any winding ways or hidden chambers; but to your
indifferent neighbor, what blind alleys, and deep caverns, and inaccessible mountains! To him
who "touches the electric chain wherewith you're darkly bound," your soul sends back an answering
thrill. One little window is opened, and there is short parley. Your ships speak each other
now and then in welcome, though imperfect communication; but immediately you strike out again
into the great, shoreless sea, over which you must sail forever alone.

Be thankful that it is so,--that only His eye sees whose hand formed. If we could look in,
we should be appalled at the vision. The worlds that glide around us are mysteries too high
for us. We can not attain to them. The naked soul is a sight too awful for man to look at and
live. There are individuals whose topography we would like to know a little better, and there
is danger that we crash against each other while roaming around in the dark; but for all that,
would we not have the constitution broken up. Somebody says, "In Heaven there will be no secrets,"
which, it seems to me, would be intolerable. (If that were a revelation from the King of Heaven,
of course I would not speak flippantly of it; but though towards Heaven we look with reverence
and humble hope, I do not know that Tom, Dick and Harry's notions of it have any special claim
to our respect.) Such publicity would destroy all individuality, and undermine the foundations
of society. Clairvoyance--if there be any such thing--always seemed to me a stupid impertinence.
When people pay visits to me, I wish them to come to the front door, and ring the bell, and
send up their names. I don't wish them to climb in at the window, or creep through the pantry,
or, worst of all, float through the key-hole, and catch me in undress. So I believe that in
all worlds thoughts will be the subjects of volition,--more accurately expressed when expression
is desired, but just as entirely suppressed when we will suppression.

After all, perhaps the chief trouble arises from a prevalent confusion of ideas as to what
constitutes a man your friend. Friendship may stand for that peaceful complacence which you
feel towards all well-behaved people who wear clean collars and use tolerable grammar. This
is a very good meaning, if everybody will subscribe to it. But sundry of these well-behaved
people will mistake your civility and complacence for a recognition of special affinity, and
proceed at once to frame an alliance offensive and defensive while the sun and the moon shall
endure. O, the barnacles that cling to your keel in such waters! The inevitable result is,
that they win your intense rancor. You would feel a genial kindliness toward them, if they
would be satisfied with that; but they lay out to be your specialty. They infer your innocent
little inch to be the standard-bearer of twenty ells, and goad you to frenzy. I mean you, you
desperate little horror, who nearly dethroned my reason six years ago! I always meant to have
my revenge, and here I impale you before the public. For three months, you fastened yourself
upon me, and I could not shake you off. What availed it me, that you were an honest and excellent
man? Did I not, twenty times a day, wish you had been a villain, who had insulted me, and I
a Kentucky giant, that I might have the unspeakable satisfaction of knocking you down? But
you added to your crimes virtue. Villainy had no part or lot in you. You were a member of a
church, in good and regular standing; you had graduated with all the honors worth mentioning;
you had not a sin, a vice, or a fault that I knew of; and you were so thoroughly good and repulsive
that you were a great grief to me. Do you think, you dear, disinterested wretch, that I have
forgotten how you were continually putting yourself to horrible inconveniences on my account?
Do you think I am not now filled with remorse for the aversion that rooted itself ineradicably
in my soul, and which now gloats over you, as you stand in the pillory where my own hands have
fastened you? But can nature be crushed forever? Did I not ruin my nerves, and seriously injure
my temper, by the overpowering pressure I laid upon them to keep them quiet when you were by?
Could I not, by the sense of coming ill through all my quivering frame, presage your advent
as exactly as the barometer heralds the approaching storm? Those three months of agony are
little atoned for by this late vengeance; but go in peace!

Mysterious are the ways of friendship. It is not a matter of reason or of choice, but of magnetisms.
You can not always give the premises nor the argument, but the conclusion is a palpable and
stubborn fact. Abana and Pharpar may be broad, and deep, and blue, and grand; but only in Jordan
shall your soul wash and be clean. A thousand brooks are born of the sunshine and the mountains:
very, very few are they whose flow can mingle with yours, and not disturb, but only deepen
and broaden the current.

Your friend! Who shall describe him, or worthily paint what he is to you? No merchant, nor
lawyer, nor farmer, nor statesman claims your suffrage, but a kingly soul. He comes to you
from God,--a prophet, a seer, a revealer. He has a clear vision. His love is reverence. He
goes into the penetralia of your life,--not presumptuously, but with uncovered head, unsandaled
feet, and pours libations at the innermost shrine. His incense is grateful. For him the sunlight
brightens, the skies grow rosy, and all the days are Junes. Wrapped in his love, you float
in a delicious rest, rocked in the bosom of purple, scented waves. Nameless melodies sing themselves
through your heart. A golden glow suffices your atmosphere. A vague, fine ecstasy thrills to
the sources of life, and earth lays hold on Heaven. Such friendship is worship. It elevates
the most trifling services into rites. The humblest offices are sanctified. All things are
baptized into a new name. Duty is lost in joy. Care veils itself in caresses. Drudgery becomes
delight. There is no longer anything menial, small, or servile. All is transformed

    "Into something rich and strange."

The homely household-ways lead through beds of spices and orchards of pomegranates. The daily
toil among your parsnips and carrots is plucking May violets with the dew upon them to meet
the eyes you love upon their first awaking. In the burden and heat of the day you hear the
rustling of summer showers and the whispering of summer winds. Everything is lifted up from
the plane of labor to the plane of love, and a glory spans your life. With your friend, speech
and silence are one; for a communion mysterious and intangible reaches across from heart to
heart. The many dig and delve in your nature with fruitless toil to find the spring of living
water: he only raises his wand, and, obedient to the hidden power, it bends at once to your
secret. Your friendship, though independent of language, gives to it life and light. The mystic
spirit stirs even in commonplaces, and the merest question is an endearment. You are quiet
because your heart is over-full. You talk because it is pleasant, not because you have anything
to say. You weary of terms that are already love-laden, and you go out into the highways and
hedges, and gather up the rough, wild, wilful words, heavy with the hatreds of men, and fill
them to the brim with honey-dew. All things great and small, grand or humble, you press into
your service, force them to do soldier's duty, and your banner over them is love.

With such a friendship, presence alone is happiness; nor is absence wholly void,--for memories,
and hopes, and pleasing fancies, sparkle through the hours, and you know the sunshine will
come back.

For such friendship one is grateful. No matter that it comes unsought, and comes not for the
seeking. You do not discuss the reasonableness of your gratitude. You only know that your whole
being bows with humility and utter thankfulness to him who thus crowns you monarch of all realms.

And the kingdom is everlasting. A weak love dies weakly with the occasion that gave it birth;
but such friendship is born of the gods, and immortal. Clouds and darkness may sweep around
it, but within the cloud the glory lives undimmed. Death has no power over it. Time can not
diminish, nor even dishonor annul it. Its direction may have been earthly, but itself is divine.
You go back into your solitudes: all is silent as aforetime, but you can not forget that a
Voice once resounded there. A Presence filled the valleys and gilded the mountain-tops,--breathed
upon the plains, and they sprang up in lilies and roses,--flashed upon the waters, and they
flowed to spheral melody,--swept through the forests, and they, too, trembled into song. And
though now the warmth has faded out, though the ruddy tints and amber clearness have paled
to ashen hues, though the murmuring melodies are dead, and forest, vale, and hill look hard
and angular in the sharp air, you know that it is not death. The fire is unquenched beneath.
You go your way not disconsolate. There needs but the Victorious Voice. At the touch of the
prince's lips, life shall rise again and be perfected forevermore.

PONCHUS PILUT

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

    Ponchus Pilut used to be
    1st a Slave, an' now he's free.
    Slaves wuz on'y ist before
    The War wuz--an' ain't no more.

    He works on our place fer us,--
    An' comes here--sometimes he does.
    He shocks corn an' shucks it.--An'
    He makes hominy "by han'!"--

    Wunst he bringed us some, one trip,
    Tied up in a piller-slip:
    Pa says, when Ma cooked it, "MY!
    This-here's gooder'n you buy!"

    Ponchus pats fer me an' sings;
    An' he says most funny things!
    Ponchus calls a dish a "deesh"--
    Yes, an' he calls fishes "feesh"!

    When Ma want him eat wiv us
    He says, "'Skuse me--'deed you mus'!--
    Ponchus know good manners, Miss.--
    He aint eat wher' White-folks is!"

    'Lindy takes his dinner out
    Wher' he's workin'--roun' about.--
    Wunst he et his dinner, spread
    In our ole wheel-borry-bed.

    Ponchus Pilut says "'at's not
    His right name,--an' done fergot
    What his sho'-nuff name is now--
    An' don' matter none nohow!"

    Yes, an' Ponchus he'ps Pa, too,
    When our butcherin's to do,
    An' scalds hogs--an' says "Take care
    'Bout it, er you'll set the hair!"

    Yes, an' out in our back-yard
    He he'ps 'Lindy rendur lard;
    An', wite in the fire there, he
    Roast' a pig-tail wunst fer me.--

    An' ist nen th'ole tavurn-bell
    Rung, down town, an' he says "Well!--
    Hear dat! Lan' o' Canaan, Son,
    Aint dat bell say 'Pig-tail done!'

      --'Pig-tail done!
        Go call Son!--
          Tell dat
          Chile dat
        Pig-tail done!'"

THE TWO PRISONERS

BY CAROLYN WELLS

Once upon a time there were two Prisoners at the bar, who endeavored to plead for themselves
with Tact and Wisdom.

One concealed certain Facts prejudicial to his Cause; upon which the Judge said: "If you had
Confessed the Truth it would have Biased me in your Favor; as it is, I Condemn you to Punishment."

The other stated his Case with absolute Truth and Sincerity, concealing Nothing; and the result
was that he was Condemned for his Misdemeanors.

MORALS:

This Fable teaches that Honesty is the Best Policy, and that the Truth should not Be spoken
at All Times.

A MODERN ADVANTAGE

BY CHARLOTTE BECKER

    One morning, when the sun shone bright
      And all the earth was fair,
    I met a little city child,
      Whose ravings rent the air.

    "I lucidly can penetrate
      The Which," I heard him say,--
    "The How is, wonderfully, come
      To clear the limpid way.

    "The sentence, rarely, rose and fell
      From ceiling to the floor;
    Her words were spotlessly arranged,
      She gave me, strangely, more."

    "What troubles you, my little man?"
      I dared to ask him then,--
    He fixed me with a subtle stare,
      And said, "Most clearly, when

    "You see I'm occupied, it's rude
      To question of my aims--
    I'm going to the adverb school
      Of Mr. Henry James!"

THE RAGGEDY MAN

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

    O the Raggedy Man! He works fer Pa;
    An' he's the goodest man ever you saw!
    He comes to our house every day,
    An' waters the horses, an' feeds 'em hay;
    An' he opens the shed--an' we all ist laugh
    When he drives out our little old wobble-ly calf;
    An' nen--ef our hired girl says he can--
    He milks the cow fer 'Lizabuth Ann.--
      Aint he a' awful good Raggedy Man?
        Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!
    An', wite by the pump in our pasture-lot,
    He showed me the hole 'at the Wunks is got,
    'At lives 'way deep in the ground, an' can
    Turn into me, er 'Lizabuth Ann!
    An' nen he laughed at 'Lizabuth Ann,
    An' I says "'M go' to be a Raggedy Man!--
      I'm ist go' to be a nice Raggedy Man!"
        Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!

A MODERN ECLOGUE

BY BLISS CARMAN

SHE

    If you were ferryman at Charon's ford,
    And I came down the bank and called to you,
    Waved you my hand and asked to come aboard,
    And threw you kisses there, what would you do?

    Would there be such a crowd of other girls,
    Pleading and pale and lonely as the sea,
    You'd growl in your old beard, and shake your curls,
    And say there was no room for little me?

    Would you remember each of them in turn?
    Put all your faded fancies in the bow,
    And all the rest before you in the stern,
    And row them out with panic on your brow?

    If I came down and offered you my fare
    And more beside, could you refuse me there?

HE

    If I were ferryman in Charon's place,
    And ran that crazy scow with perilous skill,
    I should be so worn out with keeping trace
    Of gibbering ghosts and bidding them sit still,

    If you should come with daisies in your hands,
    Strewing their petals on the sombre stream,--
    "He will come," and "He won't come," down the lands
    Of pallid reverie and ghostly dream,--

    I would let every clamouring shape stand there,
    And give its shadowy lungs free vent in vain,
    While you with earthly roses in your hair,
    And I grown young at sight of you again,

    Went down the stream once more at half-past seven
    To find some brand-new continent of heaven.

A CABLE-CAR PREACHER

BY SAM WALTER FOSS

I

    "'Tis strange how thoughtless people are,"
      A man said in a cable-car,
    "How careless and how thoughtless," said
      The Loud Man in the cable-car;
      And then the Man with One Lame Leg
      Said softly, "Pardon me, I beg,
    For your valise is on my knee;
      It's sore," said he of One Lame Leg.

II

      A woman then came in with twins
      And stumbled o'er the Loud Man's shins;
    And she was tired half to death,
      This Woman Who Came in with Twins;
      And then the Man with One Lame Leg
      Said, "Madam, take my seat, I beg."
    She sat, with her vociferant Twins,
      And thanked the man of One Lame Leg.

III

      "'Tis strange how selfish people are,
      They carry boorishness so far;
    How selfish, careless, thoughtless," said
      The Loud Man of the cable-car.
      A Man then with the Lung Complaint
      Grew dizzy and began to faint;
    He reeled and swayed from side to side,
      This poor Man with the Lung Complaint.

IV

      The Woman Who Came in with Twins
      Said, "You can hardly keep your pins;
    Pray, take my seat." He sat, and thanked
      The Woman Who Came in with Twins.
      The Loud Man once again began
      To curse the selfishness of man;
    Our lack of manners he bewailed
      With vigor, did this Loud, Loud Man.

V

      But still the Loud Man kept his seat;
      A Blind Man stumbled o'er his feet;
    The Loud Man preached on selfishness,
      And preached, and preached, and kept his seat.
      The poor Man with the Lung Complaint
      Stood up--a brave, heroic saint--
    And to the Blind Man, "Take my seat,"
      Said he who had the Lung Complaint.

VI

      The Loud Man preached on selfish sins;
      The Woman Who Came in with Twins;
    The poor Man with the Lung Complaint,
      Stood, while he preached on selfish sins.
      And still the Man with One Lame Leg
      Stood there on his imperfect peg
    And heard the screed on selfish sins--
      This patient Man with One Lame Leg.

VII

      The Loud Man of the cable-car
      Sat still and preached and traveled far;
    The Blind Man spake no word unto
      The Loud Man of the cable-car.
    The Lame-Legged Man looked reconciled,
      And she with Twins her grief beguiled,
    The poor Man with the Lung Complaint--
      All stood, and sweetly, sadly smiled.

HOW TO KNOW THE WILD ANIMALS

BY CAROLYN WELLS

    If ever you should go by chance
      To jungles in the East,
    And if there should to you advance
      A large and tawny beast--
    If he roar at you as you're dyin',
      You'll know it is the Asian Lion.

    If, when in India loafing round,
      A noble wild beast meets you,
    With dark stripes on a yellow ground,
      Just notice if he eats you.
    This simple rule may help you learn
      The Bengal Tiger to discern.

    When strolling forth, a beast you view
      Whose hide with spots is peppered;
    As soon as it has leapt on you,
      You'll know it is the Leopard.
    'T will do no good to roar with pain,
      He'll only lep and lep again.

    If you are sauntering round your yard,
      And meet a creature there
    Who hugs you very, very hard,
      You'll know it is the Bear.
    If you have any doubt, I guess
      He'll give you just one more caress.

    Whene'er a quadruped you view
      Attached to any tree,
    It may be 'tis the Wanderoo,
      Or yet the Chimpanzee.
    If right side up it may be both,
      If upside down it is the Sloth.

    Though to distinguish beasts of prey
      A novice might nonplus;
    Yet from the Crocodile you may
      Tell the Hyena, thus:
    'Tis the Hyena if it smile;
      If weeping, 'tis the Crocodile.

    The true Chameleon is small--
      A lizard sort of thing;
    He hasn't any ears at all
      And not a single wing.
    If there is nothing on the tree
      'Tis the Chameleon you see.

I REMEMBER, I REMEMBER

BY PHOEBE CARY

    I remember, I remember,
      The house where I was wed,
    And the little room from which that night,
      My smiling bride was led.
    She didn't come a wink too soon,
      Nor make too long a stay;
    But now I often wish her folks
      Had kept the girl away!

    I remember, I remember,
      Her dresses, red and white,
    Her bonnets and her caps and cloaks,--
      They cost an awful sight!
    The "corner lot" on which I built,
      And where my brother met
    At first my wife, one washing-day,--
      That man is single yet!

    I remember, I remember,
      Where I was used to court,
    And thought that all of married life
      Was just such pleasant sport:--
    My spirit flew in feathers then,
      No care was on my brow;
    I scarce could wait to shut the gate,--
      I'm not so anxious now!

    I remember, I remember,
      My dear one's smile and sigh;
    I used to think her tender heart
      Was close against the sky.
    It was a childish ignorance,
      But now it soothes me not
    To know I'm farther off from Heaven
      Then when she wasn't got.

THE COUPON BONDS

BY J.T. TROWBRIDGE

(Mr. and Mrs. Ducklow have secretly purchased bonds with money that should have been given
to their adopted son Reuben, who has sacrificed his health in serving his country as a soldier,
and, going to visit Reuben on the morning of his return home, they hide the bonds under the
carpet of the sitting-room, and leave the house in charge of Taddy, another adopted son.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Ducklow had scarcely turned the corner of the street, when, looking anxiously in the direction
of his homestead, he saw a column of smoke. It was directly over the spot where he knew his
house to be situated. He guessed at a glance what had happened. The frightful catastrophe he
foreboded had befallen. Taddy had set the house afire.

"Them bonds! them bonds!" he exclaimed, distractedly. He did not think so much of the house:
house and furniture were insured; if they were burned the inconvenience would be great indeed,
and at any other time the thought of such an event would have been a sufficient cause for trepidation;
but now his chief, his only anxiety was the bonds. They were not insured. They would be a dead
loss. And, what added sharpness to his pangs, they would be a loss which he must keep a secret,
as he had kept their existence a secret,--a loss which he could not confess, and of which he
could not complain. Had he not just given his neighbors to understand that he had no such property?
And his wife,--was she not at that very moment, if not serving up a lie upon the subject, at
least paring the truth very thin indeed?

"A man would think," observed Ferring, "that Ducklow had some o' them bonds on his hands, and
got scaret, he took such a sudden start. He has, hasn't he, Mrs. Ducklow?"

"Has what?" said Mrs. Ducklow, pretending ignorance.

"Some o' them cowpon bonds. I rather guess he's got some."

"You mean Gov'ment bonds? Ducklow got some? 'Tain't at all likely he'd spec'late in them without
saying something to me about it. No, he couldn't have any without my knowing it, I'm sure."

How demure, how innocent she looked, plying her knitting-needle, and stopping to take up a
stitch! How little at that moment she knew of Ducklow's trouble and its terrible cause!

Ducklow's first impulse was to drive on and endeavor at all hazards to snatch the bonds from
the flames. His next was to return and alarm his neighbors and obtain their assistance. But
a minute's delay might be fatal: so he drove on, screaming, "Fire! fire!" at the top of his voice.

But the old mare was a slow-footed animal; and Ducklow had no whip. He reached forward and
struck her with the reins.

"Git up! git up!--Fire! fire!" screamed Ducklow. "Oh, them bonds! them bonds! Why didn't I
give the money to Reuben? Fire! fire! fire!"

By dint of screaming and slapping, he urged her from a trot into a gallop, which was scarcely
an improvement as to speed, and certainly not as to grace. It was like the gallop of an old
cow. "Why don't ye go 'long?" he cried, despairingly.

Slap! slap! He knocked his own hat off with the loose end of the reins. It fell under the wheels.
He cast one look behind, to satisfy himself that it had been very thoroughly run over and crushed
into the dirt, and left it to its fate.

Slap! slap! "Fire! fire!" Canter, canter, canter! Neighbors looked out of their windows, and,
recognizing Ducklow's wagon and old mare in such an astonishing plight, and Ducklow himself,
without his hat, rising from his seat and reaching forward in wild attitudes, brandishing the
reins, and at the same time rending the azure with yells, thought he must be insane.

He drove to the top of the hill, and, looking beyond, in expectation of seeing his house wrapped
in flames, discovered that the smoke proceeded from a brush-heap which his neighbor Atkins
was burning in a field near by.

The revulsion of feeling that ensued was almost too much for the excitable Ducklow. His strength
went out of him. For a little while there seemed to be nothing left of him but tremor and cold
sweat. Difficult as it had been to get the old mare in motion, it was now even more difficult
to stop her.

"Why, what has got into Ducklow's old mare? She's running away with him! Who ever heard of
such a thing!" And Atkins, watching the ludicrous spectacle from his field, became almost as
weak from laughter as Ducklow was from the effects of fear.

At length Ducklow succeeded in checking the old mare's speed and in turning her about. It was
necessary to drive back for his hat. By this time he could hear a chorus of shouts, "Fire!
fire! fire!" over the hill. He had aroused the neighbors as he passed, and now they were flocking
to extinguish the flames.

"A false alarm! a false alarm!" said Ducklow, looking marvelously sheepish, as he met them.
"Nothing but Atkins's brush-heap!"

"Seems to me you ought to have found that out 'fore you raised all creation with your yells!"
said one hyperbolical fellow. "You looked like the Flying Dutchman! This your hat? I thought
'twas a dead cat in the road. No fire! no fire!"--turning back to his comrades,--"only one
of Ducklow's jokes."

Nevertheless, two or three boys there were who would not be convinced, but continued to leap
up, swing their caps, and scream "Fire!" against all remonstrance. Ducklow did not wait to
enter his explanations, but, turning the old mare about again, drove home amid the laughter
of the by-standers and the screams of the misguided youngsters. As he approached the house,
he met Taddy rushing wildly up the street.

"Thaddeus! Thaddeus! Where ye goin', Thaddeus?"

"Goin' to the fire!" cried Taddy.

"There isn't any fire, boy."

"Yes, there is! Didn't ye hear 'em? They've been yellin' like fury."

"It's nothin' but Atkins's brush."

"That all?" And Taddy appeared very much disappointed. "I thought there was goin' to be some
fun. I wonder who was such a fool as to yell fire just for a darned old brush-heap!"

Ducklow did not inform him.

"I've got to drive over to town and get Reuben's trunk. You stand by the mare while I step
in and brush my hat."

Instead of applying himself at once to the restoration of his beaver, he hastened to the sitting-room,
to see that the bonds were safe.

"Heavens and 'arth!" said Ducklow.

The chair, which had been carefully planted in the spot where they were concealed, had been
removed. Three or four tacks had been taken out, and the carpet pushed from the wall. There
was straw scattered about. Evidently Taddy had been interrupted, in the midst of his ransacking,
by the alarm of fire. Indeed, he was even now creeping into the house to see what notice Ducklow
would take of these evidences of his mischief.

In great trepidation the farmer thrust in his hand here and there, and groped, until he found
the envelope precisely where it had been placed the night before, with the tape tied around
it, which his wife had put on to prevent its contents from slipping out and losing themselves.
Great was the joy of Ducklow. Great also was the wrath of him when he turned and discovered Taddy.

"Didn't I tell you to stand by the old mare?"

"She won't stir," said Taddy, shrinking away again.

"Come here!" And Ducklow grasped him by the collar.

"What have you been doin'? Look at that!"

"'Twan't me!" beginning to whimper and ram his fists into his eyes.

"Don't tell me 'twan't you!" Ducklow shook him till his teeth chattered. "What was you pullin'
up the carpet for?"

"Lost a marble!" sniveled Taddy.

"Lost a marble! Ye didn't lose it under the carpet, did ye? Look at all that straw pulled out!"
shaking him again.

"Didn't know but it might 'a' got under the carpet, marbles roll so," explained Taddy, as soon
as he could get his breath.

"Wal, sir,"--Ducklow administered a resounding box on his ear,--"don't you do such a thing
again, if you lose a million marbles!"

"Hain't got a million!" Taddy wept, rubbing his cheek. "Hain't got but four! Won't ye buy me
some to-day?"

"Go to that mare, and don't you leave her again till I come, or I'll marble ye in a way you
won't like."

Understanding, by this somewhat equivocal form of expression, that flagellation was threatened,
Taddy obeyed, still feeling his smarting and burning ear.

Ducklow was in trouble. What should he do with the bonds? The floor was no place for them after
what had happened; and he remembered too well the experience of yesterday to think for a moment
of carrying them about his person. With unreasonable impatience, his mind reverted to Mrs. Ducklow.

"Why ain't she to home? These women are forever a-gaddin'! I wish Reuben's trunk was in Jericho!"

Thinking of the trunk reminded him of one in the garret, filled with old papers of all sorts,--newspapers,
letters, bills of sale, children's writing-books,--accumulations of the past quarter of a century.
Neither fire nor burglar nor ransacking youngster had ever molested those ancient records during
all those five-and-twenty years. A bright thought struck him.

"I'll slip the bonds down into that worthless heap o' rubbish, where no one 'ull ever think
o' lookin' for 'em, and resk 'em."

Having assured himself that Taddy was standing by the wagon, he paid a hasty visit to the trunk
in the garret, and concealed the envelope, still bound in its band of tape, among the papers.
He then drove away, giving Taddy a final charge to beware of setting anything afire.

He had driven about half a mile, when he met a peddler. There was nothing unusual or alarming
in such a circumstance, surely; but, as Ducklow kept on, it troubled him.

"He'll stop to the house, now, most likely, and want to trade. Findin' nobody but Taddy, there's
no knowin' what he'll be tempted to do. But I ain't a-goin' to worry. I'll defy anybody to
find them bonds. Besides, she may be home by this time. I guess she'll hear of the fire-alarm
and hurry home: it'll be jest like her. She'll be there, and trade with the peddler!" thought
Ducklow, uneasily. Then a frightful fancy possessed him. "She has threatened two or three times
to sell that old trunkful of papers. He'll offer a big price for 'em, and ten to one she'll
let him have 'em. Why didn't I think on't? What a stupid blunderbuss I be!"

As Ducklow thought of it, he felt almost certain that Mrs. Ducklow had returned home, and that
she was bargaining with the peddler at that moment. He fancied her smilingly receiving bright
tin-ware for the old papers; and he could see the tape-tied envelope going into the bag with
the rest. The result was that he turned about and whipped his old mare home again in terrific
haste, to catch the departing peddler.

Arriving, he found the house as he had left it, and Taddy occupied in making a kite-frame.

"Did that peddler stop here?"

"I hain't seen no peddler."

"And hain't yer Ma Ducklow been home, nuther?"

"No."

And, with a guilty look, Taddy put the kite-frame behind him.

Ducklow considered. The peddler had turned up a cross-street: he would probably turn down again
and stop at the house, after all: Mrs. Ducklow might by that time be at home: then the sale
of old papers would be very likely to take place. Ducklow thought of leaving word that he did
not wish any old papers in the house to be sold, but feared lest the request might excite Taddy's
suspicions.

"I don't see no way but for me to take the bonds with me," thought he, with an inward groan.

He accordingly went to the garret, took the envelope out of the trunk, and placed it in the
breast-pocket of his overcoat, to which he pinned it, to prevent it by any chance from getting
out. He used six large, strong pins for the purpose, and was afterwards sorry he did not use seven.

"There's suthin' losin' out o' yer pocket!" bawled Taddy, as he was once more mounting the wagon.

Quick as lightning, Ducklow clapped his hand to his breast. In doing so he loosed his hold
of the wagon-box and fell, raking his shin badly on the wheel.

"Yer side-pocket! It's one o' yer mittens!" said Taddy.

"You rascal! How you scared me!"

Seating himself in the wagon, Ducklow gently pulled up his trousers-leg to look at the bruised
part.

"Got anything in your boot-leg to-day, Pa Ducklow?" asked Taddy, innocently.

"Yes,--a barked shin!--all on your account, too! Go and put that straw back, and fix the carpet;
and don't ye let me hear ye speak of my boot-leg again, or I'll boot-leg ye!"

So saying, Ducklow departed.

Instead of repairing the mischief he had done in the sitting-room, Taddy devoted his time and
talents to the more interesting occupation of constructing his kite-frame. He worked at that
until Mr. Grantly, the minister, driving by, stopped to inquire how the folks were.

"Ain't to home: may I ride?" cried Taddy, all in a breath.

Mr. Grantly was an indulgent old gentleman, fond of children: so he said, "Jump in;" and in
a minute Taddy had scrambled to a seat by his side.

And now occurred a circumstance which Ducklow had foreseen. The alarm of fire had reached Reuben's;
and, although the report of its falseness followed immediately, Mrs. Ducklow's inflammable
fancy was so kindled by it that she could find no comfort in prolonging her visit.

"Mr. Ducklow'll be going for the trunk, and I must go home and see to things, Taddy's such
a fellow for mischief. I can foot it; I shan't mind it."

And off she started, walking herself out of breath in anxiety.

She reached the brow of the hill just in time to see a chaise drive away from her own door.

"Who can that be? I wonder if Taddy's ther' to guard the house! If anything should happen to
them bonds!"

Out of breath as she was, she quickened her pace, and trudged on, flushed, perspiring, panting,
until she reached the house.

"Thaddeus!" she called.

No Taddy answered. She went in. The house was deserted. And, lo! the carpet torn up, and the
bonds abstracted!

Mr. Ducklow never would have made such work, removing the bonds. Then somebody else must have
taken them, she reasoned.

"The man in the chaise!" she exclaimed, or rather made an effort to exclaim, succeeding only
in bringing forth a hoarse, gasping sound. Fear dried up articulation. Vox faucibus hæsit.

And Taddy? He had disappeared, been murdered, perhaps,--or gagged and carried away by the man
in the chaise.

Mrs. Ducklow flew hither and thither (to use a favorite phrase of her own), "like a hen with
her head cut off;" then rushed out of the house and up the street, screaming after the chaise,--

"Murder! murder! Stop thief! stop thief!"

She waved her hands aloft in the air frantically. If she had trudged before, now she trotted,
now she cantered; but, if the cantering of the old mare was fitly likened to that of a cow,
to what thing, to what manner of motion under the sun, shall we liken the cantering of Mrs.
Ducklow? It was original; it was unique; it was prodigious. Now, with her frantically waving
hands, and all her undulating and flapping skirts, she seemed a species of huge, unwieldy bird,
attempting to fly. Then she sank down into a heavy, dragging walk,--breath and strength all
gone,--no voice left even to scream "murder!" Then, the awful realization of the loss of the
bonds once more rushing over her, she started up again. "Half running, half flying, what progress
she made!" Then Atkins's dog saw her, and, naturally mistaking her for a prodigy, came out
at her, bristling up and bounding and barking terrifically.

"Come here!" cried Atkins, following the dog. "What's the matter? What's to pay, Mrs. Ducklow?"

Attempting to speak, the good woman could only pant and wheeze.

"Robbed!" she at last managed to whisper, amid the yelpings of the cur that refused to be silenced.

"Robbed? How? Who?"

"The chaise. Ketch it."

Her gestures expressed more than her words; and, Atkins's horse and wagon, with which he had
been drawing out brush, being in the yard near-by, he ran to them, leaped to the seat, drove
into the road, took Mrs. Ducklow aboard, and set out in vigorous pursuit of the slow two-wheeled
vehicle.

"Stop, you, sir! Stop, you, sir!" shrieked Mrs. Ducklow, having recovered her breath by the
time they came up with the chaise.

It stopped, and Mr. Grantly, the minister, put out his good-natured, surprised face.

"You've robbed my house! You've took--"

Mrs. Ducklow was going on in wild, accusatory accents, when she recognized the benign countenance.

"What do you say? I have robbed you?" he exclaimed, very much astonished.

"No, no! not you! You wouldn't do such a thing!" she stammered forth, while Atkins, who had
laughed himself weak at Mr. Ducklow's plight earlier in the morning, now laughed himself into
a side-ache at Mrs. Ducklow's ludicrous mistake. "But did you--did you stop at my house? Have
you seen our Thaddeus?"

"Here I be, Ma Ducklow!" piped a small voice; and Taddy, who had till then remained hidden,
fearing punishment, peeped out of the chaise from behind the broad back of the minister.

"Taddy! Taddy! how came the carpet--"

"I pulled it up, huntin' for a marble," said Taddy, as she paused, overmastered by her emotions.

"And the--the thing tied up in a brown wrapper?"

"Pa Ducklow took it."

"Ye sure?"

"Yes; I seen him."

"Oh, dear!" said Mrs. Ducklow, "I never was so beat! Mr. Grantly, I hope--excuse me--I didn't
know what I was about! Taddy, you notty boy, what did you leave the house for? Be ye quite
sure yer Pa Ducklow--"

Taddy replied that he was quite sure, as he climbed from the chaise into Atkins's wagon. The
minister smilingly remarked that he hoped she would find no robbery had been committed, and
went his way. Atkins, driving back, and setting her and Taddy down at the Ducklow gate, answered
her embarrassed "Much obleeged to ye," with a sincere "Not at all," considering the fun he
had had a sufficient compensation for his trouble. And thus ended the morning adventures, with
the exception of an unimportant episode, in which Taddy, Mrs. Ducklow, and Mrs. Ducklow's rattan
were the principal actors.

THE SHOOTING-MATCH

BY A.B. LONGSTREET

Shooting-matches are probably nearly coeval with the colonization of Georgia. They are still
common throughout the Southern States, though they are not as common as they were twenty-five
or thirty years ago. Chance led me to one about a year ago. I was traveling in one of the northeastern
counties, when I overtook a swarthy, bright-eyed, smirky little fellow, riding a small pony,
and bearing on his shoulder a long, heavy rifle, which, judging from its looks, I should say
had done service in Morgan's corps.

"Good morning, sir!" said I, reining up my horse as I came beside him.

"How goes it, stranger?" said he, with a tone of independence and self-confidence that awakened
my curiosity to know a little of his character.

"Going driving?" inquired I.

"Not exactly," replied he, surveying my horse with a quizzical smile; "I haven't been a driving
by myself for a year or two; and my nose has got so bad lately, I can't carry a cold trail
without hounds to help me."

Alone, and without hounds as he was, the question was rather a silly one; but it answered the
purpose for which it was put, which was only to draw him into conversation, and I proceeded
to make as decent a retreat as I could.

"I didn't know," said I, "but that you were going to meet the huntsmen, or going to your stand."

"Ah, sure enough," rejoined he, "that mout be a bee, as the old woman said when she killed
a wasp. It seems to me I ought to know you."

"Well, if you ought, why don't you?"

"What mout your name be?"

"It might be anything," said I, with a borrowed wit, for I knew my man and knew what kind of
conversation would please him most.

"Well, what is it, then?"

"It is Hall," said I; "but you know it might as well have been anything else."

"Pretty digging!" said he. "I find you're not the fool I took you to be; so here's to a better
acquaintance with you."

"With all my heart," returned I; "but you must be as clever as I've been, and give me your name."

"To be sure I will, my old coon; take it, take it, and welcome. Anything else about me you'd
like to have?"

"No," said I, "there's nothing else about you worth having."

"Oh, yes there is, stranger! Do you see this?" holding up his ponderous rifle with an ease
that astonished me. "If you will go with me to the shooting-match, and see me knock out the
bull's-eye with her a few times, you'll agree the old Soap-stick's worth something when Billy
Curlew puts his shoulder to her."

This short sentence was replete with information to me. It taught me that my companion was
Billy Curlew; that he was going to a shooting-match; that he called his rifle the Soap-stick,
and that he was very confident of winning beef with her; or, which is nearly, but not quite
the same thing, driving the cross with her.

"Well," said I, "if the shooting-match is not too far out of my way, I'll go to it with pleasure."

"Unless your way lies through the woods from here," said Billy, "it'll not be much out of your
way; for it's only a mile ahead of us, and there is no other road for you to take till you
get there; and as that thing you're riding in ain't well suited to fast traveling among brushy
knobs, I reckon you won't lose much by going by. I reckon you hardly ever was at a shooting-match,
stranger, from the cut of your coat?"

"Oh, yes," returned I, "many a time. I won beef at one when I was hardly old enough to hold
a shot-gun off-hand."

"Children don't go to shooting-matches about here," said he, with a smile of incredulity. "I
never heard of but one that did, and he was a little swinge cat. He was born a shooting, and
killed squirrels before he was weaned."

"Nor did I ever hear of but one," replied I, "and that one was myself."

"And where did you win beef so young, stranger?"

"At Berry Adams's."

"Why, stop, stranger, let me look at you good! Is your name Lyman Hall?"

"The very same," said I.

"Well, dang my buttons, if you ain't the very boy my daddy used to tell me about. I was too
young to recollect you myself; but I've heard daddy talk about you many a time. I believe mammy's
got a neck-handkerchief now that daddy won on your shooting at Collen Reid's store, when you
were hardly knee high. Come along, Lyman, and I'll go my death upon you at the shooting-match,
with the old Soap-stick at your shoulder."

"Ah, Billy," said I, "the old Soap-stick will do much better at your own shoulder. It was my
mother's notion that sent me to the shooting-match at Berry Adams's; and, to tell the honest
truth, it was altogether a chance shot that made me win beef; but that wasn't generally known;
and most everybody believed that I was carried there on account of my skill in shooting; and
my fame was spread far and wide, I well remember. I remember, too, perfectly well, your father's
bet on me at the store. He was at the shooting-match, and nothing could make him believe but
that I was a great shot with a rifle as well as a shot-gun. Bet he would on me, in spite of
all I could say, though I assured him that I had never shot a rifle in my life. It so happened,
too, that there were but two bullets, or, rather, a bullet and a half; and so confident was
your father in my skill, that he made me shoot the half bullet; and, strange to tell, by another
chance shot, I like to have drove the cross and won his bet."

"Now I know you're the very chap, for I heard daddy tell that very thing about the half bullet.
Don't say anything about it, Lyman, and darn my old shoes, if I don't tare the lint off the
boys with you at the shooting-match. They'll never 'spect such a looking man as you are of
knowing anything about a rifle. I'll risk your chance shots."

I soon discovered that the father had eaten sour grapes, and the son's teeth were on edge;
for Billy was just as incorrigibly obstinate in his belief of my dexterity with a rifle as
his father had been before him.

We soon reached the place appointed for the shooting-match. It went by the name of Sims's Cross
Roads, because here two roads intersected each other; and because, from the time that the first
had been laid out, Archibald Sims had resided there. Archibald had been a justice of the peace
in his day (and where is the man of his age in Georgia who has not?); consequently, he was
called 'Squire Sims. It is the custom in this state, when a man has once acquired a title,
civil or military, to force it upon him as long as he lives; hence the countless number of
titled personages who are introduced in these sketches.

We stopped at the 'squire's door. Billy hastily dismounted, gave me the shake of the hand which
he had been reluctantly reserving for a mile back, and, leading me up to the 'squire, thus
introduced me: "Uncle Archy, this is Lyman Hall; and for all you see him in these fine clothes,
he's a swinge cat; a darn sight cleverer fellow than he looks to be. Wait till you see him
lift the old Soap-stick, and draw a bead upon the bull's-eye. You gwine to see fun here to-day.
Don't say nothing about it."

"Well, Mr. Swinge-cat," said the 'squire, "here's to a better acquaintance with you," offering
me his hand.

"How goes it, Uncle Archy?" said I, taking his hand warmly (for I am always free and easy with
those who are so with me; and in this course I rarely fail to please). "How's the old woman?"

"Egad," said the 'squire, chuckling, "there you're too hard for me; for she died two-and-twenty
years ago, and I haven't heard a word from her since."

"What! and you never married again?"

"Never, as God's my judge!" (a solemn asseveration, truly, upon so light a subject.)

"Well, that's not my fault."

"No, nor it's not mine, nither," said the 'squire.

Here we were interrupted by the cry of another Rancey Sniffle. "Hello, here! All you as wish
to put in for the shoot'n'-match, come on here! for the putt'n' in's riddy to begin."

About sixty persons, including mere spectators, had collected; the most of whom were more or
less obedient to the call of Mealy Whitecotton, for that was the name of the self-constituted
commander-in-chief. Some hastened and some loitered, as they desired to be first or last on
the list; for they shoot in the order in which their names are entered.

The beef was not present, nor is it ever upon such occasions; but several of the company had
seen it, who all concurred in the opinion that it was a good beef, and well worth the price
that was set upon it--eleven dollars. A general inquiry ran around, in order to form some opinion
as to the number of shots that would be taken; for, of course, the price of a shot is cheapened
in proportion to the increase of that number. It was soon ascertained that not more than twenty
persons would take chances; but these twenty agreed to take the number of shots, at twenty-five
cents each.

The competitors now began to give in their names; some for one, some for two, three, and a
few for as many as four shots.

Billy Curlew hung back to the last; and when the list was offered him, five shots remained
undisposed of.

"How many shots left?" inquired Billy.

"Five," was the reply.

"Well, I take 'em all. Put down four shots to me, and one to Lyman Hall, paid for by William
Curlew."

I was thunder-struck, not at his proposition to pay for my shot, because I knew that Billy
meant it as a token of friendship, and he would have been hurt if I had refused to let him
do me this favor; but at the unexpected announcement of my name as a competitor for beef, at
least one hundred miles from the place of my residence. I was prepared for a challenge from
Billy to some of his neighbors for a private match upon me; but not for this.

I therefore protested against his putting in for me, and urged every reason to dissuade him
from it that I could, without wounding his feelings.

"Put it down!" said Billy, with the authority of an emperor, and with a look that spoke volumes
intelligible to every by-stander. "Reckon I don't know what I'm about?" Then wheeling off,
and muttering in an under, self-confident tone, "Dang old Roper," continued he, "if he don't
knock that cross to the north corner of creation and back again before a cat can lick her foot."

Had I been king of the cat tribe, they could not have regarded me with more curious attention
than did the whole company from this moment. Every inch of me was examined with the nicest
scrutiny; and some plainly expressed by their looks that they never would have taken me for
such a bite. I saw no alternative but to throw myself upon a third chance shot; for though,
by the rules of the sport, I would have been allowed to shoot by proxy, by all the rules of
good breeding I was bound to shoot in person. It would have been unpardonable to disappoint
the expectations which had been raised on me. Unfortunately, too, for me, the match differed
in one respect from those which I had been in the habit of attending in my younger days. In
olden times the contest was carried on chiefly with shot-guns, a generic term which, in those
days, embraced three descriptions of firearms: Indian-traders (a long, cheap, but sometimes
excellent kind of gun, that mother Britain used to send hither for traffic with the Indians),
the large musket, and the shot-gun, properly so-called. Rifles were, however, always permitted
to compete with them, under equitable restrictions. These were, that they should be fired off-hand,
while the shot-guns were allowed a rest, the distance being equal; or that the distance should
be one hundred yards for a rifle, to sixty for the shot-gun, the mode of firing being equal.

But this was a match of rifles exclusively; and these are by far the most common at this time.

Most of the competitors fire at the same target; which is usually a board from nine inches
to a foot wide, charred on one side as black as it can be made by fire, without impairing materially
the uniformity of its surface; on the darkened side of which is pegged a square piece of white
paper, which is larger or smaller, according to the distance at which it is to be placed from
the marksmen. This is almost invariably sixty yards, and for it the paper is reduced to about
two and a half inches square. Out of the center of it is cut a rhombus of about the width of
an inch, measured diagonally; this is the bull's-eye, or diamond, as the marksmen choose to
call it; in the center of this is the cross. But every man is permitted to fix his target to
his own taste; and accordingly, some remove one-fourth of the paper, cutting from the center
of the square to the two lower corners, so as to leave a large angle opening from the center
downward; while others reduce the angle more or less: but it is rarely the case that all are
not satisfied with one of these figures.

The beef is divided into five prizes, or, as they are commonly termed, five quarters--the hide
and tallow counting as one. For several years after the revolutionary war, a sixth was added:
the lead which was shot in the match. This was the prize of the sixth best shot; and it used
to be carefully extracted from the board or tree in which it was lodged, and afterward remoulded.
But this grew out of the exigency of the times, and has, I believe, been long since abandoned
everywhere.

The three master shots and rivals were Moses Firmby, Larkin Spivey and Billy Curlew; to whom
was added, upon this occasion, by common consent and with awful forebodings, your humble servant.

The target was fixed at an elevation of about three feet from the ground; and the judges (Captain
Turner and 'Squire Porter) took their stands by it, joined by about half the spectators.

The first name on the catalogue was Mealy Whitecotton. Mealy stepped out, rifle in hand, and
toed the mark. His rifle was about three inches longer than himself, and near enough his own
thickness to make the remark of Darby Chislom, as he stepped out, tolerably appropriate: "Here
comes the corn-stalk and the sucker!" said Darby.

"Kiss my foot!" said Mealy. "The way I'll creep into that bull's-eye's a fact."

"You'd better creep into your hind sight," said Darby. Mealy raised and fired.

"A pretty good shot, Mealy!" said one.

"Yes, a blamed good shot!" said a second.

"Well done, Meal!" said a third.

I was rejoiced when one of the company inquired, "Where is it?" for I could hardly believe
they were founding these remarks upon the evidence of their senses.

"Just on the right-hand side of the bull's-eye," was the reply.

I looked with all the power of my eyes, but was unable to discover the least change in the
surface of the paper. Their report, however, was true; so much keener is the vision of a practiced
than an unpracticed eye.

The next in order was Hiram Baugh. Hiram was like some race-horses which I have seen; he was
too good not to contend for every prize, and too good for nothing ever to win one.

"Gentlemen," said he, as he came to the mark, "I don't say that I'll win beef; but if my piece
don't blow, I'll eat the paper, or be mighty apt to do it, if you'll b'lieve my racket. My
powder are not good powder, gentlemen; I bought it thum (from) Zeb Daggett, and gin him three-quarters
of a dollar a pound for it; but it are not what I call good powder, gentlemen; but if old Buck-killer
burns it clear, the boy you call Hiram Baugh eat's paper, or comes mighty near it."

"Well, blaze away," said Mealy, "and be d----d to you, and Zeb Daggett, and your powder, and
Buck-killer, and your powder-horn and shot-pouch to boot! How long you gwine stand thar talking
'fore you shoot?"

"Never mind," said Hiram, "I can talk a little and shoot a little, too, but that's nothin'.
Here goes!"

Hiram assumed the figure of a note of interrogation, took a long sight, and fired.

"I've eat paper," said he, at the crack of the gun, without looking, or seeming to look, toward
the target. "Buck-killer made a clear racket. Where am I, gentlemen?"

"You're just between Mealy and the diamond," was the reply.

"I said I'd eat paper, and I've done it; haven't I, gentlemen?"

"And 'spose you have!" said Mealy, "what do that 'mount to? You'll not win beef, and never did."

"Be that as it mout be, I've beat Meal 'Cotton mighty easy; and the boy you call Hiram Baugh
are able to do it."

"And what do that 'mount to? Who the devil an't able to beat Meal 'Cotton! I don't make no
pretense of bein' nothin' great, no how; but you always makes out as if you were gwine to keep
'em makin' crosses for you constant, and then do nothin' but 'eat paper' at last; and that's
a long way from eatin' beef, 'cordin' to Meal 'Cotton's notions, as you call him."

Simon Stow was now called on.

"Oh, Lord!" exclaimed two or three: "now we have it. It'll take him as long to shoot as it
would take 'Squire Dobbins to run round a track o' land."

"Good-by, boys," said Bob Martin.

"Where are you going, Bob?"

"Going to gather in my crop; I'll be back again though by the time Sime Stow shoots."

Simon was used to all this, and therefore it did not disconcert him in the least. He went off
and brought his own target, and set it up with his own hand.

He then wiped out his rifle, rubbed the pan with his hat, drew a piece of tow through the touch-hole
with his wiper, filled his charger with great care, poured the powder into the rifle with equal
caution, shoved in with his finger the two or three vagrant grains that lodged round the mouth
of his piece, took out a handful of bullets, looked them all over carefully, selected one without
flaw or wrinkle, drew out his patching, found the most even part of it, sprung open the grease-box
in the breech of his rifle; took up just so much grease, distributed it with great equality
over the chosen part of his patching, laid it over the muzzle of his rifle, grease side down,
placed his ball upon it, pressed it a little, then took it up and turned the neck a little
more perpendicularly downward, placed his knife handle on it, just buried it in the mouth of
the rifle, cut off the redundant patching just above the bullet, looked at it, and shook his
head in token that he had cut off too much or too little, no one knew which, sent down the
ball, measured the contents of his gun with his first and second fingers on the protruding
part of the ramrod, shook his head again, to signify there was too much or too little powder,
primed carefully, placed an arched piece of tin over the hind sight to shade it, took his place,
got a friend to hold his hat over the foresight to shade it, took a very long sight, fired,
and didn't even eat the paper.

"My piece was badly loadned," said Simon, when he learned the place of his ball.

"Oh, you didn't take time," said Mealy. "No man can shoot that's in such a hurry as you is.
I'd hardly got to sleep 'fore I heard the crack o' the gun."

The next was Moses Firmby. He was a tall, slim man, of rather sallow complexion; and it is
a singular fact, that though probably no part of the world is more healthy than the mountainous
parts of Georgia, the mountaineers have not generally robust frames or fine complexions: they
are, however, almost inexhaustible by toil.

Moses kept us not long in suspense. His rifle was already charged, and he fixed it upon the
target with a steadiness of nerve and aim that was astonishing to me and alarming to all the
rest. A few seconds, and the report of his rifle broke the deathlike silence which prevailed.

"No great harm done yet," said Spivey, manifestly relieved from anxiety by an event which seemed
to me better calculated to produce despair. Firmby's ball had cut out the lower angle of the
diamond, directly on a right line with the cross.

Three or four followed him without bettering his shot; all of whom, however, with one exception,
"eat the paper."

It now came to Spivey's turn. There was nothing remarkable in his person or manner. He took
his place, lowered his rifle slowly from a perpendicular until it came on a line with the mark,
held it there like a vice for a moment and fired.

"Pretty sevigrous, but nothing killing yet," said Billy Curlew, as he learned the place of
Spivey's ball.

Spivey's ball had just broken the upper angle of the diamond; beating Firmby about half its width.

A few more shots, in which there was nothing remarkable, brought us to Billy Curlew. Billy
stepped out with much confidence, and brought the Soap-stick to an order, while he deliberately
rolled up his shirt sleeves. Had I judged Billy's chance of success from the looks of his gun,
I should have said it was hopeless. The stock of Soap-stick seemed to have been made with a
case-knife; and had it been, the tool would have been but a poor apology for its clumsy appearance.
An auger-hole in the breech served for a grease-box; a cotton string assisted a single screw
in holding on the lock; and the thimbles were made, one of brass, one of iron, and one of tin.

"Where's Lark Spivey's bullet?" called out Billy to the judges, as he finished rolling up his
sleeves.

"About three-quarters of an inch from the cross," was the reply.

"Well, clear the way! the Soap-stick's coming, and she'll be along in there among 'em presently."

Billy now planted himself astraddle, like an inverted V; shot forward his left hip, drew his
body back to an angle of about forty-five degrees with the plane of the horizon, brought his
cheek down close to the breech of old Soap-stick, and fixed her upon the mark with untrembling
hand. His sight was long, and the swelling muscles of his left arm led me to believe that he
was lessening his chance of success with every half second that he kept it burdened with his
ponderous rifle; but it neither flagged nor wavered until Soap-stick made her report.

"Where am I?" said Billy, as the smoke rose from before his eye.

"You've jist touched the cross on the lower side," was the reply of one of the judges.

"I was afraid I was drawing my bead a leetle too fine," said Billy. "Now, Lyman, you see what
the Soap-stick can do. Take her, and show the boys how you used to do when you was a baby."

I begged to reserve my shot to the last; pleading, rather sophistically, that it was, in point
of fact, one of the Billy's shots. My plea was rather indulged than sustained, and the marksmen
who had taken more than one shot commenced the second round. This round was a manifest improvement
upon the first. The cross was driven three times: once by Spivey, once by Firmby, and once
by no less a personage than Mealy Whitecotton, whom chance seemed to favor for this time, merely
that he might retaliate upon Hiram Baugh; and the bull's-eye was disfigured out of all shape.

The third and fourth rounds were shot. Billy discharged his last shot, which left the rights
of parties thus: Billy Curlew first and fourth choice, Spivey second, Firmby third and Whitecotton
fifth. Some of my readers may perhaps be curious to learn how a distinction comes to be made
between several, all of whom drive the cross. The distinction is perfectly natural and equitable.
Threads are stretched from the uneffaced parts of the once intersecting lines, by means of
which the original position of the cross is precisely ascertained. Each bullet-hole being nicely
pegged up as it is made, it is easy to ascertain its circumference. To this I believe they
usually, if not invariably, measure, where none of the balls touch the cross; but if the cross
be driven, they measure from it to the center of the bullet-hole. To make a draw shot, therefore,
between two who drive the cross, it is necessary that the center of both balls should pass
directly through the cross; a thing that very rarely happens.

The Bite alone remained to shoot. Billy wiped out his rifle carefully, loaded her to the top
of his skill, and handed her to me. "Now," said he, "Lyman, draw a fine bead, but not too fine;
for Soap-stick bears up her ball well. Take care and don't touch the trigger until you've got
your bead; for she's spring-trigger'd and goes mighty easy: but you hold her to the place you
want her, and if she don't go there, dang old Roper."

I took hold of Soap-stick, and lapsed immediately into the most hopeless despair. I am sure
I never handled as heavy a gun in all my life. "Why, Billy," said I, "you little mortal, you!
what do you use such a gun as this for?"

"Look at the bull's-eye yonder!" said he.

"True," said I, "but I can't shoot her; it is impossible."

"Go 'long, you old coon!" said Billy; "I see what you're at;" intimating that all this was
merely to make the coming shot the more remarkable. "Daddy's little boy don't shoot anything
but the old Soap-stick here to-day, I know."

The judges, I knew, were becoming impatient, and, withal, my situation was growing more embarrassing
every second; so I e'en resolved to try the Soap-stick without further parley.

I stepped out, and the most intense interest was excited all around me, and it flashed like
electricity around the target, as I judged from the anxious gaze of all in that direction.

Policy dictated that I should fire with a falling rifle, and I adopted this mode; determining
to fire as soon as the sights came on a line with the diamond, bead or no bead. Accordingly,
I commenced lowering old Soap-stick; but, in spite of all my muscular powers, she was strictly
obedient to the laws of gravitation, and came down with a uniformly accelerated velocity. Before
I could arrest her downward flight, she had not only passed the target, but was making rapid
encroachments on my own toes.

"Why, he's the weakest man in the arms I ever seed," said one, in a half whisper.

"It's only his fun," said Billy; "I know him."

"It may be fun," said the other, "but it looks mightily like yearnest to a man up a tree."

I now, of course, determined to reverse the mode of firing, and put forth all my physical energies
to raise Soap-stick to the mark. The effort silenced Billy, and gave tongue to all his companions.
I had just strength enough to master Soap-stick's obstinate proclivity, and, consequently,
my nerves began to exhibit palpable signs of distress with her first imperceptible movement
upward. A trembling commenced in my arms; increased, and extended rapidly to my body and lower
extremities; so that, by the time that I had brought Soap-stick up to the mark, I was shaking
from head to foot, exactly like a man under the continued action of a strong galvanic battery.
In the meantime my friends gave vent to their feelings freely.

"I swear poin' blank," said one, "that man can't shoot."

"He used to shoot well," said another; "but can't now, nor never could."

"You better git away from 'bout that mark!" bawled a third, "for I'll be dod darned if Broadcloth
don't give some of you the dry gripes if you stand too close thare."

"The stranger's got the peedoddles," said a fourth, with humorous gravity.

"If he had bullets enough in his gun, he'd shoot a ring round the bull's-eye big as a spinning
wheel," said a fifth.

As soon as I found that Soap-stick was high enough (for I made no farther use of the sights
than to ascertain this fact), I pulled trigger, and off she went. I have always found that
the most creditable way of relieving myself of derision was to heighten it myself as much as
possible. It is a good plan in all circles, but by far the best which can be adopted among
the plain, rough farmers of the country. Accordingly, I brought old Soap-stick to an order
with an air of triumph; tipped Billy a wink, and observed, "Now, Billy, 's your time to make
your fortune. Bet 'em two to one that I've knocked out the cross."

"No, I'll be dod blamed if I do," said Billy; "but I'll bet you two to one that you hain't
hit the plank."

"Ah, Billy," said I, "I was joking about betting, for I never bet; nor would I have you to
bet: indeed, I do not feel exactly right in shooting for beef; for it is a species of gaming
at last: but I'll say this much: if that cross isn't knocked out, I'll never shoot for beef
again as long as I live."

"By dod," said Mealy Whitecotton, "you'll lose no great things at that."

"Well," said I, "I reckon I know a little about wabbling. Is it possible, Billy, a man who
shoots as well as you do, never practiced shooting with the double wabble? It's the greatest
take in the world when you learn to drive the cross with it. Another sort for getting bets
upon, to the drop-sight, with a single wabble! And the Soap-stick's the very yarn for it."

"Tell you what, stranger," said one, "you're too hard for us all here. We never hearn o' that
sort o' shoot'n' in these parts."

"Well," returned I, "you've seen it now, and I'm the boy that can do it."

The judges were now approaching with the target, and a singular combination of circumstances
had kept all my party in utter ignorance of the result of my shot. Those about the target had
been prepared by Billy Curlew for a great shot from me; their expectations had received assurance
from the courtesy which had been extended to me; and nothing had happened to disappoint them
but the single caution to them against the "dry gripes," which was as likely to have been given
in irony as in earnest; for my agonies under the weight of the Soap-stick were either imperceptible
to them at the distance of sixty yards, or, being visible, were taken as the flourishes of
an expert who wished to "astonish the natives." The other party did not think the direction
of my ball worth the trouble of a question; or if they did, my airs and harangue had put the
thought to flight before it was delivered. Consequently, they were all transfixed with astonishment
when the judges presented the target to them, and gravely observed, "It's only second best,
after all the fuss."

"Second best!" exclaimed I, with uncontrollable transports.

The whole of my party rushed to the target to have the evidence of their senses before they
would believe the report; but most marvelous fortune decreed that it should be true. Their
incredulity and astonishment were most fortunate for me; for they blinded my hearers to the
real feelings with which the exclamation was uttered, and allowed me sufficient time to prepare
myself for making the best use of what I had said before with a very different object.

"Second best!" reiterated I, with an air of despondency, as the company turned from the target
to me. "Second best, only? Here, Billy, my son, take the old Soap-stick; she's a good piece,
but I'm getting too old and dim-sighted to shoot a rifle, especially with the drop-sight and
double wabbles."

"Why, good Lord a'mighty!" said Billy, with a look that baffles all description, "an't you
driv the cross?"

"Oh, driv the cross!" rejoined I, carelessly. "What's that! Just look where my ball is! I do
believe in my soul its center is a full quarter of an inch from the cross. I wanted to lay
the center of the bullet upon the cross, just as if you'd put it there with your fingers."

Several received this palaver with a contemptuous but very appropriate curl of the nose; and
Mealy Whitecotton offered to bet a half pint "that I couldn't do the like again with no sort
o' wabbles, he didn't care what." But I had already fortified myself on this quarter of my
morality. A decided majority, however, were clearly of opinion that I was serious; and they
regarded me as one of the wonders of the world. Billy increased the majority by now coming
out fully with my history, as he had received it from his father; to which I listened with
quite as much astonishment as any other one of his hearers. He begged me to go home with him
for the night, or, as he expressed it, "to go home with him and swap lies that night, and it
shouldn't cost me a cent;" the true reading of which is, that if I would go home with him,
and give him the pleasure of an evening's chat about old times, his house should be as free
to me as my own. But I could not accept his hospitality without retracing five or six miles
of the road which I had already passed, and therefore I declined it.

"Well, if you won't go, what must I tell the old woman for you, for she'll be mighty glad to
hear from the boy that won the silk handkerchief for her, and I expect she'll lick me for not
bringing you home with me."

"Tell her," said I, "that I send her a quarter of beef which I won, as I did the handkerchief,
by nothing in the world but mere good luck."

"Hold your jaw, Lyman!" said Billy; "I an't a gwine to tell the old woman any such lies; for
she's a reg'lar built Meth'dist."

As I turned to depart, "Stop a minute, stranger!" said one: then lowering his voice to a confidential
but distinctly audible tone, "What you offering for?" continued he. I assured him I was not
a candidate for anything; that I had accidentally fallen in with Billy Curlew, who begged me
to come with him to the shooting-match, and, as it lay right on my road, I had stopped. "Oh,"
said he, with a conciliatory nod, "if you're up for anything, you needn't be mealy-mouthed
about it 'fore us boys; for we'll all go in for you here up to the handle."

"Yes," said Billy, "dang old Roper if we don't go our death for you, no matter who offers.
If ever you come out for anything, Lyman, jist let the boys of Upper Hogthief know it, and
they'll go for you to the hilt, against creation, tit or no tit, that's the tatur."

I thanked them, kindly, but repeated my assurances. The reader will not
suppose that the district took its name from the character of the
inhabitants. In almost every county in the state there is some spot or
district which bears a contemptuous appellation, usually derived from
local rivalships, or from a single accidental circumstance.
    And there throughout the livelong day,
    Jemima plays the pi-a-na.
                Do, re, mi,
                Mi, re, do.

    In the front parlor, there it stands,
    And there Jemima plies her hands,
    While her papa beneath his cloak,
    Mutters and groans: "This is no joke!"
    And swears to himself and sighs, alas!
    With sorrowful voice to all who pass.
                Do, re, mi,
                Mi, re, do.

    Through days of death and days of birth
    She plays as if she owned the earth.
    Through every swift vicissitude
    She drums as if it did her good,
    And still she sits from morn till night
    And plunks away with main and might,
                Do, re, mi,
                Mi, re, do.

    In that mansion used to be
    Free-hearted hospitality;
    But that was many years before
    Jemima monkeyed with the score.
    When she began her daily plunk,
    Into their graves the neighbors sunk.
                Do, re, mi,
                Mi, re, do.

    To other worlds they've long since fled,
    All thankful that they're safely dead.
    They stood the racket while alive
    Until Jemima rose at five.
    And then they laid their burdens down,
    And one and all they skipped the town.
                Do, re, mi,
                Mi, re, do.

[Footnote 1: By permission of Life Publishing Company.]

CRANKIDOXOLOGY[2]

BY WALLACE IRWIN

(Being a Mental Attitude from Bernard Pshaw)

    It's wrong to be thoroughly human,
      It's stupid alone to be good,
    And why should the "virtuous" woman
      Continue to do as she should?
      (It's stupid to do as you should!)

    For I'd rather be famous than pleasant,
      I'd rather be rude than polite;
        It's easy to sneer
        When you're witty and queer,
    And I'd rather be Clever than Right.

    I'm bored by mere Shakespeare and Milton,
      Though Hubbard compels me to rave;
    If I should lay laurels to wilt on
      That foggy Shakespearean grave,
      How William would squirm in his grave!

    For I'd rather be Pshaw than be Shakespeare,
      I'd rather be Candid than Wise;
        And the way I amuse
        Is to roundly abuse
    The Public I feign to despise.

    I'm a Socialist, loving my brother
      In quite an original way,
    With my maxim, "Detest One Another"--
      Though, faith, I don't mean what I say.
      (It's beastly to mean what you say!)

    For I'm fonder of talk than of Husbands,
      And I'm fonder of fads than of Wives,
        So I say unto you,
        If you don't as you do
    You will do as you don't all your lives.

    My "Candida's" ruddy as coral,
      With thoughts quite too awfully plain--
    If folks would just call me Immoral
      I'd feel that I'd not lived in vain.
      (It's nasty, this living in vain!)

    For I'd rather be Martyred than Married,
      I'd rather be tempted than tamed,
        And if I had my way
        (At least, so I say)
    All Babes would be labeled, "Unclaimed."

    I'm an epigrammatical Moses,
      Whose humorous tablets of stone
    Condemn affectations and poses--
      Excepting a few of my own.
      (I dote on a few of my own.)

    For my method of booming the market
      When Managers ask for a play
        Is to say on a bluff,
        "I'm so fond of my stuff
    That I don't want it acted--go 'way!"

    I'm the club-ladies' Topic of Topics,
      Where solemn discussions are spent
    In struggles as hot as the tropics,
      Attempting to find what I meant.
     (I never can tell what I meant!)

    For it's fun to make bosh of the Gospel,
      And it's sport to make gospel of Bosh,
        While divorcées hurrah
        For the Sayings of Pshaw
    And his sub-psychological Josh.

"I'll never be able to stand seven sermons," said Miss Wood to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Do you often have these visitations?" Ogden inquired of Judge Henry.

"I'm afeard to be alone!" said the Virginian's voice presently in the next room. "I'm afeard."

"I'm afeard! I'm afeard!

[Footnote 3: Reprinted from Mr. Owen Wister's "The Virginian." Copyright, 1902-1904, by The
Macmillan Company.]

AN APRIL ARIA

BY R.K. MUNKITTRICK

    Now, in the shimmer and sheen that dance on the leaf of the lily,
    Causing the bud to explode, and gilding the poodle's chinchilla,
    Gladys cavorts with the rake, and hitches the string to the lattice,
    While with the trowel she digs, and gladdens the heart of the shanghai.

    Now, while the vine twists about the ribs of the cast-iron Pallas,
    And, on the zephyr afloat, the halcyon soul of the borax
    Blends with the scent of the soap, the brush of the white-washer's
        flying
    E'en as the chicken-hawk flies when ready to light on its quarry.

    Out in the leaf-dappled wood the dainty hepatica's blowing,
    While the fiend hammers the rug from Ispahan, Lynn, or Woonsocket,
    And the grim furnace is out, and over the ash heap and bottles
    Capers the "Billy" in glee, becanning his innermost Billy.

    Now the blue pill is on tap, and likewise the sarsaparilla,
    And on the fence and the barn, quite worthy of S. Botticelli,
    Frisk the lithe leopard and gnu, in malachite, purple, and crimson,
    That we may know at a glance the circus is out on the rampage.

    Put then the flannels away and trot out the old linen duster,
    Pack the bob-sled in the barn, and bring forth the baseball and racket,
    For the spry Spring is on deck, performing her roseate breakdown
    Unto the tune of the van that rattles and bangs on the cobbles.

MEDITATIONS OF A MARINER[4]

BY WALLACE IRWIN

    A-watchin' how the sea behaves
      For hours and hours I sit;
    And I know the sea is full o' waves--
      I've often noticed it.

    For on the deck each starry night
      The wild waves and the tame
    I counts and knows 'em all by sight
      And some of 'em by name.

    And then I thinks a cove like me
      Ain't got no right to roam;
    For I'm homesick when I puts to sea
      And seasick when I'm home.

[Footnote 4: From "Nautical Lays of a Landsman," by Wallace Irwin. Copyright, 1904, by Dodd,
Mead & Co.]

VICTORY[5]

BY TOM MASSON

    I turned to the dictionary
      For a word I couldn't spell,
    And closed the book when I found it
      And dipped my pen in the well.

    Then I thought to myself, "How was it?"
      With a sense of inward pain,
    And still 'twas a little doubtful,
      So I turned to the book again.

    This time I remarked, "How easy!"
      As I muttered each letter o'er,
    But when I got to the inkwell
      'Twas gone, as it went before.

    Then I grabbed that dictionary
      And I sped its pages through,
    And under my nose I put it
      With that doubtful word in view.

    I held it down with my body
      While I gripped that pen quite fast,
    And I howled, as I traced each letter:
      "I've got you now, at last!"

[Footnote 5: Lippincott's Magazine.]

THE FAMILY HORSE

BY FREDERICK S. COZZENS

I have bought me a horse. As I had obtained some skill in the manège during my younger days,
it was a matter of consideration to have a saddle-horse. It surprised me to find good saddle-horses
very abundant soon after my consultation with the stage proprietor upon this topic. There were
strange saddle-horses to sell almost every day. One man was very candid about his horse: he
told me, if his horse had a blemish, he wouldn't wait to be asked about it; he would tell it
right out; and, if a man didn't want him then, he needn't take him. He also proposed to put
him on trial for sixty days, giving his note for the amount paid him for the horse, to be taken
up in case the animal were returned. I asked him what were the principal defects of the horse.
He said he'd been fired once, because they thought he was spavined; but there was no more spavin
to him than there was to a fresh-laid egg--he was as sound as a dollar. I asked him if he would
just state what were the defects of the horse. He answered, that he once had the pink-eye,
and added, "now that's honest." I thought so, but proceeded to question him closely. I asked
him if he had the bots. He said, not a bot. I asked him if he would go. He said he would go
till he dropped down dead; just touch him with a whip, and he'll jump out of his hide. I inquired
how old he was. He answered, just eight years, exactly--some men, he said, wanted to make their
horses younger than they be; he was willing to speak right out, and own up he was eight years.
I asked him if there were any other objections. He said no, except that he was inclined to
be a little gay; "but," he added, "he is so kind, a child can drive him with a thread." I asked
him if he was a good family horse. He replied that no lady that ever drew rein over him would
be willing to part with him. Then I asked him his price. He answered that no man could have
bought him for one hundred dollars a month ago, but now he was willing to sell him for seventy-five,
on account of having a note to pay. This seemed such a very low price, I was about saying I
would take him, when Mrs. Sparrowgrass whispered that I had better see the horse first. I confess
I was a little afraid of losing my bargain by it, but, out of deference to Mrs. S., I did ask
to see the horse before I bought him. He said he would fetch him down. "No man," he added,
"ought to buy a horse unless he's saw him." When the horse came down, it struck me that, whatever
his qualities might be, his personal appearance was against him. One of his fore legs was shaped
like the handle of our punch-ladle, and the remaining three legs, about the fetlock, were slightly
bunchy. Besides, he had no tail to brag of; and his back had a very hollow sweep from his high
haunches to his low shoulder-blades. I was much pleased, however, with the fondness and pride
manifested by his owner, as he held up, by both sides of the bridle, the rather longish head
of his horse, surmounting a neck shaped like a pea-pod, and said, in a sort of triumphant voice,
"three-quarters blood!" Mrs. Sparrowgrass flushed up a little when she asked me if I intended
to purchase that horse, and added, that, if I did, she would never want to ride. So I told
the man he would not suit me. He answered by suddenly throwing himself upon his stomach across
the backbone of his horse, and then, by turning round as on a pivot, got up a-straddle of him;
then he gave his horse a kick in the ribs that caused him to jump out with all his legs, like
a frog, and then off went the spoon-legged animal with a gait that was not a trot, nor yet
precisely pacing. He rode around our grass plot twice, and then pulled his horse's head up
like the cock of a musket. "That," said he, "is time." I replied that he did seem to go pretty
fast. "Pretty fast!" said his owner. "Well, do you know Mr. ----?" mentioning one of the richest
men in our village. I replied that I was acquainted with him. "Well," said he, "you know his
horse?" I replied that I had no personal acquaintance with him. "Well," said he, "he's the
fastest horse in the county--jist so--I'm willin' to admit it. But do you know I offered to
put my horse agin' his to trot? I had no money to put up, or rayther, to spare; but I offered
to trot him, horse agin' horse, and the winner to take both horses, and I tell you--he wouldn't
do it!"

Mrs. Sparrowgrass got a little nervous, and twitched me by the skirt of the coat "Dear," said
she, "let him go." I assured her that I would not buy the horse, and told the man firmly I
would not buy him. He said, very well--if he didn't suit 'twas no use to keep a-talkin': but
he added, he'd be down agin' with another horse, next morning, that belonged to his brother;
and if he didn't suit me, then I didn't want a horse. With this remark he rode off....

"It rains very hard," said Mrs. Sparrowgrass, looking out of the window next morning. Sure
enough, the rain was sweeping broadcast over the country, and the four Sparrowgrassii were
flattening a quartet of noses against the window-panes, believing most faithfully the man would
bring the horse that belonged to his brother, in spite of the elements. It was hoping against
hope; no man having a horse to sell will trot him out in a rainstorm, unless he intend to sell
him at a bargain--but childhood is so credulous! The succeeding morning was bright, however,
and down came the horse. He had been very cleverly groomed, and looked pleasant under the saddle.
The man led him back and forth before the door. "There, 'squire, 's as good a hos as ever stood
on iron." Mrs. Sparrowgrass asked me what he meant by that. I replied, it was a figurative
way of expressing, in horse-talk, that he was as good a horse as ever stood in shoe-leather.
"He's a handsome hos, 'squire," said the man. I replied that he did seem to be a good-looking
animal; but, said I, "he does not quite come up to the description of a horse I have read."
"Whose hos was it?" said he. I replied it was the horse of Adonis. He said he didn't know him;
but, he added, "there is so many hosses stolen, that the descriptions are stuck up now pretty
common."

"'Squire," said he, "that will do for a song, but it ain't no p'ints of a good hos. Trotters
nowadays go in all shapes, big heads and little heads, big eyes and little eyes, short ears
or long ears, thick tail and no tail; so as they have sound legs, good l'in, good barrel, and
good stifle, and wind, 'squire, and speed well, they'll fetch a price. Now, this animal is
what I call a hos, 'squire; he's got the p'ints, he's stylish, he's close-ribbed, a free goer,
kind in harness--single or double--a good feeder." I asked him if being a good feeder was a
desirable quality. He replied it was; "of course," said he, "if your hos is off his feed, he
ain't good for nothin'. But what's the use," he added, "of me tellin' you the p'ints of a good
hos? You're a hos man, 'squire: you know--" "It seems to me," said I, "there is something the
matter with that left eye." "No, sir" said he, and with that he pulled down the horse's head,
and, rapidly crooking his forefinger at the suspected organ, said, "see thar--don't wink a
bit." "But he should wink," I replied. "Not onless his eye are weak," he said. To satisfy myself,
I asked the man to let me take the bridle. He did so, and as soon as I took hold of it, the
horse started off in a remarkable retrograde movement, dragging me with him into my best bed
of hybrid roses. Finding we were trampling down all the best plants, that had cost at auction
from three-and-sixpence to seven shillings apiece, and that the more I pulled, the more he
backed, I finally let him have his own way, and jammed him stern-foremost into our largest
climbing rose that had been all summer prickling itself, in order to look as much like a vegetable
porcupine as possible. This unexpected bit of satire in his rear changed his retrograde movement
to a sidelong bound, by which he flirted off half the pots on the balusters, upsetting my gladioluses
and tuberoses in the pod, and leaving great splashes of mould, geraniums, and red pottery in
the gravel walk. By this time his owner had managed to give him two pretty severe cuts with
the whip, which made him unmanageable, so I let him go. We had a pleasant time catching him
again, when he got among the Lima-bean poles; but his owner led him back with a very self-satisfied
expression. "Playful, ain't he, 'squire?" I replied that I thought he was, and asked him if
it was usual for his horse to play such pranks. He said it was not "You see, 'squire, he feels
his oats, and hain't been out of the stable for a month. Use him, and he's as kind as a kitten."
With that he put his foot in the stirrup, and mounted. The animal really looked very well as
he moved around the grass-plot, and, as Mrs. Sparrowgrass seemed to fancy him, I took a written
guarantee that he was sound, and bought him. What I gave for him is a secret; I have not even
told Mrs. Sparrowgrass....

We had passed Chicken Island, and the famous house with the stone gable and the one stone chimney,
in which General Washington slept, as he made it a point to sleep in every old stone house
in Westchester County, and had gone pretty far on the road, past the cemetery, when Mrs. Sparrowgrass
said suddenly, "Dear, what is the matter with your horse?" As I had been telling the children
all the stories about the river on the way, I managed to get my head pretty well inside of
the carriage, and, at the time she spoke, was keeping a lookout in front with my back. The
remark of Mrs. Sparrowgrass induced me to turn about, and I found the new horse behaving in
a most unaccountable manner. He was going down hill with his nose almost to the ground, running
the wagon first on this side and then on the other. I thought of the remark made by the man,
and turning again to Mrs. Sparrowgrass, said, "Playful, isn't he?" The next moment I heard
something breaking away in front, and then the rockaway gave a lurch and stood still. Upon
examination I found the new horse had tumbled down, broken one shaft, gotten the other through
the check-rein so as to bring his head up with a round turn, and besides had managed to put
one of the traces in a single hitch around his off hind leg. So soon as I had taken all the
young ones and Mrs. Sparrowgrass out of the rockaway, I set to work to liberate the horse,
who was choking very fast with the check-rein. It is unpleasant to get your fishing-line in
a tangle when you are in a hurry for bites, but I never saw fishing-line in such a tangle as
that harness. However, I set to work with a pen-knife, and cut him out in such a way as to
make getting home by our conveyance impossible. When he got up, he was the sleepiest-looking
horse I ever saw. "Mrs. Sparrowgrass," said I, "won't you stay here with the children until
I go to the nearest farm-house?" Mrs. Sparrowgrass replied that she would. Then I took the
horse with me to get him out of the way of the children, and went in search of assistance.
The first thing the new horse did when he got about a quarter of a mile from the scene of the
accident was to tumble down a bank. Fortunately the bank was not over four feet high, but as
I went with him, my trousers were rent in a grievous place. While I was getting the new horse
on his feet again, I saw a colored person approaching, who came to my assistance. The first
thing he did was to pull out a large jack-knife, and the next thing he did was to open the
new horse's mouth and run the blade two or three times inside the new horse's gums. Then the
new horse commenced bleeding. "Dah, sah," said the man, shutting up his jack-knife, "ef 't
hadn't been for dat yer, your hos would a' bin a goner." "What was the matter with him?" said
I. "Oh, he's only jis got de blind-staggers, das all. Say," said he, before I was half indignant
enough at the man who had sold me such an animal, "say, ain't your name Sparrowgrass?" I replied
that my name was Sparrowgrass. "Oh," said he, "I knows you, I brung some fowls once down to
you place. I heerd about you and your hos. Dats de hos dats got de heaves so bad, heh! heh!
You better sell dat hoss." I determined to take his advice, and employed him to lead my purchase
to the nearest place where he would be cared for. Then I went back to the rockaway, but met
Mrs. Sparrowgrass and the children on the road coming to meet me. She had left a man in charge
of the rockaway. When we got to the rockaway we found the man missing, also the whip and one
cushion. We got another person to take charge of the rockaway, and had a pleasant walk home
by moonlight. I think a moonlight night delicious, upon the Hudson.

Does any person want a horse at a low price? A good stylish-looking animal, close-ribbed, good
loin, and good stifle, sound legs, with only the heaves and blind-staggers, and a slight defect
in one of his eyes? If at any time he slips his bridle and gets away, you can always approach
him by getting on his left side. I will also engage to give a written guarantee that he is
sound and kind, signed by the brother of his former owner.

SONNET OF THE LOVABLE LASS AND THE PLETHORIC DAD[6]

BY J.W. FOLEY

    Shee sez shee neavur neavur luvd befoar
    shee saw me passen bi hur paws frunt dore
    wenn shee wuz hangen on the gait ann i
    Lookt foolish att hur wenn ime goen bi.
    Uv korse sheed hadd sum boze butt nun thatt sturd
    hur hart down too itts deppths until shee hurd
    me wissel ann shee saw mi fais. Ann wenn
    shee furst saw mee sheed neavur luv agen
    shee sedd shee noo. ann iff i shunnd hur eye
    sheed be a nunn ann bidd thee wurld good bi.

    How swete itt is wenn munnys on thee throan
    uv life to bee luvd fore ureself aloan
    Ann no thatt u have gott thee powr to stur
    a woomans hart wenn u jusst look att hur.
    ann o itts sweeter still iff u kan no
    hur paw has gott jusst oshuns uv thee doe
    Ann u jusst hav to furnish luv ann hee
    wil furnish munny fore boath u ann shee.
    i wood nott kair iff shee wuz poor butt o
    itts dubley swete too no sheez gott thee doe:

    i wood nott hezzetait iff shee wuz poor
    Too marrie hur. togeathur weed endoor
    wottever forchun sennt with rite good will
    butt sins sheeze rich itts awl thee bettur stil.
    ide luv hur in a cottidge jusst thee saim
    fore luv is such a holey sakerud flaim
    thatt burns like tindur wenn u strike a lite
    butt still itt burns moar gloarious ann brite
    wenn shee has lotts uv munny ann hur paw
    with menny thowsunds is ure fawthernlaw.

[Footnote 6: By permission of Life Publishing Company.]

THE LOVE SONNETS OF A HUSBAND

BY MAURICE SMILEY

I LOVE YOU STILL

    You ask me if I love you still, tho' you
      And I were wed scarce one short happy year
      Agone. How well do I remember, dear,
    The day you put your hand in mine, and through
    Life's good and ill, tho' skies were gray or blue,
      We plighted faith that should not know a fear.
      That was the day I kissed away the tear
    That trembled on your cheek like morning dew.
      Of course I love you--still. You're at your best,
      Your perihelion, when you're silentest.
    I'd love you as I did, dear heart, of yore,
      And still a little more, nor ever tire:
      Why, I would love you like a house afire
    If you were only still a little more.

SOUL TO SOUL

    I think I loved you first when in your eyes
      I saw the glad, rapt answer to the spell
      Of Paderewski, when we heard him tell
    Life's gentler meaning, Love's sweet sacrifice.
    The master caught the rhythm of your sighs
      And then, inspired, the story rose and fell
      And sang of moonlight in a leafy dell,
    Of souls' Arcadias and dreaming skies,
      Of hearts and hopes and purposes that blend.
    Your bosom heaved beneath the witcheries
      That seemed to set a halo on his brow,
      And then the message sobbed on to its end.
      "That's fine," you murmured, chewing faster; "please
      Ask him if he won't play 'Bedelia' now."

YOU SAID THAT YOU WOULD DIE FOR ME

    You said that you would die for me, if e'er
      That price would buy me happiness. I dreamed
      Not of devotion like to that, that seemed
    To joy in sacrifice; that, tenderer
    Than selfish Life's small immolations were,
      Made Love an altar whereupon it deemed
      It naught to offer all; a shrine that gleamed
    With utter loyalty's red drops. I ne'er
      Believed that you were just quite in your head
    In saying death would prove Fidelity.
      But when I saw the packages of white and red
    Your druggist showed me--he's my chum, you see--
      I knew you meant, dear heart, just what you said,
    When you declared that you would dye for me.

I CAN NOT BEAR YOUR SIGHS

    Your smiles, dear one, have all the glad surprise
      The sunshine hath for roses; what the day
      Brings to the waiting lark. When you are gay
    My spirit sings in tune, and sorrow flies
    Away. But, dear, I can not bear your sighs
      When on my knees you nestle and you lay
      Your tear-wet face upon my shoulder. Nay,
    I can not help the pain that fills mine eyes.
    So, love, whatever cup of Life you drain
      I'll stand for. Send the cashier's check to me.
    "Smile" all you want to; smile and smile again.
      But as you weigh two hundred pounds, you see
      Why, when you cuddle down upon my knee,
    It is your size, dear heart, that gives me pain.

A HAND I HELD

    The heartless years have many hopes dispelled.
      But they have left me one dear night in June.
      They've left the still white splendor of the moon.
    They've left the mem'ry of a hand I held,
    While up thro' all my soul the rapture welled
      Of victory. I hear again the croon
      Of twilight time, the lullaby that soon
    To all the day's glad music shall have swelled.
      I hold a hand I never held before,
      A hand like which I'll never hold some more.
    It was the first time I had ever "called."
      'Twas at the club, as we began to leave.
    I held five aces, but the dealer balled
      The ones that he had planted up his sleeve.

YOUR CHEEK

    To feel your hands stray shyly to my head
      And flutter down like birds that find their nest,
      To see the gentle rise and fall of your dear breast,
    To hear again some tender word you said,
    To watch the little feet whose dainty tread
      Fell light as flowers upon the way they pressed,
      To touch again the lips I have caressed--
    All these are precious. But your cheek of red
      Outlives the mem'ry of all other things.
    I'd known you scarce a month, or maybe two;
      I had not yet made up my mind to speak,
      You trots out Tifny's catalogue of rings;
    Says No. 6 (200 yen) will do.
      So I remember best of all your cheek.

WITH ALL YOUR FAULTS

    You would not stop this side the farthest line
      Of Truth, you said, nor hide one little falsity
      From my sweet faith that was too kind to see.
    You said a keener vision would divine
    All failings later, bare each hid design,
      Each poor disguise of loving's treachery
      That screened its weaknesses from even me.
    How oft you said those cherry lips were mine
      Alone. The cherries came in little jars,
    I learned. Those auburn locks, I found with pain,
      Cost forty plunks, according to the bill
    I saw. Those pearly teeth were porcelain.
      But I forgive you for each fault that mars.
      With all your faults, dear heart, I love you still.

HOW WE BOUGHT A SEWIN' MACHINE AND ORGAN

BY JOSIAH ALLEN'S WIFE

We done dretful well last year. The crops come in first-rate, and Josiah had five or six heads
of cattle to turn off at a big price. He felt well, and he proposed to me that I should have
a sewin' machine. That man,--though he don't coo at me so frequent as he probable would if
he had more encouragement in it, is attached to me with a devotedness that is firm and almost
cast-iron, and says he, almost tenderly: "Samantha, I will get you a sewin' machine."

Says I, "Josiah, I have got a couple of sewin' machines by me that have run pretty well for
upwards of--well it haint necessary to go into particulars, but they have run for considerable
of a spell anyway"--says I, "I can git along without another one, though no doubt it would
be handy to have round."

But Josiah hung onto that machine. And then he up and said he was goin' to buy a organ. Thomas
Jefferson wanted one too. They both seemed sot onto that organ. Tirzah Ann took hern with her
of course when she was married, and Josiah said it seemed so awful lonesome without any Tirzah
Ann or any music, that it seemed almost as if two girls had married out of the family instead
of one. He said money couldn't buy us another Tirzah Ann, but it would buy us a new organ,
and he was determined to have one. He said it would be so handy for her to play on when she
came home, and for other company. And then Thomas J. can play quite well; he can play any tune,
almost, with one hand, and he sings first-rate, too. He and Tirzah Ann used to sing together
a sight; he sings bearatone, and she sulfireno--that is what they call it. They git up so many
new-fangled names nowadays, that I think it is most a wonder that I don't make a slip once
in a while and git things wrong. I should, if I hadn't got a mind like a ox for strength.

But as I said, Josiah was fairly sot on that machine and organ, and I thought I'd let him have
his way. So it got out that we was goin' to buy a sewin' machine, and a organ. Well, we made
up our minds on Friday, pretty late in the afternoon, and on Monday forenoon I was a washin',
when I heard a knock at the front door, and I wrung my hands out of the water and went and
opened it. A slick lookin' feller stood there, and I invited him in and sot him a chair.

"I hear you are talkin' about buyin' a musical instrument," says he.

"No," says I, "we are goin' to buy a organ."

"Well," says he, "I want to advise you, not that I have any interest in it at all, only I don't
want to see you so imposed upon. It fairly makes me mad to see a Methodist imposed upon; I
lean towards that perswasion myself. Organs are liable to fall to pieces any minute. There
haint no dependence on 'em at all, the insides of 'em are liable to break out at any time.
If you have any regard for your own welfare and safety, you will buy a piano. Not that I have
any interest in advising you, only my devotion to the cause of Right; pianos never wear out."

"Where should we git one?" says I, for I didn't want Josiah to throw away his property.

"Well," says he, "as it happens, I guess I have got one out here in the wagon. I believe I
threw one into the bottom of the wagon this mornin', as I was a comin' down by here on business.
I am glad now I did, for it always makes me feel ugly to see a Methodist imposed upon."

Josiah came into the house in a few minutes, and I told him about it, and says I:

"How lucky it is Josiah, that we found out about organs before it was too late."

But Josiah asked the price, and said he wasn't goin' to pay out no three hundred dollars, for
he wasn't able. But the man asked if we was willin' to have it brought into the house for a
spell--we could do as we was a mind to about buyin' it; and of course we couldn't refuse, so
Josiah most broke his back a liftin' it in, and they set it up in the parlor, and after dinner
the man went away.

Josiah bathed his back with linement, for he had strained it bad a liftin' that piano, and
I had jest got back to my washin' again (I had had to put it away to git dinner) when I heerd
a knockin' again to the front door, and I pulled down my dress sleeves and went and opened
it, and there stood a tall, slim feller; and the kitchen bein' all cluttered up I opened the
parlor door and asked him in there, and the minute he catched sight of that piano, he jest
lifted up both hands, and says he:

"You haint got one of them here!"

He looked so horrified that it skairt me, and says I in almost tremblin' tones:

"What is the matter with 'em?" And I added in a cheerful tone, "we haint bought it."

He looked more cheerful too as I said it, and says he "You may be thankful enough that you
haint. There haint no music in 'em at all; hear that," says he, goin' up and strikin' the very
top note. It did sound flat enough.

Says I, "There must be more music in it than that, though I haint no judge at all."

"Well, hear that, then," and he went and struck the very bottom note. "You see just what it
is, from top to bottom. But it haint its total lack of music that makes me despise pianos so,
it is because they are so dangerous."

"Dangerous?" says I.

"Yes, in thunder storms, you see;" says he, liftin' up the cover, "here it is all wire, enough
for fifty lightnin' rods--draw the lightnin' right into the room. Awful dangerous! No money
would tempt me to have one in my house with my wife and daughter. I shouldn't sleep a wink
thinkin' I had exposed 'em to such danger."

"Good land!" says I, "I never thought on it before."

"Well, now you have thought of it, you see plainly that a organ is jest what you need. They
are full of music, safe, healthy and don't cost half so much."

Says I, "A organ was what we had sot our minds on at first."

"Well, I have got one out here, and I will bring it in."

"What is the price?" says I.

"One hundred and ninety dollars," says he.

"There won't be no need of bringin' it in at that price," says I, "for I have heerd Josiah
say, that he wouldn't give a cent over a hundred dollars."

"Well," says the feller, "I'll tell you what I'll do. Your countenance looks so kinder natural
to me, and I like the looks of the country round here so well, that if your mind is made up
on the price you want to pay, I won't let a trifle of ninety dollars part us. You can have
it for one hundred."

Well, the end on't was, he brung it in and sot it up the other end of the parlor, and drove
off. And when Josiah come in from his work, and Thomas J. come home from Jonesville, they liked
it first rate.

But the very next day, a new agent come, and he looked awful skairt when he katched sight of
that organ, and real mad and indignant too.

"That villain haint been a tryin' to get one of them organs off onto you, has he?" says he.

"What is the trouble with 'em?" says I, in a awestruck tone, for he looked bad.

"Why," says he, "there is a heavy mortgage on every one of his organs. If you bought one of
him, and paid for it, it would be liable to be took away from you any minute when you was right
in the middle of a tune, leavin' you a settin' on the stool; and you would lose every cent
of your money."

"Good gracious!" says I, for it skairt me to think what a narrow chance we had run. Well, finally,
he brung in one of hisen, and sot it up in the kitchen, the parlor bein' full on 'em.

And the fellers kep' a comin' and a goin' at all hours. For a spell, at first, Josiah would
come in and talk with 'em, but after a while he got tired out, and when he would see one a
comin' he would start on a run for the barn, and hide, and I would have to stand the brunt
of it alone. One feller see Josiah a runnin' for the barn, and he follered him in, and Josiah
dove under the barn, as I found out afterwards. I happened to see him a crawlin' out after
the feller drove off. Josiah come in a shakin' himself--for he was all covered with straw and
feathers--and says he:

"Samantha there has got to be a change."

"How is there goin' to be a change?" says I.

"I'll tell you," says he, in a whisper--for fear some on 'em was prowlin' round the house yet--"we
will git up before light to-morrow mornin', and go to Jonesville and buy a organ right out."

I fell in with the idee, and we started for Jonesville the next mornin'. We got there jest
after the break of day, and bought it of the man to the breakfast table. Says Josiah to me
afterwards, as we was goin' down into the village:

"Let's keep dark about buyin' one, and see how many of the creeters will be a besettin' on
us to-day."

So we kep' still, and there was half a dozen fellers follerin' us round all the time a most,
into stores and groceries and the manty makers, and they would stop us on the sidewalk and
argue with us about their organs and pianos. One feller, a tall slim chap, never let Josiah
out of his sight a minute; and he follered him when he went after his horse, and walked by
the side of the wagon clear down to the store where I was, a arguin' all the way about his
piano. Josiah had bought a number of things and left 'em to the store, and when we got there,
there stood the organ man by the side of the things, jest like a watch dog. He knew Josiah
would come and git 'em, and he could git the last word with him.

Amongst other things, Josiah had bought a barrel of salt, and the piano feller that had stuck
to Josiah so tight that day, offered to help him on with it. And the organ man--not goin' to
be outdone by the other--he offered too. Josiah kinder winked to me, and then he held the old
mare, and let 'em lift. They wasn't used to such kind of work, and it fell back on 'em once
or twice, and most squashed 'em; but they nipped to, and lifted again, and finally got it on;
but they was completely tuckered out.

And then Josiah got in, and thanked 'em for the liftin'; and the organ man, a wipin' the sweat
offen his face--that had started out in his hard labor--said he should be down to-morrow mornin';
and the piano man, a pantin' for breath, told Josiah not to make up his mind till he came;
he should be down that night if he got rested enough.

And then Josiah told 'em that he should be glad to see 'em down a visitin' any time, but he
had jest bought a organ.

I don't know but what they would have laid holt of Josiah, if they hadn't been so tuckered
out; but as it was, they was too beat out to look anything but sneakin'; and so we drove off.

The manty maker had told me that day, that there was two or three new agents with new kinds
of sewin' machines jest come to Jonesville, and I was tellin' Josiah on it, when we met a middle-aged
man, and he looked at us pretty close, and finally he asked us as he passed by, if we could
tell him where Josiah Allen lived.

Says Josiah, "I'm livin' at present in a Democrat."

Says I, "In this one-horse wagon, you know."

Says he, "You are thinkin' of buyin' a sewin' machine, haint you?"

Says Josiah, "I am a turnin' my mind that way."

At that, the man turned his horse round, and follered us, and I see he had a sewin' machine
in front of his wagon. We had the old mare and the colt, and seein' a strange horse come up
so close behind us, the colt started off full run towards Jonesville, and then run down a cross-road
and into a lot.

Says the man behind us, "I am a little younger than you be, Mr. Allen; if you will hold my
horse I will go after the colt with pleasure."

Josiah was glad enough, and so he got into the feller's wagon; but before he started off, the
man, says he:

"You can look at that machine in front of you while I am gone. I tell you frankly, that there
haint another machine equal to it in America; it requires no strength at all; infants can run
it for days at a time; or idiots; if anybody knows enough to set and whistle, they can run
this machine; and it's especially adapted to the blind--blind people can run it jest as well
as them that can see. A blind woman last year, in one day, made 43 dollars a makin' leather
aprons; stitched them all round the age two rows. She made two dozen of 'em, and then she made
four dozen gauze veils the same day, without changin' the needle. That is one of the beauties
of the machine, its goin' from leather to lace, and back again, without changin' the needle.
It is so tryin' for wimmen, every time they want to go from leather to gauze and book muslin,
to have to change the needle; but you can see for yourself that it haint got its equal in North
America."

He heerd the colt whinner, and Josiah stood up in the wagon, and looked after it. So he started
off down the cross road.

And we sot there, feelin' considerable like a procession; Josiah holdin' the stranger's horse,
and I the old mare; and as we sot there, up driv another slick lookin' chap, and I bein' ahead,
he spoke to me, and says he:

"Can you direct me, mom, to Josiah Allen's house?"

"It is about a mile from here," and I added in a friendly tone, "Josiah is my husband."

"Is he?" says he, in a genteel tone.

"Yes," says I, "we have been to Jonesville, and our colt run down that cross road, and--"

"I see," says he interruptin' of me, "I see how it is." And then he went on in a lower tone,
"If you think of buyin' a sewin' machine, don't git one of that feller in the wagon behind
you--I know him well; he is one of the most worthless shacks in the country, as you can plainly
see by the looks of his countenance. If I ever see a face in which knave and villain is wrote
down, it is on hisen. Any one with half an eye can see that he would cheat his grandmother
out of her snuff handkerchief, if he got a chance."

He talked so fast that I couldn't git a chance to put in a word age ways for Josiah.

"His sewin' machines are utterly worthless; he haint never sold one yet; he cant. His character
has got out--folks know him. There was a lady tellin' me the other day that her machine she
bought of him, all fell to pieces in less than twenty-four hours after she bought it; fell
onto her infant, a sweet little babe, and crippled it for life. I see your husband is havin'
a hard time of it with that colt. I will jest hitch my horse here to the fence, and go down
and help him; I want to have a little talk with him before he comes back here." So he started
off on the run.

I told Josiah what he said about him, for it madded me, but Josiah took it cool. He seemed
to love to set there and see them two men run. I never did see a colt act as that one did;
they didn't have time to pass a word with each other, to find out their mistake, it kep' 'em
so on a keen run. They would git it headed towards us, and then it would kick up its heels,
and run into some lot, and canter round in a circle with its head up in the air, and then bring
up short ag'inst the fence; and then they would leap over the fence. The first one had white
pantaloons on, but he didn't mind 'em; over he would go, right into sikuta or elderbushes,
and they would wave their hats at it, and holler, and whistle, and bark like dogs, and the
colt would whinner and start off again right the wrong way, and them two men would go a pantin'
after it. They had been a runnin' nigh onto half an hour, when a good lookin' young feller
come along, and seein' me a settin' still and holdin' the old mare, he up and says:

"Are you in any trouble that I can assist you?"

Says I, "We are goin' home from Jonesville, Josiah and me, and our colt got away and--"

But Josiah interrupted me, and says he, "And them two fools a caperin' after it, are sewin'
machine agents."

The good lookin' chap see all through it in a minute, and he broke out into a laugh it would
have done your soul good to hear, it was so clear and hearty, and honest. But he didn't say
a word; he drove out to go by us, and we see then that he had a sewin' machine in the buggy.

"Are you a agent?" says Josiah.

"Yes," says he.

"What sort of a machine is this here?" says Josiah, liftin' up the cloth from the machine in
front of him.

"A pretty good one," says the feller, lookin' at the name on it.

"Is yours as good?" says Josiah.

"I think it is better," says he. And then he started up his horse.

"Hello! stop!" says Josiah.

The feller stopped.

"Why don't you run down other fellers' machines, and beset us to buy yourn?"

"Because I don't make a practice of stoppin' people on the street."

"Do you haunt folks day and night; foller 'em up ladders, through trap-doors, down sullers,
and under barns?"

"No," says the young chap, "I show people how my machine works; if they want it, I sell it;
and if they don't, I leave."

"How much is your machine?" says Josiah.

"75 dollars."

"Can't you," says Josiah, "because I look so much like your old father, or because I am a Methodist,
or because my wife's mother used to live neighbor to your grandmother--let me have it for 25
dollars?"

The feller got up on his wagon, and turned his machine round so we could see it plain--it was
a beauty--and says he:

"You see this machine, sir; I think it is the best one made, although there is no great difference
between this and the one over there; but I think what difference there is, is in this one's
favor. You can have it for 75 dollars if you want it; if not, I will drive on."

"How do you like the looks on it, Samantha?"

Says I, "It is the kind I wanted to git."

Josiah took out his wallet, and counted out 75 dollars, and says he:

"Put that machine into that wagon where Samantha is."

The good lookin' feller was jest liftin' of it in, and countin' over his money, when the two
fellers come up with the colt. It seemed that they had had a explanation as they was comin'
back; I see they had as quick as I catched sight on 'em, for they was a walkin' one on one
side of the road, and the other on the other, most tight up to the fence. They was most dead
the colt had run 'em so, and it did seem as if their faces couldn't look no redder nor more
madder than they did as we catched sight on 'em and Josiah thanked 'em for drivin' back the
colt; but when they see that the other feller had sold us a machine, their faces did look redder
and madder.

But I didn't care a mite; we drove off tickled enough that we had got through with our sufferin's
with agents. And the colt had got so beat out a runnin' and racin', that he drove home first-rate,
walkin' along by the old mare as stiddy as a deacon.

CHEER FOR THE CONSUMER

BY NIXON WATERMAN

    I'm only a consumer, and it really doesn't matter
    If you crowd me in the street cars till I couldn't well be flatter;
    I'm only a consumer, and the strikers may go striking,
    For it's mine to end my living if it isn't to my liking.
    I am a sort of parasite without a special mission
    Except to pay the damages--mine is a queer position:
    The Fates unite to squeeze me till I couldn't well be flatter,
    For I'm only a consumer, and it really doesn't matter.

    The baker tilts the price of bread upon the vaguest rumor
    Of damage to the wheat crop, but I'm only a consumer,
    So it really doesn't matter, for there's no law that compells me
    To pay the added charges on the loaf of bread he sells me.
    The iceman leaves a smaller piece when days are growing hotter,
    But I'm only a consumer, and I do not need iced water:
    My business is to pay the bills and keep in a good humor,
    And it really doesn't matter, for I'm only a consumer.

    The milkman waters milk for me; there's garlic in my butter,
    But I'm only a consumer, and it does no good to mutter;
    I know that coal is going up and beef is getting higher,
    But I'm only a consumer, and I have no need of fire;
    While beefsteak is a luxury that wealth alone is needing,
    I'm only a consumer, and what need have I for feeding?

    The grocer sells me addled eggs; the tailor sells me shoddy,
    I'm only a consumer, and I am not anybody.
    The cobbler pegs me paper soles, the dairyman short-weights me,
    I'm only a consumer, and most everybody hates me.
    There's turnip in my pumpkin pie and ashes in my pepper,
    The world's my lazaretto, and I'm nothing but a leper;
    So lay me in my lonely grave and tread the turf down flatter,
    I'm only a consumer, and it really doesn't matter.

"AS GOOD AS A PLAY"

BY HORACE E. SCUDDER

There was quite a row of them on the mantel-piece. They were all facing front, and it looked
as if they had come out of the wall behind, and were on their little stage facing the audience.
There was the bronze monk reading a book by the light of a candle, who had a private opening
under his girdle, so that sometimes his head was thrown violently back, and one looked down
into him and found him full of brimstone matches. Then the little boy leaning against a greyhound;
he was made of Parian, very fine Parian, too, so that one would expect to find a glass cover
over him: but no, the glass cover stood over a cat and a cat made of worsted, too: still it
was a very old cat, fifty years old in fact. There was another young person there, young like
the boy leaning on a greyhound, and she, too, was of Parian: she was very fair in front, but
behind--ah, that is a secret which is not quite time yet to tell. One other stood there, at
least she seemed to stand, but nobody could see her feet, for her dress was so very wide and
so finely flounced. She was the china girl that rose out of a pen-wiper.

The fire in the grate below was of soft coal, and flashed up and down, throwing little jets
of flame up that made very pretty foot-lights. So here was a stage, and here were the actors,
but where was the audience? Oh, the Audience was in the arm-chair in front. He had a special
seat; he was a critic, and could get up when he wanted to, when the play became tiresome, and
go out.

"It is painful to say such things out loud," said the Boy-leaning-against-a-greyhound, with
a trembling voice, "but we have been together so long, and these people round us never will
go away. Dear girl, will you?--you know." It was the Parian girl that he spoke to, but he did
not look at her; he could not, he was leaning against the greyhound; he only looked at the
Audience.

"I am not quite sure," she coughed. "If, now, you were under a glass case."

"I am under a glass case," spoke up the Cat-made-of-worsted. "Marry me. I am fifty years old.
Marry me, and live under a glass case."

"Shocking!" said she. "How can you? Fifty years old, too! That would indeed be a match!"

"Marry!" muttered the bronze Monk-reading-a-book. "A match! I am full of matches, but I don't
marry. Folly!"

"You stand up very straight, neighbor," said the Cat-made-of-worsted.

"I never bend," said the bronze Monk-reading-a-book. "Life is earnest. I read a book by candle.
I am never idle."

The Cat-made-of-worsted grinned to himself.

"You've got a hinge in your back," said he, "they open you in the middle; your head flies back.
How the blood must run down. And then you're full of brimstone matches. He! he!" and the Cat-made-of-worsted
grinned out loud. The Boy-leaning-against-a-greyhound spoke again, and sighed:

"I am of Parian, you know, and there is no one else here of Parian except yourself."

"And the greyhound," said the Parian girl.

"Yes, and the greyhound," said he eagerly. "He belongs to me. Come, a glass case is nothing
to it. We could roam; oh, we could roam!"

"I don't like roaming."

"Then we could stay at home, and lean against the greyhound."

"No," said the Parian girl, "I don't like that."

"Why?"

"I have private reasons."

"What?"

"No matter."

"I know," said the Cat-made-of-worsted. "I saw her behind. She's hollow. She's stuffed with
lamp-lighters. He! he!" and the Cat-made-of-worsted grinned again.

"I love you just as much," said the steadfast Boy-leaning-against-a-greyhound, "and I don't
believe the Cat."

"Go away," said the Parian girl, angrily. "You're all hateful. I won't have you."

"Ah!" sighed the Boy-leaning-against-a-greyhound.

"Ah!" came another sigh--it was from the China-girl-rising-out-of-a-pen-wiper--"how I pity you!"

"Do you?" said he eagerly. "Do you? Then I love you. Will you marry me?"

"Ah!" said she; "but--"

"She can't!" said the Cat-made-of-worsted. "She can't come to you. She hasn't got any legs.
I know it. I'm fifty years old. I never saw them."

"Never mind the Cat," said the Boy-leaning-against-a-greyhound.

"But I do mind the Cat," said she, weeping. "I haven't. It's all pen-wiper."

"Do I care?" said he.

"She has thoughts," said the bronze Monk-reading-a-book. "That lasts longer than beauty. And
she is solid behind."

"And she has no hinge in her back," grinned the Cat-made-of-worsted. "Come, neighbors, let
us congratulate them. You begin."

"Keep out of disagreeable company," said the bronze Monk-reading-a-book.

"That is not congratulation; that is advice," said the Cat-made-of-worsted. "Never mind, go
on, my dear,"--to the Parian girl. "What! nothing to say? Then I'll say it for you. 'Friends,
may your love last as long as your courtship.' Now I'll congratulate you."

But before he could speak, the Audience got up.

"You shall not say a word. It must end happily."

He went to the mantel-piece and took up the China-girl-rising-out-of-a-pen-wiper.

"Why, she has legs after all," said he.

"They're false," said the Cat-made-of-worsted. "They're false. I know it. I'm fifty years old.
I never saw true ones on her."

The Audience paid no attention, but took up the Boy-leaning-against-a-greyhound.

"Ha!" said the Cat-made-of-worsted. "Come. I like this. He's hollow. They're all hollow. He!
he! Neighbor Monk, you're hollow. He! he!" and the Cat-made-of-worsted never stopped grinning.
The Audience lifted the glass case from him and set it over the Boy-leaning-against-a-greyhound
and the China-girl-rising-out-of-a-pen-wiper.

"Be happy!" said he.

"Happy!" said the Cat-made-of-worsted. "Happy!"

Still they were happy.

                 { 1. The real Thomas.

CÆSAR'S QUIET LUNCH WITH CICERO

BY JAMES T. FIELDS

    Have you read how Julius Cæsar
      Made a call on Cicero
    In his modest Formian villa,
      Many and many a year ago?

    "I shall pass your way," wrote Cæsar,
      "On the Saturnalia, Third,
    And I'll just drop in, my Tullius,
      For a quiet friendly word:

    "Don't make a stranger of me, Marc,
      Nor be at all put out,
    A snack of anything you have
      Will serve my need, no doubt.

    "I wish to show my confidence--
      The invitation's mine--
    I come to share your simple food,
      And taste your honest wine."

    Up rose M. Tullius Cicero,
      And seized a Roman punch,--
    Then mused upon the god-like soul
      Was coming round to lunch.

    "By Hercules!" he murmured low
      Unto his lordly self,
    "There are not many dainties left
      Upon my pantry shelf!

    "But what I have shall Julius share.
      What, ho!" he proudly cried,
    "Great Cæsar comes this way anon
      To sit my chair beside.

    "A dish of lampreys quickly stew,
      And cook them with a turn,
    For that's his favorite pabulum
      From Mamurra I learn."

           *       *       *       *       *

    His slaves obey their lord's command;
      The table soon is laid
    For two distinguished gentlemen,--
      One rather bald, 'tis said.

    When lo! a messenger appears
      To sound approach--and then,
    "Brave Cæsar comes to greet his friend
      With twice a thousand men!

    "His cohorts rend the air with shouts;
      That is their dust you see;
    The trumpeters announce him near!"
      Said Marcus, "Woe is me!

    "Fly, Cassius, fly! assign a guard!
      Borrow what tents you can!
    Encamp his soldiers round the field,
      Or I'm a ruined man!

    "Get sheep and oxen by the score!
      Buy corn at any price!
    O Jupiter! befriend me now,
      And give me your advice!"

           *       *       *       *       *

    It turned out better than he feared,--
      Things proved enough and good,--
    And Cæsar made himself at home,
      And much enjoyed his food.

    But Marcus had an awful fright,--
      That can not be denied;
    "I'm glad 'tis over!"--when it was--
      The host sat down and sighed,

    And when he wrote to Atticus,
      And all the story told,
    He ended his epistle thus:
      "J.C.'s a warrior bold,

    "A vastly entertaining man,
      In Learning quite immense,
    So full of literary skill,
      And most uncommon sense,

    "But, frankly, I should never say
      'No trouble, sir, at all;
    And when you pass this way again,
      Give us another call!'"

COMIN' HOME THANKSGIVIN'

BY JAMES BALL NAYLOR

    I've clean fergot my rheumatiz--
      Hain't nary limp n'r hobble;
    I'm feelin' like a turkey-cock--
      An' ready 'most to gobble;
    I'm workin' spry, an' steppin' high--
      An' thinkin' life worth livin'.
    Fer all the children's comin' home
      All comin' home Thanksgivin'.

    There's Mary up at Darby Town,
      An' Sally down at Goshen,
    An' Billy out at Kirkersville,
      An' Jim--who has a notion
    That Hackleyburg's the very place
      Fer which his soul has striven;
    They're all a-comin' home ag'in--
      All comin' home Thanksgivin'.

    Yes--yes! They're all a-comin' back;
      There ain't no ifs n'r maybes.
    The boys'll fetch the'r wives an' kids;
      The gals, th'r men an' babies.
    The ol' place will be upside-down;
      An' me an' Mammy driven
    To roost out in the locus' trees--
      When they come home Thanksgivin'.

    Fer Mary she has three 'r four
      Mischeevous little tykes, sir,
    An' Sally has a houseful more--
      You never seen the like, sir;
    While Jim has six, an' Billy eight--
      They'll tear the house to flinders,
    An' dig the cellar out in chunks
      An' pitch it through the winders.

    The gals 'll tag me to the barn;
      An' climb the mows, an' waller
    All over ev'ry ton o' hay--
      An' laugh an' scream an' holler.
    The boys 'll git in this an' that;
      An' git a lickin'--p'r'aps, sir--
    Jest like the'r daddies used to git
      When they was little chaps, sir.

    But--lawzee-me!--w'y, I won't care.
      I'm jest so glad they're comin',
    I have to whistle to the tune
      That my ol' heart's a-hummin'.
    An' me an' Mammy--well, we think
      It's good to be a-livin',
    Sence all the children's comin' home
      To spend the day Thanksgivin'.

PRAISE-GOD BAREBONES

BY ELLEN MACKAY HUTCHINSON CORTISSOZ

    I and my cousin Wildair met
      And tossed a pot together--
    Burnt sack it was that Molly brewed,
      For it was nipping weather.
    'Fore George! To see Dick buss the wench
      Set all the inn folk laughing!
    They dubbed him pearl of cavaliers
      At kissing and at quaffing.

    "Oddsfish!" says Dick, "the sack is rare,
      And rarely burnt, fair Molly;
    'Twould cure the sourest Crop-ear yet
      Of Pious Melancholy."
    "Egad!" says I, "here cometh one
      Hath been at 's prayers but lately."
    --Sooth, Master Praise-God Barebones stepped
      Along the street sedately.

    Dick Wildair, with a swashing bow,
      And touch of his Toledo,
    Gave Merry Xmas to the rogue
      And bade him say his Credo;
    Next crush a cup to the King's health,
      And eke to pretty Molly;
    "'T will cure your saintliness," says Dick,
      "Of Pious Melancholy."

    Then Master Barebones stopped and frowned;
      My heart stood still a minute;
    Thinks I, both Dick and I will hang,
      Or else the devil's in it!
    For me, I care not for old Noll,
      Nor all the Rump together.
    Yet, faith! 't is best to be alive
      In pleasant Xmas weather.

    His worship, Barebones, grimly smiled;
      "I love not blows nor brawling;
    Yet will I give thee, fool, a pledge!"
      And, zooks! he sent Dick sprawling!
    When Moll and I helped Wildair up,
      No longer trim and jolly--
    "Feelst not, Sir Dick," says saucy Moll,
      "A Pious Melancholy?"

THE LOAFER AND THE SQUIRE

BY PORTE CRAYON

The squire himself was the type of a class found only among the rural population of our Southern
States--a class, the individuals of which are connected by a general similarity of position
and circumstance, but present a field to the student of man infinite in variety, rich in originality.

As the isolated oak that spreads his umbrageous top in the meadow surpasses his spindling congener
of the forest, so does the country gentleman, alone in the midst of his broad estate, outgrow
the man of crowds and conventionalities in our cities. The oak may have the advantage in the
comparison, as his locality and consequent superiority are permanent. The Squire, out of his
own district, we ignore. Whether intrinsically, or simply in default of comparison, at home
he is invariably a great man. Such, at least, was Squire Hardy. Sour and cynical in speech,
yet overflowing with human kindness; contemning luxury and expense in dress and equipage, but
princely in his hospitality; praising the olden time to the disparagement of the present; the
mortal foe of progressionists and fast people in every department; above all, a philosopher
of his own school, he judged by the law of Procrustes, and permitted no appeals; opinionated
and arbitrary as the Czar, he was sauced by his negroes, respected and loved by his neighbors,
led by the nose by his wife and daughters, and the abject slave of his grandchildren.

His house was as big as a barn, and, as his sons and daughters married, they brought their
mates home to the old mansion. "It will be time enough for them to hive," quoth the Squire,
"when the old box is full."

Notwithstanding his contempt for fast men nowadays, he is rather pleased with any allusion
to his own youthful reputation in that line, and not unfrequently tells a good story on himself.
We can not omit one told by a neighbor, as being characteristic of the times and manners forty
years ago:

At Culpepper Court-house, or some court-house thereabout, Dick Hardy, then a good-humored,
gay young bachelor, and the prime favorite of both sexes, was called upon to carve the pig
at the court dinner. The district judge was at the table, the lawyers, justices, and everybody
else that felt disposed to dine. At Dick's right elbow sat a militia colonel, who was tricked
out in all the pomp and circumstance admitted by his rank. He had probably been engaged on
some court-martial, imposing fifty-cent fines on absentees from the last general muster. Howbeit
Dick, in thrusting his fork into the back of the pig, bespattered the officer's regimentals
with some of the superfluous gravy. "Beg your pardon," said Dick, as he went on with his carving.
Now these were times when the war spirit was high, and chivalry at a premium. "Beg your pardon"
might serve as a napkin to wipe the stain from one's honor, but did not touch the question
of the greased and spotted regimentals.

The colonel, swelling with wrath, seized a spoon, and deliberately dipping it into the gravy,
dashed it over Dick's prominent shirt-frill.

All saw the act, and with open eyes and mouth sat in astonished silence, waiting to see what
would be done next. The outraged citizen calmly laid down his knife and fork, and looked at
his frill, the officer, and the pig, one after another. The colonel, unmindful of the pallid
countenance and significant glances of the burning eye, leaned back in his chair, with arms
akimbo, regarding the young farmer with cool disdain. A murmur of surprise and indignation
arose from the congregated guests. Dick's face turned red as a turkey-gobbler's. He deliberately
took the pig by the hind legs, and with a sudden whirl brought it down upon the head of the
unlucky officer. Stunned by the squashing blow, astounded and blinded with streams of gravy
and wads of stuffing, he attempted to rise, but blow after blow from the fat pig fell upon
his bewildered head. He seized a carving-knife and attempted to defend himself with blind but
ineffectual fury, and at length, with a desperate effort, rose and took to his heels. Dick
Hardy, whose wrath waxed hotter and hotter, followed, belaboring him unmercifully at every
step, around the table, through the hall, and into the street, the crowd shouting and applauding.

We are sorry to learn that among this crowd were lawyers, sheriffs, magistrates, and constables;
and that even his honor the judge, forgetting his dignity and position, shouted in a loud voice,
"Give it to him, Dick Hardy! There's no law in Christendom against basting a man with a roast
pig!" Dick's weapon failed before his anger; and when at length the battered colonel escaped
into the door of a friendly dwelling, the victor had nothing in his hands but the hind legs
of the roaster. He re-entered the dining-room flourishing these over his head, and venting
his still unappeased wrath in great oaths.

The company reassembled, and finished their dinner as best they might. In reply to a toast,
Hardy made a speech, wherein he apologized for sacrificing the principal dinner-dish, and,
as he expressed it, for putting public property to private uses. In reply to this speech a
treat was ordered. In those good old days folks were not so virtuous but that a man might have
cakes and ale without being damned for it, and it is presumable the day wound up with a spree.

After the squire got older, and a family grew up around him, he was not always victorious in
his contests. For example, a question lately arose about the refurnishing of the house. On
their return from a visit to Richmond the ladies took it into their heads that the parlors
looked bare and old-fashioned, and it was decided by them in secret conclave that a change
was necessary.

"What!" said he, in a towering passion, "isn't it enough that you spend your time and money
in vinegar to sour sweet peaches, and your sugar to sweeten crab-apples, that you must turn
the house you were born in topsy-turvy? God help us! we've a house with windows to let the
light in, and you want curtains to keep it out; we've plastered the walls to make them white,
and now you want to paste blue paper over them; we've waxed floors to walk on, and we must
pay two dollars a yard for a carpet to save the oak plank! Begone with your nonsense, ye demented
jades!"

The squire smote the oak floor with his heavy cane, and the rosy petitioners fled from his
presence laughing. In due time, however, the parlors were furnished with carpets, curtains,
paper, and all the fixtures of modern luxury. The ladies were, of course, greatly delighted;
and while professing great aversion and contempt for the "tawdry lumber," it was plain to see
that the worthy man enjoyed their pleasure as much as they did the new furniture.

On another occasion, too, did the doughty squire suffer defeat under circumstances far more
humiliating, and from an adversary far less worthy.

The western horizon was blushing rosy red at the coming of the sun, whose descending chariot
was hidden by the thick Indian-summer haze that covered lowland and mountain as it were with
a violet-tinted veil. This was the condition of things (we were going to say) when Squire Hardy
sallied forth, charged with a small bag of salt, for the purpose of looking after his farm
generally, and particularly of salting his sheep. It was an interesting sight to see the old
gentleman, with his dignified, portly figure, marching at the head of a long procession of
improved breeds--the universally-received emblems of innocence and patience. Barring his modern
costume, he might have suggested to the artist's mind a picture of one of the Patriarchs.

Having come to a convenient place, or having tired himself crying co-nan, co-nan, at the top
of his voice, the squire halted. The black ram halted, and the long procession of ewes and
well-grown lambs moved up in a dense semicircle, and also halted, expressing their pleasure
at the expected treat by gentle bleatings. The squire stooped to spread the salt. The black
ram, either from most uncivil impatience, or mistaking the movement of the proprietor's coat-tail
for a challenge, pitched into him incontinently. "Plenum sed," as the Oxonions say. An attack
from behind, so sudden and unexpected, threw the squire sprawling on his face into a stone pile.

    Oh, never was the thunder's jar,
      The red tornado's wasting wing,
    Or all the elemental war,

like the fury of Squire Hardy on that occasion.

He recovered his feet with the agility of a boy, his nose bleeding and a stone in each hand.
The timid flock looked all aghast, while the audacious offender, so far from having shown any
disposition to skulk, stood shaking his head and threatening, as if he had a mind to follow
up the dastardly attack. The squire let fly one stone, which grazed the villain's head and
killed a lamb. With the other he crippled a favorite ewe. The ram still showed fight, and the
vengeful proprietor would probably have soon decimated his flock had not Porte Crayon (who
had been squirrel-shooting) made his appearance in time to save them.

"Quick, quick! young man--your gun; let me shoot the cursed brute on the spot."

The squire was frantic with rage, the cause of which our hero, having seen something of the
affray, easily divined. He was unwilling, however, to trust his hair-triggered piece in the
hands of his excited host.

"By your leave, Squire, and by your orders, I'll do the shooting myself. Which of them was it?"

"The ram--the d----d black ram--kill him--shoot--don't let him live a minute!"

Crayon leveled his piece and fired. The offender made a bound and fell dead, the black blood
spouting from his forehead in a stream as thick as your thumb.

"There, now," exclaimed the squire, with infinite satisfaction, "you've got it, you ungrateful
brute! You've found something harder than your own head at last, you cursed reptile! Friend
Crayon, that's a capital gun of yours, and you shot well."

The squire dropped the stones which he had in his hands, and looking back at the dead body
of the belligerent sheep, observed, with a thoughtful air, "He was a fine animal, Mr. Crayon--a
fine animal, and this will teach him a good lesson."

"In all likelihood," replied Crayon, dryly, "it will break him of this trick of butting."

Not long after this occurrence, Squire Hardy went to hear an itinerant phrenologist who lectured
in the village. In the progress of his discourse, the lecturer, for purposes of illustration,
introduced the skulls of several animals, mapped off in the most correct and scientific manner.

"Observe, ladies and gentlemen, the head of the wolf: combativeness enormously developed, alimentiveness
large, while conscientiousness is entirely wanting. On the other hand, look at this cranium.
Here combativeness is a nullity--absolutely wanting--while the fullness of the sentimental
organs indicate at once the mild and peaceful disposition of the sheep."

The squire, who had listened with great attention up to this point, hastily rose to his feet.

"A sheep!" he exclaimed; "did you call a sheep a peaceful animal? I tell you, sir, it is the
most ferocious and unruly beast in existence. Sir, I had a ram once--"

"My dear sir," cried the astonished lecturer, "on the authority of our most distinguished writers,
the sheep is an emblem of peace and innocence."

"An emblem of the devil," interrupted the squire, boiling over. "You are an ignorant impostor,
and your science a humbug. I had a ram once that would have taught you more in five seconds
than you've learned from books in all your lifetime."

And so Squire Hardy put on his hat and walked out, leaving the lecturer to rectify his blunder
as best he might.

DE STOVE PIPE HOLE[7]

BY WILLIAM HENRY DRUMMOND

    Dat's very cole an' stormy night on Village St. Mathieu,
    W'en ev'ry wan he's go couché, an' dog was quiet, too--
    Young Dominique is start heem out see Emmeline Gourdon,
    Was leevin' on her fader's place, Maxime de Forgeron.

    Poor Dominique he's lak dat girl, an' love her mos' de tam,
    An' she was mak' de promise--sure--some day she be his famme,
    But she have worse ole fader dat's never on de worl',
    Was swear onless he's riche lak diable, no feller's get hees girl.

    He's mak' it plaintee fuss about hees daughter Emmeline,
    Dat's mebby nice girl, too, but den, Mon Dieu, she's not de queen!
    An' w'en de young man's come aroun' for spark it on de door,
    An' hear de ole man swear "Bapteme!" he's never come no more.

    Young Dominique he's sam' de res',--was scare for ole Maxime,
    He don't lak risk hese'f too moche for chances seein' heem,
    Dat's only stormy night he come, so dark you can not see,
    An dat's de reason w'y also, he's climb de gallerie.

    De girl she's waitin' dere for heem--don't care about de rain,
    So glad for see young Dominique he's comin' back again,
    Dey bote forget de ole Maxime, an' mak de embrasser
    An affer dey was finish dat, poor Dominique is say--

    "Good-by, dear Emmeline, good-by; I'm goin' very soon,
    For you I got no better chance, dan feller on de moon--
    It's all de fault your fader, too, dat I be go away,
    He's got no use for me at all--I see dat ev'ry day.

    "He's never meet me on de road but he is say 'Sapré!'
    An' if he ketch me on de house I'm scare he's killin' me,
    So I mus' lef' ole St. Mathieu, for work on 'noder place,
    An' till I mak de beeg for-tune, you never see ma face."

    Den Emmeline say "Dominique, ma love you'll alway be
    An' if you kiss me two, t'ree tam I'll not tole noboddy--
    But prenez garde ma fader, please, I know he's gettin' ole--
    All sam' he offen walk de house upon de stockin' sole.

    "Good-by, good-by, cher Dominique! I know you will be true,
    I don't want no riche feller me, ma heart she go wit' you,"
    Dat's very quick he's kiss her den, before de fader come,
    But don't get too moche pleasurement--so 'fraid de ole Bonhomme.

    Wall! jus' about dey're half way t'roo wit all dat love beez-nesse
    Emmeline say, "Dominique, w'at for you're scare lak all de res'?
    Don't see mese'f moche danger now de ole man come aroun',"
    W'en minute affer dat, dere's noise, lak' house she's fallin' down.

    Den Emmeline she holler "Fire! will no wan come for me?"
    An' Dominique is jomp so high, near bus' de gallerie,--
    "Help! help! right off," somebody shout, "I'm killin' on ma place,
    It's all de fault ma daughter, too, dat girl she's ma disgrace."

    He's kip it up long tam lak dat, but not hard tellin' now,
    W'at's all de noise upon de house--who's kick heem up de row?
    It seem Bonhomme was sneak aroun' upon de stockin' sole,
    An' firs' t'ing den de ole man walk right t'roo de stove pipe hole.

    W'en Dominique is see heem dere, wit' wan leg hang below,
    An' 'noder leg straight out above, he's glad for ketch heem so--
    De ole man can't do not'ing, den, but swear and ax for w'y
    Noboddy tak' heem out dat hole before he's comin' die.

    Den Dominique he spik lak dis, "Mon cher M'sieur Gourdon
    I'm not riche city feller, me, I'm only habitant,
    But I was love more I can tole your daughter Emmeline,
    An' if I marry on dat girl, Bagosh! she's lak de Queen.

    "I want you mak de promise now, before it's come too late,
    An' I mus' tole you dis also, dere's not moche tam for wait.
    Your foot she's hangin' down so low, I'm 'fraid she ketch de cole,
    Wall! if you give me Emmeline, I pull you out de hole."

    Dat mak' de ole man swear more hard he never swear before,
    An' wit' de foot he's got above, he's kick it on de floor,
    "Non, non," he say "Sapré tonnerre! she never marry you,
    An' if you don't look out you get de jail on St. Mathieu."

    "Correc'," young Dominique is say, "mebbe de jail's tight place,
    But you got wan small corner, too, I see it on de face,
    So if you don't lak geev de girl on wan poor habitant,
    Dat's be mese'f, I say, Bonsoir, mon cher M'sieur Gourdon."

    "Come back, come back," Maxime is shout--"I promise you de girl,
    I never see no wan lak you--no never on de worl'!
    It's not de nice trick you was play on man dat's gettin' ole,
    But do jus' w'at you lak, so long you pull me out de hole."

    "Hooraw! Hooraw!" Den Dominique is pull heem out tout suite
    An' Emmeline she's helpin' too for place heem on de feet,
    An' affer dat de ole man's tak' de young peep down de stair,
    W'ere he is go couché right off, an' dey go on parloir.

    Nex' Sunday morning dey was call by M'sieur le Curé
    Get marry soon, an' ole Maxime geev Emmeline away;
    Den affer dat dey settle down lak habitant is do,
    An' have de mos' fine familee on Village St. Mathieu.

BY HERMAN KNICKERBOCKER VIELÉ

It is evident that the following logograms form part of a correspondence between a young lady,
formerly of Mercury, and her confidential friend still resident upon the inferior planet. The
translator has thought it best to preserve, as far as possible, the spirit of the original
by the employment of mundane colloquialisms; the result, in spite of many regrettable trivialities,
will, it is believed, be of interest to students of Cosmic Sociology.

THE FIRST RECORD

Yes, dear, it's me. I'm down here on the Earth and in our Settlement House, safe and sound.
I meant to have called you up before, but really this is the first moment I have had to myself
all day.--Yes, of course, I said "all day." You know very well they have days and nights here,
because this restless little planet spins, or something of the sort.--I haven't the least idea
why it does so, and I don't care.--I did not come here to make intelligent observations like
a dowdy "Seeing Saturn" tourist. So don't be Uranian. Try to exercise intuitive perception
if I say anything you can't understand.--What is that?--Please concentrate a little harder.--Oh!
Yes, I have seen a lot of human beings already, and would you believe it? some of them seem
almost possible--especially one.--But I will come to that one later. I've got so much to tell
you all at once I scarcely know where to begin.--Yes, dear, the One happens to be a man. You
would not have me discriminate, would you, when our object is to bring whatever happiness we
can to those less fortunate than ourselves? You know success in slumming depends first of all
upon getting yourself admired, for then the others will want to be like you, and once thoroughly
dissatisfied with themselves they are almost certain to reform. Of course I am only a visitor
here, and shall not stay long enough to take up serious work, so Ooma says I may as well proceed
along the line of least resistance.--If you remember Ooma's enthusiasm when she ran the Board
of Missions to Inferior Planets, you can fancy her now that she has an opportunity to carry
out all her theories. Oh, she's great!

My transmigration was disappointing as an experience. It was nothing more than going to sleep
and dreaming about circles--orange circles, yellow circles, with a thousand others of graduated
shades between, and so on through the spectrum till you pass absolute green and get a tone
or two toward blue and strike the Earth color-note. Then with me everything got jumbled together
and seemed about to take new shapes, and I woke up in the most commonplace manner and opened
my eyes to find myself externalized in our Earth Settlement House with Ooma laughing at me.

"Don't stir!" she cried. "Don't lift a finger till we are sure your specific gravity is all
right." And then she pinched me to see if I was dense enough, because the atmosphere is heavier
or lighter or something here than with us.

I reminded her that matter everywhere must maintain an absolute equilibrium with its environment,
but she protested.

"That's well enough in theory; you must understand that the Earth is awfully out of tune at
present, and sometimes it requires time to readjust ourselves to its conditions."

--I did not say so, but I fancy Ooma may have been undergoing readjustment.--My dear, she has
grown as pudgy as a Jupitan, and her clothes--but then she always did look more like a spiral
nebula than anything else.

(The record here becomes unintelligible by reason of the passage of a thunderstorm above the
summit of Long's Peak.)

--There must be star-dust in the ether.--I never had to concentrate so hard before.--That's
all about the Settlement House, and don't accuse me again of slighting details. I'm sure you
know the place now as well as Ooma herself, so I can go on to tell what little I have learned
about human beings.

It seems I am never to admit that I was not born on Earth, for, like all provincials, the humans
pride themselves on disbelieving everything beyond their own experience, and if they understood
they would be certain to resent intrusions from another planet. I'm sure I don't blame them
altogether when I recall those patronizing Jupitans.--And I'm told they are awfully jealous
and distrustful even of one another, herding together for protection and governed by so many
funny little tribal codes that what is right on one side of an imaginary boundary may be wrong
on the other.--Ooma considers this survival of the group-soul most interesting, and intends
to make it the subject of a paper. I mention it only to explain why we call our Settlement
a Boarding-House. A Boarding-House, you must know, is fundamentally a hunting pack which one
can affiliate with or separate from at will.--Rather a pale yellow idea, isn't it? Ooma thinks
it necessary to conform to it in order to be considered respectable, which is the one thing
on Earth most desired.--What, dear?--Oh, I don't know what it means to be respectable any more
than you do.--One thing more. You'll have to draw on your imagination! Ooma is called here
Mrs. Bloomer.--Her own name was just a little too unearthly. Mrs. signifies that a woman is
married.--What?--Oh, no, no, no, nothing of the sort.--But I shall have to leave that for another
time. I'm not at all sure how it is myself.

By the way, if any one should ask you where I am, just say I've left the planet, and you don't
know when I shall be back.--Yes, you know who I mean.--And, dear, perhaps you might drop a
hint that I detest all foreigners, especially Jupitans.--Please don't laugh so hard; you'll
get the atmospheric molecules all woozy.--Indeed, there's not the slightest danger here. Just
fancy, if you please, beings who don't know when they are hungry without consulting a wretched
little mechanism, and who measure their radius of conception by the length of their own feet.--Of
course I shall be on hand for the Solstice! I wouldn't miss that for an asteroid!--Oh, did
I really promise that? Well, I'll tell you about hi-m another time.

THE SECOND RECORD

THOUGH PROBABLY THIRD COMMUNICATION

--I really must not waste so much gray matter, dear, over unimportant details. But I simply
had to tell you all about my struggles with the clothes. When Ooma came back, just as I had
mastered them with the aid of her diagrams, the dear thing was so much pleased she actually
hugged me, and I must confess the effect made me forget my discomfort. Really, an Earth girl
is not so much to be pitied if she has becoming dresses to wear. As you may be sure I was anxious
to compare myself with others, I was glad enough to hear Ooma suggest going out.

"Come on," she said, executively, "I have only a half-hour to devote to your first walk. Keep
close beside me, and remember on no account to either dance or sing."

"But if I see others dancing may I not join them?" I inquired.

"You won't see anybody dancing on Broadway," she replied, a trifle snubbily, but I resolved
to escape from her as soon as possible and find out for myself.

I shall never forget my shock on discovering the sky blue instead of the color it should be,
but soon my eyes became accustomed to the change. In fact, I have not since that first moment
been able to conceive of the sky as anything but blue. And the city?--Oh, my dear, my dear,
I never expected to encounter anything so much out of key with the essential euphonies. Of
course I have not traveled very much, but I should say there is nothing in the universe like
a street they call Broadway--unless it be upon the lesser satellite of Mars, where the poor
people are so awfully cramped for space. When I suggested this to Ooma she laughed and called
me clever, for it seems there is a tradition that a mob of meddling Martians once stopped on
Earth long enough to give the foolish humans false ideas about architecture and many other
matters. But I soon forgot everything in my interest in the people. Such a poor puzzle-headed
lot they are. One's heart goes out to them at once as they push and jostle one another this
way and that, with no conceivable object other than to get anywhere but where they are in the
shortest time possible. One longs to help them; to call a halt upon their senseless struggles;
to reason with them and explain how all the psychic force they waste might, if exerted in constructive
thought, bring everything they wish to pass. Mrs. Bloomer assures me they only ridicule those
who venture to interfere, and it will take at least a Saturn century to so much as start them
in the right direction. Our settlement is their only hope, she says, and even we can help them
only indirectly.

Not long ago, it appears, they had to choose a King or Mayor, or whatever the creature is called
who executes their silly laws, and our people so manipulated the election that the choice fell
on one of us.

I thought this a really good idea, and supposed, of course, we must at once have set about
demonstrating how a planet should be managed. But no! that was not our system, if you please.
Instead of making proper laws our agent misbehaved himself in every way the committee could
suggest, until at last the humans rose against him and put one of themselves in his place,
and after that things went just a little better than before. This is the only way in which
they can be taught. But, dear me, isn't it tedious?

Of course, I soon grew anxious for an exchange of thought with almost any one, but it was a
long while before I discovered a single person who was not in a violent hurry. At last, however,
we came upon a human drawn apart a little from the throng, who stood with folded arms, engaged
apparently in lofty meditation. His countenance was amiable, although a little red.

Saying nothing to Ooma of my purpose, I slipped away from her, and looking up into the creature's
eyes inquired mentally the subject of his thoughts; also, how he came to be so inordinately
stout, and why he wore bright metal buttons on his garment. But my only answer was a stupid
blink, for his mentality seemed absolutely incapable of receiving suggestions not expressed
in sounds. I observed farther that his aura inclined too much toward violet for perfect equipoise.

"G'wan out of this, and quit yer foolin'," he remarked, missing my meaning altogether.

Of course I spoke then, using the human speech quite glibly for a first attempt, and hastened
to assure him that though I had no idea of fooling, I should not go on until my curiosity had
been satisfied. But just then Ooma found me.

"My friend is a stranger," she explained to the brass-buttoned man.

"Then why don't you put a string to her?" he asked.

I learned later that I had been addressing one of the public jesters employed by the community
to keep Broadway from becoming intolerably dull.

"But you must not speak to people in the street," said Ooma, "not even to policemen."

"Then how am I to brighten others' lives?" I asked, more than a little disappointed, for several
humans hurrying past had turned upon me looks indicating moods receptive of all the brightening
I could give.

I might have amused myself indefinitely, studying the rapid succession of varying faces, had
not Bloomer cautioned me not to stare. She said people would think me from the country, which
is considered discreditable, and as this reminded me that I had as yet seen nothing growing,
I asked to be shown the gardens and groves.

"There is one," she said, indicating an open space not far away, where sure enough there stood
some wretched looking trees which I had not recognized before, forgetting that, of course,
leaves here must be green. I saw no flowers growing, but presently we came upon some in a sort
of crystal bower guarded by a powerful black person. I wanted so to ask him how he came to
be black, but the memory of my last attempt at information deterred me. Instead, I inquired
if I might have some roses.

"Walk in, Miss," he replied most civilly, and in I walked through the door, past the sweetest
little embryonic, who wore the vesture of a young policeman.

"Boy," I said, "have you begun to realize your soul?"

"Nope," he replied. "I ain't in fractions yet."

--Some stage of earthly progress, I suppose, though I did not like a certain movement of his
eyelid, and one never can tell, you know, how hard embryonics are really striving. So I made
haste to gather all the roses I could carry, and was about to hurry after Ooma, when a person
barred my way.

"Hold on!" he cried. "Ain't you forgetting something? Why don't you take the whole lot?"

"Because I have all I want for the present," I answered, rather frightened, perceiving that
his aura had grown livid, and I don't know how I could have soothed him had not Ooma once more
come to my relief. I could see that she was annoyed with me, but she controlled herself and
placed some token in the being's hand which acted on his agitation like a charm.

As I told you, Bloomer had given me with the other things, a crown of artificial roses which,
now that I had real flowers to wear, I wanted to throw away, but this she would not permit,
insisting that such a proceeding would make the humans laugh at me--though to look into their
serious faces one would not believe this possible. The thoughts of those about me, as I divined
them, seemed anything but jocular. They came to me incoherent and inconsecutive, a jumble of
conditional premises leading to approximate conclusions expressed in symbols having no intrinsic
meaning.--Of course, it is unfair to judge too soon, but I have already begun to doubt the
existence of direct perception among them.--What did you say, dear?--Bother direct perception?--Well,
I wonder how we should like to apprehend nothing that could not be put into words? You, I'm
sure, would have the most confused ideas about Earthly conditions if you depended entirely
upon my remarks.--Now concentrate, and you shall hear something really interesting.

--No, not the One yet.--He comes later.--

We had not gone far, I carrying my roses, and Bloomer not too well pleased, as I fancied, because
so many people turned to look at us (Bloomer has retrograded physically until she is at times
almost Uranian, probably as the result of wearing black, which appears to be the chromatic
equivalent of respectability), when suddenly I became sensible of a familiar influence, which
was quite startling because so unexpected. Looking everywhere, I caught sight of--who do you
suppose? Our old friend Tuk.--Mr. Tuck, T-u-c-k here, if you please. He was about to enter
a--a means of transportation, and though his back was towards me, I recognized that drab aura
of his at once, and projected a reactionary impulse which was most effective.

In his surprise he was for the moment in danger of being trampled upon by a rapidly moving
animal.--Yes, dear, I said "animal."--I don't know and I don't consider it at all important.
I do not pretend to be familiar with mundane zoölogy.--Tuck declared himself delighted to see
me, and so I believe he was, though he controlled his radiations in the supercilious way he
always had. But upon one point he did not leave me long in doubt. Externally, at least, my
Earthly Ego is a--

(NOTE: The word which signifies a species of peach or nectarine peculiar to the planet Mercury
is doubtless used here in a symbolic sense.)

--I caught on to that most interesting fact the moment his eyes rested on me.

"By all that's fair to look upon!" he cried, jumping about in a manner human people think eccentric,
"are you astral or actualized?"

"See for yourself," I said, holding out my hand, which it took him rather longer than necessary
to make sure of.

"Well, what on Earth brings you here? Come down to paint another planet red?" he rattled on,
believing himself amusing.

"Now haven't I as much right to light on Earth as on any other bit of cosmic dust?" I asked,
laughing and forgetting how much snubbing he requires in the delight of seeing any one I knew.

Then he insisted that I had a "date" with him.--A date, as I discovered later, means something
nice to eat--and hinted very broadly that Bloomer need not wait if she had more important matters
to attend to. I must confess she did not seem at all sorry to have me taken off her hands,
for after cautioning me to beware of a number of things I did not so much as know by name,
she shot off like a respectable old aerolite with a black trail streaming out behind. If she
remains here much longer she will be coming back upon a mission to reform us. As for Tuck,
he became insufferably patronizing at once.

"Well, how do you like the Only Planet? and how do you like the Only Town? and how do you like
the Only Street?" he began, waving his hands and looking about him as though there were anything
here that one of us could admire. But, of course, I refused to gratify him with my crude impressions.
I simply said:

"You appear very well pleased with them yourself."

"And so will you be," he replied, "when you have realized their possibilities. Remark that
elderly entity across the street. I have to but exert my will that he shall sneeze and drop
his eyeglasses, and behold, there they go."--Yes, my dear, eyeglasses. They are worn on the
nose by people who imagine they can not see very well.

"I consider such actions cruel and unkind," I said, at the same time willing an embryonic girl
to pick the glasses up, and though the child was rather beyond my normal circle, I was delighted
to see her obey. But I have an idea Tuck regretted an experiment which taught me something
I might not have found out, at least for a while.

I had now been on Earth several hours, and change of atmosphere gives one a ravenous appetite.
You see, I had forgotten to ask Ooma how, and how often, humans ate, so when Tuck suggested
breakfast as a form of entertainment I put myself in sympathy with the idea at once. Besides
it is most important to know just where to find the things you want, and you may be sure I
made a lot of mental notes when we came, as presently we did, to a tower called Astoria.

I understand that the upper portions of the edifice are used for study of the Stars, but we
were made welcome on the lower story by a stately being, who conducted us to honorable seats
in an inner court. There were small trees growing here, green, of course, but rather pretty
for all that; the people, gathered under their shade in little groups, were much more cheerful
and sustaining than any I had seen so far, and an elemental intelligence detailed to minister
to our wants seemed well-trained and docile.

"Here you have a glimpse of High Life," announced Tuck, when he had written something on a paper.

"The Higher Life?" I inquired, eagerly, and I did not like the flippant tone in which he answered:

"No, not quite--just high enough."

I was beginning to be so bored by his conceit and self-complacency that I cast my eyes about
and smiled at several pleasant-looking persons, who returned the smile and nodded in a friendly
fashion, till I could perceive Tuck's aura bristle and turn greenish-brown.

"You can't possibly see any one you know here," he protested, crossly.

"All the better reason why I should reach out in search of affinities," I retorted. But after
that, though I was careful to keep my eyes lowered most of the time, I resolved to come some
day to the Astoria alone and smile at every one I liked. I don't believe I should ever know
a human if Tuck could have his way.

Presently the elemental brought us delicious things, and while we ate them Tuck talked about
himself. It appears he has produced an opera here which is a success. People throng to hear
it and consider him a great composer. At all of which, you may believe, I was astonished--just
fancy our Tuk posing as a genius!--but presently when he became elated by the theme and hummed
a bar or two, I understood. The wretch had simply actualized a few essential harmonies--and
done it very badly. I see now why he likes so much being here, and understand why his associates
are almost altogether human. I don't remember ever meeting with such deceit and effrontery
before. I was so indignant that I could feel my astral fingers tremble. I could not bear to
look at him, and as by that time I had eaten all I could, I rose and walked directly from the
court without another word. I am sure he would have pursued me had not the elemental, divining
my wish to escape, detained him forcibly.

Once in the street again, I immediately hypnotized an old lady, willing her to go direct to
Bloomer's Boarding-House while I followed behind. It may not have been convenient for her,
I am afraid, but I knew of no other way to get back.--Dear me, the light is growing dim, and
I must be dressing for the evening. Good-by!--By the way, I forgot to tell you something else
that happened--remind me of it next time!

THE THIRD RECORD

--Yes, I remember, and you shall hear all about it before I describe an evening at the Settlement,
but it don't amount to much.--I told you how cross and over-bearing Tuck was at the Astoria
tower, and of the mean way in which he restricted my observations. Well, of all the people
in the grove that day there was only one whom I could see without being criticized, and he
sat all alone and facing me, just behind Tuck's back. Some green leaves hung between us, and
whenever I moved my head to note what he was doing he moved his, too, to look at me. He seemed
so lonely that I was sorry for him, but his atmosphere showed him to be neither sullen nor
Uranian, and I could not help it if I was just a little bit responsive. Besides, Tuck, once
on the subject of his opera, grew so self-engrossed and dominant that one had either to assert
one's own mentality or become subjective.

--No, dear, that is not the only reason. There may be such a thing as an isolated reason, but
I have never met one--they always go in packs. I confess to a feeling of interest in the stranger.
Nobody can look at you with round blue eyes for half an hour steadily without exercising some
attraction, either positive or negative, and I felt, too, that he was trying to tell me something
which would have been a great deal more interesting than Tuck's opera, and I believe had I
remained a little longer we could have understood each other between the trees just as you
and I can understand each other across the intervals of space. But then it is so easy to be
mistaken.--I had to pass quite close to him in going out, and I am not sure I did not drop a rose.

--There may be just a weenie little bit more about the Astorian, but that will come in its
proper place. Now I must get on to the evening.--It was not much of an occasion, merely the
usual gathering of our crowd, or rather of those of us who have no special assignment for the
time in the large Council Room I have described to you.

The President of the Board of Control at present is Marlow, Marlow the Great, as he is called,
the painter whose pictures did so much to elevate the Patagonians.--No, dear, I never heard
of Patagonia before, but I'm almost sure it's not a planet.--With Marlow came a Mrs. Mopes,
who is engaged in creating schools of fiction by writing stories under different names and
then reviewing them in her own seven magazines. Next, taking the guests at random, was Baxter,
a deadly person in his human incarnation, whose business it is to make stocks fly up or tumble
down.--I don't know what stocks are, but they must be something very easily frightened.--Then
there was a Mr. Waller, nicknamed the Reverend, whom the Council allows to speak the truth
occasionally, while the rest of the time he tells people anything they want to hear to win
their confidence. And the two Miss Dooleys who sing so badly that thousands who can not sing
at all leave off singing altogether when they once hear them. And Mr. Flick, who misbehaves
at funerals to distract mourners from their grief, and a Mr. O'Brien, whose duty it is to fly
into violent passions in public places just to show how unbecoming temper is.

There were many others, so many I can not begin to enumerate them. Some had written books and
were known all over the planet, and some who were not known at all had done things because
there was nobody else to do them. And some were singers and some were actors, and some were
rich and some were poor to the outside world, but in the Council Room they met and laughed
and matched experiences and made jokes; from the one who had built a battle ship so terrible
that all the other ships were burnt on condition that his should be also, to the ordinary helpers
who applaud stupid plays till intelligent human beings become thoroughly disgusted with bad art.

In the world, of course, they are all serious enough, and often know each other only by secret
signs, while every day and night and minute our poor earth-brothers come a little nearer the
light--pushed toward it, pulled toward it, wheedled and trickled and bullied and coaxed, and
thinking all the while how immensely clever they are, and what a wonderful progressive, glorious
age they have brought about for themselves.--At all events, this is the rather vague composite
impression I have received of the plans and purposes of the Board of Directors, and doubtless
it is wrong.

I suppose with a little trouble I might have recognized nearly every one, but the fancy took
me to suspend intuition just to see how Earth girls feel, and you know when one is hearing
a lot of pleasant things one does not much care who happens to be saying them.

I fancy Marlow thought less of me when I confessed that I am here only for the lark, and really
do not care a meteor whether the planet is ever elevated or not. But he is a charming old fellow
all the same, and the only one of the lot who has not grown the least bit smudgy.

Marlow announced that the evening would be spent in harmony with the vibrations of Orion, and
set us all at work to get in touch. I love Orion light myself, for none other suits my aura
quite so well, and I was glad to find they had not taken up the Vega fad.--The light here?
My dear, it is not even filtered.--Some of us, no doubt for want of practice, were rather slow
about perfecting, but finally we all caught on, and when O'Brien, no longer fat and florid,
and the elder Miss Dooley, no longer scrawny, moved out to start the dance, there was only
one who had not assumed an astral personality. Poor fellow, though I pitied him, I did admire
his spunk in holding back. It seems that as an editor he took to telling falsehoods on his
own account so often that the Syndicate is packing him off as Special Correspondent to a tailless
comet.

Tuck never came at all; either he realizes how honest people must regard him and his opera,
or else the elementals at the Astoria are still detaining him.

We had a lovely dance, and while we rested Marlow called on some of us for specialties. Mrs.
Mopes did a paragraph by a man named Henry James, translated into action, which seemed quite
difficult, and then a person called Parker externalized a violin and gave the Laocoon in terms
of sound. To me his rendering of marble resembled terra-cotta until I learned that the copy
of the statue here is awfully weatherstained. After this three pretty girls gave the Aurora
Borealis by telepathic suggestion rather well, and then I sang "Love Lives Everywhere"--just
plain so.

--I know this must all sound dreadfully flat to you, quite like "Pastimes for the Rainy Season
in Neptune," but Bloomer says she doesn't know what would happen if we should ever give a really
characteristic jolly party.

We wound up with an Earth dance called the Virginia Reel, the quickest means you ever saw for
descending to a lower psychic plane. That's all I have to tell, and quite enough, I'm sure
you'll think.--What? The Astorian? I have not seen him since.--But there is a little more,
a very little, if you are not tired.--This morning I received a gift of roses, just like the
one I dropped yesterday, brought me by the same small embryonic I had seen in the flower shop.
I asked the child in whose intelligence the impulse had originated, and he replied:

"A blue-eyed feller with a mustache, but he gave me a plunk not to tell."

I understood a plunk to be a token of confidence, and I at once expressed displeasure at the
boy's betrayal of his trust. I told him such an act would make dark lines upon his aura which
might not fade for several days.

"Say, ain't you got some message to send back?" he asked.

"Boy!" said I, "don't forget your little aura."

"All right," he answered, "I'll tell him 'Don't forget your little aura.' I'll bet he coughs
up another plunk."

I don't know what he meant, but I am very much afraid there may be some mistake.--Oh, yes,
I am quite sure to be back in time for the Solstice.--Or at least for the Eclipse.

THE FOURTH RECORD

(NOTE: Between this logogram and the last the Long's Peak Receptive Pulsator was unfortunately
not in operation for the space of a fortnight, as the electrician who took the instrument apart
for adjustment found it necessary to return to Denver for oil.)

--Yes, dear, it's me, though if I did not know personality to be indestructible I should begin
to have my doubts. I have not made any more mistakes, that is, not any bad ones, since I went
to the Astoria alone for lunch, and the elementals were so very disagreeable just because I
had no money. I know all about money now, except exactly how you get it, and Tuck assures me
that is really of no importance. I never told Ooma how the blue-eyed Astorian paid my bill
for me, and her perceptive faculties have grown too dull to apprehend a thing she is not told.
Fresh roses still come regularly every day, and of course I can do no less than express my
gratitude now and then.--Oh, I don't know how often, I don't remember.--But it is ever so much
pleasanter to have some one you like to show you the way about than to depend on hypnotizing
strangers, who may have something else to do.

--I told you last week about the picnic, did I not? The day, I mean, when Bloomer took me into
the country, and Tuck so far forgave my rudeness to him as to come with us to carry the basket.--Oh,
yes, indeed, I am becoming thoroughly domesticated on Earth. And, my dear, these humans are
docility itself when you once acquire the knack of making them do exactly as you wish, which
is as easy as falling off a log.--A log is the external evidence of a pre-existent tree, cylindrical
in form, and though often sticky, not sufficiently so to be adhesive.

--That picnic was so pleasant--or would have been but for Bloomer's anxiety that I should behave
myself, and Tuck's anxiety that I should not--that I determined to have another all by myself--and
I have had it.

I traveled to the same little dell I described before, and I put my feet in the water just
as I wasn't allowed to do the other day. And I built a fire and almost cooked an egg and ate
cake (an egg is the bud of a bird, and cake is edible poetry) sitting on a fence.--Fences grow
horizontally and have no leaves.--Don't ask so many questions!

After a while, however, I became tired of being alone, so I started off across some beautiful
green meadows toward a hillside, where I had observed a human walking about and waving a forked
wand. He proved the strangest-looking being I have met with yet, more like those wild and woolly
space-dwellers who tumbled out when that tramp comet bumped against our second moon. But he
was a considerate person, for when he saw me coming and divined that I should be tired, he
piled up a quantity of delicious-scented herbage for me to sit on.

"Good morning, mister," I said, plumping myself down upon the mound he had made, and he, being
much more impressionable than you would suppose from his Uranian appearance, replied:

"I swan, I like your cheek."

"It's a pleasant day," I said, because one is always expected to announce some result of observation
of the atmosphere. It shows at once whether or not one is an idiot.

"I call it pretty danged hot," he returned, intelligently.

"Then why don't you get out of the sun?" I suggested, more to keep the conversation fluid than
because I cared a bit.

"I'm a-goin' to," he answered, "just as soon as that goll-darned wagon comes." (A "goll-darned"
wagon is, I think, a wagon without springs.)

"What are you going to do then?" I asked, beginning to fear I should be left alone again after
all my trouble.

"Goin' home to dinner," he replied, and I at once said I would go with him.--You see, I had
placed a little too much reliance on the egg.

"I dunno about that, but I guess it will be all right," he urged, hospitably, and presently
the goll-darned wagon arrived with another man, who turned out to be the first one's son and
who looked as though he bit.

Together the two threw all the herbage into the wagon till it was heaped far above their heads.

"How am I ever to get up?" I asked, for I had no idea of walking any farther, and I could see
the man's white house ever so far away.

"Who said you was goin' to get up at all?" inquired the biter, disagreeably, but the other
answered for me.

"I said it, that's who, you consarned jay," he announced, reprovingly.

When I had made them both climb up first and give me each a hand, I had no difficulty at all
in mounting, but I was very careful not to thank the Jay, which seemed to make him more morose
than ever. Then they slid down again, and off we started.

Once when we came to some lovely blue flowers growing in water near the roadside I told the
Jay to stop and wade in and pick them for me.

"I'll be dogged if I do," he answered; so I said:

"I don't know what being 'dogged' means, but if it is a reward for being nice and kind and
polite, I hope you will be."

Whereupon he bit at me once and waded in, while the other man, whose name, it seems, was Pop,
sat down upon a stone and laughed.

"Gosh! If this don't beat the cats," he said, slapping his knee, which was his way of making
himself laugh harder.

I put the flowers in my hair and in my belt and wherever I could stick them. But there was
still a lot left over, and whenever we met people I threw them some, which appeared to please
Pop, but made the Jay still more bite-y.

Presently we came to a very narrow place and there, as luck would have it, we met an automobile.--Thank
goodness, I need not explain automobile.--And who should be at the lever all alone but--the
Astorian.

I recognized him instantly, and he recognized me, which was, I suppose, his reason for forgetting
to stop till he had nearly run us down. In a moment we were in the wildest tangle, though nothing
need have happened had not the Jay completely lost his temper.

"Hang your picture!" he called out, savagely, "What do you want?--The Earth?"

And with that he struck the animals--the wagon was not self-propelling--a violent blow, and
they sprang forward with a lurch which made the hay begin to slip. I tried to save myself,
but there was nothing to catch hold of, so off I slid and--oh, my dear, my dear, just fancy
it!--I landed directly in his lap.--No, not the Jay's.--Of course, I stayed there as short
a time as possible, for he was very nice about moving up to make room for me on the seat, but
I am afraid it did seem frightfully informal just at first.

"It was all the fault of that consarned Jay," I explained, as soon as I had recovered my composure,
"and I shall never ride in his goll-darned wagon again."

"I sincerely hope you will not," replied Astoria, looking at me with the most curious expression.
"It would be much better to let me take you wherever you wish to go."

"That's awfully kind of you," I said, "but I don't care to go anywhere in particular this afternoon,
except as far as possible from that objectionable young man."

The Astorian did not speak again till he had turned something in the machine to make it back
and jerk, and, once free from the upset hay, go on again.

"Say, Sissy, I thought you was comin' to take dinner," Pop called out from under the wagon,
where he had crawled for safety, and when I replied as nicely as I could, "No, thank you, not
to-day," he said again, quite sadly as I thought, "Gosh blim me, if that don't beat the cats!"
and also several other things I could not hear because we were moving away so rapidly.

When we had gone about a hundred miles--or yards, or inches, whichever it was--the Astorian,
who had been sitting very straight, inquired if those gentlemen--meaning Pop and Jay--were
near relatives.

I showed him plainly that I thought his question Uranian, and explained that I had not a relative
on Earth. Then I told him exactly how I had come to be with them, and about my picnic and the
egg. I am afraid I did not take great pains to make the story very clear, for it was such fun
to perplex him. He is not at all like the Venus people, who have become so superlatively clever
that they are always bored to death.

"Were you surprised to see me flying through the air?" I asked.

"Oh, no," he said; "I have always thought of you as coming to Earth in some such way from some
far-distant planet."

"Oh, then, you know!" I gasped.

The Astorian laughed.

"I know you are the one perfect being in the world, and that is quite enough," he said, and
I saw at once that whatever he had guessed about me he knew nothing at all of the Settlement.

"Miss Aura," he went on,--he has called me that ever since that little embryonic made his stupid
blunder, and I have not corrected him--here it is almost necessary to have some sort of a name--"Miss
Aura, don't you think we have been mere acquaintances long enough? I'm only human--"

"Yes, of course," I interrupted, "but then that is not your fault--"

"I'm glad you look upon my misfortune so charitably," he said, a trifle more puzzled than usual,
as I fancied.

"It is my duty," I replied. "I want to elevate you; to brighten your existence."

"My Aura!" he whispered; and I was not quite sure whether he meant me or not.

We were moving rapidly along the broad road beside a river. There were hills in the distance
and the air from them was in the key of the Pleiades. There were gardens everywhere full of
sunlight translated into flowers, and without an effort one divined the harmony of growing
things. I felt that something was about to happen; I knew it, but I did not care to ask what
it might be. Perhaps if I had tried I could not have known; perhaps for that hour I was only
an Earth girl and could only know things as they know them, but I did not care.

We were going faster, faster every moment.

"Was it you who willed me to come out into the country?" I asked. "Have you been watching for
me and expecting me?"

We were moving now as clouds that rush across a moon.

"I think I have been watching for you all my life and willing you to come," he said, which
shows how dreadfully unjust we sometimes are to humans.

"While I was on another planet?" I inquired. "While we were millions and millions of miles
apart? Suppose that I had never come to Earth?"

We were moving like the falling stars one journeys to the Dark Hemisphere to see.

"I should have found you all the same," he whispered, half laughing, but his blue eyes glistened.
"I do not think that space itself could separate us."

"Oh, do you realize that?" I asked, "and do you really know?"

"I know I have you with me now," he said, "and that is all I care to know."

We were flying now, flying as comets fly to perihelion. The world about was slipping from us,
disintegrating and dissolving into cosmic thoughts expressed in color. Only his eyes were actual,
and the blue hills far away, and the wind from them in the key of the Pleiades.

"There shall never any more be time or space for us," he said.

"But," I protested, "we must not overlook the fundamental facts."

"In all the universe there is just one fact," he cried, catching my hand in his, and then--

(NOTE: Here a portion of the logogram becomes indecipherable, owing, perhaps, to the passage
of some large bird across the line of projection. What follows is the last recorded vibragraph
to date.)

--Yes, dear, I know I should have been more circumspect. I should have remembered my position,
but I didn't. And that's why I'm engaged to be married.--You have to here, when you reach a
certain point--I know you will think it a great come-down for one of us, but after all do we
not owe something to our sister planets?--

THE HEALTH-CARE OF THE BABY

By LOUIS FISCHER, M.D.

"THE HEALTH-CARE OF THE BABY" is a book that should be in the hands of every mother and nurse.
Every mother should be acquainted with those ills that are common to babies. She should know
what to do when a doctor can not be had readily; while traveling, for instance. In this book
Dr. Fischer, and he has had wide experience in the treatment of children, gives suggestions
and advice for feeding the infant in health, and when the stomach and bowels are out of order.
The book also tells how to manage a fever, and is a guide to measles, croup, skin diseases
and other ailments. It tells what to do in case of accidents, poisons, etc. The correction
of bad habits and the treatment of rashes are given careful consideration.

     "This book will be found of great assistance to mothers generally,
     dealing with a subject of great interest to the new, as well as to
     the old mother. Teething is properly rid of its horrors by positive
     statements that it is a normal process entirely. The chapter on
     Infant Feeding is very practical and thorough. We commend the book
     to all mothers."--Monthly Journal of Medicine and Surgery,
     Louisville.

12mo, Cloth. 75 cents, net; by mail, 83 cents.

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK AND LONDON

THE CARE AND TRAINING OF CHILDREN

By LE GRAND KERR, M.D.

No two children are exactly alike; not even those of the same family with hereditary influences,
environment, and economic conditions the same. Their temperaments, their ambitions, their ideas
of life, it will be noted, are widely different. For committing a wrong act one child needs
punishment, while on a like occasion another child needs advice. To bring up their children
so that they will be vigorous, noble men and women is the most perplexing problem that confronts
mothers and fathers to-day. Dr. Kerr, from his close association with children, is well qualified
to enlighten parents on these difficulties. In this book he has given thorough treatment to
the training of children, hygiene, physique, mentality, and morality. After one has read the
book there seems to be no phase of the question that has not been covered. The young parent
will find it a wonderful aid; the elder parents will want to pass it on to their children.

12mo, Cloth. 75 cents, net; by mail, 84 cents.

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers

NEW YORK AND LONDON

CHILD TRAINING AS AN EXACT SCIENCE

By George W. Jacoby, M.D.

Based upon Modern Psychology, Medicine and Hygiene

The Parent, the Physician, the Teacher, the Nurse, will find this Book of Immense Usefulness.
Its Authority and Reliability are Unquestioned.

Heretofore there has been no one book which stood out high above others as a standard, scientific,
and reliable popular work on the subject of Child Training in its mental, moral and physical
aspects.

     The New York Times, says:--"Study of this material will
     undoubtedly increase a teacher's efficiency."

$1.50 net; by mail $1.62.

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK and LONDON

Vital Helps Toward Body-Building

HOME GYMNASTICS

According to the Ling System

By Prof. ANDERS WIDE, M.D.

This system of gymnastics has been designed on strictly scientific principles, and has been
recognized by educators throughout the world as a most valuable and practical one. Stockholm
has long maintained a Royal Gymnastic Institute, where it has been taught with ever increasing
efficiency since 1813. The system has met with great popularity and has proved adaptable as
a home-culture course. The object of this work is to enable any one to put into practise the
principles on which sound physical health may be gained and maintained.

     "A marvelous amount of information of a most practical
     character."--New York Sun.

     "A practical handbook for home use."--Detroit Times.

     "This little book is thoroughly commendable."--Chicago
     Record-Herald.

     "It is a little book of great value, and will undoubtedly be useful
     in the schools and to business and professional persons."-Salt
     Lake Tribune.

12mo, Cloth, 50 cents, net; by mail, 54 cents.

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK AND LONDON

A New Book Dedicated to All Girls Whose Ambition Is to Lead a Happy, Healthful, Useful Life.

Health and Happiness

A MESSAGE TO GIRLS.

By ELIZA M. MOSHER, M.D.

This new book consists of a dozen letters which deal in a fundamental and very original way
with habits of posture, good and bad, and their influence upon the body; with efficiency through
an understanding of the needs of the body in relation to foods, and the removal of waste; the
care of the skin; and the offices of clothing.

Very simply and clearly the structure and functions of the nervous system are given as a basis
for important suggestions regarding its care from infancy to womanhood. Explicit teaching is
given regarding the care girls need to give themselves during high school and college years
if they wish to keep as well and strong as they ought to be. The story of motherhood is told
in a very interesting manner, and valuable advice is given regarding the physical preparation
for it, which the author believes should begin in early girlhood.

RECOMMENDED BY THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION

     "We think the book excellent and will be very glad to recommend
     it."--Gertrude Felker, M.D., Secretary, Committee for Public
     Health Education Among Women, American Medical Association, Dayton,
     Ohio.

$1.00, net. Average carriage charges 8 cents.

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK and LONDON

Exercises for Women

Most women are very definitely in need of some sort of simple and suitable exercise that can
be done in the home, without apparatus, if necessary.

This new book by Florence Bolton, A.B., formerly Director of Women's Gymnasium, Stanford University,
outlines and pictures an excellent series of plain, practical exercises, adapted to meet the
peculiar requirements of women.

The combination of different exercises includes many for reducing flesh; and others bound to
result in the securing and preservation of a full, rounded, graceful figure.

For Every Woman Everywhere Who Desires PHYSICAL GRACE, and POWER and the mental satisfaction
consequent upon both.

The book should be useful to physicians in prescribing exercises for their patients, to teachers
of gymnastics for class and private work, to the college woman who has left gymnasium days
behind, and to EVERY WOMAN, EVERYWHERE who desires PHYSICAL GRACE, and POWER.

HAS DONE HER SEX GOOD SERVICE

     "Florence Bolton ... has done her sex good service in this terse,
     well-arranged little volume. The directions for specific exercises,
     mainly of the 'mat' order, are well detailed, and fitting
     illustrations simplify their use."--The Record-Herald, Chicago,
     Ill.

12mo, Cloth. Numerous half-tones and diagrams, outlining the movements.

