The author shows clearly their
    evolution from something quite specialized to the present-day tool.
    He has traced the patents for these instruments through the early
    1930's and from this research we see the part played by such devices
    in the development of the machine-tool industry.

    THE AUTHOR: Edwin A. Battison is associate curator of mechanical
    and civil engineering in the Smithsonian Institution's Museum of
    History and Technology.

Directness and simplicity characterize pioneer machine tools because they were intended to
accomplish some quite specialized task and the need for versatility was not apparent. History
does not reveal the earliest forms of any primitive machines nor does it reveal much about
the various early stages in evolution toward more complex types. At best we have discovered
and dated certain developments as existing in particular areas. Whether these forms were new
at the time they were first found or how widely dispersed such forms may have been is unknown.
Surviving evidence is in the form of pictures or drawings, such as the little-known screw-cutting
lathe of 1483 (fig. 1) shown in Das mittelalterliche Hausbuch.

This lathe shows that its builder had a keen perception of the necessary elements, reduced
to bare essentials, required to accomplish the object. Present are the coordinate slides often
credited to Henry Maudslay. His slides are not, of course, associated with the spindle; neither
is there any natural law which compels them to guide the tool exactly parallel with the axis
of revolution. In this sense the screw-cutting lathe in the Hausbuch is superior because it
is in harmony with natural law and can generate a true cylinder, whereas Maudslay's lathe can
only transfer to the work whatever accuracy is built into it.

In principle this machine shown in the Hausbuch is very advanced as we see when we follow the
design through to the present time. The artist, whose drawings give us our only knowledge of
the machine, himself was obviously not very familiar with the details of its function. Reference
to figure 1 shows that the threads on the lead screw and on the work, wind in opposite directions.
This must be an error in delineation since the two are closely coupled together without any
intervening mechanism so that the only possible result on the work must be a thread winding
in the same direction as on the original screw. The work also is shown threaded for its entire
length; this cannot be accomplished with any one location of the cross-slide. We are left with
the question of whether this slide was used in two locations or whether the artist, possibly
working from notes or an earlier rough sketch, failed to show an unthreaded portion on one
end or the other of the work.

Of at least equal importance with the lead screw and work and their relationship to each other
is the tool-support with its screw-adjusted cross-slide (fig. 2). Just how this was attached
to the frame of the machine so that it placed the tool at a suitable radius is again a questionable
point. The very well-developed cutting tool is sharpened to a thin, keen edge totally unsuited
for cutting metal but ideal for use on a softer, fibrous substance: undoubtedly wood, in this
instance. Unfortunately, the angle at which the artist chose to show us this cutter is not
a view from which it is possible to judge whether or not the tool has been made to conform
to the helix angle of the thread to be cut. This cross-slide, in conjunction with the traversing
work spindle, gives us a machine having two coordinate slides yielding the same effect as the
slide rest usually attributed to Henry Maudslay at the end of the 18th century. Actually, an
illustration of coordinate slides independent of the spindle had been published as early as
1569 by Besson[1] and knowledge of them widely disseminated by his popular work on mechanics.
These slides are shown as part of a screw-cutting machine with a questionably adequate connection,
by means of cords, between the master screw and the work.

It was the author's pleasure recently to obtain for the Smithsonian Institution and identify
a small, nicely made, brass instrument which had been in two collections in this country and
one collection in Germany as an unidentified locksmith's tool (fig. 3). This proved to be an
instrument of the traverse-spindle variety for threading metal. Fortunately, all essential
details were present including a cutter (A in figure 4); this instrument was identified by
the signature "Manuel Wetschgi, Augspurg." The Wetschgis were a well-known family of gunsmiths
and mechanics in Augsburg through several generations. Two bore the given name Emanuel: the
earlier was born in 1678 and died in 1728. He was quite celebrated in his field of rifle making
and became chief of artillery to the Landgrave of Hesse-Kassel shortly before his death in
his 51st year. Little is known of the later Emanuel Wetschgi except that he was at Augsburg
in 1740. Tentative attribution of the instrument has been made to the earlier Emanuel, chiefly
on the basis of his recognized position as an outstanding craftsman.

In several respects this little machine differs from its predecessor of the Hausbuch, as might
be expected when allowance is made for the generations of craftsmen who undoubtedly worked
with such tools over the roughly 200 years of time separating them. Another factor to consider
when comparing these two machines is that one was used on metal, the other probably only on
wood. Therefore, it is not surprising to find on the later machine an outboard or "tailstock"
support for the work. The spindle of this support has to travel in unison with the work-driving
spindle so that it is not an unexpected discovery to find that it is spring-loaded. Figure
5 shows how this spring may be adjusted to accommodate various lengths of work by moving the
attachment screw to various holes in both the spring and in the frame. Also visible in the
same illustration is a rectangular projection at the other end of the spring which engages
a mating hole in the "tailstock" spindle to prevent its rotation.

Figure 6 shows the traversing spindle and nut removed from the machine. Provision has been
made for doing this so easily that there is every reason to believe that, originally, there
were various different spindle and nut units which could be interchangeably used in the machine.
Additional evidence tending to support this concept exists in the cutting tool (fig. 4), which
must have been intended for serious work as it has been carefully fitted in its unsymmetrical
socket. The cutting blade of this tool, which works with a scraping rather than a true cutting
action, is too wide to form a properly proportioned thread when used with the existing lead
screw. This may well indicate that the tool was made for use with a lead of coarser pitch,
now lost.

Perhaps the most startling feature of this machine when compared with the machine of the Hausbuch,
is the absence of a cross-slide for adjusting the tool. Possibly this can be explained by the
blunt scraping edge on the tool. In actual use, recently, to cut a sample screw, using a tool
similar to the one found in the machine (fig. 7), it was found advantageous to be free of a
cross-slide and thus be able to feed the tool into the work by feel rather than by rule, as
would be done with a slide rest. In this way, it was possible to thread steel without tearing,
as the cutting pressure could readily be felt and the tool could release itself from too heavy
a cut. Size on several screws could be repeated by setting the tool to produce the desired
diameter when its supporting arm came to rest against the frame of the machine. The screws
used in the machine itself were apparently made in just such a way. They were not cut with
a die as the thread blends very gradually into the body of the screw without the characteristic
marks left by the cutting edges of a die. Threads cut with a single-point tool controlled by
a cross-slide usually end even more abruptly than those cut by a die, while it would be quite
simple with a machine of the nature we are considering to bring the thread to a gentle tapering
end as seen in figure 8 (another view of the screw A in fig. 3) by gradually releasing the
pressure necessary to keep the tool cutting as the end of the thread was approached.

That machines of this general type having the lead screw on the axis of the work were competitive
with other methods and other types of machines over a long period of time may be seen from
figures 9 and 10. The machine, left front in figure 9 and in more intimate detail in figure
10, can be seen to differ little from that shown in Das mittelalterliche Hausbuch of 1483.
The double work-support is, of course, a great improvement, while the tool-support is regressive
since it lacks a feed screw.

The development of engineering theory, coupled with the rising needs of industry, particularly
with the advent of the Industrial Revolution, brought about accelerated development of screw-cutting
lathes through the combination of screw-cutting machines with simple lathes as seen in figure
9 and in detail in figure 11. One important advance shown here is driving the machine by means
of a cord or band so that any means of rotary power could be applied, not just hand or foot
power. Of greater interest and technical importance to this study is the provision, seen to
better advantage in figure 11, for readily changing from one master lead screw to another.
This had already been achieved in the Manuel Wetschgi machine, as far as versatility is concerned,
although not in quite such a convenient way.

Figure 12, the headstock of another and more advanced lathe than shown in figures 9 and 11
but of the same type, shows "keys" (D), each of which is a partial nut of different pitch to
engage with a thread of mating pitch. The dotted lines in figure 13 show the engaged and disengaged
positions of one of these keys, and figure 14 shows the spindle with the various leads, C.
At D is a grooved collar to be engaged by the narrow key shown in operating position at the
left in figure 12 for the purpose of controlling the endwise movement of the spindle when used
for ordinary turning instead of thread-cutting. In return for greater convenience and freedom
from the expense of the many separate spindles, as typified by the Wetschgi machine, a sacrifice
has been made in the length of the thread which can be cut without interruption.

This reduction in the length that could conveniently be threaded was no great drawback on many
classes of work. This can be realized from figure 16 which shows a traverse-spindle lathe headstock
typical of the mid-19th century. During the years intervening between the machines of figures
12 and 16, the general design was greatly improved by removing the lead screws from the center
of the spindle. This made possible a shorter, much stiffer spindle and supported both ends
of the spindle in one frame or headstock rather than in separate pieces attached to the bed.
The screws were now mounted outside of the spindle-bearings, one at a time, while the mating
nuts were cut partially into the circumference of a disk which could be turned to bring any
particular nut into working position as required. With this arrangement, a wide variety of
leads either right or left hand could be provided and additional leads could be fitted at any
future time. Screw-cutting lathes of this design were popular for a very long time with instrument
makers and opticians who had little need to cut screws of great length.

The demands of expanding industry for greater versatility in the production of engineering
elements late in the 18th century set the stage for the evolution of more complex machines
tending to place the threaded spindle lathes in eclipse. Maudslay's lathe of 1797-1800 (fig.
15) appeared at this time when industry was receptive to rapid innovation. Unfortunately, the
gearing which once existed to connect the headstock spindle with the lead screw has long been
lost. At this time it is quite difficult to say with certainty whether the original gear set
offered a variety of ratios, as was true of slightly later Maudslay lathes, or a fixed ratio.
The plausibility of the fixed ratio theory is supported by the very convenient means, seen
in figure 15, for removing the lead screw in preparation for substitution of one of another
pitch. All that is required is to back off its supporting center at the tailstock end and withdraw
the screw from its split nut[2] and from the driving clutch near the headstock. This split
nut also would have to be changed to one of a pitch corresponding to that of the screw. While
more expensive than a solid nut, it neatly circumvents the need (and saves the time involved)
to reverse the screw in order to get the tool back to the point of beginning preliminary to
taking another cut. David Wilkinson's lathe of 1798 (fig. 17) which was developed in Rhode
Island at the same time shows the same method of mounting and driving the master screw. At
least in the United States, this method of changing the lead screw instead of using change
gears remained popular for many years. Examples of this changeable screw feature are to be
found in the lathes constructed for the pump factory of W. & B. Douglas Company, Middletown,
Connecticut,[3] in the 1830's. Middletown, at that time one of the leading metal-working centers
in one of the chief industrial States, had been for many years the site of the Simeon North
arms factory which rivaled Whitney's. In this atmosphere, it is reasonable to expect that machinery
constructed by local mechanics, as was the custom in those days, would reflect the most accepted
refinements in machine design.

Roughly twenty years later, Joseph Nason of New York patented[4] the commercially very important
"Fox" brassworker's lathe (fig. 18). While this does have a ratio in the pair of gears connecting
the work spindle and master screw, it is clear from the patent that various pitches are to
be obtained by changing screws, not by changing gears. The patent sums it up as follows:

     A nut upon the end of the stud ... is unscrewed when the guide
     screw is to be removed or changed. The two wheels ... should have
     in their number of teeth a common multiple. They are seldom or
     never removed and their diameters are made dissimilar only for the
     purpose of giving to the guide screw a slower rate of motion than
     that of the mandrel whereby it may be made of coarser pitch than
     that of the screw to be cut and its wear materially lessened.

The introduction of gearing between the spindle and the lead screw, for whatever purpose, could
not help but introduce variable factors caused by inaccuracies in the gears themselves and
in their mounting. These were of little consequence for common work, particularly when coupled
to a screw which, itself, was of questionable accuracy. The increasing refinements demanded
in scientific instruments and in machine tools themselves after they had reached a relatively
stable form dictated that attention be dedicated to improved accuracy of the threaded components.

An attack on this problem, which interestingly reverts to the fundamental principle of motion
derived from a master screw without the intervention of other mechanism (fig. 19), is covered
by a patent[5] issued to Charles Vander Woerd, one-time superintendent of the Waltham Watch
Company. The problem is well stated in the patent:

     This invention relates to the manufacture of leading screws to be
     used for purposes requiring the highest attainable degree of
     correctness in the cutting of the screw-threads of said screw ...
     as, for example, in machines for ruling lines in glass plates to
     produce refraction [sic] gratings for the resolution of the lines
     of the solar spectrum, such machines being required to rule many
     thousands of lines on an inch of space by a marking device which is
     reciprocated over the glass plate and is fed by the action of a
     leading screw after the formation of each line. Great difficulty
     has been experienced in constructing a leading screw for this and
     other purposes, in which the thread is so nearly correct as to
     produce no perceptible variation in the microscopic spaces between
     the ruled lines or gratings.... Various causes prevent the
     formation of a thread on the rod or blank, which is absolutely
     uniform and accurate from end to end of the rod. Among other causes
     are the variations of temperature from time to time, the
     imperfections of the operating leading screw, the springing of the
     leading screw and of the rod that is being threaded, and other
     unavoidable causes, all of which, although apparently trivial and
     producing only slight variations in the thread at different parts
     of the rod or blank, are of sufficient moment to be seriously
     considered when a screw of absolute accuracy is desired.

It is interesting to note in figure 19 that Vander Woerd's machine, to avoid the problems outlined
in his patent, has returned to a starkly simple design. We are not told, however, how he originated
this master screw which is used to produce the accurately threaded work pieces. Later generations,
in the search for ever-greater accuracy, also returned to the fundamental simplicity of a master
screw as we shall see when we consider the refinements in mechanism necessary to the extended
development of the automobile and the airplane.

As the power and speed of automobiles and aircraft increased, critical parts became more highly
stressed. Gears and threaded parts were particularly troublesome details of the mechanism because
of the stresses concentrated in them, and, in the case of gears, because of the internal and
external stresses originating in minute deviations from the ideal of tooth form and spacing.
The problems were not entirely new but had hitherto been solved by increasing the size of the
parts, an avenue of limited utility to designers in these fields where total weight as well
as the effects of mass and inertia are so important. By making these parts of heat-treated
steel, the strength could be made suitable while the size and mass of the parts were kept within
bounds. The necessary processes of heat-treating were not always applicable to finished parts
as they sometimes destroyed both finish and accuracy. Grinding, which was well developed for
the simple plane, cylindrical, and conical surfaces so widely used in mechanisms, had to be
extended to threads and gears so that they could be finished after heat-treating. Sometimes
the gear teeth themselves were ground; for other applications it was sufficient to improve
the accuracy of the gear cutters.

Attempts to produce gear hobs free of the imperfections and distortions introduced by heat
treatment led to another return to the use of the master lead screw. Figure 20 illustrates
a machine having this feature which was patented in 1932 by Carl G. Olson.[6] In speaking of
the spindle-driving mechanism disclosed in earlier patents, the patent goes on to say:

     This driving mechanism includes an integral spindle 20, one
     extremity thereof being designed for supporting a hob 22 and the
     other extremity thereof being formed so as to present a lead screw
     24. The spindle 20 is mounted between a bearing 26 and a bearing
     28, the latter bearing providing a nut in which the lead screw 24
     rotates.... From the description thus far given it will be apparent
     that the rotation of the lead screw 24 within the bearing or nut 28
     will cause the hob to be moved axially, the lead of the screw 24
     being equal to the lead of the thread in the hob.

Claim 8 which concludes the descriptive portion of the patent states in part:

     In a hob grinding machine of the class described, a rotary work
     supporting spindle, means for effecting longitudinal movement of
     the spindle, a tool holder for supporting a grinding wheel in
     operative position with respect to the work supported by the
     spindle during the rotary and longitudinal movement thereof, ...

Even before this patent was applied for, another patent was pending for the purpose of modifying
the pitch of the lead screw without the use of change gears in spite of the wide acceptance
of such gear mechanisms for over a hundred years.

Figure 21 shows a plan view[7] of the machine, and figure 22 a detailed view of the sine-bar
mechanism actuated by the master screw, 6, to modify the effective pitch of the lead screw
in accordance with the realities of practice as stated in the preamble of the patent:

     This invention relates to material working machines, and
     particularly to machines such as hob grinders and the like, wherein
     the work is reciprocated through the agency of a lead screw.

     In the manufacture of hobs it is common practice to employ the same
     machine for grinding hobs of varied diameters, and in order to
     employ such a machine in this manner the pitch of the lead screw,
     thereof, which actuates the work carrier, must conform to the axial
     pitch of the hob to be ground. This will be readily apparent when
     it is understood that the helix angles of hobs vary in accordance
     with their diameters and, consequently, the difference between the
     normal pitch and the axial pitch correspondingly varies. While the
     requirement for the normal pitch may be the same for hobs of
     different diameters, it is necessary to change the axial pitch in
     accordance with a change in the hob diameter, and this axial pitch
     of the hob is equal to the pitch of the lead screw which actuates
     the work carrier in grinding machines heretofore used. Hence, in
     order to adapt such machines to cover a wide range of leads, it is
     necessary to provide a large number of interchangeable lead screws
     and obviously this represents a large investment, and the
     interchanging of these screws requires the expenditure of
     considerable time in setting up the machine for each job.

Thread-grinding machines were being designed concurrent with the development of hob-grinding
machines. Many were entirely concerned with features peculiar to the problems of wheel-dressing
and to automatic characteristics. An invention to embody the use of a master screw and concerned
with the precision grinding of worm threads, for use in gearing, was patented by Frederick
A. Ward in this era.[8] That part of the invention pertaining to the use of a master screw,
"a rotary work holder mounted on said carriage and provided with a driving spindle, an exchangeable
master screw and stationary nut detachably secured to said spindle and head,..." is shown in
figure 23.

Machines embodying the principle of the master lead screw are found in constant use by industry
at the present time for specialized application. Whenever technological changes again reopen
the topic of thread-cutting to a new degree of accuracy or call for a reevaluation of popular
methods for any other reason, we may expect to see another resurgence of the master-screw method,
for no other design eliminates so many variables or rests on such firm and fundamental natural
principles as the machine of Das mittelalterliche Hausbuch of 1483, the earliest such machine
now known.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] JACQUES BESSON, Des instruments mathématiques, et méchaniques, servants à l'intelligence
de plusiers choses difficiles, & necessaires à toutes républiques, 1st ed. (Orleans, 1569).
[Also available in later editions in French, German, and Spanish.]

[2] J. FOSTER PETREE, introduction, Henry Maudslay, 1771-1831, and Maudslay Sons and Field,
Ltd. (London: The Maudslay Society, 1949).

[3] American Machinist (September 28, 1916), vol. 45, no. 13, pp. 529-531.

[4] U.S. patent 10383 issued to Joseph Nason of New York, January 3, 1854.

[5] U.S. patent 293930 issued to Charles Vander Woerd of Waltham, Massachusetts, February 19, 1884.

[6] U.S. patent 1874592, filed June 8, 1929, issued to C. G. Olson of Chicago, Illinois, August
30, 1932, and assigned to the Illinois Tool Works, also of Chicago.

[7] U.S. patent 1901926, filed February 16, 1928, issued to C. G. Olson of Chicago, Illinois,
March 21, 1933, and assigned to the Illinois Tool Works, also of Chicago.

[8] U.S. patent 1899654, filed August 31, 1931, issued to F. A. Ward of Detroit, Michigan,
February 28, 1933, and assigned to the Gear Grinding Company of Detroit, Michigan.

