The roll forbade labor from the ninth hour, three o’clock, on Saturday afternoon, till sunrise
on Monday; and its authority was declared to be confirmed by many miracles. It was reported
that persons laboring beyond the appointed hour were stricken with paralysis. A miller who
attempted to grind his corn, saw, instead of flour, a torrent of blood come forth, and the
mill-wheel stood still, notwithstanding the strong rush of the water. A woman who placed dough
in the oven, found it raw when taken out, though the oven was very hot. Another who had dough
prepared for baking at the ninth hour, but determined to set it aside till Monday, found, the
next day, that it had been made into loaves and baked by divine power. A man who baked bread
after the ninth hour on Saturday, found, when he broke it the next morning, that blood started
therefrom. By such absurd and superstitious fabrications did the advocates of Sunday endeavor
to establish its sacredness.(1012)

In Scotland, as in England, a greater regard for Sunday was secured by uniting with it a portion
of the ancient Sabbath. But the time required to be kept holy varied. An edict from the king
of Scotland declared that “Saturday from twelve at noon ought to be accounted holy,” and that
no man, from that time till Monday morning, should engage in worldly business.(1013)

But notwithstanding all the efforts to establish Sunday sacredness, papists themselves publicly
confessed the divine authority of the Sabbath, and the human origin of the institution by which
it had been supplanted. In the sixteenth century a papal council plainly declared: “Let all
Christians remember that the seventh day was consecrated by God, and hath been received and
observed, not only by the Jews, but by all others who pretend to worship God; though we Christians
have changed their Sabbath into the Lord’s day.”(1014) Those who were tampering with the divine
law were not ignorant of the character of their work. They were deliberately setting themselves
above God.

A striking illustration of Rome’s policy toward those who disagree with her was given in the
long and bloody persecution of the Waldenses, some of whom were observers of the Sabbath. Others
suffered in a similar manner for their fidelity to the fourth commandment. The history of the
churches of Ethiopia and Abyssinia is especially significant. Amid the gloom of the Dark Ages,
the Christians of Central Africa were lost sight of and forgotten by the world, and for many
centuries they enjoyed freedom in the exercise of their faith. But at last Rome learned of
their existence, and the emperor of Abyssinia was soon beguiled into an acknowledgment of the
pope as the vicar of Christ. Other concessions followed. An edict was issued forbidding the
observance of the Sabbath under the severest penalties.(1015) But papal tyranny soon became
a yoke so galling that the Abyssinians determined to break it from their necks. After a terrible
struggle, the Romanists were banished from their dominions, and the ancient faith was restored.
The churches rejoiced in their freedom, and they never forgot the lesson they had learned concerning
the deception, the fanaticism, and the despotic power of Rome. Within their solitary realm
they were content to remain, unknown to the rest of Christendom.

The churches of Africa held the Sabbath as it was held by the papal church before her complete
apostasy. While they kept the seventh day in obedience to the commandment of God, they abstained
from labor on the Sunday in conformity to the custom of the church. Upon obtaining supreme
power, Rome had trampled upon the Sabbath of God to exalt her own; but the churches of Africa,
hidden for nearly a thousand years, did not share in this apostasy. When brought under the
sway of Rome, they were forced to set aside the true and exalt the false sabbath; but no sooner
had they regained their independence than they returned to obedience to the fourth commandment.(1016)

These records of the past clearly reveal the enmity of Rome toward the true Sabbath and its
defenders, and the means which she employs to honor the institution of her creating. The word
of God teaches that these scenes are to be repeated as Roman Catholics and Protestants shall
unite for the exaltation of the Sunday. But in this homage to papacy the United States will
not be alone. The influence of Rome in the countries that once acknowledged her dominion, is
still far from being destroyed. And prophecy foretells a restoration of her power. After this,
says the prophet, “His deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast.”
Paul states plainly that the man of sin will continue until the second advent.(1019) To the
very close of time he will carry forward his work of deception. And the revelator declares,
also referring to the papacy, “All that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names
are not written in the book of life.”(1020) In both the Old and the New World, the papacy will
receive homage in the honor paid to the Sunday institution, that rests solely upon the authority
of the Roman Church.

For more than half a century, students of prophecy in the United States have presented this
testimony to the world. In the events now taking place is seen a rapid advance toward the fulfilment
of the prediction. With Protestant teachers there is the same claim of divine authority for
Sunday-keeping, and the same lack of scriptural evidence, as with the papal leaders who fabricated
miracles to supply the place of a command from God. The assertion that God’s judgments are
visited upon men for their violation of the Sunday-sabbath, will be repeated; already it is
beginning to be urged. And a movement to enforce Sunday observance is fast gaining ground.

Marvelous in her shrewdness and cunning is the Roman Church. She can read what is to be. She
bides her time, seeing that the Protestant churches are paying her homage in their acceptance
of the false sabbath, and that they are preparing to enforce it by the very means which she
herself employed in bygone days. Those who reject the light of truth will yet seek the aid
of this self-styled infallible power to exalt an institution that originated with her. How
readily she will come to the help of Protestants in this work, it is not difficult to conjecture.
Who understands better than the papal leaders how to deal with those who are disobedient to
the church?

The Roman Catholic Church, with all its ramifications throughout the world, forms one vast
organization, under the control, and designed to serve the interests, of the papal see. Its
millions of communicants, in every country on the globe, are instructed to hold themselves
as bound in allegiance to the pope. Whatever their nationality or their government, they are
to regard the authority of the church as above all other. Though they may take the oath pledging
their loyalty to the state, yet back of this lies the vow of obedience to Rome, absolving them
from every pledge inimical to her interests.

History testifies of her artful and persistent efforts to insinuate herself into the affairs
of nations; and having gained a foothold, to further her own aims, even at the ruin of princes
and people. In the year 1204, Pope Innocent III. extracted from Peter II., king of Arragon,
the following extraordinary oath: “I, Peter, king of Arragonians, profess and promise to be
ever faithful and obedient to my lord, Pope Innocent, to his Catholic successors, and the Roman
Church, and faithfully to preserve my kingdom in his obedience, defending the Catholic faith,
and persecuting heretical pravity.”(1021) This is in harmony with the claims regarding the
power of the Roman pontiff, that “it is lawful for him to depose emperors,” and that “he can
absolve subjects from their allegiance to unrighteous rulers.”(1022)

And let it be remembered, it is the boast of Rome that she never changes. The principles of
Gregory VII. and Innocent III. are still the principles of the Roman Catholic Church. And had
she but the power, she would put them in practice with as much vigor now as in past centuries.
Protestants little know what they are doing when they propose to accept the aid of Rome in
the work of Sunday exaltation. While they are bent upon the accomplishment of their purpose,
Rome is aiming to re-establish her power, to recover her lost supremacy. Let the principle
once be established in the United States, that the church may employ or control the power of
the state; that religious observances may be enforced by secular laws; in short, that the authority
of church and state is to dominate the conscience, and the triumph of Rome in this country
is assured.

God’s word has given warning of the impending danger; let this be unheeded, and the Protestant
world will learn what the purposes of Rome really are, only when it is too late to escape the
snare. She is silently growing into power. Her doctrines are exerting their influence in legislative
halls, in the churches, and in the hearts of men. She is piling up her lofty and massive structures,
in the secret recesses of which her former persecutions will be repeated. Stealthily and unsuspectedly
she is strengthening her forces to further her own ends when the time shall come for her to
strike. All that she desires is vantage-ground, and this is already being given her. We shall
soon see and shall feel what the purpose of the Roman element is. Whoever shall believe and
obey the word of God, will thereby incur reproach and persecution.

36. THE IMPENDING CONFLICT.

From the very beginning of the great controversy in heaven, it has been Satan’s purpose to
overthrow the law of God. It was to accomplish this that he entered upon his rebellion against
the Creator; and though he was cast out of heaven, he has continued the same warfare upon the
earth. To deceive men, and thus lead them to transgress God’s law, is the object which he has
steadfastly pursued. Whether this be accomplished by casting aside the law altogether, or by
rejecting one of its precepts, the result will be ultimately the same. He that offends “in
one point,” manifests contempt for the whole law; his influence and example are on the side
of transgression; he becomes “guilty of all.”(1023)

In seeking to cast contempt upon the divine statutes, Satan has perverted the doctrines of
the Bible, and errors have thus become incorporated into the faith of thousands who profess
to believe the Scriptures. The last great conflict between truth and error is but the final
struggle of the long-standing controversy concerning the law of God. Upon this battle we are
now entering,—a battle between the laws of men and the precepts of Jehovah, between the religion
of the Bible and the religion of fable and tradition.

The agencies which will unite against truth and righteousness in this contest are now actively
at work. God’s holy word, which has been handed down to us at such a cost of suffering and
blood, is but little valued. The Bible is within the reach of all, but there are few who really
accept it as the guide of life. Infidelity prevails to an alarming extent, not in the world
merely, but in the church. Many have come to deny doctrines which are the very pillars of the
Christian faith. The great facts of creation as presented by the inspired writers, the fall
of man, the atonement, and the perpetuity of the law of God, are practically rejected, either
wholly or in part, by a large share of the professedly Christian world. Thousands who pride
themselves upon their wisdom and independence, regard it an evidence of weakness to place implicit
confidence in the Bible; they think it a proof of superior talent and learning to cavil at
the Scriptures, and to spiritualize and explain away their most important truths. Many ministers
are teaching their people, and many professors and teachers are instructing their students,
that the law of God has been changed or abrogated; and those who regard its requirements as
still valid, to be literally obeyed, are thought to be deserving only of ridicule or contempt.

In rejecting the truth, men reject its Author. In trampling upon the law of God, they deny
the authority of the Lawgiver. It is as easy to make an idol of false doctrines and theories
as to fashion an idol of wood or stone. By misrepresenting the attributes of God, Satan leads
men to conceive of Him in a false character. With many, a philosophical idol is enthroned in
the place of Jehovah; while the living God, as He is revealed in His word, in Christ, and in
the works of creation, is worshiped by but few. Thousands deify nature, while they deny the
God of nature. Though in a different form, idolatry exists in the Christian world to-day as
verily as it existed among ancient Israel in the days of Elijah. The god of many professedly
wise men, of philosophers, poets, politicians, journalists,—the god of polished fashionable
circles, of many colleges and universities, even of some theological institutions,—is little
better than Baal, the sun-god of Phenicia.

No error accepted by the Christian world strikes more boldly against the authority of Heaven,
none is more directly opposed to the dictates of reason, none is more pernicious in its results,
than the modern doctrine, so rapidly gaining ground, that God’s law is no longer binding upon
men. Every nation has its laws, which command respect and obedience; no government could exist
without them; and can it be conceived that the Creator of the heavens and the earth has no
law to govern the beings He has made? Suppose that prominent ministers were publicly to teach
that the statutes which govern their land and protect the rights of its citizens were not obligatory,—that
they restricted the liberties of the people, and therefore ought not to be obeyed; how long
would such men be tolerated in the pulpit? But is it a graver offense to disregard the laws
of states and nations than to trample upon those divine precepts which are the foundation of
all government?

It would be far more consistent for nations to abolish their statutes, and permit the people
to do as they please, than for the Ruler of the universe to annul His law, and leave the world
without a standard to condemn the guilty or justify the obedient. Would we know the result
of making void the law of God? The experiment has been tried. Terrible were the scenes enacted
in France when atheism became the controlling power. It was then demonstrated to the world
that to throw off the restraints which God has imposed is to accept the rule of the cruelest
of tyrants. When the standard of righteousness is set aside, the way is open for the prince
of evil to establish his power in the earth.

Wherever the divine precepts are rejected, sin ceases to appear sinful, or righteousness desirable.
Those who refuse to submit to the government of God are wholly unfitted to govern themselves.
Through their pernicious teachings, the spirit of insubordination is implanted in the hearts
of children and youth, who are naturally impatient of control; and a lawless, licentious state
of society results. While scoffing at the credulity of those who obey the requirements of God,
the multitudes eagerly accept the delusions of Satan. They give the rein to lust, and practise
the sins which have called down judgments upon the heathen.

Those who teach the people to regard lightly the commandments of God, sow disobedience, to
reap disobedience. Let the restraint imposed by the divine law be wholly cast aside, and human
laws would soon be disregarded. Because God forbids dishonest practices, coveting, lying, and
defrauding, men are ready to trample upon His statutes as a hindrance to their worldly prosperity;
but the results of banishing these precepts would be such as they do not anticipate. If the
law were not binding, why should any fear to transgress? Property would no longer be safe.
Men would obtain their neighbors’ possessions by violence; and the strongest would become richest.
Life itself would not be respected. The marriage vow would no longer stand as a sacred bulwark
to protect the family. He who had the power, would, if he desired, take his neighbor’s wife
by violence. The fifth commandment would be set aside with the fourth. Children would not shrink
from taking the life of their parents, if by so doing they could obtain the desire of their
corrupt hearts. The civilized world would become a horde of robbers and assassins; and peace,
rest, and happiness would be banished from the earth.

Already the doctrine that men are released from obedience to God’s requirements has weakened
the force of moral obligation, and opened the flood-gates of iniquity upon the world. Lawlessness,
dissipation, and corruption are sweeping in upon us like an overwhelming tide. In the family,
Satan is at work. His banner waves, even in professedly Christian households. There is envy,
evil surmising, hypocrisy, estrangement, emulation, strife, betrayal of sacred trusts, indulgence
of lust. The whole system of religious principles and doctrines, which should form the foundation
and framework of social life, seems to be a tottering mass, ready to fall to ruin. The vilest
of criminals, when thrown into prison for their offenses, are often made the recipients of
gifts and attentions, as if they had attained an enviable distinction. Great publicity is given
to their character and crimes. The press publishes the revolting details of vice, thus initiating
others into the practice of fraud, robbery, and murder; and Satan exults in the success of
his hellish schemes. The infatuation of vice, the wanton taking of life, the terrible increase
of intemperance and iniquity of every order and degree, should arouse all who fear God, to
inquire what can be done to stay the tide of evil.

Courts of justice are corrupt. Rulers are actuated by desire for gain, and love of sensual
pleasure. Intemperance has beclouded the faculties of many, so that Satan has almost complete
control of them. Jurists are perverted, bribed, deluded. Drunkenness and revelry, passion,
envy, dishonesty of every sort, are represented among those who administer the laws. “Justice
standeth afar off: for truth is fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter.”(1024)

The iniquity and spiritual darkness that prevailed under the supremacy of Rome were the inevitable
result of her suppression of the Scriptures; but where is to be found the cause of the wide-spread
infidelity, the rejection of the law of God, and the consequent corruption, under the full
blaze of gospel light in an age of religious freedom? Now that Satan can no longer keep the
world under his control by withholding the Scriptures, he resorts to other means to accomplish
the same object. To destroy faith in the Bible serves his purpose as well as to destroy the
Bible itself. By introducing the belief that God’s law is not binding, he as effectually leads
men to transgress as if they were wholly ignorant of its precepts. And now, as in former ages,
he has worked through the church to further his designs. The religious organizations of the
day have refused to listen to unpopular truths plainly brought to view in the Scriptures, and
in combating them they have adopted interpretations and taken positions which have sown broadcast
the seeds of skepticism. Clinging to the papal error of natural immortality and man’s consciousness
in death, they have rejected the only defense against the delusions of Spiritualism. The doctrine
of eternal torment has led many to disbelieve the Bible. And as the claims of the fourth commandment
are urged upon the people, it is found that the observance of the seventh-day Sabbath is enjoined;
and as the only way to free themselves from a duty which they are unwilling to perform, many
popular teachers declare that the law of God is no longer binding. Thus they cast away the
law and the Sabbath together. As the work of Sabbath reform extends, this rejection of the
divine law to avoid the claims of the fourth commandment will become well-nigh universal. The
teachings of religious leaders have opened the door to infidelity, to Spiritualism, and to
contempt for God’s holy law; and upon these leaders rests a fearful responsibility for the
iniquity that exists in the Christian world.

Yet this very class put forth the claim that the fast-spreading corruption is largely attributable
to the desecration of the so-called “Christian sabbath,” and that the enforcement of Sunday
observance would greatly improve the morals of society. This claim is especially urged in America,
where the doctrine of the true Sabbath has been most widely preached. Here the temperance work,
one of the most prominent and important of moral reforms, is often combined with the Sunday
movement, and the advocates of the latter represent themselves as laboring to promote the highest
interest of society; and those who refuse to unite with them are denounced as the enemies of
temperance and reform. But the fact that a movement to establish error is connected with a
work which is in itself good, is not an argument in favor of the error. We may disguise poison
by mingling it with wholesome food, but we do not change its nature. On the contrary, it is
rendered more dangerous, as it is more likely to be taken unawares. It is one of Satan’s devices
to combine with falsehood just enough truth to give it plausibility. The leaders of the Sunday
movement may advocate reforms which the people need, principles which are in harmony with the
Bible; yet while there is with these a requirement which is contrary to God’s law, His servants
cannot unite with them. Nothing can justify them in setting aside the commandments of God for
the precepts of men.

Through the two great errors, the immortality of the soul and Sunday sacredness, Satan will
bring the people under his deceptions. While the former lays the foundation of Spiritualism,
the latter creates a bond of sympathy with Rome. The Protestants of the United States will
be foremost in stretching their hands across the gulf to grasp the hand of Spiritualism; they
will reach over the abyss to clasp hands with the Roman power; and under the influence of this
threefold union, this country will follow in the steps of Rome in trampling on the rights of
conscience.

As Spiritualism more closely imitates the nominal Christianity of the day, it has greater power
to deceive and ensnare. Satan himself is converted, after the modern order of things. He will
appear in the character of an angel of light. Through the agency of Spiritualism, miracles
will be wrought, the sick will be healed, and many undeniable wonders will be performed. And
as the spirits will profess faith in the Bible, and manifest respect for the institutions of
the church, their work will be accepted as a manifestation of divine power.

The line of distinction between professed Christians and the ungodly is now hardly distinguishable.
Church-members love what the world loves, and are ready to join with them; and Satan determines
to unite them in one body, and thus strengthen his cause by sweeping all into the ranks of
Spiritualism. Papists, who boast of miracles as a certain sign of the true church, will be
readily deceived by this wonder-working power; and Protestants, having cast away the shield
of truth, will also be deluded. Papists, Protestants, and worldlings will alike accept the
form of godliness without the power, and they will see in this union a grand movement for the
conversion of the world, and the ushering in of the long-expected millennium.

Through Spiritualism, Satan appears as a benefactor of the race, healing the diseases of the
people, and professing to present a new and more exalted system of religious faith; but at
the same time he works as a destroyer. His temptations are leading multitudes to ruin. Intemperance
dethrones reason; sensual indulgence, strife, and bloodshed follow. Satan delights in war;
for it excites the worst passions of the soul, and then sweeps into eternity its victims steeped
in vice and blood. It is his object to incite the nations to war against one another; for he
can thus divert the minds of the people from the work of preparation to stand in the day of God.

Satan works through the elements also to garner his harvest of unprepared souls. He has studied
the secrets of the laboratories of nature, and he uses all his power to control the elements
as far as God allows. When he was suffered to afflict Job, how quickly flocks and herds, servants,
houses, children, were swept away, one trouble succeeding another as in a moment. It is God
that shields His creatures, and hedges them in from the power of the destroyer. But the Christian
world have shown contempt for the law of Jehovah; and the Lord will do just what He has declared
that He would,—He will withdraw His blessings from the earth, and remove His protecting care
from those who are rebelling against His law, and teaching and forcing others to do the same.
Satan has control of all whom God does not especially guard. He will favor and prosper some,
in order to further his own designs; and he will bring trouble upon others, and lead men to
believe that it is God who is afflicting them.

While appearing to the children of men as a great physician who can heal all their maladies,
he will bring disease and disaster, until populous cities are reduced to ruin and desolation.
Even now he is at work. In accidents and calamities by sea and by land, in great conflagrations,
in fierce tornadoes and terrific hail-storms, in tempests, floods, cyclones, tidal waves, and
earthquakes, in every place and in a thousand forms, Satan is exercising his power. He sweeps
away the ripening harvest, and famine and distress follow. He imparts to the air a deadly taint,
and thousands perish by the pestilence. These visitations are to become more and more frequent
and disastrous. Destruction will be upon both man and beast. “The earth mourneth and fadeth
away,” “the haughty people ... do languish. The class that have provoked the displeasure of
Heaven will charge all their troubles upon those whose obedience to God’s commandments is a
perpetual reproof to transgressors. It will be declared that men are offending God by the violation
of the Sunday-sabbath; that this sin has brought calamities which will not cease until Sunday
observance shall be strictly enforced; and that those who present the claims of the fourth
commandment, thus destroying reverence for Sunday, are troublers of the people, preventing
their restoration to divine favor and temporal prosperity. Thus the accusation urged of old
against the servant of God will be repeated, and upon grounds equally well established: “And
it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth
Israel? And he answered, I have not troubled Israel; but thou, and thy father’s house, in that
ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, and thou hast followed Baalim.”(1026) As the
wrath of the people shall be excited by false charges, they will pursue a course toward God’s
ambassadors very similar to that which apostate Israel pursued toward Elijah.

The miracle-working power manifested through Spiritualism will exert its influence against
those who choose to obey God rather than men. Communications from the spirits will declare
that God has sent them to convince the rejecters of Sunday of their error, affirming that the
laws of the land should be obeyed as the law of God. They will lament the great wickedness
in the world, and second the testimony of religious teachers, that the degraded state of morals
is caused by the desecration of Sunday. Great will be the indignation excited against all who
refuse to accept their testimony.

Satan’s policy in this final conflict with God’s people is the same that he employed in the
opening of the great controversy in heaven. He professed to be seeking to promote the stability
of the divine government, while secretly bending every effort to secure its overthrow. And
the very work which he was thus endeavoring to accomplish, he charged upon the loyal angels.
The same policy of deception has marked the history of the Roman Church. It has professed to
act as the vicegerent of Heaven, while seeking to exalt itself above God, and to change His
law. Under the rule of Rome, those who suffered death for their fidelity to the gospel were
denounced as evil-doers; they were declared to be in league with Satan; and every possible
means was employed to cover them with reproach, to cause them to appear, in the eyes of the
people, and even to themselves, as the vilest of criminals. So it will be now. While Satan
seeks to destroy those who honor God’s law, he will cause them to be accused as lawbreakers,
as men who are dishonoring God, and bringing judgments upon the world.

God never forces the will or the conscience; but Satan’s constant resort—to gain control of
those whom he cannot otherwise seduce—is compulsion by cruelty. Through fear or force he endeavors
to rule the conscience, and to secure homage to himself. To accomplish this, he works through
both religious and secular authorities, moving them to the enforcement of human laws in defiance
of the law of God.

Those who honor the Bible Sabbath will be denounced as enemies of law and order, as breaking
down the moral restraints of society, causing anarchy and corruption, and calling down the
judgments of God upon the earth. Their conscientious scruples will be pronounced obstinacy,
stubbornness, and contempt of authority. They will be accused of disaffection toward the government.
Ministers who deny the obligation of the divine law will present from the pulpit the duty of
yielding obedience to the civil authorities as ordained of God. In legislative halls and courts
of justice, commandment-keepers will be misrepresented and condemned. A false coloring will
be given to their words; the worst construction will be put upon their motives.

As the Protestant churches reject the clear, scriptural arguments in defense of God’s law,
they will long to silence those whose faith they cannot overthrow by the Bible. Though they
blind their own eyes to the fact, they are now adopting a course which will lead to the persecution
of those who conscientiously refuse to do what the rest of the Christian world are doing, and
acknowledge the claims of the papal sabbath.

The dignitaries of church and state will unite to bribe, persuade, or compel all classes to
honor the Sunday. The lack of divine authority will be supplied by oppressive enactments. Political
corruption is destroying love of justice and regard for truth; and even in free America, rulers
and legislators, in order to secure public favor, will yield to the popular demand for a law
enforcing Sunday observance. Liberty of conscience, which has cost so great a sacrifice, will
no longer be respected. THE SCRIPTURES A SAFEGUARD.

“To the law and to the testimony: if they speak not according to this word, it is because there
is no light in them.”(1028) The people of God are directed to the Scriptures as their safeguard
against the influence of false teachers and the delusive power of spirits of darkness. Satan
employs every possible device to prevent men from obtaining a knowledge of the Bible; for its
plain utterances reveal his deceptions. At every revival of God’s work, the prince of evil
is aroused to more intense activity; he is now putting forth his utmost efforts for a final
struggle against Christ and His followers. The last great delusion is soon to open before us.
Antichrist is to perform his marvelous works in our sight. So closely will the counterfeit
resemble the true, that it will be impossible to distinguish between them except by the Holy
Scriptures. By their testimony every statement and every miracle must be tested.

Those who endeavor to obey all the commandments of God will be opposed and derided. They can
stand only in God. In order to endure the trial before them, they must understand the will
of God as revealed in His word; they can honor Him only as they have a right conception of
His character, government, and purposes, and act in accordance with them. None but those who
have fortified the mind with the truths of the Bible will stand through the last great conflict.
To every soul will come the searching test, Shall I obey God rather than men? The decisive
hour is even now at hand. Are our feet planted on the rock of God’s immutable word? Are we
prepared to stand firm in defense of the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus?

Before His crucifixion, the Saviour explained to His disciples that He was to be put to death,
and to rise again from the tomb; and angels were present to impress His words on minds and
hearts. But the disciples were looking for temporal deliverance from the Roman yoke, and they
could not tolerate the thought that He in whom all their hopes centered should suffer an ignominious
death. The words which they needed to remember were banished from their minds; and when the
time of trial came, it found them unprepared. The death of Jesus as fully destroyed their hopes
as if He had not forewarned them. So in the prophecies the future is opened before us as plainly
as it was opened to the disciples by the words of Christ. The events connected with the close
of probation and the work of preparation for the time of trouble, are clearly presented. But
multitudes have no more understanding of these important truths than if they had never been
revealed. Satan watches to catch away every impression that would make them wise unto salvation,
and the time of trouble will find them unready.

When God sends to men warnings so important that they are represented as proclaimed by holy
angels flying in the midst of heaven, He requires every person endowed with reasoning powers
to heed the message. The fearful judgments denounced against the worship of the beast and his
image,(1029) should lead all to a diligent study of the prophecies to learn what the mark of
the beast is, and how they are to avoid receiving it. But the masses of the people turn away
their ears from hearing the truth, and are turned unto fables. The apostle Paul declared, looking
down to the last days, “The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine.”(1030)
That time has fully come. The multitudes do not want Bible truth, because it interferes with
the desires of the sinful, world-loving heart; and Satan supplies the deceptions which they love.

But God will have a people upon the earth to maintain the Bible, and the Bible only, as the
standard of all doctrines, and the basis of all reforms. The opinions of learned men, the deductions
of science, the creeds or decisions of ecclesiastical councils, as numerous and discordant
as are the churches which they represent, the voice of the majority,—not one nor all of these
should be regarded as evidence for or against any point of religious faith. Before accepting
any doctrine or precept, we should demand a plain “Thus saith the Lord” in its support.

Satan is constantly endeavoring to attract attention to man in the place of God. He leads the
people to look to bishops, to pastors, to professors of theology, as their guides, instead
of searching the Scriptures to learn their duty for themselves. Then, by controlling the minds
of these leaders, he can influence the multitudes according to his will.

When Christ came to speak the words of life, the common people heard Him gladly; and many,
even of the priests and rulers, believed on Him. But the chief of the priesthood and the leading
men of the nation were determined to condemn and repudiate His teachings. Though they were
baffled in all their efforts to find accusations against Him, though they could not but feel
the influence of the divine power and wisdom attending His words, yet they encased themselves
in prejudice; they rejected the clearest evidence of His Messiahship, lest they should be forced
to become His disciples. These opponents of Jesus were men whom the people had been taught
from infancy to reverence, to whose authority they had been accustomed implicitly to bow. “How
is it,” they asked, “that our rulers and learned scribes do not believe on Jesus? Would not
these pious men receive Him if He were the Christ?” It was the influence of such teachers that
led the Jewish nation to reject their Redeemer.

The spirit which actuated those priests and rulers is still manifested by many who make a high
profession of piety. They refuse to examine the testimony of the Scriptures concerning the
special truths for this time. They point to their own numbers, wealth, and popularity, and
look with contempt upon the advocates of truth as few, poor, and unpopular, having a faith
that separates them from the world.

Christ foresaw that the undue assumption of authority indulged by the scribes and Pharisees
would not cease with the dispersion of the Jews. He had a prophetic view of the work of exalting
human authority to rule the conscience, which has been so terrible a curse to the church in
all ages. And His fearful denunciations of the scribes and Pharisees, and His warnings to the
people not to follow these blind leaders, were placed on record as an admonition to future
generations.

The Roman Church reserves to the clergy the right to interpret the Scriptures. On the ground
that ecclesiastics alone are competent to explain God’s word, it is withheld from the common
people. Though the Reformation gave the Scriptures to all, yet the selfsame principle which
was maintained by Rome prevents multitudes in Protestant churches from searching the Bible
for themselves. They are taught to accept its teachings as interpreted by the church; and there
are thousands who dare receive nothing, however plainly revealed in Scripture, that is contrary
to their creed, or the established teaching of their church.

Notwithstanding the Bible is full of warnings against false teachers, many are ready thus to
commit the keeping of their souls to the clergy. There are to-day thousands of professors of
religion who can give no other reason for points of faith which they hold than that they were
so instructed by their religious leaders. They pass by the Saviour’s teachings almost unnoticed,
and place implicit confidence in the words of the ministers. But are ministers infallible?
How can we trust our souls to their guidance unless we know from God’s word that they are light-bearers?
A lack of moral courage to step aside from the beaten track of the world, leads many to follow
in the steps of learned men; and by their reluctance to investigate for themselves, they are
becoming hopelessly fastened in the chains of error. They see that the truth for this time
is plainly brought to view in the Bible, and they feel the power of the Holy Spirit attending
its proclamation; yet they allow the opposition of the clergy to turn them from the light.
Though reason and conscience are convinced, these deluded souls dare not think differently
from the minister; and their individual judgment, their eternal interests, are sacrificed to
the unbelief, the pride and prejudice, of another.

Many are the ways by which Satan works through human influence to bind his captives. He secures
multitudes to himself by attaching them by the silken cords of affection to those who are enemies
of the cross of Christ. Whatever this attachment may be, parental, filial, conjugal, or social,
the effect is the same; the opposers of truth exert their power to control the conscience,
and the souls held under their sway have not sufficient courage or independence to obey their
own convictions of duty.

The truth and the glory of God are inseparable; it is impossible for us, with the Bible within
our reach, to honor God by erroneous opinions. Many claim that it matters not what one believes,
if his life is only right. But the life is moulded by the faith. If light and truth is within
our reach, and we neglect to improve the privilege of hearing and seeing it, we virtually reject
it; we are choosing darkness rather than light.

“There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.”(1031)
Ignorance is no excuse for error or sin, when there is every opportunity to know the will of
God. A man is traveling, and comes to a place where there are several roads, and a guide-board
indicating where each one leads. If he disregards the guide-board, and takes whichever road
seems to him to be right, he may be ever so sincere, but will in all probability find himself
on the wrong road.

God has given us His word that we may become acquainted with its teachings, and know for ourselves
what He requires of us. When the lawyer came to Jesus with the inquiry, “What shall I do to
inherit eternal life?” the Saviour referred him to the Scriptures, saying, “What is written
in the law? how readest thou?” Ignorance will not excuse young or old, nor release them from
the punishment due for the transgression of God’s law; because there is in their hands a faithful
presentation of that law and of its principles and its claims. It is not enough to have good
intentions; it is not enough to do what a man thinks is right, or what the minister tells him
is right. His soul’s salvation is at stake, and he should search the Scriptures for himself.
However strong may be his convictions, however confident he may be that the minister knows
what is truth, this is not his foundation. He has a chart pointing out every way mark on the
heavenward journey, and he ought not to guess at anything.

It is the first and highest duty of every rational being to learn from the Scriptures what
is truth, and then to walk in the light, and encourage others to follow his example. We should
day by day study the Bible diligently, weighing every thought, and comparing scripture with
scripture. With divine help, we are to form our opinions for ourselves, as we are to answer
for ourselves before God.

The truths most plainly revealed in the Bible have been involved in doubt and darkness by learned
men, who, with a pretense of great wisdom, teach that the Scriptures have a mystical, a secret,
spiritual meaning not apparent in the language employed. These men are false teachers. It was
to such a class that Jesus declared, “Ye know not the Scriptures, neither the power of God.”(1032)
The language of the Bible should be explained according to its obvious meaning, unless a symbol
or figure is employed. Christ has given the promise, “If any man will do His will, he shall
know of the doctrine.”(1033) If men would but take the Bible as it reads, if there were no
false teachers to mislead and confuse their minds, a work would be accomplished that would
make angels glad, and that would bring into the fold of Christ thousands upon thousands who
are now wandering in error.

We should exert all the powers of the mind in the study of the Scriptures, and should task
the understanding to comprehend, as far as mortals can, the deep things of God; yet we must
not forget that the docility and submission of a child is the true spirit of the learner. Scriptural
difficulties can never be mastered by the same methods that are employed in grappling with
philosophical problems. We should not engage in the study of the Bible with that self-reliance
with which so many enter the domains of science, but with a prayerful dependence upon God,
and a sincere desire to learn His will. We must come with a humble and teachable spirit to
obtain knowledge from the great I AM. Otherwise, evil angels will so blind our minds and harden
our hearts that we shall not be impressed by the truth.

Many a portion of Scripture which learned men pronounce a mystery, or pass over as unimportant,
is full of comfort and instruction to him who has been taught in the school of Christ. One
reason why many theologians have no clearer understanding of God’s word is, they close their
eyes to truths which they do not wish to practise. An understanding of Bible truth depends
not so much on the power of intellect brought to the search as on the singleness of purpose,
the earnest longing after righteousness.

The Bible should never be studied without prayer. The Holy Spirit alone can cause us to feel
the importance of those things easy to be understood, or prevent us from wresting truths difficult
of comprehension. It is the office of heavenly angels to prepare the heart so to comprehend
God’s word that we shall be charmed with its beauty, admonished by its warnings, or animated
and strengthened by its promises. We should make the psalmist’s petition our own, “Open Thou
mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of Thy law.”(1034) Temptations often appear
irresistible because, through neglect of prayer and the study of the Bible, the tempted one
cannot readily remember God’s promises and meet Satan with the Scripture weapons. But angels
are round about those who are willing to be taught in divine things; and in the time of great
necessity, they will bring to their remembrance the very truths which are needed. “Thy word
have I hid in mine heart,” said David, “that I might not sin against Thee.”(1037)

All who value their eternal interests should be on their guard against the inroads of skepticism.
The very pillars of truth will be assailed. It is impossible to keep beyond the reach of the
sarcasms and sophisms, the insidious and pestilent teachings, of modern infidelity. Satan adapts
his temptations to all classes. He assails the illiterate with a jest or sneer, while he meets
the educated with scientific objections and philosophical reasoning, alike calculated to excite
distrust or contempt of the Scriptures. Even youth of little experience presume to insinuate
doubts concerning the fundamental principles of Christianity. And this youthful infidelity,
shallow as it is, has its influence. Many are thus led to jest at the faith of their fathers,
and to do despite to the Spirit of grace.(1038) Many a life that promised to be an honor to
God and a blessing to the world, has been blighted by the foul breath of infidelity. All who
trust to the boastful decisions of human reason, and imagine that they can explain divine mysteries,
and arrive at truth unaided by the wisdom of God, are entangled in the snare of Satan.

We are living in the most solemn period of this world’s history. The destiny of earth’s teeming
multitudes is about to be decided. Our own future well-being, and also the salvation of other
souls, depend upon the course which we now pursue. We need to be guided by the Spirit of truth.
Every follower of Christ should earnestly inquire, “Lord, what wilt Thou have me to do?” We
need to humble ourselves before the Lord, with fasting and prayer, and to meditate much upon
His word, especially upon the scenes of the judgment. We should now seek a deep and living
experience in the things of God. We have not a moment to lose. Events of vital importance are
taking place around us; we are on Satan’s enchanted ground. Sleep not, sentinels of God; the
foe is lurking near, ready at any moment, should you become lax and drowsy, to spring upon
you and make you his prey.

Many are deceived as to their true condition before God. They congratulate themselves upon
the wrong acts which they do not commit, and forget to enumerate the good and noble deeds which
God requires of them, but which they have neglected to perform. It is not enough that they
are trees in the garden of God. They are to answer His expectation by bearing fruit. He holds
them accountable for their failure to accomplish all the good which they could have done, through
His grace strengthening them. In the books of heaven they are registered as cumberers of the
ground. Yet the case of even this class is not utterly hopeless. With those who have slighted
God’s mercy and abused His grace, the heart of long-suffering Love yet pleads. See then that
ye walk circumspectly, ... redeeming the time, because the days are evil.”(1039)

When the testing time shall come, those who have made God’s word their rule of life will be
revealed. In summer there is no noticeable difference between evergreens and other trees; but
when the blasts of winter come, the evergreens remain unchanged, while other trees are stripped
of their foliage. So the false-hearted professor may not now be distinguished from the real
Christian, but the time is just upon us when the difference will be apparent. Let opposition
arise, let bigotry and intolerance again bear sway, let persecution be kindled, and the half-hearted
and hypocritical will waver and yield the faith; but the true Christian will stand firm as
a rock, his faith stronger, his hope brighter, than in days of prosperity. THE FINAL WARNING.

“I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened
with his glory. A terrible condition of the religious world is here described. With every rejection
of truth, the minds of the people will become darker, their hearts more stubborn, until they
are entrenched in an infidel hardihood. In defiance of the warnings which God has given, they
will continue to trample upon one of the precepts of the decalogue, until they are led to persecute
those who hold it sacred. Christ is set at naught in the contempt placed upon His word and
His people. As the teachings of Spiritualism are accepted by the churches, the restraint imposed
upon the carnal heart is removed, and the profession of religion will become a cloak to conceal
the basest iniquity. A belief in spiritual manifestations opens the door to seducing spirits,
and doctrines of devils, and thus the influence of evil angels will be felt in the churches.

Of Babylon, at the time brought to view in this prophecy, it is declared, “Her sins have reached
unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.”(1044) She has filled up the measure of
her guilt, and destruction is about to fall upon her. But God still has a people in Babylon;
and before the visitation of His judgments, these faithful ones must be called out, that they
“partake not of her sins, and receive not of her plagues.” Hence the movement symbolized by
the angel coming down from heaven, lightening the earth with his glory, and crying mightily
with a strong voice, announcing the sins of Babylon. In connection with his message the call
is heard, “Come out of her, My people.” These announcements, uniting with the third angel’s
message, constitute the final warning to be given to the inhabitants of the earth.

Fearful is the issue to which the world is to be brought. The powers of earth, uniting to war
against the commandments of God, will decree that all, “both small and great, rich and poor,
free and bond,”(1045) shall conform to the customs of the church by the observance of the false
sabbath. All who refuse compliance will be visited with civil penalties, and it will finally
be declared that they are deserving of death. On the other hand, the law of God enjoining the
Creator’s rest-day demands obedience, and threatens wrath against all who transgress its precepts.

With the issue thus clearly brought before him, whoever shall trample upon God’s law to obey
a human enactment, receives the mark of the beast; he accepts the sign of allegiance to the
power which he chooses to obey instead of God. There are many who have never had an opportunity
to hear the special truths for this time. The obligation of the fourth commandment has never
been set before them in its true light. He who reads every heart, and tries every motive, will
leave none who desire a knowledge of the truth, to be deceived as to the issues of the controversy.
The decree is not to be urged upon the people blindly. Every one is to have sufficient light
to make his decision intelligently.

The Sabbath will be the great test of loyalty; for it is the point of truth especially controverted.
When the final test shall be brought to bear upon men, then the line of distinction will be
drawn between those who serve God and those who serve Him not. While the observance of the
false sabbath in compliance with the law of the state, contrary to the fourth commandment,
will be an avowal of allegiance to a power that is in opposition to God, the keeping of the
true Sabbath, in obedience to God’s law, is an evidence of loyalty to the Creator. While one
class, by accepting the sign of submission to earthly powers, receive the mark of the beast,
the other, choosing the token of allegiance to divine authority, receive the seal of God.

Heretofore those who presented the truths of the third angel’s message have often been regarded
as mere alarmists. Their predictions that religious intolerance would gain control in the United
States, that church and state would unite to persecute those who keep the commandments of God,
have been pronounced groundless and absurd. It has been confidently declared that this land
could never become other than what it has been,—the defender of religious freedom. But as the
question of enforcing Sunday observance is widely agitated, the event so long doubted and disbelieved
is seen to be approaching, and the third message will produce an effect which it could not
have had before.

In every generation God has sent His servants to rebuke sin, both in the world and in the church.
But the people desire smooth things spoken to them, and the pure, unvarnished truth is not
acceptable. Many reformers, in entering upon their work, determined to exercise great prudence
in attacking the sins of the church and the nation. They hoped, by the example of a pure Christian
life, to lead the people back to the doctrines of the Bible. But the Spirit of God came upon
them as it came upon Elijah, moving him to rebuke the sins of a wicked king and an apostate
people; they could not refrain from preaching the plain utterances of the Bible,—doctrines
which they had been reluctant to present. They were impelled to zealously declare the truth,
and the danger which threatened souls. The words which the Lord gave them they uttered, fearless
of consequences, and the people were compelled to hear the warning.

Thus the message of the third angel will be proclaimed. As the time comes for it to be given
with greatest power, the Lord will work through humble instruments, leading the minds of those
who consecrate themselves to His service. The laborers will be qualified rather by the unction
of His Spirit than by the training of literary institutions. Men of faith and prayer will be
constrained to go forth with holy zeal, declaring the words which God gives them. The sins
of Babylon will be laid open. The fearful results of enforcing the observances of the church
by civil authority, the inroads of Spiritualism, the stealthy but rapid progress of the papal
power,—all will be unmasked. By these solemn warnings the people will be stirred. Thousands
upon thousands will listen who have never heard words like these.

In amazement they hear the testimony that Babylon is the church, fallen because of her errors
and sins, because of her rejection of the truth sent to her from heaven. As the people go to
their former teachers with the eager inquiry, Are these things so? the ministers present fables,
prophesy smooth things, to soothe their fears, and quiet the awakened conscience. But since
many refuse to be satisfied with the mere authority of men, and demand a plain “Thus saith
the Lord,” the popular ministry, like the Pharisees of old, filled with anger as their authority
is questioned, will denounce the message as of Satan, and stir up the sin-loving multitudes
to revile and persecute those who proclaim it.

As the controversy extends into new fields, and the minds of the people are called to God’s
down-trodden law, Satan is astir. The power attending the message will only madden those who
oppose it. The clergy will put forth almost superhuman efforts to shut away the light, lest
it should shine upon their flocks. By every means at their command they will endeavor to suppress
the discussion of these vital questions. The church appeals to the strong arm of civil power,
and in this work, papists and Protestants unite. As the movement for Sunday enforcement becomes
more bold and decided, the law will be invoked against commandment-keepers. They will be threatened
with fines and imprisonment, and some will be offered positions of influence, and other rewards
and advantages, as inducements to renounce their faith. But their steadfast answer is, “Show
us from the word of God our error,”—the same plea that was made by Luther under similar circumstances.
Those who are arraigned before the courts, make a strong vindication of the truth, and some
who hear them are led to take their stand to keep all the commandments of God. Thus light will
be brought before thousands who otherwise would know nothing of these truths.

Conscientious obedience to the word of God will be treated as rebellion. Blinded by Satan,
the parent will exercise harshness and severity toward the believing child; the master or mistress
will oppress the commandment-keeping servant. Affection will be alienated; children will be
disinherited, and driven from home. To human wisdom, all this now seems impossible; but as
the restraining Spirit of God shall be withdrawn from men, and they shall be under the control
of Satan, who hates the divine precepts, there will be strange developments. The heart can
be very cruel when God’s fear and love are removed.

As the storm approaches, a large class who have professed faith in the third angel’s message,
but have not been sanctified through obedience to the truth, abandon their position, and join
the ranks of the opposition. By uniting with the world and partaking of its spirit, they have
come to view matters in nearly the same light; and when the test is brought, they are prepared
to choose the easy, popular side. Men of talent and pleasing address, who once rejoiced in
the truth, employ their powers to deceive and mislead souls. They become the most bitter enemies
of their former brethren. When Sabbath-keepers are brought before the courts to answer for
their faith, these apostates are the most efficient agents of Satan to misrepresent and accuse
them, and by false reports and insinuations to stir up the rulers against them.

In this time of persecution the faith of the Lord’s servants will be tried. They have faithfully
given the warning, looking to God and to His word alone. God’s Spirit, moving upon their hearts,
has constrained them to speak. Stimulated with holy zeal, and with the divine impulse strong
upon them, they entered upon the performance of their duties without coldly calculating the
consequences of speaking to the people the word which the Lord had given them. They have not
consulted their temporal interests, nor sought to preserve their reputation or their lives.
Yet when the storm of opposition and reproach bursts upon them, some, overwhelmed with consternation,
will be ready to exclaim, “Had we foreseen the consequences of our words, we would have held
our peace.” They are hedged in with difficulties. Satan assails them with fierce temptations.
The work which they have undertaken seems far beyond their ability to accomplish. They are
threatened with destruction. The enthusiasm which animated them is gone; yet they cannot turn
back. Then, feeling their utter helplessness, they flee to the Mighty One for strength. They
remember that the words which they have spoken were not theirs, but His who bade them give
the warning. God put the truth into their hearts, and they could not forbear to proclaim it.

The same trials have been experienced by men of God in ages past. Wycliffe, Huss, Luther, Tyndale,
Baxter, Wesley, urged that all doctrines be brought to the test of the Bible, and declared
that they would renounce everything which it condemned. Against these men, persecution raged
with relentless fury; yet they ceased not to declare the truth. Different periods in the history
of the church have each been marked by the development of some special truth, adapted to the
necessities of God’s people at that time. Every new truth has made its way against hatred and
opposition; those who were blessed with its light were tempted and tried. The Lord gives a
special truth for the people in an emergency. Who dare refuse to publish it? He commands His
servants to present the last invitation of mercy to the world. They cannot remain silent, except
at the peril of their souls. Christ’s ambassadors have nothing to do with consequences. They
must perform their duty, and leave results with God.

As the opposition rises to a fiercer height, the servants of God are again perplexed; for it
seems to them that they have brought the crisis. But conscience and the word of God assure
them that their course is right; and although the trials continue, they are strengthened to
bear them. The contest grows closer and sharper, but their faith and courage rise with the
emergency. Their testimony is: “We dare not tamper with God’s word, dividing His holy law;
calling one portion essential and another non-essential, to gain the favor of the world. The
Lord whom we serve is able to deliver us. Christ has conquered the powers of earth; and shall
we be afraid of a world already conquered?”

Persecution in its varied forms is the development of a principle which will exist as long
as Satan exists and Christianity has vital power. No man can serve God without enlisting against
himself the opposition of the hosts of darkness. Evil angels will assail him, alarmed that
his influence is taking the prey from their hands. Evil men, rebuked by his example, will unite
with them in seeking to separate him from God by alluring temptations. When these do not succeed,
then a compelling power is employed to force the conscience.

But so long as Jesus remains man’s intercessor in the sanctuary above, the restraining influence
of the Holy Spirit is felt by rulers and people. It still controls, to some extent, the laws
of the land. Were it not for these laws, the condition of the world would be much worse than
it now is. While many of our rulers are active agents of Satan, God also has His agents among
the leading men of the nation. The enemy moves upon his servants to propose measures that would
greatly impede the work of God; but statesmen who fear the Lord are influenced by holy angels
to oppose such propositions with unanswerable arguments. Thus a few men will hold in check
a powerful current of evil. The opposition of the enemies of truth will be restrained that
the third angel’s message may do its work. When the final warning shall be given, it will arrest
the attention of these leading men through whom the Lord is now working, and some of them will
accept it, and will stand with the people of God through the time of trouble.

The angel who unites in the proclamation of the third angel’s message, is to lighten the whole
earth with his glory. A work of world-wide extent and unwonted power is here foretold. The
Advent Movement of 1840-44 was a glorious manifestation of the power of God; the first angel’s
message was carried to every missionary station in the world, and in some countries there was
the greatest religious interest which has been witnessed in any land since the Reformation
of the sixteenth century; but these are to be exceeded by the mighty movement under the last
warning of the third angel.

The work will be similar to that of the day of Pentecost. As the “former rain” was given, in
the outpouring of the Holy Spirit at the opening of the gospel, to cause the upspringing of
the precious seed, so the “latter rain” will be given at its close, for the ripening of the
harvest. “Then shall we know, if we follow on to know the Lord: His going forth is prepared
as the morning; and He shall come unto us as the rain, as the latter and former rain unto the
earth.”(1048) “Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord your God: for He
hath given you the former rain moderately, and He will cause to come down for you the rain,
the former rain, and the latter rain.”(1049) “In the last days, saith God, I will pour out
of My Spirit upon all flesh.” “And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the
name of the Lord shall be saved.”(1050)

The great work of the gospel is not to close with less manifestation of the power of God than
marked its opening. The prophecies which were fulfilled in the outpouring of the former rain
at the opening of the gospel, are again to be fulfilled in the latter rain at its close. By
thousands of voices, all over the earth, the warning will be given. Miracles will be wrought,
the sick will be healed, and signs and wonders will follow the believers. Satan also works
with lying wonders, even bringing down fire from heaven in the sight of men.(1052) Thus the
inhabitants of the earth will be brought to take their stand.

The message will be carried not so much by argument as by the deep conviction of the Spirit
of God. The arguments have been presented. The seed has been sown, and now it will spring up
and bear fruit. The publications distributed by missionary workers have exerted their influence,
yet many whose minds were impressed have been prevented from fully comprehending the truth
or from yielding obedience. Now the rays of light penetrate everywhere, the truth is seen in
its clearness, and the honest children of God sever the bands which have held them. Family
connections, church relations, are powerless to stay them now. Truth is more precious than
all besides. Notwithstanding the agencies combined against the truth, a large number take their
stand upon the Lord’s side.

39. The people of God have accomplished their work. They have received “the latter rain,” “the
refreshing from the presence of the Lord,” and they are prepared for the trying hour before
them. Angels are hastening to and fro in heaven. An angel returning from the earth announces
that his work is done; the final test has been brought upon the world, and all who have proved
themselves loyal to the divine precepts have received “the seal of the living God.” Then Jesus
ceases His intercession in the sanctuary above. Christ has made the atonement for His people,
and blotted out their sins. The number of His subjects is made up; “the kingdom and dominion,
and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven,” is about to be given to the heirs
of salvation, and Jesus is to reign as King of kings, and Lord of lords.

When He leaves the sanctuary, darkness covers the inhabitants of the earth. In that fearful
time the righteous must live in the sight of a holy God without an intercessor. The restraint
which has been upon the wicked is removed, and Satan has entire control of the finally impenitent.
God’s long-suffering has ended. The world has rejected His mercy, despised His love, and trampled
upon His law. The wicked have passed the boundary of their probation; the Spirit of God, persistently
resisted, has been at last withdrawn. Unsheltered by divine grace, they have no protection
from the wicked one. Satan will then plunge the inhabitants of the earth into one great, final
trouble. As the angels of God cease to hold in check the fierce winds of human passion, all
the elements of strife will be let loose. The whole world will be involved in ruin more terrible
than that which came upon Jerusalem of old.

A single angel destroyed all the first-born of the Egyptians, and filled the land with mourning.
When David offended against God by numbering the people, one angel caused that terrible destruction
by which his sin was punished. The same destructive power exercised by holy angels when God
commands, will be exercised by evil angels when He permits. There are forces now ready, and
only waiting the divine permission, to spread desolation everywhere.

Those who honor the law of God have been accused of bringing judgments upon the world, and
they will be regarded as the cause of the fearful convulsions of nature and the strife and
bloodshed among men that are filling the earth with woe. The power attending the last warning
has enraged the wicked; their anger is kindled against all who have received the message, and
Satan will excite to still greater intensity the spirit of hatred and persecution.

When God’s presence was finally withdrawn from the Jewish nation, priests and people knew it
not. Though under the control of Satan, and swayed by the most horrible and malignant passions,
they still regarded themselves as the chosen of God. The ministration in the temple continued;
sacrifices were offered upon its polluted altars, and daily the divine blessing was invoked
upon a people guilty of the blood of God’s dear Son, and seeking to slay His ministers and
apostles. So when the irrevocable decision of the sanctuary has been pronounced, and the destiny
of the world has been forever fixed, the inhabitants of the earth will know it not. The forms
of religion will be continued by a people from whom the Spirit of God has been finally withdrawn;
and the satanic zeal with which the prince of evil will inspire them for the accomplishment
of his malignant designs, will bear the semblance of zeal for God.

As the Sabbath has become the special point of controversy throughout Christendom, and religious
and secular authorities have combined to enforce the observance of the Sunday, the persistent
refusal of a small minority to yield to the popular demand, will make them objects of universal
execration. It will be urged that the few who stand in opposition to an institution of the
church and a law of the state, ought not to be tolerated; that it is better for them to suffer
than for whole nations to be thrown into confusion and lawlessness. The same argument eighteen
hundred years ago was brought against Christ by the “rulers of the people.” “It is expedient
for us,” said the wily Caiaphas, “that one man should die for the people, and that the whole
nation perish not.”(1055) This argument will appear conclusive; and a decree will finally be
issued against those who hallow the Sabbath of the fourth commandment, denouncing them as deserving
of the severest punishment, and giving the people liberty, after a certain time, to put them
to death. Romanism in the Old World, and apostate Protestantism in the New, will pursue a similar
course toward those who honor all the divine precepts.

The people of God will then be plunged into those scenes of affliction and distress described
by the prophet as the time of Jacob’s trouble. Because of the deception practised to secure
his father’s blessing, intended for Esau, Jacob had fled for his life, alarmed by his brother’s
deadly threats. After remaining for many years an exile, he had set out, at God’s command,
to return with his wives and children, his flocks and herds, to his native country. On reaching
the borders of the land, he was filled with terror by the tidings of Esau’s approach at the
head of a band of warriors, doubtless bent upon revenge. Jacob’s company, unarmed and defenseless,
seemed about to fall helpless victims of violence and slaughter. And to the burden of anxiety
and fear was added the crushing weight of self-reproach; for it was his own sin that had brought
this danger. His only hope was in the mercy of God; his only defense must be prayer. Yet he
leaves nothing undone on his own part to atone for the wrong to his brother, and to avert the
threatened danger. So should the followers of Christ, as they approach the time of trouble,
make every exertion to place themselves in a proper light before the people, to disarm prejudice,
and to avert the danger which threatens liberty of conscience.

Having sent his family away, that they may not witness his distress, Jacob remains alone to
intercede with God. He confesses his sin, and gratefully acknowledges the mercy of God toward
him, while with deep humiliation he pleads the covenant made with his fathers, and the promises
to himself in the night vision at Bethel and in the land of his exile. The crisis in his life
has come; everything is at stake. In the darkness and solitude he continues praying and humbling
himself before God. Suddenly a hand is laid upon his shoulder. He thinks that an enemy is seeking
his life, and with all the energy of despair he wrestles with his assailant. As the day begins
to break, the stranger puts forth his superhuman power: at his touch the strong man seems paralyzed,
and he falls, a helpless, weeping suppliant, upon the neck of his mysterious antagonist. Jacob
knows now that it is the Angel of the Covenant with whom he has been in conflict. Though disabled,
and suffering the keenest pain, he does not relinquish his purpose. Long has he endured perplexity,
remorse, and trouble for his sin; now he must have the assurance that it is pardoned. The divine
visitant seems about to depart; but Jacob clings to Him, pleading for a blessing. The Angel
urges, “Let Me go; for the day breaketh;” but the patriarch exclaims, “I will not let Thee
go, except Thou bless me.” What confidence, what firmness and perseverance, are here displayed!
Had this been a boastful, presumptuous claim, Jacob would have been instantly destroyed; but
his was the assurance of one who confesses his weakness and unworthiness, yet trusts the mercy
of a covenant-keeping God.

“He had power over the Angel, and prevailed.”(1058) Through humiliation, repentance, and self-surrender,
this sinful, erring mortal prevailed with the Majesty of heaven. He had fastened his trembling
grasp upon the promises of God, and the heart of Infinite Love could not turn away the sinner’s
plea. As an evidence of his triumph, and an encouragement to others to imitate his example,
his name was changed from one which was a reminder of his sin, to one that commemorated his
victory. And the fact that Jacob had prevailed with God was an assurance that he would prevail
with men. He no longer feared to encounter his brother’s anger; for the Lord was his defense.

Satan had accused Jacob before the angels of God, claiming the right to destroy him because
of his sin; he had moved upon Esau to march against him; and during the patriarch’s long night
of wrestling, Satan endeavored to force upon him a sense of his guilt, in order to discourage
him, and break his hold upon God. Jacob was driven almost to despair; but he knew that without
help from heaven he must perish. He had sincerely repented of his great sin, and he appealed
to the mercy of God. He would not be turned from his purpose, but held fast the Angel, and
urged his petition with earnest, agonizing cries, until he prevailed.

As Satan influenced Esau to march against Jacob, so he will stir up the wicked to destroy God’s
people in the time of trouble. And as he accused Jacob, he will urge his accusations against
the people of God. He numbers the world as his subjects; but the little company who keep the
commandments of God are resisting his supremacy. If he could blot them from the earth, his
triumph would be complete. He sees that holy angels are guarding them, and he infers that their
sins have been pardoned; but he does not know that their cases have been decided in the sanctuary
above. He has an accurate knowledge of the sins which he has tempted them to commit, and he
presents these before God in the most exaggerated light, representing this people to be just
as deserving as himself of exclusion from the favor of God. He declares that the Lord cannot
in justice forgive their sins, and yet destroy him and his angels. He claims them as his prey,
and demands that they be given into his hands to destroy.

As Satan accuses the people of God on account of their sins, the Lord permits him to try them
to the uttermost. Their confidence in God, their faith and firmness, will be severely tested.
As they review the past, their hopes sink; for in their whole lives they can see little good.
They are fully conscious of their weakness and unworthiness. Satan endeavors to terrify them
with the thought that their cases are hopeless, that the stain of their defilement will never
be washed away. He hopes so to destroy their faith that they will yield to his temptations,
and turn from their allegiance to God.

Though God’s people will be surrounded by enemies who are bent upon their destruction, yet
the anguish which they suffer is not a dread of persecution for the truth’s sake; they fear
that every sin has not been repented of, and that through some fault in themselves they will
fail to realize the fulfilment of the Saviour’s promise, “I will keep thee from the hour of
temptation, which shall come upon all the world.”(1059) If they could have the assurance of
pardon, they would not shrink from torture or death; but should they prove unworthy, and lose
their lives because of their own defects of character, then God’s holy name would be reproached.

On every hand they hear the plottings of treason, and see the active working of rebellion;
and there is aroused within them an intense desire, an earnest yearning of soul, that this
great apostasy may be terminated, and the wickedness of the wicked may come to an end. But
while they plead with God to stay the work of rebellion, it is with a keen sense of self-reproach
that they themselves have no more power to resist and urge back the mighty tide of evil. They
feel that had they always employed all their ability in the service of Christ, going forward
from strength to strength, Satan’s forces would have less power to prevail against them. Though
suffering the keenest anxiety, terror, and distress, they do not cease their intercessions.
They lay hold of the strength of God as Jacob laid hold of the Angel; and the language of their
souls is, “I will not let Thee go, except Thou bless me.”

Had not Jacob previously repented of his sin in obtaining the birthright by fraud, God would
not have heard his prayer and mercifully preserved his life. So, in the time of trouble, if
the people of God had unconfessed sins to appear before them while tortured with fear and anguish,
they would be overwhelmed; despair would cut off their faith, and they could not have confidence
to plead with God for deliverance. But while they have a deep sense of their unworthiness,
they have no concealed wrongs to reveal. Their sins have gone beforehand to judgment, and have
been blotted out; and they cannot bring them to remembrance.

Satan leads many to believe that God will overlook their unfaithfulness in the minor affairs
of life; but the Lord shows in His dealings with Jacob that He will in no wise sanction or
tolerate evil. All who endeavor to excuse or conceal their sins, and permit them to remain
upon the books of heaven, unconfessed and unforgiven, will be overcome by Satan. The more exalted
their profession, and the more honorable the position which they hold, the more grievous is
their course in the sight of God, and the more sure the triumph of their great adversary. Those
who delay a preparation for the day of God cannot obtain it in the time of trouble, or at any
subsequent time. The case of all such is hopeless.

Those professed Christians who come up to that last fearful conflict unprepared, will, in their
despair, confess their sins in words of burning anguish, while the wicked exult over their
distress. These confessions are of the same character as was that of Esau or of Judas. Those
who make them, lament the result of transgression, but not its guilt. They feel no true contrition,
no abhorrence of evil. They acknowledge their sin, through fear of punishment; but, like Pharaoh
of old, they would return to their defiance of Heaven, should the judgments be removed.

Jacob’s history is also an assurance that God will not cast off those who have been deceived,
and tempted, and betrayed into sin, but who have returned unto Him with true repentance. While
Satan seeks to destroy this class, God will send His angels to comfort and protect them in
the time of peril. The assaults of Satan are fierce and determined, his delusions are terrible;
but the Lord’s eye is upon His people, and His ear listens to their cries. Their affliction
is great, the flames of the furnace seem about to consume them; but the Refiner will bring
them forth as gold tried in the fire. God’s love for His children during the period of their
severest trial, is as strong and tender as in the days of their sunniest prosperity; but it
is needful for them to be placed in the furnace of fire; their earthliness must be consumed,
that the image of Christ may be perfectly reflected.

The season of distress and anguish before us will require a faith that can endure weariness,
delay, and hunger,—a faith that will not faint, though severely tried. The period of probation
is granted to all to prepare for that time. Jacob prevailed because he was persevering and
determined. His victory is an evidence of the power of importunate prayer. All who will lay
hold of God’s promises, as he did, and be as earnest and persevering as he was, will succeed
as he succeeded. Those who are unwilling to deny self, to agonize before God, to pray long
and earnestly for His blessing, will not obtain it. Wrestling with God—how few know what it
is! How few have ever had their souls drawn out after God with intensity of desire until every
power is on the stretch. When waves of despair which no language can express sweep over the
suppliant, how few cling with unyielding faith to the promises of God.

Those who exercise but little faith now, are in the greatest danger of falling under the power
of satanic delusions and the decree to compel the conscience. And even if they endure the test,
they will be plunged into deeper distress and anguish in the time of trouble, because they
have never made it a habit to trust in God. The lessons of faith which they have neglected,
they will be forced to learn under a terrible pressure of discouragement.

We should now acquaint ourselves with God by proving His promises. Angels record every prayer
that is earnest and sincere. We should rather dispense with selfish gratifications than neglect
communion with God. The deepest poverty, the greatest self-denial, with His approval, is better
than riches, honors, ease, and friendship without it. We must take time to pray. If we allow
our minds to be absorbed by worldly interests, the Lord may give us time by removing from us
our idols of gold, of houses, or of fertile lands.

The young would not be seduced into sin if they would refuse to enter any path save that upon
which they could ask God’s blessing. If the messengers who bear the last solemn warning to
the world would pray for the blessing of God, not in a cold, listless, lazy manner, but fervently
and in faith, as did Jacob, they would find many places where they could say, “I have seen
God face to face, and my life is preserved.”(1061) They would be accounted of heaven as princes,
having power to prevail with God and with men.

The “time of trouble such as never was,” is soon to open upon us; and we shall need an experience
which we do not now possess, and which many are too indolent to obtain. It is often the case
that trouble is greater in anticipation that in reality; but this is not true of the crisis
before us. The most vivid presentation cannot reach the magnitude of the ordeal. In that time
of trial, every soul must stand for himself before God. Not even by a thought could our Saviour
be brought to yield to the power of temptation. Satan finds in human hearts some point where
he can gain a foothold; some sinful desire is cherished, by means of which his temptations
assert their power. But Christ declared of Himself, “The prince of this world cometh, and hath
nothing in Me.”(1063) Satan could find nothing in the Son of God that would enable him to gain
the victory. He had kept His Father’s commandments, and there was no sin in Him that Satan
could use to his advantage. This is the condition in which those must be found who shall stand
in the time of trouble.

It is in this life that we are to separate sin from us, through faith in the atoning blood
of Christ. Our precious Saviour invites us to join ourselves to Him, to unite our weakness
to His strength, our ignorance to His wisdom, our unworthiness to His merits. God’s providence
is the school in which we are to learn the meekness and lowliness of Jesus. The Lord is ever
setting before us, not the way we would choose, which seems easier and pleasanter to us, but
the true aims of life. It rests with us to co-operate with the agencies which Heaven employs
in the work of conforming our characters to the divine model. None can neglect or defer this
work but at the most fearful peril to their souls. The wrath of Satan increases as his time
grows short, and his work of deceit and destruction will reach its culmination in the time
of trouble.

Fearful sights of a supernatural character will soon be revealed in the heavens, in token of
the power of miracle-working demons. The spirits of devils will go forth to the kings of the
earth and to the whole world, to fasten them in deception, and urge them on to unite with Satan
in his last struggle against the government of heaven. By these agencies, rulers and subjects
will be alike deceived. Persons will arise pretending to be Christ Himself, and claiming the
title and worship which belong to the world’s Redeemer. They will perform wonderful miracles
of healing, and will profess to have revelations from heaven contradicting the testimony of
the Scriptures.

As the crowning act in the great drama of deception, Satan himself will personate Christ. The
church has long professed to look to the Saviour’s advent as the consummation of her hopes.
Now the great deceiver will make it appear that Christ has come. In different parts of the
earth, Satan will manifest himself among men as a majestic being of dazzling brightness, resembling
the description of the Son of God given by John in the Revelation.(1065) The glory that surrounds
him is unsurpassed by anything that mortal eyes have yet beheld. The shout of triumph rings
out upon the air, “Christ has come! Christ has come!” The people prostrate themselves in adoration
before him, while he lifts up his hands, and pronounces a blessing upon them, as Christ blessed
His disciples when He was upon the earth. His voice is soft and subdued, yet full of melody.
In gentle, compassionate tones he presents some of the same gracious, heavenly truths which
the Saviour uttered; he heals the diseases of the people, and then, in his assumed character
of Christ, he claims to have changed the Sabbath to Sunday, and commands all to hallow the
day which he has blessed. He declares that those who persist in keeping holy the seventh day
are blaspheming his name by refusing to listen to his angels sent to them with light and truth.
This is the strong, almost overmastering delusion. Like the Samaritans who were deceived by
Simon Magus, the multitudes, from the least to the greatest, give heed to these sorceries,
saying, This is “the great power of God.”(1066)

But the people of God will not be misled. The teachings of this false christ are not in accordance
with the Scriptures. His blessing is pronounced upon the worshipers of the beast and his image,
the very class upon whom the Bible declares that God’s unmingled wrath shall be poured out.

And, furthermore, Satan is not permitted to counterfeit the manner of Christ’s advent. The
Saviour has warned His people against deception upon this point, and has clearly foretold the
manner of His second coming. It will be universally known—witnessed by the whole world.

Only those who have been diligent students of the Scriptures, and who have received the love
of the truth, will be shielded from the powerful delusion that takes the world captive. By
the Bible testimony these will detect the deceiver in his disguise. To all, the testing time
will come. By the sifting of temptation, the genuine Christian will be revealed. Are the people
of God now so firmly established upon His word that they would not yield to the evidence of
their senses? Would they, in such a crisis, cling to the Bible, and the Bible only? Satan will,
if possible, prevent them from obtaining a preparation to stand in that day. He will so arrange
affairs as to hedge up their way, entangle them with earthly treasures, cause them to carry
a heavy, wearisome burden, that their hearts may be overcharged with the cares of this life,
and the day of trial may come upon them as a thief.

As the decree issued by the various rulers of Christendom against commandment-keepers shall
withdraw the protection of government, and abandon them to those who desire their destruction,
the people of God will flee from the cities and villages and associate together in companies,
dwelling in the most desolate and solitary places. Many will find refuge in the strongholds
of the mountains. Like the Christians of the Piedmont valleys, they will make the high places
of the earth their sanctuaries, and will thank God for the “munitions of rocks.”(1068) But
many of all nations, and of all classes, high and low, rich and poor, black and white, will
be cast into the most unjust and cruel bondage. The beloved of God pass weary days, bound in
chains, shut in by prison bars, sentenced to be slain, some apparently left to die of starvation
in dark and loathsome dungeons. No human ear is open to hear their moans; no human hand is
ready to lend them help.

Will the Lord forget His people in this trying hour? Did He forget faithful Noah when judgments
were visited upon the antediluvian world? Did He forget Lot when the fire came down from heaven
to consume the cities of the plain? Did He forget Joseph surrounded by idolaters in Egypt?
Did He forget Elijah when the oath of Jezebel threatened him with the fate of the prophets
of Baal? Did He forget Jeremiah in the dark and dismal pit of his prison-house? Did He forget
the three worthies in the fiery furnace? or Daniel in the den of lions? Behold, I have graven
thee upon the palms of My hands.”(1069) The Lord of hosts has said, “He that toucheth you,
toucheth the apple of His eye.”(1070)

Though enemies may thrust them into prison, yet dungeon walls cannot cut off the communication
between their souls and Christ. One who sees their every weakness, who is acquainted with every
trial, is above all earthly powers; and angels will come to them in lonely cells, bringing
light and peace from heaven. The prison will be as a palace; for the rich in faith dwell there,
and the gloomy walls will be lighted up with heavenly light, as when Paul and Silas prayed
and sung praises at midnight in the Philippian dungeon.

God’s judgments will be visited upon those who are seeking to oppress and destroy His people.
His long forbearance with the wicked emboldens men in transgression, but their punishment is
none the less certain and terrible because it is long delayed. The severity of the retribution
awaiting the transgressor may be judged by the Lord’s reluctance to execute justice. The nation
with which He bears long, and which He will not smite until it has filled up the measure of
its iniquity in God’s account, will finally drink the cup of wrath unmixed with mercy.

When Christ ceases His intercession in the sanctuary, the unmingled wrath threatened against
those who worship the beast and his image and receive his mark,(1074) will be poured out. The
plagues upon Egypt when God was about to deliver Israel, were similar in character to those
more terrible and extensive judgments which are to fall upon the world just before the final
deliverance of God’s people. In like manner Christ declared the Jews of His time guilty of
all the blood of holy men which had been shed since the days of Abel; for they possessed the
same spirit, and were seeking to do the same work, with these murderers of the prophets.

In the plague that follows, power is given to the sun “to scorch men with fire. Yet they will
be the most awful scourges that have ever been known to mortals. All the judgments upon men,
prior to the close of probation, have been mingled with mercy. The pleading blood of Christ
has shielded the sinner from receiving the full measure of his guilt; but in the final judgment,
wrath is poured out unmixed with mercy.

In that day, multitudes will desire the shelter of God’s mercy which they have so long despised.
That God who cared for Elijah, will not pass by one of His self-sacrificing children. He who
numbers the hairs of their head, will care for them; and in time of famine they shall be satisfied.
While the wicked are dying from hunger and pestilence, angels will shield the righteous, and
supply their wants. He shall cover thee with His feathers, and under His wings shalt thou trust:
His truth shall be thy shield and buckler. They themselves begin to fear that the Lord has
left them to fall by the hand of their enemies. It is a time of fearful agony. Day and night
they cry unto God for deliverance. The wicked exult, and the jeering cry is heard, “Where now
is your faith? Why does not God deliver you out of our hands if you are indeed His people?”
But the waiting ones remember Jesus dying upon Calvary’s cross, and the chief priests and rulers
shouting in mockery, “He saved others; Himself He cannot save. If He be the King of Israel,
let Him now come down from the cross, and we will believe Him.”(1082) Like Jacob, all are wrestling
with God. Their countenances express their internal struggle. Paleness sits upon every face.
Yet they cease not their earnest intercession.

Could men see with heavenly vision, they would behold companies of angels that excel in strength
stationed about those who have kept the word of Christ’s patience. With sympathizing tenderness,
angels have witnessed their distress, and have heard their prayers. They are waiting the word
of their Commander to snatch them from their peril. But they must wait yet a little longer.
The people of God must drink of the cup, and be baptized with the baptism. The very delay,
so painful to them, is the best answer to their petitions. As they endeavor to wait trustingly
for the Lord to work, they are led to exercise faith, hope, and patience, which have been too
little exercised during their religious experience. Yet for the elect’s sake, the time of trouble
will be shortened. The wheat will be gathered and bound in sheaves for the garner of God; the
tares will be bound as fagots for the fires of destruction.

The heavenly sentinels, faithful to their trust, continue their watch. Though a general decree
has fixed the time when commandment-keepers may be put to death, their enemies will in some
cases anticipate the decree, and before the time specified, will endeavor to take their lives.
But none can pass the mighty guardians stationed about every faithful soul. Some are assailed
in their flight from the cities and villages; but the swords raised against them break and
fall as powerless as a straw. Others are defended by angels in the form of men of war.

In all ages, God has wrought through holy angels for the succor and deliverance of His people.
Celestial beings have taken an active part in the affairs of men. They have appeared clothed
in garments that shone as the lightning; they have come as men, in the garb of wayfarers. Angels
have appeared in human form to men of God. They have rested, as if weary, under the oaks at
noon. They have accepted the hospitalities of human homes. They have acted as guides to benighted
travelers. They have, with their own hands, kindled the fires of the altar. They have opened
prison doors, and set free the servants of the Lord. Clothed with the panoply of heaven, they
came to roll away the stone from the Saviour’s tomb.

In the form of men, angels are often in the assemblies of the righteous, and they visit the
assemblies of the wicked, as they went to Sodom, to make a record of their deeds, to determine
whether they have passed the boundary of God’s forbearance. The Lord delights in mercy; and
for the sake of a few who really serve Him, He restrains calamities, and prolongs the tranquillity
of multitudes. Little do sinners against God realize that they are indebted for their own lives
to the faithful few whom they delight to ridicule and oppress.

Though the rulers of this world know it not, yet often in their councils angels have been spokesmen.
Human eyes have looked upon them; human ears have listened to their appeals; human lips have
opposed their suggestions and ridiculed their counsels; human hands have met them with insult
and abuse. In the council hall and the court of justice, these heavenly messengers have shown
an intimate acquaintance with human history; they have proved themselves better able to plead
the cause of the oppressed than were their ablest and most eloquent defenders. They have defeated
purposes and arrested evils that would have greatly retarded the work of God, and would have
caused great suffering to His people. In the hour of peril and distress, “the angel of the
Lord encampeth round about them that fear Him, and delivereth them.”(1084)

With earnest longing, God’s people await the tokens of their coming King. As the watchmen are
accosted, “What of the night?” the answer is given unfalteringly, “ ‘The morning cometh, and
also the night.’(1085) Light is gleaming upon the clouds above the mountain tops. Soon there
will be a revealing of His glory. The Sun of Righteousness is about to shine forth. The morning
and the night are both at hand,—the opening of endless day to the righteous, the settling down
of eternal night to the wicked.”

As the wrestling ones urge their petitions before God, the veil separating them from the unseen
seems almost withdrawn. The heavens glow with the dawning of eternal day, and like the melody
of angel songs, the words fall upon the ear, “Stand fast to your allegiance. Help is coming.”
Christ, the almighty victor, holds out to His weary soldiers a crown of immortal glory; and
His voice comes from the gates ajar: “Lo, I am with you. Be not afraid. I am acquainted with
all your sorrows; I have borne your griefs. You are not warring against untried enemies. I
have fought the battle in your behalf, and in My name you are more than conquerors.”

The precious Saviour will send help just when we need it. The way to heaven is consecrated
by His footprints. Every thorn that wounds our feet has wounded His. Every cross that we are
called to bear, He has borne before us. The Lord permits conflicts, to prepare the soul for
peace. The time of trouble is a fearful ordeal for God’s people; but it is the time for every
true believer to look up, and by faith he may see the bow of promise encircling him.

“The redeemed of the Lord shall return, and come with singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy
shall be upon their head: they shall obtain gladness and joy; and sorrow and mourning shall
flee away. But I am the Lord thy God, that divided the sea, whose waves roared: the Lord of
hosts is His name. Like the captive exile, they will be in fear of death by starvation or by
violence. But the Holy One who divided the Red Sea before Israel, will manifest His mighty
power and turn their captivity. Their fidelity would not be a testimony to convince others
of the truth; for the obdurate heart has beaten back the waves of mercy until they return no
more. If the righteous were now left to fall a prey to their enemies, it would be a triumph
for the prince of darkness. For, behold, the Lord cometh out of His place to punish the inhabitants
of the earth for their iniquity.”(1090) Glorious will be the deliverance of those who have
patiently waited for His coming, and whose names are written in the book of life.

40. GOD’S PEOPLE DELIVERED.

When the protection of human laws shall be withdrawn from those who honor the law of God, there
will be, in different lands, a simultaneous movement for their destruction. As the time appointed
in the decree draws near, the people will conspire to root out the hated sect. It will be determined
to strike in one night a decisive blow, which shall utterly silence the voice of dissent and
reproof.

The people of God—some in prison cells, some hidden in solitary retreats in the forests and
the mountains—still plead for divine protection, while in every quarter companies of armed
men, urged on by hosts of evil angels, are preparing for the work of death. It is now, in the
hour of utmost extremity, that the God of Israel will interpose for the deliverance of His
chosen. Saith the Lord: “Ye shall have a song, as in the night when a holy solemnity is kept;
and gladness of heart, as when one goeth ... to come into the mountain of Jehovah, to the Mighty
One of Israel. Then a rainbow, shining with the glory from the throne of God, spans the heavens,
and seems to encircle each praying company. The angry multitudes are suddenly arrested. Their
mocking cries die away. The objects of their murderous rage are forgotten. With fearful forebodings
they gaze upon the symbol of God’s covenant, and long to be shielded from its overpowering
brightness.

By the people of God a voice, clear and melodious, is heard, saying, “Look up,” and lifting
their eyes to the heavens, they behold the bow of promise. The black, angry clouds that covered
the firmament are parted, and like Stephen they look up steadfastly into heaven, and see the
glory of God, and the Son of man seated upon His throne. In His divine form they discern the
marks of His humiliation; and from His lips they hear the request, presented before His Father
and the holy angels, “I will that they also, whom Thou hast given Me, be with Me where I am.”(1092)
Again a voice, musical and triumphant, is heard, saying: “They come! they come! holy, harmless,
and undefiled. They have kept the word of My patience; they shall walk among the angels;” and
the pale, quivering lips of those who have held fast their faith, utter a shout of victory.

It is at midnight that God manifests His power for the deliverance of His people. The sun appears,
shining in its strength. Signs and wonders follow in quick succession. The wicked look with
terror and amazement upon the scene, while the righteous behold with solemn joy the tokens
of their deliverance. Everything in nature seems turned out of its course. The streams cease
to flow. Dark, heavy clouds come up, and clash against each other. In the midst of the angry
heavens is one clear space of indescribable glory, whence comes the voice of God like the sound
of many waters, saying, “It is done.”(1093)

That voice shakes the heavens and the earth. There is a mighty earthquake, “such as was not
since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so great.”(1094) The firmament
appears to open and shut. The glory from the throne of God seems flashing through. The mountains
shake like a reed in the wind, and ragged rocks are scattered on every side. There is a roar
as of a coming tempest. The sea is lashed into fury. There is heard the shriek of the hurricane,
like the voice of demons upon a mission of destruction. The whole earth heaves and swells like
the waves of the sea. Its surface is breaking up. Its very foundations seem to be giving way.
Mountain chains are sinking. Inhabited islands disappear. The seaports that have become like
Sodom for wickedness, are swallowed up by the angry waters. The proudest cities of the earth
are laid low. The lordly palaces, upon which the world’s great men have lavished their wealth
in order to glorify themselves, are crumbling to ruin before their eyes. Prison walls are rent
asunder, and God’s people, who have been held in bondage for their faith, are set free. “They
also which pierced Him,”(1097) those that mocked and derided Christ’s dying agonies, and the
most violent opposers of His truth and His people, are raised to behold Him in His glory, and
to see the honor placed upon the loyal and obedient.

Thick clouds still cover the sky; yet the sun now and then breaks through, appearing like the
avenging eye of Jehovah. Fierce lightnings leap from the heavens, enveloping the earth in a
sheet of flame. Above the terrific roar of thunder, voices, mysterious and awful, declare the
doom of the wicked. The words spoken are not comprehended by all; but they are distinctly understood
by the false teachers. Those who a little before were so reckless, so boastful and defiant,
so exultant in their cruelty to God’s commandment-keeping people, are now overwhelmed with
consternation, and shuddering in fear. Their wails are heard above the sound of the elements.
Demons acknowledge the deity of Christ, and tremble before His power, while men are supplicating
for mercy, and groveling in abject terror.

Said the prophets of old, as they beheld in holy vision the day of God: “Howl ye; for the day
of the Lord is at hand; it shall come as a destruction from the Almighty.”(1098) “Enter into
the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of the Lord, and for the glory of His majesty.
The lofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and
the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day. It speaks hope and joy to the faithful, but severity
and wrath to the transgressors of God’s law. Those who have sacrificed all for Christ are now
secure, hidden as in the secret of the Lord’s pavilion. They have been tested, and before the
world and the despisers of truth they have evinced their fidelity to Him who died for them.
A marvelous change has come over those who have held fast their integrity in the very face
of death. They have been suddenly delivered from the dark and terrible tyranny of men transformed
to demons. Their faces, so lately pale, anxious, and haggard, are now aglow with wonder, faith,
and love. The glory of the celestial city streams from the gates ajar. Then there appears against
the sky a hand holding two tables of stone folded together. Says the prophet, “The heavens
shall declare His righteousness: for God is judge Himself.”(1101) That holy law, God’s righteousness,
that amid thunder and flame was proclaimed from Sinai as the guide of life, is now revealed
to men as the rule of judgment. The hand opens the tables, and there are seen the precepts
of the decalogue, traced as with a pen of fire. The words are so plain that all can read them.
Memory is aroused, the darkness of superstition and heresy is swept from every mind, and God’s
ten words, brief, comprehensive, and authoritative, are presented to the view of all the inhabitants
of the earth.

It is impossible to describe the horror and despair of those who have trampled upon God’s holy
requirements. The Lord gave them His law; they might have compared their characters with it,
and learned their defects while there was yet opportunity for repentance and reform; but in
order to secure the favor of the world, they set aside its precepts and taught others to transgress.
They have endeavored to compel God’s people to profane His Sabbath. Now they are condemned
by that law which they have despised. With awful distinctness they see that they are without
excuse. They chose whom they would serve and worship. “Then shall ye return, and discern between
the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth Him not.”(1102)

The enemies of God’s law, from the ministers down to the least among them, have a new conception
of truth and duty. Too late they see that the Sabbath of the fourth commandment is the seal
of the living God. Too late they see the true nature of their spurious sabbath, and the sandy
foundation upon which they have been building. They find that they have been fighting against
God. Religious teachers have led souls to perdition while professing to guide them to the gates
of Paradise. Not until the day of final accounts will it be known how great is the responsibility
of men in holy office, and how terrible are the results of their unfaithfulness. Only in eternity
can we rightly estimate the loss of a single soul. Fearful will be the doom of him to whom
God shall say, Depart, thou wicked servant.

The voice of God is heard from heaven, declaring the day and hour of Jesus’ coming, and delivering
the everlasting covenant to His people. Like peals of loudest thunder, His words roll through
the earth. The Israel of God stand listening, with their eyes fixed upward. Their countenances
are lighted up with His glory, and shine as did the face of Moses when he came down from Sinai.
The wicked cannot look upon them. And when the blessing is pronounced on those who have honored
God by keeping His Sabbath holy, there is a mighty shout of victory.

Soon there appears in the east a small black cloud, about half the size of a man’s hand. It
is the cloud which surrounds the Saviour, and which seems in the distance to be shrouded in
darkness. The people of God know this to be the sign of the Son of man. In solemn silence they
gaze upon it as it draws nearer the earth, becoming lighter and more glorious, until it is
a great white cloud, its base a glory like consuming fire, and above it the rainbow of the
covenant. Jesus rides forth as a mighty conqueror. Not now a “man of sorrows,” to drink the
bitter cup of shame and woe, He comes, victor in heaven and earth, to judge the living and
the dead. “Faithful and true,” “in righteousness He doth judge and make war.” And “the armies
which were in heaven follow Him.”(1103) With anthems of celestial melody the holy angels, a
vast, unnumbered throng, attend Him on His way. The firmament seems filled with radiant forms,—“ten
thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands.” No human pen can portray the scene;
no mortal mind is adequate to conceive its splendor. No crown of thorns now mars that sacred
head, but a diadem of glory rests on His holy brow. His countenance outshines the dazzling
brightness of the noonday sun. “The heart melteth, and the knees smite together,” “and the
faces of them all gather blackness.”(1106) The righteous cry with trembling, “Who shall be
able to stand?” The angels’ song is hushed, and there is a period of awful silence. Then the
voice of Jesus is heard, saying, “My grace is sufficient for you.” The faces of the righteous
are lighted up, and joy fills every heart. And the angels strike a note higher, and sing again,
as they draw still nearer to the earth.

The King of kings descends upon the cloud, wrapped in flaming fire. The heavens are rolled
together as a scroll, the earth trembles before Him, and every mountain and island is moved
out of its place. “Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before
Him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about Him. Lying lips are hushed into silence.
The clash of arms, the tumult of battle, “with confused noise, and garments rolled in blood,”(1109)
is stilled. Naught now is heard but the voice of prayer and the sound of weeping and lamentation.
The cry bursts forth from lips so lately scoffing, “The great day of His wrath is come; and
who shall be able to stand?” The wicked pray to be buried beneath the rocks of the mountains,
rather than meet the face of Him whom they have despised and rejected.

That voice which penetrates the ear of the dead, they know. How often have its plaintive, tender
tones called them to repentance. How often has it been heard in the touching entreaties of
a friend, a brother, a Redeemer. To the rejecters of His grace, no other could be so full of
condemnation, so burdened with denunciation, as that voice which has so long pleaded, “Turn
ye, turn ye from your evil ways; for why will ye die?”(1110) O that it were to them the voice
of a stranger!

There are those who mocked Christ in His humiliation.

Those who derided His claim to be the Son of God are speechless now. There is the haughty Herod
who jeered at His royal title, and bade the mocking soldiers crown Him king. There are the
very men who with impious hands placed upon His form the purple robe, upon His sacred brow
the thorny crown, and in His unresisting hand the mimic scepter, and bowed before Him in blasphemous
mockery. The men who smote and spit upon the Prince of life, now turn from His piercing gaze,
and seek to flee from the overpowering glory of His presence. Those who drove the nails through
His hands and feet, the soldier who pierced His side, behold these marks with terror and remorse.

With awful distinctness do priests and rulers recall the events of Calvary. They remember,
too, the sentence which they themselves pronounced: The lord of the vineyard “will miserably
destroy those wicked men.” In the sin and punishment of those unfaithful men, the priests and
elders see their own course and their own just doom. And now there rises a cry of mortal agony.
Louder than the shout, “Crucify Him! crucify Him!” which rang through the streets of Jerusalem,
swells the awful, despairing wail, “He is the Son of God! He is the true Messiah!” They seek
to flee from the presence of the King of kings. In the deep caverns of the earth, rent asunder
by the warring of the elements, they vainly attempt to hide.

In the lives of all who reject truth, there are moments when conscience awakens, when memory
presents the torturing recollection of a life of hypocrisy, and the soul is harassed with vain
regrets. But what are these compared with the remorse of that day when “fear cometh as desolation,”
when “destruction cometh as a whirlwind”!(1114) Those who would have destroyed Christ and His
faithful people, now witness the glory which rests upon them. In the midst of their terror
they hear the voices of the saints in joyful strains exclaiming, “Lo, this is our God; we have
waited for Him, and He will save us.”(1115)

Amid the reeling of the earth, the flash of lightning, and the roar of thunder, the voice of
the Son of God calls forth the sleeping saints. He looks upon the graves of the righteous,
then raising His hands to heaven He cries, “Awake, awake, awake, ye that sleep in the dust,
and arise!” Throughout the length and breadth of the earth, the dead shall hear that voice;
and they that hear shall live. And the whole earth shall ring with the tread of the exceeding
great army of every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. From the prison-house of death they
come, clothed with immortal glory, crying, “O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is
thy victory?”(1116) And the living righteous and the risen saints unite their voices in a long,
glad shout of victory.

All come forth from their graves the same in stature as when they entered the tomb. Adam, who
stands among the risen throng, is of lofty height and majestic form, in stature but little
below the Son of God. He presents a marked contrast to the people of later generations; in
this one respect is shown the great degeneracy of the race. But all arise with the freshness
and vigor of eternal youth. In the beginning, man was created in the likeness of God, not only
in character, but in form and feature. Sin defaced and almost obliterated the divine image;
but Christ came to restore that which had been lost. He will change our vile bodies, and fashion
them like unto His glorious body. The mortal, corruptible form, devoid of comeliness, once
polluted with sin, becomes perfect, beautiful, and immortal. All blemishes and deformities
are left in the grave. Restored to the tree of life in the long-lost Eden, the redeemed will
“grow up”(1117) to the full stature of the race in its primeval glory. The last lingering traces
of the curse of sin will be removed, and Christ’s faithful ones will appear “in the beauty
of the Lord our God,” in mind and soul and body reflecting the perfect image of their Lord.
Oh, wonderful redemption! long talked of, long hoped for, contemplated with eager anticipation,
but never fully understood.

The living righteous are changed “in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye.” At the voice of
God they were glorified; now they are made immortal, and with the risen saints are caught up
to meet their Lord in the air. Angels “gather together the elect from the four winds, from
one end of heaven to the other.” Little children are borne by holy angels to their mothers’
arms. Friends long separated by death are united, nevermore to part, and with songs of gladness
ascend together to the city of God.

On each side of the cloudy chariot are wings, and beneath it are living wheels; and as the
chariot rolls upward, the wheels cry, “Holy,” and the wings, as they move, cry, “Holy,” and
the retinue of angels cry, “Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty.” And the redeemed shout “Alleluia!”
as the chariot moves onward toward the New Jerusalem.

Before entering the city of God, the Saviour bestows upon His followers the emblems of victory,
and invests them with the insignia of their royal state. The glittering ranks are drawn up,
in the form of a hollow square, about their King, whose form rises in majesty high above saint
and angel, whose countenance beams upon them full of benignant love. For each there is a crown,
bearing his own “new name,”(1118) and the inscription, “Holiness to the Lord.” In every hand
are placed the victor’s palm and the shining harp. Then, as the commanding angels strike the
note, every hand sweeps the harp strings with skilful touch, awaking sweet music in rich, melodious
strains. Jesus opens wide the pearly gates, and the nations that have kept the truth enter
in. There they behold the Paradise of God, the home of Adam in his innocency.

With unutterable love, Jesus welcomes His faithful ones to the “joy of their Lord.” The Saviour’s
joy is in seeing, in the kingdom of glory, the souls that have been saved by His agony and
humiliation. And the redeemed will be sharers in His joy, as they behold, among the blessed,
those who have been won to Christ through their prayers, their labors, and their loving sacrifice.
As they gather about the great white throne, gladness unspeakable will fill their hearts, when
they behold those whom they have won for Christ, and see that one has gained others, and these
still others, all brought into the haven of rest, there to lay their crowns at Jesus’ feet,
and praise Him through the endless cycles of eternity.

As the ransomed ones are welcomed to the city of God, there rings out upon the air an exultant
cry of adoration. The two Adams are about to meet. The Son of God is standing with outstretched
arms to receive the father of our race,—the being whom He created, who sinned against his Maker,
and for whose sin the marks of the crucifixion are borne upon the Saviour’s form. As Adam discerns
the prints of the cruel nails, he does not fall upon the bosom of his Lord, but in humiliation
casts himself at His feet, crying, “Worthy, worthy is the Lamb that was slain!” Tenderly the
Saviour lifts him up, and bids him look once more upon the Eden home from which he has so long
been exiled.

After his expulsion from Eden, Adam’s life on earth was filled with sorrow. Every dying leaf,
every victim of sacrifice, every blight upon the fair face of nature, every stain upon man’s
purity, was a fresh reminder of his sin. Terrible was the agony of remorse as he beheld iniquity
abounding, and, in answer to his warnings, met the reproaches cast upon himself as the cause
of sin. With patient humility he bore, for nearly a thousand years, the penalty of transgression.
Faithfully did he repent of his sin, and trust in the merits of the promised Saviour, and he
died in the hope of a resurrection. The Son of God redeemed man’s failure and fall; and now,
through the work of the atonement, Adam is re-instated in his first dominion.

Transported with joy, he beholds the trees that were once his delight,—the very trees whose
fruit he himself had gathered in the days of his innocence and joy. He sees the vines that
his own hands have trained, the very flowers that he once loved to care for. His mind grasps
the reality of the scene; he comprehends that this is indeed Eden restored, more lovely now
than when he was banished from it. The Saviour leads him to the tree of life, and plucks the
glorious fruit, and bids him eat. He looks about him, and beholds a multitude of his family
redeemed, standing in the Paradise of God. Then he casts his glittering crown at the feet of
Jesus, and falling upon His breast, embraces the Redeemer. He touches the golden harp, and
the vaults of heaven echo the triumphant song, “Worthy, worthy, worthy is the Lamb that was
slain, and lives again!” The family of Adam take up the strain, and cast their crowns at the
Saviour’s feet as they bow before Him in adoration.

This reunion is witnessed by the angels who wept at the fall of Adam, and rejoiced when Jesus,
after His resurrection, ascended to heaven, having opened the grave for all who should believe
on His name. Now they behold the work of redemption accomplished, and they unite their voices
in the song of praise.

Upon the crystal sea before the throne, that sea of glass as it were mingled with fire,—so
resplendent is it with the glory of God,—are gathered the company that have “gotten the victory
over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his name.”(1121)
With the Lamb upon Mount Zion, “having the harps of God,” they stand, the hundred and forty
and four thousand that were redeemed from among men; and there is heard, as the sound of many
waters, and as the sound of a great thunder, “the voice of harpers harping with their harps.”(1122)
And they sing “a new song” before the throne, a song which no man can learn save the hundred
and forty and four thousand. It is the song of Moses and the Lamb,—a song of deliverance. None
but the hundred and forty-four thousand can learn that song; for it is the song of their experience,—an
experience such as no other company have ever had. “These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever
He goeth.” These, having been translated from the earth, from among the living, are counted
as “the first-fruits unto God and to the Lamb.”(1123) “These are they which came out of great
tribulation;”(1124) they have passed through the time of trouble such as never was since there
was a nation; they have endured the anguish of the time of Jacob’s trouble; they have stood
without an intercessor through the final outpouring of God’s judgments. But they have been
delivered, for they have “washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.”
“In their mouth was found no guile: for they are without fault” before God. They walked in
narrow paths on earth; they were purified in the furnace of affliction. For Jesus’ sake they
endured opposition, hatred, calumny. They followed Him through conflicts sore; they endured
self-denial and experienced bitter disappointments. By their own painful experience they learned
the evil of sin, its power, its guilt, its woe; and they look upon it with abhorrence. A sense
of the infinite sacrifice made for its cure, humbles them in their own sight, and fills their
hearts with gratitude and praise which those who have never fallen cannot appreciate. They
love much, because they have been forgiven much. Having been partakers of Christ’s sufferings,
they are fitted to be partakers with Him of His glory.

The heirs of God have come from garrets, from hovels, from dungeons, from scaffolds, from mountains,
from deserts, from the caves of the earth, from the caverns of the sea. On earth they were
“destitute, afflicted, tormented.” Millions went down to the grave loaded with infamy, because
they steadfastly refused to yield to the deceptive claims of Satan. By human tribunals they
were adjudged the vilest of criminals. But now “God is judge Himself.”(1127) Now the decisions
of earth are reversed. Henceforth they are to be ever with the Lord. They stand before the
throne clad in richer robes than the most honored of the earth have ever worn. They are crowned
with diadems more glorious than were ever placed upon the brow of earthly monarchs. The days
of pain and weeping are forever ended. The King of glory has wiped the tears from all faces;
every cause of grief has been removed. With our finite comprehension we may consider most earnestly
the shame and the glory, the life and the death, the justice and the mercy, that meet in the
cross; yet with the utmost stretch of our mental powers we fail to grasp its full significance.
The length and the breadth, the depth and the height, of redeeming love are but dimly comprehended.
The plan of redemption will not be fully understood, even when the ransomed see as they are
seen and know as they are known; but through the eternal ages, new truth will continually unfold
to the wondering and delighted mind. Though the griefs and pains and temptations of earth are
ended, and the cause removed, the people of God will ever have a distinct, intelligent knowledge
of what their salvation has cost.

The cross of Christ will be the science and the song of the redeemed through all eternity.
In Christ glorified they will behold Christ crucified. Never will it be forgotten that He whose
power created and upheld the unnumbered worlds through the vast realms of space, the Beloved
of God, the Majesty of heaven, He whom cherub and shining seraph delighted to adore,—humbled
Himself to uplift fallen man; that He bore the guilt and shame of sin, and the hiding of His
Father’s face, till the woes of a lost world broke His heart, and crushed out His life on Calvary’s
cross. That the Maker of all worlds, the Arbiter of all destinies, should lay aside His glory,
and humiliate Himself from love to man, will ever excite the wonder and adoration of the universe.
As the nations of the saved look upon their Redeemer, and behold the eternal glory of the Father
shining in His countenance; as they behold His throne, which is from everlasting to everlasting,
and know that His kingdom is to have no end, they break forth in rapturous song, “Worthy, worthy
is the Lamb that was slain, and hath redeemed us to God by His own most precious blood!”

The mystery of the cross explains all other mysteries. In the light that streams from Calvary,
the attributes of God which had filled us with fear and awe appear beautiful and attractive.
Mercy, tenderness, and parental love are seen to blend with holiness, justice, and power. While
we behold the majesty of His throne, high and lifted up, we see His character in its gracious
manifestations, and comprehend, as never before, the significance of that endearing title,
“Our Father.”

It will be seen that He who is infinite in wisdom could devise no plan for our salvation except
the sacrifice of His Son. The compensation for this sacrifice is the joy of peopling the earth
with ransomed beings, holy, happy, and immortal. The result of the Saviour’s conflict with
the powers of darkness is joy to the redeemed, redounding to the glory of God throughout eternity.
And such is the value of the soul that the Father is satisfied with the price paid; and Christ
Himself, beholding the fruits of His great sacrifice, is satisfied.

41. DESOLATION OF THE EARTH.

“Her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.” “In the cup which
she hath filled, fill to her double. She has filled up the measure of her iniquity; her time
has come; she is ripe for destruction.

When the voice of God turns the captivity of His people, there is a terrible awakening of those
who have lost all in the great conflict of life. While probation continued they were blinded
by Satan’s deceptions, and they justified their course of sin. The rich prided themselves upon
their superiority to those who were less favored; but they had obtained their riches by violation
of the law of God. They had neglected to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to deal justly,
and to love mercy. They had sought to exalt themselves, and to obtain the homage of their fellow-creatures.
Now they are stripped of all that made them great, and are left destitute and defenseless.
They look with terror upon the destruction of the idols which they preferred before their Maker.
They have sold their souls for earthly riches and enjoyments, and have not sought to become
rich toward God. The result is, their lives are a failure; their pleasures are now turned to
gall, their treasures to corruption. The gain of a lifetime is swept away in a moment. The
rich bemoan the destruction of their grand houses, the scattering of their gold and silver.
But their lamentations are silenced by the fear that they themselves are to perish with their
idols.

The wicked are filled with regret, not because of their sinful neglect of God and their fellow-men,
but because God has conquered. They lament that the result is what it is; but they do not repent
of their wickedness. They would leave no means untried to conquer if they could.

The world see the very class whom they have mocked and derided, and desired to exterminate,
pass unharmed through pestilence, tempest, and earthquake. He who is to the transgressors of
His law a devouring fire, is to His people a safe pavilion.

The minister who has sacrificed truth to gain the favor of men, now discerns the character
and influence of his teachings. It is apparent that the omniscient eye was following him as
he stood in the desk, as he walked the streets, as he mingled with men in the various scenes
of life. Every emotion of the soul, every line written, every word uttered, every act that
led men to rest in a refuge of falsehood, has been scattering seed; and now, in the wretched,
lost souls around him, he beholds the harvest. They see that they have rebelled against the
Author of all just and righteous law. The setting aside of the divine precepts gave rise to
thousands of springs of evil, discord, hatred, iniquity, until the earth became one vast field
of strife, one sink of corruption. This is the view that now appears to those who rejected
truth and chose to cherish error. No language can express the longing which the disobedient
and disloyal feel for that which they have lost forever,—eternal life. Men whom the world has
worshiped for their talents and eloquence now see these things in their true light. They realize
what they have forfeited by transgression, and they fall at the feet of those whose fidelity
they have despised and derided, and confess that God has loved them.

The people see that they have been deluded. They accuse one another of having led them to destruction;
but all unite in heaping their bitterest condemnation upon the ministers. Unfaithful pastors
have prophesied smooth things; they have led their hearers to make void the law of God and
to persecute those who would keep it holy. Now, in their despair, these teachers confess before
the world their work of deception. The multitudes are filled with fury. “We are lost!” they
cry, “and you are the cause of our ruin;” and they turn upon the false shepherds. The very
ones that once admired them most, will pronounce the most dreadful curses upon them. The very
hands that once crowned them with laurels, will be raised for their destruction. The swords
which were to slay God’s people, are now employed to destroy their enemies. Everywhere there
is strife and bloodshed.

“A noise shall come even to the ends of the earth; for the Lord hath a controversy with the
nations, He will plead with all flesh; He will give them that are wicked to the sword.”(1135)
For six thousand years the great controversy has been in progress; the Son of God and His heavenly
messengers have been in conflict with the power of the evil one, to warn, enlighten, and save
the children of men. Now all have made their decision; the wicked have fully united with Satan
in his warfare against God. The time has come for God to vindicate the authority of His downtrodden
law. Now the controversy is not alone with Satan, but with men. “The Lord hath a controversy
with the nations;” “He will give them that are wicked to the sword.”

The mark of deliverance has been set upon those “that sigh and that cry for all the abominations
that be done.” Now the angel of death goes forth, represented in Ezekiel’s vision by the men
with the slaughtering weapons, to whom the command is given: “Slay utterly old and young, both
maids, and little children, and women: but come not near any man upon whom is the mark; and
begin at My sanctuary.”(1136) Says the prophet, “They began at the ancient men which were before
the house.”(1137) The work of destruction begins among those who have professed to be the spiritual
guardians of the people. The false watchmen are the first to fall. There are none to pity or
to spare. Men, women, maidens, and little children perish together. Christ takes His people
to the city of God, and the earth is emptied of its inhabitants. “Behold, the Lord maketh the
earth empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants
thereof.” “The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled: for the Lord hath spoken
this word.” “Because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting
covenant. Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are desolate:
therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned.”(1141)

The whole earth appears like a desolate wilderness. The ruins of cities and villages destroyed
by the earthquake, uprooted trees, ragged rocks thrown out by the sea or torn out of the earth
itself, are scattered over its surface, while vast caverns mark the spot where the mountains
have been rent from their foundations.

Now the event takes place, foreshadowed in the last solemn service of the day of atonement.
When the ministration in the holy of holies had been completed, and the sins of Israel had
been removed from the sanctuary by virtue of the blood of the sin-offering, then the scapegoat
was presented alive before the Lord; and in presence of the congregation the high priest confessed
over him “all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions in all
their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat.”(1142) In like manner, when the work of
atonement in the heavenly sanctuary has been completed, then in the presence of God and heavenly
angels, and the host of the redeemed, the sins of God’s people will be placed upon Satan; he
will be declared guilty of all the evil which he has caused them to commit. And as the scapegoat
was sent away into a land not inhabited, so Satan will be banished to the desolate earth, an
uninhabited and dreary wilderness.

The revelator foretells the banishment of Satan, and the condition of chaos and desolation
to which the earth is to be reduced; and he declares that this condition will exist for a thousand
years. Concerning the condition of the earth “in the beginning,” the Bible record says that
it “was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep.”(1144) Prophecy
teaches that it will be brought back, partially at least, to this condition. I beheld, and,
lo, there was no man, and all the birds of the heavens were fled. I beheld, and, lo, the fruitful
place was a wilderness, and all the cities thereof were broken down.”(1145)

Here is to be the home of Satan with his evil angels for a thousand years. Limited to the earth,
he will not have access to other worlds, to tempt and annoy those who have never fallen. It
is in this sense that he is bound: there are none remaining, upon whom he can exercise his
power. He is wholly cut off from the work of deception and ruin which for so many centuries
has been his sole delight. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.

Even the wicked are now placed beyond the power of Satan; and alone with his evil angels he
remains to realize the effect of the curse which sin has brought. “The kings of the nations,
even all of them, lie in glory, every one in his own house [the grave]. But thou art cast out
of thy grave like an abominable branch.... Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial, because
thou hast destroyed thy land, and slain thy people.”(1147)

For a thousand years, Satan will wander to and fro in the desolate earth, to behold the results
of his rebellion against the law of God. During this time his sufferings are intense. Since
his fall, his life of unceasing activity has banished reflection; but he is now deprived of
his power, and left to contemplate the part which he has acted since first he rebelled against
the government of heaven, and to look forward with trembling and terror to the dreadful future,
when he must suffer for all the evil that he has done, and be punished for the sins that he
has caused to be committed.

To God’s people, the captivity of Satan will bring gladness and rejoicing. The apostle Paul
points to this judgment as an event that follows the second advent. Then the portion which
the wicked must suffer is meted out, according to their works; and it is recorded against their
names in the book of death.

Satan also and evil angels are judged by Christ and His people. THE CONTROVERSY ENDED.

At the close of the thousand years, Christ again returns to the earth. He is accompanied by
the host of the redeemed, and attended by a retinue of angels. As He descends in terrific majesty,
He bids the wicked dead arise to receive their doom. They come forth, a mighty host, numberless
as the sands of the sea. What a contrast to those who were raised at the first resurrection!
The righteous were clothed with immortal youth and beauty. The wicked bear the traces of disease
and death.

Every eye in that vast multitude is turned to behold the glory of the Son of God. With one
voice the wicked hosts exclaim, “Blessed is He that cometh in the name of the Lord!” It is
not love to Jesus that inspires this utterance. The force of truth urges the words from unwilling
lips. As the wicked went into their graves, so they come forth, with the same enmity to Christ,
and the same spirit of rebellion. They are to have no new probation, in which to remedy the
defects of their past lives. Nothing would be gained by this. A lifetime of transgression has
not softened their hearts. A second probation, were it given them, would be occupied as was
the first, in evading the requirements of God and exciting rebellion against Him.

Christ descends upon the Mount of Olives, whence, after His resurrection, He ascended, and
where angels repeated the promise of His return.

Now Satan prepares for a last mighty struggle for the supremacy. While deprived of his power,
and cut off from his work of deception, the prince of evil was miserable and dejected: but
as the wicked dead are raised, and he sees the vast multitudes upon his side, his hopes revive,
and he determines not to yield the great controversy. He will marshal all the armies of the
lost under his banner, and through them endeavor to execute his plans. The wicked are Satan’s
captives. In rejecting Christ they have accepted the rule of the rebel leader. They are ready
to receive his suggestions and to do his bidding. Yet, true to his early cunning, he does not
acknowledge himself to be Satan. He claims to be the prince who is the rightful owner of the
world, and whose inheritance has been unlawfully wrested from him. He represents himself to
his deluded subjects as a redeemer, assuring them that his power has brought them forth from
their graves, and that he is about to rescue them from the most cruel tyranny. The presence
of Christ having been removed, Satan works wonders to support his claims. He makes the weak
strong, and inspires all with his own spirit and energy. He proposes to lead them against the
camp of the saints, and to take possession of the city of God. With fiendish exultation he
points to the unnumbered millions who have been raised from the dead, and declares that as
their leader he is well able to overthrow the city, and regain his throne and his kingdom.

In that vast throng are multitudes of the long-lived race that existed before the flood; men
of lofty stature and giant intellect, who, yielding to the control of fallen angels, devoted
all their skill and knowledge to the exaltation of themselves; men whose wonderful works of
art led the world to idolize their genius, but whose cruelty and evil inventions, defiling
the earth and defacing the image of God, caused Him to blot them from the face of His creation.
There are kings and generals who conquered nations, valiant men who never lost a battle, proud,
ambitious warriors whose approach made kingdoms tremble. In death these experienced no change.
As they come up from the grave, they resume the current of their thoughts just where it ceased.
They are actuated by the same desire to conquer that ruled them when they fell.

Satan consults with his angels, and then with these kings and conquerors and mighty men. They
look upon the strength and numbers on their side, and declare that the army within the city
is small in comparison with theirs, and that it can be overcome. They lay their plans to take
possession of the riches and glory of the New Jerusalem. All immediately begin to prepare for
battle. Skilful artisans construct implements of war. Military leaders, famed for their success,
marshal the throngs of warlike men into companies and divisions.

At last the order to advance is given, and the countless host moves on,—an army such as was
never summoned by earthly conquerors, such as the combined forces of all ages since war began
on earth could never equal. Satan, the mightiest of warriors, leads the van, and his angels
unite their forces for this final struggle. Kings and warriors are in his train, and the multitudes
follow in vast companies, each under its appointed leader. With military precision, the serried
ranks advance over the earth’s broken and uneven surface to the city of God. By command of
Jesus, the gates of the New Jerusalem are closed, and the armies of Satan surround the city,
and make ready for the onset.

Now Christ again appears to the view of His enemies. Far above the city, upon a foundation
of burnished gold, is a throne, high and lifted up. Upon this throne sits the Son of God, and
around Him are the subjects of His kingdom. The power and majesty of Christ no language can
describe, no pen portray. The glory of the Eternal Father is enshrouding His Son. The brightness
of His presence fills the city of God, and flows out beyond the gates, flooding the whole earth
with its radiance.

Nearest the throne are those who were once zealous in the cause of Satan, but who, plucked
as brands from the burning, have followed their Saviour with deep, intense devotion. Next are
those who perfected Christian characters in the midst of falsehood and infidelity, those who
honored the law of God when the Christian world declared it void, and the millions, of all
ages, who were martyred for their faith. They have run the race and reached the prize. The
palm branch in their hands is a symbol of their triumph, the white robe an emblem of the spotless
righteousness of Christ which now is theirs.

The redeemed raise a song of praise that echoes and re-echoes through the vaults of heaven,
“Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb.” And angel and seraph
unite their voices in adoration. As the redeemed have beheld the power and malignity of Satan,
they have seen, as never before, that no power but that of Christ could have made them conquerors.
In all that shining throng there are none to ascribe salvation to themselves, as if they had
prevailed by their own power and goodness. Nothing is said of what they have done or suffered;
but the burden of every song, the keynote of every anthem, is, Salvation to our God, and unto
the Lamb.

In the presence of the assembled inhabitants of earth and heaven the final coronation of the
Son of God takes place. And now, invested with supreme majesty and power, the King of kings
pronounces sentence upon the rebels against His government, and executes justice upon those
who have transgressed His law and oppressed His people. They see just where their feet diverged
from the path of purity and holiness, just how far pride and rebellion have carried them in
the violation of the law of God. The seductive temptations which they encouraged by indulgence
in sin, the blessings perverted, the messengers of God despised, the warnings rejected, the
waves of mercy beaten back by the stubborn, unrepentant heart,—all appear as if written in
letters of fire.

Above the throne is revealed the cross; and like a panoramic view appear the scenes of Adam’s
temptation and fall, and the successive steps in the great plan of redemption. The Saviour’s
lowly birth; His early life of simplicity and obedience; His baptism in Jordan; the fast and
temptation in the wilderness; His public ministry, unfolding to men heaven’s most precious
blessings; the days crowded with deeds of love and mercy, the nights of prayer and watching
in the solitude of the mountains; the plottings of envy, hate, and malice which repaid His
benefits; the awful, mysterious agony in Gethsemane, beneath the crushing weight of the sins
of the whole world; His betrayal into the hands of the murderous mob; the fearful events of
that night of horror,—the unresisting prisoner, forsaken by His best-loved disciples, rudely
hurried through the streets of Jerusalem; the Son of God exultingly displayed before Annas,
arraigned in the high priest’s palace, in the judgment-hall of Pilate, before the cowardly
and cruel Herod, mocked, insulted, tortured, and condemned to die,—all are vividly portrayed.

And now before the swaying multitude are revealed the final scenes,—the patient Sufferer treading
the path to Calvary; the Prince of heaven hanging upon the cross; the haughty priests and the
jeering rabble deriding His expiring agony; the supernatural darkness; the heaving earth, the
rent rocks, the open graves, marking the moment when the world’s Redeemer yielded up His life.

The awful spectacle appears just as it was. Satan, his angels, and his subjects have no power
to turn from the picture of their own work. Each actor recalls the part which he performed.
Herod, who slew the innocent children of Bethlehem that he might destroy the King of Israel;
the base Herodias, upon whose guilty soul rests the blood of John the Baptist; the weak, time-serving
Pilate; the mocking soldiers; the priests and rulers and the maddened throng who cried, “His
blood be on us, and on our children!”—all behold the enormity of their guilt. They vainly seek
to hide from the divine majesty of His countenance, outshining the glory of the sun, while
the redeemed cast their crowns at the Saviour’s feet, exclaiming, “He died for me!”

Amid the ransomed throng are the apostles of Christ, the heroic Paul, the ardent Peter, the
loved and loving John, and their true-hearted brethren, and with them the vast host of martyrs;
while outside the walls, with every vile and abominable thing, are those by whom they were
persecuted, imprisoned, and slain. There is Nero, that monster of cruelty and vice, beholding
the joy and exaltation of those whom he once tortured, and in whose extremest anguish he found
satanic delight. His mother is there to witness the result of her own work; to see how the
evil stamp of character transmitted to her son, the passions encouraged and developed by her
influence and example, have borne fruit in crimes that caused the world to shudder.

There are papist priests and prelates, who claimed to be Christ’s ambassadors, yet employed
the rack, the dungeon, and the stake to control the consciences of His people. There are the
proud pontiffs who exalted themselves above God, and presumed to change the law of the Most
High. Those pretended fathers of the church have an account to render to God from which they
would fain be excused. Too late they are made to see that the Omniscient One is jealous of
His law, and that He will in no wise clear the guilty. They learn now that Christ identifies
His interest with that of His suffering people; and they feel the force of His own words, “Inasmuch
as ye have done it unto one of the least of these My brethren, ye have done it unto Me.”(1160)

The whole wicked world stand arraigned at the bar of God, on the charge of high treason against
the government of heaven. They have none to plead their cause; they are without excuse; and
the sentence of eternal death is pronounced against them.

It is now evident to all that the wages of sin is not noble independence and eternal life,
but slavery, ruin, and death. The wicked see what they have forfeited by their life of rebellion.
The far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory was despised when offered them; but how
desirable it now appears. “All this,” cries the lost soul, “I might have had; but I chose to
put these things far from me. Oh, strange infatuation! I have exchanged peace, happiness, and
honor, for wretchedness, infamy, and despair.” All see that their exclusion from heaven is
just. By their lives they have declared, “We will not have this Jesus to reign over us.”

As if entranced, the wicked have looked upon the coronation of the Son of God. They see in
His hands the tables of the divine law, the statutes which they have despised and transgressed.

Satan seems paralyzed as he beholds the glory and majesty of Christ. He who was once a covering
cherub remembers whence he has fallen. A shining seraph, “son of the morning;” how changed,
how degraded! From the council where once he was honored, he is forever excluded. He sees another
now standing near to the Father, veiling His glory. He has seen the crown placed upon the head
of Christ by an angel of lofty stature and majestic presence, and he knows that the exalted
position of this angel might have been his.

Memory recalls the home of his innocence and purity, the peace and content that were his until
he indulged in murmuring against God, and envy of Christ. His accusations, his rebellion, his
deceptions to gain the sympathy and support of the angels, his stubborn persistence in making
no effort for self-recovery when God would have granted him forgiveness,—all come vividly before
him. He reviews his work among men and its results,—the enmity of man toward his fellow-man,
the terrible destruction of life, the rise and fall of kingdoms, the overturning of thrones,
the long succession of tumults, conflicts, and revolutions. He recalls his constant efforts
to oppose the work of Christ and to sink man lower and lower. He sees that his hellish plots
have been powerless to destroy those who have put their trust in Jesus. As Satan looks upon
his kingdom, the fruit of his toil, he sees only failure and ruin. He has led the multitudes
to believe that the city of God would be an easy prey; but he knows that this is false. Again
and again, in the progress of the great controversy, he has been defeated, and compelled to
yield. He knows too well the power and majesty of the Eternal.

The aim of the great rebel has ever been to justify himself, and to prove the divine government
responsible for the rebellion. To this end he has bent all the power of his giant intellect.
He has worked deliberately and systematically, and with marvelous success, leading vast multitudes
to accept his version of the great controversy which has been so long in progress. For thousands
of years this chief of conspiracy has palmed off falsehood for truth. But the time has now
come when the rebellion is to be finally defeated, and the history and character of Satan disclosed.
In his last great effort to dethrone Christ, destroy His people, and take possession of the
city of God, the arch-deceiver has been fully unmasked. Those who have united with him see
the total failure of his cause. Christ’s followers and the loyal angels behold the full extent
of his machinations against the government of God. He is the object of universal abhorrence.

Satan sees that his voluntary rebellion has unfitted him for heaven. He has trained his powers
to war against God: the purity, peace, and harmony of heaven would be to him supreme torture.
His accusations against the mercy and justice of God are now silenced. The reproach which he
has endeavored to cast upon Jehovah rests wholly upon himself. And now Satan bows down, and
confesses the justice of his sentence. The results of rebellion, the fruits of setting aside
the divine statutes, have been laid open to the view of all created intelligences. The working
out of Satan’s rule in contrast with the government of God, has been presented to the whole
universe. Satan’s own works have condemned him. God’s wisdom, His justice, and His goodness
stand fully vindicated. It is seen that all His dealings in the great controversy have been
conducted with respect to the eternal good of His people, and the good of all the worlds that
He has created. “All Thy works shall praise Thee, O Lord; and Thy saints shall bless Thee.”(1163)
The history of sin will stand to all eternity as a witness that with the existence of God’s
law is bound up the happiness of all the beings He has created. With all the facts of the great
controversy in view, the whole universe, both loyal and rebellious, with one accord declare,
“Just and true are Thy ways, Thou King of saints.”

Before the universe has been clearly presented the great sacrifice made by the Father and the
Son in man’s behalf. The hour has come when Christ occupies His rightful position, and is glorified
above principalities and powers and every name that is named. It was for the joy that was set
before Him,—that He might bring many sons unto glory,—that He endured the cross and despised
the shame. And inconceivably great as was the sorrow and the shame, yet greater is the joy
and the glory. He looks upon the redeemed, renewed in His own image, every heart bearing the
perfect impress of the divine, every face reflecting the likeness of their King. He beholds
in them the result of the travail of His soul, and He is satisfied. Then, in a voice that reaches
the assembled multitudes of the righteous and the wicked, He declares, “Behold the purchase
of My blood! The spirit of rebellion, like a mighty torrent, again bursts forth. Filled with
frenzy, he determines not to yield the great controversy. The time has come for a last desperate
struggle against the King of heaven. He rushes into the midst of his subjects, and endeavors
to inspire them with his own fury, and arouse them to instant battle. But of all the countless
millions whom he has allured into rebellion, there are none now to acknowledge his supremacy.
His power is at an end. The wicked are filled with the same hatred of God that inspires Satan;
but they see that their case is hopeless, that they cannot prevail against Jehovah. Their rage
is kindled against Satan and those who have been his agents in deception, and with the fury
of demons they turn upon them. The earth is broken up. The weapons concealed in its depths
are drawn forth. Devouring flames burst from every yawning chasm. The very rocks are on fire.
The day has come that shall burn as an oven. The elements melt with fervent heat, the earth
also, and the works that are therein are burned up.(1167) The earth’s surface seems one molten
mass,—a vast, seething lake of fire. It is the time of the judgment and perdition of ungodly
men,—“the day of the Lord’s vengeance, and the year of recompenses for the controversy of Zion.”(1168)

The wicked receive their recompense in the earth.(1169) They “shall be stubble: and the day
that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts.”(1170) Some are destroyed as in a
moment, while others suffer many days. All are punished “according to their deeds.” The sins
of the righteous having been transferred to Satan, he is made to suffer not only for his own
rebellion, but for all the sins which he has caused God’s people to commit. His punishment
is to be far greater than that of those whom he has deceived. After all have perished who fell
by his deceptions, he is still to live and suffer on. In the cleansing flames the wicked are
at last destroyed, root and branch,—Satan the root, his followers the branches. The full penalty
of the law has been visited; the demands of justice have been met; and heaven and earth, beholding,
declare the righteousness of Jehovah.

Satan’s work of ruin is forever ended. For six thousand years he has wrought his will, filling
the earth with woe, and causing grief throughout the universe. The whole creation has groaned
and travailed together in pain. Now God’s creatures are forever delivered from his presence
and temptations. “The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they [the righteous] break forth
into singing.”(1171) And a shout of praise and triumph ascends from the whole loyal universe.
Upon those that had part in the first resurrection, the second death has no power. While God
is to the wicked a consuming fire, He is to His people both a sun and a shield.(1172)

“I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away.”(1173)
The fire that consumes the wicked purifies the earth. Every trace of the curse is swept away.
No eternally burning hell will keep before the ransomed the fearful consequences of sin.

One reminder alone remains: our Redeemer will ever bear the marks of His crucifixion. Upon
His wounded head, upon His side, His hands and feet, are the only traces of the cruel work
that sin has wrought. Says the prophet, beholding Christ in His glory, “He had bright beams
coming out of His side: and there was the hiding of His power.”(1174) That pierced side whence
flowed the crimson stream that reconciled man to God,—there is the Saviour’s glory, there “the
hiding of His power.” “Mighty to save,” through the sacrifice of redemption, He was therefore
strong to execute justice upon them that despised God’s mercy. And the tokens of His humiliation
are His highest honor; through the eternal ages the wounds of Calvary will show forth His praise,
and declare His power.

“O tower of the flock, the stronghold of the daughter of Zion, unto thee shall it come, even
the first dominion.”(1175) The time has come, to which holy men have looked with longing since
the flaming sword barred the first pair from Eden,—the time for “the redemption of the purchased
possession.”(1176) The earth originally given to man as his kingdom, betrayed by him into the
hands of Satan, and so long held by the mighty foe, has been brought back by the great plan
of redemption. All that was lost by sin has been restored. “Thus saith the Lord ... that formed
the earth and made it; He hath established it, He created it not in vain, He formed it to be
inhabited.”(1177) God’s original purpose in the creation of the earth is fulfilled as it is
made the eternal abode of the redeemed. “The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein
forever.”(1178)

A fear of making the future inheritance seem too material has led many to spiritualize away
the very truths which lead us to look upon it as our home. Christ assured His disciples that
He went to prepare mansions for them in the Father’s house. Those who accept the teachings
of God’s word will not be wholly ignorant concerning the heavenly abode. It will be known only
to those who behold it. No finite mind can comprehend the glory of the Paradise of God.

In the Bible the inheritance of the saved is called a country.(1180) There the heavenly Shepherd
leads His flock to fountains of living waters. The tree of life yields its fruit every month,
and the leaves of the tree are for the service of the nations. There are ever-flowing streams,
clear as crystal, and beside them waving trees cast their shadows upon the paths prepared for
the ransomed of the Lord. There the wide-spreading plains swell into hills of beauty, and the
mountains of God rear their lofty summits. On those peaceful plains, beside those living streams,
God’s people, so long pilgrims and wanderers, shall find a home.

Pain cannot exist in the atmosphere of heaven. There will be no more tears, no funeral trains,
no badges of mourning. There will be no weariness in doing the will of God and offering praise
to His name. We shall ever feel the freshness of the morning, and shall ever be far from its
close. “And they need no candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light.”(1190)
The light of the sun will be superseded by a radiance which is not painfully dazzling, yet
which immeasurably surpasses the brightness of our noontide. The glory of God and the Lamb
floods the holy city with unfading light. The redeemed walk in the sunless glory of perpetual
day. “Now we see through a glass, darkly.”(1192) We behold the image of God reflected, as in
a mirror, in the works of nature and in His dealings with men; but then we shall see Him face
to face, without a dimming veil between. We shall stand in His presence, and behold the glory
of His countenance.

There the redeemed shall “know, even as also they are known.” The loves and sympathies which
God Himself has planted in the soul, shall there find truest and sweetest exercise. The pure
communion with holy beings, the harmonious social life with the blessed angels and with the
faithful ones of all ages, who have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of
the Lamb, the sacred ties that bind together “the whole family in heaven and earth,”(1193)—these
help to constitute the happiness of the redeemed.

There, immortal minds will contemplate with never-failing delight the wonders of creative power,
the mysteries of redeeming love. There will be no cruel, deceiving foe to tempt to forgetfulness
of God. Every faculty will be developed, every capacity increased. The acquirement of knowledge
will not weary the mind or exhaust the energies. There the grandest enterprises may be carried
forward, the loftiest aspirations reached, the highest ambitions realized; and still there
will arise new heights to surmount, new wonders to admire, new truths to comprehend, fresh
objects to call forth the powers of mind and soul and body.

All the treasures of the universe will be open to the study of God’s redeemed. Unfettered by
mortality, they wing their tireless flight to worlds afar,—worlds that thrilled with sorrow
at the spectacle of human woe, and rang with songs of gladness at the tidings of a ransomed
soul. With unutterable delight the children of earth enter into the joy and the wisdom of unfallen
beings. They share the treasures of knowledge and understanding gained through ages upon ages
in contemplation of God’s handiwork. With undimmed vision they gaze upon the glory of creation,—suns
and stars and systems, all in their appointed order circling the throne of Deity. Upon all
things, from the least to the greatest, the Creator’s name is written, and in all are the riches
of His power displayed.

And the years of eternity, as they roll, will bring richer and still more glorious revelations
of God and of Christ. As knowledge is progressive, so will love, reverence, and happiness increase.
The more men learn of God, the greater will be their admiration of His character. As Jesus
opens before them the riches of redemption, and the amazing achievements in the great controversy
with Satan, the hearts of the ransomed thrill with more fervent devotion, and with more rapturous
joy they sweep the harps of gold; and ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands
of voices unite to swell the mighty chorus of praise. Sin and sinners are no more. The entire
universe is clean. One pulse of harmony and gladness beats through the vast creation. From
Him who created all, flow life and light and gladness, throughout the realms of illimitable
space. From the minutest atom to the greatest world, all things, animate and inanimate, in
their unshadowed beauty and perfect joy, declare that God is love.

APPENDIX.

General Notes.

Page 50. TITLES.—In a passage which forms a part of the Roman canon law, Pope Innocent III.
declares that the Roman pontiff is “the vicegerent upon earth, not of a mere man, but of very
God;” and in a gloss on the passage it is explained that this is because he is the vicegerent
of Christ, who is “very God and very man.” (See Decretal. D. Gregor. Pap. IX. lib. 1. de translat.
Episc. tit. 7. c. 3. Corp. Jur. Canon. ed. Paris, 1612; tom. II. Decretal. col. 205.)

For the title, “Lord God the Pope,” see a gloss on the Extravagantes of Pope John XXII., title
14, ch. 4, “Declaramus.” In an Antwerp edition of the Extravagantes, dated 1584, the words
“Dominum Deum nostrum Papam” ("Our Lord God the Pope") occur in column 153. In a Paris edition,
dated 1612, they occur in column 140. In several editions published since 1612, the word “Deum”
("God") has been omitted.

Page 52. IMAGE WORSHIP.—“The worship of images ... was one of those corruptions of Christianity
which crept into the church stealthily and almost without notice or observation. This corruption
did not, like other heresies, develop itself at once, for in that case it would have met with
decided censure and rebuke: but, making its commencement under a fair disguise, so gradually
was one practice after another introduced in connection with it, that the church had become
deeply steeped in practical idolatry, not only without any efficient opposition, but almost
without any decided remonstrance; and when at length an endeavor was made to root it out, the
evil was found too deeply fixed to admit of removal.... It must be traced to the idolatrous
tendency of the human heart, and its propensity to serve the creature more than the Creator....

“Images and pictures were first introduced into churches, not to be worshiped, but either in
the place of books to give instruction to those who could not read, or to excite devotion in
the minds of others. How far they ever answered such a purpose is doubtful; but, even granting
that this was the case for a time, it soon ceased to be so, and it was found that pictures
and images brought into churches darkened rather than enlightened the minds of the ignorant—degraded
rather than exalted the devotion of the worshiper. So that, however they might have been intended
to direct men’s minds to God, they ended in turning them from Him to the worship of created
things.”—J. Mendham, “The Seventh General Council, the Second of Nicæa,” Introduction, pp. iii-vi.

For a record of the proceedings and decisions of the Second Council of Nice, A.D. 787, called
to establish the worship of images, see Baronius, “Ecclesiastical Annals,” Vol. IX, pp. 391-407
(1612 Antwerp ed.); J. Mendham, “The Seventh General Council, the Second of Nicæa;” Ed. Stillingfleet,
“Defence of the Discourse Concerning the Idolatry Practiced in the Church of Rome” (London,
1686); “A Select Library of Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers,” second series, Vol. XIV, pp. 521-587
(N. Y., 1900); C. J. Hefele, “History of the Councils of the Church, from the Original Documents,”
bk. 18, ch. 1, sec. 332, 333; ch. 2, sec. 345-352 (T. & T. Clark ed., 1896, Vol. V, pp. 260-304,
342-372).

Page 53. EDICT OF CONSTANTINE.—The law issued by Constantine on the seventh of March, A.D.
321, regarding a day of rest, reads thus:

“Let all judges, and all city people, and all tradesmen, rest upon the venerable day of the
sun. But let those dwelling in the country freely and with full liberty attend to the culture
of their fields; since it frequently happens, that no other day is so fit for the sowing of
grain, or the planting of vines; hence the favorable time should not be allowed to pass, lest
the provisions of heaven be lost.”—A. H. Lewis, “History of the Sabbath and the Sunday,” pp.
123, 124 (2d ed., rev., 1903).

The original (in the “Codex of Justinian,” lib. 3, tit. 12, leg. 3) is quoted by Dr. J. A.
Hessey in his Bampton Lectures on “Sunday,” lecture 3, par. 1, and by Dr. Philip Schaff in
his “History of the Christian Church,” Vol. III, sec. 75, par. 5, note 1. See also Mosheim,
“Ecclesiastical History,” cent. 4, part 2, ch. 4, sec. 5; Chambers’ Encyclopædia, art. Sabbath;
Encyclopædia Britannica, ninth ed., art. Sunday; Peter Heylyn, “History of the Sabbath,” part
2, ch. 3 (2d ed., rev., London, 1636, pp. 66, 67).

Page 54. PROPHETIC DATES.—See note for page 329.

Page 56. FORGED WRITINGS.—Among the documents that at the present time are generally admitted
to be forgeries, the Donation of Constantine and the Pseudo-Isidorian Decretals are of primary
importance.

In citing facts concerning the question, “When and by whom was Constantine’s Donation forged?”
M. Gosselin, Director of the Seminary of St. Sulpice (Paris), says:

“Though this document is unquestionably spurious, it would be difficult to determine with precision
the date of its fabrication. M. de Marca, Muratori, and other learned critics, are of the opinion
that it was composed in the eighth century, before the reign of Charlemagne. Muratori, moreover,
thinks it probable that it may have induced that monarch and Pepin to be so generous to the
Holy See.”—Gosselin, “The Power of the Pope during the Middle Ages,” Vol. I, p. 321 (translated
by the Rev. Matthew Kelly, St. Patrick’s College, Maynooth; Baltimore, J. Murphy & Co., 1853).

On the date of the Pseudo-Isidorian Decretals, see Mosheim, “Ecclesiastical History,” bk. 3,
cent. 9, part 2, ch. 2, sec. 8. As Dr. Murdock, the translator, points out in a foot-note,
the learned Catholic historian, M. L’Abbé Fleury, in his “Ecclesiastical History” (diss. 4,
sec. 1), says of these decretals, that “they crept to light near the close of the eighth century.”
Fleury, writing near the close of the seventeenth century, says further that these “false decretals
were looked upon as authentic for the space of eight hundred years; and it was with much difficulty
that they were given up in the last century. It is true that at present there are hardly any,
though meanly instructed in these matters, who do not acknowledge that these decretals are
false.”—Fleury, “Ecclesiastical History,” bk. 44, par. 54 (G. Adam’s translation, London, 1732,
Vol. V, p. 196). See also Gibbon, “Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,” ch. 49, par. 16.

Page 57. DICTATES OF HILDEBRAND (GREGORY VII.).—See Baronius. “Ecclesiastical Annals,” An.
1076 (Antwerp ed., 1608, Vol. XI, page 479). A copy of the “Dictates,” in the original, may
also be found in Gieseler, “Ecclesiastical History,” period 3, sec. 47, note 4 (ed. 1836, tr.
by F. Cunningham). An English translation is given in Mosheim, “Ecclesiastical History,” bk.
3, cent. 11, part 2, ch. 2, sec. 9, note 8 (Soames’ ed., tr. by Murdock).

Page 59. PURGATORY.—Dr. Joseph Faa Di Bruno thus defines purgatory: “Purgatory is a state of
suffering after this life, in which those souls are for a time detained, who depart this life
after their deadly sins have been remitted as to the stain and guilt, and as to the everlasting
pain that was due to them; but who have on account of those sins still some debt of temporal
punishment to pay; as also those souls which leave this world guilty only of venial sins.”—“Catholic
Belief,” page 196 (ed. 1884; imprimateur Archbishop of New York).

See also K. R. Hagenbach, “Compendium of the History of Doctrines,” Vol. I, pp. 234-237, 405,
408; Vol. II, pp. 135-150, 308, 309 (T. & T. Clark ed.); Chas. Elliott, “Delineation of Roman
Catholicism,” bk. 2, ch. 12; Catholic Encyclopædia, art. Purgatory.

Page 59. INDULGENCES.—For a detailed history of the doctrine of indulgences, see the Catholic
Encyclopædia, art. Indulgences (contributed by W. H. Kent, O. S. C., of Bayswater, London);
Carl Ullmann, “Reformers before the Reformation,” Vol. I, bk. 2, part 1, ch. 2; M. Creighton,
“History of the Papacy,” Vol. V, pp. 56-64, 71; L. von Ranke, “History of the Reformation in
Germany,” bk. 2, ch. 1, par. 131, 132, 139-142, 153-155 (2d London ed., 1845, tr. by S. Austin,
Vol. 13; H. C. Lea, “A History of Auricular Confession and Indulgences;” G. P. Fisher, “The
Reformation,” ch. 4, par. 7.

On the practical outworkings of the doctrine of indulgences during the period of the Reformation,
see a paper by Dr. H. C. Lea, entitled, “Indulgences in Spain,” published in “Papers of the
American Society of Church History,” Vol. I, pp. 129-171. Of the value of this historical sidelight,
Dr. Lea says, in his opening paragraph: “Unvexed by the controversy which raged between Luther
and Dr. Eck and Silvester Prierias, Spain continued tranquilly to follow in the old and beaten
path, and furnishes us with the incontestable official documents which enable us to examine
the matter in the pure light of history.”

Page 59. THE MASS.—On the doctrine of the mass, see Cardinal Wiseman’s work, “The Real Presence
of the Body and Blood of Our Lord Jesus Christ in the Blessed Eucharist;” also Catholic Encyclopædia,
art. Eucharist (contributed by J. Pohle, S. T. D., Breslau); “Canons and Decrees of the Council
of Trent,” sess. 13, ch. 1-8 (London ed., 1851, tr. by T. A. Buckley, pp. 70-79); K. R. Hagenbach,
“Compendium of the History of Doctrines,” Vol. I, pp. 214-223, 393-398, and Vol. II, pp. 88-114;
J. Calvin, “Institutes,” bk. 4, ch. 17, 18; R. Hooker, “Ecclesiastical Polity,” bk. 5, ch. 4, 5.

Page 65. WALDENSIAN VERSIONS OF THE BIBLE.—On early Waldensian translations of portions of
the Bible into the language of the common people, see Townley, “Illustrations of Biblical Literature,”
Vol. I, ch. 10, par. 1-13; E. Petavel, “The Bible in France,” ch. 2, par. 3, 4, 8-10, 13, 21
(Paris ed., 1864); G. H. Putnam, “The Censorship of the Church of Rome,” Vol. II, ch. 2.

Page 77. EDICT AGAINST THE WALDENSES.—A considerable portion of the text of the papal bull
issued by Innocent VIII. in 1487 against the Waldenses (the original of which is in the library
of the University of Cambridge) is given, in an English translation, in Dowling’s “History
of Romanism,” bk. 6, ch. 5, sec. 62 (ed. 1871).

Page 84. INDULGENCES.—See note for page 59.

Page 85. WYCLIFFE.—For the original text of the papal bulls issued against Wycliffe, with an
English translation, see J. Foxe, “Acts and Monuments,” Vol. III, pp. 4-13 (Pratt-Townsend
ed., London, 1870). See also J. Lewis, “Life of Wiclif,” pp. 49-51, 305-314 (ed. 1820); Lechler,
“John Wycliffe and His English Precursors,” ch. 5, sec. 2 (pp. 162-164, London ed., 1884, tr.
by Lorimer); A. Neander, “General History of the Christian Church,” period 6, sec. 2, part
1, par. 8.

Page 86. INFALLIBILITY.—On the doctrine of Infallibility, see Catholic Encyclopædia, art. Infallibility
(contributed by P. J. Turner, S. T. D.); Geo. Salmon, “The Infallibility of the Church;” Chas.
Elliott, “Delineation of Roman Catholicism,” bk. 1, ch. 4; Cardinal Gibbons, “The Faith of
Our Fathers,” ch. 7 (49th ed., 1897).

Page 103. INDULGENCES.—See note for page 59.

Page 104. COUNCIL OF CONSTANCE.—On the calling of the Council of Constance by Pope John XXIII.,
at the instance of the emperor Sigismund, see Mosheim, “Ecclesiastical History,” bk. 3, cent.
15, part 2, ch. 2, sec. 3; J. Dowling, “History of Romanism,” bk. 6, ch. 2, par. 13; A. Bower,
“History of the Popes,” Vol. VII, pp. 141-143 (London ed., 1766); Neander, “History of the
Christian Religion and Church,” period 6, sec. 1 (1854, 5-vol. ed., tr. by Torrey, Vol. V,
pp. 94-101).

Page 128. INDULGENCES.—See note for page 59.

Page 234. JESUITISM.—For a statement concerning the origin, the principles, and the purposes
of the “Society of Jesus,” as outlined by members of this Order, see a work entitled “Concerning
Jesuits,” edited by the Rev. John Gerard, S. J., and published in London, 1902, by the Catholic
Truth Society. In this work it is said that “the mainspring of the whole organization of the
Society is a spirit of entire obedience: ‘Let each one,’ writes St. Ignatius, ‘persuade himself
that those who live under obedience ought to allow themselves to be moved and directed by divine
Providence through their superiors, just as though they were a dead body, which allows itself
to be carried anywhere and to be treated in any manner whatever, or as an old man’s staff,
which serves him who holds it in his hand in whatsoever way he will.’

“This absolute submission is ennobled by its motive, and should be, continues the ... founder,
‘prompt, joyous, and persevering; ... the obedient religious accomplishes joyfully that which
his superiors have confided to him for the general good, assured that thereby he corresponds
truly with the divine will.’ ”—The Comtesse R. de Courson, in “Concerning Jesuits,” p. 6.

See also L. E. Dupin, “A Compendious History of the Church,” cent. 16, ch. 33 (London ed.,
1713, Vol. IV, pp. 132-135); Mosheim, “Ecclesiastical History,” cent. 16, sec. 3, part 1, ch.
1, par. 10 (including notes 5, 6); Encyclopædia Britannica (ninth ed.), art. Jesuits; C. Paroissien,
“The Principles of the Jesuits, Developed in a Collection of Extracts from Their Own Authors”
(London, 1860—an earlier edition appeared in 1839); W. C. Cartwright, “The Jesuits, Their Constitution
and Teaching” (London, 1876); E. L. Taunton, “The History of the Jesuits in England, 1580-1773”
(London, 1901).

Page 235. THE INQUISITION.—See Catholic Encyclopædia, art. Inquisition (contributed by J. Blötzer,
S. J., Munich); H. C. Lea, “History of the Inquisition in the Middle Ages;” Limborch, “History
of the Inquisition,” Vol. I, bk. 1, ch. 25, 27-31 (London ed., 1731, tr. by S. Chandler, Vol.
I, pp. 131-142, 144-161); L. von Ranke, “History of the Popes,” bk. 2, ch. 6.

Page 265. CAUSES OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.—On the far-reaching consequences of the rejection
of the Bible, and of Bible religion, by the people of France, see H. von Sybel, “History of
the French Revolution,” bk. 5, ch. 1, par. 3-7; H. T. Buckle, “History of Civilization in England,”
ch. 8, 12 (N. Y. ed., 1895, Vol. I, pp. 364-366, 369-371, 437, 550, 540, 541); Blackwood’s
Magazine, Vol. XXXIV, No. 215 (November, 1833, p. 739); J. G. Lorimer, “An Historical Sketch
of the Protestant Church in France,” ch. 8, par. 6, 7.

Page 266. PROPHETIC DATES.—See note for page 329.

Page 267. EFFORTS TO SUPPRESS AND DESTROY THE BIBLE.—Referring to the long-continued efforts
in France to suppress the Bible—particularly versions in the language of the common people,
Gaussen says: “The decree of Toulouse, 1229,” which established the “tribunal of the Inquisition
against all the readers of the Bible in the vulgar tongue, ... was an edict of fire, bloodshed,
and devastation. In its 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th chapters, it ordained the entire destruction
of the houses, the humblest places of concealment, and even the subterranean retreats of men
convicted of possessing the Scriptures; that they should be pursued to the forests and caves
of the earth; and that even those who harbored them should be severely punished.” As a result,
the Bible “was everywhere prohibited; it vanished, as it were, underground; it descended into
the tomb.” These decrees were “followed for five hundred years by innumerable punishments,
in which the blood of the saints flowed like water.”—L. Gaussen, “The Canon of the Holy Scriptures,”
part 2, bk. 2, ch. 7, sec. 5, prop. 561; and ch. 13, sec. 2, prop. 641, par. 2. 4, 5.

See also G. P. Fisher, “The Reformation,” ch. 15, par. 16; E. Petavel, “The Bible in France,”
ch. 2, par. I, ch. 4 (1906 ed., pp. 97, 99, 101, 102); Vol. II, ch. 2 (pp. 15-19); S. Smiles,
“The Huguenots: Their Settlements, Churches, and Industries,” etc., ch. 1, par. 32, 34; ch.
2, par. 6; ch. 3, par. 14; ch. 18, par. 5 (with note); S. Smiles, “The Huguenots in France
after the Revocation,” ch. 2, par. 8; ch. 10, par. 30; ch. 12, par. 2-4; J. A. Wylie, “History
of Protestantism,” bk. 22, ch. 6, par. 3.

Page 276. THE REIGN OF TERROR.—On the responsibility of misguided leaders, in both church and
state, and particularly in the church, for the scenes of the French Revolution, see W. M. Sloane,
“The French Revolution and Religious Reform,” Preface, and ch. 2, par. 1, 2, 10-14 (1901 ed.,
pp. vii-ix, 19, 20, 26-31, 40); P. Schaff, in “Papers of the American Society of Church History,”
Vol. I, pp. 38, 44; S. Smiles, “The Huguenots after the Revocation,” ch. 18, par. 3, sec. 2
(London ed., 1907); Sir J. Stephen, “Lectures on the History of France,” lecture 16, par. 60.

Page 280. THE MASSES AND THE PRIVILEGED CLASSES.—On social conditions prevailing in France
prior to the period of the Revolution, see H. von Holst, “Lowell Lectures on the French Revolution,”
lecture 1; also Taine, “Ancient Régime,” and A. Young, “Travels in France.”

Page 283. RETRIBUTION.—For further details concerning the retributive character of the French
Revolution, see Thos. H. Gill, “The Papal Drama,” bk. 10; E. de Pressensé, “The Church and
the French Revolution,” bk. 3, ch. 1.

Page 284. THE ATROCITIES OF THE REIGN OF TERROR.—See M. A. Thiers, “History of the French Revolution,”
Vol. III, pp. 42-44, 62-74, 106 (N. Y. ed., 1890, tr. by F. Shoberl); F. A. Mignet, “History
of the French Revolution,” ch. 9, par. 1 (Bohn ed., 1894); A. Alison, “History of Europe,”
1789-1815, Vol. I, ch. 14 (N. Y. ed., 1872, Vol. 1, pp. 293-312).

Page 287. THE CIRCULATION OF THE SCRIPTURES.—In 1804, according to Mr. William Canton, of the
British and Foreign Bible Society, “all the Bibles extant in the world, in manuscript or in
print, counting every version in every land, were computed at not many more than four millions....
The various languages in which those four millions were written, including such bygone speech
as the Mœso-Gothic of Ulfilas and the Anglo-Saxon of Bede, are set down as numbering about
fifty.”—“What Is the Bible Society?” p. 23 (rev. ed., 1904).

A hundred years later, at the close of its first centenary, the British and Foreign Bible Society
was able to report a total distribution of Bibles, Testaments, or portions thereof, by that
society alone, to the number of 186,680,101—a total that, in 1910, had grown to upwards of
220,000,000 copies, in nearly four hundred distinct tongues.

To these totals must be added the millions of copies of the Scriptures or portions thereof,
in many languages, distributed by other Bible societies and by various commercial agencies.
The American Bible Society,—the greatest of the daughters of the British parent society,—during
the first ninety-four years of its work, reported a total distribution of 87,296,182 copies.
(See Bible Society Record, June, 1910.) According to conservative estimates, about six million
copies of the Bible are printed annually by commercial houses, which, added to the combined
output of the Bible societies, gives a total yearly circulation of more than fifteen million
copies.

The Scriptures, in whole or in part, have been printed in more than five hundred distinct tongues;
and the work of translation into new languages and dialects is still carried forward with unflagging
zeal.

Page 288. FOREIGN MISSIONS.—Dr. G. P. Fisher, in a chapter on “Christian Missions” in his “History
of the Christian Church,” outlines the beginnings of the missionary movement, which, in “the
later years of the eighteenth century, ushered in a brilliant era of missionary activity, an
era which, in the history of missions, is only less remarkable than the first of the Christian
ages.” In 1792, “the Baptist society was founded, with Carey as one of its first missionaries.
Carey sailed for India, and there, with the help of other members of the same society, founded
the mission of Serampore.” In 1795, the London Missionary Society was founded; in 1799, there
was formed “the organization which in 1812 became the Church Missionary Society.” Soon afterward,
the Wesleyan Missionary Society was founded.

“While the missionary activity was growing up in Great Britain, the Christians of America were
becoming animated with a like zeal.” In 1812, they founded the American Board of Commissioners
for Foreign Missions; and in 1814, the American Baptist Missionary Union. Adoniram Judson,
one of the first missionaries to go out from America, sailed for Calcutta in 1812, and reached
Burmah in July, 1813. In 1837, the Presbyterian Board was formed. (See Fisher, “History of
the Christian Church,” period 9, ch. 7, par. 3-25.)

Dr. A. T. Pierson, in an article published in the Missionary Review of the World for January,
1910, declares: “A half-century ago, China and Manchuria, Japan and Korea, Turkey and Arabia,
and even the vast continent of Africa, were sleeping—hermit nations, locked in the cell of
long seclusion and exclusion. Central Asia was comparatively unexplored, as was Central Africa.
In many lands, Satan’s long occupation was undisputed and his empire unmolested. Papal countries
were as intolerant as pagan; Italy and Spain imprisoned a man for daring to sell a Bible, or
preach the gospel. France was practically infidel, and Germany permeated with rationalism;
and over a large part of the mission field, the doors were shut and locked by a more or less
rigid exclusion and caste system. Now the changes, on every side, are so remarkable and so
radical that, to one who should suddenly come out of this middle period of the last century,
... the world would be unrecognizable. He who holds the keys of the two-leaved gates has been
unlocking them, opening up all lands to the Messenger of the Cross. Even in the Eternal City,
where, a half-century ago, a visitor had to leave his Bible outside the walls, there are Protestant
chapels by the score, and a free circulation of the Scriptures.”

Page 327. PROPHETIC DATES.—See note for page 329.

Page 329. PROPHETIC DATES.—The historical and chronological facts connected with the prophetic
periods of Daniel 8 and 9, including many evidences pointing unmistakably to the year 457 B.C.
as the proper time from which to begin reckoning these periods, have been clearly outlined
by many students of prophecy. See Stanley Leathes, “Old Testament Prophecy,” lectures 10, 11
(Warburton Lectures for 1876-1880); W. Goode, “Fulfilled Prophecy,” sermon 10, including Note
A (Warburton Lectures for 1854-1858); A. Thom, “Chronology of Prophecy,” pp. 26-106 (London
ed., 1848); Sir Isaac Newton, “Observations upon the Prophecies of Daniel, and the Apocalypse
of St. John,” ch. 10 (London ed., 1733, pp. 128-143); Uriah Smith, “Thoughts on Daniel and
the Revelation,” part 1, ch. 8, 9. On the date of the crucifixion, see Wm. Hales, “Analysis
of Chronology,” Vol. I, pp. 94-101; Vol. III. pp. 164-258 (2d London ed., 1830).

Page 335. FALL OF THE OTTOMAN EMPIRE.—For further details as to the predicted fall of the Ottoman
empire during the month of August, 1840, see J. Litch, “The Probability of the Second Coming
of Christ about A.D. 1843” (published in June, 1838); J. Litch, “An Address to the Clergy”
(published in the spring of 1840; a second edition, with historical data in support of the
accuracy of former calculations of the prophetic period extending to the fall of the Ottoman
empire, was published in 1841); the Advent Shield and Review, Vol. I (1844), No. 1, article
2, pp. 56, 57, 59-61; J. N. Loughborough, “The Great Advent Movement,” pp. 129-132 (1905 ed.);
J. Litch, article in Signs of the Times, and Expositor of Prophecy, Aug. 1, 1840. See also
article in Signs of the Times, and Expositor of Prophecy, Feb. 1, 1841.

Page 340. WITHHOLDING THE BIBLE FROM THE PEOPLE.—On the attitude of the Roman Catholic Church
toward the circulation of the Holy Scriptures, in vernacular versions, among the laity, see
Catholic Encyclopædia, art. Bible; also G. P. Fisher, “The Reformation,” ch. 15, par. 16 (1873
ed., pp. 530-532); J. Cardinal Gibbons, “The Faith of Our Fathers,” ch. 8 (49th ed., 1897,
pp. 98-117); J. Dowling, “History of Romanism,” b. 7, ch. 2, sec. 14, and b. 9, ch. 3, sec.
24-27 (1871 ed., pp. 491-496, 621-625); L. F. Bungener, “History of the Council of Trent,”
pp. 101-110 (2d Edinburgh ed., 1853, tr. by D. D. Scott); G. H. Putnam, “Books and Their Makers
during the Middle Ages,” Vol. I, part 2, ch. 2, par. 49, 54-56.

Page 373. ASCENSION ROBES.—The story that the Adventists made robes with which to ascend “to
meet the Lord in the air,” was invented by those who wished to reproach the cause. It was circulated
so industriously that many believed it; but careful inquiry proved its falsity. For many years
a large reward has been offered for proof that one such instance ever occurred, but the proof
has not been produced. None who loved the appearing of the Saviour were so ignorant of the
teachings of the Scriptures as to suppose that robes which they could make would be necessary
for that occasion. The only robe which the saints will need to meet the Lord is the righteousness
of Christ. See Rev. 19:8.

Page 374. THE CHRONOLOGY OF PROPHECY.—Dr. Geo. Bush, Professor of Hebrew and Oriental Literature
in the New York City University, in a letter addressed to Mr. Miller, and published in the
Advent Herald, and Signs of the Times Reporter, Boston, March 6 and 13, 1844, made some important
admissions relative to his calculation of the prophetic times. Mr. Bush wrote:

“Neither is it to be objected, as I conceive, to yourself or your friends, that you have devoted
much time and attention to the study of the chronology of prophecy, and have labored much to
determine the commencing and closing dates of its great periods. If these periods are actually
given by the Holy Ghost in the prophetic books, it was doubtless with the design that they
should be studied, and probably, in the end, fully understood; and no man is to be charged
with presumptuous folly who reverently makes the attempt to do this.... In taking a day as
the prophetical term for a year, I believe you are sustained by the soundest exegesis, as well
as fortified by the high names of Mede, Sir Isaac Newton, Kirby, Scott, Keith, and a host of
others, who have long since come to substantially your conclusions on this head. They all agree
that the leading periods mentioned by Daniel and John do actually expire about this age of
the world, and it would be a strange logic that would convict you of heresy for holding in
effect the same views which stand forth so prominently in the notices of these eminent divines.”
“Your results in this field of inquiry do not strike me as so far out of the way as to affect
any of the great interests of truth and duty.” “Your error, as I apprehend, lies in another
direction than your chronology.” “You have entirely mistaken the nature of the events which
are to occur when those periods have expired. This is the head and front of your expository
offending.”

Page 399. PROPHETIC DATES.—See note for page 329.

Page 435. A THREEFOLD MESSAGE.—Rev. 14:6, 7, foretells the proclamation of the first angel’s
message. Then the prophet continues: “There followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen,
is fallen, ... and the third angel followed them.” The word here rendered “followed,” means,
in constructions like that in this text, “to go with.” Liddell and Scott render the word thus:
“To follow one, go after or with him.” Robinson says: “To follow, to go with, to accompany
any one.” It is the same word that is used in Mark 5:24: “Jesus went with him; and much people
followed Him, and thronged Him.” It is also used of the redeemed one hundred and forty-four
thousand, where it is said, “These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever He goeth.”
Rev. 14:4. In both these places it is evident that the idea intended to be conveyed is that
of going together, in company with. So in 1 Cor. 10:4, where we read of the children of Israel
that “they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed them,” the word “followed” is translated
from the same Greek word, and the margin has it, “went with them.” From this we learn that
the idea in Rev. 14:8, 9, is not simply that the second and third angels followed the first
in point of time, but that they went with him. The three messages are but one threefold message.
They are three only in the order of their rise. But having risen, they go on together, and
are inseparable.

Page 447. SUPREMACY OF THE BISHOPS OF ROME.—Some of the leading circumstances connected with
the assumption of supremacy by the bishops of Rome, are outlined in Mosheim’s “Ecclesiastical
History,” cent. 2, part 2, ch. 4, sec. 9-11. See also G.P. Fisher, “History of the Christian
Church,” period 2, ch. 2, par. 11-17 (1890 ed., pp. 56-58); Gieseler, “Ecclesiastical History,”
period 1, div. 3, ch. 4, sec. 66, par. 3, including note 8 (N.Y. ed., 1836, tr. by F. Cunningham);
J.N. Andrews, “History of the Sabbath,” pp. 276-279 (3d ed., rev.).

Page 574. EDICT OF CONSTANTINE.—See note for page 53.

Page 578. THE ABYSSINIAN CHURCH.—On the observance of the Bible Sabbath in Abyssinia, see Dean
A.P. Stanley, “Lectures on the History of the Eastern Church,” lecture 1, par. 15 (N. Y. ed.,
1862, pp. 96, 97); Michael Geddes, “Church History of Ethiopia,” pp. 87, 88, 311, 312; Gibbon,
“Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,” ch. 47, par. 37-39; Samuel Gobat, “Journal of Three
Years’ Residence in Abyssinia,” pp. 55-58, 83, 93, 97, 98 (N. Y. ed., 1850); A. H. Lewis, “A
Critical History of the Sabbath and the Sunday in the Christian Church,” pp. 208-215 (2d ed.,
rev.).

Page 581. DICTATES OF HILDEBRAND.—See note for page 57.

INDEX OF SCRIPTURE REFERENCES.

GENESIS

1:2; 658 2:1-3; 455 2:2, 3; 52 3:1; 531 3:2-5; 532 3:4, 5; 561 3:5; 554 3:15; 505 3:19; 532
3:24; 534 6:5, 11; 543 15:1; 86 22:9, 16-18; 18 28:12; 19 32:24-30; 616 32:30; 622

EXODUS

5:2; 269 20:8-11; 434 20:10, 11; 437 25:8; 411 25:9, 40; 413 31:17; 437 32:33; 483 34:6; 19
34:6, 7; 500, 541, 627

LEVITICUS

10:17; 418 16:8, 21, 22; 419 16:16, 19; 419 16:17; 428 16:21; 658 16:22; 485 16:29-34; 400
17:11; 418 19:31; 556 20:27; 556

NUMBERS

14:34; 324 23:8, 10, 20, 21, 23; 529 24:9; 529 25:1-3; 556

DEUTERONOMY

4:6; 230 28:56, 57; 32 29:29; 324 30:15; 544

II SAMUEL

13:39; 537

I KINGS

18:17; 104 18:17, 18; 590

II KINGS

6:17; 208 19:35; 512

I CHRONICLES

28:12, 19; 23

II CHRONICLES

32:21; 512 36:16, 15; 19

EZRA

3:12; 24 7:12-26; 326

NEHEMIAH

4:10, 14; 56 8:10; 477 13:14; 481

JOB

1:6; 518 1:9, 10; 513 9:2; 254 11:7; 344 14:10-12; 550 14:21; 550 19:25-27; 299 38:6, 7; 455
38:7; 511 42:6; 471

PSALMS

1:1-3; 478 6:5; 546 8:5; 511 9:5, 6; 545 11:6; 672 14:1; 275 16:4; 310 19:7; 468 25:14; 312
27:5; 634 30:5; 350 34:7; 513, 632 37:10; 545 37:29; 674 37:38; 541 40:8; 466 46:1-3; 639 48:3;
17 50:2-4; 300 50:3, 4; 642 50:6; 639, 650 51:17; 484 53:5; 117 56:8; 481 73:11; 274 76:2;
23 78:68, 69; 23 80:8; 19 84:11; 673 90:2; 479 91:3-10; 630 95:6; 437 96:5; 437 96:11, 13;
300 97:11; 522 100:3; 437 103:19-21; 512 106:28; 556 109:5; 20 111:7, 8; 288, 434 112:4; 346
115:17; 546 119:11; 600 119:18; 600 119:45; 466 119:46; 207 119:89; 434 119:97; 468 119:99,
104; 602 119:105; 267 119:130; 94, 195, 320 119:142, 172; 467 121:5-7; 630 132:13; 19 139:12;
346 145:10; 671 145:20; 541 146:4; 545

PROVERBS

1:24, 25; 642 1:27; 644 1:29, 31; 286 1:33; 285 3:13; 602 3:14; 312 4:18; 476 11:31; 673 14:34;
277 16:12; 277 16:25; 597 28:9; 436 28:13; 489

ECCLESIASTES

8:11-13; 286 8:12, 13; 540 9:5, 6, 10; 546 10:16; 165 12:6; 550 12:13; 436 12:13, 14; 482 12:14;
481

CANTICLES

6:10; 425

ISAIAH

2:10-12, 20, 21; 638 3:10, 11; 540 4:2, 3; 485 5:1-4; 20 5:20; 557 6:3, 5; 471 8:16, 20; 452
8:19, 20; 559 8:20; 593 9:5; 37, 642, 672 11:6, 9; 676 13:6; 638 13:9; 311 13:11; 310 14:3-6;
660 14:7; 673 14:12-17; 659 14:13, 14; 494, 504 14:18-20; 660 21:11, 12; 632 24:1, 3, 5, 6;
657 24:4, 5; 590 24:22; 661 25:8; 650 25:8, 9; 300 25:9; 644 26:19; 300 26:20, 21; 634 26:21;
657 27:5; 619 28:5; 301 28:15; 560 28:17, 18; 562 28:21; 627 30:11; 28 30:29, 30; 635 32:17;
277 32:18; 675 33:16; 626, 629 33:24; 676 34:2; 672 34:8; 673 35:1; 675 35:2; 302 37:23; 287
38:18, 19; 546 40:5; 301 40:8; 288 40:25, 26; 437 41:17; 629 42:16; 346 42:21; 466 43:25; 483
45:18; 437, 674 46:9, 10; 344 48:18, 22; 285 49:14-16; 626 49:15; 32 51:3; 302 51:7, 8; 460
51:11-16; 633 51:21-23; 634 53:4; 416 53:7; 18 54:17; 288 55:8, 9; 344 55:13; 675 56:1, 2,
6, 7; 451 56:8; 451 58:1, 2; 452 58:12, 13; 453 58:13; 447 59:14; 586 59:19; 600 60:18; 675
61:3; 650 61:11; 301 62:3; 676 62:4, 5; 302 62:12; 650 65:6, 7; 481 65:19; 676 65:21, 22; 675
66:5; 372

JEREMIAH

2:13; 478 3:14; 381 3:20; 382 4:19, 20; 310 4:23-27; 659 6:16; 478 8:11; 655 9:1; 21 13:17;
21 16:21; 287 17:8; 602 17:21-25; 19 23:1, 2; 655 25:31; 656 25:33; 657 25:34, 35; 655 26:18;
35 30:5-7; 616 30:6; 641 31:34; 485 50:20; 485

LAMENTATIONS

4:10; 32

EZEKIEL

1:14; 512 2:7; 459 3:7; 459 4:6; 324 9:1-6; 656 12:21-25, 27, 28; 393 13:22; 655 14:20; 623
16:8, 13-15, 32; 382 16:14, 15; 583 18:20; 533 18:24; 483 20:20; 437 28:6; 494 28:6-8, 16-19;
672 28:12-15, 17; 494 28:18, 19; 504 33:7-9; 460 33:8, 9; 330 33:11; 535, 627, 642

DANIEL

5:27; 491 7:2; 440 7:9, 10; 479 7:10; 414, 512 7:13; 424 7:13, 14; 480 7:14; 427 7:22; 661
7:25; 51, 54, 446 7:27; 347 8:14; 409 9:18, 15, 20; 471 9:22, 23, 25-27; 325 9:25; 313 10:8;
471 10:11; 470 12:1; 481, 613 12:2; 637 12:4; 356

HOSEA

2:19; 381 4:6, 1, 2; 60 6:3; 611 8:2, 1; 310 12:4; 617 13:9; 35 14:1; 35

JOEL

1:10-12, 17-20; 628 2:1, 15-18, 12, 13; 311 2:11; 310 2:23; 611 2:26; 350 2:31; 308

AMOS

3:7; 324 5:20; 310 8:3; 628 8:11, 12; 629

OBADIAH

16; 545

MICAH

3:9-11; 26 3:12; 27 4:8; 484, 674 5:2; 313 7:8, 9; 346

NAHUM

1:3; 627 1:9; 504 2:10; 641

HABAKKUK

1:13; 310 2:2; 521 3:3, 4; 641 3:3-13; 301 3:4; 674 3:17, 18; 629

ZEPHANIAH

1:12; 310 1:15, 16; 310 1:18, 13; 310

HAGGAI

2:3; 24 2:9, 7; 23

ZECHARIAH

2:8; 626 3:2; 484 4:6; 232, 529 6:13; 416 9:9; 405 14:5, 4, 9; 663 14:12, 13; 657

MALACHI

2:17; 557 3:1; 424 3:2, 3; 425 3:4; 425 3:5; 426 3:16; 481 3:17; 634 3:18; 640 4:1; 504, 672,
673 4:2; 645

MATTHEW

4:19; 171 5:17, 18; 466 5:17-19; 447 5:18; 434 7:2; 29 7:7; 528 7:16; 465, 520 8:11; 427 10:5,
6; 327 10:18-20; 112 10:23; 196 10:32, 33; 483 10:33; 156 10:34; 46, 126 11:5; 20 11:28; 20,
75, 569 11:29, 30; 489 12:22; 515 12:36, 37; 481 13:30, 38-41; 321 18:10; 513 20:27; 58 21:5;
100 21:8-16; 367 21:9; 402 21:12; 127 22:11; 428 23:4; 568 23:37; 22 23:38; 24, 431 24:2, 3;
25 24:9, 21, 22; 39 24:15; 341 24:15, 16; 26 24:22; 267 24:23-26; 525 24:24-27, 31; 625 24:29;
37, 333 24:30, 27, 31; 322 24:30, 31; 37 24:33; 38, 334 24:35; 26 24:36, 3, 33, 42-51; 371
24:39; 338, 491 25:5-7; 398 25:21, 41; 549 25:31; 625 25:31, 32; 301, 347 25:31-34; 322 25:40;
77, 668 26:64; 643 27:25; 32 27:42; 630 27:42, 43; 643 28:3, 4; 512 28:20; 351

MARK

1:14, 15; 327 1:15; 345 2:28; 447 5:9; 514 7:26-30; 515 9:17-27; 515 12:24; 599 13:1; 25 13:24;
306 13:24-26; 37, 304 13:33; 490 13:35; 38 13:35, 36; 491 13:37; 57 16:15; 351

LUKE

1:32, 33; 416 2:14; 46, 314 2:25, 32; 315 4:8; 51 4:18; 20, 327 4:25; 323 4:33-36; 515 4:36;
516 6:26; 144 9:54, 56; 570 10:20; 481 11:13; 477 12:36; 427 13:7; 27 18:7, 8; 631 19:40; 404
19:41; 18 19:42-44; 17 19:44; 316 20:35, 36; 482 21:16, 17; 54 21:20; 26 21:20, 21; 30 21:25;
37, 304 21:28, 30, 31; 309 21:34, 36; 309 22:24; 348 22:30; 427 24:27; 349 24:32; 350 24:52,
53; 339

JOHN

1:9; 262, 528 1:51; 19 3:14, 15; 74 3:16; 417 3:19; 265 3:20; 458 3:36; 533 5:28, 29; 544 5:29;
482 5:40; 22 7:16; 243 7:17; 528, 599 8:12; 312, 476 8:29; 469 11:48; 27 11:50; 615 12:35;
312 14:1-3; 301 14:2, 3; 548 14:3; 339 14:14; 477 14:26; 600 14:30; 623 15:10; 469 15:19, 20;
144 15:20; 47 15:22; 164 16:13; 469 16:24; 477 16:26, 27; 417 17:17, 19; 469 17:24; 501, 636
18:36; 297 20:13; 403

ACTS

1:11; 301, 339 2:17, 21; 611 2:29, 34; 546 2:47; 379 3:19, 20; 485, 612 3:21; 301 4:12; 74
4:32, 31; 379 8:4; 219 8:4, 5; 328 8:10; 625 8:20; 128 10:38; 20, 327 13:47; 315 17:3; 405
17:31; 548 22:21; 328 24:15; 544 24:25; 164 26:5; 213 26:28; 164

ROMANS

1:17; 125 2:5, 6, 9; 540 2:7; 533 2:12-16; 436 3:20; 467 3:31; 468 5:12; 533 6:2; 468 6:23;
544 7:12; 467 8:1; 477 8:4; 468 8:7; 467 8:32; 477 8:34; 350 8:38, 39, 37; 350 11:33; 527 12:1;
473 13:10; 467 14:23; 436 15:4; 324 15:16; 469

I CORINTHIANS

1:27, 25; 232 2:9; 675 2:14; 524 3:10, 11; 56 4:5; 481, 661 5:7; 399 6:2, 3; 661 6:10; 539
6:19, 20; 475 10:20; 556 13:12; 676 15:16-18; 546 15:22; 544 15:23, 20; 399 15:50; 323 15:51-53;
322 15:52-55; 550 15:55; 644 15:57; 470

II CORINTHIANS

4:4; 508 4:17; 460 5:19; 417, 502 6:17, 18; 475 7:1; 474 7:9-11; 462 11:2; 381 12:2-4; 471
12:9; 489 13:8; 101

GALATIANS

1:8; 243 5:22, 23; 474

EPHESIANS

1:14; 674 2:20-22; 416 3:8; 471 3:15; 677 3:16-19; 476 4:3-5; 379 5:5; 541 5:14-16; 602 5:27;
425, 484 6:11; 510 6:12; 510 6:17; 56

PHILIPPIANS

1:12; 219 2:12, 13; 469 3:13, 14; 470 3:21; 399 4:3; 481 4:4; 478

COLOSSIANS

1:9-11; 476 1:16; 493

I THESSALONIANS

4:3; 469 4:14; 550 4:16; 301 4:16, 17; 322, 625 4:16-18; 302, 548 5:2-5; 38, 371 5:4, 5; 315
5:16-18; 478 5:23; 469, 473

II THESSALONIANS

1:8; 424 2:3; 356, 444, 456 2:3, 4; 571 2:3, 4, 7; 49 2:4; 53 2:7; 54, 384 2:8; 37, 321, 579
2:9, 10; 553 2:9-11; 390, 444 2:10, 11; 559 2:10-12; 431, 524 2:12; 390

I TIMOTHY

2:3-6; 262 4:1; 444 6:20; 522

II TIMOTHY

1:10; 533 3:1-5; 444 3:9; 275 3:12; 48, 507, 608 3:13; 321 3:16; 324 4:3; 595

TITUS

2:11; 262

HEBREWS

1:6; 502 1:14; 511 2:11; 477 2:14; 503 2:18; 416 3:19; 458 4:15; 416 4:16; 347 6:18, 19; 350
6:19, 20; 421 6:20; 489 7:25; 482 8:1, 2; 413 8:5; 413, 418 9:1-5; 411 9:9, 23; 413 9:12; 421
9:22, 23; 417 9:24; 413, 420, 482 9:28; 315, 485 10:29; 600 10:32; 39 10:35-39; 408 11:6; 74,
436 11:14-16; 675 11:26; 460 11:35; 41 11:36-38; 40 12:14; 541 12:22; 512

JAMES

1:25; 466 2:8; 466 2:10; 582 2:12; 482 2:14-24; 472 3:15; 554

I PETER

1:10-12; 344 1:25; 350 2:6; 210 2:11; 474 3:3, 4; 462 3:12, 13; 529 4:17; 480 5:8; 510

II PETER

1:5-10; 470 1:19; 312 1:21; 324 3:3, 4; 370 3:9; 48 3:10; 672

I JOHN

1:7; 74 2:1; 416, 482 2:4, 5; 472 3:4; 467 3:6; 472 5:3; 436, 468 5:4; 477

JUDE

3; 51, 64 6; 661 6, 14, 15; 549 14, 15; 299, 426 24; 646

REVELATION

1:1-3; 341 1:5, 6; 416, 646 1:7; 301, 625, 637 1:9; 78 1:13-15; 624 1:17; 471 2:10; 41 2:17;
646 3:1, 3; 310 3:3; 371, 490 3:4; 484 3:5; 483 3:7, 8; 430, 435 3:10; 560, 619 3:21; 416 4:5;
414 4:11; 437 5:11; 512 5:12; 671 5:13; 545, 678 6:12; 304 6:12-17; 37, 334 6:13; 333 6:15-17;
642 7:9; 665 7:10, 12; 651 7:14; 428 7:14-17; 649 8:3; 414 11:2-11; 266 11:4; 267 11:5; 268
11:11; 286 11:12; 287 11:15; 301 11:19; 415, 433 12:6; 55 12:9; 438 12:10; 520 12:12; 623 12:17;
592 13:1-10; 439 13:2; 54 13:3; 579 13:5-7; 54 13:8; 579 13:11; 439 13:11-14; 442 13:11-16;
579 13:13; 612 13:13, 14; 553 13:16; 450, 604 13:16, 17; 445 14:1-5; 649 14:6, 7; 311, 355
14:8; 381, 536, 603 14:9, 10; 438, 605, 627 14:9-11; 594 15:2; 648 15:2, 3; 450 15:3; 649,
669 15:4; 670 16:2-6, 8, 9; 628 16:13, 14; 562 16:14; 556 16:17, 18; 636, 637 16:19, 21; 637
17:2; 536 17:4-6, 18; 382 17:15; 440 18:1, 2, 4; 603 18:3, 15-17; 653 18:4; 390 18:5; 604 18:5-10;
653 19:9; 427 19:11, 14; 641 19:16; 641 20:1-3; 658 20:4, 6; 661 20:5; 661 20:6; 544, 673 20:11,
12; 666 20:12; 480, 549 21:1; 674 21:2; 427 21:4, 11, 24, 3; 676 21:6, 7; 540 21:9, 10; 427
21:22; 676 21:27; 474, 481 22:5; 676 22:11; 613 22:11, 12; 491 22:12; 352, 422 22:14; 466 22:14,
15; 541 22:18, 19; 268 22:20; 302

GENERAL INDEX.

Abel, hated by Cain, 46.
  Sabbath kept by, 453.

Abraham, Messianic promise to, 18.
  pleads for Sodom, 431.
  Sabbath observed by, 453.
  angels’ mission to, 512.

Abyssinia, Wolff’s travels in, 360.
  Christian churches in, 578.

Accuser, Satan the, 395, 484.

Accusers of the brethren, Satan’s helpers, 519, 520.

Adam, promise of redemption to, 345.
  Sabbath kept by, 453.
  temptation and fall of, 531-534, 666.
  stature of, 644.
  repentance of, 647, 648.
  redeemed, 644.
  meeting of first and second Adams, 647.
  joy of, in New Jerusalem, 648.

Adams, John Quincy, 360.

Advent of Christ, types of, 399, 400.
  see also First advent; Second advent.

Advent faith, scriptural basis of, 409.

Advent message, proclamation of, timely, 351-354.
  general proclamation of, 355-374.
  result of receiving, 379.
  rejection of, by churches generally, 380.
  see also Advent Movement; Prophecies; Signs.

Advent Movement, beginning of, 330.
  impetus given to, by fulfilment of Litch’s prediction, 334, 335.
  opposition to, 336-338, 403.
  defense of, by Miller, 337.
  growth and progress of, 337, 357, 368-370, 395-398, 401.
  experiences during, 351-354.
  extent of proclamation of, 357.
  character of, 400-404.
  results of, 340, 405.
  a test, 406.
  no regrets for experiences in, 406, 407.
  God’s power manifested in, 398-408, 611.
  God the leader in, 410, 411, 423, 424, 432, 457.
  see also First angel’s message; Second angel’s message; Third angel’s
              message; Miller; Prophecy; Prophecies; Signs.

Adventists, rise of, 331, 332, 335.
  opposition to, by churches, 337.
  disappointment of, in 1844, 329, 351, 374, 391-394, 403-408.
  infidelity charged to, 336.
  mistake of, 353.
  persecution of, 372.
  polity of, in days of Miller, 375.
  unity among, 379, 398.
  withdraw from churches, 375, 376, 390.
  trial and faith of, 391, 392, 403-408.
  parable of ten virgins applied to, 393, 394, 398-402.
  searching Scriptures after passing of time, 391.
  fanaticism among, 395-398.
  midnight cry given by, 400-403, 423.
  sanctuary question studied by, 411-415, 429, 454.
  law of God studied by, 434, 435.
  attitude of, toward further light, 456-460.
  see also First angel’s message; Prophecy; Prophecies; Seventh-day
              Adventists; Signs.

Advocate, see Christ.

Affection, natural, destroyed by monastic system, 82.
  one of Satan’s agencies to hold men in his snares, 597.

Africa, Christians in, 63, 577, 578.
  Wolff’s travels in, 360.

Agrippa, 165.

Albigenses, as refugees in Bohemia, 97, 271.
  see also Waldenses.

Aleander, papal legate, at Diet of Worms, 133, 146-150, 162, 168.

Alleine, work of, in England, 252.

America, an asylum for the persecuted, 252.
  Whitefield and the Wesleys as missionaries to, 253, 254.
  religious liberty in, 295, 296.
  advent message proclaimed in, 368.
  prediction of supremacy of Roman Catholic Church in, 573, 579.
  see also United States; Miller.

American Bible Society, organization of, 287.

American Sabbath-school Union on the change of the Sabbath, 447.

American Tract Society, on the change of the Sabbath, 447.

Amnon, Universalist minister on fate of, 537-539.

Ananias and Sapphira, 44.

Angel, seeking for watchers for first advent of Christ, 314, 315.

Angels, good, announce the birth of Christ, 46.
  records of persecution kept by; 59, 61.
  give tidings of Christ’s birth, 313, 314.
  watch effect of warning of second advent, 373.
  protect advent believers after disappointment, 374.
  work of, under midnight cry, 402.
  not spirits of departed, 511.
  work of, as recorders, 482, 486, 487.
  number, power, and work of, 511-514, 630-632.
  guardianship of, 512, 513.
  will bring truths to remembrance when needed, 600.
  protect people of God in time of trouble, 630-632.
  attend Christ at second advent, 641.
  as speakers in national councils, 632.

Angels, evil, agency of, 398, 511-517.
  power of, 614.
  when to be judged, 661.
  see also Spirits; Spiritualism.

Annihilation, 318.

Antediluvians, warnings unheeded by, 337, 338.

Antichrist, recognized by Wycliffe, 86;
  by Luther, 139, 141, 205.
  spirit of, in Protestant churches, 384.
  see also Papacy.

Antinomians, warnings unheeded by, 337, 338.

Antinomianism, errors of, 260, 261.

Apostasy, of ancient Israel, 20, 21.
  of early church, 49-60.
  the great, 42-45, 286, 289, 298, 384, 389, 443, 571, 619.
  of Protestant churches, 383-390, 443-445.
  prepared way for papacy, 443.
  in last days, 444.
  see also Babylon.

Arabs, belief of, in second coming of Christ, 362.
  Wolff’s travels among, 361, 362.

Ark of God’s testament, seen in heavenly sanctuary, 433.
  tables of stone in, 433.

Armageddon, battle of, 663, 664, 671, 672.

Armenia, Christians in, 63.

Artaxerxes, decree of, to restore and rebuild Jerusalem, 326, 327, 410.

Ascension of Christ, 350, 351.

Asia, Wolff’s travels in, 360-362.

Associations, influence of, 508, 509.

Atheism, definition of, 269.
  in France, 269, 270, 274-276, 285, 584.

Atkins, Robert, on spiritual declension in England, 387, 388.

Atonement, in earthly sanctuary. 418-420.
  important truths taught by, 420.
  in heavenly sanctuary, 399-402, 420-422, 428-430.
  great time of, 489, 490, 623.

Augsburg, trial of Luther at, 134-137.
  Diet of, 206, 207.
  Confession of Protestant princes at, 206-211.

Baal, 583.

Babylon, symbol of apostate religion, 65, 381-384, 390.
  fall of, 383-390.
  many of God’s people in, 383, 390.
  the great sin of, 388.
  false doctrines of, 388-390, 536, 537.
  message to God’s people in, 603, 604.
  sins of, revealed by preaching of third angel’s message, 605, 606.
  judgments to fall upon, 653.
  see also Apostasy; Church; Papacy; Roman Catholic Church.

Backsliding, of Israelites, 19.
  among professed Christians, a sign of Christ’s coming, 309, 316.

Baden, conference at, 182-184.
  results in strong impetus to Protestant cause, 184.

Balaam, 529, 530.

Baptism, prohibited in France, 274.
  of Christ, 327.

Barnes, English Reformer, 248.

Basel, Switzerland, 173, 178.

Battle, the last great, 663, 664.

Baxter, work of, 252, 253.
  belief of, in second advent, 303.

Beasts of prophecy, interpretation of:
  the dragon (Satan and pagan Rome), 438.
  the leopard (papacy), 48, 439, 443-445.
  the two-horned beast (United States), 439-442, 445.
  beast from bottomless pit, 269, 286.
  see also Prophecy; Prophecies.

Beda, 216.

Beecher, Charles, on creeds, 388.
  on condition of Protestant ministry in America, 444, 445.

Belgium, Luther’s writings circulated in, 139.

Bengel, second advent message given by, in Germany, 363, 364.

Bern, Zwingle in convent at, 172, 173.

Berquin, Louis de, life, work, and martyrdom of, 215-218.

Bethlehem, story of, 313-315.

Bible, a system of revealed truth, 320, 321.
  the charter of liberty, 296, 335.
  preservation of, through ages of darkness, 69, 79.
  our guide, 63, 208, 205, 521.
  immutability of, 66.
  power of, to protect in danger, 361.
  chart of truth, 598.
  its own interpreter, 93, 173, 324, 598, 599.
  harmony in, 329.
  reliability of history in, 522.
  how to study, 132, 173, 174, 320, 321, 521, 598, 599.
  results from study of, 72, 79, 94, 195, 196, 204, 212, 214, 215, 222,
              277, 530, 560, 572, 593-602.
  memorizing of, 67, 194.
  study of, by Miller, 319-330;
  by Adventists, 405-408.
  can be understood by common people, 60, 89, 195, 246, 319, 320, 341.
  ignorance of, among people, 60, 99, 195, 342;
  among Roman Catholic clergy, 195.
  efforts of Satan against, 204, 526, 593-595.
  little valued, 582, 583.
  suppression of, by papacy, 51, 69, 194, 340, 388;
  by Protestants, 376.
  results of suppression of, 55, 60, 586.
  results of rejection of, 465, 526, 527, 586, 587, 598.
  war against, in France, 265-288.
  God’s two witnesses, interpretation of, 266-269, 280, 287;
  honor shown to, 287, 288.
  false theories regarding, 522, 523, 536, 537.
  denied by evil spirits, 557.
  supplanted by spirit manifestations, 557.
  ridiculed, 561.
  authority of, contended for by Wycliffe, 81;
  acknowledged by Vaudois, 68;
  Huss, 102;
  Luther, 126, 132, 166;
  Zwingle, 173, 177;
  Œcolampadius, 183;
  German princes, 204;
  Calvin, 221;
  Dutch, 238;
  Tyndale, 245;
  by all leading Reformers, 203, 249;
  by Miller, 319;
  by Protestants, 448.
  as a rule of faith and practice, rejected, 45;
  accepted by Waldenses, 63, 249;
  Wycliffe, 249;
  Huss, 249;
  Luther, 120, 249;
  Zwingle, 173, 249;
  German princes, 205;
  Pilgrim Fathers, 296;
  by all Protestants, 204, 205;
  by Miller, 396;
  by people of God at the end of the world, 595.
  translations of, by Waldenses (French), 65;
  by Wycliffe (English), 80, 81, 87-89, 245;
  by Luther (German), 193, 194;
  by Lefevre (French), 214;
  into Dutch, 238;
  Danish, 242;
  Swedish, 244;
  by Tyndale (English), 245-247.
  circulation of, 72, 89, 99, 194, 195, 231, 233, 247, 287, 288, 298, 361.
  copying by hand, 68, 69, 88, 89.
  see also Prophecy; Two witnesses.

Bishops of Rome, power claimed by, 50, 56, 261, 580, 581.
  see also Pope; Papacy; Roman Catholic Church.

Blindness of Jews, regarding first advent, 378.
  of people of this generation, 561, 562.

Blood of Christians is seed, 42, 240, 249, 634.

Bohemia, gospel planted in, 97.
  an asylum for Waldenses and Albigenses, 97.
  papal bull prohibiting public worship in Bohemian tongue, 97, 141, 197.
  the Bible in, 99.
  cartoon of Christ and the pope, by two artists, 99, 100.
  advance of gospel in, after death of Huss, 115.
  crusades against, miraculous defeat of, 116, 117.
  persecution of Hussites in, 118, 119, 254.
  see also ; Jerome.

Bokhara, travels of Wolff in, 360, 361.

Books, on second advent, in Spanish lands, 363.
  in Germany, 363, 364.
  in America, 368.
  of record in heaven, blotting out of sins from, 421, 422, 614;
  to determine decisions in final judgment, 480-483;
  wicked to be judged from, 666.
  Book of Life:
  contains names of all who have entered service of God, 480, 484;
  names of finally impenitent blotted out of, 483.
  Book of Remembrance:
  contains record of good deeds, 481; good deeds of wicked erased from,
              483;
  interest of heaven in, 484.
  Book of Death:
  contains record of evil deeds, 481;
  sins of righteous erased from, 483;
  judgment passed on wicked, recorded in, 661.
  see also Literature; Writings.

Bottomless pit, represents desolated earth, 658, 659.
  beast from, represents atheistical power displayed in France, 269, 286.

British and Foreign Bible Society, founding of, 287.

Britons, primitive Christianity among, 62.
  Rome attempts to subjugate, 63.
  see also England; Great Britain.

Brock, Mourant, 362.

Bulls, papal, to exterminate Vaudois, 76, 77.
  against Wycliffe, 85, 86.
  against Luther, 141;
  burned by Luther, 142;
  published, 147.
  to establish the Inquisition, 235.

Bunyan, John, 252.

Cain, hatred of, for Abel, 46.
  life of, why spared, 543.

Calvary, wages of sin proclaimed by, 348, 504, 540.
  Satan’s character revealed by, 501, 502.

Calvin, educated for priesthood, 221.
  conversion of, to Protestantism, 219-221.
  labors of, in Geneva, 233-236.
  not free from errors, 236, 292.
  belief of, in second coming of Christ, 303.

Cartoon, of Christ and the pope, 99, 100.

Catacombs, a shelter for Christians from persecution, 40.

Catholicism, see Roman Catholic Church; Papacy; Pope; Jesuits.

Cestius, retreat of, from Jerusalem, 30, 31.

Character, examination of, in final judgment, 428, 479.
  of God, misrepresented by Satan, 569;
  by papacy, 569.

Charity, monks claimed that Jesus was supported by, 84.
  false, 571.

Charles V., 145, 233, 239.
  refusal of, to receive light, 163-165.
  at Diet of Spires, 197, 198, 202.
  at Diet of Augsburg, 206, 207.
  abdication of, 211.

Charles IX., 272.

Chart, prophetic, 392.

Child-preachers, in Sweden, 366, 367.

Children, of Geneva, Gaussen began his ministry with, 365, 366.
  Christ heralded by, at triumphal entry into Jerusalem, 367.

Christ, birth of, 46, 313.
  sorrow of, over Jerusalem, 18-22.
  care of, for Israel, 19, 20.
  work of, on this earth, 20, 415-417, 503.
  rejected by Israelites, 20, 23.
  beholds downfall of Israel, 21, 22.
  peace on earth due to His restraining power, 36.
  sacrifice of, 345, 348.
  coming of, to most holy place in heavenly temple, 424-427.
  ministration of, 427-432;
  Christians generally ignorant of, 430, 431;
  not understood by Adventists in 1844, 429, 431.
  our advocate, 474, 482-484.
  work of, in investigative judgment, 482, 483.
  contest of, with Satan, 501.
  death of, revealed Satan’s true character, 501, 502.
  victory of, over temptation, 510.
  deity of, 524.
  tenderness of, 570.
  rejection of, by Jewish leaders, 595, 596.
  views exaltation of human authority, 596.
  close of work of, in heavenly sanctuary, 425, 427, 428, 613, 614.
  second coming of, 299-316, 640-644.
  appearance of, at second coming, 641.
  how regarded by redeemed, 652.
  satisfied with fruits of sacrifice, 652, 671.
  returns to earth at close of thousand years, 662.
  coronation of, 666.
  see also First advent; Messiah; Second advent.

Christian church, danger of, in seeking support of secular rulers, 384,
            385.

Christian world, great sin of, is rejection of law of God, 22.

Christianity, assailed by paganism, 39.
  union of, with paganism, 43.
  see also Religion.

Christians, escape of, from Jerusalem, 30, 31.
  persecution of, in first centuries, 39-48.
  gospel advanced by persecution of, 42.
  spiritual declension of, 309-311, 463.
  to reject the message of Christ’s second coming, 338, 339.
  true, in every church, 449, 565.
  to be divided into two classes, 450.
  satisfied with religion of their fathers, 454.
  reject Sabbath truth, 454.
  self-indulgence of, 474, 475.
  blessings on true, 476.
  heights to be gained by, as sons of God, 476, 477.
  character and work of Satan not comprehended by, 507, 508.
  to watch and pray, 510.
  under care of guardian angels, 512, 513, 517.
  Christian experience needed by, 601, 602.
  see also People of God; Persecution; Redeemed; Religion; Books of
              record.

Chronology, scriptural, 323-329, 398-400, 409, 410, 424, 438-440.
  see also Prophecy; Prophecies.

Church, the true, 64.
  perils of, in Dark Ages, 55-60.
  represented in prophecy by virtuous woman, 381.
  seeking favor of world, 383.
  use of secular power by, always oppressive, 442, 443.
  Satan preparing last campaign against, 510.
  see also People of God; Redeemed; Israel; Christians; Reformation.

Churches, spiritual apathy in, 308, 309, 376-378, 463, 464.
  apostasy of, 384, 444.
  rejection of advent message by, 373, 380.
  Adventists forced to withdraw from, 375, 376, 390.
  worldliness in, 376, 380, 382-388.
  fall of, 389;
  true Christians in, 390, 464.
  seeking aid of civil power, 445.
  unholy traffic in, 474.
  cause of lack of power in, 463.
  see also Babylon; Protestants; Roman Catholic Church.

Church and state, 201.
  in Europe, 268, 269.
  in the United States, 293, 296, 297, 442-445.
  in all the world, 450, 606, 607.

Church of England, 289, 384, 443.
  see also England.

Church of Rome, see Roman Catholic Church; Babylon.

Civil rulers, see Church and state.

Clarke, Dr. Adam, on sleep of the dead, 547.

Cleansing of sanctuary, see Sanctuary.

Clergy, see Ministers.

Cloud, sign of Christ’s coming, 640, 641.

College of the Propaganda, Rome, 358.

Colporteurs in time of Wycliffe, 87.
  in time of Reformation, 178, 194, 231.
  see also Bible, circulation of; Literature; Writings.

Columba, 62, 249.

Comforter, work of, 600.

Coming of Christ, second, see Second advent.

Commandments, see Law of God; Sabbath; Fourth commandment.

Compromise of principle, urged upon early Christians, 42, 43.
  between Christianity and paganism, 49, 50, 298.
  of Bohemians with Rome, 118.
  urged upon Luther, 165, 166.
  at Spires, rejected, 199.
  between Protestants and Roman Catholics, 199, 566.

Compulsion, Satan’s resort, 591.

Confessional, evils of the, 74, 83, 98, 567.

Confession of faith, by Wycliffe, 91, 92.
  by Luther, 158, 160.
  by German princes, at Augsburg, 202-210.

Conflict, the impending, causes of, 582-592.

Conscience, Rome no right to coerce, 200.
  freedom of, 591.
  see also Freedom; Religious Liberty.

Consciousness in death, theory of, 58, 545.
  see also Spiritualism.

Constance, martyrdom of Huss and Jerome at, 109, 115.
  see also Council of Constance.

Constantine, nominal conversion of, 50.
  first Sunday law issued by, 574.

Constitution of the United States, 295, 296, 441, 442.

Controversy, between truth and error, 144.
  between Christ and Satan, beginning of, 493-500, 582;
  close of, 518, 582-592, 662-678.

Conversion, fruits of true, 463, 478.
  work of, 465, 467.

Convictions of duty, result of stifling, 378.

Coronation of Christ, 666.

Councils, ecclesiastical, 53.
  forged decrees of, 56, 198, 206.
  of Constance, 95, 96, 104-115.
  of Nice, 52.
  of Zurich, 180-182.

Counterfeits in religion, 186, 193, 464, 528.

Courts, of heaven, angels interested in decisions of, 483, 484.
  of justice, corruption in, 586.
  angels of heaven attend earthly, 632.

Covenants, old and new, sanctuaries of, 413.

Cranmer, 248.

Creation, Sabbath the memorial of, 437, 438, 446, 452.

Creeds, resting faith on, 388.

Criminals, false sympathy for, 585, 586.

Crosby, Howard, on condition of churches in 1871, 387.

Cross, insignia of, displayed by Rome, 568.
  to be science and song of redeemed, 651.

Crusades, against Waldensee, 76.
  against Hussites, 115-117.

Culture, use made of, by Satan, 509.

Cyrus, decree of, to restore and rebuild Jerusalem, 326.

Daniel, first advent foretold by, 312.
  an example of true sanctification, 470.
  protected by angels in heathen court and in lions’ den, 512.
  overcome by vision of persecution, 325.
  book of, studied by Miller, 320;
  unsealed in 1798, 356;
  relation of, to the Revelation, 341.

Darius, decree of, to restore and rebuild Jerusalem, 326.

Dark Ages, 54, 55, 60, 93, 556.
  see also Middle Ages.

Dark Day, 305-308.

Daughters of Rome, 382-384.
  see also Churches; Protestants.

Day of the Lord, 38, 48, 310, 311, 479.
  see also End.

Day for year, in prophetic exposition, 324.

Dead, condition of, 544-552.

Death, theory of consciousness in, 58, 545, 551, 552.
  declared by France to be an eternal sleep, 274.
  the penalty of transgression, 533, 540, 541, 544.
  contrast between first and second, 544.
  a sleep, 546-550, 556.
  see also Resurrection.

Decalogue, see Law of God.

Deceptions, of Satan, 192, 193, 389, 390, 516-530, 556.
  the first great, 531-550.
  why so successful, 507, 508.

Declaration of Independence, 295, 296, 441, 442.

Decree, to restore and rebuild Jerusalem, 326-329, 398.
  against Wycliffe’s followers, 89.
  against Reformation, 198, 199.
  against the Lutherans, 199, 200.
  against Sabbath-keepers, 615, 626, 631.
  see also Edict.

Decretals, forged, in support of papal claims, 56.

Deists, Miller’s association with, 318, 319.
  effect of his preaching on, 332.

Deliverance of God’s people, 635-652.
  terror of wicked at beholding, 636, 639, 640, 642-644.

Demons, possession by, in time of Christ, 513-516.
  see also Evil spirits.

Denmark, Reformation in, 241, 242.

Denominations, effect on, of Miller’s message, 332.
  Miller at first no thought of separating from, 375.
  Adventists forced to leave, 376, 379.
  true Christians in all, 449.

Dependence on God, our need of, 530.
  on man, danger in, 388, 596, 597.

Destruction, of Jerusalem, 17-38.
  compared to destruction of world, 37, 38, 653-661.
  in time of trouble, 637.

Diet, of Augsburg, 206, 207; “greatest day of the Reformation,” 207.
  of Spires, first, 197;
  second, 198;
  decree of, against Reformation, 198, 199;
  protest of princes against decree of, 201-204.
  of Worms, 145-168;
  Luther before, 150-167.
  see also Council.

Disappointment, of disciples, 346, 348.
  of advent believers, 353, 354, 374, 391, 393, 403-408, 423, 431, 432.
  of disciples and advent believers compared, 351, 404.
  will of God fulfilled in, 353, 354, 391, 405.

Disciples, humble men, 171.
  in siege of Jerusalem, 328.
  failure of, to understand Christ’s prediction of the destruction of
              Jerusalem, 4, 25.
  failure of, to understand Christ’s mission, 345, 349.
  disappointment of, 346, 348, 404.
  courage of, after resurrection, 349, 350.
  commission to, 351.

Disobedience, result of, 532, 533.
  penalty of, 533, 534.

Doctrine, Bible the foundation of all true, 126.
  of election, 261.
  perverted by Satan, 298.
  false, in churches, 388, 389.
  pleasing fables of, 523.
  see also Indulgences; Infallibility; Mass; Purgatory.

Door, the open and shut, 429, 430, 435.
  see also Mercy.

Doubt, cause of, 522.
  becoming fashionable, 526, 527.
  how to be freed from, 526-528.
  youth assailed by, 600.
  see also Infidelity.

Dragon, of Revelation twelve, 438, 439, 658.
  voice of, heard in early persecutions, 77.
  two-horned beast speaks like, 441, 442.

Earth, as home of Adam and Eve, 531-533.
  how sin entered, 531.
  final desolation of, 653-661.
  condition of, during thousand years, 658-660.
  purification of, by fire, 672-674, 678.

Earthquake, the great, at Lisbon, 304, 305.
  at end of world, 637.
  see also Signs.

Eck, Doctor, champion of Rome, 182.
  at discussion in Baden, 183, 184.
  on refutation of Augsburg Confession, 208.

Eden, loss of, by Adam and Eve, 348, 531-533, 646.
  restoration of, 299, 484, 648.

Edict, of Spires, 197;
  repeal of, 198.
  of Worms, against Lutherans, 167, 168, 197, 201, 202, 208.

Edward III., Wycliffe chaplain for, 81, 84, 85.

Egypt, boldest of nations in resisting God, 269.
  spiritual, 269.
  labors of Joseph Wolff in, 360.
  plagues of, 614, 627, 628.

Einsiedeln, Zwingle at, 174-176.

Election, doctrine of, 261.

Elector of Saxony, see Frederick; John.

Elijah, visited by angels, 512, 629.
  accusations against, 458, 520, 590.
  idolatry in time of, 583.
  as a reprover, 606.

Elisha, protected by angels, 208, 512.
  Miller compared to, 331.

End of world, 37, 38, 662-678.
  see also Day of the Lord.

“End of the Lord,” meaning of, 354.

England, primitive Christianity in, 62.
  attempt of Rome to conquer, 62, 63.
  Sabbath observed in, 63.
  Wycliffe’s influence on political affairs in, 82, 84, 85.
  progress of Reformation in, 245-264.
  persecution of believers in, 94, 95, 252.
  Protestantism established in, 251.
  departure of Puritans from, 290, 291.
  advent message proclaimed in, 362.
  see also Church of England.

Enmity, between man and Satan, 505-510.
  of man against Satan, implanted by God, 506.
  of Jews against Christ, 506.

Enoch, 299.

Erasmus, Greek and Latin editions of New Testament by, 245.
  letter of, to Berquin, 216.

Erfurt, preaching of Luther at, 152.

Errors, accepted by rejecters of truth, 523.
  enumeration of some great, 524-526, 588.
  see also Truth; Deceptions; Snares.

Esau, Jacob’s deliverance from, 616-618.

Eternal torment, theory of, 58.
  contrary to God’s character, 534-537.
  received from Rome, 536.

Ethiopia, Christians in, during Dark Ages, 577.

Eucharist, see Mass.

Eusebius, on the Sabbath, 574.

Eve, temptation of, 531-534.
  Satan’s lie to, 561.

Everett, Edward, 441.

Evil, origin of, 492-504.
  God not responsible for, 492, 493.
  Satan the author of, 493-504.
  final extermination of, 504, 545, 673, 678.
  see also Satan; Sin.

Evil spirits, agency of, 511-517.
  work of, 513.
  efforts of, against Christ, 513, 514.
  danger of those who deny existence of, 516.
  cast out by Christ, 514-516.
  see also Angels, evil; Satan; Spiritualism.

Excommunication, of Huss, 100.
  of Luther, 133, 141, 143, 147.

Faith, awakening of, by Luther’s preaching, 133.
  lack of, in our day, 373.
  essential to keeping of the law, 436.
  nature of, 469-472.
  faith only, without works, a popular doctrine, 472.
  ample evidence for, 527.
  need of cherishing, 621.
  see also Justification; Works.

False decretals, 56.

False doctrines, of Rome, in Protestant churches, 388, 389.

False prophets, 186, 187.

Familiar spirits, 556.
  see also Spiritualism.

Fanaticism, in time of Luther, 186-193, 396, 397.
  in Paul’s day, 396.
  in Wesley’s time, 396.
  in Netherlands, 239.
  after disappointment of 1844, 395-398.
  disappeared before proclamation of midnight cry, 400.
  met by all reformers, 396.

Farel, 213, 214.
  New Testament translated by, 214.
  work of, in France, 219.
  in Switzerland, 230-232.
  in Geneva, 232, 233, 265.

Fashion, worship of, 474.

Fathers, clinging to customs and traditions of, 164, 454.

Fathers of the church, traditions of, used for support of Sunday as
            Sabbath, 448, 455.

Ferdinand, King, 201, 202, 205.

Finney, Prof. C. G., on spiritual apathy in the churches, 377.

First advent of Christ, failure of Jews to understand prophecies of,
            312-314, 378.
  a curse pronounced by Jews on all who should compute time of, 378.
  see also Jews; Pharisees.

First angel’s message, 311.
  giving of, 351, 355-374, 379, 380, 398.
  purpose of, 379.
  represented by coming of bridegroom, 393, 394, 398, 400-403.
  points to Christ’s ministration in most holy place, and to investigative
              judgment, 424, 434-436.
  see also Advent Movement; Adventists.

Fitch, Charles, prophetic chart of, 392.

Flavel, work of, in England, 252, 253.

Forbearance of God, limits to, 36.
  see also God.

Force, not employed by God, 493, 541-543, 591.

Foreign missions, rise and growth of, 287, 288.

Forged documents, used by papacy, 56.

Formalism in Christian churches, 378.

Fourth commandment, importance of, 434, 435.
  change of, by papacy, 52, 446-449.
  contains the seal of God, 640.
  see also Sabbath; Law of God; Seal.

France, Luther’s writings circulated in, 139.
  Reformation in, 211-236.
  rejection of gospel by, 230.
  compared to Sodom, 270.
  atheism and licentiousness in, 270-274, 584.
  St. Bartholomew massacre in, 272, 273.
  persecution of believers in, 97, 271.
  conditions in, during the Revolution, 279-287.
  proclamation of advent message in, 364.

Francis I., attitude of, toward gospel, 214, 222, 223.
  admiration of, for Berquin, 216, 217.
  decides against the Reformation, 227-230.

Frederick, elector of Saxony, friendship of, for Luther, 138, 145, 165.
  at Diet of Worms, 162.
  plans Luther’s escape to Wartburg castle, 168.
  Luther’s letter to, on leaving Wartburg, 188, 189.
  death of, 198, 199.

Freedom, of conscience, crushing of, 62.
  of will, granted by God, 493, 541, 542, 591.
  see also Conscience.

French Revolution, 230, 265-288.
  scenes of, 273-277, 282-287.

Friars, mendicant, influence of, 82-85.
  opposed by Wycliffe, 82-84, 87, 88.
  sale of indulgences by, 127-129.
  in time of Luther, 195.

Frith, 248.

Froment, work of, in Geneva, 232, 233.

Gamblers, influence of Miller’s message on, 332.

Gambling, Governor Washburn on, 387.

Gaussen, work of, in Geneva, 364-366.
  teaching children, 365.

Geneva, establishment of Reformation in, 232-234.
  an asylum for Protestants, 236.

Gentiles, Paul an apostle to, 328.

George, duke of Saxony, denunciation of papacy by, 149, 150.

Germany, early missionaries to, 62.
  progress of Reformation in, 120-170, 185-210.
  proclamation of advent message in, 363.

Gethsemane, 348.

Gifts, mental, use of, 509.

God, long-suffering toward Israel, 27, 28.
  forbearance of, 354, 495.
  as Creator, 437, 438, 452.
  wisdom of, in dealing with rebellion of Satan, 497, 498.
  character of, 500, 541, 542.
  care of, for His people, 528-530, 560, 621, 626, 627, 633, 634.
  love of, contrasted with cruelty of Satan, 570.

Goddess of Reason, 275, 276.

Godliness, revival of, before end, 464.

Gospel, opposed to worldly maxims, 47.
  advanced by death of Huss, 119.
  establishment of, in Zurich, 179-181.
  acceptance of, in France, 214, 215.
  preaching of, committed to men, 312.
  first dissemination of, by disciples, 328.
  man freed from condemnation by, 468.

Government, of God, founded on love, 493.
  Satan’s efforts against, 534, 591.
  laws necessary to, 584.
  see also United States.

Great Britain, progress of Reformation in, 79-96.
  see also England; Church of England.

Gregory VII., pope, perfection of Roman Church proclaimed by, 57, 97, 581.

Gregory XI., death of, 86.

Gregory XIII., attitude of, toward St. Bartholomew massacre, 273.

Grynæus, rescue of, by Melanchthon, 205.

Guardian angel, detailed to every follower of Christ, 572.

Guillotine in France, 282.

Guthrie, Dr. Thomas, on separation of Presbyterian Church from Rome, 384.

Haller, 182-184.

Hamilton, 250.

Heaven, purity and holiness of, 542.
  rebels could not be happy in, 542, 543.
  sanctuary in, see Sanctuary.

Hell, false theories regarding, 535-537.

Henry IV., humiliation of, 57, 58.

Heresy, 44, 45, 58.
  the council of Constance designed to root out, 104.
  in Roman Catholic Church, 58, 59.
  in America, 293, 443.
  sound doctrine denounced as, 389.
  in Paul’s day, 396.
  accusations of, against Protestants, 51;
  Waldenses, 61, 76-78;
  Wycliffe, 89, 90;
  Huss, 100, 107;
  Jerome, 114;
  Luther, 132, 133, 196;
  Berquin, 216.
  see also Error.

Heretics, attitude of Roman Catholic Church toward, 76-78, 104-115, 153,
            154, 215-219, 577, 578.
  see also Persecution; Religious liberty.

Herod, 643.

Hezekiah, 546.

Holiness, cannot be acquired without obedience, 472, 473.
  perfecting, 488.
  see also Justification; Sanctification.

Holland, Luther’s writings circulated in, 139.
  Puritans in, 290, 291.

Holy of holies, 423-432.
  coming of Christ to, 424-427, 480.
  work of Christ in, 427-430, 433.
  see also Sanctuary.

Holy Spirit, work of, 343, 462.
  aid of, promised to sincere seekers, 526.
  see also Pentecost; Spirit of God.

Hopkins, Dr. Samuel, on corruption in Protestant churches, 384.

Huguenots, persecution of, 227, 271-273.
  effect of flight of, on France, 279.

Humility, 477.

Huss, John, 97-119.
  early years and education of, 98.
  conversion of, 100.
  writings of Wycliffe read by, 96, 99.
  condemnation of, by the pope, 100.
  joined by Jerome in work of reform, 102, 103.
  character of, 103.
  used as God’s instrument, 103.
  summoned to council of Constance, 104.
  letter of, to friends in Prague, 105.
  letter of, to converted priest, 105, 106.
  imprisonment of, 106.
  courage of, 107, 110.
  refusal of, to recant, 108.
  martyrdom of, 109, 110.

Hypocrites in the church, 396.

Idolatry, in the church, 42, 43.
  prevalence of, 43, 514, 583.
  in France, 276.
  in Roman Catholic Church, 568.
  see also Image worship.

Ignorance, of Bible, 99, 195, 342.
  no excuse for sin, 597, 598.

Image to the beast, 438, 442-445, 449.
  see also Mark of the beast; United States; Protestants.

Image worship, 52, 65, 446.

Immortality of the soul, natural, taught by the Roman Church, 58, 549;
  Satan’s first deception, 531-550;
  origin and falsity of, 545, 549, 588;
  not taught in Scriptures, 550.
  true, when to be conferred, 223, 322, 323;
  to be received through obedience, 533.

India, Wolff’s travels in, 360.

Indulgences, a profitable fabrication, 59, 567.
  sale of, in Germany, by Tetzel, 127-129;
  in Switzerland, by Samson, 178, 179.
  Luther’s famous theses against, 128, 129.

Infallibility, of Scriptures, 89, 173, 174.
  of pope, doctrine of, 50, 57, 237, 564.
  see also Gregory VII.

Infidelity, attacked by Luther, 126.
  prevalence of, 281, 288, 461, 526, 583, 586.
  in France, 270, 274-277, 281, 285, 288, 586, 587.
  Wm. Miller converted from, 318, 319.
  cause of, 522.
  danger from, 463, 600.
  see also Atheism; Deism.

Innocent III., 581.

Inquisition, establishment of, 59.
  in France, 235.
  instruments of, a means of “conversion,” 569.

Intemperance, result of, 586, 589.

Intercession of Christ, 482-484, 489.

Interdict, papal, against Prague, 100, 101.

Intolerance, of Pilgrims, 293.

Iona, center of missionary effort, 62.
  Sabbath observed on, 62.

Ireland, Christianity in, 62.

Isaiah, an example of true sanctification, 471.

Israelites, long-suffering of God toward, 19, 28.
  compared to a goodly vine, 20.
  apostasy of, 21.
  great sin of, rejection of Christ, 22.
  in bondage, lost knowledge of God’s law, 453.
  advent believers in 1844 compared to, 457-460.
  cause of forty years’ wandering of, 458.
  enticed into sin by association with heathen, 508, 529, 530.
  see also Jews.

Italy, missionaries sent to, 62.
  persecution in, 97.
  Luther’s writings in, 139.

Jacob, Sabbath kept by, 453.
  experience of, at brook Jabbok (Jacob’s trouble), 616-622.

Jeremiah, distress of, over Jerusalem, 21.
  denounced as a traitor, 458.
  fearlessly opposed wrong, 520.

Jerome, 99-119.
  character of, 103.
  imprisonment of, in Constance, 110, 111.
  sufferings of, 111.
  recantation and repentance of, 111-114.
  defense of Huss by, 113.
  martyrdom of, 115.

Jerusalem, destruction of, 17-38.
  sorrow of Christ over, 18-22.
  privileges bestowed upon, 19.
  symbol of rebellious world, 22.
  strategic location of, 26.
  prophecies against, 27.
  self-righteousness of, 27.
  condition of society in, after rejection of Christ, 28.
  besieged by Cestius, 30, 31;
  by Titus, 31.
  sufferings of people in, during siege, 31-33.
  not one Christian perished in, 30.
  destruction of, foreshadows destruction of world, 36-38.
  see also New Jerusalem.

Jesus, see Christ; Messiah.

Jesuits, organization, aims, and work of, 234, 235.
  in France, 279.

Jewish church, alliance of, with heathen, 382.
  leaders, failure of, to understand prophecies of first advent, 312, 313,
              378.

Jews, woe upon, 30.
  sufferings of, during siege of Jerusalem, 31-33, 35.
  Sabbath laws of, 52.
  sinful ignorance of, regarding first advent, 313.
  fate of, sealed by rejection of gospel, 328.
  seventy weeks allotted to, in prophecy, 328, 345.
  proclamation of second advent to, by Joseph Wolff, 359-362.
  spiritual darkness of, 377, 378.
  worldliness of, in time of Christ, 378.
  formalism of, 378.
  rejection of prophetic truths by, 378.
  refusal of, to receive light, 430.
  rejection of, by God, 431.
  satisfied with religion of their fathers, 454.
  spirit of, revealed in rejection of Christ, 506.
  ceremonies of, 568.
  God’s presence withdrawn from, 615.
  guilt of, 628.
  see also Israelites; Jerusalem.

Job, affliction of, 589.
  an example of true sanctification, 471.

John the Baptist, Wycliffe compared to, 93.

John, duke and elector of Saxony, 199.
  signs Confession at Augsburg, 207.
  Luther’s letter to, 209, 210.

John XXIII., pope, summoned to council of Constance, 104.
  character of, 104, 106.
  Huss imprisoned by order of, 106.
  committed to same prison, 106.

Jonah, 406.

Joseph, 626.

Judas, failure of, to learn lessons of Christ, 43, 44.

Judgment, warning of, 353.
  message, extent of, 361.
  preparation for, 436.
  law of God the standard in, 482.
  time of, 548.
  the investigative: 352, 353, 422-429, 436, 479-491;
  opening of, announced by message of first angel, 355, 356, 486;
  Daniel’s vision of, 479;
  only cases of professing Christians considered in, 480;
  righteous dead not raised till after, 482;
  work of Christ in, 483-485;
  work of Satan in, 484;
  work of, finished before second advent, 485;
  close scrutiny of, 428, 486-488;
  should be clearly understood by people of God, 488, 489;
  progress of, 489-491.
  See also First angel’s message.
  the executive: 425, 426, 503;
  scenes of, 665-673.
  of wicked, going on in heaven during thousand years, 480, 660, 661.

Judgments of God, 543, 627, 628.

Justice, courts of, corruption in, 586.

Justice of God, shown in punishment of wicked, 541-544.
  acknowledged by the lost, 668;
  by Satan, 669, 670.

Justification by faith, revealed to Luther, 125.
  held by Huss, 140.
  learned by Wesley, 253-256.
  see also Faith.

Justification by works, 55, 56, 73, 83, 123, 253, 255, 256.

Kingdom, when the saints will inherit, 322.
  reception of, by Christ, 427, 479, 480.
  of God, when set up, 323.
  of glory, 347.
  of grace, 347, 348.

Knox, John, work of, in Scotland, 250, 251.
  conflict of, with Queen Mary, 250, 251.
  belief of, in second coming of Christ, 303.

Laborers, to be qualified by Holy Spirit, in latter rain, 606.

Lacunza, work of, in South America, 363.

Latimer, supremacy of Bible upheld by, 248, 249.
  martyrdom of, 249.

Latter rain, power attending, 611-613.

Law, ceremonial, abrogation of, by death of Christ, 328.

Law, moral, the foundation of God’s government, 66.
  immutability of, 66, 433-450, 454, 466, 467, 503.
  not abrogated by Christ, 260, 466-468.
  sacredness of, 433, 434.
  perpetuity of, 434, 453.
  unerring rule of life, 452.
  knowledge of, preserved in earth, 453.
  nature of, 467.
  defended by Wesley, 262-264.
  in ark in heavenly sanctuary, 433, 434.
  reveals sin, 467, 468.
  blessings in obedience to, 478.
  standard of character in judgment, 482.
  how regarded by religious leaders, 465, 466;
  by prophets and apostles, 466.
  to be rejected by Christian world, 22.
  changes made in, by Roman Catholic Church, 52, 65, 446.
  result of believing it abolished, 260-262.
  trampled underfoot by Rome, 65, 453;
  by France, 274, 285, 286.
  result of disobeying, 478.
  result of setting aside, 584-588.
  Satan’s object, to lead into transgression of, 582.
  wide-spread belief in abrogation of, 584, 585.
  light on, to be given to all, 605.
  wicked see in hand of Christ at second advent, 639, 668.
  see also Fourth commandment; Sabbath; Sanctuary; Temple in heaven.

Laws, oppressive, to be enacted in the United States, 442.

Laymen, advent message largely proclaimed by, 380.

Lefevre, first in France to receive Reformation, 212.
  teachings of, 213.
  translation of New Testament by, 214.

Leopard beast of Revelation thirteen, interpretation of, 439, 578.
  characteristics of, 446.
  see also Beast.

Lessons in God’s dealings with men, 343, 344.

Liberality in religious belief, sometimes danger in, 520-522.

Liberty, civil and religious, Wycliffe’s struggle for, 80.
  end of religious, in Bohemia, 118.
  secured by edict of Spires, 197, 198.
  in Germany, 200, 201.
  goes with Bible, 265, 276, 277, 281, 285.
  not license, 281, 284.
  rejection of principles of, by France, 265, 276, 277, 281, 285.
  false ideas of, 522, 535.
  in God’s law, 285, 466-468.
  carnal, 559.
  of conscience once valued by Protestants, 563.
  see also Persecution; Puritans; Religious liberty; United States.

Light of truth, result of rejecting, 164, 165, 378, 431, 456, 458-460,
            583, 597.
  importance of receiving, 344, 408.
  to be faithfully disseminated, 459, 460.

Liquor-dealers, influence of Miller’s preaching on, 332.

Lisbon earthquake, 304, 305.

Litch, Josiah, prediction of, regarding fall of Ottoman empire, 334, 335.

Literature, circulation of, by Waldenses, 70, 71.
  in time of Wycliffe, 84, 85, 87-89, 94.
  in Bohemia, 96, 97, 99, 100, 119.
  in time of Luther, 139, 140, 160, 169, 194.
  in Switzerland, 178.
  in France, 214, 215, 231.
  in Geneva, 236.
  in Scotland, 249.
  see also Books; Writings.

Little horn of Daniel seven, 446.
  see also Leopard beast.

Lollards, persecution of, 94, 95.
  Lollard towers, 95.

Lord’s day, see Sabbath; Fourth commandment; Sunday; Roman Catholic
            Church.

Lord’s supper, supplanted by the mass, 59.

Lot, escape of, 431, 512.

Lotteries, 387.

Louis XV., selfishness of, 280.

Louis XVI., execution of, 230.

Lucian, 178.

Lucifer, the originator of evil, 493-499.
  desire of, to penetrate secret purposes of God, 523.
  see also Satan.

Luther, Martin, 120-170, 185-210.
  early years, parentage, and training of, 120-122.
  study of Scriptures by, 122, 123.
  work of, in University of Wittenberg, 124-126, 128, 139.
  visit of, to Rome, 124, 125.
  accepts doctrine of righteousness by faith, 125.
  theses of, against indulgences, 129, 130.
  efforts of Rome against, 131, 137, 140-144.
  trial of, at Augsburg, 135-137.
  refusal of, to recant, 136.
  escape of, from Augsburg, 137.
  wide influence of writings of, 139, 140, 194.
  crisis in work of, 141-143.
  courage of, 141, 142, 151-153.
  final separation of, from Rome, 143.
  journey of, to Worms, 151-153.
  before the Diet, 155-161.
  prayer of, 157.
  refusal of, to compromise with Rome, 165, 166.
  edict of Rome against, 167.
  seclusion of, in Wartburg castle, 168, 169.
  saved from self-exaltation, 169, 170.
  efforts of, against fanaticism at Wittenberg, 188-193.
  translation of New Testament by, 193.
  resort to secular power for protection, opposed by, 209.
  belief of, in second coming of Christ, 303.
  on time of the judgment, 356.
  on state of the dead, 549.

Lutterworth, see Wycliffe.

Magi, rank, learning, and wealth of, 315.
  Hebrew Scriptures understood by, 315.
  watching for the Messiah, 315.
  light heeded by, 316.

Man, nature of, at creation, 467.
  Satan plots ruin of, 531.
  looking to, in place of God, 595.

“Man of sin,” developed by compromise between paganism and Christianity,
            50, 266.
  See Papacy.

Margaret, sister of Francis I., a Protestant, 214.
  protector of Protestants, 221-224.

Mark of the beast, sign of allegiance to Rome, 445-450, 579, 627.
  how received, 604, 605.
  see also Image; Protestants; United States.

Marks of the crucifixion, Christ always to bear, 674.

Marriage as a symbol, 381, 382.
  supper of the Lamb, 427, 428.

Martyrs, early Christian, 40, 47.
  in the sixth century, 54, 55.
  by the Inquisition, in the thirteenth century, 59.
  no fear of death in, 74.
  in England, 94, 95, 247, 249, 252.
  in Bohemia, 98, 109, 110, 114, 115, 254.
  in Switzerland, 180.
  in Germany, 211.
  in France, 217, 218, 220, 225-230, 271, 282.
  in Meaux, 215.
  in the Netherlands, 238, 240.
  in Scotland, 249, 250.

Mary, Queen of Scots, and John Knox, 250, 251.

Mass (or Eucharist), 59, 189, 190.

Meaux, Reformation in, 214, 215, 219.

Mediator, Christ as, 74, 75, 126, 133, 488.
  when man will be without a, 425.

Melanchthon, the friend of Luther, 134, 151, 210.
  perplexed by fanaticism, 187.
  rescues Grynæus, 205.
  Augsburg Confession drawn up by, 196-206.
  on second advent, 303.

Mendicants, see Friars.

Menno Simons, work of, 238, 239.

Mercy of God, to first disciples, 348.
  door of, open, 429, 430, 435.
  shown in destruction by flood, 543.

Message of Revelation eighteen, when given, 390, 603.
  condition of world under, 603, 604.
  see also First angel’s message; Second angel’s message; Third angel’s
              message; Advent Movement.

Messiah, prophecies of, 326, 327, 345, 346, 410.
  first advent of, explained to Joseph Wolff, 357-359.
  Jews ignorant of coming of, 378.
  see also Christ; First advent.

Meteoric shower, see Stars.

Methodists, origin of, 257.
  character of, in days of Wesley, 259.
  persecution of, 259.
  see also Wesley.

Middle Ages, 66, 572.
  see also Dark Ages.

Midnight, God’s people delivered at, 636.
  of the world (figurative), 60.

Midnight cry, 398-408, 426, 427.
  impelling power of, 402.

Millennium, temporal, not taught in Bible, 321.
  effect of belief in, 321.
  condition of earth during, 653-660.
  see also Thousand years.

Miller, William, 317-342.
  early years and character of, 317, 318, 335.
  conversion of, from infidelity, 319.
  study of Bible by, 319-330.
  called to preach, 330, 331.
  work of, 331, 332, 368-375.
  associates of, in labors, 335.
  opposition to, by religious teachers, 335-337.
  protected by angels, 337.
  wrong conclusion of, regarding end of 2300 days, 351-353.
  proclamation of second advent message committed to, 368.
  attitude of, toward fanaticism, 396, 397.
  see also Advent Movement; First angel’s message.

Mind, when under control of Satan, 59.
  a law of the, 555.

Ministers, training of, by Vaudois, 70, 71.
  influence of popular, in undermining faith in Bible, 336.
  errors taught by, 536.
  not infallible, 596, 597.
  leaning on, for religious belief, 596.
  harvest from false teachings of, 654, 655.
  see also Preaching.

Ministration, of earthly priests, 413, 418-422.
  of Christ, 413, 415-417, 420-422, 480, 482-485, 488-491.
  of angels, 480, 482, 486, 487, 511.

Miracles, of Christ; casting out of devils, at Gadara, 514, 515;
  man possessed, blind and dumb, 515;
  youth who had dumb spirit, 515;
  demoniac at Capernaum, 516.
  of healing, to be performed in time of trouble, 612, 624.
  so-called, in support of Sunday observance, 575-577;
  through agency of Spiritualism, 588;
  counterfeit, 593;
  of Satan, 612, 624.

Missionary spirit, the spirit of Christ, 70.

Missionaries, Waldensian, 70-76.
  in England, 87, 94.
  Whitefield and the Wesleys in America, 254.
  see also Colporteurs; Writings; Wolff.

Missions, foreign, growth of, 287.

Monasteries, 82-84.

Money, Wesley on right use of, 385.
  how squandered by professed Christians, 475.
  used in self-indulgence, 488.

Monks, 82-85.
  see also Friars; Monasteries.

Moon, darkening of, 305-308.
  see also Signs.

Moravians, churches of, 119.
  in storm at sea, 254, 255.
  Wesley’s stay among, 255, 256.

Morin, 225, 226

Moses, writer of Pentateuch, 434.

Munsterites, 239.

Münzer, 191-193.

Myconius, 183.

Mysteries, revealed, 341, 599.
  unrevealed, 522.

Mystery in God’s providences, 47, 48.

Mystery of iniquity, work of, in early church, 49, 384, 385.

National prosperity, foundation of, 277-279, 285, 286.

National reform movement, 587.

Nature, worship of, 522, 583.

Nehemiah, 56.

Nero, character of, 78.
  among Satan’s host, at end of world, 667.
  mother of, 667.

Netherlands, progress of Reformation in, 237-240.

New birth, results of, 468.

New earth, description of, 675-678.

New England, as an asylum for the oppressed, 295, 296.
  advent message in, 332.

New Jerusalem, as the bride, 426, 427.
  righteous welcomed to, 646, 647, 665.
  descends from heaven, 663.
  effort of Satan to conquer, 663, 664.
  metropolis of new earth, 676.

New Testament, see Bible, translations of.

Nineveh, Jonah’s message to, 406.

Noah, message of, 337-339, 371, 431, 491.
  Sabbath kept by, 453.

Nobles, of France, 279, 280.

Obedience, blessings of, 476.

Œcolampadius, character and work of, 182-184.
  death of, 212.

Offerings, see Sanctuary.

Olivetan, cousin of Calvin, 220.

One hundred and forty-four thousand, song of, 648.

Open door, see Door of mercy.

Oppression, see Dark Ages; Papacy; Persecution.

Ottoman empire, fall of, predicted by Litch, 334, 335.

Paganism, union of, with Christianity, 43, 50, 52.
  persecutions under, 39-48.
  errors of, in Christian church, 58.

Pagan Rome, in prophecy, 438.
  authority of, transferred to papacy, 54, 439.
  see also Dragon.

Palestine, travels of Wolff in, 360.

Papacy, establishment of, 50, 54.
  supremacy of, 50, 51, 60, 82, 126, 251, 453, 573, 581.
  condition of world under, 60.
  arrogance of, 50, 60.
  attitude of, toward Waldenses, 76-78.
  efforts of, to silence Wycliffe, 85, 86.
  the great schism in, 86, 87, 103.
  how represented in prophecy, 438, 439, 445, 446, 578.
  special characteristic of, 446.
  how Protestants pay homage to, 442, 447, 448.
  attempt of, to change law of God, 52, 446.
  character and aims of, 562-581.
  infallibility claimed by, 50, 57, 564.
  in the United States, 564, 573.
  future success of, 566, 572.
  an attractive religion, 566.
  right to pardon sin, claimed by, 83, 567.
  compared to Jewish church, 568.
  cruelty of, 569-571.
  false science to prepare way for, 573.
  to regain power, 578-581.
  see also Pope; Popes; Roman Catholic Church; Traditions.

Parable, of ten virgins, 393-395, 398, 400, 402, 426-428.
  of marriage supper, 428.

Pardon for sin, claimed by Rome, 83, 567.
  obtained only through Christ, 126.

Paris, the Reformation in, 212-230.
  conditions in, at Revolution, 279, 283.

Park, Edwards A., on law of God, 465, 466.

Passover lamb, Christ represented by, 399.

Pastors, trusting to, for religious belief, 380, 655.
  see also Ministers.

Paul, conversion of, 328.
  commission of, to Gentiles, 328.
  heresy in days of, 396.
  warning of, to Thessalonians, 456.
  accusation against, 458.
  an example of true sanctification, 471.
  protected by angels, 512.
  courageous opposer of wrong, 520.
  in the New Jerusalem, 667.

Penalty, civil, to be inflicted for keeping law of God, 459.

Penance, 56.

Pentecost, 351;
  experience of last days similar to, 611.
  see also Holy Spirit.

People of God, suppression of history of, during Dark Ages, 61.
  contrasted with worshipers of beast and image, 445, 446.
  distinguished by regard for fourth commandment, 446.
  during great day of atonement, 490, 491, 601, 602.
  protected by angels, 513, 517, 630-632.
  care of God for, 528-530, 560, 621, 626, 627, 631-634.
  denounced as cause of disasters, 590-592, 614, 615.
  trial of, to the utmost, 618.
  persecution of, 619.
  faith of, 619, 621, 622.
  anxiety of, over past sins, 619-621.
  seek for perfection in Christ, 622, 623.
  deliverance of, 635-652.
  rainbow about companies of, 636.
  translation of, 645, 646.
  see also Christians; Persecution; Redeemed; “Time of trouble.”

Persecution, Christ’s followers to suffer, 39, 143, 144, 507, 610.
  in first centuries, 39-48.
  a means of keeping church pure, 44, 48.
  reasons for, to be left with God, 47, 48, 609.
  why not seen to-day, 48.
  during 1260 years, 55, 266, 439;
  cut short, 266, 267.
  truth extended by, 96, 196, 219, 240, 250, 252.
  of Waldenses, 65, 78, 97.
  of Wycliffe, 89, 90, 609.
  of Lollards, 94, 95.
  of Huss, 100-109, 609.
  of Luther, 137-143, 145-167, 609.
  in Germany, 196.
  of French Protestants, 223-226, 271-273, 278.
  of believers in Netherlands, 239, 240.
  of Wesley and his followers, 258, 259, 609.
  of Puritans, 290.
  of advent believers, 372.
  of Sabbath-keepers, 607-609.
  see also Heretics.

Persia, Wolff’s travels in, 360.

Peter, protected by angels, 512.

Petri, Olaf and Laurentius, 242-244.

Pharaoh, 251, 269, 275.

Pharisees, ignorance of, regarding Messiah, 314.

Philosophy, pagan, in the church, 58.
  human, 126, 522.

Physical righteousness, 473-475.

Piedmont, see Waldenses.

Pilate, 164.

Pilate’s staircase, 125.

Pilgrim Fathers, see Puritans.

“Pilgrim’s Progress,” 252.

Pius IX., pope, 564.

Plagues, of Egypt, 627, 628.
  of last days, 628, 629.

Plan of salvation, revealed in Bible, 81.
  under the guidance of God, 343.
  culmination of, 486.
  to be study of redeemed, 651.

Pleasure-seeking, 387.

Policy in religious matters, 460.

Political corruption, 586, 592.

Pope, arrogant claims of, 50, 51, 56.
  authority claimed by, 50, 57, 261, 580.
  acknowledged as God’s vicegerent, 51, 53, 102, 140.
  faith transferred from Christ to, 55.
  impeachment of, 237.
  led into captivity, 439.
  see also Papacy; Roman Catholic Church.

Popes, great schism of, 86, 87, 103, 104.

Prague, Reformation in, 99, 100, 104.
  placed under interdict, 100, 101, 104.

Prayer, necessity of, in Bible study, 132, 599, 600.
  Luther’s belief in, 156, 157, 209, 210.
  power of, 210.
  lack of, 373, 488.
  necessity for, 525, 530, 601.
  in time of trouble, 621, 622.

Preaching, of Luther, 152.
  of Zwingle, 174-177, 180.
  of Farel and Froment, 232.
  of Joseph Wolff, 359-362.
  of children in Scandinavia, 366, 367.
  of advent truths, in 1844, 400-408.
  of unpopular truths, 458-460.
  see also Ministers.

Predestination, 261.

Present truth, in days of Luther, 143.
  in our day, 143, 144.

Presumption, 59.

Priests, at bar of God, 668.
  see also Friars; Monks.

Priests and rulers, rejection of Christ by, 595.
  ministers of to-day compared with, 596.

Printing, art of, 61, 88, 288.
  of Tyndale’s Bible, 247.
  see also Books.

Prison-house of Satan, 659.

Prizes, offering of, a species of gambling, 387.

Probation, close of, 428, 429.
  no future, 662.

Procopius, 116-118.

Prophecy, importance of study of, 341, 342, 344, 345.
  consolation in, 391-394.
  study of, by William Miller, 320-329;
  by prophets, 344;
  by Gaussen, 365;
  by Adventists, 391, 423.
  fulfilled by Miller and his associates, 405.
  of 1260 years, 54, 266, 439.
  of 2300 years, 324-329, 351-353, 398, 409, 410, 417, 429, 457, 486.
  of the “two witnesses,” 266-287.
  to be understood, 340, 341, 521.
  of first advent, not understood by disciples, 346, 347.
  see also Beasts; Chronology; Prophecies; Signs.

Prophecies, of destruction of Jerusalem, 21, 22, 25-27, 30.
  of second advent, 299-302, 310, 311, 320-329.
  failure of Jews to understand, 313-316, 344-346.
  concerning first advent, fulfilment of, 344-348, 405, 424-429.
  of Daniel and the Revelation, not mysteries, 340-342, 365, 380, 594.
  fulfilled, 391-408.
  on Sabbath reform, 451-453.
  see also Chronology; Papacy; Prophecy; “Time of trouble;” United
              States.

Protest, of early Christians, 95.
  of the Princes, 197-204;
  text of, 202-204;
  effect of, 203, 204.

Protestantism, vital principles of, 197, 202, 203, 291, 441.
  dangers of, 211, 234, 235.
  strength of, 236.
  apostasy of, 297, 298, 384-390, 444, 571.
  to clasp hands with Spiritualism and Catholicism, 588.

Protestants, rise of, 204, 205.
  persecution of, in France, 225, 230.
  menaced by powerful foes, 234.
  increasing favor shown to Rome by, 563, 566.
  homage paid to Rome by, in Sunday-keeping, 447, 448.
  following in steps of Rome, 383, 384, 443, 523, 573.

Protestant churches, rise of, 383.
  daughters of Rome, 382.
  fall of, 383, 389.
  many true Christians in, 383, 390.
  seeking aid of secular power, 383.
  union of, upon common points of doctrine, 444, 445.
  seeking favor of world, 571.

Punishment, of rich, 653, 654.
  of unfaithful pastors and people, 654-657.
  of Satan, 658-660.
  of wicked, 666, 673.

Purgatory, doctrine of, 58, 59.
  an invention of paganism, 58.

Puritans, 280-298.
  persecution of, in England, 290.
  flight of, from England, 290.
  departure of, from Holland, 291-293.
  intolerance of, 293.
  character of early, 296.
  regard of, for Bible, 296.

Rainbow, seen in time of trouble, 636.

Reason, worship of, 193.
  in France, 275, 276.

Rebellion, of Lucifer, 493-500, 503.
  spirit of, 500, 502.

Rechabites, Wolff visits, 362.

Reconciliation, 467, 468.

Records, of Inquisition, 59, 61, 62.
  in books of heaven, 59, 61, 486, 487.
  see also Books.

Redeemed, entrance of, into New Jerusalem, 646, 647.
  song of, 649-651, 665.
  triumph of, 650.
  home of, 674-678.
  hold open communion with God, 676, 677.
  education of, 677, 678.

Reformation, foundation of, laid by Wycliffe, 92-94.
  advancement of, 148, 186, 197.
  efforts of Satan to counterfeit, 186-192.
  friends of, protected by angels, 205-208.
  threatened by grave dangers, 206, 209.
  brought to notice of great men, 208.
  progress of, in Great Britain, 79-96, 245-253;
  in Germany, 120-170, 185-210;
  in Switzerland, 171-184, 232-234;
  in France, 214-224;
  in Netherlands and Scandinavia, 237-244.
  France warned against, by pope, 277.
  extent of, 265.
  work of, to restore Bible to people, 388.
  obstacles met by, 396.
  see also Calvin; Huss; Luther; Protestantism; Protestants; Tyndale;
              Wycliffe; Zwingle.

Reformers, Wycliffe one of the greatest, 94.
  character of, 94, 171, 243, 244.
  work of, 606.
  belief of, in second coming of Christ, 302, 303.
  see also Calvin; Huss; Jerome; Knox; Latimer; Luther; Melanchthon;
              Wycliffe; Zwingle; etc.

Reign of Terror, 273, 282.

Religion, profession of, has become popular, 386.
  formality in, 55.
  the sport of infidels, 463.
  Satan’s counterfeit of, 464.
  pure, defined, 474.

Religious liberty, termed heresy, 45.
  in Germany, 197-205.
  in Holland, 240.
  in Reformed countries, 244.
  believed in by Puritans, 291-298.
  upheld by Roger Williams, 293-295.
  in United States, 441, 443.
  merely endured by Rome, 565.
  God’s way of working, 591.
  see also Conscience; Heretics; Persecution; Puritans; Toleration;
              United States.

Religious worship prohibited in France, 274.

Remission of sin, in sanctuary services, 417, 418.

Repentance, 468.

Republicanism, a fundamental principle of the United States, 441.

Resurrection of the dead, 322.
  of Christ, wave-sheaf a type of, 399.
  the first, 482, 544.
  the first and second, distinction between, 544.
  doctrine of, why neglected, 547.
  special, of Sabbath-keepers, 637;
  of those who crucified Christ, 637.
  of righteous, 644.
  of wicked, 661, 662.

Revelation, book of, studied by Miller, 320.
  to be understood, 341, 342.
  relation of, to book of Daniel, 341.

Revivals, modern, 461-478.
  results of genuine, 461, 462.
  popular, 463, 464.
  secret of lack of power in, 465.

Revolution, see French Revolution.

Rich, punishment of, 654.

Richard II., 89.

Ridley, 248, 303.

Righteousness by faith, see Justification by faith.

Robbing God, 475.

Robinson, Pastor John, address of, to Puritans, 291, 292.

Roman Catholic Church, development of, 50-60, 580.
  claims of, 261, 564, 567, 580, 596.
  customs in, 49.
  attitude of, toward Bible, 51, 81, 89, 97, 195, 235, 236, 265, 269, 340,
              388.
  errors introduced by, 58, 59, 82-84, 536.
  records of persecution, 61, 62, 563, 570, 571.
  condition of, in time of Wycliffe, 86;
  Huss, 103;
  Luther, 149.
  Luther’s separation from, 120-143.
  defended by Aleander, 147-149.
  efforts of, against Luther, 137-141, 145-167.
  description of, as Babylon, 382, 383;
  as leopard beast, 179, 439, 578.
  result of revolt against, in France, 283-285.
  sign of authority of, 446-448, 573.
  true Christians in, 449, 565.
  Protestants following in steps of, 383, 384, 443, 523, 573.
  gaining in favor with Protestants, 563, 572-574, 580, 581.
  popularity of, 566, 571.
  schools of, patronized by Protestants, 566.
  worship of, attractive, 566, 567.
  in comparison with Jewish church, 568.
  idolatry in, 568.
  means used by, to compel obedience, 569.
  reserves right to interpret Scriptures, 596.
  see also Papacy; Pope.

Rome, the seat of papal power, 54.
  visit of Luther to, 124, 125.
  visit of bishops to, 237.

Rulers, corruption among, 586.

Russia, proclamation of advent message in, 364.

Sabbath, memorial of creation, 54, 455.
  authority of, 455.
  observed throughout the ages, 52, 61-65, 453.
  set aside for Sunday, 53.
  hatred of Rome for, 64, 65.
  abolished in France, 274.
  study of, by advent believers, 434, 435.
  importance of, 437, 438.
  a sign of creative power of God, 54, 436-438.
  change of, 447, 448, 452.
  not changed by Christ, 447.
  no authority in Bible for change of, 447.
  promises to observers of, 451-453.
  arguments against, 454, 455, 587.
  divine authority of, acknowledged by Romanists, 447, 577.
  disasters attributed to observance of, 590.
  test of loyalty to God, 605.
  see also Fourth commandment; Law of God; Sabbath-keepers; Sunday.

Sabbath-keepers, in all ages, 52, 453.
  in 1844, 434, 435.
  work of, 454, 603-606, 609, 611, 612.
  among Waldenses, 577.
  persecution of, by enemies, 592, 607-610, 626, 627;
  by former brethren, 608.
  denounced as cause of disasters, 590, 592, 614, 615.
  decree to be issued against, 615, 616, 626, 631, 635.
  experience of, in time of trouble, 616-634.
  the mountains afford refuge for, 626.
  special resurrection of, 637.
  triumph of, 638-640.
  see also Christians; People of God; Redeemed; Sabbath.

Sabbath reform, 451-456, 587.

Sacrifice of the mass, 59, 189, 190.

Sacrifices, see Sanctuary.

Sacrificing for Christ, 387.

Safe-conduct, of Huss, 105-107, 163.
  of Luther, 150, 154, 163.

Saloons, closed as effect of Miller’s preaching, 332.

Samson, indulgence-monger in Switzerland, 178, 179.

Sanctification,
  true, work of, 465, 467, 469, 470, 473;
  how attained, 469, 470;
  nature of, 470;
  as set forth in the Scriptures, 473, 474;
  fruits of, 477, 478;
  examples of, 470, 471.
  false, in Luther’s day, 193;
  in last days, 469, 471-473, 475.

Sanctuary, in type and antitype, 409-432.
  not the earth, 411.
  study of, by Adventists, 411-415.
  key to meaning of disappointment in 1844, 423, 431, 432.
  should be clearly understood, 488-490.
  earthly, description of, 411-415;
  a pattern of heavenly, 414, 415;
  services in, a type, 417-420, 428, 433, 435;
  cleansing of, 328, 352, 410, 417, 418, 426;
  services in, continued after crucifixion, 615.
  heavenly, services in, 413-415, 420-422, 428-431, 433, 435;
  advent believers directed to, 424, 425;
  ministration in first apartment of, 421, 422;
  work of Christ in, 421, 422, 433-435, 480, 482-491.
  see also Advent Movement; Law; Tabernacle; Temple.

Satan, efforts of, to induce Christians to compromise with world, 49, 50,
            298.
  arts of, 192, 193, 518, 519.
  satisfaction of, in horrors of Reign of Terror, 284.
  policy of, 378.
  the accuser, 395, 484.
  position and beauty of, before fall, 493-495.
  disaffection and rebellion of, 494-500.
  long-suffering of God with, 496.
  rebellion of, a lesson to universe, 499.
  character of God misrepresented by, 281, 498, 500, 502.
  character of, 501, 502.
  self-exaltation of, 504, 554.
  enmity of, toward man, 505, 510.
  danger in denying existence of, 516, 524.
  importance of having right estimate of, 516, 517.
  power and malice of, 517.
  present at worship of God, 518.
  power of, to show appearance of departed friends, 552, 560;
  to appear as angel of light, 588.
  ability of, to quote Scripture, 559.
  work of, through elements, 589, 590.
  compulsion the resort of, 591.
  to personate Christ, 624.
  binding of, 658-660.
  sins of God’s people to be placed upon, 658, 673.
  judgment of, 661.
  last struggle of, for supremacy, 663, 664, 671, 672.
  acknowledges justice of his sentence, 669, 670.
  see also Evil spirits; Lucifer; Snares of Satan.

Saxons in Great Britain, 62, 63.

Saxony, Bohemians flee to, 254.

Scandinavia, progress of the Reformation in, 241-244.
  proclamation of advent message in, 366.
  child-preachers in, 366, 367.

Scapegoat, in sanctuary service, 419, 420.
  Satan typified by, 422, 485, 658.

Schism, the Great, see Popes.

Science, research into, sometimes a snare of Satan, 522.
  false, to prepare way for papacy, 573.
  not a true foundation for religious belief, 595.

Scoffers, in Noah’s time, 338.
  in Miller’s time, 339, 340, 404, 408, 429.
  in last days, 561, 635, 642.

Scotland, a refuge for persecuted Christians, 62.
  persecutions in, 249, 250.
  work of Knox in, 250, 251.

Scriptures, the detector of error, 51.
  study of, 80, 81, 598, 599, 600.
  Wycliffe demands restoration of, to people, 81.
  infallibility of, 89, 249.
  Wolff on popular system of interpretation of, 360.
  study of, danger of neglecting, 519, 521.
  fanciful interpretations of, 520, 521.
  a safeguard, 559, 593-603.
  see also Bible; Word of God.

Seal of God, 613, 640.

Second advent of Christ, foretold, 39, 454.
  hope of believers in all ages, 299-303.
  signs of, 304-316, 333, 334.
  warning of, why not committed to religious leaders, 315.
  manner of, 321.
  taught in Scriptures, 321-323.
  time of, 324;
  not known by men, 457;
  error in regard to, 328, 368, 482.
  warning of, rejected, 338, 339, 366.
  proclamation of, 352-354.
  preached by Joseph Wolff, 359, 360;
  William Miller, 329-333, 352-354, 368-374.
  belief in, found in Bokhara, Yemen, and Tartary, 361, 362.
  taught in England, South America, Germany, France, Switzerland,
              Scandinavia, 362-367.
  preparation for, in 1844, 401-403.
  false theory of, 525.
  manner of, cannot be counterfeited by Satan, 625.
  scenes of, 636-644.
  see also Advent Movement; Christ; Prophecy; Prophecies.

Second angel’s message, 381-390.

Second commandment, expunged from law by papacy, 52.

Secrets of God, men not to search into, 523.

Self-depreciation, 477.

Self-exaltation, Luther removed from danger of, 170.
  danger from, 471, 494-499, 503.

Self-indulgence, 473-475, 488.

Self-justification, of Satan, 499.
  of sinners to-day, 500.

Self-sufficiency, 509.

Sennacherib, 512.

Seventh-day Adventists, 409-422, 429-432.
  proclamation of final warning by, 603-612.
  see also Law; People of God; Sabbath; Sanctuary; Third angel’s
              message.

Seventy weeks, prophecy of, 324, 328, 345-347, 410.

Sigismund, 104-108, 115-118, 163.

Signs of second advent, 304-316, 391, 456.
  Lisbon earthquake, 304, 305.
  darkening of sun and moon, 306-308.
  condition of churches, 309, 310.
  falling of the stars, 333, 334.
  see also Prophecies.

Simon Magus, 128.

Sin, definition of, 472.
  origin of, 492-502.
  love of, 508.
  end of, 504, 545.
  remission of, in sanctuary service, 417, 418, 421, 425.
  see also Evil; Satan.

Sins, secret, revealed in judgment, 486.
  blotting out of, from books in heaven, 421, 422, 484-486, 614.

Skepticism, see Infidelity.

Snares of Satan, 518-530.
  in worldly business, 519.
  self-gratification, 519.
  in appeals to appetite, 474.
  neglect of prayer and Bible study, 519, 525.
  accusing of brethren, 519.
  unconverted church-members, 520.
  false theories, 520, 523.
  wresting and perverting of Scripture, 520, 521.
  liberality of religious belief, 522.
  scientific research, 522.
  unwise speculations, 522, 523.
  Spiritualism, 524.
  denial of pre-existence of Christ, 524.
  false teaching regarding second advent, 525.

Society, condition of, in last days, 583-586.
  corruption in, attributed to Sunday desecration, 587.

Sodom, warning rejected by, 431, 512.
  spiritual, 269.

Solomon, 509.

Sophie Arnoult, 270.

South America, proclamation of advent message in, 363.

Spain, Luther’s writings in, 139.
  earthquake felt in, 304.

Spalatin, 165.

Speculation, human, 126, 522.

Spires, Diet of, 197-210.
  protest of, 197-204.

Spirit of God, when to be withdrawn from earth, 615.
  see also Holy Spirit; Pentecost.

Spirit manifestations, 552, 560.
  the rapping delusion, 553.
  made to take place of Bible, 557.
  see also Evil spirits; Spiritualism.

Spirits, to be tried by Bible, 397.
  agency of evil, 511-517.
  communion with, forbidden, 556.
  uphold Sunday observance, 591.

Spiritualism, 551-562.
  one of Satan’s most successful agencies, 524, 552, 561, 562.
  converts to, where found, 556.
  erroneous teaching of, 555-558.
  leads to self-indulgence and excess, 555, 603, 604.
  assuming Christian guise, 558.
  deceptive power of, 558, 559, 588.
  Scriptures a safeguard against, 559.
  miracles to be wrought through, 588, 589.
  see also Angels; Evil Spirits; Satan; Spirit manifestations.

Spurgeon, on sacramentarianism in the Church of England, 384.

Standard-bearers, 55.

Star, seen at deliverance of God’s people, 638.

Stars, falling of, 333, 334.
  see also Signs.

State, duty of, 201.
  see also Church and state; United States.

Staupitz, 123.

St. Bartholomew massacre, 272, 273.

Stephen, 328.

Suffrage in the United States, 297.

Sun, darkening of, 305-308.
  see also Signs.

Sunday, made a public festival, 53.
  given place of Sabbath by Rome, 53, 447, 448.
  origin of observance of, 54, 474-477.
  no scriptural evidence for, 434, 435.
  observance of, an act of homage to Rome, 442, 448, 449, 579, 580.
  not the Lord’s day, 447.
  enforcement of, in United States, 573.
  first law for observance of, 574.
  so-called miracles in support of, 575, 576.
  observance of, in future, to be enforced by law, 449, 573, 579, 592.
  movement in United States, 587.
  accusations against non-observers of, 587, 590.
  spirit manifestations in support of, 591.
  to be declared sacred by Satan when personating Christ, 624.
  see also Mark; Sabbath.

Supremacy of Rome, see Papacy.

Sweden, gospel welcomed to, 243.
  work of the Petri brothers in, 242, 243.
  work of, in Thirty Years’ War, 244.
  Reformation in, 243, 244.
  second advent message in, 366, 367.

Switzerland, missionaries to, 62.
  Luther’s writings in, 139.
  advent message proclaimed in, 364.

Symbols of prophecy, interpretation of, 438-445, 578.

Syria, travels of Wolff in, 360.

Tabernacle, of Moses, 411-415.
  replaced by temple of Solomon, 412.
  destruction of, by Romans, 17-38, 412.
  the sanctuary of first covenant, 413.
  services in, a shadow of heavenly, 433.
  see also Sanctuary.

Talent, proper use of, 487.
  use of, by Satan, 509.

Tarrying time, 398-408.
  a trial of patience, 392, 393.
  a fulfilment of prophecy, 407, 408.

Tausen, “Reformer of Denmark,” character and work of, 241, 242.
  imprisonment of, 242.

Temperance work and the Sunday movement, 587.

Temple of Solomon, beauty of, 17, 18, 23.
  history of, 24 (note), 412.
  destruction of, beheld by Christ, 21.
  second, made more glorious by presence of Christ, 24.
  overthrow of, predicted, 24, 25.
  destroyed by Titus, 31-35, 412.
  scenes at destruction of, 30-35.
  see also Sanctuary.

Temple in heaven, God’s dwelling-place, 414, 415.
  sanctuary of new covenant, 413.
  opened, 433.
  see also Law, moral.

Temptation, of Christ, 50, 51, 510.
  of Waldensian youth, 70.
  how to resist, 510, 600.
  why permitted, 528-530.
  of Adam and Eve in Eden, 531, 532.

Ten virgins, parable of, 393, 394, 400-402.

Terror of wicked at advent of Christ, 636-644.

Test, of world, in giving of advent message, 353, 354.
  of Adventists, in disappointment of 1844, 373, 374.
  of loyalty to God, Sabbath the great, 605.

Tetzel, sale of indulgences by, 127-129, 178.

Theology, popular, opposed by Luther, 126.
  result of, 525.

Theories, false, a snare of Satan, 520-525.

Theses of Luther against indulgences, 129, 130.
  discussion aroused by, 130.

Thessalonian church, Paul’s advice to, 456, 457.

Third angel’s message, 432, 435, 437-450.
  the last to go to the world, 390.
  fearful threatening of, 449.
  extent of, 450.
  to be proclaimed with power, 605, 606.
  close of, marks beginning of “time of trouble,” 613.
  see also People of God; Prophecy; Prophecies; Signs.

Thirty Years’ War, part of Sweden in, 244.

Thousand years, see Millennium.
  work of redeemed during, 660, 661.

Threefold message, 450, 453.

“Time of trouble,” 613-634.
  warning regarding, 310, 311.
  beginning of, 613.
  soon to open, 622.
  scenes of, 623, 624.
  experience of people of God in, 615-634.

Time-setting, 457.

Tithing, 475.

Titus, in siege of Jerusalem, 21, 31-35.
  humanity of, 32-34.

Tobacco, 474, 475.

Toleration, not a precept of Roman Church, 564.
  see also Religious liberty.

Traditions acknowledged as authority by Rome, 183, 448.

Translation, of Bible, see Bible.
  of righteous at second advent, 645, 646.

Transubstantiation, 238.

Trial, object of, 291, 621.
  see also Test.

Tree of life, 532.

Trust in God, need for, 527.

Truth, spread of, in time of persecution, 42, 95, 96, 101, 196, 240, 249,
            634.
  opposition to, 458-460.
  men moved to search Bible for, 79, 81.
  Rome contending against, 90.
  progressive nature of, 291, 292, 297.
  why not revealed to great men, 316.
  proper attitude toward, 378-380.
  need of searching for, 522, 598.
  counterfeits of, 523, 528.
  see also Sabbath; Sanctuary; Third angel’s message.

Truths, development of new, 609.

Turkish empire, see Ottoman empire.

Twelve hundred and sixty years, beginning of, 54, 266, 439.

Two-horned beast, United States represented by, 439-443.
  see also United States.

Two witnesses, prophecy concerning, 266-287.
  see also Bible; Scriptures.

Tyndale, work of, 245-247.
  martyrdom of, 247.
  on sleep of the dead, 547.

Types, see Sanctuary.

Unbelief, result of cherishing, 527, 528.

Union, of Christians and pagans, 45.
  of church and state, 297, 442, 445, 450, 607.
  of church and world, 390.
  of all Protestant churches, 444, 445.
  of Protestantism, Spiritualism, and Roman Catholicism, 588.

United Brethren, 119.

United States, religious liberty in, 295.
  growth of, 295, 296.
  government of, 297.
  dark day seen in, 306-308.
  falling stars seen in, 333, 334.
  Joseph Wolff’s visit to, 360.
  represented in prophecy by two-horned beast, 439, 440.
  rise of, 440, 441.
  characteristics of, 441.
  once an asylum for the oppressed, 441, 442.
  Constitution of, 442.
  to enact oppressive laws, 442, 579.
  prediction of supremacy of Rome in, 578, 579.
  Sunday movement in, 587.
  see also Mark of the beast; Protestants; Puritans; Religious liberty;
              Two-horned beast.

Unity among advent believers, 379.

Universalism, fallacy of, 537-539.
  a Universalist minister on state of the dead, 537-539.

University of Erfurt, Luther a student at, 121, 122.
  of Paris, Lefevre in, 212, 217.
  of Prague, Huss in, 98-100.
  of Wittenberg, Luther and Melanchthon as professors in, 124-126, 134.

Vaudois, see Waldenses.

Virgin Mary, 43, 58, 174, 175, 217.

Voice, from heaven, heard by God’s people, 636.
  of God declares hour of Jesus’ coming, 640.

Voltaire, infidelity of, 281.
  boast of, against Christianity, 288.

