Monday, April 19th.--Primrose day in the House of Commons was more honoured in the breach than
the observance. Barely a dozen Members sported Lord BEACONFIELD'S favourite flower (for salads),
and one of them found himself so uncomfortably conspicuous that shortly after the proceedings
opened he furtively transferred his buttonhole to his coat-pocket. Among those who remained
faithful were Lord LAMBOURNE (in the Peers' Gallery), who had for this occasion substituted
a posy of primroses for his usual picotee, and, quaintly enough, Mr. HOGGE, who had not hitherto
been suspected of Disraelian sympathies.

For a Budget-day the attendance was smaller than usual. But it was large enough to prevent
Mr. BILLING from securing his usual seat. The SPEAKER, however, did not smile upon his suggestion
that he should occupy one of the vacant places on the Front Opposition Bench, and curtly informed
him that there was plenty of room in the Gallery. Thither Mr. BILLING betook himself, and thence
he addressed a question which Mr. HOPE, the Minister concerned, was unable to catch, his ears
not being attuned to sounds from that altitude.

Otherwise Question-time was chiefly remarkable for the loud and continued burst of cheering
from the Coalition benches which greeted Mr. WILL THORNE'S suggestion (à propos of LENIN'S
industrial conscription) that "it would be a very good thing to make all the idlers in this
country work." Mr. THORNE seemed quite embarrassed by the popularity of his proposal, which
did not, however, appear to arouse the same enthusiasm among his colleagues of the Labour Party.

It was four o'clock when Mr. CHAMBERLAIN rose to "open the Budget" (he clings to that old-fashioned
phrase), and just after six when he completed a speech which Mr. ASQUITH (himself an ex-Chancellor
of the Exchequer) justly praised for its lucidity and comprehensiveness.

Mr. CHAMBERLAIN could not on this occasion congratulate himself (as his predecessors were wont
to do) on the accuracy of his forecasts. He had two shots last year, in Spring and Autumn,
but both times was many millions out in his calculations. Fortunately all the mistakes were
on the right side, and he came out with a surplus of one hundred and sixty-four millions (about
as much as the whole revenue of the country when first he went to the Exchequer) to devote
to the redemption of debt.

But that did not content him. For an hour by the clock he piled up the burdens on the taxpayer.
His arguments were not always consistent. It is not quite easy to see why, because ladies have
taken to smoking cigarettes, an extra heavy duty should be imposed on imported cigars; or how
the appearance of "a new class of champagne-drinkers" justifies a further tax upon the humble
consumer of "dinner-claret."

Nor is it easy to follow the process of reasoning by which the CHANCELLOR convinced himself
that the Excess Profits Tax, which last year he described as a great deterrent to enterprise
and industry, only, justifiable as "a temporary measure," should now be not merely continued
but increased by fifty per cent.

This proposal seemed to excite more hostility than any other. But the single taxers were annoyed
by the final disappearance of the Land Values Duties (the only original feature of Mr. LLOYD
GEORGE'S epoch-making first Budget). Mr. RAFFAN pictured their author being dragged at the
Tory chariot-wheels, and Dr. MURRAY observed that the land-taxes were evidently not allowed
"on the other side of the Rubicon."

The general view was that the Government had shown courage in imposing fresh taxation, but
would have saved themselves and the country a great deal of trouble if they had been equally
bold in reducing expenditure.

Tuesday, April 20th.--When a local band at Cologne recently played the "Wacht am Rhein" the
British officers present stood up, on the ground (as they explained to a surprised German)
that they were now the Watch on the Rhine. But are they? According to Colonel BURN the Army
of the Rhine is now so short of men that it is compelled to employ German civilians as batmen,
clerks and even telephone-operators; and Mr. CHURCHILL was fain to admit that it would not
surprise him to hear that "some assistance has been derived from the local population."

The Carnarvonshire police are peeved because they are not allowed to belong to any secret society
except the Freemasons, and consequently are debarred from membership of the Royal Ante-diluvian
Order of Buffaloes. Mr. SHORTT disclaimed responsibility, but it is expected that the Member
for the Carnarvon Boroughs, who is notoriously sympathetic to Ante-diluvians (is not his motto
Après moi le déluge?), will take up the matter on his return from San Remo.

Having had time to consider the Budget proposals in detail Mr. ASQUITH was less complimentary
and more critical. Good-humoured chaff of the PRIME MINISTER on the demise of the Land Values
Duties before they had yielded the "rare and refreshing fruits" promised ten years ago, was
followed by a reasoned condemnation of the proposed increase in the wine duties, which he believed
would diminish consumption and cause international complications with our Allies. The CHANCELLOR,
again, had thought too much of revenue and too little of economy. He urged him--in a magnificent
mixture of metaphors--to cut away those parasitic excrescences upon the normal administrative
system of the country which now constituted an open tap.

Wednesday, April 21st.--The abolition of the Guide-lecturer at Kew Gardens was deplored by
Lord SUDELEY and other Peers. But as, according to Lord LEE, out of a million visitors last
year only five hundred listened to the Guide--an average of less than three per lecture--the
Government can hardly be blamed for saving a hundred pounds. Retrenchment, after all, must
begin somewhere.

Sir DONALD MACLEAN cannot have heard of this signal example of Government economy or he would
not have denounced Ministers so vehemently for their extravagance. His most specific charge
was that in Mesopotamia they were "spending money like water in looking for oil."

In a further defence of the Budget proposals Mr. CHAMBERLAIN disclaimed the notion that it
was the duty of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to denounce in the House the Estimates which
he had approved in Cabinet. His business was to find the money. Circumstances had altered his
attitude to the Excess Profits Duty, and he was now determined to stick to it. Did not a cynic
once say that nothing succeeds like excess?

Mr. BARNES, who was loudly cheered on his return to the House, joined in the cry for economy.
"Some departments," he declared, "existed only because they had existed."

The country clergy are without doubt the most over-rated persons in the country--I mean, of
course, from a fiscal point of view. Consequently the House gave a friendly reception to a
Bill intended to relieve them of some of their pecuniary burdens.

Thursday, April 22nd.--When Dr. MACNAMARA was Secretary to the Admiralty no Minister was clearer
or more direct in his answers. Now that he has become Minister he has laid aside his quarter-deck
manner and adopted tones of whispering humbleness which hardly reach the Press Gallery.

He ought to take example fro Mr. STANTON, who never leaves the House in doubt as to what he
means. This afternoon, his purpose was to announce that a certain "Trio" on the Opposition
Benches was in league with the forces of disorder. "Bolshies!" he shouted in a voice that frightened
the pigeons in Palace Yard.

Later in the evening Mr. STANTON indicated that unless the salaries of Members of Parliament
were raised he should have seriously to consider the question of returning to his old trade
of a coal-hewer, at which I gathered he could make much more money with an infinitely smaller
exertion of lung-power.

The vote for Agriculture and Fisheries was supported by Sir A. GRIFFITH-BOSCAWEN in a speech
crammed full of miscellaneous information. We learned that the Minister once smoked a pipe
of Irish tobacco, and said "Never Again"; that the slipper-limpet, formerly the terror of the
oyster-beds had now by the ingenuity of his Department been transformed into a valuable source
of poultry-food, and that the roundabout process by which the Germans in bygone days imported
eel-fry from the Severn for their own rivers, and then exported the full-grown fish for the
delectation of East-end dinner-tables, had been done away with. In the matter of eels this
country is now self-supporting.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The stock markets showed a good deal of uncertainty
    this morning and dealers marked prices lower in many
    cases to protect themselves against possible sales on
    the Budget proposals, particularly the excess profits
    duty and the corruption tax."--Provincial Paper.

Mr. CHAMBERLAIN omitted to mention the last-named impost, but no doubt that was his artfulness.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITTLE BITS OF LONDON.

"THE BEAR-GARDEN."

THE authors of the guide-books have signally failed to discover the really interesting parts
of Law-land. I have looked through several of these works and not one of them refers, for example,
to the "Bear-Garden," which is the place where the preliminary skirmishes of litigation are
carried out. The Bear-Garden is the name given to it by the legal profession, so I am quite
in order in using the title. In fact, if you want to get to it, you have to use that title.
The proper title would be something like "the place where Masters in Chambers function at half-past
one;" but, if you go into the Law Courts and ask one of the attendants where that is, he will
say, rather pityingly, "Do you mean the Bear-Garden?" and you will know at once that you have
lost caste. Caste is a thing you should be very careful of in these days, so the best thing
is to ask for the Bear-Garden straightaway.

It is in the purlieus of the Law Courts and very hard to find. It is up a lot of very dingy
back-staircases and down a lot of very dingy passages. The Law Courts are like all our public
buildings. The parts where the public is allowed to go are fairly respectable, if not beautiful,
but the purlieus and the basements and the upper floors are scenes of unimaginable dinginess
and decay. The Law Courts' purlieus are worse than the Houses of Parliament's purlieus, and
it seems to me that even more disgraceful things are done in them. It only shows you the danger
of Nationalisation.

On the way to the Bear-Garden you pass the King's Remembrancer's This is the man who reminds
HIS MAJESTY about people's birthdays; and in a large family like that he must be kept busy.
Not far from the King's Remembrancer there is a Commissioner for Oaths; you can go into his
room and have a really good swear for about half-a-crown. This is cheaper than having it in
the street--that is, if you are a gentleman; for by the Profane Oaths Act, 1745, swearing and
cursing are punishable by a fine of one shilling for every day-labourer, soldier or seaman;
two shillings for every other person under the degree of a gentleman; and five shillings for
every person of or above the degree of a gentleman. This is not generally known. The Commissioner
of Oaths is a very broad-minded man, and there is literally no limit to what you may swear
before him. The only thing is that he insists on your filing it before you actually say it.
This may cause delay; so that if you are feeling particularly strongly about anything it is
probably better to have it out in the street and risk being taken for a gentleman.

There are a number of other interesting functionaries on the way to the Bear-Garden; but we
must get on. When you have wandered about in the purlieus for a long time you will hear a tremendous
noise, a sort of combined snarling and roaring and legal conversation. When you hear that,
you will know that you are very near the bears. They are all snarling and roaring in a large
preliminary arena, where the bears prepare themselves for the struggle; all round it are smaller
cages or arenæ, where the struggles take place. If possible you ought to go early, so that
you can watch the animals massing. Lawyers, as I have had occasion to observe before, are the
most long-suffering profession in the country, and the things they do in the Bear-Garden they
have to do in the luncheon-hour, or rather in the luncheon half-hour, between half-past one
and two.

This accounts perhaps for the extreme frenzy of the proceedings. They hurry in a frenzy up
the back-stairs about 1.25, and they pace up and down in a frenzy till half-past one. There
are all sorts of bears, most of them rather seedy old bears, with shaggy and unkempt coats.
These are solicitors' clerks, and they all come straight out of DICKENS. They have shiny little
private-school handbags, each inherited, no doubt, through a long line of ancestral solicitors'
clerks; and they all have the draggled sort of moustache that tells you when it is going to
rain. While they are pacing up and down the arena they all try to get rid of these moustaches
by pulling violently at alternate ends; but the only result is to make it look more like rain
than ever.

Some of the bears are robust old bears, with well-kept coats and loud roars; these are solicitors'
clerks too, only better fed; or else they are real solicitors. And a few of the bears are perky
young creatures--in barrister's robes, either for the first time, when they look very self-conscious,
or for the second time, when they look very self-confident. All the bears are telling each
other about their cases. They are saying, "We are a deceased wife's sister suing in forma pauperis,"
or "I am a discharged bankrupt, three times convicted of perjury, but I am claiming damages
under the Diseases of Pigs Act, 1862," or "You are the crew of a merchant-ship and we are the
editor of a newspaper." Just at first it is rather disturbing to hear snatches of conversation
like that, but there is no real cause for alarm; they are only identifying themselves with
the interests of their clients; and, when one realises that, one is rather touched.

At long last one of the keepers at the entrance to the small cages begins to shout very loudly.
It is not at all clear what he is shouting, but apparently it is the pet-names of the bears,
for there is a wild rush for the various cages. Across the middle of the cage a stout barricade
has been erected, and behind the barricade sits the Master, pale but defiant. Masters in Chambers
are barristers who have not got proper legal faces, and have had to give up being ordinary
barristers on that account; in the obscurity and excitement of the Bear-Garden nobody notices
that their faces are all wrong. The two chief bears rush at the Master and the other bears
jostle round them, egging them on. When they see that they cannot get at the Master they begin
snarling. One of them snarls quietly out of a long document about the Statement of Claim. He
throws a copy of this at the Master, and the Master tries to get the hang of it while the bear
is snarling; but the other bear is by now beside himself with rage, and he begins putting in
what are called interlocutory snarls, so that the Master gets terribly confused, though he
doesn't let on.

By-and-by all pretence of formality and order is put aside and the battle really begins. At
this stage of the proceedings the rule is that no fewer than two of the protagonists must be
roaring at the same time, of which one must be the Master. But the more general practice is
for all three of them to roar at the same time. Sometimes, it is true, by sheer roar-power
the Master succeeds in silencing one of the bears for a moment, but he can never be said to
succeed in cowing a bear. If anybody is cowed it is the Master. Meanwhile the lesser bears
press closer and closer, pulling at the damp ends of their rainy moustaches and making whispered
suggestions for new devilries in the ears of the chief bears, who nod their heads emphatically
but don't pay any attention.

The final stage is the stage of physical violence, when the chief bears lean over the barricade
and shake their paws at the Master; they think they are only making legal gestures, but the
Master knows very well that they are getting out of hand; he knows then that it is time he
threw them a bun. So he says a soothing word to each of them and runs his pen savagely through
almost everything on their papers. The bears growl in stupefaction and rage, and take deep
breaths to begin again. But meanwhile the keeper has shouted for a fresh set of bears, who
surge wildly into the room. The old bears are swept aside and creep out, grunting. What the
result of it all is I don't know. Nobody knows. But the new bears----

    [EDITOR.--I am much bored with this.

    AUTHOR.--Oh, very well.]

    A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From the directions on an omnibus ticket:--

    "Passengers are requested not to stand on top of the Bus
    back seats for smoking."

This is a thing we never do.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"MARY ROSE."

OF course nobody could possibly suspect Sir JAMES BARRIE of plagiarising (save from himself),
yet it will explain something of the atmosphere of Mary Rose if I say that it is a story with
such a theme as that admirable ghostmonger, the Provost of Eton, would whole-heartedly approve--thrilling,
sinister, inconclusive--with (shall I say?) just a dash of Sir ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE in his other-worldly
mood to bring it well into the movement. Naturally the variations are sheer BARRIE and of the
most adroit.

Mary Rose is in fact a girl who couldn't grow up, because whenever she visited a little mystery
island in the Outer Hebrides "they" who lived in a "lovely, lovely, lovely" vague world beyond
these voices would call her vaguely (to Mr. NORMAN O'NEILL'S charming music), and she would
as vaguely return with no memory of what had passed and no change in her physical condition.
This didn't matter so much when, as a mere child, she disappeared for thirty days; but when,
mother of an incomparable heir of two, she was rapt away in the middle of a picnic for twenty-five
years, and returned to find a husband, mother and father inexplicably old and changed, and
dreadfully silent about her babe--well, you see for yourself how hopeless everything was. As
if there were not enough real tragedy in the world and it were necessary to invent!

I don't think it fair to tell you any more. You shouldn't suffer these thrills at second-hand.
But I can say that, in spite of making it a point of professional honour to try to keep a warm
spine and check the unbidden tear from trickling down my nose (which makes you look such an
ass before a cynical colleague during the intervals), I was beaten in both attempts. The "effects"
were astonishingly well contrived by both author and producer (Mr. HOLMAN CLARK). You were
not let down at the supreme moment by a hurried shuffle of dimly seen forms or the click of
an electrician's gear suggesting too solid flesh. The house was in a queer way stunned by the
poignancy of the last scene between the young ghost-mother and the long-sought unrecognised
son, and had to shake itself before it could reward with due applause the fine playing of as
perfect a cast as I have seen for a long time. There's no manner of doubt that Sir JAMES "got
it over" (as they say) all right.

Miss FAY COMPTON makes astonishing strides. Her Mary Rose had adorable shy movements, caresses,
intonations, wistfulnesses. These were traits of Mary Rose, not tricks of Miss COMPTON. And
they escaped monotony--supreme achievement in the difficult circumstances. Mr. ROBERT LORAINE
in the doubled rôles of Mary Rose's husband and son, showed a very fine skill in his differentiation
of the husband's character in three phases of time and development, and of the son's, with
its family likeness and individual variation. Mr. ERNEST THESIGER, who seems to touch nothing
he does not adorn, gave a fine rendering of as charming a character as ever came out of the
BARRIE box--the superstitious, learned, courteous crofter's son, student of Aberdeen University,
temporary boatman and (later) minister. He did his best incidentally, by rowing away without
casting off, to corroborate the local legend that the queer little island sometimes disappeared.
Miss MARY JERROLD was just the perfect BARRIE mother (of Mary Rose). Mr. ARTHUR WHITBY'S parson,
Mr. NORMAN FORBES' squire, Miss JEAN CADELL'S housekeeper, left no chinks in their armour for
a critic's spleenful arrow.

    T.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It was one of those perfect June nights that so seldom
    occur except in August."

    ---- Magazine.

The result of Daylight-saving, no doubt.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONNOISSEUR.

  No more to bits of china (though I love it),
    To coloured prints no more my fancy roams,
  Or all the works of art I used to covet
    In other people's homes.

  Old first editions, Sheffield plate and brasses,
    Weapons of CROMWELL'S time and coats of mail,
  Gate-tables, QUEEN ANNE chairs and aught that passes
    For craft of CHIPPENDALE--

  Such things no more I spend my hard-earned cash on
    (Fain though the spirit be, the purse is weak);
  Yet strong within me burns the ruling passion
    For anything antique.

  To haunt the sales for "finds" no more my job is;
    I've found at length, to satisfy my bent,
  A wider sphere for this my last of hobbies,
    Which costs me not a cent;

  Where I can see my friends possess the treasure
    Their souls desire, nor envy them for that;
  My game's to scan my fellow-man at leisure
    Divested of his hat;

  Among my own coevals, whom at last Time
    Is taking by the locks at forty-nine,
  Searching (a quaint but inexpensive pastime)
    For balder heads than mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

HINTS ON ADVERTISING.

IN the belief that the numerous signs and notices, such as those containing warnings and advice
to the public, with which the eye is so familiar, might be employed as suitable media for commercial
advertisement, the following suggestions are offered for what they are worth:--

      =LIFT NOT WORKING.=

    When you walk upstairs
    be sure your boots are
    shod with PUSSYFOOT
       Rubber Heels.

       * * *

        =TO STOP THE TRAIN PULL
           DOWN THE CORD.=

    Then light a NAVY LIST Cigarette.

      That alone is worth the £5.

       * * *

      =STICK NO BILLS.=

     It's not your job.

    Let STIKKOTINE do it.

      Sticks anything.

       * * *

     =THIS RACK IS PROVIDED FOR
       LIGHT ARTICLES ONLY.=

    If your baby is a GLOXO baby
       keep it on your knee.

    GLOXO builds bulky bairns.

       * * *

      =KEEP OFF THE GRASS.=

    Unless you are wearing
        GUMBOODLE'S
         Goloshes.
       Won't wet feet.

       * * *

    =BEWARE OF THE DOG.=

    Wait till he hears
    HIS MASTER'S VOICE.

       * * *

     =YOU MAY TELEPHONE FROM HERE.=

    Ring up your newsagent and order
          your DAILY WAIL.

           Billion Sale.
           Order it now.
           CHU CHIN CHOW.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "CHARLES ----

    This week, DRIVEN FROM HOME. Next week, AT SEA."

    Daily Paper.

Surely this pitiable case ought to be brought to the attention of the Actors' Benevolent Association.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

I HAVE a mild grievance against that talented lady, Miss MARJORIE BOWEN, for labelling her
latest novel "a romantic fantasy." Because, like all her other stories, The Cheats (COLLINS)
moves with such an air of truth, its personages are so human, that I could delightfully persuade
myself that it was all true, and that I had really shared, with a sometimes quickened pulse,
the strange fortunes of the sombre young hero. But--fantasy! That is to show the strings and
give away the whole game. However, if you can forget that, the coils of an admirably woven
intrigue will grip your attention and sympathy throughout. The central figure is one Jaques,
who comes to town as a penniless and love-lorn romantic, to be confronted with the revelation
that he is himself the eldest son, unacknowledged but legitimate, of His Majesty KING CHARLES
THE SECOND, then holding Court at Whitehall. It is from the plots and counter-plots, the machinations
and subterfuges that follow that Miss BOWEN justifies her title. Certainly The Cheats establishes
her in my mind as our first writer of historical fiction. The character-drawing is admirable
(especially of poor weak-willed vacillating Jaques, a wonderfully observed study of the STUART
temperament). More than ever, also, Miss BOWEN might here be said to write her descriptions
with a paint-brush; the whole tale goes by in a series of glowing pictures, most richly coloured.
The Cheats is not a merry book; its treatment of the foolish heroine in particular abates nothing
of grim justice; but of its art there can be no two opinions. I wish again that I had been
allowed to believe in it.

It must be unusual in war for a commander-in-chief to be regarded by his opponents with the
respect and admiration that the British forces in East Africa felt towards VON LETTOW-VORBECK;
from General SMUTS, who congratulated him on his Order "Pour le Mérite," down to the British
Tommy who promised to salute him "if ever 'e's copped." The fact that VON LETTOW held out from
August, 1914, till after the Armistice with a small force mainly composed of native askaris,
and with hardly any assistance from overseas, is proof in itself of his organizing ability,
his military leadership and his indomitable determination. As these are qualities which are
valued by his late enemies his story of the campaign, My Reminiscences of East Africa (HURST
AND BLACKETT), should appeal to a large public, especially as it is written on the whole in
a sporting spirit and not without some sense of humour. His descriptions of the natural difficulties
of the country and the methods he adopted for handling them are interesting and instructive.
But in military matters his story is not altogether convincing; for if his "victories" were
as "decisive" as he represents them how is it that they were followed almost invariably by
retirement? The results are attributed in these pages to "slight mischances" or "unfavourable
conditions" or merely to "pressure of circumstances." Would it not have been better, while
he was about it, to claim boldly that he was luring us on? This is a question on which one
naturally refers to the maps, and it is therefore all the more regrettable that these contain
no scale of mileage, an omission which renders them almost meaningless. How many readers, for
instance, will realise that German East Africa was almost twice the size of Germany? The translation
on the whole is good, though some phrases such as "the at times barely sufficient ration" are
rather too redolent of the Fatherland.

       *       *       *       *       *

I see that on the title-page of his latest story Mr. W. E. NORRIS is credited with having already
written two others (specified by name), etc. Much virtue in that "etc." I cannot therefore
regard The Triumphs of Sara (HUTCHINSON) precisely as the work of a beginner, though it has
a freshness and sense of enjoyment about it that might well belong to a first book rather than
to--I doubt whether even Mr. NORRIS himself could say offhand what its number is. Sara and
her circle are eminently characteristic of their creator. You have here the same well-bred
well-to-do persons, pleasantly true to their decorous type, retaining always, despite modernity
of clothes and circumstance, a gentle aroma of late Victorianism. Perhaps Sara is the most
immediate of Mr. NORRIS'S heroines so far. Her money-bags had been filled in Manchester, and
from time to time in her history you are reminded of this circumstance. It explains much; though
hardly her marriage with Euan Leppington, whose attraction apparently lay in being one of the
few males of her acquaintance whom Sara did not find it fatally easy to bring to heel. Anyhow,
after marriage she quickly grew bored to death of him; so much so that it required an attempt
(badly bungled) by another woman to get Euan to elope with her, and a providential collapse
of the very unwilling Lothario, to bring about that happy ending that my experience of kind
Mr. NORRIS has taught me to expect. I may add that he has never done anything more quietly
entertaining than the frustrated elopement; the luncheon scene at the Métropole, Brighton,
between the angry but amused Sara and a husband incapacitated by rage, remorse and chill, is
an especially well-handled little comedy of manners.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir JULIAN CORBETT, in writing the first volume of Naval Operations (LONGMANS), has carried
the semi-official history of the War at sea only as far as the Battle of the Falklands; but
if the other three or four volumes--the number is still uncertain--are to be as full of romance
as this the complete work will be a library of adventure in itself. Hardly ever turning aside
to praise or blame, he says with almost unqualified baldness a multitude of astounding things--things
we half knew, or guessed, or longed to have explained, or dared not whisper, or, most of all,
never dreamt of. Here is a gold-mine for the makers of boys' books of all future generations
to quarry in. Think, for instance, of the liner Ortega shaking off a German cruiser by bolting
into an uncharted tide-race near the Horn; or the Southport, left for disabled by her captors,
crawling two thousand miles to safety with only half an engine; or the triumphant raider Karlsruhe,
her pursuers baffled, full to the hatches with captured luxuries, bands playing, flags flying,
suddenly blown up in mid-Atlantic. The game of hide-and-seek, as played by the Emden and her
like, naturally figures very largely in a volume which HENTY could hardly have bettered. The
author's veracious narrative, leaving all picturesque detail to the imagination, gets home
every time by the sheer weight of its material. The War in Home waters is no less fascinatingly
reconstructed, and the case of maps contains in itself living epics for all who study them
with understanding.

       *       *       *       *       *

In writing her second book Miss HILDA M. SHARP has allowed herself what is, I suspect, the
lady novelist's greatest treat, the extraordinary achievement of using the first person singular
and making it masculine. She has done it very well too, and I am happy to recall that, in another
place, I was among the many who prophesied good concerning her future when she made her début
as a novelist with The Stars in their Courses in Mr. FISHER UNWIN'S "First Novel Library."
A Pawn in Pawn comes very properly from the same publisher. It has one of those plots which
it is most particularly a reviewer's business, in the reader's own interest, not to reveal,
but it is permissible to explain that the "pawn" of the title is a little girl adopted from
an orphanage, where, as someone says, "the orphans aren't really orphans," by Julian Tarrant,
whom a select circle acknowledged as the greatest poet that the last years of the nineteenth
century produced. Miss SHARP earns my special admiration by getting through the inevitable
description of the beginning of the Great War in fewer words than anybody whose attempt I have
yet encountered, and steers throughout a pleasant course midway between a "bestseller" and
a "high-brow." Lydia, the "pawn," is very charming, but quite possibly so, and though, of course,
she must marry one of the three men interested in her adoption Miss SHARP will probably keep
most of her readers, as she did me, in doubt as to which it is to be until quite the end of
the book. I think that he may prove an acquired taste with most readers; but directly I found
that he was apt to quote the reviews in Punch I realised that he was a man of discrimination
and deserved his good luck.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

An Urgent Request.

    "---- CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, LTD.

    Members are requested to hand in their Share Pass Books
    for Audit Purposes to the Head Office on or before AT
    ONCE."--Local Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Rev. ---- writes:--'I have a Cousin residing in the
    Transvaal who has been living on three plates of
    porridge made of ---- for five years, and is well and
    strong on it.'"--South African Paper.

It sounds very sustaining.