We saw his shadow later, moving uncertainly across the shades in the upper chamber where Sympathy
Gibbs lay with her baby, his hand lifted once with the fingers crooked in mysterious agony.
Some one started a hymn in the street below and people took it up, bawling desperately for
comfort to their souls. Mate Snow didn't sing. He stood motionless between the box-trees, staring
up at the lighted window shades, as if waiting. By-and-by Minister Malden came down the steps,
and moving away beside him like a drunken man, went to live in the two rooms over the drugstore.
And that was the beginning of it.

* * *

Folks said Mate Snow was not the kind to forget an injury, and yet it was Mate who stood behind
the minister through those first days of shock and scandal, who out-faced the congregation
with his stubborn, tight lips, and who shut off the whisperings of the Dorcas Guild with the
sentence which was destined to become a sort of formula on his tongue through the ensuing years:

"You don't know what's wrong, and neither do I; but we can all see the man's a saint, can't we?"

"But the woman?" some still persisted.

"Sympathy Gibbs? You ought to know Sympathy Gibbs by this time."

And if there was a faint curling at the corners of his lips, they were all too dull to wonder
at it. As for me, the boy, I took the changing phenomena of life pretty well for granted, and
wasted little of my golden time speculating about such things. But as I look back now on the
blunt end of those Urkey days, I seem to see Minister Malden growing smaller as he comes nearer,
and Mate Snow growing larger--Mate Snow browbeating the congregation with a more and more menacing
righteousness--Minister Malden, in his protecting shadow, leaner, grayer, his eyes burning
with an ever fiercer zeal, escaping Center Church and slipping away to redeem the Chinaman.

"There is more joy in heaven over one sinner," was his inspiration, his justification, and,
I suspect, his blessed opiate.

But it must have been hard on Yen Sin. I remember him now, a steam-blurred silhouette, earlier
than the earliest, later than the latest, swaying over his tubs and sad-irons in the shanty
on the stranded scow by Pickett's wharf, dreaming perhaps of the populous rivers of his birth,
or of the rats he ate, or of the opium he smoked at dead of night, or of those weird, heathen
idols before which he bowed down his shining head--familiar and inscrutable alien.

An evening comes back to me when I sat in Yen Sin's shop and waited for my first "stand up"
collar to be ironed, listening with a kind of awe to the tide making up the flats, muffled
and unfamiliar, and inhaling the perfume compounded of steam, soap, hot linen, rats, opium,
tea, idols and what-not peculiar to Yen Sin's shop and to a thousand lone shops in a thousand
lone villages scattered across the mainland. When the precious collar was at last in my hands,
still limp and hot from its ordeal, Yen Sin hung over me in the yellow nimbus of the lamp,
smiling at my wonder. I stared with a growing distrust at the flock of tiny bird-scratches
inked on the band.

"What," I demanded suspiciously, "is that?"

"Lat's Mista You," he said, nodding his head and summoning another hundred of wrinkles to his
damp, polished face.

"That ain't my name. You don't know my name," I accused him.

"Mista Yen Sin gottee name, allee light."

The thing fascinated me, like a serpent.

"Whose name is that, then?" I demanded, pointing to a collar on the counter between us. The
band was half-covered with the cryptic characters, done finely and as if with the loving hand
of an artist.

Yen Sin held it up before his eyes in the full glow of the lamp. His face seemed incredibly
old; not senile, like our white-beards mumbling on the wharves, but as if it had been a long,
long time in the making and was still young. I thought he had forgotten me, he was so engrossed
in his handiwork.

"Lat colla?" he mused by-and-by. "Lat's Mista Minista, boy."

"Mister Minister Malden?"

And there both of us stared a little, for there was a voice at the door.

"Yes? Yes? What is it?"

Minister Malden stood with his head and shoulders bent, wary of the low door-frame, and his
eyes blinking in the new light. I am sure he did not see me on the bench; he was looking at
Yen Sin.

"How is it with you to-night, my brother?"

The Chinaman straightened up and faced him, grave, watchful.

"Fine," he said. "Mista Yen Sin fine. Mista Minista fine, yes?"

He bowed and motioned his visitor to a rocker, upholstered with a worn piece of Axminster and
a bit of yellow silk with half a dragon on it. The ceremony, one could see, was not new. Vanishing
into the further mysteries of the rear, he brought out a bowl of tea, steaming, a small dish
of heathenish things, nuts perhaps, or preserves, deposited the offering on the minister's
pointed knees, and retired behind the counter to watch and wait.

An amazing change came over the minister. Accustomed to seeing him gentle, shrinking, illusively
non-resisting, I scarcely knew this white flame of a man, burning over the tea-bowl!

"You are kind to me," he cried, "and yet your heart is not touched. I would give up my life
gladly, brother, if I could only go up to the Throne and say to Jesus, 'Behold, Lord, Thy son,
Yen Sin, kneeling at the foot of the Cross. Thou gavest me the power, Lord, and the glory is
thine!' If I could say that, brother, I--I--"

His voice trailed off, though his lips continued to move uncertainly. His face was transfigured,
his eyes filmed with dreams. He was looking beyond Yen Sin now, and on the lost yellow millions.
The tea, untasted, smoked upward into his face, an insidious, narcotic cloud. I can think of
him now as he sat there, wresting out of his easeless years one moment of those seminary dreams;
the color of far-away, the sweet shock of the alien and the bizarre, the enormous odds, the
Game. The walls of Yen Sin's shop were the margins of the world, and for a moment the missionary
lived.

"He would soften your heart," he murmured. "In a wondrous way. Have you never thought, Yen
Sin, 'I would like to be a good man'?"

The other spread his right hand across his breast.

"Mista Yen Sin velly humble dog. Mista Yen Sin no good. Mista Yen Sin's head on le glound.
Mista Yen Sin velly good man. Washy colla fine."

It was evidently an old point, an established score for the heathen.

"Yes, I must say, you do do your work. I've brought you that collar for five years now, and
it still seems new." The minister's face fell a little. Yen Sin continued grave and alert.

"And Mista Matee Snow, yes? His colla allee same like new, yes?"

"Yes, I must say!" The other shook himself. "But it's not that, brother. We're all of us wicked,
Yen Sin, and unless we--"

"Mista Minista wickee?"

For a moment the minister's eyes seemed fascinated by the Chinaman's; pain whitened his face.

"All of us," he murmured uncertainly, "are weak. The best among us sins in a day enough to
blacken eternity. And unless we believe, and have faith in the Divine Mercy of the Father,
and confess--confession--" His voice grew stronger and into it crept the rapt note of one whose
auditor is within. "Confession! A sin confessed is no longer a sin. The word spoken out of
the broken and contrite heart makes all things right. If one but had faith in that! If--if
one had Faith!"

The life went out of his voice, the fire died in his eyes, his fingers drooped on the tea-bowl.
The Chinaman's clock was striking the half after seven. He stared at the floor, haggard with guilt.

"Dear me, I'm late for prayer-meeting again. Snow will be looking for me."

I slipped out behind him, glad enough of Urkey's raw air after that close chamber of mysteries.
I avoided the wharf-lane, however, more than a little scared by this sudden new aspect of the
Minister, and got myself out to the shore street by Miah White's yard and the grocery porch,
and there I found myself face to face with Mate Snow. That frightened me still more, for the
light from Henny's Notions' window was shining oddly in his eyes.

"You're lookin' for the minister," I stammered, ducking my head.

He stopped and stared down at me, tapping a sole on the cobbles.

"What's this? What's this?"

"He--he says you'd be lookin' for 'im, an' I seen 'im to the Chinaman's an' he's comin' right
there, honest he is, Mr. Snow."

"Oh! So? I'd be looking for him, would I?"

"Y--y--yessir."

I sank down on the grocery steps and studied my toes.

"He was there, though!" I protested in desperation, when we had been waiting in vain for a
long quarter-hour. The dark monitor lifted his chin from his collar and looked at his watch.

"It's hard," I heard him sigh, as he turned away down Lovett's Court, where Center Church blossomed
with its prayer-meeting lamps. Shadows of the uneasy flock moved across the windows; Emsy Nickerson,
in his trustee's black, peered out of the door into the dubious night, and beyond him in the
bright vestry Aunt Nickerson made a little spot of color, agitated, nursing formless despairs,
an artist in vague dreads.

I was near enough, at the church steps, to hear what Mate told them.

"I'll lead to-night. He's gone out in the back-country to pray alone."

Aunt Nickerson wept quietly, peeping from the corners of her eyes. Reverent awe struggled with
an old rebellion in Emsy's face, and in others as they came crowding. The trustee broke out
bitterly:

"Miah White's took to the bottle again, along o' him. If only he'd do his prayin' at Miah's
house a spell, 'stead o' the back-country--"

"There was a back-country in Judea," Mate cried him down. "And some one prayed there, not one
night, but forty nights and days!"

What a far cry it was from the thwarted lover behind the prescription screen, fanning the flames
of hell-fire through the night, to the Seer thundering in the vestry--had there been any there
with heads enough to wonder at it.

It happened from time to time, this mysterious retreat into the moors, more frequently as the
Infield Conference drew on and the hollows deepened in the minister's cheeks and his eyes shone
brighter with foreboding. Nor was this the first time the back-country had been mentioned in
the same breath with the Wilderness of Judea. I can remember our Miss Beedie, in Sunday School,
lifting her eyes and sighing at the first verse of the fourth chapter of the Book of Luke.

And to-night, while I crept off tingling through the dark of Lovett's Court, he was in the
Wilderness again, and I had seen him last.

I brought up by one of the tubbed box-trees and peered in at the Pillar House with a new wonder.
I was so used to it there, dead on the outside and living on the inside, that I had never learned
to think of it as a strange thing. Perhaps a dozen times I had seen little Hope Gibbs (they
still said "Gibbs") playing quietly among the lilacs in the back yard. It was always at dusk
when the shadows were long there, and she a shadow among them, so unobtrusive and far away.
As for her mother, no one ever saw Sympathy Gibbs.

Crouching by the box-tree, I found myself wondering what they were doing in there, Sympathy
Gibbs and the little girl; whether they were sleeping, or whether they were sitting in the
dark, thinking, or whispering about the husband and father who was neither husband nor father,
or whether, in some remote chamber, there might not be a lamp or a candle burning.

The dead hush of the place oppressed me. I turned my head to look back at the comfortable,
bumbling devotion of Center Church, and this is what I saw there.

The door was still open, a blank, bright rectangle giving into the deserted vestry, and it
was against this mat of light that I spied Minister Malden's head and shoulders thrust furtively,
as he peeped in and seemed to harken to the muffled unison of the prayer.

You may imagine me startled enough at that, but what of my emotion when, having peeped and
listened and reassured himself for a dozen seconds, Minister Malden turned and came softly
down the Court toward the gate and the box-trees and me, a furtive silhouette against the door-light,
his face turned back over one shoulder.

I couldn't bolt; he was too close for that. The wonder was that he failed to see me, for he
stopped within two yards of where I cowered in the shadow and stood for a long time gazing
in between the trees at the pillared porch, and I could hear his breathing, uneven and laborious,
as though he had been running or fighting. Once I thought he struck out at something with a
vicious fist. Then his trouble was gone, between two winks, and he was gone too, up the walk
and up the steps, without any to-do about it. I don't know whether he tapped on the door or
not. It was open directly. I caught a passing glimpse of Sympathy Gibbs in the black aperture;
the door closed on them both, and the Pillar House was dead again.

Now this was an odd way for Minister Malden to fast and pray in the Wilderness--odd enough,
one would say, to keep me waiting there a while to see what would come of it all. But it didn't.
I had had enough of mysteries for one Summer's night, or at any rate I had enough by the time
I got my short legs, full tilt, into the shore street. For I had caught a fleeting glimpse,
on the way, of a watcher in the shadow behind the other box-tree--Yen Sin, the heathen, with
a surprised eyeball slanting at me over one shoulder.

* * *

Among the most impressive of the phenomena of life, as noted in my thirteenth year, is the
amazing way in which a community can change while one is away from it a month. Urkey village
at the beginning of my 'teens seemed to me much the same Urkey village upon which I had first
opened my eyes. And then I went to make a visit with my uncle Orville Means in Gillyport, just
across the Sound, and when I came back on the packet I could assure myself with all the somber
satisfaction of the returning exile that I would scarcely have known the old place.

Gramma Pilot's cow had been poisoned. There had been a fire in the Selectmen's room at Town
Hall. Amber Matheson had left Mrs. Wharf's Millinery and set up for herself, opposite the Eastern
School. And Mate Snow, all of a sudden, had bought the old Pons house, on the hill hanging
high over the town, and gone to live there. With a leap, and as it were behind my back, he
sat there dominating the village and the harbor and the island--our Great Man.

He took Minister Malden with him, naturally, out of the two rooms over the store, into one
room in the third story of the house on the hill--where Sympathy Gibbs could see him if she
chose to look that way, as frankly and ignominiously a dependent as any baron's chaplain in
the Golden Days.

"She'd have done better with Mate, after all," folks began to say.

But of all the changes in the village, the most momentous to me was the change in Yen Sin.
I don't know why it should have been I, out of all the Urkey youth, who went to the Chinaman's;
perhaps it was the spiritual itch left from that first adventure on the scow. At any rate,
I had fallen into a habit of dropping in at the cabin, and not always with a collar to do.

I had succeeded in worming out of him the meaning of that first set of bird-scratches on my
collar-band--"The boy who throws clam-shells"--and of a second and more elaborate writing--"The
boy who is courageous in the face of all the water of the ocean, yet trembles before so much
of it as may be poured in a wash-basin." There came a third inscription in time, but of that
he would not tell me, nor of Mate Snow's, nor the minister's. It was a queer library he had,
those fine-written collars of Urkey village.

He had been growing feebler so long and so gradually that I had made nothing of it. Once, I
remember, it struck me queer that he wasn't working so hard as he had used to. Still earliest
of all and latest of all, he would sometimes leave his iron cooling on the board now and stand
for minutes of the precious day, dreaming out of the harbor window. When the sun was sinking,
the shaft through the window bathed his head and his lean neck with a quality almost barbaric,
and for a moment in the gloom made by the bright pencil, the new, raw things of Urkey faded
out, leaving him alone in his ancient and ordered civilization, a little wistful, I think,
and perhaps a little frightened, as a child waking from a long, dreaming sleep, to find his
mother gone.

He had begun to talk about China, too, and the river where he was born. And I made nothing
of it, it came on so gradually, day by day. Then I went away, as I have said, and came back
again. I dropped in at the scow the second day after the packet brought me home.

"Hello, there!" I cried, peeping over the counter, "I got a collar for you to--to--" I began
to stumble. "Mr. Yen Sin, dear me, what's the matter of you?"

"Mista Yen Sin fine," he said in a strengthless voice, smiling and nodding from the couch where
he lay, half propped up by a gorgeous, faded cushion. "Mista Yen Sin go back China way pletty
quick now, yes."

"Honest?"

He made no further answer, but took up the collar I had brought.

"You been gone Gillypo't, yes? You take colla China boy, yes?"

"Yessir!"

"He pletty nice man, Sam Low, yes?"

"Oh, you know him, then? Oh, he's all right, Yen Sin."

It was growing dark outside, and colder, with a rising wind from landward to seaward against
the tide. A sense of something odd and wrong came over me; it was a moment before I could make
it out. The fire was dead in the stove for the first time in memory and the Vestal irons were
cold. Yen Sin asked me to light the lamp. In the waxing yellow glow he turned his eyes to mine,
and mine were big.

"You know Mista God?" he questioned.

"Oh, yes," I answered soberly. "Yes, indeed."

"Mista God allee same like Mista Yen Sin, yes?"

I felt myself paling at his blasphemy, and thought of lightning.

"Mista God," he went on in the same speculative tone, "Mista God know allee bad things, allee
same like Mista Yen Sin, yes?"

"Where is the minister?" I demanded in desperation.

"Mista Yen Sin likee see Mista Minista." When he added, with a transparent hand fluttering
over his heart: "Like see pletty quick now," I seemed to fathom for the first time what was
happening to him.

"Wait," I cried, too full of awe to know what I said. "Wait, wait, Yen Sin. I'll fetch 'im."

It was dark outside, the sky overcast, and the wind beginning to moan a high note across the
roofs as it swept in from the moors and out again over the graying waters. In the shore street
my eyes chanced upon the light of Center Church, and I remembered that it was meeting-night.

* * *

There was only a handful of worshippers that evening, but a thousand could have had no more
eyes it seemed to me as I tiptoed down the aisle with the scandalized pad-pad of Emsy Nickerson's
pursuing soles behind my back. Confusion seized me; I started to run, and had come almost up
to Mister Malden before I had wit enough to discover that it wasn't Minister Malden at all,
but Mate Snow in the pulpit, standing with an open hymn-book in one hand and staring down at
me with grim, inquiring eyes. After a time I managed to stammer:

"The Chinaman, you know--he's goin' to die--the minister--"

Then I fled, dodging Emsy's legs. Confused voices followed me; Aunt Nickerson's full of a nameless
horror; Mate Snow's, thundering: "Brother Hemans, you will please continue the meeting. I will
go and see what I can do. But your prayers are needed here."

Poor Minister Malden! His hour had struck--the hour so long awaited--and now it was Mate Snow
who should go to answer it. Perhaps the night had something to do with it, and the melancholy
disaster of the wind. Perhaps it was the look of Mate Snow's back as he passed me, panting
on the steps, his head bowed with his solemn and triumphant stewardship. But all of a sudden
I hated him, this righteous man. He had so many things, and Minister Malden had nothing--nothing
but the Chinaman's soul--and he was going to try and get that too.

I had to find Minister Malden, and right away. But where was he, and on prayer-meeting night
too? My mind skipped back. The "Wilderness."

I was already ducking along the Court to reconnoiter the Pillar House, black and silent beyond
the box-trees. And then I put my hands in my pockets, my ardor dimmed by the look of that vacant,
staring face. What was I, a boy of thirteen, against that house? I could knock at the door,
to be sure, as the minister had done that other night. Yes; but when I stood, soft-footed,
on the porch, the thought that Sympathy Gibbs might open it suddenly and find me there sent
the hands back again into the sanctuary of my pockets. What did I know of her? What did any
one know of her? To be confronted by her, suddenly, in the dark behind a green door--I tiptoed
down the steps.

If only there were a cranny of light somewhere in the dead place! I began to prowl around the
yard, feeling adventurous enough, you may believe, for no boy had ever scouted that bit of
Urkey land before. And I did find a light, beneath a drawn shade in the rear. Approaching as
stealthily as a red Indian, I put one large, round eye to the aperture.

If I had expected a melodramatic tableau, I was disappointed. I had always figured the inside
of the Pillar House as full of treasures, for they told tales of the old whaler's wealth. My
prying eyes found it bare, like a deserted house gutted by seasons of tramps. A little fire
of twigs and a broken butter-box on the hearth made a pathetic shift at domestic cheer. Minister
Malden sat at one side of it, his back to me, his face half-buried in his hands. Little Hope
Gibbs played quietly on the floor, building pig-pens with a box of matches, a sober, fire-lined
shade. Sympathy Gibbs was not in the picture, but I heard her voice after a moment, coming
out from an invisible corner.

"How much do you want this time, Will?"

"Want?" There was an anguished protest in the man's cry.

"Need, then." The voice was softer.

The minister's face dropped back in his hands, and after a moment the words came out between
his tight fingers, hardly to be heard.

"Five hundred dollars, Sympathy."

I thought there was a gasp from the corner, suppressed. I caught the sound of a drawer pulled
open and the vague rustling of skirts as the woman moved about. Her voice was as even as death
itself.

"Here it is, Will. It brings us to the end, Will. God knows where it will come from next time."

"It--it--you mean--" An indefinable horror ran though the minister's voice, and I could see
the cords shining on the hands which gripped the chair-arms. "Next time--next year--" His eyes
were fixed on the child at his feet. "God knows where it will come from. Perhaps--before another
time--something will happen. Dear little Hope--little girl!"

The child's eyes turned with a preoccupied wonder as the man's hand touched her hair; then
went back to the alluring pattern of the matches.

Sympathy Gibbs spoke once more.

"I've found out who holds the mortgage, Will. Mr. Dow told me."

His hand slid from Hope's hair and hung in the air. During the momentary hush his head, half-turned,
seemed to wait in a praying suspense.

"It's Mate Snow," the voice went on. The man covered his face.

"Thank God!" he said. I thought he shivered. "Then it's all--all right," he sighed after a
moment. "I was afraid it might be somebody who would--who might make trouble." He took out
a handkerchief and touched his forehead with it. "Thank--God!"

"Why do you thank God?" A weariness, like anger, touched her words.

"Why? Why do I thank God?" He faced her, wondering. "Because he has given me a strong man to
be my friend and stand behind me. Because Mate Snow, who might have hated me, has--"

"Has sucked the life out of you!" It came out of the corner like a blade. "Yes, yes, he has
sucked the life out of you in his hate, and thrown the dry shell of you to me; and that makes
him feel good on his hill there. No, no, no; I'm going to say it now. Has he ever tried to
find out what was wrong with us? No. He didn't need to. Why? Because no matter what it was,
we were given over into his hands, body and soul. And now it's Mate Snow who is the big man
of this island, and it's the minister that eats the crumbs that fall from his table, and folks
pity you and honor him because he's so good to you, and--"

And this was Urkey village, and night, and Yen Sin was dying.

"And he's down to the Chinaman's now!" I screamed, walking out of my dream. "An' the Chinaman's
dyin' an' wants the minister, an' Mate Snow he got there first."

The light went out in the room; I heard a chair knocked over, and then Minister Malden's voice:
"God forgive me! God forgive me!"

I ran, sprawling headlong through the shrubs.

Out in the dark of Lovett's Court I found people all about me, the congregation, let out, hobbling
and skipping and jostling shoreward, a curious rout. Others were there, not of the church;
Kibby Baker, the atheist, who had heard the news through the church window where he peeped
at the worshipers; Miah White's brother, the ship-calker, summoned by his sister; a score of
others, herding down the dark wind. At the shore street, folks were coming from the Westward.
It was strange to see them all and to think it was only a heathen dying.

Or, perhaps, it wasn't so strange, when one remembered Minister Malden coming down the years
with that light in his eyes, building his slow edifice, like one in Israel prophesying the
coming of the Messiah.

I shall never forget the picture I saw that night from the deck of the Chinaman's scow. The
water here in the lee was as smooth as black glass, save for the little ground-swell that rocked
the outer end of the craft. The tide was rising; the grounded end would soon be swimming. There
were others on the deck with me, and more on the dock overhead, their faces picked out against
the sky by the faint irradiations from the lighted shanty beneath. And over and behind it all
ran the tumult of the elements; behind it the sea, where it picked up on the Bight out there
beyond our eyes; above it the wind, scouring the channels of the crowded roofs and flinging
out to meet the waters, like a ravening and disastrous bride.

Mate Snow stood by the counter in the little cabin, his close-cropped head almost to the beams,
his voice, dry austere, summoning the Chinaman to repentance. "Verily, if a man be not born
again, he shall not enter into the Kingdom of Heaven." His eyes skipped to the door.

"And to be born again," he went on with a hint of haste, "you must confess, Yen Sin, and have
faith. That is enough. The outer and inner manifestations--confession and faith."

"Me, Mista Yen Sin--confessee?"

A curious and shocking change had come over the Chinaman in the little time I had been away.
He lay quite motionless on his couch, with a bit of silken tapestry behind his head, like a
heathen halo protecting him at last. He was more alive than he had been, precisely because
the life had gone out of him, and he was no longer bothered with it. His face was a mask, transparent
and curiously luminous, and there for the first time I saw the emotion of humor, which is another
name for perception.

His unclouded eyes found me by the door and he moved a hand in a vague gesture. I went, walking
stiff-legged, awe mingling with self-importance.

"Mista Boy, please," he whispered in my ear. "The collas on the shelf theah. Led paypah--"

Wondering, I took them down and piled them on the couch beside him, one after another, little
bundles done up carefully in flaring tissue with black characters inked on them.

"That one!" he whispered, and I undid the one under his finger, discovering half a dozen collars,
coiled with their long imprisonment.

"And that one, and that one--"

They covered his legs and rose about his thin shoulders, those treasured soiled collars of
his, gleaming under the lamp like the funeral-pyre of some fantastic potentate. Nothing was
heard in the room save the faint crackling of the paper, and after a moment Lem Pigeon murmuring
in amazement to his neighbor, over in a corner.

"Look a-there, will ye? He's got my collar with the blood spot onto it where the Lisbon woman's
husband hit me that time down to New Bedford. What ye make o' that now?"

Yen Sin lifted his eyes to Mate Snow's hanging over him in wonder.

"Mista Matee Snow confessee, yes?"

There was a moment of shocked silence while our great man stared at Yen Sin. He took his weight
from the counter and stood up straight.

"I confess my sins to God," he said.

The other moved a fluttering hand over his collars. "Mista Yen Sin allee same like Mista God, yes."

In the hush I heard news of the blasphemy whispering from lip to lip, out the door and up the
awe-struck dock. Mate Snow lifted a hand.

"Stop!" he cried. "Yen Sin, you are standing in the Valley of the Shadow of Death--"

"Mista Matee Snow wickee man? No? Yes? Mista Matee Snow confessee?"

The Chinaman was making a game of his death-bed, and even the dullest caught the challenge.
Mate Snow understood. The yellow man had asked him with the divine clarity of the last day
either to play the game or not to play the game. And Mate Snow wanted something enough to play.

"Yes," he murmured, "I am weak. All flesh is weak." He faltered, and his brow was corded with
the labor of memory. It is hard for a good man to summon up sins enough to make a decent confession;
nearly always they fall back in the end upon the same worn and respectable category.

"I confess to the sin of pride," he pronounced slowly. "And to good deeds and kind acts undone;
to moments of harshness and impatience--"

"Mista Matee Snow confessee?" Yen Sin shook a weary protest at the cheater wasting the precious
moments with words. Mate Snow lifted his eyes, and I saw his face whiten and a pearl of sweat
form on his forehead. A hush filled the close cave of light, a waiting silence, oppressive
and struck with a new expectancy. Little sounds on the dock above became important--young Gilman
Pilot's voice, cautioning: "Here, best take my hand on that ladder, Mr. Malden. Last rung's
carried away."

It was curious to see Mate Snow's face at that; it was as if one read the moving history of
years in it as he leaned over the counter and touched the dying man's breast with a passion
strange in him.

"I will tell you how wicked I am, Yen Sin. Three years ago I did Ginny Silva out of seventy
dollars wages in the bogs; and if he's here tonight I'll pay him the last cent of it. And--and--"
He appealed for mercy to the Chinaman's unshaken eyes. Then, hearing the minister on the deck
behind, he cast in the desperate sop of truth. "And--and I have coveted my neighbor's wife!"

It was now that Minister Malden cried from the doorway: "That is nothing, Yen Sin--nothing--when
you think of me!"

You may laugh. But just then, in that rocking death-chamber, with the sea and the dark and
the wind, no one laughed. Except Yen Sin, perhaps; he may have smiled, though the mask of his
features did not move. Minister Malden stepped into the room, and his face was like new ivory.

"Look at me! I have wanted to bring your soul to Christ before I died. That is white, but all
the rest of me is black. I have lived a lie; I have broken a law of God; to cover that I have
broken another, another--"

His voice hung in the air, filled with a strange horror of itself. The Chinaman fingered his
collars. Without our consent or our understanding, he had done the thing which had so shocked
us when he said it with his lips; the heathen sat in judgment, weighing the sins of our little
world.

"Yes?" he seemed to murmur. "And then?"

The minister's eyes widened; pain lifted him on his toes.

"I am an adulterer," he cried. "And my child is a--a--bastard. Her mother's husband, Joshua
Gibbs, didn't go down with his vessel after all. He was alive when I married her. He is alive
today, a wanderer. He learned of things and sent me a letter; it found me at the Infield Conference
the day before I came home that time to see my baby. Since that day it has seemed to me that
I would suffer the eternity of the damned rather than that that stain should mar my child's
life, and in the blackness of my heart I have believed that it wouldn't if it weren't known.
I have kept him quiet; I have hushed up the truth. I have paid him money, leaving it for him
where he wrote me to leave it. I have gone hungry and ragged to satisfy him. I have begged
my living of a friend. I have drained the life of the woman I love. And yet he is never content.
And I have betrayed even him. For he forbade me to see his wife ever again, or even to know
the child I had begotten, and I have gone to them, in secret, by night. I have sinned not alone
against God, but against the devil. I have sinned against--everything!"

* * *

The fire which had swept him on left him now of a sudden, his arms hung down at his sides,
his head drooped. It was Mate Snow who broke the silence, falling back a step, as if he had
been struck.

"God forgive me," he said in awe. "And I have kept you here. You! To preach the word of God
to these people. God forgive me!"

"I think Mista God laugh, yes."

Yen Sin wasn't laughing himself; he was looking at his collars. Mate Snow shrugged his shoulders
fiercely, impatient of the interruption.

"I have kept you here," he pursued bitterly, "for the good of my own soul, which would have
liked to drive you away. I have kept you here, even when you wanted to go away--"

"Little mousie want to go away. Little cat say, 'no--no.'" Yen Sin's head turned slowly and
he spoke on to the bit of yellow silk, his words clear and powerless as a voice in a dream.
"No--no, Mousie, stay with little cat. Good little cat. Like see little mousie jump. Little cat!"

Mate Snow wheeled on him, and I saw a queer sight on his face for an instant; the gray wrinkles
of age. My cousin Duncan was there, constable of Urkey village, and he saw it too and came
a step out of his corner. It was all over in a wink; Mate Snow lifted his shoulders with a
sigh, as much as to say: "You can see how far gone the poor fellow is."

The Chinaman, careless of the little by-play, went on.

"Mista Sam Kow nice China fella. Mista Minista go to Mista Sam Kow in Infield, washy colla.
Mista Yen Sin lite a letta to Mista Sam Kow, on Mista Minista colla-band. See? Mista Sam Kow
lite a letta back on colla-band. See?"

We saw--that the yellow man was no longer talking at random, but slowly, with his eyes on the
collar he held in his hand, like a scholar in his closet, perusing the occult pages of a chronicle.

"Mista Sam Kow say: 'This man go night-time in Chestnut Stleet; pickee out letta undah sidewalk,
stickee money-bag undah sidewalk, cly, shivah, makee allee same like sick fella. Walkee all
lound town allee night. Allee same like Chlistian dlunk man. No sleepee. That's all--Sam Kow.'
Mista Yen Sin keepee colla when Mista Minista come back; give new colla: one, two, five, seven
time; Mista Minista say: 'You washy colla fine, Yen Sin: this colla, allee same like new.'
Mista Matee Snow, his colla allee same like new, too--"

* * *

Something happened so suddenly that none of us knew what was going on. But there was my cousin
Duncan standing by the counter, his arm and shoulder still thrust forward with the blow he
had given; and there was our great man of the hill flung back against the wall with a haggard
grimace set on his face.

"No, you don't!" Duncan growled, his voice shivering a little with excitement. "No, you don't,
Mate!"

Mate Snow screamed, and his curse was like the end of the world in Urkey island.

"Curse you! The man's a thief, I tell you. He's stolen my property! I demand my property--those
collars there in his hand now. You're constable, you say. Well, I want my--"

He let himself down on the bench, as if the strength had left his knees.

"He's going to tell you lies," he cried. "He's making fools of you all with his--his--Duncan,
boy! Don't listen to the black liar. He's going to try and make out 'twas me put the letter
under the walk in Chestnut Street, up there to Infield; that it was me, all these years, that
went back and got out money he put there. Me! Mate Snow. Duncan, boy; he's going to tell you
a low, black-hearted lie!"

"How do you know?" That was all my cousin Duncan said.

To the dying man, nothing made much difference. It was as if he had only paused to gather his
failing breath, and when he spoke his tone was the same, detached, dispassionate, with a ghost
of humor running through it.

"How many times?" He counted the collars with a finger tip. "One two, tlee, six, seven time.
Seven yeahs. Too bad. Any time Mista Minista wantee confessee, Mista God makee allee light.
Mista Yen Sin allee same like Mista God. Wait. Wait. Wait. Laugh. Cly inside!"

Mate Snow was leaning forward on the bench in a queer, lazy attitude, his face buried in his
hands and his elbows propped on his knees. But no one looked at him, for Minister Malden was
speaking in the voice of one risen from the dead, his eyes blinking at the Chinaman's lamp.

"Then you mean--you mean that he--isn't alive? After all? That he wasn't alive--then? You mean
it was all a--a kind of a--joke? I--I--Oh, Mate! Mate Snow!"

It was queer to see him turning with his news to his traditional protector. It had been too
sudden; his brain had been so taken up with the naked miracle that Gibbs was not alive that
all the rest of it, the drawn-out and devious revenge of the druggist, had somehow failed to
get into him as yet.

"Mate Snow!" he cried, running over to the sagging figure. "Did you hear, Mate? Eh? It isn't
true! It was all a--a joke, Mate!" He shook Snow's shoulder with a pleading ecstasy. "It's
been a mistake, Mate, and I am--she is--little Hope is--"

He fell back a step, letting the man lop over suddenly on his doubled knees, and stared blankly
at a tiny drug-phial, uncorked and empty, rolling away across the floor. He passed a slow hand
across his eyes. "Why--why--I--I'm afraid Mate is--isn't very--well."

