It is generally safe to be cautious about very short letters. The forger well knows how difficult
is the task of maintaining an assumed character. Just as the mimic may succeed in reproducing
the tone and manner of a person with sufficient closeness to deceive even the most intimate
acquaintances of the subject, yet fail to carry the deception beyond a few words or phrases,
so the literary forger invariably breaks down when he attempts to simulate handwriting over
many sentences. So conscious is he of this great difficulty that he often avoids it by boldly
copying some genuine letter. We have had offered to us "guaranteed" Thackeray letters which
we immediately recognised as such. In one particularly glaring case the forger had copied the
original letter very fairly so far as the penmanship was concerned, but while the original
was written on a half sheet of note paper, the forgery was on a different size paper, and the
writing across the length of the paper instead of the breadth. This naturally disarranged the
spacing between the words, which in all Thackeray's writings is a pronouncedly regular feature,
and this variation was in itself sufficient to excite suspicion.

The popularity of Dickens among collectors grows steadily. Despite the fact that he was an
industrious correspondent, and that a very large number of his letters appear from time to
time in the market, the demand is ever in excess of the supply. As a consequence he has suffered
perhaps more than any of the literary immortals at the hands of the forger. Yet it is safe
to say that there should be no writer so safe from fraudulent imitation, for there is a peculiar
distinctiveness about his caligraphic productions that once seen and noted should never be
forgotten. Specimens are easily available. The catalogues of dealers are constantly presenting
them, and most public libraries possess examples, either in the original holograph or in some
form of reproduction.

Probably no writer preserved his style with such little change as Dickens. His signature in
later years varied somewhat from that of his literary youth, but the body of his handscript
retained throughout the same characteristics. It was always a free, fluent, graceful hand,
legible as that of Thackeray when its leading peculiarities have been mastered, but less formal
and studied than his. It was always remarkably free from corrections or interlineations. He
wrote with the easy freedom of the stenographer; indeed it is easy to recognise in the delicate
gracefully formed letters the effect of years of training in the most difficult and exacting
form of handscript.

Perhaps the leading peculiarities in the Dickens holograph are these:--

The date of the month is never expressed in figures, but always written in full; in fact, abbreviation
in any form he never countenanced.

The letter y, both as a capital and a small letter is a figure 7 except in the affix "ly,"
when the two letters become an f or long stroke s.

The letter t is crossed by the firm downward bar, which the character readers claim as a sign
of great resolution.

Letter g is invariable in form.

Capital E consists of a downstroke with a bar in the centre.

The hook of many final letters has a tendency to turn backwards.

New paragraphs are marked by beginning the line about an inch from the left-hand margin.

A very marked peculiarity noticeable in many letters is that the left-hand margin gradually
grows wider as the lines approach the bottom of the page. The narrowing is wondrously regular,
a line drawn from the first letter on the first line to the corresponding position on the last
will touch nearly every other line. This peculiarity appears to have escaped every forger whose
work we have examined.

If the signs relied upon by the readers of character in handwriting are to be accepted, self-esteem
was a pronounced characteristic of the great novelist. His writing abounds with those subtle
symptoms of the prevalence of that weakness.

His signature is perhaps the best known of any with which the British public are familiar.
It is remarkably uniform, and remained precisely the same from the time he adopted it after
the Pickwick period until his death. That which he used in youth was less striking, but none
the less self-conscious.

After the Pickwick period Dickens adopted the use of blue paper and blue ink. Letters in black
ink, if undated, may safely be attributed to the earlier period.

His note paper was in later years of the regulation note size. The address, Gads' Hill Place,
Higham by Rochester, Kent, was in embossed black old English letter. His paper was hand-made,
and of good quality. The envelopes were blue, of the same quality paper, but without crest,
monogram or distinctive mark. Dickens' vanity expressed itself in the habit of franking envelopes,
i.e., by writing his name in the left-hand bottom corner, after the fashion in vogue when Peers
and M.P.'s enjoyed the privilege of free postage.

His letters of the pre-envelope period--before 1842--were on quarto sheets. These are exceedingly
rare.

There is one feature about autographic forgery which may always be relied upon to assist greatly
in the work of detection. As a general rule there is sufficient matter in a literary forgery
to supply the necessary material for comparison. It must of necessity be a copy, if not of
an existing original, at least of the general style. The process of imitation must be slow
and cautious, and the signs remain in shaky, broken lines, and a ruggedness entirely absent
from the writing of the real author, which is fluent and free. Even the shakiness of age noticeable
in a few distinguished handwritings is different to the shakiness of the forger's uncertainty.

CHAPTER XV.

FORGED SIGNATURES.

The most difficult phase of the art of the handwriting expert consists in the detection of
forgery in signatures. It will be obvious to the student who has followed the instructions
and illustrations already given that this difficulty is brought about by two principal causes:
first, by the paucity of material for comparison; secondly, because of the very important fact
that a forgery must, by its nature, be a good and close copy of an original. This means that
the unconscious tricks and irregularities that often abound in a long letter, written in a
more or less disguised hand, are almost entirely absent from a forged signature. It follows,
therefore, that the student must have some other clues and rules to guide him, for he cannot
rely upon the chance of a slip or accidental trick occurring in a signature that contains at
most perhaps a dozen letters.

The first step in the examination of a suspected signature is to master thoroughly the various
characteristics of the genuine signature. These must be studied in every possible relation,
and from as many specimens as can be obtained. The magnifying glass must be in constant use
and the eye alert to detect the angle at which the pen is habitually held, the class of pen
used, and the degree of pressure and speed employed. These last-named points can only be discovered
as the result of practice and observation, and though at first sight it may appear impossible
to form a correct estimate of the pace at which a pen has travelled, the student will, if observant,
soon learn to detect the difference between a swiftly formed stroke and one written with slowness
and deliberation. By making a number of each kind of stroke and carefully examining them through
a glass, the student will learn in an hour more than can be taught by means of verbal description.
The study of the genuine signatures must be continued until every stroke and its peculiarities
are as familiar as the features of a well-known face, for until one is thoroughly impregnated
with the original it will be useless to proceed with the examination of the suspects.

At first sight the student will probably perceive very little, if any, difference between the
original and the suspect. It would be a very clumsy forgery if he could. Gradually the points
of dissimilarity will become clear to him, and with each fresh examination they grow plainer,
until he is surprised that they did not sooner strike him; they are so obvious that the eye
cannot avoid them; they stand out as plainly as the hidden figure, after it has been detected,
in the well-known picture puzzles. There are few faculties capable of such rapid and accurate
development as that of observation. Thousands of persons go through life unconscious of the
existence of certain common things until the occasion arises for noticing them, or accident
forces them upon the attention; then they marvel that the thing should have escaped observation.
This is a truism, no doubt, but the force of every platitude does not always present itself
to every one. The comparison of handwritings is so essentially a matter of cultivating the
powers of observation, that even if turned to no more practical account than that of a hobby
its value as a mental exercise is great.

There are two principal methods by which a signature may be forged: first, by carefully copying
the original as one would copy a drawing; secondly, by tracing it.

The first process is referred to as copied. The forger will, most probably, have practised
the signature before affixing it to the cheque or other document, thereby attaining a certain
degree of fluency. But however well executed, close examination with the aid of the magnifying
glass will reveal those signs of hesitancy and irregularity that one may reasonably expect
to find in a copy.

There is no part of a person's handwriting so fluent and free as his signature. Even the most
illiterate persons show more freedom and continuity of outline in their signature than in the
body of their writing. This is explicable on the ground of usage. A writer may feel a degree
of momentary uncertainty in forming a word that he does not write frequently, but his signature
he is more sure about. He strikes it off without hesitancy, and in the majority of cases appends
some meaningless flourish, which may be described as a superfluous stroke or strokes added
for the purpose of ornamentation, for adding distinctiveness, or, in some cases, and particularly
with business men, with the idea that the flourishes help to secure the signature from forgery.
Such writers will probably be surprised to learn that there is no form of signature so easy
to forge as that involved and complicated by a maze of superfluous lines and meaningless flourishes.
The most difficult signature for the forger is the clear, plain, copybook-modelled autograph.
A little thought and examination will make the reason for this clear.

Let a signature be enveloped in a web of curves and flourishes, making it look like a complicated
script monogram. The lines are so numerous that the eye cannot take them all in at a glance,
and, if copied, any slight irregularity or departure from the original is more likely to pass
undetected amid the confusing network of interlaced lines. If, on the other hand, the signature
be simple and free from the bewildering effects of flourishes, the entire autograph lies revealed,
a clear and regular outline, and the slightest variation from the accustomed figure stands
out naked and plain. Most of the successful forgeries will be found to be on signatures of
the complicated order. Their apparent impregnability has tempted the facile penman to essay
the task of harmless imitation; his success has surprised and flattered him, and the easy possibilities
of forgery opened up. More than one forger has admitted that his initiatory lessons were prompted
by an innocent challenge to imitate a particularly complicated "forgery-proof" signature.

It must be remembered that the eye of the casual observer takes in a word as a whole rather
than in detail. This explains why an author can rarely be trusted to correct his own proofs.
He knows what the word should be, and in reading his work in print he notices only the general
expected effect of a word. It needs the trained eye of the proof-reader to detect the small
c that has taken the place of the e, the battered l that is masquerading as an i. So long as
the general outline of the word is not distorted the wrong letters are often passed; and it
is much the same with a signature with which one is fairly familiar. The trained examiner of
handwriting, like the proof-reader, knows what to look for, and discovers irregularities that
would escape the notice of the untrained eye.

The first part of a genuine signature that should be examined is the flourish, which includes
all fancy strokes appended to it, and any superfluous addition to the body of the letters.
A close scrutiny through the glass will show that the lines forming the tail-flourish are generally
clear, firm and sharp in outline, being formed, not only without hesitation, but with a dash
and decided sweep that are strongly at variance with the broken, saw-edged, unsteady line of
the copy. It will also generally be found to follow an almost fixed rule in the matter of its
proportionate conformation: that is, supposing the writer finishes up with a horizontal line
under his signature, it will be seen, on averaging a dozen or so of them, that the distance
of the line from the feet of the letters is proportionately uniform. If the line be begun with
a spur or curved inward hook, that feature will be repeated. The end of the flourish or final
stroke, at the point where the pen leaves the paper, should be very carefully examined. One
writer finishes with an almost imperceptible dot, as if the pen had been stabbed into the paper;
another finishes with a curve, either upward or downward; a third with a hook turned upward,
either a curve or an angle; while a fourth continues the line till it becomes finer and sharper
to vanishing point. Some writers are fond of concluding with a more or less bold and expansive
underline running horizontally with the signature. A close examination will show a variation
in the degrees of thickness of such a line, which should be carefully noted and looked for
in other genuine signatures.

In this connection it will be found extremely useful and instructive to study strokes, either
horizontal or vertical, with a view to discovering whether they were struck from right to left,
top to bottom, or vice versâ. The glass will render it easy to detect beginning from end after
a few failures, which, by the way, should not be allowed to discourage, for every minute devoted
to the study of handwriting is so much gain in experience, and represents so much more learned,
which will never be forgotten.

The flourishes that occur on and about the signature proper must be treated as exaggerated
loops, and their shoulders, arcs, hooks and toes carefully measured and noted. For this purpose
an average genuine signature should be selected and gauged, which is done in this way: Place
over it a sheet of transfer paper. With the scale-rule and a fine pencil draw horizontal lines
that will touch the tops and bottoms of the bodies of the letters, lines that touch the tops
and bottoms of the tailed and topped letters, and vertical lines that follow the shanks of
every topped or tailed letter, including the capitals. The gauge, when completed, will represent
a framework fitting the signature, and its use is twofold. It helps the eye to detect the variations
in the general contour of the signature, and, when placed over another, brings out the points
of difference. Due allowance must be made for proportion. It is obvious that the distance of
letters will be greater in a signature written larger than another, but the proportionate distances
will be preserved. The difference in the size of a letter is not very important, except that
it offers more scope for examination. For example, a looped l may be very small or half an
inch long; but, if made by the same writer, the proportionate width at top, bottom and middle
will be preserved, and compare with the same measurements in the smaller letter. Signatures
of the same writer do not often vary much in size, though they may be thicker or finer according
to the character of the pen used; but observation will show that the difference in a handwriting
caused by the use of different pens is much more imaginary than real.

The traced signature is produced by placing the paper over the genuine autograph, holding it
to the light, generally on a sheet of glass, and tracing it with a fine point. Such forgeries
are often more easily detected than the copied signature, for the reason that signs of the
tracing process can generally be found by careful examination. The fine, hard point used to
trace the autograph leaves a smooth hollow, which can be seen through the glass on examining
the back of the cheque or document. If the paper be held in a line with the eye in a strong
light, the ridge will be more clearly perceived. The difference between a mark made by a hard
point and a pen can be tested by experiment. The hard point must of necessity be pressed with
a degree of force to make the desired impression on the paper, and the result is a smooth hollow.
But if a pen be pressed hard, it produces two parallel lines, and, instead of a hollow, a ridge
is formed between the parallels. Of course, it will be so slight as to be hardly perceptible,
except through a strong glass, but it will be there nevertheless, and knowing what to look
for, the expert will generally have no difficulty in satisfying himself whether the forgery
has been traced or copied, a very valuable piece of evidence when once settled, for it is within
the bounds of probability that the genuine signature from which the tracing was made may be
discovered. It is possible, and has often occurred, that the writer of the original may have
some recollection of having written to the suspected person, or in many ways a clue may be
suggested. There is a well-known case of a forgery being brought home to the perpetrator through
the accuracy of the tracing. It is a fact easily proved, that no man can write a word twice,
so exactly, that if the two are overlaid they fit. If two such signatures be produced, it is
safe to assume that one has been traced or otherwise mechanically produced. In the case mentioned
a signature on a cheque was pronounced a forgery by the person supposed to have signed it.
In examining specimens of the genuine autograph, the experts came upon one which, when placed
upon that on the cheque, proved a perfect replica, down to the most minute detail, showing
beyond question that it had been used to trace the forgery from. It was further proved that
the original had been in the possession of the supposed forger, and the jury were asked to
decide whether it was probable that a man could reproduce his signature in exact facsimile
after a lapse of time, and without the original before him. As the chances against such a contingency
are many millions to one--a fact the student can verify--the jury decided against the forger.

