So far we have only considered the most obvious and simple among the evidences of doubting
folly. A still more obstinate tendency of the doubter is the insistent habit interminably to
argue over the simplest proposition, particularly regarding matters pertaining to the health,
comfort, and life of the individual himself. A certain patient, of this type, attempts to describe
to his physician a peculiar, hitherto undescribed, and even now indescribable sensation "through
his right lung." He traces this sensation to what he believes to have been the absorption of
a poison some years ago. His line of reasoning is somewhat as follows: 1. The drug was a poison.
2. If he absorbed it he must have been poisoned. 3. If he was poisoned then, he is poisoned
now. 4. There is no proof that such a poison cannot produce such a sensation. 5. He has the
sensation. Conclusion: He is suffering from poison. In support of this proposition he will
spend hours with anyone who will listen. The physician who allows himself to be drawn into
the controversy speedily finds himself, instead of giving advice to listening ears, involved
in a battle of wits in which he is quite likely to come off second best. He assures the patient,
for example, that, as far as scientific methods can establish the fact, the lung is sound.

"But has science established everything? And if it had, is such negative evidence to be weighed
against the positive evidence of the sensation in my lung?"

"But the sensation may not be in your lung."

"Can you prove that it is not in my lung?" Folly scores!

On being urged to direct his attention to some other part of his body, he promptly inquires,

"How can I direct my thoughts elsewhere, when the sensation is there to occupy my attention?"
Obviously he can not without changing his mental attitude, so folly scores again.

He is assured that if the poison had been absorbed the effects would have passed away long
before this time.

"But do the effects of poison always pass away? And can you prove that they have passed away
in my case? Is not the sensation positive evidence, since you have allowed that you cannot
prove that the sensation does not come from the poison?"

Folly scores again, but the victory is an empty one. The vicious circle continues: Attention
magnifies sensation--sensation produces fear--fear increases attention; and throughout runs
the insistent thought that his sensations shall conform to his ideal.

If the discussion of such comparatively tangible matters can occupy a large part of one's attention,
imagine the result of the insistent desire, on the part of the doubter, to solve such problems
as "What is thought?" "What is existence?"

If the windings of this intellectual labyrinth have not too far involved us, we have only to
recognize the futility of such arguments, and exercise our will-power in the right direction.
If we can bring ourselves to take the initiative, it is as easy to step out of the vicious
circle, as for the squirrel to leave his wheel. But unless we grasp the logic of the situation,
and take this initiative, no amount of abuse, persuasion, or ridicule will effect our freedom.

     *       *       *       *       *

A word may be in place regarding the anthropological status of the doubting folly and allied
mental states. Men of genius have suffered from them all. A long list may be found in Lombroso's
"Man of Genius." Under folie du doute we find, for example, Tolstoi, Manzoni, Flaubert and Amiel.

Lombroso regards genius as degenerative, and places among the signs of degeneration, deviations
from the average normal, whether physical or mental. This plan has been quite generally followed.
The nomenclature seems to me unfortunate and hardly justified by the facts. I can think of
no more potent objection to such inclusive use of the term degenerate, than the fact that Lombroso
includes, under the signs of degeneration, the enormous development of the cerebral speech-area
in the case of an accomplished orator. If such evolutional spurts are to be deemed degenerative,
the fate of the four-leaved clover is sealed.

The application of the term degeneration may be, and should be, it seems to me, limited to
the signs, whether physical or mental, which indicate an obviously downward tendency. I have
elsewhere suggested, and the suggestion has already found some acceptance, that when the variation
is not definitely downward, deviation and deviate be substituted for the unnecessarily opprobrious
and often inappropriate terms, degeneration and degenerate.

VII.

HYPOCHONDRIA

Il marche, dort, mange et boit comme tous les autres; mais cela n'empeche pas qu'il soit fort
malade.

MOLIERE: Le Malade imaginaire.

The victim of hypochondria may present the picture of health, or may have some real ill regarding
which he is unduly anxious. His consultation with a physician is likely to be preceded by letters
explaining his exact condition, naming his various consultants and describing the various remedies
he has taken. At the time of his visit notes are consulted, lest some detail be omitted. In
his description anatomical terms abound; thus, he has pain in his lungs, heart, or kidney,
not in his chest or back. Demonstration by the physician of the soundness of these organs is
met by argument, at which the hypochondriac is generally adept.

The suggestion that the hypochondriac devotes undue attention to his own condition is met by
him with indignant denial. Proposals that he should exercise, travel, engage in games, or otherwise
occupy himself, fall on deaf ears, but he is always ready to try a new drug. If a medicine
is found with whose ingredients the patient is not already familiar, its use is likely to produce
a beneficial effect for a few days, after which the old complaint returns.

The case has come to my attention of a young man who, for fear of taking cold, remains in bed,
with the windows of the room tightly closed and a fire constantly burning. He has allowed his
hair to grow until it reaches his waist, he is covered with several blankets, wears underclothing
under his nightshirt, and refuses to extend his wrist from under the bed-clothes to have his
pulse taken.

Such faulty mental habits in minor degree are common. There are those who will not drink from
a bottle without first inspecting its mouth for flakes of glass; some will not smoke a cigar
which has been touched by another since leaving the factory; some will not shake hands if it
can possibly be avoided; another pads his clothing lest he injure himself in falling. Many
decline to share the occupations and pleasures of others through fear of possible wet feet,
drafts of air, exhaustion, or other calamity. Such tendencies, though falling short of hypochondria,
pave the way for it, and, in any event, gradually narrow the sphere of usefulness and pleasure.

No part of the body is exempt from the fears of the hypochondriac, but he is prone to centre
his attention upon the obscure and inaccessible organs. The anecdote is told of a physician
who had a patient of this type--a robust woman who was never without a long list of ailments.
The last time she sent for the doctor, he lost patience with her. As she was telling him how
she was suffering from rheumatism, sore throat, nervous indigestion, heart-burn, pains in the
back of the head, and what not, he interrupted her:

"Ah," he said in an admiring tone, "what splendid health you must have in order to be able
to stand all these complaints!"

The phobias are so closely allied to hypochondria that it will not be out of place to discuss
them here. Familiar instances are fear of open places (agoraphobia), fear of closed places
(claustrophobia), and fear of contamination (mysophobia).

The sufferer from agoraphobia cannot bring himself to cross alone an open field or square.
The sufferer from claustrophobia will invent any excuse to avoid an elevator or the theatre.
When a certain lady was asked if she disliked to go to the theatre or church, she answered,
"Not at all, but of course I like to have one foot in the aisle; I suppose everyone does that."

The victim of mysophobia will wash the hands after touching any object, and will, so far as
possible, avoid touching objects which he thinks may possibly convey infection. Some use tissue
paper to turn the door-knob, some extract coins from the pocket-book with pincers. I have seen
a lady in a public conveyance carefully open a piece of paper containing her fare, pour the
money into the conductor's hand, carefully fold up the paper so that she should not touch the
inside, and afterwards drop it from the tips of her fingers into a rubbish barrel.

The case of a nurse who was dominated by fear of infection has come to my attention. If her
handkerchief touched the table it was discarded. She became very adept at moving objects about
with her elbows, was finally reduced to helplessness and had to be cared for by others.

Unreasoning fear of one or another mode of conveyance is not rare. It is said that Rossini
found it impossible to travel by rail, and that the attempt of a friend to accustom him to
it resulted in an attack of faintness (Lombroso).

The sufferer himself realizes, in such cases, that there is no reason in his fear--he knows
he can undergo greater dangers with equanimity. Even doubting folly finds no answer to the
question why should this danger be shunned and that accepted. The nearest approach to an answer
is "I can't," which really means "I haven't."

The origin of the phobia is not always clear, but given the necessary susceptibility, circumstances
doubtless dictate the direction the phobia shall take. A startling personal experience, or
even reading or hearing of such an experience may start the fear which the insistent thought
finally moulds into a fixed habit.

To the hypochondriac who concentrates his attention upon the digestive tract, this part of
his body occupies the foreground of all his thoughts. He exaggerates its delicacy of structure
and the serious consequences of disturbing it even by an attack of indigestion. A patient to
whom a certain fruit was suggested said he could not eat it. Asked what the effect would be,
he answered that he did not know, he had not eaten any for twenty years and dared not risk
the experiment.

Extreme antipathies to various foods are fostered among this class. A lady told me that she
perfectly abominated cereals, that she could not stand vegetables, that she could not bear
anything in the shape of an apple, that she could not abide spinach, and that baked beans made
her sick at the stomach.

The heart is perhaps the organ most often the object of solicitude on the part of the hypochondriac.
When we realize that the pulse may vary in the healthy individual from 60 to over 100, according
to circumstances, and that mere excitement may send it to the latter figure, we may appreciate
the feelings of one who counts his pulse at frequent intervals and is alarmed if it varies
from a given figure.

Inspection of the tongue is a common occupation of the hypochondriac, who is generally more
familiar than his medical attendant with the anatomy of this organ.

Insistent desire regarding the temperature is common not only among hypochondriacs, but among
others. I do not allude to the internal temperature (though I have been surprised to learn
how many people carry a clinical thermometer and use it on themselves from time to time); I
refer to the temperature of the room or of the outside air. The wish to feel a certain degree
of warmth is so overpowering in some cases that neither work nor play can be carried on unless
the thermometer registers the desired figure. A person with this tendency does not venture
to mail a letter without donning hat and overcoat; the mere thought of a cold bath causes him
to shudder.

Golf has cured many a victim of this obsession. It takes only a few games to teach the most
delicately constructed that he can remain for hours in his shirt-sleeves on quite a cold day,
and that the cold shower (preferably preceded by a warm one) invigorates instead of depresses
him. Further experiment will convince him that he can wear thin underwear and low shoes all
winter. Such experiences may encourage him to risk a cold plunge in the morning, followed by
a brisk rub and a few simple exercises before dressing.

Morbid fears in themselves produce physical manifestations which add to the discomfort and
alarm of the hypochondriac. I allude to the rush of blood to the head, the chill, the mental
confusion, and the palpitation. These symptoms are perfectly harmless, and denote only normal
circulatory changes. It is true that one cannot at will materially alter his circulation, but
he can do so gradually by habit of thought. To convince ourselves of this fact, we need only
remember to what a degree blushing becomes modified by change of mental attitude. Similarly,
the person who has practiced mental and physical relaxation will find that the blood no longer
rushes to his head upon hearing a criticism or remembering a possible source of worry.

The automatic processes of the body are in general performed best when the attention is directed
elsewhere. After ordinary care is taken, too minute attention to the digestive apparatus, for
example, may retard rather than aid it. Watching the digestion too closely is like pulling
up seeds to see if they are growing.

The more attention is paid to the sensations, the more they demand. Nor can the degree of attention
they deserve be measured by their own insistence. If one tries the experiment of thinking intently
of the end of his thumb, and imagines it is going to sleep, the chances are ten to one that
in five minutes it will have all the sensations of going to sleep. If this is true of the healthy-minded
individual, how much more must it be so in the person who allows his thoughts to dwell with
anxious attention on such parts of his body as may be the immediate seat of his fears. The
next step is for various sensations (boring, burning, prickling, stabbing, and the like) to
appear spontaneously, and, if attention is paid to them, rapidly to increase in intensity.

It is probable that the mere pressure of part upon part in the body, even the ordinary activity
of its organs, would give rise to sensations if we encouraged them. Given an anomalous sensation,
or even a pain, for which the physician finds no physical basis, and which, after a term of
years, has produced no further appreciable effect than to make one nervous, it is always in
place to ask one's self whether the sensation or the pain may not be of this nature.

Medical instructors are continually consulted by students who fear that they have the diseases
they are studying. The knowledge that pneumonia produces pain in a certain spot leads to a
concentration of attention upon that region which causes any sensation there to give alarm.
The mere knowledge of the location of the appendix transforms the most harmless sensations
in that region into symptoms of serious menace. The sensible student learns to quiet these
fears, but the victim of "hypos" returns again and again for examination, and perhaps finally
reaches the point of imparting, instead of obtaining, information, like the patient in a recent
anecdote from the Youth's Companion:

It seems that a man who was constantly changing physicians at last called in a young doctor
who was just beginning his practice.

