The church is a good example of the 'four column' type, with an outer and an inner narthex.
The former is in five bays, and extends to the north and south, by one bay, beyond the inner
narthex and the body of the church. The terminal bays, it would seem, led to cloisters built
against the exterior of the northern and southern sides of the building. Le Noir and Salzenberg[423]
show a cloister along the south side of the church, with four columns and an apse at its end.
The central bay and the two terminal bays are covered with domes on high drums, without windows.
The dome of the central bay has sixteen lobed bays, while its companions have each eight flat
ribs. All traces of the mosaics which Salzenberg saw in the central dome have disappeared.
On the exterior the three domes are octagonal, decorated with flat niches and angle shafts
supporting an arched cornice. The exonarthex deserves special attentions on account of its
façade. It is a fine composition of two triple arcades, separated by a solid piece of masonry
containing the door. On either side of the door, and on the piers at each end of the façade,
are slender flat niches, similar to those which occur in S. Mark's, Venice. The finely carved
capitals of the columns differ in type, the two northern being a variant of the 'melon type,'
the pair to the south being Corinthian. They are probably old capitals re-used. Throughout
the building are traces of stones from some older building recut or adapted to the present
church. Between the columns is a breastwork of carved marble slabs similar in style to those
seen in S. Mark's and in S. Fosca, Torcello.[424] The upper part of the façade does not correspond
to the composition below it, but follows the divisions of the internal vaulting. It is in five
circular-arched bays, each containing an arched window. The infilling is of brick in various
patterns. The cornice looks Turkish. While the masonry of the lower portion of the arcade is
in alternate courses of one stone and two bricks, that of the upper portion has alternate courses
of one stone and three bricks. Moreover, while the design of the upper portion is determined
by the vaulting of the narthex, the lower portion takes a more independent line. These differences
may indicate different periods of construction, but we find a similar type of design in other
Byzantine buildings, as, for example, in the walls of the palace of the Porphyrogenitus, where
the different stories are distinct in design, and do not closely correspond to one another.
The outer narthex of S. Theodore may have been built entirely at one time, or its upper story,
vaults, and domes may have been added to an already existing lower story. But in any case,
notwithstanding all possible adverse criticism, the total effect produced by the façade is
pleasing. It presents a noteworthy and successful attempt to relieve the ordinary plainness
and heaviness of a Byzantine church exterior, and to give that exterior some grace and beauty.
The effect is the more impressive because the narthex is raised considerably above the level
of the ground and reached by a flight of steps. 'Taking it altogether,' says Fergusson,[425]
'it is perhaps the most complete and elegant church of its class now known to exist in or near
the capital, and many of its details are of great beauty and perfection.'

The esonarthex is in three bays covered with barrel vaults, and terminates at both ends in
a shallow niche. The outer arches spring from square buttresses. From each bay a door conducts
into the church, the central door being set in a marble frame and flanked by two Corinthian
columns, which support a bold wall arcade.

The drum of the dome is a polygon of twelve sides, and was lighted by the same number of windows.
It rests on four columns, which were originally square, but now have large champs at the angles,
dying out at top and bottom. Barrel vaults cover the arms of the cross, and dome vaults surmount
the chambers at its angles. As in the Pantokrator (p. 235), the eastern arm is pierced by two
windows in the vaulting surface. The central apse is lighted by a triple window, having oblong
shafts, circular on their inner and outer faces, and bearing capitals now badly injured. A
niche indents the northern, eastern, and southern interior walls of the apsidal chapels. The
windows in the northern and southern walls of the church have been built up almost to their
full height, leaving only small openings for light at the top. There can be little doubt that
they were triple windows with a parapet of carved marble slabs between the shafts. On the exterior
the apse shows five sides, and is decorated by an arcade of five arches and an upper tier of
five niches. The lateral apses do not project beyond the face of the eastern wall, but are
slightly marked out by cutting back the sides and forming angular grooves. Bayet[426] assigns
the church to the ninth or tenth century, the age of Leo the Wise and Constantine Porphyrogenitus.
Fergusson[427] is of the same opinion so far as the earlier portions of the building are concerned.
But that date is based on the mistaken view that the building is the church of the Theotokos
erected by Constantine Lips. Diehl[428] assigns the church to the second half of the eleventh
century.

In the library of the Royal Institute of British Architects, in London, are four volumes of
Texier's sketches and drawings of buildings in or near Constantinople. In that collection is
found a complete set of drawings of this church, showing a chapel on both the north and south
sides of the building, and even giving measurements on the south side. Texier's drawings are
unfortunately very inaccurate, so that little trust can be placed in any of them. In addition
to the plan of the church an elevation is given, and two sketches covered with indications
of elaborate decoration, but evidently quite imaginary. The chapel on the north side is noticed
by no other writer, and was probably added by Texier for the sake of symmetry. That on the
south side, as shown by him, differs in some respects from Salzenberg. The only thing certain
is that a side chapel did exist here.

This church presents a good example of the greater interest taken during the later Byzantine
period in the external appearance of a church. To the exterior of the walls and the apses some
decoration is now applied. The dome is raised on a polygonal drum, with shafts at its angles,
and an arched cornice over its windows; the roof gains more diversity of form and elevation
by the multiplication of domes, by the protrusion of the vaults of the cross arms and of the
apses, thus making the outward garb, so to speak, of the building correspond more closely to
the figure and proportions of its inner body. In all this we have not yet reached the animation
and grace of a Gothic cathedral, nor the stateliness that crowns an imperial mosque; but there
is, at all events, a decided advance towards a fuller expression of artistic feeling. (See
Plates LXXIV., LXXV.)

[408] De top. C.P. iii. c. 6.

[409] Esq. top. paragraphs 110, 114, 124, 125.

[410] Banduri, ii. p. 38.

[411] Ibid. i. p. 10.

[412] Const. Porphyr, De cer. p. 623.

[413] Banduri, iii. pp. 16, 48.

[414] Ibid. i. p. 17.

[415] Const. Porphyr, De cer. p. 640.

[416] P. 140.

[417] Itin. russes, pp. 105-6.

[418] Banduri, i. p. 16; ii. p. 38.

[419] P. 314.

[420] See his paper in the Mitteilungen des deutschen Excursions-Club, Konstantinopel, Erstes
Heft, 1888.

[421] Banduri, p. 16.

[422] See The Monastery of St. Luke of Stiris, p. 61.

[423] Altchristliche Baudenkmäler von K.P. plates 34, 35.

[424] Pulgher, Les Anciennes Églises de C.P. p. 23.

[425] History of Architecture, i. 458.

[426] L'Art byzantin, p. 126.

[427] History of Architecture, vol. i. p. 458.

[428] Manuel d'art byzantin, p. 414.

CHAPTER XVII

THE MONASTERY OF MANUEL, KEFELÉ MESJEDI

The mosque known as Kefelé Mesjedi, in the quarter of Salma Tomruk, is commonly supposed to
represent the monastery founded by Manuel,[429] a distinguished general in the wars with the
Saracens during the reign of Theophilus (823-842). This opinion is doubtless based upon the
circumstance that the monastery in question stood in the vicinity of the cistern of Aspar,[430]
[Greek: synengys tê kisternê tou Asparos] (the large open reservoir to the east of the Gate
of Adrianople), near which Kefelé Mesjedi is also situated. But that circumstance alone cannot
be regarded as sufficient ground for the identification of the two buildings. There are at
least five other monasteries mentioned in Byzantine history, all distinguished by the mark
of their proximity to the cistern of Aspar.[431] And at a short distance to the west of Kefelé
Mesjedi, and nearer to the cistern of Aspar, we find the remains of an old church, now Odalar
Mesjedi, which might with equal force claim to represent the monastery of Manuel. The commonly
received identification may, however, be correct as a happy conjecture. Mr. Siderides,[432]
indeed, considers the identification of the monastery of Manuel with Kefelé Mesjedi a mistake.
According to him, that monastery was a reconstruction or enlargement of the ancient monastery
of SS. Manuel, Sabel, and Ishmael, which stood on the heights above the Phanar, now crowned
by the mosque of Sultan Selim. To the objection that there it would not be near the cistern
of Aspar, Mr. Siderides replies by denying the correctness of the identification of that cistern
with the open reservoir (Tchoukour Bostan) to the east of the gate of Adrianople, and in the
vicinity of Kefelé Mesjedi. In Mr. Siderides' opinion the cistern of Aspar is the beautiful
covered cistern, generally known as the cistern of Puicheria, to the south-west of the mosque
of Sultan Selim.[433] But the dimensions of the cistern ascribed to the famous sister of Theodosius
II. do not accord with the size of the cistern of Aspar. The latter was 'a very large cistern,'
[Greek: tên megistên kinsternan],[434] while the former is only m. 29.1 long by m. 18 wide,
with a roof supported on four rows of seven columns[435]--not a large cistern as works of that
class went in Constantinople. But if the cistern of Aspar was not situated in the district
now marked by the mosque of Sultan Selim, neither could the monastery of Manuel have been there.
Mr. Siderides,[436] moreover, identifies the monastery of Manuel with that of Manoueliou [Greek:
tou Manouêliou] which appears in the Proceedings of the Synod held at Constantinople in 536
under Justinian.[437] This, however, does not agree with the statement that the monastery of
Manuel was originally the private residence of the well-known general of that name in the ninth
century. Furthermore, it is always dangerous to assume that the same name could not belong
to different buildings, especially when the name occurs at distant intervals in the history
of the city. Many mistakes in the topography of Constantinople are due to this false method
of identification. As a matter of fact, the monastery of Manuel near the cistern of Aspar was
not the only House of that name in the capital of the East. Another monastery of Manuel stood
beside the Golden Horn, in the Genoese quarter, between the gate of the Neorion (Bagtché Kapoussi)
and the gate of Eugenius (Yali Kiosk Kapoussi). It had a pier, known as the pier of the venerable
monastery of Manuel, [Greek: skala tês sebasmias monês tou Manouêl].[438] Paspates is consequently
wrong in associating that pier with Kefelé Mesjedi.[439]

Mordtmann[440] accepts the identification of Kefelé Mesjedi with the monastery of Manuel as
correct, but he identifies it also with the church and monastery which Gerlach found in this
neighbourhood, and describes under the name of Aetius ([Greek: tou Aetiou]).[441] When visited
by Gerlach in 1573, the church had been converted into a mosque, and was a beautiful building
in excellent preservation. If all that remains of it is the bare structure of Kefelé Mesjedi,
the city has to mourn a great loss.[442] (Plate LXXVII.)

Manuel, the founder of the monastery, was the uncle of the Empress Theodora, wife of the Emperor
Theophilus, and proved a loyal and devoted servant of the imperial family. Twice at the peril
of his own life he saved the emperor from capture, if not from death, during the wars with
the Saracens. Nevertheless, being accused of treason he fled to the court of Baghdad and took
service under the Caliph Mutasim, until assured that Constantinople would welcome him back.

He was one of the three counsellors appointed by Theophilus to assist Theodora during the minority
of Michael III., and so highly was he esteemed, that he was acclaimed emperor by the populace
in the Hippodrome, and might have worn the crown but for his fidelity to the little prince.
Silencing the shouts raised in his favour, he exclaimed, 'You have an emperor; my duty and
highest honour is to defend his infancy and to secure for him, even at the price of my blood,
the heritage of his father.' In the iconoclastic controversy Manuel supported the policy of
Theophilus, and therefore found himself in a difficult position when Theodora decided to restore
the use of eikons. The story is, that while he lay dangerously ill at the time, monks of the
Studion assured him that recovery was certain if he vowed to uphold the orthodox cause. The
vow was taken, and upon his restoration to health Manuel favoured the measures of Theodora.
Probably he felt that the current of public feeling on the subject was too strong for him to
oppose. But the task of working in harmony with his colleagues in the regency, Theoctistus
and Bardas, was soon found impossible, and rumours of a plot to blind him and remove him from
the administration of affairs led him to retire to his house near the cistern of Aspar. For
some time, indeed, he continued to appear occasionally at the palace, but at last he quitted
for ever that scene of intrigue, and converted his residence into a monastery, where he might
spend the closing days of his life in peace and finally be laid in a quiet grave.[443]

The building which Manuel bequeathed was reconstructed almost from the foundations, a large
and beautiful edifice, by the celebrated Patriarch Photius.[444] It underwent extensive restoration
again at the command of the Emperor Romanus Lecapenus (919-945),[445] in token of his friendship
for Sergius, the abbot of the monastery, a nephew of Photius, and eventually an occupant of
the patriarchal throne for twenty years (999-1019). In it the Emperor Romanus Argyrus (1028-1034)
confined Prussianus, a relative of the Bulgarian royal family, on a charge of treason;[446]
and there Michael VII., nicknamed Parapinakes (the peck-filcher), because he sold wheat at
one-fourth of its proper weight, and then at an exorbitant price, ultimately retired after
his deposition.[447] The connection of so many prominent persons with the monastery implies
the importance of the House.

Architectural Features

Kefelé Mesjedi is a large oblong hall, m. 22.6 long by m. 7.22 wide, with walls constructed
in alternate courses of four bricks and four stones, and covered with a lofty timber roof.
It terminates to the north in an arch and a semicircular apse in brick. Two niches, with a
window between them, indent the walls of the apse, and there is a niche in each pier of the
arch. The building is entered by a door situated in the middle of the western wall. Originally
the eastern and western walls, which form the long sides of the building, were lighted by two
ranges of round-headed windows, somewhat irregularly spaced. The upper range is situated a
little below the ceiling, and forms a sort of clearstory of ten lights; the lower range has
five windows, except in the western wall, where the place of one window is occupied by the
entrance. The southern wall is also lighted by two ranges of windows, the lower windows being
much larger than the higher. At some time buttresses were built against the eastern wall. Under
the west side is a cistern, the roof of which rests on three columns. In view of all these
features it is impossible to believe that the building was a church. Its orientation, the absence
of lateral apses in a structure of such dimensions, the position of the entrance, are all incompatible
with that character. We have here, undoubtedly, the refectory and not the sanctuary of the
monastic establishment. It resembles the refectory of the Laura on Mt. Athos,[448] and that
of Daphni near Athens. It recalls the 'long and lofty building,' adorned with pictures of saints,
which formed the refectory of the Peribleptos at Psamathia.[449]

There is a tradition that the use of the building was granted at the conquest to the Armenian
colony which was brought from Kaffa in 1475 to repeople the capital, Hence the Turkish name
of the building.[450]

  NOTE

  As Gerlach's work is rare, the reader may wish to see his
  description of the church of Aetius in the original (Tagebuch, pp.
  455-56):--Nicht weit hiervon [the church of S. John in Petra] ist
  eine sehr schöne Kirche, [Greek: tês Aetiou], da vor Zeiten ein sehr
  gross und weites Closter gewesen seyn und viel Häuser der Lehrer und
  Lernenden in sich gehabt haben solle. Jetzt wird nichts mehr davon
  gesehen als das zerfallene Gemäuer einer herrlichen Pforten und eine
  trockene Ziternen, darinnen die Juden die Seiden spinnen, zwirnen
  und bereiten (serica nectunt fila). Vor der Kirchen ist ein weiter
  Hoff, rings aber umb denselbe herumb ein bedeckter Gang
  (porticus), welcher mit schönen auff vergüldten viereckichten
  gläsern Taffeln künstlich gemahlten Figuren auss dem Alten und Neuen
  Testament, und mit griechischen Überschrifften gezieret ist, aber
  alte Gesichter derselben aussgekratzet sind. Die Wände dieser
  Umbgänge sind mit Marmel von allerhand Farben bekleidet. Hat auch 3
  oder 4 hohe Crepidines oder Absätze mit der Propheten, Apostel und
  Christi Bildnüssen von Gold. Der Hauss- oder vielmehr Bau- herr oder
  auch der Stiffter ([Greek: ho ktêtôr]), und sein Weib, sind da auch
  gemahlet in einem Habit, fast wie man heut zu Tage gehet, aber mit
  einer ganz fremden Hauptzierde (capellitii genere), class man
  darauss abnehmen kan, er sey einer aus den vornehmsten Käyserlich
  Bedienten gewesen, dann diese Zierde siehet auss fast wie ein
  Hertzogs Bareht von Seiden and Beltzwerck, der Bund oder das
  Umgewundene (cinctura) von mancherley Farben, wie heut zu Tage die
  Juden und Armenier weiss und blau durcheinander tragen. Sein Weib
  hat einen Schleyer (peplum) fast wie die Griechinnen. Der bedecte
  Gang und die Kirche sind ein Gebäu (porticus muro etiam templi
  continetur), und gehet man durch zwey hohe Pforten hinein, welche 4
  Theil in sich begreifft, oder in 4 Theil abgetheilet ist. 1. der
  bedeckte (Porticus) Gang, dessen Wände mit Marmelstein biss auff
  die Helffte bekleidet sind. Der Obertheil, da die Schwibbögen
  (Laquearia) anheben, hat er wie auch die Schwibbögen selber die
  Gemählde. In diesem Gang oder Halle (porticu) stehen die Weiber,
  und kommen nicht in die Kirchen hinein, wie auch in andere Kirchen
  nicht, als wann sie zum Abendmahl gehen. 2. ist die Kirche für sich
  so mit Türckischen Deppichen (aoreis) beleget und hat nur ein
  Thor. Ist ein hohes Gewölb (laquearia) und wie auch die überige 2
  Gewölbe (laquearia) ganz vergüldet und übermahlet, und die Wände
  von unten an biss an die Schwibbögen mit dem schönsten Marmelstein
  bekleidet. Auss diesem gehet man 3. durch einen niedern Crepidinem
  in dem dritten Theil der Kirchen, da der Bauherr oder Stiffter mit
  andern sehr schönen Bildnüssen mit Gold gemahlet stehen, mit einem
  etwas niedern als der vorige Schwibbögen (laquearia). Auss diesem
  gehet man in den 4ten gewölbten auch gemahlten aber etwas finstern
  und viel kleine Fenster in sich haltenden Ort. Aussen an der
  Kirchmauren stehet diese Schrift.

  Vor dem Vorhoff (vestibulo, [Greek: propiliô]) dieser Kirchen
  [Greek: tês 'Aetiou] zeigte mir Theodosius den Ort, da der letzte
  Christliche Käyser Constantinus als er bey der Türckischen Eroberung
  der Stadt fliehen wollen, von Pferde gestürtzet, und tod gefunden
  seyn solle.

  'Not far from here is a very beautiful church where there is said to
  have been in times past a very large monastery with many houses for
  teachers and scholars within its walls. Nothing of all that is to be
  seen now except the ruins of a splendid gate and a dry cistern in
  which the Jews spin, throw, and prepare silk. In front of the church
  there is a large court surrounded by a covered passage (porticus),
  which is adorned with beautiful figures from the Old and New
  Testaments painted on gilded quadrangular glass cubes with Greek
  inscriptions; but the ancient faces of these (figures) are scratched
  out. The walls of this passage are covered with marble of different
  colours. It has also three or four high crepidines[451] or vaulted
  compartments (?) with the pictures of the prophets, of the apostles,
  and of Christ in gold. The master of the house, or rather the
  builder, or perhaps the founder, [Greek: ho ktêtôr], and his wife
  are also painted there in a costume very much the same as is worn
  to-day, but with a very strange head-ornament, from which we may
  conclude that he was one of the most distinguished of the imperial
  staff, for this ornament looks almost like a duke's biretta of silk
  and fur; the belt (cinctura) is of different colours, such as
  nowadays the Jews or Armenians wear, white and blue mixed. His wife
  has a veil (peplum) almost like that which Greek women have. The
  covered passage and the church form one building (porticus muro
  etiam templi continetur), entered by two high gates, and comprising
  four parts, or divided into four parts. 1. The covered passage
  (porticus), the walls of which as far as half their height are
  covered with marble. On the upper part, where the arches begin, and
  on the arches themselves are the paintings. In this passage or hall
  stand the women, and do not enter the church as they do not enter
  other churches, unless they go to the Lord's supper. 2. Is the
  church, as such, covered with Turkish rugs, and has only one gate.
  It has a high dome, which, like the remaining two domes, is entirely
  gilded and painted, and the walls up to the arches are covered with
  the most beautiful marble. From this one enters 3. through a low
  vaulted compartment, with a somewhat lower arch than the foresaid
  arches, the third part of the church, where the founder with other
  very beautiful portraits (pictures) is painted in gold. From this
  one enters 4. a vaulted and also painted, but rather dark place,
  with many small windows. On the outside of the walls of the church
  there is this inscription[452]--

  In front of the porch, vestibulo, [Greek: propiliô] of this church
  Theodosius showed me the place where the last Christian emperor
  Constantine, intending to flee at the Turkish conquest of the city,
  is said to have fallen from his horse and to have been found dead.'

[429] Scarlatus Byzantius, p. 369; Patr. Constantius, p. 81; Paspates, p. 304.

[430] Leo Gramm. pp. 218, 222.

[431] Siderides, in Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of C.P. vol. xxviii. p. 265.

[432] Ibid. p. 263.

[433] Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of C.P., ut supra, p. 258.

[434] Pasch. Chron. p. 593.

[435] Die byzantinischen Wasserbehälter von Konstantinopel, von Dr. Forscheimer und Dr. Strzygowski,
pp. 62-63, 175-176.

[436] Ut supra.

[437] Mansi, viii. col. 990, col. 1054.

[438] Miklosich et Müller, pp. 28, 50, 53, 54.

[439] P. 305. On p. 163 he places the pier in its proper position.

[440] Esq. top. p. 76; Archaeological Supplement to vol. xviii. of the Proceedings of the Greek
Syllogos of C.P. p. 9.

[441] Türkisches Tagebuch, pp. 455-56; cf. Crusius, Turcograecia p. 190.

[442] The question thus raised presents serious difficulties. That some building[A] in the
neighbourhood of Kefelé Mesjedi was known by the name of Aetius[B] is undoubted. It was a cistern
(Du Cange, i. p. 96), and formed one of the landmarks by which the church of S. John in Petra,
situated in this quarter of the city, was distinguished (Du Cange, iv. p. 152 [Greek: engista
tou Aetiou]). But while that is the case, Gyllius (De top. C.P. iv.), who explored this part
of the city in 1550, does not mention any Byzantine church that answers at all to Gerlach's
description of the church of Aetius, unless it be the Chora. That Gyllius should have overlooked
so beautiful a monument of Byzantine days as the church of Aetius, if different from the Chora,
is certainly very strange. But it is not less strange to find that Gerlach does not speak of
the Chora. Can the difficulty thus presented be removed by the supposition that Gerlach refers
to the Chora under the name of Aetius? The position he assigns to the church of Aetius in relation
to the church of S. John in Petra and to the palace of Constantine (Tekfour Serai) favours
that view, for he places the church of Aetius between S. John and the palace, exactly where
the Chora would stand in that series of buildings. Looking towards the north-west from the
windows of a house a little to the east of the Pammakaristos, Gerlach says 'Ad Occasum, Boream
versus, Prodromi [Greek: monê] est, olim [Greek: petra]; longius inde, Aetii [Greek: monê];
postea, Palatium Constantini' (Turcograecia, p. 190). On the other hand, Gerlach's description
of the church of Aetius differs in so many particulars from what holds true of the Chora, that
it is difficult, if not impossible, to believe that in that description he had the latter church
in mind. Unless, then, we are prepared to admit grave mistakes in Gerlach's description, we
must either assume an extraordinary failure on his part and on the part of Gyllius to notice
a most interesting Byzantine monument, directly on the path of both explorers in this quarter
of the city, or regret the disappearance of an ancient sanctuary that rivalled the Chora in
splendour.

     [A] It was probably the ruined cistern with twenty-four
     columns arranged in four rows of seven pillars each, near
     the mosque Kassim Aga, a short distance above Kefelé
     Mesjedi. Gerlach associates it with the church of Aetius. In the documents associated with the Synod of 536 in
     Constantinople the cistern of Aetius serves to identify the
     monastery of Mara (Mansi, viii. cols. 910, 930, 990). Cf.
     Banduri, iii. p. 49; v. p. 106.

[443] There is some uncertainty as to the identity of Manuel. Some authorities distinguish
Manuel the general from Manuel the uncle of Theodora, on the ground that the former is said
to have died of wounds received in battle during the reign of Theophilus (see Leo Gramm. p.
222). But it would be strange for different Manuels to reside near the cistern of Aspar, and
to convert their residences into the monastery of Manuel in that vicinity. For other reasons
for the identification see Bury, Eastern Roman Empire, Appendix viii. p. 476.

[444] Theodore Balsamon, vol. i. p. 1041; Canon VII. of the Synod of Constantinople held under
Photius.

[445] Theoph. Cont. p. 433, [Greek: monê tou Manouêlou].

[446] Cedrenus, ii. p. 487.

[447] Scylitzes, in Cedrenus, ii, p. 738.

[448] H. Brockhaus, Die Kunst in den Athos-Klöstern, p. 34; G. Millet, Le Monastère de Daphné.

[449] Gerlach, Tagebuch, p. 337.

[450] Paspates, p. 395.

[451] In Parker's Glossary of Architecture, p. 506, the term is defined 'quae vulgariter a
volta dicitur' (Matt. Par. 1056). Du Cange defines the word 'caverna ubi viae conveniunt.'

[452] According to the Patriarch Constantius (Ancient and Modern Constantinople, p. 76), the
monogram--

was to be seen in his day on the exterior western wall of the Chora.

CHAPTER XVIII

MONASTIR MESJEDI

At a short distance within Top Kapoussi (Gate of S. Romanus) that pierces the landward walls
of the city, and a little to the south of the street leading to that entrance, in the quarter
of Tash Mektep, Mustapha Tchaoush, stands a lonely Byzantine chapel which now goes by the name
Monastir Mesjedi, the Chapel of the Monastery. Its present designation tells us all that is
certain in regard to the history of the edifice; it was originally a chapel attached to a Christian
monastery, and after the Turkish conquest became a Moslem place of worshp. Paspates[453] is
disposed to identify the building with the chapel of the Theotokos erected in this vicinity,
in the thirteenth or fourteenth century, by Phocas Maroules[454] on the site of the ancient
church dedicated to the three martyr sisters Menodora, Metrodora, and Nymphodora.[455] The
chapel built by Maroules in fact belonged to a convent, and owing to its comparatively recent
date might well be standing to this day. But the evidence in favour of the proposed identification
is slight. In a city crowded with sanctuaries more than one small chapel could be situated
near the gate of S. Romanus. An old font, turned upside down and made to serve as a well-head
by having its bottom knocked out, lies on a vacant lot on the same side of the street as Monastir
Mesjedi, but nearer the gate of S. Romanus, and seems to mark the site of another sanctuary.
So likewise do the four columns crowned with ancient capitals which form the porch of the mosque
Kurkju Jamissi, on the north side of the street.

Phocas Maroules was domestic of the imperial table under Andronicus II. Palaeologus (1282-1328).
He appears also as the commander of the guards on the city walls that screened the palace of
Blachernae, when Andronicus III. Palaeologus, accompanied by John Cantacuzene, the protostrator
Synadenus, and an escort of thirty soldiers, stood before the gate of Gyrolimné to parley with
the elder emperor. The domestic was the bearer of the messages exchanged between the imperial
relatives on that occasion. It was a thankless task. But what troubled the mind of Maroules
most was how to avoid giving offence to both sovereigns and succeed in serving two masters.
To salute the grandson as became his rank and pretensions would incur the grandfather's displeasure;
to treat rudely the young prince, who had come on a friendly errand, and addressed the domestic
in gracious terms, was an impropriety which the reputation of Maroules as a paragon of politeness
would not allow him to commit. Furthermore, fortune being fickle, he felt bound as a prudent
man to consult her caprices. Accordingly, allowing less discreet officials beside him to insult
the younger emperor as much as they pleased, he himself refrained both from all taunts and
from all courteous speech. In response to the greetings of Andronicus III. he said nothing,
but at the same time made a respectful bow, thus maintaining his good manners and yet guarding
his interests whatever turn the dispute between the two emperors might take. John Cantacuzene,
a kindred spirit, extols the behaviour of Maroules in this dilemma as beyond all praise.[456]

After the death of Maroules his widow and son attempted to turn the convent into a monastery.
But the patriarchal court, before which the case came in 1341, decided in favour of the claims
of the nuns, on the principle that the intention of the founder should in such matters be always
respected. Hence convents were not allowed to be changed into monasteries, nor monasteries
into convents.[457]

Architectural Features

(For Plan see p. 261.)

The building is a small oblong hall roofed in wood, and terminates at its eastern end in three
semicircular apses. It is divided into two unequal compartments by a triple arcade placed near
the western end. The side apses are shallow recesses, scarcely separated from the central apse,
and show three sides on the exterior. The central apse projects six sides, and is now lighted
by a large Turkish window. The western compartment, forming the narthex, is in three bays covered
with cross-groined vaults. The cushion capitals on the columns of the arcade are decorated,
on the east and west, with a rudely cut leaf; and on the north and south with a cross in a
circle. Along the exterior of the south wall are traces of a string-course, of a cloister,
and of a door leading to the western compartment. On the same wall Paspates[458] saw, as late
as 1877, eikons painted in fresco. The western entrance stands between two pilasters, and near
it is an upright shaft, buried for the most part in the ground, probably the vestige of a narthex.
In the drawing of the church given by Paspates,[459] three additional shafts are shown beside
the building.

[453] P. 376.

[454] Miklosich et Müller, i. 221.

[455] For lives of these saints, see Synax., September 10; Symeon Metaphrastes, ii. p. 653.

[456] Cantacuzene, i. p. 255; Niceph. Greg. ix. pp. 407, 409.

[457] Miklosich et Müller, i. p. 221.

[458] P. 376.

[459] Ut supra.

CHAPTER XIX

BALABAN AGA MESJEDI

A small Byzantine building, now used for Moslem worship under the name of Balaban Aga Mesjedi,
is situated in the quarter of Shahzadé, off the south side of the street leading to the mosque
of Sultan Mehemed and the gate Edirne Kapoussi. Mordtmann[460] proposes to identify it with
the church of the Theotokos in the district of the Curator ([Greek: tou Kouratoros]), the foundation
of which is ascribed to Verina, the consort of Leo Macellus (457-474).[461] The only reason
for this conjecture is that the church in question stood where Balaban Aga Mesjedi stands,
in the neighbourhood of the forum of Taurus,[462] now represented by the open area beside the
War Office and the mosque of Sultan Bajazet. But the plan of the building does not correspond
to the description given of the Theotokos in the district of the Curator. The latter resembled
the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem,[463] and was therefore circular, whereas Balaban Aga Mesjedi
is a hexagon. Indeed, it may be questioned whether the building was ever a church, seeing it
has no room for either a berm, or an apse, or an eikonostosis. It may have been the library
of a monastic establishment.

Architectural Features

(For Plans see p. 267.)

Internally the building is an accurate hexagon, with a deeply arched recess in each side. Five
recesses have a window, while in the sixth recess, instead of a window, there is a door. The
cornice and wooden ceiling are Turkish. Externally the edifice shows four sides, two circular
and two flat projecting bays, arranged in alternate order. In each of the circular sides are
two windows, while the fifth window and the entrance are respectively in the flat sides. A
Turkish narthex fronts one-half of the building. (Plate LV.)

[460] Esq. top. p. 70.

[461] Banduri, i. p. 18.

[462] Synax., July 22nd, December 7th.

[463] Banduri, ut supra.

CHAPTER XX

THE CHURCH OF THE GASTRIA, SANJAKDAR MESJEDI

This mosque is situated in the quarter of Psamathia, at a short distance to the north of the
Armenian church of S. George (Soulou Monastir), which stands on the site of the Byzantine church
of S. Mary Peribleptos. Paspates,[464] who first recognized the Byzantine character of the
edifice, regards it as the chapel attached to the convent of the Gastria ([Greek: Monê tôn
Gastriôn, ta Gastria], i.e. in the district of the Flower-pots). His reasons for that opinion
are: first, the building is situated in the district of Psamathia, where the convent of the
Gastria stood; secondly, it is in the neighbourhood of the Studion, with which the convent
of the Gastria was closely associated during the iconoclastic controversy; thirdly, the copious
and perennial stream of water that flows through the grounds below the mosque would favour
the existence of a flower-garden in this part of the city, and thus give occasion for the bestowal
of the name Gastria upon the locality. The argument is by no means conclusive. A more fanciful
explanation of the name of the district is given by Byzantine etymologists after their wont.
According to them the name was due to the circumstance that the Empress Helena, upon her return
from Jerusalem with her great discovery of the Holy Cross, disembarked at Psamathia, and having
founded a convent there, adorned its garden with the pots ([Greek: ta gastria]) of fragrant
shrubs which accompanied the sacred tree on the voyage from Palestine.[465] More sober historians
ascribe the foundation of the convent to Euphrosyne, the step-mother of the Emperor Theophilus,[466]
or to his mother-in-law Theoctista.[467] Both ladies, it is certain, were interested in the
House, the former taking the veil there,[468] while the latter resided in the immediate neighbourhood.[469]
Probably the convent was indebted to both those pious women for benefactions, and it was unquestionably
in their day that the monastery acquired its greatest fame as the centre of female influence
in support of the cause of eikons. Theoctista was especially active in that cause, and through
her connection with the court not only strengthened the opposition to the policy of her son-in-law,
but also disturbed the domestic peace of the imperial family. Whenever the daughters of Theophilus
visited her she took the opportunity to condemn their father's views, and would press her eikons
on the girls' lips for adoration. One day, after such a visit, Pulcheria, the youngest princess,
a mere child, in giving an account of what had transpired, innocently told her father that
she had seen and kissed some very beautiful dolls at her grandmother's house. Whereupon Theophilus,
suspecting the real facts, forbade his daughter to visit Theoctista again. On another occasion
the court fool, Denderis, surprised the Empress Theodora in her private chamber kissing eikons
and placing them over her eyes. 'What are these things?' he inquired. 'My beautiful dolls which
I love,' she replied. Not long afterwards the jester was summoned to amuse Theophilus while
sitting at table. 'What is the latest news?' asked the emperor. 'When I last visited "mamma"
(the jester's familiar name for the empress) I saw most beautiful dolls in her room.' Instantly
the emperor rose, beside himself with rage, and rushing to his wife's apartments violently
denounced her as a heathen and idolater. 'Not at all,' answered Theodora, in her softest accents,
'that fool of yours saw me and my maidens looking into a mirror and mistook the faces reflected
there for dolls.' The emperor did not press the case, but a few days later the servants of
Theodora caught Denderis and gave him a sound thrashing for telling tales, dismissing him with
the advice to let dolls alone in the future. In consequence of this experience, whenever the
jester was afterwards asked whether he had seen his 'mamma's' dolls recently, he put one hand
to his mouth and the other far down his back and whispered, 'Don't speak to me about dolls.'[470]
Such were the pleasantries that relieved the stern warfare against eikons.

On the occasion of the breach between Theodora and her son Michael III., on account of the
murder of her friend and counsellor Theoctistos at Michael's order, she and her four daughters,
Thekla, Anastasia, Anna, and Pulcheria, were confined in the Gastria, and there, with the exception
of Anna, they were eventually buried.[471] At the Gastria were shown also the tombs of Theoctista,
her son Petronas, Irene the daughter of Bardas, and a small chest containing the lower jaw
of Bardas[472] himself. It is this connection with the family of Theophilus, in life and in
death, that lends chief interest to the Gastria.

Architectural Features

(For Plan see p. 267.)

Although the building is now almost a complete ruin, it still preserves some architectural
interest. On the exterior it is an octagonal structure, with a large arch on each side rising
to the cornice, and thus presents a strong likeness to the Byzantine building known as Sheik
Suleiman Mesjedi, near the Pantokrator (p. 25). The northern, southern, and western arches
are pierced by windows. The entrance is in the western arch. The interior presents the form
of an equal-armed cross, the arms being deep recesses covered with semicircular vaults. The
dome over the central area has fallen in. The apse, semicircular within and showing five sides
on the exterior, is attached to the eastern arm. Its three central sides are occupied by a
triple-shafted window. Two shallow niches represent the usual apsidal chambers. A similar niche
is found also on both sides of the entrance and on the eastern side of the northern arm of
the cross. In the wall to the west of the southern arch is a small chamber. The joint between
the apse and the body of the building is straight, with no bond in the masonry; nor is the
masonry of the two parts of the same character. In the former it is in alternate courses of
brick and stone, while in the latter we find many brick courses and only an occasional stone
band. Evidently the apse is a later addition. In view of these facts, the probable conclusion
is that the building was originally not a church but a library, and that it was transformed
into a church at some subsequent period in its history to meet some special demand.

[464] P. 304.

[465] Banduri, iii. p. 54.

[466] Leo Gram. p. 214.

[467] Zonaras, iii. p. 358.

[468] Theoph. Cont. pp. 625, 628, 790.

[469] Ibid. p. 90.

[470] Theoph. Cont. pp. 91-92.

[471] Ibid. pp. 174, 658, 823; Codinus, p. 208. The Anonymus (Banduri, iii. p. 52) and Codinus
(De aed. p. 97) say that Theodora and her daughters were confined in the convent of Euphrosyne
at the Libadia, [Greek: ta Libadia]. Their mistake is due to the fact that the convent at Gastria
and the convent at Libadia were both connected with ladies named Euphrosyne. Cf. Codinus, p. 207.

[472] Constant. Porphyr. p. 647.

CHAPTER XXI

THE CHURCH OF S. MARY OF THE MONGOLS

The church of S. Mary of the Mongols ([Greek: tôn Mongoliôn, tôn Mougouliôn, tou Mouchliou,
Mouchliôtissa]), which stands on the heights above the quarter of Phanar, a short distance
to the west of the Greek Communal School, was founded in the thirteenth century by Maria Palaeologina,
a natural daughter of the Emperor Michael Palaeologus (1261-1282). As the church has been in
Greek hands ever since its foundation its identity cannot be disputed. The epithet given to
the Theotokos in association with this sanctuary alludes to the fact that Maria Palaeologina
married a Khan of the Mongols,[473] and bore the title of Despoina of the Mongols ([Greek:
Despoina tôn Mougouliôn]).[474] The marriage was prompted by no romantic sentiment, but formed
part of the policy by which her father hoped to secure the goodwill of the world for the newly
restored Empire of Constantinople. While endeavouring to disarm the hostility of Western Europe
by promoting the union of the Latin and Greek Churches, he sought to conciliate the people
nearer his dominion by matrimonial alliances with their rulers. It was in this way that he
courted, with greater or less success, the friendship of Servia, Bulgaria, the Duchy of Thebes,
and the Empire of Trebizond. And by the same method he tried to win the friendship of the formidable
Mongols settled in Russia and Persia. Accordingly he bestowed the hand of one natural daughter,
Euphrosyne, upon Nogaya,[475] who had established a Mongolian principality near the Black Sea,
while the hand of Maria was intended for Holagu, famous in history as the destroyer in 1258
of the caliphate of Baghdad. Maria left Constantinople for her future home in 1265 with a great
retinue, conducted by Theodosius de Villehardouin, abbot of the monastery of the Pantokrator,
who was styled the 'Prince,' because related to the princes of Achaia and the Peloponnesus.
A rich trousseau accompanied the bride-elect, and a tent of silk for a chapel, furnished with
eikons of gold affixed to crosses, and with costly vessels for the celebration of the Holy
Sacrifice. When the mission reached Caesarea news came that Holagu was dead, but since reasons
of state inspired the proposed marriage, the bridal party continued its journey to the Mongolian
court, and there in due time Maria was wedded to Abaga, the son and successor of Holagu, after
the bridegroom had received, it is said, Christian baptism.[476]

In 1281 Abaga was poisoned by his brother Achmed,[477] and Maria deemed it prudent, and doubtless
welcome, after an absence of sixteen years, to return to Constantinople. She appears again
in history during the reign of her brother Andronicus II. Palaeologus, when for the second
time she was offered as a bride to the Mongolian prince, Charbanda, who then ruled in Persia,[478]
the object of this new matrimonial alliance being to obtain the aid of the Mongols against
the Turks, who under Othman had become a dangerous foe and were threatening Nicaea. With this
purpose in view Maria proceeded to that city, both to encourage the defence of an important
strategic position and to press forward the negotiations with Charbanda. The Despoina of the
Mongols, however, did not comprehend the character of the enemy with whom she had to deal.
Her contemptuous demeanour towards Othman, and her threats to bring the Mongols against him,
only roused the spirit of the Turkish chieftain, and before the Greeks could derive any advantage
from the 30,000 Mongolian troops sent to their aid, Othman stormed the fortress of Tricocca,
an outpost of Nicaea, and made it the base of his subsequent operations.[479]

The church was built for the use of a convent which the Despoina of the Mongols, like many
other ladies in Byzantine times, erected as a haven of refuge for souls who had dedicated their
lives to the service of God ([Greek: limena psychôn kata theon prosthemenôn bioun]). She also
endowed it with property in the immediate neighbourhood ([Greek: peri tên topothesian tou Phanari]),
as well as with other lands both within and beyond the city, and while Maria lived the nuns
had no reason for complaint. But after her death the property of the House passed into the
hands of Isaac Palaeologus Asanes, the husband of a certain Theodora, whom Maria had treated
as a daughter, and to whom she bequeathed a share in the convent's revenues. He, as soon as
Theodora died, appropriated the property for the benefit of his family, with the result that
the sisterhood fell into debt and was threatened with extinction. In their distress the nuns
appealed to Andronicus III. Palaeologus for protection, and by the decision of the patriarchal
court, to which the case was referred as the proper tribunal in such disputes, the convent
in 1351 regained its rights.[480]

As already intimated, to this church belongs the interest of having always preserved its original
character as a sanctuary of the Greek Orthodox Communion. This distinction it owes to the fact
that the church was given to Christoboulos, the Greek architect of the mosque of Sultan Mehemed,
as his private property, to mark the conqueror's satisfaction with the builder's work. The
grant was confirmed by Bajazet II. in recognition of the services of the nephew of Christoboulos
in the construction of the mosque which bears that Sultan's name. Twice, indeed, attempts were
subsequently made to deprive the Greek community of the church, once under Selim I. and again
under Achmed III. But, like the law of the Medes and Persians, a Sultan's decree altereth not,
and by presenting the hatti sheriff of Sultan Mehemed the efforts to expropriate the building
were frustrated.[481]

Among the Turks the building is known as Kan Kilisse, the church of Blood, and the adjoining
street goes by the name Sanjakdar Youkousou, the ascent of the standard-bearer,[482] terms
which refer to the desperate struggle between Greeks and Turks at this point on the morning
of the capture of the city.[483]

Architectural Features

Although the building has always been in Christian hands it has suffered alterations almost
more drastic than any undergone by churches converted into mosques. The interior has been stripped
of its original decoration, and is so blocked by eikons, chandeliers, and other ornaments as
to render a proper examination of the church extremely difficult. In plan the church is a domed
quatrefoil building, the only example of that type found in Constantinople. The central dome
rests on a cross formed by four semi-domes, which are further enlarged below the vaulting level
by three large semicircular niches. It is placed on a drum of eight concave compartments pierced
by windows to the outside circular and crowned with a flat cornice. Externally the semi-domes
and apse are five-sided. From the interior face of the apse and on its northern wall projects
a capital, adorned with acanthus leaves, which, as it could never have stood free in this position,
probably formed part of an eikonostasis in stone. The narthex is in three bays, the central
bay being covered by a barrel vault, while the lateral bays have low drumless domes on pendentives.
The entrance is by a door in the central bay, and from that bay the church is entered through
a passage cut in the central niche of the western semi-dome, and slightly wider than the niche.
The end bays open, respectively, into the northern and southern semi-domes by passages or aisles
terminating in a diagonal arch. The arches between these aisles and the western semi-dome are
pierced, and thus isolate the western dome piers. On the south the church has been greatly
altered; for the entire southern semi-dome and the southern bay of the narthex have been removed
and replaced by three aisles of two bays each. These bays are equal in height, and are covered
by cross-groined vaults with strong transverse pointed arches supported on square piers, the
whole forming a large hall held up by two piers, and showing the distinct influence of Italian
Gothic work. This part of the building is modern. On the eastern wall is a large picture of
the Last Judgment.

The plan of this church may be compared with that of S. Nicholas Methana (Fig. 97).

[473] Pachym. i. pp. 174-75.

[474] Ibid. ii. pp. 620-37.

[475] Ibid. i. p. 231

[476] Pachym. ii. pp. 174-75.

[477] Muralt, Essai de chronographie byzantine, vol. ii. ad annum.

[478] Pachym. ii. pp. 620-21.

[479] Ibid. pp. 637-38.

[480] Miklosich et Müller, i. pp. 312, 317.

[481] Patr. Constantius, pp. 84-86. The Greek community retains also other churches founded
before the Turkish conquest, but they are wholly modern buildings.

[482] Ibid. pp. 85-86.

[483] N. Barbaro, p. 818.

CHAPTER XXII

BOGDAN SERAI

In a vacant lot of ground on the eastern declivity of the hill above the quarter of Balat,
and at a short distance to the east of a mass of rock known as Kesmé Kaya, stands a Byzantine
chapel to which the name Bogdan Serai clings. Although now degraded to the uses of a cow-house
it retains considerable interest. Its name recalls the fact that the building once formed the
private chapel attached to the residence of the envoys of the hospodars of Moldavia (in Turkish
Bogdan) at the Sublime Porte; just as the style Vlach Serai given to the church of the Virgin,
lower down the hill and nearer the Golden Horn, is derived from the residence of the envoys
of the Wallachian hospodars with which that church was connected. According to Hypselantes,[484]
the Moldavian residence was erected early in the sixteenth century by Teutal Longophetes, the
envoy who presented the submission of his country to Suleiman the Magnificent at Buda in 1516,
when the Sultan was on his way to the siege of Vienna. Upon the return of Suleiman to Constantinople
the hospodar of the principality came in person to the capital to pay tribute, and to be invested
in his office with the insignia of two horse-tails, a fur coat, and the head-dress of a commander
in the corps of janissaries. Gerlach[485] gives another account of the matter. According to
his informants, the mansion belonged originally to a certain Raoul, who had emigrated to Russia
in 1518, and after his death was purchased by Michael Cantacuzene as a home for the Moldavian
envoys. It must have been an attractive house, surrounded by large grounds, and enjoying a
superb view of the city and the Golden Horn. It was burnt[486] in the fire which devastated
the district on the 25th June 1784, and since that catastrophe its grounds have been converted
into market gardens or left waste, and its chapel has been a desecrated pile. But its proud
name still haunts the site, calling to mind political relations which have long ceased to exist.
The chapel stood at the north-western end of the residence and formed an integral part of the
structure. For high up in the exterior side of the south-eastern wall are the mortises which
held the beams supporting the floor of the upper story of the residence; while lower down in
the same wall is a doorway which communicated with the residence on that level. Some of the
substructures of the residence are still visible. It is not impossible that the house, or at
least some portion of it, was an old Byzantine mansion. Mordtmann,[487] indeed, suggests that
it was the palace to which Phrantzes refers under the name Trullus ([Greek: en tô Troulô]).[488]
But that palace stood to the north of the church of the Pammakaristos (Fetiyeh Jamissi), and
had disappeared when Phrantzes wrote. Gerlach,[489] moreover, following the opinion of his
Greek friends, distinguishes between the Trullus and the Moldavian residence, and places the
site of the former near the Byzantine chapel now converted into Achmed Pasha Mesjedi, to the
south of the church of the Pammakaristos.[490]

Opinions differ in regard to the dedication of the chapel. Paspates,[491] following the view
current among the gardeners who cultivated the market-gardens in the neighbourhood, maintained
that the chapel was dedicated to S. Nicholas. Hence the late Canon Curtis, of the Crimean Memorial
Church in Constantinople, believed that this was the church of SS. Nicholas and Augustine of
Canterbury, founded by a Saxon noble who fled to Constantinople after the Norman conquest of
England. What is certain is that in the seventeenth century the chapel was dedicated to the
Theotokos. Du Cange mentions it under the name, Ecclesia Deiparae Serai Bogdaniae.[492]

Mordtmann has proved[493] that Bogdan Serai marks the site of the celebrated monastery and
church of S. John the Baptist in Petra,--the title 'in Petra' being derived from the neighbouring
mass of rock, which the Byzantines knew as [Greek: Palaia Petra], and which the Turks style
Kesmé Kaya, the Chopped Rock.

According to a member of the monastery, who flourished in the eleventh century, the House was
founded by a monk named Bara in the reign of Anastasius I. (491-518) near an old half-ruined
chapel dedicated to S. John the Baptist, in what was then a lonely quarter of the city, between
the Gate of S. Romanus (Top Kapoussi) and Blachernae. The monastery becomes conspicuous in
the narratives of the Russian pilgrims to the shrines of the city, under the designation, the
monastery of S. John, Rich-in-God, because the institution was unendowed and dependent upon
the freewill offerings of the faithful, which 'by the grace of God and the care and prayers
of John' were generous. Thrice a year, on the festivals of the Baptist and at Easter, the public
was admitted to the monastery and hospitably entertained. It seems to have suffered during
the Latin occupation, for it is described in the reign of Andronicus II. as standing abandoned
in a vineyard. But it was restored, and attracted visitors by the beauty of its mosaics and
the sanctity of its relics.[494]

In 1381 a patriarchal decision conferred upon the abbot the titles of archimandrite and protosyngellos,
and gave him the third place in the order of precedence among the chiefs of the monasteries
of the city, 'that thus the outward honours of the house might reflect the virtue and piety
which adorned its inner life.'[495] Owing to the proximity of the house to the landward walls,
it was one of the first shrines[496] to become the spoil of the Turks on the 29th of May 1453,
and was soon used as a quarry to furnish materials for new buildings after the conquest. Gyllius
visited the ruins, and mistaking the fabric for the church of S. John the Baptist at the Hebdomon,
gave rise to the serious error of placing that suburb in this part of the city instead of at
Makrikeui beside the Sea of Marmora.[497] Gerlach[498] describes the church as closed because
near a mosque. Portions, however, of the monastic buildings and of the strong wall around them
still survived, and eikons of celebrated saints still decorated the porch. On an eikon of Christ
the title of the monastery, Petra, was inscribed. Some of the old cells were then occupied
by nuns, who were maintained by the charitable gifts of wealthy members of the Greek community.

Architectural Features

The building is in two stories, and may be described as a chapel over a crypt. It points north-east,
a peculiar orientation probably due to the adaptation of the chapel to the position of the
residence with which it was associated. The masonry is very fine and regular, built in courses
of squared stone alternating with four courses of brick, all laid in thick mortar joints, and
pierced with numerous putlog holes running through the walls. It presents a striking likeness
to the masonry in the fortifications of the city. The lower story is an oblong hall covered
with a barrel vault, and terminates in an arch and apse. In the west side of one of the jambs
of the arch is a small niche. The vault for one-third of its height is formed by three courses
of stone laid horizontally and cut to the circle; above this it is of brick with radiating
joints. Here cows are kept.

The upper story is m. 3.75 above the present level of the ground. It is a single hall m. 8.80
in length and m. 3.70 wide, terminating in a bema and a circular apse in brick. Over the bema
is a barrel vault. A dome, without drum or windows, resting on two shallow flat arches in the
lateral walls and two deep transverse arches strengthened by a second order of arches, covers
the building. In the wall towards the north-west there is a window between two low niches;
and a similar arrangement is seen in the opposite wall, except that the door which communicated
with the residence occupies the place of the window. The apsidal chambers, usual in a church,
are here represented by two niches in the bema. Externally the apse shows five sides, and is
decorated by a flat niche pierced by a single light in the central side, and a blind concave
niche, with head of patterned brickwork, in the two adjacent sides. The dome, apse, vaults,
and transverse arches are in brick, laid in true radiating courses. The absence of windows
in the dome is an unusual feature, which occurs also in the angle domes of S. Theodosia. The
pendentives are in horizontal courses, corbelled out to the centre, and at each angle of the
pendentives is embedded an earthenware jar, either for the sake of lightness, or to improve,
as some think, the acoustics of the building. This story of the chapel is used as a hayloft.

A careful survey of the building shows clearly that the domical character of the chapel is
not original, and that the structure when first erected was a simple hall covered with a wooden
roof. Both the shallow wall arches and the deep transverse arches under the dome are insertions
in the walls of an older fabric. They are not supported on pilasters, as is the practice elsewhere,
but rest on corbels, and, in order to accommodate these corbels, the lateral niches, originally
of the same height as the central window, have been reduced in height. A fragment of the original
arch still remains, cut into by the wall arch of the dome. The flat secondary arches crossing
the chapel at each end are similarly supported on corbels.

This view is confirmed by the examination of the plaster left upon the walls. That plaster
has four distinct coats or layers, upon all of which eikons in tempera are painted.[499] The
innermost coat is laid between the transverse dome arches and the walls against which they
are built. Those arches, therefore, could not have formed parts of the building when the first
coat of plaster was laid, but must be later additions.

In keeping with this fact, the second coat of painted plaster is found laid both on the arches
and on those portions of the old work which the arches did not cover.

The secondary arches under the transverse arches at each end belong to a yet later period,
for where they have separated from the arches above them, decorated plaster, which at one time
formed part of the general ornamentation of the building, is exposed to view. At this stage
in the history of the chapel the third coat of plaster was spread over the walls, thus giving
three coats on the oldest parts where unaltered--two coats on the first alterations, and one
coat on the second alterations. The fourth coat of plaster is still later, marking some less
serious repair of the chapel.

The voussoirs of the lateral dome arches should be noticed. They do not radiate to the centre,
but are laid flatter and radiate to a point above the centre. This form of construction, occurring
frequently in Byzantine arches, is regarded by some authorities as a method of forming an arch
without centering. But in the case of the lateral wall arches before us it occurs where centering
could never have been required; while the apse arch, where centering would have had structural
value, is formed with true radiating voussoirs. The failure of the voussoirs to radiate to
the centre therefore seems to be simply the result of using untapered voussoirs in which the
arch form must be obtained by wedge-shaped joints. For if these joints are carelessly formed,
the crown may very well be reached before the requisite amount of radiation has been obtained.
On the other hand, if full centering had been used, we should expect to find marks of the centering
boards on the mortar in the enormously thick joints. But neither here nor in any instance where
the jointing was visible have such marks been found. Still, when we consider the large amount
of mortar employed in Byzantine work, it seems impossible that greater distortions than we
actually meet with in Byzantine edifices would not have occurred, even during the building,
had no support whatever been given. It seems, therefore, safe to assume the use of at any rate
light scaffolding and centering to all Byzantine arches.[500]

[484] [Greek: Meta tên halôsin], p. 61; cf. Paspates, p. 361.

[485] Tagebuch, p. 456.

[486] Hypselantes, ut supra, p. 638.

[487] Archaeological Supplement to the Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of C.P. vol. xviii. p. 8.

[488] Phrantzes, p. 307.

[489] Tagebuch, p. 456.

[490] See Chap. XII.

[491] P. 360.

[492] Constant. Christ. iv. p. 162.

[494] Ruy Gonzalez de Clavijo in 1403, Vida de Gran Tamorlan y itinerario, p. 50 (Madrid, 1782):
'San Juan del a Piedra está cerca del palacio del Emperador' (i.e. near the palace of Blachernae).

[495] Miklosich et Müller, i. ii. pp. 21-23.

[496] Ducas, p. 288.

[497] De top. C.P. iv. c. 4.

[498] Tagebuch, p. 455.

[499] When Paspates (p. 360) visited the chapel, the eikons were more distinctly visible than
at present, although they bore marks of deliberate injury by Moslem iconoclasts.

[500] See p. 23.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE CHURCH OF S. SAVIOUR IN THE CHORA, KAHRIÉ JAMISSI

According to the historian Nicephorus Gregoras,[501] who was long and closely connected with
the church, the Chora was founded by Justinian the Great, and then presented the form of a
basilica. But there is reason to believe that the edifice erected by that emperor was the reconstruction
of an older shrine. The fame of a restorer often eclipsed the memory of the founder of a sanctuary,
especially when the restorer was the superior in rank and reared a larger and more beautiful
building.

According to Symeon Metaphrastes,[502] the site of the Chora was first consecrated by the interment
of S. Babylas and his eighty-four disciples, who were martyred in 298 during the reign of Maximianus.
The scene of their execution, indeed, was Nicomedia; but friendly hands obtained possession
of the bodies of the champions of the faith, and taking them to Constantinople, buried them
outside the walls of the city, towards the north, in the place subsequently occupied by the
monastery of the Chora. As will appear, the relics of S. Babylas and his disciples formed part
of the treasures of the Chora in the ninth century.[503]

The settlement of the approximate date of the foundation of the church depends, ultimately,
upon the meaning to be attached to the term Chora ([Greek: Chôra]). There are some writers
who incline to the idea that in this connection that term was employed from the first in a
mystical sense, to denote the attribute of Christ as the sphere of man's highest life; and
there can be no doubt that the word was used in that sense in the fourteenth century. That
is unquestionably its meaning in the legends inscribed on mosaics which adorn the walls of
the building.

  [Greek:
    IC XC         MÊR THY
   HÊ CHÔRA     HÊ CHÔRA TOU
  TÔN ZÔNTÔN     ACHÔRÊTOU]

And it is in that sense that the term is employed by Cantacuzene[504] and Phrantzes.[505] On
this view the description of the church as 'in the Chora' throws no light on the date of the
church's foundation. Other authorities,[506] however, maintain that the term Chora was originally
associated with the church in the obvious topographical signification of the word, to denote
territory outside the city limits, and that its religious reference came into vogue only when
changes in the boundaries of Constantinople made the literal meaning of Chora no longer applicable.
According to this opinion the church was, therefore, founded while its site lay beyond the
city walls, and consequently before the year 413, after which the site was included within
the capital by the erection of the Theodosian wall.

Hence, the phrase 'in the Chora' had the same signification as the style 'in the fields' which
is attached to the church of S. Martin in London, or the style fuore le mura which belongs
to the basilica of S. Paul and other churches beyond the walls of Rome to this day.

It is certainly in this topographical sense that the term Chora is understood by the Byzantine
writers in whose works it first appears. That is how the term is used by Simeon Metaphrastes[507]
in his description of the site of the monastery in his day, and that is how the Anonymus[508]
of the eleventh century and his follower Codinus[509] understand the term; for they take special
care to explain how a building which lay within the city in their day could be styled 'Chora';
because, say they, it once stood without the walls, on territory, therefore, called by the
Byzantines, [Greek: chôrion], the country. The literal meaning of a word is earlier than its
artificial and poetical signification. And one can easily conceive how, when the style Chora
was no longer literally correct, men abandoned the sober ground of common-sense and history
to invent recondite meanings inspired by imagination and sentiment.

This conclusion is confirmed by the history of the Chora given in the Life of S. Theodore,[510]
an abbot of the monastery, which Mr. Gedeon discovered in the library of the Pantokrator on
Mount Athos. According to that biography, S. Theodore was a relative of Theodora, the wife
of Justinian the Great, and after serving with distinction in the Persian wars, and winning
greater renown as a monk near Antioch, came to Constantinople about the year 530, at the invitation
of his imperial relatives, to assist in the settlement of the theological controversies of
the day. Once there he was induced to make the capital his permanent abode by permission to
build a monastery, where he could follow his high calling as fully as in his Syrian retreat.
For that purpose he selected a site on the property of a certain Charisius, situated, as the
Chora is, on the slope of a hill, descending on the one hand steeply to the sea, and rising,
on the other, to the highest point in the line of the Theodosian walls, the point marked by
the gate named after Charisius (now Edirné Kapoussi). The site was already hallowed, says the
biographer of S. Theodore, by the presence of a humble monastic retreat and a small chapel.

The edifice erected by S. Theodore was, however, soon overthrown by the severe earthquake which
shook the city in 558, and all the hopes of the good man would also have been dashed to the
ground had the disaster not called forth the sympathy and aid of Justinian. In the room of
the ruined buildings the emperor erected a magnificent establishment, with chapels dedicated
to the Theotokos, the Archangel Michael, S. Anthimus of Nicomedia, and the Forty Martyrs of
Sebaste. There also stood a hostel for the special accommodation of Syrian monks on a visit
to Constantinople, and a hospital for diseases of the eye.[511]

In this account of the early history of the Chora, there may be, as Schmitt[512] thinks, many
inaccuracies. It was easy, even for a member of the House who aspired to authorship, to confuse
persons, to err in the matter of dates, and to overlook the changes which the buildings with
which he was familiar had undergone before his day. But surely the biographer of S. Theodore
can be trusted where his statements are supported by more reliable authorities, and we may
therefore accept his testimony on the following points: that the original church of the Chora
was earlier than the reign of Justinian; that under Justinian the old sanctuary was replaced
by a new and statelier building; that the Chora maintained intimate relations with monasteries
in Syria; and that with it was associated a church dedicated to the Archangel Michael.

  NOTE

  The association of a church dedicated to S. Michael with the Chora,
  and the fact that the Chora stood on the property of Charisius, raise
  an interesting question. For among the subscriptions to the letter of
  the monks to Pope Hormisdas in 518, and the subscriptions to the Acts
  of the Synod held in Constantinople in 536, stands the name of the
  abbot of the monastery of the Archangel Michael of Charisius.[513] Was
  that monastery identical with the Chora? If it was, that fact would be
  additional evidence that the Chora was earlier than Justinian's time.
  On the other hand, it is always dangerous to identify buildings
  because they were situated in the same quarter of the city and
  dedicated to the same saint. The absence of all reference to the
  monastery of S. Michael of Charisius after the reign of Justinian, and
  yet the association of a church of S. Michael with the Chora after his
  reign, may be due either to the ruin of that monastery in the
  earthquake of 558, or to the subsequent union of the two
  establishments on account of their proximity.

The next important event in the history of the House was the confinement there of the celebrated
general Priscus, Count of the Excubiti, at the command of the Emperor Heraclius (610-641).[514]
Priscus had taken a leading part in the revolution which overthrew his father-in-law, the infamous
Phocas, and placed Heraclius upon the throne. But notwithstanding that service, the attitude
of the general towards the new régime was not considered satisfactory, and with the cruel taunt,
'Wretch, thou didst not make a good son-in-law; how canst thou be a true friend?' Heraclius
relegated him to political nonentity by forcing him to become a monk at the Chora. The new
brother did not live long, but his wealth furnished the fraternity with the means for the erection
of a large and beautiful church.

Schmitt, indeed, thinks that the biographer of S. Theodore, already cited, failed to recognise
the identity of the person concerning whom he wrote, and assigned events which occurred in
the time of Heraclius to the reign of Justinian. According to Schmitt, S. Theodore is really
Priscus under his name in religion, and to him, and not to Justinian, was the Chora indebted
for its first great era of prosperity. One thing is certain, the splendid church with which
the biographer of S. Theodore was acquainted, and the wealth and beauty of which he extols
in extravagant terms, was not the church erected by Justinian at the Chora. The latter was
a basilica;[515] while the church alluded to in the biography of S. Theodore was a domical
building.[516] Probably the fame of Justinian veiled not only what others had done for the
Chora before him, but also the services performed by others after his day.

In 712 the Patriarch Kyros was confined in the Chora by the Emperor Philippicus for adherence
to the tenets of the Sixth General Council (680),[517] which condemned the attribution of a
single will to the person of Christ. The fidelity of the patriarch to orthodox opinion was
commemorated annually in the services held at the Chora, as well as in S. Sophia, on the 8th
of January.

The monastery was also honoured by the burial there, in 740, of the Patriarch Germanus (714-730),
famous for his piety, his learning, and above all for his opposition to Leo the Isaurian, when
that emperor commenced the crusade against eikons. The tomb of the patriarch was reputed to
perform wonderful cures.[518] Another notable personage buried at the Chora was the patrician
Bactagius, an associate of Artavasdos in the effort, made in 743, to drive Constantine Copronymus
from the throne. Upon the failure of that attempt Bactagius was captured, beheaded in the Kynegion,
and while his head was displayed to public view in the Milion for three days, his mutilated
body was taken to the Chora. This might have seemed sufficient revenge. But the rebel's offence
so rankled in the emperor's memory, that even after the lapse of some thirty years his resentment
was not allayed. The widow of Bactagius was then forced to proceed to the Chora to disinter
the bones of her husband from their resting-place in holy earth, and carry them in her cloak
to the dreary burial-ground of Pelagion, where the corpses of persons who committed suicide
were thrown.[519]

Like similar institutions the Chora suffered severely during the iconoclastic period. Because
of its connection with the Patriarch Germanus it became the special object of the hatred of
Constantine Copronymus for monks and was almost ruined. What he left of it was turned into
a secular residence, and devoted to the confinement of Artavasdos and his family. There also
that rebel, and his nine children and his wife, Constantine's sister, were eventually buried.[520]

With the triumph of the iconodules, in 842, under Michael III. and his mother the Empress Theodora,
happier days dawned upon the Chora. It was then fortunate in the appointment of Michael Syncellus
as its abbot, and under his rule it rapidly recovered from poverty and desolation. The new
abbot was a Syrian monk distinguished for his ability, his sanctity, and his devotion to eikons.
He came to Constantinople in 814, to remonstrate against the religious policy of Leo the Armenian,
and, according to the custom of monks from Palestine on a visit to the capital, lodged at the
Chora. But so far from succeeding in the object of his visit, Michael was imprisoned and then
banished to one of the monasteries on Mount Olympus in Bithynia. Accordingly, when the cause
for which he suffered proved victorious, no honour seemed too great to bestow upon the martyr.
It was even proposed to create him patriarch, but he declined the office, and supported the
appointment of his friend Methodius to that position. Methodius, in return, made Michael his
syncellus and abbot of the Chora.[521] Under these circumstances it is not surprising that
funds were secured for the restoration of the monastery, and that the brotherhood soon gained
great influence in the religious circles of the capital. There is, however, no mention now
of the church of the Archangel Michael or of the church dedicated to the Theotokos. Possibly
the death of the abbot in 846 and lack of money prevented the reconstruction of those sanctuaries.
The only churches attached to the Chora noticed in the biography of Michael Syncellus are the
church of S. Anthimus, containing the relics of S. Babylas and his eighty-four disciples, the
dependent chapel of S. Ignatius, and the church of the Forty Martyrs.[522] Let it also be noted
that there is yet no mention of a church specially consecrated to the Saviour.

After its restoration in the 9th century the Chora does not appear again in history until the
reign of Alexius I. Comnenus (1081-1118), when, owing to its great age, it was found in a state
of almost complete ruin.[523] If for no other reason, the proximity of the church to the palace
or Blachernae, which had become the favourite residence of the court, brought the dilapidated
pile into notice, and its restoration was undertaken by the emperor's mother-in-law, Maria,
the beautiful and talented granddaughter of Samuel, the famous king of Bulgaria, and niece
of Aecatherina, the consort of Isaac I. Comnenus. Maria had married Andronicus Ducas, a son
of Michael VII., and the marriage of her daughter Irene Ducaena to Alexius was designed to
unite the rival pretensions of the families of the Comneni and the Ducas to the throne. It
had been strenuously opposed by Anna Dalassena, the mother of Alexius, and its accomplishment
in 1077, notwithstanding such formidable opposition, is no slight proof of the diplomatic skill
and determination of the mother of the bride. Nor can it be doubted that Irene's mother acted
a considerable part in persuading Alexius, when he mounted the throne, not to repudiate his
young wife, as he was tempted to do in favour of a fairer face. Perhaps the restoration of
the Chora was a token of gratitude for the triumph of her maternal devotion.

The church was rebuilt on the plan which it presents to-day, for in the account of the repairs
made in the fourteenth century it is distinctly stated that they concerned chiefly the outer
portion of the edifice.[524] To Alexius' mother-in-law, therefore, may be assigned the central
part of the structure, a cruciform hall; the dome, so far as it is not Turkish, the beautiful
marble incrustation upon the walls, the mosaic eikons of the Saviour and of the Theotokos on
the piers of the eastern dome-arch, and the exquisite marble carving above the latter eikon--all
eloquent in praise of the taste and munificence that characterised the eleventh century in
Constantinople. Probably the church was then dedicated to the Saviour, like the three other
Comnenian churches in the city, the Pantepoptes, the Pantokrator, and S. Thekla.

The mother-in-law of Alexius I. was, however, not alone in her interest in the Chora. Her devotion
to the monastery was shared also by her grandson the sebastocrator Isaac. Tall, handsome, brave,
but ambitious and wayward, Isaac was gifted with the artistic temperament, as his splendid
manuscript of the first eight books of the Old Testament, embellished with miniatures by his
own hand, makes clear.[525] If the inscription on the mosaic representing the Deesis found
in the inner narthex really refers to him, it proves that his influence was felt in the decoration
of the building.[526] He certainly erected a magnificent mausoleum for himself in the church.
Later in his life, indeed, he became interested in the restoration of the monastery of Theotokos
Kosmosoteira at Viros, and ordered that mausoleum to be dismantled, and the marbles, bronze
railing, and portraits of his parents which adorned it to be transported to Viros; but he still
allowed his own portrait 'made in the days of his youthful vanity' to remain in the Chora.[527]

  NOTE

  Uspenski has identified Viros with Ferejik, a village situated 30
  kilometres from Dedeagatch, and 20-25 kilometres from Enos, 'aux
  embouchures désertées et marécageuses de la Maritza.'

  The church is now the mosque of the village. It has five domes and
  three apses. The central apse is pierced by a modern door. The
  exonarthex has disappeared and the old principal entrance is walled
  up. The plan of the church is almost identical with the plan of the
  Chora. While the architectural details are poor and indicate haste,
  the dimensions of the building imply considerable expense and the
  wealth of the restorer. There are traces of painting on the walls of
  the interior, especially in the domes (the Virgin) and in the two
  lateral apses. An epitaph of seven lines in the middle of the mosque
  contains the title 'despotes.' According to Uspenski, the
  sebastocrator died soon after 1182, the year during which he was
  engaged on the Typicon of the monastery at Viros. The monastery was
  visited by the Emperor Andronicus Comnenus in 1185, by Isaac Angelus
  in 1195, and by Villehardouin in 1205. Early in the fourteenth century
  it was converted into a fortress, and the country round it was ravaged
  in 1322 by the Bulgarians. It was attacked in vain by John
  Cantucuzene, but was captured in 1355 by John VI. Palaeologus.

Another name associated with the Chora at this period is that of the Patriarch Cosmas, who
was commemorated annually in the church on the 2nd of January. He had occupied the patriarchal
seat in days troubled by the intrigues and conflicts which drove first Michael VII. Ducas,
and then Nicephorus Botoniates from the throne, and invested Alexius Comnenus with the purple.
They were not days most suitable to a man who, though highly esteemed for his virtues, was
without education or experience in public affairs, and nearly ninety years old. Still, to his
honour be it said, it was at his earnest request that Botoniates finally agreed to forego a
bloody contest with the Comneni, and to withdraw quietly to the monastery of the Peribleptos.
Moreover, when it seemed uncertain whether the victorious Alexius would remain faithful to
Irene Ducaena and raise her to the throne, Cosmas, notwithstanding all the efforts of Anna
Dalassena (who was ill-disposed towards Irene) to persuade him to lay down his office, firmly
refused to resign until he had placed the imperial crown upon the emperor's lawful wife. Soon
after that event, on the 7th of May 1081, the festival of S. John the Evangelist, Cosmas, having
celebrated service in the church dedicated to that apostle at the Hebdomon (Makrikeui), turned
to his deacon, saying, 'Take my Psalter and come with me; we have nothing more to do here,'
and retired to the monastery of Kallou. His strength for battle was spent.

After its restoration under the Comneni, the Chora again disappears from view until the reign
of Michael Palaeologus (1261-1282). In the interval the fortunes of the Empire had suffered
serious reverses, what with domestic strifes and foreign wars. Bulgaria had reasserted her
independence and established the capital of a new kingdom at Tirnovo, while Constantinople
itself had been captured by the forces of the Fourth Crusade and made the seat of a Latin kingdom.
Consequently, it is not surprising to find that the Chora, like other churches of the ravaged
city, was in a deplorable condition at the close of those calamitous days. Nothing seemed to
have been done for the repair of the church immediately upon the recovery of the capital in
1261. The ruin which the Latin occupants of Constantinople left behind them was too great to
be removed at once. The first reference to the Chora at this period occurs some fourteen years
after the restoration of the Byzantine Empire, when the monastery, owing to its proximity to
the palace of Blachernae, was assigned to the Patriarch Veccus as the house in which to lodge
on the occasion of his audiences with Michael Palaeologus, on Tuesdays, to present petitions
for the exercise of imperial generosity or justice. But the decay into which the establishment
had fallen could not be long ignored, and a wealthy, talented, and influential citizen who
resided in the neighbourhood, Theodore Metochites,[528] decided to restore the edifice as a
monument of the artistic revival of his own day.

Theodore Metochites was one of the most remarkable men of his day. His tall, large, well-proportioned
figure, his bright countenance, commanded attention wherever he appeared. He was, moreover,
a great student of ancient Greek literature and of the literature of later times, and although
never a master of style, became an author and attempted verse. He was much interested in astronomy,
and one of his pupils, the historian Nicephorus Gregoras, recognised the true length of the
year and proposed the reform of the calendar centuries before Pope Gregory. Theodore's memory
was so retentive that he could converse on any topic with which he was familiar, as if reading
from a book, and there was scarcely a subject on which he was not able to speak with the authority
of an expert. He seemed a living library, 'walking encyclopaedia.' In fact, he belonged to
the class of brilliant Greek scholars who might have regenerated the East had not the unfortunate
political situation of their country driven them to Italy to herald and promote the Renaissance
in Western Europe. Theodore Metochites was, moreover, a politician. He took an active part
in the administration of affairs during the reign of Andronicus II., holding the office of
Grand Logothetes of the Treasury; and such was his devotion to politics, that when acting as
a statesman it might be forgotten that he was a scholar. The unhappy strife between Andronicus
II. and Andronicus III. caused Theodore Metochites the profoundest anxiety, and it was not
his fault if the feud between the grandfather and the grandson refused to be healed. His efforts
to bring that disgraceful and disastrous quarrel to an end involved great self-sacrifice and
wrecked his career. For the counsels he addressed to Andronicus III. gave mortal offence, and
when the young emperor entered the capital and took up his quarters in the palace of the Porphyrogenitus
(Tekfour Serai), his troops sacked and demolished Theodore's mansion in that vicinity. The
beautiful marbles which adorned the residence were sent as an imperial present to a Scythian
prince, while the fallen statesman was banished to Didymotica for two years. Upon his return
from exile Theodore found a shelter in the monastery which he had restored in his prosperous
days. But there also, for some two years longer, the cup of sorrow was pressed to his lips.
A malady from which he suffered caused him excruciating pain; his sons were implicated in a
political plot and thrown into prison; Andronicus II., between whom and himself all communication
had been forbidden, died; and so the worn-out man assumed the habit of a monk, and lay down
to die on the 13th of March 1331, a month after his imperial friend. His one consolation was
the beautiful church he bequeathed to succeeding generations for the worship of God.

To the renovation of the church Theodore Metochites devoted himself heart and soul, and spent
money for that object on a lavish scale. As the central portion of the building was comparatively
well preserved,[529] it was to the outer part of the edifice that he directed his chief attention--the
two narthexes and the parecclesion. These were to a large extent rebuilt and decorated with
the marbles and mosaics, which after six centuries, and notwithstanding the neglect and injuries
they have suffered during the greater part of that period, still excite the admiration they
awakened when fresh from the artist's hand.

The connection of Theodore Metochites with this splendid work is immortalised not only by historians
of his day and by himself,[530] but also by the mosaic which surmounts the main entrance to
the church from the inner narthex. There the restorer of the building, arrayed in his official
robes, and on bended knees, holds a model of the church in his hands and offers it to the Saviour
seated on a throne. Beside the kneeling figure is the legend, [Greek: ho ktêtôr logothetês
tou gennikou Theodôros ho Metochitês], 'The builder, Logothetes of the Treasury, Theodore the
Metochites' (Plate XCI.).

The restoration of the church must have been completed before the year 1321, for in that year
Nicephorus Gregoras[531] describes it as then recently ([Greek: arti]) renovated, and in use
for the celebration of divine service. How long before 1321 the work of repair precisely commenced
cannot be determined, but it was in process as early as 1303, for that date is inscribed in
Arabic numerals on the mosaic depicting the miracle at Cana, which stands to the right of the
figure of Christ over the door leading from the outer to the inner narthex. But to have reached
the stage at which mosaics could be applied the work of restoration must have been commenced
sometime before 1303.

One of the most distinguished members of the Chora was the historian Nicephorus Gregoras, who
learned to know the monastery through his friendship with Theodore Metochites. The two men
met first when Nicephorus came from his native town Heraclea on the Black Sea to Constantinople,
a youth eager to acquire the knowledge that flourished in the capital. Being specially interested
in the science of astronomy, the student placed himself under the instruction of Theodore,
then the greatest authority on the subject, and won the esteem and confidence of his master
to a degree that ripened into the warmest friendship and the most unreserved intellectual intercourse.
In his turn, Nicephorus Gregoras became the instructor of the children of the grand logothetes,
and was treated as a member of the family. He was also associated with the restoration of the
Chora, attending particularly to the collection of the costly materials required for the embellishment
of the church. Thus the monastery became his home from youth to old age, and after Theodore's
death was entrusted to his care.[532] During the fierce controversy which raged around the
question whether the light beheld at the Transfiguration formed part of the divine essence,
and could be seen again after prolonged fasting and gazing upon one's navel, as the monks of
Mount Athos and their supporters maintained, Nicephorus Gregoras, who rejected that idea, retired
from public life to defend what he deemed the cause of truth more effectively. But to contend
with a master of legions is ever an unequal struggle. The Emperor John Cantacuzene, taking
the side of the monks, condemned their opponent to silence in the Chora, and there for some
three years Nicephorus Gregoras discovered how scenes of happiness can be turned into a veritable
hell by imperial disfavour and theological odium. Notwithstanding his age, his physical infirmities,
his services to the monastery, his intellectual eminence, he was treated by the fraternity
in a manner so inhuman that he would have preferred to be exposed on the mountains to wild
beasts. He was obliged to fetch water for himself from the monastery well, and when, on one
occasion, he was laid up for several days by an injury to his foot, none of the brothers ever
thought of bringing him water. In winter he was allowed no fire, and he had often to wait till
the frozen water in his cell was melted by the sun before he could wash or drink. The vision
of the light of the Transfiguration did not transfigure the character of its beholders.

During this trying period of his life one ray of comfort wandered into the cell of the persecuted
man. On the 13th December 1351, in the dead of night, while the precincts of the monastery
were crowded with worshippers attending the vigil of the festival of the Conception of the
Theotokos, a strange figure climbed into the prisoner's room through an open window. It proved
to be an old friend and former pupil named Agathangelus, who had not been seen for ten years
owing to his absence from the city. Taking advantage of the darkness and of the absorption
of the monks in the services of the festival, he had made this attempt to visit his revered
master. Eagerly and hurriedly, for the time at their command was short, the two friends recounted
the story of their lives while separated. Rapidly Agathangelus sketched the course of affairs
in State and Church since the seclusion of Nicephorus Gregoras; and the brief visit ended and
seemed a dream. But the devoted disciple was not satisfied with a single interview. Six months
later he contrived to see his master again, and, encouraged by success, saw him again three
times, though at long intervals, during the three years that Nicephorus Gregoras was detained
in the Chora. One great object of these visits was to keep the prisoner informed of events
in the world beyond the walls of his cell, and on the basis of the information thus supplied
Nicephorus Gregoras wrote part of his important history. When at length, in 1354, John Cantucuzene
was driven from the throne, and John Palaeologus reigned in his stead, Nicephorus was liberated,[533]
and to the last defended the opinions for which he had suffered.

Another name associated with the Chora at this time is that of Michael Tornikes, Grand Constable
in the reign of Andronicus II. He was related, on his mother's side, to the emperor, and stood
in high favour at court not only on account of that kinship, but because of the talents, character,
and administrative ability which he displayed. He was, moreover, a friend of Theodore Metochites,
and his political supporter in the efforts made to end the strife between Andronicus II. and
Andronicus III.[534] Upon his death, Tornikes was buried in the parecclesion of the Chora,
and the epitaph composed in his honour has kept its place there to this day (Plate XCII.).

In 1342, Sabbas, a monk of the monastery of Vatopedi, who came to Constantinople as a member
of a deputation from Mount Athos to reconcile the Regent Anna of Savoy with Cantacuzene, was
confined in the Chora on the failure of that mission.[535]

In view of its proximity to the landward walls, the Chora acquired great importance during
the fatal siege of 1453. For the inhabitants of the beleagured capital placed their hope for
deliverance more upon the saints they worshipped than upon their own prowess; the spiritual
host enshrined in their churches was deemed mightier than the warriors who manned the towers
of the fortifications. The sanctuaries beside the walls constituted the strongest bulwarks
from which the 'God protected city' was to be defended, not with earthly, but with heavenly
weapons. The eikon of the Theotokos Hodegetria was, therefore, taken to the Chora to guard
the post of danger.

It represented the Theotokos as the Leader of God's people in war, and around it gathered memories
of wonderful deliverances and glorious triumphs, making it seem the banner of wingless victory.
When the Saracens besieged the city the eikon was carried round the fortifications, and the
enemy had fled. It led Zimisces in his victorious campaign against the Russians; it was borne
round the fortifications when Branas assailed the capital in the reign of Isaac Angelus, and
the foe disappeared; and when Constantinople was recovered from the Latins, Michael Palaeologus
only expressed the general sentiment in placing the eikon on a triumphal car, and causing it
to enter the city before him, while he humbly followed on foot as far as the Studion. But the
glory of the days of old had departed, and no sooner did the troops of Sultan Mehemed force
the Gate of Charisius (Edirné Kapoussi) than they made for the Chora, and cut the image to
pieces. The church of S. Saviour in the Chora was the first Christian sanctuary to fall into
the hands of the Moslem masters of Constantinople.

The building was converted into a mosque by Ali Atik Pasha, Grand Vizier, between 1495 and
1511, in the reign of Bajazet II. Gyllius visited the church in 1580, and expatiates upon the
beauty of its marble revetment, but makes no reference to its mosaics and frescoes.[536] This,
some authorities think, proves that these decorations were then concealed from view, because
objectionable in a place consecrated to Moslem worship. But the silence of the traveller may
be due to the brevity of his description of the church.

There is evidence that the building has suffered much since the Turkish conquest from earthquake
and from fire, but the precise dates of these disasters cannot be accurately determined. The
mosque disappeared from general view until 1860, when it was discovered by a Greek architect,
the late Pelopidas D. Kouppas. Mr. Carlton Cumberbatch, then the British Consul at Constantinople,
was informed of the fact and spread the news of the fortunate find.

The building was in a pitiful condition. The principal dome and the dome of the diaconicon
had fallen in; the walls and vaults were cracked in many places and black with smoke; wind,
and rain, and snow had long had free course to do what mischief they pleased. Happily there
still remained too much beauty to be ignored, and the Government was persuaded to take the
work of restoration in hand. The building now takes rank with the most interesting sights of
the capital, presenting one of the finest embodiments of the ideal which inspired Byzantine art.

Architectural Features

As the history of the church prepares us to expect, the building presents a very irregular
plan. The central area is a short-armed Greek cross surmounted by a dome, and terminating to
the east in a large apse flanked by side chapels now disconnected from it. To the west are
two narthexes, on the south a parecclesion, and on the north a gallery in two stories.

As the central part of the church is the oldest and of the greatest interest, the description
will begin with the interior, and deal afterwards with the later exterior accretions.

Only two doors lead from the inner narthex to the church, one of them in the centre of the
axis and the other to the north. The absence of the corresponding and customary third door,
for which there is space on the south side, should be noticed, as it throws light on the original
plan of the building. The doors are beautifully treated with marble mouldings and panelled
ingoes; the door to the north recalls the sculptured door in the south gallery of S. Sophia,
but, unfortunately, the carved work of the panels has been destroyed. Above the central door,
on the interior, is a porphyry cornice carved with peacocks drinking at fountains (Plate LXXXVII.).
Large portions of the beautiful marble revetment on the walls of the church happily remain
intact, and nowhere else in Constantinople, except in S. Sophia, can this splendid method of
colour decoration be studied to greater advantage. Slabs of various marbles have been split
and placed on the walls so as to form patterns in the veining. The lower part is designed as
a dado in Proconessian striped marble, with upright posts of dark red at the angles and at
intervals on the longer stretches of wall, and rests on a moulded marble base. Above the dado
are two bands, red and green, separated from the dado and from each other by white fillets.
The upper part is filled in with large panels, especially fine slabs of brown, green, or purple
having been selected to form the centre panels. The cornice is of grey marble with a 'cyma
recta' section, and is carved with an upright leaf.[537]

On the eastern walls of the north and south cross arms, and flanking the apse, eikon frames
similar to those in the Diaconissa (p. 186) are inserted. The northern frame encloses a mosaic
figure of Christ holding in His hands an open book, on which are the words, 'Come unto Me all
ye who labour and are heavy laden.'[538] In the corresponding frame to the south is the figure
of the Virgin, and, above it, an arch of overhanging acanthus leaves enclosed within a square
frame with half figures of angels in the spandrils. The arch encloses a medallion bust, the
head of which is defaced, but which represented the Saviour, as is proved by the indication
of a cross on the aureola. The spaces at the sides of the medallion are filled in with a pierced
scroll showing a dark slab of porphyry behind it, making a very beautiful arrangement. These
frames are distant from the eikonostasis, which stretched across the front of the bema arch,
nearer to the apse. On the south side are two doors leading to the parecclesion, and on the
north side above the cornice is a small window from the north gallery.

The dome rests on a ribbed drum of sixteen concave segments, and is pierced by eight windows
corresponding to the octagonal form of the exterior. The original crown has fallen and been
replaced by the present plain Turkish dome. The prothesis and the diaconicon are represented
by chapels to north and south of the apse. As already stated, they do not now communicate with
the bema, although the position of the old passages between them and the bema is marked by
niches in the marble revetment. From the fact that the Byzantine marble work is continued across
these passages it is evident that the chapels were cut off from the apse in Byzantine days.
The north chapel is covered by a drum dome of eight concave sections, and is entered from the
lower story of the gallery on the north side of the church. It should be noticed that the chapel
is not placed axially to this gallery. The south chapel is covered by a plain drum dome, and
is now entered from the parecclesion, evidently as the result of the alterations made when
the parecclesion was added.

The exterior is very simply treated. The side apses show three sides of an octagon. The central
apse has five sides of a very flat polygon, and is decorated with hollow niches on each side
of a large triple window. It was at one time supported by a large double flying buttress, but
the lower arch has fallen in. As the buttress does not bond with the wall it was evidently
a later addition.

The inner narthex is entered from the outer narthex by a door to the west. It is with its resplendent
marble revetment and brilliant mosaics a singularly perfect and beautiful piece of work, one
of the finest gems of Byzantine Art. It is divided into four bays, and is not symmetrically
placed to the church. The door stands opposite to the large door of the church and is in the
central axis of the building. The bay which it occupies and that immediately to the north are
covered by dome vaults resting on strong transverse arches and shallow segmental wall arches.[539]
The northern end bay is covered with a drum dome of sixteen hollow segments pierced by eight
windows. The bay to the south of the door is considerably larger than the other bays, and is
covered by a dome similar in character to that over the northern end bay but of greater diameter.
At the south end of the narthex a small door leads to the return bay of the outer narthex in
front of the parecclesion.

The double-storied annex or gallery on the north of the building is entered by a door in the
north bay of the inner narthex. The lower story is covered by a barrel vault with strong transverse
arches at intervals. Its door to the outside at the west end is now built up. At the east end
a door, unsymmetrically placed, leads to the small chapel which was originally the prothesis.
This story of the gallery seems never to have had windows. The upper story, reached by a stone
stair at the west end in the thickness of the external wall, is paved in red tiles, covered
with a barrel vault, and lighted by two small windows in the north wall and one at the east
end. These windows still show grooves and bolt holes for casement windows or shutters opening
inwards in two leaves (Figs. 19, 100). In the south wall is the little window overlooking the
church.

The outer narthex has a single door to the exterior, placed on the central axial line, and
is planned symmetrically. The central bay is larger than the others, and is covered by a dome
vault resting on shallow wall arches. On each side are two bays covered by similar dome vaults,
but as the bays are oblong, the wall arches are brought forward strongly so as to give a form
more approaching the square as a base for the dome. The transverse arches are strongly pronounced
and have wooden tie beams. At the south end two bays are returned to form an entrance to the
parecclesion. In these the transverse arches are even more strongly marked and rest on marble
columns set against shallow pilasters. The cubical capitals are of white marble and very beautifully
carved with figures of angels and acanthus wreaths. Any marble revetment which may once have
covered the walls has disappeared, but mosaics depicting scenes in the Saviour's life still
decorate the vaulting and the lunettes of the arches, whilst figures of saints appear upon
the soffits. The mosaics are damaged and have lost some of their brilliancy; the background
is of gold, and the mosaic cubes are small, averaging about 1/8 to 3/16 of an inch.

The parecclesion is entered from the return bays of the outer narthex through a triple arcade,
now partly built up. The capitals of the columns are Byzantine Corinthian, and retain sufficient
traces of their former decoration in dark blue, gold, and red to give some idea of the effect
of colour on marble in Byzantine churches.

The parecclesion is in two bays. The western bay is covered by a high twelve-sided drum dome,
with windows in each side separated by flat ribs. In the compartments are figures of the archangels
in tempera, with the legend, 'Holy, Holy, Holy, is the Lord God.'

The eastern bay is covered by a dome vault, and terminates in an apse semicircular within and
lighted by a triple window. It has neither prothesis nor diaconicon of its own, but communicates
with the original diaconicon of the main church. The three transverse arches in the bay are
tied with wooden tie beams carved with arabesques and retaining traces of gilding.

On the north and south walls of the western bay are large arches enclosed in square frames
and with finely carved archivolts. Above the south arch is a slab inscribed with the epitaph
to the memory of the celebrated general Tornikes. There are no indications of an entrance under
the arch. It may have covered a niche, now built up, intended to receive a tomb, possibly the
tomb of the sebastocrator Isaac.

The archivolt of the arch in the north wall is formed of acanthus leaves turned over at the
points; the spandrils are filled with the figures of the archangels Michael and Gabriel, bearing
appropriate emblems, and above the crown of the arch is a small bust of Christ. In both arches
the carved work is exactly like that of the eikon frame in the south-eastern pier of the church,
and closely resembles the work on the lintel of the eikon frames in the church of the Diaconissa.
Both archivolts were originally coloured, the background blue, the carved ornament gilt. The
use of figures in the decoration of the church is remarkable. They are in bold relief and executed
freely, but shown only from the waist up. The windows, like those in the outer narthex, have
a central arch between two semi-circles (Fig. 63).

Two passages, which cut through the north wall, lead from the parecclesion to the church. Off
the passage to the west is a small chamber whose use is not apparent. It may be simply a space
left over when the chapel was added. Higher up, in the thickness of the wall, about ten feet
from the floor, and a little above the springing level of the vaulting in the parecclesion,
is a long, narrow passage, lighted by a window at the east end, and covered by a small barrel
vault, corbelled at the springing, on two courses of stone and three courses of brick laid
horizontally, thus narrowing the space to a considerable degree. From this corbelling spring
the vaulting courses, which are steeply inclined and run from both ends to the centre, where
the resultant diamond-shaped opening is filled in with horizontal courses (Fig. 48). On the
north side of the passage is a broad opening roughly built up, but which seems originally to
have communicated with the south cross arm. The opening is almost central to the cross-arm,
and is directly above the doors leading from the church to the parecclesion.

The exterior of the parecclesion and the outer narthex are treated with arcades in two orders
of the usual type. On the piers of the arcades are semicircular shafts which in the parecclesion
rise to the cornice, but on the west front stop at the springing course. Here they may have
supported the wooden roof of a cloister or porch. The apse of the parecclesion has five sides
with angle shafts and niches, alternately flat and concave in three stories. The north wall
is a fine example of simple masonry in stripes of brick and stone, and with small archings
and zigzag patterns in the spandrils of the arches.

Below the parecclesion are two long narrow cisterns having their entrance on the outside of
the apse.[540]

The original plan of the church (Fig. 102). The greater part of the alterations made in the
church date from Byzantine times, and the marble coverings then placed upon the walls have
effectually covered up any traces which might have given a clue to the original form of the
building. In consequence any attempt at restoration must be of a very tentative character.

It is evident that there has been a serious movement in the structure due to the weight of
the dome and the thrust of the dome arches, for the walls below the dome are bent outwards
in a very pronounced manner. It was in order to check this movement that the flying buttress
was applied to the apse, and in all probability the enormous thickness of the walls surrounding
the central cross is due to the same cause. Had the walls originally been as thick as at present
it is hard to imagine that movement could have taken place.

The axial line from east to west, passing through the doors of both narthexes, divides the
present building into two dissimilar parts. We know that the parecclesion is a later addition,
and if it be removed and the plan of the north side repeated to the south the resulting plan
bears a striking resemblance to S. Sophia at Salonica (Fig. 101). The position of the prothesis
and diaconicon in particular is identical in the two churches.

Some proof that this was the original form of the building is given by the small chamber in
the wall thickness between the church and the parecclesion. For it corresponds to the angle
of the south 'aisle,' and on its west wall is a vertical break in the masonry which may be
the jamb of the old door to the narthex.

This plan gives a narthex in five bays--the three centre ones low, the two outer covered by
domes and leading to the 'aisles.' When the parecclesion was added, the south gallery and two
bays of the inner narthex were swept away. The third door leading into the church was built
up, and the present large domed bay added to the shortened narthex.

Traces of the older structure remain in the wall between the church and the parecclesion. The
space already described, which originally opened from the passage at the higher level to the
south cross-arm, corresponds in width both to the window above and to the space occupied by
the doors below. At S. Sophia, Salonica, the side-arms are filled in with arcades in two stories
forming an aisle and gallery. This is the normal domed basilica construction. Here, if we regard
the floor of the upper passage (B on plan, p. 318) as the remains of the old gallery floor,--and
no other view seems to account for its existence,--the internal elevation was in three stories,
an aisle at the ground level, above it a gallery, and above that, in the arch tympanum, a triple
window. Such an arrangement is, so far as we know, unique in a small church, but it is the
arrangement used in S. Sophia, Constantinople, and may well have been derived from that church.
The opening is only about one-half of the space, leaving a broad pier at each side. In this
it differs from S. Sophia, Salonica, but such side piers are present in S. Sophia, Constantinople.
The diagrams show a restoration of the plan and internal bay based on these conclusions (Figs.
102, 103).

The gallery on the north side is an addition. The character of the brickwork and of the windows
is later than the central church, but the lack of windows on the ground floor suggests that
the 'aisle' was originally lighted from the body of the church. The vaulting gives no clue,
nor are there traces of an opening in the wall between the 'aisle' and the church. The floor
level is much higher than that of the passage 'B' (p. 318) on the opposite side, and seems
to be a new level introduced when the addition was made and the wall thickened.

If these conclusions are correct the church was originally a domed basilica resembling S. Sophia,
Salonica, in plan and S. Sophia, Constantinople, in elevation. The side dome arches had double
arcades in two stories, and above them windows in the dome arches. There are at present no
traces of a western gallery, but such may have existed below the present west windows. Later
in the history of the church came alterations, which included the ribbed domes and the gallery
on the north side. The side aisles still communicated with the church and the lateral chapels
with the bema.

The filling up of the arcades, the thickening of the walls, the isolation of the lateral chapels,
the removal of the southern aisle, the alteration of the narthex, the building of the parecclesion
and outer narthex, and most of the decoration which forms the glory of the church, belong to
the great work of restoration by Theodore Metochites early in the fourteenth century.

The representation of the church in the mosaic panel above the large door to the church shows
a building with a central dome, a narthex terminating in domed bays, and a window in the west
dome arch. It seems to represent the church as the artist was accustomed to see it previous
to the additions (Fig. 115).

Plain cross plans, or cross plans with only one lateral gallery, are not unknown. The church
of the Archangels, Sygé,[541] shows such a plan and is here reproduced for purposes of comparison.

[501] Vol. i. p. 459.

[502] Synax., Sept. 4, [Greek: pistoi de tines eusebeis nyktos elthontes kai ta leipsana en
akatiô embalontes eis to Byzantion diakomizousi kai en tô boreiô merei exô teicheôn en trisi
larnaxi katathentes, entha esti monê Chôra eponomazomenê, doxan kai eucharistian tô Theô anepempsan].

[503] Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of C.P. vol. xxiv., 1896, Supplement, p. 33.

[504] Vol. iii. p. 172.

[505] P. 36.

[506] Paspates, p. 326.

[507] Synax., Sept. 4.

[508] Banduri, iii. p. 54, [Greek: chôrion ên ekeise exô tou Byzantiou.]

[509] De aed. p. 121, [Greek: eklêthê de chôra dioti tôn Byzantiôn chôrion ên ekei, katha kai
hê tou Stoudiou monê, exô tês poleôs hypêrchen.]

[510] Written in the second quarter of the ninth century.

[511] Supplement to vol. xxiv. of the Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of C.P. p. 23. Cf.
Schmitt, p. 28.

[512] In his great monograph on Kahrié Jamissi published by the Russian Institute of Constantinople,
1906.

[513] Mansi, Sacrorum Conciliorum Collectio, tomus viii. col. 906, col. 882, [Greek: tou hagiou
Michaêl tôn Charisiou: tês epiklên tôn Charisiou].

[514] Banduri, iii. p. 54; Codinus. De aed. p. 121 [Greek: hê chôra prôton men euktêrion ên,
Priskos ho eparchos kai gambros tou Phôka tou tyrannou perioristheis ekei para tou idiou ektise
tautên monên eis kallos kai megethos, apocharisamenos kai ktêmata polla].

[515] Niceph. Greg. iii. p. 459.

[516] Schmitt, p. 28.

[517] Theoph. pp. 554, 556; Synax. ad diem; Cedrenus, i. p. 784.

[518] Theoph. pp. 626-680; Synax., May 12.

[519] Theoph. pp. 647-8.

[520] Life of Michael Syncellus, p. 31, in supplement to vol. xxiv. of the Proceedings of the
Greek Syllogos of C.P.; cf. Schmitt, p. 251.

[521] Life of Michael Syncellus, ut supra, pp. 30, 31.

[522] See supplement to vol. xxiv. of the Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of Constantinople,
p. 33; cf. Schmitt, pp. 257-8.

[523] Niceph. Greg. iii. p. 459.

[524] Ibid. i. p. 459.

[525] The manuscript was discovered in the Seraglio Library by Professor T. Uspenski, and has
been photographically reproduced by the Russian Institute of Constantinople.

[526] The inscription has been injured. It now reads:--

  [Symbol: cross.][Greek: ho .. os tou
                          psêlo .. tou
                        ... sileôs ...
                          ... xiou ...
                             .. ou ...]

See Schmitt, pp. 38-39, who restores the inscription thus:

  [Greek: ho hyios tou hypsêlotatou
   basileôs Alexiou tou
   Komnênou].

[527] See Schmitt, pp. 39-40.

[528] Niceph. Greg. i. p. 459.

[529] Niceph. Greg. i. p. 459. [Greek: houtos habrotera chrêsamenos dexia, plên tou mesaitatou
neô panta kalôs epeskeuase], cf. ii. p. 1045.

[530] Theodori Metochitae carmina, ed. Treu. A 1004, et passim.

[531] Niceph. Greg. i. p. 303 [Greek: arti tou neourgein epepauto tên tês Chôras monên, hopsos
ho endon etynchane kosmos].

[532] Niceph. Greg. ii. pp. 1045-6.

[533] Niceph. Greg. iii. p. 243.

[534] Cantacuzene, i. p. 54.

[535] Cantacuzene, ii. p. 209.

[536] De top. C.P. iv. c. 4:--Inter palatium Constantini et portam urbis Adrianopolitanam extat
ædes in septimo (?) colle, quæ etsi jam tot secula sit intra urbem tamen etiamnum [Greek: christos
chôras] appellatur, ex eo, quod olim esset extra urbem. Ex tribus partibus, ut mos est Græcorum
ædium sacrarum, porticu cingitur. Parietes ejus intrinsecus vestiti crustis marmoris varii
quadratis, ita inter se conjunctis ut distinguantur ab immo sursum versus modulis astragalorum,
aliorum baccatorum, aliorum ter etiam sine baccis. Supra quadratas crustas discurrunt tres
fasciæ et tres velut astragali, quorum duo teretes, supremus quadratus velut regula. Supra
fasciam, denticuli; supra denticulos, folia Corinthia. Denique marmor sic mensulis distinguitur
ut in commissuris eluceat labor Corinthicus. Sed is plenior apparet in æde Sophiæ.

[537] Cf. description by Gyllius, De top. C.P. iv. c. 4.

[538] [Greek: deute pros me pantes hoi kopiôntes kai pephortismenoi kagô]....--Matt. xi. 28.

[539] For the description of these vaults see p. 22.

[540] Schmitt (op. cit. pp. 92-94) maintains that the parecclesion was originally the refectory
of the monastery. But a refectory there would occupy a very unusual position. Nor do the frescoes
on the walls of the parecclesion correspond to the decoration of the refectory with representations
of flowers and of Christ's miracles, as described by Theodore Metochites: ... [Greek: kekosmêatai
anthesi poikiloi i te poulychrouoisi te baphôn ... kai te diaperes apêgeatai mystêria thôymata
Christou].

[541] F. W. Hasluck. Bithynica, B.S.A. Annual XIII., 1906-7.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE MOSAICS IN S. SAVIOUR IN THE CHORA

As stated already, the mosaics on the vaults and lunettes of the arches in the outer narthex
of the church portray scenes from the life of Christ, as recorded in the canonical and the
apocryphal Gospels, while on the faces and soffits of the arches are depicted the figures of
saints 'who desired to look into these things.' Scenes from the Saviour's life are also portrayed
in the two bays to the west of the parecclesion, and in the domes and southern bay of the inner
narthex. Inscriptions on the mosaics explain the subjects depicted. The scenes will be described
according to the groups they form in the compartments of the narthex.

OUTER NARTHEX

First Bay (at the north end).

1. In the northern lunette.--The angel announcing to Joseph, in a dream, the birth of Jesus.
To the right, journey of Joseph and Mary from Nazareth to Bethlehem. Simon the son of Joseph
walks ahead, carrying a bundle. In the background, meeting of Mary and Elizabeth.

2. In the eastern lunette.--The registration of Joseph and Mary at Bethlehem before Cyrenius.
(Said to be unique in the East.[542])

On the arch over the eastern lunette.--Busts (in medallions) of SS. Mardarius, Auxentius (only
one letter of the name remains), SS. Eustratius, Orestes.

3. On the western lunette.--The Holy Family on the way to the first passover of Jesus at Jerusalem.

On the arch over the western lunette.--The busts (in medallions) of SS. Anempodistus, Elpidephorus,
Akindynus, Aphthonius, Pegasius.

4. In the vault.--The scene has disappeared. Possibly it represented Jesus among the doctors
in the temple.

5. On the soffit of the transverse arch, between the first and second bays.--To the east, S.
Andronicus; to the west, S. Tarachus.

Second Bay

6. In the eastern lunette.--The birth of Jesus. In the background, to left, the angel appearing
to the shepherds; to right, the magi beholding the star shining over the manger in which lies
the Holy Child, while an ox and an ass feed in it. In the centre, Mary on a couch. In the foreground,
to left, two women bathing the Holy Child; to the right, Joseph seated on the ground and gazing
at the Holy Child.

On the arch above the eastern lunette.--The busts (in medallions) of SS. Philemon, Leukius,
Kallinikus, Thyrsus, Apollonius.

7. In the western lunette.--Return of the Holy Family from Egypt to Nazareth.

In the arch above the western lunette.--The busts (in medallions) of SS. Engraphus (?), Menas,
Hermogenes, Laurus, Florus, Menas, Victor, Vikentius.

8. In the vault.--The baptism of Jesus; the scenes in the temptation of Jesus.

9. On the second transverse arch.--To the east, S. George; to the west, S. Demetrius.

The Third or Central Bay

10. In the eastern lunette, over the door leading to the inner narthex.--Christ in the act
of benediction.

11. In the western lunette.--The Theotokos, in the attitude of prayer, with the Holy Child,
in a nimbus, on her breast; the legend

  [Greek: MR      THY
         HÊ CHÔRA TOU ACHÔRETOU]
  (the country of the Infinite); on the right and left, an angel.

12. In the vault.--In the north-eastern corner, the miracle of water turned into wine. The
date 1303, in Arabic numerals, is on this mosaic. In the south-eastern corner, the miracle
of the loaves.

These mosaics, placed on either side of the figure of Christ, are emblems of His character
as the Giver of Life.

In the north-western corner.--The sacrifice of a white bullock.

In the south-eastern corner.--The second miracle of the loaves.

13. On the third transverse arch.--Two saints, not named.

The Fourth Bay

14. In the eastern lunette.--To the left, the magi, on horseback, guided by a star, on their
way to Jerusalem; to the right, the magi before Herod.

On the arch above.--The busts (in medallions) of SS. Abibus, Ghourias, Samonas.

15. In the western lunette.--Elizabeth fleeing with her child John from a soldier who pursues
her with a drawn sword in his hand.

  The scenes in the vault have disappeared.

16. On the fourth transverse arch.--Two saints, not named.

The Fifth Bay

17. In the eastern lunette.--Herod inquiring of the priests where the Christ should be born.

  The busts of three saints on the arch above have disappeared.

18. In the western lunette.--Mothers at Bethlehem seated on the ground, and mourning the death
of their infant children.

  The mosaics in other parts of this bay have disappeared.

The Outer Bay fronting the parecclesion

In the eastern pendentive.--To the left (19) the healing of a paralytic; to the right (20)
the healing of the man sick of the dropsy.

21. In the western pendentive.--To the left, the healing of another paralytic; to the right,
Christ with the Samaritan woman at the well of Sychar; in the lunette, the massacre of the
Innocents at Bethlehem.

22. In the southern lunette.--To the left, Herod orders the massacre of the Innocents at Bethlehem;
to the right, the massacre of the Innocents.

  The other mosaics in this bay have disappeared.

The Inner Bay fronting the parecclesion

23. In the vault.--In the south-western corner. Uncertain. Possibly, the fall of the idols
in Egypt at the presence of the Holy Child; to the south of that scene, Zacchaeus on the sycamore
tree.

INNER NARTHEX

First Bay (at the south end of the narthex)

24. On the soffit of the first transverse arch.--To the east, the healing of the man with a
withered arm; to the west, the healing of a leper.

South Dome

25. In the crown.--Christ the Pantokrator.

In the flutings, thirty-nine figures, arranged in two tiers, representing the ancestors of
Christ from Adam to Esrom, Japhet, and the eleven sons of Jacob not in the line of ancestry.

26. On the south-eastern pendentive.--The healing of the woman with a bloody issue.

27. On the north-eastern pendentive.--The healing of Peter's mother-in-law.

28. On the south-western pendentive.--The healing of a deaf and dumb man.

29. On the north-western pendentive.--The healing of two blind men at Jericho.

30. On the eastern wall below the dome, colossal figures of Mary and Christ, technically named
the Deësis.

31. On the opposite wall.--Christ healing divers diseases.

  The mosaics in the three other bays of this narthex depict
  scenes in the life of Mary as described in the apocryphal
  Protoevangelium of S. James and other apocryphal Gospels.[543]

First Bay (at northern end).--The North Dome

32. In the centre.--The Theotokos; in the flutings, twenty-seven figures arranged in two tiers
representing sixteen royal ancestors of Christ, from David to Salathiel, and Melchisedec, Ananias,
Azarias, Misael, Daniel, Joshua, Moses, Aaron, Ur, Samuel, Job.

33. In the north-eastern pendentive.--The scene has disappeared.

34. In the south-eastern pendentive.--S. Joachim (Mary's father) with his sheep in the desert,
praying and mourning that his offerings have been rejected because he was childless.

35. In the north-western pendentive.--The High Priest judging Mary.

36. In the south-western pendentive.--The Annunciation to Mary.

37. In the eastern lunette below the dome.--The Annunciation to S. Anna, the mother of Mary.

38. On the soffit of the transverse arch between the first and second bays.--To the east, the
meeting of S. Anna and S. Joachim; to the west, Joseph taking leave of Mary before his home,
and proceeding to his work in another part of the country, accompanied by a servant.

Second Bay

39. In the eastern lunette.--The birth of Mary.

40. In the western lunette.--Joseph receiving the rod which marks him the successful suitor
for Mary's hand, and taking her as his bride-elect.

41. In the vault.--To the east, Mary held in the arms of S. Joachim, receiving the blessing
of three priests seated at a banquet; to the west, the child Mary caressed by her parents.
This scene shows much feeling.

42. On the soffit of the transverse arch.--To the east, Mary taking her first seven steps [Greek:
hê heptabêmatizousa]; to the west, the high priest praying before the rods, one of which, by
blossoming, will designate the future husband of Mary.

43. On the eastern wall, to the north of the main entrance into the church.--The Apostle Peter
with the keys in his hand.

The Third Bay

44. In the lunette over the main entrance to the church.--Theodore Metochites on his knees
offering the church to Christ seated on a throne. In the western lunette.--Mary receiving purple
and scarlet wool to weave in the veil of the temple.

46. In the vault.--On the east, Mary admitted to the Holy of Holies when three years of age,
lest she should go back to the world; on the west, the procession of maidens escorting Mary
to the temple.

47. The third transverse arch.--To the east, Mary in the temple receiving bread from the archangel
Gabriel; to the west, Mary in the temple receiving instruction.

48. On the eastern wall, to the south side of the main entrance to the church.--The Apostle Paul.

The scenes represented on these mosaics are not peculiar to this church, but are a selection
from cycles of subjects which from the eleventh century became favourite themes for pictorial
treatment on the walls of important churches in the Byzantine world. Several of these scenes
are found portrayed also at Daphni, Mistra, S. Sophia at Kiev, in the churches of Mt. Athos,
on diptychs and manuscripts,[545] as well as in the chapel of the arena at Padua. The cycle
of subjects taken from the life of Mary was developed mainly in Syria, and Schmitt[546] goes
so far as to maintain that the mosaics of the Chora are copies of Syrian mosaics executed by
a Syrian artist, when the church was restored in the ninth century by Michael Syncellus, who,
it will be remembered, came from Syria.

Kondakoff assigns most of the mosaics to the Comnenian restoration of the church by Maria Ducaena
in the eleventh or twelfth century. One of them at least, the Deësis, has survived; and there
may be others of that period, for, as that mosaic proves, the narthex of the church was decorated
when the church was restored by that benefactress of the Chora. But the testimony of Nicephorus
Gregoras,[547] of Theodore Metochites,[548] and the date marked on the scene representing the
miracle of the wine at Cana, on the right of the figure of Christ over the door leading from
the outer to the inner narthex, prove these mosaics to be as a whole the production of the
fourteenth century. And this conclusion is confirmed by their unlikeness to mosaic work in
the twelfth century, and by their affinity to other work of the same character done in the
fourteenth century.[549]

In fact, the mosaics in the Chora represent a remarkable revival in the history of Byzantine
art. They are characterised by a comparative freedom from tradition, by closer approximation
to reality and nature, by a charm and a sympathetic quality, and by a scheme of colour that
indicate the coming of a new age and spirit. Curiously enough, they are contemporary with the
frescoes of Giotto at Padua (1303-1306). But whatever points of similarity may be detected
between them and the work of the Italian artist, or between them and the Italian school before
Giotto, should be explained as due to a common stock of traditions and to the simultaneous
awakening of a new intellectual and artistic life in the East and the West, rather than to
any direct influence of one school of art upon another. The mosaics of the Chora are thoroughly
Byzantine.[550]

The Frescoes in the Parecclesion:--

1. Round the apse: Six Fathers of the Church (only one figure remains, and that badly damaged.
No names are inscribed).

2. In the vault of the apse: a full-length figure of Christ in a vesica dotted with stars.
On either side are groups of figures.

3. In the crown of the apse-arch: an angel in a medallion.

4. In the northern wall, next the apse: Christ with two attendants; in the background a walled
city.

The Eastern Bay.

On the northern wall:

5. Above the arched recess: two medallion heads of SS. Sergius and Bacchus.

6. Portions of the figure of a warrior.

7. In the arch above Nos. 5 and 6: the Gate of Paradise.

8. In the centre, one of the cherubims on a pillar. On the left hand, a multitude, painted
on black background outside Paradise; on the right, Paradise, a garden full of trees on a white
background. Here also are John the Baptist and a figure, probably the Virgin and Child, on
a throne, attended by two angels.

On the southern wall:

8. A portion of the figure of an armed angel.

   Above No. 8 and at the side of the window:

9. Two men carrying a bier or platform. In front of them a third person giving directions.

10. In the arched recess: full-length figures of Andronicus II. and his family. In the soffit
of the arch, the head of Christ in a medallion, with rays issuing from behind the aureola.

11. and 12. In the spandrils above the recess: two heads in medallions.

13. In the dome vault: the Last Judgment. Christ in judgment fills the centre; behind Him are
the twenty-four elders seated on a long throne; farther back is gathered the heavenly host.

14. On the north-eastern pendentive: the Virgin and Child in a Paradise, with trees on a white
background.

15. On the south-eastern pendentive: the Mouth of Hell.

16. On the south pilaster of the dome: an armed angel.

17. Above that angel, on the arch: a man bearing the Seven-Branched Candlestick, and beside
him another man bearing with both hands some object above his head, perhaps the Table of Shew
Bread.

18. On the northern pilaster: a warrior.

19. In the centre of the arch: the Head of Christ in a medallion.

The Western Bay.

20. At the south-western corner where the wall is much damaged, a saint.

21. Above No. 20, to the west of the window: Christ appearing to His disciples.

22. To the east of the window, an indistinct scene, perhaps the Entombment.

23. At the north-western corner: S. Samona.

24. A saint, not named.

25. Over the door two saints, one of whom holds a cross.

26. The northern archway: In the centre is the door to the narrow passage between the parecclesion
and the church. To the left, Jacob's Ladder; to the right, Moses at the Burning Bush. In the
bush is a medallion of the Virgin and Child, and from the bush an angel addresses Moses, who
holds his veil in his hand.

27, 28, 29, 30. In the pendentives of the dome: the Four Evangelists sitting at desks.

31. The dome is divided into twelve segments by ribs, and is pierced by twelve windows. Above
each window is an angel holding a spear, and below him is the legend 'Holy.' In the crown are
the Virgin and Child in a medallion.

32. A saint holding a small cross; below, in the south wall, the archivolt with the epitaph
to Tornikes above it.

33. A warrior saint with his sword and shield.

34. Above Nos. 32 and 33 on the arch, a figure, clad in a white mantle and blue robe with a
scroll in his hand, points to an angel, who holds his drawn sword in the right hand and the
scabbard in the left hand, and seems to be attacking several persons in the right-hand corner.
Behind him is a walled and fortified city, probably Jericho.

35. On the north wall: S. Eutadius.

36. The Adoration by the magi.

37, 38. On the west wall: the figures of two saints, not named.

Epitaph in honour of Tornikes:--

  [Greek: hosous an hathroizoi tis enthade krotous
  nekrous ho tapheis exelenxei Tornikês,
  ho tris aristeus ê konstaulos megas,
  hôsper mimous, beltiste, pithêkous leon.
  hos, basilikôn apotechtheis haimatôn,            5
  pareschen autois prosphyê kai ton tropon.
  poion gar ouk ên aretês eidos pherôn,
  hôs ho prepôn hekaston ezêtei chronos?
  boulêphoros d' oun, kai pro tês hêlikias
  kai dêmagôgos, kai kritês ên anchinous.         10
  kai pros men echthrous taktikên epnei phloga,
  keraunos ôn aphyktos autois athroois,
  tê de stratia patrikôs epestatei,
  phrourôn ta koina, mê klapê to sympheron.
  kêdous de tychôn eugenous kai kosmiou           15
  kai basilikon proslabôn authis genos
  kai lampron hypodeigma pareis ton bion,
  keitai monastês eutelês en osteois.
  hêlie kai gê kai teleutaioi krotoi.
  penthei de mikrou pan to Rhômaiôn genos,        20
  hoson per auton agnooun ou tynchanei.
  all' ô mone, zôn kai methistôn tas physeis,
  ei pou ti kai peprachen autô mê prepon
  lysin paraschôn tên Eden klêron didou.]

In line 7 the inscription reads *[Greek: phcrôn]* instead of [Greek: pherôn]; in line 23 *[Greek:
propon]* for [Greek: prepon].

  Good Friend! However many dead applauses (celebrities)
  One may collect here,
  The entombed Tornikes, who was thrice a foremost man or Grand
    Constable,
  Will put them to shame as a lion will put to shame mimicking apes.
  He who was by birth of royal blood,
  Presented also a manner of life conformed to that descent.
  For what form of virtue did he not possess
  Such as the fitting occasion demanded each?
  Therefore he was a councillor before the usual age,
  And a popular leader and an acute judge,
  And upon enemies he breathed a strategic flame (such as military rules
    required),
  And was an irresistible thunderbolt upon their serried ranks.
  He presided over the army like a father,
  Guarding the commonweal lest any advantage to it should be stolen.
  Contracting a highly-born and seemly marriage connection,
  And securing thus again royal affinity,[551]
  And leaving his life as a splendid example,
  He lies a poor monk among bones!
  O sun, O earth, O final applauses!
  Well-nigh the whole Roman race laments him,
  As much of it as is not ignorant of him.
  But O only living One and transformer of natures,
  If perchance he did aught that was not fitting for him,
  Granting him pardon, give him Eden as his inheritance.[552]

[542] Diehl, Études byzantines: Les mosaïques de Kahrié Djami.

[543] An English translation of the Protoevangelium is found in the Ante-Nicene Christian Library,
vol. xvi.

[544] The remarkable head-dress he wears was given him as a special distinction by the Emperor
Andronicus II. Palaeologus. The poet Philes (ode 41 in the appendix to vol. ii. of his works,
lines 117-19) says [Greek: phorounta chrysên erythran tên kalyptran hên dôron autô synanechonti
kratos Anax ho lampros Andronikos paresche].

[545] A work reproducing, under the Pope's authority, the eighty-two miniatures illustrating
the Life of the Madonna, which was composed by a monk James in the twelfth century (Cod. Vatic.
Gr. 1162), is announced (Danesi, Editore, Roma, 1911), with a preface and descriptions of the
miniatures by Cosimo Stornajolo. The miniatures are said to rival those of the Greek Codex
1028 in the National Library in Paris.

[546] Op. cit. pp. 134-41.

[547] i. p. 303.

[548] Carmina (ed. Treu), A. 1004, 1039-1042; B. 322-334.

[550] See on the whole subject, C. Diehl, in the Gazette des Beaux-Arts, troisième période,
tome 33, and in his Manuel d'art byzantin, pp. 732-41; Schmitt in his monograph on the Chora;
Mühlmann, Archiv für christliche Kunst, 1886-87.

[551] Alludes to his marriage with a relative of the imperial family.

[552] In the translation I have been assisted by Sir W. M. Ramsay, Professor Bury, and Mr.
E. M. Antoniadi. The meaning of [Greek: teleutaioi krotoi] is not clear. Various interpretations
have been suggested; to read [Greek: brotoi], mortals, instead of [Greek: krotoi], and to construe
[Greek: teleutaioi] adverbially, 'finally, O mortals!'; to understand a reference to the judgment
day, 'O applauses given at the final judgment'; to take the phrase as equivalent to, 'O celebrities
at (or to) the very end of time'; to understand it as signifying the eulogies actually given
to the deceased by the poet. Professor Tendès, of Athens, whom I thank for his courtesy in
this connection, suggests that the meaning is similar to that of the phrase [Greek: ta teleutaia]
in the modern Greek form of eulogy, [Greek: ekame polla, alla ta teleutaia tou].... 'He did
many things, but his last performances!' (surpassed all his previous deeds). Here the meaning
would therefore be, 'O grandest achievements that men praise!'

CHAPTER XXV

THE DATING AND THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE CHURCHES

The dating of the Constantinople churches is a problem of great difficulty, and, in the absence
of documentary evidence, we must often be contented with very indefinite suggestions. Many
churches are known to have been founded at dates which are evidently earlier than the existing
buildings, and have apparently been rebuilt at some later date of which the record has been
lost. Other churches are known to have been 'repaired,' and here the question of how far 'repair'
means 'rebuilding' is sometimes insoluble. Repair may mean simply a fresh coat of paint.

The architectural characteristics afford a certain clue, and the following chronological scheme
has been drawn up by their guidance:--

The pre-Justinian period is characterised by simple construction and detail of a late Roman
type. Of this we have one example--the basilica of S. John of the Studion, founded about 463.
The existing building appears to be original.

The Justinian period commences with the beginning of the sixth century. It is characterised
by the development of the drumless dome on pendentives. The plan is complicated, and the buildings
are large in comparison with those of later date. To this period belong SS. Sergius and Bacchus
(527 A.D.), the baptistery of S. Sophia, and the 'Great Church' of S. Sophia itself. S. Andrew
in Krisei and S. Saviour in the Chora probably date from this period. The carved detail of
the former closely resembles that of SS. Sergius and Bacchus, and the plan of the latter connects
it with S. Sophia, Salonica (sixth century).

The Justinian period roughly includes the seventh century, and is followed by a long decline,
marked by the great iconoclastic controversy which lasted almost until the middle of the ninth
century. To this period belongs S. Irene (740 A.D.). In plan it is a double-domed cross church.
In the arrangement of the dome-arches and galleries it resembles S. Theodosia, whilst in the
presence of a western gallery over the narthex and in the number of columns in the 'nave arcade'
it is like S. Sophia.

The accession of Basil the Macedonian (867 A.D.) marks the beginning of the second great period--the
'Basilian Renaissance.' We know that this was a period of great religious activity, and though
we have, unfortunately, no known dates to guide us, the development of plan leads us to place
a group of churches in the ninth, tenth, and eleventh centuries. These are S. Mary Pammakaristos,
S. Mary Panachrantos, S. Theodosia, S. Mary Diaconissa, and SS. Peter and Mark.

They are all churches of considerable size; S. Mary Diaconissa and S. Theodosia being indeed
large. They are characterised by the use of the ambulatory and domed cross plans. The carving
is coarse and the capitals are of the clumsy Byzantine Corinthian type. The dome is raised
on a high drum in S. Mary Pammakaristos and S. Mary Panachrantos, though this may be a later
addition. The domes of the other three churches seem to be Turkish. S. Mary Pammakaristos and
the south church in S. Mary Panachrantos are identical in plan with S. Andrew in Krisei, and
it would be possible to date them earlier had we any evidence whatsoever. Unfortunately both
have been very much altered.

S. Theodosia, S. Mary Diaconissa, and SS. Peter and Mark, taken in this order, form a series
showing the gradual disappearance of the galleries and the evolution of the domed cross church
into the 'four columned' church of the next period.

The Myrelaion (919-945), if the present church is of that date, is an unusually early example
of this four-columned type. It is generally considered that this plan type dates at the earliest
from the eleventh century. There is, however, no reason to believe that the church was rebuilt
later; it is a perfectly normal example of its class, and nowhere is an early example more
probable than in Constantinople. The Myrelaion may accordingly be taken as marking the commencement
of the late Byzantine period in Constantinople.

The churches are now smaller; the gynecaeum, where present, is placed over the narthex; the
use of patterning in the brickwork of the exterior, which occurs in some of the Basilian churches
(e.g. the cornice of S. Theodosia), now becomes important, and alternate coursing in brick
and stone is used with great effect. From this time onwards narthexes were frequently added
to the existing churches.

S. Saviour Pantokrator (1118-1143 A.D.) is the largest late church in Constantinople, and is
an unusually large church of its type. S. Saviour Pantepoptes (1081-1118), S. Theodore, and
S. John in Trullo, belong to the same class. The last, with its circular dome and apse, is
probably the latest of the three. S. Thekla (1057-1059) and Bogdan Serai are examples of hall
churches of the same period.

The monastery of Manuel was founded in 829-842 A.D., but the building believed to be the refectory
is probably much later. As part of the monastery it might, of course, have been built at any
date subsequent to the foundation of the House.

The architecture of the Sanjakdar does not correspond to the date of the foundation of the
monastery of the Gastria in the ninth century. The building is certainly of late date, subsequent
to the eleventh century. Of the Balaban Mesjedi it is impossible to say anything. It is the
remnant of some Byzantine structure.

From 1204 to 1261, during the Latin Empire, we need not look for much building in the Greek
Church. Soon after the fall of that empire comes the erection of S. Mary of the Mongols (1261-1282)
and Monastir Jamissi (1282-1328). In both cases the architectural character is what we should
expect. Following on this we have, in the fourteenth century, the alterations made in S. Saviour
in the Chora (c. 1300), and the parecclesion of the Pammakaristos (c. 1315).

This was the last effort of pure Byzantine architecture in Constantinople. During the hundred
years preceding the Turkish conquest in 1453 the gradually increasing pressure from the East
put a stop to all architectural schemes; the craftsmen and artists fled to Italy, and there
took their part in the great revival known as 'The Renaissance.'

SUGGESTED CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE

  Century.

     V. S. John of the Studion, 463.

    VI. SS. Sergius and Bacchus, 527-36.
        S. Sophia, 532-37.
        S. Saviour in the Chora (the Justinian foundation).
        S. Andrew in Krisei.

  VIII. S. Irene, 740.
        S. Mary Panachrantos (South Church); possibly earlier.
        S. Mary Pammakaristos; possibly earlier.

    IX. S. Theodosia.
        S. Mary Diaconissa.
        SS. Peter and Mark.

     X. The Myrelaion.
        S. Mary Panachrantos (South Church).

    XI. S. Thekla.
        S. Saviour in the Chora (restoration in the reign of Alexius I.
             Comnenus).
        S. Saviour Pantepoptes.
        S. Saviour Pantokrator.

   XII. S. Theodore.
        S. John in Trullo.
        Refectory of the monastery of Manuel?
        Bogdan Serai?

  XIII. S. Mary of the Mongols.
        Monastir Jamissi.

   XIV. S. Saviour in the Chora, 1306. Final restoration by Theodore
           Metochites. Parecclesion of the church of S. Mary
           Pammakaristos, c. 1315. Sanjakdar Mesjedi (Gastria)?
           Balaban Mesjedi?

CLASSIFICATION OF THE CHURCHES ACCORDING TO THEIR TYPE

  Basilica.--S. John of the Studion.

  Octagon.--SS. Sergius and Bacchus.

  Domed Basilica.--S. Saviour in the Chora.

  Ambulatory.--S. Andrew in Krisei; S. Mary Panachrantos (South
     Church); S. Mary Pammakaristos.

  Domed Cross Church.--S. Irene; S. Theodosia; S. Mary Diaconissa;
     SS. Peter and Mark.

  Four Column Church.--Myrelaion; S. Saviour Pantepoptes; S. Saviour
     Pantokrator; S. John in Trullo; S. Mary Panachrantos (North Church);
     Parecclesion of S. Mary Pammakaristos.

  Foiled Plan.--S. Mary of the Mongols.

  Halls.--Bogdan Serai; Central Church of the Pantokrator; Monastir
     Mesjedi; Refectory of the monastery of Manuel; Parecclesion of
     S. Saviour in the Chora; S. Thekla.

  Irregular.--Sanjakdar Mesjedi; Balaban Mesjedi.

BOOKS CONSULTED IN THE PREPARATION OF THIS WORK

  Ante-Nicene Christian Library.

  Anthologia Graeca epigrammatum, Stadt-Mueller, 1894.

  ANTONIADI, E. M. [Greek: Ekphrasis tês Hagias Sophias].

  BANDURI, ANSELMI. Imperium Orientale, sive Antiquitates
    Constantinopolitanae. Paris, 1711.

  BARONIUS. Annales ecclesiastici. Luccae, 1741.

  BELIN, M. A. Histoire de la Latinité de Constantinople. 2me édition.

  BELL, Miss LOTHIAN. Notes on a Journey through Cilicia and Lycaonia.

  BONDELMONTIUS. Librum insularum Archipelagi.

  BROCKHAUS. Die Kunst in den Athosklöstern. Leipzig, 1891.

  BRUNN, PH. Constantinople, ses sanctuaires et ses réliques au
    commencement du XV siècle. Odessa, 1883.

  BUTLER. Architecture and other Arts, II. Syria. New York, 1903. Paris, 1800.

  CHOISEUL-GOUFFIER. Voyage pittoresque en Grèce.

  CLAVIJO, RUY GONZALEZ DE. Vida de Gran Tamorlan y itinerario. Madrid,
    1782.

  CONSTANTIUS, Patriarch. [Greek: Konstantinias Palaia te kai Neôtera],
    Ancient and Modern Constantinople, Translation by J. P. Brown. London,
    1868; [Greek: Syngraphai hai Elassones. Kônstantinoupolis], 1866.

  Corpus Scriptorum Historiae Byzantinae. Bonn.

  CRUSIUS, M. Turcograecia.

  DETHIER, PH. A. Siège de Constantinople.

  DIDRON. Christian Iconography (Translation from the French). London,
  1910.

  DIEHL, C. Manuel d'art byzantin; Figures byzantines.

  DU CANGE, C. Historia Byzantina, Pars II. Constantinopolis Christiana.
    Paris, 1680.[poss. typo for 1860?]

  DÜRM. Handbuch.

  Eastern Palestine Memoirs.

  EBERSOLT. Le Grand Palais de Constantinople.

  FERGUSSON, JAMES. History of Ancient and Mediaeval Architecture.

  FINLAY, G. History of the Byzantine Empire.

  FRESHFIELD, EDWIN. Archaeologia.

  GARDNER, MISS ALICE. Theodore of Studium.

  GERLACH. Tagebuch der Gesandtshaft an die Ottomanische Pforte durch David
    Ungnad, 1573-78.

  GOODYEAR, W. H. Catalogue of an Exhibition of Architectural Refinements.
    Edinburgh, 1905.

  GYLLIUS, P. De Constantinopoleos Topographia. Elzevir ed. 1632.

     "        De Bosporo Thracio. Elzevir ed. 1632.

  HASLUCK, F. W. Bithynica.

  HENDERSON, A. E. Builder, January 1906.

  KANITZ. Serbiens byzantinische Monumente.

  KHITROVO, Madame de. Itinéraires russes (Translation from Russian).

  LABARTE, JULES. Le Palais impérial de Constantinople.

  LAMPAKIS, Professor.

  LENOIR. Architecture monastique au moyen âge.

  LETHABY. Mediaeval Art.

  LETHABY and Swainson. Sancta Sophia.

  LEUNCLAVIUS. Pandectes historiae Turcicae. (Migne, vol. clix.)

  MANSI. Sacrorum Conciliorum collectio.

  MARIN, Abbé. Les Moines de Constantinople.

  MIGNE. Patrologia Graeca.

  MIKLOSICH et MÜLLER. Acta et diplomata Graeca. Vienna, 1865.

  MILLINGEN, A. VAN. Byzantine Constantinople.

  MORDTMANN. Esquisse topographique de Constantinople.

  MÜHLMANN. Archiv für christliche Kunst, 1886-87.

  MURALT, ÉDOUARD DE. Essai de chronographie byzantine. Geneva, 1873.

  NOTITIA DIGNITATUM. Ed. Seeck.

  PARGOIRE, Père J. Les Mamas de Constantinople.

  PARKER. Glossary of Architecture.

  PASPATES, A. [Greek: Meletai Byzantinai].

     "         The Great Palace. Translation from the Greek by
                 Mr. Metcalfe.

  PHILES. Carmina.

  PULGHER, D. Les Églises byzantines de Constantinople. Vienna, 1878.

  RAMSAY, Sir William, and Miss Lothian Bell. The Thousand and One
    Churches.

  RIANT, Conte de. Exuviae sacrae.

  RIVOIRA, T. G. Lombardic Architecture. (Translation from Italian.)
    London, 1910.

  ROTT, H. Kleinasiatische Denkmäler. Leipzig, 1908.

  SALZENBERG. Altchristliche Baudenkmäler Constantinopels.

  SCARLATUS BYZANTIUS. [Greek: Hê Kônstantinoupolis]. Athens, 1862.

  SCHLUMBERGER, G. L'Épopée byzantine à la fin du sixième siècle.

  SCHMITT, F. G. Kahrié Djamissi.

  SCHULTZ and Barnsley. The Monastery of S. Luke of Stiris. London, 1901.

  SCHWEIGGER, SOLOMON. Ein neue Reyssbeschreibung auss Deutschland nach
    Constantinopel, 1581.

  SIDERIDES. Articles in the Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of
    Constantinople.

  SOCRATES. Ecclesiastical History.

  STRZYGOWSKI, J. Orient oder Rom. Leipzig, 1901.

       "          Kleinasien, Die byzantinischen Wasserbehälter von.
                    Dr. P. Forcheimer and Dr. J. Strzygowski.

  TEXIER. Four volumes of Sketches in the Library of the Royal Institute
    of British Architects. London.

  TEXIER AND PULLAN. Byzantine Architecture.

  USPENSKI, T. Articles in the Journal of the Russian Institute at
    Constantinople.

  VILLEHARDOUIN. La Conquête de Constantinople.

  VOGÜÉ DE. La Syrie centrale.

  WULFF, O. Die Koimisiskirche in Nikaia. Strasburg, 1903.

PERIODICALS

  Atti della R. Accademia di archeologia, lettere, e belle arte, vol. xx.
    Napoli, 1900.

  Revue Archéologique.

  Byzantinische Zeitschrift.

  Bulletin de correspondance hellénique.

  Annual of the British School at Athens.

  Proceedings of the Greek Syllogos of Constantinople.

  Mitteilungen des Deutschen Excursions-Club, Konstantinopel.

  English Historical Review.

LIST OF EMPERORS

  Constantine I. the Great                 306-337

  Constantius II.                                  474-474

  Zeno                                     474-491

  Anastasius I.                            491-518

  Justin I.                                518-527

  Justinian I. the Great                   527-565

  Justin II.                               565-578

  Tiberius                                 578-582

  Maurice                                  582-602

  Phocas                                   602-610

  Heraclius                                610-641

  Heraclius Constantine III.
    and Heracleonas                        641-642

  Constans II.                             642-668

  Constantine IV.                          668-685

  Justinian II.                            685-695

  Leontius                                 695-697

  Tiberius III.                            697-705

  Justinian II. (restored)                 705-711

  Philippicus                              711-713

  Anastasius II.                           713-715

  Theodosius III.                          715-717

  Leo III. the Isaurian                    717-740

  Constantine V. Copronymus                740-775

  Leo IV.                                  775-779

  Constantine VI.                          779-797

  Irene                                    797-802

  Nicephorus I.                            802-811

  Stauracius                               811

  Michael I. Rhangabe                      811-813

  Leo V. the Armenian                      813-820

  Michael II. the Amorian                  820-829

  Theophilus                               829-842

  Michael III.                             842-867

  Basil I.                                 867-886

  Leo VI. the Wise                         886-912

  Constantine VII. Porphyrogenitus         912-958
    Co-Emperors
      Alexander                            912-913
      Romanus I. Lecapenus                 919-945
      Constantine VIII. and Stephanus,
        sons of Romanus I. reigned
        five weeks in                      944

  Romanus II.                              958-963

  Basil II. Bulgaroktonos                  963-1025
    Co-Emperors
      Nicephorus II. Phocas                 965-969
      John I. Zimisces                      969-976
      Constantine IX.                      976-1025

  Constantine IX. (sole Emperor)          1025-1028

  Romanus III. Argyrus                    1028-1034

  Michael IV.                             1034-1042

  Michael V.                              1042

  Zoe and Theodora                        1042

  Constantine X. Monomachus               1042-1054

  Theodora (restored)                     1054-1056

  Michael VI. Stratioticus                1056-1057

  Isaac I. Comnenus                       1057-1059

  Constantine XI. Ducas                   1059-1067

  Michael VII. Ducas                      1067-1078
    Co-Emperor
      Romanus IV. Diogenes                1067-1078

  Nicephorus III. Botoniates              1078-1081

  Alexius I. Comnenus                     1081-1118

  John II. Comnenus                       1118-1143

  Manuel I. Comnenus                      1143-1180

  Alexius II. Comnenus                    1180-1183

  Andronicus I. Comnenus                  1183-1185

  Isaac II. Angelus                       1185-1195

  Alexius III. Angelus                    1195-1203

  Isaac II. Angelus (restored),
    Alexius IV. Angelus                   1203-1204

  Nicolas Canabus                         1204

  Alexius V. Ducas Murtzuphlus            1204

LATIN EMPERORS OF CONSTANTINOPLE

  Baldwin I.                              1204-1205

  Henry                                   1205-1216

  Peter                                   1217-1219

  Robert                                  1219-1228

  John of Brienne                         1228-1237

  Baldwin II.                             1227-1361

BYZANTINE EMPERORS AT NICAEA

  Theodore I. Lascaris                    1204-1222

  John III. Ducas                         1222-1254

  Theodore II. Ducas                      1254-1259

  John IV. Ducas                          1259-1260

UNDER THE RESTORED BYZANTINE EMPIRE

  Michael VIII. Palaeologus               1260-1282

  Andronicus II. Palaeologus              1282-1328
    Co-Emperor Michael IX.                1295-1320

  Andronicus III. Palaeologus             1328-1341

  John V. Palaeologus                     1341-1391
    Co-Emperor John VI. Cantacuzene       1341-1355

  Manuel II. Palaeologus                  1391-1425

  John VII. Palaeologus                   1425-1448

  Constantine XII. Palaeologus            1448-1453

INDEX

  Abaga, 274

  Achaia, 273

  Achilles, Abbot of the Studion, 40

  Achmed, Mongolian Khan, 274

  Achmed Pasha, 205

  Achmed III., Sultan, 276

  Achrida, 46

  Acre, 228

  Acritas, 39

  Adrianople. See Gate

  Aecatherina, Empress, 47, 197, 295

  Aetius. See Church, Cistern

  Agapetus, Pope, 184

  Agatha, 197

  Agathangelus, 302

  Agatho, Pope, 67

  Aivan Serai, 191, 207, 208, 209, 213

  Akoimeti, 36, 37

  Ak Serai. See Forum of the Bous

  Alexander, bath of, 88

  Alexander, Patriarch, 85, 86

  Alexius, Patriarch, 43

  Alexius Strategopoulos, 228

  Ali Atik Mustapha Pasha, 304

  Alsace, 224, 226

  Alti Mermer. See Exokionion

  Anastasia, daughter of Emperor Theophilus, 270

  Andrew of Crete, 108

  Andronicus Ducas, 295

  Andronicus, son of Manuel II., 229

  Anemodoulion, 245

  Anna Comnena, 147

  Anna Dalassena, 138, 139, 211, 212, 295, 297

  Anna, wife of Andronicus II., 141

  Anna of Savoy, wife of Andronicus III., 144, 303

  Anna, wife of John VII. Palaeologus, 128

  Anna, daughter of Emperor Theophilus, 270

  Anselm, Bishop of Havalsberg, 220

  Anthemius, 74

  Anthimus, Saint, 291, 294

  Antioch, 86, 290

  Antony, Patriarch, 43, 69

  Apocaucus, 144, 145

  Aqueduct of Valens, 183, 184.

  Arian, Arius, 85, 86

  Armenia, Armenian, 10, 39, 258, 268

  Arsenius, Patriarch, 110, 111, 112

  Artavasdos, 293

  Asia Minor, 1

  Aspar. See Cistern

  Athanasius, Patriarch, 232

  Athens, 258

  Athos, Mount, 116, 185, 230, 258, 290, 301, 303, 326

  Avars, 48, 232

  Avret Tash. See Column of Arcadius

  Axuch, 221

  Azerbaijan, 148

  Babylas, Saint, 288, 294

  Bactagius, 293

  Baghdad, 69, 255, 272

  Bagtché Kapoussi. See Gate of the Neorion

  Bajazet I., Sultan, 47

  Bajazet II., Sultan, 49, 276, 304. See Mosque

  Balat, 148, 280

  Baldwin, Count, 214

  Baloukli. See Pegé

  Baptistery of S. Sophia, 2, 78, 332

  Bara, monk, 282

  Bardas, Caesar, 44, 256, 270

  Basil, Saint, 41

  Belisarius, 67

  Bertha, wife of Manuel I. Comnenus,   222

  Beshiktash, 107

  Bithynia, 30, 89, 294

  Blachernae, district of, 106, 165, 191, 193, 209, 210, 213, 282.
   See Palace

  Black Sea, 228, 272, 300

  Bogdan Serai. See Church

  Bonus, 48

  Branas, 303

  Bucoleon. See Harbour, Palace

  Buda, 280

  Bulgaria, Bulgarian, 257, 272, 295,   297

  Byzantium, 84

  Caesarea, 273

  Cana, 327

  Candidus, 192

  Cantacuzene, Michael, 280

  Capelli, 228

  Carbounaria, district of, 244, 245

  Cassandra, 230

  Chalcedon. See Council

  Charabanda, 275

  Charisius, 290, 291. See Gate

  Choirosphacta, 44

  Christoboulos, 276

  Christopher, son of Romanus I., 197

  Chrysocameron, 199

  Chrysostom, S. John, 91

  Church, Chapel, Monastery, of--

  Note.--Under this head the references indicate only the passages in
  which a church is mentioned outside the special chapter devoted to it.

    S. Acacius, 199
    Acritas, 40
    Aetius, 255, 256, 259
    S. Anastasia Pharmacolytria, 243
    S. Anastasius, 184
    S. Andrew the Apostle, 109
    S. Andrew, near the Gate of Saturninus, 109
    S. Andrew 'God-Intoxicated,' 109
    S. Andrew in Krisei, 7, 8, 15, 30, 130, 150, 151, 186, 332, 333, 335,
       336
    S. Andrew Strategos, 109
    S. Anthimus, 291, 294
    Apostles, Holy, 3, 64, 90, 123, 124, 146, 147, 168, 175, 176, 184, 219,
       233
    Archangels, Sygè, 316
    S. Aristina, 106, 112
    Balaban Aga Mesjedi, 334, 335, 336
    Bogdan Serai, 10, 15, 23, 27, 28, 201, 282, 334, 335, 336
    Bosra, 70
    Cenopolis, 88
    Crimean Memorial Church, 281
    S. Constantine, 35
    S. Constanza, 1
    Daudatus, 183
    S. Demetrius, Salonica, 32, 53, 75, 222
    S. Demetrius, Kanabou, 148, 191, 192, 205
    Deré Aghsy, 5
    Dexiocrates, 165
    S. Diomed, 109
    S. Elias, Salonica, 10, 114, 116
    Etschmiadzin, 10
    Euphrosynè, Libadia, 270
    Forty Martyrs of Sebasté, 291, 294
    S. Fosca, Torcello, 247
    Gastria (Sanjakdar Mesjedi), 10, 24, 28, 107, 334, 335, 336
    S. George, Ezra, 78
    S. George, Genoa, 229
    S. George, Phanar, 149, 191
    S. George, Psamathia (Soulou Monastir), 106, 177, 268
    S. George, Salonica, 1
    Homonia, 88
    Hormisdas, 64, 68
    S. Ignatius, 294
    S. Irene, 11, 12, 15, 26, 53, 72, 84, 85, 333, 335, 336
    S. John the Baptist, Hebdomon, 283
    S. John the Baptist in Petra, 203, 255, 282
    S. John Baptist of the Studion, 2, 11, 12, 29, 31, 107, 256, 258, 268,
       303, 332, 335, 336
    S. John the Baptist in Trullo, 15, 16, 28, 147, 281, 334, 335, 336
    S. John Evangelist, Hebdomon, 297
    Kallou, 297
    Kefelé Mesjedi. See Manuel
    S. Lorenzo, Milan, 78
    S. Luke, Stiris, 11, 16
    S. Mamas, 106, 107, 197
    Manoueliou, 254
    Manuel, 11, 28, 47, 64, 254, 334, 335
    SS. Manuel, Sabel, Ishmael, 253
    Mara, 255
    S. Mark's, Venice, 3, 13, 224, 238, 246, 247
    Kyra Martha, 123, 124, 128, 166, 167
    S. Martin's, London, 289
    S. Mary (Theotokos) of Blachernae, 193
    S. Mary, Curator, 265
    S. Mary Diaconissa, 9, 12, 13, 16, 17, 20, 26, 30, 31, 32, 306, 310,
       333, 335, 336
    S. Mary Eleoussa, 240
    S. Mary Euergetes, 164, 165, 166, 167
    S. Mary Hodegetria, 227. See Eikon
    S. Mary Koimesis, Nicaea, 7
    S. Mary Kosmosoteria, 296
    S. Mary of the Mongols, 10, 114, 116, 334, 335, 336
    S. Mary Pammakaristos, 7, 12, 14, 18, 20, 24, 25, 27, 28, 31, 129, 130,
       173, 175, 198, 201, 202, 205, 255, 281, 333, 335, 336
    S. Mary Panachrantos, of Lips, 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 151, 152, 243,
       248, 333, 335, 336
    S. Mary Panachrantos, near S. Sophia, 123, 125, 126
    S. Mary, Pegé, 177
    S. Mary Peribleptos, 18, 35, 45, 50, 106, 177, 258, 268, 297
    S. Mary of Vlach Serai, 280
    S. Mary, Chapel, in SS. Sergius and Bacchus, 69, 70
    S. Mary, 55
    S. Michael the Archangel, 239, 291, 292, 294
    S. Mokius, 166
    Monastir Mesjedi, 10, 20, 262, 334, 335
    Myrelaion, 14, 17, 47, 129, 333, 334, 335, 336
    S. Nicholas, 207
    SS. Nicholas and Augustine, 281
    S. Nicholas, Methana, 278
    S. Nicholas, Myra, 6
    S. Paul, Rome, 289
    SS. Peter and Mark, 5, 9, 12, 13, 16, 27, 185, 186, 333, 335, 336
    SS. Peter and Paul, 63, 64, 65, 66, 191, 192
    Protaton, Mt. Athos, 185
    Saccudio, 38
    Sanjakdar Mesjedi. See Gastria
    S. Saviour in the Chora, 10, 12, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 27, 29, 30, 31,
       32, 33, 36, 107, 153, 186, 236, 240, 255, 256, 332, 335, 336
    S. Saviour Euergetes, 1, 166, 167, 213
    S. Saviour Pantepoptes, 9, 14, 18, 29, 141, 295, 334, 335, 336
    S. Saviour Pantokrator, Mt. Athos, 290
    S. Saviour Pantokrator, Constantinople, 10, 14, 16, 17, 18, 20, 25, 26,
       29, 31, 132, 153, 165, 166, 173, 215, 219, 244, 247, 270, 273, 295,
       334, 335, 336
    S. Saviour Philanthropos, 147, 148
    Sepulchre, Holy, 118, 265
    SS. Sergius and Bacchus, 2, 8, 11, 21, 23, 26, 30, 115, 332, 333, 335,
        336
    S. Sophia, Constantinople, 2, 5, 11, 12, 14, 19, 20, 21, 23, 26, 27,
       29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 46, 47, 62, 63, 69, 71, 72, 74, 78, 84, 85,
       88, 89, 90, 91, 97, 102, 111, 112, 117, 118, 122, 123, 126, 145,
       146, 169, 175, 176, 185, 223, 227, 229, 231, 233, 243, 244, 293,
       305, 306, 313, 314, 315, 332, 333, 335
    S. Sophia, Kiev, 326
    S. Sophia, Monemvasia, 18
    S. Sophia, Salonica, 15, 102, 103, 310, 314, 315, 333
    Soulou Monastir. See Plate LXXVII. facing p. 262
    Aspar, 253, 254, 256, 257
    Bin-bin-derek (One Thousand and One Columns), 15
    Mokius, 109, 166
    Pulcheria, 131, 254
    Studion, 48, 50, 54. See Plate X. facing p. 54

  Claudius, district of, 244

  Colosseum, 33

  Column of--
    Arcadius, 109
    Constantine the Great (Exokionion), 109

  Constantine Ducas, 44, 126

  Constantine Lips, 125, 126, 127

  Constantine, Nobilissimus, 44, 45

  Constantine Porphyrogenitus (son of Michael VIII.), 38, 110, 127

  Constantine, son of Romanus I., 197

  Constantine, Pope, 67

  Cosmas, Patriarchs, 140, 141, 142, 143, 297

  Council--
    The Second Council, 87
    Chalcedon, 66
    Ferrara, 230
    Florence, 230
    First Concilium Trullanum, 67, 202, 293
    Second Concilium Trullanum (Quinisextum), 202

  Craterus, House of, 199

  Crete, 108

  Crusade, Fourth, 213, 224, 298

  Cucusus, 87

  Curator, district of, 264

  Dandolo, Henrico, 213

  Danube, 209

  Daphni, 258, 326

  Daphnusium, 228

  Dedeagatch, 296

  S. Demetrius, Eikon of, 222

  Denderis, 269

  Derè Aghsy, 4

  Dexiocrates, district of, 165

  Didymotica, 299

  Dionysius, Monk, 48

  Diplokionion, 107

  Edirnè Kapoussi. See Gate of Charisius

  Egri Kapou, district of, 209

  Emperor--
    Alexius I. Comnenus, 43, 146, 147, 211, 212, 220, 294, 295, 297, 335
    Alexius II. Comnenus, 223, 224
    Alexius V. Ducas Murtzuphlus, 213
    Anastasius I., 63, 282
    Andronicus I. Comnenus, 223, 224, 297
    Andronicus II. Palaeologus, 37, 109, 110, 111, 128, 140, 141, 142, 143,
      168, 230, 263, 275, 282, 299, 302, 303, 324
    Andronicus III. Palaeologus, 128, 141, 263, 275, 299, 303
    Baldwin I., 214
    Baldwin II., 227, 228
    Basil I., 68, 335
    Basil II., 43
    Basiliscus, 37, 88
    Charlemagne, 41
    Conrad of Germany, 222
    Constans, 87
    Constantine the Great, 1, 3, 84, 85, 101
    Constantine V. Copronymus, 38, 90, 101, 108, 196, 293
    Constantine VI., 38, 39, 41
    Constantine VII. Porphyrogenitus, 44, 126, 197, 199, 247
    Constantine IX., 46
    Constantine Palaeologus or Dragases, 174, 176, 177, 230, 259, 260
    Constantius II., 85, 86
    Henry, 227
    Heraclius, 48, 292
    Isaac II. Angelus, 297, 303
    Isaac I. Comnenus, 37, 47, 197, 209, 210, 295
    John I. Zimisces, 303
    John II. Comnenus, 138, 210, 219, 220, 221, 239
    John V. Cantacuzene, 144, 229, 263, 297, 301, 302, 303
    John VI. Palaeologus, 144, 192, 229, 297, 302
    John VII. Palaeologus, 47, 128, 229, 230
    Justin I., 63, 64, 67
    Justinian I., the Great, 3, 37, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 70, 73, 74, 75,
      89, 97, 101, 102, 103, 184, 254, 288, 290, 291, 292, 332, 333
    Justinian II., 67
    Leo I. Macellus, 265
    Leo III., the Isaurian, 89, 90, 101, 102, 164, 293
    Leo V., the Armenian, 39, 68, 294
    Leo VI., the Wise, 44, 90, 126, 247
    Leopold I. of Austria, 191
    Licinius, 246
    Lothair the Great, 220
    Manuel I. Comnenus, 85, 221, 222, 223
    Manuel II. Palaeologus, 47, 229
    Marcian, 36, 85
    Maurice, 184, 197
    Maximianus, 63, 246, 288
    Michael I., 39
    Michael II., 39, 68
    Michael III., 69, 256, 269, 294
    Michael V., 44, 45
    Michael VII., 46, 47, 257, 295, 297
    Michael VIII. Palaeologus, 47, 110, 127, 140, 228, 229, 272, 297, 298,
      303
    Nicephorus Botoniates, 46, 297
    Nicephorus I., 39
    Philippicus, 293
    Phocas, 292
    Romanus I. Lecapenus, 90, 196, 197, 199, 257
    Romanus II., 197
    Romanus III. Argyrus, 257
    Theodore II. of Nicaea, 110
    Theodosius I., the Great, 87, 196
    Theodosius II., 36, 226
    Theophilus, 68, 69, 199, 209, 253, 255, 256, 257, 269, 270
    Valens, 183, 184
    Zeno, 37, 88

  Enos, 296

  Ephesus, 47, 143, 222

  Et Meidan, 244

  Etschmiadzin, 10

  Eubulus Hospice, 88

  Eudocia, 91, 227

  Eugenia, 230

  Euphrosyné, daughter of Michael VIII. Palaeologus, 272

  Euphrosyné, step-mother of Emperor Theophilus, 269

  Euphrosyné, 270

  Eusebius, Patriarch, 86

  Excubiti, 292

  Exokionion, 109

  Eyoub, 106, 208

  Ezra, 78

  Factions, 88

  Ferejik, 296

  Ferrara, 230

  Festus, 64

  Fifth Hill, 137

  Florence, 230

  Forum of--
    Bous, 164
    Constantine the Great, 85
    Philadelphium, 184
    Tarus, 184, 245, 265

  Fourth Hill, 244

  Gabalas, 144, 145

  Galata, 85, 107, 176, 228

  Galbius, 192

  Galla Placidia, 2

  Garsonostasion, 89

  Gate--
    Adrianople (Edirné Kapoussi), 253, 254
    Aurea. See Golden Gate
    Aurea, Porta, Spalato, 33
    Aya Kapou. See Gate of S. Theodosia
    Beautiful Gate of S. Sophia, 69
    Chalké (Bronze Gate), 164
    Charisius, 265, 290, 304, 305
    Dexiocrates, 165
    Edirné Kapoussi. See Gate of Charisius
    Egri Kapou, 209
    Eugenius, 111, 254
    Golden Gate, 35, 109, 227
    Gyrolimné, 263
    Ispigas, 213
    Jubali Kapoussi, 213
    Koum Kapoussi, 62
    Narli Kapoussi, 36, 48
    Neorion, 254
    Pegé (Selivri Kapoussi), 106, 107, 228
    Royal Gates of S. Sophia, 69
    S. Romanus (Top Kapoussi), 262, 282
    Saturninus, 109
    Selivria. See Pegé
    S. Theodosia (Aya Kapou), 164, 165, 212
    Tchatlady Kapou, 62, 223
    Xylokerkou, 107, 197
    Xyloporta, 205
    Yali Kiosk Kapoussi. See Gate of Eugenius

  Gatulazzo, 229

  Gennadius, Patriarch, 146, 147, 158, 175, 201, 230, 231, 232

  Genoa, Genoese, 228, 254

  George Scholarius. See Gennadius

  Georgia, 148

  Germanus, Patriarch, 293

  Giotto, 327

  Golden Horn, 91, 138, 146, 164, 166, 167, 191, 208, 209, 212, 213, 216,
    219, 254, 280, 281

  Goths, Gothic, 18, 29, 31, 34

  Grammarian. See John the Grammarian

  Greece, 10, 11, 16

  Gregoras, 44

  Gregory of Nazianzus, 87

  Gregory, Patriarch, 112, 113

  Gregory, Pope, 298

  Halki, Island of, 138, 220, 240

  Harbour--
    Bucoleon, 223
    Heptascalon, 199
    Hormisdas, 62

  Hassan Pasha, 173

  Hebdomon, 297

  Helena, Empress, 268

  Helena, wife of Constantine VII., 197

  Heraclea, 144, 300

  Hermogenes, 86

  Hippodrome, 62, 63, 256

  Hodegetria, Eikon of, 47, 227, 303

  Holagu, 273, 274

  Holy Well of Blachernae, 193

  Holy Well of S. Nicholas, 207

  Hormisdas, district of, 62. See Harbour

  Hormisdas, Pope, 64, 291

  Horreum, 199

  Humbert, Cardinal, 46

  Hylilas, John. See John the Grammarian

  Ignatius, Patriarch, 90

  Irene, Empress (mother of Constantine VI.), 38

  Irene, daughter of Bardas, 270

  Irene Ducaena, wife of Alexius I. Comnenus, 295, 297

  Irene, wife of John II. Comnenus, 139, 219, 221, 239

  Irene, wife of Andronicus II., 229

  Irene, wife of Andronicus III., 128

  Irene, wife of Manuel II., 230

  Isaac, son of John II. Comnenus, 221

  Isaac Sebastocrator, 295, 296, 297, 310

  Isaac Palaeologus Asanes, 275

  Isidore, Cardinal, 231

  Ispigas. See Gate

  Janissaries, 91

  Jannes, 68

  Jerusalem, 265, 268

  John Comnenus, Curopalates and Grand Domestic, 138, 139

  John the Grammarian, Patriarch, 68, 69

  Joseph, Abbot of S. Saviour Pantokrator, 222

  Joseph, Bishop of Thessalonica, 39, 40, 43

  Joseph, Patriarch, 230

  Jubali Kapoussi. See Gate

  Julius VIII., Pope, 68

  Juma Bazaar, 106

  Kadikeui, 64

  Kaffa, 258

  Kalat-Semân, 63

  Kan Kilissi. See Church of S. Mary of the Mongols

  Kasr ibn Wardan, 4

  Kerularios, Patriarch, 46

  Kesmé Kaya, 203, 280, 282

  Khaled, 207

  Kiev, 231, 326

  Kraal of Servia, 142, 143

  Krisis, district, 6, 108

  Kusr en Nûeijîs, 2

  Kynegion, 293

  Kyriakos, Patriarch, 184

  Kyros, Patriarch, 293

  Kyzlar Aghassi Hamam, Bath of, 199

  Ladislas, King of Hungary, 219

  Lascaris, John, 110

  Latin, 38

  Laura, Mount Athos, 258

  S. Laurentius, 65

  Lecanomantis, 68

  Leomacellum, 244

  Libadia, 270

  Longophetes, Teutal, 280

  Lovitz, 210

  S. Luke, 227

  Lycus, 122, 126, 244

  Macarius, 230

  Macedonius, Patriarch, 86, 87

  Mahomet, 208

  Maimas, 199

  Makrikeui, 283, 297

  S. Mamas, suburb of. See Church

  Manuel, General, 253, 254, 255, 256, 257

  Maria, wife of Constantine VI., 38

  Maria, wife of John VII. Palaeologus, 230

  Maria Despoina of the Mongols, 229, 272, 273, 274, 275

  Maria Ducaena, 295, 326

  Maria Palaeologina, wife of Michael Ducas Glabas Tarchaniotes, 140

  Maria, daughter of Isaac I. Comnenus, 197

  Maritza, 296

  S. Mark, Evangelist, 246

  Marmora, Island of, 73

  Marmora, Sea of, 36, 48, 62, 138, 146, 196, 224, 283

  Maroulas, Phocas, 262, 263

  Martin V., Pope, 230

  Martin, Abbot, 224, 225, 226

  Mecca, 113

  Mehemed I., Sultan, 145

  Mehemed the Conqueror, Sultan, 158, 175, 214, 232, 276, 277, 304

  Menodora, 262

  Methodius, Patriarch, 294

  Metrodora, 262

  Michael Glabas Tarchaniotes, 139, 140, 141, 155, 156, 157, 158

  Michael Palaeologus Tarchaniotes, 140

  Michael, Syncellus, 294, 326

  Milan, 78, 118

  Milion, 293

  Minerva Medica, Temple, 1

  Mistra, 326

  Modius, 199

  Moldavia, 203, 280, 281

  Monemvasia, 16

  Monferrat, Marquis of, 229

  Mongols, Mongolian, 272, 274, 275, 334, 335

  Moses, 68

  Mosque, Achmed Pasha Mesjedi. See S. John in Trullo
    Aivas Effendi, 209

  Mosque, Atik Mustapha Pasha Jamissi. See S. Andrew in Krisei
    Atik Mustapha Pasha. See Church of SS. Peter and Mark
    Balaban Aga Mesjedi. See Church
    Boudrom Jamissi. See Myrelaion
    Demirjilar Mesjedi, 122
    Emir Ahor Jamissi. See Studion
    Eski Imaret Jamissi. See Church of the Pantepoptes
    Eski Jumah, Salonica, 53
    Eyoub, 208
    Fetiyeh. See Church of the Pammakaristos
    Gul Jamissi. See Church of S. Theodosia
    Hassan Pasha Mesjedi. See Church of S. Theodosia
    Hoja Mustapha Pasha Mesjedi. See Church of S. Andrew in Krisei
    Kalender Haneh Jamissi. See S. Mary Diaconissa
    Kahriyeh Jamissi. See Church of S. Saviour in the Chora
    Kassim Aga Mesjedi, 255
    Kefelé Mesjedi. See Monastery of Manuel
    Kurku Jamissi, 263
    Kutchuk Aya Sofia. See Church of SS. Sergius and Bacchus
    Laleli Jamissi, 173
    Monastir Mesjedi. See Church
    Odalar Mesjedi, 253
    Pheneré Isa Mesjedi. See S. Mary Panachrantos
    Rustem Pasha Jamissi, 27
    Sanjakdar Mesjedi. See Gastria
    Shahzadé Jamissi, 27, 183, 184, 199, 265
    Sultan Bajazid, 27, 116, 117, 265
    Sultan Mehemed the Conqueror, 122, 125, 265
    Sultan Selim I., 27, 253, 254
    Sultan Suleiman, 27
    Sheik Suleiman Aga Mesjedi, 25, 270
    Toklou Dedè. See Church of S. Thekla
    Zeirek Kilissi Jamissi. See Church of the Pantokrator

  Mousikos, 44

  Murad II., Sultan, 146

  Murad III., Sultan, 148

  Musmiyeh, 2

  Mustapha Pasha, 113

  Mustapha Tchaoush, 262

  Mutasim, Caliph, 256

  Myra, 6

  Muzalon, 110

  Naucratius, Abbot of the Studion, 40

  Nestorius, Patriarch, 66

  Nicaea, 7, 89, 110, 275

  Nicene Creed, 85, 87

  Nicephoras Gregoras, historian, 300, 301, 302

  Nicetas, Eunuch, 199

  Nicetas Stethetos, 46

  Nicholas, Abbot of the Studion, 40

  Nicholas, Patriarch, 90

  Nicomedia, 86, 288, 291

  Nika Riot, 63, 88, 101

  Niphon, Bishop of Old Patras, 144

  Niphon, Patriarch, 111

  Nogaya, 272

  Nymphodora, 262

  Oaton, 202

  Olympus, Mount, 294

  Othman, 275

  Oun Kapan, 219

  Padua, 326, 327

  Palace of--
    Blachernae, 202, 209, 227, 228, 263, 282, 295, 298
    Bogdan Serai, 203
    Constantine Porphyrogenitus, 19, 27, 247, 256, 299, 305
    Great Palace, 48, 64, 90, 164, 184, 201, 227, 228, 244
    Hebdomon, 202
    Hormisdas, 62, 65
    Magnaura, 202
    Mangana, 147
    Myrelaion, 196
    Nicaea, 202
    Pegé, 46
    Placidiae Augustae, 67
    Placidianum, 67
    Tekfour Serai. See Palace of Constantine Porphyrogenitus
    Trullus, 202, 281

  Palestine, 2, 268, 294

  Palmyra, 3

  Pantheon, 1

  Parisis, 224, 226

  Paphlagonia, 223

  Patras, Old, 144

  Paul, Patriarch, 86, 87

  Pegé, 46, 177

  Pelagion, 293

  Peloponessus, 229, 273

  Perama, 85

  Perigord, 3

  Persia, Persians, 48, 232, 272, 275, 290

  Petra, Palaia Petra, 282, 283

  Petronas, 270

  Phanar, 149, 173, 191, 253, 272

  Philip, the Apostle, 126

  Philip, Prefect, 87

  Phocas Maroules, 262, 263

  Photius, Patriarch, 43, 44, 90, 257

  Piazzetta of S. Mark, 246

  Plato, Abbot, 39, 40

  Porphyrius, charioteer, 91

  Praetorium, at Musmiyeh, 2

  Praetorium, 88

  Prince's Islands, 138

  Prinkipo, 39

  Priscus, 292

  Proconessus, Island of, 111

  Proté, Island of, 197

  Prussianus, 257

  Psamathia, 35, 106, 166, 167, 177, 258, 268

  Pulcheria, Empress, 227

  Pulcheria, daughter of Emperor Theophilus, 269, 270

  Pulcheria. See Cistern

  Pyrisca, 220

  Raoul, Protovestarius, 110

  Raoulaina, Protovestiarissa, 110. See Theodora

  Raoul, 280

  Ravenna, 2, 31, 32, 73, 75

  Region I., 67

  Region VII., 85

  Rome, 1, 33, 34, 289

  Rufinianai, 64

  Russia, Russian, 40, 42, 48, 53, 272, 280, 303

  Sabbas, 303

  Salma Tomruk, district of, 253

  Salonica, 1, 10, 15, 31, 32, 39, 53, 75, 92, 114, 116, 142, 312, 313,
    314, 315, 333

  Sampson, hospital of, 88, 89

  Samuel, King of Bulgaria, 295

  Sanjakdar Youkoussou, 277

  Santabarenus, 44

  Saracens, 207, 208, 232, 253, 255, 303

  Saturninus. See Gate

  Scholarius. See Gennadius

  Scythicus, 299

  Sebasté, 291

  Selim I., Sultan, 113, 276

  Selim II., Sultan, 173

  Seraglio, 84, 91, 148, 296

  Sergius, Patriarch, 257

  Servia, 10, 272

  Seventh Hill. See Xerolophos

  Sigma, 45

  Simonis, daughter of Andronicus II., 142

  Sirkiji Iskelessi, 35

  Sixth Hill, 209

  Sklerena, 46

  Sophiai, 64

  Sophronius, Abbot of the Studion, 40

  Soulou Monastir. See S. Mary Peribleptos

  Sozopolis, 144

  Spalato, 33

  Sphorakius, 243, 244

  Stephen, son of Romanus I., 197

  Strategopoulos, Alexius, 228

  Stiris, 11, 16

  Studius, 35, 36

  Suleiman, Sultan, 280

  Sygé, 316

  Sykai, 85

  Symeon, King of Bulgaria, 127

  Synadenus, 263

  Synnada, 72

  Synod of Constantinople (in 536), 291

  Synod of Constantinople (under Photius), 257

  Synod of Sardica (in 347), 87

  Syria, Syrian, 1, 2, 86, 290, 291, 326

  Tamerlane, 51

  Tarchaniotes. See Michael

  Taron, Prince of, 126

  Tash Mektep, 262

  Taurus Mountains, 221

  Tchoukour Bostan, 109, 254

  Tekfour Sarai. See Palace

  Teutal Lougophetes, 280

  Thebes, Duchy of, 272

  Thekla, daughter of Emperor Theophilus, 209, 270

  Theoctista, 269, 270

  Theoctistos, 256, 270

  Theodora--
    Empress   of Justinian the Great, 62, 70, 73, 74, 75, 97, 102, 290
    Empress of Emperor Theophilus, 40, 69, 255, 256, 269, 270, 294
    Empress of Michael VIII. Palaeologus, 127
    wife of Romanus I. Lecapenus, 197
    Protovestiarissa, 110, 111, 112, 113
    nun, 275

  Theodore--
    Abbot of S. Saviour in the Chora, 290, 291, 292
    Abbot of the Studion, 38, 39, 40, 41, 43
    son of Manuel II., 229

  Theodore Metochites, 297, 298, 299, 300, 301

  Theodosia, Saint, 164

  Theodosius, Abbot of the Studion, 40

  Theodosius de Villehardouin, Abbot of the Pantokrator, 229, 273

  Theodote, 38, 39

  Theognosia, 113

  Theophane, 117

  Theophanes, Bishop of Heraclea, 144

  Theophano, wife of Romanus II. and Nicephorus Phocas, 197

  Third Hill, 243, 244

  Thomais, nun, 128

  Thrace, 86, 89

  Timotheus, 40

  Timovo, 298

  Tivoli, 63

  Toklou Dedè. See Church of S. Thekla

  Top Kapou. See Gate S. Romanus

  Torcello, 247

  Tornikes, 239, 302, 303, 310, 330

  Trani, 46

  Trebizond, 229, 272

  Tricocca, 275

  Triglia, 30

  Trivulce, 118

  Trullus. See Council, Palace

  Turks, 275, 283

  Varangians, 46

  Vatopedi, 303

  Veecus, Patriarch, 112, 122, 125, 126, 229, 297

  Vefa Meidan, 177, 243, 244, 245

  Venetian, 213, 214, 227, 228

  Venice, 3, 224, 226, 227, 228, 238, 246

  Verina, Empress, 265

  Vienna, 280

  Vigilius, Pope, 66, 67

  Villehardouin, 297

  Viros, 296, 297

  Vlach Serai, 280

  Vlanga, 196

  Wallachian, 280

  Wall of Constantine, 109

  Wall of Heraclius, 207, 208

  Wall of Leo, 207, 208

  Walls of Theodosius II., 289, 290

  War Office, 244, 265

  Xené, 220

  Xerolophos, 108, 109

  Yali Kiosk Kapoussi. See Gate of Eugenius

  Yedi Koulé. See Golden Gate

  Yolande, 229

  Zeirek Mehemed Effendi, 233

  Zinet, 144, 145

  Zoe--
    Empress of Leo VI., 90
    Empress, daughter of Constantine VIII., 44

THE END

Printed by R. & R. CLARK, Limited, Edinburgh.