War legislation has pressed hard on many callings, and on none more than that of the architect.
But the embargo has been lifted; the ancient art is coming to its own again, and it is of happy
omen that the new President of the Royal Academy has been chosen from the architects. In this
context we welcome the stimulating article in a recent issue of The Times à propos of the Winchester
War Memorial. "Are we never," asks the writer, "to take risks in our architecture?" and his
answer, briefly summed up, is "Perish the thought. It is, of course, a pity that the Winchester
War Memorial scheme has not met with the unanimous approval of Wykehamists. Possibly they have
reason, for while adding a new cloister, a new gateway and a new hall to the existing school
buildings, it involves the pulling down of the Quingentenary Memorial Building, erected some
twenty years ago, and of some old houses in Kingsgate Street. Some consider such a drastic
destruction to be unfortunate, but, says The Times, it is "necessary if any scheme worthy of
the occasion is to be carried out." Moreover it is proposed to re-erect the Quingentenary Memorial
on a new site, "where it will certainly look as well as ever."

The greatest event in our history, as the writer finely observes, cannot be worthily commemorated
by any timid compromise. Winchester has set a splendid example, but it is perhaps too much
to expect that it will be followed by London, owing to the inevitable clash of conflicting
interests in our unwieldy metropolis. The erection of a new Pantheon on the site of St. Paul's
and the removal of WREN'S massive but démodé structure to Hampstead Heath, where it would certainly
look as well as ever, is, we fear, however much The Times may desire it, beyond the range of
practical politics. But example is infectious, and if only the Winchester authorities would
expand their scheme and carry it out with Dantonesque audacity to its full logical conclusion,
other towns and cities might ultimately fall into line.

Winchester Cathedral, as we need hardly remind our readers, has only been rescued from subsidence
and collapse at an immense cost by a lavish use of the resources of modern engineering. The
building itself is not without merits, but its site is inconspicuous and the swampy nature
of the soil is a constant menace to its durability. The scheme which we venture with all humility
to suggest is that it should be removed and re-erected, in the same spirit though in the architectural
language of our own day, on the summit of St. Catherine's Hill, where it would look better
than ever, and be connected by a scenic neo-Gothic railway with Meads. This would not only
add to the amenities of the landscape, but enable the present cathedral site to be utilized
for a purpose more in consonance with the needs of the age. We do not presume to dictate, but
may point out that if the deanery and the canons' houses were pulled down and re-erected on
the golf-links, where they would look better than ever, space would be available for a majestic
aerodrome, or, better still, an experimental water-stadium for submarines, in memory of KING
ALFRED, the founder of our Fleet.

Into the question of details, design and cost it is not for us to enter. We confine ourselves
to appealing with all the force at our command to Winchester, fortunate, as The Times reminds
us, in the choice of an architect of genius and ingenuity, to persevere, to rise to the occasion,
to cast compromise to the winds and above all to remember that the greatest compliment which
can be paid to the architects of the past is to remove their buildings to sites where they
look better than ever and do not suffer from the immediate neighbourhood of the masterpieces
of their successors. Architecture has been defined as "frozen music." But on great occasions
such as this it needs to be taken out of its cold-storage and judiciously thawed.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lost, sulky inflate."--Glasgow Citizen.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIVIL EDUCATION FOR SOLDIERS.

When the armistice was signed and the close season for Germans set in, it occurred to the authorities
that it would be a waste of labour to continue to train some few million good men for a shooting
season that might never re-open, and the weekly programme became rather a sketchy affair till
some brain more brilliant than the rest conceived the idea of giving a good sound education
in the arts of peace to this promising and waiting multitude. The idea was joyfully accepted,
and gradually filtered through its authorised channels, suffering some office change or other
at each stage till it finally reached one of our ancient seats of learning. It arrived rather
like the peremptory order of a newly-gazetted and bewildered subaltern, who, having got his
platoon hopelessly tied up, falls back on the time-honoured and usually infallible "Carry on,
Sergeant."

There were some six-hundred white-hatted cadets stationed at this spot, all thirsting (presumably)
for information on gas, and Mills bombs, and studs on the cocking-piece, and forming fours,
and vertical intervals and District Courts-martial; and when the order came to "carry on" with
education it caused something like a panic. A council of war nearly caused Head-quarters to
cancel a battalion parade, but they pulled themselves together and held the drill, and the
appointed Jack as "Battalion Education Officer," and empowered him to draft a scheme of work.

When produced it consisted of fourteen paragraphs, each of which finished up with the sentence,
"This is obviously a problem for the Company Commander." Jack had nothing to learn as to the
duties of a battalion specialist and realised that his responsibility lay simply in providing
Company Commanders, and then finding problems for them to solve. As the Company Commanders
were already in being his work was simplified.

However, the Company Commanders, being men of merit, cheerfully accepted the situation and
approached their victims. "We are going to teach you," they said. "What would you like to be
taught?"

"Well," said the victims, "what have you got?"

"Oh, anything you like," said the Company Commanders. "Just you choose your subject and we'll
do the rest."

Now that was very generous, but rather rash. For the victims took them at their word, and so
by the time the perspiring Platoon Commanders had produced their returns (in triplicate) it
was found that there were forty-three subjects to be provided for, including seven languages,
six branches of science, four kinds of engineering, six commercial subjects and various sundries,
such as metaphysics, wool-classing and coker-nut planting.

The way the Company Commanders dealt with this problem was quite simple and ingenious. They
sent for all junior officers and asked what they were prepared to teach. The result seemed
really rather good. Tom said he would take French, having spent three months in Northern France
before they sent him to Salonika. Dick's father has an allotment and Dick himself occasionally
hunts, so he chose Agriculture, Oswald chose Mathematics, on the strength of having been a
Quartermaster-Sergeant in the Public Schools Brigade in September, 1914. Wilfred once went
to a gas course for ten days, so of course his subject was Science. Arthur really does know
something about Architecture and can also enlarge a map quite nicely, so he put down Drawing.
John chose Theology. He said he once read the lessons in church; really he thought he was safe
to draw a blank.

Once more the Company Commanders were equal to the emergency. They looked at it in this way.
French is a foreign language; Spanish is also a foreign language. Tom offers to teach a foreign
language; therefore Tom shall teach Spanish. Corn-growing in Western Canada, sheep-raising
in Australia and coker-nut planting are all obviously agriculture. Dick says he can teach Agriculture;
so he shall. The science of manures caused some discussion as to whether it should be agriculture
or science, but it was finally settled in favour of science, which also included physics, electricity
and crystallography. John got four theological students, but, when he investigated, he found
that one was a Jew and one a Presbyterian minister, while the other two, like himself, thought
that no one else would have thought of it. And these touch only the fringe of the subject.

The indent sent in for materials was a rather formidable one, but the article most in demand
was a sheep, which was wanted at the same time by Dick for his Agriculture and Arthur for his
Drawing, and also by Mac, who is O.C. the Butchery class. Mac wrote a polite little note saying
he must have at least one a week, and he'd like "a pig to be going on with, if you please,"
promising to hand, the latter over complete and in good order, when he'd done with it, to Jones
for his bacon-curing class, "upon receipt of signature for same."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL CANDOUR.

    "120 Pairs Unbleached Calico Sheets, 2 x 2¾ yards. Sale price,
    12/11 per pair; present value, 1/- per pair."--Yorkshire
    Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Including new enlistments there are about 1,000 men
    concentrated in and around Berlin."--Manchester Guardian.

Let FOCH be warned.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "BAD BOYS AND THE BIRCH.

    "We are glad to observe that the Recorder has decided to adopt
    stern measures with juvenile offenders who are brought before
    him in future."--Irish Times.

"Stern measures" is good.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "NON-STOP WAIST DRIVES, Every Wednesday Evening at 8.30. £10
    Top, and Six other Special Prizes."--Local Paper.

Believed to be under the patronage of the FOOD-CONTROLLER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FOOD PROBLEM IN PARIS.

The cost of living in the vicinity of the Peace Conference has been enormously exaggerated.
Likewise the difficulty of reorganizing Europe on a truly ethnic basis. By combining the two
questions I have found them immensely simplified, and I have been in Paris only three days.

My meaning will be clearly illustrated by the record of a single day's experience--with the
representative of the Dodopeloponnesians for déjeûner and the delegate of the Pan-Deuteronomaniads
for dinner.

I made the acquaintance of the first in the lift. On the way down it came out that I was journaliste
assisting at the Conference of the Peace, whereupon the other introduced himself as secretary
of the Dodopeloponnesian delegation and eager for the pleasure of entertaining me at déjeûner.

Nothing international arose in connection with the hors d'oeuvres. It was between the soup
and the fish that my host inquired whether I had yet found time to look into the just claim
of the Dodopeloponnesian people to the neighbouring island of Funicula.

"You mean," I said, "on the ground that the island of Funicula was brought under the Dodopeloponnesian
sceptre on September 11th, 1405, by Blagoslav the Splay-fingered, from whom it was wrested
on February 3rd, 1406, by the Seljuks?"

"Precisely," he said. "But also because the people of Funicula are originally of Dodopeloponnesian
stock."

"Yet they speak the language of Pan-Deuteronomania," I said.

