Whilst I was listening to Tevula's oratory my eyes and my mind sometimes wandered to the eager
and silent audience, and I amused myself by studying their strange head-dresses. In most instances
the men wore their hair in the woven rings to which I have alluded, but there were several
young men present who indulged in purely fancy head-dresses. One stalwart youth had got hold
of the round cardboard lid of a collar-box, to which he had affixed two bits of string, and
tied it firmly but jauntily on one side of his head. Another lad had invented a most extraordinary
decoration for his wool-covered pate, and one which it is exceedingly difficult to describe
in delicate language. He had procured the intestines of some small animal, a lamb or a kid,
and had cleaned and scraped them and tied them tightly, at intervals of an inch or two, with
string. This series of small clear bladders he had then inflated, and arranged them in a sort
of bouquet on the top of his head, skewering tufts of his crisp hair between, so that the effect
resembled a bunch of bubbles, if there could be such a thing. Another very favorite adornment
for the head consisted of a strip of gay cloth or ribbon, or of even a few bright threads,
bound tightly like a fillet across the brows and confining a tuft of feathers over one ear;
but I suspect all these fanciful arrangements were only worn by the gilded youth of a lower
class, because I noticed that the chieftains and indunas, or headmen of the villages, never
wore such frivolities. They wore indeed numerous slender rings of brass or silver wire on their
straight, shapely legs, and also necklaces of lions' or tigers' claws and teeth round their
throats, but these were trophies of the chase as well as personal ornaments.

THE LIFE OF GEORGE TICKNOR.[5]

[Footnote 5: Life, Letters and Journals of George Ticknor. Boston: James R. Osgood & Co.]

It is a long time since a more interesting biography has been published than this of Mr. Ticknor.
No American book of the same kind can be compared with it, and very few have appeared in England
that give the reader as varied glimpses of society and as many details in regard to interesting
people as may be found in these two entertaining volumes. Its fullness in this respect is what
makes the charm of the book. Mr. Ticknor's life was a long one: from his youth he saw a great
deal of the best society both of this country and of Europe, and he always had the custom of
recording the impressions made upon him by the people he met. Hence this Life, which is for
the most part made up of extracts from his letters and journals, is almost an autobiography,
but an autobiography, one might almost say, without a hero, in which the writer keeps himself
in the background and gives his main attention to other people. The editors have, however,
given a full account of those parts of his life of which his own record is but brief.

He was born in Boston in 1791. His father, to judge from his letters, which are full of sensible
advice, was a man of more than common ability, and he very carefully trained his son to put
his talents to their best use. He had no stubborn material for his hands, for even in his youth
Mr. Ticknor showed many of those traits which most clearly marked him in after life; among
others, an intelligent, unimaginative, but also unmalicious observation of his kind for his
relaxation, and for his work in life warm devotion to the study of letters. How scanty were
the opportunities in this way at that period may be seen from his difficulties in getting any
knowledge of German after his graduation from Dartmouth College, and when he had just given
up his brief practice of the law. His teacher was an Alsatian, who knew his own pronunciation
was bad; he was able to borrow a grammar from Mr. Everett, but he had to send to New Hampshire
for a dictionary; and the only book he had to read was a copy of Werther belonging to John
Quincy Adams, then in Europe, which he managed to borrow from the gentleman who had Mr. Adams's
books under his care at the Athenæeum. This was in 1814, and already he had made up his mind
to go to Germany and profit by the advantages offered by the universities of that country.
With regard to the education he had already acquired, it is evident that he had learned more
by private study than by following the courses of the college which had given him a degree.
But before visiting other countries he determined to make himself familiar with his own, and
for that purpose he made a journey to Washington and Virginia, seeing on his way, at New York,
one of the earliest ships of war moved by steam, and in Philadelphia meeting John Randolph,
whom he describes carefully in one of his letters to his father. At Washington he dined with
President Madison, who was in considerable anxiety at the time (January 21, 1815) about the
fate of New Orleans. He gives a dreary picture of the state festivities. The President, he
says, "sometimes laughed, and I was glad to hear it, but his face was always grave. He talked
of religious sects and parties, and was curious to know how the cause of liberal Christianity
stood with us, and if the Athanasian creed was well received by our Episcopalians.... He talked
of education and its prospects, of the progress of improvement among us, and once or twice
he gave it a political aspect, though with great caution." In Virginia he visited Thomas Jefferson
at Monticello, and this eminent man seems to have taken a great fancy to his young visitor,
who gave his father a full account of his host and his ways. The details are too long to quote,
but those who turn to the book will find that Mr. Ticknor began early to observe people, and
that, although his descriptions, even in his youth, show a lack of imagination, they are yet
made lifelike by his patient, unwearying elaboration of details. How full, for instance, is
his account of Lord Jeffrey, written to one of his friends in 1814. Such letters have gone
out of fashion now, when it is more frequent to sum up the characters of our visitors in epigrams
than in long essays, as Mr. Ticknor has here done. This first star, who in comparison with
many of Mr. Ticknor's later acquaintances was one of very modest magnitude, made his unexpected,
comet-like appearance in Boston on his way to New York to marry an American woman. It is easy
to believe what Mr. Ticknor says in his long account of him, that "while he flatters by his
civility those who are little accustomed to attention from his superiors, he disappoints the
reasonable expectations of those who have received the homage of all around them until it has
become a part of their just expectations and claims."

In April, 1815, Mr. Ticknor set sail for England in company with his friend Edward Everett,
and at the end of four weeks they arrived at Liverpool, just in time to hear of Napoleon's
escape from Elba. There was at least one man in England who was pleased with that turn of fate,
and that was Dr. Parr, whom Mr. Ticknor stopped to see on his way to London, and who told his
young guest, "I should not think I had done my duty if I went to bed any night without praying
for the success of Napoleon Bonaparte." Of this last-named admirer of Bonaparte, Mr. Ticknor
saw a good deal during his stay in England. Byron was then a newly-married man, and on better
terms with the world at large than he was at other times of his life. His American visitor
recorded that he "found his manners affable and gentle, the tones of his voice low and conciliating,
his conversation gay, pleasant and interesting in an uncommon degree."

Of the older men, he saw Dr. Rees, editor of the Encyclopædia, who had dined with Dr. Johnson
and John Wilkes at Dilly's--not at the first dinner probably, for Boswell gives a list of the
guests which does not include his name, but doubtless at the second, in 1781. Dr. Rees said
that Wilkes won his way to Johnson's heart not, as Boswell reports, by his wit, but by the
grossest flattery; and he added that Johnson always courted Boswell more than any one else,
that he might be exhibited to posterity in a favorable light. A mere list of the names of the
people he saw during this short stay in England will show how full of interest this part of
his diary is. Campbell, Gifford, West, Sir Humphry Davy he saw most frequently, but no one
so often as he did Byron. His penchant for "lions" always led him to prefer the lordliest among
them.

It was a great change from the excitement and succession of novelties of London to the monotonous
routine of Göttingen, where he arrived, after a journey of about five weeks, early in August,
1815. Göttingen at that time was the seat of the leading German university. It has never been
full of distracting temptations: indeed, it is a town which seems to have been so arranged
that the student should find in study alone relief from its manifold discomforts. The advantages
it possessed were very great, and they were fully appreciated by the young American, who came
from what in comparison was almost an intellectual wilderness to the rich stores of learning
this university contained. It was at this time that he fairly began serious literary study
and laid the foundation of his extensive knowledge of books. In one of his vacations he made
a little tour in Germany, visiting Goethe, who made a characteristic speech about Byron's recent
separation from his wife--namely, that in its circumstances and the mystery involving it it
was so poetical that if Byron had invented it he could hardly have found a more fortunate subject
for his genius.

After another winter in Göttingen he set out for Paris, which city he reached early in April,
1817. One of the first things he did was to go to the theatre, where he saw Talma and Mademoiselle
Mars play together. But stronger tastes drew him more frequently into the best society that
capital afforded him. One of the persons he was most anxious to meet was Madame de Staël, but
although he presented his letters, her illness prevented her seeing him for some time, and
her daughter, the Duchesse de Broglie, received him in her mother's stead. It was there that
he met Humboldt, of whom he has recorded that he "sleeps only when he is weary and has leisure,
and if he wakes at midnight he rises and begins his work as he would in the morning. He eats
when he is hungry, and if he is invited to dine at six o'clock, this does not prevent him from
going at five to a restaurant, because he considers a great dinner only as a party of pleasure
and amusement. But all the rest of the time, when he is not in society, he locks his door and
gives himself up to study, rarely receiving visits but those which have been announced the
day previous, and never, I believe, refusing these." These habits are not commonly supposed
to promote longevity. Before he left Paris Madame de Staël was able to see him, and with her
he had an interesting conversation in which she said of America, "Vous êtes l'avant garde du
genre humain, vous êtes l'avenir du monde," and made two or three brilliant speeches, at which
he noticed her glow of animation. At the same place he also met Chateaubriand and Madame Récamier,
between whom he sat at dinner. The romantic reader will be disappointed with his meagre statements
here, which hardly bring these two people more distinctly before us than are Solomon and the
queen of Sheba. We read that Madame Récamier's figure was fine, her mild eyes full of expression,
and her arm and hand beautiful, her complexion fair, her expression cheerful and her conversation
vivacious; of Chateaubriand, that he was a short man with a dark complexion, black hair and
eyes, and a marked countenance; but exacter details of their characteristics or mutual relations
are wholly wanting. While it is to be remembered that we who read Mr. Ticknor's diary and letters
have also read a great many other letters that have given us much more knowledge about Madame
Récamier than her companion at that dinner could have had, it is yet fair to say that in general
the book contains no traces of acute observation or quick social sensibility, but is rather
marked by the faithfulness of his report of the more obvious incidents that occurred when he
met these interesting people. This does not diminish the value of the book: it should only
prepare the reader to find the anecdotes constituting the really important part of it, with
but little sign of any study of character, and of little sympathetic insight into the feelings
of others.

He remained in Paris until September, working hard at the languages and literatures of France
and Italy, and neglecting no opportunity to improve himself. At that date he started for Geneva
on his way to Italy, crossing the Alps by the Simplon. At Venice he again saw Byron, who was
busy, or professed to be, with a plan of visiting this country. Thence he made his way south
to Rome and Naples, spending most of the winter in the former city among very interesting people,
such as Bunsen, Niebuhr and Madame de Humboldt. In the spring of 1818 he went to Spain, and
it is interesting to notice how much more vivacious his journal becomes with his entrance into
that country. It seems to have been with real enjoyment that he changed the ease of his earlier
journeyings for the hardships of traveling in this comfortless land; and although the inns
were miserable, the fare uncertain and meagre at the best, and there were many other afflictions
to vex the tourist, he evidently enjoyed this expedition to the full. On his way from Barcelona
to Madrid he had for companions a painter of repute and two officers, and to these he used
to read aloud Don Quixote, and, he says, "I assure you this was a pleasure to me such as I
have seldom enjoyed, to witness the effect this extraordinary book produces on the people from
whose very blood and character it is drawn.... All of them used to beg me to read it to them
every time we got into our cart--like children for toys and sugar-plums." In Madrid he studied
carefully the language and literature, his tastes and opportunities leading him to lay the
solid foundation of what was to be the main work of his life. The society that he met here
was mainly that of the foreign diplomatists, but, agreeable as it was, it did not distract
him from his studies or from his observation of the people among whom he was placed. In a letter
to this country he said, "What seems mere fiction and romance in other countries is matter
of observation here, and in all that relates to manners Cervantes and Le Sage are historians;
for when you have crossed the Pyrenees you have not only passed from one country and climate
to another, but you have gone back a couple of centuries in your chronology, and find the people
still in that kind of poetical existence which we have not only long since lost, but which
we have long since ceased to credit on the reports of our ancestors."

Although it would be interesting to linger over the passages dealing with Spain, it is perhaps
better to turn to his account of leaving it, which he did under the most singular circumstances--namely,
as one of a band of contrabandistas. Not that he wore a mask and filled his purse by robbing
unoffending travelers; instead, he joined this party of accomplished smugglers, who used to
carry on the business of smuggling dollars from Seville to Lisbon and bring back English goods
in the same way. For eight days he was in their company, and he says, "I have seldom passed
eight more interesting days, for by the very novelty and strangeness of everything--sleeping
out every night but one, and then in the house of the chief of our band; dining under trees
at noon; living on a footing of perfect equality and good-fellowship with people who are liable
every day to be shot or hanged by the laws of their country; indeed, leading for a week as
much of a vagabond life as if I were an Arab or a Mameluke,--I came soon to have some of the
gay recklessness that marked the character of my companions." This certainly would be a curious
episode in the life of any law-abiding citizen, and in Mr. Ticknor's case it was peculiarly
astonishing, for his life, this week excepted, could certainly never be called, with any show
of justice, "vagabond."

Before returning to America he revisited London and Paris, in this last-named city seeing Talleyrand,
of whom an interesting anecdote is recorded. In London he met Sydney Smith, Brougham, Frere;
in Scotland, where he made a short tour, he visited Sir Walter Scott at Abbotsford; on his
way back to London he visited Southey and Wordsworth; and once again in that city he saw Hazlitt,
living in Milton's house, and Godwin, who, he said, "is as far removed from everything feverish
and exciting as if his head had never been filled with anything but geometry,... When I looked
at [him], and saw with what cool obstinacy he adhered to everything he had once assumed, and
what a cold selfishness lay at the bottom of his character, I felt a satisfaction in the thought
that he had a wife who must sometimes give a start to his blood and a stir to his nervous system."
The feeling which betrays itself in this passage makes a still bolder and more amusing exhibit
in one that follows: "The true way to see these people was to meet them all together, as I
did once at dinner at Godwin's, and once at a convocation or 'Saturday Night Club' at Hunt's,
when they felt themselves bound to show off and produce an effect; for there Lamb's gentle
humor, Hunt's passion and Curran's volubility, Hazlitt's sharpness and point and Godwin's great
head full of cold brains, all coming into contact and agreeing in nothing but their common
hatred of everything that has been more successful than their own works, made one of the most
curious and amusing olla podridas I ever met. The contrast between these persons ... and the
class I was at the same time in the habit of meeting at Sir Joseph Banks's on Sunday evening,
at Gifford's, at Murray's Literary Exchange, and especially at Lord Holland's, was striking
enough." In regard to the last statement we can feel no doubt, nor is it surprising that Mr.
Ticknor found the society of Gifford and his friends more congenial than that of "persons"
like Lamb and Hunt.

