There is indeed no doubt that Hazlitt is one of the most absolutely unequal writers in English,
if not in any, literature, Wilson being perhaps his only compeer. The term absolute is used
with intention and precision. There may be others who, in different parts of their work, are
more unequal than he is; but with him the inequality is pervading, and shows itself in his
finest passages, in those where he is most at home, as much as in his hastiest and most uncongenial
taskwork. It could not, indeed, be otherwise, because the inequality itself is due less to
an intellectual than to a moral defect. The clear sunshine of Hazlitt's admirably acute intellect
is always there; but it is constantly obscured by driving clouds of furious prejudice. Even
as the clouds pass, the light may still be seen on distant and scattered parts of the landscape;
but wherever their influence extends, there is nothing but thick darkness, gusty wind and drenching
rain. And the two phenomena, the abiding intellectual light, and the fits and squalls of moral
darkness, appear to be totally independent of each other, or of any single will or cause of
any kind. It would be perfectly easy, and may perhaps be in place later, to give a brief collection
of some of the most absurd and outrageous sayings that any writer, not a mere fool, can be
charged with: of sentences not representing quips and cranks of humour, or judgments temporary
and one-sided, though having a certain relative validity, but containing blunders and calumnies
so gross and palpable, that the man who set them down might seem to have forfeited all claim
to the reputation either of an intelligent or a responsible being. And yet, side by side with
these, are other passages (and fortunately a much greater number) which justify, and more than
justify, Hazlitt's claims to be as Thackeray says, "one of the keenest and brightest critics
that ever lived"; as Lamb had said earlier, "one of the wisest and finest spirits breathing."

The only exception to be taken to the well-known panegyric of Elia is, that it bestows this
eulogy on Hazlitt "in his natural and healthy state." Unluckily, it would seem, by a concurrence
of all testimony, even the most partial, that the unhealthy state was quite as natural as the
healthy one. Lamb himself plaintively wishes that "he would not quarrel with the world at the
rate he does"; and De Quincey, in his short, but very interesting, biographical notice of Hazlitt
(a notice entirely free from the malignity with which De Quincey has been sometimes charged),
declares with quite as much truth as point, that Hazlitt's guiding principle was, "Whatever
is, is wrong." He was the very ideal of a literary Ishmael; and after the fullest admission
of the almost incredible virulence and unfairness of his foes, it has to be admitted, likewise,
that he was quite as ready to quarrel with his friends. He succeeded, at least once, in forcing
a quarrel even upon Lamb. His relations with Leigh Hunt (who, whatever his faults were, was
not unamiable) were constantly strained, and at least once actually broken by his infernal
temper. Nor were his relations with women more fortunate or more creditable than those with
men. That the fault was entirely on his side in the rupture with his first wife is, no doubt,
not the case; for Mrs. Hazlitt's, or Miss Stoddart's, own friends admit that she was of a peculiar
and rather trying disposition. It is indeed evident that she was the sort of person (most teasing
of all others to a man of Hazlitt's temperament) who would put her head back as he was kissing
her, to ask if he would like another cup of tea, or interrupt a declaration to suggest shutting
the window. As for the famous and almost legendary episode of Sarah Walker, the lodging-house
keeper's daughter, and the Liber Amoris, the obvious and irresistible attack of something like
erotic madness which it implies absolves Hazlitt partly--but only partly, for there is a kind
of shabbiness about the affair which shuts it out from all reasonable claim to be regarded
as a new act of the endless drama of All for Love, or The World Well Lost! Of his second marriage,
the only persons who might be expected to give us some information either can or will say next
to nothing. But when a man with such antecedents marries a woman of whom no one has anything
bad to say, lives with her for a year, chiefly on her money, and is then quitted by her with
the information that she will have nothing more to do with him, it is not, I think, uncharitable
to conjecture that most of the fault is his.

It is not, however, only of Hazlitt's rather imperfectly known life, or of his pretty generally
acknowledged character, that I wish to speak here. His strange mixture of manly common-sense
and childish prejudice, the dislike of foreigners which accompanied his Liberalism and his
Bonapartism, and other traits, are very much more English than Irish. But Irish, at least on
the father's side, his family was, and had been for generations. He was himself the son of
a Unitarian minister, was born at Maidstone in 1778, accompanied his parents as a very little
boy to America, but passed the greater part of his youth at Wem in Shropshire, where the interview
with Coleridge, which decided his fate, took place. Yet for some time after that, he was mainly
occupied with studies, not of literature, but of art. He had been intended for his father's
profession, but had early taken a disgust to it. At such schools as he had been able to frequent,
he had gained the character of a boy rather insusceptible of ordinary teaching; and his letters
(they are rare throughout his life) show him to us as something very like a juvenile prig.
According to his own account, he "thought for at least eight years" without being able to pen
a line, or at least a page; and the worst accusation that can truly be brought against him
is that, by his own confession, he left off reading when he began to write. Those who (for
their sins or for their good) are condemned to a life of writing for the press know that such
an abstinence as this is almost fatal. Perhaps no man ever did good work in periodical writing,
unless he had previously had a more or less prolonged period of reading, with no view to writing.
Certainly no one ever did other than very faulty work if, not having such a store to draw on,
when he began writing he left off reading.

The first really important event in Hazlitt's life, except the visit from Coleridge in 1798,
was his own visit to Paris after the Peace of Amiens in 1802--a visit authorised and defrayed
by certain commissions to copy pictures at the Louvre, which was then, in consequence of French
conquests, the picture-gallery of Europe. The chief of these commissioners was a Mr. Railton,
a person of some fortune at Liverpool, and the father of a daughter who, if she was anything
like her portrait, had one of the most beautiful faces of modern times. Miss Railton was one
of Hazlitt's many loves: it was, perhaps, fortunate for her that the course of the love did
not run smooth. Almost immediately on his return, he made acquaintance with the Lambs, and,
as Mr. W. C. Hazlitt, his grandson and biographer, thinks, with Miss Stoddart, his future wife.
Miss Stoddart, there is no doubt, was an elderly coquette, though perfectly "proper." Besides
the "William" of her early correspondence with Mary Lamb, we hear of three or four other lovers
of hers between 1803 and 1808, when she married Hazlitt. It so happens that one, and only one,
letter of his to her has been preserved. His biographer seems to think it in another sense
unique; but it is, in effect, a very typical letter from a literary lover of a rather passionate
temperament. The two were married, in defiance of superstition, on Sunday, the first of May;
and certainly the superstition had not the worst of it.

At first, however, no evil results seemed likely. Miss Stoddart had a certain property settled
on her at Winterslow, on the south-eastern border of Salisbury Plain, and for nearly four years
the couple seem to have dwelt there (once, at least, entertaining the Lambs), and producing
children, of whom only one lived. It was not till 1812 that they removed to London, and that
Hazlitt engaged in writing for the newspapers. From this time till the end of his life, some
eighteen years, he was never at a loss for employment--a succession of daily and weekly papers,
with occasional employment on the Edinburgh Review, providing him, it would seem, with sufficiently
abundant opportunities for copy. The London, the New Monthly (where Campbell's dislike did
him no harm), and other magazines also employed him. For a time, he seems to have joined "the
gallery," and written ordinary press-work. During this time, which was very short, and this
time only, his friends admit a certain indulgence in drinking, which he gave up completely,
but which was used against him with as much pitilessness as indecency in Blackwood; though
heaven only knows how the most Tory soul alive could see fitness of things in the accusation
of gin-drinking brought against Hazlitt by the whiskey-drinkers of the Noctes. For the greater
part of his literary life he seems to have been almost a total abstainer, indulging only in
the very strongest of tea. He soon gave up miscellaneous press-work, as far as politics went;
but his passion for the theatre retained him as a theatrical critic almost to the end of his
life. He gradually drifted into the business really best suited to him, that of essay-writing,
and occasionally lecturing on literary and miscellaneous subjects. During the greatest part
of his early London life, he was resident in a famous house, now destroyed, in York Street,
Westminster, next door to Bentham and reputed to have once been tenanted by Milton; and he
was a constant attendant on Lamb's Wednesday evenings. The details of his life, it has been
said, are not much known. The chief of them, besides the breaking out of his lifelong war with
Blackwood and the Quarterly, was, perhaps, his unlucky participation in the duel which proved
fatal to Scott, the editor of the London. It is impossible to imagine a more deplorable muddle
than this affair. Scott, after refusing the challenge of Lockhart,[12] with whom he had, according
to the customs of those days, a sufficient ground of quarrel, accepted that of Christie, Lockhart's
second, with whom he had no quarrel at all. Moreover, when his adversary had deliberately spared
him in the first fire, he insisted (it is said owing to the stupid conduct of his own second)
on another, and was mortally wounded. Hazlitt, who was more than indirectly concerned in the
affair, had a professed objection to duelling, which would have been more creditable to him
if he had not been avowedly of a timid temper. But, most unfortunately, he was said, and believed,
to have spurred Scott on to the acceptance of the challenge, nor do his own champions deny
it. The scandal is long bygone, but is, unluckily, a fair sample of the ugly stories which
cluster round Hazlitt's name, and which have hitherto prevented that justice being done to
him which his abilities deserve and demand.

This wretched affair occurred in February 1821, and, shortly afterwards, the crowning complications
of Hazlitt's own life, the business of the Liber Amoris and the divorce with his first wife,
took place. The first could only be properly described by an abundance of extracts, for which
there is here no room. Of the second, which, it must be remembered, went on simultaneously
with the first, it is sufficient to say that the circumstances are nearly incredible. It was
conducted under the Scotch law with a blessed indifference to collusion: the direct means taken
to effect it were, if report may be trusted, scandalous; and the parties met during the whole
time, and placidly wrangled over money matters, with a callousness which is ineffably disgusting.
I have hinted, in reference to Sarah Walker, that the tyranny of "Love unconquered in battle"
may be taken by a very charitable person to be a sufficient excuse. In this other affair there
is no such palliation; unless the very charitable person should hold that a wife, who could
so forget her own dignity, justified any forgetfulness on the part of her husband; and that
a husband, who could haggle and chaffer about the terms on which he should be disgracefully
separated from his wife, justified any forgetfulness of dignity on the wife's part.

Little has to be said about the rest of Hazlitt's life. Miss Sarah Walker would have nothing
to say to him; and it has been already mentioned that the lady whom he afterwards married,
a Mrs. Bridgewater, had enough of him after a year's experience. He did not outlive this last
shock more than five years; and unfortunately his death was preceded by a complete financial
break-down, though he was more industrious during these later years than at any other time,
and though he had abundance of well-paid work. The failure of the publishers, who were to have
paid him five hundred pounds for his magnum opus, the partisan and almost valueless Life of
Napoleon, had something to do with this, and the dishonesty of an agent is said to have had
more, but details are not forthcoming. He died on the eighteenth of September 1830, saying,
"Well, I have had a happy life"; and despite his son's assertion that, like Goldsmith, he had
something on his mind, I believe this to have been not ironical but quite sincere. He was only
fifty-two, so that the infirmities of age had not begun to press on him. Although, except during
the brief duration of his second marriage, he had always lived by his wits, it does not appear
that he was ever in any want, or that he had at any time to deny himself his favourite pleasures
of wandering about and being idle when he chose. If he had not been completely happy in his
life, he had lived it; if he had not seen the triumph of his opinions, he had been able always
to hold to them. He was one of those men, such as an extreme devotion to literature now and
then breeds, who, by the intensity of their enjoyment of quite commonplace delights--a face
passed in the street, a sunset, a quiet hour of reflection, even a well-cooked meal--make up
for the suffering of not wholly commonplace woes. I do not know whether even the joy of literary
battle did not overweigh the pain of the dishonest wounds which he received from illiberal
adversaries. I think that he had a happy life, and I am glad that he had. For he was in literature
a great man. I am myself disposed to hold that, for all his accesses of hopelessly uncritical
prejudice, he was the greatest critic that England has yet produced; and there are some who
hold (though I do not agree with them) that he was even greater as a miscellaneous essayist
than as a critic. It is certainly upon his essays, critical and other, that his fame must rest;
not on the frenzied outpourings of the Liber Amoris (full as these are of flashes of genius),
or upon the one-sided and ill-planned Life of Napoleon; still less on his clever-boy essay
on the Principles of Human Action, or on his attempts in grammar, in literary compilation and
abridgment, and the like. Seven volumes of Bonn's Standard Library, with another published
elsewhere containing his writings on Art, contain nearly all the documents of Hazlitt's fame:
a few do not seem to have been yet collected from his Remains and from the publications in
which they originally appeared.

These books--the Spirit of the Age, Table Talk, The Plain Speaker, The Round Table (including
the Conversations with Northcote and Characteristics), Lectures on the English Poets and Comic
Writers, Elizabethan Literature and Characters of Shakespeare, Sketches and Essays (including
Winterslow)--represent the work, roughly speaking, of the last twenty years of Hazlitt's life;
for in the earlier and longer period he wrote very little, and, indeed, declares that for a
long time he had a difficulty in writing at all. They are all singularly homogeneous in general
character, the lectures written as lectures differing very little from the essays written as
essays, and even the frantic diatribes of the "Letter to Gifford" bearing a strong family likeness
to the good-humoured reportage of "On going to a Fight," or the singularly picturesque and
pathetic egotism of the "Farewell to Essay-writing." This family resemblance is the more curious
because, independently of the diversity of subject, Hazlitt can hardly be said to possess a
style or, at least, a manner--indeed, he somewhere or other distinctly disclaims the possession.
Yet, irregular as he is in his fashion of writing, no less than in the merit of it, the germs
of some of the most famous styles of this century may be discovered in his casual and haphazard
work. Everybody knows Jeffrey's question to Macaulay, "Where the devil did you get that style?"
If any one will read Hazlitt (who, be it remembered, was a contributor to the Edinburgh) carefully,
he will see where Macaulay got that style, or at least the beginning of it, much as he improved
on it afterwards. Nor is there any doubt that, in a very different way, Hazlitt served as a
model to Thackeray, to Dickens, and to many not merely of the most popular, but of the greatest,
writers of the middle of the century. Indeed, in the Spirit of the Age there are distinct anticipations
of Carlyle. He had the not uncommon fate of producing work which, little noted by the public,
struck very strongly those of his juniors who had any literary faculty. If he had been, just
by a little, a greater man than he was, he would, no doubt, have elaborated an individual manner,
and not have contented himself with the hints and germs of manners. As it was, he had more
of seed than of fruit. And the secret of this is, undoubtedly, to be found in the obstinate
individuality of thought which characterised him all through. Hazlitt may sometimes have adopted
an opinion partly because other people did not hold it, but he never adopted an opinion because
other people did hold it. And all his opinions, even those which seem to have been adopted
simply to quarrel with the world, were genuine opinions. He has himself drawn a striking contrast
in this point, between himself and Lamb, in one of the very best of all his essays, the beautiful
"Farewell to Essay-writing" reprinted in Winterslow. The contrast is a remarkable one, and
most men, probably, who take great interest in literature or politics, or indeed in any subject
admitting of principles, will be able to furnish similar contrasts from their own experience.

    In matters of taste and feeling, one proof that my conclusions
    have not been quite shallow and hasty, is the circumstance of
    their having been lasting. I have the same favourite books,
    pictures, passages that I ever had; I may therefore presume
    that they will last me my life--nay, I may indulge a hope that
    my thoughts will survive me. This continuity of impression is
    the only thing on which I pride myself. Even Lamb, whose relish
    of certain things is as keen and earnest as possible, takes a
    surfeit of admiration, and I should be afraid to ask about his
    select authors or particular friends after a lapse of ten years.
    As for myself, any one knows where to have me. What I have once
    made up my mind to, I abide by to the end of the chapter.

This is quite true if we add a proviso to it--a proviso, to be sure, of no small importance.
Hazlitt is always the same when he is not different, when his political or personal ails and
angers do not obscure his critical judgment. His uniformity of principle extends only to the
two subjects of literature and of art; unless a third may be added, to wit, the various good
things of this life, as they are commonly called. He was not so great a metaphysician as he
thought himself. He "shows to the utmost of his knowledge, and that not deep"; a want of depth
not surprising when we find him confessing that he had to go to Taylor, the Platonist, to tell
him something of Platonic ideas. It may be more than suspected that he had read little but
the French and English philosophers of the eighteenth century; a very interesting class of
persons, but, except Condillac, Hume, and Berkeley, scarcely metaphysicians. As for his politics,
Hazlitt seems to me to have had no clear political creed at all. He hated something called
"the hag legitimacy," but for the hag despotism, in the person of Bonaparte, he had nothing
but love. How any one possessed of brains could combine Liberty and the first Napoleon in one
common worship is, I confess, a mystery too great for me; and I fear that any one who could
call "Jupiter Scapin" "the greatest man who ever lived," must be entirely blind to such constituents
of greatness as justice, mercy, chivalry, and all that makes a gentleman. Indeed, I am afraid
that "gentleman" is exactly what cannot be predicated of Hazlitt. No gentleman could have published
the Liber Amoris, not at all because of its so-called voluptuousness, but because of its shameless
kissing and telling. But the most curious example of Hazlitt's weaknesses is the language he
uses in regard to those men with whom he had both political and literary differences. That
he had provocation in some cases (he had absolutely none from Sir Walter Scott) is perfectly
true. But what provocation will excuse such things as the following, all taken from one book,
the Spirit of the Age? Alas for dates and circumstances, for times and seasons, when they stand
in the way of a fling of Hazlitt's! In the character of Scott himself an entire page and a
half is devoted to an elaborate peroration in one huge sentence, denouncing him in such terms
as "pettifogging," "littleness," "pique," "secret and envenomed blows," "slime of rankling
malice and mercenary scorn," "trammels of servility," "lies," "garbage," etc. etc. The Duke
of Wellington he always speaks of as a brainless noodle, forgetting apparently that the description
does not make his idol's defeat more creditable to the vanquished. As for the character of
Gifford, and the earlier "Letter to Gifford," I should have to print them entire to show the
state of Hazlitt's mind in regard to this notorious, and certainly not very amiable person.
His own words, "the dotage of age and the fury of a woman," form the best short description
of both. He screams, he foams at the mouth, he gnashes and tears and kicks, rather than fights.
Nor is it only on living authors and living persons (as some of his unfavourable critics have
said) that he exercises his spleen. His remarks on Burke (Round Table, p. 150) suggest temporary
insanity. Sir Philip Sidney (as Lamb, a perfectly impartial person who had no politics at all,
pointed out) was a kind of representative of the courtly monarchist school in literature. So
down must Sir Philip go; and not only the Arcadia, that "vain and amatorious poem" which Milton
condemned, but the sonnets which one would have thought such a lover of poetry as Hazlitt must
have spared, go down also before his remorseless bludgeon.

But there is no need to say any more of these faults of his, and there is no need to say much
of another and more purely literary fault with which he has been charged--the fault of excessive
quotation. In him the error lies rather in the constant repetition of the same, than in a too
great multitude of different borrowings. Almost priding himself on limited study, and (as he
tells us) very rarely reading his own work after it was printed, he has certainly abused his
right of press most damnably in some cases. "Dry as a remainder biscuit," and "of no mark or
likelihood," occur to me as the most constantly recurrent tags; but there are many others.

These various drawbacks, however, only set off the merits which almost every lover of literature
must perceive in him. In most writers, in all save the very greatest, we look for one or two,
or for a few special faculties and capacities, and we know perfectly well that other (generally
many other) capacities and faculties will not be found in them at all. We do not dream of finding
rollicking mirth in Milton, or gorgeous embroidery of style in Swift, or unadorned simplicity
in Browne. But in Hazlitt you may find something of almost everything, except the finer kinds
of wit and humour; to which last, however, he makes a certain side-approach by dint of his
appreciation of the irony of Nature and Fate. Almost every other grace of matter and form that
can be found in prose may be found at times in his. He is generally thought of as, and for
the most part is, a rather plain and straightforward writer, with few tricks and frounces of
phrase and style. Yet most of the fine writing of these latter days is but as crumpled tarlatan
to brocaded satin beside the passage on Coleridge in the English Poets, or the description
of Winterslow and its neighbourhood in the "Farewell to Essay-writing," or "On a Landscape
of Nicolas Poussin" in the Table-Talk. Read these pieces and nothing else, and an excusable
impression might be given that the writer was nothing if not florid. But turn over a dozen
pages, and the most admirable examples of the grave and simple manner occur. He is an inveterate
quoter, yet few men are more original. No man is his superior in lively, gossiping description,
yet he could, within his limits, reason closely and expound admirably. It is, indeed, almost
always necessary, when he condemns anything, to inquire very carefully as to the reasons of
the condemnation. But nothing that he likes (except Napoleon) is ever bad: everything that
he praises will repay the right man who, at the right time, examines it to see for what Hazlitt
likes it. I have, for my part, no doubt that Miss Sarah Walker was a very engaging young woman;
but (though the witness is the same) I have the gravest doubts as to Hazlitt's charges against her.

We shall find this same curious difference everywhere in Hazlitt. He has been talking, for
instance, with keen relish of the "Conversation of Authors" (it is he, be it remembered, who
has handed down to us the immortal debate at one of Lamb's Wednesdays on "People one would
Like to have Seen"), and saying excellent things about it. Then he changes the key, and tells
us that the conversation of "Gentlemen and Men of Fashion" will not do. Perhaps not; but the
wicked critic stops and asks himself whether Hazlitt had known much of the conversation of
"Gentlemen and Men of Fashion"? We can find no record of any such experiences of his. In his
youth he had no opportunity: in his middle age he was notoriously recalcitrant to all the usages
of society, would not dress, and scarcely ever dined out except with a few cronies. This does
not seem to be the best qualification for a pronouncement on the question. Yet this same essay
is full of admirable things, the most admirable being, perhaps, the description of the man
who "had you at an advantage by never understanding you." I find, indeed, in looking through
my copies of his books, re-read for the purpose of this paper, an innumerable and bewildering
multitude of essays, of passages, and of short phrases, marked for reference. In the seven
volumes above referred to (to which, as has been said, not a little has to be added) there
must be hundreds of separate articles and conversations; not counting as separate the short
maxims and thoughts of the Characteristics, and one or two other similar collections, in which,
indeed, several passages are duplicated from the Essays. At least two out of every three are
characteristic of Hazlitt: not one in any twenty is not well worth reading and, if occasion
served, commenting on. They are, indeed, as far from being consecutive as (according to the
Yankee) was the conversation of Edgar Poe; and the multitude and diversity of their subjects
fit them better for occasional than for continuous reading.[13] Perhaps, if any single volume
deserves to be recommended to a beginner in Hazlitt it had better be The Plain Speaker, where
there is the greatest range of subject, and where the author is seen in an almost complete
repertory of his numerous parts. But there is not much to choose between it and The Round Table
(where, however, the papers are shorter as a rule), Table-Talk, and the volume called, though
not by the author, Sketches and Essays. I myself care considerably less for the Conversations
with Northcote, the personal element in which has often attracted readers; and the attempts
referred to above as Characteristics, avowedly in the manner of La Rochefoucauld, are sometimes
merely extracts from the essays, and rarely have the self-containedness, the exact and chiselled
proportion, which distinguishes the true pensée as La Rochefoucauld and some other Frenchmen,
and as Hobbes perhaps alone of Englishmen, wrote it. But to criticise these numerous papers
is like sifting a cluster of motes, and the mere enumeration of their titles would fill up
more than half the room which I have to spare. They must be criticised or characterised in
two groups only, the strictly critical and the miscellaneous, the latter excluding politics.
As for art, I do not pretend to be more than a connoisseur according to Blake's definition,
that is to say, one who refuses to let himself be connoisseured out of his senses. I shall
only, in reference to this last subject, observe that the singularly germinal character of
Hazlitt's work is noticeable here also; for no one who reads the essay on Nicolas Poussin will
fail to add Mr. Ruskin to Hazlitt's fair herd of literary children.

His criticism is scattered through all the volumes of general essays; but is found by itself
in the series of lectures, or essays (they are rather the latter than the former), on the characters
of Shakespeare, on Elizabethan Literature, on the English Poets, and on the English Comic Writers.
I cannot myself help thinking that in these four Hazlitt is at his best; though there may be
nothing so attractive to the general, and few such brilliant passages as may be found in the
"Farewell to Essay-writing," in the paper on Poussin, in "Going to a Fight," in "Going a Journey,"
and others of the same class. The reason of the preference is by no means a greater interest
in the subject of one class, than in the subject of another. It is that, from the very nature
of the case, Hazlitt's unlucky prejudices interfere much more seldom with his literary work.
They interfere sometimes, as in the case of Sidney, as in some remarks about Coleridge and
Wordsworth, and elsewhere; but these instances are rare indeed compared with those that occur
in the other division. On the other hand, there are always present Hazlitt's enthusiastic appreciation
of what is good in letters, his combination of gusto with sound theory as to what is excellent
in prose and verse, his felicitous method of expression, and the acuteness that kept him from
that excessive and paradoxical admiration which both Lamb and Coleridge affected, and which
has gained many more pupils than his own moderation. Nothing better has ever been written as
a general view of the subject than his introduction to his Lectures on Elizabethan Literature;
and almost all the faults to be found in it are due merely to occasional deficiency of information,
not to error of judgment. He is a little paradoxical on Jonson; but not many critics could
furnish a happier contrast than his enthusiastic praise of certain passages of Beaumont and
Fletcher, and his cool toning down of Lamb's extravagant eulogy on Ford. He is a little unfair
to the Caroline poets; but here the great disturbing influence comes in. If his comparison
of ancient and modern literature is rather weak, that is because Hazlitt was anything but widely
acquainted with either; and, indeed, it may be said in general that wherever he goes wrong,
it is not because he judges wrongly on known facts, but because he either does not know the
facts, or is prevented from seeing them by distractions of prejudice. To go through his Characters
of Shakespeare would be impossible, and besides, it is a point of honour for one student of
Shakespeare to differ with all others. I can only say that I know no critic with whom on this
point I differ so seldom as with Hazlitt. Even better, perhaps, are the two sets of lectures
on the Poets and Comic Writers. The generalisations are not always sound, for, as must be constantly
repeated, Hazlitt was not widely read in literatures other than his own, and his standpoint
for comparison is therefore rather insufficient. But take him where his information is sufficient,
and how good he is! Of the famous four treatments of the dramatists of the Restoration--Lamb's,
Hazlitt's, Leigh Hunt's, and Macaulay's--his seems to me by far the best. In regard to Butler,
his critical sense has for once triumphed over his political prejudice; unless some very unkind
devil's advocate should suggest that the supposed ingratitude of the King to Butler reconciled
Hazlitt to him. He is admirable on Burns; and nothing can be more unjust or sillier than to
pretend, as has been pretended, that Burns's loose morality engaged Hazlitt on his side. De
Quincey was often a very acute critic, but anything more uncritical than his attack on Hazlitt's
comparison of Burns and Wordsworth in relation to passion, it would be difficult to find. Hazlitt
"could forgive Swift for being a Tory," he tells us--which is at any rate more than some other
people, who have a better reputation for impartiality than his, seem to have been able to do.
No one has written better than he on Pope, who still seems to have the faculty of distorting
some critical judgments. His chapter on the English novelists (that is to say, those of the
last century) is perhaps the best thing ever written on the subject; and is particularly valuable
nowadays when there is a certain tendency to undervalue Smollett in order to exalt Fielding,
who certainly needs no such illegitimate and uncritical leverage. I do not think that he is,
on the whole, unjust to Campbell; though his Gallican, or rather Napoleonic mania made him
commit the literary crime of slighting "The Battle of the Baltic." But in all his criticism
of English literature (and he has attempted little else, except by way of digression) he is,
for the critic, a study never to be wearied of, always to be profited by. His very aberrations
are often more instructive than other men's right-goings; and if he sometimes fails to detect
or acknowledge a beauty, he never praises a defect.

It is less easy to sum up the merits of the miscellaneous pieces, for the very obvious reason
that they can hardly be brought under any general form or illustrated by any small number of
typical instances. Perhaps the best way of "sampling" this undisciplined multitude is to select
a few papers by name, so as to show the variety of Hazlitt's interests. The one already mentioned,
"On Going to a Fight," which shocked some proprieties even in its own day, ranks almost first;
but the reader should take care to accompany it with the official record of that celebrated
contest between Neate and the Gasman. All fights are good reading; but this particular effort
of Hazlitt's makes one sigh for a Boxiana or Pugilistica edited by him. Next, I think, must
be ranked "On Going a Journey," with its fine appreciation of solitary travelling which does
not exclude reminiscences of pleasant journeys in company. But these two, with the article
on Poussin and the "Farewell to Essay-writing," have been so often mentioned that it may seem
as if Hazlitt's store were otherwise poor. Nothing could be farther from the truth. The "Character
of Cobbett" is the best thing the writer ever did of the kind, and the best thing known to
me on Cobbett. "Of the Past and the Future" is perhaps the height of the popular metaphysical
style--the style from which, as was noted, Hazlitt may never have got free as far as philosophising
is concerned, but of which he is a master. "On the Indian Jugglers" is a capital example of
what may be called improving a text; and it contains some of the most interesting and genial
examples of Hazlitt's honest delight in games such as rackets and fives, a delight which (heaven
help his critics) was frequently regarded at the time as "low." "On Paradox and Commonplace"
is less remarkable for its contribution to the discussion of the subject, than as exhibiting
one of Hazlitt's most curious critical megrims--his dislike of Shelley. I wish I could think
that he had any better reason for this than the fact that Shelley was a gentleman by birth
and his own contemporary. Most disappointing of all, perhaps, is "On Criticism," which the
reader (as his prophetic soul, if he is a sensible reader, has probably warned him beforehand)
soon finds to be little but an open or covert diatribe against the contemporary critics whom
Hazlitt did not like, or who did not like Hazlitt. The apparently promising "On the Knowledge
of Character" chiefly yields the remark that Hazlitt could not have admired Cæsar if he had
resembled (in face) the Duke of Wellington. But "My first Acquaintance with Poets" is again
a masterpiece; and to me, at least, "Merry England" is perfect. Hazlitt is almost the only
person up to his own day who dared to vindicate the claims of nonsense, though he seems to
have talked and written as little of it as most men. The chapter "On Editors" is very amusing,
though perhaps not entirely in the way in which Hazlitt meant it; but I cannot think him happy
"On Footmen," or on "The Conversation of Lords," for reasons already sufficiently stated. A
sun-dial is a much more promising subject than a broomstick, yet many essays might be written
on sun-dials without there being any fear of Hazlitt's being surpassed. Better still is "On
Taste," which, if the twenty or thirty best papers in Hazlitt were collected (and a most charming
volume they would make), would rank among the very best. "On Reading New Books" contains excellent
sense, but perhaps is, as Hazlitt not seldom is, a little deficient in humour; while the absence
of any necessity for humour makes the discussion "Whether Belief is Voluntary" a capital one.
Hazlitt is not wholly of the opinion of that Ebrew Jew who said to M. Renan, "On fait ce qu'on
veut mais on croit ce qu'on peut."

