Abby is preparing for a busy and, I hope, a profitable winter.  She has music lessons already,
French and drawing in store, and, if her eyes hold out, will keep her word and become what
none of us can be, "an accomplished Alcott."  Now, dear Father, I shall hope to hear from you
occasionally, and will gladly answer all epistles from the Plato, whose parlor parish is becoming
quite famous.  I got the Tribune but not the letter, and shall look it up.  I have been meaning
to write, but did not know where you were.

Good-bye, and a happy birthday from your ever-loving child,

LOUISA.

[Journal]

January, 1857.--Had my first new silk dress from good little L. W.; very fine; and I felt as
if all the Hancocks and Quincys beheld me as I went to two parties in it on New Year's eve.

A busy, happy month--taught, wrote, sewed, read aloud to the "little mother," and went often
to the theatre; heard good lectures; and enjoyed my Parker evenings very much.

Father came to see me on his way home; little money; had had a good time, and was asked to
come again.  Why don't rich people who enjoy his talk pay for it?  Philosophers are always
poor, and too modest to pass round their own hats.

Sent by him a good bundle to the poor Forlomites among the ten-foot drifts in W.

February.--Ran home as a valentine on the 14th.

March.--Have several irons in the fire now, and try to keep 'em all hot.

April.--May did a crayon head of mother with Mrs. Murdock; very good likeness.  All of us as
proud as peacocks of our "little Raphael."

Heard Mrs. Butler read; very fine.

May.--Left the L.'s with my $33; glad to rest.  May went home with her picture, happy in her
winter's work and success.

Father had three talks at W. F. Channing's.  Good company--Emerson, Mrs. Howe, and the rest.

Saw young Booth in Brutus, and liked him better than his father; went about and rested after
my labors; glad to be with Father, who enjoyed Boston and friends.

Home on the 10th, passing Sunday at the Emersons'.  I have done what I planned--supported myself,
written eight stories, taught four months, earned a hundred dollars, and sent money home.

HENRY GEORGE

(1839-1897)

THE TROUBLES OF A JOB PRINTER

Henry George was a self-helped man, if ever there was one.  When less than fourteen years of
age, he left school and started to earn his own living.  He never afterward returned to school.
In adolescence, his eager mind was obsessed by the glamor of the sea, so he began life as a
sailor.  After a few years came the desperate poverty of his early married life in California,
as here described.  His work as a printer led to casual employment as a journalist.  This was
the first step in his subsequently life-long career as an independent thinker, writer, and speaker.

An apparent failure in life, he was obliged when twenty-six years of age to beg money from
a stranger on the street to keep his wife and babies from actual starvation.  But his misery
may have been of incalculable value to the human race, for his bitter personal experience convinced
him that the times were out of joint, and his brain began to seek the remedy.  The doctrine
of single tax, already on trial in some parts of the world, is his chief contribution to economic
theory.

From "The Life of Henry George, by His Son."  Doubleday, Page & Company, 1900.

