Italy roused herself at last. The emissaries of the new France were swarming across the Alps,
pervading the peninsula as the Jesuits had once pervaded Europe; and in the mind of a young
general of the republican army visions of Italian conquest were already forming. In Pianura
the revolutionary agents found a strong republican party headed by Gamba and his friends, and
a government weakened by debt and dissensions. The air was thick with intrigue. The little
army could no longer be counted on, and a prolonged bread-riot had driven Trescorre out of
the ministry and compelled the Duke to appoint Andreoni in his place. Behind Andreoni stood
Gamba and the radicals. There could be no doubt which way the fortunes of the duchy tended.
The Duke's would-be protectors, Austria and the Holy See, were too busy organising the hasty
coalition of the powers to come to his aid, had he cared to call on them. But to do so would
have been but another way of annihilation. To preserve the individuality of his state, or to
merge it in the vision of a United Italy, seemed to him the only alternatives worth fighting
for. The former was a futile dream, the latter seemed for a brief moment possible. Piedmont,
ever loyal to the monarchical principle, was calling on her sister states to arm themselves
against the French invasion. But the response was reluctant and uncertain. Private ambitions
and petty jealousies hampered every attempt at union. Austria, the Bourbons and the Holy See
held the Italian principalities in a network of conflicting interests and obligations that
rendered free action impossible. Sadly Victor Amadeus armed himself alone against the enemy.

Under such conditions Odo could do little to direct the course of events. They had passed into
more powerful hands than his. But he could at least declare himself for or against the mighty
impulse which was behind them. The ideas he had striven for had triumphed at last, and his
surest hold on authority was to share openly in their triumph. A profound horror dragged him
back. The new principles were not those for which he had striven. The goddess of the new worship
was but a bloody Maenad who had borrowed the attributes of freedom. He could not bow the knee
in such a charnel-house. Tranquilly, resolutely, he took up the policy of repression. He knew
the attempt was foredoomed to failure, but that made no difference now: he was simply acting
out the inevitable.

The last act came with unexpected suddenness. The Duke woke one morning to find the citadel
in the possession of the people. The impregnable stronghold of Bracciaforte was in the hands
of the serfs whose fathers had toiled to build it, and the last descendant of Bracciaforte
was virtually a prisoner in his palace. The revolution took place quietly, without violence
or bloodshed. Andreoni waited on the Duke, and a cabinet-council was summoned. The ministers
affected to have yielded reluctantly to popular pressure. All they asked was a constitution
and the assurance that no resistance would be offered to the French.

The Duke requested a few hours for deliberation. Left alone, he summoned the Duchess's chamberlain.
The ducal pair no longer met save on occasions of state: they had not exchanged a word since
the death of Fulvia Vivaldi. Odo sent word to her Highness that he could no longer answer for
her security while she remained in the duchy, and that he begged her to leave immediately for
Vienna. She replied that she was obliged for his warning, but that while he remained in Pianura
her place was at his side. It was the answer he had expected--he had never doubted her courage--but
it was essential to his course that she should leave the duchy without delay, and after a moment's
reflection he wrote a letter in which he informed her that he must insist on her obedience.
No answer was returned, but he learned that she had turned white, and tearing the letter in
shreds had called for her travelling-carriage within the hour. He sent to enquire when he might
take leave of her, but she excused herself on the plea of indisposition, and before nightfall
he heard the departing rattle of her wheels.

He immediately summoned Andreoni and announced his unconditional refusal of the terms proposed
to him. He would not give a constitution or promise allegiance to the French. The minister
withdrew, and Odo was left alone. He had dismissed his gentlemen, and as he sat in his closet
a sense of deathlike isolation came over him. Never had the palace seemed so silent or so vast.
He had not a friend to turn to. De Crucis was in Germany, and Trescorre, it was reported, had
privately attended the Duchess in her flight. The waves of destiny seemed closing over Odo,
and the circumstances of his past rose, poignant and vivid, before his drowning sight.

And suddenly, in that moment of failure and abandonment, it seemed to him again that life was
worth the living. His indifference fell from him like a garment. The old passion of action
awoke and he felt a new warmth in his breast. After all, the struggle was not yet over: though
Piedmont had called in vain on the Italian states, an Italian sword might still be drawn in
her service. If his people would not follow him against France he could still march against
her alone. Old memories hummed in him at the thought. He recalled how his Piedmontese ancestors
had gone forth against the same foe, and the stout Donnaz blood began to bubble in his veins.

A knock roused him and Gamba entered by the private way. His appearance was not unexpected
to Odo, and served only to reinforce his new-found energy. He felt that the issue was at hand.
As he expected, Gamba had been sent to put before him more forcibly and unceremoniously the
veiled threat of the ministers. But the hunchback had come also to plead with his master in
his own name, and in the name of the ideas for which they had once laboured together. He could
not believe that the Duke's reaction was more than momentary. He could not calculate the strength
of the old associations which, now that the tide had set the other way, were dragging Odo back
to the beliefs and traditions of his caste.

The Duke listened in silence; then he said: "Discussion is idle. I have no answer to give but
that which I have already given." He rose from his seat in token of dismissal.

The moment was painful to both men. Gamba drew nearer and fell at the Duke's feet.

"Your Highness," he said, "consider what this means. We hold the state in our hands. If you
are against us you are powerless. If you are with us we can promise you more power than you
ever dreamed of possessing."

The Duke looked at him with a musing smile. "It is as though you offered me gold in a desert
island," he said. "Do not waste such poor bribes on me. I care for no power but the power to
wipe out the work of these last years. Failing that, I want nothing that you or any other man
can give."

Gamba was silent a moment. He turned aside into the embrasure of the window, and when he spoke
again it was in a voice broken with grief.

"Your Highness," he said, "if your choice is made, ours is made also. It is a hard choice,
but these are fratricidal hours. We have come to the parting of the ways."

The Duke made no sign, and Gamba went on with gathering anguish: "We would have gone to the
world's end with your Highness for our leader!"

"With a leader whom you could lead," Odo interposed. He went up to Gamba and laid a hand on
his shoulder. "Speak out, man," he said. "Say what you were sent to say. Am I a prisoner?"

The hunchback burst into tears. Odo, with his arms crossed, stood leaning against the window.
The other's anguish seemed to deepen his detachment.

"Your Highness--your Highness--" Gamba stammered.

The Duke made an impatient gesture. "Come, make an end," he said.

Gamba fell back with a profound bow.

"We do not ask the surrender of your Highness's person," he said.

"Not even that?" Odo returned with a faint sneer.

Gamba flushed to the temples, but the retort died on his lips.

"Your Highness," he said, scarce above a whisper, "the gates are guarded; but the word for
tonight is 'Humilitas.'" He knelt and kissed Odo's hand. Then he rose and passed out of the room...

      *      *      *      *      *

Before dawn the Duke left the palace. The high emotions of the night had ebbed. He saw himself
now, in the ironic light of morning, as a fugitive too harmless to be worth pursuing. His enemies
had let him keep his sword because they had no cause to fear it. Alone he passed through the
gardens of the palace, and out into the desert darkness of the streets. Skirting the wall of
the Benedictine convent where Fulvia had lodged, he gained a street leading to the marketplace.
In the pallor of the waning night the ancient monuments of his race stood up mournful and deserted
as a line of tombs. The city seemed a grave-yard and he the ineffectual ghost of its dead past.
He reached the gates and gave the watchword. The gates were guarded, as he had been advised;
but the captain of the watch let him pass without show of hesitation or curiosity. Though he
made no effort at disguise he went forth unrecognised, and the city closed her doors on him
as carelessly as on any passing wanderer.

Beyond the gates a lad from the ducal stables waited with a horse. Odo sprang into the saddle
and rode on toward Pontesordo. The darkness was growing thinner, and the meagre details of
the landscape, with its huddled farm-houses and mulberry-orchards, began to define themselves
as he advanced. To his left the field stretched, grey and sodden; ahead, on his right, hung
the dark woods of the ducal chase. Presently a bend of the road brought him within sight of
the keep of Pontesordo. His way led past it, toward Valsecca; but some obscure instinct laid
a detaining hand on him, and at the cross-roads he bent to the right and rode across the marshland
to the old manor-house.

The farmyard lay hushed and deserted. The peasants who lived there would soon be afoot; but
for the moment Odo had the place to himself. He tethered his horse to a gate-post and walked
across the rough cobble-stones to the chapel. Its floor was still heaped with farm-tools and
dried vegetables, and in the dimness a heavier veil of dust seemed to obscure the painted walls.
Odo advanced, picking his way among broken ploughshares and stacks of maize, till he stood
near the old marble altar, with its sea-gods and acanthus volutes. The place laid its tranquillising
hush on him, and he knelt on the step beneath the altar. Something stirred in him as he knelt
there--a prayer, yet not a prayer--a reaching out, obscure and inarticulate, toward all that
had survived of his early hopes and faiths, a loosening of old founts of pity, a longing to
be somehow, somewhere reunited to his old belief in life.

How long he knelt he knew not; but when he looked up the chapel was full of a pale light, and
in the first shaft of the sunrise the face of Saint Francis shone out on him...He went forth
into the daybreak and rode away toward Piedmont.