It only remains to add, in this connection, that so long as the Tennessee continued to flaunt
her flag in face of the fleet, so long the work of that glorious day was of naught; that her
capture, due in greatest part to the efforts of the Chickasaw, completed the work and ensured,
without embarrassment, the continued operations against Fort Morgan and other defences in the bay.

Perkins, not content with laurels already won, got under weigh after dinner, and steamed up
to Fort Powell, taking that work in rear. The shots from the Chickasaw destroyed the water-tanks,
and Captain Anderson reported that, believing it to be impossible to drive the ironclad from
its position, and fearing that a shell from the Chickasaw would explode the magazine, he decided
to save his command and blow up the fort, which was done that night at 10.30. In the afternoon,
the Chickasaw had seized a barge loaded with stores, from under the guns of Fort Powell, and
towed it to the fleet.

The next afternoon, the ever-ready and alert Chickasaw, under her indefatigable commander,
went down to Fort Gaines and shelled that work until dusk with such telling effect, that, coupled
with the fact that the landforce under General Granger, investing its rear, was now ready to
open fire in conjunction with the fleet, the rebel commander capitulated the next morning.

Morgan was now the only remaining work of the outer line of Mobile's defences to be "possessed
and occupied," and General Granger, after throwing a sufficient garrison into Gaines, transferred
his army and siege-train to the other side of the bay, and landing at Navy Cove, some four
miles from Morgan, began its investment.

While this was going on, the Chickasaw was not idle, but continually using her guns at one
point and another, with occasional exchanges of shotted compliments with the rams and batteries
across the obstructions in Dog River, forming the inner line of defence of the city, some four
miles distant.

On the twenty-second of August, the approaches having been completed, the land and naval forces
opened a terrific fire on devoted Morgan, and continued it throughout the day with such effect
that General Page, commanding the garrison, struck his colors and surrendered the next day.

The Chickasaw was as conspicuous in the bombardment as she had been in all her work since entering
the bay. It was not in Perkins's temperament to be otherwise, and said an eye-witness at the
time: "It was a glorious sight to see the gallant Perkins in the Chickasaw, nearly all the
morning almost touching the wharf, and pouring in his terrible missiles, two at a time, making
bricks and mortar fly in all directions, then moving ahead or astern a little to get a fresh
place. He stayed there till nearly noon, when he hauled off to cool his guns and give his men
some refreshment. In the afternoon, he took his ship in again, and turret after turret was
emptied at the poor fort."

Perkins sent home the flag that had flown over the fort during the bombardment he obtained
it in this wise: "The sailors from this ship," said he, "hauled down the flag, and one of them
seized it and hid it in his bosom; there was not much left of it; it was riddled and torn.
He brought it to me, declaring that no one had a right to it but the captain of the Chickasaw.
I hardly knew what to do about it, but the man seemed so earnest I could not refuse to take
it from him."

The bay was now sealed to blockade runners, and Mobile, measured as to its commercial importance
to the Confederacy, might as well have been located among the mountains of northern Alabama
as on the Gulf; and owing to strategic reasons, operations for its immediate reduction came
to a halt. But on the twenty-seventh of March, 1865, the land and naval forces began a joint
movement against the defences surrounding the city, and on the twelfth of April the Union forces
were in full possession. In these last operations, which cost the loss of two light draught
ironclads, a gunboat, and several other smaller vessels by torpedoes, we may know that the
Chickasaw was never in the background.

In July, Perkins was relieved from the command and ordered home. He had volunteered for the
Mobile fight but had been detained on board the Chickasaw nearly thirteen months.

On his arrival home, he was overwhelmed with congratulations upon his gallantry and achievements
in Mobile Bay; but his friends felt indignant that no promotion had followed them, believing
that at least the thirty numbers authorized by statute, "for eminent and conspicuous conduct
in battle," could not be reasonably denied him. But he would not work personally toward that
end, nor pull political wires to attain it. With him, the promotion must come unasked or not
at all. It never came, and others disputed, with unblushing effrontery, the laurels he had
won. Not only that, but he has seen, as well as others, those who did the least service during
the war, given recognition and place over those who "bore the heat and burden of the day,"
during those four years so momentous in the annals of the Republic.

The following winter he was stationed at New Orleans, in charge of ironclads, and in May, 1866,
was ordered as executive officer of the Lackawanna, for a cruise of three years in the North
Pacific. The "piping times of peace" had come, and officers who had had important commands,
now had to take a step back to the regular duties of their grade. Returning from the Pacific
in the early spring of 1869, he was ordered to the Boston Navy Yard on ordnance duty, and in
March, 1871, received his commission as commander. Two months later, he was selected to command
the storeship Relief, to carry provisions to the suffering French of the Franco-German war.
On his return, after a lapse of six months, he resumed his duties at the Boston yard, until
appointed lighthouse inspector of the Boston district, which position he held until January, 1876.

Meanwhile he had taken to himself a wife, having, in 1870, married Miss Anna Minot Weld, daughter
of Mr. William F. Weld, of Boston. The issue of the marriage has been one child, a daughter,
born in 1877.

From March, 1877, until May, 1879, he was in command of the United States steamer Ashuelot
on the Asiatic station, making a most interesting cruise, and having, for a time, the pleasure
of General Grant's company on board, as a guest.

Since his return from that cruise he has been on "waiting orders," varied by occasional duty
as member of courts-martial, boards of examination, and the like.

In March, 1882, he was promoted to a post-captaincy, as the grade of captain in the navy was
styled in the olden time, which grade corresponds with that of colonel in the army.

Captain Perkins has a house in Boston, where he makes his home in winter, but nothing has ever
weakened his affection for the old Granite State, and nothing delights him more, when possible
to do so, than to put behind him the whirl and distraction of the city for the quiet enjoyment
of the fresh, exhilarating air, unpretentious, wholesome life, and substantial ways that await
him among his dear native hills.

In glancing over the "Portraits for Posterity," the writer notes the conspicuous absence of
naval representation among the "counterfeit presentments" that adorn the walls of the Capitol
at Concord and the halls of Dartmouth, and ventures to suggest to Governor Prescott, the distinguished
and indefatigable collector of most of the pictures, that portraits of Thornton of the Kearsarge,
and Perkins of the Cayuga and Chickasaw, might fittingly be given place among those who, in
the varied walks of life, have lent distinction and added lustre to the Province and State
of New Hampshire from Colonial times to this. Let not the men of the sea be forgotten!

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM THE WHITE HORSE TO LITTLE RHODY.

BY CHARLES M. BARROWS.

Were other means lacking, the progress of the human race might be pretty accurately gauged
by its modes of locomotion. On such a basis of classification there might be a pedestrian period,
a pilgrim period, a saddle period, a road-wain period, a stage-coach period, and a railway period.

Relatively considered, each mode of travel thus indicated would be an index of the necessities
and activity of the times. The nomadic peoples dwelt in a leisurely world, and were content
to go a-foot; their wants were simple, their aspirations temperate; subsistence for themselves
and their flocks was their great care, and only when the grass withered and the stream dried
up did they set forth in quest of fresh pasturage. At length, however, the dull-thoughted tribular
chieftain became curious to know what lay beyond the narrow horizon of his wilderness, and
men bound on the sandal, girded up their loins, grasped staff, and beat paths up and down the
valleys, trudging behind an ass or a pack-horse that carried their impedimenta. Another advance,
and the man who drove his beast before him found that the creature was able to carry both his
pack and himself; and training soon enabled the animal to mend his pace and transport his master
rapidly across long stretches of waste country. Another period elapsed, and ambitious man discovered
that, by clearing a passage for wheels, the load could be shifted from the back of the beast
to a wagon drawn behind him; thus carriages came into use, and the race went bowling along
the great highway of progress at a wonderful rate. Then vehicles began to be improved, and
the restless brain of the inventor contrived a stage-coach for the convenience of those who
had no private carriages or did not care to use them; though rude at first, it soon came to
be luxurious, with thorough braces, upholstery, and glass windows. But even this noisy vehicle,
that abridged distance and brought far cities near together, outgrew its usefulness and gave
way to its rival, the steam-car, which could hurry men through the land as on the wings of
a tornado. And now the same race, which in the morning of the world was content to wander four
or five miles between sun and sun, and had no wish to go faster, can scarcely abide the slowness
of a palace-car sliding over a mile of steel rail each minute, and General Meigs is importuning
the Legislature for leave to construct a railway on which trains shall run at three times that
speed.

It would be too much to ask this hurrying, restless, nineteenth-century world to retrace its
way by rail and turnpike, saddle and sandal, back to the slow patriarch, who kept his youth
a hundred years, and in all that time might not have traveled as far as a suburban gentleman
of to-day does in going once from his home to his place of business in Boston. It might halt
long enough, however, to enjoy a view of the stage-coach in which its grandfathers got on so
rapidly, rumbling before a cloud of dust over the straight pike that used to connect the metropolis
with some lesser city.

Such a highway was the Norfolk and Bristol Turnpike, the grand avenue of public travel between
Boston and Providence, and one link of the continuous thoroughfare connecting New England with
New York and Washington. It was opened during the years of intense activity that marked the
infancy of the nation, and it had a distinct corporate existence and history, like the railroad
that ruined it, and was owned and operated by a stock company. Though the entire road was not
fifty miles in length, the original enterprise contemplated only a section thereof, which,
in accordance with an act of incorporation passed by the State Legislature in 1802, was built
from the court-house in Dedham, the shire town of Norfolk County, to the north precinct meeting-house
in Attleborough, then a small border town of Bristol County.

The members of the original corporation that held the franchise of the road were Fisher Ames,
James Richardson, and Timothy Gay, Jr., of Dedham; Timothy Whitney and John Whiting, of Roxbury;
Eliphalet Slack, Samuel S. Blackinton, William Blackinton, Israel Hatch, Elijah Daggett, and
Joseph Holmes, of Attleborough; Ephraim Starkweather, Oliver Wilkinson, and Ozias Wilkinson,
of Pawtucket, Rhode Island. They were all enterprising business men in their day, well known
throughout Eastern Massachusetts, and the undertaking for which they combined seemed as vast
to the rural denizens of the towns through which it passed as did the Pacific Railroad enterprise
to capitalists twenty years ago. To the surprise of the honest farmers, who considered the
crooked county roads good enough for them, it made almost a straight line from one terminus
to the other, and was laid out four rods in width--a reckless waste of land--as a preventive
against snow blockades in winter Instead of following the windings of valley and stream as
other roads did, this pike mounted directly over all interposing hills, in accordance with
the most approved theories of civil engineers of that day; and where sections of those old
thoroughfares still remain intact, it is amusing to observe at what steep, straight grades
they were made to climb the most abrupt ascent, curving neither to the right nor to the left
in merciful consideration for the horses.

But it must not be supposed that public stage-coach travel on the route here indicated began
with the opening of the Norfolk and Bristol Turnpike. The first conveyance of the kind started
on its devious way over the poor county roads from Boston to Providence in 1767; and the quaint
Jedediah Morse records that twelve years later the "intercourse of the country barely required
two stages and twelve horses on this line"; but the same authority states that in 1797 twenty
stages and one hundred horses were employed, and that the number of different stages leaving
Boston during the week was twenty.

The first stage-coach that passed over this new turnpike was driven by William Hodges, familiarly
called "Bill," a famous Jehu, whose exploits with rein and whip, being really of a high order
of merit, were graphically set forth to any passenger who shared the box with him, after Bill's
spirits had been raised and his tongue limbered with the requisite number of "nippers"; and
the increased comfort and rapidity of the journey were so clearly apparent, that the line was
soon after extended to connect the capitals of the Bay State and Little Rhody.

In those days there was but one way to drive out of Boston, and that a narrow one known as
the "Neck," beyond which was Roxbury. Across this isthmus all northward, westward, and southward-bound
vehicles must pass, in leaving or entering the city. The narrowest place was at the present
intersection of Dover Street with Washington, or, as it was then called, Orange, Street. In
ante-bellum times this was the southern limit of the city, and here a gate stood, which opened
on to a causeway that crossed the "salt marish," which at high tide was covered by the water.
To this gateway, then, the turnpike was extended from Dedham court-house; and when the work
was finished a coach, starting from the White Horse Tavern in Boston, which stood near the
site of the Adams House, just opened by Messrs. Hall and Whipple, bowled along "a smooth and
easy highway" to the bank of the Providence River, making the long journey within the incredibly
short space of six consecutive hours, when the wheeling was good.

This great work, which was talked about years before it was undertaken, and then required years
to finish, was a triumph of road-building, in which both owners and contractors took a pardonable
pride; and to those familiar with the region through which it passed, the course will be sufficiently
indicated by noting here and there a way-mark. On leaving Boston Neck it followed the already
well-graded road through the Highlands, to a point near the present station of the Boston and
Providence Railroad corporation in Roxbury, thence through West Roxbury to Dedham, and on through
Norwood to East Walpole; it left the central village of Walpole a mile or so to the west, keeping
near the Sharon line, struck into the westerly edge of Foxborough to a point called the Four
Corners, then through Shepardville in Wrentham to North Attleborough, Attleborough "City,"
Pawtucket, and Providence. A large portion of the road is still kept in repair, so that one
might take a carriage and trace the route through its entire length.

To support such an expensive turnpike it was necessary to levy a tax on those who made use
of it, and to that end several toll-gates were established, at which passengers were compelled
to halt and pay their lawful reckoning. These gates were located at Roxbury, Dedham, East Walpole,
Foxborough Four Corners, North Attleborough, and Pawtucket; and so great was the patronage
of the road, that the annual income derived from these sources afforded the stockholders a
handsome net dividend.

With the disuse of stage-coaches has perished that public convenience, the country tavern,
an institution with which the modern hotel has little in common. It was suited to the needs
and tastes of a former generation, and to a time, it may be,

  "When men lived in a grander way,
  With ampler hospitality."

But no hotel of the present day, with its showy furnishings and glitter, its gongs and bell-calls,
its multitude of obsequious waiters, gauging their attention by your clothes, will bear comparison
with the old-time tavern for homelike comfort and hearty good service. The guest, on his arrival,
tired and hungry, was not put off with the cold recognition of a clerk who simply wrote after
his name the number of his room, and then with averted face said: "Waiter, show this gentleman
to number ninety-seven." On climbing out of the stage-coach, he was sure to see mine host,
a fat, jolly man, who greeted him, whether friend or stranger, with a bow of genuine welcome,
relieved him of his hand-luggage, ushered him in before the open fire of the bar-room, and
actually asked what he would have for supper. Nor did this personal interest cease as soon
as the guest had been comfortably bestowed; for the landlord was sure to have some pleasant
words with him in the course of the evening, and to make him feel, ere he went to rest, that,
by coming at that particular time, he had conferred on the host or some other guest a special
favor, so that he retired in the best of humor with himself.

Such inns of entertainment were to be found in every considerable New England town a hundred
years ago, and each bore some special reputation for general hospitality, the cordiality of
its landlord, or the excellence of its table or liquors.

Wherever a stage line was established, a good country tavern, every few miles along the route,
became a necessity. It nourished on the patronage that the coach brought to its door; its kitchen
and barns afforded a ready market for the produce of the farmers, and it was a grand centre
for news and the idlers of the village.

The Norfolk and Bristol Turnpike was fortunate in its taverns, which were accounted among the
best in the State, from the White Horse, whence every stage-coach took its departure, to the
last one met with on the very borders of the land of Roger Williams. There was the Billings
Tavern in Roxbury, where it was considered quite the proper thing for outward-bound passengers
to alight and get something to fortify them against the fatigues of the journey, especially
if the weather were extremely cold or extremely warm.

The next tavern on the line was widely known as Bride's, and later as Gay's, in Dedham, a place
where all who took the early coach out of the city delighted to stop and breakfast. Here was
to be found one of the best tables on the line, and tradition has it that Bill Hodges, who,
by the way, must have been a competent judge, pronounced Bride's old Medford rum the finest
he had ever tasted. In the palmy days of stage-coach travel, it was no uncommon thing for a
hundred persons to breakfast at this inn before resuming their journey to Providence. It was
here that President John Adams usually took the coach when he set out for Washington, being
first driven to that point from Quincy in his own private carriage.

There was a small public house at South Dedham, now Norwood, which was but little patronized,
and the next tavern of note was Polley's, at East Walpole, which had the name of furnishing
the best board to be found between Boston and New York, and there all the travel on the road
stopped to dinner. It was also a convenient point for taking up passengers from many adjacent
towns, whence mail-carriages converged toward the common centre, and scores of private teams
were driven with small parcels or other commissions for the stage; for it must be borne in
mind that the driver exercised the functions of an expressman, or common carrier, and was entrusted
with a variety of messages and valuables to deliver along the route, the fees for such service
being usually regarded as his rightful perquisites.

Shepard's Tavern in Foxborough was a customary stopping-place; but the next grand halt, after
leaving Polley's, was made at Hatch's, in North Attleborough. Here the approach of each stage
was announced by the winding of a horn, and the driver was wont to swing his long lash with
a flourish around the sweaty flanks of his leaders in a way to assure them that he meant business,
then give his wheel horses an encouraging cut, and dash up before the famous hostelry at a
breakneck speed that said to the small boys, Get out of the way! and caused the stock loafers,
who always assembled on the piazza at the first blast of the horn, to envy the skill that could
thus handle a whip, and guide, with apparent ease, the most mettlesome four-in-hand.

Historically considered, no other tavern on the line possessed so much of antiquarian interest
as Hatch's. It occupied the site of an old garrison built and occupied by John Woodcock, the
famous Indian fighter, as a stronghold against the attacks of his red foes. He went thither
from the Providence Plantation about the middle of the seventeenth century, when the town was
an unbroken wilderness in the northern part of the Rehoboth North Purchase, so called, took
up his abode and reared his family in lonely solitude within the close stockades he planted
around his home. The first house that went by the name of Hatch's Tavern was built upon this
old garrison, which, indeed, formed a part of its very walls, and not until the proprietor
found it necessary to erect a new and larger house, when the turnpike was opened, did the last
vestiges of the Woodcock stronghold disappear.

The landlord of this inn, Colonel Israel Hatch, was also a man of importance in his time, who
enjoyed an enviable reputation for military achievements, and was very prominent in public
affairs. At no point on the line was the traveler surer of a larger hospitality or a heartier
welcome than was extended by Colonel Hatch, though its best room, which was reserved for visitors
of note, might not have contained the veritable inscription ascribed to Major Molineaux:--

