Leaving on one side these questions of style and manner, it may safely be said that in the
novels of the Goncourts the characters are less memorable, less interesting as individuals
than as illustrations of an epoch or types of a given social sphere. Charles Demailly, Madame
Gervaisais, Manette Salomon, Renée Mauperin, Soeur Philomène, are not so much dramatic creations
as figures around which is constituted the life of a special milieu--the world of journalism,
of Catholicism seen from two opposite points of view, of artists, of the bourgeoisie, as the
case may be. There are in the best work of the Goncourts astonishingly brilliant scenes; there
is dialogue vivacious, witty, sparkling, to an extraordinary degree. And this dialogue, as
in Charles Demailly, is not only supremely interesting, but intrinsically true to nature. It
could not well be otherwise, for the speeches assigned to Masson, Lampérière, Remontville,
Boisroger, and Montbaillard are, as often as not, verbatim reports of paradoxes and epigrams
thrown off a few hours earlier by Théophile Gautier, Flaubert, Saint-Victor, Banville, and
Villemessant. But these flights, true and well worth preserving as they are, fail to impress
for the simple reason that they are mere exercises in bravura delivered by men much less concerned
with life than with phrases, that they are allotted to subordinate characters, and that they
rather serve to diminish than to increase the interest in the central figures. The Goncourts
themselves are much less absorbed in life than in writing about it: just as landscapes reminded
them of pictures, so did every other manifestation of existence present itself as a possible
subject for artistic treatment. They had been called the detectives of history; they became
detectives, inquisitors in real life, and, much as they loathed the occupation, they never
rested from their task of spying and prying and "documentation." As with Charles Demailly,
so with their other books: each character is studied after nature with a grim, revolting persistence.
Their aunt, Mlle. de Courmont, is the model of Mlle. de Varandeuil in Germinie Lacerteux; Germinie
herself is drawn from their old servant Rose, who had loved them, cheated them, blinded them
for half a lifetime; the Victor Chevassier who figures in Quelques créatures de ce temps is
sketched from their father's old political ally, Colardez, at Breuvannes; the original of the
Abbé Blampoix in Renée Mauperin was the Abbé Caron; the painter Beaulieu and that strange Bohemian
Pouthier are both worked into Manette Salomon. And the novel entitled Madame Gervaisais is
an almost exact transcription or record of the life of the authors' aunt, Mme. Nephthalie de
Courmont: a report so literal that in three hundred pages there are but two trifling departures
from the strictest historical truth.

Mommsen himself has not excelled the Goncourts in conscientious "documentation"; and yet, for
all their care, their personages do not abide in the memory as living beings. We do not see
them as individuals, but as types; and, strangely enough, the authors, despite the remarkable
skill with which they materialize many of their impressions, are content to deliver their characters
to us as so many illustrations of a species. Thus Marthe Mance in Charles Demailly is un type,
l'incarnation d'un âge, de son sexe et d'un rôle de son temps; Langibout is le type pur de
l'ancienne école; Madame Gervaisais, too, is un exemple et un type of the intellectual bourgeoise
of Louis-Philippe's time; Madame Mauperin is le type of the modern bourgeoise mother; Renée
is the type of the modern bourgeoise girl; the Bourjots "represent" wealth; Denoisel is a Parisian--ou
plutôt c'était le Parisien. The Goncourts, in their endeavour to be more precise, resort to
odd combinations of conflicting elements.