A terrible suspicion glanced across my mind. 'Where is Mr Renshawe?' I asked. Nobody knew.
He had not been seen since five o'clock--about the time, I soon ascertained, that the child
was missed. I had the house cleared, as quickly as possible, of the numerous gossips that crowded
it, and then sought a conference with Dr Garland, who was with Mrs Irwin. The distracted mother
had, I found, been profusely bled and cupped, and it was hoped that brain-fever, which had
been apprehended, would not ensue. The physician's suspicions pointed the same way as mine;
but he declined committing himself to any advice, and I was left to act according to my own
discretion. I was new to such matters at that time--unfortunately so, as it proved, or the
affair might have had a less painful issue.

Tomlins and I remained up, waiting for the return of Mr Renshawe; and as the long, slow hours
limped past, the night-silence only broken by the dull moaning, and occasional spasmodic screams
of poor Mrs Irwin, I grew very much excited. The prolonged absence of Mr Renshawe confirmed
my impressions of his guilt, and I determined to tax him with it, and take him into custody
the instant he appeared. It was two in the morning before he did so; and the nervous fumbling,
for full ten minutes, with his latch-key, before he could open the door, quite prepared me
for the spectral-like aspect he presented on entering. He had met somebody, it afterwards appeared,
outside, who had assured him that the mother of the drowned child was either dead or dying.
He never drank, I knew, but he staggered as if intoxicated; and after he had with difficulty
reached the head of the stairs, in reply to my question as to where he had been, he could only
stutter with white trembling lips: 'It--it--cannot be--be true--that Lau--that Mrs Irwin is--dying?'

'Quite true, Mr Renshawe,' I very imprudently replied, and in much too loud a tone, for we
were but a few paces from Mrs Irwin's bedroom door. 'And if, as I suspect, the child has been
drowned by you, you will have before long two murders on your head.'

A choking, bubbling noise came from the wretched man's throat, and his shaking fingers vainly
strove to loosen his neck-tie. At the same moment, I heard a noise, as of struggling, in the
bedroom, and the nurse's voice in eager remonstrance. I instantly made a movement towards Mr
Renshawe, with a view to loosen his cravat--his features being frightfully convulsed, and to
get him out of the way as quickly as possible, for I guessed what was about to happen--when
he, mistaking my intention, started back, turned half round, and found himself confronted by
Mrs Irwin, her pale features and white night-dress dabbled with blood, in consequence of a
partial disturbance of the bandages in struggling with the nurse--a terrifying, ghastly sight
even to me; to him utterly overwhelming, and scarcely needing her frenzied execrations on the
murderer of her child to deprive him utterly of all remaining sense and strength. He suddenly
reeled, threw his arms wildly into the air, and before I could stretch forth my hand to save
him, fell heavily backwards from the edge of the steep stairs, where he was standing, to the
bottom. Tomlins and I hastened to his assistance, lifted him up, and as we did so, a jet of
blood gushed from his mouth; he had likewise received a terrible wound near the right temple,
from which the life-stream issued copiously.

We got him to bed: Dr Garland and a neighbouring surgeon were soon with us, and prompt remedies
were applied. It was a fruitless labour. Day had scarcely dawned before he heard from the physician's
lips that life with him was swiftly ebbing to its close. He was perfectly conscious and collected.
Happily there was no stain of murder on his soul: he had merely enticed the child away, and
placed him, under an ingenious pretence, with an acquaintance at Camden-Town; and by this time
both he and his mother were standing, awe-struck and weeping, by Henry Renshawe's deathbed.
He had thrown the child's hat into the river, and his motive in thus acting appeared to have
been a double one. In the first place, because he thought the boy's likeness to his father
was the chief obstacle to Mrs Irwin's toleration of his addresses; and next, to bribe her into
compliance by a promise to restore her son. But he could not be deemed accountable for his
actions. 'I think,' he murmured brokenly, 'that the delusion was partly self-cherished, or
of the Evil One. I observed the likeness long before, but it was not till the--the husband
was dying, that the idea fastened itself upon my aching brain, and grew there. But the world
is passing: forgive me--Ellen--Laura'----He was dead!

The inquest on the cause of death returned, of course, that it was 'accidental;' but I long
regretted that I had not been less precipitate, though perhaps all was for the best--for the
sufferer as well as others. Mr Oxley had died some five weeks previously. This I found from
Renshawe's will, where it was recited as a reason that, having no relative alive for whom he
cared, his property was bequeathed to Guy's Hospital, charged with L.100 a year to Ellen Irwin,
as long as she lived unmarried. The document was perfectly coherent; and although written during
the height of his monomania, contained not a word respecting the identity of the youthful widow
and the Laura whose sad fate had first unsettled the testator's reason.

THE VINCEJO'S PRIZE.

     [This somewhat curious incident in the under-current of
     history, is given on the authority of Mr H. G. Austen, of
     New Square, Lincoln's Inn, to whom the facts were
     communicated by his father, Sir F. W. Austen, who commanded
     one of the ships under the orders of Sir George Cockburn on
     the occasion referred to in the narrative.]

It is well known that when the French republican armies were overrunning the north of Italy,
and commencing that wholesale system of plunder which was afterwards carried out to such perfection
by Napoleon's marshals, the then reigning Duke of Florence offered the magnificent collection
of pictures which adorned the Pitti Palace, to the English nation for the comparatively small
sum of L.100,000--a sum which, as the late George Robins might have said, with less than his
customary exaggeration, was 'hardly the price of the frames, gentlemen.' Mr Pitt seems, unfortunately,
to have been less sensible of the value of the collection than scrupulous of asking parliament
for the money; and the opportunity was lost of redeeming the national character, by such a
set-off against the republican dispersion of the noble collection of Charles I. This circumstance
is well known; but it will probably be new to most of our readers to learn, that many of the
best pictures which had thus failed to become British property 'by purchase,' narrowly missed
becoming such 'by conquest;' and that, in fact, they were for some hours in British custody.
Such, however, was the fact, and the following narrative of the circumstance alluded to may
perhaps not be considered devoid of interest.

It was in the latter part of the year 1799, that a squadron of British men-of-war was cruising
in the Gulf of Genoa. It was known that the French were on the point of evacuating Italy, and
these ships had been detached from Lord Keith's fleet, to watch that part of the coast, and
to intercept, as far as possible, all communication between the ports of Italy and France.
The squadron consisted of four vessels, under the orders of the present admiral of the fleet,
Sir George Cockburn, then Captain Cockburn, whose pendant was flying in the Minerve frigate.
Whilst some of the vessels kept pretty close in, so as to cut off all communications alongshore,
others kept a look-out more to seaward, for any vessels that might attempt to make a straight
run across the bay. One afternoon, four sails were discovered to seaward running towards the
coast of France. The signal to chase was immediately made, and each of the British cruisers
started off in pursuit of one of the strangers. Our concern is with the Vincejo, a brig of
eighteen guns, commanded by Captain Long, which happened, from her position, to be the most
advanced in the chase. She was standing off-shore on the larboard tack, with her head to the
south-west, when the chase was discovered somewhat to leeward, standing nearly due west, with
the wind on her starboard-quarter. The latter was a smart-looking ship of 600 or 700 tons,
displaying no colours; though from the course she was steering, and her evident intention to
avoid being overhauled, no doubt was entertained that she was an enemy.

Both vessels sailed well; and as the stranger gradually edged away, the Vincejo got more and
more into her wake. A stern chase is proverbially a long chase; and though it was apparent
from the first that the British, though much smaller, was the faster vessel, it was many hours
before she was enabled to get within range. About dusk, however, this was effected, and the
first shot from the Vincejo produced an instantaneous effect on the chase: her head was thrown
into the wind, and she appeared at once resigned to her fate. Great, of course, was the anxiety
of the captors to learn her character, and comparatively keen the mortification which followed,
when, in reply to their hail, the words 'the Hercules of Boston, in the United States,' were
twanged across the water in unmistakable Yankee tones. Here was 'a lame and impotent conclusion.'
England was at peace with the United States; and if the character of the stranger corresponded
with her hail, she would prove after all no prize. The captors, however, were of course not
to be put off without examination; and a boat was immediately despatched from the Vincejo to
board, and see what could be made of her. The officer who was sent on board was received by
the captain with a good deal of bluster and swagger: he loudly asserted his rights as a neutral,
and threatened the vengeance of Congress if they should be infringed. His account of himself
was, that he had come out from Boston with a cargo of 'notions,' which he had traded away at
Leghorn; and finding some difficulty in getting a return cargo, he had agreed with some invalid
French officers to take them home, and he was now bound for the first port in France he could
make. This account appeared to be confirmed by his papers, and by the presence on board of
several gaunt, sickly-looking figures, who had all the appearance of being military invalids.
There were no visible signs of any cargo; and after a somewhat cursory examination, the lieutenant
returned to his ship, after telling the skipper, more for the sake of annoyance than from any
expectation of its being realised, 'that Captain Long would certainly detain him.'

This threat had the effect of determining the Yankee skipper to proceed on board the Vincejo,
and try his eloquence on the captain; and in this expedition he was accompanied by some of
his passengers. After their several natures they assailed Captain Long: the Yankee blustered
and bullied; the Frenchmen were all suavity and politeness: 'They were quite sure M. le Capitaine
was much too generous to take advantage of the chance which had thrown them into his hands--a
few poor wounded and disabled invalids on their way home! The English were a brave people,
who do not make war on invalids. What object could be gained by making them prisoners? Assuredly,
M. le Capitaine would not think of detaining them.' Captain Long was sorely puzzled how to
act. It must be owned, that the circumstances were suspicious. Here was a vessel just come
from a port in possession of the enemy--for the French still occupied Leghorn--bound avowedly
for the enemy's country, and with enemies on board. Were not these grounds enough to detain
her? On the other hand, the captain's story might be true: no appearance of any cargo had been
discovered; Captain Long doubted whether the presence of the Frenchmen on board would be sufficient
to condemn the vessel; and there seemed something pitiful in making them prisoners under such
circumstances, even if the laws of war would have sanctioned it. After some deliberation, he
took a middle course, and announced that he should keep the American ship by him till daylight,
when, if his senior officer should be in sight, he should take her down to him, to be dealt
with as Captain Cockburn might decide: if, on the other hand, the Minerve should not be in
sight, he would, on his own responsibility, allow the Hercules to proceed on her voyage. In
the meantime, both vessels should return towards the point fixed on by Captain Cockburn as
a rendezvous. 'And this,' he observed, 'ought to satisfy all parties, as the Hercules would
be thereby brought nearer to her destination, which was more than her captain deserved, after
the needless chase he had led the Vincejo.' This announcement seemed extremely unpalatable
to the Yankee captain; and from a very energetic discussion which took place in under-tones
between him and his passengers, it was evident they were dissuading him earnestly from some
course which he was bent on taking. This was pointed out to Captain Long as an additional circumstance
of suspicion, that there was something wrong about the American; and he was strongly urged
to detain her, at all events, till he could get the opinion of Captain Cockburn: but he adhered
to his decision. 'Ay, ay,' said he to the representations of his first-lieutenant; 'it's all
very well for you, gentlemen. You share in the prize-money, but not in the responsibility of
our captures; that rests upon me. And as I really think there is no ground for detaining the
fellow, I'll not do more than I have said.'

Morning came; and with its first dawn many anxious eyes on board both vessels were scanning
the horizon in hope or fear. The vessels had made good much of the distance they had run in
the chase, and the bold cliffs of the coast between Genoa and Nice were distinctly visible
from the mast-head to the north and west, but no Minerve greeted the searching gaze of the
Vincejo's look-out. The frigate was nowhere to be seen. The first-lieutenant of the Vincejo
having communicated this fact to Captain Long, and made one more effort to prevail on him to
detain the Hercules, till they could rejoin their senior officer, was most reluctantly compelled
to give the order for communicating to the captain of that ship that she was free. The American
did not wait for a second permission. Sail was made with all speed; and long before the Vincejo
had reached her rendezvous, her late prize was safe in the harbour at Nice. When Captain Long
had reported to Captain Cockburn what had taken place, the latter was by no means disposed
to approve of his junior's decision. He thought the circumstance extremely suspicious, and
quite sufficient to have justified the detention of the American; and not being under the influence
of the gaunt aspects and energetic pleadings of the Frenchmen, he was not inclined to admit
the weight of their arguments. 'I think,' said he, 'you might as well have brought her to me:
I daresay I could have made something of her.' From the other captains of the squadron, too,
Captain Long had to undergo much good-humoured raillery for his tender-heartedness and gullibility;
raillery which certainly lost nothing in force, when in a few days the real nature of the adventure
became known.

The French having soon afterwards abandoned Leghorn, Captain Cockburn sent one of his squadron
into that port for supplies. The intelligence she brought back was truly mortifying. On the
arrival of the Theresa at Leghorn, it appeared that the Hercules was the object of much interest
there, and great eagerness had been displayed to learn whether anything was known of her fate.
When the facts were communicated, they were received with absolute incredulity. 'Captured,
examined, and let go! It was impossible. Nothing to condemn her! Why, she was loaded with booty.
The plunder of Italy was on board her. Pictures, church-plate, statues, the élite of the spoilers'
collections, had been sent off in her. She was actually ballasted with brass guns!' It was
too true. Upon further inquiry, it appeared, beyond a doubt, that the vessel which had been
so unfortunately dismissed as not worth detaining, had French plunder on board, which, on a
moderate estimate, was valued at a million and a half sterling; and what made it still more
vexatious was the discovery, that a detention of the vessel even for a few hours longer, would
have led to the disclosure by the captain of the real nature of his venture. He had with difficulty
been prevailed on to undertake the transport of the articles in question, and had only at last
consented to do so, on an express agreement, that if he should be detained twenty-four hours
by a British cruiser, he should be at liberty to make terms for saving his vessel by denouncing
the contents of his cargo. No doubt it was his intention to do this at once, against which
the Frenchmen had been so earnestly remonstrating; and had Captain Long persevered in detaining
him, nothing could have prevented the discovery, even if the American himself had not made
the disclosure. A little ebullition of temper was to be expected when the news of what they
had missed was circulated among the squadron. The captains' shares might be considered as worth
L.40,000 or L.50,000, a sum which it would require considerable philosophy to resign with equanimity.
Whether the country could properly have benefited by the capture, may be a question for jurists.
It might have been argued, that the captor of stolen goods could not be entitled to retain
them against the original owner. It is probable, however, that no very nice inquiry would have
been made into the title of the French possessors, and that it would have been considered a
case in which, to use the language of Roderick Dhu, it was perfectly justifiable--

    'To spoil the spoiler as we may,
    And from the robber rend his prey.'

PAINTERS' MONOGRAMS.

One of the most curious among the studies of a professed connoisseur, is that of the signatures
or marks, technically called 'monograms,' by which painters, sculptors, engravers, and other
artists, are accustomed to distinguish their works. The dishonesty of the modern picture-market,
however, has made it now little more than a curious study. As a practical guide in determining
the genuineness of a work, the monogram, from the skill and precision with which fraudulent
dealers have learned to counterfeit it in almost all its varieties, has long been far worse
than equivocal, and the authorship of a picture must, now-a-days, often be decided on entirely
independent grounds. But the history of the subject is, in many respects, extremely curious
and interesting, although few have ever thought of bestowing attention upon it, except those
whose actual experience as amateurs or collectors has brought it directly under their notice.

