David Reed

An Essay on the Trial By Jury By LYSANDER SPOONER

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by LYSANDER SPOONER

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.

NOTICE TO ENGLISH PUBLISHERS

The author claims the copyright of this book in England, on Common Law principles, without
regard to acts of parliament; and if the main principle of the book itself be true, viz., that
no legislation, in conflict with the Common Law, is of any validity, his claim is a legal one.
He forbids any one to reprint the book without his consent.

NOTE

This volume, it is presumed by the author, gives what will generally be considered satisfactory
evidence,  though not all the evidence,  of what the Common Law trial by jury really is. In
a future volume, if it should be called for, it is designed to corroborate the grounds taken
in this; give a concise view of the English constitution; show the unconstitutional character
of the existing government in England, and the unconstitutional means by which the trial by
jury has been broken down in practice; prove that, neither in England nor the United States,
have legislatures ever been invested by the people with any authority to impair the powers,
change the oaths, or (with few exceptions) abridge the jurisdiction, of juries, or select jurors
on any other than Common Law principles; and, consequently, that, in both countries, legislation
is still constitutionally subordinate to the discretion and consciences of Common Law juries,
in all cases, both civil and criminal, in which juries sit. The same volume will probably also
discuss several political and legal questions, which will naturally assume importance if the
trial by jury should be reestablished.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I. THE RIGHT OF JURIES TO JUDGE OF THE JUSTICE OF LAWS SECTION 1. SECTION 2.

CHAPTER II. THE TRIAL BY JURY, AS DEFINED BY 
                        MAGNA CARTA
SECTION 1. The History Of Magna Carta
SECTION 2. The Language Of Magna Carta

CHAPTER III. ADDITIONAL PROOFS OF THE RIGHTS AND  
             DUTIES OF JURORS.
SECTION 1. Weakness of the Regal Authority
SECTION 2. The Ancient Common Law Juries Were Mere Courts 
           Of Conscience
SECTION 3. The Oaths of Jurors
SECTION 4. The Right Of Jurors To Fix The Sentence
SECTION 5. The Oaths Of Judges
SECTION 6. The Coronation Oath

CHAPTER IV. THE RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF JURIES IN 
            CIVIL SUITS

CHAPTER V. OBJECTIONS ANSWERED

CHAPTER VI. JURIES OF THE PRESENT DAY ILLEGAL

CHAPTER VII. ILLEGAL JUDGES

CHAPTER VIII. THE FREE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE

CHAPTER IX. THE CRIMINAL INTENT

CHAPTER X. MORAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR JURORS

CHAPTER XI. AUTHORITY OF MAGNA CARTA

CHAPTER XII. LIMITATIONS IMPOSED UPON THE 
             MAJORITY BY THE TRIAL BY JURY

APPENDIX   TAXATION

TRIAL BY JURY

CHAPTER I

THE RIGHT OF JURIES TO JUDGE OF THE JUSTICE OF LAWS

SECTION I.

FOR more than six hundred years   that is, since Magna Carta, in 1215 there has been no clearer
principle of English or American constitutional law, than that, in criminal cases, it is not
only the right and duty of juries to judge what are the facts, what is the law, and what was
the moral intent of the accused; but that it is also their right, and their primary and paramount
duty, to judge of the justice of the law, and to hold all laws invalid, that are, in their
opinion, unjust or oppressive, and all persons guiltless in violating, or resisting the execution
of, such laws.

Unless such be the right and duty of jurors, it is plain that, instead of juries being a "palladium
of liberty" a barrier against the tyranny and oppression of the government they are really
mere tools in its hands, for carrying into execution any injustice and oppression it may desire
to have executed.

But for their right to judge of the law, and the justice of the law, juries would be no protection
to an accused person, even as to matters of fact; for, if the government can dictate to a jury
any law whatever, in a criminal case, it can certainly dictate to them the laws of evidence.
That is, it can dictate what evidence is admissible, and what inadmissible, and also what force
or weight is to be given to the evidence admitted. And if the government can thus dictate to
a jury the laws of evidence, it can not only make it necessary for them to convict on a partial
exhibition of the evidence rightfully pertaining to the case, but it can even require them
to convict on any evidence whatever that it pleases to offer them.

That the rights and duties of jurors must necessarily be such as are here claimed for them,
will be evident when it is considered what the trial by jury is, and what is its object. 

"The trial by jury," then, is a "trial by the country" that is, by the people as distinguished
from a trial by the government.

It was anciently called "trial per pais"   that is, "trial by the country." And now, in every
criminal trial, the jury are told that the accused "has, for trial, put himself upon the country;
which country you (the jury) are."  

The object of this trial "by the country," or by the people, in preference to a trial by the
government, is to guard against every species of oppression by the government. In order to
effect this end, it is indispensable that the people, or "the country," judge of and determine
their own liberties against the government; instead of the government's judging of and determining
its own powers over the people. How is it possible that juries can do anything to protect the
liberties of the people against the government, if they are not allowed to determine what those
liberties are?

Any government, that is its own judge of, and determines authoritatively for the people, what
are its own powers over the people, is an absolute government of course. It has all the powers
that it chooses to exercise. There is no other or at least no more accurate definition of a
despotism than this. 

On the other hand, any people, that judge of, and determine authoritatively for the government,
what are their own liberties against the government, of course retain all the liberties they
wish to enjoy. And this is freedom. At least, it is freedom to them; because, although it may
be theoretically imperfect, it, nevertheless, corresponds to their highest notions of freedom.

To secure this right of the people to judge of their own liberties against the government,
the jurors are taken, (or must be, to make them lawful jurors,} from the body of the people,
by lot, or by some process that precludes any previos knowledge, choice, or selection of them,
on the part of the government.

This is done to prevent the government's constituting a jury of its own partisans or friends;
in other words, to prevent the government's packing a jury, with a view to maintain its own
laws, and accomplish its own purposes.

It is supposed that, if twelve men be taken, by lot, from the mass of the people, without the
possibility of any previous knowledge, choice, or selection of them, on the part of the government,
the jury will be a fair epitome of "the country" at large, and not merely of the party or faction
that sustain the measures of the government; that substantially all classes of opinions, prevailing
among the people, will be represented in the jury; and especially that the opponents of the
government, (if the government have any opponents,) will be represented there, as well as its
friends; that the classes, who are oppressed by the laws of the government, (if any are thus
oppressed,) will have their representatives in the jury, as well as those classes, who take
sides with the oppressor   that is, with the government.

It is fairly presumable that such a tribunal will agree to no conviction except such as substantially
the whole country would agree to, if they were present, taking part in the trial. A trial by
such a tribunal is, therefore, in effect, "a trial by the country." In its results it probably
comes as near to a trial by the whole country, as any trial that it is practicable to have,
without too great inconvenience and expense. And. as unanimity is required for a conviction,
it follows that no one can be convicted, except for the violation of such laws as substantially
the whole country wish to have maintained. The government can enforce none of its laws, (by
punishing offenders, through the verdicts of juries,) except such as substantially the whole
people wish to have enforced. The government, therefore, consistently with the trial by jury,
can exercise no powers over the people, (or, what is the same thing, over the accused person,
who represents the rights of the people,) except such a substantially the whole people of the
country consent that it may exercise. In such a trial, therefore, "the country," or the people,
judge of and dtermine their own liberties against the government, instead of thegovernment's
judging of and determining its own powers over the people.

But all this "trial by the country" would be no trial at all "by the country," but only a trial
by the government, if the government 'could either declare who may, and who may not, be jurors,
or could dictate to the jury anything whatever, either of law or evidence, that is of the essence
of the trial.

If the government may decide who may, and who may not, be jurors, it will of course select
only its partisans, and those friendly to its measures. It may not only prescribe who may,
and who may not, be eligible to be drawn as jurors; but it may also question each person drawn
as a juror, as to his sentiments in regard to the particular law involved in each trial, before
suffering him to be sworn on the panel; and exclude him if he be found unfavorable to the maintenance
of such a law. [1]

So, also, if the government may dictate to the jury what laws they are to enforce, it is no
longer a " trial by the country," but a trial by the government; because the jury then try
the accused, not by any standard of their own   not by their own judgments of their rightful
liberties   but by a standard. dictated to them by the government. And the standard, thus dictated
by the government, becomes the measure of the people's liberties. If the government dictate
the standard of trial, it of course dictates the results of the trial. And such a trial is
no trial by the country, but only a trial by the government; and in it the government determines
what are its own powers over the people, instead of the people's determining what are their
own liberties against the government. In short, if the jury have no right to judge of the justice
of a law of the government, they plainly can do nothing to protect the people against the oppressions
of the government; for there are no oppressions which the government may not authorize by law.

The jury are also to judge whether the laws are rightly expounded to them by the court. Unless
they judge on this point, they do nothing to protect their liberties against the oppressions
that are capable of being practiced under cover of a corrupt exposition of the laws. If the
judiciary can authoritatively dictate to a jury any exposition of the law, they can dictate
to them the law itself, and such laws as they please; because laws are, in practice, one thing
or another, according as they are expounded.

The jury must also judge whether there really be any such law, (be it good or bad,) as the
accused is charged with having transgressed. Unless they judge on this point, the people are
liable to have their liberties taken from them by brute force, without any law at all.

The jury must also judge of the laws of evidence. If the government can dictate to a jury the
laws of evidence, it can not only shut out any evidence it pleases, tending to vindicate the
accused, but it can require that any evidence whatever, that it pleases to offer, be held as
conclusive proof of any offence whatever which the government chooses to allege.

It is manifest, therefore, that the jury must judge of and try the whole case, and every part
and parcel of the case, free of any dictation or authority on the part of the government. They
must judge of the existence of the law; of the true exposition of the law; of the justice of
the law; and of the admissibility and weight of all the evidence offered; otherwise the government
will have everything its own way; the jury will be mere puppets in the hands of the government:
and the trial will be, in reality, a trial by the government, and not a "trial by the country."
By such trials the government will determine its own powers over the people, instead of the
people's determining their own liberties against the government; and it will be an entire delusion
to talk, as for centuries we have done, of the trial by jury, as a "palladium of liberty,"
or as any protection to the people against the oppression and tyranny of the government.

The question, then, between trial by jury, as thus described, and trial by the government,
is simply a question between liberty and despotism. The authority to judge what are the powers
of the government, and what the liberties of the people, must necessarily be vested in one
or the other of the parties themselves   the government, or the people; because there is no
third party to whom it can be entrusted. If the authority be vested in the government, the
governmnt is absolute, and the people have no liberties except such as the government sees
fit to indulge them with. If, on the other hand, that authority be vested in the people, then
the people have all liberties, (as against the government,) except suc as substantially the
whole people (through a jury) choose to disclaim; and the government can exercise no power
except such as substantially the whole people (through a jury) consent that it may exercise.

SECTION  II.

The force and. justice of the preceding argument cannot be evaded by saying that the government
is chosen by the people; that, in theory, it represents the people; that it is designed to
do the will of the people; that its members are all sworn to observe the fundamental or constitutional
law instituted by the people; that its acts are therefore entitled to be considered the acts
of the people; and that to allow a jury, representing the people, to invalidate the acts of
the' government, would therefore be arraying the people against themselves.

There are two answers to such an argument.

One answer is, that, in a representative government, there is no absurdity or contradiction,
nor any arraying of the people against themselves, in requiring that the statutes or enactments
of the government shall pass the ordeal of any number of separate tribunals, before it shall
be determined that they are to have the force of laws. Our American constitutions have provided
five of these separate tribunals, to wit, representatives, senate, executive,[2] jury, and
judges; and have made it necessary that each enactment shall pass the ordeal of all these separate
tribunals, before its authority can be established by the punishment of those who choose to
transgress it. And there is no more absurdity or inconsistency in making a jury one of these
several tribunals, than there is in making the representatives, or the senate, or the executive,
or the judges, one of them. There is no more absurdity in giving a jury a veto upon the laws,
than there is in giving a veto to each of these other tribunals. The people are no more arrayed
against themselves, when a jury puts its veto upon a statute, which the other tribunals have
sanctioned, than they are when the same veto is exercised by the representatives, the senate,
the executive, or the judges. 

But another answer to the argument that the people are arrayed against themselves, when a jury
hold an enactment of the government invalid, is, that the government, and all the departments
of the government, are merely the servants and agents of the people; not invested with arbitrary
or absolute authority to bind the people, but required to submit all their enactments to the
judgment of a tribunal more fairly representing the whole people, before they carry them into
execution, by punishing any individual for transgressing them. If the government were not thus
required to submit their enactments to the judgment of "the country," before executing them
upon individuals   if, in other words, the people had reserved to themselves no veto upon the
acts of the government, the government, instead of being a mere servant and agent of the people,
would be an absolute despot over the people. It would have all power in its own hands; because
the power to punish carries all other powers with it. A power that can, of itself, and by its
own authority, punish disobedience, can compel obedience and submission, and is above all responsibility
for the character of its laws. In short, it is a despotism. 

And it is of no consequence to inquire how a government came by this power to punish, whether
by prescription, by inheritance, by usurpation. or by delegation from the people's If it have
now but got it, the government is absolute.

It is plain, therefore, that if the people have invested the government with power to make
laws that absolutely bind the people, and to punish the people for transgressing those laws,
the people have surrendered their liberties unreservedly into the hands of the government.

It is of no avail to say, in answer to this view of the ease, that in surrendering their liberties
into the hands of the government, the people took an oath from the government, that it would
exercise its power within certain constitutional limits; for when did oaths ever restrain a
government that was otherwise unrestrained? Orwhen did a government fail to determine that
all its acts were within the constitutional and authorized limits of its power, if it were
permitted to determine that question for itself? 

Neither is it of any avail to say, that, if the government abuse its power, and enact unjust
and oppressive laws, the government may be changed by the influence of discussion, and the
exercise of the right of suffrage. Discussion can do nothing to prevent the enactment, or procure
the repeal, of unjust laws, unless it be understood that, the discussion is to be followed
by resistance. Tyrants care nothing for discussions that are to end only in discussion. Discussions,
which do not interfere with the enforcement of their laws, are but idle wind to them. Suffrage
is equally powerless and unreliable. It can be exercised only periodically; and the tyranny
must at least be borne until the time for suffrage comes. Be sides, when the suffrage is exercised,
it gives no guaranty for the repeal of existing laws that are oppressive, and no security against
the enactment of new ones that are equally so. The second body of legislators are liable and
likely to be just as tyrannical as the first. If it be said that the second body may be chosen
for their integrity, the answer is, that the first were chosen for that very reason, and yet
proved tyrants. The second will be exposed to the same temptations as the first, and will be
just as likely to prove tyrannical. Who ever heard that succeeding legislatures were, on the
whole, more honest than those that preceded them? What is there in the nature of men or things
to make them so? If it be said that the first body were chosen from motives of injustice, that
fact proves that there is a portion of society who desire to establish injustice; and if they
were powerful or artful enough to procure the election of their instruments to compose the
first legislature, they will be likely to be powerful or artful enough to procure the election
of the same or similar instruments to compose the second. The right of suffrage, therefore,
and even a change of legislators, guarantees no change of legislation   certainly no change
for the better. Even if a change for the better actually comes, t cmes too late, because it
comes only after more or less injustice has been irreparably done.

But, at best, the right of suffrage can be exercised only periodically; and between the periods
the legislators are wholly irresponsible. No despot was ever more entirely irresponsible than
are republican legislators during the period for which they are chosen. They can neither, be
removed from their office, nor called to account while in their office, nor punished after
they leave their office, be their tyranny what it may. Moreover, the judicial and executive
departments of the government are equally irresponsible to the people, and are only responsible,
(by impeachment, and dependence for their salaries), to these irresponsible legislators. This
dependence of the judiciary and executive upon the legislature is a guaranty that they will
always sanction and execute its laws, whether just or unjust. Thus the legislators hold the
whole power of the government in their hands, and are at the same time utterly irresponsible
for the manner in which they use it.

If, now, this government, (the three branches thus really united in one), can determine the
validity of, and enforce, its own laws, it is, for the time being, entirely absolute, and wholly
irresponsible to the people.

But this is not all. These legislators, and this government, so irresponsible while in power,
can perpetuate their power at pleasure, if they can determine what legislation is authoritative
upon the people, and can enforce obedience to it, for they can not only declare their power
perpetual, but they can enforce submission to all legislation that is necessary to secure its
perpetuity. They can, for example, prohibit all discussion of the rightfulness of their authority;
forbid the use of the suffrage; prevent the election of any successors; disarm, plunder, imprison,
and even kill all who refuse submission. If, therefore, the government (all departments united)
be absolute for a day   that is, if it can, for a day, enforce obedience to its own laws  
it can, in that day, secure its power for all time   like the queen, who wished to reign but
for a day, but in that day caused the king, her husband, to be slain, and usurped his throne.

Nor will it avail to say that such acts would be unconstitutional, and that unconstitutional
acts may be lawfully resisted; for everything a government pleases to do will, of course, be
determined to be constitutional, if the government itself be permitted to determine the question
of the constitutionality of its own acts. Those who are capable of tyranny, are capable of
perjury to sustain it.

The conclusion, therefore, is, that any government, that can, for a day, enforce its own laws,
without appealing to the people, (or to a tribunal fairly representing the people,) for their
consent, is, in theory, an absolute government, irresponsible to the people, and can perpetuate
its power at pleasure.

The trial by jury is based upon a recognition of this principle, and therefore forbids the
government to execute any of its laws, by punishing violators, in any case whatever, without
first getting the consent of "the country," or the people, through a jury. In this way, the
people, at all times, hold their liberties in their own hands, and never surrender them, even
for a moment, into the hands of the government.

The trial by jury, then, gives to any and every individual the liberty, at any time, to disregard
or resist any law whatever of the government, if he be willing to submit to the decision of
a jury, the questions, whether the law be intrinsically just and obligatory? and whether his
conduct, in disregarding or resisting it, were right in itself? And any law, which does not,
in such trial, obtain the unanimous sanction of twelve men, taken at random from the people,
and judging according to the standard of justice in their own minds, free from all dictation
and authority of the government, may be transgressed and resisted with impunity, by whomsoever
pleases to transgress or resist it.[3]

The trial by jury authorizes all this, or it is a sham and a hoax, utterly worthless for protecting
the people against oppression. If it do not authorize an individual to resist the first and
least act of injustice or tyranny, on the part of the government, it does not authorize him
to resist the last and the greatest. If it do not authorize individuals to nip tyranny in the
bud, it does not authorize them to cut it down when its branches are filled with the ripe fruits
of plunder and oppression.

Those who deny the right of a jury to protect an individual in resisting an unjust law of the
government, deny him all defence whatsoever against oppression. The right of revolution, which
tyrants, in mockery, accord to mankind, is no legal right under a government; it is only a
natural right to overturn a government. The government itself never acknowledges this right.
And the right is practically established only when and because the government, no longer exists
to call it in question. The right, therefore, can be exercised with impunity, only when it
is exercised victoriously. All unsuccessful attempts at revolution, however justifiable in
themselves, are punished as treason, if the government be permitted to judge of the treason.
The government itself never admits the injustice of its laws, as a legal defence for those
who have attempted a revolution, and failed. The right of revolution, therefore, is  right
of no practical value, except for those who are stronger than the government. So long, therefore,
as the oppressions of a government are kept within such limits as simply not to exasperate
against it a power greater than its own, the right of revolution cannot be appealed to, and
is therefore inapplicable to the case. This affords a wide field for tyranny; and, if a jury
cannot here intervene, the oppressed are utterly defenceless.

It is manifest that the only security against the tyranny of the government lies in forcible
resistance to the execution of the injustice; because the injustice will certainly be executed,
unless it be forcibly resisted. And if it be but suffered to be executed, it must then be borne;
for the government never makes compensation for its own wrongs.

Since, then, this forcible resistance to the injustice of the government is the only possible
means of preserving liberty, it is indispensable to all legal liberty that this resistance
should be legalized. It is perfectly self-evident that where there is no legal right to resist
the oppression of the government, there can be no lgal liberty. And here it is all-important
to notice, that, practically speaking, there can be no legal right to resist the oppressions
of the government, unless there be some legal tribunal, other than the government, and wholly
independent of, and above, the government, to judge between the government and those who resist
its oppressions; in other words, to judge what laws of the government are to be obeyed, and
what may be resisted and held for nought. The only tribunal known to our laws, for this purpose,
is a jury. If a jury have not the right to judge between the government and those who disobey
its laws, and resist its oppressions, the government is absolute, and the people, legally speaking
are slaves. Like many other slaves they may have sufficient courage and strength to keep their
masters somewhat in check; but they are nevertheless known to the law only as slaves.

That this right of resistance was recognized as a common law right, when the ancient and genuine
trial by jury was in force, is not only proved by the nature of the trial itself, but is acknowledged
by history. [4]

This right of resistance is recognized by the constitution of the United States, as a strictly
legal and constitutional right. It is so recognized, first by the provision that "the trial
of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury"   that is, by the country
and not by the government; secondly, by the provision that "the right of the people to keep
and bear arms shall not be infringed." This constitutional security for "the right to keep
and bear arms," implies the right to use them   as much as a constitutional security for the
right to buy and keep food would have implied the right to eat it. The constitution, therefore,
takes it for granted that

the people will judge of the conduct of the government, and that, as they have the right, they
will also have the sense, to use arms, whenever the necessity of the case justifies it. And
it is a sufficient and legal defence for a person accused of using arms against the government,
if he can show, to the satisfaction of a jury, or even any one of a jury, that the law he resisted
was an unjust one.

In the American State constitutions also, this right of resistance to the oppressions of the
government is recognized, in various ways, as a natural, legal, and constitutional right. In
the first place, it is so recognized by provisions establishing the trial by jury; thus requiring
that accused persons shall be tried by "the country," instead of the government. In the second
place, it is recognized by many of them, as, for example, those of Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont,
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi,
Alabama, and Florida, by provisions expressly declaring that the people shall have the right
to bear arms. In many of them also, as, for example, those of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Florida, Iowa,
and Arkansas, by provisions, in their bills of rights, declaring that men have a natural, inherent,
and inalienable right of "defending their lives and liberties." This, of course, means that
they have a right to defend them against any injustice on the part of the government, and not
merely on the part of private individuals; because the object of all bills of rights is to
assert the rights of individuals and the people, as against the government, and not as against
private persons. It would be a matter of ridiculous supererogation to assert, in a constitution
of government, the natural right of men to defend their lives and liberties against private
trespassers.

Many of these bills of rights also assert the natural right of all men to protect their property
that is, to protect it against the government. It would be unnecessary and silly indeed to
assert, in a constitution of government, the natural right of individuals to protect their
property against thieves and robbers.

The constitutions of New Hampshire and Tennessee also declare that "The doctrine of non-resistance
against arbitrary power and oppression is absurd, slavish, and destructive of the good and
happiness of mankind."

The legal effect of these constitutional recognitions of the right of individuals to defend
their property, liberties, and lives, ' against the government, is to legalize resistance to
all injustice and oppression, of every name and nature whatsoever, on the part of the government.

But for this right of resistance, on the part of the people, all governments would become tyrannical
to a degree of which few people are aware. Constitutions are utterly worthless to restrain
the tyranny of governments, unless it be understood that the people will, by force, compel
the government to keep within the constitutional limits. Practically speaking, no government
knows any limits to its power, except the endurance of the people. But that the people are
stronger than the government, and will resist in extreme cases, our governments would be little
or nothing else than organized systems of plunder and oppression. All, or nearly all, the advantage
there is in fixing any constitutional limits to the power of a government, is simply to give
notice to the government of the point at which it will meet with resistance. If the people
are then as good as their word, they may keep the government within the bounds they have set
for it; otherwise it will disregard them   as is proved by the example of all our American
governments, in which the constitutions have all become obsolete, at the moment of their adoption,
for nearly or quite all purposes except the appointment of officers, who at once become practically
absolute, except so far as they are restrained by the fear of popular resistance.

The bounds set to the power of the government, by the trial by jury, as will hereafter be shown,
are these   that the government shall never touch the property, person, or natural or civil
rights of an individual, against his consent, {xcept for the purpose of bringing them before
a jury for trial,) unless in pursuance and execution of a judgment, or decree, rendered by
a jury in each individual case, upon such evidence, nd such law, as are satisfactory to their
own understandings and consciences, irrespective of all legislation of the government.

[1]To show that this supposition is not an extravagant one, it may be mentioned that courts
have repeatedly questioned jurors to ascertain whether they were prejudiced against the government
that is, whether they were in favor of, or opposed to, such laws of the government as were
to be put in issue in the then pending trial. This was done (in 1851) in the United States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts, by Peleg Sprague, the United States district
judge, in empanelling three several juries for the trials of Scott, Hayden, and Morris, charged
with having aided in the rescue of a fugitive slave from the custody of the United States deputy
marshal. This judge caused the following question to be propounded to all the jurors separately;
and those who answered unfavorably for the purposes of the government, were excluded from the
panel. 

"Do you hold any opinions upon the subject of the Fugitive Slave Law, so called, which will
induce you to refuse to convict a person indicted under it, if the facts set forth, in the
indictment, and constituting the offence, are proved against him, and the court direct you
that the law is constitutional?" 

The reason of this question was, that "the Fugitive Slave Law, so called," was so obnoxious
to a large portion of the people, as to render a conviction under it hopeless, if the jurors
were taken indiscriminately from among the people. 

A similar question was soon afterwards propounded to the persons drawn as jurors in the United
States Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, by Benjamin R. Curtis, one of the Justices
of the Supreme Court of the United States, in empanelling a jury for the trial of the aforesaid
Morris on the charge before mentioned; and those who did not answer the question favorably
for the government were again excluded from the panel. 

It has also been an habitual practice with the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in empanelling
juries for the trial of capital offences, to inquire of the persons drawn as jurors whether
they had any conscientious scruples against finding verdicts of guilty in such eases; that
is, whether they had any conscientious scruples against sustaining the law prescribing death
as the punishment of the crime to be trick; and to exclude from the panel all who answered
in the affirmative. 

The only principle upon which these questions are asked, is this   that no man shall be allowed
to serve as juror, unless he be ready to enforce any enactment of the government, however cruel
or tyrannical it may be. 

What is such a jury good for, as a protection against the tyranny of the government? A jury
like that is palpably nothing but, a mere tool of oppression in the hands of the government.
A trial by such a jury is really a trial by the government itself   and not a trial by the
country   because it is a trial only by men specially selected by the government for their
readiness to enforce its own tyrannical measures. 

If that be the true principle of the trial by jury, the trial is utterly worthless as a security
to liberty. The Czar might, with perfect safety to his authority, introduce the trial by jury
into Russia, if he could but be permitted to select his jurors from those who were ready to
maintain his laws, without regard to their injustice. 

This example is sufficient to show that the very pith of the trial by jury, as a safeguard
to liberty, consists in the jurors being taken indiscriminately from the whole people, and
in their right to hold invalid all laws which they think unjust. 

[2] The executive has a qualified veto upon the passage of laws, in most of our governments,
and an absolute veto, in all of them, upon the execution of any laws which he deems unconstitutional;
because his oath to support the constitution (as he understands it) forbids him to execute
any law that he deems unconstitutional. 

[3] And if there be so much as a reasonable doubt of the justice of the laws, the benefit of
that doubt must be given to the defendant, and not to the government. So that the government
must keep its laws clearly within the limits of justice, if it would ask a jury to enforce them. 

[4] Hallam says, "The relation established between a lord and his vassal by the feudal tenure,
far from containing principles of any servile and implicit obedience, permitted the compact
to be dissolved in case of its violation by either party. This extended as much to the sovereign
as to inferior lords. * * If a, vassal was aggrieved, and if justice was denied him, he sent
a defiance, that is, a renunciation of fealty to the king, and was entitled to enforce redress
at the point of his sword. It then became a contest of strength as between two independent
potentates, and was terminated by treaty, advantageous or otherwise, according to the fortune
of war. * * There remained the original principle, that allegiance depended conditionally upon
good treatment, and that an appeal might be lawfully made to arms against an oppressive government.
Nor was this, we may be sure, left for extreme necessity, or thought to require a long-enduring
forbearance. In modern times, a king, compelled by his subjects' swords to abandon any pretension,
would be supposed to have ceased to reign; and the express recognition of such a right as that
of insurrection has been justly deemed inconsistent with the majesty of law. But ruder ages
had ruder sentiments. Force was necessary to repel force; and men accustomed to see the king's
authority defied by a private riot, were not much shocked when it was resisted in defence of
public freedom."

SECTION I

The History of Magna Carta.

In order to judge of the object and meaning of that chapter of Magna Carta which secures the
trial by jury, it is to be borne in mind that, at the time of Magna Carta, the king (with exceptions
immaterial to this discussion, but which will appear hereafter) was, constitutionally, the
entire government; the sole legislative, judicial, and executive power of the nation. The executive
and judicial officers were merely his servants, appointed by him, and removable at his pleasure.
The only legislation to which their assent was constitutionally necessary, was demands for
money and military services for extraordinary occasions. Even Magna Carta itself makes no provisions
whatever for any parliaments, except when the king should want means to carry on war, or to
meet some other extraordinary necessity.[4] He had no need of parliaments to raise taxes for
the ordinary purposes of government; for his revenues from the rents of the crown lands and
other sources, were ample for all except extraordinary occasions. Parliaments, too, when assembled,
consisted only of bishops, barons, and other great men of the kingdom, unless the king chose
to invite others.[5] There was no House of Commons at that time, and the people had no right
to be heard, unless as petitioners.[6]

Even when laws were made at the time of a parliament, they were made in the name of the king
alone. Sometimes it was inserted in the laws, that they were made with the consent or advice
of the bishops, barons, and others assembled; but often this was omitted. Their consent or
advice was evidently a matter of no legal importance to the enactment or validity of the laws,
but only inserted, when inserted at all, with a view of obtaining a more willing submission
to them on the part of the people. The style of enactment generally was, either "The King wills
and commands," or some other form significant of the sole legislative authority of the king.
The king could pass laws at any time when it pleased him. The presence of a parliament was
wholly unnecessary. But as all people are slow in making resistance, oppression and usurpation
often reached a great height; and, in the case of John, they had become so intolerable as to
enlist the nation almost universally against him; and he was reduced to the necessity of complying
with any terms the barons saw fit to dictate to him.

It was under these circumstances, that the Great Charter of Englsh Liberties was granted. 

The barons of England, sustained by the common people, having their king in their power, compelled
him, as the price of his throne, to pledge himself that he would punish no freeman for a violation
of any of his laws, unless with the consent of the peers   that is, the equals   of the accused.

The question here arises, Whether the barons and people intended that those peers (the jury)
should be mere puppets in the hands of the king, exercising no opinion of their own as to the
intrinsic merits of the accusations they should try, or the justice of the laws they should
be called on to enforce? Whether those haughty and victorious barons, when they had their tyrant
king at their feet, gave back to him his throne, with full power to enact any tyrannical laws
he might please, reserving only to a jury (" the country") the contemptible and servile privilege
of ascertaining, (under the dictation of the king, or his judges, as to the laws of evidence),
the simple fact whether those laws had been transgressed? Was this the only restraint, which,
when they had all power in their hands, they placed upon the tyranny of a king, whose oppressions
they had risen in arms to resist? Was it to obtain such a charter as that, that the whole nation
had united, as it were, like one man, against their king? Was it on such a charter that they
intended to rely, for all future time, for the security of their liberties? No. They were engaged
in no such senseless work as that. On the contrary, when they required him to renounce forever
the power to punish any freeman, unless by the consent of his peers, they intended those powers
should judge of, and try, the whole case on its merits, independently of all arbitrary legislation,
or judicial authority, on the part of the king. In this way they took the liberties of each
individual   and thus the liberties of the whole people   entirely out of the hands of the
king, and out of the power of his laws, and placed them in the keeping of the people themselves.
And this itwas that made the trial b jury the palladium of their liberties.

The trial by jury, be it observed, was the only real barrier interposed by them against absolute
despotism. Could this trial, then, have been such an entire farce as it necessarily must have
been, if the jury had had no power to judge of the justice of the laws the people were required
to obey? Did it not rather imply that the jury were to judge independently and fearlessly as
to everything involved in the charge, and especially as to its intrinsic justice, and thereon
give their decision, (unbiased by any legislation of the king,) whether the accused might be
punished? The reason of the thing, no less than the historical celebrity of the events, as
securing the liberties of the people, and the veneration with which the trial by jury has continued
to be regarded, notwithstanding its essence and vitality have been almost entirely extracted
from it in practice, would settle the question, if other evidences had left the matter in doubt.

Besides, if his laws were to be authoritative with the jury, why should John indignantly refuse,
as at first he did, to grant the charter, (and finally grant it only when brought to the last
extremity,) on the ground that it deprived him of all power, and left him only the name of
a king? He evidently understood that the juries were to veto his laws, and paralyze his power,
at discretion, by forming their own opinions as to the true character of the offences they
were to try, and the laws they were to be called on to enforce; and that "the king wills and
commands" was to have no weight with them contrary to their own judgments of what was intrinsically
right.[9]

The barons and people having obtained by the charter all the liberties they had demanded of
the king, it was further provided by the charter itself that twenty-fie barons should be appointed
by the barons, out of their number, to keep special vigilance in the kingdom to see that the
charter was observed, with authority to make war upon the king in case of its violation. The
king also, by the charter, so far absolved all the people of the kingdom from their allegiance
to him, as to authorize and require them to swear to obey the twenty-five barons, in case they
should make war upon the king for infringement of the charter. It was then thought by the barons
and people, that something substantial had been done for the security of their liberties.

This charter, in its most essential features, and without any abatement as to the trial by
jury, has since been confirmed more than thirty times; and the people of England have always
had a traditionary idea that it was of some value as a guaranty against oppression. Yet that
idea has been an entire delusion, unless the jury have had the right to judge of the justice
of the laws they were called on to enforce.

SECTION II.

The Language of Magna Carta

The language of the Great Charter establishes the same point that is established by its history,
viz., that it is the right and duty of the jury to judge of the justice of the laws.

There has been much confusion and doubt as to the true meaning of the words, "nec super eum
ibimus, neo super eum mittemus." The more common rendering has been, "nor wilt we pass upon
him, nor condemn him." But some have translated them to mean, "nor will we pass upon him, nor
commit him to prison." Coke gives still a different rendering, to the effect that "No man shall
be condemned at the king's suit, either before the king in his bench, nor before any other
commissioner or judge whatsoever." [11]

But all these translations are clearly erroneous. In the first place, "nor will we pass upon
him,"   meaning thereby to decide upon his guilt or innocence judicially   is not a correct
rendering of the words, "nec super eum ibimus." There is nothing whatever, in these latter
words, that indicates judicial action or opinion at all. The words, in their common signification,
describe physical action alone. And the true translation of them, as will hereafter be seen,
is, "nor will we proceed against him," executively.

In the second place, the rendering, "nor will we condemn him," bears little or no analogy to
any common, or even uncommon, signification of the words "nec super eum mittemus." There is
nothing in these latter words that indicates judicial action or decision. Their common signification,
like that of the words nec super eum ibimus, describes physical action alone. "Nor will we
send upon (or against) him," would be the most obvious translation, and, as we shall hereafter
see, such is the true translation.

But although these words describe physical action, on the part of the king, as distinguished
from judicial, they nevertheless do not mean, as one of the translations has it, "nor will
we commit him to prison;" for that would be a mere repetition of what had been already declared
by the words "nec imprisonetur." Besides, there is nothing about prisons in the words "nec
super eum mittemus;" nothing about sending him anywhere; but only about sending (something
or somebody) upon him, or against him   that is, executively.

Coke's rendering is, if possible, the most absurd and gratuitous of all. What is there in the
words, "nec super eum mittemus," that can be made to mean "nor shall he be condemned before
any other commissioner or judge whatsoever."? Clearly there is nothing. The whole rendering
is a sheer fabricatin. And the whole object of it is to give color for the exercise of a judicial
power, by the king, or his judges, which is nowhere given them. There is nothing about the
king's judges at all. And, there is nothing whatever, in the whole chapter, so far as relates
to the action of the king, that describes or suggests anything but executive action.[12]

But that all these translations are certainly erroneous, is proved by a temporary charter,
granted by John a short time previous to the Great Charter, for the purpose of giving an opportunity
for conference, arbitration, and reconciliation. between him and his barons. It was to have
force until the matters in controversy between them could be submitted to the Pope, and to
other persons to be chosen, some by the king, and some by the barons. The words of the charter
are as follows:

"Sciatis nos concessisse baronibus nostris qui contra nos sunt quod nec eos nec homines suos
capiemus, nec disseisiemus nec super eos per vim vel per arma ibimus nisi per legem regni nostri
vel per judicium parium suorum in curia nostra donec consideratio facta fuerit," &c;., &c;.

That is, "Know that we have granted to our barons who are opposed to us, that we will neither
arrest them nor their men, nor disseize them, nor will we proceed against them by force or
by arms, unless by the law of our kingdom, or by the judgment of their peers in our court,
until consideration, shall be had," &c;., &c;.

A copy of this charter is given in a note in Blackstone's Introduction to the Charter.[13]

Mr. Christian speaks of this charter as settling the true meaning of the corresponding clause
of Magna Carta, on the principle tat laws and charters on the same subject are to be construed
with reference to each other. See 3 Christin's Blackstone, 41, note. [14]  Here the words used
are these:

"Ne corpus liberi hominis capiatur nec imprisonetur nec disseisetur nec ut1agetur nec exuletur
nec aliquo modo destruatur nec rex eat vel mittat super eun vi nisi per judicium pariurn suorum
vel per legem terrae."

That is, "The body of a freeman shall not be arrested, nor imprisoned, nor disseized, nor outlawed,
nor exiled, nor in any manner destroyed, nor shall the king proceed or send (any one) against
him, WITH FORCE, unless by the judgment of his peers, or the law of the land." [15]

It is evident that the difference between the true and false translations of the words, nec
super eum ibius, nec super eum mittemus, is of the highest legal importance, inasmuch as the
true translation, nor will we (the king) proceed against him, nor send (any one) against him
by force of arms, represents the king only in an executive character, carrying the judgment
of the peers and "the law of the land" into execution; where as the false translation, nor
will we pass upon him, nor condemn him,  gives color for the exercise of a judicial power,
on the part of the king, to which the king had no right, but which, according to the true translation,
belongs wholly to th jury. 

"Per legale judicium parium suorum." 

The foregoing interpretation is corroborated, (if it were not already too plain to be susceptible
of corroboration,) by the true interpretation of the phrase "per legale judicium parium suorum." 

In giving this interpretation, I leave out, for the present, the word legale, which will be
defined afterwards. 

The true meaning of the phrase, per judicium parium suorum, is, according to the sentence of
his eers. The word  judicium, judgment, has a technical meaning in the law, signifying the
decree rendered in the decision of a cause. In civil suits this decision is called a judgment;
in chancery proceedngs it is called a decree; in criminal actions it is called a sentence,
or judgment, indifferently. Thus, in a criminal suit, "a motion in arrest of judgment," means
a motion in arrest of sentence. [16] In cases of sentence, therefore, in criminal suits, the
words sentence and judgment are synonymous terms. They are, to this day, commonly used in law
books as synonymous terms. And the phrase per jndicium parium suorum, therefore, implies that
the jury are to fix the sentence.  

The word per means according to. Otherwise there is no sense in the phrase per judicium paruim
suorum. There would be no sense in saying that a king might imprison, disseize, outlaw, exile,
or otherwise punish a man, or proceed against him, or send any one against him, by force or
arms, by a judgment of his peers; but there is sense in saying that the king may imprison,
disseize, and punish a man, or proceed against him, or send any one against him, by force or
arms, according to a judgment, or sentence, of his peers; because in that case the king would
be merely carrying the sentence or judgment of the peers into execution.

The word per, in the phrase "per judicium parium suorum," of course means precisely what it
does in the next phrase, "per legem terrae;" where it obviously means according to, and not
by, as it is usually translated. There would be no sense in saying that the king might proceed
against a man by force or arms, by the law of the land; but there is sense in saying that he
may proceed against him, by force or arms, according to the law of the land; because the king
would then be acting only as an executive officer, carrying the law of the land into execution.
Indeed, the true meaning of the word by, as used in similar cases now, always is according
to; as, for example, when we say a thing was done by the government, or by the executive, by
law, we mean only that it was done by them according to law; that is, that they merely executed
the law.

Or, if we say that the word by signifies by authority of, the result will still be the same;
for nothing can be done by authority of law, except what the law itself authorizes or directs
to be done; that is, nothing can be done by authority of law, except simply to carry the law
itself into execution. So nothing could be done by authority of the sentence of the peers,
or by authority of "the law of the land," except what the sentence of the peers, or the law
of the land, themselves authorized or directed to be done; nothing, in short, but to carry
the setence of the peers, or the law of the land, themselves into execution.

Doing a thing by law, or according to law, is only carrying the law into execution. And punishing
a man by, or according to, the sentence or judgment of his peers, is only carrying that sentence
or judgment into execution.

If these reasons could leave any doubt that the word per is to be translated according to,
that doubt would be removed by the terms of an antecedent guaranty for the trial by jury, granted
by the Emperor Conrad, of Germany,  [17] two hundred years before Magna Carta. Blackstone cites
it as follows:   (3 Blackstone, 350.) "Nemo beneficium suum perdat, nisi secundum consuetu-dinem
antecessorum nostrorum, et judicium parium suorum." That is, No one shall lose his estate,
[18] unless according to ("secundum") the custom (or law) of our ancestors, and (according
to) the sentence (or judgment) of his peers.

The evidence is therefore conclusive that the phrase per judicium parian suorum means according
to the sentence of his peers; thus implying hat the jury, and not the government, are to fix
the sentence.

If any additional proof were wanted that juries were to fix the sentence, it would be found
in the following provisions of Magna Carta, viz.:

"A freeman shall not be amerced for a small crime, (delicto,) but according to the degree of
the crime; and for a great crime in proportion to the magnitude of it, saving to him his contenement;
[19] and after the same manner a merchant, saving to him his merchandise. And a villein shall
be amerced after the same manner, aving to him his waynage,  [20] if he fall under our mercy;
and none of the aforesaid amercements shall be imposed, (or assessed, ponatur,) but by the
oath of honest men of the neighborhood. Earls and Barons shall not be amerced but by their
peers, and according to the degree of their crime." [21] 

Pecuniary punishments were the most common punishments at that day, and the foregoing provisions
of Magna Carta show that the amount of those punishments was to be fixed by the jury. Fines
went to the king, and were a source of revenue; and if the amounts of the fines had been left
to be fixed by the king, he would have had a pecuniary temptation to impose unreasonable and
oppressive ones. So, also, in regard to other punishments than fines. If it were left to the
king to fix the punishment, he might often have motives to inflict cruel and oppressive ones.
As it was the object of the trial by jury to protect the people against all possible oppression
from the king, it was necessary that the jury, and not the king, should fix the punishments. [22] 

"Legale."

The word "legale," in the phrase "per legale judicium parium suorum,"doubtless means two things.1.
That the sentence must be given in a legal manner; that is, by the legal number of jurors,
legally empanelled and sworn to try the cause; and that they give their judgment or sentence
after a legal trial, both in form and substance, has been had. 2. That the sentence shall be
for a legal cause or offence. If, therefore, a jury should convict and sentence a man, either
without giving him a legal trial, or for an act that was not really and legally criminal, the
sentence itself would not be legal; and consequently this clause forbids the king to carry
such a sentence into execution; for the clause guarantees that he will execute no judgment
or sentence, except it be legale judicium,a legal sentence. Whether a sentence be a legal one,
would have to be ascertained by the king or his judges, on appeal, or might be judged of informally
by the king himself.

The word "legale"clearly did not mean that the judicium parium suorum (judgment of his peers)
should be a sentence which any law (of the king) should require the peers to pronounce; for
in that case the sentence would not be the sentence of the peers, but only the sentence of
the law, (that is, of the king); and the peers would be only a mouthpiece of the law, (that
is, of the king,) in uttering it.

"Per legem terrae."

One other phrase remains to be explained, viz., "per legem terrae," "by the law of the land."

All writers agree that this means the common law.Thus, Sir Matthew Hale says:

"The common law is sometimes called, by way of eminence, lex terrae,as in the statute of Magna
Carta,chap. 29, where certainly the common law is principally intended by those words, aut
per legem terrae;as appears by the exposition thereof in several subsequent statutes; and particularly
in the statute of 28 Edward III., chap. 3, which is but an exposition and explanation of that
statute. Sometimes it is called lex Angliae,as in the statute of Merton, cap. 9, "olurnus leqes
Angliae mutari,"&c;., (We will that the laws of England be not changed). Sometimes it is called
lex et consuetudo regni(the law and custom of the kingdom); as in all commissions of oyer and
terminer; and in the statutes of 18 Edward I., cap.  , and de quo warranto,and divers others.
But most commonly it is called the Common Law, or the Common Law of England; as in the statute
Articuli super Chartas,cap. 15, in the statute 25 Edward III., cap. 5, (4,) and infinite more
records and statutes."   1 Hale's History of the Common Law, 128.

This common law, or "law of the land," the king was sworn to maintain.This fact is recognized
by a statute made at Westminster, in 1346, by Edward III., which commences in this manner:

"Edward, by the Grace of God, &c;., &c;., to the Sheriff of Stafford, Greeting: Because that
by divers complaints made to us, we have perceived that the law of the land, which we by oath
are bound fo maintain,"&c;. St. 20 Edward III

The foregoing authorities are cited to show to the unprofessional reader, what is well known
to the profession, that legem terrae, the law of the land,mentioned in Magna Carta, was the
common, ancient, fundamental law of the land, which the kings were bound by oath to observe;
and that it did not include any statutes or laws enacted by the king himself, the legislative
power of the nation.

If the term legem terraehad included laws enacted by the king himself, the whole chapter of
Magna Carta, now under discussion, would have amounted to nothing as a protection to liberty;
because it would have imposed no restraint whatever upon the power of the king. The king could
make laws at any time, and such ones as he pleased. 

This chapter of Magna Carta would, therefore, have imposed not the slightest restraint upon
the power of the king, or afforded the slightest protection to the liberties of the people,
if the laws of the king had been embraced in theterm legem terrae. But if legem terrae was
the common law, which the king was sworn to maintain, then a real restriction was laid upon
his power, and a real guaranty given to the people for their liberties.

Such, then, being the meaning of legem terrae, the fact is established that Magna Carta took
an accused person entirely out of the hands of the legislative power, that is, of the king;
and placed him in the power and under the protection of his peers, and the common law alone;
that, in short, Magna Carta suffered no man to be punished for violating any enactment of the
legislative power, unless the peers or equals of the accused. freely consented to it, or the
common law authorized it; that the legislative power, of itself, was wholly incompetent to
require the conviction or punishment of a man for any offence whatever.

Whether Magna Carta allowed of any other trial than by jury.

The question here arises, whether "legem terrae did not allow of some other mode of trial than
that by jury.

The answer is, that, at the time of Magna Carta, it is not probable, (for the reasons given
in the note,) that legem terrae authorized, in criminal cases, any other trial than the trial
by jury; but, if it did, it certainly authorized none but the trial by battle, the trial by
ordeal, and the trial by compurgators. These were the only modes of trial, except by jury,
that had been knownin England, in criminal cases, for some centuries previous to Magna Carta.
All of them had  become nearly extinct at the time of Magna Carta, and it is not probable that
they were included in "legem terrae," as that term is used in that instrument. But if they
were included in it, they have now been long obsolete, and were such as neither this nor any
future age will ever return to. [23] 

For all practical puposes of the present day, therefore, it may be asserted that Magna Carta
allows no trial whatever but trial by jury. 

Whether Magna Carta allowed sentence to be fixed otherwise than by the jury.

Still another question arises on the words legem terrae, viz., whether, in cases where the
question of guilt was determined by the jury, the amount of punishment may not have been fixed
by legem terrae, the Common Law, instead of its being fixed by the jury.

I think we have no evidence whatever that, at the time of Magna Carta, or indeed at any other
time, lex terrae, the common law, fixed the punishment in cases where the question of guilt
was tried by a jury; or, indeed, that it did in any other case. Doubtless certain punishments
were common and usual for certain offences; but I do not think it can be shown that the common
law,  the  lex terrae,  which the king was sworn to maintain, required any one specific punishment,
or any precise amount of punishment, for any one specific offence. If such a thing be claimed,
it must be shown, for it cannot be presumed. In fact, the contrary must be presumed, because,
in the nature of things, the amount of punishment proper to be inflicted on any particular
case, is a matter requiring the exercise of discretion at the time, in order to adapt it to
the moral quality of the offence, which is different in each case, varying with the mental
and moral constitutions of the offenders, and the circumstances of temptation or provocation.
And Magna Carta recognizes this principle distinctly, as has before been shown, in providing
that freemen, merchants, and villeins, "shall not be amerced for a small crime, but according
to the degree of the crime; and for a great crime in proportion to the magnitude of it," and
that "none of the aforesaid amercements shall be imposed (or assessed) but by the oaths of
honest men of the neighborhood;" and that "earl and barons shall not be amerced but by their
peers, and according to the quality of the offence."

All this implies that the moral quality of the offence was to be judged of at the rial, and
that the punishment was to be fixed by the discretion of the peers, or jury, and not by any
such unvarying rule as a common law rule would be.

I think, therefore, it must be conceded that, in all cases, tried by a jury, Magna Carta intended
that the punishment should be fixed by the jury, and not by the common law, for these several
reasons.

1. It is uncertain whether the common law fixed the punishment of any offence whatever.

2. The words  "per judicium parium suorum," according to the sentence of his peers,  imply
that the jury fixed the sentence in some  cases tried by them; and if they fixed the sentence
in some cases, it must be presumed they did in all, unless the contrary be clearly shown.

3. The express provisions of Magna Carta, before adverted to, that no amercements, or fines,
should be imposed upon. freemen, merchants, or villeins, "but by the oath of honest men of
the neighborhood," and "according to the degree of the crime," and that "earls and barons shout
not be amerced but by their peers, and according to the quality of the offence,"  proves that,
at least, there was no common law fixing the amount of  fines, or, if there were, that it was
to be no longer in force. And if there was no common law fixing the amount of fines, or if
it was to be no longer in force, it is reasonable to infer, (in the absence of all evidence
to the contrary,) either that the common law did not fix the amount of any other punishment,
or that it was to be no longer in force for that purpose. [25] 

Under the Saxon laws, fines, payable to the injured party, seem to have been the common punishments
for all offences. Even murder was punishable by a fine payable to the relatives of the deceased.
The murder of the king even was punishable by fine. When a criminal was unable to pay his One,
his relatives often paid it for him. But if it were not paid, he was put out of the protection
of the law, and the injured parties, (or,in the case of murder, the kindred of the deceased,)were
allowed to inflict such punishment as they pleased. And if the relatives of the criminal protected
him, it was lawful to take vengeance on them also. Afterwards the custom grew up of exacting
fines also to the king as a punishment for offences.  [26]

And this latter was, doubtless, the usual punishment at the time of Magna Carta, as is evidenced
by the fact that for many years immediately following Magna Carta, nearly or quite all statutes
that prescribed any punishment at all, prescribed that the offender should "be grievously 
amerced," or "pay a great fine to the king," or a "grievous ransom,"     with the alternative
in some cases (perhaps understood in all) of imprisonment, banishment, or outlawry, in case
of non-payment. [27] 

Judging, therefore, from the special provisions in Magna Carta, requiring fines, or amercements,
to be imposed only by juries, (without mentioning any other punishments;) judging, also, from
the statutes which immediately followed Magna Carta, it is probable that, the Saxon custom
of punishing all, or nearly all, offences by fines, (with the alternative to the criminal of
being imprisoned, banished, or outlawed, and exposed to private vengeance, in case of non-payment,)
continued until the time of Magna Carta; and that in providing expressly that fines should
be fixed by the juries, Magna Carta provided for nearly or quite all the punishments that were
expected to be inflicted; that if there were to be any others, they were to be fixed by the
juries; and consequently that nothing was left to be fixed by "legem terrae." But whether the
common law fixed the punishment of any offences, or not, is a matter of little or no practical
importance at this day; because we have no idea of going back to any common law punishments
of six hundred years ago, if, indeed, there were any such at that time. It is enough for us
to know   and this is what is material for us know   that the jury fixed the punishments, in
all cases, unless they were fixed by the common law; that Magna Carta allowed no punishments
to be prescribed by statute   that is, by the legislative power   nor in any other manner by
the king, or his judges, in any case whatever; and, consequently, that all statutes prescribing
particular punishmnts for particular offences, or giving the king's judges any authority to
fix punishments, were void.

If the power to fix punishments had been left in the hands of the king, it would have given
him a power of oppression, which was liable to be greatly abused; which there was no occasion
to leave with him; and which would have been incongruous with the whole object of this chapter
of Magna Carta; which object was to take all discretionary or arbitrary power over individuals
entirely out of the hands of the king, and his laws, and entrust it only to the common law,
and the peers, or jury   that is, the people. What lex terrae  did authorize.

But here the question arises, What then did legem terrae" authorize the king, (that is, the
government,) to do in the case of an accused person, if it neither authorized any other trial
than that by jury, nor any other punishments than those fixed by juries?

The answer is, that, owing to the darkness of history on the point, it is probably wholly impossible,
at this day, to state, with any certainty or precision, anything whatever that the legem terrae
of Magna Carta did authorize the king, (that is, the government,) to do, (if, indeed, it authorized
him to do anything,) in the case of criminals, other than to have them, tried and sentenced
by their peers, for common law crimes; and to carry that sentence into execution.

The trial by jury was a part of legem terrae, and we have the means of knowing what the trial
by jury was. The fact that the jury were to fix the sentence, implies that they were to try
the accused; otherwise they could not know what sentence, or whether any sentence, ought to
be inflicted upon him. Hence it follows that the jury were to judge of everything involved
in the trial; that is, they were to judge of the nature of the offence, of the admissibility
and weight of testimony, and of everything else whatsoever that was of the essence of the trial.
If anything whatever could be dictated to them, either of law or evidence, the sentence would
not be theirs, but would be dictated to them by the power that dictated to them the law or
evidence. The trial nd sentence, then, were wholly in the hands of the jury.

We also have sufficient evidence of the nature of the oath administered to jurors in criminal
cases. It was simply, that they would neither convict the innocent, nor acquit the guilty.
This was the oath in the Saxon times, and probably continued to be until Magna Carta.

We also know that, in case of conviction, the sentence of the jury was not necessarily final;
that the accused had the right of appeal to the king and his judges, and to demand either a
new trial, or an acquittal, if the trial or conviction had been against law. So much,  therefore,
of the legem terrae of Magna Carta, we know with  reasonable certainty.

We also know that Magna Carta provides that "No bailiff (balivus) shall hereafter put any man
to his law, (put him on trial,) on his single testimony, without credible witnesses brought
to support it." Coke thinks "that under this word balivus, in this act, is comprehended every
justice, minister of the king, steward of the king, steward and bailiff." (2 Inst. 44.) And
in support of this idea he quotes from a very ancient law book, called the Mirror of Justices,
written in the time of Edward I., within a century after Magna Carta. But whether this were
really a common law principle, or whether the provision grew out of that jealousy of the government
which, at the time of Magna Carta, had reached its height, cannot perhaps now be determined.

We also know that, by Magna Carta, amercements, or fines, could not be imposed to the ruin
of the criminal; that, in the case of a freeman, his contenement, or means of subsisting in
the condition of a freeman, must be saved to him; that, in the case of a merchant, his merchandise
must be spared; and in the case of a villein, his waynage, or plough-tackle and carts. This
also is likely to have been a principle of the common law, inasmuch as, in that rude age, when
the means of gettin employment as laborers were not what they are now, the man and his family
would probably have been liable to starvation, if these means of subsistence had been taken
from him.

We also know, generally, that, at the time of Magna Carta, all acts intrinsically criminal,
all trespasses against persons and property, were crimes, according to lex terra, or the common
law. Beyond the points now given, we hardly know anything, probably nothing with certainty,
as to what the "legem terran" of Magna Carta did authorize, in regard to crimes. There is hardly
anything extant that can give us any real light on the subject. It would seem, however, that
there were, even at that day, some common law principles governing arrests; and some common
law forms and rules as to holding a man for trial, (by bail or imprisonment;) putting him on
trial, such as by indictment or complaint; summoning and empanelling jurors, &c;., &c;. Whatever
these common law principles were, Magna Carta requires them to be observed; for Magna Carta
provides for the whole proceedings, commencing with the arrest, ("no freeman shall be arrested,"
&c;.,) and ending with the execution of the sentence. And it provides that nothing shall be
done, by the government, from beginning to end, unless according to the sentence of the peers,
or "legem terrae," the common law. The trial by peers was a part of legem terrae, and we have
seen that the peers must necessarily have governed the whole proceedings at the tria1. But
all the proceedings for arresting the man, and bringing him to trial, must have been had before
the case could come under the cognizance of the peers, and they must, therefore, have been
governed by other rules than the discretion of the peers. We may conjecture, although we cannot
perhaps know with much certainty, that the lex terrae, or common law, governing these other
proceedings, was somewhat similar to the common law principle, on the same points, at the present
day. Such seem to be the opinions of Coke, who says that the phrase nisi per legem terrae means
unless by due process of law. Thus, he says: "Nisi per legem terrae. But by the law of the land.

For the true sense and exposition of these words, see the statute f 37 Edw. III., cap. 8, where
the words, by the law of the land, are rendered without due process of law; for there it is
said, though it be contained in the Great Charter, that no man be taken, imprisoned, or put
out of his freehold, without process of the law; that is, by indictment or presentment of good
and lawful men, where such deeds be done in due manner, or by writ original of the common law.

"Without being brought in to answer but by due process of the common law."

"No man be put to answer without presentment before justices, or thing of record, or by due
process, or by writ original, according to the old law of the land."   2 Inst. 50.

The foregoing interpretations of the words nisi per legem terrae are corroborated by the following
statutes, enacted in the next century after Magna Carta.

"That no man, from henceforth; shall be attached by any accusation, nor forejudged of life
or limb, nor his land, tenements, goods, nor chattels, seized into the king's hands, against
the form of the Great Charter, and the law of the land."   St, 5 Edward III., Ch. 9.   8t.
95 Edward III., Ch. 4. (1350.)

"That no man, of what estate or condition that he be, shall be put out of land or tenement,
nor taken, nor imprisond, nor disinherited, nor put to death, without being brought in answer
by due process of law."   8t. 28 Aboard III., Ch. 3. (1354.)

"That no man be put to answer without presentment before justices, or matter of record, or
by due process and writ original, according to the old law of the land. And if anything from
henceforth be done to the contrary, it shall be void in law, and holden for error."   8t. 42
Edward IIL, Ch. 3. (1368.)

The foregoing interpretation of the words nisi per legem terrae   that is, by due process of
law   including indictment, &c;., has been adopted. as the true one by modern writers and courts;
as, for example, by Kent, (2 Comm. 13,) Story, (3 Comm. [28]

Whether the word VEL should be rendered by OR, or by AND.

Having thus given the meanings, or rather the applications, which the words vel per legem terrae
will reasonably, and perhaps must necessarily, bear, it is proper to suggest, that it has been
supposed by some that the word vel, instead of being rendered by or, as it usually is, ought
to be rendered by and, inasmuch as the word vel is often used for et, and the whole phrase
nisi per judicium parian suorun, vel per legem terrae, (which would then read, unless by the
sentence of his peers, and the law of the land,) would convey a more intelligible and harmonious
meaning than it otherwise does.

Blackstone suggests that this may be the true reading. (Charters, p. 41.) Also Mr. Hallam,
who says:"Nisi per legale judicium parium suorum, vel per legem terra;. Several explanations
have been offered of the alternative clause; which some have referred to judgment by default,
or demurrer; others to the process of attachment for contempt. Certainly there are many legal
procedures besides trial by jury, through which a party's goods or person may be taken. But
one may doubt whether these were in contemplation of the framers of Magna Carta. In an entry
of the Charter of 1217 by a contemporary hand, preserved in the Town-clerk's office in London,
called Liber Custumarum et Regum antiquarum, a various reading, et per legem terrae, occurs.
Blackstone's Charters, p. 42 (41.) And the word vel is so frequently used for et, that I amnot
wholly free from a suspicion that it  was so intended in this place. The meaning will be, that
no person shall be disseized, &c;., except upon a lawful cause of action, found by the verdict
of a jury. This really seems as good as any of the disjunctive interpretatios; but I do not
offer it with much confidence."   2 Hallam's Middle Ages,   Ch. 8, Part 2, p. 449, note."  [29]

The idea that the word vel,  should be rendered by and, is corroborated, if not absolutely
confirmed, by the following passage in Blackstone, which has before been cited. Speaking of
the trial by jury, as established by Magna Carta, he calls it, "A privilege which is couched
in almost the same words with that of the Emperor Conrad two hundred years before: 'nemo beneficium
suum perdat, nisi secundum consuetudinem antecessorum nostrorum, et,  judicium parium suorum.
' (No one shall lose his estate unless according to the custom of our ancestors, and,  the
judgment of his peers.)   3 Blackstone, 350., 

If the word vel,  be rendered by and,,  (as I think it must be, at least in some cases,) this
chapter of Magna Carta will then read that no freeman shall be arrested or punished, "unless
according to the sentence of his peers, and,  the law of the land."

The difference between this reading and the other is important. In the one case, there would
be, at first view, some color of ground for saying that a man might be punished in either of
two ways, viz., according to the sentence of his peers, or according to the law of the land.
In the other case, it requires both the sentence of his peers and,  the law of the laud (common
law) to authorize his punishment.

If this latter reading be adopted, the provision would seem to exclude all trials except trial
by jury, and all causes of action except those of the common law., 

But I apprehend the word vel,  must be rendered both by and,,  and by or;,  that in cases of
a judgment,,  it should be rendered by and,,  so as to require the concurrence both of "the
judgment of the peers and,  the law of the land," to authorize the king to make execution upon
a party's goods or person; but that in cases of arrest and imprisonment, simply for the purpose
of bringing a man to trial, vel,  should be rendered by or, , because there can have been no
judgment of a jury in such a case, and "the law of the land" must therefore necessarily be
the only guide to, and restraint upn, the king. If this guide and restraint were taken away,
the king would be invested with an arbitrary and most dangerous power in. making arrests, and
confining in prison, under pretence of an intention to bring to trial. 

[3] Coke says, "The king of England is armed with divers councils, one whereof is called commune
concilium, (the common council,) and that is the court of parliament and so it is legally called
in writs and judicial proceedings comanche concilium regni Anglicae, (the common council of
the kingdom of England.) And another is called magnum concilium, (great council;) this is sometimes
applied to the upper house of parliament, and sometimes, out of parliament time, to the peers
of the realm, lords of parliament, who are called magnum concilium regis, (the great council
of the king;) [4] Thirdly, (as every man knoweth,) the king hath a privy council for matters
of state. * * The fourth council of the king are his judges for law matters." 1 Coke's Institutes,
110 a.

[4] The Great Charter of Henry III., (1216 and 1225,) confirmed by Edward I., (1297,) makes
no provision whatever for, or mention of, a parliament, unless the provision, (Ch. 37,) that
"Escuage, (a military contribution,) from henceforth shall be taken like as it was wont to
be in the time of King Henry our grandfather," mean that a parliament shall be summoned for
that purpose. 

[5]The Magna Carta of John, (Ch. 17 and 18,) defines those who were entitled to be summoned
to parliament, to wit, "The Archbishops, Bishops, Abbots, Earls, and Great Barons of the Realm,
* * and all others who hold of us in chief." Those who held land of the king in chief included
none below the rank of knights. 

[6] The parliaments of that time were, doubtless, such as Carlyle describes them, when he says,
"The parliament was at first a most simple assemblage, quite cognate to the situation; that
Red William, or whoever had taken on him the terrible task of being King of England, was wont
to invite, oftenest about Christmas time, his subordinate Kinglets, Barons as he called them,
to give him the pleasure of their company for a week or two; there, in earnest conference all
morning, in freer talk over Christmas cheer all evening, in some big royal hall of Westminster,
Winchester, or wherever it might be, with log fires, huge rounds of roast and boiled, not lacking
malmsey and other generous liquor, they took counsel concerning the arduous matters of the
kingdom." 

[7] Hume, Appendix 2. 

[8] This point will be more fully established hereafter. 

[9] It is plain that the king and all his partisans looked upon the charter as utterly prostrating
the king's legislative supremacy before the discretion of juries. When the schedule of liberties
demanded by the barons was shown to him, (of which the trial by jury was the most important,
because it was the only one that protected all the rest,) "the king, falling into a violent
passion, asked, Why the barons did not with these exactions demand his kingdom? * * and with
a solemn oath protested, that he would never grant such liberties as would make himself a slave."
* * But afterwards, "seeing himself deserted, and fearing they would seize his castles, he
sent the Earl of Pembroke and other faithful messengers to them, to let them know he would
grant them the laws and liberties they desired." * * But after the charter had been granted,
"the king's mercenary soldiers, desiring war more than peace, were by their leaders continually
whispering in his ears, that he was now no longer king, but the scorn of other princes; and
that it was more eligible to be no king, than such a one as he." * * He applied to the Pope,
that he might by his apostolic authority make void what the barons had done.* * At Rome he
met with what success he could desire, where all the transactions with the barons were fully
represented to the Pope, and the Charter of Liberties shown to him, in writing; which, when
he had carefully perused, he, with a furious look, cried out, What! Do the barons of England
endeavor to dethrone a king, who has taken upon him the Holy Cross, and is under the protection
of the Apostolic See, and would they force him to transfer the dominions of the Roman Church
to others? By St. Peter, this injury must not pass unpunished. Then debating the matter with
the cardinals, he, by a definitive sentence, damned and cassated forever the Charter of Liberties,
and sent the king a bull containing that sentence at large."   Echard's History of England,
p. 106-7 

These things show that the nature and effect of the charter were well understood by the king
and his friends; that they all agreed that he was effectually stripped of power. Yet the legislative
power had not been taken from him; but only the power to enforce his laws, unless juries should
freely consent to their enforcement. 

[10] The laws were, at that time, all written in Latin. 

[11]"No man shall be condemned at the king"s suit, either before the king in his bench, where
pleas are coram rege, (before the king,) (and so are the words nec super eum ibimus, to be
understood,) nor before any other commissioner or judge whatsoever, and so are the words nec
super eum mittemus, to be understood, but by the judgment of his peers, that is, equals, or
according to the law of the land."   2 Coke's Inst., 46. 

[12] Perhaps the assertion in the text should be made with this qualification   that the words
"per legem terrae," (according to the law of the land,) and the words "per legale judiciun
parium suorum," (according to the legal judgment of his peers,) imply that the king, before
proceeding to any executive action, will take notice of "the law of the land," and of the legality
of the judgment of the peers, and will execute upon the prisoner nothing except what the law
of the land authorizes, and no judgments of the peers, except legal ones. With this qualification,
the assertion in the text is strictly correct   that there is nothing in the whole chapter
that grants to the king, or his judges, any judicial power at all. The chapter only describes
and limits his executive power. 

[13] See Blackstone'a Law Tracts, page 294, Oxford Edition 

[14] These Articles of the Charter are given in Blackstone's collection of Charters, and are
also printed with the statutes of the Realm. Also in Wilkins' Laws of the Anglo- Saxons, p. 350. 

[15] Lingard says, " The words, ' We will not destroy him nor will we go upon him, nor will
we send upon him,' have been very differently expounded by different legal authorities. 16
Johan, apud Drad. 11, app. no. 124. 

He had hitherto been in the habit of going with an armed force, or sending an armed force on
the lands, and against the castles, of all whom he knew or suspected to be his secret enemies,
without observing any form of law."   3 Lingard, 47 note. 

[16] "Judgment, judicium. * * The sentence of the law,
pronounced by the court, upon the matter contained in the record."
  8 Blackstone, 895. Jacob's Law Dictionary. . Tomlin's do. 

"Judgment is the decision or sentence of the law, given by a court of justice or other competent
tribunal, as the result of the proceedings instituted therein, for the redress of an injury."
Bouvier's Law Dict. 

"Judgment, judicium. * * Sentence of a judge against a criminal. * * Determination, decision
in general."   Bailey's Dict. 

"Judgment. * * In a legal sense, a sentence or decision pronounced by authority of a king,
or other power, either by their own mouth, or by that of their judges andofficers, whom they
appoint, to administer justice in their stead."   Chambers' Dict. 

"Judgment. * * In law, the sentence or doom pronounced in any case, civil orcriminal, by the
judge or court by which it is tried."   Webster's Dict. 

Sometimes the punishment itself is called judicium, judgment; or, rather, it was at the time
of Magna Carta. For example, in a statute passed fifty-one years after Magna Carta, it was
said that a baker, for default in the weight of his bread, " debeat amerciari vel subire judicium
pillorie;" that is, ought to be amerced, or suffer the punishment, or judgment, of the pillory.
Also that a brewer, for "selling ale contrary to the assize," "debeat amerciari, vel pati judicium
tumbrelli "; that is, ought to be amerced, or suffer the punishment, or judgment, of the tumbrel.
51 Henry 3, St. 6. (1266.) 

Also the "Statutes of uncertain date," (but supposed to be prior to Edward III., or 1326,)
provide, in chapters 6, 7, and 10, for "judgment of the pillory."   See 1 Rughead's Statutes,
187, 188. 1 Statutes of the Realm, 203. 

Blackstone, in his chapter "Of Judgment, and its Consequences," says, "Judgment (unless any
matter be offered in arrest thereof) follows upon conviction f being the pronouncing of that
punishment which is expressly ordained by law."   Blackstone's Analysis of the Laws of England,
Book 4, Ch. 29, Sec. 1. Blackstone's Law Tracts, 126. 

Coke says, "Judicium .. the judgment is the guide and direction of the execution." 3 Inst. 210. 

[17] This precedent from Germany is good authority, because the trial by jury was in use, in
the northern nations of Europe generally, long before Magna Carta, and probably from time immemorial;
and the Saxons and Normans were familiar with it before they settled in England. 

[18] Beneficium was the legal name of an estate held by a feudal tenure. See Spelman's Glossary. 

[19]] Contenement of a freeman was the means of living in the condition of a freeman. 

[20] Waynage was a villein's plough-tackle and carts. 

[21] Tomlin says, "The ancient practice was, when any such fine was imposed, to inquire by
a jury quantum inde regi dare valeat per annum, salva sustentatione sua et uxoris et libe-
rorum suorum, (how much is he able to give to the king per annum, saving his own maintenance,
and that of his wife and children). And since the disuse of such inquest, it is never usual
to assess a larger fine than a man is able to pay, without touching the implements of his livelihood;
but to inflict corporal punishment, or a limited imprisonment, instead of such a fine as might
amount to imprisonment for life. And this is the reason why fines in the king's courts are
frequently denominated ransoms, because the penalty must otherwise fall upon a man's person,
unless it be redeemed or ransomed by a pecuniary fine."   Tomlin's Law Dict., word Fine. 

[22] Because juries were to fix the sentence, it must not be supposed that the king was obliged
to carry the sentence into execution; but only that he could not go beyond the sentence. He
might pardon, or he might acquit on grounds of law, not  withstanding the sentence; but he
could not punish beyond the extent of the sentence. Magna Carta does not prescribe that the
king shall punish according to the sentence of the peers; but only that he shall not punish
"unless according to" that sentence. He may acquit or pardon, notwithstanding their sentence
or judgment; but he cannot punish, except according to their judgment. 

[23] The trial by battle was one in which the accused challenged his accuser to single combat,
and staked tbe question of his guilt or innocence on the result of the duel. This trial was
introduced into England by the Normans, within one hundred and fifty years before Magna Carta.
It was not very often resorted to even by the Normans themselves; probably never by the Anglo-Saxons,
unless in their controversies with the Normans. It was strongly discouraged by some of the
Norman princes, particularly by Henry II., by whom the trial by jury was especially favored.
It is probable that the trial by battle, so far as it prevailed at all in England, was rather
tolerated as a matter of chivalry, than authorized as a matter of law. At any rate, it is not
likely that it was included in the "legem terrae" of Magna Carta, although such duels have
occasionally occurred since that time, and have, by some, been supposed to be lawful. I apprehend
that nothing can be properly said to be a part of lex terrae, unless it can be shown either
to have been of Saxon origin, or to have been recognized by Magna Carta. 

The trial by ordeal was of various kinds. In one ordeal the accused was required to take hot
iron in his hand; in another to walk blindfold among red-hot ploughshares; in another to thrust
his arm into boiling water; in another to be thrown, with his hands and feet bound, into cold
water; in another to swallow the morsel of execration; in the confidence that his guilt or
innocence would be miraculously made known. This mode of trial was nearly extinct at the time
of Magna Carta, and it is not likely that it was included in "legem terrae," as that term is
used in that instrument. This idea is corroborated by the fact that the trial by ordeal was
specially prohibited only four years after Magna Carta, "by act of Parliament in 3 Henry III.,
according to Sir Edward Coke, or rather by an order of the king in council."   3 Blacks,one
345, note. 

I apprehend that this trial was never forced upon accused persons, but was only allowed to
them, as an appeal to God, from the judgment of a jury. [24] 

The trial by compurgators was one in which, if the accused could bring twelve of his neighbors,
who would make oath that they believed him innocent, he was held to be so. It is probable that
this trial was really the trial by jury, or was allowed as an appeal from a jury. It is wholly
improbable that two diferent modes of trial, so nearly resembling each other as this and the
trial by jury do, should prevail at the same time, and among a rude people, whose judicial
proceedings would naturally be of the simplest kind. But if this trial really were any other
than the trial by jury, it must have been nearly or quite extinct at the time of Magna Carta;
and there is no probability that it was included in "legem terrae." 

[24] Hallam says, "It appears as if the ordeal were permitted to persons already convicted
by the verdict of a jury."   2 Middle Ages, 446, note. 

[25] Coke attempts to show that there is a distinction between amercements and fines   admitting
that amercements must be fixed by one's peers, but, claiming that, fines may be fixed by the
government. (2 Inst. 27, 8 Coke's Reports 38) But there seems to have been no ground whatever
for supposing that any such distinction existed at the time of Magna Carta. If there were any
such distinction in the time of Coke, it had doubtless grown up within the four centuries that
had elapsed since Magna Carta, and is to be set down as one of the numberless inventions of
government for getting rid of the restraints of Magna Carta, and for taking men out of the
protection of their peers, and subjecting them to such punishments as the government chooses
to inflict. 

The first statute of Westminster, passed sixty years after Magna Carta, treats the fine and
amercement as synonymous, as follows. 

"Forasmuch as the common fine and amercement of the whole county in Eyre of the justices for
false judgments, or for other trespass, is unjustly assessed by sheriffs and baretors in the
shires, * * it is provided, and the king wills, that frown henceforth such sums shall be assessed
before the justices in Eyre, afore their departure, by the oath of knights and other honest
men," &c.   3 Edward I., Ch. 18. (1275) 

And in many other statutes passed after Magna Carta, the terms fine and amercement seem to
be used indifferently, in prescribing the punishments for offences. As late as 1461, (246 years
after Magna Carta,) the statute 1 Edward IV., Ch 2, speaks of "fines., ransoms, and amerciaments"
as being levied upon criminals, as if they were the common punishments of offences.

St. 2 and 3 Philip and Mary, Ch 8, uses the terms, "fines, forfeitures, and amerciaments" five
times. (1555)

St. 5 Elizabeth, Ch. 13, Sec. 10, uses the terms "fines, forfeitures, and amerciaments."

That amercements were fines, or pecuniary punishments, inflicted for offences, is proved by
the following statutes, (all supposed to have been passed within one hundred and fifteen years
after Magna Cart,) which speak of amercements as a species of "judgment," or punishment, and
as being inflicted for the same offences as other "judgments." 6 provides that "if a brewer
break the assize, (fixing the price of ale,) the first, second, and third time, he shall be
amerced; but the fourth time he shall suffer judgment of the pillory without redemption." 

Chap. 7 provides that "a butcher that selleth swine's flesh measeled, or flesh dead of the
murrain, or that buyeth flesh of Jews, and selleth the same unto Christians, after he shall
be convict thereof, for the first time he shall be grievously amerced; the second time he shall
suffer judgment of the pillory; and the third time he shall be imprisoned and make fine; and
the fourth time he shall forswear the town." 

Chap. And this judgment shall be given upon all manner of forestallers, and likewise upon them
that have given them counsel, help, or favor."   1 Ruffheads Statutes, 187, 188. 1 Statutes
of the Realm, 203. 

[26] 1 Hume, Appendix, l. 

[27] Blackstone says, "Our ancient Saxon laws nominally punished theft with death, if above
the value of twelve pence; but the criminal was permitted to redeem his life by a pecuniary
ransom, as among their ancestors, the Germans, by a stated number of cattle. Bit in the ninth
year of Henry the First (1109,) this power of redemption was taken away, and all persons guilty
of larceny above the value off twelve pence were directed to be hanged, which law continues
in force to this day."   4 Blackstone, 238 

I give this statement of Blackstone, because the latter clause may seem to militate with the
idea, which the former clause corroborates, viz., that at the time of Magna Carta, fines were
the usual punishment of offenses. But I think there is no probability that a law so unreasonable
in itself, (unreasonable even after making all allowance for the difference in the value of
money,) and so contrary to immemorial custom, could and did obtain any general or speedy acquiescence
among a people who cared little for the authority of kings. 

Maddox, writing of the period from William the Conqueror to John, says: "The amercement in
criminal and common pleas, which were wont to be imposed during this first period and afterwards,
were of so many several sorts, that it is not easy to place them under distinct heads. Let
them, for methods' sake, be reduced to the heads following: Amercements for or by reason of
murders and manslaughters, for misdemeanors, for disseisins, for recreancy, for breach of assize,
for defaults, for non-appearance, for false judgment, and for not making suit, or hue and cry.
To them may be added miscellaneous amercements, for trespasses of divers kinds."   1 Maddox'
History of the Exchequer, 542. 

[28] Coke, in his exposition of the words legem terrae, gives quite in detail the principles
of the common law governing arrests, and takes it for granted that the words "nisi per legem
terre" are applicable to arrests, as well as to the indictment, &c.   2 inst., 51, 52. 

[29] I cite the above extract from Mr. Hallam solely for the sake of his authority for rendering
the word vel by and; and not by any means for the purpose of indorsing the opinion he suggests,
that legem terrae authorized "judgments by default or demurrer,*' without the intervention
of a jury. He seems to imagine that lex terrae, the common law, at the time of Magna Carta,
included everything, even to the practice of courts, that is, at this day, called by the name
of Common Law; whereas much of what is now called Common Law has grown up, by usurpation, since
the time of Magna Carta, in palpable violation of the authority of that charter. He says, "Certainly
there are many legal procedures, besides trial by jury, through which a party's goods or person
may be taken." Of course there are now many such ways, in which a party's goods or person are
taken, besides by the judgment of a jury; but the question is, whether such takings are not
in violation of Magna Carta. 

He seems to think that, in cases of "judgment by default or demurrer," there is no need of
a jury, and thence to infer that legem terrae may not have required a jury in those cases.
But this opinion is founded on the erroneous idea that juries are required only for determining
contested facts, and not for judging of the law. In case of default, the plaintif must present
a prima facie case before he is entitled to a judgment; and Magna Carta, (supposing it to require
a jury trial in civil cases, as Mr. Hallam assumes that it does,) as much requires that this
prima facie case, both law and fact, be made out to the satisfaction of a jury, as it does
that a contested case shall be. 

As for a demurrer, the jury must try a demurrer (having the advice and assistance of the court,
of course) as much as any other matter of law arising in a case. 

Mr. Hallam evidently thinks there is no use for a jury, except where there is a "trial"   meaning
thereby a contest on matters of fact. His language is, that "there are many legal procedures,
besides trial by jury, through which a party's goods or person may be taken." Now Magna Carta
says nothing of trial by jury; but only of the judgment, or sentence, of a jury. It is only
by inference that we come to the conclusion that there must be a trial by jury. Since the jury
alone can give the judgment, or sentence, we infer that they must try the case; because otherwise
they would be incompetent, and would have no moral right, to give judgment. They must, therefore,
examine the grounds, (both of law and fact,) or rather try the grounds, of every action whatsoever,
whether it be decided on "default, demurrer," or otherwise, and render their judgment, or sentence,
thereon, before any judgment can be a legal one, on which "to take a party's goods or person."
In short, the principle of Magna Carta is, that no judgment can be valid against a party's
goods or person, (not even a judgment for costs,) except a judgment rendered by a jury. Of
course a jury must try every question, both of law and fact, that is involved in the rendering
of that judgment. They are to have the assistance and advice of the judges, so far as they
desire them; but the judgment itself must be theirs, and not the judgment of the court. 

As to "process of attachment for contempt," it is of course lawful for a judge, in his character
of a peace officer, to issue a warrant for the arrest of a man guilty of a contempt, as he
would for the arrest of any other offender, and hold him to bail, (or, in default of bail,
commit him to prison,) to answer for his offence before a jury. Or he may order him into custody
without a warrant when the offence is committed in the judge's presence. 

But there is no reason why a judge should have the power of punishing, for contempt, any more
than for any other offence. And it is one of the most dangerous powers a judge can have, because
it gives him absolute authority in a court of justice, and enables him to tyrannize as he pleases
over parties, counsel, witnesses, and jurors. If a judge have power to punish for contempt,
and to determine for himself what is a contempt, the whole administration  of justice (or injustice,
if he choose to make it so) is in his hands.  And all the rights of jurors, witnesses, counsel,
and parties, are  held subject to his pleasure, and can be exercised only agreeably  to his
will. He can of course control the entire proceedings in,  and consequently the decision of,
every cause, by restraining and  punishing every one, whether party, counsel, witness, or juror,
who presumes to offer anything contrary to his pleasure.  

This arbitrary power, which has been usurped and exercised by judges to punish for contempt,
has undoubtedly had much to do in subduing counsel into those servile, obsequious, and cowardly
habits, which so universally prevail among them, and which have not only cost so many clients
their rights, but have also cost the people so many of their liberties. 

If any summary, punishment for contempt be ever necessary, (as it probably is not,) beyond
exclusion for the time being from the court-room, (which should be done, not as a punishment,
but for self-protection, and the preservation of order,) the judgment for it should be given
by the jury, (where the trial is before a jury,) and not by the court, for the jury, and not
the court, are really the judges. For the same reason, exclusion from the court-room should
be ordered only by the jury, in cases when the trial is before a jury, because they, being
the real judges and triers of the cause, are entitled, if anybody, to the control of the court-room.
In appeal courts, where no juries sit, it may be necessary   not as a punishment, but for self-protection,
and the maintenance of order   that the court should exercise the power of excluding a person,
for the time being, from the court-room; but there is no reason why they should proceed to
sentence him as a criminal, without his being tried by a jury. 

If the people wish to have their rights respected and protected in courts of justice, it is
manifestly of the last importance that they jealously guard the liberty of parties, counsel,
witnesses, and jurors, against all arbitrary power on the part of the court. 

Certainly Mr. Hallam may very well say that "one may doubt whether these (the several eases
he has mentioned) were in contemplation of the framers of Magna Carta "  that is, as exceptions
to the rule requiring that all judgmcnts, that are to be enforced "against a party's goods
or person,", be rendered by a jury. 

Again, Mr. Hallam says, if the word vel, be rendered by and,, "the meaning will be, that no
person shall be disseized, &c., except upon a lawful cause of action.", This is true; but it
does not follow that any cause of action, founded on statute only,, is therefore a "lawful,
cause of action," within the meaning of legem terrae, , or the Common Law., Within the meaning
of the legem terrae, of Magna Carta, nothing but a common law, cause of action is a "lawful", one. 

CHAPTER III. ADDITIONAL PROOFS OF THE RIGHTS AND  DUTIES OF JURORS

If any evidence, extraneous to the history and language of Magna Carta, were needed. to prove
that, by that chapter which guaranties the trial by jury, all was meant that has now been ascribed
to it, and that the legislation of the king was to be of no authority with the jury beyond
what they chose to allow to it, and that the juries were to limit the punishments to be inflicted,
we should find that evidence in various sources, such as the laws,  customs, and characters
of their ancestors on the continent, and  of the northern Europeans generally; in the legislation
and customs  that immediately succeeded Magna Carta; in the oaths that have  at different times
been administered to jurors, &c;., &c;. This  evidence can be exhibited here but partially.
To give it all would  require too much space and labor

SECTION I

Weakness of the Regal Authority.

Hughes, in his preface to his translation of Horne's "Mirror of Justices," (a book written
in the time of Edward I, 1272 to 1307,) giving a concise view of the laws of England generally,
says:

"Although in the Saxon's time I find the usual words of the acts then to have been edictum,
(edict,) constitutio, (statute,) little mention being made of the commons, yet I further find
that, tum demum Leges vim et vigorem habuerunt, cum fuerunt non modo institutae sed firmatae
approbatione communitatis." (The laws had force and vigor only when they were not only enacted,
but confirmed by the approval of the community.)

The Mirror of Justices itself also says, (ch. 1, sec. 3,) in speaking "Of the first Constitutions
of the Ancient King."

"Many ordinances were made by many kings, until the time of the king that now is (Edward I.);
the which ordinances were abused, or not used by many, nor very current, because they were
not put in writing, and certainly published."   Mirror of Justices, p. 6.

Hallam says:

"The Franks, Lombards, and Saxons seem alike to have been jealous of judicial authority; and
averse to surrendering what concerned every man's private right, out of the hands of his neighbors
and equals."   1 Middle Ages, 271.

The "judicial authority," here spoken of, was the authority of the kings, (who at that time
united the office of both legislators and judges,), and not of a separate department of government,
called the judiciary, like what has existed in more modern times.   1 Hume, Appendix, l.

Stuart says:

"The Saxons brought along with them into Britain their own customs, language, and civil institutions.
Free in Germany, they renounced not their independence, when they had conquered. Proud from
victory, and with their swords in their hands, would  they surrender their liberties to a private
man? Would temporary laders, limited in their powers, and unprovided in resources, ever think
to usurp an authority over warriors, who considered themselves as their equals, were impatient
of control, and attached with devoted zeal to their privileges? Or, would they find leisure
to form resolutions, or opportunities to put them in practice, amidst the tumult and confusion
of those fierce and bloody wars, which their nations first waged with the Britons, and then
engaged in among themselves? Sufficiently flattered in leading the armies of their countrymen,
the ambition of commanders could as little suggest such designs, as the liberty of the people
could submit to them. The conquerors of Britain retained their independence; and this island
saw itself again in that free state in which the Roman arms had discovered it.

"The same firmness of character, and generosity of manners, which, in general, distinguished
the Germans, were possessed in an eminent degree by the Saxons; and while we endeavor to unfold
their political institutions, we must perpetually turn our observation to that masterly picture
in which the Roman historian has described these nations. In the woods of Germany shall we
find the principles which directed the state of land, in the different kingdoms of Europe;
and there shall we find the foundation of those ranks of men, and of those civil arrangements,
which the barbarians everywhere established; and which the English alone have had the good
fortune, or the spirit, to preserve."   Stuart on the Constitution of england, p. 59 - 61.

"Kings they (the Germans) respected as the first magistrates of the state; but the authority
possessed by them was narrow and limited."   Ditto, p. 134.

"Did he, (the king,) at any time, relax his activity and martial ardor, did he employ his abilities
to the prejudice of his nation, or fancy he was superior to the laws; the same power which
raised him to honor, humbled and degraded him. The  customs and councils of his country pointed
out to him his  duty; and if he infringed on the former, or disobeyed the latter,  a fierce
people set aside his authority. 

"His long hair was the only ornament he affected, and to be  foremost to attack an enemy was
his chief distinction.  Engaged in every hazardous expedition, he was a stranger to  repose;
and, rivalled by half the heroes of his tribe, he could  obtain little power. Anxious and watchful
for the public  interest, he felt every moment his dependence, and gave proofs of his suhmission.

"He attended the general assembly of his nation, and was allowed the privilege to harangue
it first; but the arts of persuasion, though known and respected by a rude people, were unequally
opposed to the prejudices and passions of men."   Ditto, p. 135 - 6.

"The authority of a Saxon mnarch was not more considerable. The Saxons submitted not to the
arbitrary rule of princes. They administered an oath to their sovereigns, which bound them
to aeknowledge the laws, and to defend the rights of the church and people; and if they forgot
this obligation, they forfeited their office. In both countries, a price was affixed on kings,
a fine expiated their murder, as well as that of the meanest citizen; and the smallest violation
of ancient usage,or the least step towards tyranny, was always dangerous, and often fatal to
them."   Ditto, p. 189-40.

"They were not allowed to impose taxes on the kingdom."   Ditto, p. 146.

"Like the German monarchs, they deliberated in the general assembly of the nation; but their
legislative authority was not much respected; and their assent was considered in no better
light than as a form. This, however, was their chief prerogative; and they employed it to acquire
an ascendant in the state. To art and insinuation they turned, as their only resource, and
flattered a people whom they could not awe; but address, and the abilities to persuade, were
a weak compensation for the absence of real power.

"They declared war, it is said, and made peace. In both cases, however, they acted as the instruments
of the state, and put in execution the resolutions which its councils had decreed. If, indeed,
an enemy had invaded the kingdoms, and its glory and its safety were concerned, the great lords
took the field at the call of their sovereign. But had a sovereign declared war against a neighboring
state, without requiring their advice, or if he meant to revenge by arms an insult offered
to him by a subject, a haughty and independent nobility refused their assistance. These they
considered as the quarrels of the king, and not of the nation; and in all such emergencies
he could only be assisted by his retainers and dependents."   Ditto, p. 147   8.

"Nor must we imagine that the Saxon, any more than the German monarchs, succeeded each other
in a lineal descent, [2] or that they disposed of the crown at their pleasure. In both countries,
the free election of the people filled the throne; and their choice was the only rule by which
princes reigned. The succession, accordingly, of their kings was often broken and interrupted,
and their depositions were frequent and groundless. The will of a prince whom they had long
respected, and the favor they naturally transferred to his descendant, made them often advance
him to the royal dignity; but the crown of his ancestor he cnsidered as the gift of the people,
and neither expected nor claimed it as a right."   Ditto, p. 151   3.

In Germany "It was the business of the great to command in war, and in peace they distributed
justice.

"The princes in Germany were earls in England. The great contended in both countries in the
number of their retainers, and in that splendor and magnificence which are so alluring to a
rude people; and though they joined to set bounds to regal power, they were often animated
against each other with the fiercest hatred. To a proud and impatient nobility it seemed little
and unsuiting to give or accept compositions for the injuries they committed or received; and
their vassals adopting their resentment and passions, war and bloodshed alone could terminate
their quarrels. What necessarily resulted from their situation in society, was continued as
a privilege; and the great, in both countries, made war, of their private authority, on their
enemies. The Saxon earls even carried their arms against their sovereigns; and, surrounded
with retainers, or secure in fortresses and castles, they despised their resentment, and defied
their power.

"The judges of the people, they presided in both countries in courts of law. [3] The particular
districts over which they exerted their authority were marked out in Germany by the council
of the state; and in England their jurisdiction extended over the fiefs and other territories
they possessed. All causes, both civil and criminal, were tried before them; and they judged,
except in cases of the utmost importance, without appeal. They were even allowed to grant pardon
to criminals, and to correct by their clemency the rigors of justice.  Nor did the sovereign
exercise any authority in their lands. In these his officers formed no courts, and his writ
was disregarded.

"They had officers, as well as the king, who collected their revenues, and added to their greatness;
and the inhabitants of their lands they distinguished by the name of subjects.

"But to attend the general assembly of their nation was the chief prerogative of the German
and Saxon princes; and as they consulted the interest of their country, and eliberated concerning
matters of state, so in the king's court, of which also they were members, they assisted to
pronounce judgment in the complaints and appeals which were lodged in it."   Ditto, p. 158 to 165.

Henry says:

"Nothing can be more evident than this important truth; that our Anglo-Saxon kings were not
absolute monarchs; but that their powers and prerogatives were limited by the laws and customs
of the country. Our Saxon ancestors had been governed by limited monarchs in their native seats
on the continent; and there is not the least appearance or probability that they relinquished
their liberties, and submitted to absolute government in their new settlements in this island.
It is not to be imagined that men, whose reigning passion was the love of liberty, would willingly
resign it; and their new sovereigns, who had been their fellow-soldiers, had certainly no power
to compel them to such a resignation."   3 Henry's History of Great Britain, 358.

Mackintosh says:"The Saxon chiefs, who were called. kings, originally acquired power by the
same natural causes which have gradually, and everywhere, raised a few men above their fellows.
They were, doubtless, more experienced, more skillful, more brave, or more beautiful, than
those who followed them. * * A king was powerful in war by the lustre of his arms, and the
obvious necessity of obedience. His influence in peace fluctuated with his personal character.
In the progress of usage his power became more fixed and more limited. * * It would be very
unreasonable to suppose that the northern Germans who had conquered England, had so far changed
their characteristic habits from the age of Tacitus, that the victors became slaves, and that
their generals were converted into tyrants."   Mackintosh's Hist. of England, Ch. 2. 45 Lardner's
Cab. Cyc., 73-4.

Rapin, in his discourse on the "Origin and Nature of the English Constitution," says:

"There are but two things the Saxons did not think proper to trust their kings with; for being
of like passions with other men, they might very possibly abuse them; namely, the power of
changing the laws enacted by consent of king and people; and the power of raising taxes at
pleasure.From these two articles sprung numberless branches concerning the liberty and property
of the subject, which the king cannot touch, without breaking the constitution, and they are
the distinguishing character of the English monarchy. The prerogatives of the crown, and the
rights and privileges of the people, flowing from the two fore-mentioned articles, are the
ground of all the laws that from time to time have been made by unanimous consent of king and
people. The English government consists in the strict union of the king's prerogatives with
the people's liberties. * * But when kings arose, as some there were, that aimed at absolute
power, by changing the old, and making new laws, at pleasure; by imposing illegal taxes on
the people; this excellent government being, in a manner, dissolved by these destructive measures,
confusion and civil wars ensued, which some very wrongfully ascribe to the fickle and restless
temper of the English."   Rapin's Preface to his History of England.

Hallam says that among the Saxons, "the royal authority was weak."   2 Middle Ages, 403.

But although the king himself had so little authority, that it cannot be supposed for a moment
that his laws were regarded as imperative by the people, it has nevertheless been claimed,
in modern times, by some who seem determined to find or make a precedent for the present legislative
authority of parliament, that his laws were authoritative, when assented to by the Witena -
gemote, or assembly of wise men   that is, the bishops and barons. But this assembly evidently
had no legislative power , whatever. The king would occasionally invite the bishops and barons
to meet him for consultation on public affairs, simply as a council, and not as a legislative
body. Such as saw fit to attend, did so. If they were agreed upon what ought to be done, the
king would pass a law accordingly, and the barons and bishops would then return and inform
the people orally what laws had been passed, and use their influence with them to induce them
to conform to the law of the king, and the recommendation of the council. ' And the people
no doubt were much more likely to accept a law of the king, if it had been approved by this
council, than if it had not. But it was still only a law of the king, which they obeyed or
disregarded according to their own notions of expediency. The numbers who usually attended
this council were too small to admit of the supposition that they had any legislative authority
whatever, to impose laws upon the people against their will.

Lingard says:

"It was necessary that the king should obtain the assent of these (the members o the Witena-gemotes)
to all legislative enactments; because, without their acquiescence and support, it was impossible
to carry them into execution. To many charters (laws) we have the signatures of the Witan.
They seldom exceed thirty in number; they never amount to sixty."   1 Lingard; 486.

It is ridiculous to suppose that the assent of such an assembly gave any authority to the laws
of the king, or had any influence in securing obedience to them, otherwise than by way of persuasion.
If this body had had any real legislative authority, such as is accorded to legislative bodies
of the present day, they would have made themselves at once the most conspicuous portion of
the government, and would have left behind them abundant evidence of their power, instead of
the evidence simply of their assent to  a few laws passed by the king.

More than this. If this body had had any real legislative authority, they would have constituted
an aristocracy, having, in conjunction with the king, absolute power over the people. Assembling
voluntarily, merely on the invitation of the king; deputed by nobody but themselves; representing
nobody but themselves; responsible to nobody but themselves; their legislative authority, if
they had had any, would of necessity have made the government the government of an aristocracy
merely, and the people slaves, of course. And this would  necessarily have been the picture
that history would have  given us of the Anglo-Saxon government, and of Anglo-Saxon  liberty.

The fact that the people had no representation in this assembly, and the further fact that,
through their juries alone, they nevertheless maintained that noble freedom, the very tradition
of which (after the substance of the thing itself has ceased to exist) has constituted the
greatest pride and glory of the nation to this day, prove that this assembly exercised no authority
which juries of the people acknowledged, except at their own discretion. [4]

There is not a more palpable truth, in the history of the Anglo-Saxon government, than that
stated in the Introduction to Gilbert's History of the Common Pleas, [5] viz.. "that the County
aud Hundred Courts," (to which should have been added the other courts in which juries sat,
the courts-baron and court-leet,) "in those times were the real and only Parliaments of the
kingdom." And why were they the real and only parliaments of the kingdom? Solely because, as
will be hereafter shown, the juries in those courts tried causes on their intrinsic merits,
according to their own ideas of justice, irrespective of the laws agreed upon by kings, priests,
and barons; and whatever principles they uniformly, or perhaps generally, enforced, and none
others, became practically the law of the land as matter of course. [6]

Finally, on this point. Conclusive proof that the legislation of the king was of little or
no authority, is found in the fact that the kings enacted so few laws. If their laws had been
received as authoritative, in the manner that legislative enactments are at this day, they
would have been making laws continually. Yet the codes of the most celebrated kings are very
small, and were little more than compilations of immemorial customs. The code of Alfred would
not fill twelve pages of the statute book of Massachusetts, and was little or nothing else
than a compilation of the laws of Moses, and the Saxon customs, evidently collected from considerations
of convenience, rather than enacted on the principle of authority.   1 Blackstone, 66. [7]

The Code of Wiliiam the Conqueror [8] would fill less than seven pages of the statute book
of Massachusetts; and most of the laws contained in it are taken from the laws of the preceding
kings, and especially of Edward the Confessor (whose laws William swore to observe); but few
of his own being added.

The codes of the other Saxon and Norman kings were, as a general rule, less voluminous even
than these that have been named; and probably did not exceed them in originality. [9] The Norman
princes, from William the Conqueror to John, I think without exception, bound themselves, and,
in order to mqintain their thrones, were obliged to bind themselves, to observe the ancient
laws and customs, in other words; the "lex terrae," or "common law" of the kingdom. Even Magna
Carta contains hardly anything other than this same "common law," with some new securities
for its observance.  

How is this abstinence from legislation, on the part of the ancient kings, to be accounted
for, except on the supposition that the people would accept, and juries enforce, few or no
new laws enacted by their kings? Plainly it can be accounted. for in no ether way. In fact,
all history informs us that anciently the attempts of the kings to introduce or establish new
laws, met with determined resistance from the people, and generally resulted in failure "Nolumus
Leges Angliae mutari" (we will that the laws of England be not changed,) was a determined principle
with the Anglo-Saxons, from which they seldom departed, up to the time of Magna Carta, and
indeed until long after. [10]

SECTION II

The Ancient Common Law Juries were mere Courts of Conscience.

But it is in the administration of justice, or of law, that the freedom or subjection of a
people is tested. If this administration be in accordance with the arbitrary will of the legislator
that is, if his will, as it appears in his statutes, be the highest rule of decision known
to the judicial tribunals,   the government is a despotism, and the people are slaves. If,
on the other hand, the rule of decision be these principles of natural equity and justice,
which constitute, or at least are embodied in, the general conscience of mankind, the people
are free in just so far as that conscience is enlightened.

That the authority of the king was of little weight with the judicial tribunals, must necessarily
be inferred from the fact already stated, that his authority over the people was but weak.
If the authority of his laws had been paramount in the judicial tribunals, it would have been
paramount with the people, of course; because they would have had no alternative but  submission.
The fact, then, that his laws were not authoritative with the people, is proof that they were
not authoritative with the tribunals   in other words, that they were not, as matter of course,
enforced by the tribunals.

But we have additional evidence that, up to the time of Magna Carta, the laws of the king were
not binding upon the judicial tribunals; and if they were not binding before that time, they
certainly were not afterwards, as has already been shown from Magna Carta itself. It is manifest
from all the accounts we have of the courts in which juries sat, prior to Magna Carta, such
as the court-baron, the hundred court, the court-leet, and the county court, that they were
mere courts of conscience, and that the juries were the judges, deciding causes according to
their own notions of equity, and not according to any laws of the king, unless they thought
them just.

These courts, it must be considered, were very numerous, and held very frequent sessions. There
were probably seven, eight, or nine hundred courts a month, in the kingdom; the object being,
as Blackstone says, "To bring justice home to every man's door." (3 Blackstone, 80.) The number
of the county courts, of course, corresponded to the number of counties, (36.) The court-leet
was the criminal court for a district less than a county. The hundred court was the court for
one of those districts anciently called a hundred, because, at the time of their first organization
for judicial purposes, they comprised, (as is supposed) but a hundred families. [11] The court-baron
was the court for a single manor, and there was a court for every manor in the kingdom. All
these courts were holden as often as once in three or five weeks; the county court once a month.
The king's judges were present at none of these courts; the only officers in attendance being
sheriffs bailiff's, and stewards, merely ministerial, and not judicial, officers; doubtless
incompetent, and, if not incompetent, untrustworthy, for giving the juries any reliable information
in matters of law, beyond what was already known to the jurors themselves.

And yet these were the courts, in which was done all the judicial business, both civil and
criminal, of the nation, except appeals,  and some of the more important and difficult cases.
[12] It is  plain that the juries, in these courts, must, of necessity, have  been  the sole
judges of all matters of law whatsoever; because  there was no one present, but sheriffs, bailiffs,
and stewards,  to give them any instructions; and surely it will not be pretended  that the
jurors were bound to take their law from such sources  as these.

In the second place, it is manifest that the principles of law,
by which the juries determined causes, were, as a general rule,
nothing else than their own ideas of natural equity, and not any
laws of the king; because but few laws were enacted, and many of
those were not written, but only agreed upon in council. [13] Of
those that werewritten, few copies only were made, (printing
being then unknown,) and not enough to supply a11, or any
considerable number, of these numerous courts. Beside and
beyond all this, few or none of the jurors could have read the laws, if
they had been written; because few or none of the common people
could, at thattime, read. Not only were the common people unable
to read their own language, but, at the time of Magna Carta, the
laws were written in Latin, a language that could be read by few
persons except the priests, who were also the lawyers of the
nation. Mackintosh says, "the first act of the House of Commons
composed and recorded in the English tongue," was in 1415, two
centuries after Magna Carta. [14]. Up to this time, and for some
seventy years later, the laws were generally written either in Latin 
or French; both languages incapable of being read by the common
 people, as well Normans as Saxons; and one of them, the Latin, 
 not only incapable of being read by them, but of beingeven 
understood when it was heard by them.

To suppose that the people were bound to obey, and juries to enforce, laws, many of which were
unwritten, none of which they could read, and the larger part of which (those written in Latin)
they could not translate, or understand when they heard them read, is equivalent to supposing
the nation sunk in the most degrading slavery, instead of enjoying a liberty of their own choosing.

Their knowledge of the laws passed by the king was, of course, derived only from oral information;
and the good laws,"as some of them were called, in contradistinction to others   those which
the people at large esteemed to be good laws   were doubtless enforced by the juries, and the
others, as a general thing, disregarded. [15]

That such was the nature of judicial proceedings, and of the power of juries, up to the time
of Magna Carta, is further shown by the following authorities.

"The sheriff's and bailiffs caused the free tenants of their bailiwics to meet at their counties
and hundreds; at which justice was so done, that every one so judged his neighbor by such judgment
as a man could not elsewhere receive in the like cases, until such times as the customs of
the realm were put in writing, and certainly published.

"And although a freeman commonly was not to serve (as a juror or judge) without his assent,
nevertheless it was assented unto that free tenants should meet together in the counties and
hundreds, and lords courts, if they were not specially exempted to do such suits, and there
judged their neighbors."   Mirror of Justices, p. 7, 8. 

Gilbert, in his treatise on the Constitution of England, says:

"In the county courts, if the debt was above forty shillings, there issued a justicies (a commission)
to the sheriff, to enable him to hold such a plea, where the suitors (jurors) are judges of
the law and fact."   Gilbert's Cases in Law and Equity, &c;., &c;., 456.

All the ancient writs, given in Glanville, for summoning jurors, indicate that the jurors judged
of everything, on their consciences only. The writs are in this form:

"Summon twelve free and legal men (or sometimes twelve knights) to be in court, prepared upon
their oaths to declare whether A or B have the greater right to the land {or other thing) in
question." See Writs in Beames' Glanville, p. 54 to 70, and 233   306 to 832.

Crabbe, speaking of the time of Henry I., (1100 to 1135,) recognizes the fact that the jurors
were the judges. He says:

"By one law, every one was to be tried by his peers, who were of the same neighborhood as himself.
* *By another law, the judges, for so the jury were called, were to be chosen by the party
impleaded, after the manner of the Danish nem-bas; by which, probably, is to be understood
that the defendant had the liberty of taking exceptions to, or challenging the jury, as it
was afterwards called."   Crabbe's History of the English Law, p. 55.

Reeve says:

"The great court for civil business was the county court; held once every four weeks. Here
the sheriff presided; but the suitors of the court, as they were called, that is, the freemen
or landholders of the county, were the judges; and the sheriff was to execute the judgment.

"The hundred court was held before some bailiff; the leet before the lord of the manor's steward.[16]

"Out of the county court was derived an inferior court of civil jurisdiction, called the court-baron.
This was held from three weeks to three weeks, and was in every respect like the county court;"
(that is, the jurors were judges in it;) "only the lord to whom this franchise was granted,
or his steward presided instead of the sheriff;"   1 Reeve's History of the English Law, p. T., 

Chief Baron Gilbert says:

"Besides the tenants of the king, which held per baroniam, (by the right of a baron,) and did
suit and service (served as judges) at his own court; and the burghers and tenants in ancient
demesne, that did suit and service (served as jurors or judges) in their own court in person),
and in the king's by proxy, there was also a set of freeholders, that did suit aud service
(served as jurors) at the county court. These were such as anciently held of the lord of the
county, and by the escheats of earldoms had fallen to the king; or such as were granted out
by service to hold of the king, but with particular reservation to do suit and service (serve
as jurors) before the kng's bailiff; because it was necessary the sheriff, or bailiff of the
king, should have suitors (jurors) at the county court, that the business might be despatched.
These suitors are the pares (peers) of the county court, and indeed the judges of it; as the
pares (peers) were the judges in every court-baron; and therefore the king's bailiff having
a court before him, there must be pares or judges, for the sheriff himself is not a judge;
and though the style of the court is Curia prima Comitatus E. C. Milit.' vicecom' Comitat'
praed' Tent' apud B., &c;. (First Court of the county, E. C. knight, sheriff of the aforesaid
county, held at B., &c;.); by which it appears that the court was the s1ieriff's; yet, by the
old feudal constititions, the lord was not judge, but the pares (peers) only; so that, even
in a justicies, which was a commission to the sheriff to hold plea of more than was allowed
hy the natural jurisdiction of a county court, the pares (peers, jurors) only were judges,
and not the sheriff; because it was to hold plea in the same manner as they used to do in that
(the lord's) court."   Gilbert on the Court of Exchequer, ch. 5.  61- 2.

"It is a distinguishing feature of the feudal system, to make civil jurisdiction necessarily,
and criminal jurisdiction ordinarily, coextensive with tenure; and accordingly there is inseparably
incident to every manor a court-baron (curia baronum), being a court in which the freeholders
of the manor are the sole judges, but in which the lord, by himself or more commonly by his
steward, presides."   Political Dictionary, word Manor.

The same work, speaking of the county court, says: "The judges were the freeholders who did
suit to the court." See word Courts.

"In the case of freeholders attending as suitors, the county court or court-baron., (as in
the case of the ancient tenants per baroniam attending Parliament,) the suitors are the judges
of the court, both for law and for fact, and the sheriff or the under sheriff in the county
court, and the lord or his steward in the court-baron, are only presiding officers, with no
judicial authority."   Political Dictionary, word Suit.

"Court, (curtis, curia aula); the space enclosed by the walls of a feudal residence, in which
the followers of a lord used to assemble in the middle ages, to administer justice, and decide
respecting affairs of common interest, &c;. It was next used for those who stood in immediate
connexion with the lord and master, the pares curiae, (peers of the court,) the limited portion
of the general assembly, to which was entrusted the pronouncing of judgment," &c;.  Encyclopedia
Americana, word Court.

"In court-barons or county courts the steward was not judge, but the pares (peers, jurors);
nor was the speaker in the House of Lords judge, but the barons only."   Gilbert on the Court
of Rxchequer, ch. 3, p. 42.

Crabbe, speaking of the Saxon times, says:

"The sheriff presided at the hundred court, * * and sometimes sat in the place of the alderman
(earl) in the county court."   Crabbe, 23.

The sheriff afterwards became the sole presiding officer of the county court.

Sir Thomas Smith, Secretary of State to queen Elizabeth, writing more than three hundred years
after Magna Carta, in describing the difference between the Civil Law and the English Law, says:

"Judex is of us called Judge, but our fashion is so divers, that they which give the deadly
stroke, and either condemn or acquit the man for guilty or not guilty, are not called judges,
but the twele men. And the same order as well in civil matters and pecuniary, as in matters
criminal."   Smith's Commonwealth of England, ch. 9, p. 53, Edition of 1621.

Court-Leet. "That the leet is the most ancient court in the land for criminal matters, (the
court-baron being of no less antiquity in civil,) has been pronounced by the highest legal
authority. * * Lord Mansfield states that this court was coeval with the establishment of the
Saxons here, and its activity marked very visibly both among the Saxons and Danes. * * The
leet is a court of record for the cognizance of criminal matters, or pleas of the crown; and
necessarily belongs to the king; though a subject, usually the lord of the manor, may be, and
is, entitled to the profits, consisting of the essoign pence, fines, and amerciaments

"It is held before the steward, or was, in ancient times, before the bailiff, of the lord."
Tomline's Law Dict., word Court-Leet.

Of course the jury were the judges in this court, where only a "steward" or "bailiff" of a
manor presided.   Gilbert's History of the Common Pleas, Introduction, p. 19.

"This position" (that " the matter of law was decided by the King's Justices, but the matter
of fact by the pares ") "is wholly  incompatible with the common law, for the Jurata ( jury)
were the sole judges both of the law and the fact."   Gilbert's History of the Common Pleas,
p. 70, note.

"We come now to the challenge: and of old the suitors in court, who were judge, could not he
challenged; nor by the feudal law could the pares be even challenged. Pares qui ordinariam
jurisdictionem habent recusari non possunt; (the peers who have ordinary jurisdiction cannot
be rejected;) "but those suitors who are judges of the court, could not be challenged; and
the reason is, that there are several qualifications required by the writ, viz., that they
be liberos et legales homines de vincineto (free and legal men of the neighborhood) of the
place laid in the declaration," &c;., &c;.   Ditto, p.93.

"Ad questionem juris non respondent Juratores." (To the question of law the jurors do not answer.)
"The Annotist says, that this is indeed a maxim in the Civil-Law Jurisprudence, but it does
not bind an English jury, for by the common law of theland the jury are the judges as well
of the matter of law, as of the fact, with this difference only, that the [a Saxon word] or
judge on the bench is to give them no assistance in determining the matter of fact, but if
they have any doubt among themselves relating to matter of law, they may then request him to
explain it to them, which when he hath done, and they are thus become well informed, they,
and they only, become competent judges of the  matter of law. And this is the province of the
judge on the bench,  namely, to show, or teach the law, but not to take upon him the  trial
of the delinquent, either in matter of fact or in matter of law." (Here various Saxon laws
are quoted.) "In neither of these fundamental laws is there the least word, hint, or idea,
that the earl or alderman (that is to say, the Prepositus (presiding officer) of the court,
which is tantamount to the judge on the bench) is to take upon him to judge the delinquent
in any sense whatever, the sole purport of his office is to teach the secular or worldly law."
Ditto, p. 57, note.

"The administration of justice was carefully provided for; it was not the caprice of their
lord, but the sentence of their peers, that they obeyed. Each was the judge of his equals,
and each by his equals was judged."   Introd. to Gilbert on Tenures, p. 12.

Hallam says:

"A respectable class of free socagers, having, in general, full  rights of alienating their
lands, and holding them probably at  a small certain rent from the lord of the manor, frequently
occur in Domes-day Book. * * They undoubtedly were suitors  to the court-baron of the lord,
to whose soc, or right of justice, they belonged. They where consequently judges in civil causes,
determined before the manorial tribunal."   2 Middle Ages, 481.

Stephens adopts as correct the following quotations from Blackstone: "The Court-Baron is a
court incident to every manor in the kingdom,  to be holden by the steward within the said
manor." * *

It "is a court of common law, and it is the court before the freeholders who owe suit and service
to the manor," (are bound to serve as jurors in the courts of the manor,) "the steward being
rather the registrar than the judge. * * The freeholders' court was composed of the lord's
tenants, who were the pares(equals) of each other, and were bound by their feudal tenure to
assist their lord in the dispensation of domestic justice. This was formerly held every three
weeks; and its most important business was to etermine, by writ of right, all controversies
relating to the right  of lands within the manor."   3 Stephens' Commentaries, 392  3.  3 Blackstone,
32-33.

"A Hundred Court is only a larger court-baron, being held for all the inhabitants of a particular
hundred, instead of a manor. The free suitors ( jurors) are here also the judges, and the steward
the register."   3 Stephens, 394. 3 Blackstone, 33.

"The County Court is a court incident to the jurisdiction of the sheriff. * * The freeholders
of the county are the real judges in this court, and the sheriff is the ministerial officer."
3 Stephens, 395   6. 3 Blackstone, 35-6.

Blackstone describes these courts, as courts "wherein injuries were redressed in an easy and
expeditious manner, by the suffrage of neighbors and friends."   3 Blackstone, 30.

"When we read of a certain number of freemen chosen by the parties to decide in a dispute 
all bound by oath to vote in foro conscientia   and that their decision, not the will of the
judge presiding, ended the suit, we at once perceive that a great improvement has been made
in the old form of compurgation   an improvement which impartial observation can have no hesitation
to pronounce as identical in its main features with the trial by jury."   Dunham's Middle Ages,
Sec. 2, B. 2, Ch. 1. 57 Lardner's Cab. Cyc., 60.

"The bishop and the earl or, in his absence, the gerefa, (sheriff,) and sometimes both the
earl and the gerefa, presided at the schyre-mote (county court); the gerefa (sheriff) usually
alone presided at the mote (meeting or court) of the hundred. In the cities and towns which
were not within any peculiar jurisdiction, there was held, at regular stated intervals, a burgh
mote, (borough court,) for the administration of justice, at which a gerefa, or a magistrate
appointed by the king, presided."   Spence's Origin of the Laws and Political Institutions
of Modern Europe, p. 444.

"The right of the plaintiff and defendant, and of the prosecutor and criminal, to challenge
the judices, (judges.) or assessors, [17] appointed to try the cause in civil matters, and
to decide upon the guilt or innocence of the accused in criminal matters, is recognized in
the treatise called the Laws of Henry the First; but I cannot discover, from the Anglo-Saxon
laws or histories, that before the Conquest the parties had any general right of challege;
indeed, had such right existed, the injunctions to all persons standing in the situation of
judges (jurors) to do right according to their conscience, would scarcely have been so frequently
and anxiously repeated."   Spence, 456. 

Hale says:

"The administration of the common justice of the kingdom seems to be wholly dispensed in the
county courts, hundred courts, and courts-baron; except some of the greater crimes reformed
by the laws of King Henry I., and that part thereof which was sometimes taken up by the Justitiarius
Angliae.

This doubtless bred great inconvenience, uncertainty, and variety in the laws, viz.:

"First, by the ignorance of the judges, which were the freeholders of the county.* * 

"Thirdly, a third inconvenience was, that all the business of any moment was carried by parties
and factions. For the freeholders being generally the judges, and conversing one among another,
and being as it were the chief judges, not only of the fact, but of the law; every man that
had a suit there, sped according as he could make parties."   1 Hale's History of the Common
Law, p. 246.

"In all these tribunals," (county court, hundred court, &c;..) "the judges were the free tenants,
owing suit to the court, and afterwards called its peers."   1 Lingard's History of England, 488.

Henry calls the twelve jurors "assessors," and says: "These assessors, who were in reality
judges, took a solemn oath, that they would faithfully discharge the duties of their office,
and not suffer an innocent man to be condemned, nor any guilty person to be acquitted."   3
Henry's History of Great Britain, 346.

Tyrre11 says:

"Alfred cantoned his kingdom, first into Trihings and Lathes, as they are still called in Kent
and other places, consisting of three or four Hundreds; in which, the freeholders being judges,
such causes were brought as could not be determined in the Hundred court."   Tyrrell's Introduction
to the History of England, p. 80.

Of the Hundred Court he says:

"In this court anciently, one of the principal inhabitants,
called the alderman, together with the barons of the Hundred [18] 
 id est the freeholders   was judge."   Ditto, p. 80.

Also he says:

"By a law of Edward the Elder, 'Every sheriff shall convene the people once a month, and do
equal right to all, putting an end to controversies at times appointed.'"   Ditto, p. 86. 

A statute, emphatically termed the ' Grand Assize,' enabled the defendant, if he thought proper,
to abide by the testimony of the twelve good and lawful knights, chosen by four others of the
vicinage, and whose oaths gave a final decision to the contested claim,."  1 Palgrave's Rise
and Progress of the English Commonwealth, 261.

"From the moment when the crown became accustomed to the 'Inquest,' a restraint was imposed
upon every branch of the prerogative. The king could never be informed of his rights, but through
the medium of the people. Every 'extent' by which he claimed the profits and advantages resulting
from the casualties of tenure, every process by which he repressed the usurpations of the baronage,
depended upon the 'good men and true' who were impaneled to 'pass' between the subject and
the sovereign; and the thunder of the Exchequer at Westminster might be silenced by the honesty,
the firmness, or the obstinacy, of one sturdy knight or yeoman in the distant shire.

Taxation was controlled in the same manner by the voice of those who were most liable to oppression.
* * A jury was impaneled to adjudge the proportion due to the sovereign; and this course was
not essentially varied, even after the right of granting aids to the crown was fully acknowledged
to be vested in the parliament of the realm. The people taxed themselves; and the collection
of the grants was checked and controlled, and, perhaps, in many instances evaded, by these
virtual representatives of the community.

The principle of the jury was, therefore, not confined to its mere application as a mode of
trying contested facts, whether in civil or criminal cases; and, both in its form and in its
consequences, it had a very material influence upon the general constitution of the realm.
* *The main-spring of the machinery of remedial justice existed in the franchise of the lower
and lowest orders of the political hierarchy. Without the suffrage of the yeoman, the burgess,
and the churl, the sovereign could not exercise the most important and most essential function
of royalty; from them he received the power of life and death; he could not wield the sword
of justice until the humblest of his subjects placed the weapon in his hand."   1 Palgrave's
Rise and Progress of the English Constitution, 274   7.

Coke says,

"The court of the county is no court of record, [19] and the suitors are the judges thereof."
4 Inst.) 266.

Also, "The court of the Hundred is no court of record, and the suitors be thereof judges."
4 Inst., 267.

Also, "The court-baron is a court incident to every manor, and is not of record, and the suitors
be thereof judges."   4 Inst., 268.

Also, "The court of ancient demesne is in the nature of a court-baron, wherein the suitors
are judges, and is no court of record."   4 Inst., 269.

Millar says,

"Some authors have thought that jurymen were originally  compurgators, called by a defendant
to swear that they believed him innocent of the facts with which he was charged. . . But .
. . compurgators  were merely witnesses; jurymen were, in reality, judges. The former were
called to confirm the oath of the party by swearing, according to their belief, that he had
told the truth, (in his oath of purgation;) the latter were appointed to try, by witnesses,
and by all other means of proof, whether he  was innocent or guilty. Juries were accustomed
to ascertain the truth of facts, by the defendant's oath of purgation, together with that of
his compurgators. . . Both of them (jurymen and compurgators) were obliged to swear that they
would tell truth. 

According to the simple idea of our forefathers, guilt or innocence 
was regarded as a mere matter  of fact; and it was thought that no 
man, who knew the real circumstances of a case, could be at a 
loss to determine whether the culprit ought to be condemned or 
 acquitted."   1 Millar's Hist. View of Eng. Gov., ch. 12, p. 332 - 4.

Also, "The same form  of procedure, which took place in the administration of justice among
the vassals of a barony, was gradually extended to the courts eld in the trading towns."  
Same, p. 335.

Also, "The same regulation, concerning the distribution of justice by the intervention of juries,
. . .were introduced into the baron courts of the king, as into those of the nobility, or such
of his subjects as retained their allodial property."   Same, p. 337.

Also, "This tribunal" (the aula regis, or king's court, afterwards  divided into the courts
of King's Bench, Common Pleas, and Exchequer) "was properly the ordinary baron-court of the
king; and, being in the same circumstances with the baron courts of the nobility, it was under
the same necessity of trying causes by the intervention of a jury."   Same, vol. 2, p. 292. 

Speaking of the times of Edward the First, (1272 to 1307,) Millar says:

"What is called the petty jury was therefore introduced into these tribunals, (the King's Bench,
the Common Pleas, and the Exhequer,) as well as into their anxiliary courts employed to distribute
justice in the circuits; and was thus rendered essentially necessary in determining causes
of every sort, whether civil, criminal, or fiscal."   Same, vol. 2, p. 293-4.

Also, "That this form of trial (by jury) obtained universally in all the feudal governments,
as well as in that of Eng-1and, there can be no reason to doubt. In France, in Germany, and
in other European countries, where we have any accounts of the constitution and procedure of
the feudal courts, it appears that lawsuits of every sort concerning the freemen or vassals
of a barony, were determined by the pares curiae (peers of the court;) and that the judge took
little more upon him than to regulate the method of proceeding, or to declare the verdict of
the jury."   Same, vol. 1, ch. 12, p. 329.

Also, "Among the Gothic nations of modern Europe, the custom of deciding lawsuits by a jury
seems to have prevailed universally; first in the allodial courts of the county, or of the
hundred, and afterwards in the baron-courts of every feudal superior."   Same, vol. 2, p. 296.

Palgrave says that in Germany "The Graff (gerefa, sheriff) placed himself in the seat of judgment,
and gave the charge to the assembled free Echevins, warning them to pronounce judgment according
to right and justice."   2 Palgrave, 147.

Also, that, in Germany, "The Echevins were composed of the villanage, somewhat obscured in
their functions by the learning of the grave civilian who was associated to them, and somewhat
limited by the encroachments of modern feudality; but they were still substantially the judges
of the court."   Same, 148.

Palgrave also says, "Scotland, in like manner, had the laws of Burlaw, or Birlaw, which were
made and determined by the neighbors, elected by common consent, in the Burlaw or Birlaw courts,
wherein knowledge was taken of complaints between neighbor and neighbor, which men, so chosen,
were judges and arbitrators, and called Birlaw men."   1 Palgrave's Rise, &c;., p. 80.

But, in order to understand the common law trial by jury, as it existed prior to Magna Carta,
and as it, was guaranteed. by that instrument, it is perhaps indispensable to understand more
fully the nature of the courts in which juries sat, and the extent of the powers exercised
by juries in those courts. I therefore give in a note extended extracts, on these points, from
Stuart on the Constitution of England, and from Blackstone's Commentaries. [20]

That all these courts were mere courts of conscience, in which the juries were sole judges,
administering justice according to their own ideas of it, is not only shown by the extracts
already given, but is explicitly acknowledged in the following one, in which the modern "courts
of conscience" are compared with the ancient hundred and county courts, and the preference
given to the latter, on the ground that the duties of the jurors in the one case, and of the
commissioners in the other,  are the same, and that the consciences of a jury are  a safer
and purer  tribunal than the consciences of individuals specially appointed, and holding permanent
offices.

"But there is one species of courts constituted by act of Parliament, in the city of London,
and other trading and populous districts, which, in their proceedings, so vary from the course
of the common law, that they deserve a more particular consideration. I mean the court of requests,
or courts of conscience, for the recovery of small debts. The first of these was established
in London so early as the reign of Henry VIII., by an act of their common council; which, however,
was certainly insufficient for that purpose, and illegal, till confirmed by statute 3 Jac.
I., ch. 15, which has since been explained and amended by statute 14 Geo. II., ch. 10. The
constitution is this: two aldermen and four commoners sit twice a week to hear all causes of
debt not exceeding the value of forty shillings; which they examine in a summary way, by the
oath of the parties or other witnesses, and make such order therein as is consonant to equity
and good conscience.i * *  * Divers trading towns and other districts have obtained acts of
Parliament, for establishing in them courts of conscience upon nearly the same plan as that
in the city of London.

"The anxious desire that has been shown to obtain these several acts, proves clearly that the
nation, ingeneral, is truly sensible of the great inconvenience arising from the disuse of
the ancient county and hundred courts, wherein causes of this small value were always formerly
decided with very little trouble and expense to the parties. But it is to be feared that the
general remedy, which of late hath been principally applied to this inconvenience, (the erecting
these new jurisdictions,) may itself be attended in time with very ill consequences; as the
method of proceeding therein is entirely in derogation of the common law; and their large discretionary
powers create a petty tyranny in a set of standing commissioners; and as the disuse of the
trial by jury may tend to estrange the minds of the people from that valuable prerogative of
Englishmen, which has already been more than sufficiently excluded in many instances. How much
rather is it to be wished that the proceedings in the county  and hundred courts could be again
revived, without burdening  the freeholders with too frequent and tedious attendances; and
at the same time removing the delays that have insensibly crept  into their proceedings, and
the power that either party has of transferring at pleasure their suits to the courts at Westminster!
And we may, with satisfaction, observe, that this experiment has  been actually tried, and
has succeeded in the populous county of  Middlesex, which might serve as an example for others.
For by  statute 23 Geo. II., ch. 33, it is enacted:

1. That a special county court shall be held at least once in a month, in every hundred of
the county of Middlesex, by the county clerk.

2. That twelve freeholders of that hundred, qualified to serve on juries, and struck by the
sheriff, shall be summoned to appear at such court by rotation; so as none shall be summoned
oftener than once a year.

3. That in all causes not exceeding the value of forty shillings, the county clerk and twelve
suitors (jurors) shll proceed in a summary way, examining the parties and witnesses on oath,
without the formal process anciently used; and shall make  such order therein as they shall
judge agreeable to conscience."  3 Blackstone, 81   83.

What are these but courts of conscience? And yet Blackstone tells us they are a revival of
the ancient hundred and county courts. And what does this fact prove, but that the ancient
common law courts, in which juries sat, were mere courts of conscience? It is perfectly evident
that in all these courts the jurors were the judges, and determined all questions of law for
themselves; because the only alternative to that supposition is, that the jurors took their
law from sheriffs, bailiffs, and stewards, of which there is not the least evidence in history,
nor the least probability in reason. It is evident, also, that they judged independently of
the laws of the king, for the reasons before given, viz., that the authority of the king was
held in very, little esteem; and, secondly, that the laws of the king (not being printed, and
the people being unable to read them if they had been printed) must have been in a great measure
unknown to them, and could have been received by them only on the authority of the sheriff,
bailiff; or steward. If laws were to be received by them on the authority of these officers,
the latter would have imposed such laws upon the people as they pleased.

These courts, that have now been described, were continued in full power long after Magna Carta,
no alteration being made in them by that instrument, nor in the mode of administering justice
in them.

There is no evidence whatever, so far as I am aware, that the juries had any less power in
the courts held by the king's justices, than in those held by sheriffs, bailiff, and stewards;
and there is no probability whatever that they had. All the difference between the former courts
and the latter undoubtedly was, that, in the former, the juries had the benefit of the advice
and assistance of the justices, which would, of course, be considered valuable in difficult
cases, on account of the justices being regarded as more learned, not only in the laws of the
king, but also in the common law, or "law of the land."

The conclusion, therefore, I think, inevitably must be, that neither the laws of the king,
nor the instructions of his justices, had any authority over jurors beyond what the latter
saw fit to accord to them. And this view is confirmed by this remark of Hallam, the truth of
which all will acknowledge:

"The rules of legal decision, among a rude people, are always very simple; not serving much
to guide, far less to control the feelings of natural equity."   2 Middle Ages, ch. 8, part
2, p. 465.

It is evident that it was in this way, by the free and concurrent judgments of juries, approving
and enforcing certain laws and rules of conduct, corresponding to their notions of right and
justice, that the laws and customs, which, for the most part, made up the common law, and were
called, at that day, "the  good laws, and good customs," and "the law of the land," were established.

The fact that, in that dark age, so many of the principles of natural equity, as those then
embraced in the Common Law, should have been so uniformly recognized and enforced by juries,
as to have become established by general consent as "the law  of the land;" and the further
fact that this "law of the land" was  held so sacred that even the king could not lawfully
infringe or  alter it, but was required to swear to maintain it, are beautiful  and impressive
illustrations of the troth that men's minds, even  in the comparative infancy of other knowledge,
have clear and coincident ideas of the elementary principles, and the paramount obligation,
of justice. The same facts also prove that the common  mind, and the general, or, perhaps,
rather, the universal conscience, as developed in the untrammeled judgments of juries,  may
be safely relied upon for the preservation of individual rights  in civil society; and that
there is no necessity or excuse for that  deluge of  arbitrary legislation, with which the
present age is  overwhelmed,  under the pretext that unless laws be made, the  law will not
be  known; a pretext, by the way, almost universally  used for overturning, instead of establishing,
the principles of  justice. 

SECTION III. The Oaths of Jurors.

The oaths that have been administered to jurors, in England, and  which are their legal guide
to their duty, all (so far as I have ascertained them) corroborate the idea that the jurors
are to try  all cases on their intrinsic merits, independently of any laws that they deem unjust
or oppressive. It is probable that an oath  was never administered to a jury in England, either
in a civil or criminal case, to try it according to law. 

The earliest oath that I have found prescribed by law to be 
administered to jurors is in the laws of Ethelred, (about the
year 1015,) which require that the jurors "shall swear, with their 
hands upon a holy thing, that they will condemn no man that is
innocent, nor acquit any that is guilty."   4 Blackstone, 302.
 2 Turner's History of the Anglo-Saxons, 155 Wilkins' Laws of the
Anglo-Saxons, 117. Spelman's Glossary,  word Jurata.

Blackstone assumes that this was the oath of the grand jury  4 Blackstone, 302); but there
was but one jury at the time this  oath was ordained. The institution of two juries, grand
and petit,  took place after the Norman Conquest.   Hume, ch. 2.

By a law of Henry II., in 1164, it was directed that the sheriff  "faciet jurare duodecim legales
homines de vicineto seu de villa, quod inde veritatem secundum conscientiam suam  manifestabunt,"
(shall make twelve, legal men from the  neighborhood to swear that they will make known the
truth according to their conscience.)   Crabbe's History of the  English Law, 119. 1 Reeves,
87. Wilkins, 321   323.

Glanville, who wrote within the half century previous to  Magna Carta, says;

"Each of the knights summoned far this purpose (as jurors)  ought to swear that he will neither
utter that which is false, nor knowingly conceal the truth."   Beames' Glanville, 65.

Reeve calls the trial by jury "the trial by twelve men sworn  to speak the truth."   1 Reeve's
History of the English Law, 87.

The Mirror of Justices, (written within a century after  Magna Carta,) in the chapter on the
abuses of the Common  law, says:"It is abuse to use the words, to their knowledge, in their
oaths, to make the jurors speak upon thoughts, since  the chief words of their oaths be that
they speak the truth."   p. 249.

Smith, writing in the time of Elizabeth, says that, in civil suits,  the jury "be sworn to
declare the truth of that issue according to the evidence, and their conscience."   Smith's
Commonwealth  of England. edition of 1621, p. 73.

In criminal trials, he says:

"The clerk giveth the juror an oath to go uprightly betwixt the  prince and the prisoner."
Ditto, p. 90. [24]

Hale says:

"Then twelve, and no less, of such as are indifferent and are  returned upon the principal
panel, or the tales, are sworn to try  the same according to the evidence."   2 Hale's History
of the  Common Law, 141.

It appears from Blackstone that, even at this day, neither in  civil nor criminal cases, are
jurors in England sworn to try causes according to law. He says tht in civil suits the jury
are "Sworn well and truly to try the issue between the parties; and a true verdict to give
according to the evidence."   3 Blackstone, 365.

"The issue" to be tried is whether A owes B anything  and if so,  how much? or whether A has
in his possession anything that belongs to B; or whether A has wronged B, and ought to make
compensation; and if so, how much?  

No statute passed by a legislature, simply as a legislature, can alter  either of these "issues"
in hardly any conceivable case, perhaps in  none. No unjust law could ever alter them in any.
They are all mere questions of natural justice, which legislatures have no power to alter,
and with which they have no right to interfere, further than to provide for having them settled
by the most competent and impartial tribunal that it is practicable to have, and then for having
all just decisions  enforced. And any tribunal, whether judge or jury, that attempts to  try
these issues, has no more moral right to be swerved from the line of justice, by the will of
a legislature, than by the will of any other body of men whatever. And this oath does not require
or permit a jury to  be so swerved.

In criminal cases, Blackstone says the oath of the jury in England is:

"Well and truly to try, and true deliverance make, between our  sovereign lord, the king, and
the prisoner whom they have in charge, and a true verdict to give according to the evidence."
4 Blackstone, 355.

"The issue" to be tried, in a criminal case, is "guilty," or "not guilty." The laws passed
by a legislature can rarely, if ever, have anything to do with this issue. "Guilt" is an intrinsic
quality of actions, and can neither be created, destroyed, nor changed by legislation. And
no tribunal that attempts to try this issue can have any moral right to declare a man  guilty,
for an act that is intrinsically innocent, at the bidding of a legislature, any more than at
the bidding of anybody else. And this  oath does not require or permit a jury to do so.

The words, "according to the evidence," have doubtless been introduced into the above oaths
in modern times. They are unquestionably in  violation of the Common Law, and of Magna Carta,
if by them be meant such evidence only as the government sees fit ft allow to go to the jury.
If the government can dictate the evidence, and require the jury to decide according to that
evidence, it necessarily dictates the conclusion to which they must arrive. In that case the
trial is really a trial by the government, and not by the jury. The jury cannot try an issue,
unless they determine what evidence shall be admitted. The ancient oaths, it will be observed,
say nothing about "according to the evidence." They obviously take it for granted that the
jury try the whole case; and of course that they decide what evidence shall be admitted. It
would be intrinsically an immoral and criminal act for a jury to declare a man guilty, or to
declare that one man owed. money to another, unless all the evidence were admitted, which they
thought ought to be admitted, for ascertaining the truth. [25]

Grand Jury. If jurors are bound to enforce all laws passed by the legislature, it is a very
remarkable fact than the oath of grand juries does not require them to be governed by the laws
in finding indictments. There have been various forms of oath administered to grand jurors;
but by none of them that I recollect ever to have seen, except those of the States of Connecticut
and  Vermont, are they sworn to present men according to law. You shall present no person for
hatred or malice;  neither shall you leave any one unpresented for favor, or affection, for
love or gain, or any hopes thereof; but in all things you shall present the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, to the best of your knowledge. So help you God."

This form of oath is doubtless quite ancient, for the essay says "our  ancestors appointed"
it.   See Essay, p. 33   34.

On the obligations of this oath, the essay says:"If it be asked how,  or in what manner, the
(grand) juries shall inquire, the answer is ready, according to the best of their understandings.
They only, not the judges, are sworn to search diligently to find out all treasons, &c;., within
their charge, and they must and ought to use their own discretion in the way and manner of
their inquiry. No directions can legally be imposed upon there by any court or judges; an honest
jury will thankfully accept good advice from judges, as their assistants; but they are bound
by their oaths to present the truth, the whole truth,  and nothing but the truth, to the best
of their own, not the judge's, knowledge. Neither can they, without breach of that oath, resign
their consciences, or blindly submit to the dictates of others; and therefore ought  to receive
or reject such advices, as they judge them  good or bad. * *Nothing can be more plain and express
than the  words of the oath are to this purpose. The jurors need not search the  law books,
nor tumble over heaps of old records, for the explanation  of them. Our greatest lawyers may
from hence learn more certainly  our ancient law in this case, than from all the books in their
studies.  The language wherein the oath is penned is known and understood by every man, and
the words in it have the same signification as they have  wheresoever else they are used. The
judges, without assuming to  themselves a legislative power, cannot put a new sense upon them,
other than according to their genuine, common meaning. They cannot  magisterially impose their
opinions upon the jury, and make them  forsake the direct words of their oath, to pursue their
glosses. The  grand inquest are bound to observe alike strictly every part of their  oath,
and to use all just and proper  ways which may enable them to  perform it; otherwise it were
to say, that after men had sworn to  inquire diligently after the truth, according to the best
of their  knowledge, they were bound to forsake all the natural and proper  means which their
understandings suggest for the discovery of it,  if it be commanded by the judges."   Lord
Somers' Essay on Grand  Juries, p. 88.

What is here said so plainly and forcibly of the oath and obligations of  grand juries, is
equally applicable to the oath and obligations of petit juries. In both cases the simple oaths
of the jurors, and not the  instructions of the judges, nor the statutes of kings nor legislatures,
are their legal guides to their duties. [26]

SECTION IV. The Right of Juries to fix the Sentence.

The nature of the common law courts existing prior to Magna Carta, such as the county courts,
the hundred courts, the court-leet, and the court-baron, all prove, what has already been proved
from  Magna Carta, that, in jury trials, the juries fixed the sentence; because, in those courts,
there was no one but the jury who could fix it, unless it were the sheriff, bailiff, or steward;
and no one will pretend that it  was fixed by them. The juries unquestionably gave the "judgment"
in both civil and criminal cases.

The statute of Westminster, passed sixty years after Magna Carta,  provides that,"No city,
borough, nor town, nor any man, be amerced,  without reasonable cause, and according to the
quantity of the trespass;  that is to say, every freeman saving his freehold, a merchant saving
his merchandise, a villein his waynage, and that by his or their peers." 3 Edward I., ch. 6.
(1275.)

The same statute (ch.   St. 3 Edward I., ch. 18, (1275.) [27]

The following statute, passed in 1341, one hundred and twenty-five  years after Magna Carta,
providing for the trial of peers of the realm,  and the king's ministers, contains a recognition
of the principle of Magna Carta, that the jury are to fix the sentence. 

"Whereas before this time the peers of the land have been arrested  and imprisoned, and their
temporalities, lands, and teneiments, goods and cattels, asseized in the king's hands, and
some put to  death without judgment of their peers: It is accorded and assented, that no peer
of the land, officer, nor other, because of his office,  nor of things touching his office,
nor by other cause, shall be brought in judgment to lose his temporalities, lands, tenements,
goods and cattels, nor to be arrested, nor imprisoned, outlawed,  exiled, nor forejudged, nor
put to answer, nor be judged, but by  award (sentence) of the said peers in Parliament."  
15 Edward III.,  st. 1, sec. 2.

Section 4, of the same statute provides,

"That in every Parliament, at the third day of every Parliament.  the king shall take in his
hands the offices of all the ministers aforesaid," (that is, "the chancellor, treasurer, barons,
and chancellor of the exchequer, the justices of the one bench and of  the other, justices
assigned in the country, steward and chamberlain  of the king's house, keeper of the privy
seal, treasurer of the  wardrobe,  controllers, and they that be chief deputed to abide nigh
the king's  son, Duke of Cornwall,") "and so they shall abide four  or five days;  except the
offices of justices of the one place or the  other, justices assigned, barons of exchequer;
so always that they  and all other ministers be put to answer to every complaint; and if  default
be found in any of the said ministers, by complaint or other  manner, and of that attainted
in Parliament, he shall be punished  by judgment of the peers, and put out of his office, and
another  convenient put in his place. And upon the same our said sovereign  lord the king shall
do (cause) to be pronounced and made  execution  without delay, according to the judgment (sentence)
of the said peers  in the Parliament."

Here is an admission that the peers were to fix the sentence, or  judgment, and the king promises
to make execution "according to" that sentence.

And this appears to be the law, under which peers of the realm  and the great officers of the
crown were tried and sentenced, for four hundred years after its passage, and, for aught I
know, until this day.

The first case given in Hargrave's collection of English State Trials, is that of Alexander
Nevil, Archbishop of York, Robert  Vere Duke of Ireland; Michael de la Pole, Earl of Suffolk,
and  Robert Tresilian, Lord Chief Justice of England, with several  others, convicted of treason,
before "the Lords of Parliament," in  1388. The sentences in these cases were adjudged by the
"Lords  of Parliament," in the following terms, as they are reported.

"Wherefore the said Lords of Parliament, there present, as judges in Parliament, in this case,
by assent of the king, pronounced their sentence, and did adjudge the said archbishop, duke,
and earl, with  Robert Tresilian, so appealed, as aforesaid, to be guilty, and  convicted of
treason, and to be drawn and hanged, as traitors and  enemies to the king and kingdom; and
that their heirs should be  disinherited forever, and their lands and tenements, goods and
chattels, forfeited to the king, and that the temporalities of the  Archbishop of York should
be taken into the king's hands."

Also, in the same case, Sir John Holt, Sir William Burgh, Sir John Cary, Sir Roger Fulthorpe,
and John Locton, "were by the lords temporal, by the assent of the king, adjudged to be drawn
and  hanged, as traitors, their heirs disinherited, and their lands and  tenements, goods and
chattels, to be forfeited to the king."

Also, "Simon Burleigh, the king's chamberlain," being convicted  of treason, "by joint consent
of the king and the lords, sentence  was pronounced against the said Simon Burleigh, that he
should be  drawn from the town to Tyburn, and there be hanged till he be dead, and then have
his head struck from his body."

Also, "John Beauchamp, steward of the household to the king,  James Beroverse, and John Salisbury;
knights, gentlemen of the privy chamber, were in like manner condemned."   1 Hargrave's  State
Trials, first case.

Here the sentences were all fixed by the peers, with the assent of  the king. But that the
king should be consulted, and his assent obtained to the sentence pronounced by the peers,
does not imply  any deficiency of power on their part to fix the sentence independently of
the king. There are obvious reasons why they  might choose to consult the king, and obtain
his approbation of the sentence they were about to impose, without supposing any legal  necessity
for their so doing.

So far as we can gather from the reports of state trials, peers of the  realm were usually
sentenced by those who tried them, with the assent of the king.  But in some instances no mention
is made of the assent of the king, as in the case of "Lionel, Earl of Middlesex, Lord High
Treasurer of England," in 1624, (four hundred years  after Magna Carta,) where the sentence
was as follows:

"This High Court of Parliament doth adjudge, that Lionel, Earl of  Middlesex, now Lord Treasurer
of England, shall lose all his offices which he holds in this kingdom, and shall, hereafter,
be  made incapable of any office, place, or employment in the state and commonwealth. That
he shall be imprisoned in the tower of London, during the king's pleasure. That he shall pay
unto our  sovereign lord the king a fine of 50,000 pounds. That he shall  never sit in Parliament
any more, and that he shall never come  within the verge of the court."   2 Howell's Stale
Trials, 1250.

Here was a peer of the realm, and a minister of the king, of the highest grade; and if it were
ever necessary to obtain the assent of  the king to sentences pronounced by the peers, it would
unquestionably have been obtained in this instance, and his assent would have appeared  in
the sentence.

Lord Bacon was sentenced by the House of Lords, (l620,) no  mention being made of the assent
of the king. That he shall never sit in Parliament, nor come  within the verge of the court."

And when it was demanded of him, before sentence, whether it  were his hand that was subscribed
to his confession, and whether he would stand to it; he made the following answer, which implies
that the lords were the ones to determine his sentence.   1 Hargrave's State Trials, 886   7.

The report then adds:

"This sentence being read, the president (of the court) spake as  followeth: 'This sentence
now read and published, is the act,  sentence, judgment and resolution of the whole court.'
1 Hargrave's State Trials, 1037.

Unless it had been the received "law of the land" that those who  tried a man should fix his
sentence, it would have required an act of Parliament to fix the sentence of Charles, and his
sentence  would have been declared to be "the sentence of the law,"  instead of "the act, sentence,
judgment, and resolution of the court."

But the report of the proceedings in "the trial of Thomas, Earl  of Macclesfield, Lord High
Chancellor of Great Britain,  before the House of Lords, for high crimes and misdemeanors 
in the execution of his office," in 1725, is so full on this point,  and shows so clearly that
it rested wholly with the lords to  fix the sentence, and that the assent of the king was wholly
unnecessary, that I give the report somewhat at length.

After being found guilty, the earl addressed the lords, for  a mitigation of sentence, as follows:

"I am now to expect your lordships' judgment; and I hope  that you will be pleased to consider
that I have suffered  no small matter already in the trial, in the expense I have been at,
the fatigue, and what I have suffered otherways.  * * I have paid back 10,800 pounds of the
money already; I have lost my office; I have undergone the censure of both houses  of Parliament,
which is in itself a severe punishment,' "&c;., &c;.

On being interrupted, he proceeded: "My lords, I submit  whether this be not proper in mitigation
of your lordships' sentence; but whether it be or not, I leave myself to your  lordships' justice
and mercy; I am sure neither of them will be  wanting, and I entirely submit.' * * *

"Then the said earl, as also the managers, were directed to  withdraw; and the House (of Lords)
ordered Thomas,  Earl of Macclesfield, to be committed to the custody of the gentleman usher
of the black rod; and then proceeded to  the consideration  of what judgment," (that is, sentence,
for he had already been found guilty,) "to give upon the impeachment against the said earl."

"The next day, the Commons, with their speaker, being  present at the bar of the House (of
Lords), * * * the speaker  of the House of Commons said as follows:

"My Lords, the knights, citizens, and burgesses in  Parliament assembled, in the name of themselves,
and of  all the commons of Great Britain, did at this bar impeach Thomas, Earl of Macclesfield,
of high crimes and  misdemeanors, and did exhibit articles of impeachment  against him, and
have made good their charge. Their lordships' judgment is, and this high court doth adjudge,
that you, Thomas, Earl of Macclesfield, be fined in the sum of thirty thousand  pounds unto
our sovereign lord the king; and that you  shall be imprisoned in the tower of London, and
there  kept in safe custody, until yon shall pay the said fine.'"  6 Hargrave's State Trials,
762   3   4.

This case shows that the principle of Magna Carta, that  a man should be sentenced only by
his peers, was in force,  and acted upon as law, in England, so lately as 1725, (five hundred
years after Magna Carta,) so far as it applied to a  peer of the realm, a severe punishment,"
ect., ect.

But the same principle, on this point, that applies to a peer  of the realm, applies to every
freeman. The only  difference between the two is, that the peers of the realm have had influence
enough to preserve their constitutional  rights; while the constitutional rights of the people
have been trampled upon and rendered obsolete by the usurpation and  corruption of the government
and the courts.

SECTION V. The Oaths of Judges

As further proof that the legislation of the king, whether  enacted with or without the assent
and advice of his parliaments, was of no authority unless it were consistent with the common
law, and unless juries and judges saw fit to enforce it, it may be  mentioned that it is probable
that no judge in England was ever  sworn to observe the laws enacted either by the king alone,
or by the king with the advice and assent of parliament.

The judges were sworn to "do equal law, and execution of right,  to all the king's subjects,
rich and poor, without having regard to any person;" and that they will "deny no man  common
right;" [28] but they were not sworn to obey or  execute any statutes of the king, or of the
king and parliament.  Indeed, they are virtually sworn not to obey any statutes that  are against
"common right," or contrary to "the common law,"  or "law of the land;" but to "certify the
king thereof"  that is,  notify him that his statutes are against the common law;   and then
proceed to execute the common law, notwithstanding  such legislation to the contrary. The words
of the oath on this point are these:

"That ye deny no man common right by (virtue of) the king's  letters, nor none other man's,
nor for none other cause; and in  case any letters come to you contrary to the law, (that is,
the  common law, as will be seen on reference to the entire oath given  in the note,) that
ye do nothing by such letters, but certify the  king thereof, and proceed to execute the law,
(that is, the  common law,) notwithstanding the same letters."  And if that any letters, writs,
or commandments come  to the justices, or to other deputed to do law and right  according to
the usage of the realm, in disturbance of the law, or of the execution of the same, or of right
to  the parties, the justices and other aforesaid shall  proceed and hold their courts and
processes,  where the pleas and matters be depending before  them, as if no such letters, writs,
or commandments were come to them; and they shall certify us and our council of such commandments
which be contrary to the law, (that is, "the law of the land,"  or common law,) as afore is
said." [30] And to the  intent that our justices, shall do even right to all  people in the
manner aforesaid, without more  favor showing to one than to another, we have  ordained and
caused our said justices to be sworn,  that they shall not from henceforth, as long as they
shall be in the office of justice, take fee nor  robe of any man, but of ourself, and that
they shall  take no gift nor reward by themselves, nor by other,  privily nor apertly, of any
man that hath to do before them by any way, except meat and drink, and that  of small value:
and that they shall give no counsel  to great men or small, in case where we be party,  or
which do or may touch us in any point, upon  pain to be at our will, body, lands, and goods,
to  do thereof as shall please us, in case they do contrary. And for this cause we have increased
the fees of  the same, our justices, in such manner as it ought  reasonably to suffice them."
20 Edward III.,  ch. l. (1346.) 

Other statutes of similar tenor have been enacted  as follows:

"It is accorded and established, that it shall not  be commanded by the great seal, nor the
little seal, to disturb or delay common right; and though such  commandments do come, the justices
shall not  therefore leave (omit) to do right in any point."    St. 2 Edward III., ch. 8. (1328.)

"That by commandment of the great seal, or privy  seal, no point of this statute shall be put
in delay;  nor that the justices of whatsoever place it be shall  let (omit) to do the common
law, by commandment,  which shall come to them under the great seal, or the privy seal."  
14 Edward III, st. 1, ch. 14. (1340.)

"It is ordained and established, that neither letters  of the signet, nor of the king's privy
seal, shall be  from henceforth sent in damage or prejudice of the  realm, nor in disturbance
of the law" (the common law).   11 Richard II., ch. 10. (1387.)

It is perfectly apparent from these statutes, and from  the oath administered to the justices,
that it was a  matter freely confessed by the king himself, that his statutes were of no validity,
if contrary to the common  law, or "common right."

The oath of the justices, before given, is, I presume,  the same that has been administered
to judges in  England from the day when it was first prescribed to  them, (1344,) until now.
I do not find from the English  statutes that the oath has ever been changed. The Essay on
Grand Juries, before referred to, and supposed to have  been written by Lord Somers, mentions
this oath  (page 73) as being still administered to judges, that is,  in the time of Charles
II., more than three hundred years after the oath was first ordained. 

If the oath has never been changed, it follows that  judges have not only never been sworn
to support any  statutes whatever of the king, or of parliament, but that,  for five hundred
years past, they actually have been sworn to treat as invalid all statutes that were contrary
to the common law.

SECTION VI. The Coronation Oath.

That the legislation of the king was of no authority over  a jury, is further proved by the
oath taken by the kings  at their coronation. This oath seems to have been substantially the
same, from the time of the Saxon kings,  down to the seventeenth century, as will be seen from
the  authorities hereafter given.

The purport of the oath is, that the king swears to maintain  the law of the land   that is,
the common law. In  other words, he swears "to concede and preserve to  the English people
the laws and customs conceded to them by the ancient, just, and pious English kings, * * and
especially the laws, customs, and liberties conceded to  the clergy and people by the illustrious
king Edward;" * * and "the just laws and customs which the common people  have chosen, (quas
vulgus elegit)."

These are the same laws and customs which were called  by the general name of "the law of the
land," or "the  common law," and, with some slight additions, were  embodied in Magna Carta.

This oath not only forbids the king to enact any statutes  contrary to the common law, but
it proves that his statutes  could be of no authority over the consciences of a jury; since,
as has already been sufficiently shown, it was one  part of this very common law itself,  
that is, of the  ancient "laws, customs, and liberties," mentioned in the oath,   that juries
should judge of all questions that came  before them, according to their own consciences, 
independently of the legislation of the king.

It was impossible that this right of the jury could subsist  consistently with any right, on
the part of the king, to  impose any authoritative legislation upon them. His oath, therefore,
to maintain the law of the land, or the  ancient "laws, customs, and liberties," was equivalent
to an oath that he would never assume to impose laws upon juries, as imperative rules of decision,
or take from  them the right to try all cases according to their own  consciences. It is also
an admission that he had no constitutional power to do so, if he should ever desire  it. This
oath, then, is conclusive proof that his legislation  was of no authority with a jury, and
that they were under no obligation whatever to enforce it, unless it  coincided with their
own ideas of justice.

The ancient coronation oath is printed with the  Statutes of the Realm, vol. i., p. 168, and
is as follows: [31]

TRANSLATION.

"Form of the Oath of the King of England, on his  Coronation. 

(And the king shall answer,) I do concede, and will  preserve them, and confirm them by my oath.

Will yon preserve to the church of God, the clergy, and  the people, entire peace and harmony
in God, according  to your powers?  

(And the king shall answer,) I will. 

In all your judgments, will you cause equal and right  justice and discretion to be done, in
mercy and truth,  according to your powers?

(And the king shall answer,) I will.

Do you concede that the just laws and customs, which  the common people have chosen, shall
be preserved;  and do you promise that they shall be protected by you,  and strengthened to
the honor of God, according to  your powers?

(And the king shall answer,) I concede and promise."

And how had the common people made known their  approbation or selection of these laws? Plainly,
in no  other way than this   that the juries composed of the  common people had voluntarily
enforced them.  The common people had no other legal form of making  known their approbation
of particular laws.

The word "concede," too, is an important word. In the  English statutes it is usually translated
grant  as if with  an intention to indicate that "the laws, customs, and liberties" of the
English people were mere privileges,  granted to them by the king; whereas it should be  translated
concede, to indicate simply an acknowledgment,  on the part of the king, that such were the
laws, customs,  and liberties, which had been chosen and established  by the people themselves,
and of right belonged to them,  and which he was bound to respect.

I will now give some authorities to show that the foregoing  oath has, in substance, been the
coronation oath from  the times of William the Conqueror, (1066,) down to the  time of James
the First, and probably until 1688.

It will be noticed, in the quotation from Kelham, that he  says this oath (or the oath of William
the Conqueror) is  "in sense and substance the very same with that which the Saxon kings used
to take at their coronations."

Hale says:

"Yet the English were very zealous for them," (that is, for  the laws of Edward the Confessor,)
"no less or otherwise  than they are at this time for the Great Charter; insomuch  that they
were never satisfied till the said laws were  reenforced, and mingled, for the most part, with
the  coronation oath of king William I., and some of his  successors."   1 Hale's History of
Common Law, 157.

Also, "William, on his coronation, had sworn to govern  by the laws of Edward the Confessor,
some of which had  been reduced into writing, but the greater part consisted of the immemorial
customs of the realm." * * And at  Barkhamstead, in the fourth year of his reign, in the presence
of Lanfranc, Archbishop of Canterbury, for the quieting of  the people, he swore that he would
inviolably observe the good  and approved ancient laws which had been made by the devout  and
pious kings of England, his ancestors, and chiefly by King  Edward; and we are told that the
people then departed in good  humor."   Kelham's Preliminary Discourse to the Laws of  William
the Conqueror. See, also, 1 Hale's History of the  Common Law, 186.

Crabbe says that William the Conqueror "solemnly swore that  he would observe the good and
approved laws of Edward the Confessor."   Crabbe's History of the English Law, p. 43.

The successors of William, up to the time of Magna Carta,  probably all took the same oath,
according to the custom of the  kingdom; although there may be no historical accounts extant
of the oath of each separate king. But history tells us specially  that Henry I., Stephen,
and Henry II., confirmed these ancient  laws and customs. It appears, also, that the barons
desired of  John (what he afterwards granted by Magna Carta) "that the laws  and liberties
of King Edward, with other privileges granted to the  kingdom and church of England, might
be confirmed, as they  were contained in the charters of Henry the First; further alleging,
that at the time of his absolution, he promised by his oath to observe these very laws and
liberties."   Echard's History of  England, p. 105 6.

It would appear, from the following authorities, that since  Magna Carta the form of the coronation
oath has been  "to maintain the law of the land,"   meaning that law as embodied in Magna Carta.
Or perhaps it is more probable that  the ancient form has been still observed, but that, as
its substance and purport were "to maintain the law of the land," this latter  form of expression
has been used, in the instances here cited, from motives of brevity and convenience. This supposition
is the  more probable, from the fact that I find no statute prescribing a change in the form
of the oath until 1688.   25 Edward I., ch. 1 and 2. (1297.)

Blackstone also says:

"It is agreed by all our historians that the Great Charter of King  John was, for the most
part, compiled from the ancient customs of the realm, or the laws of Edward the Confessor;
by which they  usually mean the old common law which was established under our Saxon princes."
Blackstone's Introduction to the Charters.  See Blackstone's Law Tracts, 289.

Crabbe says:

"It is admitted, on all hands, that it (Magna Carta) contains nothing  but what was confirmatory
of the common law, and the ancient usages of the realm, and is, properly speaking, only an
enlargement of the charter of Henry I., and his successors."    Crabbe's History of the English
Law, p. 127.   St. 20 Edward III. (1346.)

The following extract from Lord Somers' tract on Grand Juries  shows that the coronation oath
continued the same as late as  1616, (four hundred years after Magna Carta.) He says:

"King James, in his speech to the judges, in the Star Chamber,  Anno 1616, told them, 'That
he had, after many years, resolved  to renew his oath, made at his coronation, concerning justice,
and the promise therein contained for maintaining the law of  the land.' And, in the next page
save one, says, 'I was sworn to maintain the law of the land, and therefore had been perjured
if I had broken it. God is my judge, I never intended it.'  "Somers on Grand Juries, p. 82.
St. 1 William and Mary, ch. 6. (1688.)

The effect and legality of this oath will hereafter be  considered. For the present it is sufficient
to show, as has  been already sufficiently done, that from the Saxon times until at least as
lately as 1616, the coronation oath has  been, in substance, to maintain the law of the land,
or  the common law, meaning thereby the ancient Saxon customs, as embodied in the laws of Alfred,
of Edward  the Confessor, and finally in Magna Carta.

It may here be repeated that this oath plainly proves that  the statutes of the king were of
no authority over juries, if inconsistent with their ideas of right; because it was one  part
of the common law that juries should try all causes  according to their own consciences, any
legislation of the  king to the contrary notwithstanding.[33]

[1] Hale says:"The trial by jury of twelve men was the usual trial among the Normans, in most
suits; especially in assizes, et juris utrum."   1 Hale's History of the Common Law, 219

This was in Normandy, before the conquest of England by the Normans. See Ditto, p. 218.

Crabbe says:"It cannot be denied that the practice of submitting causes to the decision of
twelve men was universal among all the northern tribes (of Europe) from the very remotest antiquity."
Crabbe's History of the English Law, p. 32.

[2] "The people, who in every general council or assembly could oppose and dethrone their sovereigns,
were in little dread of their encroachments on their liberties; and kings, who found sufficient
employment in keeping possession of their crowns, would not likely attack the more important
privileges of their subjects."

[3] This office was afterwards committed to sheriffs. But even while the court was held by
the lord, "the Lord was not judge, but the Pares (peers) only."   Gilbert on the Court of Exchequer,
61-2.

[4] The opinion expressed in the text, that the Witan had no legislative authority, is corroborated
by the following authorities: 

"From the fact that the new laws passed by the king and the Witan were laid before the shire-mote,
(county court,) we should be almost justified in the inference that a second sanction was necessary
before they could have the effect of law in that particular county."   Durham's Middle Ages,
Sec. 2, B. 2, Ch. l. 57 Lardner's Cab. Cyc., 53.

The "second sanction" required to give the legislation of the king and Witan the effect of
law, was undoubtedly, I think, as a general thing, the sanction of a jury. I know of no evidence
whatever that laws were ever submitted to popular vote in the county courts, as this author
seems to suppose possible. Another mode, sometimes resorted to for obtaining the sanction of
the people to the laws of the Witan, was, it seems, to persuade the people themselves to swear
to observe them. Mackintoshsays:

"The preambles of the laws (of the Witan) speak of the infinite number of liegemen who attended,
as only applauding the measures of the assembly. But this applause was neither so  unimportant
to the success of the measures, nor so precisely  distinguished from a share in legislation,
as those who read history  with a modern eye might imagine. It appears that under Athelstan
expedients were resorted to, to obtain a consent to the law from  great bodies of the people
in their districts, which their numbers rendered impossible in a national assembly. That monarch
appears to have sent commissioners to hold shire-gemotes or county meetings, where they proclaimed
the laws made by the king and his counsellors, which, being acknowledged and sworn to at these
folk-motes (meetings of the people) became, by their assent, completely binding on the whole
nation." Cc., 75.

[5] Page 31.

[6] Hallam says, "It was, however, to the county court that an English freeman chiefly looked
for the maintenance of his civil rights."   2 Middle Ages, 392.

Also, "This (the county court) was the great constitutional judicature in all ques- tions of
civil right."   Ditto, 395. Also, "The liberties of these Anglo-Saxon thanes were chiefly secured,
next to their swords and their free spirits, by the inestimable right of deciding civil and
criminal suits in their own county courts."   Ditto, 899.

[7] "Alfred may, in one sense, be called the founder of these laws, (the Saxon,) for until
his time they were an unwrittencode, but he expressly says, 'that I, Alfred, collected the
good laws of  our forefathers into one code, and also I wrote them down'  -- which is a decisive
fact in the history of our laws well worth noting."   Introduction to Gilbert's History of
the Common Pleas, p. 2, note.

Kelham says, "Let us consult our own lawyers and historians, and they will tell as that Alfred,
Edgar, and Edward the Confessor, were the great compilers and restorers of the English Laws."
Kelham's Preliminary Discourse to the Laws of William the Conqueror, p. 12. Appendix to Kelham's
Dictionary of the Norman Language.

"He (Alfred) also, like another Theodosius, collected the various customs that he found dispersed
in the kingdom, and reduced and digested them into one uniform system, or code of laws, in
his som-bec, or liber judicialis (judicial book). This he compiled for the use of the court
baron, hundred and county court, the court-leet and sheriff's toarn, tribunals which he established
for the trial of all causes, civil and criminal, in the very districts wherein the complaints
arose."   4 Blackstone, 411.

Alfred himself says, "Hence I, King Alfred, gathered these together, and commanded many of
those to be written down which our forefathers observed   those which I liked   and those which
I did not like, by the advice of my Witan, I threw aside. For I durst not venture to set down
in writing over many of my own, since I knew not what among them would please those that should
come after us. But those which I met with either of the days of me, my kinsman, or of Offa,
King of Mercia, or of Aethelbert, who was the first of the English who received baptism   thse
which appeared to me the justest   I have here collected, and abandoned the others. Then I,
Alfred, King of the West Saxons, showed these to all my Witan, and they then said that they
were all willing to observe them."   Laws of Alfred, translated by R. Price, prefixed to Mackintosh's
History of England, vol. l. 45 Lardner's Cab. Cyc.

"King Edward * * projected and begun what his grandson, King Edward the Confessor, afterwards
completed, viz., one uniform digest or body of laws to be observed throughout the whole kingdom,
being probably no more than a revival of King Alfred's code, with some improvements suggested
by necessity and experience, particularly the incorporating some of the British, or, rather,
Mercian customs, and also such of the Danish  (customs) as were reasonable and approved, into
the West Saxon Lage, which was still the ground-work of the whole. And this appears to be the
best supported and most plausible conjecture, (for certainty is not to be expected,) of the
rise and original of that admirable system of maxims and unwritten customs which is now known
by the name of the common law, as extending its authority universally over all the realm, and
which is doubtless of Saxon parentage."   4 Blackstone, 412.

"By the Lex Terrae and Lex Regni is understood the laws of Edward the Confessor, confirmed
and enlarged as they were by William the Conqueror; and this Constitution or Code of Laws is
what even to this day are called 'The Common Law of the Land.'"   Introduction to Gilbert's
History of the Common Pleas, p. 22, note.

[8] Not the conqueror of the English people, (as the friends of liberty maintain,) but only
of Harold the usurper.   See Hale's History of the Common, Law, ch. 5.

[9] For all these codes see Wilkins' Laws of the Anglo-Saxons.

"Being regulations adapted to existing institutions, the Anglo-Saxon statutes are concise and
technical, alluding to the law which was then living and in vigor, rather than defining it.
The same clauses and chapters are often repeated word, for word, in the statutes of subsequent
kings, showing that enactments which bear the appearance of novelty are merely declaratory.
Consequently the appearance of a law, seemingly for the first time, is by no means to be considered
as a proof that the matter which it contains is new; nor can we trace the progress of the Anglo-Saxon
institutions with any degree of certainty, by following the dates of the statutes in which
we find them first noticed. All arguments founded on the apparent chronology of the subjects
included in the laws, are liable to great fallacies. Furthermore, a considerable portion of
the Anglo-Saxon law was never recorded in writing. There can be no doubt but that the rules
of inheritance were well established and, defined; yet we have not a single law, and hardly
a single document from which the course of the descent of land can be inferred. * * Positive
proof cannot be obtained of the commencement of any institution, because the first written
law relating to it may possibly be merely confirmatory or declaratory; neither can the non-existence
of any institution be inferred from the absence of direct evidence. Written laws were modified
and controlled by customs of which no trace can be discovered until after the lapse of centuries,
although those usages must have been in constant vigor during the long interval of silence."
1 Palgrave's Rise and Progress of the English Commonwealth, 58-9.

[10] Rapin says, "The customs now practised in England are, for the most part, the same as
the Anglo-Saxons brought with them from Germany."   Rapin's Dissertation on the Government
of the Anglo-Saxons, vol. 2, Oct Ed., p. 138. See Kelham's Discourse before named.

[11] Hallam says, "The county of Sussex contains sixty-five ('hundreds'); that of Dorset forty-three;
while Yorkshire has only twenty-six; and Lancashire but six."   2 Middle Ages, 391.

[12] Excepting also matters pertaining to the collection of the revenue, which were determined
in the king's court of exchequer. But even in this court it was the law "that none be amerced
but by his peers."   Mirror of Justices, 49.

[13] "For the English laws, although not written, may, as it should seem, and that without
any absurdity, be termed laws, (since this itself is law   that which pleases the prince has
the force of law,) I mean those laws which it is evident were promuulgated by the advice of
the nobles and the authority of the prince, concerning doubts to be settled in their assembly.
For if from the mere want of writing only, they should not be considered laws, then, unquestionably,
writing would seem to confer more authority upon laws themselves, than either the equity of
the persons constituting, or the reason of those framing them."   Glanville's Preface, p. 38.
(Glanville was chief justice of Henry II., 1180.) 2 Turner's History of the Anglo-Saxons, 280.

[14] Mackintosh's History of England, ch. 3. Lardner's Cabinet Cyclopedia, 286.

[15] If the laws of the king were received as authoritative by the juries, what occasion was
there for his appointing special commissioners for the trial of offences, without the intervention
of a jury, as he frequently did, in manifest and acknowledged violation of Magna Carta, and
"the law of the land?" These appointments were undoubtedly made for no other reason than that
the juries were not sufficiently subservient, but judged according to their own notions of
right, instead of the will of the king   whether the latter were expressed in his statutes,
or by his judges.

[16] Of course, Mr. Reeve means to be understood that, in the hundred court, and court-leet,
the jurors were the judges, as he declares them to have been in the county court; otherwise
the "bailiff" or "steward" must have been judge.

[17] The jurors were sometimes called " assessors," because they assessed, or determined the
amount of fines and amercements to be imposed.

[18] "The barons of the Hundred" were the freeholders. Hallam says: "The word baro, originally
meaning only a man, was of very large significance, and is not unfrequently applied to common
freeholders, as in the phrase court-baron."   3 Middle Ages, 14-15.

Blackstone says: "The court-baron *  * is a court of common law, and it is the court of the
barons, by which name the freeholders were sometimes anciently called; for that it is held
before the freeholders who owe suit and service to the manor."   3 Blackstone, 33.

[19] The ancient jury courts kept no records, because those who composed the courts could neither
make nor read records. Their decisions were preserved by the memories of the jurors and other
persons present.

[20] Stuart says:

"The courts, or civil arrangements, which were modelled in Germany, preserved the independence
of the people; aud having followed the Saxons into England, and continuing their importance,
they supported the envied liberty we boast of.

"As a chieftain led out his retainers to the field, and governed them during war; so in peace
he summoned them together, and exerted a civil jurisdiction. He was at once their captain and
their judge. They constituted his court; and having inquired with him into the guilt of those
of their order whom justice had accused, they assisted him to enforce his decrees.

"This court (the court-baron) was imported into England; but the innovation which conquest
introduced into the fashion of the times altered somewhat its appearance.

"The head or lord of the manor called forth his attendants to his hall. * * He inquired into
the breaches of custom, and of justice, which were committed within the precincts of his territory,
and with his followers, who sat with him as judges, he determined in all matters of debt, and
of trespass to a certain amount. He possessed a similar jurisdiction with the chieftain in
Germany, and his tenants enjoyed an equal authority with the German retainers.

"But a mode of administration which intrusted so much power to the great could not long be
exercised without blame or injustice. The German, guided by the candor of his mind, and entering
into all his engagements with the greatest ardor, perceived not, at first, that the chieftain
to whom he submitted his disputes might be swayed, in the judgments he pronounced, by partiality,
prejudice, or interest; and that the influence he maintained with his followers was too strong
to be restrained by justice. Experience instructed him of his error", he acknowledged the necessity
of appealing from his lord; and the court of the Hundred was erected.

"This establishment was formed both in Germany and England, by the inhabitants of a certain
division, who extened their jurisdiction over the territory they occupied. [21] They bound
themselves under a penalty to assemble at stated times; and having elected the wisest to preside
over them, they judged, not only all civil and criminal matters, but of those also which regarded
religion and the priesthood. The judicial power thus invested in the people was extensive;
they were able to preserve their rights, and attended this court in arms.

[21] "It was the freemen in Germany, and the possessors of land in England, who were suitors
(jurors) in the hundred court. These ranks of men were the same. The alteration which had happened
in relation to property had invested the German freemen with land or territory."

"As the communication, however, and intercourse, of the individuals of a German community began
to be wider, and more general, as their dealings enlarged, and as disputes arose among the
members of different hundreds, the insufficiency of these courts for the preservation of order
was gradually perceived. The shyre mote, therefore, or county court, was instituted; and it
formed the chief source of justice both in Germany and England.

"The powers, accordingly, which had been enjoyed by the court of the hundred, were considerably
impaired. It decided no longer concerning capital offences; it decided not concerning matters
of liberty, and the property of estates, or of slaves; its judgments, in every case, became
subject to review; and it lost entirely the decision of causes, when it delayed too long to
consider them.

"Every subject of claim or contention was brought, in the first instance, or by appeal, to
the county court; and the earl, or eorldorman, who presided there, was active to put the laws
in execution. He repressed the disorders which fell out within the circuit of his authority;
and the least remission in hi duty, or the least fraud he committed, was complained of and
punished. He was elected from among the great, and was above the temptation of a bribe; but,
to encourage his activity, he was presented with a share of the territory he governed, or was
entitled to a proportion of the fines and profits of justice. Every man, in his district, was
bound to inform him concerning criminals, and to assist him to bring them to trial; and, as
in rude and violent times the poor and helpless were ready to be oppressed by the strong, he
was instructed particularly to defend them.

"His court was ambulatory, and assembled only twice a year, unless the distribution of justice
required that its meetings should be oftener. Every freeholder in the county was obliged to
attend it; and should he refuse this service, his possessions were seized, and he was forced
to find surety for his appearance. The neighboring earls held not their courts on the same
day; and, what seems very singular, no judge was allowed, after meals, to exercise his office.

"The druids also, or priests, in Germany, as we had formerly occasion to remark, and the clergy
in England, exercised a jurisdiction in the hundred and county courts. They instructed the
people in religious duties, and in matters regarding the priesthood; and the princes, earls,
or eorldormen, related to them the laws and customs of the community. These judges were mutually
a check to each other; but it was expected that they should agree in their judgments, and should
willingly unite their efforts for the public interest. [22]

"The meeting (the county court) was opened with a discourse by the bishop, explaining, out
of the Scriptures and ecclesiastical canons, their several duties as good Christians and members
of the church. After this, the alderman, or one of his assessors, made a discourse on the laws
of the land, and the duties of good subjects and good citizens. When these preliminaries were
over, they proceede to try and determine, first the causes of the church, next the pleas of
the crown, and last of all the controversies of private parties."   8 Henry's History of Great
Britain, 348.

This view is corroborated by Tyrrell's Introduction to the History of England; p. 83-84, and
by Spence's Origin of the Laws and Political Institutions of Modern Europe, p. 447, and the
note on the same page. Also by a law of Canute to this effect, In every county let there be
twice a year an assembly, whereat the bishop and the earl shall be present, the one to instruct
the people in divine, the other in human, laws.   Wilkins, p. 136.

"But the prince or earl performed not, at all times, in person, the obligations of his office.
The enjoyment of ease and of pleasure, to which in Germany he had delivered himself over, when
disengaged from war, and the mean idea he conceived  of the drudgery of civil affairs, made
him often delegate to an  inferior person the distribution of justice in his district. The
same sentiments were experienced by the Saxon nobility;  and the service which they owed by
their tenures, and the high employments they sustained, called them often from the management
of their counties. The progress, too, of commerce,  giving an intricacy to cases, and swelling
the civil code, added  to the difficulty of their office, and made them averse to its duties.
Sheriffs, therefore, or deputies, were frequently appointed to transact their business; and
though these were at first under some subordination to the earls, they grew at length to be
entirely independent of them. The connection of jurisdiction and territory ceasing to prevail,
and the civil being separated from the ecclesiastical power, they became the sole and proper
officers for the direction of justice in the counties.

"The hundred, however, and county courts were not equal of themselves for the purposes of jurisdiction
and order. It was necessary that a court should be erected, of supreme authority, where the
disputes of the great should be decided, where the disagreeing sentiments of judges should
be reconciled, and where protection should be given to the people against their fraud and injustice.

"The princes accordingly, or chief nobility, in the German communities, assembled together
to judge of such matters. The Saxon nobles continued this prerogative; and the king, or, in
his absence, the chief justiciary, watched over their deliberations. But it was not on every
trivial occasion that this court interested itself. In smaller concerns, justice was refused
during three sessions of the hundred, and claimed without effect, at four courts of the county,
before there could lie an appeal to it.

"So gradually were these arrangements established, and so naturally did the varying circumstances
in the situation of the Germans and Anglo-Saxons direct those successive improvements which
the preservation of order, and the advantage of society, called them to adopt. The admission
of the people into the courts of justice preserved, among the former, that equality of ranks
for which they were remarkable; and it helped to overturn, among the latter, those envious
distinctions which the feudal system tended to introduce, and prevented that venality in judges,
and those arbitrary proceedings, which the growing attachment to interest, and the influence
of the crown, might otherwise have occasioned."   Stuart on the Constitution of England, p.
222 to 245.

"In the Anglo-Saxon period, accordingly, twelve only were elected; and these, together with
the judge, or presiding officer of the district, being sworn to regard justice, and the voice
of reason, or conscience, all causes were submitted to them."   Ditto, p. 260.

"Before the orders of men were very nicely disinguished, the jurors were elected from the same
rank. When, however, a regular subordination of orders was established, and when a knowledge
of property had inspired the necessitous with envy, and the rich with contempt, every man was
tried by his equals. The same spirit of liberty which gave rise to this regulation attended
its progress.  Nor could monarchs assume a more arbitrary method of proceeding.  'I will not'
(said the Earl of Cornwall to his  sovereign)  'render  up   my   castles,  nor   depart  the
kingdom,  but   by  judgment of  my  peers.' Of  this institution,  so wisely  calculated for
the preservation   of liberty,  all our, historians have pronounced the eulogium." -- Ditto,
p. 262-3.  These little courts, however,  communicated with others of a larger jurisdiction,
and those  with others of a still greater power; ascending gradually from  the lowest to the
supreme courts, which were respectively  constituted to correct the errors of the inferior
ones, and to  determine such causes as, by reason of their weight and  difficulty, demanded
a more solemn discussion. The course  of justice flowing in large streams from the king, as
the  fountain, to his superior courts of record; and being then subdivided into smaller channels,
till the whole and every part of the kingdom were plentifully watered and refreshed. An institution
that seems highly agreeable to the dictates of natural reason, as well as of more enlightened
policy.            

"These inferior courts, at least the name and form of them, still cntinue in our legal constitution;
but as the superior courts of record have, in practice, obtained a concurrent original jurisdiction,
and as there is, besides, a power of removing plaints or actions thither from all the inferior
jurisdictions; upon these accounts (among others) it has happened that these petty tribunals
have fallen into decay, and almost into oblivion; whether for the better or the worse may be
matter of some speculation, when we consider, on the one hand, the increase of expense and
delay, and, on the other, the more able and impartial decisions that follow from this change
of jurisdiction.           

"The order I shall observe in discoursing on these several courts, constituted for the redress
of civil injuries, (for with those of a jurisdiction merely criminal  I shall not at present
concern myself, [23]) will be by beginning with the lowest, and those whose jurisdiction, though
public and generally dispersed through the kingdom, is yet (with regard to each particular
court) confined to very narrow limits; and so ascending gradually to those of the most extensive
and transcendent power." -- 3 Blackstone, 30 to 32.                                             

"The court-baron is a court incident to every manor in the kingdom, to beholden by the steward
within the said manor.  This court-baron is of two natures; the one is a customary court, of
which we formerly spoke, appertaining entirely to the copy-holders, in which their estates
are transferred by surrender and admittance, and other matters transacted relative to their
tenures only.  These courts, though in their nature distinct, are frequently confounded together.
It may also hold plea of any personal actions, of debt, trespass in the case, or the like,
where the debt or damages do not amount to forty shillings; which is the same sum, or three
marks, that bounded the jurisdiction of the ancient Gothic courts in their lowest instance,
or fierding courts, so called because four were institute within every superior district or
hundred."   8 Blackstone, 38, 34. It is likewise no court of record, resembling the former
at all points, except that in point of territory it is of greater jurisdiction. This is said
by Sir Edward Coke to have been derived out of the county court for the ease of the people,
that they might have justice done to them at their own doors, without any charge or loss of
time; but its institution was probably coeval with that of hundreds themselves, which were
formerly observed to have been introduced, though not invented, by Alfred, being derived from
the polity of the ancient Germans. The centeni, we may remember,  were the principal inhabitants
of a district composed of different villages, oriinally in number a hundred, but afterward
only called  by that name, and who probably gave the same denomination  to the district out
of which they were chosen. Caesar speaks positively of the judicial power exercised in their
hundred courts and courts-baron. 'Princeps regiorum atque pagorum' (which we may fairly construe
the lords of hundreds and manors) 'inter suos jus dicunt, controversias que minuunt.' (The
chiefs of the country and the villages declare the law among them, and abate controversies.)
And Tacitus, who had examined their constitution still more attentively, informs us not only
of the authority of the lords, but that of the centeni, the hundreders, or jury, who were taken
out of the common freeholders, and had themselves a share in the determination. ' Eliguntur
in conciliis et principes, qui jura per pagos vicosque reddunt, centenii singulis, ex plebe
comites comcilium simul et auctoritas adsunt. (The princes are chosen in the assemblies, who
administer the laws throughout the towns and villages, and with each one are associated an
hundred companions, taken from the people, for purposes both of counsel and authority.) This
hundred court was denominated haereda in the Gothic constitution. But this court, as causes
are equally liable to removal from hence as from the common court-baron, and by the same writs,
and may also be reviewed by writ of false judgment, is therefore fallen into equal disuse with
regard to the trial of actions." 8 Blackstone, 34, 85.

"The county court is a court incident to the jurisdiction of the sheriff. It is not a court
of record, but may hold pleas of debt, or damages, under the value of forty shillings; over
some of which causes these inferior courts have, by the express words of the statute of Gloucester,
(6 Edward I., eh. 8,) a jurisdicton totally exclusive of the king's superior courts. *  * The
county court may also hold plea of many real actions, and of all personal actions to any amount,
by virtue of a special writ, called a justicies, which is a writ empowering the sheriff, for
the sake of despatch, to do the samee justice in his county court as might otherwise be had
at Westminster. The freeholders of the county court are the real judges in this court, and
the sheriff is the ministerial ofhcer. * * In modern times, as proceedings are removable from
hence into the king's superior courts, by writ of pone or recordari, in the same manner as
from hundred courts and courts-baron, and as the same writ of false judgment may be had in
nature of a writ of error, this has occasioned the same disuse of bringing actions therein."
3 Blackstone, 36, 37.

"Upon the whole, we cannot but admire the wise economy and admirable provision of our ancestors
in settling the distribution of justice in a method so well calculated for cheapness, expedition,
and ease. By the constitution which they established, all trivial debts, and injuries of small
consequence, were to be recovered or redressed in every man's own county, hundred, or perhaps
parish."   3 Blackstone, 59.

[22] It would be wholly erroneous, I think, to infer from this statement of Stuart, that either
the "priests, princes, earls, or eorldormen" exercised any authority over the jury in the trial
of causes, in the way of dictating the law to them. Henry's account of this matter doubtless
gives a much more accurate representation of the truth. He says that anciently

[23] There was no distinction between the civil and criminal courts, as to the rights or powers
of juries.                     

[24] This quaint and curious book; (Smith's Commonwealth 
of England) describes the minutiae of trials, giving in detail 
the mode of impaneling the jury and then the conduct of the 
 lawyers, witnesses, and court I give the following extracts, 
tending to show that the judges impose no law upon the juries, 
in either civil or criminal cases but only require them to 
determine the causes according to their consciences.

In civil causes he says: 

"When it is thought that it is enough pleaded before them,  and the witnesses have said what
they can, one of the judges,  with a brief and pithy recapitulation, reciteth to the twelve
in sum the arguments of the sergeants of either side, that  which the witnesses have declared,
and the chief points of the evidence showed in writing, and once again putteth them in  mind
of the issue, and sometime giveth it them in writing, delivering to them the evidence which
is showed on either part,  if any be, (evidence here is called writings of contracts, authentical
after the manner of England, that is to say, written,  sealed, and delivered,) and biddeth
them go together."   p. 74.

This is the whole account given of the charge to the jury. 

In criminal eases, after the witnesses have been heard, and  the prisoner has said what he
pleases in his defence, the book  proceeds:

"When the judge hath heard them say enough, he asketh if  they can say any more. If they say
no, then he turneth his speech  to the inquest. 'Good men, (saith he,) ye of the inquest, ye
have  heard what these men say against the prisoner. You have also  heard what the prisoner
can say for himself. Have an eye to  your oath, and to your duty, and do that which God shall
put  in your minds to the discharge of your consciences, and mark  well what is said.' "  p. 92.

This is the whole account given of the charge in a criminal ease.

The following statement goes to confirm the same idea, that  jurors in England have formerly
understood it to be their right and duty to judge only according to their consciences, and
not to  submit to any dictation from the court, either as to law or fact.

"If having pregnant evidence, nevertheless, the twelve do  acquit the malefactor which they
will do sometime, especially if  they perceive either one of the justices or of the judges,
or some  other man, to pursue too much and too maliciously the death of the prisoner, * * the
prisoner escapeth; but the twelve (are) not only  rebuked by the judges, but also threatened
of punishment; and many times commanded to appear in the Star-Chamber, or before the  Privy
Council for the matter. But this threatening chanceth oftener  than the execution thereof;
and the twelve answer with most  gentle words, they did it according to their consciences,
and pray the judges to be good unto them, they did as they thought  right, and as they accorded
all, and so it passeth away for the most part."   p. 100.

The account given of the trial of a peer of  the realm corroborates  the same point: 

"If any duke, marquis, or any other of the degrees of a baron,  or above, lord of the Parliament,
be appeached of treason, or any other capital crime, he is judged by his peers and equals;
that,  is, the yeomanry doth not go upon him, but an inquest of the Lords of Parliament, and
they give their voice not one for all, but each  severally as they do in Parliament being (beginning)
at the youngest lord. And for judge one lord sitteth, who is constable of  England for that
day. The judgment once given, he breaketh his  staff, and abdicateth his office. In the rest
there is no difference  from that above written," (that is, in the case of a freeman.) p. 98.

[25] "The present  form of the jurors' oath is  that they shall 'give a  true verdict according
to the evidence.' At what time this form was introduced is uncertain; but for several centuries
after the Conquest,  the jurors, both in civil and criminal cases,  were sworn merely to speak
the truth. (Glanville, lib. 2, cap. 17; Bracton, lib. 3, cap. 22; lib. 4,  p. 287, 291; Britton,
p. 135.) Hence their decision was accurately termed veredictum, or verdict, that is, ' a thing
truly said'; whereas  the phrase 'true verdict' in the modern oath is not an accurate  expression."
Political Dictionary, word Jury.

[26] Of course, there can be no legal trial by jury, in either civil or  criminal cases, where
the jury are sworn to try the cases "according  to law." 

[27] Coke, as late as 1588, admits that amercements must be fixed by the  peers (8 Coke's Rep.
88, 2 Inst. 27); but he attempts, wholly without  success, as it seems to me, to show a difference
between fines and amercements. The statutes are very numerous, running through the  three or
four hundred years immediately succeeding Magna Carta, in which fines, ransoms, and amercements
are spoken of as if they were the common punishments of offences, and as if they all meant
the  same thing. If, however, any technical difference could be made out between them, there
is clearly none in principle; and the word  amercement, as used in Magna Carta, must be taken
in its most comprehensive sense.

[28] "Common right" was the common law. 1 Coke's  Inst. 142 a. 2 do. 55, 6. And in case that
any, of what estate or condition  they be, come before you in your sessions with force  and
arms, or otherwise against the peace, or against the form of the statute thereof made, to disturb
execution  of the common law," [mark the term, "common law,")  "or to menace the people that
they may not pursue the  law, that ye shalt cause their bodies to be arrested and  put in 
prison; and in case they be such that ye cannot  arrest them, that ye certify the king of their
names, and  of their misprision, hastily, so that he may thereof  ordain a convenable remedy.
And that ye by yourself, nor by other, privily nor apertly, maintain any plea or  quarrel hanging
in the king's court, or elsewhere in the  country. And that ye shall  do and procure the profit
of the king and of his crown,  with all things where ye may reasonably do the  same.  And in
case ye be from henceforth found in  default in any of the points aforesaid, ye shall be at
the king's will of body, lands, and goods, thereof to be  done as shall please him, as God
you help and all  saints."   18 Edward III., st. 4. (1344.)

[30] That the terms "Law" and "Right," as used in this statute, mean the common law, is shown
by the preamble, which declares the motive of  the statute to be that "the Law of the Land,
(the common law,) which we (the king) by our  oath are bound to maintain," may be the better
kept, &.

[31] The following is a copy of the original: 

"Forma Juramenti Regis Anglicae in Coronacione sua:

(Archiepiscopus Cantuariae, ad quo de jure et consuetudine  Ecclesiae Cantuariae, antiqua et
approbata, pertinet  Reges Angliae inungere et coronare, die coronacionis  Regis, anteque Rex
coronetur, faciet Regi Interrogationes subscriptas.)

Si leges et consuetudines ab antiquis justis et Deo  devotis Regibus plebi Anglicano concessas,
cum  sacramenti confirmacione eidem plebi concedere  et servare (volueris:) Et praesertim leges
et  consuetudines et libertates a glorioso Rege Edwardo  clero populoque concessas ?

(Et respondeat Rex,) Concedo et servare volo, et  sacramento confirmare.

Servabis Ecclesiae Dei, Cleroque, et Populo, pacem  ex integro et concordiam in Deo secundum
vires tuas ?

(Et respondeat Rex,) Servabo.

Facies fieri in omnibus Judieiis tuis equam et rectam  justioiam, et discreeionem, in misericordia
et veritate,  secundum vires  tuas?

(Et respondeat Rex,) Faciam.

Concedis justas, leges et consuetudines esse tenendas,  et promittis per te eas esse protegendas,
et ad honorem  Dei corroborandas, quas vulgus elegit, secundum vires  tuas ?

(Et respondeat Rex,) Concedo et promitto."

[32] It would appear, from the text, that the Charter of Liberties  and the Charter of the
Forest were sometimes called "laws of the land."

[33] As the ancient coronation oath, given in the text,
 has come down from the Saxontimes, the following 
remarks of Palgrave will be pertinent, in connection 
with the oath, as illustrating the fact that, in those times,
no special authority attached to the laws of the king:

"The Imperial Witenagemot was not a legislative  assembly, in the strict sense of the term,
for the whole  Anglo-Saxon empire. Promulgating his edicts amidst  his peers and prelates,
the king uses the language of command; but the theoretical prerogative was modified  by usage,
and the practice of the constitution required  that the law should be accepted by the legislatures
(courts) of the several kingdoms. * * The 'Basileus' speaks in the tone of prerogative: Edgar
does not merely recommend, he commands that the law shall be  adopted by all the people, whether
English,  Danes, or  Britons, in every part of his empire. Let this statute be  observed, he
continues, by Earl Oslac, and all the host who dwell under his government, and let it be transmitted
by writ to the ealdormen of the other subordinate states.  And yet, in defiance of this positive
iujunction, the laws of Edgar were not accepted in Mercia until the reign  of Canute the Dane.
It might be said that the course  so adopted may have been an exception to the general rule;
but in the scanty and imperfect annals of Anglo-Saxon  legislation, we shall be able to find
so many examples  of similar proceedings, that this mode of enactment  must be considered as
dictated by the constitution of the empire. Edward was the supreme lord of the  Northumbrians,
but more than a century elapsed before  they obeyed his decrees.  The laws of the glorious
Athelstane had no effect in Kent, (county,) the  dependent appanage of his crown, until sanctioned
by the Witan of the shire (county court). And the power of Canute himself, the 'King of all
England,' does not  seem to have compelled the Northumbrians to  receive his code, until the
reign of the Confessor,  when such acceptance became a part of the compact  upon the accession
of a new earl.

Legislation constituted but a small portion  of the  ordinary business transacted by the Imperial
Witenagemot. The wisdom of the assembly was  shown in avoiding unnecessary change. Consisting
principally of traditionary usages and ancestorial customs, the law was upheld by opinion.
The people considered  their jurisprudence as a part of their  inheritance.  Their privileges
and their duties were closely conjoined;  most frequently, the statutes themselves were only
affirmances of ancient customs, or declaratory enactments.

In the Anglo-Saxon commonwealth, therefore, the  legislative functions of the Witenagemot were
of far  less importance than the other branches of its authority.  * * The members of the Witenagemot
were the ' Pares Curiae ' (Peers of Court) of the kingdom. How far, on these occasions,  their
opinion or their equity controlled the power of the crown, cannot be ascertained. But the form
of inserting their names  in the 'Testing Clause' was retained under the  Anglo-Norman reigns;
and the sovereign, who submitted  his Charter to the judgment of the Proceres, professed to
be guided by the opinion which they gave. As the 'Pares'  of the empire, the Witenagemot decided'
the disputes  between the great vassals of the crown. * * The jurisdiction exercised in the
Parliament of Edward I., when the barony  of a Lord-Marcher became the subject of litigation,
is  entirely analogous to the proceedings thus adopted by the great council of Edward, the
son of Alfred, the Anglo-Saxon king.

In this assembly, the king, the prelates, the dukes, the  ealdormen, and the optimates passed
judgment upon all great  offenders.* * 

The sovereign could not compel the obedience of the different  nations composing the Anglo-Saxon
empire. Hence, it  became more necessary for him to conciliate their opinions, if he solicited
any service from a vassal prince or  a vassal state beyond the ordinary terms of the compact;
still more so, when he needed the support of a free burgh or city. And we may view the assembly
(the Witenagemot)  as partaking of the character of a political congress, in  which the liegemen
of the crown, or the communities  protected by the ' Basileus,' (sovereign,) were asked or
persuaded to relieve the exigences of the state, or to consider  those measures which might
be required for the common weal.  The sovereign was compelled to parley with his dependents,

It may be doubted whether any one member of the empire had  power to legislate for any other
member. The Regulus of Cumbria  was unaffected by the vote of the Earl of East Angliae, if
he chose to stand out against it. These dignitaries  constituted a congress, in which the sovereign
could  treat more conveniently and effectually with his vassals than by separate negotiations.
* * But the determinations  of the Witan bound those only who were present, or who  concurred
in the proposition; and a vassal denying his assent to the grant, might assert that the engagement
which he  had contracted with his superior did not involve any  pecuniary subsidy, but only
rendered him liable to perform  service in the field."   1 Palgrave's Rise and Progress of
the  English Commonwealth, 637 to 642.

CHAPTER IV. THE RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF JURIES IN CIVIL SUITS.

The evidence already given in the preceding chapters proves that the rights and duties of jurors,
in civil suits, were anciently the same as in criminal ones; that the laws of the king were
of no obligation upon the consciences of the jurors, any further than the laws were seen by
them to be just; that very few laws were enacted applicable to civil suits; that when a new
law was enacted, the nature of it could have been known to the jurors only by report, and was
very likely not to be known to them at all; that nearly all the law involved in civil suits
was unwritten;  that there was usually  no one in attendance upon juries who could possibly
enlighten them, unless it were sheriffs, stewards, and bailiffs, who were unquestionably too
ignorant and untrustworthy to instruct them authoritatively; that the jurors must therefore
necessarily have judged for themselves of the whole case; and that, as a general rule, they
could judge of it by no law but the law of nature, or the. principles of justice as they existed
in their own minds.

The ancient oath of jurors in civil suits, viz., that "they would make known the truth according
to their consciences," implies that the jurors were above the authority of all legislation.
The modern oath, in England, viz., that they "will well and truly try the issue between the
parties, and a true verdict give, according to the evidence," implies the same thing. If the
laws of the king had been binding upon a jury, they would have been sworn to try the cases
according to law, or according to the laws.

The language of Magna Carta, already discussed, establishes the same point; for, although some
of the words, such as "outlawed," and "exiled," would apply only to criminal cases, nearly
the whole chapter applies as well to civil as to criminal suits. For example, how could the
payment of a debt ever be enforced against an unwilling debtor, if he could neither be "arrested,
imprisoned, nor deprived of his freehold," and if the king could neither "proceed against him,
nor send any one against him, by force or arms" ?  Yet Magna Carta as much forbids that any
of these things shall be done against a debtor, as against a criminal, except according to,
or in execution of, " a judgment of his peers, or the law of the land,"   a provision which,
it has been shown, gave the jury the free and absolute right to give or withhold "judgment"
according to their consciences, irrespective of all legislation.

The following provisions, in the Magna Carta of John, illustrate the custom of referring the
most important matters of a civil nature, even where the king was a party, to the determination
of the peers, or of twelve men, acting by no rules but their own consciences. These examples
at least show that there is nothing improbable or unnatural in the idea that juries should
try all civil suits according to their own judgments, independently of all laws of the king.

Chap. 65. And if any dispute arises upon this head, the matter shall be determined in the Marches,
[1] by the judgment of their peers," &c;.

Chap. 68. " We shall treat with Alexander, king of Scots, concerning the restoring of his sisters,
and hostages, and rights and liberties, in the same form and manner as we shall do to the rest
of our barons of England; unless by the engagements, which his father William, late king of
Scots, hath entered into with us, it ought to be otherwise; and this shall be left to the determination
of his peers in our court." 

Chap. 56. 

There is substantially the same reason why a jury ought to judge of the justice of laws, and
hold all unjust laws invalid, in civil suits, as in criminal ones. That reason is the necessity
of guarding against the tyranny of the government. Nearly the same oppressions can be practised
in civil suits as in criminal ones. For example, individuals may be deprived, of their liberty,
and robbed of their property, by judgments rendered in civil suits, as well as in criminal
ones. If the laws of the king were imperative upon a jury in civil suits, the king might enact
laws giving one man's property to another, or confiscating it to the king himself, and authorizing
civil suits to obtain possession of it. Thus a man might be robbed of his property at the arbitrary
pleasure of the king. In fact, all the property of the kingdom would be placed, at the arbitrary
disposal of the king, through the judgments of juries in civil suits, if the laws of the king
were imperative upon a jury in such suits. [2]

Furthemore, it would be absurd and inconsistent to make a jury paramount to legislation in
criminal suits, and subordinate to it in civil suits; because an individual, by resisting the
execution of a civil judgment, founded upon an unjust law, could give rise to a criminal suit,
in which the jury would be bound to hold the same law invalid. So that, if an unjust law were
binding upon a jury in civil suits, a defendant, by resisting the execution of the judgment,
could, in effect, convert the civil action into a criminal one, in which the jury would be
paramount to the same legislation, to which, in the civil suit, they were subordinate. In other
words, in the criminal suit, the jury would be obliged to justify the defendant in resisting
a law, which, in the civil suit, they had said he was bound to submit to.

To make this point plain to the most common mind   suppose a law be enacted that the property
of A shall be given to B. B  brings a civil action to obtain possession of it. If the jury,
in this civil suit, are bound to hold the law obligatory, they render a judgment in favor of
B, that he be put in possession of the property; thereby declaring that A is bound to submit
to a law depriving him of his property. But when the execution of that judgment comes to be
attempted   that is, when the sheriff comes to take the property for the purpose of delivering
it to B   A acting, as he has a natural right to do, in defence of his property, resists and
kills the sheriff. He is thereupon indicted for murder. On this trial his plea is, that in
killing the sheriff, he was simply exercising his natural right of defending his property against
an unjust law. The jury, not being bound, in a criminal case, by the authority of an unjust
law, judge the act on its merits, and acquit the defendant   thus declaring that he was not
bound to submit to the same law which the jury, in the civil suit, had, by their judgment,
declared that he was bound to submit to. Here is a contradiction between the two judgments.
In the civil suit, the law is declared to be obligatory upon A; in the criminal suit, the same
law is declared to be of no obligation.

It would be a solecism and absurdity in government to allow such consequences as these. Besides,
it would be practically impossible to maintain government on such principles; for no government
could enforce its civil judgments, unless it could support them by criminal ones, in case of
resistance. A jury must therefore be paramount to legislation in both civil and criminal cases,
or in neither. If they are paramount in neither, they are no protection to liberty. If they
are paramount in both, then all legislation goes only for what it may chance to be worth in
the estimation of a jury.

Another reason why Magna Carta makes the discretion and consciences of juries paramount to
all legislation in civilsuits, is, that if legislation were binding upon a jury, the jurors
(by reason  of their being unable to read, as jurors in those days were, and  also by reason
of many of the statutes being unwritten, or at least  not so many copies written as that juries
could be supplied with  them)   would have been necessitated at least in those courts in  which
the king's justices sat   to take the word of those justices  as to what the laws of the king
really were. In other words, they  would have been necessitated to take the law from the court,
as  jurors do now.

Now there were two reasons why, as we may rationally suppose, the people did not wish juries
to take their law from the king's judges. One was, that, at that day, the people probably had
sense enough to see, (what we, at this day, have not sense enough to see, although we have
the evidence of it every day before our eyes,) that those judges, being dependent upon the
legislative power, (the king,) being appointed by it, paid by it, and removable by it at pleasure,
would be mere tools of that power, and would hold all its legislation obligatory, whether it
were just or unjust. This was one reason, doubtless, why Magna Carta made juries, in civil
suits, paramount to all instructions of the king's judges. The reason was precisely the same
as that for making them paramount to all instructions of judges in criminal suits, viz., that
the people did not choose to subject their rights of property, and all other rights involved
in civil suits, to the operation of such laws as the king might please to enact. It was seen
that to allow the king's judges to dictate the law to the jury would be equivalent to making
the legislation of the king imperative upon the jury.

Another reason why the people did not wish juries, in civil suits, to take their law from the
king's judges, doubtless was, that, knowing the dependence of the judges upon the king, and
knowing that the king would, of course, tolerate no judges who were not subservient to his
will, they necessarily inferred; that the king's judges would be as corrupt, in the administration
of justice, as was the king himself, or as he wished them to be. And how corrupt that was,
may be inferred from the following historical facts.   Hume, Appendix 2. We may judge what
the case would be under the government of worse princes."   Hume, Appendix 2.

Carte says:

"The crown exercised in those days an exorbitant and inconvenient power, ordering the justices
of the king's court, in suits about lands, to turn out, put, and keep in possession, which
of the litigants they pleased; to send contradictory orders; and take large sums of money from
each; to respite proceedings; to direct sentences; and the judges, acting by their commission,
conceived themselves bound to observe such orders, to the great delay, interruption, and preventing
of justice; at least, this was John's practice,"   Carte's History of England, vol. 1, p. 832.

Hallam says:

"But of all the abuses that deformed the Anglo-Saxon government, none was so flagitious as
the sale of judicial redress, The king, we are often told, is the fountain of justice; but
in those ages it was one which gold alone could unseal. Men fined (paid fines) to have right
done them; to sue in a certain court; to implead a certain person; to have restitution of land
which they had recovered at law. From the sale of that justice which every citizen has a right
to demand, it was an easy transition to withhold or deny it. Fines were received for the king's
help against the adverse suitor; that is, for perversion of justice, or for delay. Sometimes
they were paid by opposite parties, and, of course, for opposite ends."   2 Middle Ages, 438.

In allusion to the provision of Magna Carta on this subject, Hallam says:

"A law which enacts that justice shall neither be sold, denied, nor delayed, stamps with infamy
that government under which it had become necessary."   2 Middle Ages, 451.

Lingard, speaking of the times of Henry II., (say 1184,) says:

"It was universally understood that money possessed greater influence than justice in the royal
courts, and instances are on record, in which one party has made the king a present to accelerate,
and the other by a more valuable offer has succeeded in retarding a decision. * * But besides
the fines paid to the sovereigns, the judges often exacted presents for themselves, and loud
complaints existed against their venality and injustice."   8 Lingard, 231.

In the narrative of "The costs and charges which I, Richard de Anesty, bestowed in recovering
the land of William, my uncle," (some fifty years before Magna Carta,) are the following items:

"To Ralph, the king's physician, I gave thirty-six marks and one half; to the king an hundred
marks; and to the queen one mark of gold." The result is thus stated. "At last, thanks to our
lord the king, and by judgment of his court, my uncle's land was adjudged to me."   2 Palgrave's
Rise and Progress of the English Commonwealth, p. 9 and 24.

Palgrave also says:

"The precious ore was cast into the scales of justice, even when held by the most conscientious
of our Anglo-Saxon kings. A single case will exemplify the practices which prevailed. Alfric,
the heir of 'Aylwin, the black,' seeks to set aside the death-bed bequest, by which his kinsman
bestowed four rich and fertile manors upon St. Benedict. Alfric, the claimant, was supported
by extensive and powerful connexions; and Abbot Alfwine, the defendant, was well aware that
there would be danger in the discussion of the dispute in public, or before the Folkmoot, (people's
meeting, or county court); or, in other words, that the Thanes of the shire would do their
best to give a judgment in favor of their compeer. The plea being removed into the Royal Court,
the abbot acted with that prudence which so often calls forth the praises of the monastic scribe.
He gladly emptied twenty marks of gold into the sleeve of the Confessor, (Edward,) and five
marks of gold presented to Edith, the Fair, encouraged her to aid the bishop, and to exercise
her gentle influence in his favor. Alfric, with equal wisdom, withdrew from prosecuting the
hopeless cause, in which his opponent might possess an advocate in the royal judge, and a friend
in the king's consort. Both parties. therefore, found it desirable to come to an agreement."
1 Palgrave's Rise and Progress, &c;., p. 650.

But Magna Carta has another provision for the trial of civil suits, that obviously had its
origin in the corruption of the king's judges. The provision is, that four knights, to be chosen
in every county, by the people of the county, shall sit with the king's judges, in the Common
Pleas, in jury trials, (assizes,) on the trial of three certain kinds of suits, that were among
the most important that were tried at all. The reason for this provision undoubtedly was, that
the corruption and subserviency of the king's judges were so well known, that the people would
not even trust them to sit alone in a jury trial of any considerable importance. The provision
is this:

Chap. 22, (of John's Charter.) "Common Pleas shall not follow our court, but shall be holden
in some certain place. Trials upon the writ of novel disseisin, and of Mort d'Ancester, and
of Darrein Presentment, shall be taken but in their proper counties, and after this manner:
We, or, if we should be out of our realm, our chief justiciary, shall send two jnsticiaries
through every county four times a year; [3] who, with four knights chosen out of every shire,
by the people, shall hold the assizes (juries) in the county, on the day and at the place appointed."

It would be very unreasonable to suppose that the king's judges were allowed to dictate the
law to the juries, when the people would not even suffer them to sit alone in jury trials,
but themselves chose four men to sit with them, to keep them honest. [4]

This practice of sending the king's judges into the counties to preside at jury trials, was
introduced by the Norman kings Under the Saxons it was not so. No officer of the king was allowed
to preside at a jury trial; but only magistrates chosen by the people.[5]

But the following chapter of John's charter, which immediately succeeds the one just quoted,
and refers to the same suits, affords very strong, not to say conclusive, proof, that juries
judged of the law in civil suits   that is, made the law, so far as their deciding according
to their own notions of justice could make the law.

Chap. 23. "And if, on the county day, the aforesaid assizes cannot be taken, so many knights
and freeholders shall remain, of those who shall have been present on said day, as that the
judgments may be rendered by them, whether the business be more or less."

The meaning of this chapter is, that so many of the civil suits, as could not be tried on the
day when the king's justices were present, should be tried afterwards, by the four knights
before mentioned, and the freeholders, that is, the jury. It must be admitted, of course, that
the juries, in these cases, judged the matters of law, as well as fact, unless it be presumed
that the knights dictated the law to the jury na thing of which there is no evidence at all.

As a final proof on this point, there is a statute enacted seventy years after Magna Carta,
which, although it is contrary to the common law, and therefore void, is nevertheless good
evidence, inasmuch as it contains an acknowledgment, on the part of the king himself, that
juries had a right to judge of the whole matter, law and fact, in civil suits. The provision
is this:

"It is ordained, that the justices assigned to take the assizes, shall not compel the jurors
to say precisely whether it be disseisin, or not, so that they do show the truth of the deed,
and seek aid of the justices. But if they will, of their own accord, say that it is disseisin,
or not, their verdict shall be admitted at their own peril."   13 Edward I., st. 1, ch. 3,
sec. 2. (1285.)

The question of "disseisin, or not," was a question of law, as well as fact. This statute,
therefore, admits that the law, as well as the fact, was in the hands of the jury. The statute
is nevertheless void, because the king had no authority to give jurors a dispensation from
the obligation imposed upon them by their oaths and the "law of the land," that they should
"make known the truth according their (own) consciences." This they were bound to do, and there
was no power in the king to absolve them from the duty. And the attempt of the king thus to
absolve them, and authorize them to throw the case into the hands of the judges for decision,
was simply an illegal and unconstitutional attempt to overturn the "law of the land," which
he was sworn to maintain, and gather power into his own hands, through his judges. He had just
as much constitutional power to enact that the jurors should not be compelled to declare the
facts, but that they might leave them to be determined by the king's judges, as he had to enact
that they should not be compelled to declare the law, but might leave it to be decided by the
king's judges. 122 It was as much the legal duty of the jury to decide the law as to decide
the fact; and no law of the king could affect their obligation to do either. And this statute
is only one example of the numberless contrivances and usurpations which have been resorted
to, for the purpose of destroying the original and genuine trial by jury.

[1] Marches, the limits, or boundaries, between England and Wales.

[2] That the kings would have had no scruples to enact laws for the special purpose of plundering
the people, by means of the judgments of juries, if they could have got juries to acknowledge
the authority of their laws, is evident from the audacity with which they plundered them, without
any judgments of juries to authorize them. 

It is not necessary to occupy space here to give details as to these robberies; but only some
evidence of the general fact.

Hallam says, that "For the first three reigns (of the Norman kings) * * the intolerable exactions
of tribute, the rapine of purveyance, the iniquity of royal courts, are continually in the
mouths of the historians. ' God sees the wretched people,' says the Saxon Chronicler, 'most
unjustly oppressed; first they are despoiled of their possessions, and then butchered.' This
was a grievous year (1124). Whoever had any property, lost it by heavy taxes and unjust decrees."
2 Middle Ages, 435-6.

"In the succeeding reign of John, all the rapacious exactions usual to these Norman kings were
not only redoubled, but mingled with outrages of tyranny still more intolerable.

"In 1207 John took a seventh of the movables of lay and spiritual persons, all murmuring, but
none daring to speak against it."   Ditto, 446. At another time, Isaac, the Jew, paid alone
5100 marks", Brun, 3000 marks; Jurnet, 2000; Bennet, 500. At another, Licorica, widow of David,
the Jew of Oxford, was required to pay 6000 marks."   Hume's Hist Eng., Appendix 2.

Further accounts of the extortions and oppressions of the kings may be found in Hume's History,
Appendix 2, and in Hallam's Middle Ages, vol. 2, p. 435 to 446.

By Magna Carta John bound himself to make restitution for some of the spoliations he had committed
upon individuals "without the legal judgment of their peers."   See Magna Carta of John, ch.
60, 61, 65 and 66.

One of the great charges, on account of which the nation rose against John, was, that he plundered
individuals of their property, "without legal judgment of their peers." Now it was evidently
very weak and short sighted in John to expose himself to such charges, if his laws were really
obligatory upon the peers; because, in that case, he could have enacted any laws that were
necessary for his purpose, and then, by civil suits, have brought the cases before juries for
their "judgment," and thus have accomplished all his robberies in a perfectly legal manner.

There would evidently have been no sense in these complaints, that he deprived men of their
property "without legal judgment of their peers," if his laws had been binding upon the peers;
because he could then have made the same spoliations as well with the judgment of the peers
as without it. Taking the judgment of the peers in the matter, would have been only a ridiculous
and useless formality, if they were to exercise no discretion or conscience of their own, independently
of the laws of the king.

It may here be mentioned, in passing, that the same would be true in criminal mature, if the
king's Laws were obligatory upon juries.   Hume, Appendix 2.

The provision, also, in the 64th chapter of Magna Carta, that " all unjust and illegal fines,
and all amercements, imposed unjustly, and contrary to the Law of the Land, shall be entirely
forgiven," &c;.; and the provision, in chapter 61, that the king "will cause full justice to
be administered" in regard to "all those things, of which any person has, without legal judgment
of his peers, been dispossessed or deprived, either by King Henry, our father., or our brother,
King Richard," indicate the tyrannical practices that prevailed.

We are told also that John himself "had dispossessed several great men without any judgment
of their peers, condemned others to cruel deaths, * * insomuch that his tyrannical will stood
instead of a law."   Echard's History of England, 106. Now all these things were very unnecessary
and foolish, if his laws were binding upon juries; because, in that ease, he could have procured
the conviction of these men in a legal manner, and thus have saved the necessity of such usurpation.
In short, if the laws of the king had been binding upon juries, there is no robbery, vengeance,
or oppression, which he could not have accomplished through the judgments of juries. This consideration
is sufficient, of itself, to prove that the laws of the king were of no authority over a jury,
in either civil or criminal cases, unless the juries regarded the laws as just in themselves.

[3] By the Magna Carta of Henry III., this is changed to once a year.

[4] From the provision of Magna Carta, cited in the text, it must be inferred that there can
be no legal trial by jury, in civil eases, if only the king's justices preside; that, to make
the trial legal, there must be other persons, chosen by the people, to sit with them; the object
being to prevent the jury's being deceived by the justices. I think we must also infer that
the king's justices could sit only in the three actions specially mentioned. We cannot go beyond
the letter of Magria Carta, in making innovations upon the common law, which required all presiding
officers in jury trials to be elected by the people.

[5] ["The earls, sheriffs, and head-boroughs were annually elected in the full folcmote, (people's
meeting)." Introduction to Gilbert's History of the Common Pleas, p. 2, note.

"It was the especial province of the earldomen or earl to attend the shyre-meeting, (the county
court,) twice a year, and there officiate as the county judge in expounding the secular laws,
as appears by the fifth of Edgar's laws."   Same, p. 2, note.

"Every ward had its proper alderman, who was chosen, and not imposed by the prince."   Same,
p. 4, text.

"As the aldermen, or earls, were always chosen" (by the people) "from among the greatest thanes,
who in those times were generally more addicted to arms than to letters, they were but ill-qualified
for the administration of justice, and performing the civil duties of their office."   3 Henry's
History of Great Britain, 343.

"But none of these thanes were annually elected in the full folcmote, (people's meeting,) as
the earls, sheriffs, and head-boroughs were; nor did King Alfred (as this author suggests)
deprive the people of the election of those last mentioned magistrates and nobles, much less
did he appoint them himself."   Introd. to Gilbert's Hist. Com. Pleas, p. 2, note.

"The sheriff was usually not appointed by the lord, but elected by the freeholders of the district."
Political Dictionary, word Sheriff.

"Among the most remarkable of the Saxon laws we may reckon * * the election of their magistrates
by the people, originally even that of their kings, till dear-bought  experience evinced the
convenience and necessity of establishing an hereditary succession to the crown. But that (the
election) of all subordinate magistrates, their military officers or heretochs, their sheriffs,
their conservators of the peace, their coroners, their portreeves, (since changed into mayors
and bailiffs,) and even their tithing-men and borsholders at the last, continued, some, till
the Norman conquest, others for two centuries after, and some remain to this day."   4 Blackstone,
418.

"The election of sheriffs was left to the people, according to ancient usage."   St. West.
1, c. 27.   Crabbe's History of English Law, 181.

CHAPTER V. OBJECTIONS ANSWERED

The following objections will be made to the doctrines and the evidence presented in the preceding
chapters.

1. That it is a maxim of the law, that the judges respond to the question of law, and juries
only to the question of fact. The answer to this objection is, that, since Magna Carta, judges
have had more than six centuries in which to invent and promulgate pretended maxims to suit
themselves; and this is one  of them. Instead of expressing the law, it expresses nothing but
the ambitious and lawless will of the judges themselves, and of those whose instruments they
are.[1]

2. It will be asked, Of what use are the justices, if the jurors judge both of law and fact?

The answer is, that they are of use, 1. To assist and enlighten the jurors, if they can, by
their advice and information; such advice and information to be received only for what they
may chance to be worth in the estimation of the jurors.  2. To do anything that may be necessary
in regard, to granting appeals and new trials.

3. It is said that it would be absurd that twelve ignorant men should have power to judge of
the law, while justices learned in the law should be compelledto sit by and see the law decided
erroneously. 

One answer to this objection is, that the powers of juries are not granted to them on the supposition
that they know the law better than the justices; but on the ground that the justices are untrustworthy,
that they are exposed to bribes, are themselves fond of power and authority, and are also the
dependent and subservient creatures of the legislature; and that to allow them to dictate the
law, would not only expose the rights of parties to be sold for money, but would be equivalent
to surrendering all the property, liberty, and rights of the people, unreservedly into the
hands of arbitrary power, (the legislature,) to be disposed of at its pleasure. The powers
of juries, therefore, not only place a curb upon the powers of legislators and judges, but
imply also an imputation upon their integrity and trustworthiness: and these are the reasons
why legislators and judges have formerly entertained the intensest hatred of juries, and, so
fast as they could do it without alarming the people for their liberties, have, by indirection,
denied, undermined, and practically destroyed their power. And it is only since all the real
power of juries has been destroyed, and they have become mere tools in the hands of legislators
and judges, that they have become favorites with them.

Legislators and judges are necessarily exposed to all the temptations of money, fame, and power,
to induce them to disregard justice between parties, and sell the rights, and violate the liberties
of the people. Jurors, on the other hand, are exposed to none of these temptations. They are
not liable to bribery, for they are unknown to the parties until they come into the jury-box.
They can rarely gain either fame, power, or money, by giving erroneous decisions. Their offices
are temporary, and they know that when they shall have executed them, they must return to the
people, to hold all their own rights in life subject to the liability of such judgments, by
their successors, as they themselves have given an example for. The laws of human nature do
not permit the supposition that twelve men, taken by lot from the mass of the people, and acting
under such circumstances, will all prove dishonest. It is a supposable case that they may not
be sufficiently enlightened to know and do their whole duty, in all cases whatsoever; but that
they should all prove dishonest, is not within the range of probability. A jury, therefore,
insures to us   what no other court does   that first and indispensable requisite in a judicial
tribunal, integrity.

4. It is alleged that if juries are allowed to judge of the law, they decide the law absolutely;
that their decision must necessarily stand, be it right or wrong; and that this power of absolute
decision would be dangerous in their hands, by reason of their ignorance of the law.

One answer is, that this power, which juries have of judging of the law, is not a power of
absolute decision in all cases.  For example, it is a power to declare imperatively that a
man's property, liberty, or life, shall not be taken from him; but it is not a power to declare
imperatively that they shall be taken from him.

Magna Carta does not provide that the judgments of the peers shall be executed; but only that
no other than their judgments shall ever be executed, so far as to take a party's goods, rights,
or person, thereon.

A judgment of the peers may be reviewed, and invalidated, and a new trial granted. So that
practically a jury has no absolute power to take a party's goods, rights, or person. They have
only an absolute veto upon their being taken by the government. The government is not bound
to do everything that a jury may adjudge. It is only prohibited from doing anything   (that
is, from taking a party's goods, rights, or person)   unless a jury have first adjudged it
to be done.

But it will, perhaps, be said, that if an erroneous judgment of one jury should be reaffirmed
by another, on a new trial, it must then be executed. But Magna Carta does not command even
this   although it might, perhaps, have been reasonably safe for it to have done so   for if
two juries unanimously affirm the same thing, after all the light and aid that judges and lawyers
can afford them, that fact probably furnishes as strong a presumption in favor of the correctness
of their opinion, as can ordinarily be obtained in favor of a judgment, by any measures of
a practical character for the administration of justice. Still, there is nothing in Magna Carta
that compels the execution of even a second judgment of a jury. The only injunction of Magna
Carta  upon the government, as to what it shall do, on this point, is that it shall "do justice
and right," without sale, denial, or delay. But this leaves the government all power of determining
what is justice and right, except that it shall not consider anything as justice and right
so far as to carry it into execution against the goods, rights, or person of a party   unless
it be something which a jury have sanctioned.

If the government had no alternative but to execute all judgments of a jury indiscriminately,
the power of juries would unquestionably be dangerous; for there is no doubt that they may
sometimes give hasty and erroneous judgments. But when it is considered that their judgments
can be reviewed, and new trials granted, this danger is, for all practical purposes, obviated.

If it be said that juries may successively give erroneous judgments, and that new trials cannot
be granted indefinitely, the answer is, that so far as Magna Carta is concerned, there is nothing
to prevent the granting of new trials indefinitely, if the judgments of juries are contrary
to "justice and right." So that Magna Carta does not require any judgment whatever to be executed
so far as to take a party's goods, rights, or person, thereon   unless it be concurred in by
both court and jury.

Nevertheless, we may, for the sake of the argument, suppose the existence of a practical, if
not legal, necessity, for executing some judgment or other, in cases where juries persist in
disagreeing with the courts. In such cases, the principle of Magna Carta unquestionably is,
that the uniform judgments of successivejuries shall prevail over the opinion of the court.
And  the reason of this principle is obvious, viz., that it is the will of the country, and
not the will of the court, or the government, that must determine what laws shall be established
and enforced; that the concurrent judgments of successive juries, given in opposition to all
the reasoning which judges and lawyers can offer to the contrary, must necessarily be presumed
to be a truer exposition of the will of the country, than are the opinions of the judges.

But it may be said that, unless jurors submit to the control of the court, in matters of law,
they may disagree amongthemselves, and never come to any judgment; and thus justice fail to
be done. 

Such a case is perhaps possible; but, if possible, it can occur but rarely; because, although
one jury may disagree, a succession of juries are not likely to disagree   that is, on matters
of natural law, or abstract justice. [2] If such a thing should occur, it would almost certainly
be owing to the attempt of the court to mislead them. It is hardly possible that any other
cause should be adequate to produce such an effect; because justice comes very near to being
a self-evident principle. The mind perceives it almost intuitively. If, in addition to this,
the court be uniformly on the side of justice, it is not a reasonable supposition that a succession
of juries should disagree about it. If, therefore, a succession of juries do disagree on the
law of any case, the presumption is, not that justice fails of being done, but that injustice
is prevented   that injustice, which would be done, if the opinion of the court were suffered
to control the jury.

For the sake of the argument, however, it may be admitted to be possible that justice should
sometimes fail of being done through the disagreements of jurors, notwithstanding all the light
which judges and lawyers can throw upon the question in issue. If it be asked what provision
the trial by jury makes for such cases, the answer is, it makes none; and justice must fail
of being done, from the want of its being made sufficiently intelligible.

Under the trial by jury, justice can never be done   that is, by a judgment that shall take
a party's goods, rights, or person   until that justice can be made intelligible or perceptible
to the minds of all the jurors; or, at least, until it obtain the voluntary assent of all 
an assent, which ought not to be given until the justice itself shall have become perceptible
to all. 

The principles of the trial by jury, then, are these:

1. That, in criminal cases, the accused is presumed innocent.

2. That, in civil cases, possession is presumptive proof of property; or, in other words, every
man is presumed to be the rightful proprietor of whatever he has in his possession.

3. That these presumptions shall be overcome, in a court of justice, only by evidence, the
sufficiency of which, and by law, the justice of which, are satisfactory to the under- standing
and consciences of all the jurors.

These are the bases on which the trial by jury places the property, liberty, and rights of
every individual.

But some one will say, if these are the principles of the trial by jury, then it is plain that
justice must often fail to be done. Admitting, for the sake of the argument, that this may
be true, the compensation for it is, that positive injustice will also often fail to be done;
whereas otherwise it would be done frequently. The very precautions used to prevent injustice
being done, may often have the effect to prevent justice being done. Bu are we, therefore,
to take no precautions against injustice? By no means, all will agree. The question then arises
Does the trial by jury, as here explained, involve such extreme and unnecessary precautions
against injustice, as to interpose unnecessary obstacles to the doing of justice? Men of different
minds may very likely answer this question differently, according as they have more or less
confidence in the wisdom and justice of legislators, the integrity and independence of judges,
and the intelligence of jurors. This much, however, may be said in favor of these precautions,
viz., that the history of the past, as well as our constant present experience, prove how much
injustice may, and certainly will, be done, systematically and continually, for the want of
these precautions   that is, while the law is authoritatively  made and expounded by legislators
and judges. On the other hand,  we have no such evidence of how much justice may fail to be
done,  by reason of these precautions   that is, by reason of the law being  left to the judgments
and consciences of jurors. We can determine  the former point   that is, how much positive
injustice is done  under the first of these two systems because the system is in full  operation;
but we cannot determine how much justice would  fail to be done under the latter system, because
we have, in  modern times, had no experience of the use of the precautions  themselves. In
ancient times, when these precautions were  nominally in force, such was the tyranny of kings,
and such the  poverty, ignorance, and the inability of concert and resistance,  on the part
of the people, that the system had no full or fair  operation. It, nevertheless, under all
these disadvantages,  impressed itself upon the understandings, and imbedded itself  in the
hearts, of the people, so as no other system of civil liberty  has ever done.

But this view of the two systems compares only the injustice done, and the justice omitted
to be done, in the individual cases adjudged,  without looking beyond them. And some persons
might, on first thought, argue that, if justice failed of being done under the one system,
oftener than positive injustice were done under the other, the balance was in favor of the
latter system. But such a weighing of the two systems against each other gives no true idea
of their comparative merits or demerits; for, possibly, in this view alone, the balance would
not be very great in favor of either. To compare, or rather to contrast, the two, we must consider
that, under the jury system, the failures to do justice would be only rare and exceptional
cases; and would be owing either to the intrinsic difficulty of the questions, or to the fact
that the parties had. transacted their business in a manner unintelligible to the jury, and
the effects would be confined to the individual or individuals interested in the particular
suits. No permanent law would be established thereby destructive of the rights of the people
in other like cases. And the people at large would continue to enjoy all their natural rights
as before. But under the other system, whenever an unjust law is enacted by the legislature,
and the judge imposes it upon the jury as authoritative, and they give a judgment in accordance
therewith, the authority of the law is thereby established, and the whole people are thus brought
under the yoke of that law; because they then understand that the law will be enforced against
them in future, if they presume to exercise their rights, or refuse to comply with the exactions
of the law. In this manner all unjust laws are established, and made operative against the
rights of the people.

The difference, then, between the two systems is this: Under the one system, a jury, at distant
intervals, would (not enforce any positive injustice, but only) fail of enforcing justice,
in a dark and difficult case, or in consequence of the parties not having transacted their
business in a manner intelligible to a jury; and the plaintiff would thus fail of obtaining
what was rightfully due him. And there the matter would end, for evil, though not for good;
for thenceforth parties, warned, of the danger of losing their rights, would be careful to
transact their business in a more clear and intelligible manner. Under the other system   the
system of legislative and judicial authority   positive injustice is not only done in every
suit arising under unjust laws,  that is, men's property, liberty, or lives are not only unjustly
taken on those particular judgments,  but the rights of the whole people are struck down by
the authority of the laws thus enforced, and a wide-sweeping tyranny at once put in operation.

But there is another ample and conclusive answer to the argument that justice would often fail
to be done, if jurors were allowed to be governed by their own consciences, instead of the
direction of the justices, in matters of law. That answer is this:

Legitimate government can be formed only by the voluntary association of all who contribute
to its support. As a voluntary association, it can have for its objects only those things in
which the members of the association are all agreed. If, therefore, there be any justice, in
regard to which all the parties to the government are not agreed, the objects of the association
do not extend to it. [3]

If any of the members wish more than this,  if they claim to have acquired a more extended
knowledge of justice than is common to all, and wish to have their pretended discoveries carried
into effect, in reference to themselves,   they must either form a separate association for
that purpose, or be content to wait until they can make their views intelligible to the people
at large. They cannot claim or expect that the whole people shall practise the folly of taking
on trust their pretended superior knowledge, and of committing blindly into their hands all
their own interests, liberties, and rights, to be disposed of on principles, the justness of
which the people themselves cannot comprehend.

A government of the whole, therefore, must necessarily confine itself to the administration
of such principles of law as all the people, who contribute to the support of the government,
can comprehend and see the justice of. And it can be confined within those limits only by allowing
the jurors, who represent all the parties to the compact, to judge of the law, and the justice
of the law, in all cases whatsoever. And if any justice be left undone, under these circumstances,
it is a justice for which the nature of the association does not provide, which the association
does not undertake to do, and which, as an association, it is under no obligation to do.

The people at large, the unlearned and common people, have certainly an indisputable right
to associate for the establishment and maintenance of such a government as they themselves
see the justice of, and feel the need of, for the promotion of their own interests, and the
safety of their own rights, without at the same time surrendering all their property, liberty,
and rights into the hands of men, who, under the pretence of a superior and incomprehensible
knowledge of justice, may dispose of such property, liberties, and rights, in a manner to suit
their own selfish and dishonest purposes.

If a government were to be established and supported solely by that portion of the people who
lay claim to superior knowledge, there would be some consistency in their saying that the common
people should not be received as jurors, with power to judge of the justice of the laws. But
so long as the whole people (or all the male adults) are presumed to be voluntary parties to
the government, and voluntary contributors to it support, there is no consistency in refusing
to any one of them more than to another the right to sit as juror, with full power to decide
for himself whether any law that is proposed to be enforced in any particular case, be within
the objects of the association.

The conclusion, therefore, is, that, in a government formed by voluntary association, or on
the theory of voluntary association, and voluntary support, (as all the North American governments
are,) no law can rightfully be enforced by the association in its corporate capacity, against
the goods, rights, or person of any individual, except it be such as all the members of the
association agree that it may enforce. To enforce any other law, to the extent of taking a
man's goods, rights, or person, would be making some of the parties to the association accomplices
in what they regard as acts of injustice. It would also be making them consent to what they
regard as the destruction of their own rights. These are things which no legitimate system
or theory of government can require of any of the parties to it.

The mode adopted, by the trial by jury, for ascertaining whether all the parties to the government
do approve of a particular law, is to take twelve men at random from the whole people, and
accept their unanimous decision as representing the opinions of the whole. Even this mode is
not theoretically accurate; for theoretical accuracy would require that every man, who was
a party to the government, should individually give his consent to the enforcement of every
law in every separate case. But such a thing would be impossible in practice. The consent of
twelve men is therefore taken instead; with-the privilege of appeal, and (in case of error
found by the appeal court) a new trial, to guard against possible mistakes. This system, it
is assumed, will ascertain the sense of the whole people   "the country"   with sufficient
accuracy for all practical purposes, and with as much accuracy as is practicable without too
great inconvenience and expense.

5. Another objection that will perhaps be made to allowing jurors to judge of the law, and
the justice of the law, is, that the law would be uncertain.

If, by this objection, it be meant that the law would be uncertain to the minds of the people
at large, so that they would not know what the juries would sanction and what condemn, and
would not therefore know practically what their own rights and liberties were under the law,
the objection is thoroughly baseless and false. No system of law that was ever devised could
be so entirely intelligible and certain to the minds of the people at large as this. Compared
with it, the complicated systems of law that are compounded of the law of nature, of constitutional
grants, of innumerable and incessantly changing legislative enactments, and of countless and
contradictory judicial decisions, with no uniform principle of reason or justice running through
them, are among the blindest of all the mazes in which unsophisticated minds were ever bewildered
and lost. The uncertainty of the law under these systems has become a proverb. So great is
this uncertainty, that nearly all men, learned as well as unlearned, shun the law as their
enemy, instead of resorting to it for protection. They usually go into courts of justice, so
called, only as men go into battle   when there is no alternative left for them. And even then
they go into them as men go into dark labyrinths and caverns   with no knowledge of their own,
but trusting wholly to their guides. Yet, less fortunate than other adventurers, they can have
little confidence even in their guides, for the reason that the guides themselves know little
of the mazes they are threading. They know the mode and place of entrance; but what they will
meet with on their way, and what will be the time, mode, place,  or condition of their exit;
whether they will emerge into a prison, or not; whether wholly naked and destitute, or not;
whether with their reputations left to them, or not; and whether in time or eternity; experienced
and honest guides rarely venture to predict. Was there ever such fatuity as that of a nation
of men madly bent on building up such labyrinhs as these, for no other purpose than that of
exposing all their rights of reputation, property, liberty,  and life, to the hazards of being
lost in them, instead of being  content to live in the light of the open day of their own 
understandings?

What honest, unsophisticated man ever found himself involved  in a lawsuit, that he did not
desire, of all things, that his cause might be judged of on principles of natural justice,
as those principles were understood by plain men like himself? He would then feel that he could
foresee the result. These plain men are the men who pay the taxes, and support the government.
Why should they not have such an administration of justice as they  desire, and can understand?

