No subject connected with the history of birds furnishes more interesting material for study
than that of instinct. Young birds of different species show that they have very different
degrees of instinctive knowledge. Some are able to take the entire care of themselves, and
do not need a mother to watch over them; others, on the contrary, are perfectly helpless, and
need teaching before they can do anything for themselves, except breathe, and swallow what
is put into their mouths. The young chicken, a short time after it leaves the egg, knows how
to take care of itself nearly as well as the young mound-bird. It can run after its mother,
use its eyes, pick up food, and answer the call of the old hen; and it does all this without
instruction. How different it is in all these respects from the young barn-swallow! This is
blind, and unable to run, or even to stand, knowing only enough to open its mouth when it hears
the old bird return to the nest, and to swallow the food placed in its open bill. Far from
knowing by instinct how to use its wings, as the young chick does its legs, it does not learn
this until it is well grown, and has had several lessons in flying; and even then it flies
badly, and improves only after long practice. After it has learned to fly, it is still very
helpless and baby-like, and very different from the active, bright-eyed, independent little
chick of the barn-yard; and, indeed, the young of all the Rasores, or scratching birds, such
as the hen, the quail, the partridge, the pheasant and the turkey. In the admirable picture
of an English pheasant and its brood, on page 610, you will see how very much like young chicks
the young pheasants are.

The scratching birds are not the only ones which can take care of themselves at an early age.
This is true of the running birds, such as the ostrich; and the same is the case with many
of the wading birds, such as the woodcock; and among the swimming birds, there are several
kinds that take full care of themselves soon after leaving the shell.

In the picture on the preceding page you have a pair of mallard ducks with three young ones,
which are all able to swim and dive as well as their parents. You all know that, far from standing
in need of instruction, young ducks take to the water by instinct, even when they have been
brought up by a hen; and they know that they are perfectly safe upon it, although the anxious
hen tries in every way to restrain them and to call them back. There are many ways in which
some of our young birds show their really wonderful instincts, but there is nothing more curious
in this respect than the habits of the little chickens, which most of us have opportunities
of noticing,--if we choose to take the trouble. These little creatures, almost as soon as they
are born, understand what their mother "clucks" to them; they know that they must hide when
a hawk is about; they often scratch the ground for food before they see their mother or any
other chicken do so; they are careful not to catch bees instead of flies; and they show their
early smartness in many ways which are well worth watching.

But, sometimes, a brood of these youngsters find something that puzzles them, as when they
meet with a hard-shelled beetle, who looks too big to eat and yet too small for a playmate.

RAIN.

BY EDGAR FAWCETT.

  Oh, the Rain has many fitful moods
    Ere the merry summer closes,--
  From the first chirp of the robin-broods
    To the ruin of the roses!

  Through the sunshine's gold her glitter steals,
    In the doubtful April weather,
  When the world seems trying how it feels
    To be sad and glad together.

  Now and then, on quiet sultry eves,
    From her low persistent patter,
  She would seem confiding to the leaves
    An extremely solemn matter.

  Then, again, you see her from the sky
    Such a mighty flood unfolding,
  That you wonder if Old Earth knows why
    It receives so hard a scolding!

  Yet we learn to fancy, day by day,
    As we watch her softly shining,
  That she has no cloud, however gray,
    But it wears a silver lining!

  For in autumn, though with tears she tells
    How the lands grow sad and darken,
  Yet in spring her drops are tinkling bells
    For the sleeping flowers to hearken!

  And her tinted bow seems Love's own proof,
    As it gleams with colors seven,--
  Like a stately dome upon the roof
    Of her palace, high in heaven!

SNEEZE DODSON'S FIRST INDEPENDENCE DAY.

BY MRS. M.H.W. JAQUITH.

The usually quiet town of Greenville was in a hurly-burly of excitement on this Fourth of July
morning, because of the great Sunday-school picnic, which was to take place on a fine ground,
two miles distant. In the fervor of patriotism and the bustle of preparing for the picnic-celebration,
almost every house in the village resounded with shouts and noises; and all the children were
on the tip-toe of expectation and delight. Deacon Ebenezer Dodson sat in the arm-chair in the
"spare room," staring out of the window, and trying to think up the speech he was to make that
day. For he had been chosen by the town-committee to open the exercises upon the stand with
an appropriate oration; and though he had mused and muttered and studied over it, from the
day when he was first requested to "perform" until this eventful morning itself, he had not
yet succeeded in composing a speech which satisfied him.

"The flies bother the horses so, I can't practice on it in the field, and my only chance is
o' nights," he had often explained to his wife; but his nightly meditations on it had been
disturbed by such foreign remarks as this:

"I say, Eb" (that was her family name for him; away from home she always said "Deacon"), "you
haint gone off to sleep, be you? I should feel masterly cut up ef my cake should be heavy,
an' everybody on the grounds will know it's mine from the marks o' my name I'm goin' to put
on the frostin',"--by which she meant her initials done in red, white, and blue powdered sugar.

And again:

"Do you remember Mis' Deacon Pogue's pound-cake at the d'nation party las' winter? She'd bragged
on it to every livin' soul, an', when they came to cut it, there was a solid streak of dough
right through the middle from eend to eend. She didn't happin to be 'round when 'twas cut,
an' I thought it was my duty to let her see a piece, so she'd know how to better it next time,
and she was so mad, she's turned up her nose at me ever sence."

The Deacon here murmured something beginning "Ninthly," for he had arranged his speech in heads;
but she kept on with such inspiring memories, that he had poor chance to get up that "Speech
by Deacon Dodson," the sight of which legend on the printed programme had aroused in him a
fixed determination to do or die. But it seemed to him, as he sat there, that it would be die;
for not one "head" could he call up clearly, and ever and anon his wife would cry out for wood
or water, or to state some fact concerning her cake or chickens.

Just now her rusk was the all-absorbing topic of thought. More than twenty times she had looked
at the dough and reported its "rise" to the unsympathetic Deacon, who was pumping his arms
up and down, and trying to disentangle his "firstly" and "secondly."

"The procession is going to form at nine o'clock punctial, and march to the grounds, and so
there's no use of dressing Bubby twice," Mrs. Dodson had said, so that youth of three summers
was wandering around in his night-gown, and had taken so active an interest in the proceedings
that Mrs. Dodson had several times sent him to his father, complaining, "I never did see him
so upstroferlous before."

Sneeze--so called because he was named for his father, and it was necessary to distinguish
them--was hurried in from the barn; his ears were boxed for "not bein' 'round to take care
of Bubby," and then he was sent with him to the barn.

Deacon had been duly badgered and pestered about household troubles. He had helped to put on
Bubby's shoes--now far too small--and tried to hook Mrs. Dodson's dress--similarly outgrown.
But he was at length exasperated into saying:

"By George! I can't think of a word of my speech, you bother me so!"

"You fairly make my blood run cold to be sayin' sech words as that on this Fourth o' July mornin',
which you always said was nex' door to swearin'!" replied his wife; but her stream of talk
was frozen up for the time, and they were at length dressed, packed, and rattling over the
stony hills in a lumber-wagon.

"Wal, this seems quite like Independence Day," she said musingly. "I remember once goin' to
a reg'lar picnic when I was about the bigness of Sneeze there, an' we had an awful good time.
Mother'd plegged herself to git up somethin' that nobody else'd have, an' finally she made
a lot o' figger four doughnuts to stand for Fourth o' July, you know, an' Aunt Jane, she that
was a Green, Uncle Josiah's first wife, was kind o' jealous 'cause people noticed them more'n
her cookin', an' she said they was shortened with toughening till nobody couldn't eat 'em.
It come right straight back to mother, an' they never spoke for better'n a year--no, 'twas
just a year, come to think, for mother took sick in bed very nex' Fourth, an' then Aunt Jane
confessed humble enough, and they made up."

Sneeze had been listening, and while his mother paused for breath, he asked, "What do we keep
Fourth of July for, an' what makes 'em call it Independence Day? I heard Reub Blake say that
was the true name of it."

"Why, Sneeze, I'm 'shamed of you that you don't know that much. It is because George Washington
was born on that day, or died; which was it, father? An' he fought for our independence. Besides,
he never told a lie, as it tells about in the spellin'-book."

"Yes, it was something of that natur'," said the Deacon; "you'll know all about it to-day when
we come to speak and make our orations."

"Yes, Sneeze, an' Cynthia Ann, your father is goin' to be a speaker on the stage; but you mus'n't
feel set-up over the other girls an' boys whose fathers an' mothers aint app'inted as speakers
an' on the table committee. You must listen to what father says."

They promised faithfully, and this is what Sneeze would have heard if he had kept his pledge;
but to tell the truth, he was at that time going around with another boy looking into the baskets,
and speculating on the length of time before dinner.

"Deacon Ebenezer Dodson, the first speaker on the programme, will now address the assembly,"
announced the chairman in a stentorian voice, after the procession had formed, marched, settled
down, and were ready for the "exercises of the day." The Deacon stepped forward, and, with
very evident shaking of the knees, with coughs and ahems, glancing to the right of him and
to the left of him, to the heavens above and the earth beneath, with trembling voice he began:

"Firstly, my friends and fellow-citizens of this great country, this institution which we have
come here to celebrate was instituted a great many hundred years ago,--leastways, if not quite
so long, since this institution was instituted all men are free and equal"--(a long pause);
"and since this institution was instituted in this great country, we have Sunday-schools and
can go to church." Another pause.

"Secondly, little children, friends and fellow-citizens of this great country, let us all use
rightly and not abuse the advantages of this institution which has been instituted for us,
and go to church and Sunday-school, and--and--I see Deacon Pogue is waiting to make some remarks,
and my friends and fellow-citizens of this great country, I will detain you no longer to dwell
upon this institution, which was instituted to--to--" Here somebody benevolently thought to
cheer, and the "Hip, hip, hurrahs!" were taken up so lustily by the small boys, that the magnetic
sound warmed the Deacon into "Thirdly;" but Deacon Pogue had stepped briskly forward, and so
with a bow, and "Good-by, my friends and fellow-citizens of this great country," he descended
to his delighted wife, who received him with many proud and joyful congratulations.

Deacon Pogue was more ready and noisy, but spoke quite as much to the point as Deacon Dodson.
He was followed by several others, none of whom could be omitted without giving offense, and
at length, with a great flourish, the chairman announced "The orator of the day, Captain Buzwell,
from Thornton, who has kindly consented to honor us," etc.

He was a lawyer with a gift of tongues, and his first few words brought all the hitherto indifferent
assembly quietly near the stand. After a few well-put anecdotes, he said: "But to come back
to the subject in hand: one of your eloquent speakers has called this Fourth of July an 'institution.'
That was a novel and happy idea. It is an 'institution,' and upon it are founded all of our
institutions,--free schools, free religion, free speech, free press, free ballots, free action:
freedom everywhere for all men free and equal is founded on this glorious 'institution,' the
corner-stone of which was laid Fourth of July, 1776."

At this point so great was Mrs. Dodson's conjugal pride, and so fearful was she that her husband
was not attending to the speaker's flattery, that she poked him with her parasol till the Deacon
was "fain to cry out," as Bunyan says. When quiet was restored, the speaker continued:

"Another gifted orator has said,"--and, quoting something from Deacon Pogue's pointless remarks,
he made them also seem full of meaning; and so on through the list of "distinguished speakers,"
till each one felt that he himself had spoken most effectively.

Having thus pleased and interested all parties, he followed with an instructive, historical
speech, to which Sneeze, doughnut and cheese in hand, listened so intently, that he found out
at last "why they kept Fourth of July."

After the speech and "appropriate instrumental music by the band," which consisted of a drum
and a bass-viol, the people dispersed to amuse themselves as they saw fit, till dinner should
be announced.

Mrs. Dodson, as "Table Committee," was disposed to magnify her office. She kept the Deacon
standing guard over her basket till nearly all the rest were emptied, having reserved conspicuous
places on the table for her goodies. Taking advantage of her rival's presence, smiling sweetly,
she said as she opened the basket, "Mis' Pogue, your vittles look so nice, I'm real 'shamed
to bring mine out at all."

"But all the while I knew she was proud as Lucifer over 'em, and thought she'd throw me quite
in the shade," Mrs. Pogue told her next neighbor that afternoon. "Her big cards of rusk did
look nice, but her mince-pies had slipped over into the custards, and they had dripped onto
her cake so it looked just awful! and that red-headed Sneeze had squeezed her jelly-cake into
flap-jacks, most likely by settin' on the basket. I never see anybody so cut up in my life;
her face was redder than a beet."

And Mrs. Dodson said to the Deacon that night, "I did feel despritly morterfied over my squashed
vittles, with Mis' Pogue a-lookin' on with all her eyes."

But when "the orator of the day" ate of her rusk, and said, "Mrs. Dodson, these rusk have a
peculiar taste, just such as those my dead mother used to make for me when I was a boy, and
I want you to give me the recipe for my wife," and he took it down in his note-book, there
was full compensation for all her trials.

When all had eaten all they could, the young folk and children swung, played ball, or "chased
the squirrel" with the delightful penalty of kissing it when caught, or rambled about at will,
while the mothers gathered the dishes together, and exchanged recipes and confidential remarks
on somebody's cookin'.

By four o'clock the babies were fretful; children of Bubby's age complained that their shoes
and clothes were too tight; somebody suggested going home. In vain the young people protested--an
hour from that time the grounds were deserted; the lumber of the stage, made sacred by such
oratory, had been gathered up with the seats and tables, and where so much of life had been,
all was silence.

A neighbor's hired man was riding home with the Dodsons, but as Mrs. Dodson did not mind him,
she at once began to congratulate her husband on his maiden speech. "Cappen Buzwell said you
made the best oration there was made to-day, Deacon. Did you pay 'tention, Sneeze, an' hear
what he said 'bout your father's speakin'?"

The Deacon modestly put in a faint, "Now, mother, don't," but she interrupted him: "Yis I shall,
for it's so, father, an' I'm goin' to say my say. Besides, he told me, with tears in his eyes,
that my rusk tasted just like his dead mother's. But ef you'd only seen him tryin' to eat one
o' Mis' Pogue's doughnuts as if they was real good, when I could see they was half chokin' of him!"

"That there man from town did make a purty considerable speech," said the Deacon; "not so hefty
as some I've heard, but real instructing. It made me feel as though I wanted to fight somebody--purty
much as I used to when I was a boy, and heard my father tell how he fit in the war of eighteen
hundred and twelve, and his grandsir in the Revolutionary war."

"I guess you wasn't in any o' them wars?" stated the hired man, inquiringly.

"No; I wasn't born then, and o' course I couldn't; but my father used to tell us about it on
trainin'-day nights. Trainin'-day was a great time, with its uniforms and feathers; my father
was a sarjint, and we had gingerbread and federal cake."

"Well," burst out Sneeze, "if ever I get a chance I'm goin' to be a soldier, an' fight for
my country, as George Washington did. I just wish we'd have trainin'-day now, and that Fourth
of July came every day. Then, too, when I'm a man, I'm goin' to marry Eliza Johnson, for she--"

"Shut up, Sneeze!" put in Mrs. Dodson. "Little boys like you ought to be seen and not heard;
when your parents make speeches and rusk at Fourth o' July celebrations that them that was
good judges says was most interestin', you had ought to be listenin' to their talkin' and learnin'
o' them. Here's Bubby a tunin' for somethin' to eat; give him one of them rusk out of the basket,
an' stop your nonsense."

Sneeze's face was as red as his hair, and not another word did he say; but his dreams that
night were a mixture of feathers, soldiers and pound-cake, Eliza Johnson, mother and speeches,
and thus ended his first memorable Independence Day.

MEADOW TALK.

BY CAROLINE LESLIE.

  A bumble-bee, yellow as gold,
    Sat perched on a red-clover top,
  When a grasshopper, wiry and old,
    Came along with a skip and a hop.
  "Good-morrow!" cried he, "Mr. Bumble-Bee!
    You seem to have come to a stop."

     "We people that work,"
      Said the bee with a jerk,
  "Find a benefit sometimes in stopping;
      Only insects like you,
      Who have nothing to do,
  Can keep up a perpetual hopping."

  The grasshopper paused on his way,
    And thoughtfully hunched up his knees;
  "Why trouble this sunshiny day,"
    Quoth he, "with reflections like these?
  I follow the trade for which I was made;
    We all can't be wise bumble-bees.

     "There's a time to be sad,
      And a time to be glad;
  A time both for working and stopping;
      For men to make money,
      For you to make honey,
  And for me to do nothing but hopping."

A BOY'S EXPERIENCE WITH TAR MARBLES.

BY C.S.N.

Almost all boys, at some period of their lives, devote their spare time to playing with marbles,
and I certainly was not unlike other boys in this respect. My fondness for marbles began very
early, and when I was about seven years old led me into a curious experience, which I am about
to relate. A great rivalry for acquiring marbles had suddenly arisen at that time among the
boys of the town, and to possess as many of the little round beauties as my oldest brother
owned, soon became the desire of my heart and the height of my ambition.

I had already obtained a large number, when one day I overheard my oldest brother telling one
of his schoolmates that he had made the important discovery that marbles could be formed from
coal-tar, of which there was a large quantity on a certain street in a distant part of the
town. He did not condescend to explain the process of manufacture, but he showed the marbles
he had made,--black, round, and glossy. The sight inspired me with ardent desire to possess
an unlimited quantity.

My brother told me just where the coveted treasure was to be found, and, in the afternoon,
I started off, without confiding to any one my intention, to find the spot and lay in a supply
of the raw material, which I could convert into marbles at my leisure. Delightful visions of
bags filled with treasure, dancing through my brain, hastened the rate of my speed almost to
a run, before I arrived at the goal of my hopes. It was a very hot July afternoon, and I was
in a violent heat; but the sight of the heaps of coal-tar put all thoughts of anything unpleasant
quite out of my head; it caused me to forget also that I had on a suit of new clothes, of which
I had been cautioned by my mother to be extremely careful.

I need hardly remark that I was not very well acquainted with the substance I was handling,
and my only idea of its qualities was, that it could be molded into any shape I pleased. I
was not aware that it has all the qualities of ordinary tar,--melts with heat, and becomes
the toughest, stickiest, most unmanageable of substances with which a small boy can come into
contact.

I fell to work to collect what I wanted to carry home. I filled the pockets of my pantaloons,
and of my jacket, and lastly, when these were stuffed to their utmost capacity, I filled the
crown of my hat so full that it would hardly go on my head. The place was at some distance
from my home, and I did not wish to have to return immediately for more.

With a heart filled with triumph, I started off toward home. By this time I began to realize
that the weather was not cool. It had been a long walk, and I was pretty tired, but I was also
in a great hurry to begin making marbles, so I walked as fast as I could. After a little time
I began to be sensible of a disagreeable feeling of stickiness about my waist, and a slight
trickling sensation in the region of the knees.

A cloud not bigger than a man's hand flitted across my horizon,--perhaps coal-tar might melt?

I resolved to ascertain; and, like the famous old woman with her "yard of black pudding," I
very soon found it was much easier to obtain what I wanted, than to know what to do with it
when I had it. A very slight inspection of my pockets satisfied me that coal-tar was capable
of becoming liquid, and, if I needed further evidence, the sable rivulets that began to meander
down the sides of my face gave ample corroboration of the fact. I tried to take off my hat,
but it would not come.

I looked down at my new trousers with feelings of dismay. Ominous spots of a dismal hue were
certainly growing larger. I tried to get the tar out of my pockets, but only succeeded in covering
my hands with the black, unmanageable stuff, which at that moment I regarded as one of those
inventions of the devil, to entrap little boys, of which I had often been warned, but to which
I had given no heed. If it was a trap, I was certainly caught; there was no doubt of that.
But I was not without some pluck, and in my case, as in that of many another brave, my courage
in facing the present calamity was aided by my fear of another still more to be dreaded.

That I should get a whipping for spoiling my new suit, if I could not manage to get the tar
off, I was quite certain, and I had had no permission to go from home, and on the whole the
outlook was not cheerful in that direction. Quite driven to desperation, I seated myself on
the ground, and tried to scrape off the black spots, which had now extended to formidable dimensions;
while I could feel small streams coming down inside of the collar of my shirt, and causing
rather singular suggestions of a rope around my neck. My labor was all in vain. I got a good
deal off, but there seemed to be an inexhaustible quantity on. I gave it up in despair, and
burst into uncontrollable sobs. The flow of tears thinned the lava-like fluid, and it now resembled
ink, which covered my face like a veil; but in the extremity of my anguish a hope dawned upon
me. I found that I could wipe off with my hand this thinner solution, and if water would do
it, water was plenty, and I would wash it off. A cousin of mine lived not very far off, and
I knew that in the yard of her house there was a pump. Inspired by this idea, I set off at
a run, and did not slacken my pace until I reached the spot. Here another difficulty met me.
I could not reach the handle of the pump so as to get the benefit of the stream from its mouth,
and it was only a complete shower-bath that would restore me to respectability. I set to work
to find a rope, and fastened together quite a complicated piece of machinery, as I thought,
by which I managed to pump the ice-cold water upon my devoted head. The effect was not as immediate
as I had hoped. But I had faith if a little was good, more must be better. Creak--creak--creak--went
the pump-handle, which did more work that afternoon than in half a dozen days' washing.

Creak--creak--creak! But the tar only became harder and harder, until I was encased in sheet-armor,
like the famous Black Knight. Presently, my cousin Jenny, an especial friend of mine, hearing
such continual pumping, and becoming anxious for the family supply of water, came out to see
what was the matter. Seeing a small figure curled up under the spout of the pump, drenched
to the skin and black as Othello, she stooped down to investigate the phenomenon. Oh, what
was my despair when she discovered who it was, and in what plight!

To say she laughed would be to give a feeble idea of the peals of laughter that succeeded each
other as she stood and looked at me. She would try to control her merriment for a moment, only
to break forth afresh, until she was obliged to sit down from sheer exhaustion. Every time
she glanced at my woe-begone countenance, and drenched condition, she would go into fresh convulsions
of fun. At last she recovered breath enough to inquire into my case, and to assure me she would
do what she could for me; but she soon found, to my despair, that what she could do was not
much to my relief. The clothes could not be got off, and certainly they could never be got
clean. She did manage, with a strong pair of shears, to cut off the pockets in my breeches,
and then, fearing my mother would be alarmed, she bade me go home, and she would promise to
secure me against a whipping.

I fancy she thought this last promise would be easily kept.

