Soon we pass through the Hither Woods, and with them leave behind the last remnant of the forest
that formerly covered Montauk. All else, to where Womponomon--the Indian name of the eastern
point--juts out into the sea, are hills and rolling downs which rise and fall like the sea
when the waves are running "mountains high." Here and there we pass a pond, and often startle
the cattle that graze over the greater part of Montauk; and at length pause, spellbound by
the view from the hills looking down upon Fort Pond, or Kongonock. The road runs past its southern
extremity, where, until the embankment was built, the ocean-surf frequently broke across; and
after passing this plain, called Fithian's, we find ourselves a very short distance south of
the site of the old Indian village. The hill about halfway between the two ends of the pond
on its eastern side was once occupied by an Indian fort, and between it and us lies the valley
where were clustered the wigwams of Wyandanch and his tribe. He figures in history as the staunch
and often severely-tried ally of the whites, and was the lifelong friend of Lion Gardiner.
His warriors were, hyperbolically, "as many as the spires of the grass" until reduced by sickness
and battle. The Narragansetts pursued him with an insatiate and vindictive hate, and this peaceful
valley was once the scene of a bloody tragedy from which the Montauketts never recovered. Wyandanch
had pursued a party of Narragansetts to Block Island, and killed a great number of them. To
retaliate, Ninicraft (or Ninigret) invaded Montauk, and on the night of the nuptials of the
chief's daughter fell upon the village, burned, sacked and slew, and, in spite of Wyandanch's
bravery, totally defeated his followers. Among the fallen was the bridegroom, and beside his
dead body the invaders found the bride in a stupor of grief. She was hurried away, an unresisting
captive, but was ultimately restored to her father by the exertions of Lion Gardiner. In 1659,
Wyandanch died from the effects of poison, and with him went out the glory of his tribe. Piece
after piece, the lands he had held were ceded to the whites, and the royal line of Faro came
to an end. In 1819 "King" Stephen died, and was buried by subscription. His distinctive badge
consisted of a yellow ribbon round his hat. After him others reigned, and although the royal
family long ago became extinct, the name of king or chief is still retained. The late holder
of the title was David Faro, and he reigned over two families, his own and the Fowlers. He
will probably be succeeded by his cousin Stephen, an athletic gentleman and a full-blooded
Indian, who is said to have walked in one day from Brooklyn to Montauk, and who thinks little
of stepping from Montauk to Bridgehampton, thence to Sag Harbor for dinner, and so on back
to Montauk. The late chief left a widow and five children. The eldest is a boy named Wyandanch,
who occasionally visits the few houses on the peninsula and the nearest villages, selling berries.
The queen's mother and the rest of the tribe are basket-makers. The second of David's children
is Maggie Arabella, a pleasant-faced girl with thick-set figure; the third and fourth are bright-eyed
boys, Samuel Powhattan and Ebenezer Tecumseh; and the fifth is a child of about six months,
Sarah Pocahontas. Besides these there are the present king, Stephen, and his son Samuel. King
Sylvester preceded David, so that we are in possession of the likenesses of three of the line
of sachems. Ephraim Fowler, a son of Sylvester, also survives. Of the other family of Fowlers,
there are the husband and wife and their four children, three sons and a daughter. Such, so
far as I know, is a complete census of the tribe of Montauketts. Their possessions are small
and their way of living rude. Ichabod! Ichabod!

