No. 71.] SATURDAY, MARCH 8.          180

  Minor Queries:--The Potter's and Shepherd's Keepsakes--
  Writing-paper--Little Casterton (Rutland)
  Church--The Hippopotamus--Specimens of Foreign
  English--St. Clare--Dr. Dodd--Hats of Cardinals
  and Notaries Apostolic--Baron Munchausen's Frozen
  Horn--Contracted Names of Places                            181

  QUERIES:--

  Bibliographical Queries                                     182

  Enigmatical Epitaph                                         184

  Shakspeare's "Merchant of Venice"                           185

  Minor Queries:--Was Lord Howard of Effingham a
  Protestant or a Papist?--Lord Bexley: how descended
  from Cromwell--Earl of Shaftesbury--Family of
  Peyton--"La Rose nait en un Moment"--John
  Collard the Logician--Traherne's Sheriffs of Glamorgan--
  Haybands in Seals--Edmund Prideaux, and the
  First Post-office--William Tell Legend--Arms of
  Cottons buried in Landwade Church--Sir George
  Buc's Treatise on the Stage--A Cracowe Pike--St.
  Thomas of Trunnions--Paper mill near Stevenage--
  Mounds, Munts, Mounts--Church Chests--The
  Cross-bill--Iovanni Volpe--Auriga--To speak in
  Lutestring--"Lavora, come se tu," &c.--Tomb of
  Chaucer--Family of Clench                                   185

  REPLIES:--

  Cranmer's Descendants                                       188

  Dutch Popular Song-book, by J. H. van Lennep                189

  Barons of Hugh Lupus                                        189

  Shakspeare's "Antony and Cleopatra"                         190

  "Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeon!"                        191

  Replies to Minor Queries:--Ulm Manuscript--Harrison's
  Chronology--Mistletoe on Oaks--Swearing by
  Swans--Jurare ad caput animalium--Ten Children
  at a Birth--Richard Standfast--"Jurat, crede minus"--
  Rab Surdam--The Scaligers--Lincoln Missal--
  By-and-bye--Gregory the Great--True Blue--
  Drachmarus--The Brownes of Cowdray, Sussex--
  Red Hand--Anticipations of Modern Ideas by Defoe--
  Meaning of Waste-book--Deus Justificatus--
  Touchstone's Dial--Ring Dials--Cockade--Rudbeck's
  Atlantica, &c.                                              191

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                      198

  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                199

  Notices to Correspondents                                   199

  Advertisements                                              200

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

ON TWO PASSAGES IN "ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL."

Among the few passages in Shakspeare upon which little light has been thrown, after all that
has been written about them, are the following in Act. IV. Sc. 2. of All's Well that Ends Well,
where Bertram is persuading Diana to yield to his desires:

 "Bert. I pr'ythee, do not strive against my vows:
    I was compell'd to her; but I love thee
    By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever
    Do thee all rights of service.

  Dia. Ay, so you serve us,
    Till we serve you: but when you have our roses,
    You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves,
    And mock us with our bareness.

  Bert. How have I sworn?

  Dia. 'Tis not the many oaths that make the truth;
    But the plain single vow, that is vow'd true.
    What is not holy, that we swear not by,
    But take the Highest to witness: Then, pray you, tell me,
    If I should swear by Jove's great attributes,
    I love'd you dearly, would you believe my oaths,
    When I did love you ill? this has no holding,
    To swear by him whom I protest to love,
    That I will work against him."

Read--"when I protest to Love."

It is evident that Diana refers to Bertram's double vows, his marriage vow, and the subsequent
vow or protest he had made not to keep it. "If I should swear by Jove I loved you dearly, would
you believe my oath when I loved you ill? This has no consistency, to swear by Jove, when secretly
I protest to Love that I will work against him (i.e. against the oath I have taken to Jove)."

Bertram had sworn by the Highest to love his wife; in his letter to his mother he says:

    "I have wedded her, not bedded her, and sworn to make the not
    eternal:"

he secretly protests to Love to work against his sacred oath; and in his following speech he says:

 "Be not so cruel-holy, Love is holy." By
printing when for whom, and Love with a capital letter, to indicate
the personification, all is made clear. {178}

After further argument from Bertram, Diana answers:

 "I see that men make ropes in such a scarre
  That we'll forsake ourselves."

This Rowe altered to "make hopes in such affairs," and Malone to "make hopes in such a scene."
Others, and among them Mr. Knight and Mr. Collier, retain the old reading, and vainly endeavour
to give it a meaning, understanding the word scarre to signify a rock or cliff, with which
it has nothing to do in this passage. There can be no doubt that "make ropes" is a misprint
for "make hopes," which is evidently required by the context, "that we'll forsake ourselves."
It then only remains to show what is meant by a scarre, which signifies here anything that
causes surprise or alarm; what we should now write a scare. Shakspeare has used the same orthography,
scarr'd, i.e. scared, in Coriolanus and in Winter's Tale. There is also abundant evidence that
this was its old orthography, indicative of the broad sound the word then had, and which it
still retains in the north. Palsgrave has both the noun and the verb in this form: "Scarre,
to scar crowes, espouventail." And again, "I scarre away or feare away, as a man doth crowes
or such like; je escarmouche." The French word might lead to the conclusion that a scarre might
be used for a skirmish. (See Cotgrave in v. Escarmouche.) I once thought we should read "in
such a warre," i.e. conflict.

In Minshen's Guide to the Tongues, we have:

    "To SCARRE, videtur confictum ex sono oves vel aliud quid abigentium
    et terrorem illis incutientium. Gall. Ahurir ratione eadem:" vi. to
    feare, to fright.

Objections have been made to the expression "make hopes;" but the poet himself in King Henry
VIII. has "more than I dare make faults," and repeats the phrase in one of his sonnets: surely
there is nothing more singular in it than in the common French idiom, "faire des espérances."

S. W. SINGER.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE HERBERT AND THE CHURCH AT LEIGHTON BROMSWOLD.

(Vol. iii., p. 85.)

I have great pleasure in laying before your readers the following particulars, which I collected
on a journey to Leighton Bromswold, undertaken for the purpose of satisfying the Query of E.
H. If they will turn to A Priest to the Temple, ch. xiii., they will find the points to which,
with others, my attention was more especially directed.

Leighton Church consists of a western tower, nave, north and south porches and transepts, and
chancel. There are no aisles. As Prebendary of the Prebend of Leighton Ecclesia in Lincoln
Cathedral, George Herbert was entitled to an estate in the parish, and it was no doubt a portion
of the increase of this property that he devoted to the repairing and beautifying of the House
of God, then "lying desolate," and unfit for the celebration of divine service. Good Izaak
Walton, writing evidently upon hearsay information, and not of his own personal knowledge,
was in error if he supposed, as from his language he appears to have done, that George Herbert
almost rebuilt the church from the foundation, and he must be held to be incorrect in describing
that part of it which stood as "so decayed, so little, and so useless." There are portions
remaining earlier than George Herbert's time, whose work may be readily distinguished by at
least four centuries; whilst at one end the porches, and at the other the piscina, of Early
English date, the windows, which are of different styles, and the buttresses, afford sufficient
proofs that the existing walls are the original, and that in size the church has remained unaltered
for ages. As George Herbert new roofed the sacred edifice throughout, we may infer this was
the chief structural repair necessary. He also erected the present tower, the font, put four
windows in the chancel, and reseated the parts then used by the congregation.

Except a western organ gallery erected in 1840, two pews underneath it, and one elsewhere,
these parts, the nave and transepts, remain, in all probability, exactly as George Herbert
left them. The seats are all uniform, of oak, and of the good old open fashion made in the
style of the seventeenth century. They are so arranged, both in the nave and in the transepts,
that no person in service time turns his back either upon the altar or upon the minister. (See
"NOTES AND QUERIES," Vol. ii., p. 397.) The pulpit against the north, and the reading-desk,
with clerk's seat attached, against the south side of the chancel-arch, are both of the same
height, and exactly similar in every respect; both have sounding-boards. The font is placed
at the west end of the nave, and, together with its cover, is part of George Herbert's work;
it stands on a single step, and a drain carries off the water, as in ancient examples. The
shallowness of the basin surprised me. A vestry, corresponding in style to the seats, is formed
by a wooden inclosure in the south transept, which contains "a strong and decent chest." Until
the erection of the gallery, the tower was open to the nave.

The chancel, which is raised one step above the nave, is now partly filled with high pews,
but, as arranged by the pious prebendary, it is believed to have contained only one low bench
on either side. The communion table, which is elevated by three steps above the level of the
chancel, is modern, as are also the rails. There is a double Early English piscina in the south
wall, and an ambry in the north. A plain cross of the seventeenth century crowns the eastern
gable of the chancel externally.

No doubt there were originally "fit and proper {179} texts of scripture everywhere painted;"
but, if this were so, they are now concealed by the whitewash. Such are not uncommon in neighbouring
churches. No "poor man's box conveniently seated" remains, but there are indications of its
having been fixed to the back of the bench nearest to the south door.

The roof is open to the tiles, being, like the seats, Gothic in design and of seventeenth century
execution. The same may be said of the tower, which is battlemented, and finished off with
pinnacles surmounted by balls, and has a somewhat heavy appearance. But it is solid and substantial,
and it is evident that no expense was spared to make it--so far as the skill of the time could
make it--worthy of its purpose and of the donor. There are five bells. No. 1. has the inscription:

 "IHS NAZARENVS REX IVDEORVM FILI DEI
  MISERERE MEI : GEORGE WOOLF VICAR :
  I : MICHELL : C : W : W : N. 1720."

Nos. 2. 4. and 5. contain the alphabet in Lombardic capitals; but the inscription and date
on each of them,--

 "THOMAS NOBBIS MADE ME 1641"--

show that they are not of the antiquity which generally renders the few specimens we have of
alphabet bells so peculiarly interesting, but probably they were copied from the bells in the
more ancient tower. No. 3. has in Lombardic capitals the fragment--

 "ESME: CCATHERINA,"

and is consequently of ante-Reformation date.

The porches are both of the Early English period, and form therefore a very noticeable feature.

On the external walls are several highly ornamented spouts, upon some of which crosses are
figured, and upon one with the date "1632" I discovered three crests; but as I could not accurately
distinguish what they were intended to represent, I will not run the risk of describing them
wrongly. The wivern, the crest of the Herberts, did not appear; nor, so far as I could learn,
does the fabric itself afford any clue to him who was the principal author of its restoration.

The view from the tower is extensive, and, from the number of spires that are visible, very
pleasing: fifteen or sixteen village churches are to be seen with the naked eye; and I believe
that Ely Cathedral, nearly thirty miles distant, may be discovered with the aid of a telescope.

ARUN.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Sacramental Wine.--In a remote hamlet of Surrey I recently heard the following superstition.
In a very sickly family, of which the children were troubled with bad fits, and the poor mother
herself is almost half-witted, an infant newly born seemed to be in a very weakly and unnatural
state. One of the gossips from the neighbouring cottages coming in, with a mysterious look
said, "Sure, the babby wanted something,--a drop of the sacrament wine would do it good." On
surprise being expressed at such a notion, she added "Oh! they often gives it." I do not find
any allusion in Brand's Antiquities to such popular credence. He mentions the superstition
in Berkshire, that a ring made from a piece of silver collected at the communion (especially
that on Easter Sunday) is a cure for convulsions and fits.

ALBERT WAY.

"Snail, Snail, come out of your Hole" (Vol. iii., p. 132.).--Your correspondent S. W. SINGER
has brought to my recollection a verse, which I heard some children singing near Exeter, in
July last, and noted down, but afterwards forgot to send to you:--

 "Snail, snail, shut out your horns;
    Father and mother are dead:
  Brother and sister are in the back yard,
    Begging for barley bread."

GEO. E. FRERE.

Perhaps it would not be uninteresting to add to the records of the "Snail-charm" (Vol. iii,
p. 132.), that in the south of Ireland, also, the same charm, with a more fanciful and less
threatening burden, was used amongst us children to win from its reserve the startled and offended
snail. We entreated thus:--

   "Shell a muddy, shell a muddy,
      Put out your horns,
    For the king's daughter is
      Comings to town
  With a red petticoat and a green gown!"

I fear it is impossible to give a clue as to the meaning of the form of invocation, or who
was the royal visitor, so nationally clothed, for whose sake the snail was expected to be so
gracious.

F. J. H.

Nievie-nick-nack.--A fire-side game, well known in Scotland; described by Jamieson, Chambers,
and (last, though not least) John M^cTaggart. The following version differs from that given
by them:--

 "Nievie, nievie, nick, neck,
  Whilk han will thou tak?
  Tak the richt, or tak the wrang,
  I'll beguile thee if I can."

It is alluded to by Sir W. Scott, St. Ronan's, iii. 102.; Blackwood's Magazine, August, 1821,
p. 37.

Rabelais mentions à la nicnoque as one of the games played by Guargantua. This is rendered
by Urquhart Nivinivinack: Transl., p. 94. Jamieson (Supp. to Scot. Dict., sub voce) adds:

    "The first part of the word seems to be from Neive, {180} the fist
    being employed in the game. Shall we view nick as allied to the E.
    v. signifying 'to touch luckily'?"

Now, there is no such seeming derivation in the first part of the word. The Neive, though employed
in the game, is not the object addressed. It is held out to him who is to guess--the conjuror--and
it is he who is addressed, and under a conjuring name. In short (to hazard a wide conjecture,
it may be), he is invoked in the person of NIC NEVILLE (Neivie Nic), a sorcerer in the days
of James VI., who was burnt at St. Andrew's in 1569. If I am right, a curious testimony is
furnished to his quondam popularity among the common people:

    "From that he past to Sanctandrois, where a notable sorceres callit
    Nic Neville was condamnit to the death and brynt," &c. &c.--The
    Historie and Life of King Jame the Sext, p. 40. Edin. 1825. Bannatyne
    Club Ed.

J. D. N. N.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECORDS AT MALTA.

Let me call your attention, as well as that of your readers (for good may come from both),
to an article in the December No. of the Archæological Journal, 1850, entitled "Notice of Documents
preserved in the Record Office at Malta;" an article which I feel sure ought to be more publicly
known, both for the sake of the reading world at large, and the high character bestowed upon
the present keeper of those records, M. Luigi Vella, under whose charge they have been brought
to a minute course of investigation. There may be found here many things worthy of elucidation;
many secret treasures, whether for the archæologist, bibliopole, or herald, that only require
your widely disseminated "brochure" to bring nearer to our own homes and our own firesides.
It is with this view that I venture to express a hope, that a précis of that article may not
be deemed irregular; which point, of course, I must leave to your good judgment and good taste
to decide, being a very Tyro in archæology, and no book-worm (though I really love a book),
so I know nothing of their points of etiquette. At the same time I must, in justice to Mr.
A. Milward (the writer of the notice, and to whom I have not the honour of being known), entreat
his pardon for the plagiarism, if such it can be called, having only the common "reciprocation
of ideas" at heart; and remain as ever an humble follower under Captain Cuttle's standard.

One Corporal WHIP.

    PRÉCIS of Documents preserved in Record Office, Malta.

    Six volumes of Records, parchment, consisting of Charters from
    Sovereigns and Princes, Grants of Land, and other documents connected
    with the Order of St. John from its establishment by Pope Pascal II.,
    whose original bull is perfect.

    Two volumes of Papers connected with the Island of Malta before it came
    into the possession of the Knights, from year 1397 to beginning of
    sixteenth century.

    A book of Privileges of the Maltese, compiled about 200 years ago.

    Several volumes of original letters from men of note: among whom we may
    mention, Viceroys of Sicily, Sovereigns of England. One from the
    Pretender, dated 1725, from Rome; three from Charles II., and one from
    his admiral, John Narbrough. Numerous Processes of Nobility, containing
    much of value to many noble families; of these last, Mr. Vella has
    taken the trouble of separating, all those referring to any English
    families.

    Also a volume of fifteenth century, containing the accounts of the
    commanderies. This is a continuation of an older and still more
    interesting volume, which is now in the Public Library.

For further particulars, see Archælogical Journal, December, 1850, p. 369.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON AN ANCIENT MS. OF "BEDÆ HISTORIA ECCLESIASTICA."

Some gentleman connected with the cathedral library of Lincoln may possibly be able to give
me some information respecting a MS. copy of the Historia Ecclesiastica of Beda in my possession,
and of which the following circumstances are therein apparent:--It is plainly a MS. of great
antiquity, on paper, and in folio. On a fly-leaf it has an inscription, apparently of contemporaneous
date, and which is repeated in a more modern hand on the next page with additions, as follows:

    "Hunc librum legavit Will[=m]s Dadyngton qu^odam Vicarius de Barton sup
    humbre ecclie Lincoln ut e[=e]t sub custodia Vicecancellarii."

Then follows:--

