The ugliest of all the work is the cutting of the slots in which the springs are put. These
are first cut by a machine; but if the man who operates it is not careful, he will get some
of his fingers cut off. But after the slot-cutting machine does its work, there is yet something
to be done by another man with a knife before the spring can be put in. After the springs are
set, the ferule is put on, and when natural sticks are used, as all are of different sizes,
it requires considerable time and care to find a ferule to fit the stick, as well as in whittling
off the end of the stick to suit the ferule. And before going any farther you will notice that
all the counters in the various work-rooms are carpeted. The carpet prevents the polished sticks
from being scratched, and the dust from sticking to the umbrella goods.

After the handle is put on the stick and a band put on for finish or ornament, the stick goes
to the frame-maker, who fastens the stretchers to the ribs, strings the top end of the ribs
on a wire which is fitted into the "runner notch;" then he strings the lower ends of the "stretchers"
on a wire and fastens it in the "runner," and then when both "runners" are securely fixed the
umbrella is ready for the cover.

As this is a very important part of the umbrella, several men and women are employed in making
it. In the room where the covers are cut, you will at first notice a great number of V shaped
things hanging against the wall on either side of the long room. These letter Vs are usually
made of wood, tipped all around with brass or some other fine metal, and are of a great variety
of sizes. They are the umbrella cover patterns, as you soon make out. To begin with, the cutter
lays his silk or gingham very smoothly out on a long counter, folding it back and forth until
the fabric lies eight or sixteen times in thickness, the layers being several yards in length.
(But I must go back a little and tell you that both edges of the silk, or whatever the cover
is to be, has been hemmed by a woman, on a sewing machine before it is spread out on the counter).
Well, when the cutter finds that he has the silk smoothly arranged, with the edges even, he
lays on his pattern, and with a sharp knife quickly draws it along two sides of it, and in
a twinkling you see the pieces for perhaps two umbrellas cut out; this is so when the silk,
or material, is sixteen layers thick and the umbrella cover is to have but eight pieces.

After the cover is cut, each piece is carefully examined by a woman to see that there are no
holes nor defects in it, for one bad piece would spoil a whole umbrella.

Then a man takes the pieces and stretches the cut edges. This stretching must be so skilfully
done that the whole length of the edge be evenly stretched. This stretching is necessary in
order to secure a good fit on the frame.

After this the pieces go to the sewing-room, where they are sewed together by a woman, on a
sewing-machine, in what is called a "pudding-bag" seam. The sewing-machine woman must have
the machine-tension just right or the thread of the seam will break when the cover is stretched
over the frame.

The next step in the work is to fasten the cover to the frame, which is done by a woman. After
the cover is fastened at the top and bottom, she half hoists the umbrella, and has a small
tool which she uses to keep the umbrella in that position, then she fastens the seams to the
ribs; and a quick workwoman will do all this in five minutes, as well as sew on the tie, which
has been made by another pair of hands. Then the cap is put on and the umbrella is completed.

But before it is sent to the salesroom, a woman smooths the edge of the umbrella all around
with a warm flat-iron. Then another woman holds it up to a window where there is a strong light,
and hunts for holes in it. If it is found to be perfect the cover is neatly arranged about
the stick, the tie wrapped about it and fastened, and the finished umbrella goes to market
for a buyer.

After the stick is mounted, how long, think you does it take to make an umbrella?

Well, my dears--it takes only fifteen minutes!

So you see that in the making of so simple an every-day article as an umbrella, that you carry
on a rainy day to school, a great many people are employed; and to keep the world supplied
with umbrellas thousands and thousands of men and women are kept busy, and in this way they
earn money to buy bread and shoes and fire and frocks for the dear little folks at home, who
in turn may some day become umbrella makers themselves.

PAUL AND THE COMB-MAKERS.

Little Paul Perkins--Master Paul his uncle called him--did not feel happy. But for the fact
that he was a guest at his uncle's home he might have made an unpleasant exhibition of his
unhappiness; but he was a well-bred city boy, of which fact he was somewhat proud, and so his
impatience was vented in snapping off the teeth of his pocket-combs, as he sat by the window
and looked out into the rain.

It was the rain which caused his discontent. Only the day before his father, going from New
York to Boston on business, had left Paul at his uncle's, some distance from the "Hub," to
await his return. It being the lad's first visit, Mr. Sanford had arranged a very full programme
for the next day, including a trip in the woods, fishing, a picnic, and in fact quite enough
to cover an ordinary week of leisure. Over and over it had been discussed, the hours for each
feature apportioned, and through the night Paul had lived the programme over in his half-waking
dreams.

And now that the eventful morning had come, it brought a drizzling, disagreeable storm, so
that Mr. Sanford, as he met his nephew, was constrained to admit that he did not know what
they should find to supply the place of the spoiled programme.

"And my little nephew is so disappointed that he has ruined his pretty comb, into the bargain,"
said the uncle.

"I was--was trying to see what it was made of," Paul stammered, thrusting the handful of teeth
into his coat pocket. "I don't see how combs are made. Could you make one, uncle?"

"I never made one," Mr. Sanford replied, "but I have seen very many made. There is a comb-shop
not more than a half-mile away, and it is quite a curiosity to see how they make the great
horns, rough and ugly as they are, into all sorts of dainty combs and knicknacks."

"What kind of horns, uncle?"

"Horns from all parts of the country, Paul. This shop alone uses nearly a million horns a year,
and they come in car-loads from Canada, from the great West, from Texas, from South America,
and from the cattle-yards about Boston and other Eastern cities."

"You don't mean the horns of common cattle?"

"Yes, Paul; all kinds of horns are used, though some are much tougher and better than others.
The cattle raised in the Eastern, Middle and Western States furnish the best horns, and there
is the curious difference that the horns of six cows are worth no more than those of a single
ox. Many millions of horn combs are made every year in Massachusetts; perhaps more than in
all the rest of the country. If you like we will go down after breakfast and have a look at
the comb-makers."

Paul was pleased with the idea, though he would much rather have passed the day as at first
proposed. He was not at all sorry that he had broken up his comb, and even went so far as to
cut up the back with his knife, wondering all the while how the smooth, flat, semi-transparent
comb had been produced from a rough, round, opaque horn.

By and by a mail stage came rattling along, without any passengers, and Mr. Sanford took his
nephew aboard. They stopped before a low, straggling pile of buildings, located upon both sides
of a sluggish looking race-way which supplied the water power, covered passage-ways connecting
different portions of the works.

"Presently, just over this knoll," said his uncle, "you will see a big pile of horns, as they
are unloaded from the cars."

They moved around the knoll, and there lay a monstrous pile of horns thrown indiscriminately
together.

"Really there are not so many as we should think," said Mr. Sanford, as Paul expressed his
astonishment. "That is only a small portion of the stock of this shop. I will show you a good
many more."

He led the way to a group of semi-detached buildings in rear of the principal works, and there
Paul saw great bins of horns, the different sizes and varieties carefully assorted, the total
number so vast that the immense pile in the open yard began to look small in contrast.

At one of the bins a boy was loading a wheelbarrow, and when he pushed his load along a plank
track through one of the passage-ways Mr. Sanford and his nephew followed. As the passage opened
into another building, the barrow was reversed and its load deposited in a receptacle a few
feet lower.

In this room only a single man was employed, and the peculiar character of his work at once
attracted the attention of Paul. In a small frame before him was suspended a very savage-looking
circular saw, running at a high rate of speed. The operator caught one of the great horns by
its tip, gave it a turn through the air before his eyes, seized it in both hands and applied
it to the saw. With a sharp hiss the keen teeth severed the solid tip from the body of the
horn, and another movement trimmed away the thin, imperfect parts about the base. The latter
fell into a pile of refuse at the foot of the frame, the tip was cast into a box with others;
the horn, if large, was divided into two or more sections, a longitudinal slit sawn in one
side, and the sections thrown into a box.

"This man," said Mr. Sanford, "receives large pay and many privileges, on account of the danger
and unpleasant nature of his task. He has worked at this saw for about forty years, and in
that time has handled, according to his record, some twenty-five millions of horns, or over
two thousand for every working day. He has scarcely a whole finger or thumb upon either hand--many
of them are entirely gone; but most of these were lost during his apprenticeship. The least
carelessness was rewarded by the loss of a finger, for the saw cannot be protected with guards,
as in lumber-cutting."

Paul watched the skilful man with the closest interest, shuddering to see how near his hands
passed and repassed to the merciless saw-teeth as he sent a ceaseless shower of parts of horns
rattling into their respective boxes. Before he left the spot Paul took a pencil and made an
estimate.

"Why, uncle," he said, "to cut so many as that, he must saw over three horns every minute for
ten hours a day. I wouldn't think he could handle them so fast."

Then, as he saw how rapidly one horn after another was finished, he drew forth his little watch
and found that the rugged old sawyer finished a horn every ten seconds with perfect ease.

"Would you like to learn this trade?" the old fellow asked. He held up his hands with the stumps
of fingers and thumbs outspread; but Paul only laughed and followed his uncle.

They watched a boy wheeling a barrow-load of the horns as they came from the saw, and beheld
them placed in enormous revolving cylinders, through which a stream of water was running, where
they remained until pretty thoroughly washed. Being removed from these, they were plunged into
boilers ranged along one side of the building, filled with hot water.

"Here they are heated," said Mr. Sanford, "to clear them from any adhering matter that the
cold water does not remove, and partially softened, ready for the next operation."

From the hot water the horns were changed to a series of similar caldrons at the other side
of the room, filled with boiling oil. Paul noticed that when the workmen lifted the horns from
these vats their appearance was greatly changed, being much less opaque, and considerably plastic,
opening readily at the longitudinal cut made by the saw. As the horns were taken from the oil
they were flattened by unrolling, and placed between strong iron clamps which were firmly screwed
together, and put upon long tables in regular order.

"Now I begin to see how it is done," Paul said, though he was thinking all the time of questions
that he would ask his uncle when there were no workmen by to overhear.

"The oil softens the horn," said Mr. Sanford, "and by placing it in this firm pressure and
allowing it to remain till it becomes fixed, the whole structure is so much changed that it
never rolls again. Some combs, you will notice, are of a whitish, opaque color, like the natural
horn, while others have a smooth appearance, are of amber color, and almost transparent. The
former are pressed between cold irons and placed in cold water, while the others are hot-pressed,
it being 'cooked' in a few minutes. These plates of horn may be colored; and there are a great
many 'tortoise-shell' combs and other goods sold which are only horn with a bit of color sprinkled
upon it.

"The solid tips of the horns, and all the pieces that are worth anything cut off in making
the combs, are made up into horn jewelry, chains, cigar-holders, knife-handles, buttons, and
toys of various kinds. These trinkets are generally colored more or less, and many a fashionable
belle, I suppose, would be surprised to know the amount of money paid for odd bits of horn
under higher sounding names. But the horn is tough and serviceable, at any rate, and that is
more than can be said of many of the cheats we meet with in life."

The next room, in contrast with all they had passed through previously, was neat and had no
repulsive odors. Here the sheets of horn as they came from the presses were first cut by delicate
circular saws into blanks of the exact size for the kind of combs to be made, after which they
were run through a planer, which gave them the proper thickness.

"What do you mean by 'blanks'?" Paul asked, as his uncle used the term.

"You can look in the dictionary to find its exact meaning," was the answer. "But you will see
what it is in practice at this machine."

They stepped to another part of the room; and here Paul saw the "blanks" placed in the cutting-machine
standing over a hot furnace, where, after being softened by the heat, they were slowly moved
along, while a pair of thin chisels danced up and down, cutting through the centre of the blank
at each stroke. When it had passed completely through, an assistant took the perforated blank
and pulled it carefully apart, showing two combs, with the teeth interlaced. After separation
they were again placed together to harden under pressure, when the final operations consisted
of bevelling the teeth on wheels covered with sand-paper, rounding the backs, rounding and
pointing the teeth; after which came the polishing, papering and putting in boxes.

"I suppose they go all over the country," said Paul as he glanced into the shipping-room.

"Much further than that," was the reply. "We never know how far they go; for the wholesale
dealers, to whom the combs are shipped from the manufactory, send them into all the odd corners
of the earth. Every little dealer must sell combs, and in the very nature of the business they
frequently pass through a great many hands before reaching the user, so at the last price is
many times what the makers received for them. I suppose it often happens that horns which have
been sent thousands of miles to work up are returned to the very regions from which they came,
in some other form, increased very many fold in value by their long journey. Or a horn may
come from the remoter parts of South America to be wrought here in Massachusetts, and then
be shipped from point to point till it reaches some remote corner of Africa, Spain, or Siberia,
as an article of barter. And even different parts of the same horn may be at the same moment
decking the person of a New York dandy and unsnarling the tangled locks of a Russian Tchuktch."

While Paul was watching the deft fingers of the girls who filled the boxes and affixed the
labels, his uncle stepped through a door communicating with the office, and soon returned with
three elegant pocket-combs.

"One of these," he said, "represents a horn which came from pampas of Buenos Ayres; this one,
in the original, dashed over the boundless plains of Texas; and here is another, toughened
by the hot, short summers and long, bitter winters of Canada. Take them with you in memory
of this cheerless rainy day."

Paul could not help a little sigh as he thought again of the pleasures he had enjoyed in anticipation;
but still he answered bravely, "Thank you; never mind the rain, dear uncle. All the New York
boys go off in the woods when they get away from home; but not many of them ever heard how
combs are made, and I don't suppose a quarter of them even know what they are made of. I can
tell them a thing or two when I get home."

IN THE GAS-WORKS.

Philip and Kitty were curled up together on the lounge in the library, reading Aldrich's "Story
of a Bad Boy." It was fast growing dark in the corner where they were, for the sun had gone
down some time before, but they were all absorbed in Tom Bailey's theatricals, and did not
notice how heavy the shadows were getting around them. Papa came in by-and-by.

"Why, little folks, you'll spoil your eyes reading here; I'd better light the gas for you,"
and he took out a match from the box on the mantle.

"O, let me, please," cried Philip, jumping up and running to the burner. So he took the match,
and climbed up in a chair with it. Scr-a-tch! and the new-lit jet gave a glorified glare that
illuminated everything in the room, from the Japanese vase on the corner bracket to the pattern
of the rug before the open fire. But as Philip turned it off a little it grew quieter, and
finally settled down into a steady, respectable flame. Philip always begged to light the gas.
It had not been long introduced in the little town where he lived, and the children thought
it a very fine thing to have it brought into the house, and secretly pitied the boys and girls
whose fathers had only kerosene lamps.

"Why can't you blow out gas, just as you do a kerosene light?" asked Kitty, presently, leaving
the Bad Boy on the lounge, and watching the bright little crescent under the glass shade.

"Because," explained papa, "unless you shut it off by turning the little screw in the pipe,
the gas will keep pouring out into the room all the time, and if it isn't disposed of by being
burned up, it will mix with the air and make it poisonous to breathe. A man at the hotel here,
a few nights ago, blew out the gas because he did not know any better, and was almost suffocated
before he realized the trouble and opened his window."

"And where does the gas come from in the first place?" pursued Kitty.

"Why, from the gas-works, of course," said Philip in a very superior way, for he was a year
the elder of the two. "That brick building over by Miller's Hill--don't you know--that we pass
in going to Aunt Hester's."

"I know that as well as you do, Philip Lawrence," said Kitty with some dignity. "What I wanted
to know was what it's made out of. What is it, papa?"

"Out of coal," said papa. "They put the coal in ovens and heat it till the gas it contains
is separated from the other parts of the coal, and driven off by itself. Then it is purified
and made ready for use."

"Out of coal? How funny! I wish I could see all about it," said Philip, looking more interested.

"And so do I wish I could," added Kitty.

"I don't see why it cannot be done," said papa. "If you really care to see it, and won't mind
a few bad smells, I will ask Mr. Carter to-morrow morning, when he can take you around and
explain things."

The next day when Mr. Carter was asked about it, he said, "O, come in any day you like. About
three in the afternoon would be a good time, because we are always newly-filling the retorts
then." This sounded very nice and imposing to the children, and at three the next afternoon
they started out with papa. The gas-house certainly did smell very badly as they drew near
it, and dainty Kitty sniffed in considerable disgust. Philip suggested that perhaps she had
better not go in after all; he didn't believe girls ever did go into such places. And upon
that Kitty valiantly declared she did not mind it a bit, and sternly set her face straight.

Mr. Carter met them at the door. "You are just in time to see the retorts opened," said he,
and led the way directly into a large and very dingy room, along one side of which was built
out a sort of huge iron cupboard with several little iron doors. The upper ones were closed
tight, but some of the lower ones were open a crack, and a very bright fire could be seen inside.
Everything around was dirty and gloomy, and these gleams of fire from the little iron doors
made the place look weird and ghostly. Long iron pipes reached from each of the upper doors
up to one very large horizontal pipe or cylinder near the ceiling overhead. This cylinder ran
the whole length of the room, and, at its farther end, joined another iron pipe which passed
through the wall.

"Those are the furnace-doors down below," said Mr. Carter to the children. "What you see burning
inside of them is coke. Coke is what is left of the coal after we have taken the gas and tar
out of it. The upper doors open into the retorts, or ovens, that we fill every five hours with
the coal from which we want to get gas. Each retort holds about two hundred pounds, and from
that amount we get a thousand cubic feet of gas."

"Is it just common coal;" asked Kitty, "like what people burn in stoves?"

"Not exactly. It is a softer kind, containing more of a substance called hydrogen than the
sorts that are generally used for fuel. Several different varieties are used: 'cherry,' 'cannel,'
'splint,' and so on, and they come from mines in different parts of England and Scotland, chiefly.
Glasgow, Coventry and Newcastle send us a great deal."

Philip started as if a bright idea had struck him. "Is that what people mean when you're doing
something there's no need of, and they say 'you're carrying coals to Newcastle?'"

"Yes. You see such an enterprise would be absurd. Just notice the man yonder with the long
iron rod! He is going to open one of the retorts, take out the old coal--only it is now coke--and
put in a fresh supply."

A workman in a grimy, leather apron loosened one of the retort doors, and held up a little
torch. Immediately a great sheet of flame burst out, and then disappeared.

He took the door quite off, and there was a long, narrow oven with an arched top, containing
a huge bed of red-hot coals.

"What a splendid place to pop corn!" exclaimed Kitty.

Papa laughed. "You would find it warm work," said he, "unless you'd a very long handle to your
corn-popper." And Kitty thought so too, as she went nearer the fiery furnace.

"You see," said Mr. Carter, "these red-hot coals have been changed a great deal by the heat.
They have given up all their gas and tar, and are themselves no longer coal, but coke. We shovel
out this coke and use it as fuel in the furnaces down below to help heat up the next lot. Then
new coal is put into the retorts, and they are closed up with iron plates, like that one lying
ready on the ground."

"It's all muddy 'round the edge," observed Kitty.

"Yes, that paste of clay is to make it air-tight. The heat hardens the clay very quickly, so
all the little cracks around the edge are plastered up. When the coal is shut up in the ovens,
or retorts, the heat, as I just told you, divides it up into the different substances of which
it is made; that is, into the coke which you have seen, a black, sticky liquid called tar,
the illuminating gas, and more or less ammonia, sulphur, and other things that must be got
rid of. Almost all these things are saved and used for one purpose or another, though they
may be of no use to us here. If we have more coke than we ourselves need it is sold for fuel.
The coal-tar goes for roofing and making sidewalks, or sometimes (though you wouldn't think
it possible, as you look at the sticky, bad-smelling, black stuff) in the manufacture of the
most lovely dyes, like that which colored Miss Kitty's pink ribbon. The ammonia is used for
medicine and all sorts of scientific preparations, in bleaching cloth, and in the printing
of calicoes and cambrics."

"When the materials of the coal are separated as I told you in the retorts, most of the tar
remains behind, and is drawn off; but some gets up the pipes. That large, horizontal cylinder
is always nearly half full of it. The gas, which is very light, you know, rises through the
upper pipes leading from the retorts, and bubbles up through the tar in the bottom of the cylinder.
Then it passes along the farther end of the cylinder, and into the condensing pipes."

He opened a door, and they went through into the next room. Here the large pipe which came
through the wall of the room they had just left, led to a number of clusters of smaller pipes
that were jointed and doubled back and forth upon each other, cob-house fashion.

"When the gas goes through these pipes," said Mr. Carter, "it gets pretty well cooled down,
for the pipes are kept cold by having so great an amount of surface exposed to draughts of
air around them. And when the gas is cooled the impurities are cooled too, so that many of
them take a liquid form and can be drawn off."

The next room they entered had a row of great, square chests on each side, as they walked through.

"These are the purifiers," explained Mr. Carter again. "They are boxes with a great many fan-like
shelves inside, projecting out in all directions, and covered thickly with a paste made of lime."

"Lime like what the masons used when they plastered the new kitchen?" asked Philip.

"About the same thing. The boxes are made air-tight, and the gas enters the first box at one
of the lower corners. Then before it can get through the connecting-pipe into the next box,
it has to wind its way around among these plates coated with lime. This lime takes up the sulphur
and other things that we do not want in the gas, and so by the time it gets through all the
boxes it is quite pure and fit to use."

Then the party all went into the room where the gas was measured. It was a little office with
a queer piece of furniture in it; something that looked like a very large drum-shaped clock,
with several different dials or faces. This, Mr. Carter said, was the metre or measurer, and
by looking at the dials it could be told exactly how much gas was being made every day.

"As soon as the gas gets through the purifiers," said he, "it comes, by an iron pipe, in here,
and is made to pass through and give an account of itself before any of it is used. And now
I suppose you would like to know how it does report its own amount, wouldn't you?"

Philip and Kitty both were sure they did want to know, so he sketched a little plan of the
metre on a piece of paper, and then went on to explain it:

