Our American Holidays

                           LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY

                         Our American Holidays

A series of Anthologies upon American Holidays, each volume a collection of writings from many
sources, historical, poetic, religious, patriotic, etc., presenting each American festival
as seen through the eyes of the representative writers of many ages and nations.

                               EDITED BY
                       ROBERT HAVEN SCHAUFFLER

                    12mo. Each volume $1.00 net

                               NOW READY

                THANKSGIVING            LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY
                CHRISTMAS               MEMORIAL DAY

                             IN PREPARATION

                WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY   EASTER
                ARBOR DAY               FLAG DAY
                FOURTH OF JULY          NEW YEAR'S DAY

                          MOFFAT, YARD & COMPANY
                      31 East 17th Street   New York

                          Our American Holidays

                            LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY

                    A COMPREHENSIVE VIEW OF LINCOLN AS
                   GIVEN IN THE MOST NOTEWORTHY ESSAYS,
                     ORATIONS AND POEMS, IN FICTION
                      AND IN LINCOLN'S OWN WRITINGS

                               EDITED BY
                        ROBERT HAVEN SCHAUFFLER

                                NEW YORK
                        MOFFAT, YARD AND COMPANY
                                  1916

                           Copyright, 1909, by
                        MOFFAT, YARD AND COMPANY
                               NEW YORK

                         Published, January, 1909

                         2nd Printing--June, 1911
                         3rd Printing--July, 1914
                         4th Printing--Feb.  1916

CONTENTS

                                                                  PAGE
PREFACE                                                             ix

INTRODUCTION                                                        xi

I A BIRDSEYE VIEW OF LINCOLN

ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                      3 A BRIEF SUMMARY OF LINCOLN'S
LIFE       Osborn H. Oldroyd          6

II EARLY LIFE

LINCOLN'S EDUCATION                        Horace Greeley         15 ABE LINCOLN'S HONESTY
17 THE BOY THAT HUNGERED FOR KNOWLEDGE                                 18 ABRAHAM LINCOLN 
Florence E. Pratt         19 YOUNG LINCOLN'S KINDNESS OF HEART                            
20 A VOICE FROM THE WILDERNESS                Charles Sumner         21 CHOOSING ABE LINCOLN
CAPTAIN                                        22

III MATURITY

LINCOLN'S MARRIAGE                                                  31 HOW LINCOLN AND JUDGE
B---- SWAPPED HORSES                          33 LINCOLN AS A MAN OF LETTERS              
H. W. Mabie         34 LINCOLN'S PRESENCE OF BODY                                         
44 HOW LINCOLN BECAME A NATIONAL FIGURE       Ida M. Tarbell         45 LINCOLN'S LOVE FOR
THE LITTLE ONES                                  89 HOW LINCOLN TOOK HIS ALTITUDE         
90

IV IN THE WHITE HOUSE

HOW LINCOLN WAS ABUSED                                              95 SONNET IN 1862     
John James Piatt         96 LINCOLN THE PRESIDENT                James Russell Lowell     
96 ABRAHAM LINCOLN                               Frank Moore        109 THE PROCLAMATION  
John Greenleaf Whittier        110 THE EMANCIPATION                        James A. Garfield
112 THE EMANCIPATION GROUP            John Greenleaf Whittier        121 ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S
CHRISTMAS GIFT               Nora Perry        122

V DEATH OF LINCOLN

O CAPTAIN! MY CAPTAIN!                       Walt Whitman        127 ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S DEATH
Walt Whitman        128 HUSHED BE THE CAMPS TO-DAY                   Walt Whitman        134
TO THE MEMORY OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN    William Cullen Bryant        135 CROWN HIS BLOODSTAINED
PILLOW             Julia Ward Howe        136 THE DEATH OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN                
Walt Whitman        137 OUR SUN HATH GONE DOWN                        Phoebe Cary        139
TOLLING                                       Lucy Larcom        142 ABRAHAM LINCOLN      
Rose Terry Cooke        143 EFFECT OF THE DEATH OF LINCOLN         Henry Ward Beecher     
144 HYMN                                Oliver Wendell Holmes        151 ABRAHAM LINCOLN  
Tom Taylor        153

VI TRIBUTES

THE MARTYR CHIEF                     James Russell Lowell        159 ABRAHAM LINCOLN      
Ralph Waldo Emerson        161 WASHINGTON AND LINCOLN                   William McKinley  
169 LINCOLN                                Theodore Roosevelt        170 LINCOLN'S GRAVE  
Maurice Thompson        170 TRIBUTES TO LINCOLN                                           
173 ABRAHAM LINCOLN                            H. H. Brownell        174 TRIBUTES         
189 ABRAHAM LINCOLN                               Joel Benton        189 ON THE LIFE-MASK OF
ABRAHAM LINCOLN Richard Watson Gilder        190 LINCOLN                                  
George H. Boker        192 ABRAHAM LINCOLN                         James A. Garfield      
193 AN HORATIAN ODE                            R. H. Stoddard        195 SOME FOREIGN TRIBUTES
TO LINCOLN    Harriet Beecher Stowe        202 THE GETTYSBURG ODE                         
Bayard Taylor        211 TRIBUTES                                                         
212 LINCOLN                              Macmillan's Magazine        214 ABRAHAM LINCOLN  
R. H. Stoddard        215 LINCOLN                                 Edna Dean Proctor       
215 WHEN LILACS LAST IN THE DOORYARD BLOOM'D     Walt Whitman        218

VII THE WHOLE MAN

LINCOLN, THE MAN OF THE PEOPLE              Edwin Markham        233 LIFE AND CHARACTER OF
ABRAHAM LINCOLN     George Bancroft        235 ABRAHAM LINCOLN                            
Goldwin Smith        276 GREATNESS OF HIS SIMPLICITY                  H. A. Delano        278
HORACE GREELEY'S ESTIMATE OF LINCOLN                               279 LINCOLN            
J. T. Trowbridge        282 THE RELIGIOUS CHARACTER OF LINCOLN            B. B. Tyler     
282 TO THE SPIRIT OF LINCOLN                     R. W. Gilder        296 LINCOLN AS A TYPICAL
AMERICAN             Phillips Brooks        297 LINCOLN AS CAVALIER AND PURITAN           
H. W. Grady        304 LINCOLN, THE TENDER-HEARTED                  H. W. Bolton        306
THE CHARACTER OF LINCOLN                    W. H. Herndon        307 "WITH CHARITY FOR ALL"
W. T. Sherman        317 LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY                        Ida V. Woodbury        318
FEBRUARY TWELFTH                          M. H. Howliston        319 TWO FEBRUARY BIRTHDAYS
L. M. Hadley and C. Z. Denton        323

VIII LINCOLN'S PLACE IN HISTORY

THE THREE GREATEST AMERICANS           Theodore Roosevelt        333 HIS CHOICE AND HIS DESTINY
F. M. Bristol        333 ABRAHAM LINCOLN                       Robert G. Ingersoll        334
LINCOLN                              Paul Laurence Dunbar        341 THE GRANDEST FIGURE  
Walt Whitman        342 ABRAHAM LINCOLN                              Lyman Abbott        345
"LINCOLN THE IMMORTAL"                          Anonymous        346 THE CRISIS AND THE HERO
Frederic Harrison        349 LINCOLN                                 John Vance Cheney    
351 MAJESTIC IN HIS INDIVIDUALITY                S. P. Newman        353

IX LINCOLN YARNS AND SAYINGS

THE QUESTION OF LEGS                                               359 HOW LINCOLN WAS PRESENTED
WITH A KNIFE                             360 "WEEPING WATER"                              
361 MILD REBUKE TO A DOCTOR                                            362

X FROM LINCOLN'S SPEECHES AND WRITINGS

LINCOLN'S LIFE AS WRITTEN BY HIMSELF                               365 THE INJUSTICE OF SLAVERY
365 SPEECH AT COOPER INSTITUTE                                         368 FIRST INAUGURAL
ADDRESS                                            371 LETTER TO HORACE GREELEY           
376 EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION                                          378 THANKSGIVING PROCLAMATION
380 GETTYSBURG ADDRESS                                                 382 REMARKS TO NEGROES
ON THE STREETS OF RICHMOND                      383 SECOND INAUGURAL ADDRESS              
384

PREFACE

An astounding number of books have been written on Abraham Lincoln. Our Library of Congress
contains over one thousand of them in well-nigh every modern language. Yet, incredible as it
may seem, no miner has until to-day delved in these vast fields of Lincolniana until he has
brought together the most precious of the golden words written of and by the Man of the People.
Howe has collected a few of the best poems on Lincoln; Rice, Oldroyd and others, the elder
prose tributes and reminiscences. McClure has edited Lincoln's yarns and stories; Nicolay and
Hay, his speeches and writings. But each successive twelfth of February has emphasized the
growing need for a unification of this scattered material.

The present volume offers, in small compass, the most noteworthy essays, orations, fiction
and poems on Lincoln, together with some fiction, with characteristic anecdotes and "yarns"
and his most famous speeches and writings. Taken in conjunction with a good biography, it presents
the first succinct yet comprehensive view of "the first American." The Introduction gives some
account of the celebration of Lincoln's Birthday and of his principal biographers.

NOTE

The Editor and Publishers wish to acknowledge their indebtedness to Houghton, Mifflin & Company;
the McClure Company, R. S. Peale and J. A. Hill Co.; Charles Scribner's Sons; Dana Estes Company;
Mr. David McKay, Mr. Joel Benton, Mr. C. P. Farrell and others who have very kindly granted
permission to reprint selections from works bearing their copyright.

INTRODUCTION

Abraham Lincoln, sixteenth President of the United States, was born at Nolin Creek, Kentucky,
on Feb. 12, 1809. As the following pages contain more than one biographical sketch it is not
necessary here to touch on the story of his life. Lincoln's Birthday is now a legal holiday
in Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania,
Washington (state) and Wyoming, and is generally observed in the other Northern States.

In its inspirational value to youth Lincoln's Birthday stands among the most important of our
American holidays. Its celebration in school and home can not be made too impressive. "Rising
as Lincoln did," writes Edward Deems, "from social obscurity through a youth of manual toil
and poverty, steadily upward to the highest level of honor in the world, and all this as the
fruit of earnest purpose, hard work, humane feeling and integrity of character, he is an example
and an inspiration to youth unparalleled in history. At the same time he is the best specimen
of the possibilities attainable by genius in our land and under our free institutions."

In arranging exercises for Lincoln's Birthday the teacher and parent should try not so much
to teach the bare facts of his career as to give the children a sense of Lincoln's actual personality
through his own yarns and speeches and such accounts as are given here by Herndon, Bancroft,
Mabie, Tarbell, Phillips Brooks and others. He should show them Lincoln's greatest single act--Emancipation--through
the eyes of Garfield and Whittier. He should try to reach the children with the thrill of an
adoring sorrow-maddened country at the bier of its great preserver; with such a passion of
love and patriotism as vibrates in the lines of Whitman, Brownell and Bryant, of Stoddard,
Procter, Howe, Holmes, Lowell, and in the throbbing periods of Henry Ward Beecher. His main
object should be to make his pupils love Lincoln. He should appeal to their national pride
with the foreign tributes to Lincoln's greatness; make them feel how his memory still works
through the years upon such contemporary poets as Gilder, Thompson, Markham, Cheney and Dunbar;
and finally through the eyes of Harrison, Whitman, Ingersoll, Newman and others, show them
our hero set in his proud, rightful place in the long vista of the ages.

In order to use the present volume with the best results it is advisable for teacher and parent
to gain a more consecutive view of Lincoln's life than is offered here.

The standard biography of Lincoln is the monumental one in ten large volumes by Nicolay and
Hay, the President's private secretaries. This contains considerable material not found elsewhere,
but since its publication in 1890 much new matter has been unearthed, especially by the enterprise
of Miss Ida Tarbell, whose "Life" in two volumes contains the essentials of the larger official
work, is well balanced, and written in a simple, vigorous style perfectly adapted to the subject.
If only one biography of Lincoln is to be read, Miss Tarbell's will, on the whole, be found
most satisfactory.

The older Lives, written by Lincoln's friends and associates, such as Lamon and Herndon, make
up in vividness and the intimate personal touch what they necessarily lack in perspective.
Arnold's Life deals chiefly with the executive and legislative history of Lincoln's administration.
The Life by the novelist J. G. Holland deals popularly with his hero's personality. The memoirs
by Barrett, Abbott, Howells, Bartlett, Hanaford and Power were written in the main for political
purposes.

Among the later works there stand out Morse's scholarly and serious account (in the American
Statesmen series) of Lincoln's public policy; the vivid portrayal of Lincoln's adroitness as
a politician by Col. McClure in Abraham Lincoln and Men of War Times; Whitney's Life on the
Circuit with Lincoln, with its fund of entertaining anecdotes; Abraham Lincoln, an Essay by
Carl Schurz; James Morgan's "short and simple annals" of Abraham Lincoln The Boy and the Man;
Frederick Trevor Hill's brilliant account of Lincoln the Lawyer, the result of much recent
research; the study of his personal magnetism in Alonzo Rothschild's Lincoln, Master of Men;
and The True Abraham Lincoln by Curtis--a collection of sketches portraying Lincoln's character
from several interesting points of view. Abraham Lincoln The Man of the People by Norman Hapgood
is one of most recent and least conventional accounts. It is short, vigorous, vivid, and intensely
American.

Among the many popular Lives for young people are: Abraham Lincoln, the Pioneer Boy, by W.
M. Thayer; Abraham Lincoln, The Backwoods Boy, by Horatio Alger, Jr.; Abraham Lincoln, by Charles
Carleton Coffin; The True Story of Abraham Lincoln The American, by E. S. Brooks; The Boy Lincoln,
by W. O. Stoddard; and--most important of all--Nicolay's Boy's Life of Abraham Lincoln.

                                                              R. H. S.

I

A BIRDSEYE VIEW OF LINCOLN

ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY

The following autobiography was written by Mr. Lincoln's own hand at the request of J. W. Fell
of Springfield, Ill., December 20, 1859. In the note which accompanied it the writer says:
"Herewith is a little sketch, as you requested. There is not much of it, for the reason, I
suppose, that there is not much of me."

A BRIEF SUMMARY OF LINCOLN'S LIFE

BY OSBORN H. OLDROYD

From "Words of Lincoln"

The sun which rose on the 12th of February, 1809, lighted up a little log cabin on Nolin Creek,
Hardin Co., Ky., in which Abraham Lincoln was that day ushered into the world. Although born
under the humblest and most unpromising circumstances, he was of honest parentage. In this
backwoods hut, surrounded by virgin forests, Abraham's first four years were spent. His parents
then moved to a point about six miles from Hodgensville, where he lived until he was seven
years of age, when the family again moved, this time to Spencer Co., Ind.

The father first visited the new settlement alone, taking with him his carpenter tools, a few
farming implements, and ten barrels of whisky (the latter being the payment received for his
little farm) on a flatboat down Salt Creek to the Ohio River. Crossing the river, he left his
cargo in care of a friend, and then returned for his family. Packing the bedding and cooking
utensils on two horses, the family of four started for their new home. They wended their way
through the Kentucky forests to those of Indiana, the mother and daughter (Sarah) taking their
turn in riding.

Fourteen years were spent in the Indiana home. It was from this place that Abraham, in company
with young Gentry, made a trip to New Orleans on a flatboat loaded with country produce. During
these years Abraham had less than twelve months of schooling, but acquired a large experience
in the rough work of pioneer life. In the autumn of 1818 the mother died, and Abraham experienced
the first great sorrow of his life. Mrs. Lincoln had possessed a very limited education, but
was noted for intellectual force of character.

The year following the death of Abraham's mother his father returned to Kentucky, and brought
a new guardian to the two motherless children. Mrs. Sally Johnson, as Mrs. Lincoln, brought
into the family three children of her own, a goodly amount of household furniture, and, what
proved a blessing above all others, a kind heart. It was not intended that this should be a
permanent home; accordingly, in March, 1830, they packed their effects in wagons, drawn by
oxen, bade adieu to their old home, and took up a two weeks' march over untraveled roads, across
mountains, swamps, and through dense forests, until they reached a spot on the Sangamon River,
ten miles from Decatur, Ill., where they built another primitive home. Abraham had now arrived
at manhood, and felt at liberty to go out into the world and battle for himself. He did not
leave, however, until he saw his parents comfortably fixed in their new home, which he helped
build; he also split enough rails to surround the house and ten acres of ground.

In the fall and winter of 1830, memorable to the early settlers of Illinois as the year of
the deep snow, Abraham worked for the farmers who lived in the neighborhood. He made the acquaintance
of a man of the name of Offutt, who hired him, together with his stepbrother, John D. Johnson,
and his uncle, John Hanks, to take a flatboat loaded with country produce down the Sangamon
River to Beardstown, thence down the Illinois and Mississippi rivers to New Orleans. Abraham
and his companions assisted in building the boat, which was finally launched and loaded in
the spring of 1831, and their trip successfully made. In going over the dam at Rutledge Mill,
New Salem, Ill., the boat struck and remained stationary, and a day passed before it was again
started on its voyage. During this delay Lincoln made the acquaintance of New Salem and its people.

On his return from New Orleans, after visiting his parents,--who had made another move, to
Goose-Nest Prairie, Ill.,--he settled in the little village of New Salem, then in Sangamon,
now Menard County. While living in this place, Mr. Lincoln served in the Black Hawk War, in
1832, as captain and private. His employment in the village was varied; he was at times a clerk,
county surveyor, postmaster, and partner in the grocery business under the firm name of Lincoln
& Berry. He was defeated for the Illinois Legislature in 1832 by Peter Cartwright, the Methodist
pioneer preacher. He was elected to the Legislature in 1834, and for three successive terms
thereafter.

Mr. Lincoln wielded a great influence among the people of New Salem. They respected him for
his uprightness and admired him for his genial and social qualities. He had an earnest sympathy
for the unfortunate and those in sorrow. All confided in him, honored and loved him. He had
an unfailing fund of anecdote, was a sharp, witty talker, and possessed an accommodating spirit,
which led him to exert himself for the entertainment of his friends. During the political canvass
of 1834, Mr. Lincoln made the acquaintance of Mr. John T. Stuart of Springfield, Ill. Mr. Stuart
saw in the young man that which, if properly developed, could not fail to confer distinction
on him. He therefore loaned Lincoln such law books as he needed, the latter often walking from
New Salem to Springfield, a distance of twenty miles, to obtain them. It was very fortunate
for Mr. Lincoln that he finally became associated with Mr. Stuart in the practice of law. He
moved from New Salem to Springfield, and was admitted to the bar in 1837. Mrs. Lincoln died
at the house of her sister, Springfield, July 16, 1882.

In 1846 Mr. Lincoln was elected to Congress, as a Whig, his opponent being Peter Cartwright,
who had defeated Mr. Lincoln for the Legislature in 1832.

The most remarkable political canvass witnessed in the country took place between Mr. Lincoln
and Stephen A. Douglas in 1858. They were candidates of their respective parties for the United
States Senate. Seven joint debates took place in different parts of the State. The Legislature
being of Mr. Douglas' political faith, he was elected.

In 1860 Mr. Lincoln came before the country as the chosen candidate of the Republican party
for the Presidency. The campaign was a memorable one, characterized by a novel organization
called "Wide Awakes," which had its origin in Hartford, Conn. There were rail fence songs,
rail-splitting on wagons in processions, and the building of fences by the torch-light marching
clubs.

The triumphant election of Mr. Lincoln took place in November, 1860. On the 11th of February,
1861, he bade farewell to his neighbors, and as the train slowly left the depot his sad face
was forever lost to the friends who gathered that morning to bid him God speed. The people
along the route flocked at the stations to see him and hear his words. At all points he was
greeted as the President of the people, and such he proved to be. Mr. Lincoln reached Washington
on the morning of the 23rd of February, and on the 4th of March was inaugurated President.
Through four years of terrible war his guiding star was justice and mercy. He was sometimes
censured by officers of the army for granting pardons to deserters and others, but he could
not resist an appeal for the life of a soldier. He was the friend of the soldiers, and felt
and acted toward them like a father. Even workingmen could write him letters of encouragement
and receive appreciative words in reply.

When the immortal Proclamation of Emancipation was issued, the whole world applauded, and slavery
received its deathblow. The terrible strain of anxiety and responsibility borne by Mr. Lincoln
during the war had worn him away to a marked degree, but that God who was with him throughout
the struggle permitted him to live, and by his masterly efforts and unceasing vigilance pilot
the ship of state back into the haven of peace.

On the 14th of April, 1865, after a day of unusual cheerfulness in those troublous times, and
seeking relaxation from his cares, the President, accompanied by his wife and a few intimate
friends, went to Ford's Theater, on Tenth Street, N. W. There the foul assassin, J. Wilkes
Booth, awaited his coming and at twenty minutes past ten o'clock, just as the third act of
"Our American Cousin" was about to commence, fired the shot that took the life of Abraham Lincoln.
The bleeding President was carried to a house across the street, No. 516, where he died at
twenty-two minutes past seven the next morning. The body was taken to the White House and,
after lying in state in the East Room and at the Capitol, left Washington on the 21st of April,
stopping at various places en route, and finally arriving at Springfield on the 3rd of May.
On the following day the funeral ceremonies took place at Oak Ridge Cemetery, and there the
remains of the martyr were laid at rest.

Abraham Lincoln needs no marble shaft to perpetuate his name; his words are the most enduring
monument, and will forever live in the hearts of the people.

II

EARLY LIFE

LINCOLN'S EDUCATION[1]

BY HORACE GREELEY

Let me pause here to consider the surprise often expressed when a citizen of limited schooling
is chosen to fill, or is presented for one of the highest civil trusts. Has that argument any
foundation in reason, any justification in history?

Of our country's great men, beginning with Ben Franklin, I estimate that a majority had little
if anything more than a common-school education, while many had less. Washington, Jefferson,
and Madison had rather more; Clay and Jackson somewhat less; Van Buren perhaps a little more;
Lincoln decidedly less. How great was his consequent loss? I raise the question; let others
decide it. Having seen much of Henry Clay, I confidently assert that not one in ten of those
who knew him late in life would have suspected, from aught in his conversation or bearing,
that his education had been inferior to that of the college graduates by whom he was surrounded.
His knowledge was different from theirs; and the same is true of Lincoln's as well. Had the
latter lived to be seventy years old, I judge that whatever of hesitation or rawness was observable
in his manner would have vanished, and he would have met and mingled with educated gentlemen
and statesmen on the same easy footing of equality with Henry Clay in his later prime of life.
How far his two flatboat voyages to New Orleans are to be classed as educational exercise above
or below a freshman's year in college, I will not say; doubtless some freshmen learn more,
others less, than those journeys taught him. Reared under the shadow of the primitive woods,
which on every side hemmed in the petty clearings of the generally poor, and rarely energetic
or diligent, pioneers of the Southern Indiana wilderness, his first introduction to the outside
world from the deck of a "broad-horn" must have been wonderfully interesting and suggestive.
To one whose utmost experience of civilization had been a county town, consisting of a dozen
to twenty houses, mainly log, with a shabby little court-house, including jail, and a shabbier,
ruder little church, that must have been a marvelous spectacle which glowed in his face from
the banks of the Ohio and the lower Mississippi. Though Cairo was then but a desolate swamp,
Memphis a wood-landing, and Vicksburg a timbered ridge with a few stores at its base, even
these were in striking contrast to the sombre monotony of the great woods. The rivers were
enlivened by countless swift-speeding steamboats, dispensing smoke by day and flame by night;
while New Orleans, though scarcely one fourth the city she now is, was the focus of a vast
commerce, and of a civilization which (for America) might be deemed antique. I doubt not that
our tall and green young backwoodsman needed only a piece of well-tanned sheepskin suitably
(that is, learnedly) inscribed to have rendered those two boat trips memorable as his degrees
in capacity to act well his part on that stage which has mankind for its audience.

[1] By permission of Mr. Joel Benton.

ABE LINCOLN'S HONESTY

From "Anecdotes of Abraham Lincoln and Lincoln's Stories."

THE BOY THAT HUNGERED FOR KNOWLEDGE

From "Anecdotes of Abraham Lincoln and Lincoln's Stories."

In his eagerness to acquire knowledge, young Lincoln had borrowed of Mr. Crawford, a neighboring
farmer, a copy of Weems' Life of Washington--the only one known to be in existence in that
section of country. Before he had finished reading the book, it had been left, by a not unnatural
oversight, in a window. Meantime, a rain storm came on, and the book was so thoroughly wet
as to make it nearly worthless. This mishap caused him much pain; but he went, in all honesty,
to Mr. Crawford with the ruined book, explained the calamity that had happened through his
neglect, and offered, not having sufficient money, to "work out" the value of the book.

"Well, Abe," said Mr. Crawford, after due deliberation, "as it's you, I won't be hard on you.
Just come over and pull fodder for me for two days, and we will call our accounts even."

The offer was readily accepted, and the engagement literally fulfilled. As a boy, no less than
since, Abraham Lincoln had an honorable conscientiousness, integrity, industry, and an ardent
love of knowledge.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN[2]

BY FLORENCE EVELYN PRATT

    Lincoln, the woodsman, in the clearing stood,
      Hemmed by the solemn forest stretching round;
    Stalwart, ungainly, honest-eyed and rude,
      The genius of that solitude profound.
    He clove the way that future millions trod,
      He passed, unmoved by worldly fear or pelf;
    In all his lusty toil he found not God,
      Though in the wilderness he found himself.

    Lincoln, the President, in bitter strife,
      Best-loved, worst-hated of all living men,
    Oft single-handed, for the nation's life
      Fought on, nor rested ere he fought again.
    With one unerring purpose armed, he clove
      Through selfish sin; then overwhelmed with care,
    His great heart sank beneath its load of love;
      Crushed to his knees, he found his God in prayer.

[2] From The Youth's Companion.

YOUNG LINCOLN'S KINDNESS OF HEART

From "Anecdotes of Abraham Lincoln." A short search only was necessary to confirm the suspicions
of the young men.

A VOICE FROM THE WILDERNESS

BY CHARLES SUMNER

Abraham Lincoln was born, and, until he became President, always lived in a part of the country
which, at the period of the Declaration of Independence, was a savage wilderness. Strange but
happy Providence, that a voice from that savage wilderness, now fertile in men, was inspired
to uphold the pledges and promises of the Declaration! The unity of the republic on the indestructible
foundation of liberty and equality was vindicated by the citizen of a community which had no
existence when the republic was formed.

A cabin was built in primitive rudeness, and the future President split the rails for the fence
to inclose the lot. These rails have become classical in our history, and the name of rail-splitter
has been more than the degree of a college. Not that the splitter of rails is especially meritorious,
but because the people are proud to trace aspiring talent to humble beginnings, and because
they found in this tribute a new opportunity of vindicating the dignity of free labor.

CHOOSING "ABE" LINCOLN CAPTAIN

From "Choosing 'Abe' Lincoln Captain, and Other Stories"

When the Black Hawk war broke out in Illinois about 1832, young Abraham Lincoln was living
at New Salem, a little village of the class familiarly known out west as "one-horse towns,"
and located near the capital city of Illinois.

He had just closed his clerkship of a year in a feeble grocery, and was the first to enlist
under the call of Governor Reynolds for volunteer forces to go against the Sacs and Foxes,
of whom Black Hawk was chief.

By treaty these Indians had been removed west of the Mississippi into Iowa; but, thinking their
old hunting-grounds the better, they had recrossed the river with their war paint on, causing
some trouble, and a great deal of alarm among the settlers. Such was the origin of the war;
and the handful of government troops stationed at Rock Island wanted help. Hence the State call.

Mr. Lincoln was twenty-three years old at that time, nine years older than his adopted State.
The country was thinly settled, and a company of ninety men who could be spared from home for
military service had to be gathered from a wide district. When full, the company met at the
neighboring village of Richland to choose its officers. In those days the militia men were
allowed to select their leaders in their own way; and they had a very peculiar mode of expressing
their preference for captains. For then, as now, there were almost always two candidates for
one office.

They would meet on the green somewhere, and at the appointed hour, the competitors would step
out from the crowds on the opposite sides of the ground, and each would call on all the "boys"
who wanted him for captain to fall in behind him. As the line formed, the man next the candidate
would put his hands on the candidate's shoulder; the third man also in the same manner to the
second man; and so on to the end. And then they would march and cheer for their leader like
so many wild men, in order to win over the fellows who didn't seem to have a choice, or whose
minds were sure to run after the greater noise. When all had taken sides, the man who led the
longer line, would be declared captain.

Mr. Lincoln never outgrew the familiar nickname, "Abe," but at that time he could hardly be
said to have any other name than "Abe"; in fact he had emerged from clerking in that little
corner grocery as "Honest Abe." He was not only liked, but loved, in the rough fashion of the
frontier by all who knew him. He was a good hand at gunning, fishing, racing, wrestling and
other games; he had a tall and strong figure; and he seemed to have been as often "reminded
of a little story" in '32 as in '62. And the few men not won by these qualities, were won and
held by his great common sense, which restrained him from excesses even in sports, and made
him a safe friend.

It is not singular therefore that though a stranger to many of the enlisted men, he should
have had his warm friends who at once determined to make him captain.

But Mr. Lincoln hung back with the feeling, he said, that if there was any older and better
established citizen whom the "boys" had confidence in, it would be better to make such a one
captain. His poverty was even more marked than his modesty; and for his stock of education
about that time, he wrote in a letter to a friend twenty-seven years later:

"I did not know much; still, somehow, I could read, write, and cipher to the rule of three,
but that was all."

That, however, was up to the average education of the community; and having been clerk in a
country grocery he was considered an educated man.

In the company Mr. Lincoln had joined, there was a dapper little chap for whom Mr. Lincoln
had labored as a farm hand a year before, and whom he had left on account of ill treatment
from him. This man was eager for the captaincy. He put in his days and nights "log-rolling"
among his fellow volunteers; said he had already smelt gun-powder in a brush with Indians,
thus urging the value of experience; even thought he had a "martial bearing"; and he was very
industrious in getting those men to join the company who would probably vote for him to be captain.

Muster-day came, and the recruits met to organize. About them stood several hundred relatives
and other friends.

The little candidate was early on hand and busily bidding for votes. He had felt so confident
of the office in advance of muster-day, that he had rummaged through several country tailor-shops
and got a new suit of the nearest approach to a captain's uniform that their scant stock could
furnish. So there he was, arrayed in jaunty cap, and a swallow-tailed coat with brass buttons.
He even wore fine boots, and moreover had them blacked--which was almost a crime among a country
crowd of that day.

Young Lincoln took not one step to make himself captain; and not one to prevent it. He simply
put himself "in the hands of his friends," as the politicians say. He stood and quietly watched
the trouble others were borrowing over the matter as if it were an election of officers they
had enlisted for, rather than for fighting Indians. But after all, a good deal depends in war,
on getting good officers.

As two o'clock drew near, the hour set for making captain, four or five of young Lincoln's
most zealous friends with a big stalwart fellow at the head edged along pretty close to him,
yet not in a way to excite suspicion of a "conspiracy." Just a little bit before two, without
even letting "Abe" himself know exactly "what was up," the big fellow stepped directly behind
him, clapped his hands on the shoulders before him, and shouted as only prairie giants can,
"Hurrah for Captain Abe Lincoln!" and plunged his really astonished candidate forward into a march.

At the same instant, those in league with him also put hands to the shoulders before them,
pushed, and took up the cheer, "Hurrah for Captain Abe Lincoln!" so loudly that there seemed
to be several hundred already on their side; and so there were, for the outside crowd was also
already cheering for "Abe."

This little "ruse" of the Lincoln "boys" proved a complete success. "Abe" had to march, whether
or no, to the music of their cheers; he was truly "in the hands of his friends" then, and couldn't
get away; and it must be said he didn't seem to feel very bad over the situation. The storm
of cheers and the sight of tall Abraham (six feet and four inches) at the head of the marching
column, before the fussy little chap in brass buttons who was quite ready, caused a quick stampede
even among the boys who intended to vote for the little fellow. One after another they rushed
for a place in "Captain Abe's" line as though to be first to fall in was to win a prize.

A few rods away stood that suit of captain's clothes alone, looking smaller than ever, "the
starch all taken out of 'em," their occupant confounded, and themselves for sale. "Abe's" old
"boss" said he was "astonished," and so he had good reason to be, but everybody could see it
without his saying so. His "style" couldn't win among the true and shrewd, though unpolished
"boys" in coarse garments. They saw right through him.

"Buttons," as he became known from that day, was the last man to fall into "Abe's" line; he
said he'd make it unanimous.

But his experience in making "Abe" Captain made himself so sick that he wasn't "able" to move
when the company left for the "front," though he soon grew able to move out of the procession.

Thus was "Father Abraham," so young as twenty-three, chosen captain of a militia company over
him whose abused, hired-hand he had been. It is little wonder that in '59 after three elections
to the State Legislature and one to Congress, Mr. Lincoln should write of his early event as
"a success which gave me more pleasure than any I have had since." The war was soon over with
but little field work for the volunteers; but no private was known to complain that "Abe" was
not a good captain.

III

MATURITY

LINCOLN'S MARRIAGE--A PEEP INTO LINCOLN'S SOCIAL LIFE

In 1842, in his thirty-third year, Mr. Lincoln married Miss Mary Todd, a daughter of Hon. Robert
S. Todd, of Lexington, Kentucky. The marriage took place in Springfield, where the lady had
for several years resided, on the fourth of November of the year mentioned. It is probable
that he married as early as the circumstances of his life permitted, for he had always loved
the society of women, and possessed a nature that took profound delight in intimate female
companionship. A letter written on the eighteenth of May following his marriage, to J. F. Speed,
Esq., of Louisville, Kentucky, an early and a life-long personal friend, gives a pleasant glimpse
of his domestic arrangements at this time. He seems to have been in excellent spirits, and
to have been very hearty in the enjoyment of his new relation. The private letters of Mr. Lincoln
were charmingly natural and sincere. His personal friendships were the sweetest sources of
his happiness. As to friends, she could not need them anywhere--she would have them in abundance
here. Give my kind regards to Mr. ---- and his family, particularly to Miss E. Also to your
mother, brothers and sisters. Ask little E. D. ---- if she will ride to town with me if I come
there again. And, finally, give ---- a double reciprocation of all the love she sent me. Write
me often, and believe me, yours forever,

                                                         Lincoln."

HOW LINCOLN AND JUDGE B---- SWAPPED HORSES

From "Anecdotes of Abraham Lincoln."

ABRAHAM LINCOLN AS A MAN OF LETTERS[3]

BY HAMILTON WRIGHT MABIE

From "Warner's Library of the World's Best Literature."

Born in 1809 and dying in 1865, Mr. Lincoln was the contemporary of every distinguished man
of letters in America to the close of the war; but from none of them does he appear to have
received literary impulse or guidance. He might have read, if circumstances had been favorable,
a large part of the work of Irving, Bryant, Poe, Hawthorne, Emerson, Lowell, Whittier, Holmes,
Longfellow, and Thoreau, as it came from the press; but he was entirely unfamiliar with it
apparently until late in his career and it is doubtful if even at that period he knew it well
or cared greatly for it. He was singularly isolated by circumstances and by temperament from
those influences which usually determine, within certain limits, the quality and character
of a man's style.

And Mr. Lincoln had a style,--a distinctive, individual, characteristic form of expression.
In his own way he gained an insight into the structure of English, and a freedom and skill
in the selection and combination of words, which not only made him the most convincing speaker
of his time, but which have secured for his speeches a permanent place in literature. One of
those speeches is already known wherever the English language is spoken; it is a classic by
virtue not only of its unique condensation of the sentiment of a tremendous struggle into the
narrow compass of a few brief paragraphs, but by virtue of that instinctive felicity of style
which gives to the largest thought the beauty of perfect simplicity. The two Inaugural Addresses
are touched by the same deep feeling, the same large vision, the same clear, expressive and
persuasive eloquence; and these qualities are found in a great number of speeches, from Mr.
Lincoln's first appearance in public life. In his earliest expressions of his political views
there is less range; but there is the structural order, clearness, sense of proportion, ease,
and simplicity which give classic quality to the later utterances. Few speeches have so little
of what is commonly regarded as oratorial quality; few have approached so constantly the standards
and character of literature. While a group of men of gift and opportunity in the East were
giving American literature its earliest direction, and putting the stamp of a high idealism
on its thought and a rare refinement of spirit on its form, this lonely, untrained man on the
old frontier was slowly working his way through the hardest and rudest conditions to perhaps
the foremost place in American history, and forming at the same time a style of singular and
persuasive charm.

There is, however, no possible excellence without adequate education; no possible mastery of
any art without thorough training. Mr. Lincoln has sometimes been called an accident, and his
literary gift an unaccountable play of nature; but few men have ever more definitely and persistently
worked out what was in them by clear intelligence than Mr. Lincoln, and no speaker or writer
of our time has, according to his opportunities, trained himself more thoroughly in the use
of English prose. Of educational opportunity in the scholastic sense, the future orator had
only the slightest. He went to school "by littles," and these "littles" put together aggregated
less than a year; but he discerned very early the practical uses of knowledge, and set himself
to acquire it. This pursuit soon became a passion, and this deep and irresistible yearning
did more for him perhaps than richer opportunities would have done. It made him a constant
student, and it taught him the value of fragments of time.

The books within his reach were few, but they were among the best. First and foremost was that
collection of literature in prose and verse, the Bible: a library of sixty-six volumes, presenting
nearly every literary form, and translated at the fortunate moment when the English language
had received the recent impress of its greatest masters of the speech of the imagination. This
literature Mr. Lincoln knew intimately, familiarly, fruitfully; as Shakespeare knew it in an
earlier version, and as Tennyson knew it and was deeply influenced by it in the form in which
it entered into and trained Lincoln's imagination. Then there was that wise and very human
text-book of the knowledge of character and life, "Æsop's Fables"; that masterpiece of clear
presentation, "Robinson Crusoe"; and that classic of pure English, "The Pilgrim's Progress."
These four books--in the hands of a meditative boy, who read until the last ember went out
on the hearth, began again when the earliest light reached his bed in the loft of the log cabin,
who perched himself on a stump, book in hand, at the end of every furrow in the plowing season--contained
the elements of a movable university.

To these must be added many volumes borrowed from more fortunate neighbors; for he had "read
through every book he had heard of in that country, for a circuit of fifty miles." A history
of the United States and a copy of Weems's "Life of Washington" laid the foundations of his
political education. That he read with his imagination as well as with his eyes is clear from
certain words spoken in the Senate Chamber at Trenton in 1861.

"When Abe and I returned to the house from work," writes John Hanks, "he would go to the cupboard,
snatch a piece of corn bread, sit down, take a book, cock his legs up as high as his head,
and read. We grubbed, plowed, weeded, and worked together barefooted in the field. Whenever
Abe had a chance in the field while at work, or at the house, he would stop and read." And
this habit was kept up until Mr. Lincoln had found both his life work and his individual expression.
Later he devoured Shakespeare and Burns; and the poetry of these masters of the dramatic and
lyric form, sprung like himself from the common soil, and like him self-trained and directed,
furnished a kind of running accompaniment to his work and his play. What he read he not only
held tenaciously, but took into his imagination and incorporated into himself. His familiar
talk was enriched with frequent and striking illustrations from the Bible and "Æsop's Fables."

This passion for knowledge and for companionship with the great writers would have gone for
nothing, so far as the boy's training in expression was concerned, if he had contented himself
with acquisition; but he turned everything to account. He was as eager for expression as for
the material of expression; more eager to write and to talk than to read. Bits of paper, stray
sheets, even boards served his purpose. He was continually transcribing with his own hand thoughts
or phrases which had impressed him. Everything within reach bore evidence of his passion for
reading, and for writing as well. The flat sides of logs, the surface of the broad wooden shovel,
everything in his vicinity which could receive a legible mark, was covered with his figures
and letters. He was studying expression quite as intelligently as he was searching for thought.
Years afterwards, when asked how he had attained such extraordinary clearness of style, he
recalled his early habit of retaining in his memory words or phrases overheard in ordinary
conversation or met in books and newspapers, until night, meditating on them until he got at
their meaning, and then translating them into his own simpler speech. This habit, kept up for
years, was the best possible training for the writing of such English as one finds in the Bible
and in "The Pilgrim's Progress." His self-education in the art of expression soon bore fruit
in a local reputation both as a talker and a writer. His facility in rhyme and essay-writing
was not only greatly admired by his fellows, but awakened great astonishment, because these
arts were not taught in the neighboring schools.

In speech too he was already disclosing that command of the primary and universal elements
of interest in human intercourse which was to make him, later, one of the most entertaining
men of his time. His power of analyzing a subject so as to be able to present it to others
with complete clearness was already disclosing itself. No matter how complex a question might
be, he did not rest until he had reduced it to its simplest terms. When he had done this he
was not only eager to make it clear to others, but to give his presentation freshness, variety,
attractiveness. He had, in a word, the literary sense. "When he appeared in company," writes
one of his early companions, "the boys would gather and cluster around him to hear him talk.
Mr. Lincoln was figurative in his speech, talks and conversation. He argued much from analogy,
and explained things hard for us to understand by stories, maxims, tales and figures. He would
almost always point his lesson or idea by some story that was plain and near to us, that we
might instantly see the force and bearing of what he said."

In that phrase lies the secret of the closeness of Mr. Lincoln's words to his theme and to
his listeners,--one of the qualities of genuine, original expression. He fed himself with thought,
and he trained himself in expression; but his supreme interest was in the men and women about
him, and later, in the great questions which agitated them. He was in his early manhood when
society was profoundly moved by searching which could neither be silenced nor evaded; and his
lot was cast in a section where, as a rule, people read little and talked much. Public speech
was the chief instrumentality of political education and the most potent means of persuasion;
but behind the platform, upon which Mr. Lincoln was to become a commanding figure, were countless
private debates carried on at street corners, in hotel rooms, by the country road, in every
place where men met even in the most casual way. In these wayside schools Mr. Lincoln practiced
the art of putting things until he became a past-master in debate, both formal and informal.

If all these circumstances, habits and conditions are studied in their entirety, it will be
seen that Mr. Lincoln's style, so far as its formal qualities are concerned, is in no sense
accidental or even surprising. He was all his early life in the way of doing precisely what
he did in his later life with a skill which had become instinct. He was educated, in a very
unusual way, to speak for his time and to his time with perfect sincerity and simplicity; to
feel the moral bearing of the questions which were before the country; to discern the principles
involved; and to so apply the principles to the questions as to clarify and illuminate them.
There is little difficulty in accounting for the lucidity, simplicity, flexibility, and compass
of Mr. Lincoln's style; it is not until we turn to its temperamental and spiritual qualities,
to the soul of it, that we find ourselves perplexed and baffled.

But Mr. Lincoln's possession of certain rare qualities is in no way more surprising than their
possession by Shakespeare, Burns, and Whitman. We are constantly tempted to look for the sources
of a man's power in his educational opportunities instead of in his temperament and inheritance.
The springs of genius are purified and directed in their flow by the processes of training,
but they are fed from deeper sources. The man of obscure ancestry and rude surroundings is
often in closer touch with nature, and with those universal experiences which are the very
stuff of literature, than the man who is born on the upper reaches of social position and opportunity.
Mr. Lincoln's ancestry for at least two generations were pioneers and frontiersmen, who knew
hardship and privation, and were immersed in that great wave of energy and life which fertilized
and humanized the central West. They were in touch with those original experiences out of which
the higher evolution of civilization slowly rises; they knew the soil and the sky at first
hand; they wrested a meagre subsistence out of the stubborn earth by constant toil; they shared
to the full the vicissitudes and weariness of humanity at its elemental tasks.

It was to this nearness to the heart of a new country, perhaps, that Mr. Lincoln owed his intimate
knowledge of his people and his deep and beautiful sympathy with them. There was nothing sinuous
or secondary in his processes of thought: they were broad, simple, and homely in the old sense
of the word. He had rare gifts, but he was rooted deep in the soil of the life about him, and
so completely in touch with it that he divined its secrets and used its speech. This vital
sympathy gave his nature a beautiful gentleness, and suffused his thought with a tenderness
born of deep compassion and love. He carried the sorrows of his country as truly as he bore
its burdens; and when he came to speak on the second immortal day at Gettysburg, he condensed
into a few sentences the innermost meaning of the struggle and the victory in the life of the
nation. It was this deep heart of pity and love in him which carried him far beyond the reaches
of statesmanship or oratory, and gave his words that finality of expression which marks the
noblest art.

That there was a deep vein of poetry in Mr. Lincoln's nature is clear to one who reads the
story of his early life; and this innate idealism, set in surroundings so harsh and rude, had
something to do with his melancholy. The sadness which was mixed with his whole life was, however,
largely due to his temperament; in which the final tragedy seemed always to be predicted. In
that temperament too is hidden the secret of the rare quality of nature and mind which suffused
his public speech and turned so much of it into literature. There was humor in it, there was
deep human sympathy, there was clear mastery of words for the use to which he put them; but
there was something deeper and more pervasive,--there was the quality of his temperament; and
temperament is a large part of genius. The inner forces of his nature played through his thought;
and when great occasions touched him to the quick, his whole nature shaped his speech and gave
it clear intelligence, deep feeling, and that beauty which is distilled out of the depths of
the sorrows and hopes of the world. He was as unlike Burke and Webster, those masters of the
eloquence of statesmanship, as Burns was unlike Milton and Tennyson. Like Burns, he held the
key of the life of his people; and through him, as through Burns, that life found a voice,
vibrating, pathetic, and persuasive.

[3] By permission of R. S. Peale and J. A. Hill Co.

LINCOLN'S PRESENCE OF BODY

From "Abe Lincoln's Yarns and Stories"

HOW LINCOLN BECAME A NATIONAL FIGURE

BY IDA M. TARBELL

From "The Life of Abraham Lincoln."[4]

"The greatest speech ever made in Illinois, and it puts Lincoln on the track for the Presidency,"
was the comment made by enthusiastic Republicans on Lincoln's speech before the Bloomington
Convention. Conscious that it was he who had put the breath of life into their organization,
the party instinctively turned to him as its leader. The effect of this local recognition was
at once perceptible in the national organization. Less than three weeks after the delivery
of the Bloomington speech, the national convention of the Republican party met in Philadelphia,
June 17, to nominate candidates for the Presidency and Vice-presidency. Lincoln's name was
the second proposed for the latter office, and on the first ballot he received one hundred
and ten votes. The news reached him at Urbana, Ill., where he was attending court, one of his
companions reading from a daily paper just received from Chicago, the result of the ballot.
The simple name Lincoln was given, without the name of the man's State. Lincoln said indifferently
that he did not suppose it could be himself; and added that there was "another great man" of
the name, a man from Massachusetts. The next day, however, he knew that it was himself to whom
the convention had given so strong an endorsement. He knew also that the ticket chosen was
Frémont and Dayton.

The campaign of the following summer and fall was one of intense activity for Lincoln. In Illinois
and the neighboring States he made over fifty speeches, only fragments of which have been preserved.
One of the first important ones was delivered on July 4, 1856, at a great mass meeting at Princeton,
the home of the Lovejoys and the Bryants. The people were still irritated by the outrages in
Kansas and by the attack on Sumner in the Senate, and the temptation to deliver a stirring
and indignant oration must have been strong. Lincoln's speech was, however, a fine example
of political wisdom, an historical argument admirably calculated to convince his auditors that
they were right in their opposition to slavery extension, but so controlled and sane that it
would stir no impulsive radical to violence. There probably was not uttered in the United States
on that critical 4th of July, 1856, when the very foundation of the government was in dispute
and the day itself seemed a mockery, a cooler, more logical speech than this by the man who,
a month before, had driven a convention so nearly mad that the very reporters had forgotten
to make notes. And the temper of this Princeton speech Lincoln kept throughout the campaign.

In spite of the valiant struggle of the Republicans, Buchanan was elected; but Lincoln was
in no way discouraged. The Republicans had polled 1,341,264 votes in the country. In Illinois,
they had given Frémont nearly 100,000 votes, and they had elected their candidate for governor,
General Bissell. Lincoln turned from arguments to encouragement and good counsel.

The spring of 1857 gave Lincoln a new line of argument. This decision was such an evident advance
of the slave power that there was a violent uproar in the North. Douglas went at once to Illinois
to calm his constituents. "What," he cried, "oppose the Supreme Court! is it not sacred? To
resist it is anarchy."

Lincoln met him fairly on the issue in a speech at Springfield in June, 1857.

Let Douglas cry "awful," "anarchy," "revolution," as much as he would, Lincoln's arguments
against the Dred Scott decision appealed to common sense and won him commendation all over
the country. Even the radical leaders of the party in the East--Seward, Sumner, Theodore Parker--began
to notice him, to read his speeches, to consider his arguments.

With every month of 1857 Lincoln grew stronger, and his election in Illinois as United States
senatorial candidate in 1858 against Douglas would have been insured if Douglas had not suddenly
broken with Buchanan and his party in a way which won him the hearty sympathy and respect of
a large part of the Republicans of the North. By a flagrantly unfair vote the pro-slavery leaders
of Kansas had secured the adoption of the Lecompton Constitution allowing slavery in the State.
President Buchanan urged Congress to admit Kansas with her bogus Constitution. Douglas, who
would not sanction so base an injustice, opposed the measure, voting with the Republicans steadily
against the admission. The Buchananists, outraged at what they called "Douglas's apostasy,"
broke with him. Then it was that a part of the Republican party, notably Horace Greeley at
the head of the New York "Tribune," struck by the boldness and nobility of Douglas's opposition,
began to hope to win him over from the Democrats to the Republicans. Their first step was to
counsel the leaders of their party in Illinois to put up no candidate against Douglas for the
United States senatorship in 1858.

Lincoln saw this change on the part of the Republican leaders with dismay. "Greeley is not
doing me right," he said. "... I am a true Republican, and have been tried already in the hottest
part of the anti-slavery fight; and yet I find him taking up Douglas, a veritable dodger,--once
a tool of the South, now its enemy,--and pushing him to the front." He grew so restless over
the returning popularity of Douglas among the Republicans that Herndon, his law-partner, determined
to go East to find out the real feeling of the Eastern leaders towards Lincoln. Herndon had,
for a long time, been in correspondence with the leading abolitionists and had no difficulty
in getting interviews. The returns he brought back from his canvass were not altogether reassuring.
Seward, Sumner, Phillips, Garrison, Beecher, Theodore Parker, all spoke favorably of Lincoln
and Seward sent him word that the Republicans would never take up so slippery a quantity as
Douglas had proved himself. But Greeley--the all-important Greeley--was lukewarm. "The Republican
standard is too high," he told Herndon. "We want something practical.... Douglas is a brave
man. Forget the past and sustain the righteous." "Good God, righteous, eh!" groaned Herndon
in his letter to Lincoln.

But though the encouragement which came to Lincoln from the East in the spring of 1858 was
meagre, that which came from Illinois was abundant. There the Republicans supported him in
whole-hearted devotion. In June, the State convention, meeting in Springfield to nominate its
candidate for Senator, declared that Abraham Lincoln was its first and only choice as the successor
of Stephen A. Douglas. The press was jubilant. "Unanimity is a weak word," wrote the editor
of the Bloomington "Pantagraph," "to express the universal and intense feeling of the convention.
Lincoln! LINCOLN!! LINCOLN!!! was the cry everywhere, whenever the senatorship was alluded
to. Delegates from Chicago and from Cairo, from the Wabash and the Illinois, from the north,
the center, and the south, were alike fierce with enthusiasm, whenever that loved name was
breathed. Enemies at home and misjudging friends abroad, who have looked for dissension among
us on the question of the senatorship, will please take notice that our nomination is a unanimous
one; and that, in the event of a Republican majority in the next Legislature, no other name
than Lincoln's will be mentioned, or thought of, by a solitary Republican legislator. One little
incident in the convention was a pleasing illustration of the universality of the Lincoln sentiment.
Cook County had brought a banner into the assemblage inscribed, 'Cook County for Abraham Lincoln.'
During a pause in the proceedings, a delegate from another county rose and proposed, with the
consent of the Cook County delegation, 'to amend the banner by substituting for "Cook County"
the word which I hold in my hand,' at the same time unrolling a scroll, and revealing the word
'Illinois' in huge capitals. The Cook delegation promptly accepted the amendment, and amidst
a perfect hurricane of hurrahs, the banner was duly altered to express the sentiment of the
whole Republican party of the State, thus: 'Illinois for Abraham Lincoln.'"

On the evening of the day of his nomination, Lincoln addressed his constituents. The first
paragraph of his speech gave the key to the campaign he proposed.

Then followed the famous charge of conspiracy against the slavery advocates, the charge that
Pierce, Buchanan, Chief Justice Taney, and Douglas had been making a concerted effort to legalize
the institution of slavery "in all the States, old as well as new, North as well as South."
He marshaled one after another of the measures that the pro-slavery leaders had secured in
the past four years, and clinched the argument by one of his inimitable illustrations.

The speech was severely criticised by Lincoln's friends. It was too radical. It was sectional.
He heard the complaints unmoved.

The speech, was, in fact, one of great political adroitness. It forced Douglas to do exactly
what he did not want to do in Illinois; explain his own record during the past four years;
explain the true meaning of the Kansas-Nebraska bill; discuss the Dred Scott decision; say
whether or not he thought slavery so good a thing that the country could afford to extend it
instead of confining it where it would be in course of gradual extinction. Douglas wanted the
Republicans of Illinois to follow Greeley's advice: "Forgive the past." He wanted to make the
most among them of his really noble revolt against the attempt of his party to fasten an unjust
constitution on Kansas. Lincoln would not allow him to bask for an instant in the sun of that
revolt. He crowded him step by step through his party's record, and compelled him to face what
he called the "profound central truth" of the Republican party, "slavery is wrong and ought
to be dealt with as wrong."

But it was at once evident that Douglas did not mean to meet the issue squarely. He called
the doctrine of Lincoln's "house-divided-against-itself" speech "sectionalism"; his charge
of conspiracy "false"; his talk of the wrong of slavery extension "abolitionism." This went
on for a month. Then Lincoln resolved to force Douglas to meet his arguments, and challenged
him to a series of joint debates. Douglas was not pleased. His reply to the challenge was irritable,
even slightly insolent. To those of his friends who talked with him privately of the contest,
he said: "I do not feel, between you and me, that I want to go into this debate. The whole
country knows me, and has me measured. Lincoln, as regards myself, is comparatively unknown,
and if he gets the best of this debate,--and I want to say he is the ablest man the Republicans
have got,--I shall lose everything and Lincoln will gain everything. Should I win, I shall
gain but little. I do not want to go into a debate with Abe." Publicly, however, he carried
off the prospect confidently, even jauntily. "Mr. Lincoln," he said patronizingly, "is a kind,
amiable, intelligent gentleman." In the meantime his constituents boasted loudly of the fine
spectacle they were going to give the State--"the Little Giant chawing up Old Abe!"

Many of Lincoln's friends looked forward to the encounter with foreboding. Often, in spite
of their best intentions, they showed anxiety. He looked careworn, but he met the crowd patiently
and kindly, shaking hands, answering questions, and receiving assurances of support.

It was inevitable that Douglas's friends should be sanguine, Lincoln's doubtful. The contrast
between the two candidates was almost pathetic. Senator Douglas was the most brilliant figure
in the political life of the day. Winning in personality, fearless as an advocate, magnetic
in eloquence, shrewd in political manoeuvring, he had every quality to captivate the public.
His resources had never failed him. From his entrance into Illinois politics in 1834, he had
been the recipient of every political honor his party had to bestow. For the past eleven years
he had been a member of the United States Senate, where he had influenced all the important
legislation of the day and met in debate every strong speaker of North and South. In 1852,
and again in 1856, he had been a strongly supported, though unsuccessful candidate for the
Democratic Presidential nomination. In 1858 he was put at or near the head of every list of
possible Presidential candidates made up for 1860.

How barren Lincoln's public career in comparison! Three terms in the lower house of the State
Assembly, one term in Congress, then a failure which drove him from public life. Now he returns
as a bolter from his party, a leader in a new organization which the conservatives are denouncing
as "visionary," "impractical," "revolutionary."

No one recognized more clearly than Lincoln the difference between himself and his opponent.
"With me," he said, sadly, in comparing the careers of himself and Douglas, "the race of ambition
has been a failure--a flat failure. With him it has been one of splendid success." He warned
his party at the outset that, with himself as a standard-bearer, the battle must be fought
on principle alone, without any of the external aids which Douglas's brilliant career gave.

If one will take a map of Illinois and locate the points of the Lincoln and Douglas debates
held between August 21 and October 15, 1858, he will see that the whole State was traversed
in the contest. The first took place at Ottawa, about seventy-five miles southwest of Chicago,
on August 21; the second at Freeport, near the Wisconsin boundary, on August 27. The third
was in the extreme southern part of the State, at Jonesboro, on September 15. Three days later
the contestants met one hundred and fifty miles northeast of Jonesboro, at Charleston. The
fifth, sixth, and seventh debates were held in the western part of the State; at Galesburg,
October 7; Quincy, October 13; and Alton, October 15.

Constant exposure and fatigue were unavoidable in meeting these engagements. Both contestants
spoke almost every day through the intervals between the joint debates; and as railroad communication
in Illinois in 1858 was still very incomplete, they were often obliged to resort to horse,
carriage, or steamer, to reach the desired points. Judge Douglas succeeded, however, in making
this difficult journey something of a triumphal procession. He was accompanied throughout the
campaign by his wife--a beautiful and brilliant woman--and by a number of distinguished Democrats.

On the Illinois Central Railroad he had always a special car, sometimes a special train. Frequently
he swept by Lincoln, side-tracked in an accommodation or freight train. "The gentleman in that
car evidently smelt no royalty on our carriage," laughed Lincoln one day, as he watched from
the caboose of a laid-up freight train the decorated special of Douglas flying by.

It was only when Lincoln left the railroad and crossed the prairie at some isolated town, that
he went in state. The attentions he received were often very trying to him. He detested what
he called "fizzlegigs and fireworks," and would squirm in disgust when his friends gave him
a genuine prairie ovation. Usually, when he was going to a point distant from the railway,
a "distinguished citizen" met him at the station nearest the place with a carriage. When they
were come within two or three miles of the town, a long procession with banners and band would
appear winding across the prairie to meet the speaker. A speech of greeting was made, and then
the ladies of the entertainment committee would present Lincoln with flowers, sometimes even
winding a garland about his head and lanky figure. His embarrassment at these attentions was
thoroughly appreciated by his friends. At the Ottawa debate the enthusiasm of his supporters
was so great that they insisted on carrying him from the platform to the house where he was
to be entertained. Powerless to escape from the clutches of his admirers, he could only cry,
"Don't, boys; let me down; come now, don't." But the "boys" persisted, and they tell to-day
proudly of their exploit and of the cordial hand-shake Lincoln, all embarrassed as he was,
gave each when at last he was free.

On arrival at the towns where the joint debates were held, Douglas was always met by a brass
band and a salute of thirty-two guns (the Union was composed of thirty-two States in 1858),
and was escorted to the hotel in the finest equipage to be had. Lincoln's supporters took delight
in showing their contempt of Douglas's elegance by affecting a Republican simplicity, often
carrying their candidate through the streets on a high and unadorned hay-rack drawn by farm
horses. The scenes in the towns on the occasion of the debates were perhaps never equalled
at any other of the hustings of this country. No distance seemed too great for the people to
go; no vehicle too slow or fatiguing. At Charleston there was a great delegation of men, women
and children present which had come in a long procession from Indiana by farm wagons, afoot,
on horseback, and in carriages. The crowds at three or four of the debates were for that day
immense. There were estimated to be from eight thousand to fourteen thousand people at Quincy,
some six thousand at Alton, from ten thousand to fifteen thousand at Charleston, some twenty
thousand at Ottawa. Many of those at Ottawa came the night before. "It was a matter of but
a short time," says Mr. George Beatty of Ottawa, "until the few hotels, the livery stables,
and private houses were crowded, and there were no accommodations left. Then the campaigners
spread out about the town, and camped in whatever spot was most convenient. They went along
the bluff and on the bottom-lands, and that night, the camp-fires, spread up and down the valley
for a mile, made it look as if an army was gathered about us."

When the crowd was massed at the place of the debate, the scene was one of the greatest hubbub
and confusion. On the corners of the squares, and scattered around the outskirts of the crowd,
were fakirs of every description, selling painkillers and ague cures, watermelons and lemonade;
jugglers and beggars plied their trades, and the brass bands of all the four corners within
twenty-five miles tooted and pounded at "Hail Columbia, Happy Land," or "Columbia, the Gem
of the Ocean."

Conspicuous in the processions at all the points was what Lincoln called the "Basket of Flowers,"
thirty-two young girls in a resplendent car, representing the Union. At Charleston, a thirty-third
young woman rode behind the car, representing Kansas. She carried a banner inscribed: "I will
be free"; a motto which brought out from nearly all the newspaper reporters the comment that
she was too fair to be long free.

The mottoes at the different meetings epitomized the popular conception of the issues and the
candidates. Among the Lincoln sentiments were:

Illinois born under the Ordinance of '87.

A striking feature of the crowds was the number of women they included. The intelligent and
lively interest they took in the debates caused much comment. No doubt Mrs. Douglas's presence
had something to do with this. They were particularly active in receiving the speakers, and
at Quincy, Lincoln, on being presented with what the local press described as a "beautiful
and elegant bouquet," took pains to express his gratification at the part women everywhere
took in the contest.

While this helter-skelter outpouring of prairiedom had the appearance of being little more
than a great jollification, a lawless country fair, in reality it was with the majority of
the people a profoundly serious matter. With every discussion it became more vital. Indeed,
in the first debate, which was opened and closed by Douglas, the relation of the two speakers
became dramatic. It was here that Douglas hoping to fasten on Lincoln the stigma of "abolitionist,"
charged him with having undertaken to abolitionize the old Whig party, and having been in 1854
a subscriber to a radical platform proclaimed at Springfield. This platform Douglas read. Lincoln,
when he replied, could only say he was never at the convention--knew nothing of the resolutions;
but the impression prevailed that he was cornered. The next issue of the Chicago "Press and
Tribune" dispelled it. That paper had employed to report the debates the first shorthand reporter
of Chicago, Mr. Robert L. Hitt--now a Member of Congress and the Chairman of the Committee
on Foreign Affairs. Mr. Hitt, when Douglas began to read the resolutions, took an opportunity
to rest, supposing he could get the original from the speaker. He took down only the first
line of each resolution. He missed Douglas after the debate, but on reaching Chicago, where
he wrote out his report, he sent an assistant to the files to find the platform adopted at
the Springfield Convention. It was brought, but when Mr. Hitt began to transcribe it he saw
at once that it was widely different from the one Douglas had read. There was great excitement
in the office, and the staff, ardently Republican, went to work to discover where the resolutions
had come from. It was found that they originated at a meeting of radical abolitionists with
whom Lincoln had never been associated.

The "Press and Tribune" announced the "forgery," as it was called in a caustic editorial, "The
Little Dodger Cornered and Caught." Within a week even the remote school-districts of Illinois
were discussing Douglas's action, and many of the most important papers of the nation had made
it a subject of editorial comment.

Almost without exception Douglas was condemned. No amount of explanation on his part helped
him. "The particularity of Douglas's charge," said the Louisville "Journal," "precludes the
idea that he was simply and innocently mistaken." Lovers of fair play were disgusted, and those
of Douglas's own party who would have applauded a trick too clever to be discovered could not
forgive him for one which had been found out. Greeley came out bitterly against him, and before
long wrote to Lincoln and Herndon that Douglas was "like the man's boy who (he said) didn't
weigh so much as he expected and he always knew he wouldn't."

Douglas's error became a sharp-edged sword in Lincoln's hand. Without directly referring to
it, he called his hearers' attention to the forgery every time he quoted a document by his
elaborate explanation that he believed, unless there was some mistake on the part of those
with whom the matter originated and which he had been unable to detect, that this was correct.
Once when Douglas brought forward a document, Lincoln blandly remarked that he could scarcely
be blamed for doubting its genuineness since the introduction of the Springfield resolutions
at Ottawa.

It was in the second debate, at Freeport, that Lincoln made the boldest stroke of the contest.
Soon after the Ottawa debate, in discussing his plan for the next encounter, with a number
of his political friends,--Washburne, Cook, Judd, and others,--he told them he proposed to
ask Douglas four questions, which he read. One and all cried halt at the second question. Under
no condition, they said, must he put it. If it were put, Douglas would answer it in such a
way as to win the senatorship. The morning of the debate, while on the way to Freeport, Lincoln
read the same questions to Mr. Joseph Medill. "I do not like this second question, Mr. Lincoln,"
said Mr. Medill. The two men argued to their journey's end, but Lincoln was still unconvinced.
Even after he reached Freeport several Republican leaders came to him pleading, "Do not ask
that question." He was obdurate; and he went on the platform with a higher head, a haughtier
step than his friends had noted in him before. Lincoln was going to ruin himself, the committee
said despondently; one would think he did not want the senatorship. He was willing himself
to lose the senatorship in order to defeat Douglas for the Presidency in 1860. "I am after
larger game; the battle of 1860 is worth a hundred of this," he said confidently.

The question was put, and Douglas answered it with rare artfulness.

His democratic constituents went wild over the clever way in which Douglas had escaped Lincoln's
trap. He now practically had his election. The Republicans shook their heads. Lincoln only
was serene. He alone knew what he had done. The Freeport debate had no sooner reached the pro-slavery
press than a storm of protest went up. Douglas had betrayed the South. He had repudiated the
Supreme Court decision. He had declared that slavery could be kept out of the territories by
other legislation than a State Constitution. "The Freeport doctrine," or "the theory of unfriendly
legislation," as it became known, spread month by month, and slowly but surely made Douglas
an impossible candidate in the South. The force of the question was not realized in full by
Lincoln's friends until the Democratic party met in Charleston, S. C., in 1860, and the Southern
delegates refused to support Douglas because of the answer he gave to Lincoln's question in
the Freeport debate of 1858.

"Do you recollect the argument we had on the way up to Freeport two years ago over the question
I was going to ask Judge Douglas?" Lincoln asked Mr. Joseph Medill, when the latter went to
Springfield a few days after the election of 1860.

"Yes," said Medill, "I recollect it very well."

"Don't you think I was right now?"

"We were both right. The question hurt Douglas for the Presidency, but it lost you the senatorship."

"Yes, and I have won the place he was playing for."

From the beginning of the campaign Lincoln supplemented the strength of his arguments by inexhaustible
good humor. Douglas, physically worn, harassed by the trend which Lincoln had given the discussions,
irritated that his adroitness and eloquence could not so cover the fundamental truth of the
Republican position but that it would up again, often grew angry, even abusive. Lincoln answered
him with most effective raillery. At Havana, where he spoke the day after Douglas, he said:

"I am informed that my distinguished friend yesterday became a little excited--nervous, perhaps--and
he said something about fighting, as though referring to a pugilistic encounter between him
and myself. Did anybody in this audience hear him use such language? (Cries of "Yes.") I am
informed further, that somebody in his audience, rather more excited and nervous than himself,
took off his coat, and offered to take the job off Judge Douglas's hands, and fight Lincoln
himself. Did anybody here witness that war-like proceeding? (Laughter and cries of "Yes.")
Well, I merely desire to say that I shall fight neither Judge Douglas nor his second. I shall
not do this for two reasons, which I will now explain. In the first place, a fight would prove
nothing which is in issue in this contest. It might establish that Judge Douglas is a more
muscular man than myself, or it might demonstrate that I am a more muscular man than Judge
Douglas. But this question is not referred to in the Cincinnati platform, nor in either of
the Springfield platforms. Neither result would prove him right nor me wrong; and so of the
gentleman who volunteered to do this fighting for him. If my fighting Judge Douglas would not
prove anything, it would certainly prove nothing for me to fight his bottle-holder.

"My second reason for not having a personal encounter with the judge is, that I don't believe
he wants it himself. He and I are about the best friends in the world, and when we get together
he would no more think of fighting me than of fighting his wife. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen,
when the judge talked about fighting, he was not giving vent to any ill feeling of his own,
but merely trying to excite--well, enthusiasm against me on the part of his audience. And as
I find he was tolerably successful, we will call it quits."

More difficult for Lincoln to take good-naturedly than threats and hard names was the irrelevant
matters which Douglas dragged into the debates to turn attention from the vital arguments.
Thus Douglas insisted repeatedly on taunting Lincoln because his zealous friends had carried
him off the platform at Ottawa. "Lincoln was so frightened by the questions put to him," said
Douglas, "that he could not walk." He tried to arouse the prejudice of the audience by absurd
charges of abolitionism. Lincoln wanted to give negroes social equality; he wanted a negro
wife; he was willing to allow Fred Douglass to make speeches for him. Again he took up a good
deal of Lincoln's time by forcing him to answer to a charge of refusing to vote supplies for
the soldiers in the Mexican War. Lincoln denied and explained, until at last, at Charleston,
he turned suddenly to Douglas's supporters, dragging one of the strongest of them--the Hon.
O. B. Ficklin, with whom he had been in Congress in 1848--to the platform.

"I do not mean to do anything with Mr. Ficklin," he said, "except to present his face and tell
you that he personally knows it to be a lie." And Mr. Ficklin had to acknowledge that Lincoln
was right.

The question at stake was too serious in Lincoln's judgment, for platform jugglery. Every moment
of his time which Douglas forced him to spend answering irrelevant charges he gave begrudgingly.
He struggled constantly to keep his speeches on the line of solid argument. Slowly but surely
those who followed the debates began to understand this. It was Douglas who drew the great
masses to the debates in the first place; it was because of him that the public men and the
newspapers of the East, as well as of the West, watched the discussions. But as the days went
on it was not Douglas who made the impression.

During the hours of the speeches the two men seemed well mated. Partisans had each reason enough
to cheer. It was afterwards, as the debates were talked over by auditors as they lingered at
the country store or were grouped on the fence in the evening, or when they were read in the
generous reports which the newspapers of Illinois and even of other States gave, that the thoroughness
of Lincoln's argument was understood. Even the first debate at Ottawa had a surprising effect.
"I tell you," says Mr. George Beatty of Ottawa, "that debate set people thinking on these important
questions in a way they hadn't dreamed of. I heard any number of men say: 'This thing is an
awfully serious question, and I have about concluded Lincoln has got it right.' My father,
a thoughtful, God-fearing man, said to me, as we went home to supper, 'George, you are young,
and don't see what this thing means, as I do. Douglas's speeches of "squatter sovereignty"
please you younger men, but I tell you that with us older men it's a great question that faces
us. We've either got to keep slavery back or it's going to spread all over the country. That's
the real question that's behind all this. Lincoln is right.' And that was the feeling that
prevailed, I think, among the majority, after the debate was over. People went home talking
about the danger of slavery getting a hold in the North. This territory had been Democratic;
La Salle County, the morning of the day of the debate, was Democratic; but when the next day
came around, hundreds of Democrats had been made Republicans, owing to the light in which Lincoln
had brought forward the fact that slavery threatened."

It was among Lincoln's own friends, however, that his speeches produced the deepest impression.
They had believed him to be strong, but probably there was no one of them who had not felt
dubious about his ability to meet Douglas. Many even feared a fiasco. Gradually it began to
be clear to them that Lincoln was the stronger. Could it be that Lincoln really was a great
man? The young Republican journalists of the "Press and Tribune"--Scripps, Hitt, Medill--began
to ask themselves the question. One evening as they talked over Lincoln's argument a letter
was received. It came from a prominent Eastern statesman. "Who is this man that is replying
to Douglas in your State?" he asked. "Do you realize that no greater speeches have been made
on public questions in the history of our country; that his knowledge of the subject is profound,
his logical unanswerable, his style inimitable?" Similar letters kept coming from various parts
of the country. Before the campaign was over Lincoln's friends were exultant. Their favorite
was a great man, "a full-grown man," as one of them wrote in his paper.

The country at large watched Lincoln with astonishment. When the debates began there were Republicans
in Illinois of wider national reputation. Judge Lyman Trumbull, then Senator; was better known.
He was an able debater, and a speech which he made in August against Douglas's record called
from the New York "Evening Post" the remark: "This is the heaviest blow struck at Senator Douglas
since he took the field in Illinois; it is unanswerable, and we suspect that it will be fatal."
Trumbull's speech the "Post" afterwards published in pamphlet form. Besides Trumbull, Owen
Lovejoy, Oglesby, and Palmer were all speaking. That Lincoln should not only have so far outstripped
men of his own party, but should have out-argued Douglas, was the cause of comment everywhere.
"No man of this generation," said the "Evening Post" editorially, at the close of the debate,
"has grown more rapidly before the country than Lincoln in this canvass." As a matter of fact,
Lincoln had attracted the attention of all the thinking men of the country. "The first thing
that really awakened my interest in him," says Henry Ward Beecher, "was his speech parallel
with Douglas in Illinois, and indeed it was that manifestation of ability that secured his
nomination to the Presidency."

But able as were Lincoln's arguments, deep as was the impression he had made, he was not elected
to the senatorship. Douglas won fairly enough; though it is well to note that if the Republicans
did not elect a senator they gained a substantial number of votes over those polled in 1856.

Lincoln accepted the result with a serenity inexplicable to his supporters. To him the contest
was but one battle in a "durable" struggle. Little matter who won now, if in the end the right
triumphed. From the first he had looked at the final result--not at the senatorship. "I do
not claim, gentlemen, to be unselfish," he said at Chicago in July.

The intense heat and fury of the debates, the defeat in November, did not alter a jot this
high view. "I am glad I made the late race," he wrote Dr. A. H. Henry.

At that date perhaps no one appreciated the value of what Lincoln had done as well as he did
himself. He was absolutely sure he was right and that in the end people would see it. Though
he might not rise, he knew his cause would. "No ingenuity can keep these antagonistic elements
in harmony long. Another explosion will soon occur." His whole attention was given to conserving
what the Republicans had gained--"We have some one hundred and twenty thousand clear Republican
votes. That pile is worth keeping together;" to consoling his friends--"You are feeling badly,"
he wrote to N. B. Judd, Chairman of the Republican Committee, "and this too shall pass away,
never fear"; to rallying for another effort,--"The cause of civil liberty must not be surrendered
at the end of one or even one hundred defeats."

If Lincoln had at times a fear that his defeat would cause him to be set aside, it soon was
dispelled. The interest awakened in him was genuine, and it spread with the wider reading and
discussion of his arguments. He was besieged by letters from all parts of the Union, congratulations,
encouragements, criticisms. Invitations for lectures poured in upon him, and he became the
first choice of his entire party for political speeches.

The greater number of these invitations he declined. He had given so much time to politics
since 1854 that his law practice had been neglected and he was feeling poor; but there were
certain of the calls which could not be resisted. Douglas spoke several times for the Democrats
of Ohio in the 1859 campaign for governor and Lincoln naturally was asked to reply. He made
but two speeches, one at Columbus on September 16 and the other at Cincinnati on September
17, but he had great audiences on both occasions. The Columbus speech was devoted almost entirely
to answering an essay by Douglas which had been published in the September number of "Harper's
Magazine," and which began by asserting that--"Under our complex system of government it is
the first duty of American statesmen to mark distinctly the dividing-line between Federal and
Local authority." It was an elaborate argument for "popular sovereignty" and attracted national
attention. Indeed, at the moment it was the talk of the country. Lincoln literally tore it to bits.

"What is Judge Douglas's popular sovereignty?" he asked.

One interesting point about the Columbus address is that in it appears the germ of the Cooper
Institute speech delivered five months later in New York City.

Lincoln made so deep an impression in Ohio by his speeches that the State Republican Committee
asked permission to publish them together with the Lincoln-Douglas Debates as campaign documents
in the Presidential election of the next year.

In December he yielded to the persuasion of his Kansas political friends and delivered five
lectures in that State, only fragments of which have been preserved.

Unquestionably the most effective piece of work he did that winter was the address at Cooper
Institute, New York, on February 27. He had received an invitation in the fall of 1859 to lecture
at Plymouth Church, Brooklyn. To his friends it was evident that he was greatly pleased by
the compliment, but that he feared that he was not equal to an Eastern audience. After some
hesitation he accepted, provided they would take a political speech if he could find time to
get up no other. When he reached New York he found that he was to speak there instead of Brooklyn,
and that he was certain to have a distinguished audience. Fearful lest he was not as well prepared
as he ought to be, conscious, too, no doubt, that he had a great opportunity before him, he
spent nearly all of the two days and a half before his lecture in revising his matter and in
familiarizing himself with it. In order that he might be sure that he was heard he arranged
with his friend, Mason Brayman, who had come on to New York with him, to sit in the back of
the hall and in case he did not speak loud enough to raise his high hat on a cane.

Mr. Lincoln's audience was a notable one even for New York. It included William Cullen Bryant,
who introduced him; Horace Greeley, David Dudley Field, and many more well known men of the
day. It is doubtful if there were any persons present, even his best friends, who expected
that Lincoln would do more than interest his hearers by his sound arguments. Many have confessed
since that they feared his queer manner and quaint speeches would amuse people so much that
they would fail to catch the weight of his logic. But to the surprise of everybody Lincoln
impressed his audience from the start by his dignity and his seriousness. "His manner was,
to a New York audience, a very strange one, but it was captivating," wrote an auditor.

The Cooper Union speech was founded on a sentence from one of Douglas's Ohio speeches:--"Our
fathers when they framed the government under which we live understood this question just as
well, and even better, than we do now." Douglas claimed that the "fathers" held that the Constitution
forbade the Federal government controlling slavery in the Territories. Not only did he show
this of the thirty-nine framers of the original Constitution, but he defied anybody to show
that one of the seventy-six members of the Congress which framed the amendments to the Constitution
ever held any such view.

One after another he took up and replied to the charges the South was making against the North
at the moment:--Sectionalism, radicalism, giving undue prominence to the slave question, stirring
up insurrection among slaves, refusing to allow constitutional rights, and to each he had an
unimpassioned answer inpregnable with facts.

The discourse was ended with what Lincoln felt to be a precise statement of the opinion of
the question on both sides, and of the duty of the Republican party under the circumstances.
This portion of his address is one of the finest early examples of that simple and convincing
style in which most of his later public documents were written.

From New York Lincoln went to New Hampshire to visit his son Robert, then at Phillips Exeter
Academy. His coming was known only a short time before he arrived and hurried arrangements
were made for him to speak at Concord, Manchester, Exeter and Dover. At Concord the address
was made in the afternoon on only a few hours' notice; nevertheless, he had a great audience,
so eager were men at the time to hear anybody who had serious arguments on the slavery question.
Something of the impression Lincoln made in New Hampshire may be gathered from the following
article, "Mr. Lincoln in New Hampshire," which appeared in the Boston "Atlas and Bee" for March 5:

The Concord "Statesman" says that notwithstanding the rain of Thursday, rendering travelling
very inconvenient, the largest hall in that city was crowded to hear Mr. Lincoln. The editor
says it was one of the most powerful, logical and compacted speeches to which it was ever our
fortune to listen; an argument against the system of slavery, and in defence of the position
of the Republican party, from the deductions of which no reasonable man could possibly escape.
He fortified every position assumed, by proofs which it is impossible to gainsay; and while
his speech was at intervals enlivened by remarks which elicited applause at the expense of
the Democratic party, there was, nevertheless, not a single word which tended to impair the
dignity of the speaker, or weaken the force of the great truths he uttered.

The "Statesman" adds that the address "was perfect and was closed by a peroration which brought
his audience to their feet. We are not extravagant in the remark, that a political speech of
greater power has rarely if ever been uttered in the Capital of New Hampshire. At its conclusion
nine roof-raising cheers were given; three for the speaker, three for the Republicans of Illinois,
and three for the Republicans of New Hampshire."

On the same evening Mr. Lincoln spoke at Manchester, to an immense gathering in Smyth's Hall.
The "Mirror," a neutral paper, gives the following enthusiastic notice of his speech: "The
audience was a flattering one to the reputation of the speaker. It was composed of persons
of all sorts of political notions, earnest to hear one whose fame was so great, and we think
most of them went away thinking better of him than they anticipated they should. Hence he is
never offensive, and steals away willingly into his train of belief, persons who are opposed
to him. He displays more shrewdness, more knowledge of the masses of mankind than any public
speaker we have heard since long Jim Wilson left for California."

From New Hampshire Lincoln went to Connecticut, where on March 5 he spoke at Hartford, on March
6 at New Haven, on March 8 at Woonsocket, on March 9 at Norwich. There are no reports of the
New Hampshire speeches, but two of the Connecticut speeches were published in part and one
in full. Their effect was very similar, according to the newspapers of the day, to that in
New Hampshire, described by the "Atlas and Bee."

By his debates with Douglas and the speeches in Ohio, Kansas, New York and New England, Lincoln
had become a national figure in the minds of all the political leaders of the country, and
of the thinking men of the North. Never in the history of the United States had a man become
prominent in a more logical and intelligent way. At the beginning of the struggle against the
repeal of the Missouri Compromise in 1854, Abraham Lincoln was scarcely known outside of his
own State. Even most of the men whom he had met in his brief term in Congress had forgotten
him. Yet in four years he had become one of the central figures of his party; and now, by worsting
the greatest orator and politician of his time, he had drawn the eyes of the nation to him.

It had been a long road he had travelled to make himself a national figure. Twenty-eight years
before he had deliberately entered politics. He had been beaten, but had persisted; he had
succeeded and failed; he had abandoned the struggle and returned to his profession. His outraged
sense of justice had driven him back, and for six years he had travelled up and down Illinois
trying to prove to men that slavery extension was wrong. It was by no one speech, by no one
argument that he had wrought. Every day his ceaseless study and pondering gave him new matter,
and every speech he made was fresh. He could not repeat an old speech, he said, because the
subject enlarged and widened so in his mind as he went on that it was "easier to make a new
one than an old one." He had never yielded in his campaign to tricks of oratory--never played
on emotions. He had been so strong in his convictions of the right of his case that his speeches
had been arguments pure and simple. Their elegance was that of a demonstration in Euclid. They
persuaded because they proved. He had never for a moment counted personal ambition before the
cause. To insure an ardent opponent of the Kansas-Nebraska bill in the United States Senate,
he had at one time given up his chance for the senatorship. To show the fallacy of Douglas's
argument, he had asked a question which his party pleaded with him to pass by, assuring him
that it would lose him the election. In every step of this six years he had been disinterested,
calm, unyielding, and courageous. He knew he was right, and could afford to wait. "The result
is not doubtful," he told his friends.

The country, amazed at the rare moral and intellectual character of Lincoln, began to ask questions
about him, and then his history came out; a pioneer home, little schooling, few books, hard
labor at all the many trades of the frontiersman, a profession mastered o' nights by the light
of a friendly cooper's fire, an early entry into politics and law--and then twenty-five years
of incessant poverty and struggle.

The homely story gave a touch of mystery to the figure which loomed so large. Men felt a sudden
reverence for a mind and heart developed to these noble proportions in so unfriendly a habitat.
They turned instinctively to one so familiar with strife for help in solving the desperate
problem with which the nation had grappled. And thus it was that, at fifty years of age, Lincoln
became a national figure.

[4] By special permission of the McClure Company.

LINCOLN'S LOVE FOR THE LITTLE ONES

Soon after his election as President and while visiting Chicago, one evening at a social gathering
Mr. Lincoln saw a little girl timidly approaching him. He at once called her to him, and asked
the little girl what she wished.

She replied that she wanted his name.

Mr. Lincoln looked back into the room and said: "But here are other little girls--they would
feel badly if I should give my name only to you."

The little girl replied that there were eight of them in all.

"Then," said Mr. Lincoln, "get me eight sheets of paper, and a pen and ink, and I will see
what I can do for you."

The paper was brought, and Mr. Lincoln sat down in the crowded drawing-room, and wrote a sentence
upon each sheet, appending his name; and thus every little girl carried off her souvenir.

During the same visit and while giving a reception at one of the hotels, a fond father took
in a little boy by the hand who was anxious to see the new President. The moment the child
entered the parlor door he, of his own accord and quite to the surprise of his father, took
off his hat, and, giving it a swing, cried: "Hurrah for Lincoln!" There was a crowd, but as
soon as Mr. Lincoln could get hold of the little fellow, he lifted him in his hands, and, tossing
him towards the ceiling, laughingly shouted: "Hurrah for you!"

It was evidently a refreshing incident to Lincoln in the dreary work of hand-shaking.

SONNET IN 1862

BY JOHN JAMES PIATT[5]

    Stern be the Pilot in the dreadful hour
      When a great nation, like a ship at sea
      With the wroth breakers whitening at her lee,
    Feels her last shudder if her Helmsman cower;
    A godlike manhood be his mighty dower!
      Such and so gifted, Lincoln, may'st thou be
      With thy high wisdom's low simplicity
    And awful tenderness of voted power:
    From our hot records then thy name shall stand
      On Time's calm ledger out of passionate days--
    With the pure debt of gratitude begun,
      And only paid in never-ending praise--
    One of the many of a mighty Land,
    Made by God's providence the Anointed One.

[5] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

LINCOLN THE PRESIDENT

BY JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL

From the Essay in "My Study Windows"

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

January First, Eighteen Hundred and Sixty-Three

BY FRANK MOORE

    Stand like an anvil, when 'tis beaten
      With the full vigor of the smith's right arm!
    Stand like the noble oak-tree, when 'tis eaten
      By the Saperda and his ravenous swarm!
    For many smiths will strike the ringing blows
    Ere the red drama now enacting close;
    And human insects, gnawing at thy fame,
    Conspire to bring thy honored head to shame.

    Stand like the firmament, upholden
      By an invisible but Almighty hand!
    He whomsoever JUSTICE doth embolden,
      Unshaken, unseduced, unawed shall stand.
    Invisible support is mightier far,
    With noble aims, than walls of granite are;
    And simple consciousness of justice gives
    Strength to a purpose while that purpose lives.

    Stand like the rock that looks defiant
      Far o'er the surging seas that lash its form!
    Composed, determined, watchful, self-reliant,
      Be master of thyself, and rule the storm!
    And thou shalt soon behold the bow of peace
    Span the broad heavens, and the wild tumult cease;
    And see the billows, with the clouds that meet,
    Subdued and calm, come crouching to thy feet.

[6] By special permission of Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION

From the address delivered before Congress on February 12, 1878, presenting to the re-United
States, on behalf of Mrs. Elizabeth Thompson, Carpenter's painting--The First Reading of the
Emancipation Proclamation before the Cabinet.

BY JAMES ABRAM GARFIELD

Let us pause to consider the actors in that scene. In force of character, in thoroughness and
breadth of culture, in experience of public affairs, and in national reputation, the Cabinet
that sat around that council-board has had no superior, perhaps no equal in our history. Seward,
the finished scholar, the consummate orator, the great leader of the Senate, had come to crown
his career with those achievements which placed him in the first rank of modern diplomatists.
Chase, with a culture and a fame of massive grandeur, stood as the rock and pillar of the public
credit, the noble embodiment of the public faith. Stanton was there, a very Titan of strength,
the great organizer of victory. Eminent lawyers, men of business, leaders of states and leaders
of men, completed the group.

But the man who presided over that council, who inspired and guided its deliberations, was
a character so unique that he stood alone, without a model in history or a parallel among men.

At first, it was the prevailing belief that he would be only the nominal head of his administration,--that
its policy would be directed by the eminent statesmen he had called to his council. How erroneous
this opinion was may be seen from a single incident.

Among the earliest, most difficult, and most delicate duties of his administration was the
adjustment of our relations with Great Britain. Serious complications, even hostilities, were
apprehended. On the 21st of May, 1861, the Secretary of State presented to the President his
draught of a letter of instructions to Minister Adams, in which the position of the United
States and the attitude of Great Britain were set forth with the clearness and force which
long experience and great ability had placed at the command of the Secretary. Upon almost every
page of that original draught are erasures, additions, and marginal notes in the handwriting
of Abraham Lincoln, which exhibit a sagacity, a breadth of wisdom, and a comprehension of the
whole subject, impossible to be found except in a man of the very first order. And these modifications
of a great state paper were made by a man who but three months before had entered for the first
time the wide theatre of Executive action.

Gifted with an insight and a foresight which the ancients would have called divination, he
saw, in the midst of darkness and obscurity, the logic of events, and forecast the result.
From the first, in his own quaint, original way, without ostentation or offense to his associates,
he was pilot and commander of his administration. He was one of the few great rulers whose
wisdom increased with his power, and whose spirit grew gentler and tenderer as his triumphs
were multiplied.

This was the man, and these his associates, who look down upon us from the canvas.

The present is not a fitting occasion to examine, with any completeness, the causes that led
to the Proclamation of Emancipation; but the peculiar relation of that act to the character
of Abraham Lincoln cannot be understood, without considering one remarkable fact in his history.
His earlier years were passed in a region remote from the centers of political thought, and
without access to the great world of books. But the few books that came within his reach he
devoured with the divine hunger of genius. One paper, above all others, led him captive, and
filled his spirit with the majesty of its truth and the sublimity of its eloquence. It was
the Declaration of American Independence. The author and the signers of that instrument became,
in his early youth, the heroes of his political worship. I doubt if history affords any example
of a life so early, so deeply, and so permanently influenced by a single political truth, as
was Abraham Lincoln's by the central doctrine of the Declaration,--the liberty and equality
of all men.

That truth runs, like a thread of gold, through the whole web of his political life. It was
the spear-point of his logic in his debates with Douglas. It was the inspiring theme of his
remarkable speech at the Cooper Institute, New York, in 1860, which gave him the nomination
to the Presidency.

Deep and strong was his devotion to liberty; yet deeper and stronger still was his devotion
to the Union; for he believed that without the Union permanent liberty for either race on this
continent would be impossible. And because of this belief, he was reluctant, perhaps more reluctant
than most of his associates, to strike slavery with the sword. For many months, the passionate
appeals of millions of his associates seemed not to move him. He listened to all the phases
of the discussion, and stated, in language clearer and stronger than any opponent had used,
the dangers, the difficulties, and the possible futility of the act. In reference to its practical
wisdom, Congress, the Cabinet and the country were divided. Several of his generals had proclaimed
the freedom of slaves within the limits of their commands. The President revoked their proclamations.
His first Secretary of War had inserted a paragraph in his annual report advocating a similar
policy. The President suppressed it.

Thus, against all importunities on the one hand and remonstrances on the other, he took the
mighty question to his own heart, and, during the long months of that terrible battle-summer,
wrestled with it alone. But at length he realized the saving truth, that great, unsettled questions
have no pity for the repose of nations. On the 22nd of September, he summoned his Cabinet to
announce his conclusion. It was my good fortune, on that same day, and a few hours after the
meeting, to hear, from the lips of one who participated, the story of the scene. As the chiefs
of the Executive Departments came in, one by one, they found the President reading a favorite
chapter from a popular humorist. He was lightening the weight of the great burden which rested
upon his spirit. He finished the chapter, reading it aloud. And here I quote, from the published
Journal of the late Chief Justice, an entry, written immediately after the meeting, and bearing
unmistakable evidence that it is almost a literal transcript of Lincoln's words.

The Proclamation was amended in a few matters of detail. It was signed and published that day.
The world knows the rest, and will not forget it till "the last syllable of recorded time."
The verses which follow were written for the unveiling of the statue, December 9, 1879.

[7] By special permission of Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S CHRISTMAS GIFT[8]

BY NORA PERRY

    'Twas in eighteen hundred and sixty-four,
    That terrible year when the shock and roar
    Of the nation's battles shook the land,
    And the fire leapt up into fury fanned,

    The passionate, patriotic fire,
    With its throbbing pulse and its wild desire
    To conquer and win, or conquer and die,
    In the thick of the fight when hearts beat high

    With the hero's thrill to do and to dare,
    'Twixt the bullet's rush and the muttered prayer.
    In the North, and the East and the great Northwest,
    Men waited and watched with eager zest

    For news of the desperate, terrible strife,--
    For a nation's death or a nation's life;
    While over the wires there flying sped
    News of the wounded, the dying and dead.

    "Defeat and defeat! Ah! what was the fault
    Of the grand old army's sturdy assault
    At Richmond's gates?" in a querulous key
    Men questioned at last impatiently,

    As the hours crept by, and day by day
    They watched the Potomac Army at bay.
    Defeat and defeat! It was here, just here,
    In the very height of the fret and fear,

    Click, click! across the electric wire
    Came suddenly flashing words of fire,
    And a great shout broke from city and town
    At the news of Sherman's marching down,--

    Marching down on his way to the sea
    Through the Georgia swamps to victory.
    Faster and faster the great news came,
    Flashing along like tongues of flame,--

    McAllister ours! And then, ah! then,
    To that patientest, tenderest, noblest of men,
    This message from Sherman came flying swift,--
    "I send you Savannah for a Christmas gift!"

[8] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

V

DEATH OF LINCOLN

O CAPTAIN!

[9] By permission of David McKay.

[10] By permission of David McKay.

[11] By permission of David McKay.

CROWN HIS BLOODSTAINED PILLOW

BY JULIA WARD HOWE

    Crown his blood-stained pillow
      With a victor's palm;
    Life's receding billow
      Leaves eternal calm.

    At the feet Almighty
      Lay this gift sincere;
    Of a purpose weighty,
      And a record clear.

    With deliverance freighted
      Was this passive hand,
    And this heart, high-fated,
      Would with love command.

    Let him rest serenely
      In a Nation's care,
    Where her waters queenly
      Make the West more fair.

    In the greenest meadow
      That the prairies show,
    Let his marble's shadow
      Give all men to know:

    "Our First Hero, living,
      Made his country free;
    Heed the Second's giving,
      Death for Liberty."

[12] By permission of David McKay.

OUR SUN HATH GONE DOWN[13]

BY PHOEBE CARY

    Our sun hath gone down at the noonday,
      The heavens are black;
    And over the morning the shadows
      Of night-time are back.

    Stop the proud boasting mouth of the cannon,
      Hush the mirth and the shout;--
    God is God! and the ways of Jehovah
      Are past finding out.

    Lo! the beautiful feet on the mountains,
      That yesterday stood;
    The white feet that came with glad tidings,
      Are dabbled in blood.

    The Nation that firmly was settling
      The crown on her head,
    Sits, like Rizpah, in sackcloth and ashes,
      And watches her dead.

    Who is dead? who, unmoved by our wailing,
      Is lying so low?
    O, my Land, stricken dumb in your anguish,
     Do you feel, do you know,

    That the hand which reached out of the darkness
      Hath taken the whole?
    Yea, the arm and the head of the people--
      The heart and the soul!

    And that heart, o'er whose dread awful silence
      A nation has wept;
    Was the truest, and gentlest, and sweetest,
      A man ever kept!

    Once this good man, we mourn, overwearied,
      Worn, anxious, oppressed,
    Was going out from his audience chamber
      For a season to rest;

    Unheeding the thousands who waited
      To honor and greet,
    When the cry of a child smote upon him,
      And turned back his feet.

    "Three days hath a woman been waiting,"
      Said they, "patient and meek."
    And he answered, "Whatever her errand,
      Let me hear; let her speak!"

    So she came, and stood trembling before him,
      And pleaded her cause;
    Told him all; how her child's erring father
      Had broken the laws.

    Humbly spake she: "I mourn for his folly,
      His weakness, his fall";
    Proudly spake she: "he is not a TRAITOR,
      And I love him through all!"

    Then the great man, whose heart had been shaken
      By a little babe's cry;
    Answered soft, taking counsel of mercy,
      "This man shall not die!"

    Why, he heard from the dungeons, the rice-fields,
      The dark holds of ships;
    Every faint, feeble cry which oppression
      Smothered down on men's lips.

    In her furnace, the centuries had welded
      Their fetter and chain;
    And like withes, in the hands of his purpose,
      He snapped them in twain.

    Who can be what he was to the people;
      What he was to the State?
    Shall the ages bring to us another
      As good, and as great?

    Our hearts with their anguish are broken,
      Our wet eyes are dim;
    For us is the loss and the sorrow,
      The triumph for him!

    For, ere this, face to face with his Father
      Our Martyr hath stood;
    Giving unto his hand the white record,
      With its great seal of blood!

[13] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

TOLLING[14]

(April 15, 1865)

BY LUCY LARCOM

    Tolling, tolling, tolling!
      All the bells of the land!
    Lo, the patriot martyr
      Taketh his journey grand!
    Travels into the ages,
      Bearing a hope how dear!
    Into life's unknown vistas,
      Liberty's great pioneer.

    Tolling, tolling, tolling!
      See, they come as a cloud,
    Hearts of a mighty people,
      Bearing his pall and shroud;
    Lifting up, like a banner,
      Signals of loss and woe;
    Wonder of breathless nations,
      Moveth the solemn show.

    Tolling, tolling, tolling!
      Was it, O man beloved,
    Was it thy funeral only
      Over the land that moved?
    Veiled by that hour of anguish,
      Borne with the rebel rout,
    Forth into utter darkness,
      Slavery's curse went out.

[14] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN[15]

"Strangulatus Pro Republica"

BY ROSE TERRY COOKE

    Hundreds there have been, loftier than their kind,
    Heroes and victors in the world's great wars:
    Hundreds, exalted as the eternal stars,
    By the great heart, or keen and mighty mind;
    There have been sufferers, maimed and halt and blind,
    Who bore their woes in such triumphant calm
    That God hath crowned them with the martyr's palm;
    And there were those who fought through fire to find
    Their Master's face, and were by fire refined.
    But who like thee, oh Sire! hath ever stood
    Steadfast for truth and right, when lies and wrong
    Rolled their dark waters, turbulent and strong;
    Who bore reviling, baseness, tears and blood
    Poured out like water, till thine own was spent,
    Then reaped Earth's sole reward--a grave and monument!

[15] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

EFFECT OF THE DEATH OF LINCOLN

BY HENRY WARD BEECHER

Again a great leader of the people has passed through toil, sorrow, battle and war, and come
near to the promised land of peace into which he might not pass over.

At last, the watcher beheld the gray dawn for the country. The mountains began to give forth
their forms from out the darkness and the East came rushing toward us with arms full of joy
for all our sorrows. Then it was for him to be glad exceedingly that had sorrowed immeasurably.
Peace could bring to no other heart such joy and rest, such honor, such trust, such gratitude.
But he looked upon it as Moses looked upon the promised land.

Never did two such orbs of experience meet in one hemisphere, as the joy and the sorrow of
the same week in this land. The joy was as sudden as if no man had expected it, and as entrancing
as if it had fallen a sphere from heaven. It rose up over sobriety, and swept business from
its moorings, and ran down through the land in irresistible course. Men embraced each other
in brotherhood that were strangers in the flesh. They sang, or prayed, or deeper yet, many
could only think thanksgiving and weep gladness.

That peace was sure; that government was firmer than ever; that the land was cleansed of plague;
that the ages were opening to our footsteps, and we were to begin a march of blessings; that
blood was staunched and scowling enmities were sinking like storms beneath the horizon; that
the dear fatherland, nothing lost, much gained, was to rise up in unexampled honor among the
nations of the earth--these thoughts, and that undistinguishable throng of fancies, and hopes,
and desires, and yearnings, that filled the soul with tremblings like the heated air of midsummer
days--all these kindled up such a surge of joy as no words may describe.

In one hour, joy lay without a pulse, without a gleam or breath. A sorrow came that swept through
the land as huge storms sweep through the forest and field, rolling thunder along the sky,
disheveling the flowers, daunting every singer in thicket or forest, and pouring blackness
and darkness across the land and up the mountains.

The blow brought not a sharp pang. It was so terrible that at first it stunned sensibility.
Citizens were like men awakened at midnight by an earthquake, and bewildered to find everything
that they were accustomed to trust wavering and falling. The very earth was no longer solid.
The first feeling was the least. Men waited to get strength to feel. They wandered in the streets
as if groping after some impending dread, or undeveloped sorrow, or some one to tell them what
ailed them. They met each other as if each would ask the other, "Am I awake, or do I dream?"
There was a piteous helplessness. Strong men bowed down and wept. Other and common griefs belonged
to someone in chief; this belonged to all. It was each and every man's. Every virtuous household
in the land felt as if its firstborn were gone. Men were bereaved and walked for days as if
a corpse lay unburied in their dwellings. There was nothing else to think of. They could speak
of nothing but that; and yet of that they could speak only falteringly. All business was laid
aside. Pleasure forgot to smile. The city for nearly a week ceased to roar. The great Leviathan
lay down, and was still. Even avarice stood still, and greed was strangely moved to generous
sympathy and universal sorrow. Rear to his name monuments, found charitable institutions, and
write his name above their lintels, but no monument will ever equal the universal, spontaneous,
and sublime sorrow that in a moment swept down lines and parties, and covered up animosities,
in an hour brought a divided people into unity of grief and indivisible fellowship of anguish.

This Nation has dissolved--but in tears only. It stands four-square, more solid to-day than
any pyramid in Egypt. This people are neither wasted, nor daunted, nor disordered. Men hate
slavery and love liberty with stronger hate and love to-day than ever before. The government
is not weakened; it is made stronger. How naturally and easily were the ranks closed!

Where could the head of government of any monarchy be smitten down by the hand of an assassin,
and the funds not quiver or fall one-half of one per cent? After a long period of national
disturbance, after four years of drastic war, after tremendous drafts on the resources of the
country, in the height and top of our burdens, the heart of this people is such that now, when
the head of government is stricken down, the public funds do not waver, but stand as the granite
ribs in our mountains.

Republican institutions have been vindicated in this experience as they never were before;
and the whole history of the last four years, rounded up by this cruel stroke, seems in the
providence of God, to have been clothed now, with an illustration, with a sympathy, with an
aptness, and with a significance, such as we never could have expected nor imagined. God, I
think, has said, by the voice of this event, to all nations of the earth: "Republican liberty,
based upon true Christianity, is firm as the foundation of the globe."

Even he who now sleeps has, by this event, been clothed with new influence. Dead, he speaks
to men who now willingly hear what before they refused to listen to. Now his simple and weighty
words will be gathered like those of Washington, and your children and your children's children
shall be taught to ponder the simplicity and deep wisdom of utterances which, in their time,
passed, in party heat, as idle words. Men will receive a new impulse of patriotism for his
sake, and will guard with zeal the whole country which he loved so well. They will admire and
imitate the firmness of this man, his inflexible conscience for the right, and yet his gentleness,
as tender as a woman's, his moderation of spirit, which not all the heat of party could inflame,
nor all the jars and disturbances of his country shake out of place. I swear you to an emulation
of his justice, his moderation, and his mercy.

You I can comfort; but how can I speak to that twilight million to whom his name was as the
name of an angel of God? There will be wailing in places which no minister shall be able to
reach. When, in hovel and in cot, in wood and in wilderness, in the field throughout the South,
the dusky children, who looked upon him as that Moses whom God sent before them to lead them
out of the land of bondage, learn that he has fallen, who shall comfort them? Your sorrows,
O people, are his peace. Your bells and bands and muffled drums sound triumph in his ear. Wail
and weep here; God made it echo joy and triumph there. Pass on.

[16] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Foully Assassinated April 14, 1865

BY TOM TAYLOR (MARK LEMON) IN LONDON PUNCH.

    My shallow judgment I had learned to rue,
      Noting how to occasion's height he rose;
    How his quaint wit made home-truth seem more true;
      How, iron-like, his temper grew by blows.

    How humble, yet how hopeful he could be:
      How in good fortune and in ill, the same:
    Nor bitter in success, nor boastful he,
      Thirsty for gold, nor feverish for fame.

    He went about his work,--such work as few
      Ever had laid on head and heart and hand,--
    As one who knows, where there's a task to do,
      Man's honest will must heaven's good grace command;

    Who trusts the strength will with the burden grow,
      That God makes instruments to work His will,
    If but that will we can arrive to know,
      Nor tamper with the weights of good and ill.

    So he went forth to battle, on the side
      That he felt clear was Liberty's and Right's,
    As in his peasant boyhood he had plied
      His warfare with rude Nature's thwarting mights,--

    The uncleared forest, the unbroken soil,
      The iron-bark, that turns the lumberer's axe,
    The rapid, that o'erbears the boatsman's toil,
      The prairie, hiding the mazed wanderer's tracks,

    The ambushed Indian, and the prowling bear;--
      Such were the deeds that helped his youth to train:
    Rough culture,--but such trees large fruit may bear,
      If but their stocks be of right girth and grain.

    So he grew up, a destined work to do,
      And lived to do it: four long suffering years,
    Ill-fate, ill-feeling, ill-report, lived through,
      And then he heard the hisses change to cheers.

    The taunts to tribute, the abuse to praise,
      And took both with the same unwavering mood:
    Till, as he came on light, from darkling days,
      And seem to touch the goal from where he stood,

    A felon hand, between the goal and him,
      Reached from behind his back, a trigger prest,--
    And those perplexed and patient eyes were dim,
      Those gaunt, long-laboring limbs were laid to rest!

    The words of mercy were upon his lips,
      Forgiveness in his heart and on his pen,
    When this vile murderer brought swift eclipse
      To thoughts of peace on earth, good-will to men.

    The Old World and the New, from sea to sea,
      Utter one voice of sympathy and shame!
    Sore heart, so stopped when it at last beat high;
      Sad life, cut short just as its triumph came.

    A deed accurst!

    Vile hand, that brandest murder on a strife,
      Whate'er its grounds, stoutly and nobly striven;
    And with the martyr's crown crownest a life
      With much to praise, little to be forgiven.

[17] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN[18]

Remarks at the funeral services held in Concord, April 19, 1865

BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON

We meet under the gloom of a calamity which darkens down over the minds of good men in all
civil society, as the fearful tidings travel over sea, over land, from country to country,
like the shadow of an uncalculated eclipse over the planet. Old as history is, and manifold
as are its tragedies, I doubt if any death has caused so much pain to mankind as this has caused,
or will cause, on its announcement; and this, not so much because nations are by modern arts
brought so closely together, as because of the mysterious hopes and fears which, in the present
day, are connected with the name and institutions of America.

In this country, on Saturday, every one was struck dumb, and saw at first only deep below deep,
as he meditated on the ghastly blow. And perhaps, at this hour, when the coffin which contains
the dust of the President sets forward on its long march through mourning States, on its way
to his home in Illinois, we might well be silent and suffer the awful voices of the time to
thunder to us. Yes, but that first despair was brief: the man was not so to be mourned. He
was the most active and hopeful of men; and his work has not perished: but acclamations of
praise for the task he has accomplished burst out into a song of triumph, which even tears
for his death cannot keep down.

The President stood before us as a man of the people. He was thoroughly American, had never
crossed the sea, had never been spoiled by English insularity or French dissipation; a quiet
native, aboriginal man, as an acorn from the oak; no aping of foreigners, no frivolous accomplishments,
Kentuckian born, working on a farm, a flatboat-man, a captain in the Black Hawk war, a country
lawyer, a representative in the rural legislature of Illinois;--on such modest foundations
the broad structure of his fame was laid. How slowly, and yet by happily prepared steps, he
came to his place. All of us remember--it is only a history of five or six years--the surprise
and the disappointment of the country at his first nomination by the convention at Chicago.
Mr. Seward, then in the culmination of his good fame, was the favorite of the Eastern States.
And when the new and comparatively unknown name of Lincoln was announced (notwithstanding the
report of the acclamations of that convention), we heard the result coldly and sadly. It seemed
too rash, on a purely local reputation, to build so grave a trust in such anxious times; and
men naturally talked of the chances in politics as incalculable. But it turned out not to be
chance. The profound good opinion which the people of Illinois and of the West had conceived
of him, and which they had imparted to their colleagues, that they also might justify themselves
to their constituents at home, was not rash, though they did not begin to know the riches of
his worth.

A plain man of the people, an extraordinary fortune attended him. He offered no shining qualities
at the first encounter; he did not offend by superiority. Then he had what farmers call a long
head; was excellent in working out the sum for himself; in arguing his case and convincing
you fairly and firmly. Then it turned out that he was a great worker; had prodigious faculty
of performance; worked easily. A good worker is so rare; everybody has some disabling quality.
In a host of young men that start together and promise so many brilliant leaders for the next
age, each fails on trial; one by bad health, one by conceit, or by love of pleasure, or lethargy,
or an ugly temper,--each has some disqualifying fault that throws him out of the career. But
this man was sound to the core, cheerful, persistent, all right for labor, and liked nothing
so well.

Then he had a vast good nature, which made him tolerant and accessible to all; fair minded,
leaning to the claim of the petitioner; affable, and not sensible to the affliction which the
innumerable visits paid to him when President would have brought to any one else. And how this
good nature became a noble humanity, in many a tragic case which the events of the war brought
to him, every one will remember; and with what increasing tenderness he dealt when a whole
race was thrown on his compassion. The poor negro said of him, on an impressive occasion, "Massa
Linkum am ebery-where."

He is the author of a multitude of good sayings, so disguised as pleasantries that it is certain
they had no reputation at first but as jests; and only later, by the very acceptance and adoption
they find in the mouths of millions, turn out to be the wisdom of the hour. I am sure if this
man had ruled in a period of less facility of printing, he would have become mythological in
a very few years, like Æsop or Pilpay, or one of the Seven Wise Masters, by his fables and
proverbs. But the weight and penetration of many passages in his letters, messages, and speeches,
hidden now by the very closeness of their application to the moment, are destined hereafter
to wide fame. What pregnant definitions; what unerring common sense; what foresight; and, on
great occasion, what lofty, and more than national, what humane tone! His brief speech at Gettysburg
will not easily be surpassed by words on any recorded occasion. This, and one other American
speech, that of John Brown to the court that tried him, and a part of Kossuth's speech at Birmingham,
can only be compared with each other, and with no fourth. This middle-class country had got
a middle-class President, at last. Yes, in manners and sympathies, but not in powers, for his
powers were superior. Rarely was man so fitted to the event. In the midst of fears and jealousies,
in the Babel of counsels and parties, this man wrought incessantly with all his might and all
his honesty, laboring to find what the people wanted, and how to obtain that. It cannot be
said there is any exaggeration of his worth. If ever a man was fairly tested, he was. There
was no lack of resistance, nor of slander, nor of ridicule. The times have allowed no state
secrets; the nation has been in such ferment, such multitudes had to be trusted, that no secret
could be kept. Every door was ajar, and we know all that befell.

Adam Smith remarks that the axe, which in Houbraken's portraits of British kings and worthies
is engraved under those who have suffered at the block, adds a certain lofty charm to the picture.
And who does not see, even in this tragedy so recent, how fast the terror and ruin of the massacre
are already burning into glory around the victim? Far happier this fate than to have lived
to be wished away; to have watched the decay of his own faculties; to have seen--perhaps even
be--the proverbial ingratitude of statesmen; to have seen mean men preferred. Had he not lived
long enough to keep the greatest promise that ever man made to his fellow men,--the practicable
abolition of slavery? He had seen Tennessee, Missouri, and Maryland emancipate their slaves.
He had seen Savannah, Charleston, and Richmond surrendered; had seen the main army of the rebellion
lay down its arms. He had conquered the public opinion of Canada, England, and France. Only
Washington can compare with him in fortune.

And what if it should turn out, in the unfolding of the web, that he had reached the term;
that this heroic deliverer could no longer serve us; that the rebellion had touched its natural
conclusion, and what remained to be done required new and uncommitted hands,--a new spirit
born out of the ashes of the war; and that Heaven, wishing to show the world a completed benefactor,
shall make him serve his country even more by his death than by his life? Nations, like kings,
are not good by facility and complaisance. "The kindness of kings consists in justice and strength."
Easy good nature has been the dangerous foible of the Republic, and it was necessary that its
enemies should outrage it, and drive us to unwonted firmness, to secure the salvation of this
country in the next ages.

The ancients believed in a serene and beautiful Genius which ruled in the affairs of nations;
which, with a slow but stern justice, carried forward the fortunes of certain chosen houses,
weeding out single offenders or offending families, and securing at last the firm prosperity
of the favorites of Heaven. It was too narrow a view of the Eternal Nemesis. There is a serene
Providence which rules the fate of nations, which makes little account of time, little of one
generation or race, makes no account of disasters, conquers alike by what is called defeat
or by what is called victory, thrusts aside enemy and obstruction, crushes everything immoral
as inhuman, and obtains the ultimate triumph of the best race by the sacrifice of everything
which resists the moral laws of the world. It makes its own instruments, creates the man for
the time, trains him in poverty, inspires his genius, and arms him for his task. It has given
every race its own talent, and ordains that only that race which combines perfectly with the
virtues of all shall endure.

[18] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

WASHINGTON AND LINCOLN

BY WILLIAM MCKINLEY

The greatest names in American history are Washington and Lincoln. One is forever associated
with the independence of the States and the formation of the Federal Union; the other with
universal freedom and the preservation of the Union.

Washington enforced the Declaration of Independence as against England. Lincoln proclaimed
the fulfilment not only to a down-trodden race in America, but to all people for all time who
may seek the protection of our flag. These illustrious men achieved grander results for mankind
within a single century than any other men ever accomplished in all the years since the first
flight of time began.

Washington drew his sword not for a change of rulers upon an established throne, but to establish
a new government which should acknowledge no throne but the tribute of the people.

Lincoln accepted war to save the Union, the safeguard of our liberties, and re-established
it on indestructible foundations as forever "one and indivisible."

LINCOLN

BY THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Abraham Lincoln--the spirit incarnate of those who won victory in the Civil War--was the true
representative of this people, not only for his own generation, but for all time, because he
was a man among men. A man who embodied the qualities of his fellow-men, but who embodied them
to the highest and most unusual degree of perfection, who embodied all that there was in the
nation of courage, of wisdom, of gentle, patient kindliness, and of common sense.

LINCOLN'S GRAVE

BY MAURICE THOMPSON

    May one who fought in honor for the South
    Uncovered stand and sing by Lincoln's grave?
    Why, if I shrunk not at the cannon's mouth,
    Nor swerved one inch for any battle-wave,
    Should I now tremble in this quiet close
    Hearing the prairie wind go lightly by
    From billowy plains of grass and miles of corn,
        While out of deep repose
    The great sweet spirit lifts itself on high
    And broods above our land this summer morn?

    Meseems I feel his presence. Is he dead?
    Death is a word. He lives and grander grows.
    At Gettysburg he bows his bleeding head;
    He spreads his arms where Chickamauga flows,
    As if to clasp old soldiers to his breast,
    Of South or North no matter which they be,
    Not thinking of what uniform they wore,
        His heart a palimpsest,
    Record on record of humanity,
    Where love is first and last forevermore.

    He was the Southern mother leaning forth,
    At dead of night to hear the cannon roar,
    Beseeching God to turn the cruel North
    And break it that her son might come once more;
    He was New England's maiden pale and pure,
    Whose gallant lover fell on Shiloh's plain;
    He was the mangled body of the dead;
        He writhing did endure
    Wounds and disfigurement and racking pain,
    Gangrene and amputation, all things dread.

    He was the North, the South, the East, the West,
    The thrall, the master, all of us in one;
    There was no section that he held the best;
    His love shone as impartial as the sun;
    And so revenge appealed to him in vain;
    He smiled at it, as at a thing forlorn,
    And gently put it from him, rose and stood
        A moment's space in pain,
    Remembering the prairies and the corn
    And the glad voices of the field and wood.

    And then when Peace set wing upon the wind
    And northward flying fanned the clouds away,
    He passed as martyrs pass. Ah, who shall find
    The chord to sound the pathos of that day!
    Mid-April blowing sweet across the land,
    New bloom of freedom opening to the world,
    Loud pæans of the homeward-looking host,
        The salutations grand
    From grimy guns, the tattered flags unfurled;
    And he must sleep to all the glory lost!

    Sleep! loss! But there is neither sleep nor loss,
    And all the glory mantles him about;
    Above his breast the precious banners cross,
    Does he not hear his armies tramp and shout?
    Oh, every kiss of mother, wife or maid
    Dashed on the grizzly lip of veteran,
    Comes forthright to that calm and quiet mouth,
        And will not be delayed,
    And every slave, no longer slave but man,
    Sends up a blessing from the broken South.

    He is not dead, France knows he is not dead;
    He stirs strong hearts in Spain and Germany,
    In far Siberian mines his words are said,
    He tells the English Ireland shall be free,
    He calls poor serfs about him in the night,
    And whispers of a power that laughs at kings,
    And of a force that breaks the strongest chain;
        Old tyranny feels his might
    Tearing away its deepest fastenings,
    And jewelled sceptres threaten him in vain.

    Years pass away, but freedom does not pass,
    Thrones crumble, but man's birthright crumbles not,
    And, like the wind across the prairie grass,
    A whole world's aspirations fan this spot
    With ceaseless panting after liberty,
    One breath of which would make dark Russia fair,
    And blow sweet summer through the exile's cave
        And set the exile free;
    For which I pray, here in the open air
    Of Freedom's morning-tide, by Lincoln's grave.

TRIBUTES TO LINCOLN

A man of great ability, pure patriotism, unselfish nature, full of forgiveness to his enemies,
bearing malice toward none, he proved to be the man above all others for the struggle through
which the nation had to pass to place itself among the greatest in the family of nations. His
fame will grow brighter as time passes and his great great work is better understood.

                                                      U. S. Grant.

At the moment when the stars of the Union, sparkling and resplendent with the golden fires
of liberty, are waving over the subdued walls of Richmond the sepulchre opens, and the strong,
the powerful enters it.

                                               Sr. Rebello Da Silva.

He ascended the mount where he could see the fair fields and the smiling vineyards of the promised
land. But, like the great leader of Israel, he was not permitted to come to the possession.

                                                     Seth Sweetser.

In his freedom from passion and bitterness; in his acute sense of justice; in his courageous
faith in the right, and his inextinguishable hatred of wrong; in his warm and heartfelt sympathy
and mercy; in his coolness of judgment; in his unquestioned rectitude of intention--in a word,
in his ability to lift himself for his country's sake above all mere partisanship, in all the
marked traits of his character combined, he has had no parallel since Washington, and while
our republic endures he will live with him in the grateful hearts of his grateful countrymen.

                                                   Schuyler Colfax.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

BY HENRY HOWARD BROWNELL

    Dead is the roll of the drums,
      And the distant thunders die,
      They fade in the far-off sky;
    And a lovely summer comes,
      Like the smile of Him on high.

    Lulled, the storm and the onset.
      Earth lies in a sunny swoon;
      Stiller splendor of noon,
    Softer glory of sunset,
      Milder starlight and moon!

    For the kindly Seasons love us;
      They smile over trench and clod
    (Where we left the bravest of us)--
      There's a brighter green of the sod,
    And a holier calm above us
      In the blessed Blue of God.

    The roar and ravage were vain;
      And Nature, that never yields,
    Is busy with sun and rain
    At her old sweet work again
      On the lonely battle-fields.

    How the tall white daisies grow,
      Where the grim artillery rolled!
    (Was it only a moon ago?
      It seems a century old)--

    And the bee hums in the clover,
      As the pleasant June comes on;
    Aye, the wars are all over,--
      But our good Father is gone.

    There was tumbling of traitor fort,
      Flaming of traitor fleet--
    Lighting of city and port,
      Clasping in square and street.

    There was thunder of mine and gun,
      Cheering by mast and tent,--
    When--his dread work all done,
    And his high fame full won--
      Died the Good President.

    'Twas but the morn (yon fearful
      Death-shade, gloomy and vast,
      Lifting slowly at last),
    His household heard him say,
    "'Tis long since I've been so cheerful,
      So light of heart as to-day."

    'Twas dying, the long dread clang--
      But, or ever the blessèd ray
      Of peace could brighten to-day,
      Murder stood by the way--
    Treason struck home his fang!
    One throb--and, without a pang,
      That pure soul passed away.

    Kindly Spirit!--Ah, when did treason
      Bid such a generous nature cease,
    Mild by temper and strong by reason,
      But ever leaning to love and peace?

    A head how sober; a heart how spacious;
      A manner equal with high or low;
    Rough but gentle, uncouth but gracious,
      And still inclining to lips of woe.

    Patient when saddest, calm when sternest,
      Grieved when rigid for justice' sake;
    Given to jest, yet ever in earnest
      If aught of right or truth were at stake.

    Simple of heart, yet shrewd therewith,
      Slow to resolve, but firm to hold;
    Still with parable and with myth
      Seasoning truth, like Them of old;
    Aptest humor and quaintest pith!
      (Still we smile o'er the tales he told.)

    Yet whoso might pierce the guise
      Of mirth in the man we mourn,
    Would mark, and with grieved surprise,
      All the great soul had borne,
    In the piteous lines, and the kind, sad eyes
      So dreadfully wearied and worn.

    And we trusted (the last dread page
      Once turned, of our Dooms-day Scroll),
      To have seen him, sunny of soul,
    In a cheery, grand old age.

    But, Father, 'tis well with thee!
      And since ever, when God draws nigh,
    Some grief for the good must be,
      'Twas well, even so to die,--

    'Mid the thunder of Treason's fall,
      The yielding of haughty town,
    The crashing of cruel wall,
      The trembling of tyrant crown!

    The ringing of hearth and pavement
      To the clash of falling chains,--
    The centuries of enslavement
      Dead, with their blood-bought gains!

    And through trouble weary and long,
      Well hadst thou seen the way,
    Leaving the State so strong
      It did not reel for a day.

    And even in death couldst give
      A token for Freedom's strife--
    A proof how republics live,
      And not by a single life,

    But the Right Divine of man,
      And the many, trained to be free,--
    And none, since the world began,
      Ever was mourned like thee.

    Dost thou feel it, O noble Heart!
      (So grieved and so wronged below),
    From the rest wherein thou art?
    Do they see it, those patient eyes?
    Is there heed in the happy skies
      For tokens of world-wide woe?

    The Land's great lamentations,
      The mighty mourning of cannon
        The myriad flags half-mast--
    The late remorse of the nations,
      Grief from Volga to Shannon!
        (Now they know thee at last.)

    How, from gray Niagara's shore
      To Canaveral's surfy shoal--
    From the rough Atlantic roar
      To the long Pacific roll--
      For bereavement and for dole,
    Every cottage wears its weed,
      White as thine own pure soul,
    And black as the traitor deed.

    How, under a nation's pall,
      The dust so dear in our sight
        To its home on the prairie passed,--
    The leagues of funeral,
      The myriads, morn and night,
        Pressing to look their last.

    Nor alone the State's Eclipse;
      But tears in hard eyes gather--
    And on rough and bearded lips,
    Of the regiments and the ships--
      "Oh, our dear Father!"

    And methinks of all the million
      That looked on the dark dead face,
    'Neath its sable-plumed pavilion,
      The crone of a humbler race
    Is saddest of all to think on,
      And the old swart lips that said,
    Sobbing, "Abraham Lincoln!
      Oh, he is dead, he is dead!"

    Hush! let our heavy souls
      To-day be glad; for again
    The stormy music swells and rolls,
      Stirring the hearts of men.

    And under the Nation's Dome,
      They've guarded so well and long,
    Our boys come marching home,
      Two hundred thousand strong.

    All in the pleasant month of May,
      With war-worn colors and drums,
    Still through the livelong summer's day,
      Regiment, regiment comes.

    Like the tide, yesty and barmy,
      That sets on a wild lee-shore,
    Surge the ranks of an army
      Never reviewed before!

    Who shall look on the like again,
      Or see such host of the brave?
    A mighty River of marching men
      Rolls the Capital through--
    Rank on rank, and wave on wave,
      Of bayonet-crested blue!

    How the chargers neigh and champ,
    (Their riders weary of camp),
      With curvet and with caracole!--
    The cavalry comes with thunderous tramp,
      And the cannons heavily roll.

    And ever, flowery and gay,
    The Staff sweeps on in a spray
      Of tossing forelocks and manes;
    But each bridle-arm has a weed
    Of funeral, black as the steed
      That fiery Sheridan reins.

    Grandest of mortal sights
      The sun-browned ranks to view--
    The Colors ragg'd in a hundred fights,
      And the dusty Frocks of Blue!

    And all day, mile on mile,
    With cheer, and waving, and smile,
    The war-worn legions defile
      Where the nation's noblest stand;
    And the Great Lieutenant looks on,
      With the Flower of a rescued Land,--
    For the terrible work is done,
    And the Good Fight is won
      For God and for Fatherland.

    So, from the fields they win,
      Our men are marching home,
      A million are marching home!
    To the cannon's thundering din,
      And banners on mast and dome,--
    And the ships come sailing in
    With all their ensigns dight,
    As erst for a great sea-fight.

    Let every color fly,
      Every pennon flaunt in pride;
    Wave, Starry Flag, on high!
    Float in the sunny sky,
      Stream o'er the stormy tide!
    For every stripe of stainless hue,
    And every star in the field of blue,
    Ten thousand of the brave and true
      Have laid them down and died.

    And in all our pride to-day
      We think, with a tender pain,
    Of those so far away
      They will not come home again.

    And our boys had fondly thought,
      To-day, in marching by,
    From the ground so dearly bought,
    And the fields so bravely fought,
      To have met their Father's eye.

    But they may not see him in place,
      Nor their ranks be seen of him;
    We look for the well-known face,
      And the splendor is strangely dim.

    Perish?--who was it said
      Our Leader had passed away?
    Dead? Our President dead?
      He has not died for a day!

    We mourn for a little breath
      Such as, late or soon, dust yields;
    But the Dark Flower of Death
      Blooms in the fadeless fields.

    We looked on a cold, still brow,
      But Lincoln could yet survive;
      He never was more alive,
    Never nearer than now.

    For the pleasant season found him,
      Guarded by faithful hands,
      In the fairest of Summer Lands;
    With his own brave Staff around him,
      There our President stands.

    There they are all at his side,
      The noble hearts and true,
      That did all men might do--
    Then slept, with their swords and died.

    And around--(for there can cease
      This earthly trouble)--they throng,
    The friends that have passed in peace,
      The foes that have seen their wrong.

    (But, a little from the rest,
      With sad eyes looking down,
      And brows of softened frown,
    With stern arms on the chest,
    Are two, standing abreast--
      Stonewall and Old John Brown.)

    But the stainless and the true,
      These by their President stand,
    To look on his last review,
      Or march with the old command.

    And lo! from a thousand fields,
      From all the old battle-haunts,
    A greater Army than Sherman wields,
      A grander Review than Grant's!

    Gathered home from the grave,
      Risen from sun and rain--
    Rescued from wind and wave
      Out of the stormy main--
    The Legions of our Brave
      Are all in their lines again!

    Many a stout Corps that went,
    Full-ranked, from camp and tent,
      And brought back a brigade;
    Many a brave regiment,
      That mustered only a squad.

    The lost battalions,
      That, when the fight went wrong,
    Stood and died at their guns,--
      The stormers steady and strong,

    With their best blood that bought
      Scrap, and ravelin, and wall,--
    The companies that fought
      Till a corporal's guard was all.

    Many a valiant crew,
      That passed in battle and wreck,--
    Ah, so faithful and true!
      They died on the bloody deck,
    They sank in the soundless blue.

    All the loyal and bold
      That lay on a soldier's bier,--
      The stretchers borne to the rear,
    The hammocks lowered to the hold.

    The shattered wreck we hurried,
      In death-fight, from deck and port,--
    The Blacks that Wagner buried--
      That died in the Bloody Fort!

    Comrades of camp and mess,
      Left, as they lay, to die,
    In the battle's sorest stress,
      When the storm of fight swept by,--
    They lay in the Wilderness,
      Ah, where did they not lie?

    In the tangled swamp they lay,
      They lay so still on the sward!--
    They rolled in the sick-bay,
    Moaning their lives away--
      They flushed in the fevered ward.

    They rotted in Libby yonder,
      They starved in the foul stockade--
    Hearing afar the thunder
      Of the Union cannonade!

    But the old wounds all are healed,
      And the dungeoned limbs are free,--
    The Blue Frocks rise from the field,
      The Blue Jackets out of the sea.

    They've 'scaped from the torture-den,
      They've broken the bloody sod,
    They're all come to life again!--
    The Third of a Million men
      That died for Thee and for God!

    A tenderer green than May
      The Eternal Season wears,--
    The blue of our summer's day
      Is dim and pallid to theirs,--
    The Horror faded away,
      And 'twas heaven all unawares!

    Tents on the Infinite Shore!
      Flags in the azuline sky,
    Sails on the seas once more!
      To-day, in the heaven on high,
    All under arms once more!

    The troops are all in their lines,
      The guidons flutter and play;
    But every bayonet shines,
      For all must march to-day.

    What lofty pennons flaunt?
    What mighty echoes haunt,
      As of great guns, o'er the main?
      Hark to the sound again--
    The Congress is all a-taunt!
      The Cumberland's manned again!

    All the ships and their men
      Are in line of battle to-day,--
    All at quarters, as when
      Their last roll thundered away,--
    All at their guns, as then,
    For the Fleet salutes to-day.

    The armies have broken camp
      On the vast and sunny plain,
      The drums are rolling again;
    With steady, measured tramp,
      They're marching all again.

    With alignment firm and solemn,
      Once again they form
    In mighty square and column,--
      But never for charge and storm.

    The Old Flag they died under
      Floats above them on the shore,
    And on the great ships yonder
      The ensigns dip once more--
    And once again the thunder
      Of the thirty guns and four!

    In solid platoons of steel,
      Under heaven's triumphal arch,
    The long lines break and wheel--
      And the word is, "Forward, march!"

    The Colors ripple o'erhead,
      The drums roll up to the sky,
    And with martial time and tread
      The regiments all pass by--
    The ranks of our faithful Dead,
      Meeting their President's eye.

    With a soldier's quiet pride
      They smile o'er the perished pain,
      For their anguish was not vain--
    For thee, O Father, we died!
      And we did not die in vain.

    March on, your last brave mile!
      Salute him, Star and Lace,
    Form round him, rank and file,
      And look on the kind, rough face;

    But the quaint and homely smile
      Has a glory and a grace
    It never had known erewhile--
      Never, in time and space.

    Close round him, hearts of pride!
    Press near him, side by side,--
      Our Father is not alone!
    For the Holy Right ye died,
    And Christ, the Crucified,
      Waits to welcome His own.

TRIBUTES

A statesman of the school of sound common sense, and a philanthropist of the most practical
type, a patriot without a superior--his monument is a country preserved.

                                                  C. S. Harrington.

Now all men begin to see that the plain people, who at last came to love him and to lean upon
his wisdom, and trust him absolutely, were altogether right, and that in deed and purpose he
was earnestly devoted to the welfare of the whole country, and of all its inhabitants.

                                                       R. B. Hayes.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN[19]

BY JOEL BENTON

    Some opulent force of genius, soul, and race,
      Some deep life-current from far centuries
      Flowed to his mind, and lighted his sad eyes,
    And gave his name, among great names, high place.

    But these are miracles we may not trace--
      Nor say why from a source and lineage mean
      He rose to grandeur never dreamt or seen,
    Or told on the long scroll of history's space.

    The tragic fate of one broad hemisphere
      Fell on stern days to his supreme control,
    All that the world and liberty held dear
      Pressed like a nightmare on his patient soul.
    Martyr beloved, on whom, when life was done,
    Fame looked, and saw another Washington!

[19] By permission of the author.

ON THE LIFE-MASK OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN[20]

BY RICHARD WATSON GILDER

    This bronze doth keep the very form and mold
      Of our great martyr's face. Yes, this is he:
      That brow all wisdom, all benignity;
    That human, humorous mouth; those cheeks that hold
    Like some harsh landscape all the summer's gold;
      That spirit fit for sorrow, as the sea
      For storms to beat on; the lone agony
    Those silent, patient lips too well foretold.
    Yes, this is he who ruled a world of men
      As might some prophet of the elder day--
      Brooding above the tempest and the fray
    With deep-eyed thought and more than mortal ken.
      A power was his beyond the touch of art
      Or armed strength--his pure and mighty heart.

[20] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

TRIBUTES

To him belongs the credit of having worked his way up from the humblest position an American
freeman can occupy to the highest and most powerful, without losing, in the least, the simplicity
and sincerity of nature which endeared him alike to the plantation slave and the metropolitan
millionaire.

The most malignant party opposition has never been able to call in question the patriotism
of his motives, or tarnish with the breath of suspicion the brightness of his spotless fidelity.
Ambition did not warp, power corrupt, nor glory dazzle him.

                                               Warren H. Cudworth.

By his steady, enduring confidence in God, and in the complete ultimate success of the cause
of God which is the cause of humanity, more than in any other way does he now speak to us,
and to the nation he loved and served so well.

                                                      P. D. Gurley.

Chieftain, farewell! The nation mourns thee. Mothers shall teach thy name to their lisping
children. The youth of our land shall emulate thy virtues. Statesmen shall study thy record,
and learn lessons of wisdom. Mute though thy lips be, yet they still speak. Hushed is thy voice,
but its echoes of liberty are ringing through the world, and the sons of bondage listen with joy.

                                                   Matthew Simpson.

LINCOLN

BY GEORGE HENRY BOKER.

    Crown we our heroes with a holier wreath
    Than man e'er wore upon this side of death;
    Mix with their laurels deathless asphodels,
    And chime their pæans from the sacred bells!
    Nor in your prayers forget the martyred Chief,
    Fallen for the gospel of your own belief,
    Who, ere he mounted to the people's throne,
    Asked for your prayers, and joined in them his own.
    I knew the man. I see him, as he stands
    With gifts of mercy in his outstretched hands;
    A kindly light within his gentle eyes,
    Sad as the toil in which his heart grew wise;
    His lips half-parted with the constant smile
    That kindled truth, but foiled the deepest guile;
    His head bent forward, and his willing ear
    Divinely patient right and wrong to hear:
    Great in his goodness, humble in his state,
    Firm in his purpose, yet not passionate,
    He led his people with a tender hand,
    And won by love a sway beyond command,
    Summoned by lot to mitigate a time
    Frenzied with rage, unscrupulous with crime,
    He bore his mission with so meek a heart
    That Heaven itself took up his people's part;
    And when he faltered, helped him ere he fell,
    Eking his efforts out by miracle.
    No king this man, by grace of God's intent;
    No, something better, freeman,--President!
    A nature, modeled on a higher plan,
    Lord of himself, an inborn gentleman!

AN HORATIAN ODE[21]

BY RICHARD HENRY STODDARD

    Not as when some great captain falls
    In battle, where his country calls,
        Beyond the struggling lines
        That push his dread designs

    To doom, by some stray ball struck dead:
    Or in the last charge, at the head
        Of his determined men,
        Who must be victors then!

    Nor as when sink the civic great,
    The safer pillars of the State,
        Whose calm, mature, wise words
        Suppress the need of swords!--

    With no such tears as e'er were shed
    Above the noblest of our dead
        Do we to-day deplore
        The man that is no more!

    Our sorrow hath a wider scope,
    Too strange for fear, too vast for hope,--
        A wonder, blind and dumb,
        That waits--what is to come!

    Not more astonished had we been
    If madness, that dark night, unseen,
        Had in our chambers crept,
        And murdered while we slept!

    We woke to find a mourning earth--
    Our Lares shivered on the hearth,--
        To roof-tree fallen,--all
        That could affright, appall!

    Such thunderbolts, in other lands,
    Have smitten the rod from royal hands,
        But spared, with us, till now,
        Each laurelled Cæsar's brow!

    No Cæsar he, whom we lament,
    A man without a precedent,
        Sent it would seem, to do
        His work--and perish too!

    Not by the weary cares of state,
    The endless tasks, which will not wait,
        Which, often done in vain,
        Must yet be done again:

    Not in the dark, wild tide of war,
    Which rose so high, and rolled so far,
        Sweeping from sea to sea
        In awful anarchy:--

    Four fateful years of mortal strife,
    Which slowly drained the nation's life,
        (Yet, for each drop that ran
        There sprang an armed man!)

    Not then;--but when by measures meet,--
    By victory, and by defeat,--
        By courage, patience, skill,
        The people's fixed "We will!"

    Had pierced, had crushed rebellion dead,--
    Without a hand, without a head:--
        At last, when all was well,
        He fell--O, how he fell!

    The time,--the place,--the stealing shape,--
    The coward shot,--the swift escape,--
        The wife,--the widow's scream,--
        It is a hideous dream!

    A dream?--what means this pageant, then?
    These multitudes of solemn men,
        Who speak not when they meet,
        But throng the silent street?

    The flags half-mast, that late so high
    Flaunted at each new victory?
        (The stars no brightness shed,
        But bloody looks the red!)

    The black festoons that stretch for miles,
    And turn the streets to funeral aisles?
        (No house too poor to show
        The nation's badge of woe!)

    The cannon's sudden, sullen boom,--
    The bells that toll of death and doom,--
        The rolling of the drums,--
        The dreadful car that comes?

    Cursed be the hand that fired the shot!
    The frenzied brain that hatched the plot!
        Thy country's father slain
        By thee, thou worse than Cain!

    Tyrants have fallen by such as thou,
    And good hath followed--may it now!
        (God lets bad instruments
        Produce the best events.)

    But he, the man we mourn to-day,
    No tyrant was: so mild a sway
        In one such weight who bore
        Was never known before!

    Cool should be he, of balanced powers.
    The ruler of a race like ours,
        Impatient, headstrong, wild,--
        The man to guide the child!

    And this he was, who most unfit
    (So hard the sense of God to hit!)
        Did seem to fill his place.
        With such a homely face,--

    Such rustic manners,--speech uncouth,--
    (That somehow blundered out the truth!)
        Untried, untrained to bear
        The more than kingly care!

    Ay! And his genius put to scorn
    The proudest in the purple born,
        Whose wisdom never grew
        To what, untaught, he knew--

    The people, of whom he was one.
    No gentleman like Washington,--
        (Whose bones, methinks, make room,
        To have him in their tomb!)

    A laboring man, with horny hands,
    Who swung the axe, who tilled his lands,
        Who shrank from nothing new,
        But did as poor men do!

    One of the people! Born to be
    Their curious epitome;
        To share, yet rise above
        Their shifting hate and love.

    Common his mind (it seemed so then),
    His thought the thoughts of other men:
        Plain were his words, and poor--
        But now they will endure!

    No hasty fool, of stubborn will,
    But prudent, cautious, pliant, still;
        Who, since his work was good,
        Would do it, as he could.

    Doubting, was not ashamed to doubt,
    And, lacking prescience, went without:
        Often appeared to halt,
        And was, of course, at fault:

    Heard all opinions, nothing loth,
    And loving both sides, angered both:
        Was--not like justice, blind,
        But watchful, clement, kind.

    No hero, this, of Roman mould;
    Nor like our stately sires of old:
        Perhaps he was not great--
        But he preserved that State!

    O honest face, which all men knew!
    O tender heart, but known to few!
        O wonder of the age,
        Cut off by tragic rage!

    Peace! Let the long procession come,
    For hark!--the mournful, muffled drum--
        The trumpet's wail afar,--
        And see! the awful car!

    Peace! Let the sad procession go,
    While cannon boom, and bells toll slow:
        And go, thou sacred car,
        Bearing our woe afar!

    Go, darkly borne, from State to State,
    Whose loyal, sorrowing cities wait
        To honor all they can
        The dust of that good man!

    Go, grandly borne, with such a train
    As greatest kings might die to gain:
        The just, the wise, the brave
        Attend thee to the grave!

    And you, the soldiers of our wars,
    Bronzed veterans, grim with noble scars,
        Salute him once again,
        Your late commander--slain!

    Yes, let your tears, indignant, fall,
    But leave your muskets on the wall:
        Your country needs you now
        Beside the forge, the plough!

    (When justice shall unsheathe her brand,--
    If mercy may not stay her hand,
        Nor would we have it so--
        She must direct the blow!)

    And you, amid the master-race,
    Who seem so strangely out of place,
        Know ye who cometh? He
        Who hath declared ye free!

    Bow while the body passes--nay,
    Fall on your knees, and weep, and pray!
        Weep, weep--I would ye might--
        Your poor, black faces white!

    And children, you must come in bands,
    With garlands in your little hands,
        Of blue, and white, and red,
        To strew before the dead!

    So sweetly, sadly, sternly goes
    The fallen to his last repose:
        Beneath no mighty dome.
        But in his modest home;

    The churchyard where his children rest,
    The quiet spot that suits him best:
        There shall his grave be made,
        And there his bones be laid!

    And there his countrymen shall come,
    With memory proud, with pity dumb,
        And strangers far and near,
        For many and many a year!

    For many a year, and many an age,
    While history on her ample page
        The virtues shall enroll
        Of that paternal soul!

[21] By permission of Charles Scribner's Sons.

SOME FOREIGN TRIBUTES TO LINCOLN

From "The Lives and Deeds of Our Self-made Men"[22]

BY MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE

(1889)

On the first of May, 1865, Sir George Grey, in the English House of Commons, moved an address
to the Crown, to express the feelings of the House upon the assassination of Mr. Lincoln. In
this address he said that he was convinced that Mr. Lincoln "in the hour of victory, and in
the triumph of victory, would have shown that wise forbearance, and that generous consideration,
which would have added tenfold lustre to the fame that he had already acquired, amidst the
varying fortunes of the war."

In the House of Lords, Lord John Russell, in moving a similar address, observed: "President
Lincoln was a man who, although he had not been distinguished before his election, had from
that time displayed a character of so much integrity, sincerity and straightforwardness, and
at the same time of so much kindness, that if any one could have been able to alleviate the
pain and animosity which have prevailed during the civil war, I believe President Lincoln was
the man to have done so." And again, in speaking of the question of amending the Constitution
so as to prohibit slavery, he said: "We must all feel that there again the death of President
Lincoln deprives the United States of the man who was the leader on this subject."

Mr. John Stuart Mill, the distinguished philosopher, in a letter to an American friend, used
far stronger expressions than these guarded phrases of high officials. He termed Mr. Lincoln
"the great citizen who had afforded so noble an example of the qualities befitting the first
magistrate of a free people, and who, in the most trying circumstances, had gradually won not
only the admiration, but almost the personal affection of all who love freedom or appreciate
simplicity or uprightness."

Professor Goldwin Smith writing to the London Daily News, began by saying, "It is difficult
to measure the calamity which the United States and the world have sustained by the murder
of President Lincoln. The assassin has done his best to strike down mercy and moderation, of
both of which this good and noble life was the mainstay."

Senhor Rebello da Silva, a member of the Portuguese Chamber of Peers, in moving a resolution
on the death of Mr. Lincoln, thus outlined his character: "He is truly great who rises to the
loftiest heights from profound obscurity, relying solely on his own merits as did Napoleon,
Washington, Lincoln. For these arose to power and greatness, not through any favor or grace,
by a chance cradle, or genealogy, but through the prestige of their own deeds, through the
nobility which begins and ends with themselves--the sole offspring of their own works.... Lincoln
was of this privileged class; he belonged to this aristocracy. In infancy, his energetic soul
was nourished by poverty. In youth, he learned through toil the love of liberty, and respect
for the rights of man. Even to the age of twenty-two, educated in adversity, his hands made
callous by honorable labor, he rested from the fatigues of the field, spelling out, in the
pages of the Bible, in the lessons of the gospel, in the fugitive leaves of the daily journal--which
the aurora opens, and the night disperses--the first rudiments of instruction, which his solitary
meditations ripened. The chrysalis felt one day the ray of the sun, which called it to life,
broke its involucrum, and it launched forth fearlessly from the darkness of its humble cloister
into the luminous spaces of its destiny. The farmer, day-laborer, shepherd, like Cincinnatus,
left the ploughshare in the half-broken furrow, and, legislator of his own State, and afterwards
of the Great Republic, saw himself proclaimed in the tribunal the popular chief of several
millions of people, the maintainer of the holy principle inaugurated by Wilberforce."

There are some vague and some only partially correct statements in this diffuse passage; but
it shows plainly enough how enthusiastically the Portuguese nobleman had admired the antique
simplicity and strength of Mr. Lincoln's character. The name of Lincoln will remain one of
the greatest that history has to inscribe on its annals.... Among the legacies which Lincoln
leaves to us, we shall all regard as the most precious, his spirit of equity, of moderation,
and of peace, according to which he will still preside, if I may so speak, over the restoration
of your great nation."

The "Democratic Association" of Florence, addressed "to the Free People of the United States,"
a letter, in which they term Mr. Lincoln "the honest, the magnanimous citizen, the most worthy
chief magistrate of your glorious Federation."

The eminent French liberal, M. Edouard Laboulaye, in a speech showing a remarkably just understanding
and extremely broad views with respect to the affairs and the men of the United States, said:
"Mr. Lincoln was one of those heroes who are ignorant of themselves; his thoughts will reign
after him. The name of Washington has already been pronounced, and I think with reason. Doubtless
Mr. Lincoln resembled Franklin more than Washington. By his origin, his arch good nature, his
ironical good sense, and his love of anecdotes and jesting, he was of the same blood as the
printer of Philadelphia. But it is nevertheless true that in less than a century, America has
passed through two crises in which its liberty might have been lost, if it had not had honest
men at its head; and that each time it has had the happiness to meet the man best fitted to
serve it. If Washington founded the Union, Lincoln has saved it. History will draw together
and unite those two names. A single word explains Mr. Lincoln's whole life: it was Duty. Never
did he put himself forward; never did he think of himself; never did he seek one of those ingenious
combinations which puts the head of a state in bold relief, and enhances his importance at
the expense of the country; his only ambition, his only thought was faithfully to fulfil the
mission which his fellow-citizens had entrusted to him.... His inaugural address, March 4,
1865, shows us what progress had been made in his soul. This piece of familiar eloquence is
a master-piece; it is the testament of a patriot. I do not believe that any eulogy of the President
would equal this page on which he had depicted himself in all his greatness and all his simplicity....
History is too often only a school of immorality. It shows us the victory of force or stratagem
much more than the success of justice, moderation, and probity. It is too often only the apotheosis
of triumphant selfishness. There are noble and great exceptions; happy those who can increase
the number, and thus bequeath a noble and beneficent example to posterity! Mr. Lincoln is among
these. He would willingly have repeated, after Franklin, that 'falsehood and artifice are the
practice of fools who have not wit enough to be honest.' All his private life, and all his
political life, were inspired and directed by this profound faith in the omnipotence of virtue.
It is through this, again, that he deserves to be compared with Washington; it is through this
that he will remain in history with the most glorious name that can be merited by the head
of a free people--a name given him by his cotemporaries, and which will be preserved to him
by posterity--that of Honest Abraham Lincoln."

A letter from the well-known French historian, Henri Martin, to the Paris Siècle, contained
the following passages: "Lincoln will remain the austere and sacred personification of a great
epoch, the most faithful expression of democracy. This simple and upright man, prudent and
strong, elevated step by step from the artisan's bench to the command of a great nation, and
always without parade and without effort, at the height of his position; executing without
precipitation, without flourish, and with invincible good sense, the most colossal acts; giving
to the world this decisive example of the civil power in a republic; directing a gigantic war,
without free institutions being for an instant compromised or threatened by military usurpation;
dying, finally, at the moment when, after conquering, he was intent on pacification, ... this
man will stand out, in the traditions of his country and the world, as an incarnation of the
people, and of modern democracy itself. The great work of emancipation had to be sealed, therefore,
with the blood of the just, even as it was inaugurated with the blood of the just. The tragic
history of the abolition of slavery, which opened with the gibbet of John Brown, will close
with the assassination of Lincoln.

"And now let him rest by the side of Washington, as the second founder of the great Republic.
European democracy is present in spirit at his funeral, as it voted in its heart for his re-election,
and applauded the victory in the midst of which he passed away. It will wish with one accord
to associate itself with the monument that America will raise to him upon the capitol of prostrate
slavery."

The London Globe, in commenting on Mr. Lincoln's assassination, said that he "had come nobly
through a great ordeal. He had extorted the admiration even of his opponents, at least on this
side of the water. They had come to admire, reluctantly, his firmness, honesty, fairness and
sagacity. He tried to do, and had done, what he considered his duty, with magnanimity."

The London Express said, "He had tried to show the world how great, how moderate, and how true
he could be, in the moment of his great triumph."

The Liverpool Post said, "If ever there was a man who in trying times avoided offenses, it
was Mr. Lincoln. If there ever was a leader in a civil contest who shunned acrimony and eschewed
passion, it was he. In a time of much cant and affectation he was simple, unaffected, true,
transparent. In a season of many mistakes he was never known to be wrong.... By a happy tact,
not often so felicitously blended with pure evidence of soul, Abraham Lincoln knew when to
speak, and never spoke too early or too late.... The memory of his statesmanship, translucent
in the highest degree, and above the average, and openly faithful, more than almost any of
this age has witnessed, to fact and right, will live in the hearts and minds of the whole Anglo-Saxon
race, as one of the noblest examples of that race's highest qualities. Add to all this that
Abraham Lincoln was the humblest and pleasantest of men, that he had raised himself from nothing,
and that to the last no grain of conceit or ostentation was found in him, and there stands
before the world a man whose like we shall not soon look upon again."

In the remarks of M. Rouher, the French Minister, in the Legislative Assembly, on submitting
to that Assembly the official despatch of the French Foreign Minister of the Chargé at Washington,
M. Rouher remarked, of Mr. Lincoln's personal character, that he had exhibited "that calm firmness
and indomitable energy which belong to strong minds, and are the necessary conditions of the
accomplishment of great duties. In the hour of victory he exhibited generosity, moderation
and conciliation."

And in the despatch, which was signed by Mr. Drouyn de L'Huys, were the following expressions:
"Abraham Lincoln exhibited, in the exercise of the power placed in his hands, the most substantial
qualities. In him, firmness of character was allied to elevation of principle.... In reviewing
these last testimonies to his exalted wisdom, as well as the examples of good sense, of courage,
and of patriotism, which he has given, history will not hesitate to place him in the rank of
citizens who have the most honored their country."

In the Prussian Lower House, Herr Loewes, in speaking of the news of the assassination, said
that Mr. Lincoln "performed his duties without pomp or ceremony, and relied on that dignity
of his inner self alone, which is far above rank, orders and titles. He was a faithful servant,
not less of his own commonwealth than of civilization, freedom and humanity."

[22] By permission of Dana Estes Company.

FROM 'THE GETTYSBURG ODE'

BY BAYARD TAYLOR

    After the eyes that looked, the lips that spake
    Here, from the shadows of impending death,
            Those words of solemn breath,
            What voice may fitly break
    The silence, doubly hallowed, left by him?
    We can but bow the head, with eyes grown dim,
        And as a Nation's litany, repeat
    The phrase his martyrdom hath made complete,
    Noble as then, but now more sadly sweet:
    "Let us, the Living, rather dedicate
    Ourselves to the unfinished work, which they
    Thus far advanced so nobly on its way,
            And saved the perilled State!
    Let us, upon this field where they, the brave,
    Their last full measure of devotion gave,
    Highly resolve they have not died in vain!--
    That, under God, the Nation's later birth
        Of Freedom, and the people's gain
    Of their own Sovereignty, shall never wane
    And perish from the circle of the earth!"
    From such a perfect text, shall Song aspire
            To light her faded fire,
        And into wandering music turn
    Its virtue, simple, sorrowful, and stern?
    His voice all elegies anticipated;
            For, whatsoe'er the strain,
            We hear that one refrain:
    "We consecrate ourselves to them, the Consecrated!"

TRIBUTES

Thank God for Abraham Lincoln! However lightly the words may sometimes pass your lips, let
us speak them now and always of this man sincerely, solemnly, reverently, as so often dying
soldiers and bereaved women and little children spoke them. Thank God for Abraham Lincoln--for
the Lincoln who died and whose ashes rest at Springfield--for the Lincoln who lives in the
hearts of the American people--in their widened sympathies and uplifted ideals. Thank God for
the work he did, is doing, and is to do. Thank God for Abraham Lincoln.

                                                 James Willis Gleed.

                                                John T. Morse, Jr.

Those who are raised high enough to be able to look over the stone walls, those who are intelligent
enough to take a broader view of things than that which is bounded by the lines of any one
State or section, understand that the unity of the nation is of the first importance, and are
prepared to make those sacrifices and concessions, within the bounds of loyalty, which are
necessary for its maintenance, and to cherish that temper of fraternal affection which alone
can fill the form of national existence with the warm blood of life. The first man after the
Civil War, to recognize this great principle and to act upon it was the head of the nation,--that
large and generous soul whose worth was not fully felt until he was taken from his people by
the stroke of the assassin, in the very hour when his presence was most needed for the completion
of the work of reunion.

                                                 Henry Van Dyke.

LINCOLN

From MacMillan's Magazine, England

    LINCOLN! When men would name a man
      Just, unperturbed, magnanimous,
    Tried in the lowest seat of all,
      Tried in the chief seat of the house--

    Lincoln! When men would name a man
      Who wrought the great work of his age,
    Who fought and fought the noblest fight,
      And marshalled it from stage to stage,

    Victorious, out of dusk and dark,
      And into dawn and on till day,
    Most humble when the pæans rang,
      Least rigid when the enemy lay

    Prostrated for his feet to tread--
      This name of Lincoln will they name,
    A name revered, a name of scorn,
      Of scorn to sundry, not to fame.

    Lincoln, the man who freed the slave;
      Lincoln whom never self enticed;
    Slain Lincoln, worthy found to die
      A soldier of his captain Christ.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

    This man whose homely face you look upon,
    Was one of Nature's masterful, great men;
    Born with strong arms, that unfought battles won,
    Direct of speech, and cunning with the pen.
    Chosen for large designs, he had the art
    Of winning with his humor, and he went
    Straight to his mark, which was the human heart;
    Wise, too, for what he could not break he bent.
    Hold, warriors, councillors, kings! All now give place
    To this dead Benefactor of the race!

                                     Richard Henry Stoddard.

LINCOLN[23]

BY EDNA DEAN PROCTOR

    Now must the storied Potomac
      Laurels for ever divide,
    Now to the Sangamon fameless
      Give of its century's pride.

    Sangamon, stream of the prairies,
      Placidly westward that flows,
    Far in whose city of silence
      Calm he has sought his repose.
    Over our Washington's river
      Sunrise beams rosy and fair,
    Sunset on Sangamon fairer--
      Father and martyr lies there.

    Kings under pyramids slumber,
      Sealed in the Lybian sands;
    Princes in gorgeous cathedrals
      Decked with the spoil of the lands
    Kinglier, princelier sleeps he
      Couched 'mid the prairies serene,
    Only the turf and the willow
      Him and God's heaven between!
    Temple nor column to cumber
      Verdure and bloom of the sod--
    So, in the vale by Beth-peor,
      Moses was buried of God.

    Break into blossom, O prairies!
      Snowy and golden and red;
    Peers of the Palestine lilies
      Heap for your glorious dead!
    Roses as fair as of Sharon,
      Branches as stately as palm,
    Odors as rich as the spices--
      Cassia and aloes and balm--
    Mary the loved and Salome,
      All with a gracious accord,
    Ere the first glow of the morning
      Brought to the tomb of the Lord

    Wind of the West! breathe around him
      Soft as the saddened air's sigh
    When to the summit of Pisgah
      Moses had journeyed to die.
    Clear as its anthem that floated
      Wide o'er the Moabite plain,
    Low with the wail of the people
      Blending its burdened refrain.
    Rarer, O Wind! and diviner,--
      Sweet as the breeze that went by
    When, over Olivet's mountain,
      Jesus was lost in the sky.

    Not for thy sheaves nor savannas
      Crown we thee, proud Illinois!
    Here in his grave is thy grandeur;
      Born of his sorrow thy joy.
    Only the tomb by Mount Zion
      Hewn for the Lord do we hold
    Dearer than his in thy prairies,
      Girdled with harvests of gold.
    Still for the world, through the ages
      Wreathing with glory his brow,
    He shall be Liberty's Saviour--
      Freedom's Jerusalem thou!

[23] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

[24] By permission of David McKay.

VII

THE WHOLE MAN

LINCOLN, THE MAN OF THE PEOPLE[25]

BY EDWIN MARKHAM

Revised especially for this volume.

    When the Norn Mother saw the Whirlwind Hour
    Greatening and darkening as it hurried on,
    She left the Heaven of Heroes and came down
    To make a man to meet the mortal need.
    She took the tried clay of the common road--
    Clay warm yet with the genial heat of Earth,
    Dashed through it all a strain of prophecy;
    Tempered the heap with thrill of human tears;
    Then mixed a laughter with the serious stuff.
    Into the shape she breathed a flame to light
    That tender, tragic, ever-changing face.
    Here was a man to hold against the world,
    A man to match the mountains and the sea.

    The color of the ground was in him, the red earth;
    The smack and smell of elemental things--
    The rectitude and patience of the rocks;
    The good-will of the rain that falls for all;
    The courage of the bird that dares the sea;
    The gladness of the wind that shakes the corn;
    The friendly welcome of the wayside well;
    The mercy of the snow that hides all scars;
    The undelaying justice of the light
    That gives as freely to the shrinking flower
    As to the great oak flaring to the wind--
    To the grave's low hill as to the Matterhorn
    That shoulders out the sky.

                  Born of the ground,
    The Great West nursed him on her rugged knees.
    Her rigors keyed the sinews of his will;
    The strength of virgin forests braced his mind;
    The hush of spacious prairies stilled his soul.
    The tools were his first teachers, kindly stern.
    The plow, the flail, the maul, the echoing ax
    Taught him their homely wisdom, and their peace.
    A rage for knowledge drove his restless mind:
    He fed his spirit with the bread of books,
    He slaked his thirst at all the wells of thought.
    Hunger and hardship, penury and pain
    Waylaid his youth and wrestled for his life.
    They came to master, but he made them serve.

    From prairie cabin up to Capitol,
    One fire was on his spirit, one resolve--
    To strike the stroke that rounds the perfect star.
    The grip that swung the ax on Sangamon
    Was on the pen that spelled Emancipation.
    He built the rail-pile as he built the State,
    Pouring his splendid strength through every blow,
    The conscience of him testing every stroke,
    To make his deed the measure of a man.

    So came the Captain with the thinking heart;
    And when the judgment thunders split the house,
    Wrenching the rafters from their ancient rest,
    He held the ridgepole up, and spiked again
    The rafters of the Home. He held his place--
    Held the long purpose like a growing tree--
    Held on through blame and faltered not at praise.
    And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down
    As when a lordly cedar green with boughs
    Goes down with a great shout upon the hills,
    And leaves a lonesome place against the sky.

[25] All rights reserved by the author.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

BY GOLDWIN SMITH

Abraham Lincoln is assuredly one of the marvels of history. No land but America has produced
his like. This destined chief of a nation in its most perilous hour was the son of a thriftless
and wandering settler. He had a strong and eminently fair understanding, with great powers
of patient thought, which he cultivated by the study of Euclid. In all his views there was
the simplicity of his character. Both as an advocate and as a politician he was "Honest Abe."
As an advocate he would throw up his brief when he knew that his case was bad. He said himself
that he had not controlled events, but had been guided by them. To know how to be guided by
events, however, if it is not imperial genius, is practical wisdom. Lincoln's goodness of heart,
his sense of duty, his unselfishness, his freedom from vanity, his long suffering, his simplicity,
were never disturbed either by power or by opposition. To the charge of levity no man could
be less open. Though he trusted in Providence, care for the public and sorrow for the public
calamities filled his heart and sat visibly upon his brow. His State papers are excellent,
not only as public documents, but as compositions, and are distinguished by their depth of
human feeling and tenderness, from those of other statesmen. He spoke always from his own heart
to the heart of the people. His brief funeral oration over the graves of those who had fallen
in the war is one of the gems of the language.

GREATNESS OF HIS SIMPLICITY

BY H. A. DELANO

He was uneducated, as that term goes to-day, and yet he gave statesmen and educators things
to think about for a hundred years to come. Beneath the awkward, angular and diffident frame
beat one of the noblest, largest, tenderest hearts that ever swelled in aspiration for truth,
or longed to accomplish a freeman's duty. He might have lacked in that acute analysis which
knows the "properties of matter," but he knew the passions, emotions, and weaknesses of men;
he knew their motives. He had the genius to mine men and strike easily the rich ore of human
nature. He was poor in this world's goods, and I prize gratefully a fac-simile letter lying
among the treasures of my study written by Mr. Lincoln to an old friend, requesting the favor
of a small loan, as he had entered upon that campaign of his that was not done until death
released the most steadfast hero of that cruel war. Men speculate as to his religion. It was
the religion of the seer, the hero, the patriot, and the lover of his race and time. Amid the
political idiocy of the times, the corruption in high places, the dilettante culture, the vaporings
of wild and helpless theorists, in this swamp of political quagmire, O Lincoln, it is refreshing
to think of thee!

HORACE GREELEY'S ESTIMATE OF LINCOLN

From "Greeley on Lincoln"

When I last saw him, some five or six weeks before his death, his face was haggard with care,
and seamed with thought and trouble. It looked care-ploughed, tempest-tossed, weather-beaten,
as if he were some tough old mariner, who had for years been beating up against the wind and
tide, unable to make his port or find safe anchorage. Judging from that scathed, rugged countenance,
I do not believe he could have lived out his second term had no felon hand been lifted against
his priceless life.

The chief moral I deduce from his eventful career asserts

    The might that slumbers in a peasant's arm!

the majestic heritage, the measureless opportunity, of the humblest American youth. Here was
an heir of poverty and insignificance, obscure, untaught, buried throughout his childhood in
the frontier forests, with no transcendent, dazzling abilities, such as make their way in any
country, under any institutions, but emphatically in intellect, as in station, one of the millions
of strivers for a rude livelihood, who, though attaching himself stubbornly to the less popular
party, and especially so in the State which he has chosen as his home, did nevertheless become
a central figure of the Western Hemisphere, and an object of honor, love, and reverence throughout
the civilized world. Had he been a genius, an intellectual prodigy, like Julius Caesar, or
Shakespeare, or Mirabeau, or Webster, we might say: "This lesson is not for us--with such faculties
any one could achieve and succeed"; but he was not a born king of men, ruling by the resistless
might of his natural superiority, but a child of the people, who made himself a great persuader,
therefore a leader by dint of firm resolve, and patient effort, and dogged perseverance. He
slowly won his way to eminence and renown by ever doing the work that lay next to him--doing
it with all his growing might--doing it as well as he could, and learning by his failure, when
failure was encountered, how to do it better. Wendell Phillips once coarsely said, "He grew
because we watered him"; which was only true in so far as this--he was open to all impressions
and influences, and gladly profited by all the teachings of events and circumstances, no matter
how adverse or unwelcome. There was probably no year of his life in which he was not a wiser,
larger, better man than he had been the year preceding.

There are those who profess to have been always satisfied with his conduct of the war, deeming
it prompt, energetic, vigorous, masterly. I did not, and could not, so regard it. I believed
then--I believe this hour,--that a Napoleon I., a Jackson, would have crushed secession out
in a single short campaign--almost in a single victory. I believed that an advance to Richmond
100,000 strong might have been made by the end of June, 1861; that would have insured a counter-revolution
throughout the South, and a voluntary return of every State, through a dispersion and disavowal
of its rebel chiefs, to the councils and the flag of the Union. But such a return would have
not merely left slavery intact--it would have established it on firmer foundations than ever
before. The momentarily alienated North and South would have fallen on each other's necks,
and, amid tears and kisses, have sealed their reunion by ignominiously making the Black the
scapegoat of their bygone quarrel, and wreaking on him the spite which they had purposed to
expend on each other. But God had higher ends, to which a Bull Run, a Ball's Bluff, a Gaines's
Mill, a Groveton, were indispensable: and so they came to pass, and were endured and profited
by. The Republic needed to be passed through chastening, purifying fires of adversity and suffering:
so these came and did their work and the verdure of a new national life springs greenly, luxuriantly,
from their ashes. Other men were helpful to the great renovation, and nobly did their part
in it; yet, looking back through the lifting mists of seven eventful, tragic, trying, glorious
years, I clearly discern that the one providential leader, the indispensable hero of the great
drama--faithfully reflecting even in his hesitations and seeming vacillations the sentiment
of the masses--fitted by his very defects and shortcomings for the burden laid upon him, the
good to be wrought out through him, was Abraham Lincoln.

LINCOLN

BY J. T. TROWBRIDGE

    Heroic soul, in homely garb half hid,
      Sincere, sagacious, melancholy, quaint;
    What he endured, no less than what he did,
      Has reared his monument, and crowned him saint.

THE RELIGIOUS CHARACTER OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN[26]

BY B. B. TYLER

In 1865, the bullet of an assassin suddenly terminated the life among men of one who was an
honor to his race. He was great and good. He was great because he was good. Lincoln's religious
character was the one thing which, above all other features of his unique mental and moral
as well as physical personality, lifted him above his fellow men.

Because an effort has been made to parade Abraham Lincoln as an unbeliever, I have been led
to search carefully for the facts in his life bearing on this point. The testimony seems to
be almost entirely, if not altogether, on one side. I cannot account for the statement which
William H. Herndon makes in his life of the martyred President, that, "Mr. Lincoln had no faith."
For twenty-five years Mr. Herndon was Abraham Lincoln's law partner in Springfield, Ill. He
had the best opportunities to know Abraham Lincoln. When, however, he affirms that "Mr. Lincoln
had no faith," he speaks without warrant. It is simply certain that he uses words in their
usually accepted signification, although his statement concerning Lincoln is not true.

Abraham Lincoln was a man of profound faith. He believed in God. He believed in Christ. He
believed in the Bible. He believed in men. His faith made him great. His life is a beautiful
commentary on the words, "This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith." There
was a time in Lincoln's experience when his faith faltered, as there was a time when his reason
tottered, but these sad experiences were temporary, and Abraham Lincoln was neither an infidel
nor a lunatic. It is easy to trace in the life of this colossal character, a steady growth
of faith. This grace in him increased steadily in breadth and in strength with the passing
years, until it came to pass that his last public utterances show forth the confidence and
the fire of an ancient Hebrew prophet.

It is true that Lincoln never united with the Church, although a lifelong and regular attendant
on its services. He had a reason for occupying a position outside the fellowship of the Church
of Christ as it existed in his day and in his part of the world. This reason Lincoln did not
hesitate to declare. He explained on one occasion that he had never become a church member
because he did not like and could not in conscience subscribe to the long and frequently complicated
statements of Christian doctrines which characterized the confessions of the Churches.

Abraham Lincoln in these words recognizes the central figure of the Bible, Jesus of Nazareth,
as "the Saviour." He recognizes God as the supreme Lawgiver, and expresses readiness, while
eschewing theological subtleties, to submit heart and soul to the supreme Lawgiver of the universe.
His faith, according to this language, goes out manward as well as Godward. He believed not
only in God, but he believed in man as well, and this Christianity, according to Christ, requires
of all disciples of the great Teacher. He saw and declared that the teaching of the Bible had
a tendency to improve character. He had a right view of this sacred literature. Its purpose
is character building.

Leonard Swett, who knew Abraham Lincoln well, said at the unveiling of the Chicago monument
that Lincoln "believed in God as the supreme ruler of the universe, the guide of men, and the
controller of the great events and destinies of mankind. He believed himself to be an instrument
and leader in this country of the force of freedom."

From this it appears that his belief was not merely theoretical, but that it was practical.
He regarded himself as an instrument, as Moses was an instrument in the hands of Almighty God,
to lead men into freedom.

From this it is clear that he believed the Jesus of the Gospels to be "the Son of God." And
what a sense of responsibility he must at the time of writing this letter have experienced
to cause him to declare, "I am in the garden of Gethsemane now, and my cup of bitterness is
full and overflowing!" Only a superlatively good man, only a man of genuine piety, could use
honestly such language as this. These words do not indicate unbelief or agnosticism. If ever
a man in public life in these United States was removed the distance of the antipodes from
the coldness and bleakness of agnosticism, that man was Abraham Lincoln. This confession of
faith, incidentally made in a brief letter to a dear friend, is not only orthodox according
to the accepted standards of orthodoxy, but, better, it is evangelical. To him the hero of
the Gospel histories was none other than "the Son of God." By the use of these words did Lincoln
characterize Jesus of Nazareth.

Herndon has said in his life of Abraham Lincoln that he never read the Bible, but Alexander
Williamson, who was employed as a tutor in President Lincoln's family in Washington, said that
"Mr. Lincoln very frequently studied the Bible, with the aid of Cruden's Concordance, which
lay on his table."

I have admitted that in Lincoln's experience there was a time when his faith faltered. It is
interesting to know in what manner he came to have the faith which in the maturity of his royal
manhood and in the zenith of his intellectual powers he expressed. One of his pastors--for
he sat under the ministry of James Smith, has told in what way Lincoln came to be an intelligent
believer in the Bible, in Jesus as the Son of God, and in Christianity as Divine in its origin,
and a mighty moral and spiritual power for the regeneration of men and of the race. Mr. Smith
placed before him, he says, the arguments for and against the Divine authority and inspiration
of the Scriptures. To the arguments on both sides Lincoln gave a patient, impartial, and searching
investigation. He himself said that he examined the arguments as a lawyer investigates testimony
in a case in which he is deeply interested. At the conclusion of the investigation he declared
that the arguments in favor of the Divine authority and inspiration of the Bible is unanswerable.

So far did Lincoln go in his open sympathy with the teachings of the Bible that on one occasion
in the presence of a large assembly, he delivered the address at an annual meeting of the Springfield,
Illinois, Bible Society. In the course of his address he drew a contrast between the decalog
and the most eminent lawgiver of antiquity, in which he said: "It seems to me that nothing
short of infinite wisdom could by any possibility have devised and given to man this excellent
and perfect moral code. It is suited to men in all the conditions of life, and inculcates all
the duties they owe to their Creator, to themselves, and their fellow men."

Lincoln prepared an address, in which he declared that this country cannot exist half slave
and half-free. He affirmed the saying of Jesus, "A house divided against itself cannot stand."
Having read this address to some friends, they urged him to strike out that portion of it.
If he would do so, he could probably be elected to the United States Senate; but if he delivered
the address as written, the ground taken was so high, the position was so advanced, his sentiments
were so radical, he would probably fail of gaining a seat in the supreme legislative body of
the greatest republic on earth.

And yet we are asked to believe that a man who could express himself in this way and show this
courage was a doubter, a skeptic, an unbeliever, an agnostic, an infidel. "Christ is God."
This was Lincoln's faith in 1860, found in a letter addressed to the Hon. Newton Bateman.

Lincoln's father was a Christian. Old Uncle Tommy Lincoln, as his friends familiarly called
him, was a good man. He was what might be called a ne'er-do-well. As the world counts success,
Thomas Lincoln, the father of Abraham Lincoln, was not successful, but he was an honest man.
He was a truthful man. He was a man of faith. He worshipped God. He belonged to the church.
He was a member of a congregation in Charleston, Ill., which I had the honor to serve in the
beginning of my ministry, known as the Christian Church.

From this it appears that Lincoln cherished a hope of life everlasting through the mercy of
God. This sounds very much like the talk of a Christian.

Although Lincoln was not a church member, he was a man of prayer. He believed that God can
hear, does hear, and answer prayer. Lincoln said in conversation with General Sickles concerning
the battle of Gettysburg, that he had no anxiety as to the result. At this General Sickles
expressed surprise, and inquired into the reason for this unusual state of mind at that period
in the history of the war. Lincoln hesitated to accede to the request of General Sickles, but
was finally prevailed upon to do so, and this is what he said:

"Well, I will tell you how it was. And He did and I will. And after that (I don't know how
it was, and I can't explain it) but soon a sweet comfort crept into my soul that things would
go all right at Gettysburg, and that is why I had no fears about you."

Such faith as this will put to the blush many who are members of the church.

It was afterward that General Sickles asked him what news he had from Vicksburg.

When he entered upon the task to which the people of the United States had called him, at the
railway station in Springfield on the eve of his departure to Washington to take the oath of
office, he delivered an address. It is a model. I quote it entire.

At the time of Lincoln's assassination these words were printed in a great variety of forms.
In my home for a number of years, beautifully framed, these parting words addressed to the
friends of many years in Springfield, Ill., ornamented my humble residence. And yet one of
his biographers refers to this address as if its genuineness may well be doubted. At the time
of its delivery it was taken down and published broadcast in the papers of the day.

But it would be wearisome to you to recite all the evidences bearing on the religious character
of Abraham Lincoln.

In this passage Mr. Nicolay refers especially to Lincoln's second inaugural address. This address
has the ring of an ancient Hebrew prophet. Only a man of faith and piety could deliver such
an address. After the struggles through which the country had passed Lincoln's self-poise,
his confidence in God, his belief in and affection for his fellow men, remained unabated.

The spirit of this address, under the circumstances, is intensely Christian, and it is one
of the most remarkable speeches in the literature of the world.

When Lincoln was urged to issue his Proclamation of Emancipation he waited on God for guidance.

Stoddard, in his Life of Lincoln, gives attention beyond any of his biographers to the religious
side of Lincoln's character. Commenting on the inaugural from which I have quoted, Mr. Stoddard
said:

"His mind and soul have reached the full development in a religious life so unusually intense
and absorbing that it could not otherwise than utter itself in the grand sentences of his last
address to the people. The knowledge had come, and the faith had come, and the charity had
come, and with all had come the love of God which had put away all thought of rebellious resistance
to the will of God leading, as in his earlier days of trial, to despair and insanity."

I wish to call special attention to Lincoln's temperance habits. He was a teetotaler so far
as the use of intoxicating liquors as a beverage was concerned.

Mr. John Hay, one of his biographers, says: "Mr. Lincoln was a man of exceedingly temperate
habits. He made no use of either whisky or tobacco during all the years that I knew him."

Abraham Lincoln was a model in every respect but one. It was a mistake on the part of this
great and good man that he never identified himself openly with the Church. I know what can
be said in favor of his position. It is not, however, satisfactory. If all men were to act
in this matter as Lincoln did, there would be no Church. This is obvious. Hence the mistake
which he made. Otherwise, as to his personal habits; as to his confidence in God; as to his
faith in man; as to his conception and use of the Bible; as to his habits of prayer; as to
his judicial fairness; as to his sympathy with men--in all these respects, as in many others,
Abraham Lincoln is a character to be studied and imitated.

[26] From 'The Homiletic Review,' Funk & Wagnalls, Publishers.

TO THE SPIRIT OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN[27]

(Reunion at Gettysburg Twenty-Five Years After the Battle)

BY RICHARD WATSON GILDER

1888

    Shade of our greatest, O look down to day!
      Here the long, dread midsummer battle roared,
      And brother in brother plunged the accursed sword;--
      Here foe meets foe once more in proud array
    Yet not as once to harry and to slay
      But to strike hands, and with sublime accord
      Weep tears heroic for the souls that soared
      Quick from earth's carnage to the starry way.
    Each fought for what he deemed the people's good,
      And proved his bravery with his offered life,
      And sealed his honor with his outpoured blood;
    But the Eternal did direct the strife,
      And on this sacred field one patriot host
      Now calls thee father,--dear, majestic ghost!

[27] By permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

LINCOLN, THE TENDER-HEARTED

BY H. W. BOLTON

His biography is written in blood and tears; uncounted millions arise and call him blessed;
a redeemed and reunited republic is his monument. History embalms the memory of Richard the
Lion-Hearted; here, too, our martyr finds loyal sepulture as Lincoln the tender-hearted.

He was brave. While assassins swarmed in Washington, he went everywhere, without guard or arms.
He was magnanimous. He harbored no grudge, nursed no grievance; was quick to forgive, and was
anxious for reconciliation.

He was compassionate. With what joy he brought liberty to the enslaved. He was forgiving. In
this respect he was strikingly suggestive of the Saviour. He was great. Time will but augment
the greatness of his name and fame. Perhaps a greater man never ruled in this or any other
nation. He was good and pure and incorruptible. He was a patriot; he loved his country; he
poured out his soul unto death for it. He was human, and thus touched the chord that makes
the whole world kin.

THE CHARACTER OF LINCOLN

BY W. H. HERNDON (LINCOLN'S LAW PARTNER)

The true peculiarity of Mr. Lincoln has not been seen by his various biographers; or, if seen,
they have failed wofully to give it that prominence which it deserves. It is said that Newton
saw an apple fall to the ground from a tree, and beheld the law of the universe in that fall;
Shakespeare saw human nature in the laugh of a man; Professor Owen saw the animal in its claw;
and Spencer saw the evolution of the universe in the growth of a seed. Nature was suggestive
to all these men. Mr. Lincoln no less saw philosophy in a story, and a schoolmaster in a joke.
No man, no men, saw nature, fact, thing, or man from his stand-point. His was a new and original
position, which was always suggesting, hinting something to him. Nature, insinuations, hints
and suggestions were new, fresh, original and odd to him. The world, fact, man, principle,
all had their powers of suggestion to his susceptible soul. They continually put him in mind
of something. He was odd, fresh, new, original, and peculiar, for this reason, that he was
a new, odd, and original creation and fact. He had keen susceptibilities to the hints and suggestions
of nature, which always put him in mind of something known or unknown. Hence his power and
tenacity of what is called association of ideas must have been great. His memory was tenacious
and strong. His susceptibility to all suggestions and hints enabled him at will to call up
readily the associated and classified fact and idea.

As an evidence of this, especially peculiar to Mr. Lincoln, let me ask one question. Were Mr.
Lincoln's expression and language odd and original, standing out peculiar from those of all
other men? What does this imply? Oddity and originality of vision as well as expression; and
what is expression in words and human language, but a telling of what we see, defining the
idea arising from and created by vision and view in us? Words and language are but the counterparts
of the idea--the other half of the idea; they are but the stinging, hot, heavy, leaden bullets
that drop from the mold; and what are they in a rifle with powder stuffed behind them and fire
applied, but an embodied force pursuing their object? So are words an embodied power feeling
for comprehension in other minds. Mr. Lincoln was often perplexed to give expression to his
ideas: first, because he was not master of the English language: and, secondly, because there
were no words in it containing the coloring, shape, exactness, power, and gravity of his ideas.
He was frequently at a loss for a word, and hence was compelled to resort to stories, maxims,
and jokes to embody his idea, that it might be comprehended. So true was this peculiar mental
vision of his, that though mankind has been gathering, arranging, and classifying facts for
thousands of years, Lincoln's peculiar stand-point could give him no advantage of other men's
labor. Hence he tore up to the deep foundations all arrangements of facts, and coined and arranged
new plans to govern himself. He was compelled, from his peculiar mental organization, to do
this. His labor was great, continuous, patient and all-enduring.

The truth about this whole matter is that Mr. Lincoln read less and thought more than any man
in his sphere in America. No man can put his finger on any great book written in the last or
present century that he read. When young he read the Bible, and when of age he read Shakespeare.
This latter book was scarcely ever out of his mind. Mr. Lincoln is acknowledged to have been
a great man, but the question is, what made him great? I repeat, that he read less and thought
more than any man of his standing in America, if not in the world. He possessed originality
and power of thought in an eminent degree. He was cautious, cool, concentrated, with continuity
of reflection; was patient and enduring. These are some of the grounds of his wonderful success.

Not only was nature, man, fact and principle suggestive to Mr. Lincoln, not only had he accurate
and exact perceptions, but he was causative, i. e., his mind ran back behind all facts, things
and principles to their origin, history and first cause, to that point where forces act at
once as effect and cause. He would stop and stand in the street and analyze a machine. He would
whittle things to a point, and then count the numberless inclined planes, and their pitch,
making the point. Mastering and defining this, he would then cut that point back, and get a
broad transverse section of his pine stick, and peel and define that. Clocks, omnibuses and
language, paddle-wheels and idioms, never escaped his observation and analysis. Before he could
form any idea of anything, before he would express his opinion on any subject, he must know
it in origin and history, in substance and quality, in magnitude and gravity. He must know
his subject inside and outside, upside and down side. He searched his own mind and nature thoroughly,
as I have often heard him say. He must analyze a sensation, an idea, and words, and run them
back to their origin, history, purpose and destiny. He was most emphatically a remorseless
analyzer of facts, things and principles. When all these processes had been well and thoroughly
gone through, he could form an opinion and express it, but no sooner. He had no faith. "Say
so's" he had no respect for, coming though they might from tradition, power or authority.

All things, facts and principles had to run through his crucible and be tested by the fires
of his analytic mind; and hence, when he did speak, his utterances rang out gold-like, quick,
keen and current upon the counters of the understanding. He reasoned logically, through analogy
and comparison. All opponents dreaded him in his originality of idea, condensation, definition
and force of expression, and woe be to the man who hugged to his bosom a secret error if Mr.
Lincoln got on the chase of it. I say, woe to him! Time could hide the error in no nook or
corner of space in which he would not detect and expose it.

The great predominating elements of Mr. Lincoln's peculiar character, were: First, his great
capacity and power of reason; secondly, his excellent understanding; thirdly, an exalted idea
of the sense of right and equity; and, fourthly, his intense veneration of what was true and
good. His reason ruled despotically all other faculties and qualities of his mind. His conscience
and heart were ruled by it. His conscience was ruled by one faculty--reason. His heart was
ruled by two faculties--reason and conscience. I know it is generally believed that Mr. Lincoln's
heart, his love and kindness, his tenderness and benevolence, were his ruling qualities; but
this opinion is erroneous in every particular. First, as to his reason. He dwelt in the mind,
not in the conscience, and not in the heart. He lived and breathed and acted from his reason--the
throne of logic and the home of principle, the realm of Deity in man. It is from this point
that Mr. Lincoln must be viewed. His views were correct and original. He was cautious not to
be deceived; he was patient and enduring. He had concentration and great continuity of thought;
he had a profound analytic power; his visions were clear, and he was emphatically the master
of statement. His pursuit of the truth was indefatigable, terrible. He reasoned from his well-chosen
principles with such clearness, force, and compactness, that the tallest intellects in the
land bowed to him with respect. He was the strongest man I ever saw, looking at him from the
stand-point of his reason--the throne of his logic. He came down from that height with an irresistible
and crushing force. His printed speeches will prove this; but his speeches before courts, especially
before the Supreme Courts of the State and Nation, would demonstrate it: unfortunately, none
of them have been preserved. Here he demanded time to think and prepare. The office of reason
is to determine the truth. Truth is the power of reason--the child of reason. He loved and
idolized truth for its own sake. It was reason's food.

Conscience, the second great quality and force of Mr. Lincoln's character, is that faculty
which loves the just: its office is justice; right and equity are its correlatives. It decides
upon all acts of all people at all times. Mr. Lincoln had a deep, broad, living conscience.
His great reason told him what was true, good and bad, right, wrong, just or unjust, and his
conscience echoed back its decision; and it was from this point that he acted and spoke and
wove his character and fame among us. His conscience ruled his heart; he was always just before
he was gracious. This was his motto, his glory: and this is as it should be. It cannot be truthfully
said of any mortal man that he was always just. Mr. Lincoln was not always just; but his great
general life was. It follows that if Mr. Lincoln had great reason and great conscience, he
was an honest man. His great and general life was honest, and he was justly and rightfully
entitled to the appellation, "Honest Abe." Honesty was his great polar star.

Mr. Lincoln had also a good understanding; that is, the faculty that understands and comprehends
the exact state of things, their near and remote relations. The understanding does not necessarily
inquire for the reason of things. I must here repeat that Mr. Lincoln was an odd and original
man; he lived by himself and out of himself. He could not absorb. He was a very sensitive man,
unobtrusive and gentlemanly, and often hid himself in the common mass of men, in order to prevent
the discovery of his individuality. He had no insulting egotism, and no pompous pride; no haughtiness,
and no aristocracy. He was not indifferent, however, to approbation and public opinion. He
was not an upstart, and had no insolence. He was a meek, quiet, unobtrusive gentleman.... Read
Mr. Lincoln's speeches, letters, messages and proclamations, read his whole record in his actual
life, and you cannot fail to perceive that he had good understanding. He understood and fully
comprehended himself, and what he did and why he did it, better than most living men.

There are contradictory opinions in reference to Mr. Lincoln's heart and humanity. One opinion
is that he was cold and obdurate, and the other opinion is that he was warm and affectionate.
I have shown you that Mr. Lincoln first lived and breathed upon the world from his head and
conscience. I have attempted to show you that he lived and breathed upon the world through
the tender side of his heart, subject at all times and places to the logic of his reason, and
to his exalted sense of right and equity; namely, his conscience. He always held his conscience
subject to his head; he held his heart always subject to his head and conscience. His heart
was the lowest organ, the weakest of the three. Some men would reverse this order, and declare
that his heart was his ruling organ; that always manifested itself with love, regardless of
truth and justice, right and equity. The question still is, was Mr. Lincoln a cold, heartless
man, or a warm, affectionate man? Can a man be a warm-hearted man who is all head and conscience,
or nearly so? What, in the first place, do we mean by a warm-hearted man? Is it one who goes
out of himself and reaches for others spontaneously because of a deep love of humanity, apart
from equity and truth, and does what it does for love's sake? If so, Mr. Lincoln was a cold
man. Or, do we mean that when a human being, man or child, approached him in behalf of a matter
of right, and that the prayer of such a one was granted, that this is an evidence of his love?
The African was enslaved, his rights were violated, and a principle was violated in them. Rights
imply obligations as well as duties. Mr. Lincoln was President; he was in a position that made
it his duty, through his sense of right, his love of principle, his constitutional obligations
imposed upon him by oath of office, to strike the blow against slavery. But did he do it for
love? He himself has answered the question: "I would not free the slaves if I could preserve
the Union without it." I use this argument against his too enthusiastic friends. If you mean
that this is love for love's sake, then Mr. Lincoln was a warm-hearted man--not otherwise.
To use a general expression, his general life was cold. He had, however, a strong latent capacity
to love; but the object must first come as principle, second as right, and third as lovely.
He loved abstract humanity when it was oppressed. This was an abstract love, not concrete in
the individual, as said by some. He rarely used the term love, yet was he tender and gentle.
He gave the key-note to his own character when he said, "with malice toward none, with charity
for all," he did what he did. He had no intense loves, and hence no hates and no malice. He
had a broad charity for imperfect man, and let us imitate his great life in this.

"But was not Mr. Lincoln a man of great humanity?" asks a friend at my elbow, a little angrily;
to which I reply, "Has not that question been answered already?" Let us suppose that it has
not. We must understand each other. What do you mean by humanity? Do you mean that he had much
of human nature in him? If so, I will grant that he was a man of humanity. Do you mean, if
the above definition is unsatisfactory, that Mr. Lincoln was tender and kind? Then I agree
with you. But if you mean to say that he so loved a man that he would sacrifice truth and right
for him, for love's sake, then he was not a man of humanity. Do you mean to say that he so
loved man, for love's sake, that his heart led him out of himself, and compelled him to go
in search of the objects of his love, for their sake? He never, to my knowledge, manifested
this side of his character. Such is the law of human nature, that it cannot be all head, all
conscience, and all heart at one and the same time in one and the same person. Our Maker made
it so, and where God through reason blazed the path, walk therein boldly. Mr. Lincoln's glory
and power lay in the just combination of head, conscience, and heart, and it is here that his
fame must rest, or not at all.

Not only were Mr. Lincoln's perceptions good; not only was nature suggestive to him; not only
was he original and strong; not only had he great reason, good understanding; not only did
he love the true and good--the eternal right; not only was he tender and kind--but in due proportion
and in legitimate subordination, had he a glorious combination of them all. Through his perceptions--the
suggestiveness of nature, his originality and strength; through his magnificent reason, his
understanding, his conscience, his tenderness and kindness, his heart, rather than love--he
approximated as nearly as most human beings in this imperfect state to an embodiment of the
great moral principle, "Do unto others as ye would they should do unto you."

"WITH CHARITY FOR ALL"

LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY

IDA VOSE WOODBURY

    Again thy birthday dawns, O man beloved,
      Dawns on the land thy blood was shed to save,
    And hearts of millions, by one impulse moved,
      Bow and fresh laurels lay upon thy grave.

    The years but add new luster to thy glory,
      And watchmen on the heights of vision see
    Reflected in thy life the old, old story,
      The story of the Man of Galilee.

    We see in thee the image of Him kneeling
      Before the close-shut tomb, and at the word
    "Come forth," from out the blackness long concealing
      There rose a man; clearly again was heard

    The Master's voice, and then, his cerements broken,
      Friends of the dead a living brother see;
    Thou, at the tomb where millions lay, hast spoken:
      "Loose him and let him go!"--the slave was free.

    And in the man so long in thraldom hidden
      We see the likeness of the Father's face,
    Clod changed to soul; by thy atonement bidden,
      We hasten to the uplift of a race.

    Spirit of Lincoln! Summon all thy loyal;
      Nerve them to follow where thy feet have trod,
    To prove, by voice as clear and deed as royal,
      Man's brotherhood in our one Father--God.

FEBRUARY TWELFTH

BY MARY H. HOWLISTON

It was early in the evening in a shop where flags were sold.

There were large flags, middle-sized flags, small flags and little bits of flags. The finest
of all was Old Glory. Old Glory was made of silk and hung in graceful folds from the wall.

"Attention!" called Old Glory.

Starry eyes all over the room looked at him.

"What day of the month is it?"

"February Twelfth," quickly answered the flags.

"Whose birthday is it?" "Abraham Lincoln's."

"Where is he buried?" "Springfield, Illinois."

"Very well," said Old Glory, "you are to take some of Uncle Sam's children there to-night."

"Yes, captain," said the flags, wondering what he meant.

"First, I must know whether you are good American flags. How many red stripes have you?"

"Seven!" was the answer.

"How many white stripes?" "Six!"

"How many stars?" "Forty-five!" shouted the large flags.

The little ones said nothing.

"Ah, I see," said Old Glory, "but you are not to blame. Do you see that open transom?" he went
on. "Go through it into the street, put your staffs into the hands of any little boys you find
and bring them here."

"Yes, captain," called the flags, as they fluttered away.

Last of all, Old Glory pulled his silken stripes into the hallway and waited for the flags
to come back. "It's much too cold for little girls," he said to himself. "Their pretty noses
might freeze."

By and by the flags came back, each bringing a small boy. Old Glory looked at them.

"What's the matter?" said he; "you don't seem pleased."

No one spoke, the little boys stared with round eyes at Old Glory, but held tightly to the flags.

At last one of the flags said: "Please, captain, these are the only little boys we could find."

"Well!" said Old Glory.

"And we think they don't belong to Uncle Sam," was the answer.

"Why not?" said Old Glory.

"Some of them are ragged," called one flag.

"And some are dirty," said another.

"This one is a colored boy," said another.

"Some of them can't speak English at all."

"The one I found, why, he blacks boots!"

"And mine is a newsboy."

"Mine sleeps in a dry goods box."

"Mine plays a violin on the street corner."

"Just look at mine, captain!" said the last flag proudly, when the rest were through.

"What about him?" asked Old Glory.

"I'm sure he belongs to Uncle Sam; he lives in a brown-stone house and he wears such good clothes!"

"Of course I belong to Uncle Sam," said the brown-stone boy quickly, "but I think these street
boys do not."

"There, there!" said Old Glory; "I'll telephone to Washington and find out," and Old Glory
floated away.

The little boys watched and waited.

Back came Old Glory.

"It's all right," said he, "Uncle Sam says every one of you belongs to him and he wants you
to be brave and honest, for some day he may need you for soldiers; oh, yes! and he said, 'Tell
those poor little chaps who have such a hard time of it and no one to help them, that Mr. Lincoln
was a poor boy too, and yet he was the grandest and best of all my sons.'"

The moon was just rising.

It made the snow and ice shine.

"It's almost time," said Old Glory softly.

"Hark! you must not wink, nor cough nor sneeze nor move for three-quarters of a minute!"

That was dreadful!

The newsboy swallowed a cough.

The boot-black held his breath for fear of sneezing.

The brown-stone boy shut his eyes so as not to wink.

They all stood as if turned to stone.

Tinkle, tinkle, tinkle, came a faint sound of bells.

Nothing else was heard but the beating of their own hearts.

In exactly three-quarters of a minute, Old Glory said, "What do you think of that?"

Behold! a wonderful fairy sleigh, white as a snowdrift, and shining in the moonlight as if
covered with diamond dust.

It was piled high with softest cushions and robes of fur.

It was drawn by thirteen fairy horses, with arching necks and flowing manes and tails.

Each horse wore knots of red, white and blue at his ears and the lines were wound with ribbons
of the same.

"Jump in," said Old Glory.

Into the midst of the cushions and furs they sprang.

Crack went the whip, tinkle went the bells. Over the house-tops, through the frosty air, among
the moonbeams, up and away sailed fairy horses and sleigh, American flags and Uncle Sam's boys.

Santa Claus with his reindeer never went faster.

Presently the tinkling bells were hushed, and the fairy horses stood very still before the
tomb of Abraham Lincoln.

"Come," said Old Glory, and he led them inside.

You must get your father or mother to tell you what they saw there.

Just before they left, a dirty little hand touched Old Glory and a shrill little voice said:
"I'd like to leave my flag here. May I?"

"And may I?" said another.

Old Glory looked around and saw the same wish in the other faces.

"You forget," said he, "that the flags are not yours. It would not be right to keep them. What
did the people call Mr. Lincoln? You don't know? Well, I'll tell you. It was 'Honest Old Abe,'
and Uncle Sam wants you to be like him."

Again the merry bells tinkled, again the proud horses, with their flowing manes and tails,
sprang into the air, and before the moon had said "good-night" to the earth, they were back
at the flag shop.

The very moment they reached it, horses and sleigh, cushions and robes, melted away and the
children saw them no more.

TWO FEBRUARY BIRTHDAYS

(Exercise for the Schoolroom)

BY LIZZIE M. HADLEY AND CLARA J. DENTON

FOR EIGHT BOYS.

This dialogue, or exercise, is to be given by eight boys. While they and the school are singing
the first song the boys march upon the stage and form into a semicircle, the four boys speaking
for Washington on the right, the other four (for Lincoln) on the left. Portraits of Washington
and Lincoln should be placed in a convenient position on the stage beneath a double arch wreathed
with evergreens. The portraits should be draped with American flags. Each one of the boys should
wear a small American flag pinned to his coat.

SONG. TUNE, Rally 'Round the Flag

    We are marching from the East,
    We are marching from the West,
      Singing the praises of a nation.
    That all the world may hear
    Of the men we hold so dear,
      Singing the praises of a nation.

CHORUS

    For Washington and Lincoln,
      Hurrah, all hurrah,
    Sing as we gather
      Here from afar,
    Yes, for Washington and Lincoln,
      Let us ever sing,
    Sing all the praises of a nation.

    Yes, we love to sing this song,
    As we proudly march along,
      Singing the praises of the heroes.
    Through this great and happy land,
    We would sound their names so grand.
      Singing the praises of our heroes.

CHORUS

ALL: We have come to tell you of two men whose names must be linked together as long as the
nation shall stand, Washington and Lincoln. They stand for patriotism, goodness, truth and
true manliness. Hand in hand they shall go down the centuries together.

FIRST SPEAKER ON THE WASHINGTON SIDE: Virginia sends you greeting. I come in her name in honor
of her illustrious son, George Washington, and she bids me tell you that he was born in her
state, Feb. 22, 1732.

ALL: 'Twas years and years ago.

FIRST SPEAKER: Yes, more than a hundred and seventy, nearly two centuries.

ALL: A long time to be remembered.

FIRST SPEAKER: Yes, but Washington's name is still cherished and honored all over the land
which his valor and wisdom helped save, and, for generations yet to come, the children of the
schools shall give him a million-tongued fame.

SECOND SPEAKER: Virginia bids me tell you that as a boy, Washington was manly, brave, obedient
and kind, and that he never told a lie.

SONG: (Either as solo or chorus). AIR, What Can the Matter Be?

    Dear, dear, who can believe it?
    Dear, dear, who can conceive it?
    Dear, dear, we scarce can believe that
    Never did he tell a lie.

    O, surely temptation must oft have assailed him,
    But courage and honor we know never failed him,
    So let us all follow his wondrous example,
    And never, no never tell lies.
    And never, no never, tell lies.

THIRD SPEAKER: A brave and manly boy, he began work early in life, and, in 1748, when only
sixteen years old, he was a surveyor of lands, and took long tramps into the wilderness. In
1775 came the Revolutionary War, and he was appointed commander-in-chief of the American Army.
In 1787 he was elected president of the convention which framed the constitution of our country.

FOURTH SPEAKER: In 1789 he was chosen first president of the United States. He was re-elected
in 1793 and, at the close of the second term he retired to private life at his beautiful and
beloved home, Mt. Vernon. He died there, Dec. 14, 1799, honored and mourned by the whole nation,
and leaving to the world a life which is a "pattern for all public men, teaching what greatness
is and what is the pathway to undying fame," and richly deserving the title, "Father of his
country."

BOYS REPRESENTING LINCOLN: Washington was a great and good man, and so, too, was the man whom
we delight to honor, whose title, "Honest Abe," has passed into the language of our times as
a synonym for all that is just and honest in man.

FIRST SPEAKER ON THE LINCOLN SIDE: Kentucky is proud to claim Abraham Lincoln as one of her
honored sons, and she bids me say that he was born in that state in Hardin County, Feb. 12,
1809. Indiana, too, claims him, he was her son by adoption, for, when but seven years old,
his father moved to the southwestern part of that state. Illinois also has a claim upon him.
It was there that he helped build a log cabin for a new home, and split rails to fence in a
cornfield. Afterwards he split rails for a suit of clothes, one hundred rails for every yard
of cloth, and so won the name, "The Rail-splitter."

SECOND SPEAKER: In 1828 he became a flat-boatman and twice went down the river to New Orleans.
In 1832 he served as captain of a company in the Black Hawk War. After the war he kept a country
store, and won a reputation for honesty. Then, for a while, he was a surveyor, next, a lawyer,
and in 1834 he was elected to the Legislature of Illinois.

THIRD SPEAKER: In 1846 he was made a member of Congress, in 1860 he was elected president of
the United States.

FOURTH SPEAKER: The Civil War followed, and in 1864 he was elected president for the second
term. On April 14 he was shot by an assassin and died on the morning of the 15th.

SONG BY SCHOOL: AIR, John Brown's Body

    In spite of changing seasons of the years that come and go,
    Still his name to-day is cherished in the hearts of friend and foe,
    And the land for which he suffered e'er shall honor him we know,
        While truth goes marching on.

CHORUS

BOTH GROUPS TOGETHER: To both these men, George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, we, the children
of the nation, owe a debt of gratitude which we can only repay by a lifetime of work, for God,
humanity, and our country. Both have left behind them words of wisdom, which, if heeded, will
make us wiser and better boys and girls, and so wiser and better men and women.

TWO BOYS FROM THE LINCOLN GROUP: Lincoln said, "I have one vote, and I shall always cast that
against wrong as long as I live."

TWO BOYS FROM WASHINGTON GROUP: "If to please the people we offer what we ourselves disapprove,
how can we afterwards defend our work?"

TWO BOYS FROM LINCOLN GROUP: Lincoln said, "In every event of life, it is right makes might."

    ALL: O, wise and great!
    Their like, perchance, we ne'er shall see again,
    But let us write their golden words upon the hearts of men.

SONG: TUNE "America"

    Turn now unto the past,
    There, long as life shall last,
    Their names you'll find.
    Faithful and true and brave,
    Sent here our land to save.
    Men whom our father gave,
    Brave, true, and kind. These three greatest
men have taken their places among the great men of all nations, the
great men of all times. They stood supreme in the two great crises of
our history, in the two great occasions, when we stood in the van of
all humanity, and struck the most effective blows that have ever been
struck for the cause of human freedom under the law.

HIS CHOICE AND HIS DESTINY

BY F. M. BRISTOL

As God appeared to Solomon and Joseph in dreams to urge them to make wise choices for the power
of great usefulness, so it would appear that in their waking dreams the Almighty appeared to
such history-making souls as Paul and Constantine, Alfred the Great, Washington, and Lincoln.
It was the commonest kind of a life this young Lincoln was living on the frontier of civilization,
but out of that commonest kind of living came the uncommonest kind of character of these modern
years, the sublimest liberative power in the history of freedom. Lincoln felt there, as a great
awkward boy, that God and history had something for him to do. He dreamed his destiny. He chose
to champion the cause of the oppressed. He vowed that when the chance came he would deal slavery
a hard blow. When he came to his high office, he came with a character which had been fitting
itself for its grave responsibilities. He had been making wise choices on the great questions
of human rights, of national union, of constitutional freedom, of universal brotherhood.

FROM "REMINISCENCES OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN"[28]

BY ROBERT G. INGERSOLL

Strange mingling of mirth and tears, of the tragic and grotesque, of cap and crown, of Socrates
and Rabelais, of Æsop and Marcus Aurelius, of all that is gentle and just, humorous and honest,
merciful, wise, laughable, lovable and divine, and all consecrated to the use of man; while
through all, and over all, an overwhelming sense of obligation, of chivalric loyalty to truth,
and upon all the shadow of the tragic end.

Nearly all the great historic characters are impossible monsters, disproportioned by flattery,
or by calumny deformed. We know nothing of their peculiarities, or nothing but their peculiarities.
About the roots of these oaks there clings none of the earth of humanity. Washington is now
only a steel engraving. About the real man who lived and loved and hated and schemed we know
but little. The glass through which we look at him is of such high magnifying power that the
features are exceedingly indistinct. Hundreds of people are now engaged in smoothing out the
lines of Lincoln's face--forcing all features to the common mold--so that he may be known,
not as he really was, but, according to their poor standard, as he should have been.

Lincoln was not a type. He stands alone--no ancestors, no fellows, and no successors. He had
the advantage of living in a new country, of social equality, of personal freedom, of seeing
in the horizon of his future the perpetual star of hope. He preserved his individuality and
his self-respect. He knew and mingled with men of every kind; and, after all, men are the best
books. He became acquainted with the ambitions and hopes of the heart, the means used to accomplish
ends, the springs of action and the seeds of thought. He was familiar with nature, with actual
things, with common facts. He loved and appreciated the poem of the year, the drama of the seasons.

In a new country, a man must possess at least three virtues--honesty, courage and generosity.
In cultivated society, cultivation is often more important than soil. A well executed counterfeit
passes more readily than a blurred genuine. It is necessary only to observe the unwritten laws
of society--to be honest enough to keep out of prison, and generous enough to subscribe in
public--where the subscription can be defended as an investment. In a new country, character
is essential; in the old, reputation is sufficient. In the new, they find what a man really
is; in the old, he generally passes for what he resembles. People separated only by distance
are much nearer together than those divided by the walls of caste.

It is no advantage to live in a great city, where poverty degrades and failure brings despair.
The fields are lovelier than paved streets, and the great forests than walls of brick. Oaks
and elms are more poetic than steeples and chimneys. In the country is the idea of home. There
you see the rising and setting sun; you become acquainted with the stars and clouds. The constellations
are your friends. You hear the rain on the roof and listen to the rhythmic sighing of the winds.
You are thrilled by the resurrection called Spring, touched and saddened by Autumn, the grace
and poetry of death. Every field is a picture, a landscape; every landscape, a poem; every
flower, a tender thought; and every forest, a fairy-land. In the country you preserve your
identity--your personality. There you are an aggregation of atoms, but in the city you are
only an atom of an aggregation.

Lincoln never finished his education. To the night of his death he was a pupil, a learner,
an inquirer, a seeker after knowledge. You have no idea how many men are spoiled by what is
called education. For the most part, colleges are places where pebbles are polished and diamonds
are dimmed. If Shakespeare had graduated at Oxford, he might have been a quibbling attorney
or a hypocritical parson.

Lincoln was a many-sided man, acquainted with smiles and tears, complex in brain, single in
heart, direct as light; and his words, candid as mirrors, gave the perfect image of his thought.
He was never afraid to ask--never too dignified to admit that he did not know. No man had keener
wit or kinder humor. He was not solemn. Solemnity is a mask worn by ignorance and hypocrisy--it
is the preface, prologue, and index to the cunning or the stupid. He was natural in his life
and thought--master of the story-teller's art, in illustration apt, in application perfect,
liberal in speech, shocking Pharisees and prudes, using any word that wit could disinfect.

He was a logician. Logic is the necessary product of intelligence and sincerity. It cannot
be learned. It is the child of a clear head and a good heart. He was candid, and with candor
often deceived the deceitful. He had intellect without arrogance, genius without pride, and
religion without cant--that is to say, without bigotry and without deceit.

He was an orator--clear, sincere, natural. He did not pretend. He did not say what he thought
others thought, but what he thought. If you wish to be sublime you must be natural--you must
keep close to the grass. You must sit by the fireside of the heart; above the clouds it is
too cold. You must be simple in your speech: too much polish suggests insincerity. The great
orator idealizes the real, transfigures the common, makes even the inanimate throb and thrill,
fills the gallery of the imagination with statues and pictures perfect in form and color, brings
to light the gold hoarded by memory, the miser--shows the glittering coin to the spendthrift,
hope--enriches the brain, ennobles the heart, and quickens the conscience. Between his lips,
words bud and blossom.

If you wish to know the difference between an orator and an elocutionist--between what is felt
and what is said--between what the heart and brain can do together and what the brain can do
alone--read Lincoln's wondrous words at Gettysburg, and then the speech of Edward Everett.
The oration of Lincoln will never be forgotten. It will live until languages are dead and lips
are dust. The speech of Everett will never be read. The elocutionists believe in the virtue
of voice, the sublimity of syntax, the majesty of long sentences, and the genius of gesture.
The orator loves the real, the simple, the natural. He places the thought above all. He knows
that the greatest ideas should be expressed in the shortest words--that the greatest statues
need the least drapery.

Lincoln was an immense personality--firm but not obstinate. Obstinacy is egotism--firmness,
heroism. He influenced others without effort, unconsciously; and they submitted to him as men
submit to nature, unconsciously. He was severe with himself, and for that reason lenient with
others. He appeared to apologize for being kinder than his fellows. He did merciful things
as stealthily as others committed crimes. Almost ashamed of tenderness, he said and did the
noblest words and deeds with that charming confusion--that awkwardness--that is the perfect
grace of modesty. As a noble man, wishing to pay a small debt to a poor neighbor, reluctantly
offers a hundred-dollar bill and asks for change, fearing that he may be suspected either of
making a display of wealth or a pretense of payment, so Lincoln hesitated to show his wealth
of goodness, even to the best he knew. A great man stooping, not wishing to make his fellows
feel that they were small or mean.

He knew others, because perfectly acquainted with himself. He cared nothing for place, but
everything for principle; nothing for money, but everything for independence. Where no principle
was involved, easily swayed--willing to go slowly, if in the right direction--sometimes willing
to stop, but he would not go back, and he would not go wrong. He was willing to wait. He knew
that the event was not waiting, and that fate was not the fool of chance. He knew that slavery
had defenders, but no defense, and that they who attack the right must wound themselves. He
was neither tyrant nor slave. He neither knelt nor scorned. With him, men were neither great
nor small,--they were right or wrong. Through manners, clothes, titles, rags and race he saw
the real--that which is. Beyond accident, policy, compromise and war he saw the end. He was
patient as Destiny, whose undecipherable hieroglyphs were so deeply graven on his sad and tragic
face.

Nothing discloses real character like the use of power. It is easy for the weak to be gentle.
Most people can bear adversity. But if you wish to know what a man really is, give him power.
This is the supreme test. It is the glory of Lincoln that, having almost absolute power, he
never abused it, except upon the side of mercy.

Wealth could not purchase, power could not awe this divine, this loving man. He knew no fear
except the fear of doing wrong. Hating slavery, pitying the master--seeking to conquer, not
persons, but prejudices--he was the embodiment of the self-denial, the courage, the hope, and
the nobility of a nation. He spoke, not to inflame, not to upbraid, but to convince. He raised
his hands, not to strike, but in benediction. He longed to pardon. He loved to see the pearls
of joy on the cheeks of a wife whose husband he had rescued from death.

Lincoln was the grandest figure of the fiercest civil war. He is the gentlest memory of our world.

[28] By permission of Mr. C. P. Farrell.

LINCOLN[29]

PAUL LAURENCE DUNBAR

    Hurt was the Nation with a mighty wound,
    And all her ways were filled with clam'rous sound,
    Wailed loud the South with unremitting grief,
    And wept the North that could not find relief.
    Then madness joined its harshest tone to strife:
    A minor note swelled in the song of life
    Till, stirring with the love that filled his breast,
    But still, unflinching at the Right's behest
    Grave Lincoln came, strong-handed, from afar,--
    The mighty Homer of the lyre of war!
    'Twas he who bade the raging tempest cease,
    Wrenched from his strings the harmony of peace,
    Muted the strings that made the discord,--Wrong,
    And gave his spirit up in thund'rous song.
    Oh, mighty Master of the mighty lyre!
    Earth heard and trembled at thy strains of fire:
    Earth learned of thee what Heav'n already knew,
    And wrote thee down among her treasured few!

[29] By permission of Mrs. Mathilde Dunbar.

How does this man compare with the acknowledged "Father of his country?"

[30] By permission of David McKay.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

BY LYMAN ABBOTT

To comprehend the current of history sympathetically, to appreciate the spirit of the age,
prophetically, to know what God, by His providence, is working out in the epoch and the community,
and so to work with him as to guide the current and embody in noble deeds the spirit of the
age in working out the divine problem,--this is true greatness. The man who sets his powers,
however gigantic, to stemming the current and thwarting the divine purposes, is not truly great.

Abraham Lincoln was made the Chief Executive of a nation whose Constitution was unlike that
of any other nation on the face of the globe. We assume that, ordinarily, public sentiment
will change so gradually that the nation can always secure a true representative of its purpose
in the presidential chair by an election every four years. Mr. Lincoln held the presidential
office at a time when public sentiment was revolutionized in less than four years.... It was
the peculiar genius of Abraham Lincoln, that he was able, by his sympathetic insight, to perceive
the change in public sentiment without waiting for it to be formulated in any legislative action;
to keep pace with it, to lead and direct it, to quicken laggard spirits, to hold in the too
ardent, too impetuous, and too hasty ones, and thus, when he signed the emancipation proclamation,
to make his signature, not the act of an individual man, the edict of a military imperator,
but the representative act of a great nation. He was the greatest President in American History,
because in a time of revolution he grasped the purposes of the American people and embodied
them in an act of justice and humanity which was in the highest sense the act of the American
Republic.

LINCOLN THE IMMORTAL

'ADDRESS FOR LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY'

ANONYMOUS

From Cæsar to Bismarck and Gladstone the world has had its soldiers and its statesmen, who
rose to eminence and power step by step through a series of geometrical progression, as it
were, each promotion following in regular order, the whole obedient to well-established and
well-understood laws of cause and effect. These were not what we call "men of destiny." They
were men of the time. They were men whose career had a beginning, a middle and an end, rounding
off a life with a history, full, it may be, of interesting and exciting events, but comprehensible
and comprehensive, simple, clear, complete.

The inspired men are fewer. Whence their emanation, where and how they got their power, and
by what rule they lived, moved and had their being, we cannot see. There is no explication
to these lives. They rose from shadow and went in mist. We see them, feel them, but we know
them not. They arrived, God's word upon their lips; they did their office, God's mantle upon
them; and they passed away God's holy light between the world and them, leaving behind a memory
half mortal and half myth. From first to last they were distinctly the creations of some special
providence, baffling the wit of man to fathom, defeating the machinations of the world, the
flesh and the devil until their work was done, and passed from the scene as mysteriously as
they had come upon it; Luther, to wit; Shakespeare, Burns, even Bonaparte, the archangel of
war, havoc and ruin; not to go back into the dark ages for examples of the hand of God stretched
out to raise us, to protect and to cast down. It is entirely immaterial whether we believe
in what he said or did, whether we are for him or against him; but for us to admit that during
four years, carrying with them such a pressure of responsibility as the world has never witnessed
before, he filled the measure of the vast space allotted him in the actions of mankind and
in the eyes of the world, is to say that he was inspired of God, for nowhere else could he
have acquired the enormous equipment indispensable to the situation. If Lincoln was not inspired
of God, then were not Luther, or Shakespeare, or Burns. If Lincoln was not inspired by God,
then there is no such thing on earth as special providence or the interposition of divine power
in the affairs of men.

THE CRISIS AND THE HERO

BY FREDERIC HARRISON

The great struggle which has for ever decided the cause of slavery of man to man, is, beyond
all question, the most critical which the world has seen since the great revolutionary outburst.
If ever there was a question which was to test political capacity and honesty it was this.
A true statesman, here if ever, was bound to forecast truly the issue, and to judge faithfully
that cause at stake. We know now, it is beyond dispute, that the cause which won was certain
to win in the end, that its reserve force was absolutely without limit, that its triumph was
one of the turning-points in modern civilization. It was morally certain to succeed, and it
did succeed with an overwhelming and mighty success. From first to last both might and right
went all one way. The people of England went wholly that way. The official classes went wholly
some other way.

One of the great key-notes of England's future is simply this--what will be her relations with
that great republic? If the two branches of the Anglo-Saxon race are to form two phases of
one political movement, their welfare and that of the world will be signally promoted. If their
courses are marred by jealousies or contests, both will be fatally retarded. Real confidence
and sympathy extended to that people in the hour of their trial would have forged an eternal
bond between us. To discredit and distrust them, then, was to sow deep the seeds of antipathy.
Yet, although a union in feeling was of importance so great, although so little would have
secured it, the governing classes of England wantonly did all they could to foment a breach.

A great political judgment fell upon a race of men, our own brothers; the inveterate social
malady they inherited came to a crisis. We watched it gather with exultation and insult. There
fell on them the most terrible necessity which can befall men, the necessity of sacrificing
the flower of their citizens in civil war, of tearing up their civil and social system by the
roots, of transforming the most peaceful type of society into the most military. We magnified
and shouted over every disaster; we covered them with insult; we filled the world with ominous
forebodings and unjust accusations. There came on them one awful hour when the powers of evil
seemed almost too strong; when any but a most heroic race would have sunk under the blows of
their traitorous kindred. We chose that moment to give actual succour to their enemy, and stabbed
them in the back with a wound which stung their pride even more than it crippled their strength.
They displayed the most splendid examples of energy and fortitude which the modern world has
seen, with which the defence of Greece against Asia, and of France against Europe, alone can
be compared in the whole annals of mankind. They developed almost ideal civic virtues and gifts;
generosity, faith, firmness; sympathy the most affecting, resources the most exhaustless, ingenuity
the most magical. They brought forth the most beautiful and heroic character who in recent
times has ever led a nation, the only blameless type of the statesman since the days of Washington.
Under him they created the purest model of government which has yet been seen on the earth--a
whole nation throbbing into one great heart and brain, one great heart and brain giving unity
and life to a whole nation. The hour of their success came; unchequered in the completeness
of its triumph, unsullied by any act of vengeance, hallowed by a great martyrdom.

LINCOLN[31]

BY JOHN VANCE CHENEY

    The hour was on us; where the man?
    The fateful sands unfaltering ran,
      And up the way of tears
      He came into the years,

    Our pastoral captain. Forth he came,
    As one that answers to his name;
      Nor dreamed how high his charge,
      His work how fair and large,--

    To set the stones back in the wall
    Lest the divided house should fall,
      And peace from men depart,
      Hope and the childlike heart.

    We looked on him; "'Tis he," we said,
    "Come crownless and unheralded,
      The shepherd who will keep
      The flocks, will fold the sheep."

    Unknightly, yes; yet 'twas the mien
    Presaging the immortal scene,
      Some battle of His wars
      Who sealeth up the stars.

    Not he would take the past between
    His hands, wipe valor's tablets clean,
      Commanding greatness wait
      Till he stand at the gate;

    Not he would cramp to one small head
    The awful laurels of the dead,
      Time's mighty vintage cup,
      And drink all honor up.

    No flutter of the banners bold,
    Borne by the lusty sons of old,
      The haughty conquerors
      Sent forward to their wars;

    Not his their blare, their pageantries,
    Their goal, their glory, was not his;
      Humbly he came to keep
      The flocks, to fold the sheep.

    The need comes not without the man;
    The prescient hours unceasing ran,
      And up the way of tears
      He came into the years,

    Our pastoral captain, skilled to crook
    The spear into the pruning hook,
      The simple, kindly man,
      Lincoln, American.

[31] By permission of 'The Interior,' Chicago.

MAJESTIC IN HIS INDIVIDUALITY

BY J. P. NEWMAN

Human glory is often fickle as the winds, and transient as a summer day, but Abraham Lincoln's
place in history is assured. All the symbols of this world's admiration are his. He is embalmed
in song; recorded in history; eulogized in panegyric; cast in bronze; sculptured in marble;
painted on canvas; enshrined in the hearts of his countrymen, and lives in the memories of
mankind. Some men are brilliant in their times, but their words and deeds are of little worth
to history; but his mission was as large as his country, vast as humanity, enduring as time.
No greater thought can ever enter the human mind than obedience to law and freedom for all.
Some men are not honored by their contemporaries, and die neglected. Here is one more honored
than any other man while living, more revered when dying, and destined to be loved to the last
syllable of recorded time. He has this three-fold greatness,--great in life, great in death,
great in the history of the world. Lincoln will grow upon the attention and affections of posterity,
because he saved the life of the greatest nation, whose ever-widening influence is to bless
humanity. Measured by this standard, Lincoln shall live in history from age to age.

Great men appear in groups, and in groups they disappear from the vision of the world; but
we do not love or hate men in groups. We speak of Gutenberg and his coadjutors, of Washington
and his generals, of Lincoln and his cabinet: but when the day of judgment comes, we crown
the inventor of printing; we place the laurel on the brow of the father of his country, and
the chaplet of renown upon the head of the saviour of the Republic.

Some men are great from the littleness of their surroundings; but he only is great who is great
amid greatness. Lincoln had great associates,--Seward, the sagacious diplomatist; Chase, the
eminent financier; Stanton, the incomparable Secretary of War; with illustrious Senators and
soldiers. Neither could take his part nor fill his position. And the same law of the coming
and going of great men is true of our own day. In piping times of peace, genius is not aflame,
and true greatness is not apparent; but when the crisis comes, then God lifts the curtain from
obscurity, and reveals the man for the hour.

Lincoln stands forth on the page of history, unique in his character, and majestic in his individuality.
Like Milton's angel, he was an original conception. He was raised up for his times. He was
a leader of leaders. By instinct the common heart trusted in him. He was of the people and
for the people. He had been poor and laborious; but greatness did not change the tone of his
spirit, or lessen the sympathies of his nature. His character was strangely symmetrical. He
was temperate, without austerity; brave, without rashness; constant, without obstinacy. His
love of justice was only equalled by his delight in compassion. His regard for personal honor
was only excelled by love of country. His self-abnegation found its highest expression in the
public good. His integrity was never questioned. His honesty was above suspicion. He was more
solid than brilliant; his judgment dominated his imagination; his ambition was subject to his
modesty, and his love of justice held the mastery over all personal considerations. Not excepting
Washington, who inherited wealth and high social position, Lincoln is the fullest representative
American in our national annals. He had touched every round in the human ladder. He illustrated
the possibilities of our citizenship. We are not ashamed of his humble origin. We are proud
of his greatness.

A FAMOUS STORY--HOW LINCOLN WAS PRESENTED WITH A KNIFE!

LINCOLN'S CONFAB WITH A COMMITTEE ON GRANT'S WHISKY

Just previous to the fall of Vicksburg, a self-constituted committee, solicitous for the morale
of our armies, took it upon themselves to visit the President and urge the removal of General
Grant.

In some surprise Mr. Lincoln inquired, "For what reason?"

"Why," replied the spokesman, "he drinks too much whisky."

"Ah!" rejoined Mr. Lincoln, dropping his lower lip. "By the way, gentlemen, can either of you
tell me where General Grant procures his whisky? because, if I can find out, I will send every
general in the field a barrel of it!"

What I do say is, that no man is good enough to govern another man without that other's consent.

Our republican robe is soiled and trailed in the dust. Let us purify it.

Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith, let us, to the end, dare to do
our duty, as we understand it.

LETTER TO HORACE GREELEY

The Administration, during the early months of the war for the Union, was greatly perplexed
as to the proper mode of dealing with slavery, especially in the districts occupied by the
Union forces. In the summer of 1862, when Mr. Lincoln was earnestly contemplating his Proclamation
of Emancipation, Horace Greeley, the leading Republican editor, published in his paper, the
New York Tribune, a severe article in the form of a letter addressed to the President, taking
him to task for failing to meet the just expectations of twenty millions of loyal people.

THE END.

Table of Contents Part VI: A section of Tributes beginning on Page 191 is not included in the
table. Unchanged.

Table of Contents Part VII: A section called 'Lincoln, The Tender-Hearted' by H. W. Botton
should be by H. W. Bolton. Changed.

Table of Contents Part IX: A section called "'Fooling' the People" on page 360 is not included
in the table of contents. Unchanged.

Table of Contents Part IX: A section called 'Lincoln's confab with a Committee on Grant's Whisky'
is not included in the table of contents. Unchanged.

Page 3: more definite than a similarity of Christain names Typo: Changed to [Christian].

Page 82: answer inpregnable with facts. Spelling of inpregnable is probably correct for that
time. Unchanged.

Page 95: buy and exhibit him as a zoological curriosity. Likely misspelling. Changed to curiosity

Page 278: fac-simile Spelled as in original. Unchanged.

Hyphenation appears as either option in original:

  careworn/care-worn
  deathblow/death-blow
  dooryard/door-yard
  lifelong/life-long
  masterpiece/master-piece
  stepbrother/step-brother

