The ploughs used by these Syrian cultivators are little more than a bent wooden stock, having
a long bar, by which it may be drawn. The lend of the stock is in shape somewhat like that
which is formed by a human foot and leg, the foot being the 'share,' which scratches up the
soil. That part which corresponds to the leg is prolonged upwards into a long handle, with
the help of which the ploughman guides the plough. The bar by which the plough is drawn is
attached to the inner or fore side of the bend, at the ankle, as it were. Two oxen of a small
kind are, as a rule, attached to each plough.

With such a light kind of plough as this it is impossible to cut and turn over the soil as
an English plough, drawn by two or three powerful horses, would do it. The ground is, in fact
merely scratched, and, in order that the scratching may be a little more complete, a number
of ploughs follow each other in single file over the ground. As many as from six to twelve,
or more, ploughs will thus work together upon one plot, the ploughmen chatting with each other
all the time. A sower sprinkles the seed before them, and the ploughs loosen and scatter the
soil about it.

Where the soil is too rocky for the ploughs to work, men with mattocks break it up. The Syrian
plough does not turn over the soil always upon one side, as the English plough does, and so
the Eastern ploughman can return along the same line, or close to it, without spoiling the
regularity of his furrows.

In exceptionally dry seasons, when the ground is very hard, the English plough cannot be used
to good effect. The Syrian plough, however, is worse; for it is so small and ill-planned that
it will only do its work when the ground is thoroughly wet and soft. The ploughing has, therefore,
to be done in the winter season: not, of course, in that clime a winter of frost and snow,
but a time of cold winds and heavy rains, most trying to the poor labourers in the fields.
If they had better ploughs they might break up the ground before the winter set in, and leave
the ploughed land ready for the sower at the proper season. The Syrian plough, too, only does
its work slowly, and the whole set of men working together will plough scarcely more than one-third
as much as an English ploughman, with a pair of good horses, would do in the same time.

MARVELS OF MAN'S MAKING.

X--THE BIRMINGHAM WATERWORKS

Hard working Birmingham was getting short of water, and it certainly looked as though the time
would soon come when there would be none to quench its thirst with. The wells and streams in
the countryside had served their purpose splendidly while the city did not demand too much,
but as the number of people increased, the number of taps increased too, and water was getting
short.

In this unpleasant state of affairs, Mr. Mansergh, a well-known civil engineer, said that he
knew where to get the water from. Forty years before, when travelling in South Wales, he had
been struck by the suitability of the country for storing water in. The rivers Elan and Claerwen,
he said, flowed through valleys which would make splendid natural reservoirs if only they were
crossed by the necessary dams. The distance, it was true, would be seventy-three miles from
Birmingham, but then it would be all down-hill, and so the water would flow of its own accord.
The rivers Elan and Claerwen, in Brecon and Radnor, collect their waters from mountain streams
over an area of seventy-one square miles. If preserved in reservoirs, this would supply one
hundred and two millions of gallons a day. A certain proportion of this would, of course, be
allowed to escape, as it would never do to stop the river Elan altogether. It is an important
tributary to the Wye, and the city of Hereford would have had cause for complaint if its water
supply had been interfered with.

The work was begun in 1894. Just below the point where the two rivers join, preparations were
made for building the first dam. A stank, or wall of timber, was first constructed to turn
the water of the river aside, and in the channel over which it had flowed, thus rendered dry,
excavations were made for the foundations. When the wall had been raised to a height of thirty
feet, with two large culverts or openings left in its lower part for the great water-pipes
to pass through, the stream was again turned into its old course, through these openings, and
the next part of the dam was begun. Thus in three sections the water-wall rose till a height
of one hundred and twenty-two feet was reached, stretching six hundred feet at the top, to
the sloping walls of the valley. As this dam will have to hold back five hundred acres of water,
containing 7800 million gallons of water, its base has been made as wide as its height. The
wall tapers to the top and is perpendicular towards the reservoir. It is formed of large blocks
of granite called 'plums,' set in strong cement, and weighing many tons each. Over the top,
when the reservoir is full, the flood water pours like a small Niagara. If we could launch
a boat on the glittering surface of the reservoir, from the top of this dam, we should have
to row for four and a half delightful miles, between the overshadowing sides of the valley,
before we reached the next principal dam, at a place called Pen-y-gareg--so huge are these
cups of water in Birmingham's service. On the way we should pass under the arches of a stone
bridge, thirteen feet wide, stretching from side to side of the artificial lake. The archways
spring from the top of a submerged dam, forty feet below the surface. And this was built because
Birmingham, seventy-three miles away, is six hundred feet above the level of the sea. In constructing
the long water-hill from the Welsh mountains down to the famous Warwickshire city, it was deemed
necessary that the upper end should be one hundred and seventy feet higher than the lower end.
Now at the point where the first dam was erected, the river-bed is only one hundred feet higher
than the land on which Birmingham stands. Therefore, the starting point for the water was made
farther up the valley at a spot seven hundred and seventy feet above sea-level (thus giving
the necessary fall of one hundred and seventy feet), and just below that spot the sunken dam
of which we have spoken was built across to hold back enough water when the main bulk had been
used.

As our boat glides onward from under the shadow of the arch, we see near the eastern shore
a strongly built stone tower. This stands over the mouth of the aqueduct (as the huge pipes
are called which convey the water to Birmingham). The water flows into the tower through several
large openings on all sides, and its entrance into the aqueduct is controlled by hydraulic
machinery.

Bending to our oars again we follow the curves of the lake for about three miles, with the
railway running close to the water's edge. It was laid by the engineers to assist them in this
great undertaking. Then we come in sight of the Pen-y-gareg wall. This was built in the same
manner as the first dam, though slightly different in design. At regular intervals all along
the top, we see square openings like windows in an old castle. They are to admit light and
air into a narrow passage left in the heart of the dam and stretching from end to end. It is
only six and a half feet high and two and a half wide, so that two people, however obliging
they might be, would have a difficulty in letting each other pass if they met half-way. But
it is not a public passage, being only constructed for the purpose of admitting workmen to
the valve tower, which regulates the flow of water into the lower reservoir.

Some mile and a half farther on we come to the third and last dam on the Elan River. It is
called the Craig Gôch, and is the tallest of them all, rising one hundred and thirty-five feet
from the river-bed. In order to build it a tunnel was driven through the hills on one side
to carry the water past, the stream being guided into this tunnel by means of a concrete wall
built a short distance from the scene of operations. The dam is built on a curve, the bow being
towards the reservoir. It carries on its summit a handsome stone bridge with a public roadway
less than ten feet wide between the parapets. To stand on this bridge and watch the flood water
flow between its arches, to fall with a roar like thunder on its way to the lower reservoir,
is very impressive. It is said that at times the water passes over the crest of the dam in
a cascade eighteen to twenty inches deep. Thus the water is held back among the mountains in
three huge steps, much as the water in a canal is banked up by the locks. On the river Claerwen
three similar dams are being built.

While this work was going forward, another army of engineers was preparing the road to Birmingham.
Hills had to be tunnelled through, valleys and rivers crossed by bridges, while syphons were
used for passing under small streams and similar obstructions. One of the tunnels was no less
than four and a half miles long, and another two and a half. They are, however, only six or
seven feet in diameter, just large enough for workmen to enter for the purpose of doing repairs.
The pipes for conveying the water are a little more than one yard across, and are capable of
delivering twelve and a half million gallons per day. There is room on the road for six such
pipes to be laid, so it is considered that Birmingham will not run short of water for at least
a hundred years. It need hardly be pointed out that these pipes do not descend at one uniform
grade throughout their journey of seventy-three miles, but any irregularity in their rise and
fall is of little consequence so long as the end of that irregularity which is nearest Birmingham
is at a lower level than the point at which it begins. Thus, for instance, if the pipes are
to take a sudden dip to pass under a stream, they should not rise again on the other side to
quite the same level. This dip is called a syphon, and in no way retards the natural flow of
the water. There are many such 'ups and downs' between Radnor and Warwickshire; so many, indeed,
that we might almost look upon the whole aqueduct as a syphon seventy-three miles long. Birmingham
is the lower end, and water must flow to the lower level.

On July 22nd, 1904, the King and Queen, at one of the great reservoirs, turned the tap which
admitted the water into the aqueduct, and in due course it rippled to the noisy city so many
miles away, and Birmingham drank its first glass of crystal water drawn from the three stupendous
cups standing among the silent hills of Wales.

We are indebted for our illustrations to Mr. Thomas Barclay, of Birmingham, and to Messrs.
Mansergh & Co., Engineers, of London.

THE FOUNTAIN.

  A little spring of water rose
    Within a shady grot;
  It bubbled up all bright and pure,
    And freshened that sweet spot.
  Clear as a crystal was its wave,
    And I was very sure
  The waters were so pure and sweet,
    Because the fount was pure.

  So when from little lips there flow
    Words that are kind and good,
  And thoughts that are as fresh and sweet
    As violets in a wood,
  The reason we can understand,
    For, oh, we may be sure
  The thoughts and words are pure and sweet
    Because the fount is pure.

THE TRIALS OF LECKINSKI.

(Concluded from page 306.)

For about two hours Leckinski had slept in his dungeon, when the door was gently opened, and
a woman entered very softly, with a hand shading the lamp which she carried. Then the hand
was suddenly withdrawn from before the light; the woman touched Leckinski on the shoulder,
and said, in French, 'Would you like some supper?'

Leckinski, startled, sat up, with eyes scarcely open. Yet he kept his wits about him. 'What
do they want with me?' he said, in German.

This was the first 'proof.' Castagnos wished it to be also the last. 'Give the man something
to eat,' said he to his men, 'saddle his horse, and let him go on his way. How, if he were
a Frenchman, could he be so thoroughly master of himself?'

But his officers refused to obey. They gave food to Leckinski, but did not saddle his horse,
and kept him in the prison until morning. Then he was taken to a place where lay the bodies
of ten Frenchman, who had been shot by some peasants. He was threatened with a similar fate.
But, although surrounded by snares, listened to by straining ears, watched by keen eyes, the
brave fellow let slip not a single suspicious word or gesture. At last, after many hours of
this mental torture, he was taken back to his prison, and left alone for a time.

Again Castagnos pleaded for his captive, but his high-handed officers were still dissatisfied.

Leckinski, thankful for solitude, after a spell of uncanny visions, the result of the horrors
he had actually seen, again found relief in sleep. Again he was disturbed. 'Get up!' said--in
French--the same gentle voice that had spoken to him before. 'Come with me! Your horse is saddled,
and you are free.'

'What do they want with me?' said Leckinski in German, as he rubbed his eyes.

Castagnos declared that this 'young Russian,' as he called him, was a noble fellow; but the
others still persisted that he was a Frenchman and a spy. After another wretched night, the
unhappy prisoner was brought before a sort of tribunal, composed of officers of the General's
staff. The four men who conducted him thither uttered on the way horrible threats, but, true
to his resolution, Leckinski gave no sign of understanding them. He took, apparently, no notice
of anything that was said either in French or in Spanish, and, when he came before his judges,
asked for an interpreter.

The examination began. The prisoner was asked what was the object of his journey from Madrid
to Lisbon. To this he answered by showing his passport and the dispatches of the Russian Ambassador.
These credentials would have been sufficient had it not been for the evidence of the peasant.

'Ask him,' ordered the President of the Court, 'if he loves the Spaniards?'

'Yes,' replied Leckinski, when this question was put to him, 'and I honour their devotion.
I wish that our two nations were friends.'

'The prisoner,' said the interpreter, in French, 'declares that he hates and despises us. He
regrets that it is not in his power to unite our whole nation into a single man, that he might
annihilate us all with one blow.'

As the interpreter spoke, every eye was bent on Leckinski, watching for the effect upon him
of this false interpretation, but not the slightest change of expression was visible on his
face. He had expected something of this sort, and was firmly resolved not to betray himself.

Castagnos was present, an unwilling witness to this last trial, in which he had refused to
take an active part. He now rose, and spoke in the voice of authority. 'The peasant must have
been mistaken,' said he. 'Let the young man be instantly set at liberty. We have treated him
hardly, but I hope that he will take into consideration the continual danger of our position,
which forces us to be suspicious and severe.'

And so at last Leckinski got back his arms and dispatches, and went forth victorious. He reached
Lisbon in safety, and fulfilled his commission. Then he would have returned to Madrid, but
Junot, full of admiration for his pluck, would not allow him to run such another risk.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 315.)

Estelle's cry was one of joy and relief, and her eyes soon discerned the form of the sailor
swimming towards her. Having no desire to encounter Jack under such circumstances, Thomas hesitated
no longer in getting out of danger by climbing to the ledge above. The few moments that Estelle
would be in peril were not worth considering, as Jack was so near. Thomas's chief feeling was
bitterness at this renewed disappointment of his hopes. Still, as long as the child was alive,
his chance might come again. So he lay quietly and silently, watching the sailor effect the
rescue. There was even some curiosity as to how Jack meant to save her. Rage was in his heart,
and as he watched his hand crept out almost against his will and took up a stone lying near.
For one mad moment, as the sailor dragged himself up by the rock on which Estelle was, and
laid his hand on her, Thomas, forgetting all else, gave way to a mad fit of rage and jealousy.
Raising himself slightly on his narrow shelf, he hurled the stone with all his force at the
brown head below him. It shot past Jack, barely grazing his head as he stooped to tie the rope
round Estelle, and, striking the little girl on the shoulder, glanced off into the water. The
shock of the blow would have thrown her off the rock but that Jack's strong arm was round her.

The sailor's heart boiled within him. There was nothing to be done, however, but get the child
away as quickly as possible. He guessed that the stone was meant for himself, and it left no
doubt in his mind as to who had thrown it. With a wrathful glance upwards, he asked Estelle
about the hurt, and showed her how to cling on his back, thus leaving his arms free to carry
her into safety.

'Oh, it stings so, Jack,' sobbed Estelle, pressing her shoulder, as if she could hardly bear
the pain.

'We must get away as fast as we can, Missie,' said he; 'or we may have another stone at us.'

Jack turned his back, and Estelle put her arms round his neck, with a frightened glance at
the ledge.

'Now I'm off,' said Jack; 'hold, on tight.'

Twisting the rope round them both as an additional security, he slipped into the water. It
went over their heads, but Estelle's faith in Jack never wavered. After what appeared to her
a very long time of buffeting waves and wild waters, she felt herself being drawn upwards.

'There, Missie,' said Jack, cheerfully, though a little breathlessly, as he released her from
the rope; 'you are safe now. In another minute we shall be on dry sand.'

Cold, bruised, tired, she felt too confused and faint to speak. A dim idea that her only chance
of rescue lay in Jack made her continue to cling to him. He, meanwhile, was securing the end
of the rope to a staple driven into the rock during the old smuggling days. The ledge on which
he now sat was invisible from the Mermaid's Cave except to expert eyes, owing to its being
so near the roof. From this ledge he looked down into that hidden storehouse for smuggled treasure
of every description, the 'Treasure Cave.' It gave its name to all the other caves, but its
own floor was twenty feet below any of them, and the secret of its existence was still jealously
guarded by the few who knew of it.[4]

[Footnote 4: Such a cave exists also on the rocky Cornish coast, and was seen recently by a
lady explorer.]

It was indeed fortunate that Jack was so well acquainted with every nook and crevice in the
caves, and had made the discovery of the secret himself. The drop into the Treasure Cave was
sheer; nevertheless, after securing the rope, he took the little girl in his arms and slid
down with the ease of a sailor. They found themselves in a high cave into which the daylight
came but dimly. There appeared to be no entrance except the one by which they had come. There
was no getting away, therefore, until the tide went down. Casks, large cases, and other relics
of old smuggling days were scattered about; some piled against the walls, others more in the
centre, where the soft looseness of the sand testified to the dryness of the cave. These latter
looked surprisingly fresh and neat, as if but recently stored there, and presented a great
contrast to the sea-stained memorials of ancient days. There seemed to be small room for doubt
that the Treasure Cave was not without its uses even yet.

The boy and girl were, however, in no condition to notice anything. Julien, whom Jack had carried
to this place of refuge first, had returned to consciousness, and now lay shivering on the
sand, with pale face and chattering teeth. Estelle, soaked to the skin, was placed by his side.
Jack could attend to both at once in that way, and he proceeded to use vigorous measures to
restore their vitality. Diving into a recess between the cases, he produced a couple of brown
blankets, no doubt left there by smugglers. Very soon Estelle and Julien found themselves well
wrapped up, and the warmth made a glow of returning life flow through their shivering frames.

'The sea-water will not hurt you,' said Jack, reassuringly, as they looked up gratefully at
his cheerful face. 'Lie there and keep warm.'

'How long shall we have to remain?' asked Julien, in a forlorn tone.

He was already looking less pale, and his teeth had ceased to chatter.

'A matter of two or three hours. Not more. The tide runs out as fast as it comes in. When you
are a bit warmer we'll take a sharp run round the cave. It's a large one, you see, and you
will be in a fine glow before we have been round it many times. How is your shoulder, Missie?'

'Oh, it doesn't hurt much now.'

'A good thing for you your clothes were thick,' said Jack, smiling, as she stretched out her
arm, to show she could move it quite easily.

'What happened?' asked Julien, startled. 'One would think the brute would have remained satisfied
with pushing me into the water. But I will make him repent,' he added, in a threatening tone.
'My father will not let him off easily.'

'He doesn't know any better,' said Estelle, gently.

'Spoken like the kind little Missie you are,' said Jack, with a smile. 'But we must not let
him do any more mischief, all the same. He did not mean to hit you with the stone. It is a
good thing for me that it did no more than graze my head; and for you, Missie, that it was
not a larger one.'

'In fact, Jack,' laughed Estelle, with a soft glance at him, 'we have all something to be thankful
for---- '

'And that is that we are all here to tell the tale,' added Julien, rising from the folds of
his blanket, and beginning to stamp about. 'Thomas also has to be thankful that we are not
for the moment able to hand him over to M. le Préfet. I suppose he will have escaped by the
time we get out of this.'

It was just this question which was tormenting the mind of the ex-gardener. Would he be able
to get out before Jack? He could not imagine where the sailor had taken the children. The dim
light of the candle-ends had died out as Jack swam away with Estelle, and Thomas had not as
yet discovered the existence of the Treasure Cave. Only an eye accustomed to look for the faint
ray of light thrown upon the roof by the glimmer from the lower cave could have detected where
to seek the ledge, which it was necessary to climb in order to reach the Treasure Cave. All
he could imagine, therefore, was that Jack had known of some other, and probably wider, place
of refuge than that on which he himself had sought an escape from the waves. If this were so,
it was more than likely that in the attempt to escape as quickly as the tide permitted, an
encounter between him and Jack would take place. The bare suggestion excited Thomas uncomfortably.
Over and over again did his mind ponder on the best plan to avoid such a meeting. Should he
remain where he was till the sailor and the child had gone? But how would he be able to judge
of their departure? It was totally dark, and as Jack must be in as drenched a condition as
himself, no matches he might carry about him could be ignited. The escape must be made in the dark.

No, Thomas could run no risks of that sort. He made up his mind that as soon as his ear--trained
by a life-long residence on a rocky coast--told him the sea was leaving the Mermaid's Cave,
he would descend from his narrow perch, and follow the retreating tide. There would be light
enough in the Cave of the Silver Sand. If an encounter must take place before he could get
away from the caves, he preferred it should take place in daylight. As soon, therefore, as
the lapping of the waves grew faint and died softly away, he felt his way down from the ledge
of rock, and round by the walls to the Rift.

Barely had he waded through it when he heard voices behind him. A cold shiver ran down his
back at the sound. Jack must be approaching with the children. Julien had been saved, then,
for it was the voice of the French boy he heard speaking. The whole party would be upon him
soon. With some anxiety, Thomas looked at the sea. Rapidly as it was going down, there was
no chance that it would leave the cave in time for him to make his escape without being seen.
There were rocks scattered about on all sides, however, which offered him a place of concealment,
and he was not slow to avail himself of their shelter. Barely had he thrown himself behind
one when Jack and his charges appeared.

'And when do you think it will be?' he heard Estelle saying, as she held Jack's hand, and walked
soberly at his side.

'I can't say exactly, Missie,' was the reply. 'Maybe in a week or a fortnight.'

'I can't bear to think of your going,' said Julien, gloomily; 'it has been so happy since you
have been here. What shall I do without my companion?'

They were going to take her away, then. Thomas was in despair as he listened. Still, something
might be done in a fortnight. He was determined to get another chance of kidnapping Estelle.
It would be easy if only he could get rid of Jack. But how was that to be done?

(Continued on page 334.)

PUZZLERS FOR WISE HEADS.

12.--ACROSTIC.

  (1)   A Roman article of attire.
  (2)   A weapon peculiar to the animal kingdom.
  (3)   A left-handed man who slew a king with a dagger.
  (4)   One form of the element of which diamonds are made.
  (5)   To force by pressure.
  (6)   A geographical division of land.
  (7)   Rather hard of hearing.
  (8)   Bad.
  (9)   To have confidence.

Initials and finals give the title of a well-known fable.

  W. S.

[Answer on page 371.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWER TO PUZZLE ON PAGE 288.

  11.--C al M
       A lm A
       T ea R
       T ur K
       L ut E
       E di T

THE SUN AND THE TRAIN.

George Stephenson and a friend were once looking at a train. Trains in those days were not
so common as they are now, and George asked his friend what he thought propelled or drove the
train along. His friend answered, 'Probably the arm of some stalwart north-country driver.'

'No,' said George; 'it is the heat and light of the sun which shone millions of years ago,
which has been bottled up in the coal all this time, and which is now driving that train.'

CATCHING BIRDS UNDER WATER.

'It is impossible to catch a bird under water,' most people would say. But they would be wrong!
Now and then the Leigh fishermen take birds in their nets below the surface of the water. The
birds are of a diving species, and they often dive into the nets after the fish. They then
get entangled in the nets, and cannot come to the surface for air, and are drowned. Thus it
is that the fishermen catch birds as well as fish in their nets.

THE MUSIC OF THE NATIONS.

XI.-SOME SIAMESE INSTRUMENTS.

[Illustrated]

